TOWN AND COUNTY EDITION

Vol. XIII
No. 5

 

November
1915

Building Up Rural Communities
By Willard w. Bartlett

Secretary, Bennington County Vermont Improvement Association

HE original plan of the Bennington
County Vermont Improvement Asso-

ciation, as outlined in its constitu-
tion, placed the chief emphasis on road im-
provement. It soon became clear, however,
that road improvement is but one phase of
a’many-sided community problem, and that
any constructive county program must con-
sider many other things as of equal impor-
tance. As a result, the lines of work to
which this Association has committed itself

are:

A better and more profitable agriculture
Better roads, With a more efiicient and uni-

form system of road administration

A more adequate system of public schools
which will lift the small, isolated rural schools
nearer to the plane of efficiency maintained by

the best village schools
The development of home industries
The improvement of sanitary and hygienic

conditions
The promotion of adequate play and recrea-

tion facilities . .
The fostering of a more evenly distributed

social life .
The furtherance of all plans for cwic better-

ment and county beautification

The chief results obtained through the
three years of the Association’s existence
may be summarized as follows:

Roads.—By arrangement with the United
States Ofiice of Public Roads and the State
Highway Department, Mr. D. H. Winslow,
a superintendent of construction for the
office of Public Roads, was put in charge of
all road construction work in the county.
To make this possible, a Selectmen and
Roadmasters’ Association was organized
and petitions for such supervision secured
from its members. Road improvement and
increased appropriations for the purpose
were advocated, with generally good results.
Thirty-six permanent road jobs, involving
an expenditure of about $32,000, were com-
pleted during the first year alone. For the
first two years the United States Govern-
ment paid Mr. Winslow's salary, the State
Highway Department his traveling ex-
penses, and this Association his mainte-
nance.

Various changes have been made in the
Vermont road laws, some of the important
ones being'the selection of the foreman by
the state for road construction, providing
for engineers on bridge work, extension of
the state-aid work, placing some of the

roads under the patrol system, arranging
for road signs, and abolition of grade cross-

[37]]

A
A

THE AMERICAN CITY VOL. XIII, No.5

A TYPICAL MOUNTAIN ROAD IN VERMONT

A NEW ROAD IN THE SAME LOCATION. BUILT UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE
COUNTY ENGINEER

 

NOVEMBER, 1915

ings. Special attention has been paid to the
y maintenance of the roads, and practical ad-
vice has been given the road commissioners
in the care of the town roads. The work
shows a marked increase in the number of
split-log drags in use, in the extension of
the work over a longer period than for-
merly, in assisting the road commissioners
in locating gravel and other road material
by the engineer, and in a general attempt
to bring the town roads up to 'the state
standard.

Important gains have been made in
the use of concrete and
concrete mixers, in the
introduction of modern
methods of draining the
roads, such as side-drains,
V-drains, and Telford
foundations; also in util-
izing the rock for guard
rails and in the introduc-
tion of the patrol system
in road maintenance. It is
significant that outside of
Bennington the actual cost
per mile of the roads has
averaged less under an en-
gineer than under the old
system. A record has
been kept showing the ac-
tual money cost to the
towns of changing the
road commissioners each
year, and that re-elected road commissioners
in nearly every case reduced the cost of ad-
ministration.

During the season of 1914 a new arrange-
ment was in force. This Association and
the State Highway Department cooperated
in the employment of a competent engineer
who tilled the position of CountySuper-
visor of Highways. Each contracting party
paid half the salary, and the state, in addi-
tion, paid the transportation expenses. Mr.
James L. Davis, a Vermont man by birth
and training, filled the position. It is ex-
pected that this arrangement will be perma-
nent.

Agriculture.—In cooperation with the
United States Ofiice of Farm Management
and the Vermont State College of Agricul-
ture, Mr. John L. Sherman was obtained as
County Farm Agent. Equipped with a Ford
touring car, Mr. Sherman worked with the
farmers throughout the county along the
lines of farm operation, management and

THE AMERICAN CITY

UNFERTILIZED
Product from four square rods in each pile

373

business. He visited hundreds of farmers
on their farms, the majority of them sev-
eral times. He held many meetings, includ-
ing fertilizer, spraying and pruning dem-
onstrations. For the most part the effort
has been to have these meetings small in
number and intimate in character. In 1914
Mr. Sherman worked with 25 farmers as
corn demonstrators, with 20 as oat demon-
strators and with IO as potato demon-
strators. These demonstrators agreed to
grow a certain area of a specified crop
strictly in accordance with the directions

 

FERTILIZED

furnished by the County Agent. Careful
records were kept of the cost of production,
yield, etc., in order that accurate compari-
sons might be made between the results ob-
tained by these methods and those obtained
by the methods ordinarily in use. One of the
demonstrators succeeded in raising 120
bushels of shelled corn on an acre at a net
profit of $29.69, a very substantial increase
over the returns from an acre as ordinarily
cultivated.

A considerable amount of time has been
spent with a weed expert from the Depart—
ment of Agriculture, in an effort to find a
simple method of overcoming the prairie
weed which infests so much of the pasture
land of 'the county. Another important line
of investigation has been the question of
soil acidity. Many tests for acidity have
been made,practically all of which show that
lime is needed up to the amount of 6,000
pounds (burnt lime) per acre. In this con-
nection apparatus was secured to determine

1

A

374

approximately the lime deficiency. Since
one dilliculty in the way of increased use
of lime has been the cost of obtaining it, the
effort has been made to open up a lime in-
dustry within the county. There are several
extensive marl deposits which would yield
a product well adapted for agricultural uses.

Contests in raising corn and potatoes have
appealed to both boys and girls. In a seed
corn testing carried on by the rural schools,
18 schools tested 950 ears of corn solicited
from neighboring farmers, according to the
directions furnished by the County Agent.
About one-half of these ears proved to be
worth planting, a fact which shows the
value of Mr. Sherman’s efforts to persuade
the farmers to test their seed corn.

Schools—Practically all of the schools
have been visited at least once, many pic-
tures have been taken in and around school
buildings, and a fairly complete record has
been made of school conditions throughout
the county. This work is the most satis-
factory of all undertaken by the Associa-
tion, chiefly because the teachers are as a
whole the most progressive class dealt with,
in spite of the handicaps under which they
usually work.

The Association has been instrumental’in
forming two new school supervisory unions,
including three townships each, and in the
establishment of. a teacher-training course
in an academy in the county. A state law
now makes supervision compulsory. thus
rendering this branch of the Association’s
work no longer necessary.

Prize contests have been held—one a
road maintenance contest in which $10 was
offered the school which would maintain
the eighth of a mile in front of the school
house in the best condition; the other an
essay contest in which $1 was offered each
school for the best essay written in that
school, with an additional prize of $5 to be
paid the school whose prize-winning essay
was the best for the county. The school
prizes were used for some school purpose
approved by the secretary: the individual
prizes were the property of those winning
them. The essays were good reading.
They were of every sort, as it was stipulated
only that they should treat some phase of
the road question. Sometimes children
arrive intuitively at truths which adults
see only after long experience, if at all.
Second prizes were awarded where war-

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 5

ranted, of subscriptions for one year to the
Bennington County Review, published by
the Association. As a mark of appreciation
to the teachers whose cooperation made the
contests successful, the Association pre-
sented each competing school with a line
road map of the town in which it is located

Early in 1914, 52 schools in ten dih'erent
towns entered a school improvement contest.
Substantial county prizes were oll'ered, and
supplementary town prizes where five or
more schools in one town entered the con-
test. Much cleaning and repairing was done.
and many new furnishings were provided.
Two hundred and fifty books were penna-
nently acquired and over 300 more were in-
definitely lent for school libraries. Fourteen
schools organized school improvement as-
sociations of the pupils to discuss necessary
improvements and ways and means for
carrying them out. Two parents’ associa-
tions were formed, including the parents
concerned in four schools. In several in-
stances, existing societies gave valuable aid
At 18 schools the neighbors actively co—
operated in getting necessary work done.

The actual money value of the improve-
ments was considerable. By entertainments.
soap orders and other means the schools
raised and expended $492.29. Work and
material to the value of $301.71 was re—
ported as paid for by outside agencies. The
value of the services of men and women
who voluntarily came to the school build-
ings to work, or who lent teams and tools.
is conservatively estimated at $200. This
totals $994, not counting the time of the
teachers and pupils. Of course, the moral
value of all this is much greater than the
actual cash value. The general first anC
was awarded to the Shaftsbury DCP‘”
School. The following is the record of thc
interior work:

All seats oiled, and floor oiled five times dur-
ing the contest .

Floor swept regularly two or three .times 3
day, thus entirely obviating the dust nuisancc

Blackboards cleaned every night With SOfl
cloths and washed every Friday night . _

The fourteen windows washed both insult
and outside by the pupils .

Sash curtains of white cheesecloth made b)
the pupils, and rods purchased

Three good and well-framed pictures 91""
chased

Two good chairs provided by the town

A Victrola and thirteen double-face records

purchased
A muSic cabinet secured

Digitized by 600816

 

NOVEMBER, 1915

Three bracket lamps with fixtures purchased

Several manufacturers’ exhibits and an ex-
hibit of the work done in the Domestic Science
Department of the Bennington High School
obtained for display

Potted plants, window boxes, hanging boxes
and pails of vines, carrot balls and a daily sup-
ply of fresh flowers provided

Window boards made by the boys for four
windows
d Individual drinking cups bought by all chil¢

ren

The most substantial improvements were
made out-of-doors. One Saturday 15 men
of the neighhorhood came with II horses

THE AMERICAN CITY

37 5

divided into 16 plots and vegetables were
planted, each child taking care of his own
plot. Forty-one pine trees were set out on
the grounds. Several loads of gravel were
drawn onto the road leading from the depot
to the school, and the stones were raked out
and carried away. After the grading was
completed the flag pole was reset and pro-
vided with a new pulley rope.

This year 47 schools entered the contest,
with excellent results. It is planned to
change the character of the contest next
year, in order that it may meet more of the

 

A VACANT LOT IN NORTH BENNINGTON‘ TRANSFORMED INTO A BEAUTIFUL
PARK

for a grading bee, and worked from 8.30
until 4. The bill at the north of the school
house was taken away, the ground was lev-
eled, good soil was brought on for flower
beds, and a garden was ploughed and har-
rowed. While this was being done, the
girls cleaned the windows and the building,
the boys working with the men. The women
of the neighborhood sent in provisions, and
dinner was served in the school house.
Later the small children picked up all the
stones on the ground, and the older boys
carried them away. Three flower gardens
were planted, and a space 42 x 16 feet was

needs. The Association will give as prizes
20 per cent of the cost of any equipment
secured without aid from the town, to a
limit of giving any one teacher $5, and 25
per cent of the cost of making the outbuild-
ings meet the requirements of the State
Board of Health, to a limit of giving any
one school $5.

District Nursing and Social Service.—At
first a graduate nurse was employed by the
Association and made a house-to-house sur-
vey of part of the county, covering eco-
nomic, social, moral, religious, sanitary and
hygienic conditions. This gave valuable in-

376

formation regarding the needs of the
county, particularly as to sanitation, facili-
ties for caring for the sick, the things neces-
sary for the prevention of disease, and the
sort of instruction in sanitation and hygiene
needed in the public schools. The nurse
did considerable bedside nursing and gen-
eral social work. A tuberculosis and edu-
cational motion-picture exhibit prepared by
the State Department of Health was secured
for the county by the Association, and these
entertainments were attended by thousands
of people.

A start has been made in the establish-
ment of a system of town nursing associa-
tions aniliated in part with the American
Red Cross Town and County Nursing Ser-
vice. Sewing and cooking classes are con-
ducted, and general social work is carried
on in addition to bedside nursing.

Miscellaneous.—Local community im-
provement associations have been organized
in every village wherever possible, and have
been active in securing such physical im-
provements as cement and stone sidewalks,

THE ‘ AMERICAN CITY

Von. XIII, No. 5

electric lighting, village parks, playgrounds.
clean streets, new school buildings, etc.
Through these local associations, inter-vil-
lage cooperation was made possible by the
Association in arranging for a county ly—
ceum lecture and entertainment course. A
rest tent was supplied and furnished and
maintained at the Battenkill Valley Fair,
with a trained nurse on duty at all times.
Demonstrations were given in road oiling
with a high-pressure road oiler, putting on
a heavy oil under approximately 60 pounds
pressure. Under this method a heavier oil
with greater cementing properties, can be
used; it can be more evenly distributed.
takes firmer hold on the road, and dries out
more quickly. As a result of these demon-
strations, a considerable stretch of road in
Manchester town was oiled by this method.
In May of 1914 a large majority of the
churches in the county cooperated with the
Association in holding a Greater Benning-
ton County Sunday. The question of the
spiritual value of civic improvements was
put before the people in a forceful manner.

 

 

A SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT BEE IN BENNINGTON COUNTY, VERMONT

Irrigation—Speculation—Cooperation
—Reclamation

The Roosevelt Dam—How it Came to be Built and What it Means
- ‘ to the Salt River Valley

By Paul Walton Black

ON the nineteenth of June, 1915, the

battleship Arizona was christened

with the first water that came over
the spillway of the Roosevelt Dam. The
battleship was built to protect the interests
of the people of the United States; the dam
was constructed to protect the interests, in
a no less important way, of that portion of
the people of the United States that lives in
the Salt River valley.

In 1887 the Salt River valley of Arizona,
which had been partially reclaimed from its
arid condition and developed for twenty
years, was again approaching a desert state.
At that time the normal flow of the Salt
River had been so distributed over the val-
ley as to render it impossible to mature
crops

In 1867 the first canal, the Salt River
Valley 'Canal, was built, which brought
under irrigation 19,000 acres of the desert.
The soil proved so fertile and the waters
from the river so heavily laden with rich
sediment that in a short time 18,000 more
acres were irrigated by the construction of
the Maricopa canal system. One after an-
other the Tempe, Broadway, San Francisco,
Utah, Grand and Mesa canals were con-
structed, the latter being built in 1878,
bringing the total lands under irrigation up
to about 110,450 acres—practically all that
the normal flow from the Salt River would
irrigate in dry seasons.

In 1883 an organization, known as the
Arizona Canal Company, began the con-
struction of a large canal heading above
the others, which brought under irrigation
38,000 more acres. During the dry season
of the following years there was a shortage
of water, due to spreading the water of the
already overtaxed river over so much ad-
ditional land and to the fact that new crops
had been introduced which required more
irrigation than those of previous years.
Evidently there were two motives underly—
ing the construction of this system. Cer-
tain of those in the company were able to
secure large tracts of land for speculative

purposes by bringing it under irrigation,
and also the sale of water rights was de-
signed to bring in large returns.

As soon as it became evident that the
shortage of water was due to the building
of this last canal, there was general dis-
satisfaction in the valley. This dissatisfac-
tion resulted in an injunction designed to
prevent those interested in speculation from
diverting the water from the river until
those having earlier water rights had ob-
tained sufficient to mature their crops.

For a time this injunction was effective;
but as soon as 51 per cent of the shares
of stock of the various other canal compa-
nies could be bought up and directors put
into oliice who would serve those interested
in this speculation, the water was again
Spread out and the whole valley suffered.

For a long series of years there was a
constant struggle between individuals and
small groups and those interested in the
speculative company. By 1902 it was very
evident that such action was useless and un-
less those having priority of water rights
asserted themselves in one organized body
they could do nothing. With this in mind,
more than 4,800 of the struggling farmers
banded together, forming the Salt River
Valley Water Users’ Association, which is
purely a cooperative organization. The
first step of this association was to con-
struct what was known as the Appropri-
ators’ Canal, which paralleled the Arizona
and was so constructed as to regain the
water of which the farmers had been de-
prived by that canal. As a result, the Ari-
zona Canal Company failed. The Water
Users’ Association was made up of luona tide
farmers whose living depended upon the
use of the water which belonged to them
by priority.*

It was soon generally felt that, to prevent
shortage of water in unusually dry years
and to develop their lands to their capacity,

 

'Under the law in force in Arizona, and other
states west of the Rocky Mountains, water rights are
recognized in sequence of beneficial use of the water
upon the soil.

Digitized by 600816377]

CITY VOL. XIII, No. 5

THE AMERICAN

 

'.-r- ---: 7 -:'I'

THE SITE OF THE ROOSEVELT DAM AT THE JUNCTION OF TONTO CREEK AND THE
SALT RIVER, ARIZONA

a" .. '

. 1 ’..,‘ -  ‘  4‘

3.4.3" W177

 

Us”

I “I 7-. El  .J'

' '1' 1'1 1; 1<I._u.»:‘~,1a'\'1;1;1'

. Jr'.‘.'f*.'_'~.'.’_l:.| TH. I“; -"a‘J!:_l" _,'.'_.-'~_
DAM CUM I’Lli'l ECU—'1 IIIC Tx‘lf.~'l".1\'\“.._.}l R 31‘] LLING OVER—200,000 ACRES
IRRIGATED

A L

NOVEMBER, 1915 THE AMERICAN CITY 379

 

THE DESERT PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION OF THE ROOSEVELT DAM
' The Salt River Valley, showing old Camel Back Mountain

 

THE SAME SCENE AFTER THE COMPLETION OF THE ROOSEVELT DAM

I

380

they must devise some system which would
make possible the storage of water and in-
crease the supply. After a thorough inves-
tigation under competent engineering ser-
vice, the Association found that by con-
structing a darn, 280 feet high, 235 feet long
at the base and 1,080 feet long at the top,
at the junction of Tonto Creek and the Salt
River at a point 78 miles northeast of Phat-
nix, 1,284,000 acre-feet of water could be
stored, which would be sull‘icient to supply
from 210,000 to 230,000 acres of land. This
would double the amount of land that could
be successfully irrigated from the system
then in use. The construction of such a
dam and the necessary network of canals
was a bathing undertaking, as it would re—
quire an expenditure of more than $12,000,-
000.

About this time the Reclamation Bill was
before Congress, and representatives of the
Association assisted its passage in every
way possible. When it finally became a
law in 1903, the construction of the Roose-
velt Dam and canal system was one of the
first to be undertaken by the Reclamation
Service. So much had already been done

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 5

in the organization of the water users and
the preliminary surveying work that the
construction went ahead rapidly, and by
1911 the Roosevelt Darn was completed
The drainage area for the Roosevelt Reser-
voir is 5,760 square miles. By April 15.
1915, this vast drainage area had filled the
reservoir to overflowing. The occasion was
celebrated by the whole valley, and hun-
dreds of automobiles filled with people vis-
ited the dam and witnessed the hrst water
coming over the spillways. This vast im—
pounding of water means permanent pros-
perity in the valley. ‘ Whereas formerly the
valley was a desert, now it is green with
vegetation. The reservoir and canal sys-
tem represent the work of united action.
of close cooperation among the farmers and
the laying of the foundation for the de-
velopment of the valley to its maximum
producing capacity.

In 1902 more than 80 per cent of the
farms were in holdings of 160 acres or
more. To-day the average size of the farm
is 40 acres. The land has passed from the
hands of the speculator into the hands of
the homeseeker.

 

A New Bridge on an Ohio State Road

By Vincent S. Stevens
Secretary, Akron Chamber of Commerce

The opening of one of the highest con-
crete bridges in the world, in which Akron
and Cleveland motorists participated, was
celebrated September 8. The bridge is con-
structed on the line of the state road be-
tween Akron and Cleveland, and spans the
Cuyahoga River about a mile north of the
city limits of Akron. It was constructed
by Summit County with funds from bond
issues totaling about $100,000, and author-
ized by the electors of the county.

The roadway of the bridge is 190 feet
above the level of the river. The bridge is
782 feet long, with a roadway 26 feet wide,
and sidewalks on each side 4 feet wide. It
is built of reinforced concrete, of the open
spandrel ribbed arch type of construction.

The Board of County Commissioners, the
Mayor of Akron, members of the Akron
Chamber of Commerce Good Roads Com-
mittee, of the Akron Automobile Club, of
the Cleveland Automobile Club and of the

Northern Summit County Civic League
participated in the exercises. At the close
of the addresses a bottle containing water
from the Cuyahoga River was dashed to
pieces against the ramparts of the bridge
by the cutting of a ribbon stretched across
the roadway, and at the same moment auto-
mobiles from Akron started north and
those from Cleveland started south across
the bridge.

The state road, on the line of which the
bridge was constructed, is the shortest
route between Akron and Cleveland, a dis.
tance of about 32 miles. It has been de-
clared a main market road by the state of
Ohio, and it is expected that 10 of the r
17 miles to the Cuyahoga County line will V
be paved with brick during 1916. The road
is now paved from the Cuyahoga County
line to Cleveland. When it is entirely paved
it will make one of the finest scenic routes
for motorists in Ohio.

Digitized by 600816

NOVEMBER, 1915 THE AMERICAN CITY 38!

 . _. _ _ _ _ _ _._ __ ___.— _ _._,—

 

CONCRETE BRIDGE ACROSS CUYAHOGA RIVER, ON STATE ROAD, BETWEEN AKRON
AND CLEVELAND

___ . d
‘
F u

#-

 

AUTOMOBILES GROUPED 0N BRIDGE DURING DEDICATORY EXERCISES

A Florida County Road Campaign

they are wrought out.”

‘ ‘THINGS must be thought out before
The County Board of Trade of

Pinellas County, Florida, had fully laid out __

a comprehensive system of good roads for
the county many months before it was de—
termined that the roads should be built. A
competent engineer was secured, surveys
were made, maps and specifications pre-
pared, and all was in readiness for a for-
mal good roads program to be offered to
the citizens as soon as conditions seemed to
warrant it.

The opportunity came with the wave of
enthusiasm that swept over Florida during
the Dixie Highway campaign. In line. with
many other sections of the state, Pinellas,
one of its youngest and smallest counties, is
to have an extensive system of brick roads
connecting with the loop of the Dixie High-
way that traverses the Gulf coast section—
a larger system, in proportion to its area,
than any other in Florida.

The Pinellas Peninsula, whose boundaries
coincide with those of the county, is admir-
ably situated for road development: com-
pact—barely 40 miles from north to south
and measuring from 5 to 14 miles across
from the Gulf of Mexico to Tampa Bay—
with a beautiful scenic shore line on three
sides, there could scarcely have been
planned a district where this improvement
will show up so largely in proportion to
value.

On August 18 a brick roads bond issue
of $715,000 was voted, for the purpose of
building new roads, extending present ones
and constructing two concrete bridges, ac-
cording to the program laid out by the
County Board of Trade and recently ap-
proved by the Board of County Commis-
sioners. The work will get under way in
November and will be completed within a
year or less.

Preliminary to the election, guaranteed
cost eseimates for every foot of road to be
built were secured from a responsible engi—
neering company, bids were advertised for
and the contract for the work was awarded.
subject to the carrying of the bond election.
In this way every voter was accurately in-
formed as to what roads would be built and
the exact cost of each section of road, and

[382]

detailed specifications as to form, labor and
material were published and easily acces-
sible. Thus, there was no confusion re-
garding an indeterminate program, nor
grounds for suspicion that the bond money
would not be applied as voted, nor that any
community would be deprived of its share
of the improvements.

St. Petersburg, the largest town in Pi—
nellas, will profit especially by this excellent
new and extended means of communication
with the outside world. Within its cor-
porate limits are 35 miles of fine brick

streets, and paving is constantly going on.
Mas. ANNIE MCRAE.

4"?

County Parks Authorized by
Texas Legislature

The Texas Legislature recently provided
for the establishment of public parks in the
counties of the state by authorizing the
county commissioners to levy and collect a
tax of not more than 5 cents on each $100
of assessed valuation of the county for the
purchase and improvement of land for that
purpose. A two—thirds majority of the Vote
polled by the property tax-paying voters of
the county in which it is proposed to create
the park is necessary to secure the improve‘
ment.

The number of public parks in any one
county may not exceed four, and the County
commissioners are directed to locate them
in widely separated portions of the Count?
in order to place them as nearly as practi-
cable within the reach of all the citizcns 0f
the county. The county commissioners are
vested with complete control over the Parks“
and are authorized to levy and colleCt 3"
annual tax sufficient in their judgmentto
properly maintain them. No park my con-
tain more than 100 acres.

The commissioners are also authorized. to
construct therein pavilions and other bulld'
ings which they may deem necessary; to
lay out and open driveways and Walks'
which may be pavedgin their judgment? to ‘
set out trees and shrubbery, to construct
ditches and lakes, and to make any other
improvements which seem to them to be re-
quired.

The act was made effective in June. I9‘5-

Digitized by 600816

 

THE CHILDREN’S ORCHESTRA IN WINFIELD, KANSAS
Almost all these children are under twelve years of age

What is Being Done for Children in
Winfield, Kans.

By Earl H. Taylor

ment of Child Welfare, University

of Kansas, instituted a contest
among the second class cities of Kansas to
determine which of them was doing most
toward the betterment of its children.
Some fifty cities were eligible to the contest,
a first prize of $1,000 being offered by for-
mer Governor W. R. Stubbs to the winning
city and a second prize of $500 by Charles
Homer to the second city. Winfield won
first prize and Independence second.

W by Winfield W on

A three-way development of the child is
being attempted in VVinlield, adjudged the
leading city in child welfare work in
Kansas. The ordinary school curriculum is
reinforced by physical and artistic courses
that begin with the first grade or kinder-
garten and do not end until the child leaves
the high school. The result, the city hopes,
will be the production of well—balanced men
and women, developed mentally, physically
and socially.

All-year play directors—a young man for
the boys and a young woman for the girls
—look after the physical cultivation of the
children. The city has a centrally located
playground, equipped with slides, horizon-
tal bars, swings, tennis courts and running
tracks. A swimming pool is nearby.
Smaller group centers, also provided with

DURING the year 1914-15 the Depart-

apparatus, are scattered about the city, so
that one is well within reach of every child.
Boys and girls use the playgrounds to-
gether, one of the physical directors, some-
times both, being always present during the
play at the larger grounds. All of the
school buildings are equipped with gymnas-
iums, which are used when the weather is
not suited for outdoor sports. A jack-knife
club, kite-dying contests, hiking and fishing
trips and baseball add to the boys’ summer
amusements, while hikes across country and
a daily story—hour are features of the girls'
recreation. The children’s growth and all
other physical phases are carefully charted
and compared with the average; and if de-
fects are found, these are remedied at once.

Instruction in music, drama and story be-
gin at the same time that the W’infield child
is learning his A B C’s. It is regarded as
just as essential to acquire self-expression
as to acquire a good set of muscles or a
knowledge of addition and subtraction.
This has resulted in a strong development
of community music and art in the city, and
each year a series of public programs, un-
usual both in number and quality, is pre-
sented by the young people. The schools
have two orchestras, one composed entirely
of children in the lower grades. Some of
the youngsters in this orchestra are only
seven or eight years old, and the leader of
last year is but nine. The other orchestra

[383]

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 5

 

WINFIELD BOYS READY FOR

is made up of high school pupils. The city
board of education buys instruments and
gives the children free use of them. A
small charge is made for the public con-
certs, but this charge has been more than
enough to defray all expenses and has per-
mitted the purchase of a large library of
music.

The schools also have dramatic organi—
zations which give occasional public enter-
tainments. The Winfield Orchestral Club,
composed of grown-ups, collaborates with
the school children in furnishing a course of
eight community entertainments each win-
ter. A charge of one dollar for a season
ticket is made for this course. Only the
better class music and drama are presented.
This plan is designed partly to stimulate the
ideal of community service, partly to de-
velop self-expression and create an appre-
ciation of the finer things in music and
drama. It offers a sort of democracy of

WORK ON

THE SCHOOL FARM

opportunity, the aim being to give the aver-
age young person rather than the excep-
tional one a chance to perform in public.
An expanding spirit of cooperation and an
elevation of the type of social diversion in
the city are said to have resulted from these
community entertainments.

The school buildings are open to the pub-
lic throughout the year and are in general
use as social centers. Practically all gath-
erings of a community nature are held in
them, and they are closed only to meetings
of a partisan character. It is required that
all school functions be held in the school
buildings and under faculty supervision.
This applies even to school parties.

Vocational work is strongly emphasized
in the city schools, which furnish courses
in manual training, domestic science and
agriculture. Nor does this work stop when
vacation comes. A school farm is located
on the outskirts of the city, and all the boys

 

TYPICAL WINFIELD PLAYGROUND SCENE

NOVEMBER, 1915

under the physical director’s charge are
required to spend an hour’s work on the
farm each day. During the present season
they are raising corn, oats, potatoes and
beans on the tract. The results of the farm
work are carefully observed, and experi-
ments are made with different varieties of
farm produce. Over thirty varieties of
corn were planted this season, one being
brought from Argentina.

The boys are allowed to use the manual
training equipment during the summer, and
a large number of them take advantage of
the opportunity every day. The girls’ sum-
mer work includes hasketry. sewing and

THE AMERICAN CITY

385

he is suspended from all play advantages
for a certain period.

The school authorities provide a trained
nurse to look after the health of the chil-
dren throughout the year. Free medical and
dental attention is furnished to all children
whose parents are not able to alTord it.

No child is allowed to miss the annual
Chautauqua, which is ranked third in ef-
ficiency in the United States by the Mother
Chautauqua. A Good Fellows’ Club, of
business men, each year raises a fund suf-
licient to enable all the poorer children of
the city to attend the Chautauqua. This
same club also makes sure that none of

 

GI RLS’

embroidery. Both boys and girls are given
credit for work performed at home, such as
milking, washing the dishes and sweeping.
Whenever they do work of this sort they
report it to their directors. Their parents
are never questioned as to whether the
work has been done. All the children are
put upon their honor in such matters.

The use of tobacco by the boys of the
schools is not tolerated. If a boy is caught
smoking, he is expelled at once. Only one
such expulsion was made during the last

school year. If a boy does not play fairly

VACATION SEWING CLASS IN WINFIELD

the Winfield children are missed by Santa
at Christmas time.

Another safeguard put upon the chil-
dren’s morals is the ban on street shows
and carnivals. The dilhculty in regulating
these and eliminating demoralizing amuse-
ments caused their prohibition. A city cen-
sorship of moving pictures is maintained
and programs of an educational nature are
required at regular intervals.

W hat are the Results?

A number of results of the child welfare
movement in Winfield are already apparent.

386

Among these is a noticeable reduction in
the amount of juvenile delinquency. Only
two cases of delinquency were recorded in
1914, a remarkably small number for a city
of 8,000 people. Another result is the fact
that 96 per cent of the 1,750 children in
the public schools of the city are also en-
rolled in the Sunday schools. A decrease
in the amount of sickness and number of

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 5

accidents to children during the vacation
months has also been perceptible. Another,
and perhaps not the least, result is the rid-
dance of that ancient summer worry of
mothers, “I wonder where Johnny has
gone?” For the Johnnies in Winfield are
pretty sure to be at the playground or the
boys’ farm, intent on excelling in physical
development or in agricultural results.

 

The Sanitary Plant in Paris, Texas

By Hon. Ed. H. McCuistion
Mayor, Paris, Texas

HERE has been installed in Paris,

T Texas, a pail service system designed

to provide for dry closets, which has
attracted more than local attention.

The feature which most of all commends
this service is its simplicity. The economy
of first installation and the moderate cost
of upkeep and maintenance have also been
the subjects of agreeable surprise. The
most primitive methods and equipment to
be found in the service of the average city
are generally employed in the department
which
from dry closets. The Paris system was de-
signed to prevent the pernicious results of
soil pollution and fly breeding. and has suc-
ceeded admirably.

The first step in the successful installa-
tion of such a system is to make a thorough
and accurate sanitary survey. This will
furnish information which it is essential to

 

the sewer.

removes the accumulating waste’

have in providing equipment and in laying
out the entire system in detail.

The ‘1)umping Station
The dumping station may be constructed

of any cheap material. Ours is of corru-
gated iron on a wooden frame, with a con-
crete floor graded to a well in the center,
which is equipped with a hinged cover and
connected with the sewer. When a loaded
service wagon comes in from the field, the
pails are promptly removed to the concrete
floor on each side of the wagon. Water is
then turned on and, in the interest of per-
fect cleanliness, the entire vehicle is washed
thoroughly, whether soiled or not. Imme-
diately adjacent to the station are the can
frames or racks in which the pails are
placed after they have been emptied and
washed. The wagon is sprayed with a deo-
dorant while empty, and is then loaded with
pails in which has been placed a liquid dis-

--—

e
:3-

e-_t ‘

' r

‘1

THE DUMPING STATION, PARIS, TEXAS

' t d' the oncrete door, which is graded to the well under it.
The :i‘igon m s an Inset: rack: dank the building on either side, and on the left is the washing vat

The well is connected

NOVEMBER, 1915

THE AMERICAN CITY

387

 

THE SERVICE WAGON ON ITS WAY WITH EMPTY CANS

infectant and germicide; a second spraying
is then given the wagon.

The dumping station equipment consists
of washing vats, water services, wire hand
brushes and such other articles of a like
character as are calculated to prove helpful
in securing perfect cleanliness.

The Service Wagons and ‘Pails

The service wagons are substantially built
of hard wood and have low iron wheels
with broad tires. The double-decked beds
are designed and specially built to -fit the 66
closet pails carried. The pails are made of
24-gauge galvanized iron, are perfectly
smooth and are rendered rigid by the use
of %-inch iron wire at the top and base,
over which the metal is turned. All seams
and raw edges are covered with solder.
The ears are substantially riveted; the lids
are of heavy material and are interchange-
able among the pails. Each pail holds ap-
proximately 5 gallons.

The system is easily adaptable to the con-
ventional closet in use in the average city.
A board is inserted at the bottom at the
proper distance below the seat to accommo-
date the pail used and permit its easy in-
sertion and removal. On the board upon
which the. pail stands, quarter-round strips

are nailed which hold the pail rigidly in
place.

The Old and the New System Conlrasled

In the old primitive system so much in
use, deposits of dejecta afford probably the

finest known field for the propagation of
flies, making every closet a center of pollu-
tion and infection.’ The frail structure so
often utilized as a closet permits the rains
to liquefy much of the excreta, which thus
filters into the soil and pollutes a consider-
able area around every closet. This filtra-
tion process extends to wells, pollutes the
air, and develops to a greater or less extent
breeding fields for germ life that infect in
various ways. The whole environment of
the average closet is so repulsive that all
attempts at cleaning are commonly made
only at night.

Under the new system all the work is
done during daylight hours. The use of
deodorants and disinfectants, tight-fitting
lids and other features render the service
practically unobjectionable. The new sys-
tem prevents soil pollution, fly breeding,
nauseating odors, the prevalence of un-
wholesome air, and the centers of infection
so common in the old system. In the course
of the first year’s use of the system in Paris,
flies diminished in numbers to an almost in-
credible extent. The rapidity with which
closets are cleaned, the small price at which
the service is rendered, the satisfaction
which has attended its administration and
the general approval of the patrons, many
of whom at first considered the scheme vis—
ionary, are all evidences of a degree of
success which is particularly gratifying.

Euxron’s Norm—A copy of the circular issued to
residents of Paris, Texas, in connection with the in-
stallation of the sanitary system may be had upon
application to the City Secretary.

 

 

HOME TYPES IN WHICH CONCRETE HAS BEEN SENSIBLY AND ARTISTICALLY USED IN
MIDLAND, PA.

An Industrial Town That’s Fit to Live In
By J. E. Wright

Pittsburgh Industrial Development Commission

Krupp guns, has often been held up

as the height of practical idealism in
the construction of industrial towns; it has
been regarded as the acme of all that is
artistic and beautiful for a town whose
population is made up of workmen in a
manufacturing plant. The United States,
on the other hand, has never been noted
for the beauty and cleanliness of its indus-
trial towns, and Pennsylvania has fre-
quently been criticised for negligence of
housing conditions among the laboring
classes. Professor Steiner, in his book on
immigration, has spoken of the people of
Pennsylvania as those whose “hearts are
hardened by steel” and whose “minds are
blackened with coal.” At least the repu-
tation gained in this respect has not been
enviable.

As one of the exceptions, however, to
this rule of poor conditions in industrial
towns, and, in some respects, as a rival for
the German Essen, Midland stands out
prominently. This town was founded in
1906 by the Midland Steel Company and is
located on the Ohio River, thirty-seven
miles southwest of Pittsburgh. The orig-
inal plant was taken over in 1911 by the
Pittsburgh Crucible Steel Company, a sub-
sidiary of the Crucible Steel Company of
America, and the unsold portion of the
town. which included about 600 acres, was
later acquired by the Midland Improvement

ESSEN, GERMANY, home of the

[888)

Company, also a subsidiary of the Crucible
Steel Company. '

When the town came into the hands of
this new concern, a decided and rapid
change began to take place. Improvements
were at once instituted and municipal con-
ditions immediately underwent a change.
The usual checkerboard fashion, in which
the old town had been laid out, was done
away with; In its place was substituted a
system of curved and winding streets and
a number of small parks. which gave to the
little town a new appearance of beauty and
grace.

Ever since then the company has done
much to improve conditions and to give to
the inhabitants a town of which they might
well be proud. Midland is one of the few
industrial towns of its size that has a filtra-
tion plant in connection with its water-sup-
ply system. No charge has been made to
the borough up to this time for water fur-
nished the fire hydrants and the other water
consumed by the borough, including that
used-in the schools. The water to the peo-
ple is furnished at a low rate. An elaborate
system of sanitary and storm sewers has
been installed. which insures proper drain-
age and improved hygienic conditions.

When the Crucible Steel Company came
into possession of the town in 1011 it found
but one paved street. Now the town has
miles of paved streets, which are broad and

well kept. The main business street, Mid~

NOVEMBER, 1915

 

T\\'O-FAMILY RESIDENCE—PART OF TOYLAND GROUP

land Avenue, is 65 feet wide and has 12%-
foot sidewalks. Along the sides of all thor-
oughfares trees have been planted between
the sidewalks and the street. Some of the
residents living in sections where there is
little traffic have petitioned the borough
council to have the roadway between the
curbs reduced to 24 feet, leaving a grass
plot 8 feet wide between sidewalk and
curb. The town faces no danger of grade
crossing, as subways are to be provided
which will obviate all necessity for them.
One of the chief factors in the appear-
ance of any town is the style and appear-
ance of the houses built there. There are
several types in Midland, the most interest-
ing of which are those in the unique group
which has been designated “Toyland.”
These houses have been
designed after those in
Essen, Germany. This
group comprises several
hundred houses con-
structed during the last
year. They are of single,
double and triple type and
are modern and up—to-date
in all their features. They
are built of hollow tile,
plastered cement, and a
"pebble dash" or stucco
coat. Each house is
adorned with a window
box, the plants for which
are furnished by the com-
pany. and the tenants take
great pride in their culti-
vation. The artistic effect
presented by these numer-
ous houses, each with its
miniature garden, is beau-

THE AMERICAN CITY

389
tifully picturesque. The
occupants of these

houses are for the most
part foremen, mechanics
and clerks. The rents
vary from $21 to $27 per
month. Each house has
five or six rooms, bath,
pantry, electric lights,
gas, inside closet, run-
ning water and warm air
furnaces.

Another type of house
in Midland, interesting
chiefly because of its pe-
culiar method of construction, is the group
of so-called “poured concrete” houses. In
the building of the houses an experiment
was made with Mr. Edison’s new invention.
The concrete is poured into frames, and
practically no wood is used in the entire
construction. This invention of Mr. Edi-
son’s, while still in an experimental stage
as regards practical use, has met with suc-
cess in Midland and is attracting numerous
visitors from all parts of the industrial dis-
trict. These first buildings, while not beau—
tiful, are clean-cut, solid structures which
are in perfect harmony with the rest of
artistic Midland. The houses constructed
by the Edison process in Midland have as
tenants foreign mechanics. The houses
rent for $14 per month. Their selling price

 

PART OF THE RESIDENCE SECTION OF MIDLAND—A STREET
OF WIDE LAWNS AND PLENTY OF YARDS

A

390

is given as $1,900.

A third type of house is
composed of those built of
stucco and frame. They
contain five, six or seven
rooms and all modern con-
veniences. The tenants of
this kind of house are the
skilled mill operators. The
renting price of the houses
is between $20 and $22
per month. The selling
price for them ranges
Irom $2,500 to $3,400.

Ever since the begin-
ning of the Midland set-
tlement the foreign popu-
lation has been segre-
gated. This was felt to be
for the best interests of
everyone concerned and
has worked out admirably.
The foreigners are housed
in clean, wellobuilt frame
houses which are kept in
excellent condition. They
are built in long, uniform
rows with sufiicient space
between for light and air.
In a section of town near
that in which the foreign
population lives is a negro
section. The colored people, like all the
rest, are given the benefit of good housing
conditions and constant attention by bor-
ough authorities. The frame houses rent
for $12 per month.

In order to encourage garden improve-
ments, contests are held each year in the
several sections for the best lawns, Horal
designs, porch boxes, vegetable production,
and grounds as a whole. Generous cash

prizes are given, out of appropriations
made for the purpose by the Crucible Steel
Company. Judges are selected from the
various industries of the town, who award
the prizes each fall to the ones who show
the best results. Everyone is eligible to
enter the contest, but only one prize will be
given to an individual. Condition of the
ground and the time the contestant has had
for cultivation are considered by the judges
in making the awards. The residents of
foreign birth enter these contests and quite
frequently carry off the prizes. This is
encouraging, as it shows that efforts toward

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

VOL. XIII, No. 5

MOTOR FIRE APPARATUS LEAVING MUNICIPAL BUILDING

education in this direction are really worth
while.

A band-stand has been donated by the
company to the borough, in which the local
band plays. There are a number of men
in the community who formerly played in
some of the best bands in Europe, and as a
consequence excellent musical programs are
given. '

An improvement recently completed is a
new municipal building, with a white tile
front, erected at a cost of approximately
$25,000. One half is used for administra-
tive purposes and the other half for the
town’s fire apparatus. The assembly hall is
placed at the disposal of the people for all
social center work.

Taken as a whole, Midland is demonstrat-
ing the fact that a large corporation, by do-
ing its best toward its employes, can promote
happiness, good living conditions and de-
cent municipal administration, and can, at
the same time, raise its employes to a higher
level of efficiency and thus gain its own
end of cheapening the cost of production.

 

How the Public Library Can Aid the City Hall

By Florence Rising Curtis
Associate, University of Illinois Library School

THE mayor who assumes oflice for the

first time should find two of the city

departments especially equipped to
give him substantial aid in the successful
performance of his duties—the city clerk’s
office and the public library. In each of the
problems which come to him for solution
he must know what has been attempted in
the past, what is under way at the present,
and what is planned for the future. The
need for this information, and the equally
pressing need to discuss these problems
with others who are facing them, have re-
sulted in the annual Mayors’ Conferences
held in thirty-four of the states, and in the
first national conference of American may—
ors, at Philadelphia in November, 1914.
The mayor who attends such meetings is
under fire, he is constantly giving his opin-
ion, furnishing statistics, or pleading ignor-

ance. He must know his city, its activities
and its needs, and he must learn how other
cities are developing along the same lines.

He will tind in the clerk’s oliice the city
records, the reports and ordinances, and
information concerning the departments
and their employes. There are the card
files which enable a new incumbent of the
oli‘ice to take up his duties without repeat-
ing the work which has been done before.
There is the mailing list of the cities and
the individuals who receive the annual re-
port, and a list of the officials of neighbor-
ing municipalities who receive invitations to
important meetings and civic celebrations.
There is a record of the associations which
have held conventions in the city, of avail-
able halls for meeting places, transportation
facilities, hotel accommodations, and the
entertainments which have been provided.

 

THE BUSINESS BRANCH OF THE FREE PUBLIC LIBRARY, NEWARK, N. I.

[391]

392

These are a part of the working equipment
of the clerk’s office, and there is generally

room for little more, aside from the records A

of the correspondence and routine of the
office.

The public library affords opportunity for
the preservation of historical records and
the gathering of. material on the different
phases of the problems under consideration
by the city officials. A most important part
of this municipal reference library is the
collection of maps. They show the natural
features of the community, the hills, the
valleys, the waterways, which have largely
. determined the direction of growth, and the
transportation lines which make possible
continued commercial deve.10pment. A good
map collection is within the means of the
small city library, as the United States Gov-
ernment publishes excellent maps at the
actual cost of printing, and the publications
of various state commissions and depart-
ments may be secured free of charge.

A fine map of the United States gives the
railroads and canals, the national parks and
forest reserves. It is five by seven feet,
mounted on muslin and on rollers for hang-
ing, and is sold by the Superintendent of
Documents at Washington for $1. A map
of the state will show the relation of the
city to other municipalities, the markets
for its manufactures, the sources of its im-
ports, and the transportation facilities upon
which it must depend. This same office at
Washington sells, at 25 cents each, maps of
those states which have public lands, in-
cluding all the states and territories west of
the Mississippi. The Post Office Depart-
ment has issued maps of the several states,
which it sells, in most cases, for 80 cents
each. These show the principal post offices,
the post routes. and the steam and electric
railroads. Railroad commissions, rcad com-
missions, and state geological surveys pub-
lish good maps which may be obtained of
them without expense.

Maps of the locality are of especial value,
because they cover the district of which the
city is the natural trade and distribution
center. With a detail map as a basis. other

charts may be made by the use of trans- ,

parent cloth or tracing paper. These should
show the improved highways and the area
from which farm products are brought to
the city and from which people come for
trading, banking and recreation facilities.

A

THE AMERICAN CITY

ters.

VOL. XIII, No. 5

By the use of colored crayons, the charts
may be made to show the homes which be-
long to the city community because of
church or school connections, or through
iibrary service. The best local maps are
the topographic sheets sold, at 10 cents
each, by the U. S. Geological Survey. Each
is 16 by 20 inches, covering an area of
about 200 square miles; they show cities.
towns, village and farm residences, railroad
lines and relief features. This work, begun
in 1882, is still under way and the sheets are
not yet completed for all sections of the
country. The geologic folios for some sec-
tions, showing the geclogy and the mineral
deposits, with descriptive text, may be pro-
cured from the Survey, usually for 5 cents
each. It also publishes special maps of re-
gions economically important—e.g., New

York City and its vicinity.

,The Post Office Department sells, for 20
cents each, maps of each county in which
rural delivery service has been completed.
and additional blue prints of the post routes
starting from a single post office, for 5
cents each. These give the roads, water
courses, churches, schools and the resi-
dences along the routes. Those localities
which border on the coast are charted by
the U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey, which
issues an index map of its charts; the U. S.
Mississippi River Commissmn, with head—
quarters at St. Louis, issues charts of the
Mississippi River region; and the U. S.
Lake Survey, at Detroit, has charts of the
Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence River.
The geological surveys of many of the
states have issued maps showing the sources
of water supply. the forests and the mineral
and stone deposits.

A good city map will usually be found
in the city directory, and additional charts
may be traced from this, both for the entire,
city and for sections. The general map
will give the natural features and the trans-
portation lines, the ward lines may be
added, and the boundaries of the school,
fire and police districts. the institutions.
churches. schools and libraries. Another
map will show, by the use of colored inks,
the business houses, hotels, banks and then-
Simple outline charts give the area
of the water service, the gas and electric
systems, the paved streets, the concrete or
brick sidewalks and the shade trees. A
chart of the various nationalities shows the

Digitized by 600816

NOVEMBER, 1915

smaller communities and
trade centers within the
corporation lines. Sec-
tion charts of dwellings
in poor condition, unim-
proved streets and alleys,
and inadequate water-
supply will probably co-
incide closely with charts
of crime centers.

These maps do not call
for any special skill or
for much time in their
preparation; they may be
made by some patron of
the library who is inter-
ested in the subject, or
by an employe of the
city engineer. The illus-
tration shows one of the
maps which were made
by students of the Uni-
versity of Illinois Li-
brary School. The ac-
companying table gives a
uniform system of sym-
bols which will make the
maps more valuable for
purposes of comparison.
These maps were drawn
with writing ink upon
ordinary square-ruled or
drafting paper.

Next in value to the
maps is the collection of
city publications, the re-
ports, charters and ordinances, and the pe-
riodicals and booklets issued by chambers
of commerce and boards of trade. Each
library can secure the annual reports and
other publications of many cities which are
of the same size, or are considering similar
problems—a new city charter, or the instal-
lation of a sewage disposal plant. A state
municipal reference bureau, such as those
of Illinois, Indiana and Wisconsin, will fur-
nish additional reports and proceedings
which are not in the local collection.

Material descriptive of the city’s activi-
ties should be available in the public library
for the use of the citizens. Much of this
is of historical value—newspapers, diaries
and letters, anniversary papers and pro-
grams, pictures of people and of buildings,
streets and parks. In addition to this, there
are data in regard to the actual condition

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

61.

t N-‘s
a \J-qg cut... ‘9 myth“ he
I H .0” inn.

MAP OF A COLLEGE TOWN MADE BY STUDENTS OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY SCHOOL

of the city, its public utilities, the nation-
alities represented in its population and
their standard of living, the educational
and religious agencies, and the problem of
vice and crime. This is of interest to the
city oliicials, and the time may come when
every intelligent citizen shall feel it his duty
to inform himself in regard to his city. It
is not the mayor, but the average citizen,
who is usually consulted by the prospective
resident in regard to the advantages of the
town.

The chief reason why this civic collec-
tion should be in the library, instead of in
the clerk’s oliice, is the fact that the library
is the city information bureau, planned for
the acquisition and use of such reference
material. There is room for storage and
for convenient consultation, and a consist-

ent policy for its collection and care. The

Digitized by 600816

394

general reference books of the library will
give additional information upon the sub-
jects of civic interest; there are treatises,
periodicals, encyclopedias, statistical hand~
books, government documents and the trans-
actions of societies. Libraries in adjoining
cities, the state library, the state library
commission and the state. university are
generous in lending books which are not in
the local library. Municipal home rule, the
city manager plan, vocational education,
paving materials, public playgrounds—such
topics form the programs of the mayors’
conferences, and these are subjects upon

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 5

which the public library is prepared to oHer
aid. In the larger cities this special muni-
cipal reference collection is either a branch
of the public library, housed in or near the
city hall, or it is in a special room in the
library building. No municipal library is
too small to provide timely, accurate and
specific information which will be of prac-
tical value to the city oliicials.

 

Emrox’s Non—An outline suggesting the civic ma-
terial which should be collected in the city library has
been prepared by Miss Curtis under the title. “The
Collection of Social Survey Material." It is pub-
lished and sold by the American Library Association
Publishing Board, 78 East Washington Street. Chl-
cago. The price is 10 cents.

 

City Planning in Edinburgh, Scotland

planned portion of Edinburgh is re-

produced from Conservation of Life,
a quarterly bulletin on public health, hous-
ing and town planning, issued under the di-
rection of the Commission of Conservation
of Canada. The photograph clearly in-
dicates that nothing has been sacriliced
in the matter of utility, and that beauty has

THE accompanying view of the town-

the clock tower is the North British Hotel,
and the turreted building behind and t0 the
right, on the side of the hill, is the city gaol.
In the immediate foreground are the rail-
road tracks and tunnels under the mound
leading to the railroad station.

Edinburgh is the capital of a compara-
tively poor country with a population of
less than 5,000,000; it has no parliament and

 

WAVERLEY STATION AND ITS APPROACHES, EDINBURGH

been gained as well. The dominant fea-
tures in the sky-line are towers and monu-
ments—not skyscrapers with chimneys and
water tanks on the roofs.

On the mound in the foreground stand
the Royal Scottish Academy and Royal In-
stitution. Beyond and to the left is the
Gothic Scott monument. The building with

no permanent royal residence to contribute
to its public buildings. The new part of the
city here illustrated was planned in 1767.
and was for the most part built during the
nineteenth century. The city is among the
lowest rated in Great Britain. It has
gained largely in wealth because it has been
attractively planned and built.

The Location and Laying of Sewers
By Frederick R. Charles

City Civil Engineer, Richmond, Ind.

HETHER sewers should be located
 in streets or alleys is a question
admitting of some discussion. The
street location involves the disturbance of
the front lawn, the parking and the street
pavement during the installation of the sys-
tem and also when accidental obstruction
makes it necessary to dig down to the
sewer. The sewer is also more exposed to
the risk of being filled with the roots of
trees planted in the parking between the
curb and the sidewalk, which constitutes a
real danger in spite of all precautions. On
the other hand, the length of connection
from house to street will ordinarily be less
than from house to alley, although the tend-
ency now is to plat shorter lots, which more
nearly equalizes the lengths.

Alleys are usually narrow, alTording re-
stricted space for piling the earth excavated
during the construction, thus greatly in-
creasing the cost; but less valuable pave-
ment will be destroyed and less obstruction
caused than when the sewer is laid in the
street. Modern education in cleanliness and
sanitation is bringing about the construc-
tion of better pavements in alleys, and it
would doubtless be an aid to progress in
this matter if the alleys were paved before
the streets. The alley location serves better
for drainage of outbuildings, stables and
garages on the rear of the lot. When com-
bined sewers are used, the street is the bet-
ter location, as the street inlets can then be
connected directly to the sewer.

These questions should be carefully in-
vestigated before adopting plans for a sewer
system, as conditions differ so widely. If
no other structures prevent, the sewer is
ordinarily put in the middle of the street or
the alley, thereby reaching the properties
on each side with the same length of con-
nection and thus equalizing the cost. In
some cities with very wide streets, it is
cheaper to put the sewer along both sides
of the street and this avoid long house
connections.

‘Planning the Layout

Sewers should be laid as much as pos-
sible on a straight line and grade. Sags in
the grade should be avoided, as the decrease

of velocity resulting there will cause a de-
posit of the materials carried by the water,
and a resulting obstruction of the sewer.
Manholes should be provided at all changes
of alignment and grade and at intervals
approximating 300 feet along the straight
portion. Some authorities recommend lamp-
holes, with a view to saving the cost of the
manholes, but we find that the latter amply
justify the additional cost. If a sewer be-
comes obstructed, it will be necessary to
have an opening large enough for a man
to work in, to insert hose for fiushing, or
rods and other tools for cleaning; in such
case a small lamphole would be useless and
merely an aggravation.

GETTING THE LINE

In laying out the work for constructiOn
the requisites are: first, to so place stakes
or other marks that the contractor can ob-
tain the line and grade correctly, when
needed; second, to place them so that the
engineer does not have to be on the spot
every moment to see that no mistakes are
made.

Ordinarily I prefer the setting of stakes
parallel to the center line and offsetting a
certain distance therefrom, say from 3 to
8 feet, depending on the width of the trench.
the character of the excavation and other
conditions. This places the stakes where
they are not likely to be disturbed during
the progress of the work. The measure-
ment to the center line can be easily made
by the foreman or man in charge of digging
the trench, using a pole cut to the exact
length of the offset distance, and thereby
avoiding the trouble and possible inaccu-
racy in reading a tape.

GETTI NG THE GRADE

The same stakes are used for grade. If
the grade of the sewer be parallel to the
surface of the street or alley, the stakes can
be set parallel to the sewer grade and a
certain distance above it. The easiest way
to grade these stakes is to “tilt” them in.
as we call it. A stake is driven at one end
of the sewer at the certain height above
grade, and another stake at the next change
in grade, the same height above the sewer

[896]

Digitized by 600816

396 THE AMERICAN CITY

grade; the instrument is set over one stake,
the level rod placed on the stake and the
target set at the height of the instrument;
then the rod is taken to the other stake, the

telescope is sighted and the cross-hairs are .

clamped on the center of the target. Thus
the line of sight of the instrument is parallel
to the grade line of the surface of the
stakes. Then the rod is placed in turn on
each intermediate stake, which is driven
until the center of the target reaches the
line of cross-hairs of the instrument. This
method is very simple and easy as well as
accurate, but a few men are encountered
who are not familiar with it.

The stakes should be driven to about an
inch above the ground, as thereby they are
pretty well protected from disturbance in
working over and around them, and they
should be not over 33 feet apart, so that a
chalk line stretched between them may not
sag by its own weight. Where the ground
is irregular, or the sewer grade not parallel
to the surface, the stakes can be driven
down to an inch or two above the ground,
and levels taken on them, whereby the cut
at each stake can be computed.

In alleys it is often advantageous to drive
only enough stakes to keep the line, and
to drive nails in the adjacent buildings for
the grade; these nails can be high enough
above the ground not to be covered with
the earth excavated.

The grade marks having been established,
the procedure is as follows: From the
stakes or grade marks, level across to the
sewer and fasten boards by nailing to the
sheeting or braces, if used, or to stakes
driven in the bank. It will be found con-
venient to raise a certain computed distance
above each stake, so that the templets will
be a couple of feet above the ground; thus
they will not interfere with getting mate-
rial into the trench. A handy apparatus
for setting templets is made, which con-
sists of pointed bars for driving into the
ground, and on these bars are horizontal
bars or templets, clamped to the uprights
with convenient fastenings by which they
can easily be set at any desired height.

Then stretch a strong fishing line or
light chalk line along these templets. As
this line will then be parallel to the grade
line of the sewer, the pipe or the form for
a brick or concrete sewer can easily be set
to exact position by measuring down from
the chalk line with a marked pole, which

VOL. XIII, No. 5

should have a bracket or angle iron at the
base, to set into the end of the pipe.

Materials for Sewer Construction

The relative merits of the materials used
in sewer construction have been freely dis-
cussed in late years, and much acrimony
has been developed. These discussions
have too often degenerated into attacks
upon one material by the adherents or
manufacturers of another. This should
not be so. It is a mistake that reacts to the
disadvantage of all concerned. No one
material possesses all the merits nor all the
defects.

VITRIFIED PIPE AND BRICK

For sewers up to 24 inches diameter, vit-
rified pipe and cast iron pipe have qualities
which are well-known and recognized. For
larger sewers brick was formerly used, and
in some localities may still be advantageous;
but the increasing price of brick, together
with the high cost of construction, has in-
duced the use of other materials in most
places. If brick be adopted, it should be of
a good quality of hard—burned sewer brick,
or a vitrilied brick not so hard as required
for paving. Often the invert may be lined
with vitrified brick and the remainder of the
sewer made of common brick. Brick should
be straight, not warped nor twisted, and
should be laid with close joints entirely
tilled with a good quality of Portland ce-
ment mortar. Skilled labor is required for
laying: the ordinary brick mason is 110‘
fitted for this work, which is usually done
by "floating" brick layers, who dema“d
high wages and are very independent.

CONCRETE AS A MATERIAL

Concrete for sewers is coming into “'5‘
largely for the following reasons: (I) .15
comparative cheapness; (2) its liexibilxt.v
or adaptability for a variety of forms; (3.)
its use requires little skilled labor; (4) it
exactly fills the irregularities of the trenclli
giving better support and a more Solid
foundation; (5) sewers can be built in 3
solid mass, hence are less liable to settle-
ment, and have not so many joints to be
made water-tight, although, on the other
hand, it is not easy to make the body 0f
the pipe impervious.

Concrete is used to some extent in the
smaller sizes in competition with vitrified
pipe, but its chief field for usefulness lies
in the larger sizes, from 24 inches 119v

Digitized by 600816

 

NOVEMBER, 1915

where the cost of vitrified pipe is prohibi-
tive and that of brick is excessive. Con-
crete is employed in several modes of con-
struction: it may be molded in place in the
trench as a monolithic structure, either
plain or reinforced; it can be made in sec-
tions outside the trench and laid as pipe;
or it can be molded in blocks or segments
with suitable reinforcement.

SYSTEMS OF CONCRETE PIPE CONSTRUCTION

The systems of pipe construction are nu-
merous, differing in methods of forming the
joints and in character of reinforcement.
Some are made circular and some with a
flat bottom; some are machine-made and
some are hand-made. One variety has bell
and spigot ends and the joints are formed
as in vitrified pipe. Another has one end
tapered and the .other enlarged; the small
end fits into the large end of the adjacent
section, leaving a groove around the exte-
rior which is filled with mortar after join-
ing the reinforcement in the two sections.
In filling the joint a tin “joint runner” is
placed around the pipe and the joint filled
. by pouring. Another kind has a spigot
somewhat shorter than the bell, and when
the two sections are abutted, a dove-tailed
recess is formed on the inside of the pipe:
the reinforcing metal laps in this recess,
which is then filled with mortar from the
interior. This is claimed to give an abso-
lutely tight joint, free from cracks.

Still another system has a notch cut out
of the interior of the pipe around its lower
circumference, and out of the exterior
around the upper half of the circumference.
When the sections are joined, this leaves
a groove for the reception of the mortar,
on the inside for the lower half of the
sewer, and on the outside of the upper half.
whereby the mortar is always plastered
downward, causing it to be more easily
placed and kept in position. .

For reinforcement, these different sys-
tems use rods, bars, bands,, expanded metal,
triangular mesh, rib metal, etc., and the
tedious part of the work is joining the re-
inforcement in the adjacent sections, and
properly cementing the joints, which takes
continual care and inspection. The same
care, however, is needed on the joints of
vitrified pipe sewers. By means of der-
ricks and block and tackle or chain hoists,
these pipes, even in the large sizes, are eas-
ily handled and placed to grade. They must

THE AMERICAN CITY

397

be well bedded and thoroughly tamped
around the quarters and up to the springing
line, as indeed must all sewers.

BUILDING MONOLITHIC CONCRETE SEWERS

Monolithic concrete sewers, or those built
in the trench, can be built around wood
forms, but metal ones are preferable. They
may be either half-circle or full-circle.
Personally, I prefer the full circle as re-
quiring fewer Operations to complete the
work.

The trench is dug to the depth and width
which allows the desired thickness for the
shell of the sewer. It does not need to be
shaped carefully, as the concrete will fill
irregularities. If water be encountered,
measures must be taken to keep it from the
concrete until setting has taken place. This
can be done successfully by a subdrain of
common tile of suitable dimension, which
will amply justify its cost.

Our method of operation is to place in
the trench the concrete for the flow line,
giving it the proper grade and shape by
striking it off with a straight edge, resting
it on heavy blocks cut to the radius of the
sewer, and set to the grade of the How line.
When this concrete is sufficiently hard, the
sewer forms are placed thereon and the
concrete poured around them. Forms for
the outside of the barrel are not needed, as
the sides of the trench serve that purpose
up to the springing line. For this portion
the concrete should be mixed wet enough
to pour. It should be tamped or jostled so
as to fill all interstices and bring the free
mortar to the surface, making the mass
homogeneous. Above the Springing line
the concrete must be a little stiffer in order
to hold its position and not How away when
shaped as desired. The outer surface can
be finished by Hoating or troweling, if de-
sired, but a handy man with a flat shovel
can give it a good shape and finish, and do
it expeditiously.

For reinforcing, twisted rods or lug bars
can be used, but, personally, we find ex-
panded metal or rib metal the most satis-
factory.

This is made in sheets, which can be
placed much more quickly and easily and
retained in position more successfully than
rods. The sheets are bent to the proper
radius and put over the forms, being held
the proper distance therefrom by wooded
strips which are removed as the concreting

Digitized by 600816

398

progresses, or by small pieces of brick or
molded concrete blocks which are left in
place. When the concrete is set sufficiently,
the forms are collapsed and moved ahead
to the next section. If the forms are kept
oiled and the tamping and jostling have
been carefully done, the interior of the
sewer should present a true and smooth sur-
face. Any irregularities that appear should
be taken care of immediately by brushing
and plastering.

A well-constructed concrete sewer can be
made almost as smooth as vitrified pipe, but
it takes careful workmanship and inspec-
tion, and often falls short of perfection.
Good workmanship in mixing and deposit-
ing, as well as proper selection and propor-
tioning of cement and aggregates, is neces-
sary to secure good concrete work of any
kind. It should not be neglected because
the finished structure is to be covered with
earth and hidden from view.

Comparing the ordinary concrete pipe
with the monolithic, we find the monolithic
somewhat cheaper under favorable condi—
tions. It can be made more nearly water-
proof than the joints of the pipe. Tamping
under the quarters of the pipe takes time
and trouble, and evidently does not give
as solid results as the monolithic with the
concrete built right against the bank. The
pipe requires a wider trench to give room
to do this tamping, while for the mono-
lithic the cutting can be made of the exact
dimension.

When treacherous soil is encountered, or
it is desired to do the backfilling immedi-
ately, the pipe has the advantage; also it
can be made under shelter, utilizing periods
of inclement weather, and in general under
more favorable conditions of workmanship
and inspection. Local conditions must de-
termine the relative merits of these systems.

VITRIFIED CLAY SEGMENT BLOCK

A new material—or, rather, an old ma-
terial handled in a new way—which is of-
fered for the use and approval of engineers
is vitrified clay segment block. It is made
of the same substance and burned in the
same way as vitrified pipe. It is suitable

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 5

for sewers of from 30 inches to 108 inches
diameter, and is made in segments or blocks
of a convenient size to handle. These
blocks are constructed of three layers, con—
nected and strengthened by longitudinal
ribs. They have tongued and grooved longi-
tudinal joints and shiplap joints at the ends.
They are laid in cement mortar, with the
end joints staggered to give a good bond.
Being made of the same material, they have
the qualities of vitrified pipe in being
smooth and impervious.

The lower half of the sewer is laid with—
out the use of forms, but the upper half
requires them. Before striking the forms,
the earth must be tamped carefully around
the quarters and up to the springing line,
even more thoroughly than with other sew-
ers. Backlilling can be done immediately.
It is claimed that these blocks can be laid
easily and rapidly, and that the cost is low.

But, as I said above, there should be no
controversy among the advocates of the dif—
ferent materials. Inferior aggregates, in-
sulhcient cement and slovenly workmanship
have been put into concrete sewers, which
thereupon have failed. On the other hand,
unsuitable clays and improper burning have
gone into vitrified pipe, which likewise
failed. Both kinds have been injured by
acids and alkalies. Both kinds have borne
the burden of reproach caused by failure
due to improper laying and backlilling of
the trench. These failures have been her—
alded far and wide as being inherent in the
material, instead of being charged to work-
manship, where they belong. On the other
hand, both kinds have been in successful
use for many decades, giving good satisfac-
tion and a promise of a long life still to
come.

Engineers should recognize the fact that
carefully drawn specifications and thor-
ough and honest inspection can obtain good
results in both materials; that we should
entertain prejudice against neither, but ex-
amine each case as it comes up. weighing
conditions carefully and impartially, and
should adopt the system that promises our
constituents an honest dollar’s worth of
sewer for every hundred cents of cost.

CW

Digitized by 600816

‘lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

JinEmwmmmHthm',

FACTORS IN THE SUCCESS
FAILURE OF STREET PAVEMENTS

WillmlmlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllmmlllHllNlllllllmulllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllli

 

.iillllllllllllilllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllif'

EDITOR'S Nore.— The following is the third of the series of articles under the above

heading to be published in THE AMERICAN CITY, as announced in the July number.

articles which have already appeared are:

The t'zvo

SHEET ASPHALT PAVEMENTS—Daniel T. Pierce, Executive Assistant, The Barber Asphalt

Paving Company.

ASPHALT BLOCK PAVEMENTS—Edwin J. Morrison, President, The Hastings Pavement

Company.

The remaining articles in the series will be:
BRICK—Will P. Blair, Secretary. National Paving Brick Manufacturers Association.
CONCRETE—W. A. McIntyre, Chief Road Engineer, American Portland Cement Manufac-

turers Association.

GRANITE—Zenas W. Carter, Field Secretary, Granite'Paving Block Manufacturers Asso-

ciation of the United States.

W000 BLOCKS—H. S. Loud, Chief Engineer. United States Wood Preserving Company.

The articles will be published in alphabetical order, as listed above. As the manufacturers
of the various types of pavement are vitally interested in the proper construction and mainte-
nance of their products, and have necessarily made a very careful study of this subject, they
are able to offer thoroughly practical advice regarding factors to be considered and mistakes
to be avoided. It is not the intention of this series of articles to advocate the merits of any

particular kind or brand of pavement.

The assumpion will be in each case that a city has

decided to lay a pavement-of the type under discussion: the object of each article being to
otter suggestions as to how the longest life may be obtained for such a pavement at the least

possible expenditure to the municipality.

This series will be followed byfone on various types of patented pavements.

Precautions to be Used in Securing Success-
ful Bituminous Macadam Pavements ‘

By Philip PP. Sharples

Barrett Manufacturing Company, New York

THE construction of bituminous ma- '

cadam pavements is seemingly such a

simple matter that any one who has
ever ridden in an automobile or driven a
horse deems himself competent to build a
road by either the penetration method or the
mixed method. ‘

With such an idea harbored by so many
people it is little wonder that bituminous
macadam pavements are not always suc-
cessful.

To some the penetration method means
throwing a few crushed stones on the road
and then pouring on some form of bitu-
minous material (it does not matter much

what) in any way that is convenient, giving
the whole a few licks with the roller and
calling it a job.

The mixed method, because it costs a

'little more, is. often thought to warrant a

little more care and perhaps a foundation.

Of course, to any one who has had
thorough road training such ideas are pre-
posterous and laughable; but they, never-
theless, are not so far from those held by

many people whose observation should lead
them to know better.

What, then, are the requisites for good
bituminous macadam road construction?
First and foremost comes skill in road

[399]

Digitized by 600816

400

building. Like skill in everything else, it is
the result of intelligent study, coupled with
actual practice in road construction.

Given a bituminous road to build, there
must be some one on the job who knows.
The best work will be done only when every
one—from the engineer who laid out the
road down through the contractors, the in-
spectors, the manufacturers of the bitu-
minous material, the roller man, the spread-
ers of the stone and of the bituminous ma-
terial—is adept each on his own part of
the job.

If proof were neded to substantiate such
a common-sense point of view it would only
be necessary to compare the perfect tarvia
macadam laid in a city like Laconia, N. H.,
where almost every one from the engineer,
C. A. French, to the lowest paid man on the
pay-roll has worked together for years, with
the work done with no engineering super-
vision by some contractor who was awarded
the job because he was the lowest bidder
and figured on using the cheapest materials
in the cheapest way, even if he did not figure
to leave some part of them out.

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 5

Let us take up now some of the specific
precautions necessary in bituminous ma-
cadam construction.

Foundation:

The foundation should be prepared with
great care. No one would think for 2
minute of building an $8,000 house on a mud
bank with no foundation; then, why build an
$8,000 road without a foundation?

The drainage must be perfectly attended
to. Wherever water stands there will be
weakness. The finished foundation must
present a smooth, hard, dry surface prOperly
shaped so that it will conform to the finished
contour of the road. For bituminous sur-
faces the crown should be much lower than
for plain macadam. Three—eighths of an
inch to the foot is ample. More tends to
make the road slippery and uncomfortable
to travel on.

Stone
Much could be said about the kind of
stone best for bituminous macadam con-
struction. In practice it is generally neces-

 

UNION AVENUE, LACONIA, N. H., PAVED WITH BITUMINOUS MACADAM

NOVEMBER, 1915

 

THE AMERICAN CITY

BRATTLE STREET, CAMBRIDGE, MASS.
An example of penetration macadam maintained by surface coatings of refined tar

sary to take the stone available and make
the best of it. Undoubtedly good trap rock
makes the best road metal, and it may often
be economy to pay more for a good quality
of stone for the wearing course, while put-
ting in the base course with a cheaper stone.
Only a thorough analysis of the local fac-
tors of the problem will show what is true
economy.

For the bituminous wearing surface it is
absolutely essential to have clean stone.
This point cannot be too strongly empha-
sized.

. ' Base Course

The base course is spread over the
foundation. The thickness will depend on
the strength of the foundation. From 4 to
6 inches is usual with solid foundations.
With softer material 8 inches is not too
much. Where the stone is laid more than 4
inches it should be put in in layers and each
layer separately compacted by the roller.
For example, a 6-inch course should be put
in in two 3-inch layers; an 8-inch in two
4-inch layers.

The size of stone generally specified is to
pass a 3V2-inch ring and be retained on a

2%-inch ring. If the stone is hard and
tough, it may be slightly smaller; if soft,
slightly larger than these dimensions.

The roller used is best a 10- to Iz-ton,
three-wheeled machine. The rolling on each
layer must begin at the sides and work to-
ward the center in order to maintain the
proper shape of the road.

After the base is solid, the spaces between
the stones should be filled with line, clean
gravel, coarse sand or stone screenings.
Rolling should continue while the materials
are spread on the road. This filling of the
stone base is important. It 'keeps the

’ foundation material from working up into

the base; it makes the base more secure, and
it prevents the bituminous material from
running down into the base, thereby wasting
material and draining it away from the
place where it is needed.

' The base thus prepared may be used for
either a penetration t0p or a mixed top. Let
us first consider the penetration top.

Penelralion Mel/nod

WEARING COURSE—The stone for the top
or wearing course is spread over the pre-
pared base. Even greater care must be

402

.r ' q .

. '3'._ i n

'- ’ 'QFL’ch'.
' _ M

PAVING SCENE IN GREEN LAKE. WIS.
Method of applying refined tar under pressure, from single nozzle

used to get it uniformly spread than for the
base course. It is customary in many places
to dump the stone on broad platforms and
then place it in the road with shovels. Stone
dumped in piles and leveled off never makes
a smooth road. Owing to the compacting of
the bottom of the pile and the sifting down
of the small sizes, the resulting road is of
uneven density and will wear into hum-
mocks.

The size of the stone for this course is
usually 2% to 1% inches measured on rings,
but, like the base, may be
varied within limits to
suit the quality of the
stone. A softer stone al-
lows a larger size, while
with a hard, tough rock
a smaller size gives better
results. The stone must
be absolutely clean, free
from all dust, loam, or
clay. Dirty stone will
never produce good pene-
tration bituminous mac-
adam roads.

The rolling is done with
the same weight roller as
used on the base. In case
the traffic is to be light, a
tandem roller of 8 tons is
permissible. The sides
are rolled first and the

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

VOL. XIII, No. 5

roller worked towards the
middle of the road.
The greatest of care

must be used” in rolling
this course. The surface
must be well knit together,
smooth and firm. At the
same time it must be Open
enough to admit the bitu-
minous material. The en-
gineer must watch the
stone carefully to see that
it is not crushed too much.
as in this case the door
will be closed to the en-
trance of the bituminous
material and it will be left
as a mat on the surface in-
stead of entering between
the stones to bind them to-
gether.

On the other hand the
stone must not be too open, as in that case
the binder will run through to the bottom of
the course. If the stone is very hard, it may
be advisable to add a small quantity of 94'
inch stone just previous to the last rolling.
to reduce the void space.

After the rolling is finished, the stone
should be 2% inches in depth.

BITUMINOUS BINDER—The road is now
ready for the bituminous material. There
are many brands offered in the market for
penetration work, but those prepared from

 

AUTO TRUCK SPRAYER DESIGNED FOR PENETRATION WORK
AND SURFACE TREATMENT WITH REFINED TAR

 

NOVEMBER, 1915

refined tar were the first used, and their
many advantages for this kind of work still
keep them in the lead. A properly pre-
pared, refined tar has physical qualities
that make it especially adapted to penetra-
tion work. Care should be taken to pur-
chase only from reliable manufacturers
who have had experience in making ma-
terials for this purpose, as the requirements
are exacting. Usually 100° to 110° F. is
the proper melting point (cube method in
water). . ‘

The refined tar is easily liquefied by
steam heat, which leads to its economical
handling on large jobs in tank cars and
tank wagons. It sticks to
COM stone—an all-impor-
tant characteristic in pene-
tration work—and it has a
certain set to it, which
tends to keep the road
smooth and prevents it
from rolling up.

The methods of treating
and applying the refined tar
must be suited to the job
and its location.

On large jobs, tank cars
heated by steam are used,
and the refined tar applied
through pressure nozzles '
employing either air or
steam pressure, and used
either singly or in batteries.
In some localities near the
manufacturing plants, the
refined tar is sent out all
heated and ready to apply
either in horse-drawn tanks
or in motor trucks. The latter are fitted
with power machinery for applying the re-
fined tar.

On small jobs or where it is difficult to
operate tank cars and tank wagons, the
bituminous material is shipped in barrels
and heated in open kettles. Hand pouring
pots are used to distribute the refined tar on
the road.

The proper Spreading temperature is
200° F. to 275° F., but the latter tempera-
ture is too high where open kettle and
direct fire are used. Too long an exposure
to the temperature would result in a hard-
ening of the bituminous material.

‘ The bituminous material must be spread
with great care, and, like the stone, must
be entirely uniform. The amount per

THE AMERICAN CITY

403

square yard, usually 1.7 gallons, must be
judged with accuracy. The amount to be
covered with a single barrel or tank wagon
must be measured off and checked up. Not
only should the average be correct, but each
square yard should contain its gallon and
seven-tenths. It will avail little if the
average of two yards is correct, with one
yard containing all the material and the
other none at all.

The surface should now have a uniform
black appearance, with every square yard
like every other square yard. The spaces
between the stones should show. They
should now be chinked in with M—inch

 

A ROAD IN FORRESTDALE, R. I.
Agood example of bituminous macadam laid in 1912

stone. The size may be varied with the
size of the void to be filled and the kind of
rock. The stone must be very clean and
spread uniformly over the surface, but not
enough in quantity to form a distinct layer.

The road is rolled again to force the
stone into the interstices. If any excess re-
mains, it is removed with push brooms.
Unless this excess is removed it will cause
the seal coat to peal off through lack of
union with the base. '

The seal coat (V2 to 94 gallons per
square yard) is applied by the same appa-
ratus used in putting on the first coat. As
on the first coat, the utmost care should be
taken to put the material on uniformly.

The road next receives a coat of screen-
ings or peastone. The peastone is prefer-

404

able with a soft stone or with a heavy-
traffic road. The screenings are preferable
with a hard trap rock. 'Here again the ma-
terial must be applied uniformly. A final
rolling prepares the road for trafiic.

Mixed Melhod

If a mixed tOp is desired instead of the
penetration tOp, mixing apparatus must be
provided if the work is to be done economi-
cally; in fact, with any bituminous ma-
terial except certain grades of refined tar
it is not possible to do hand mixing. Mixers
are on the market in various designs. It is
important to get one in which the tempera-
tures are easily regulated, so that there is
no danger of burning the bituminous ma-
terials. If an open flame is employed in
the mixer, it should never be allowed in the
mixer after the bituminous material has
been added.

Either stationary or portable plants of
various capacities may be obtained. A plant
should be chosen whose capacity is adapted
to the gang to be employed on the job. The
places for setting up the plant should be
carefully considered. It is oftentimes ad-
visable, even with portable plants, to set
them up at the stone supply and haul the
coated stone rather than the separate ma-
terials.

A discussion of stone sizes, the grading
of the mix and other technical details
need not be entered into here. Suffice it
to say that the judgment of men with prac-
tical and trained knowledge should be
sought. In an open stone mix, a stable mix
should be sought. Different rocks require
different sizings and mixtures of sizings
according to their form of fracture and the
shape of the pieces produced.

'In the same way, the amount of bitumi-
nous material will vary with the conditions.
Only experience and knowledge can de-
termine the correct percentage.

As in the penetration work, a wide va-
riety of bituminous material is offered by
the market. Some are more suitable for
one type than another. \Vith the cold-
mixed type, -where the stones are not
heated, a refined tar suitably prepared will
give good results. The refined tars also
are economical with hot aggregate in that
the temperature may be run much lower
and considerably more yardage turned out
with the same gang.

Great care must be taken to watch the
temperatures of the stone, the bitumen and

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 5

the mix both in the mixer and on the road
Many failures are due to lack of care in
watching temperatures. A burned batch
may not show till the spring after the hrst
winter, or even later, but it is sure to re-
veal itself in time.

The spreading on the road must be care-
fully done by skilled men. So much de-
pends on eye training to carry grades that
skilled labor cannot be dispensed with on
mixed work. The roller man cannot do as
much smoothing out as he can in plain
macadam.

The rolling is, however, extremely im-
portant. The details vary with the bitumen
used and the grading of the mix. With coal
tar cement, for instance, the rolling must be
deferred until the initial set has begun. In
hot weather this may not be for several
hours. With certain grades of asphalt, on
the other hand, rolling must be begun as
soon as the mix is spread.

The seal coat on open mixes is an im-
portant part of the pavement, and should
be put on with great care. The same appa-
ratus may be employed as in the penetra-
tion work. It is more usual, however. to
use pouring cans, followed by squeegees, to
rub it thoroughly into the pavement.

In the mixed work, as in the penetration
work, too much emphasis cannot be placed
on uniformity. It is absolutely essential that
the stone sizes be kept uniform, that the
temperature be uniform, that the materials
be laid in a uniform manner and rolled all
alike.

Maintenance

An article on bituminous macadam
would not be complete without a word on
maintenance. Bituminous surfaces are
peculiarly resistant to traffic so long as they
are intact. When once ruptured, disintc'
gration goes on apace. The moral is: make
all repairs at once when openings are made
for any purpose or when breaks occur due
to defective workmanship.

If the surface becomes generally dry, 3
seal coat should be applied at once, with-
out waiting for general disintegration to
take place. A few cents a yard applied in
this way saves large repair sums later,
or even a replacement of the whole pave-
ment. In coal tar materials, a material for
application cold is now supplied which iS
both cheap to apply and efficacious in re- ‘
sults. It can be used on any bituminous
macadam as a life-saver if used in time.

Digitized by 600816

 

New Bulletins

HAZLETON, PA.—The Hazletonian. Pub-
lished monthly by the Hazleton Chamber
of Commerce.

LANCASTER, PA.—Chamber of Commerce
Bulletin. Published monthly by the Lan-
caster Chamber of Commerce.

TRENTON, N. J.—The Eye-Opener. Pub-
lished monthly by the Trenton Chamber of

Commerce.
'1' '1'

Educating the Legislature as to

Municipal Needs

The cities of Ohio, and particularly Cin-
cinnati, have suffered for years through a
failure of the Ohio Legislature to compre-
hend their needs and to allow such legisla-
tion as would permit the onward march of
progress. Despite opposition of the bitter-
est sort, Cincinnati now owns its own uni-
versity, one of the finest water-works sys-
tems in the world, and even its own rail-
road. It has also the largest municipal hos-
pital in America. At the last session of the
Ohio Legislature it obtained permission to
build a subway and rapid transit system.
To the sorrow of the Legislature, however,
the city of Cincinnati is not yet through.
There are a number of other ambitious
projects on foot which have received the
endorsement of the Chamber of Commerce
and civic organizations, and which will re-
quire legislative action.

Realizing the extent of misunderstanding
existing between city and country legis-
lators, the people of Cincinnati this year set
forth on a campaign of education. They
were determined that matters vital to the
welfare of cities should not be buried under
the ooze of misunderstanding. They de-
termined to show the legislators of Ohio,
many of whom had no conception of the
needs of a metropolis, the extent of Cincin-
nati, what it has secured by determined bat-
tles before previous legislatures, and what
will probably be needed in the future. Ac-

News and Ideas for Commercial and
Civic Organizations

   

cordingly a large fund was raised for the
entertainment of the legislators, and they
were invited to hold their annual reunion
in Cincinnati. About 220 of the legislators
and their wives accepted the invitation and
were guests of the citizens of Cincinnati
from September 21 to 25.

The legislators were shown the beau-
tiful parks of the city, and the extent of
necessary improvements was described to
them. They were shown the industrial dis-
tricts, and the needs of these districts were
related. They were shown the municipal
school system from kindergarten to univer-
sity, and were told of future needs. A re-
view of the police and fire departments, an
exhibition of the water-works system and a
description of the mazes of city government
served to enlighten them further. Finally
they were taken in an all-steel train over
the 330 miles of the city-owned Cincinnati
Southern Railroad, shown its shops, bridges
and terminal facilities, and told how this
road yields the city nearly a million dollars
a year over improvements, interest and
sinking fund charges. A delegation of
business men accompanied the legislators on
all their excursions in and about the city
and explained in detail what is done with
the millions of dollars raised in Cincinnati
by taxation—and thus they learned why a
big city must spend colossal sums for pur-
poses of which the ruralist cannot conceive
except by personal observation and study 0
the problems the urbanite faces. '

Two-thirds of the legislators attending the
reunion at Cincinnati came from rural com-
munities. Their eyes were opened, and it is
the belief of the citizens who entertained
them that procuring legislation for the relief
of present needs and for progress in the fu-
ture will obtain from the rural legislators of
Ohio that hearty cooperation which has been
remarked chiefly by its absence in the past.
It is believed also that this trip of the Ohio
Legislature to Cincinnati will mean that the
other big cities of the country will find it

[405]

Digitized by 600816

406

to their advantage to adopt similar educa-
tional methods. Perhaps they will not be
called upon to provide an entertainment on
such a large scaleas that given by the citiv
zens of Cincinnati, but they will profit by
giving the country legislator his informa-
tion about city problems by personal obser-
vation.
applied in every state of the Union, and
will serve the purpose of eliminating the
feeling of prejudice which is confessed to
exist between the city man and his brother
in the country. It is a mistaken feeling, the
outgrowth of ignorance. Its only remedy is
education, and we believe the Cincinnati ex-

periment has furnished that education, at

least in Ohio.

W. C. CULKINS,
Executive Secretary, Cincinnati Chamber of Com-

merce.
'1' '1'

Commercial Organizations Can
Aid the Early Shopping

Movement

All over the country the campaign for
early Christmas shopping has been felt with
increasing effect from year to year; From
the Atlantic to the Pacific, newspapers and
magazines have taken up the campaign,
stores have advertised it, and ministers and
lecturers have talked about it. Boards of
trade, chambers of commerce and street
railway companies have helped, until now
there are few places throughout the coun-
try where any Christmas shopping is done
at all where the Shop Early idea is ‘un-
known. '

FOR THE SAKE OF HUMANIT)’, SHOP EARLY

THE AMERICAN CITY

The same plan may be effectually

 

VOL. XIII, No. 5

Slogans like, “My pledge will be, no mat-
ter where I shOp, I will shop early,” and
the well-known one, “Do your Christmas
shopping early—early in. the dayand early
in the year,” have appeared in recent years
in advertisements throughout the six weeks
preceding Christmas and show the spirit
which ‘is now becoming so widespread
throughout the country.

In the store advertisements the methods
used are many and various. One makes its
appeal to. the shopper for his or her own
sake: “Shop early because then the crowds
are less and the selection is best, and you
will be more comfortable and have better
service.” Another says: “Shop early in
order that shop girls and messenger boys
and delivery men may not be overworked
by the last-minute rush.” One cartoonist
summed this up most effectively by saying:
“If you’re selfish shop early for your own
convenience. If you’re unselfish sh0p early
for the sake of the employes.” One store
found it most effective to say, not “Do your
shopping early,“ but “Other people have be-
gun their Christmas purchasing. If you

don’t begin too, all the best things will be
gonef’

The campaign is carried on by stores in

their newspaper advertisements, in ele-
vators, in windows, by means of cards and
fliers, and in store diaries. Newspapers and
magazines have urged it by means of edi-
torials, poems, stories and cartoons.
. The New York Telephone'Company has
done much toward urging on the campaign
by their advertisements in the daily papers.
and especially by cards
which they sent out with
their November bills. These
are headed, “Buy Early and
by Telephone,” and follow-
ing this caption are stated
the reasons for and benefits
derived from so doing.

In Boston, Mass, the
Chamber of Commerce has
. taken up the matter. A
,1 large publicity campaign
" I  has been waged. Posters

have been placed in street
‘ railways with the message:

“The Chamber of Com-

merce asks you to do your

shopping before December

15.” Unused billboards

 

NOVEMBER, 1915

have been utilized for the same purpose and

there has been wide publicity in local news-
papers and magazines.

In Rochester, N. Y., the Chamber of
Commerce has taken over the whole matter
of urging early Christmas shopping. Be—
hind the publicity campaign waged by local
newspapers, magazines and stores, and by
slogans on street car advertisements and
transfers, and billboards, and by lecturers
and preachers, has stood the Chamber of
Commerce. The fact that it is the business
men themselves that are standing behind
this movement and urging it on has given it
an impetus and an importance which are far
reaching. The shopping public has become
more considerate, and the last-minute
Christmas crowds have been lessened in

the places where this campaign has been so

urgently waged.

NELLE SWARTZ.

Executive Secretar , The Consumers League of the
City of New ork.

4"1'

Prizes to City Employes

N EW YORK Cum—How the business men
of a community can help city government
to attain the highest degree of eliiciency
was pointedly demonstrated at the Central
Mercantile Association’s third annual pre-
sentation of prizes to members of New York
City’s street cleaning, parks and public
works departments. Thirty-three city em-
ployes in the humbler ranks of municipal
service were awarded gold, silver and
bronze medals. Mayor Mitchel himself
pinned the medals upon the breasts'of the
men. ‘

The prize winners were chosen from
among over 300 workers in the central mer-
cantile district, who look after the streets,
parks and other public places. The Asso?
ciation during twelve months has been in-
specting their work in the section to deter-
mine where the best services were being
rendered. As a result the thoroughfares
in the central mercantile district are among
the best kept in the Greater City.

Addressing the men, Mayor Mitchel said
that he had great satisfaction in joining in
an occasion intended to emphasize the good
work done in the city departments, rather
than to point out their defects, or even to
to point out possibilities for improvement.

“If we are going to get the best work out ‘

THE AMERICAN CITY

407

of the men in the city’s service,” the Mayor
declared, “there must be the kind of citizen
interest in the city’s work that the Central
Mercantile Association is showing to-day.
The people of the city must evidence their
appreciation of the faithful work of you
men.”

Borough President Marcus M. Marks
stated that he was not only interested in
the men receiving medals, but in the fact
that the business men of New York are the
ones who are giving these medals. It is
about time, he said, that the business men
got in touch with government. Unless

they do, we will never have good govern-
ment, he added; for whether the city is
governed by the Board of Aldermen or the
Board of Estimate or by a commission or

 

 

L . .'. l“

MAYOR MITCHEL PINNING MEDAL UPON
 UNIFORM OF A PRIZE— WINNING
F - STREET, CLEANER

\.

by a manager, if the people do not take an
interest in their government, it will fail.

Street Cleaning Commissioner John T.
Fetherston, Park Commissioner Cabot
Ward and PresidentClarkson Cowl of the
Central Mercantile" Association* also
praised the men for their emcient services.

JOSEPH E. KEAN,
Secretary, Central Mercantile Association.

 

' Mayor Mitchel recently commended the industrial
survey of New York City made by the Central Mer-
cantile Association, statin that it furnished the kind
of scientific data which ormed the basis for the re-
markable commercial rowth of man foreign cities
not as richly endowed y nature as ew York.

408

Spokane’s Municipal Exhibit

GOOD GOVERNMENT IS YOUR DIVIDEND.

THE CITY IS YOUR CORPORATION.
YOU ARE THE STOCKHOLDERS.

 

Such was the sign over the municipal
exhibit held in Spokane, September 27 to
October 2, under the joint auspices of
the Chamber of Commerce and the City
Council. In an attempt to arouse greater
interest in the city’s finances on the
part of the citizens, a graphical represen-
tation of the city’s financial condition was
prepared. The work was done by the De-
partment of Economics and Business in
Whitman College. In addition to the finan-
cial exhibits, certain physical exhibits of the
water department, parks, public library,
weights and measures, inspection depart-
ment and the highway department were
installed under the supervision of Dr.
John H. Russell. The whole exhibit
attracted much favorable attention. Over
13,000 attendance was counted. The news-
papers gave the subject very favorable
treatment. The school children from the
high schools made special trips to the ex-
hibit, at which times lectures qr] the busi-
ness of the city were given.

The charts in many cases were colored,
and considerable variety in the kind of
charts used was secured. Cartoons repre-

THE AMERICAN CITY

feature.

VOL. XIII, No. 5

senting some of the most striking features
of the city’s business were prepared. Es-
sentials were emphasized and the greater
portion of the supplementary information
was placed on smaller charts, available to
any person especially interested in a partic-
ular subject.

Among the interesting features brought
out in the exhibit was the enormous growth
of indebtedness in the western cities. It
was found, for example, that among cities
of practically the same size, the north-
western cities of Seattle, Spokane, Portland
and Tacoma had acquired the largest in-
debtedness per capita. Of course, the in-
terest paid by these cities was proportion-
ately large. Another feature which at-
tracted considerable attention was the com.
parison of the city’s budget for the last
three years. Each department was an-
alyzed into uniform subdivisions and the
cost of these subdivisions was compared'
for the years 1914 and 1915. Contrasted
with these expenditures were the new bud-
get items for the coming year 1916. A
cursory examination of these charts would
thus show whether the cost of any particu-
lar department or division was increasing
or decreasing. The general tendency for
the budget of 1916 was in the direction of a
slight decrease over previous years. Many
of the visitors were much surprised at this
The charts relating to the city

 

A PORTION OF THE SPOKANE MUNICIPAL EXHIBIT

 

NOVEMBER, 1915

water-plant included a balance sheet of as-
sets and liabilities, together with a state-
ment of the earnings and expenses for the
last year, showing a profit of approximately
4 per cent on the capital invested in the
Spokane water-plant.

The Spokane school system has been the
subject of much controversy recently.
Charges and countercharges have been
made that the schools were spending too
much money or too little money. In the
exhibit the cost per child of the various
schools was compared, showing a consider-
able dif’ference in the cost of supplying dif-
ferent schools of approximately the same
size. The increasing cost of equipment and
general operation was also shown.

The exhibit in Spokane was prepared
under particularly favorable conditions.
The city administration, the Chamber of
Commerce and school authorities were all
eager to cooperate. Much discussion was
current concerning the coming year’s bud-
gets. The favorable conditions, together
with the great interest in the subject, com-
bined to secure an attendance very large

for a city the size of Spokane.

RALPH E. GEORGE.
Professor of Economics, “’hitman College.

4"1'

Peoria Entertains

PEORIA, ILL—All the commercial execu-
tives who on Sunday, September 26, were
on their way to the convention of the
National Association of Commercial Organ—
ization Secretaries, were invited to stop off
at Peoria and be the guests for the day of
the Association of Commerce. Forty-six
secretaries availed themselves of the privi-
lege. They were entertained in tours of in-
spection of Peoria’s beauty spots and indus-
tries, also at luncheon and dinner. At
seven in the evening a special electric train
bore the secretaries to St. Louis, a distance
of about 150 miles. The Board of Directors
of the National Association, who had pre-
ceded the delegates to the convention and
were in St. Louis on Saturday, adjourned
their meeting early to come to Peoria and
be with the secretaries on this occasion.

The foregathering was beneficial in every
way. Peoria acknowledges its obligations
to the secretaries for coming. the visitation
having resulted in inspiring the citizens and
making them alert to the important work

of city building.
WILLIS EVANS.
Executive Secretary, Peoria Association of Commerce.

THE AMERICAN CITY

409
A Campaign for Gas Bonds

MUSKOGEE, OKLA.—The Greater Musko-
gee Association was presented with an op-
portunity last July to locate a large manu-
facturing plant in the city, provided a sup-
ply of inexpensive gas for a definite period
could be assured. This was not immedi-
ately available, although Muskogee is said
to be located in the heart of the largest gas
field in the state. The sum of $350,000 was
needed for building a gas line to the nearest
available gas field, and bonds in that amount
were secured by a vote of approximately
five to one.

It was at first thought that a proposition
to vote bonds for any object at that par-
ticular time was out of the question, because
many citizens had announced their deter-
mination not to vote for another bond issue
until the indebtedness which the city had
already incurred was cancelled. Careful
handling of the project was therefore neces-
sary.

A meeting of the Board of Directors of
the Association and of its Cheap Fuel Com-
mittee was called to discuss ways and
means. After considering the difficulty that
would probably be experienced in attempt-
ing to carry a bond issue for this purpose.
the meeting adjourned to meet the next day
with the city Commissioners and the
Mayor’s Advisory Committee. The spirit
of this meeting was in favor of the bonds.
A meeting of 150 citizens was then arranged
for, who met the following night and the
matter was again presented. That meeting
called a mass meeting. This was held in
a local theater, and after the project had
been explained, it also expressed itself in
favor of the bonds. A committee of thir-
teen was appointed to select a committee of
100 to work out the details and handle the
campaign. The last named committee ap-
pointed a number of sub-committees to
make reports on amount of gas available,
probable consumption, cost of line, etc.
The report of these committees resulted in
the committee of 100 asking the Commis-
sioners to call an election to vote $350,000
worth of bonds for building the gas line.
A number of mass meetings in the interest
of the bonds were held and speeches made,
the Association conducting the campaign
of education, with the result already men-

tioned.

W. SCOTT RADEKER,
Secretary, Greater Muskogee Association.

Digitized by 600816

'4m

’91- A Campaign for Fire

‘ Prevention
ST. JOSEPH, Mo.—The St. Joseph Com-
merce Club conducted a vigorous lire pre-
vention campaign of a week’s duration 3
short time since in which use was made of
a pamphlet, the cover of which is herewith
reproduced. About 3,000 of the pamphlets
“7 were distributed to the
‘ F l R E members of the Com-
' * ‘ " merce Club and to mer-
...‘ ATth chants in St..Joseph,
.. and a few copies were
A 5'3"? sent to other 'commer-
“MMRW cial organizations. The
"ggttg'mr text was published in
— one of the local news-

papers.

During the week of
the campaign the Com-
mercial Club arranged
with a local theater to
present two moving

   
 
     
           
       
     
     

 

  

The And U. 8. T“ .I
wwdmhb

apaa Killed
6.000 Injured

“Cl 1. no-hl o-
firn ue preventable

Whth
E

Commerce Club

«sue-wt _
---- -- r- 77 ~ 7 - picture films on fire
prevention. These the Club obtained from
the Eastman Company and the National
Association of Manufacturers. The Club
also had placards advertising the campaign
placed in each street car and in the store

windows.

D. O. DECKER,
Civic Commissioner, St. Joseph Commerce Club.

4"!—

“* r A Salesmanship Club’

'iDeeror'r, MICH.—At a meeting ‘of 950
members of the Detroit Board of Commerce
held late in September, an address was de-
livered on “The Salesman—The Man of the
Hour,” by D. M. Barrett, editor and pub-
lisher of Salesmanship. This address was
the means of crystallizing the sentiment
which had been growing in Detroit among
salesmen and those interested in salesman-
ship for an organization to deve10p the
science of salesmanship. The nucleus of
such an organization was secured at the
meeting, over 300 business men of the city
declaring themselves unanimously in favor
of such an association. On October 5, the
Salesmanship Club of Detroit was organ-
ized. Its program is so broad that any one
interested in salesmanship—be he an office
boy, a ribbon clerk, a sales manager or the
president of the company—is eligible for
membership.

’THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. x111, No. 5

Plans are now being laid for open forum
meetings, in which sales distribution
methods and sales matters generally may be
discussed, and for constructive educational
courses to be conducted during the winter

months.
WALTER C. COLE.
Assistant Secretary, Detroit of Commerce.

{'4'

Governor Brumbaugh on Good
Roads

JOHNSTOWN, PA.—Th€ Johnstown Cham-
ber of Commerce entertained at a luncheon
recently, as guest of honor, the Governor
of Pennsylvania, Martin G. Brumbaugh,
also the State Highway Commissioner.
Robert J. Cunningham, the Chief Engineer,
W. D. Uhler, and a party of 100 automo-
bilists, all of whom were on a cross-state
road inspection tour. The subject of better
highways is one in which Governor Bruin-
baugh is especially interested, and on this
occasion he expressed himself as follows:'

“The question of improved highways IS
a vital problem before the state of Penn-
sylvania, and I hope to witness the con-
struction of a thousand miles of new road
next year and a thousand miles each year
thereafter, until this state is criss—crossed
with good roads.”

The Governor made a plea for his hearers
to send men to the Legislature who will pro-
vide the money by means of which the 10;
070 miles of public state highway now con-
structed could be maintained and the con-
struction of new highways placed on a no!)-
political and efficient basis. “If you Will
provide the money,” he said, “you may dc‘
pend upon Cunningham to make the dirt fly-
We are making this trip so that we may
meet you face to face and talk the matter
over.” '

. The Johnstown Chamber of Commerce.
through its Good Roads Committee, has
been active in promoting the good roads
movement. Its work includes a countfi'
built road from Johnstown to South Fork:
it has been lending its aid in keeping 3“
dirt roads in good condition, assisted with
the annual Good Roads Day, placed 75 Signs
at intersections in the county stating the
number of miles to Johnstown, and placed
large signs advertising Johnstown at the
main intersections of the roads leading to
the city. The committee is at present work—

Digitized by 600816

 

NOVEMBER, 1915

ing for the improvement of four different
routes into Johnstown, for the purchase of
three pieces of toll road in that section of
the state, and for the building of state-aid

roads in Cambria County.

. . KENNARD JOHNSON,
Asastant Secretary, Jo nstown Chamber of Commerce.

4"}

For Public Safety

MINNEAPOLIS, MINNr—‘The Public Safety
Committee of the Minneapolis Civic and
Commerce Association has issued a booklet
containing the gist of all important traffic
ordinances in force in Minneapolis, also
the state automobile law. The booklet in-
cludes a list of “don’ts” for both drivers
and pedestrians. The “don’ts” for the
drivers are given herewith:

“DON’TS” FOR DRIVERS

Don't fail to give signal with hand when
turning or stopping. (City Ordinance.)

Don't pass open street car gates. (City Or-
dinance.)

Don‘t overtake and pass streetcar on left.
(City Ordinance.)

Don’t drive on the left side of street. (City
Ordinance.)

Don’t cut corners. (City Ordinance.)

Don’t have your mufHer cut out when driv-
ing. (City Ordinance.)

Don’t allow inexperienced people to drive
your car. (City Ordinance.)

Don’t overload your car. (City Ordinance.)

Don’t take blind curves at high speed. (City
Ordinance.)

Don't approach street intersections at high
speed.

Don't forget that the traH’Ic
oliicer regulates tramc.

Don’t resent the trali‘ic
officer’s directions—he is do-
ing his best to prevent acci-
dents.

Don’t forget that the street
car cannot dodge.

Don’t overlook the rights
of the pedestrian—his life is
just as important as yours.

Don’t take things for
granted—prepare for the un-
expected.

Don’t endanger your posi-
tion in the community by dis- .
regarding these suggestions—public sentiment
is against accidents.

HOWARD STRONG. .
Sec'y, Minneapolis Civic and CommerCe Association.

'1' '1'
Competition for a City Flag
MUSKEGON, MICH.—The Muskegon

Chamber of Commerce is holding a civic
Hag contest, which will close December I.
A nominal prize in gold will be awarded to

THE AMERICAN CITY

41!

the successful contestant, who will also have
the honor of running the flag up to the
masthead after it has been odicially adopted
by the City Council.

The Chamber of Commerce conducted
last winter a competition for a municipal
slogan. The honors were won by a woman,
who suggested, “We Can and We Will!”
and the city is living up to its motto. The
present competition follows somewhat as
an outgrowth of the preceding competition
and was suggested by The M uskegon Daily
Times, a paper that devotes much energy

to advertising Muskegon industrially.

FRANCIS . TIETSORT,
Managing Editor, The Mu: cyan Daily Times.

+*

An Electrolier Celebration

FRESNO, CAL—The turning on recently
of the 488 electroliers in Fresno’s new
lighting system was the occasion of a street
carnival, promoted by the Fresno Commer-
cial Club “Boosters.” The electroliers
were installed at a cost to the property
owners of $36,973.

At eight o’clock the Mayor threw the
switch that turned the current into the
electrolier globes, and the entire system
became a brilliant radiance. This was ac-

companied with cheers, the sounding of
automobile horns, ringing of bells, blowing
of .whistles and the explosion of bombs.
An event which proved popular was the
public dancing on a street which had been

 

MEMBERS OF FRESNO COMMERCIAL CLUB “BOOSTERS,” \VHO
STAGED THE ELECTROLIER CELEBRATION

roped of? during the afternoon and washed
by the lire department. The street was
sprinkled with sawdust and made into an
excellent dancing floor. A parade of the
lighted streets was led by a military band
and followed by Companies C and K, the
Boosters, a life and drum corps, and scores
of automobiles.

S. LEVY,
Director of Publicity, Fresno Commercial Club.

‘

Boards of Trade Versus Boards of Assessors

By Charles H. Ingersoll
, Of Robt. H. lngersoll & Bro., New York City

HE average Board of Trade is an ef-
T ficient organization—it brings pros-
perity to its community by promot-
ing municipal improvements, by bringing
new industries there, by making it a con-
vention city, by singing its praises as a sum-
mer resort, and by various other ways and
means. But no matter how eliicient the
Board of Trade, it has to take a back seat
when compared to the Board of Assessors.
There is efficiency! The Board of Trade
brings prosperity—the Board of Assessors
promptly takes it away. The two organi-
zations seem unable to cooperate.

Taxation takes the cream from prosperity
—and frequently much of the milk. Leave
it to the Board of Assessors to recognize
every improvement! Paint your home or
factory, and you'll see how quick you’re
fined for it! To minimize taxation, builders
have made buildings of grotesque shape—
two stories in front and three in the rear,
for example. Tumble-down conditions pre-
vail in many places and improving and
beautifying are carefully avoided, simply
because the tax man would soon be on hand
to mete out punishment.

A tax upon business in any form be-
comes a tax upon the consumer in the form
of higher prices; and a tax that will not
stay where it is put is a bad tax. The con-
sumer is the laborer in more than nine cases
out of ten, and the tax upon business is a
tax..upon capital and industrial enterprise
on which the consumer-laborer depends for
employment.

A tax upon the products of labor checks
the production of wealth, decreases the de-
mand for labor, and in that way wages are
depressed. It increases the laborer's living
cost: it disorganizes and discourages busi-
ness.

Taxation as now in vogue is all bad;
taxes fully deserve the evil reputation they
bear.

Taxation to-day means taking from
people something they think they own—
hence their persistent objection. This is
evidence of the wrong basis for taxation,
and that it is interfering with normal life,
industry and prosperity.

Taxation of individual property should
be abolished in favor of taxation of com-

[412]

munity property. Taxation is wholly bad
and indefensible, except when applied to
common values, and then it is not taxation
at all! “Not a single tax” is Mr. Charles
T. Root's happy way of referring to a tax
on land values.

How We Penalize Improvement:

The manufacturer is fined and punished
for employing labor and capital: if he makes
improvements, makes working conditions
more pleasant, he is fined 2 per cent. If he
didn’t pass the tax along to the consumer,
in fifty years his prOperty would be entirely
absorbed and confiscated by the taxation
process.

But if manufacturers and merchants add
their taxes to their prices, how does indus-
try suffer? It suffers because we all are
factors in industry. The humblest work—
man is a factor just as are manufacturers.
merchants and bankers. If the business
owners could and would pay the tax, con-
ditions might not be so bad. But they pass
it along with something added, and this pr0°
cess, repeated several times, makes the con—
sumer pay approximately 5 to 10 per cent
more than normal prices.

This makes it a highly-developed, serious
problem—that of reduced consumption and
high cost of living, the. effects of which on
the consumer are fully understood. The ef-
fects on business are equally vital-the
volume of business is restricted, and this,
as every business man knows, means ab‘
normal overhead expense, meagre profits
and often bankruptcy.

The total taxable wealth of the United
States is over one hundred billions of dOl‘
lars, of which the larger part is what 15
known as land values. In other words, from
30 to 40 per cent is the creation of labor
and capital, and 60 to 70 per cent an endow"
ment of the Creator or an increment due to
the existence and demand of all the people‘

Yet the taxes paid on land are but 0116'
fifth of those paid on other property, 30“”
ally reversing the right principle of taxa‘
tion. The common fund is permitted to go
largely into private pockets, leaving the
government to subsist as best it may 0P0“
heavy overdrafts on capital and labor.

True prosperity must ever be a rainbow

Digitized by 600816

NOVEMBER, 1915

under such conditions. Charity can never
cope with poverty, nor systems of finance
with unstable business conditions, until this
is reversed.

Henry Ford, one of the few truly great
captains of industry, has much simplified the
great problem of crime—too much, in the
opinion of many. He says it is just a ques-
tion of jobs.

Slop Levying a Tax on Jobs!

How to make more jobs is, in fact, gen-
erally recognized as the one big question
upon which depend a score of lesser ones.
The answer is so plain that every one must
know it before another decade of anti-pros-
perity passes. It is to stop levying a tax
on jobs and put it on the source of all jobs.
Nearly all our taxes now are on prosperity,
and the only ones who escape their share
are those who toil and spin not.

Land everywhere and for all time has
represented the opportunity of labor to find
employment, and it always will. The essen-
tials are: first, to minimize all barriers be-
tween labor and land; and second, to coor-
dinate capital with labor in the process of
production. Both these objects will be se-
cured by untaxing all investment of capital
and securing all revenue from land values.

There are one hundred million people in
the United States, more or less industrious,
whose prosperity is vital to all of them,
since they are all consumers and all but a
few producers. They are factors in indus-
try and therefore subject to a 2 per cent tax
directly, and indirectly many times this
amount. Investigations show that this tax is
directly responsible for at least a 10 per cent
reduction in industry, and alone accounts
for a substantial part of the existing unem-
ployment, for unsatisfactory conditions sur-
rounding the use of capital, inadequate in-
terest rates, failures, panics, etc.

A leading financial paper makes this in—
teresting statement: that while our country
occupies but one-sixteenth of the earth, and
has but one-fifteenth of its population, it
produces of leading commodities as follows:
com 68 per cent, petroleum 63 per cent, cot-
ton 61 per cent, copper 42 per cent, tobacco
35 per cent, lead, silver, live stock 30 per
cent each, gold, wheat and timber 20 per
cent each. This in a sentence accounts for
our greatness in spite of the handicap I par-
ticularly complain of. It also gives force
to the outstanding facts of unemployment

THE AMERICAN CITY

413

and poverty existing, and indicates unmis-
takably that these phenomena, under such
conditions of vast production, must have a
very positive explanation. My conclusion
is that a niisplacement of the burden of
government is the irrefutable answer. The
profits from this almost inconceivable ac-
tivity are deHected from their natural course,
and from a quarter to a half of them are
taken from business investors and laborers
by land speculators. All of this injustice
may be simply, legally, and consistently
with every moral and practical precept, cor-
rected by a change in the incidence of taxa-
tion.

The direct effects of taxing prosperity
are not the whole, nor in fact the worst,
part of the evil. The corollary of taxing
industry is the untaxing of monopoly.

Idle Hands and Idle Lands

We tax what we want to keep—all forms
of industry—thus driving it away; and we
exempt largely what is a curse to industry,
thus nurturing an industrial cancer. There
is a direct relation between idle hands and
idle lands, since the only objective for labor
is the land. There would be no unemn
ployed if there were no land held out of use.
And every foot of land required by labor
would be used if it were taxed in place of

_ improvements.

The combination of labor and capital is
the dynamic factor in industry and pros-
perity. Untrammeled, those two partners
in production would work together harmon-
iously, producing without limit conditions
of prosperity, enlightenment and freedom.
But until the land—holding, site-grabbing
monopolists are taxed in proportion to the
benefit they derive from government, labor
and capital can never work together with
any high degree of ediciency.

There are signs of dawning intelligence.
Pennsylvania has the grace to exempt
machinery used in production, and stocks
of goods in stores, and has recently passed
a bill granting certain cities the right—
which they are acting on—of further ex-
empting personalty and improvements. and
imposing additional local taxation on land
values, the only common fund legitimately
subject to taxation. When this movement
gets well under way it will mean hard com-
petition for her neighbor states. I know
manufacturers who are already considering
removal to Pennsylvania.

Digitized by 600816

414

Houston, Tex., has had a remarkabie
demonstration of untaxing industry. By
stages covering a dozen years or more, they
reduced their taxes on industry and in-
creased them on land values. The result is
almost miraculous improvement in all things
that make for prosperity and freedom, and
an almost solid electorate behind the plan—
all except a few land speculators who read-
ily found a judge to overrule the people.
Many state movements are well along the
road to righting the capsized taxation boat,
while in Europe, and even in China, New
Zealand and Australia, there are demon-
strations like that in Houston, and in
Western Canada are a number that can’t be
stopped.

Prosperity flows from human activity, and
the most untrammeled activity produces the
greatest amount of prosperity. This human
activity results from the proper banding of

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 5

labor and capital in industrial production.

But when both are compelled to yield
tribute to the land-owner, both are robbed
of a substantial portion of their natural
wages, and pitted against each other in
strife for an inadequate share of their just
product. This situation will be obvious to
anyone who will regard it even superficially.

The remedy is equally obvious—a scien-
tific method of levying taxes. Taxation now
rests more upon capital and labor than upon
land. It should be entirely removed from
the former and concentrated on the latter.
This would make land-holding for specula-
tion unprofitable, and necessitate its pro-
ductive use by labor and capital. At the
same time labor and capital would be free
from the discouragement of taxation, and
the prosperity produced in part by your local
Board of Trade would not be destroyed by
the Board of Assessors.

 

New Publications on European Commercial Organizations

In order that American business men may
be able to procure condensed, authoritative
information with respect to the way in
which the European nations carry on trade
campaigns and organize their commercial
activities at home, the United States Bureau
of Foreign and Domestic Commerce has
been issuing pamphlet presentations of the
subject, covering several of the leading
EurOpean countries. One of these booklets
is full of concrete, pertinent facts on the
subject of British commercial organizations.
The world-circling foreign commerce of the
United Kingdom bulks large in the consider-
ation of every phase of international eco—
nomics; it is a factor to be reckoned with
in the most famous marts and in distant
jungle and desert stations. Americans en-
gaged in developing export trade observe
its manifestations in many lands, but with
the system back of the activity in Great
Britain, the methods and conduct of com-
mercial affairs in the United Kingdom it-
self, the way in which the British Govern-
ment fosters and directs expansion, 'the
people of the United States are, perhaps,
not so familiar.

The title of this new publication of the
Bureau is “Commercial Organizations in the
United Kingdom” and its author is Mr.

A

Archibald J. Wolfe, who has investigated
the subject on the ground. In its 53 pages
are included lists of all British chambers
of commerce and a discussion of their
methods and functions, a detailed account
of the state aid to trade, and a description
of manufacturers’ and employers’ organ?
zations in all the leading industries. .
This pamphlet is Special Agents Series
No. 102, and five cents will bring it from
the Superintendent of Documents, Wash”
ington, D. C. .
Another booklet, entitled “Commercnal
Organizations in Switzerland,” reviews the
history of chambers of commerce and trade,
explains the independent and oliicial types
of organizations and their functions, and
gives particular attention to the Swiss Com-

mercial and Industrial Association, whiCh
comprises in its membership all Swiss com-
mercial organizations of consequence.
There is a discussion of the Swiss Federal
Department of Commerce and an outline of
its evolution, as well as general information
concerning stich matters as the localization
of industries, principal products, and Com“
mercial publications.

It is No. 101 in the Special Agents 56'
ries, and costs 5 cents.

Digitized by 600816

“Good Fare, Good Care and Fresh Air For”
Every Pittsburgh Baby ” -

By E. G. Routzahn

Associate Director, Department of Surveys and Exhibits, Russell Sage Foundation

ITTSBURGH’S campaign for “Good
P Fare, Good Care and Fresh Air for
Every Pittsburgh Baby,” held early
in the summer, had a somewhat obvious
but frequently ignored idea as its keynote,
namely, that responsibility for the right
care of babies rests upon the whole family
and not solely upon the mother. In other
words, the Pittsburgh Baby Week, cele-
brated June 27 to July 3, was for the edu-
cation of fathers, brothers and sisters as
well as mothers. There was some special
event or special message for each of them.
The campaign was initiated by Dr. J. F.
Edwards, director of the Department of
Health, who acted as general chairman, and
Dr. H. J. Benz, superin-
tendent of the Bureau of
‘Child Welfare. Mrs.-
-Enoch Rauh headed the
cithens’ committee that
brought together hun- ,
dreds of workers to '
carry out the elaborate‘.} ‘ L.
program of exhibits, .
talks, motion pictures,
excursions and wide-
spread publicity, de-
signed to arouse Pitts-
hurghers to the impor-
tance of saving their an-
nual crop of 16,000 ba-
bies. The preparations, .eictending 'over a
period of weeks, were carried out under the
direction of Mary Swain Routzahn, of New
York. - .

While every effort was made to bring
home to the community as a whole that it
is sound civic economy to reduce the sick-
ness and death rates among babies, much
of the appeal was made very directly to the

- a J Z'au

members of families,

For the Father

Fathers were honored by the fsetting
aside of a Father’s Day—when a Message
to Fathers was published in the newspapers
and distributed to men in shops and in meet-
ings held in various parts of the city. This

     

PlinbURiE'H

“Message,” telling some of the things that
fathers should understand or do, was intro-
duced as follows:

"Tradition has, in the past, left all the care
of the baby to the mother. The conditions of
our present-day society require that, in addi-
tion to providing food, shelter and other ma-
terial things, the father must share with the
mother the responsibility of the health of his
baby. He cannot, of course, take the place
of the mother, but he can do many things that
would help the mother both in the care of
her baby and herself."

The message continued with a very prac-
tical list of the things that fathers should

know and do, ending with this appeal to
fathers to be better citizens:

“Lastly, he (the father)
should know of and take
an active part in promot-
“ing 'conditi'ons in our city
which will give the other
father’s baby as well as his
ownabetter chance. Some
of these things are better
housing, improved munici«
pal sanitation, improxred
milk supply, milk stations
and visiting nurses, settle-
ments, nurseries and other
agencies for the protection

and conservation of infant

life. He should know.
what his own Health De-'
partment is doing—that
the Bureau of Child Wel-
W fare of this Department
maintains eight milk stations throughout the
year and twenty during the summer months,
with ten doctors, fifteen nurses and twenty
assistants in attendance, who supply milk and
give instructions both at the stations and in
the homes to families who otherwise would
not be able to avail themselves of good milk
and helpful advice for the baby.”

For Brothers and Sisters

iFor brothers and sisters there was also a
special day and a message. In advance of
Baby Week, printed letters were sent by the
committee to the school children of the en-
tire city. Among other things they were
told what Baby Week was for:

“it-1's {er-make everybodyxold- and young;

think about the best things to do for babies
and learn more about how to keep them well.

Digitized by GOOSE};

416 THE AMERICAN.CITY VOL. XIII, No.5

ff-FiyAPPZv BABIES

t .

g: or hanging .
'°~Dr‘uod_bo bin-ml, -
wry-m " .“ -
 - Rodulgr in bow-l
" mplaint‘ ‘.  " momenta ‘ .
E‘ “land'soiloa _  '  day grid doth
3 up too late-  _m  shop
.." d  . “list! I“

1_ 'Notja, 

‘ E'enjothe  4’
. I - 3x. ‘9

. A - I A I J ‘
~ . . - “(#1123 ":3":
1 -  - .' I- _ - _
4 — .u. ‘  _ . HEW-WC.» '
v   Jam-uguw -. ..
I u I‘.‘ E H. v -‘ ‘I_ _ . I .

.3.
' .':‘
I

DAIRY AND MILK"-

_ . . 4».-
lNSPECEIpm.»_. egg:
oemme‘m' or 4"; -- J .1 _ '.
scone CARD '3 ' ~ -: z ._

mum (f  _ :3
underwlidl will _ vi:
'“MEBW 
its mil: is not‘ _  '_. _': .

This baby's mother wgrkcd b. ,0” in .; ‘ - _
mm the time It was born

I Hard home work Is as
bad as hard Factory work}

Health or  
apper -- -- ‘ 
Stablint crawl. 3"
Stable lac-lion, -   -_ -
   I: f '
Stable cloari _ 4;. ,
Stable until   I.
(hula-had   
ThIS baby‘s mother stoppw mark Kinds of mitkénj'  y '5

two wgeks before it was born F‘cilH-hg 

. ' It! u
(had (may! --  -
AT LEAST Two WEEKS REST “” . . -. _—._..-..::' I.
. I2 mmdmllm., 
before blrth For the mother means . . .a ,I. , c. I.
discarding - 

HEALTHIER BABIES
and later-
HEALTHIER MEN AND WOMEN

:3 Special doth-nu *- '
I4 Cooling and 31“ f1,“
15 Icing during “ 

 

CHARTS USED IN THE PITTSBURGH BABY \VEEK EXHIBITION

 

NOVEMBER, 1915

[f you.keep your eyes and ears open that week
you W111 hear about babies, in the street cars,

nickelodeons, churches, parks, stores and news-
papers.”

The children were asked to fill out and
return an attached slip if they had baby
brothers or sisters at home. To more than
10,000 of the boys and girls who sent in
their names a postal card with the following
message was sent by Dr. J. F. Edwards:

“My dear little Friend:

I have your note from school and am
sending you this reminder of Baby
Week. While you are having a nice
vacation, don’t forget your baby brother
or sister. You can help mother keep
the baby well during the summer. Ba‘
bies are like dowers; they grow best
when they have fresh air and sunshine.
You can help mother to keep baby out- —
doors in good weather. Babies cannot
eat the same food as boys or girls.
Don’t give the baby candy. It is fun
to play with the baby—but they are not
toys and must not be handled roughly.
You can help baby to have his nap
every day, for babies need lots of sleep.

Will you write to me next fall and
tell me what you did for your baby!”

The sisters of babies who belong to the
Little Mothers’ Club, organized by the Child
Welfare Bureau nurses, were given an out-
ing on Brothers’ and Sisters’ Day, and the
newspapers carried stories of some of the
achievements of these little workers for bet-
ter babies.

F or the Mothers

Every day was, of course, Mothers’ Day,
although one special day was set aside for
an outing for the mothers who bring their
babies regularly to the milk stations of the
Health Department. There were meetings
for the mothers in the eight district cam-
paign centers scattered over the city, and
thousands of pamphlets on the care of the
baby were distributed. To mothers whose
babies had been registered with the Health
Department, Boy Scouts delivered gay lit-
tle banners bearing the Baby Week emblem,
together with envelopes containing Baby
Week programs and this message:

“The city of Pittsburgh presents you with
this flag and asks you to display it in your
window in honor of your baby. All homes
where there are babies will receive hags to
show that all Pittsburgh is thinking. and work-
ing for the best chance for the babies.”

For the Babies Themselves

For the babies themselves, there were
plenty of things to make them crow and

THE AMERICAN CITY

417

gurgle with delight. In store windows all
through the business district, there were
attractive displays of clothing outfits for
baby; accessories for his bath, toys for him
to‘ play with, and equipment and furnish-
ings for the nursery. Some of the babies
were honored by receiving as visitors a
large delegation of citizens, headed by the
Mayor and members of the City Council,
who made a round of visits to milk stations
and settlements. The men of the party were
photographed, each in the group bearing a

borrowed baby in his arms.

Motion Pictures and Plays

One means of making sure that homes of
babies were reached, was the use of district
centers in the most congested parts of the
city, with local committees in charge of
meetings and distribution of literature in
each district. Through the generosity of the
city and of the motion picture men, band
concerts and motion picture programs were
given in parks in the various sections sup-
plementing the meetings held at the district
headquarters. Committees from these cen-
ters also organized parties to attend the
Baby Week exhibition.

The central feature of the week was this
exhibition, held on portions of three floors
of the Wabash Railway station. The con-
trasting kitchens and bedrooms of the “Do
Care” family and the “Don’t Care” family
aroused much interest. A special exhibit
of panels and moving devices on the care of
the baby was prepared for the occasion and
will be used throughout Pittsburgh during
the coming year. These exhibits were
planned and constructed under the direction
of Walter Storey, 'of New York.

A delightful feature of the exhibition
was the daily presentation of two little plays
written and staged under the direction of
Mr. G. W. P. Baird, entitled, “The Narrow
Door" and.“The Theft of Thistledown.”
With beautiful staging these little plays pro-
vided an attractive setting for baby welfare
propaganda. Children from Irene Kauf—
man Settlement and Woods Run Settlement
took part in the plays.

As a part of the follow-up work of Baby
Week, it is planned to hold a baby improve-
ment contest extending over a period of
four months. Many babies were entered
for the contest during Baby Week.

Some of the experiences of the Pitts-
burgh committee in carrying out its Baby

Digitized by 600816 f

418

 

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No.

SCENE FROM “THE THEFT OF THISTLEDOWN”

\Veek program may prove helpful to other
cities planning similar campaigns, especially
in regard to the pitfalls to be avoided. Ow-
ing to a series of unavoidable hindrances,
the preparatory work, including the selec-
tion of directors, was delayed, so that com-
mittees had to be formed hurriedly and pre-
liminaries of organizing and financing were
not altogether disposed of before the rush
period was at hand. All of those interested
agreed that fully three months were really
necessary to carry out work that was at-
tempted in six weeks.

Baby Week in Pittsburgh came late in the
season, after the schools had closed, organi-
zations had disbanded for the summer, and
many people had left the city. This proved
a handicap in carrying -out the campaign
ideal of actual community-wide participa-
tion.

In view of the season of the year, when
large numbers of people cannot be drawn

to a central point for even pOpularized
forms of education, the committee had added
reason for making the central exhibition
but one feature of the campaign. Those
who made the journey across the city to
visit the exhibition were only a very small
percentage of the people who shared in
Baby \Veek through features which touched
their homes or the neighborhoods in which

they lived.

Emron‘s Nora—It is announced that the Civics
Home Economics and Public Health Departments of
the General Federation of Women’s Clubs, in cobpera-
tion with the Federal Children’s Bureau, are to have a
Baby Week, held over the entire country. March 4-11.
Each civic club willing to devote that week to work
for the babies of the country should send a letter or
postal addressed to the Children’s Bureau, \Vashington.
D. C., “Attention of Mrs. Goodwin.” asking for the
directions and assistance which will be furnished free

from that oiiice.

The National Association for the Study and Pre-
vention of Tuberculosis (105 East Twenty-second
Street. New York City) will print in the November
issue of the Journal of the Outdoor Life the twp
Pittsburgh Baby Week lays, “The Narrow Door’
and “The Theft of Thist edown.”

It is important to remember that at least two months
will be needed for preparation for the Baby Campaign,
and in order that work may begin promptly on fan-

uary first, it is expedient that the local clubs should
communicate with the Federal Children’s Bureau not
later than December fifteenth.

 

‘

V

 

 

 

Editor’s Note

In the June issue of T111: AMERICAN CITY
was published the result of an extensive
survey upon the subject of the city man-
ager plan of government. The article con-
tained the portraits of twenty-nine city
managers, with a short biographical sketch
in connection with each and a summary of
reports from sixteen other cities which had
inaugurated the city manager idea or had
voted to do so, covering in all forty-five
cities. The survey has been continued and a
report is herewith submitted covering four

new cities, with portraits of the city man-
agers and more recent information, includ-
ing portraits, relative to three cities which
were mentioned in the June article.

There are also data in regard to twelve
cities in which the city manager idea has
been adopted, efective at a later date, or in
which only meager information in regard ‘
to the city manager was received.

The cities in both groups are listed in the
order of their size, the largest one in each
case being placed first.

 

FRED M. LOCKWOOD
San Diego, Cal.

SAN DIEGO, CAL—Fred M.
Lockwood was appointed Man-
ager of Operations of San
Diego on May 6, 1915. Salary,
$6,000 per annum. He is 47
years of age. Mr. Lockwood
began his engineering career as
a stake boy on the surveys of
a railroad projected from San
Diego to Yuma, and gradually
climbed through the positions
of rodman for one company,
and chainman and engineer for
another, to a place as assist-
ant in the city engineer’s oflice
of San Diego. He then be-
came engineer of the sewer de-
partment of that city, advanc-
ing in 1913 to the position of
assistant superintendent of the

department, which position he
held until chosen for the new-
1 -cr‘eated oHice of Manager of
(errations.

A recent amendment to the

San Diego charter took away

from the live members of the
Common Council nearly all but
legislative duties and powers
and created an Operating De-
partment, the executive head
of which was called the Man-
ager of operations. In his
charge have been placed the
water system, sewer system,
the streets, public buildings,
harbor work, all municipal en-
gineering, city lands and street
trees. The Manager of Opera-
tions has an assistant, who is
an architect and has occupied
the position of Building In-
spector. The latter receives
$4,500 per annum.

0’24

BAKERSFIELD, CAL—Wallace
M. Morgan was appointed City

Manager of Bakersfield on
May 17, 1915. He is 47 years
of age. He is not an engineer

and does not claim to be a spe-
cialist in any line of work with
which his duties bring him in
contact, but 12 years’ service as
newsgatherer, editorialé’initer
and managing editor of the
Bakersfield Morning Echo has
given him 'aw’jiitimate knowl-
edge of local conditions and
needs and of city affairs in

 

\VALLAC'E M. MORGAN
Bakersfield, Cal.

general. The rush and variety
of newspaper work and the
necessity for handling a multi-
tude of dissimilar matters in a
shOrt space of time are the
preparation which Mr. Morgan
has had for his present work. ‘

The city of Bakersfield is
operating under a charter pro-
viding for seven councilmen
from the seven wards into
which the city is divided. They
appoint one of their members
president, and he holds the title
of Mayor. The Council ap-
points the City Manager, whose
term of office is at the pleasure
of the former.

[419]

I

420 THE AMERICAN CITY

anmx, Alum—Robert A.
Craig was appointed City Man-
ager of Phoenix on March 15,
1915. Salary, $5,000 per an-
num. He is 33 years of age.
Mr. Craig is a graduate in
mechanical engineering of the
University of California. He
has officiated in succession as
superintendent of the thnix
Railroad Company and the
Phocrnix Water Company
(combined); as superintendent
of the Phoenix Municipal
Water Works; as a citizen-
member of the Territorial
Board of Control of Arizona,
in charge of state institutions
and highways. He later en—
gaged in private practice of e11—
gineering and contracting, and
also became principal stock-
holder of the Motor Supply
Company, a merchant corpora—
tion operating a chain of stores
in Arizona.

The thnix charter provides
for a Commission to consist
of a Mayor and four other
members, elected by the voters
at large. The City Manager is
appointed by and holds office
at the pleasure of the Commis-
sion. He is the executive head
of the city and has charge of
all departments; he appoints
the department heads with the
approval of the Commission.

9-»

ROCK HILL, S. C.—J. G. Barn-
well was appointed City Man—
ager of Rock Hill on February
1, 1915. Salary, $2,400 per an-
num. He is 31 years of age.
Mr. Barnwell’s experience has
been in the line of the manage-
ment and construction of mu-
nicipal public utilities—water.
electric light. power and sew-
ers—in which he was engaged
for 13 years. He is an elec-
trical and mechanical engineer.

The Rock Hill charter pro-
vides for a commission-man-
ager form of government for
that city, the Commission con-
sisting of the Mayor and two
Councilmen.

0’20.

CHARLOTTESVILLE. VA. — A.
V. Conway occupies the posi-
tion of Mayor and Business
Manager of Charlottesville. He
officiated as Mayor for one
year, from September, 1912. In
September, 1913, the form of
government was changed. and
he was made Business Man-

A

 

ROBERT A. CRAIG
Phanix, Ariz.

 

J. G. BARNVVELL
Rock Hill, 5. C.

 

A. V. CONWAY
Charlottesville. \'a.

VOL. XIII, N0. 5

ager as well as Mayor, elected
as such for one year, and re.
elected at the end of that time
for two years. Mr. Conway
had been interested chiefly in
mercantile pursuits during the
greater portion of his life pre-
viously.

A Municipal Business Man-
ager was provided for Char-
lottesville by ordinance. All
the duties of an executive or
administrative character which
had been performed by the
several council committees
under ordinances in force be-
fore the creation of the new
ofiice are now required to be
discharged exclusively by the
Municipal Business Manager.
the committees acting in an ad-
visory capacity.

9-»

ST. AUGUSTINE, FLA.—Win-
ton L. Miller was appointed
City Manager of St. Augustine
on August 3, 1915. Mr. Miller
was with the Dayton Bureau
of Municipal Research during
the period when that Bureau
was collecting the data from
which information was pre—
pared for publicity purposes
that led finally to the adoption
of the city manager plan and
the reorganization of the Day-
ton city government. This
work resulted in Mr. Miller’s
being chosen as executive sec-
retary to Henry M. Waite, City
Manager of Dayton. Previous
to afliliating with the Dayton
Bureau of Municipal Research,
Mr. Miller had been for ten
years city hall reporter for the
newspapers of Dayton. The
essential requirement for a
manager in St. Augustine was
felt to be executive ability and
a thorough training in munici-
pal work.

The St. Augustine charter
provides for a Commission of
three members, one elected
each year, for terms of three
years, on a non-partisan ballot.
and they appoint the City Man-
ager. He holds oiiice at the
pleasure of the Commission.

9-»

WINNETKA, ILL—R. L. Fitz-
gerald was appointed Busmess
Manager of Winnetka on Janu-
ary I, 1915. Salary, $2,400 a
year. Mr. Fitzgerald is a grad-
uate in mechanical engineering
of Purdue University. He
has served in the accounting
department of the Houston

NOVEMBER, 1915 THE AMERICAN CITY

421

(Tex.) Gas Company, in the
engineering department of the
Gary (1nd.) Heat, Light 8:
Water Company during the
construction of public service
plants in that city, and on the
Joint Engineering Staff of the
Wisconsin Railroad and Tax
Commissions. Immediately pre-
vious to accepting the present
appointment, Mr. Fitzgerald
was employed by a firm of con-
sulting engineers in Madison,
Wis., making engineering in-
vestigations and reports of pub-
lic service prOperties.

Winnetka is operating under
a special charter granted by the
state in 1863. The designation
of the 063cc of Business Man-
ager was made by an act of the
Village Council, which appoints

 

\V. L. MILLER R. L. FITZGERALD

City Manager, St. Augustine, Fla.

the Manager.

\Vinnetka, Ill.

 

Reports From Other Cities

WHEELING, W. VA.—A city manager charter
was adopted in May, 1915, to take effect in
two years from the date of adoption. The
governing body is a council composed of nine
councilmen, one elected from each ward and
one councilman-at—large. In addition to ap-
pointing the city manager, who must be a
citizen of Wheeling, the council appoints
the clerk, city solicitor, judge of the police
court, chief of police, and the commissioners
of municipal loans and bond issues. The city

manager makes all other appointments and
has supervmon over all the departments.

SAN JOSE, CAL—A commission-manager
charter has been adopted, effective July 1, 1916.

ALPENA, MICH.——A new charter incorporat-
ing the city manager idea was adopted on Sep-
tember 1, effective in April, 1916. The charter
provides for the election at large on a non-
partisan ballot of a mayor, four councilmen,
a municipal judge, one justice of the peace,
and two constables. The municipal council ap-
points a city manager, city treasurer, city clerk,
assessor, city attorney, and health Ollicer. All
the appointments made by the municipal coun-
cil are for one year, but the city manager may
be dismissed at any time upon suflicient cause.

SANTA BARBARA, CAL.—-The new charter
adopted in Santa Barbara in September is ef-
fective in October, 1917. It provides that all
the powers of the city be vested in a council
of five members, which elects from its own
membership a presiding officer known as the
mayor. A city manager is appointed by the
council, which also appoints the clerk, treas-
urer, auditor, assessor, tax collector, police
judge, boards of park and water commissioners.
library trustees, board of education. The fol-
lowing are appointed by the city manager: pur—
chasing agent, engineer, superintendent of

streets, superintendent of water distribution,
chief of police, chief of fire department, board
of health, and inspector of buildings, also the

city attorney, the latter with the approval of
the council.

SAN ANGELO, TEx.—Adopted a commission-

manager charter in August of this year, ef-
fective April, 1916.

BENTON HARBOR, MICH.—The city council re-
cently passed an ordinance creating the office
of city manager after two elections in which
the commission-manager plan had been sub-
mitted to the people and failed to carry. At
the present time council committees and com-
mittees of the Chamber of Commerce are
working for a general charter revision, on
which it is expected that an election will be
held at the next municipal election, in the
spring of 1916.

JOHNSON Crrv, TENN.—The form of govern-
ment here is similar to that in Staunton, Va.
The governing body consists of eight aldermen
and a Mayor. with a City Manager in charge
of the operating departments of the city. The
last-named official has, until the passage of a
recent ordinance, been styled “City Commis-
sioner.” The Board of Aldermen elects all
executive officials except those minor ones

chosen by the Manager. Mr. P. F. McDonald
is City Manager.

ELIZABETH CITY, N. C.—A commission-man-
ager charter IS reportedOto have been in opera-
tion in Elizabeth City smce April, 1915.

WEBSTER Crrv, IOWA.—The city manager
plan was adopted on August 30 last by a vote
of more than two to one. The first election of
councilmen under the plan took place on Octo-
ber 11, when they appointed a city manager.

A

422

THOMASViLu-z, N. C.—The city manager form
of government was adopted on July I, 1915.
A new charter provides for the election at
large of a Mayor and five Aldermen, who con—
sti yrs-the City Council, and for the appoint-
m by them of a City‘Manager. He is the
a nistrative head of the city government and

term of office is at: the pleasure of the
‘ ouncil. Frank D. Jones is City‘ Manager.
.é'WESTERVILLI-I, Onio—The commission—man-
ager plan was adopted by a large majority on
July 31 and becomes effective January I, 1916.
The plan provides for the election of five com-
missioners, one of whom shall correspond to
the present mayor. These five commissioners
chpose a city manager, who has charge of all
mUnicipal operations, improvements and prop—
erties.

H‘ORICON, WIS.—-—‘This city employs a City

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 5

Auditor, objection having been made to the
use of the term “city manager” as being too
broad. He serves under an ordinance provid-
ing for his appointment by the mayor. The
state laws make obligatory the election of a
mayor, six aldermen, city clerk, city treasurer
and city assessor, but the salaries of those of-
ficers were placed so low that none could af-
ford to devote sufficient time to his duties“, and
the oflice of city auditor was created in order
that some one person might be held responsible
for the execution of the work supposed to be
performed by those officers. By mutual agree—
ment, therefore, between the mayor and other
officers and the City Auditor, the latter is un-
derstood to have supervision of the work in all
of those departments. His salary for the first
year was made $1,000. E. C. Rehfield is City
Auditor. ‘

 

An Oasis in a Business Section

The spectacle of a once—delightful old
residence trying to hold its own against the
encroachments of business is one common to
many growing cities. The usual successor
to these old houses—with perhaps a fine
tree or two which might be the beginning of
an attractive public square—is most apt to
be a stone or brick structure which adds to
the strongholds of commerce, but helps to

1':

* -é?f3--su.-’* 
.. uk-

.  ,
I
(4" .t. - -

  ("I :

a) 'l M 1.;
s“.
I I I." ’0.

 

stamp with fatiguing monotony the business
section of the town.

A refreshing exception is the breathing
space of about half an acre, located in one
of the busiest sections on Main Street, in
Northampton, Mass, which now replaces
the old homestead seen inlthe illustration.
Hiding behind a huge elm tree, as if trying
to escape from the unbroken line of brick

THE MAIN STREET ENTRANCE TO CENTRAL PARK, NORTHAMPTON, MASS.

NOVEMBER, 1915 THE AMERICAN CITY 423

 

TWO VIEWS IN CENTRAL PARK, NORTHAMPTON

The upper one shows the pergola with its floweroboxes; the other includes the Clarke Library and Memorial
Hall, and, at the right, the old elm tree

 

424 THE AMERICAN CITY

stores facing it from the opposite side of a

Main Street, and from the wearying stream
of traffic, the one-time quiet home looked
out in the rear upon a gas plant, and upon a
public dump, where, emptied over a sharp
descent, ashes gave up their dust and bottles
and tin cans -rattled downward.

To unimaginative minds this environment
suggested few possibilities in the way of a
park, nor was the need of one in a busy
down-town section evident to the majority.
Such an undertaking, however, was pro-_
moted to success by the City Improvement
Committee, through its chairman, Christo-
pher Clarke, City Forester, aided by liberal-
minded citizens who contributed about
$26,000 of its entire cost, the city paying
the remainder of $21,000. Hon. T. M. Con-
nor, then mayor, raised the largest amount
of money obtained by subscription, and
gave active service in bringing the enter-
prise to a successful conclusion. The land
was bought for $34,000; grading and other
improvements cost $13,000. At the rear a
retaining wall was built at an expense of
several thousand dollars by Mr. Frank Ly-
man and his sister, Mrs. Alfred T. White,
who together gave also a valuable lot of
land in the rear of the municipal theater
on the new South Street Boulevard. The
purchase and removal of the old home re-
ferred to, and another dwelling, as well as
the old Boston and Albany stage barn,
which had been used as a livery stable, gave
place to one ofthe most beautiful small parks
in the state, known as Central Park, and
formed a fine, deep, continuous lawn in
front of the public buildings for nearly a
quarter of a mile. When the old City Hall
is removed it will add about 80 feet to this
stretch of front lawn, thus carrying out a
city—planning idea which Mr. Clarke has
held for many years.

At the rear of Central Park were planted
a large number of quick-growing Lombardy
poplars, which soon concealed the worst
features of the gas plant and the barren
plot once utilized as a dumping ground. A
wistaria-covered pergola with cement
flower boxes built on the walls supporting
the columns and containing a profusion of

V0L. XIII, No. 5'

 

THE OLD ELM TREE AND ITS SURROUND-
INGS IN 1867

scarlet geraniums, combines with the pop-
lars to produce a striking effect, equally
attractive in the bright sunshine and in the
summer moonlight, when the down-town
population flock to the park to sit on the
comfortable settees or stroll over the gravel
walks. A large flower bed occupies the
center of the park near the great elm, and
barberry bushes, beautiful in winter and
summer alike, border the walks. In one
section is a bubble drinking fountain which
is much patronized.

Since the completion of the project sev-
eral years ago, the taxpayers have indicated
their approval of the citizen whose efforts
made this breathing space and pleasure
spot in the heart of the business district a
reality by creating a permanent board of
park commissioners with the promoter of
Central Park as its dean.

 

 

 

 

American and English Types of Motor Trucks
for Municipal Service

 

GENERAL MOTORS ELECTRIC FLUSHER USED-BY THE DEPARTMENT OF STREET
CLEANING IN TORONTO, ONT.

 

THE LEYLAND MOTOR VACUUM CLEANER FOR CATCH-BASINS

[425]

 

rl-IIIUH-H-IHUH-mu-wm ‘ 

Motor Fire Apparatus in Use in Various
Fire Departments

lint-Imam“![wimmmmmmummmm' ‘

IIIIIIIUIIIII
[Nun-Hull

L

 

AMERICAN-LA FRANCE 76-FOOT AERIAL TRUCK OWNED BY THE FIRE DEPARTMENT
OF DAYTON, OHIO

 

LIPPARD-STE\VART FIRE TRUCK, WITH FIRESTONE TIRES. IN USE IN WELLSVILLE, N. Y.
[426]

NOVEMBER, 1915 THE AMERICAN CITY 427

 

PHILADELPHIA STEAM FIRE ENGINE EQUIPPED WITH BOYD TRACTOR

 

SAN FRANCISCO COMBINATION FIRE TRUCK EQUIPPED WITH GOODYEAR CUSHION
TIRES

Fire Prevention Versus Fire Extinguishment
A Method of Employing the Spare Time of Permanent Firemen

By William Brophy
Secretary, Fire Chiefs' Club of Massachusetts

his life in the fire service, it would

seem that the permanent. members
of fire departments have an abundance of
physical exercise in the perfOrn'ianbe‘ of
their arduous and dangerous duties, particu-
larly in the business and manufacturing dis-
tricts of our larger cities and towns. On
account of the rapid introduction of motor
fire apparatus, the permanent men are

TO one who has spent the best years of

spared considerable labor formeny spent in.

caring for the lire horses, and are living in
more healthful quarters, free from. the dis-
agreeable odors and flies that are found in
stables. It is certainly desirable to keep the
men in the best possible physical condition,
both for their own welfare and that of the
communities they serve, and I believe it
can be done in a way that will satisfy the
most exacting taxpayer.

Tbe Increasing Fire Hazard

A large proportion of our buildings are
constructed of wood. Steam, hot water and
hot air heating add to the fire hazard in
these and all other buildings. From the
business and manufacturing districts of
nearly all cities wooden buildings are ex-
cluded by municipal ordinance or state laws,
but many of the structures in such sections
have nothing that might be called fire-resist-
ing in them other than the outer brick or
stone walls, and many of the roofs are cov-
ered with wooden shingles, one of the best
agencies for the spread of fire. '1_‘he in-
troduction of freight and passenger ele-

vators has made it possible to increase the-

height of buildings, limited only by the char-
acter of the material used, while the intro-
duction of structural steel makes it possible
to carry buildings to almost any height de-
sired.

Owing to such conditions, we have sus-
tained greater loss of prOperty by fire, and
of human life as well, than any other civi-
lized country in the world, and as a result
we are taxed more for the equipment and

[428]

maintenance of fire departments than would
be necessary under proper conditions, and
our tire-fighting force ismuch greater than
the combined force of several of the coun-
tries of Europe.

For many years the manufacturers of are
apparatus have tried their best to keep pace
with the architects and builders who were
continually increasing the height of build-
ings, but with the introduction of steel
frames they had to give up in deSpair the
struggle for the protection of many of the
modern buildings; for, if not strictly Ere-
proof, unless private equipment is installed
therein the fire department must in most
cases wait until the upper portions of such
structures burn down to where water towers
and aerial trucks can reach the fire. Water
must be poured directly on to any fire in
order to extinguish it, unless some other
means, at present unknown, is provided.

Is it not time to begin the sane and sen-
sible plan of preventing fires by removing
their causes?

W ho Pays (he Insurance

The practice of' insuring pmperty against
loss by fire is almost universal, and the
amount of fire insurance carried is enor-
mous. Fire insurance companies do not pay
the losses sustained by their policy holders;
they are simply the disbursing agents of
such policy holders and pay out of the sum
total received a partial reimbursement to
those who have suffered losses by fire. re-
taining, of course, a sufficient, and perhaps
a liberal, amount to pay for the transaction
of the business: The people at large pay
the losses on property that is not wholly
covered by insurance and on that which is
not insured at all. Insurance must be high
enough to pay the losses sustained and must
vary with the annual amount of such losses.
Increase in insurance rates must follow
sweeping conHagrations or steadily in-
creased losses by fire, and this increases the
additional burden on the entire population.

Digitized by 600816

NOVEMBER, 1915

Fire insurance is as necessary as our bank-
ing system; without it the wheels of in-
dustry would soon come to a standstill.

Disregarding fires caused by incendiarism
and lightning, 95 per cent of all fires that
cause the destruction of property are pre-
ventable. They would not occur were it not
for gross carelessness and utter indifference
to the ever-present danger from fire, par-
ticularly on the part of those whose prop-
erty is covered by insurance. Once a policy
of insurance is secured, the owners of the
property seem to feel that they are relieved
from all responsibility for its safety from
fire, and it is too often the case that they
do not take even the simplest precautions
against it.

Fire Prevention Legislation

In the effort to prevent fires rather than
to extinguish them, the people must act as
a whole, and they should be first shown how
and then made to do it. An attempt in this
direction is the passage of the “Fire Hazard
Bill” by the Massachusetts Legislature,
which calls for the appointment of a Fire
Prevention Commissioner at a salary of
$3,500 a year. The bill applies only to the
Metropolitan District, comprising 25 cities
and towns, including Boston. Other cities
and towns in the state can come under the
provisions of this bill if the voters so de-
cide. The bill barely squeezed through the
1914 Legislature, and was badly mutilated
during its passage.

The results obtained under the provisions
of this law for the first twelve months of its
enforcement are noteworthy. The number
of fires has been reduced from a monthly
list of from 300 to 400, to 100 per month.
The fire loss has decreased $2,000,000. Fire
alarms have been reduced from 5,800 to
4,900 per month, not including the month of
March of this year, which was unusually
dry, and during which grass fires caused
an unusually large number of alarms.

During the first year of the Fire Preven-
tion Department’s existence, much time was
spent in its organization. That work is now
completed, and with the perfect understand-
ing and cooperation between the Commis-
sioner and the chiefs of fire departments,
much better results must be obtained. The
wisdom of this legislation (which might be
improved) has been demonstrated beyond
a doubt, and its provisions should be ex-
tended to the rest of the state of Massa-
chusetts.

THE AMERICAN CITY

429

If the chiefs of fire departments, first in
the Metropolitan District and later in the
entire state, were vested with the authority
given the commissioner; if from their num-
ber a committee was selected to draw up
rules and instructions to be given to the
public, finally approved by the entire body,
and enforced if need be; if the tenure of
office of these men was made as secure as
that of the officers of the army and the navy
so that they could act without fear or favor
——the annual fire losses would decrease to
proportions never dreamed possible. Here
is where the permanent members of fire de-
partments can be used to the great advan-
tage of the public—in making intelligent
and rigid examinations of all buildings and
in rendering reports on which valuable in-
structions could be based. At first it would
be necessary to add to the permanent force,
but the time would surely come—and quick-
ly—when this work of fire prevention would
result in a smaller force of firemen, less
necessary apparatus, and, best of all, fewer
fires.

Over-insurance is an incentive to incen-
diarism, and in many cases is effected with
that end in view. For over-insurance of
property by any agent or broker the pen-
alty should be both fine and imprisonment,
and the license to do an insurance business
should be revoked. This is a most effective
way to end the practice of over—insurance,
which the companies claim they cannot pre-
vent, and the crime of arson would then be
rare indeed.

To educate the people to a realizing sense
of their duty in the matter of fire preven-
tion is a slow and tedious process. The
truth will have to be driven home to them
with a club, and perhaps this would be a
good form for such a weapon: When fire
occurs on premises or property that is in-
sured, and if the fire, by the exercise of
reasonable care, could have been prevented,
the insurance policy sh0uld be rendered
void. If, however. adjoining property is
damaged as a result, either by fire or water,
the insurance in force on the property where
the fire originated should go to indemnify
the owner of the adjoining property to
cover the loss not covered by insurance.
In case there is no insurance on the prop-
erty in which the fire originated, then a
heavy fine should be imposed for the neg-
lect which caused the fire.

The National Board of Fire Underwriters

Digitized by GOO [Q
[g

430

spends thousands of dollars annually in
making inspections and surveys of muni-
' cipal fire departments, fire alarm systems
and water-supplies, the results thereof be-
ing submitted in reports made to the muni-
cipal authorities. These reports contain
wise and otherwise suggestions and recom-
mendations to which, in the majority of
cases, little heed is paid, particularly if they

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 5

involve the expenditure of a considerable
amount of money or run counter to the
views of the men who know the tire protec-
tion needs of their towns and cities—the
chiefs of fire departments. I would suggest
to this national body that a part of the
money spent for these surveys and inspec-
tions (or, better, all of it) be used in co-
operation with others in fire prevention.

 

A Water Supply Investigation for Corning, N. Y.

By Henry W. Taylor
Consulting Engineer, Albany, N. Y.

HE present water supply of the city
of Corning is taken from a ground

water source at a point below the
city. The supply has always proved ade-
quate and has always been of excellent
physical characteristics, except as to its
hardness. It, however, has been subject
to violent invasions of intestinal bacteria
which have shown their effects in pro-
nounced epidemics. Periodic outbreaks of
typhoid fever, etc., have generally followed
high water conditions in the river and have
been of such importance as to warrant a
full investigation of the present supply.
The water pumped to the distributing
reservoirs is collected in a concrete im-
pounding basin east of the city. It was
rumored that this supply was fed, in large
measure, by springs, and the adequacy of
the supply and its action during dry
weather confirmed these popular opinions.
The attitude of the writer from the be-
ginning of this investigation was that, pro-
viding the development of the present sup-
ply proved feasible as compared with alter-
native projects, this supply should be suit-
ably treated biologically, and, if possible,
protected from occasional pollution in addi-
tion to this treatment. In case the work
of protecting the supply did not prove feas-
ible, the treatment alone should be such as
to be perfectly reliable.
In studying the present supply, the fol-
lowing questions had to be answered:
I. Is the present supply derived from
two different sources, one water coming
from a deep-seated source and less liable

to accidental pollution, while the other is

a shallow ground water which is extremely
liable to accidental pollution?

2. If it should be found possible to elimi-
nate the shallow ground water and prevent
it from mixing with the purer water from
a deep-seated source, would there be a suf-

ficient supply from this deep-seated source
to meet requirements?

3. In case the shallow ground water
could be eliminated without impairing the

quantity of the remaining supply, is there,

within a practicable depth, a stratum of
clay or other impervious material into
which a cut-off wall could be extended?

It was at once noted that when the water
level in the impounding basin was lowered
four or five feet, there was a violent spring
action in a small area of the center of the
basin, indicating a vertical flow in this
section. In an area about 50 feet square.
small water spouts developed as a result
of this spring flow, whereas in other sec-
tions the inflow was evidently in a hori-
zontal direction, flowing underneath the
walls of the basin. Physical, chemical and
biological analysis of the shallow ground
water, and of the water which forced its
way through the central area of the bottom
of the basin, showed that the two water5
had entirely different characteristics. The
total bacterial count in the case of samples
of water taken at the bottom of the im‘
pounding basin, under these spring flow
conditions, was found to be 12 cc, the
water was much softer than the shallow

Digitized by 600816

NOVEMBER, 1915

ground water and varied in other physical
and chemical characteristics.

It was further noted that, in refilling, the
water level in the impounding basin rose to
an elevation higher than the water level
in the ground surrounding the basin, indi-
cating that the basin was being fed by a
source of supply operating under a dif-
ferent head than the shallow ground water.
This consideration, together with the va-
rious differences in the characteristics of
the two waters, furnished ample proof of
the vague theory of a dual source of sup-
ply, the quality of one of which was com-
parable to a spring supply.

It was then necessary to conclude that
there lay, between the shallow ground
water and the deep-seated water, some type
of impervious stratum which made possible
this difference in pressure; and, providing
this stratum lay within a reasonable dis-
tance from the top of the ground, the shal-
low ground water could be cut off from the

 

 

 

 

 

_ . __JLZ“._.___."L‘L_ __ __ 1.1L

 

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

_.4‘_1_ ___. ‘4'4—‘—._—_

431

impounding basin by a combination of sheet
piling and concrete walls. However, such
a system of exclusion of the shallow ground
water might impair the adequacy of the
supply, and the investigation of this point
was of special hydraulic interest. The
problem consisted in determining the yield
of the springs in the bottom of, the reser4
voir under conditions which permitted of
the mixing.of this spring water with the
shallow ground water.

Hook gages were installed in the im-
pounding basin and in test pits surround-
ing it, and readings were taken during the
period of pumping and during the period of
refill of the basin. After some of these data
were obtained, it was apparent that the only
theory which would yield conclusions not
involving indeterminate factors must be
based on the refill curves and on points of
their intersection.

The accompanying ch'art serves to ex-
plain this method. ‘As the water level in

 

 

_J...'...’.._._, _ 1.1' ___-34"_ ___...‘L1.

WATER ELEVATION CURVES

432

the impounding basin rises, the water ele-
vation curve of the basin intersects the ele-
vation curves of the various test pits out-
side of the basin. At these points of inter-
section the water levels inside and outside
the basin are the same, and consequently
the areas outside the basin can be thus elim-
inated as contributory areas feeding water
into the basin.

After the highest test pit curve has been
intersected by the refill curve of the basin,
it is apparent' that the water in the im-
pounding basin is as high as or higher than
all the water surfaces outside of the basin;
therefore, the rise in the basin water sur-
face must be due to inflow from a source
other than the shallow ground water.

Tangents to the refill curve of the basin
at these points of intersection show the rate
of refill from this secondary source. Sub-
sequent experiments were made in such a
way that these points of intersection of the
curves occurred at different elevations, and
a rough law of flow was determined for
the inflow of water other than shallow
ground water. This treatment of the mat-
ter is based entirely upon pure hydraulics,
eliminates all the elements of the porosity
of the soil and other indeterminate factors
and is amply safe in its conclusions, since
it ignores the apparent possibility of leak-
age outward from the basin to the exterior
ground water.

The result of this determination proved
conclusively, and without the use of other
empirical formula: or indeterminate esti-
mates of questionable factors, that the
spring flow amounted to over 2,500,000 gal-
lons during a very dry season in the sum-
mer of 1914.

At this stage of the investigation the first
two of the above-mentioned questions had
been satisfactorily answered. The existing
supply was found to be derived from two
different sources, one being a deep‘seated
source and not liable to shallow ground
water pollutions. It was also found that
the supply being derived from this deep-
seated source was of ample quantity. There
still remained the problem of cutting off
the shallow ground water from the im-
pounding basin and preventing its admix-
ture with the purer water from the deeper
source of supply.

Test borings indicated that the imper-
vious strata which must lie between the
shallow ground water and the deep-seated

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 5

water, lay more than thirty feet below the
surface of the ground, and it was consid-
ered that any attempt to sheet pile below
this depth and tie into this strata would be
unwarranted. The protection of the purer
source of supply by means of a barrier
around the impounding basin to exclude
the shallow ground water was thus proved
impracticable. An examination of the
probable major cause of contamination of
the supply led the writer to the conclusion
that the existing supply was occasionally
grossly polluted by a coarsely filtered sew-
age which leaches into the shallow ground
water through one of the main outlet
sewers. When the river is at its high stage
this outlet sewer is placed under pressure.
The leakage of this sewer, under these con-
ditions, is amply demonstrated by the fact
that, were it tight under pressure, certain
streets in the eastern section of the city
would be submerged by back water, which
circumstance has never been noted.

Consequently, until the sewage pumping
station should be installed, which will al-
ways prevent back-flooding of this trunk
sewer, any attempt to otherwise prevent
shallow ground water pollution in the vi-
cinity of the impounding basin was thought
of questionable expediency, and the pro-
tection of the better source of supply from
periodic contamination was thought imprac-
ticable.

A Biological Treatment Required

Treatment of this supply was apparently
proved to be the only method by which a
consistently good quality of water can be
obtained from this source. As has been
stated, the water in its present condition is
perfectly clear and colorless, and from a
physical point of view filtration was in no
way required. The treatment required is
consequently of a purely biological nature,
and hypochloride of lime, liquid chlorine
and ultra-violet ray treatments were con-
sidered.

Due to the results which had already
been obtained with hypochloride of lime
treatment, this process was at once elimi-
nated as a permanent measure. It was
also feared that possible trouble might be
experienced with liquid‘chlorine, due to
rapid changes in the organic content of the
water. The cost of installation of the ultra-
violet ray apparatus proved to be a tempo-
rary objection to this process, due to the

Digitized by 600816

NOVEMBER, 1915

existing financial resources of the city, and,
after exhaustive discussion of the whole
matter, the Board of Public Works has re-

THE AMERICAN CITY

433

cently authorized the installation of a liquid
chlorine treatment plant, which is now in
operation.

 

A New Type of Concrete Water Tank

The city of Bay Minette, Ala., has re-
cently completed modern systems of sewage
and water-works, and has the distinction
of having included in the latter the first
reinforced concrete tower and pressure tank
of the White patent type. This tank is 110
feet high, original in design and construc-
tion, and has a capacity of 80,000 gallons.
It stands about one-and-a-half blocks in the
rear of the Bay Minette County Court
House, as shown in the accompanying illus-
tration. The contractors, the Concrete
Steel Construction Company, of Birming-
ham, Ala., state that the unique design of
the tank has attracted much attention and
has been the occasion of many inquiries
from municipalities contemplating water-
works improvements.

It is pointed out that the cost of painting
and otherwise maintaining a steel tank of
similar size would be equal to the interest
on at least $1,000, and that this design would
therefore be as cheap as the steel tank if

its first cost was $1,000 in excess of that of
the steel structure, and that the saving
would be further augmented by the long life
of the concrete. The strength of this con-
struction was severely tested soon after its
completion by two heavy Gulf storms
which visited that section, demolishing sev-
eral houses and doing general damage. The
wind pressure was said to be the greatest
ever known on the Gulf coast, and the two
occurrences furnished excellent evidence of
the stability of the tank.

 

THE CONCRETE WATER TO\VER IN BAY MINETTE, ALA., NEAR THE COUNTY COURT
HOUSE

A Proposed Motor Bus Franchise

By Harry P. Nichols
Chief of Bureau of Franchises, New York City

of Estimate and Apportionment in

its report to the Board upon the
pending petitions for the right to'operate
motor bus routes in the borough of Man-
hattan has recommended what is‘ probably
the most unique and complete franchise that
has ever been considered by the authorities
of the city of New York.

The Committee has in this matter been
in a position to deal with a complete trans-
portation system. This has not been the
case in making other grants to transpor-
tation companies during recent years.

'When the applications were first pre-
sented, the Board began its studies by first
ascertaining, through its Bureau of Fran-
chises, facts with reference to the experi-
ence of EurOpean cities in motor bus opera-
tion. The Committee then proceeded to
apply this information to the needs of New
York City. It was believed that the rapid
development of the motor vehicle in pas-
senger service in European cities and the
increased popularity of the Fifth Avenue
Coach Company’s lines in New York placed
the motor bus in the position of deserving
recognition as a coming transportation fa-
cility. Moreover, it is well known that
there are points in the city between which
there is—although much needed—no direct
means of public conveyance. The problem,
therefore, was to supply the needed facili-
ties by the most practical and comprehen-
sive system of routes.

In laying out the system of routes, three
principles were observed:

First. That the system should be a compre-
hensive one;

Second. That the system should contain
certain routes giving facilities between various
points where none now exist;

Third. That the routes should be such as to
compete directly as little as possible with the
existing transit systems.

THE Franchise Committee of the Board

The mobility of the motor bus makes pos-
sible one condition of the franchise, which,
though equally desirable from the public
standpoint in street railway grants, would
be impracticable in such cases: this is the
clause requiring, when need arises, the sub-

[434]

stitution of a new route for one originally
granted.

‘ Another condition imposed is that requir-
ing the operation .of extension: or-iadditional
route: upon order of the Board of Estimate
and Apportionment. Trafiic conditions are
changing from day to day and the routes
operated in the beginning may in a few
years be those least adapted to such use.
One has only to consider the changes which
have taken place during the last few years
to realize the desirability of such a pro-
vision.

The extensions to existing transit sys-
tems most desirable and most dil’iicult to ob-
tain are those in outlying districts, but with-
out them the proper development of new
sections is impossible. Franchises for such
extensions must be for a long term of years,
and the city is usually confronted with the
argument on the part of an applicant com-
pany that the amount of earnings during
the term of the franchise is uncertain, but
that without doubt during the first few
years the earnings will be little more than
enough to pay operating expenses and not
enough to pay interest on cost of construc-
tion, which for a street railway is consider-
able. To operate an extension to a system
of motor bus routes requires comparatively
little initial investment, and it is entirely
practicable for the operator to accept 3
franchise containing conditions requiring
extensions uponspecilic terms; it is not 31‘
ways practicable in the case of othcr
transit facilities, and the city has not im-
posed such conditions in street railway
grants to date. ,

In these respects the franchise now be'
fore the Board of Estimate and Appof'
tionment is unique, and it is believed that,
if it is granted, its operation in future
years will prove to the public the im-
portance of these provisions.

There are other provisions of the pro-
posed grant which are also highly advanr
tageous to the traveling public, but which
cannot be described in brief. _ ‘

‘ " COpies of the report may‘be obtained‘of

the Bureau of Franchises, Municipal Build-
ing, New York City.

Digitized by 600816

Items of Municipal and Civic Progress

 

‘. “INDIE-mill!IIIIIIUIIIIIHIIUIHII-Illllllllllllllmll[-lllllllll'IlllllUlllIllllIl'flIlillllIllllmlllI-lir;

A Municipal Song for

Baltimore

The Mayor of Baltimore, Md., the Hon.
James H. Preston, announces the offer of
$250 in gold for “the best original musical
setting of the prize poem on Baltimore, by
F olger McKinsey, to be used as the muni-
cipal anthem. The judges of the competi-
tiOn will be: Harold Randolph, Director of
the Peabody Conservatory of Music; Hen-
rietta Baker Low, former Supervisor of
Music in the Baltimore public schools, and
John Itzel. The competition closes Decem-
ber I. For information as to its rules, ad-

dress the Municipal Song Contest, care of
Frederick R. Huber, Peabody Institute, Bal-
timore. Md. The prize poem follows:

BALTI MORE. OUR BALTIMORE!

Baltimore, where Calvert nourished
And the stately Carroll came
Here the old defenders thundered
As they charged in battle-flame.
Here the starry banner glistened
In the sunshine of the sea,
In that dawn of golden vision
That awoke the song of Key:

Here are hearts that beat forever
For the city we adore;

Here the love of men and brothers—
Baltimore, our Baltimore!

Here the clipper ships of lory
Brought the cargoes 0 their day
From the ports of seven oceans
Homing white-winged up the bay.
IIere immortal Poe illumined
Living letters with his lyre;
lIere Lamer's uplifting measures
Taught the world a fresh desire:

Here the tradesman and the statesman,
Here the gallant hearts of yore,

Came to found a beauteous city—
Baltimore. our Baltimore!

Here the charm of parks and gardens,
Here the spirit of the home,
Ilere the music of the morning
In the wind across the foam.
Here the teacher and the prophet.
Here the sermon and the song,
Keep the higher beauty burning
And the nobler purpose strong:

Here the church and here the temple,
Reared amid our bloomy lore;
Here the Science wed with Healing—

Baltimore, our Baltimore!

God of grace, thou great Jehovah,
Make us grateful, keep us true,
That these gifts of light and leading
May enchain our hearts to you:
That in spiritual vision glowing
Men behold along the gleam
How a righteous city blossoms
In the golden years of dream:

Here our halls of Art and Learning,
Here the dust that Rinehart wore;

God to guide, and man to worship-—
Baltimore, our Baltimore!

Pittsburgh’s Training School
For Firemen
ITTSBURGH has opened its school for
P firemen. Hereafter every man in
every fire company in the city will
he required to demonstrate his fitness for
his work, or be dismissed. Work on the

 

"MSS‘UIL

THE PITTSBURGH TRAINING TOWER
training tower in Neville Street is com-

pleted, and tests began on October I. The
tower is a six-story building, ninety feet
high. The school is under the personal
supervision of Fire Chief James F. Richards,
Police and Fire Surgeon D. E. Sable and
the district chiefs. Actual instruction in
modern fire-fighting and other hazardous
work entailed thereby will be under the
direction of Captain James Kane, Fireman
Alva Foster and Dr. Sable, all of whom
spent a month in the New York school of
instructibn. Ladder and hose drills, rescue
work and instruction in pulmotor application
are among the first lessons taught. There
is keen rivalry among the various tire com~
panies to make the best showing.

[435]

THE AMERICAN CITY

Inw-

Milli” 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NEW TYPE CHAINLESS TRUCKS
are all-purpose trucks for
municipal service

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

They meet the diversified hauling needs of the city, with a com-
bination of advantages not found in an other carrier. They are
swift and active in trailic, for police or ospital service; they are

strong and serviceable for the transportation of materials for paving
and like heavy loads.

Packard New Type Chainless Trucks embody every principle of
efficiency discovered by Packard en 'neers in ten years’ study of
Packard trucks in actual service. Bui t in seven sizes—l, 1‘}. 2, 3, 4,
5 and 6-ton units — there is one for every practicable load unit. All
sizes are uniform in design, and they constitute the only complete
line of silent, chainless motor trucks in the world.

Packard New Type Chainless Trucks are sold with optional frame
lengths and speeds to suit the work in hand. They have all kinds of
ower attachments —— hydraulic hoists for dum bodies, power winches
or heavy hoisting or for drawing cables rough conduits, power
pumps, swinging cranes and similar appliances—all driven by power
rom the transmission.

They ma be fitted with all kinds of bodies, whether for passenger or
commercia service. and their mechanical excellence is supported by the
Packard service organization, available in all parts of America. Send to
Department L for catalog.

PACKARD MOTOR CAR COMPANY, DETROIT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WI

 

 

 

 

"WW

I”!

 

 

 

 

ll

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

|||||

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HHUH

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l
l

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HHIHH

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IHWH

 

 

 

 

 

1M!

 

H

 

 

 

 

 

Ask the man who owns one

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HHH

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

'HJJ‘WH 1 l

45  When writing to Advertisers please mention Tn: Altman: err.

 

 

 

     

 

MUM”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11%

n? 0x71211323, 1915

Cincinnati’s Municipal Picnic

The city of Cincinnati was host to its citi-
zens on September 6—Labor Day. The
Board of Park Commissioners invited every
family to come to one of Cincinnati's parks
—never more beautiful than at this time—
bring a basket lunch, and enjoy a day of
recreation at the city’s expense. One of the
reservoirs in Eden Park chanced to be
empty to permit of some minor repairs, and
the commissioners offered the smooth con-
crete water-bed as a dancing floor—the
largest single dancing floor of concrete in
the world. Of all the city playgrounds,
Eden Park drew the patrons in the propor-

A RESERVOIR AS A RECREATION GROUND

tion of perhaps ten to one, on account of
this unique feature. The crowds made their
way down the sloping sides to the flat cen-
ter, where the band was stationed. Ofiicials
claimed that when the band was in full
swing, from twelve to fourteen thousand
couples were dancing on the reservoir
floor.

There were athletic contests for boys six-
teen years of age and under, in which a
number of prizes were offered; there were
old-fashioned sports—watermelon and grape
pie contests, three-legged races, and a
father-and-son race (each father carrying

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

 

 

437

his son on his back). There were hand con-
certs, beauty contests, visits to the conserv-
atories, a climb to the top of the water
tower for the view, and there were free
drinking cups and an abundance of free ice
water. It was a great and happy day, and
is likely to become an annual event.

4"!

The “ Last Word ” in Market

Building

The opening of the reconstructed Wash-
ington Market in New York City was cel-
ebrated during the week of October 25, and
was in charge of Mr. William Minder and a
Committee of Merchants. On the first day
there was a parade from the City Hall to
the market, and speeches by city officials.
Throughout the week there were addresses
by prominent citizens, with_Marine Band
concerts, dairy and pure food exhibits, and
special-price market days, whenthe House-
wives League gave instructions to house-
wives about purchasing to the best advan-
tage.

The old market, first opened in 1812, was
a famous landmark, rich in history. The
property is owned by the city of New York.
being in part ceded by the estate of old
Trinity Church to be used forever as a
market place. The city has spent more than
$132,000 on the improvement of the market,
which is now a community in white, with
tiles and marble, silver, nickel and alum-
inum. The fine interior equipment is the
property of the merchants, who have spent
nearly a half-million dollars on fixtures and
new stands. Concealed lighting is one of
the effective features. Each stand is con-
nected with electric lights, gas, hot and
cold water, sewer, telephone and refrigera-
tion system. Art. convenience and modern
sanitation combine to place the recon-
structed market in the first rank. It does
an annual business of about $5,000,000. and
supplies food to restaurants and hotels
which feed one million people every day; it
also does an enormous business through-
out Greater New York and in the states
of New York, New Jersey and Connecti-
cut. .

Commissioner Folks and the office of Bor-
ough President Marks have entire con-
trol of the maintenance of all public mar-
kets in the borough of Manhattan. The
reconstruction of Washington Market has

THE AMERICAN CITY

    
   
 
 
 
      
  
   
 
 
  
    

Underground

Just for one minute, take a look into the water
malns of your Clty.

You’ll be surprised, perhaps, at what you see. Instead of

large clean water pipes, you may find their inside walls cov-
ered with filth, like the illustration shown here.

And, all this dirt contains—What? No one knows. Still
the people of your city must drink the water which passes over
this dirt without a protest. They’re ignorant of the danger.

But, you aren’t. You, therefore, . are responsible for their
health.

Don’t Shirk this responsibility. Investigate how the dirt
can be removed by

The National Method

This method cleans out the inside of water mains of all
incrustation, making them like new. It removes your re-
sponsibility for the health of your citizens by ridding the
pipcs of all filth which may contain disease.

This question is serious. You should act now—just send a
post card for further information.

National Water Main Cleaning Co.
Hudson Terminal Bldg. NEW YORK CITY

46 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tux AMERICAN Crrr.

NOVEMBER, 1915

been from the beginning a matter of per-
sonal interest to both Mr. Folks and Mr.
Marks, under whose personal direction Col-
onel Frank H'. Hines and Deputy Commis-
sioner John Boschen have superintended the
details of the work. Mr. Sidney H. Good-
acre, Collector of City Revenue and Super-
intendent of Markets, is in charge of as-
signing space and collecting rents. With

THE AMERICAN CITY

439

the proposed new open market improve-
ments, the proposed reconstruction of Jef-
ferson Market, the particularly successful
regeneration of Washington Market, and
the steadily increasing interest of the gen-
eral public in this matter, there seems to
be an indication of great efforts toward

bringing down the cost Of living in New
York City.

 

 

Conventions and Exhibitions

 

ON THE CALENDAR

NOVEMBER 10—12.—PH1LADELP111A, PA.
American Association for the Study
and Prevention of Infant Mortality. Ex-
ecutive Secretary, Miss Gertrude B.
Knipp, 1211 Cathedral Balti-
more, Md.

NOVEMBER IO—I3.—PHILADELPHIA, PA.
Conference on Valuation Principles
and Methods. Held under the auspices
of the Utilities Bureau of Valuation.
Acting Director, Morris Llewellyn

Cooke, City Hall, Philadelphia.

NOVEMBER 11-12.——GREENV1LLE, TEX.
League Of Texas Municipalities. Sec-
retary, Prof. H. G. James, University of
Texas, Austin, Tex.

NOVEMBER 12-20.—Bosr0N, MAss.
Metropolitan City Planning Exhibi-
tion for City and Town Advance, to-
gether with the Traveling Exhibition of the
American City Bureau. Held in the State
House. The Third Annual Conference of
Massachusetts City and Town Planning
ORicials also opens on November 12.
Chairman of Committee of Arrangements
for the Exhibition, Herbert J. Kellaway.

12 West Street, Boston, Mass.

NOVEMBER 16-18.—-HA'RRISBURO, PA.

Third Annual Pennsylvania Industrial
and Public Welfare and Engineering
Conference. Under the auspices of the
State Departments and The Engineers’
Society of Pennsylvania. Director of
Exhibits, Paul Gendell, 31 South Front
Street, Harrisburg, Pa.

NOVEMBER IS-I7.—DAYTON, 01110.
The City Managers’ Association. Sec-
retagy, O. E. Carr, City Manager, Cadillac,
Mic .

NOVEMBER I7.—DAYTON, OHIO.
Ohio Munici al League. Secretary,
F. W. Coker, 0 i0 State University, Co-
lumbus, Ohio.

NOVEMBER 17-19.—-DAerN, OHIO.
National Municipal League. Secre-
tary, Clinton Rogers Woodrul'r', North
American Building, Philadelphia, Pa.

Street,

NOVEMBER 23-25.—STONEWALL, MAN.
Union of Manitoba Municipalities.
Secretary, Robert Forke, Pipestone,

Man.

DECEMBER I-3.—WASHINGTON, D. C.
American Institute of Architects. Sec-
retary, Burt L. Fenner, 101 Park Ave-
nue, New York City. '

DECEMBER 7-8.—CHICAGO, 11.1..-
American Association Of State High-
way Oiiicials. Secretary, Joseph Hyde
Pratt, Chapel Hill. N. C.

DECEMBER I3-I7.-—CHARLESTON, S. C.
Southern Commercial Congress. Man-
aging Director, Clarence J. Owens,
Southern Building, Washington, D. C.

DECEMBER 14-17.—WORCEerR, MAss.
International Road Congress. Gen-
eral Secretary, Herbert N. Davison, Sec-
retary Chamber Of Commerce, Worcester,
Blass.

DECEMBER 27-3l.—WASHINGTON, D. C.
American Economic Association. Sec-
retary, Allyn A. Young, Cornell Uni-
versity, Ithaca, N. Y.

DECEMBER 27—JANUARY I.—COLUMBUS, 01110.
American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science. Secretary, Dr.

L. 0. Howard, Smithsonian Institute,
Washington, D. C.

DECEMBER 27-JANUARY 8.—WASHINGTON, D. C.
Second Pan-American Scientific Con-
gress. Secretary-General. John Barrett,

LL.D., Pan-American Union, Washing-
ton, D. C.

DECEMBER 28—29, WASHINGTON, D. C.
American Association for Labor Leg-

islation. Secretary, John B. Andrews,
131 East Twenty-third Street, New
York City.

DECEMBER 28-30.—-CHICAGO, ILL.
American Society of Agricultural En-
gineers. Secretary. F. M. White, Agri-
cultural Engineering Building, Madison,

Wis.
Digitized by 600816

‘7

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

SANITATION

While our “CANCO” garbage

can in point of appearance and
strength of construction is without
a peer, yet our equipment—the
most comprehensive in the country
—is such that we can make any
sort of garbage container at short
notice.

We shall be pleased to estimate
on any city or park requirement.

AMERICAN CAN COMPANY

Chicago NEW YORK San Francisco

WITH OFFICES IN ALL LARGE CITIES

When writing to Advertisers please mention Tn: Annxcul

Digitized by 

NOVEMBER, 1915

DECEMBER 28-3I.—WASHINGTON, D. C.
American Civic Association. Secre-
tary, Richard B. Watrous, Union Trust
Building, Washington, D. C.
DECEMBER 28-3I.—WASHINGTON, D. C.
American Political Science Associa-
tion. Secretary, Chester Lloyd Jones,
University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis.
DECEMBER 28-3I.—WASHINGTON, D. C.
American Sociological Society. Sec-
retary, Scott E. W. Bedford, University
of Chicago, Chicago, Ill.
DECEMBER 30.—NASHVILLE, TENN.
Engineering Association of the South.
Secretary, W. Harwell Allen, Stahlman
Building, Nashville, Tenn.
JANUARY 12-15, 1916.—BALTIMORE, MD.
' American Institute of Chemical Engi-
neers. Secretary, J. C. Olsen, C00per
Union, New York City.
JANUARY I9.—TRENTON, N. J.
New Jersey State League of Munici-
plalities. Secretary, C. J. Swartz, City
all, Trenton, N. J.
JANUARY m—zz—MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.
National Society for the Promotion of
Industrial Education. Secretary, C. A.

Prosser, 140 West Forty-second Street,
New York City.
FEBRUARY 8-IO.—WASHINGTON, D. C.

Chamber of Commerce of the United
States. General Secretary, Elliot H. Good-
win. Riggs Building, Washington, D. C.

4' 4'.
For More Helpful Conventions

At the annual convention last month of
the American Society of Municipal Im-
provements, a report was presented which
contains valuable suggestions for other na-
tional organizations. This report was pre-
pared by the Society’s Committee for Re-
vising and Standardizing Committee Work,
the members of the committee being A.
Prescott F olwell, chairman; Charles Carroll
Brown and E. S. Rankin. The recommen-

dations were in part as follows:

THE AMERICAN CITY

44!

"It is desirable to have as many papers as
possible distributed among the members of the
society in advance of the convention, and com-
mittees are requested to urge those who con-
sent to prepare papers to have them in the
hands of the committee by such date as the
Secretary may fix as necessary for this pur-
pose.

“Every paper should be passed upon by the
committee in whose field it would naturally
come, and, if accepted by such committee.
should then be transmitted to the Committee
on Convention Papers, of which the Secretary
of the society is chairman by provision of the
constitution.

“The discussion in convention which is
brought out by a paper is frequently more
valuable than the paper itself from an informa-
tive point of view, and is especially so as giving
an interesting and live convention. This idea
should be kept in mind in selecting subjects
and approving papers to be read before the
society. In the case of some papers, such as
those which contain tables and statements
more or less burdened with statistics, it would
be well for the committee to go carefully over
the paper and note such matter as could be
readily appreciated only when read from the
printed page, and to request the author either
to omit this in reading the paper before the so-
ciety (the matter, of course, to be published
in full in the Proceedings), or to prepare a
brief statement for such oral presentation
which will give the gist of the information
contained therein.

“Authors should be requested to include in
their papers all which they desire to say upon
the subject, or at least to put the same in Wt'lt-
ing to accompany the paper; there being two
reasons for this—one that there may be no
question as to the matter being published in
the Proceedings exactly as the author intended
it, and the other, because perhaps the majority
of men, in making extemporaneous statements
before a convention, are likely to occupy un-
necessarily a much greater length of time in
explaining themselves than if they had pre-
viously put the same ideas in writing.

“Committees which solicit papers, and also
the Committee on Convention Papers, should

 

SOME OF THE DELEGATES TO THE CONVENTION OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY OF
MUNICIPAL IMPROVEMENTS

THE AMERICAN CITY

MUNICI HAL
SIGNS
PORCELAIN
stand alone in their field—the one and only one absolutely

OF EVERY CHARACTER
ENAMELED
dependable sign product.

    

FOR EVERY PURPOSE
H
‘SIG-NS I'm"

" GUARANTEED
“BALTO” Guaranteed Porcelain Enameled Iron Signs

fused on specially processed iron at a temperature of 1600 degrees Fah-
renheit—each color separately fused.

“BALTO” Signs, exclusively, are fitted with
non-corrosive metal sleeve eyelets—~thls

feature protects the enamel at this point
finish to our signs.

   
     
 
    
 

These signs are made of the finest grade of vitreous Porcelain Enamel

  
   

 
 

and adds another distinctive element of

. We produce every possible character of municipal
\. 51 ns—any size, shape, color combination or design.
8 ithout obligation our Service Department will
/ be (Pleased to submit sketches and quotations.
5 7 6 Ad itionally, we will send FREE, at our expense. '
' to any authorized purchasing ofiicial or body a
' useful and attractive sample of finished Porce aia
Enameled Iron. Write Department c.

The Baltimore Enamel 8: Novelty Co.
BALTIMORE. MARYLAND

    
       
       

 

48‘ When writing to Advertisers please mention Tn! AMERICAN Cur.

NOVEMBER, 1915 ~

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

ATTENDANTS AT THE RECENT CONVENTION OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COM-
MERCIAL ORGANIZATION SECRETARIES

endeavor to eliminate from all papers matter
which is apparently presented with the sole ob-
ject of advertisement; but this should not be
taken to exclude statements containing infor-
mation which would be of benefit to the so-
ciety, merely because they describe or com-
mend some patented or commercial article.

“As a general thing, a short paper full of
meat is much preferable to a long one, and
condensation of papers should be encouraged,
but not to the point of lessening their intelli-
gibility. There are, of course, exceptions, such
as a comprehensive paper covering a wide field
and endeavoring to sum up all available in for-
mation on a subject; but, generally speaking,
2,000 to 4,000 words is an excellent length for
a paper, or at least for that part which is to
be read aloud at the meeting.”

The Executive Committee recommended
that the privilege of using the copyrighted
specifications which had been worked up
by the society should be granted to any city
applying for them only on condition that
such city should be represented in the mem-
bership of the society.

The officers elected were:

President—A F. Macallum, Hamilton, Ont.

Vice-Presidents—Norman S. Sprague, Pittsburgh,
Pa.; J. B. Hittell, Chicago, 111.; E. R. Conant, Savan-
nah, Ga.
I gecretary—Charles Carroll
n .

Treasurer—Will B. Howe. Concord, N. H.

The Finance Committee consists of E. S.
Rankin, Newark, N. J.; Matthew Brown,
Emporia, Kans.; F. J. Cellarius, Dayton,
Ohio.

Newark, N. J., was chosen as the next
place of meeting.

Brown, Indianapolis,

++

National Association of Commercial
Organization Secretaries

The new officers of the National Associa-
tion‘ of Commercial Organization Secre-
taries, elected by the Directors after the
adjournment of the annual convention in
St. Louis October 27-29, are as follows:

President—William George Bruce, Merchants’ and
Manufacturers’ Association, Milwaukee, Wis.

Vice-Presidents—John Wood, Chamber of Com-
merce, Roanoke, Va.; ames A. McKibben, Chamber
of Commerce Boston, lass.

Secretary-Treasurer—Howard Strong,
Commerce Association, Minneapolis, Minn.

The new Directors are:

William George Bruce, W. C. Culkins, James A.
McKibben, S. Cristy Mead, Hubert F. Miller Howard

Strong, 0. B. Towne, John Wood, Roland  Wood-
ward.

Cleveland was chosen as the meeting
place of the next convention.

The Chamber of Commerce of the United
States has organized a bureau of service to
trade and commercial organizations, to be
known as the Organization Service Bureau.
The plan of this bureau was submitted to
the Board of Directors of the National As-
sociation of Commercial Organization Sec-
retaries, and by them submitted to the mem-
bers at the annual convention and unani—
mously endorsed. The plan has since been
approved by the Board of Directors of the
National Chamber. The work of organiz-
ing and conducting the bureau has been en-
trusted to Colvin B. Brown. The informa-
tion which the Service Bureau acquires will
be distributed through The Nation’s Busi-
ness, through bulletins to commercial sec-

retaries, through correspondence and by
visits by field men and the Chief of the Or-
ganization Service Division.

4- 4-
National Housing Association

The fourth National Conference on Hous-
ing, held in Minneapolis October 6 to 8,
showed a marked advance over previous
meetings. The distinguishing feature was
the effective coordination between the gen-
eralities which necessarily absorb so much
time in such a gathering and the concre-
tions which are to be found in the con-
ference city as illustrations of the subject
matter of discussion.

Doubtless this was due in-part to a new
plan for the drafting of the program. This

‘1-

Civic and

THE AMERICAN CITY

r: ESTANDS WEARAND TEARR

 

The Old Cellar
Door Com mercialized

 

Everwear ChUtes If there is any one piece of play-

for  Ages ground apparatus that the child likes
‘ more than another, that outfit is the

slide chute. This is the most popular
“mm of all in the minds of the children, and just
keep your eye on the “grown-ups” for a slide on the
sly.

'I'hc- hedways of Everwear Chutes are lined with either clear
ruck maple or heavy galvanized sheet metal—as you elect—
thc price being the same. The all-steel step approach is
equipped with malleable TREAD STEPS and all metal parts

are galvanized throughout.

We furnish them in all lengths from the
8-foot Kindergarten length to the 30-foot length
we}, for public playgrounds.

 Catalog C-3 showing a full line of the latest
 and approved playground equipment will be
' sent on request.

 

Everwear Mfg. Co.

SPRINGFIELD
OHIO

     

49 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tax AIHICA!‘ C1".

NOVEMBER, 1915

year a special program committee was ap-

pointed, composed of Mr. Andrew Wright
' Crawford of Philadelphia, chairman; Mr.
Elmer S. Forbes, Boston; Mr. Chas. B.
Ball of Chicago; Mr. Robert E. Todd of
Detroit; Mr. Otto W. Davis of Minne-
apolis; Mr. John J. Murphy of New York.
and Miss Mildred Chadsey of Cleveland.
Hitherto the program has been arranged
from the New York office of the National
Housing Association. The committee this
year brought to bear consideration of ex-
perience and the need of many localities.
It was the universal testimony that the re-
sults were unexpectedly satisfying.

The program was based on the answers
to a series of questions sent out after the
last conference to all members of the Na-
tional Housing Association. The plan was
to put subjects of general interest and
widest appeal in the evening and those of a
more technical character in the afternoon,

1-3-

., Petiomic- 5 a

THE AMERICAN CITY

445

while the mornings were reserved for the
section meetings, where the delegates could
find the thing in which they were most par-
ticularly interested. There was also an ex-
amination of the best and the worst of hous-
ing conditions in Minneapolis, and the Min-
neapolis men and women sought earnestly
and received freely candid expressions
based upon this hasty survey.

The verdict was that Minneapolis con-
tains only the germs of bad housing in the
municipal body. The degree of local co-
operation in the operations and discussions
of the conference was convincing evidence
that Minneapolis is alive to the need of
eradicating those germs. The delegates to .
the conference, scattering to their own
cities in many states, voted, but not in a
perfunctory spirit, the usual resolution of
thanks for the opportunities proffered and
the pleasures given by the National Con-
ference and by the city of Minneapolis.

 

A DEMONSTRATION OF THE PHILADELPHIA HIGH-PRESSURE SYSTEM FOR THE BENEFIT
OF THE RECENT CONVENTION OF THE PENNSYLVANIA STATE FIREMEN’S ASSOCIATION

THE AMERICAN CITY

3! ton Chassis, Cab Top and Dump Body.
Sold to Marlon County Construction Co..
lndlanopolls. Ind.

  
  
    

Specny

Gramm-
Bernslein

Trucks

lor
Municipal

and

l

and

County Work

Our Trueks are designed
and built with the idea of secur—

g the greatest llexihlhty of
units eonsistent with the service
tthe I'm-rformed, and :1re built
to meet varioux requirements.
Not Huff! Over.

Fully 75 per cent. of motor truck
trouble today lies in the 'l'rzltlsnlissit'nl,
due to gear shifting under heavy loads.
B. A. Grumm's transmisaion is not
only it diatiuetive (lmmm feature, but
is? guaranteed for life under UH condi-
tions and is absolutely fool proof. For
exzuuple, It (3mian 'I‘ruek in Fire
Department Ht'rvlee with lull Speed
ahead may be thrown into reverse if
the oeemdrm demands, loekiug and
I‘L‘Ver‘a‘lllg the real \‘t‘lleelts. It must he
:iekllmvleil:.;ell that 11 test of thia'
ehurzteter is severe, to any the lt'zlril.

treet Flu!
Capacity. 1.4

 

stonS

 

 

’l'he (lmmm \K'orm Drive is good
[or titty to mie hundred thousand
miles without the Slightest uppreeiulale
deereme in \t'orkiug ellieieney, The
routine l=;ll'l~'~ rue proteeted from dual
.md grit, and like the 1,1‘:n'l'-mis~~4ir“n:1 is
i-IHli l'llfllliq.

Motor .md <‘llii.-*~l‘~- Ilt'wltnl urt- '1
I'L'bllii oi .‘xli. tlmimri'a eruiwrieuee of
our titter year-a :1“ :1 mum:l'mrturer‘
.ul' Kluttu‘ 'l'HJt‘lh. Sllt‘k‘lilt‘diiflIP-t and
1.1l1ot'r'y.;1-;.itlh will lie gladly Hut on
It‘lllt'xl t‘in-‘t‘l'lllL‘; lilt' \‘Lll'lHIH INN“ “i l' ton Fire Truck.
Klilzlit‘ilml rind k‘oiilltx' illl'uelw for all 5”“ Wi'd““"“'- 5- J

 

lit'l'LlIlllltilt-n

THE GRAMM-BERNSTEIN (30., Lima, 0hi0

51 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tn: Autumn! Cur.

NOVEMBER, 1915

THE AMERICAN CITY

447

League of Washington Municipalities Association held on October 20, are as fol-

At the sixth annual convention of the
League of Washington Municipalities, held
in North Yakima, October 6 to 8, the lead-
ing feature was an extended discussion of
public utilities, each party to the contro-
versy being represented by some of its
ablest men.

Other important timely discussions which
engaged the attention of the convention
deal with the reorganization of public
health work in the state of Washington,
public milk and water supplies, the mana-
gerial form of municipal government and
university training for public service.

The report from the League’s committee
on public utilities includes a proposed legis-
lative bill relating to powers of municipal-
ities with reference to public utilities, which
received the endorsement of the conven-
tion in substantially its present form, and
which is to be submitted to the voters of the
state as an initiative measure at the next
election. The convention also instructed
the same committee to draw up, before next
January, a bill giving to the cities and
towns of the state a larger measure of home
rule in local municipal affairs.

Other legislative work mapped out for
committees of the League includes:

(I) A bill providing optional forms of gov-
ernment for cities other than first class.

(2) Preparing suitable legislation extend-
ing the principle of the merit system to state,
county and city positions.

(3) Cooperating with the state commissioner

of health in the preparation of a revised public
health code for the state.

One of the resolutions adopted by the
convention calls for the appointment of a
committee to work out a preposal for a
city planning conference in connection with
the work of the League, and another reso-
lution relates to the League’s cooperation
with the Utility Bureau established by the
Conference of American Mayors.

The Proceedings of the convention will
be published within a few weeks.

The following ofhcers were elected:

President: Leonard O. Meigs, City Attorney, North

Yakima
Vice-President: W. H. L. Ford, City Treasurer,

Everett .
SecretgryIreasurer: Herman A. Brauer, Universrty
of Washington, Seattle

++

Connecticut Mayors’ Association

The oliicers of the Connecticut Mayors’
Association, elected at the convention of the

lows:

President—Former Mayor T. C. Murphy, Norwich.

Vice-President—Mayor Frank J. Rice, New Haven.

Secretary-Treasurer—Mayor J. M. Coburn, Norwalk.
. Executive Committee—Former Mayor E. T. Buck-
ingham, Bridgeport, chairman; former Ma or Wallace
Cann, Norwalk; former Mayor Louis Cheney,
Hartford.

'1' '1'

National Paving Brick Manufacturers
Association

The annual convention of the National -
Paving Brick Manufacturers Association‘
was held in Dayton, Ohio, October 11-12.
As the American Society of Municipal Im-
provements was meeting in Dayton at the
same time, the Association gave a dinner to
the Society on the evening of October 12.
The Association had an exhibit of paving
brick in connection with the exhibition of
materials used in municipal work held by
the American Society, and members of both
organizations made an automobile inspec-
tion of brick and other streets and roads in
Dayton and vicinity. The committee in
charge of technical investigations reported
that arrangements had been made with two
or three colleges to carry on experimental
work in the physics of brick pavements.
C. C. Blair was elected president, and Will
P. Blair was reelected vice-president, with

H. H. Macdonald as his assistant.
'1- '1-

League of American Municipalities

At the meeting of the League of Ameri-
can Municipalities, held in New Orleans
September 27-30, the following officers
were elected:

President, Hon. Martin Behrman,
Orleans La.

Vice-Presidents: Hon. L.
Montreal, Quebec; Hon. Patrick . O'Brien, Presi-
dent, Common Council. Newark, N. .; Hon. James
M. Curley, Mayor, Boston, Mass.; on. Roswell 0.
Johnson, Ma or, Gary, Ind.

Honorary .ecretary for Canada, Hon. C. J. Brown,
Citg Clerk, “Winnipeg. Manitoba.

ergeant-at-Arms, lion. Richard J. Franz, Tax Re-
ceiver, Newark, N. J.

Secretary-Treasurer. Hon. Robert E. Lee, Mayor’s
Secretary, Baltimore. Md.

The Board of Trustees of the League is

as follows:

Hon. Martin R. Carlson, Mayor, Moline, Ill.
NH70n. Clinton J. Swartz, Receiver of Taxes, Trenton,
‘Hrin. Samuel A. Carlson, Mayor. Jamestown. N. Y.

lion. \V. D. Clarke, Alderman, Charleston. S. C.

Hon. Ira \V. Jayne. Superintendent, Recreation
Commission, Detroit, Mich.

Hon. Daniel J. Sweenev. City Clerk. Buffalo, N. Y.

lion. Theodore \V. Schimpf, City Attorney, Atlan-

tic City, N. J. + +

American Civic Association

The eleventh annual convention of the
American Civic Association will be held at

Digitized by 

Mayor, New

A. La ointe Alderman,

 

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

Road No. 83
Rocmac Road. Monroe 00.. N. Y

Highways

set a new standard for Durability.
The superior wear—resisting quality is
due to the fundamental principle of
Rocmac construction.

The road surface is held lirme
in a solid mass wearproof and
frostproof. The hard wearing metal
is held permanently in the t0p course,
giving a durability and freedom from

repairs not approached by any other
method at anything near the same
construction cost.

Every highway department will
appreciate the complete superiority
of Rocmac as shown by ten years of
practical test and through demon-
stration in actual use. Let us send
you the 1915 Road Book. Address
any of the following distributors:

ROCMAC ROAD CORPORATION OF AMERICA, Inc.

860 Leader-Nun Bldg. Cleveland, Ohio
39 Cortlandt Street New York. N. Y.

Hog. Building - Seattle. Wash.
United Staten Manufacturers and Didn'bulon

 

Phi'ndel hiatus-"00 . . . . . . ..lZlSo.3rdSt..Philadel ' Pa.

TheFromanChemicalCo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . “Band .Ohio

Moulding Bros. Mfg. Co . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Cnmdan. N. J.

The Gnnelli CbemicelCo . . . . . . ..The Arcade. Cleveland. Ohio

CentnIComnu'leOo . . . . ..lll NwtthhtBt£hioa¢mm

. Canadian Manufacturer: admiration
WMLtd . . . . . . . . . . . . .374 ' Bt.,Eut.T to
mmtmi.m....mm he .,M.':°..‘...
Romnoad ndimolmnukton (£00. iota-i533.
Romulus! .dAmimLtd . . . . . . . . ..Thardd.00tario
52

 

'|"”I’|

ill...

ll'.l'.".'.l'.ll'. '.|

l
l

i..'[I|.fl'.§;iIll.;|.|i.ii!.illfi.ll'.i|.1| lill'.Iii|.lllliiillilil‘ilillillllillllllllllill‘llllllllllllllll llillilillll

 1.

ii

if”:IE'I:'li'llllilii.HllllilllZ-liiflillli :11: lurTo‘Mels IlJIIililli.illi__.—¥llil 

The Health of Your City is at Stake

Remember that you are directly re-
sponsible for the health of your city-
and that the success of your management
depends to a large degree upon your
attention to sanitation. Few realize that
a widely prevalent source of ‘nlertion and
sickness in cities is the germspreading.
filthy roller cloth towel. Even the seem~
ingly clean individual cloth towel gathers
germs of the most deadly kinds-*and is
not freed from them by ordinary washing
Iircry cloth towel carries its colony of
myriads of germs from hand to hand and
face to face—Spreading the white plague.
skin, blood, eye and other diseases.

PUBLIC SERVICE TOWELS
RUB—DON’T BLOT

(INDIVIDUAL Towels, used once, destroyed
and never used again)

are dispensed one at a time from a dust and germ-
proof steel cabinet and are the first really sanitary.
cemmmieal and practical towels. Each towel is
$111 individual towel. made of pure w00d pulp.
unbleached and strong; a scientific combination
of absorbing ualit and strength—deeply creped.

PUBLIC ER ICE. Towels are real crash
towels, made of paper. The bands can be
rubbed dry and clean without the towels falling
in pieces and linting your clothes. No more
blotting—no more waste.

Hen-ed from our special white enameled steel
i‘nlltuini‘rs which have no knobs to turn with wet
hands or other mechanical contrivances to get
out of order—“and dispensed nutomatjCally just
one absolutely sanitary towel at a. time.

If you are interested in municipal I'm-
provemenf and in protecting the health
ofyour city—write for eampIes and our
valuable book, "PUBLIC SERVICE.”

NATIONAL PAPER

PRODUCTS COMPANY

Factory No. 2
105 Canal Street
Carthage, N. Y.

Factory No. 1
Dept. E. San F rancieco
Cal.

.   if. . i. :..| -..:..J'....|:‘Ililhill.ialI1illlilllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllillllilli‘i“55955:” 
When writing to Advertisers please mention Tn: Alumni C1".

 

 

l__

 .ltlli lil'llllllllnll- llllllill :l i ll l ll...i

.nl mun 1|ell-'i:I.lml“.lll|'.i1l'.lt. ':

'.il"l'.li-'ill':lll-

rlI-ll: .'||'.i '.

.1. lull-.11.} l‘. H 3.111 liililil :l a .

ulli nil-3.1. Hi.

Lil Iii-ll ii.

iii lillil

l

'.ll'..i \'.:_'.].

 

 

NOVEMBER, 1915

Washington, D. C., December 28-31, in con-
junction with the second Pan-American
Scientific Congress. It will be a notable
meeting for the discussion of a variety of
subjects relating directly to the physical
improvement of towns and cities. Especial
attention will be given to the important sub-
ject of town and city planning, with par-
ticular reference to the needs of the smaller
cities. The American Civic Association is
extending a general invitation to all organi-
zations and individuals interested in civic
affairs to attend its convention. Notable
among the distinguished guests attending
the convention will be Lord and Lady Aber-
deen from England, who are traveling in
this country, and who will contribute to the
interest of the convention not only by their
‘ presence, but by participating in the pro-

gram.

THE AMERICAN CITY

449
The League of Virginia Municipalities

Special interest was given to the tenth
annual convention of the League of Vir-
ginia Municipalities, October 12 and 13,
from the fact that it was held in Fredericks-
burg, an historic city which has been mak-
ing rapid progress recently under the city
manager form of government.

The subjects discussed at the convention
included taxation, the city manager plan,
city planning and “Preparing the People
for Progress.”

The 1916 convention will be held at Clif-

ton Forge. A. B. Davies, mayor of that
city, was elected president of the League,
and L. C. Brinson, of Portsmouth, was re-
elected secretary and treasurer.

 

ci and . Cvic Publications

Copies may be ordered of Tris Aunican C1", with the exception of Government pa

blicati'ons and

those indicated as free, which should be ordered direct from the oilices Mliehm then

BULLOCK, EDNA D., Compiler.

Short Ballot. (Debaters’ Handbook
Series.) 1915. 160 pp. $1.07

This handbook, which has been prepared “to furnish
general information of the various governmental actiVi-
ties as related to the short-ballot idea,” is composed of
31 articles reprinted from various magazines and treat-
ing the different phases of the subject. Among the
contributors are Frederick  Howe, Commissioner of
Immigration: Richard S. Childs and H. S. Gilbertson.
of the Shart Ballot Organization° Harold S. Butten-
heim, editor of Tim AHERXCAN (5111!; L. D. Upson,
formerly director of the Dayton Bureau of MuniCi 1
Research; John Crosb , Francis A. Brogan, etc. he
book “concerns itsel with the shOrt-ballot idea .as
a plied to state and county government. and also in-
cudes the city-manager plan of munimpal govern.
ment.” A compact bibliographg. carefully compiled,
and a short introduction prece e the general discus-

sion.

Hows, F REDERIC C.

Socialized Germany. 1915. 342 pp. $1.60

Mr. Howe says in the first chapter: “I like the
German cities and have affectionate memories of
Munich, Dre en, Dusseldorf, Frankfort and Nurem«
berg, with their generous provision for art, drama.
music and the cultured things of life.” Further on he
continues: “The following chapters are an attempt to
understand the conflict between.these achievements
and the thin s we do not like in Germany}: This
conflict Mr. owe attributes to the polic which has
been adopted by the state of Prussia: “T e confusion
we feel about Germany is traceable to the fact that
much of the beauty and charm of old Germany has
been crushed under the heel of the feudal autocratic
caste, which, under constitutional forms. has projected
its ideas into the very life of the empire. It is a
German that has lost much of the indmdualit , much
of the freedom and much of the liberalism o a cen-
tu ago for which has been substituted a commercial
an? landed feudalism having for its foundations the

litieal and social concepts of an earlier age."

evertheless. the author feels that Germany is more

intelligently organized than is the rest of the world,
and we should not allow our distaste for the resent
war and for all forms of militarism to invali ate in
our minds the real accomplishments and progress of
the German people. In Germany “the gains of civi-
ilization are more widely distributed than they are with
us." and as a result “the individual man is more
eiiicient.” The truer German spirit thus differentiated,
Mr. Howe traces its evolution in modern times, dis-
cussing state socialism, government ownership and
allied aspects. The social problem comes in for care-
ful treatment, and the hinging problems of unemploy-
ment and social insurance are considered. The Ger
man educational system, in particular, is analyzed and
vocational education progress is dwelt upon at length.
The concluding chapters deal with health and sanita-
tion, city government by experts, municipal socialism.
city buiding, housin and “The German Conception
of the State.” It is r. Howe’s opinion that to com-
pete successfully with German organization. after the
war, “there must be a wide extension of public owner-
shi , a greater control of the aggressions of privilege
an property, a big program of social legislation, a
chan e in our s stem of education and the exclusion of
privi eged and usiness interests from the long ascen-
dancy which they have enjoyed in our political life.”

varoan, H. B., Otis Elevator Company.

Purchasing: Its Economic Aspects and
Proper Methods. 1915. 236 pp. Charts,
diagrams and forms. $3.00

Efiicient buying methods as at present em loyed in
large cor rations such as the London Un erground
Electric ailways and the Otis Elevator Company are
discussed in this book at length, and are illustrated by
diagrams and reproductions of index cards, order
forms, requisition cards. storeroom tickets, and the
like. The aim of the book is to impress upon the
minds of its readers "the economies which can be
effected by the use of efficient methods in the ur-
chasing of materials, goods and supplies.” he
preface insists upon the point that to a large extent the
successful business is built on the buying of the right
materials in the right way, and.this principle will he
found to be true of municipalities as well as of cor-
parations.

Digitized by 600816
..

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

Ask the man who use: one, and he will
tell you how eff1c1ent and easy-runnlng
“PENNSYLVANIA” Lawn Mowers really are.

Ask the man who own: one, and he will
tell you how durable, long-lived, and how free
from grinding and repair expense, they are.

“PENNSYLVANIA”
Quality Lawn Mowers

(HAND. HORSE OR POWER)

All the blades, both straight and curved, are of oil-hardened,
water-tempered crucible tool steel. And they are self-sharpening.

And, other features of “PENNSYLVANIA” Mowers are just

as superior as mechanical ingenuity and skill
can make them.

I..- V

H mm“ ° “Scientific Lawn Making,” an
yThe ..P~ENNSYL-   instructive book written by a
VANIA llneincludes —
the following brands:

 

prominent authority. gladly
mailed to you with a catalog of "PENNSYLVANIA"
Quality Lawn Mowers. Write today.

“'ennsylvanln"
“Great American"
"Continental"
"Pennsylvania. Jr."

“9;.39'm‘" “The Pennsylvania People”

Tony”

19%;."  6M

PHILADELPHIA. PENNSYIMNIA

 

 

o -0

53 When writing to Advertioen please mention Tn: Aunxcu Cur.

 

NOVEMBER, 1915

MOON, FREDERICK FRANKLIN, B. A., M. F., Pro-
fessor of Forest Engineering, New York
State College of Forestry at Syracuse,
and BROWN, NELSON COURrLANm', B. A.,

M. F., Professor of Forest Utilization,

New York State College of Forestry at
Syracuse.

Elements of Forestry. 1914. 392 pp.
Photographs, tables and charts. $2.00

Barely twenty years ago the first forest reserves
were set aside; now the gross area of the national
forests is 186,000,000 acres. This fact illustrates the
material strides made in the development .of the
American forest policy. But more encouraging still
has been the great im rovement in public sentiment:
forestr , formerly a su ject for “high-brow" discussion
only, as become an important_ rt of the nation's
news. This book has been compi ed to supply an up-
to-date textbook, the need for which renewed interest
in the subject has made apparent. The .student is
orientated in the first chapter by a definition of for-
estry as the science of employing the usufruct of
forests in such a wa as to promote the best interest
of the citizens. In t e cha ters which follow are dis-
cussed: the tree; silvics; si vicultural systems of man.
agement; improvement cuttings; artificial regeneration-
forest protection and mensuration; lumbering; woo
technology fpreservation and utilization; forest eco-
nomics and nance; and kinds of forests in the United
States. Besides numerous photographic illustrations
and bibliographical notes at the end of each chapter,
the book is equipped with valuable appendixes of tables
and statistics, a glossary of terms, and an index.

GORDON, J. J.

Cemetery Management.
Photographs. $1.50

The introduction says: _“The question of cemetery
management is one which interests many and large in-
dustries," as the “development of a cemetery involves
the cement and marble companies, those interested in
granite and crushed stone, in trees, shrubs and flowers,
artists whose work in art glass makes _a yes] to those
who are planning chapels and other buil ings and the
best in cemetery management is that which utilizes
with the best results these many lines of business."
The book aims to assist in the solution of the prob-
lems of cemetery management, accounting and record-
ing systems, etc. Special as ects,_such as water sup-
pl , the use of flowers, eart burial, cremation, mau-
so cums, care funds, greenhouses, automobil and the
uses of concrete are thoroughly discussed an the best
practice cited. A number of photo raphs illustrating
ancient and modern burying groun s are included in
the text.

1915. 204 pp.

SAVAGE, WILLIAM G., B. Sc., M. D. (Lond.)
D. P. H., Medical Oflicer of Health for
the County of Somerset.

Rural Housing. 1915. Illustrations,
drawings and tables. 297 pp. (Published
in England.) Duty extra. 32.00

After a prelimina discussion of the housing prob-
lem, the book consi ers the present En lish laws on
the subject. Existing conditions, as.ma e more clear
by recent housing surveys, are examined, and the pos-
sibility of converting many insanitary houses into
satisfactory dwellings through needful structural and
other minor changes is discussed. Housing shortage
is shown to exist—this evil tending to become exag-
gerated through the condemnation of buildings for
reasons of sanitation. The inadequacy of existing
laws, partially accountable for this shortage, is next
revealed and the requirements necessary to change this
condition are set forth. In the closing chapter the in-
fluence of wages upon the housin pro lem is discussed
and the 0 inion is registered: “ f a minimum wa e is
establishe it is probable that the rents of many 0 ‘ the
existing houses would rise considerably.’

THE AMERICAN CITY

451

01110 MUNICIPAL LEAGUE.

Proceedings of the Tax Conference.
Held under the Auspices of the Ohio
Municipal League at Its Fourth Annual
Meeting, Columbus, February 11-12, 1915.

76 pp. Order from the Secretary of the
League, Columbus, Ohio. Free

HILL, MABEL, Associate Director of the Gar-
land School of Home-Making, Boston,
and DAVIS, PHILIP, Director of the Civic
Service House, Boston.

Civics for New Americans. 1915. 178
pp. Photographs and charts. 80 cents

Written primarily for the children of immigrants
recently come to America, this book differs from many
textbooks of the sort in that it "attempts to set forth
the work that is going on in many American cities to
bets" both socia and political conditions.” It also
“challenges every new American to amliate himself
with the constructive element in his new country.”
The book comprises seven chapters, which, under such
heads as Civic Opportunities, Civic Protection, Civic
Conveniences, Community Needs, Civic Improvements
and Civil Government, treat of the practical side of
community life as illustrated in public schools, mu-
seums, libraries, the police department, the departments
of charity and of health, water-works, sewer systems,
lighting, transit, food and milk inspection, factories
and sweatshops, “Safet -First” and ‘CleamUp” cam-
paigns, use of vacant ots, better housing, city plan-
ning, citizenship, immi ration and civil service. An
a pendix contains muc information with regard to
t e legal aspects of citizenship, petition forms, consti-
tution for a New Americans club. and closes with
“The Star—Spangled Banner” and “America.”

HUNTER, GEORGE WILLIAM, Head of the De-

partment of Biology, De Witt Clinton
High School, City of New York.

A Civic Biology. Presented in Prob-

lems. 1914. 432 pp. Photographs.
charts and diagrams. $1.25

The children of to-morrow will be better fitted to
take u their position in the civic community as a re-
sult o the modern innovations in the Sublic school
curriculum. In the present work the stu y of biology
has been brought into a definite relation With the daily
life of the student by discussion of the biological sig-
nificance of environment (hence housing reform, clean
streets, ad uate sanitation, etc.), of foods (hence
dietetics, foo inspection and the regulation of its sale).
and many other interesting problems. Besides the
regular exposition of the matter of biology, from a
discussion of lant life the book continues to a con-
sideration of orests, their uses and the necessity of
their protection, the economic importance of animals,
the human machine and its needs, and “Some Great
Names in Biology.” The work, which is intended for
use as a textbook, contains chapter lists of book
references, numerous illustrations, charts and dia.
grams, besides many practical hints and devices for
gaining and holding the interest of the pupil.

CURTIS, HENRY 5., Supervisor of the Play-
grounds of the District of Columbia.

The Practical Conduct of Play. 1915.

330 pp. (Home and School Series, Edited

by Paul Monroe.) Photographs. $2.13

In this book, the aim of which is “to give definite
detailed information and suggestions such as can be
easily followed and will be helgful in the daily work
of the [play director,” the ant or informs us that in
1906, at t e time the Playground Association of
America was organized, “there were less than twenty
cities in the United States that were maintaining play-
grounds, and in some of these the play was unsuper-
vised.” Seven ears later there were 342 cities with
playgrounds un er regular paid workers, but by in-
cludin the cities which are carrying on their play-
groun s through volunteer workers or caretakers. the
total number is raised to 642. “There are thus," we

Digitized by 600816

THE AMERICAN CITY

Cyclone

A; Properly/rotating

PHOTOGRAPHIC VIEW

of Cyclone Non-Climbable Property Protection Fence,
erected on country estate of Mr. H. Timken, President

of Timken Roller Bearing Co... Canton. Ohio.

CONSULTATION SERVICE FREE.——0ur engineers will
help you solve. your fencing problems Without charge. We co-

operate with those in charge of private estates. parks. playgrounds.

etc. Engineer to surerintend erection furnished at nominal cost.

Club Rates for The American City

In view of the fact that many municipalities,
chambers of commerce and civic organiza-

tions desire to subscribe for a number of
copies of THE AMERICAN CITY' for

distribution among their ofiicers, committee-

men, etc., the publishers of THE AMERI-
CAN CITY have arranged a special sched-
ule of rates for clubs of subscriptions which

will be quoted on application. These club
rates are also available for individuals who
wish to arrange for a number of subscrip-
tions for their friends.

 

   
 

 

 

 

Fence

FOR CITY PARKS AND HOMES
AND COUN TR Y ESTA TES

Our method of construction makes this
fence distinctive in style and quality. It can
be erected on rolling land, steep grades,

through ravines, etc., without affecting the
stability or form of the fabnc.

Affords Permanent Protection Against
Intrusion, and adds to the Value
and Attractivenesa of the Grounds.

Built of heavily galvanized wire, closely
spaced and strongly woven. Barb wire top
overhanging either side or on both sides pre-
vents climbing over. Built in all practical
hei hts.

rite for free Illustrated Catalog giving
designs and prices. Give description and
size of grounds to be enclosed.

CYCLONE FENCE COMPANY
Dept. 107 Waukegan, Ill.

 

MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS

make the highest yearly paint record
for economy by specifying and using

Dixon’s Silica-Graphite Paint

for all metal work. Made in first quality for
fifty years. Largely used by municipalities.
Let us serve you.

Write us for long service records. N o. 107-B.

Made in Jersey City, N. J.. by the
JOSEPH DIXON CRUCIBLE COMPANY
Established 1827

   
  
   
    

    

‘3 n BANISH THE BUGS I
Send fér“ om.
Tmsbooklet vow-o KILEM Medicine
mum inanim- iu:  swigjél: Kills All Kinds of Insects. their Eggs and Larvae
rrrlurc lair [ngcr-anrl light coal. as Well as the   for -
I gain rngiru‘lhrmrnlor who u: intricate-cl in getting the  ‘nd  
m“ (mum M” I" M“ c'lgziizrrT S Roaches. Bull-rugs. Flies. Fleas. Lice. etc.
“mum a, W pom". “W mumhd‘ o, “and m Instantly Eaterminated—Prevanta further Breeding
B:::;L-.£fclsfllliri.ngintering 5152:: gt-gtnegrolii‘a. “c P" ‘CI- cc". 50c W ‘CI. in W '0‘.
Pigtail-(eicu Pianu. a." ET:hT:-?;‘I:; spanning Wu...) '   
We also make disinfectants. Root-sweeping compounds. so:
TEL- Bygopjacbeth EIQII'IE [Q
2137 Center St. new. ' Cleveland. 0. HILL CHEMICAL PRODUCTS CO.
H u 539 Real Estate Trust Building. PHILADELPHIA
54 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tn Aussies)! Cm.

‘

 

 

NOVEMBER, 1915

are told, “from twenty to thirty times as many cities
that are maintainin playgrounds now as there were
eight years ago." he book discusses the practical
aspect of recreational organization and management;
construction of playgrounds, playgrounds according to
ages and sexes, equipment, swimming pools, the eld
house, the play organizer, festivals and team games,
etc. A short bibliography is a pended and two ap-
pendixes on “A Playground an Recreation Associa-
tion" and “Financing a Play System." It is the
author’s opinion that “the organization of play is one of
the new public functions that are coming in, and that
every city and probably every country section must
soon join the movement or be classed among the back-
ward or decadent communities."

DEPARTMENT or PRACTICAL ARTS,
SCHOOLS, READING, PA.

A Survey of Manual, Domestic and V0-
cational Training in the United States.

1915. 156 pp. Free

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE,
Office of the Secretary.

Social and Labor Needs of Farm
Women. (Report No. 103. Compiled in
the Office of Information, G. W. Wharton,
Chiet.) 100 pp. 1915. (Order direct from
the department or the Government Print-

ing Oflice.) I 5 cents
WOOD, DR. THOMAS D., Chairman of the Com-

mittee 011 Health Problems of the Na-
tional Council of Education.

Minimum Sanitary Requirements for
Rural Schools. (Proposed by The Joint
Committees on Health Problems in Edu-
cation of the National Council of the Na-

PUBLIC

THE AMERICAN CITY-

453

tional Education Association and of the
American Medical Association.) 8 pp

1914. (Order direct from American Medi-
cal Association, Chicago.) Free

FORD, GEORGE 3., Consultant to the Committee
on the City Plan, Board of Estimate
and Apportionment, New York City.

The City Controlling the Development
of Private Property. (Paper N O. 95. The
Municipal Engineers of the City of New
York; presented April 28. 1915.) 28 pp.

50 cents

SEARS, WALTER LINCOLN, Superintendent of

the Public Employment Bureau of the
City of New York.

Unemployment: Its Relation to Crime,
Delinquency and Probation. (An ad-
dress before the New York City Confer-
ence on “Probation.") April 22, 1915.
8 pp. (Order direct from Mr. Sears.)
Free

NATIONAL BOARD OE CENSORSHIP OF MOTION
PICTURES.

Suggestions for a Model Ordinance for
Regulating Motion Picture Theatres.
15 pp. 1915. 10 cents

MILWAUKEE BUREAU OF MUNICIPAL RESEARCH.

Ash Collection in Milwaukee. 1914-

1915. Tables and charts. 45 pp. (Order
direct from the Bureau.) Free

 

Willlllllllmlllllll'lilllllllllilllllllllllllllll

   

.11 liiill‘!lllillll.:ii,:

Preventing Water Leaks
Booklet published by the Pitometer Company, New
York Edison Building, 55 Duane Street, New
York City. ‘

Detachable Tractor

Booklet regarding the Knox detachable tractor for
fire department and other munic1pal use. Knox
Motor Associates, Springfield, Mass.

Street Cleaner
Circular relative to Tarco street cleaner for
operation by hand. Tarrant Manufacturing Com-
pany, 12 Maple Avenue, Saratoga Springs, N. Y.

Horse-Drawn Sweeper
Book relative to the Baker dustless street cleaning
machine. Baker Manufacturing Company, 503
Stanford Avenue, Springfield, 1 1.

Steel Curb Bar

Booklet on the Wainwright galvanized steel cor-
ner bar for the protection of concrete curb. Steel
Protected Concrete Company, Real Estate Trust
Building, Philadelphia, Pa.

Enameled Signs

Circular on enameled signs for streets. Ohio _Val-
ley Enameling Company. West Lafayette, Ohio.

Expansion J Otnt for Pavmg and Sidewalks
Booklet relative to Carey’s elastic expansion joint
for use in helping to make roads and Sidewalks
more permanent. Phil? Carey .Company, 8
Wayne Avenue, Locklan , Cincinnati, Ohio.

1$331!!!!lllllllllllllllll illllllilllllTllllllllllilliélllllllllllllllllllilllllllil‘llilllllllllllillllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll.illlllilillilllllllllllllllllllllll!'i'lllll!lll!£lllllllllllllllll!”l’|||l|!l?‘lll!!l|lllllllllllllllllIiHllllllliilllllllllllllilllllllllllilllllllllllllIll“?

Manufacturers’
Available Free or Charge for Readers of THE AMERICAN CITY

Advertisers are invited to submit catalogues or circulars suitable for mention in these columns.
'13: Assistant CITY should always be mentioned when writing for this material.

I I I lllllllllliillllillllillllllillilllllllllllIi!Iliilllllllliiiill!llllllillillliillllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllilillliiiliilililllllillIillililillllllllllllillllllllllllllllLllllliliillilllliili

I

Literature

1|IilliiiEllI}lllil!ililli},iTllllliliiiilllllllllliill

Street and Road Signs

Small booklet describin street signs which are
ractically indestructib e. Indestructible Sign
ompany, 528 Dennison Avenue, Columbus, Ohio.

Road and Street Machinery '

Catalogue relative to.the Galion line of road ma-
chinerty and culvert pIpe. Galion Iron Works and

Mann acturing Company, 111 East Main Street,
Gallon, Ohio.

Dump Wagons for Municipal Service

Attractive booklet referring to Bain dumJI wagons
as used by the_Bureau of Highways an Sewers
Pittsburgh. Barn Wagon Company, Main and

Pearl Streets, Kenosha, Wis.

The Importance of Clean Sewers

.Catalogue explaining use of the Turbine sewer
machine for cleaning large and small sewers.
Turbine Sewer Machine Renovating Company,
199 Eleventh Street, Milwaukee, Wis.

Combination Sprinkler and Sweeper

Folder descriptive of a machine which combines
street sprinklin and street swee ing. Austin
Western Road L achinery Company, hicago, Ill.

Road Rollers for Municipal Contractors’ Use

Catalogue in reference to road rollers built in all
sizes u to 20 tons. Buffalo Steam Roller Com-
pany, Igutfalo, N. Y.

Digitized by 600816

THE AMERICAN CITY

.‘."'IEiHl|l‘E--   .
. t - u.  _-“ I.  E
‘ .. - -" "Jui' '.. 4' i;“yl|~uu..‘.
:illlf'!1gl“lff§!h .. . « . Ir
\ i ii  ‘33:. r i

 ~ . wag

- u “ I In.
3..., ‘ s-_v..- _ _
t . *_

that Protects
and Beautifies

A fence to be appropriate for public grounds
must be dignihed and substantial. Choose your fence
according to its use. We picture here one of the many styles of

Excelsior Iron Fence

Appropriate for Parks, Cemeteries, Play-
grounds, Factories. and ali public places.

Excelsior lron Fences, with posts set in concrete, combine great durability with service and hand-
some appearance. They do not obstruct your line views. Specral designs furnished on request.

\Ve also malce Excelsior Rust Proof and Chain Link Fences. Bed Guards.
Tree Guards. Trellises and Trellis Arches. Write for Catalog C.

WRIGHT WIRE COMPANY WORCESTER, MASS.

 

\\\\\\\
\v .
\\\\\\
KW
\\
\\
\\
xi.
\\\ \\\
\\\\\\\
\\\\‘
\“\\
\ \\
\\\\\\\
\\ \\\
\\\\u
\\\\‘
\M
l .
1533‘ \

 Proper Lighting Increases Sales

And we can prove it to you whether you are
A Merchant, A Banker, A Councilman or A Park

and Boulevard Supervisor.

The plan we have to offer is worth a few minutes
of any man’s time to read.

Write now—~and with our reply we will send you
King’s New Ornamental Lighting Standard
Poster—a work of art showing 100 different styles.

Start that progressive spirit today—write,
wire or phone.

 

 

 

 

KING FOUNDRY COMPANY 
. Largest Exclusive Manufacturers of Ornamental Lighting Posts 
ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI 

CHICAGO OFFICE - - - 530 MONADNOCK BLDG.

_____________ . I

    

55 ' ' ‘ When writing to Advertisers please mention Tn: Annie“! C111.

Nov., 1915 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS

Books on Municipal Topics

Folder relative to the National Municipal League
Series. 1). Appleton & Company, New York City.

Street Lamps

Booklet regarding American boulevard arc lamps
for street li htin . American Gas Machine Com-
pany, 551 C ark treet, Albert Lea, Minn.

Water Purification by Liquid Chlorine for
Small Communities

General information about the subject indicated.
followed by an illustrated description of the
manual control chlorinator manufactured by Will-

lace & Tiernan Company, Inc., 136 Liberty Street,
New York City.

Inspection and Tests of Materials for High-
way _Bridges
Inspection and Testing of Pavmg Brick -
T.wo pain hlets giving standard specifications for
highway ridges an {3th brick, adopted by
American Society for estin Materials. Robert

W: Hunt 8: Company, 2200 nsurance Exchange
Building. Chicago, Ill.

AND MANUFACTURERS 455

Illustrations of Ornamental Street Lightin
A collection of separate sheets of half-tonesp
street lighting in various cities. and of lighting
units. showing the use of Alba ornamental globes.
Macbeth-Evans Glass Comoanv, Pittsburgh, Pa.

Lighting Standards
A hanging poster featuring 32 designs for street
lighting standards manufactured by the King
Foundry Company, St. Joseph, Mo.

The Correct Method of Testing Water-

Meters
Card on the above subject, issued by the Thomson
IltIIeteyr Company, 100 Bridge Street, Brooklyn,

Crescent Water-Meters
Illustrated booklet about this type of meter, show-
ing also the “Cincinnati” dup ex piston meter.
The American Valve and Meter Company, Cinem-
nati, Ohio.

Luten Design Bridges
Booklet containing construction views of the more
important reinforced concrete bridges of Luten
design under construction in the spring of 1916.
Daniel B. Luten. Indianapolis, Ind.

 

 

Methods, Materials and Appliances 9

a _— v-—7 ‘— — ‘— '—————‘
M h. _—___. 7 E, , ,
‘ L,i, ’__ L,i, ___ V7

El News from Engineers, Manufacturers and Supply Houses Ii]

§ W —__‘ —

 

 

 

A Lawn Mower That
Runs Itself

The accompanying photograph shows one
of the power lawn mowers manufactured by
the Ideal Power Lawn Mower Company, of
Lansing, Mich., at work in a park in Oswego,
N. Y. This machine has a single-cylinder, air-
cooled gasoline engine of 2 horse-power, and

 

 

 

weighs about 850 pounds. It has a 35-inch cut
and operates at a speed of about 3 miles per
hour, with no difficulty on grades. An attrac-
tive pamphlet illustrating and describing the
use of this mower is published by the manu-
facturers. The machine fits in between the
light hand mower and the extremely heavy
machines, and its weight is just right to make
a good roller for the turf while it cuts the

 

P0\\"ER LAWN MOWER AT “'ORK IN AN ()SWI'IGU PARK

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

 

Westinghouse-

Mazda Street l

LightingFixtures fulfill every
practical application.

 

Street Hood with 22-inch Renector with Scroll
Style Bracket and Pole Plate

Street Hood for Bracket Suspension

with 22.inch. one-piece rcilector for lamps up to and
including 400 candle power. May be used with
outside or concealed wires. plain or ornamental
brackets. as shown below. fitted with 61m cut-out or
reactive coil.

Street Hood for Cable Suspension

with 18-inch. two-piece reliector for lamps up to and
including 250 candle power. This reaector is enameled
inside and outside to prevent rusting. Adjustable
clamps on the ends of the side arms allow the hood to

be made to hang vertically regardless of the angle of
the suspension wires.

Goose Neck Brackets

for external wiring. Simple. inexpensive and durable.
illustrated with Bracket Type Street Hood. two-piece
reflector and wire lamp guard.

   

Luxsolite Fixture, with Redeetor

 

Street Hood for Cable Suependon—IO-lnch
Two Piece Relector

Scroll- Type Brackets

for concealed wiring. to meet the demand in redden-
tial districts for concealed wiring street hoods in
connection with underground wiring. May also be
used for external wiring.

Luxsolite Fixtures

are particularly designed for Mazda C lamps of high
candle power. used for street and industrial lighting.
The case is solid copper linished in black enamel. It
is interchangeable for either a film cut-out socket. a

multiple socket. or for an auto-transformer with
multiple socket.

Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co.

EAST PITTSBURGH, PA.

Sales Offices in All Large American Cities

 

!_ ‘ :33 Hr n-ct Hood with Two-Piece Reflector
In...” with Goose Neck and Pole Plate

 

58 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tar AHIIICAN Crrr.

Nov., 1915 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS

grass. Hardly any muscu-
lar effort is required to
operate it. The handles
are used like those of a
plow, to guide the machine,
and the control of the motor
lies under the operator’s
hand all the time it is run-
ning. It turns corners easily
and works closely and care-
fully around shrubbery, trees
and flower beds. It costs
for oil and fuel only from
20 to 25 cents a day.

4- 4-
Comfort in Inter-

urban Travel

Two views are given here-
with of the new type of mo-
tor omnibus made by the
McKeen Motor Car Com-
pany, of Omaha, Neb. This
car is known as the Mc-
Keen highway coach, and it
is intended exclusively for
urban and interurban travel
on paved and macadam streets. The chassis
is the same as that of a 3%-ton gasoline
motor truck. The round windows—plate
glass, air-tight, dust-proof—when open are
secured to the ceiling. Exhaust suction
ventilators on the roof maintain a constant
circulation of air. The coach is electrically
lighted, and is furnished with push buttons be-
tween the windows for signaling the driver.
The mechanism which operates the entrance
and exit doors is controlled by the driver, and
no conductor is needed. Passengers enter

(11mm CAR
MINNEAPOLIS

--—-——.——_.._.___
I-

I
mn .m- . r

“II-I‘m..-

 

 

INTERIOR OF THE MCKEEN HIGHWAY COACH

through folding doors beside the driver, the
prepayment fare collection being under his
supervision. The outward-folding exit doors
are in the side near the rear. The car draws
up to the curb to take on passengers, and the'
initial step from the curb is approximately 7
inches. The individual revolving chairs with
which the coach is equipped are an important
feature. Each has a pneumatic shock-absorb-
ing cushioned seat, the resiliency of which is
obtained by four air cushions differentiated on
each other and operating in conjunction with a

THE MCKEEN HIGHWAY COACH FOR INTERURBAN TRAVEL

THE AMERICAN CITY

ORNA M ENTAL
STREET LIGHTING

ERE in New York MORRIS ORNAMENTAL
STANDARDS have the approval of the

Municipal Art Commission — and in
other cities recognition of equal distinction.

MORRIS STANDARDS are cast iron—“granite-

like" in structure—and resist weathering
action for all time.

Over LM Designs
Ask for Catalogue

ELMER P. MORRIS, Sales Agent
ISO LIBERTY STREET. NEW YORK

Repruenfs'ng

CENTRAL FOUNDRY COMPANY

Operators and Solo Owners of Foundries at

Austen, Ala. 110 Ah. Basunc. Ala.
Medina N. Y.“ ‘ Newark. N. J.

Vienna. Ind. Baltimore, ltd.

 

Effective ,
Street 1 r
Lighting

For the best possible Street
light we can highly recommend
this standard. It is the lust
possible street ornament lu-
day, and there is no better
standard manufactured for even
street illumination at night.

The lamps have been plum-cl
at the correct distance .I‘rrnn
centers by our engineers to
obtain the best results as; .1
lighting standard.

The casting is manufactmml
from especially prepared and
mixed iron, non-corrosive um}
indestructible.

\Ve make many design--.
These are shown in our :11.»
logue which we shall be aglml
to sen '1 you.

The Casey-Hedges Co. _

CHATTANOOGA. TENN.

 

 

 

Good Street Lighting

is largely a matter of the
right glassware.

Alba

Ornamental Balls

are used in 90% of the
cities that have ornamental

street lighting.

Information on request

Macbeth - Evans

Glass Company
P i t t s bur gh

 

VISITORS WELCOME

Our plant is 0 en to visitors at all times
during working ours, excepting Saturdays.

All processes will be cheerfully and carefully

explained by competent guides.

Parties from schools, colleges and societies
particularly welcome.

SIMPLEX WIRE & CABLE CO.

Manufacturers
201 Devonshiro St.. Boston
Chicago San Francisco

57 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tn: AHERICAN Crrr.

 

l
l

 

Nov., 1915 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS

2-foot spiral steel spring. These seats are said
to positively insulate the passengers from con-
cussxons incident to street imperfections. Ade-
quate heating is obtained from the waste prod-
uct of the gasoline engine, there being twice the
necessary heat units available for maintaining
the proper temperature of the car interior in
the coldest winter weather.

+4-

A Tractor for Fire

Department Use

The tractor-drawn steam tire engine shown

on page 427 of this issue was equipped for the
city of Philadelphia by James Boyd & Bro.
This tractor, which will be placed in service
with Engine Company No. 19 in Germantown,
is one of five which the same company is build-
ing for Philadelphia. During its acceptance
test it was tried on some of the steepest hills
and roughest roads in that locality. A tractor
of the same type is being built by the Boyd
Company for the city of Pittsburgh. There
are only five main driving parts in the tractor,
and the worm. and gear type of drive is em-
ployed on account of its efficiency in heavy-
dnty trucks.
'1- «1‘

“Wasting a Million a Day”

An effective quarto catalogue has been issued
by James B. Clow & Sons, of Chicago, under
the above title, with the stated purpose of
showing the economy of water-saving devices
in sanitary plumbing. The cover of the cata-
logue is herewith reproduced, and tells its own
story of the leaky faucet that causes such
enormous losses. The same truth is empha-
sized throughout the catalogue—by pictures of

‘ .msAMinH
A DAY.-

:
e
s
s
s
I-
‘
Ln" _

 

imperfect, leaking pipes, by reports of water
waste in specific cities on account of defective
fixtures, and by well-displayed contrasts be-
tween unsatisfactory and satisfactory pipes
and. plumbing equipment. Toilet fixtures of
various types, lavatories, wash sinks for shop
and. factory, shower baths with their floor
drains and traps, bubble drinking fountains of
many designs, and many kinds of faucets are

459

all illustrated and described. Radiators and
equipment for hot water heating systems, the
Clow "Temperature Booster,” water tube heat-
ers and boilers, are dealt with in another sec-
tion of the catalogue. The Clow Marble Mill,
producing marble for toilet room purposes,
bank interiors, lobbies. restaurant counters,
etc., is also presented. A great variety of
small foundry products are shown, including
several types of lighting posts and brackets.

+ 4-
One Order Pulls Another

A picture of the second fire truck purchased
by the city of Wellsville, N. Y., from the Lip-
pard-Stewart Motor Car Company, of Buffalo,
N. Y., is shown on page 426 of this issue.
The second purchase is said to have been war-
ranted by the good service given by the first
car during its two years of use. The car is
equipped with chemical tank, chemical hose.
fxtingnishers, extension ladder, axe and crow-
)ar.

'1‘ '1-

Testing Meters in Series

Among the pieces of new apparatus shown
at the recent convention of the New England
Water Works Association was the No. 4-A
meter testing machine made by the Ford Meter
Box Company, of Wabash, Ind. This machine
is based upon the series method of testing
water meters, which is rapidly gaining prece-
dence for ordinary meter tests because of the
large saving of time afforded. The No. 4-A
machine referred to has a capacity of one
1-inch and three %—inch or M-inch meters, and
a calibrated outlet strip is provided by means
of which a stream of any size may be passed
from 1/32 inch to one full inch in ten steps.
Each meter may be inserted in the series or re-
moved from it independently of the others,
and an ingenious means is provided for ad-
justing the meter to zero or other figure with-
out disturbing the balance. These machines
created quite favorable comment at the recent

convention.
'1' '1'

The Fire Engine of the

Future

In connection with the illustration of the
test of a motor pumping fire engine by the fire
department of the city of New York, which
was given on page 339 of the October issue of
THE AMERICAN CITY, the following letter is of
interest. It was written to the manufacturers.
The Ahrens-Fox Fire Engine Company, of
Cincinnati, by John Kenlon, chief of the de-

partment:

“Replying to your inquiry] of even date, it pleases
me very much to say that t e motor pumping engines
delivered by your company, finishing a 12-hour test here
in New York. with a perfect score, are. in design, me-
chanical finish, etc., as fine a piece of fire apparatus
as I have ever seen. If the builders of motor appa-
ratus continue to progress in the near future as they
have during the past two or three years. it is my
opinion that there will be no more steam fire engines
built or bought in this country.”

I

58

THE AMERICAN CITY-

     

MARION COUNTY COURT HOUSE
Bloom’ngton, Ind.

MAHURIN 8t MAHURIN. Architects, Ft. Wayne. lnd.

Public Buildings

should be equipped with Toilet Facili-
ties which are sanitary, sightly and

durable.
Madden

CLO at...

AUTOMATIC

Closets and Urinals

Save 50 to 80%
of the Water Bill

They have been selected for "many
Public Buildings as most satisfactory
in service, most pleasing in appear-
ance, and most effective in economy.
Clow Automatic Closets insure a
thorough flushng of the bowl and a
great reduction in maintenance. The
Clow Automatic Urinal is always re-
liable, and positive in its action. Its
merits will reward investigation.

JAMES B.CLOW&SONS

Eltlbl [shod 1878

Harrison Street Bridge, Chicago
Sales Office-

New York Milwaukee St. Louie Kansas City

Minneapolis Loo Angela San Francisco
Works:

Chicago Neweomerstown. Ohio. Coahoeton, Ohio

Artificial
Daytime

As the sunlight
fades away, the or-
namental lighting
systems in hun-
dreds of cities flash
on — brightening
streets and boule-
vards—driving
away darkness —
extending daytime
five to eight hours.

C UTTER
Standards

have helped to establish
artificial daylight in
many cities in all
climates.

Our posts are built from
experience gained through
twenty-five years serving
the public in cities through-
out the country. We have
been building the very hi h-
est quality of lighting x-
tures and giving, always,
adequate service.

An Engineering Depart-
ment has been installed to
further assist you in plan-
ning for better lighting in
your city. We will be glad
to give you help gratis.

Write for our new catalog No. 13.
showing our latest designs or High
Emciency Mazda Lamps.

Geo. Cutter Co.

413 Notre Dame St.
South Bend, Ind.

 

\thn writing to Advertisers please mention THE AMERICAN CITY.

 

For Contractors and Boards of Public Works

 

 

THE EUREKA SNOW PLOW

For Municipal Snow Removal

The snow plow shown in the accompanying
photograph is the No. 3 Eureka made by
W. M. Toy & Co., of Sidney, Ohio. It is built
entirely of high-carbon steel and has 24-inch
wings of M-inch steel, which will clear a path
from 2 to 8 feet wide, turning the snow en-
tirely off the walk in such a way that it will
not fall back into the path. The center beam
is made of 4-inch eye-beam, bent to shape and
reinforced with steel sole and 6-inch track
plate. and will permit the plow to pass over a
“6—inch curb without the driver dismounting.
The wings are hinged to the center beam With
heavy hand-forged hinges,
and are detachable. Only
one side is necessary for
cleaning gutters to allow
the surface water to drain
off. The plow is equipped
with a spring seat and a
singletree, ready for use.

'l'i'

Breakage Without
Benefit

In an interesting pamphlet
on “Road Construction and
Maintenance,” published by
E. I. du Pont de Nemours
Powder Company, of Wil-
mington, Del., there is an
illustration which shows
how the cost of a good road

 

may be paid out in making good the breakage
resulting from a bad road. This photograph is
herewith reproduced. It is well said, in this
pamphlet, that of all classes of people the
farmer is the most dependent on good roads.
They are essential to the satisfactory market-
ing of his products, the hauling of supplies, and
his pleasure. Poor roads mean either a higher
cost or'a material curtailment of all his ac-
tivities. The wear on automobiles and horse-
drawn vehicles from bad roads is stated to be
enough to keep in repair the main highways
and the important branch roads. The farmer
pays for good roads in his repair bills without
having the advantage of easy travel.

'1' '1-

A Motor Vacuum Cleaner

for Catch-Basins

Among the many motor vehicles owned by
the Metropolitan Borough of Chelsea, Eng-
land, is a vacuum cleaner used in emptying
catch-basins. This machine is hired from and
made by Leyland Motors, Ltd.. of Leyland,
Lancashire. It is reported by the olhcial sur-
veyor to have effected great saving in the cost
of the work. A photograph of the latest type
of the cleaner is reproduced on page 425.
During the last financial year of the Borough,
this vehicle worked 3,208 hours and carried
776 loads of liquid waste, equivalent to 3,871
cubic yards. It is operated by three men, and
supplants the revolting system of ladling the
waste out of the catch-basins in what may be
called huge spoons. Both cleanliness and
economy are attained by its use. The vacuum
tanks are generally steam-driven, on account
of the simple way in which the vacuum can be
formed by a steam ejector. If necessary, how-
ever, a mechanical exhauster can be supplied
on a petrol-driven vehicle. After the catch-

. ' . ‘ I _ ‘I, n I I
nun-o up! » ' Inky ‘__. _‘ . _ I
- _ . -- 7;". hm“13~’-.".u§.'£'¢i' '

"J‘L  -"'-

THE COST OF A BAD ROAD

THE AMERICAN CITY

MOTT LAMP POSTS

 

'FAMOUS BOARDWALK. ATLANTIC CITY. LIGHTED WITH MOI'I‘ LAMP POSTS

WRITE FOR CATALOGUES AND PRICE LISTS
OVER ONE THOUSAND DESIGNS

FOUNTAINS

 

DISPLAY DRINKING
FOUNTAINS FOUNTAINS
FOR
PUBLIC SQUARES m
PARKS, ETC. SANITARY
__ CUPS,EFC.
MANHOLE __
FRAMES
GRATINGS SETTEES
_ VAS E S
TREE GUARDS RAI LI N G s
STREET
WRITE FOR
CATALOGUES SIGN POSTS

 

FOUNTAIN IN BEDFORD AVE. BROOKLYN. N.Y.

THE J. L. MOTT IRON WORKS

FIFTH AVENUE AND SEVENTEENTH STREET
NEW YORK CITY

When writing to Advertisers please mention Tan AMERICAN Crnr.

‘

 

Nov., 1915 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS

basins have been emptied it is, of course,
necessary that the traps should be refilled, con-
sequently a tank wagon containing a disin-
fectant solution follows the vacuum vehicle,
and thus the street drain is left in a healthy
condition. The vacuum
tanks can be, and often are,
supplied with a small por-
tion partitioned off from the
main tank, which is filled
with a disinfectant and used
to pass the exhaust gas
through on its way to the
firebox. where it is burnt.
With this arrangement the
most offensive fuels can
be dealt with without the
slightest nuisance. The
waste is conveyed to the
wharf and emptied into
barges. Similar machines
are in use in London—for
instance, in Kensington;
also in the provinces, as in
Bradford City, Nottingham;
and in the colonies—for ex-
ample, in Calcutta, which has recently ordered
two more machines.

++

Motor Snow Flows and Sweepers

For two years the Mercury Manufacturing
Company, of Chicago, has been building the
Bulley tractor of both three- and four-wheel
types. This machine is designed to exert a
straight draw-bar pull after the manner of a
locomotive, i. e., without carrying any part of
its loads, and at the same time having the

ability to get behind and push with equal force. ‘

The tractor has proven successful in handling
long trains of trailers, pulling street sweepers,
snow drags, snow scrapers, lumber wagons.
and in other tractor work, and has developed
into an ideal power unit for pushing snow
plows. It exerts a pulling power more than
that of six strong horses. and operates at
speeds up to eight miles an hour.

The Mercury snow plow resembles the ef-
fective railroad plow more than the ordinary
road scraper. It is flexibly attached to the
power unit. rests upon its own wheels, and is
free to articulate and conform with the road

463

surface, regardless of the position which the
tractor may assume. The principal features
of the machine are the method of attaching the
plow to the tractor and the self-steering con-
trol. The plowing unit may be attached to the

 

THE SNOW PLOW UNIT

tractor and ready for use in ten minutes, and
detached in live, leaving the tractor free to
perform its duties in hauling road vehicles.

The unit consists of a “V”-shaped main
member properly formed to lift and displace
the snow to the best advantage, and an arm,
8 feet long, attached to the right-hand rear of
the “V”-shaped piece and easily adjustable, so
as to increase or decrease the throw of the
plow. The main member may be used without
the extra arm. There is less than one-half of
an inch clearance between the plow and the
ground, which insures a clean street. The “V”
end is fitted with a strong, tilted prow so that
when an obstacle is met which cannot be
plowed aside the plow either mounts over it
or sheers to one snde.

Two Bulley tractors, one equipped with the
Mercury snow plow and the other drawing a
snow sweeper, during a heavy snowfall in Chi-
cago, mounted the wide sidewalk along Grant
Park, plowed out a passageway and then swept
the walk clean. When the snow first began to
fall, the motor-drawn sweeper cleaned up
Michigan avenue easily. but when the storm
increased the plow and the sweeper worked to-
gether as above.

 

TRACTOR ATTACHED TO SNOW PLOW UNIT

THE AMERICAN CITY

For Your Type-C Mazda Lamps

the standards that give you
beauty and grace with guaranteed service

Uni cm METAL
LAMP STANDARDS

Not only do “Union” Standards embody the
highest type of artistic design and correct con-
struction for highest efficiency, but each
standard is backed by a service guarantee.

The Guarantee

“We will replace. at any time within twenty years from

the date of erection. any Union Metal ressed steel shal’ t

that fails from any cause whatever except by wilful.

malicious damage) for the nominal sum of Three Dollars

($3.00) each net F. O. B. our factory, Canton, Ohio."
You can’t go wrong in choosing the “Union.”

Given HIGHEST A wam Panama-Pacific International Exposition

The Union Metal Mfg. Co. Canton, ohm

Desian M71 Canadian Union Metal, Limited, Galt. Ontario, Canada
(Patented)

 

Try This
Self-Extinguishing
Street Lamp
30 Days Free!

. Without obligation or expense to you
individually or o$cially. let us ship an

Acorn Boulevard
Arc Street Lamp

(2000 Candle Power)

to your town for 30-DAY FREE TRIAL'
Superior to ya. naphtha. acetylene and elec‘
tricity. Handoome. durable and economical.

Mayor —Alderman —Merchant

the ACORN la in uae in hundreda of citiea-
towna and villagea. It ought to be in youra.
Let ua aend you one on tnal.

Keep track of actual running coon-watch
it under the moat unfavorable weather
condition—nee it extinguiah itaelf at the
a pointed hour—aatiafy youraelf that it doea

e work. Then order an many additional
lampa aa needed at our apecial price.

Remember. it in ahipped for trial free of alI
coat excepting tranaportation and the
gaaoline uaed in the trial.

7 _ Full deocription and apecial lnt roductory
_ Propoaition aent you upon requeat.

Acorn Brass Mtg. 60.. 732 Acorn Bldg., Chicago. Ill,

 
   

  

1931.1. gladly send you an
American Boulevard Art-

for thirty (lays' free trial?
I‘llhlllll the Arc where all may
bet-7 \K'atch it extinguish itself
at lllL‘ appointed time! Batisty
_\'nur:«'(-lf that it gives a slowly
light of .300 candle—power at
approximately one—half cent

per hour!
Nun's the time to put an

American Boulevard Arc tn ‘
the: test! It's guaranteed 1
uann proof but we want you
ll! are for yourself! “'1: want
1.: convince you that there's
withing to get out of order and
yin- [fflLllllL'i “'rite us. —*
Ilglll 110w! ‘

AMERICAN iGAS
MACHINE CO.

551 Clark Street,
ALBERT LEA,1MINN.

ls:
E
I
I
I
Iv

 

01 When writing to Advertiaera please mention Tna Aunrcan Cut.

A k

Nov., 1915 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS

A Powerful Digger

The T. L. Smith Company, of Milwaukee.
announces that it has purchased the exclusive
manufacturing and selling rights of the Al-
brecht excavator and loader, and has thus, in
connection with the manufacture of concrete
mixers, entered the dirt-moving held. The
Albrecht excavator and loader is in use in dif-
ferent parts of the United States. It is de-
scribed by a man prominent in engineering cir-
cles as “half-way between a hand shovel and
a steam shovel,” and capable of doing the work
of both. It does away with the big gang of
shovelers. The wagons do not have the long,
heavy pull out of the pit, and the snatch team
is done away with, for the loading is done on
the surface. Only two men are required to
operate the equipment—one in the pit to handle

 

 

465

Walt Mason on the Subject of
Good Roads

Old Jabez Jimson joined the church, last
time he was in town; he felt the pastor's ser-
mon search his soul both up and down. He
started home in pious mood; a glow was in
his breast; no more he’d hand out language
rude, or deal in sinful jest; his conduct would
be mild and meek; if some one punched his
ear, he’d turn to him the other cheek, and say,
“just soak me here 2”

His wagon to a mud hole came, and sank
up to the hubs; old Dobbin wrenched his an-
cient frame, beneath a shower of clubs, but
couldn’t pull it from the muck; it settled there
for keeps; and Jabez said, “Gosh durn the
luck” and other things in heaps.

 

 

 

THE ALBRECHT EXCAVATOR

the scraper and one to run the machine. A
12-horse-power horizontal engine, of heavy-
duty type, provides ample power to dig and
load 20 cubic yards per hour. This machine
will dig at a distance of 100 feet and at any
desired depth for ordinary excavations, at the

rate of about one round trip per minute. Plow-
ing can be done faster than with horses, and
loading as fast as 10 men can work. The ma-
chine will dig at any point above or below its
level and over a big area covering almost a
half-circle back of the machine. It can be used
for excavating big foundations, basements and
drainage ditches, for back-filling, and for load-
ing sand, gravel and other similar materials.
It is of interest to the contractor who handles
street and highway paving, and it can be used
to advantage on the ordinary roadway in place
of the regular road scraper.

He sat and cussed the wagon wheels, the

. landscape and the mud; he cussed the horse's

hoofs and heels, its spare ribs and its blood.
He cussed all things that were in view, with
language rich and red, until a cloud of sulphur
hue was circling round his head.

Just then the pastor drove along. and he
was badly jarred. He queried, “Brother, what
is wrong—what makes you swear so hard?
'l'o-day you joined my little flock and said
you’d pious be. and now the words you use
would knock the branches from a tree. Your
language grates upon my ear, my gentle soul
it hays; come off, come off, 0 brother dear,
and can these brimstone plays.”

“When I reformed," old Jabez cried, “be-
neath your verbal goads, I quite forgot I had
to ride along these doggone roads.”—Reprin!ed
by permission of Atlas Portland Cement Com-

pany.

THE AMERICAN CITY

 
 
 

The
Coleman Boulevard

Lamp

Makes and Burns its
On Gas tron:
Gasoline or Kerosene

It is made oi cast iron. cop-
per and brass. Will not rust
out. Stands 12 feet high. Is
storm proof and bug proof.

It gives a strong. white light
and throws it down on the
street and sidewalk where it is
wanted and not up among the
tree tops.

Giving 1000 candle wer.
midnight service costs cts
per lamg per night. All night
service cents per night. In
competitive tests we have
never failed to show the lowest
operatin cost of any gasoline
or el c light made.

It is lighted and turned on
from the ground in less than a
minute. It is thoroughly prac-
tical and the extra 'gas ro-
ducer" insures against i ure.
Also made to give 800 candle
power.

Write nearest house.

The Coleen lamp Co.

Wichita, Kansas

; Toledo Ohio
, 8t. Paui, Minn.
Dallas. Ton.
Chicago, iii.

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
  

 

Ornamental
Lighting
Poles

are designed to add
beauty to your streets.
but they do far more.
They help make your
town prosperous by
attracting business.

This particular de-
sign of pole is for the
high emciency Type
“C” Mazda Lamp.

Let us tell you more
about this pole, or we
will show you our

other designs.

ORNAMENT AL
LIGHTING POLE C0.

m. for n: mo of lighting
no um 8t..New York

 

 

     

MAYORS. SUPERINTENDENTS. POLICE and
FIRE CHIEFS. HEALTH OFFICERS and all other

CITY EXECUTIVES

SHOULD USE
Our Convenient CHARTS AND CARD FORMS int

GRAPHIC RECORDS

Aha GLASS HEAD PINS for RECORD MAPS
(Sample Box. 10c.)

Ask t. A (or Free Catalogue. "Materials {or the Graphic
Presenta n ot' Facts."

EDUCATIONAL EXHIBITION CO.

PROVIDENCE. R. i.

\V H Y

(tum [u 0 13‘. or; .-1.": ‘
thrm- 11:_'-ip:_-r:~ JI'L' ',
I'JJJHH (hut E '

   
   

<14} of I
i

‘§5§ ORANHEBURGi

. K. FIBRE corwm?‘

This qliL‘r‘IiHIl Altai—tar .1

‘-. in non.- 1) .
THE FIBRE Cououn [35: 1

~ .an
. r  I.  Unancssunc. [H
.1 .r I":  N4  :rj‘z'ru'}; - E"... I ‘

 

   
 
   
   

Sun Gasolabra
Street Lighting

To save money in installing
ornamental street lighting sys-
tems, municipalities should re-
quire prices on Standards de-
livered f.o.b., city, and also
prices for making the
installation separately.

Up-to-Date Municipali-
ties or Engineers should
write at once before in-
stalling any ornamental
cluster systems to

'11me Shun
Street Lighting Co.

1501 Market Street
CANTON. oaro

 
   
       
     
   
    
    
 

62 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tn: AMERICAN Crrv.

 

