 

  

Town 8: CougaEmnou
1'10 American City

 
    

87 Nassau Street
New York

AUGUST, 1915

Volume XIII
Number 2

     

  
   
  

Spend a Good Percentage of Road Money for
the Enduring Features of the Roadbed

good roads by county bonds are dis-

cussed by the authors of Bulletin No.
136, of the United States Department of
Agriculture, entitled “Highway Bonds,”
from which the following suggestions are
taken:

In expending money raised by the sale
of highway bonds, it is pointed out that the
highway commissioners should distinguish
carefully between the permanent and the
perishable features of the road. Founda-
tions, drainage structures, alignment and
grades, are permanent features which
should be looked upon in the light of an
investment. If these features do not com-
ply with a certain standard, it will be poor
economy to spend money on transitory im-
provements such as hard surfaces, which
must be renewed at considerable expense
from year to year.

Local conditions, of course, determine to
a great extent the proper standards for the
permanent features of any highway.
Twenty years' experience in modern road
building has shown, however, that there is
a minimum which any road built on bor—
rowed money should comply with. A close
study of 244 different types of road shows
that to meet this minimum standard the
following sums will probably have to be
expended for three standard kinds of high-
ways:

IMPORTANT factors in the financing of

Type

Gravel (20 feet wide) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Ordinary or water-bound macadam (15 feet wide). . . .
Bituminous mamdam (15 feet wide) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

A study of these figures will help counties
to avoid the common error of first fixing
the sum to be spent and then demanding an
exorbitant mileage in return for it. So-
called macadam roads have been built with
bond money by simply spreading broken
stone in the mud. The inevitable result
of such shortsightedness is that long before
the bonds have been paid off the improve-
ments for which they were issued have
ceased to,exist and the county has nothing
to show for its increased debt. In the
same way, it is manifestly poor policy to
build an expensive surface on defective
grades with poor alignments and short-
lived drainage features.

Even when much of the money expended
upon a highway has gone into the perma-
nent features, there is still danger that the
cost of repairs and maintenance-will be
overlooked, or at least slighted, in the cal-
culations of the road-builders. When roads
are built with borrowed money it is, of
course, especially important to avoid this
error. On the other hand, however, it is
not necessary to regard the total cost of
surfacing a road as a temporary improve-
ment. Much of the surfacing may be
classed as a permanent investment, for it
is becoming more and more common to
have surfaces built in two courses, the
lower of which is as much a permanent
feature of construction as the grading

Drainage Drainage
and and
grading Surfacing Total grading Surfacing
Per cent Per cent
$1,817 $2,599 $4.416 41.15 58.85
3,400 5,815 9,215 36.89 63.11
2,765 7,533 10,298 26.85 73.15
[87]

Digitized by 600813- L
A

88 THE AMERICAN CITY

itself. This is particularly true of those
types of road that are built with concrete
foundations for bituminous macadam,
brick, or asphalt surfaces. It is probably

conservative, indeed, to regard 40 per cent.

of the surfacing cost of macadam or more
enduring pavements as a permanent invest-
ment. It is seldom nowadays that hard
roads are permitted to wear into the foun-
dation course of the surfacing.

Probably it is safe to say that an average
of about 62 per cent of the total cost of a
well-built macadam road should be put into
the permanent features, and with bitumin-
ous macadam roads about 56 per cent. This
method of estimating cannot be applied to
any gravel or natural soil road in which no
part of the surfacing can advantageously
be considered permanent, for under most

Commercial Clubs

Putting County Roads in Order

CLINTON, Iowa—Under the leadership of
H. G. Barrett, Chairman of the Good Roads
Committee of the Clinton Commercial Club,
a Good Roads Day was carried out on June
21. Various sub-committees arranged for
such details of work as trucks, cinders, tools,
bad spots and commissary. These sub-com-
mittees were very active, and obtained gratis
from various firms in the city fourteen
trucks and the gravel and cinders to load
them with. Each committeeman was sup-
posed to furnish his own tools, but for fear
of their neglecting to do so, the Tools Com-
mittee arranged a loan of picks, shovels,
tamps and wheelbarrows.

On the morning of the let the commit-
teemen appeared in uniform consisting of
overalls and jumpers, bandanna kerchiefs
and slouch hats. After the trucks were
loaded with cinders donated by the local
gas company, the party paraded through the
main street of the city and then proceeded
to the county roads, where the amateur
workmen tried their ability at road-building.

A day or two earlier a committee had
waited on the farmers along the road—
which, by the way, is part of the Lincoln
Highway—and were assured by them of

VOL. XIII, No. 2

systems of maintenance it steadily deterior-
ates. Roads built with surfaces entirely of
concrete, or with brick pavements resting on
a concrete foundation, are of courSe more
nearly permanent than macadam.

To sum up, the authors of this bulletin
point out that the initial cost of a road is
never the final one; that no surface is a
permanent, and that repairs and mainte-
nance charges will always be necessary.
On the other hand, many features of a
good road are to be regarded as permanent
investments. When roads are built with
borrowed money, the distinction betWeen
the permanent and the temporary improve-
ment must be carefully observed, in order
that the county may have something in ex-

change when the time comes to repay the
loan.

and Good Roads

their cooperation; in fact, seventeen‘farm-
ers furnished a load of gravel each, and
several farmers worked with the club
throughout the day. In the afternoon the
party stopped at a farm house where the
commissary department had made prepara-
tions, and there a picnic lunch was greatly
enjoyed. All through the day the work
was interspersed with fun and amuse-
ment, there being a water-wagon, an ambu-
lance and innumerable bosses on the job.
Brief speeches were made after the lunch,
and all who had participated in this outing
voted it very successful and worthy of a
repetition. The farmers and others who
had come out to laugh at the club in its
efforts agreed that the work done was very

useful, and pledged themselves to continue
it.

This undertaking was necessitated by the
fact that the county roads have not been
receiving proper treatment, as the work
under the supervisor system is largely done
in patches and does not result in permanent
good. The primary object of the trip, there-
fore, was to convince all concerned that
the Commercial Club was thoroughly in
earnest in its efforts for permanent road
building, and that it took this means of dem-

Digitized by 600816

AUGUST, 1915

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

GOOD ROADS DAY NEAR CLINTON,

onstrating its determination. The activities
of the committee will not cease with this
one effort, and it is hoped that before 1915
closes the road system of this county will be
in perfect condition.

**

Good Roads Movement in
Minnesota

MANKATO, MINN.—The pioneer work of
the good roads movement in Minnesota was
done by the Mankato Commercial Club.
Several years ago the Club raised a small
fund to be used in grading and graveling
the roads when the farmers could be in-
duced to donate a small amount of labor.
Meetings in the interest of better roads were
held, to which the farmers were invited.
They gave little encouragement to the move-
ment at first, fearing that the improvements
would be taken advantage of for the most
part by city people for pleasure driving and
that they themselves would reap no benefit
from their efforts. Much time and patient
work were required to overcome the farm-
ers’ prejudice. _

The Commercial Club continued to con-
tribute money for road improvement, in
which the farmers or the county or town-
ship would take the initiative, and finally a

IOWA

few miles of good roads were built. These
were used as object lessons for farmers liv-
ing along poor roads, who were invited to
inspect the graded and graveled roads and
make comparisons with the ones in their
neighborhoods. The Club donated road
drags to encourage the farmers and fur-
nished speakers for farmers’ meetings. It
also entertained the township supervisors,
road overseers and others by an occasional
dinner, at which prominent speakers gave
talks on good roads.

Interest in the movement gradually be-
came keener, so that merchants were in-
clined to be more generous in their dona-
tions to the Club's good roads fund, and it
grew large enough to finance a 12-mile
stretch, thereby converting the poorest road
leading into Mankato into the best. This
achievement furnished the movement much
publicity, and other cities began to inquire
how it was done. From that time the senti-
ment crystallized rapidly in favor of better
roads, and the county now raises a large
sum through taxation and the townships’ in-
creasing appropriation for road work. The
Commercial Club nevertheless still finds use
for its good roads fund in helping to defray
the expense of repairing the roads and in
improving other roads.

The principal roads in the county are now

90 THE AMERICAN CITY

in good condition nearly the whole year
round, and there are excellent roads lead-
ing into other counties and to other cities.
The farmers are no longer allowed to work
out their road taxes and do the work im-
perfectly, but are required to pay them in
cash, and the work is done by contract ac-
cording to engineers’ plans. When the
farmers desire extra work done the Com-
mercial Club shares the expense of engi-
neering supervision equally with the farmer
and the work is done under the direction of
the engineering department. The farmers
are buying automobiles, which is revolution-
izing the feeling in regard to road improve-

VOL. XIII, No. 2

ment. And drainage is now provided for,
removing a great handicap.

The most conspicuous result of the move-
ment is the great increase in farm land
values, which have more than doubled. The
improved condition of the roads has enabled
the farmer and his family to travel about
and to observe the better methods of farm-
ing and of life generally, and they are pro-
curing modern conveniences and labor-sav-
ing machinery and are generally adOpting
up-to-date ideas in agriculture. And, finally,
they are organizing social clubs. Mankato
itself has generally benefited by becoming
the center of a much greater and more pros-
perous trading area.

 

Brick Roads in Florida

Duval County, Florida, has over 60 miles
of brick highways constructed like the two
shown in the accompanying photographs.
The view on this page is that of a portion
of the National Highway from New York
to Jacksonville. This road is about 9 miles

long and enters Jacksonville from the west-
ern side. The paving is 16 feet wide. The
larger photograph on the next page gives
a view of a Ig-mile road running from
Jacksonville to the seashore at Atlantic
Beach. As in the other instances, the paved

 

ROLLING THE FINISHED PAVEMENT, DUVAL COUNTY, FLORIDA

 

Auuus'r, 1915

portion is 16 feet wide. This road was im-
passable for motors before it was paved, so
deep was the sand.

The method of constructing these roads
is somewhat different from the ordinary
procedure. The brick are laid on what is
termed the flat side, and no foundation is

 

THE AMERICAN CITY 91

used except the natural sandy soil; this is
compacted by wetting and rolling with a
steam roller until it is firm. In this way
the sand is made as hard as the ocean beach.
The steam roller finishes the surface, as
shown in the first photograph.

Photograph: by courtesy of the Southern Clay Manufacturing Company
ON THE BRICK HIGHWAY FROM JACKSONVILLE T0 ATLANTIC BEACH. FLORIDA

The Old Bridge and the New

 

OLD WILSON STREET EAST BRIDGE OVER FOX RIVER, BATAVIA, KANE COUNTY, ILL.

 

THE NEW BRIDGE, \VHICH HAS TAKEN THE PLACE OF THE ONE PICTURED
ABOVE

[92]

Digitized by 600816

PznmuunmI-muu-mmu-mmummmmnunnnllmmlnnnlummnMun."Ill-mum”:[aluminum-

EXPERIENCE AND OBSERVATION

Information or suggestion: for this department, accompanied b
will be appreciated by the e {ton

fllIlllIl-ll-l

photograph: or drawing: if possible,

H-lJIIlllIlll-lj

Mil-litmm-llllllllIllllIll-IIIIIIIIIUIIHIIIHIIIHIIIIHIIIIIilllmlllllIIIDIIHIIIHEHIIIHIIHIllllinllHiillllllnllllllilIll‘

A Market Day Conducted by a
Commercial Club

The Commercial Club of’ Thief River
Falls, Minn., recently conducted a! Market
Day which was attended by over 1,200 far-
mers of Pennington County, one of the

rich localities in the government drainage '

system of the northeastern part of the
state. ‘

A free lunch, free auction, music and
general get-together meeting resulted, and
the aEair proved a big success. The club
distributed 1,200 sandwiches, 3o dozens of
doughnuts and 30 gallons of‘coffee, the
\Noman’s Club committee being in charge
of the lunch counter. The auction resulted
in the dispOsition of a large amount of per-
sonal property as well as of stock, brought
in by farmers for sale and auctioned oFf
free by the club.

The accompanying cut shows the crowd
gathered during the noon hour and just be-
fore the auction was held.

FRED T. LINCOLN,

Secretary, The Commercial Club, Thief

River Falls, Minn.

 

‘ of flowers and ornamental plants.

A Lot Transformed

The elimination (if an eyesore has been
accomplished by the business men. of ‘ Clare-
more, Okla., in the beautification of the
vacant lot shown in the accompanying pho-
tograph. The lot was formerly filled with
weeds and trash, and near the sidewalk
stood a large billboard which did not even
accomplish the good of concealing the piles
of rubbish and weeds. '

The lot is situated on Third Street, the
main thoroughfare of the city, and within
half a block of the center of town. Be-
coming disgusted with its appearance, the
business men of the city took up a subscrip-
tion of $200 and made a little park of the
lot.

In the center stands a concrete fountain,
and leading from it to the corners of the lot
are hard gravel walks. Each segment made
by the walks is lawn, and around the base
of the fountain is a large and elaborate bed‘
At the
base of the building walls on either side
Boston ivy has been planted. At the back
end of the park is a band-stand big enough

MARKET DAY SCENE AT TIIIEF RIVER FALLS, MINN.

[93]

 

94 THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 2

 

A VACANT LOT IN CLAREMORE, OKLA, IMPROVED BY THE BUSINESS MEN

to accommodate a twenty-piece band. Park
benches line two sides of the park close to
the walls. At the street entrance are cluster
lights, and near one corner is a tree which
gives welcome shade.

H. A. LANE,
Secretary, Claremore Commer-
cial Club.
Claremore, Okla.
'1' '1'

Village Home Numbering

The value of house numbering in a city of
several thousand inhabitants is never ques-
tioned, but the numbering of the houses
in a village where the population is in the
neighborhood of 1,200 has recently caused
the writer considerable anxiety.

To begin with, he was unable to get the
village board to sanction such a movement,
and for the numbering to be done with the
town funds was out of the question; so the
writer took it upon himself to educate the
people into an appreciation of house num-
bering and purchased numbers and made
small town directory maps. ‘

The numbers were placed on a house and
the house furnished with a street directory
map, all for 25 cents. This price just cov-

ered the cost of material and the labor
required to do the numbering.

As each house was numbered, a record
was made of each person who made that
particular address his residence or place of
business. These records .are now being
compiled in the form of a town directory
which shows the address of every man,
woman and child in town, and also gives
business addresses. The directory will con-
tain a classified business section, advertise-
ments and interesting information concern-
ing the town and surrounding country.

It is the intention of the writer that this
directory shall be sent through the mail as
advertising matter by the Commercial Club,
in addition to serving as a directory to any-
one in the town. '

The majority of the people were favor-
able to the numbering of houses, but some
objected on the grounds that the town is
too small to warrant such a step. It is
possible that. this is a fair stand to take in
respect to numbering houses in a village.
The writer is of the opinion, however, that
the houses are made easier to find through
a numbering system to residents as well as
strangers in the town; that it gives'a pro-

1

AUGUST, 1915

pressive appearance to the town when
strangers come; that it enables a business
man to bring his customers more easily to
his establishment, especially if his place of
business is not a prominent landmark in
the town; and when the cost can be kept
down to 25 cents to each house the experi-
ment is cheap enough to try out.
PAUL E. BROWN.

Gordon, Neb.
4' e
The Sanitary Hauling of City
Wastes

The city of Wichita Falls, Texas, is mak-
ing satisfactory use of the two Holzbog
(lump wagons pictured in the accompany-
ing illustration for removing the ‘city
wastes. Carts of this type have been in use
here for three years, and have given com-
plete satisfaction to the Sanitary Depart:
ment and to the citizens. One of these
wagons is used for removing night soil, the
other for the collection of garbage from
hotels and from the residence section. Both
are of steel, with hinged covers at front and
back. As they are absolutely tight, there
is no annoyance from littering the streets

THE AMERICAN CITY

95

or from unpleasant odors. The dumping
device is simple and easily handled, being by
ratchet crank. The lids are kept closed
when no loading is going on, and flies have
little Opportunity to find a settling place in

THE TWO GARBAGE CARTS

the refuse transported. The town has one
unit of the McGuire incinerating plant in
use, which takes care of all the municipal
waste. J. A. BROWN,

Sanitary Officer.
Wichita Falls, Texas.

A' Village that Graduated into the
' “Community Class”

By R. M. and E. C. Blackmun

city to a sense of civic unity always

reads like a romance and makes keen
appeal to every thoughtful citizen. In the
majority of cases the community has been
building for thirty, forty, or perhaps a hun-
dred years, the walls of greed, selfishness
and callous indifference to public good. Its
citizens point with naive pride to the estab—
lishment of traditions and customs calcu-
lated to preserve the exclusiveness of a cer-
tain percentage of the population as against
the old rough and ready friendliness of the
early pioneer days before the élite had
ceased to be just plain, warm-hearted
“folks” and had graduated into the society
class. Such wide digression from the early
standards of simple living and generous
hospitality necessitates years of education

THE story of the awakening of town or

and patient nurture to create sufficiently
strong public sentiment to insure the or-
ganization of community spirit into service
that shall be permanent and effective.
There is, in west central Wisconsin, 3
little village of 900 people, about 60 per
cent of whom are of Scandinavian birth
or parentage, and the remaining 40 per cent
are Americans, Germans and a sprinkling
of other nationalities. The surrounding
country is thickly settled, for the land is
rich and valuable for a variety of crops.
The community is uniquely situated, there
being no other town or village of equal
size within eleven miles, and most of the
country trade comes directly to this village.
Much has been done to make Osseo attrac-
tive to farmer trade: the roads leading into
the-village are very fine and the streets and

 

96 THE AMERICAN CITY

business places are well lighted by elec-
tricity. The amount of merchandise han-
dled at Osseo is 25 per cent larger than in
any town of equal size in the neighborhood,
but with commercial inducements civic
pride seemed to end. The dollar looms
large on the horizon and most of the im-
provements not calculated to draw trade
were promptly sat upon. “Taxes are too
high now", has been the slogan; nothing
must be done to increase taxes.

Osseo is quite typical of the average vil-
lage of its size in the Middle West. There
are three churches“ all Protestant, a
women’s study club with a limited member-
ship, the usual fraternal orders, a business
men’s organization, and a young woman’s
club, also with a limited membership. None
of these organizations has exerted a de-

'cided socializing or cooperating influence,

but each'has Served rather to split the town
into factions. Osseo is also “no license,"
and there has been a decided improvement
in the moral tone of the town since the
saloons were voted out eight years ago.
The Women's Club points with pride to the
fine public library which is largely a result

of its work, and a charming little park in‘

 

VOL. XIII, No. 2

the center of the village adds much to the
attractiveness of the town. Ludicrous it
may seem, but in these little towns where
material possessions decide a man’s stand—
ing in the community, and where there are
many long-standing feuds, social position
is fiercely contended and culture frantically
pursued. All the bitterness and animosity
which accompany cramped, colorless lives
are present, and to advocate unity of social
life is almost heresy.

The Osseo Social Ccnlcr, its Conception
and Organization

Several years ago a vague unrest began
to be felt in Osseo. Many of the citizens
bought automobiles, and in journeying out
to other live towns where progressive poli-
cies were rampant came back and looked
at the old town with new eyes. Something
was wrong with Osseo. “Let’s get to-
gether,” they said, and a few men with a
vision of what the community should he
began to lay their plans. No one seems to
know how it all came about. The public-
spirited men who backed the work modestly
disclaim any knowledge of just how the
community spirit began to grow. A com-

MEMORIAL DAY EXERCISES IN THE PARK AT OSSEO, MICII.

AUGUST, 1915

munity institute was arranged in 1913 and
was so successful that the next year a much
larger one was planned, and this, too, was
enthusiastically received. Some mourners
there were, it is true, and the usual number
who sat “in the seat of the scornful,” but
the bulk of the citizens were well pleased
and had an appetite for more.

At the first meeting of the Neighborhood
Civic Club a constitution was adopted, 0f-
ficers elected. committees appointed and
general plans for the year's work outlined.
The machinery of ofi‘icers, committees, etc.,
afterward proved too bulky, owing either
to a lack of cooperative spirit or else to an
unfortunate choice of personnel for com-
mittees. “Team spirit” was slow in devel-
oping, but there is now seen much less of
friction and of the appalling lack of a sense
of personal responsibility that was so con-
spicuous at the first of the year. The per-
son in charge of a program can now ap-
point a committee and then dismiss the
subject from his mind, knowing that the
work will be well cared for.

The main school house has, with one ex-
ception, been used for all community gath—
erings since the beginning of the Civic
Club. It is a dilapidated old building, unfit
even for school purposes, so there has been
no attractive meeting place. The seats in
two of the rooms in the building were
mounted on strips of hard wood, so that
they are easily moved to give plenty of floor
space, electric lights were installed and the
Civic Club had a fairly comfortable meet-
ing place. A small adjacent building, the
seventh and eighth grade room, has been
used for several years as a voting place.
For some years the progressive element has
labored to secure a suitable school building,
but the usual bugaboo of “higher taxes”
was sufficient to frighten voters from the
plan. There is a curious kink in human
nature that makes fine, well-kept, up-to-date
farm and village buildings possible, and is
content with an utterly antiquated, unsafe
building for school purposes. One of the
most active opponents of a new school
building built a fine new hog house last
year—a warm, comfortable, sanitary build-
ing along the most modern lines. The pro-
posed new school building was spoken of
to him. He shook his head dolefully. “It
is getting pretty bad, but think of the taxes
for a new building! Taxes is gittin’ higher

THE AMERICAN CITY 97

9

every year now.’ In this progressive age
children are still a liability in many rural
communities.

The strenuous agitation for a new build-
ing had its effect, however, for on May 8,
1915, a special school meeting was held and
the voters of the district voted $25,000 for
the erection of a new building for school
purposes and with provision for such com-
munity service as may seem desirable to
the people. Tentative plans have been made
for the erection of a one-story building
with, in addition to the regular class rooms,
an assembly room which may be converted
into a hall for community meetings and fur-
ther equipped with a stage, a rest room. a
gymnasium and a public library. If the
present plans materialize, Osseo will have
an exceptionally attractive, practical com-
munity building.

Motion Picture Equipment

Early in September the secretary of the
Civic Club went to several of the business
men, securing a loan for the purchase of
a lantern and motion picture machine. The
money was raised by local entertainments
and the loan was returned at the end of the
year. The machine purchased cost about
$125, and though small proved satisfactory
for school purposes. Reels and slides were
furnished free of charge by the University
of Wisconsin, and the service has been very
good. The pictures were shown nearly
every week free to the school children and
to those of the parents who cared to come.

Community W ark in Rural School House:

The social center of Osseo has solved, in
part at least, the problem of reaching the
farmers, their wives and _children who find
it impossible to come into town for the
regular monthly meeting of the Civic Club.
Many farmers after their long day's work
cannot, or will not, bring their families to
town, and so many are unable to come
unless they bring the whole family, babies
included.

The problem is being solved in two ways:

First, by providing in the Osseo school
building, where the community meetings
are held, a separate room for the care of
the children: Two or more attendants have
charge of the little folks and keep them
amused while the older pe0ple are enjoying
the regular program in the assembly room.

Digitized by 600816

98 THE AMERICAN CITY

The kindergarten tables and chairs are used
for this purpose. This method provides for
those town people, as well as farmers, who
have no one with whom they can leave their
little children.

Second, by carrying the entertainments
out into the rural districts.
ferred to above has been taken by the sec-‘
retary to the rural schools, and after a
short program by the school children of
the district the pictures are thrown on the
screen. The slides sent are very instructive
and interesting, and are accompanied by
lectures. Electricity is used in town, but
the lantern is also equipped with a gas
burner and 'Prest-O-Lite is used in the
country school houses. 7 The community
was also extremely fortunate in securing
the services of an able agricultural speaker
and institute conductor from the neighbor-
ing town to talk on farm and rural improve-
ment and on scientific farm and home man-
agement. He spoke in several rural school
houses during the winter, charging only a
small fee to defray his expenses.

It was quite a revelation to see the well-
filled school houses, every seat taken, and
many people standing, the quiet audience,
and to hear the expressions of delight and
appreciation after the program. In many
seats were young mothers with their sleep-
ing babies in their arms, and the look of
eager interest on their faces showed that
opportunities of entertainment as accessible
as this are woefully lacking. Over 60
square miles of territory and seven schools
were covered in this way, and thus social
contact was established where no other
method was possible.

Obstacles Encountered and How They Have
$een Overcome

The financial difi‘iculties have been baf-
fiing, as there is such a variety of opinion
as to the proper way of securing money to
cover the necessary expenses. The method
of paying for the lantern has been described
in a preceding paragraph, but there were
certain small running expenses and the pay-
ment of outside speakers to be provided for.
After two months of discussion it was
finally decided to ask every member of the
executive committee to solicit ten others
for a subscription of two dollars each. The
plan looked feasible enough at first thought,
but has since proved quite impracticable,

The lantern re?

VOL. XIII, No. 2

for a few of those solicited felt the fee to
be- excessive, and many who really could
not afford to give that amount were dis-
pleased at not being able to contribute
something toward a good cause. The plan
was thus antagonistic to the very spirit of
community service which is only effective
when it permits wide cooperation by every
interested person, regardless of his social
or financial standing in the community.
Raising necessary funds by means of local
talent plays, sociables, etc., or any form of
indirect taxation seems vastly preferable
in towns of this size where such methods
of attack have been the custom.

Another mistake made was in barring
children from public meetings. The con—
stitution and by-laws originally read that
“The Neighborhood Civic Club shall be
composed of all adults twenty-one years or
over.” Many and frequent were the pro-
tests against that ruling, on the grounds
that many of the parents refused to come
unless permitted to bring their children. It
has been the custom to include children and
young people in all social gatherings, and
many parents with young children had no
one with whom to leave them and must of
necessity bring them or stay at home them-
selves. An amendment was offered to in-
clude everyone, young and old, so a sepa-

rate room was provided for the little folks.

Summary of the Year's W ark and Programs

OCTOBER—A debate by citizens on the
pr0posed amendments to the State Con—
stitution. A Hallowe'en party.

NOVEMBER—An evening devoted to a
study of the high cost of living. A com-
munity social with games and refreshments.

DECEMBER—An address on the commun-
ity use of the school house by M. T. Buck-
ley. of Sauk City.

A large community Christmas tree was
placed on the main street in the business
section. The first evening all of the bells
in town rang for five minutes, the village
president turned on the electric current and
the tree stood ablaze with lights. . A huge
illuminated sign, “Peace on Earth,” hung
above the tree, and a large poster bearing
the following message was suspended
among the branches low enough that it

might easily be read by all:

Digitized by 600816

AUGUST, 1915

. “For unto us a child is born, unto us a son
is given; and the government shall be upon his
shoulder, and his name shall be called ‘Won—

derful, Counselor, The Mighty God, The Ever-

lasting Father, The Prince of Peace.’ "—
Isaiah, 9:6.

This tree has been raised in this place as a
symbol of the spirit of Christianity; the vis-
ible evidence of hearts full of love and thank-
fulness to God for the year of peace and pros-
perity. Let us at this common altar lay down
our meannesses, our petty strivings for honor
among men, our spite and animosity and
hatred, and out of the treasures of our hearts

give love and sympathy, patience and under-
standing.

"This is My commandment, that ye love one
another as I have loved you.”—John 15: 12.

The children marched through the streets
carrying torches and singing Christmas
hymns and carols. A short program was
given at the tree and it was lighted each
night until New Year’s Eve.

JANUARY—A New Year’s Masquerade
with games and refreshments. An address
on “Home and Community Improvement,"
by Mr. George Commings, of Eau Claire.

FEBRUARY—A “hard time" party, with an
old-fashioned spelling match and refresh-
ments. ,

MARCH—An address on “Social Center
Activity,” by Mr. E. J. Ward, of Madison.

APRIL—The public park was planted by
the school children with eight large beds of
flowering bulbs and seeds. Playground
equipment, consisting of swings, teeter-
boards, giant—stride and volley ball court,
was provided for the school grounds and
later paid for by popular subscription.

The work for the young folks has con-
sisted mainly of the organization of the
Camp Fire Girls and the Boy Scouts.

An all inclusive women’s club in connec-
tion with the community center is sadly
needed, as women are notably eager to
adopt progressive policies, and the average
small town needs the energetic house-
cleaning spirit that is so characteristic of
its women. Just at present any movement
for the establishment of another women’s
club seems impolitic, so that must be listed
among the plans for the future.

THE AMERICAN CITY 99

This is not a rosy-hued exposition of the
miracles that the Osseo Neighborhood Civic

- Club expects to accomplish, but plain facts

presented just as they are, for the difficul-
ties encountered are common to most com-
munities, although they may vary in detail.
Our troubles have been very real, and at
times have threatened the very existence of
the Social Center; and while many prob-
lems have been solved, others are still “in
the air.” Local conditions vary so greatly
that no hard-and-fast rules may be laid
down for organization, financing, advertis-
ing and programs. but Osseo may be said to
be quite typical of the average small town
outside of the localities where a foreign
population predominates.

The citizens are carrying their “ham-
mers” as concealed weapons now, and
“knocking” is no longer the never-failing
source of amusement. Conservative citi-
zens feel that a good bit of progress has
been made in the brief time that the peOple
have been working with the community
idea] before them.

The programs which promise amuse-
ments and refreshments are the best at-
tended, for the people seem to prefer
amusement to instruction unless the two
are judiciously mixed.

“The “hard time" party in February in-

cluded an old-fashioned spelling match and
a candy-pull for the young folks. There
were about 150 people present, and every-
body had a hilariously good time. The
people threw all their old reserve to the
winds and laughed and played together like
a crowd of happy children. When a gath-
ering of grown folks can be induced to play
together, they have traveled a long way
toward breaking down the barriers of sus-
picion and the memories of real or fancied
wrongs. Common sorrow or common play
are the two great melting-pots of distrust,
revenge and selfishness, and we see and
hear daily evidences of generosity, self-for-
getfulness and community interest that are
very gratifying.

The “Before and After” of a Village Street

 

STATE STREET, SENECA FALLS, N. Y., BEFORE PAVING

 

 

STATE STREET, SENECA FALLS, AFTER PAVEMENT WAS LAID AND ORNAMENTAL
LIGHTING WAS INSTALLED

[100]

'~ . V ' Digitized by 600816

 

A County Business Administration

By Don C. Sowers
Director, Municipal Research Bureau, University at Oregon

ANY of our large cities have learned
M from business corporations the art
of standardization of supplies, the
use of time sheets and service records, and
the value of accounting systems; but county
governments have as yet made little use of
up—to-date business methods. It is, perhaps,
safe to say that if county governments
should adopt the same methods that our
railroads and manufacturing industries have
adopted, the cost of running the county
government could be reduced 25 per cent.

Four problems are involved in securing
an efficient administration: first, there must
be a definite program, a plan and a result
which we hope to obtain; second, there
must be an organization for achieving this
result; third, there must be an etiicient
group of persons for managing the work;
and fourth, there must be used the best
tools and methods which can be found.
These four elements of the problem must
be constantly borne in mind, whether we
are dealing with the management of a rail-
road, a manufactory, a municipal corpora—
tion or a county government. In dealing
with public business, however, there is a
fifth element which must not be overlooked
in our efforts to secure good government,
and that is the need for intelligent citizen
cooperation. No reform, however desir-
able, can succeed without the hearty co-
operation of the citizens. Oiiicials cannot
hope to win the interest of the citizen un-
less they present enough facts to give the
citizen some understanding of the problem.
An ignorant public is a constant menace to
the officer who wishes to do his duty.
Therefore the greatest need in dealing with
public affairs is for publicity. It is a need
for up-to-date statements of fact which will
show the citizen what is taking place, what
are the ditiiculties and what things still re-
main to be done.

Let us take up these factors in the order
named. What is the function of the county
government? Why does it exist and what
does it do? Without going into the ques-
tion of the relation of the county adminis-
tration to the state government, there are a

number of specific functions which the
county performs in addition to the usual
duties of law enforcement and the adminis-
tration of justice: (I) The county has con-
trol of the construction and care of roads
and bridges; (2) it is the unit for the en-
forcement of the health laws of the state,
and for the collection of vital statistics, and
for the enforcement of honest weights and
measures; (3) it is charged with the care of
the poor and exercises supervision over
truant and deserted children; (4) through
'the county superintendent it exercises con-
trol over education; (5) the county is the
tax collecting unit for the state. The pro-
gram and objectives of county government
will continually change with the growth of
population and the rise of new demands.
There are, no doubt, many things which
the county government might do and ought
to do at the present time, but these can only
be determined after a careful survey of
each particular county for the purpose of
comparing what is being done with what
should be done. These new activities which
an aroused public opinion may demand do
not present any special diti‘iculties, because
they can be allowed for in framing the an-
nual budget.

The Need for County Charters

What is the organization of the county
government? In general it may be said that
there is no organization at the present time.
The general features of city organization
are usually determined by Charter provi-
sions; the general organization of states
and the national government is outlined
in constitutions; but there is no one place
where one can go to learn what the county
organization is. A few provisions are usu-
ally found in the state constitution. For
the most part, however, one has to search
through all the session laws to find out what
the county is supposed to do, and even then
one cannot be sure that he has found them
all, for there is always the danger that some
law or provision may have been overlooked.
In other words, the county organization is

[101]

Digitized by 600816 A

102

provided for by a patchwork of laws passed
at various times by various legislatures
without any attempt having been made to
provide a simple, workable organization.
Officials are elected to do certain things,
without regard for what other officials may
be doing and without regard to coordinating
the work of the various ofiicials. For ex-
ample, in a well coordinated system the as-
sessor and recorder should work together in
the very closest cooperation. It is essential
that the assessor should obtain from the
recorder's office all the data bearing upon
sales of real estate, mortgages and recorded
leases, in order that he may assess land at its
true value.

Almost universally the salaries of the
county ofiicials, the hours of work and the
number of employes in the county offices
are determined by the legislature. This sit-
uation makes it impossible to lodge respon-
sibility for economy in county expenditures
with county ofiicials. Furthermore, they are
hampered in their work by not being able
to increase their working force as the need
for additional workers arises, and they can-
not reward efiicient employes with salary
increases and hence there is lacking any
incentive to efficient service.

Again, the rates for fees are regulated by
statute, which therefore precludes county
officials from so adjusting the fees as to
make the ofiices self-supporting. By a
proper adjustment of fees, the offices of
county clerk, recorder and sheriff might be
made self-supporting.

It is thus clear that the present system is
about as far removed from the requirements
of an efi‘icient organization as it could pos-
sibly be. The county officials are elected by
the people of the county, but the legislature
fixes their salary and prescribes their
duties.

Oregon is more fortunate than some states,
in that the affairs of the county are vested
in only three men, the county judge and
two commissioners. Some states have large
and unwieldy boards of commissioners,
which militates against effective service. Is
there any reason why the county should not
adopt the same principle which is proving so
successful in giving cities a better adminis-
tration? Why should not the county adopt
a commission form of government? Give
the commissioners power to appoint the
various county officials, or else to hire a

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 2

county manager who should appoint subor-
dinates. None of the county officials, with
the possible exception of the county super-
intendent, are policy determining officials.
The county clerk, recorder, sheriff, treas-
urer, coroner, surveyor and assessor per-
form purely administrative functions, and
there would seem to be no good reason
why these men should be elected every two
years. The longer they remain in oliice, the
more efficient they normally become, and
with the safeguards of the modern budget
and such provisions as the recall and pro-
test there would seem to be no reason for
brief tenure of office. There is every rea-
son to suppose that the introduction of a
commission form of government in coun-
ties would prove to be as beneficial and help-
ful toward securing a county business ad-
ministration as it has been in cities that
have tried this method.

The greatest need of the county at the
present time is for a county charter. Among
the up-to-date features which a county
charter should contain, the following may
be mentioned: that the appointive officers
be selected from an eligible civil service
list; provision for a civil service commis-
sion which shall definitely establish grades
of work at definite salaries and see that all
promotions are based upon daily time re-
ports, service records and efficiency tests;
all ofiicials shall be paid a fixed salary and
all fees shall be paid into the treasury; it
should provide for the publication of fre-
quent and adequate reports so that the peo-
ple of the county may know what is going
on, how the work is being done, and how
much each phase of the work is costing the
county.

The Fallacy of Mere Goodness as Deter—
mining Eficiency

After we have secured the best possible

organization, the next problem which con-

fronts us is the securing of the best possible

men for directing the work. Large corpora-
tions select men wherever they can find

-them, often going to foreign countries to

secure the men they want. In school af-
fairs it is customary to select principals,
teachers and superintendents from other
cities and states. But in selecting men to
fill most of our municipal, county and state
positions we still confine ourselves, as a rule,
to men who happen to be residents of the

Digitized by 600816

AUGUST, 1915

city, county or state. We still confuse
goodness with ability. We still think that
because a man has been an honest and law-
abiding citizen he will make a good public
official, and we select a local man in prefer-
ence to an outsider because he is better
known. This is not a sound policy, because
experience has shown that most of the waste
and loss in public affairs is due not to dis-
honesty, but to inefficiency.

Good men do not necessarily make good
public officials. Good men do not necessar-
ily know how to draw up contracts and
specifications that will protect the county
against the unscrupulous practices of the
contractor; good men do not necessarily
know how to inaugurate an inspection ser-
vice which will insure that the city gets
what it is paying for; good men do not
necessarily know how to organize and man-
age their departments so as to get the best
results. For many years reforms have cen-
tered around the idea that if once we could
get good men to enter public service we
would secure good government. We have

lived to see the fallacy of this argument.
In business we do not hire men because of
their irreproachable character, but because
of their ability to perform some definite ser-

vice. A fiagman’s honesty and piety do not
atone for his inability to keep awake. We
do not forgive a blundering dentist because
of his irreproachable character. We buy a
newspaper for its news, not for the good-
ness of its editor. So in the field of gov-

ernment the time is coming when we will
apply the same tests which we now apply in
business. We will judge an official, not by
his election promises, but by his after-elec-
tion performances.

Another fallacy equally pernicious is the
prevalent custom of electing men to ofiice
on account of their attitude toward some
theoretical proposition. It is just as foolish
to elect a health ofiicer because he happens
to believe in the initiative and the recall or
a protective tariff as it would be to elect
a day laborer to the position of county and-
itor. To make a good health officer a man
must have a knowledge of the best methods
of controlling contagious diseases; he must
have the ability to collect and use vital sta-
tistics; he must know how to carry on an
educational campaign against fiies, mosqui-
toes, impure food, unclean milk, etc. His
intellectual attitude toward the theory of

THE AMERICAN CITY

103

evolution or his political faith, whether he
be a Democrat, Republican or a Progres-
sive, has no bearing whatever on his ability
to serve the community as a health officer.
Some day we may elect men to positions on
account of their fitness to fill these posi-
tions.

The modern tendency to elect only a very
few officials and to appoint most of the of-
ficials from eligible civil service lists is a
step in the right direction. The short ballot
is another advance step. To these should be
added, however, the requirements for time
reports and service records. Where accu—
rate records are kept showing what each
man accomplishes each day, many incom-
petent employes cultivate efficiency. Em-
ployes in boiler rooms respond almost auto-
matically to the telltale of recording devices
showing water and coal used, amount of
steam deveIOped and current generated.
Service records afford the only possible
means of dealing justly with employes; they
enable the employer to detect the incompe-
tent employe and secure his removal and
they furnish the basis for promoting ef-
ficient workers.

County Business Methods

It is possible to have the best possible or-
ganization and efficient workers and yet not
secure the best results, owing to the fact
that the best methods have not been em—
ployed. The most skillful mechanic cannot
do good work with dull tools; so also the
best business organization will not achieve
the best results unless it discards old-fash—
ioned methods and appliances and adopts
up-to-date ones. The adoption of a com-
mission form of government does not neces—
sarily mean the adoption of efiicient business
methods.

In the business world the successful busi—
ness man is ever on the alert to discover a
better way and a cheaper way of conduct-
ing his business, and wherever he comes
across a good method or idea he immediately
makes use of it. The best ideas soon be-
come the property of all, and this fact ac-
counts in large measure for the great
strides which we are making in the business
world.

In public business, ofiicials know prac-
tically nothing about the way business is
conducted in other places and they are pro-
verbially slow in adopting new ideas. There

Digitized by 600816
4-.

104

is probably not a single county in this coun-
try at the present time which is systematic-
ally finding and using the best ways of con-
ducting its business. There is one, and only
one, best way for building roads in a given
locality; one best way for caring for the
county poor; one best way for assessing
property at full value; and yet every county
in the country is struggling blindly to find
a solution for its problems. Here and there
some counties have reached a satisfactory
solution of particular problems, and yet
there is no organized means of conveying
this news to other counties. What is needed
most of all is cooperation. Organizations
should exist in every state, not only for the
county commissioners, but for all county
officials. The assessors should hold annual
conferences; the county surveyors should
meet together to discuss common problems,
and the organization should extend through-
out the country and embrace representatives
from every state. The proceedings of these
conferences should be published and become
available to every student and official inter-
ested in county affairs. These conferences
should be supplemented by research bu-
reaus, which should be collecting informa-
tion regarding the best ways of conducting
county business gathered from all over the
country and which should place this knowl-
edge at the disposal of officials. It is only
by means of some organized efforts such as
this that we can hope to make progress
which will in any way compare with the
progress made in the business world.

Before taking up the separate county of—
fices in detail here some of the methods
which are applicable to all offices and busi-
nesses may be mentioned: (I) the estab-
lishment of central purchasing control;
(2) the standardization of all purchases;
(3) the installation of uniform and just
Specifications for contracts; (4) an ade-
quate system of inspection to insure that
the county is getting what it is paying for;
(5) the installation of time records and
cost accounting records, the establishment
of work routines, and the installation of
accounting systems which will not only
show how much money has been spent for
each purpose of government, but also what
has been accomplished by the expenditure
of this money.

Going more into the details of county
business, some of the efficiency methods al-
ready in use in certain counties include:

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 2

COUNTY RECORDER’S OFFICE

Electric time stamps are used in the re-
corder’s office for noting the time when
documents are filed with the recorder and
for stamping the hours of arriving and
leaving of the employes; book typewriters
are used for making records of abstracts,
conveyances, etc. In Cook County, 111.,
the work of filing and recording documents
is so systematized that an individual .or
company knows exactly how many days it
will require between the filing of the orig-
inal application and the delivery of the
documents. This office also maintains a
publicity department for the dissemination
of information regarding real estate trans-
fers, the recording of mortgages, bills of
sale, etc. The possibility of using a pho-
tographic process for the recording of
public documents, instead of copying either

by hand or by the typewriter, should be
considered.

CORONER’S OFFICE

In some coroners' ofiices printed manikins
are now used in connection with autopsies,
on which the physician marks the location
of the wounds, and in cases of bullet
wounds the points of entry and exit. 1n
murder cases in which killing was done by
bullet, small manila envelopes are provided
in which physicians place the shot or bul-
let‘s extracted.‘ In important inquest cases,
shorthand reporting or typewritten notes
are taken. Some counties have done away
with coroners and coroners’ juries and have
made provision instead for preliminary in-
vestigation by medical inspectors.

ASSESSOR'S OFFICE

The work of assessing city property is
now quite an exact science and no longer
depends upon the whim of the assessor. It
is customary to assess land and buildings
separately, since different rules obtain in
the determination of value. In assessing
land, maps are used upon which are repre-
sented the values per front foot of normal
lots, which are unaffected by corner influ-
ence, and tables have been prepared to
assist in computing the value of lots of
varying depths. In assessing buildings.
building factors are determined, based
either upon the cubical contents of the
building or upon the square feet of floor
space. These building factors are based
upon the cost of constructing new build-

Digitized by 600816

AUGUST, 191 5

ings, exclusive of carrying charges. Sup-
pose, for example, the building factor for
brick stores is $2.40. A six-story building,
50 by 90 feet in area, would have 27,000
square feet of floor space, and the value
of this store would be 27,000 times $2.40,
or $64,800.

In the case of old buildings depreciated
by age or obsolescence, rentals are gener-
ally the surest guide to value. Assessors
find the records of sales, mortgages and
recorded leases in the recorder’s otiice in-
valuable in their work. In addition the
wideawake’ assessor obtains from real estate
brokers and others all the facts in relation
to sales and leases and rentals which can be
obtained by careful inquiry.

These will illustrate some of the best
methods which are in use in other counties
and will suggest the possibilities which lie
before the county olhcial who is anxious to

learn the best way of conducting the work
of his ot’lice.

Recording the Facts

One of the great weaknesses in all public
officials everywhere is their seeming inabil-
ity to comprehend the value of keeping
accurate and complete records. Every of-
ficial act should be made a matter of record.
In private business instructions to subor-
dinates are almost invariably given on
printed forms headed “Instructions.” Sub-
ordinates make progress reports or final re-
ports on standard forms. Every order and
requisition for supplies and materials is
made on a printed form and, in fact, every
act is made a matter of record.

In public business, such business proce-
dure is the exception rather than the rule.

  
  
   
     
     

betterment of urban life.

civic bodies.

may wish to use it.

THE AMERICAN CITY

This Magazine is Not Copyrighted

THE AMERICAN CITY aims to make available to the largest possible number
of persons the ideals of thinkers and the practical experience of workers for the
To this end articles from any issue may be reprinted,
in whole or in part. in local newspapers or in the bulletins of commercial or

It is requested only that proper mention be made of THE AMERI-
CAN CITY as the source of the information.

graphs will be loaned without charge, or cuts sold at low rates.
righted by their authors are so indicated. All other matter is free to those who

105

The superintendent of roads issues verbal
orders to the foremen, and the foremen
report verbally. Supplies are ordered verb-
ally and no record is kept of who ordered
the supplies and what they were used for.
About the only records that are kept deal
with the actual payment of cash. Often
the first news the treasurer has that a debt
has been incurred is when the merchant
presents his bill for payment, and then it
is too late to exercise any control over the
expenditure. The absence of permanent
records makes it almost impossible for the
otiicials to issue intelligible and complete
reports, giving the public some idea of the
work done or in progress. Without com—
plete reports it is impossible to administer
and plan the work of a department. Before
the county commissioners can decide intel-
ligently upon the number of employes
needed in each county otiice, they must
know the volume of business transacted.
The recorder should report the number of
documents of various kinds which are filed
and recorded. The sheriff should report
the number of summonses served, and the
number of advertisements for sales which
have been prepared. The coroner’s records
should show the number of inquests held
during each month or year and the causes
of death, whether industrial accidents,
homicides, suicides, etc., and the age, sex,
color and social condition of the deceased.

The public otiicial should constantly bear
in mind that he is the servant of the public.
that the public ought to be informed as to
what is being done, and his reports should
be made with the idea in view of conveying
definite information to the public regarding
the work of his oliice.

If illustrations are desired, photo-
Articles copy-

Digitized by 600816
-

I

Neighborhood Play in Country and Village *

PERSISTENT question is: How can
A people who do not have the facili—

ties of the large city obtain for
themselves and for their children the recre-
ation that they need and deserve? Play is
a pleasant necessity—not a useless luxury.
Farmers will have no difficulty in cooper-
ating in work to-morrow if they can co-
operate in play to-day. To the youth who
has plenty of wholesome good times on the
farm or in the village the city has little
dangerous fascination. Moreover, when
boys and girls learn to have the best of good
times together on the school grounds or on
. the village common, many of the community
problems disappear. And of course the play
that teaches teamwork and fairness is as
much the right of the country boy or girl
as of the city youth.

This urgent need for healthful play in
rural communities has attracted the atten-
tion of many organizations. To meet the
problem resulting from the rush of people
from country to city, Mr. Robert Weiden-
sall organized in Will County, Illinois, the
first rural Young Men’s Christian Associa-
tion, and began a campaign among city as-
sociations in behalf of a movement that a
few years ago deveIOped into what is now
known as the Y. M. C. A. County \Vork.
To-day there are nearly one hundred organ-
ized counties in twenty states. at the head
of which are more than a hundred trained
secretaries; the work has reached the scope
of a great national reclamation and conser-
vation undertaking.

In the counties that have availed them-
selves of this opportunity a new play life
has sprung up. In most of them school ath-
letic associations have been organized, and
the teachers have been taught by play dem-
onstrators how to direct play in the schools.
In these demonstrations the whole philos-
ophy of play and its great value in education
are fully explained.

One important result of the work has
been the establishment of the “new recess,"
which is nothing more than ten minutes de-
voted by the children to playing simple.
wholesome games under the leadership of
the teachers. In the larger schools the
pupils are divided into sections, and recess

.__.>__—-

' From an article in The Youth's Companion 
ing the results of demonstration pla£grounds carried
on by that publication for nine mont s in three typi-

cal rural communities:
[106]

A ‘

 

is relayed; each section spends ten minutes
on the playground, and gives way to the
next section. The new recess and the new
athletics, with the folk dances and historic
pageants, all moulded into the rural fes-
tival, have already begun to supplant vaude—
ville, ballooning, and the immoral side show
at the county fair. Gambling and horse
racing are yielding to exhibitions of skill,
agility and muscle on the part of schoolboys
and schoolgirls. If you wish to see for
yourself, visit such places as ‘Windsor, Vt.:
Hillsdale, Mich.; or Dutchess County, New
York, during the fair season.

Among other agencies that have been
working for the improvement of rural rec-
reation are the National Bureau of Educa-
tion, normal Schools, state universities and
agricultural colleges, women’s clubs and
granges, state departments of public instruco
tion. the Department of Recreation of the
Russell Sage Foundation, and the Play-
ground and Recreation Association of
America. Any group of country or village
pe0ple who wish to make their community
a happier one in which to live will fihd that
many organizations and individuals stand
ready to help by advice and. definite sugges-
tion of well-tested plans.

Neighborhood play needs planning. The
first step is to find out what the need is and
what means you have for meeting it.

You must determine by what agency you
will do the work. Will you take the school,
the church, the woman's club, the farm bu-
reau, the county Y. M..C. A., the grange,
or the township, village, or city itself? The
more nearly the group comes to represent-
ing the whole community, the better. If
all the churches in your community can
unite, no better sponsors for your recrea-
tional project can be found. The woman's
club that is energetic and interested in the
affairs of its own community can help.

In most cases you will find that the school
is best fitted to be your unit of organization.
It represents all the people, brings all the
children together, and since the beginning
of American life has been the focal point
of community activity. Your county or dis-
trict superintendent or rural school super-
visor should be a valuable ally.

Get all the cooperation you can, but re-
member that, if necessary, you can do the
work without any of those organizations.

Digitized by (200816

AUGUST, 1915

Two or three individuals can accomplish 'a
highly satisfactory result.

A Recreation Program

In every case your study of actual condi-
tions should lead to a recreation plan that
takes into account:

I. The neighborhood center for the social
and intellectual life of the community. You
must provide opportunity for the club that dis-
cusses the serious sides of agriculture and
household arts, as well as for the boys’ debat-
ing society and the monthly social. Singing
societies, neighborhood bands, the clubs that
give simple plays and entertainments, lectures
on interesting and important topics—these are
well-established aids to community pleasure
and advancement. Remember that no com-
munity center enterprise will succeed unless
it is something that your neighbors really de-
sire and need. A successful community center
organization will generally make it possible for
the educational extension forces of your state
to cooperate with your community to the best
advantage.

2. Special-day festivals, perhaps with page-
antry. upon which the whole neighborhood
should unite for a good time that is worth
while. a

3. Outdoor fun for old and young, such as
picnics. camping. nature study and water sport.

4. Non-commercial clubs in agriculture and
household arts that will bring young pe0ple
together and encourage better farming and
better living.

5. Cooperation with outside clubs, such as
the Boy Scouts, the Campfire Girls and the
Audubon Society. ‘

6. Athletics, beginning with the local play-
ground and extending to a county system.
planned so as to encourage physical fitness and
good times for all boys and girls, rather than

 

the success of a few after unlimited competi-
tion.

One of the first steps in any campaign
for rural recreation is to provide suitable
play apparatus for the children.

For your playground, get from one to five
acres, if possible, but be satisfied with what
is available. Less than half an acre is too
little to be of much use. See that part of

THE AMERICAN CITY

107

it is smooth, level and well drained. If the
grounds are unattractive, have the children
plant trees and shrubbery.. The more close-

 

.” *2 a?

'llll'. NICH’ lx’lil‘lhb‘, \Vl'l'll ll'UIJi ll.\.\tl.\(i

ly you can relate play and gardening, the
better.

Have the children do all the work that
they can, but do not hesitate to call upon
their parents. They will help as willingly
as did the school trustee who, at one of The
Companion demonstration playgrounds, did
the necessary hauling, and then began the
play by teaching the boys how to “skin the
cat” on the horizontal bar.

The following directions are the result of
experience at four country playgrounds.

General Specifications

No. I spruce or Southern pine is excel-
lent material for most playground appa-
ratus. White ash has the advantage of
added strength, but it splinters easily.
White oak should be used for pieces that
receive much wear, such as swing boards
and turning bars. Rock maplbnot white
maple—is probably the best all-round wood.
but in many parts of the country is hard to
get. All wood should be carefully seasoned,
and such parts as come in contact with earth
should be tarred or treated with creosote.

It is well to saturate the wood thoroughly
with boil-ed linseed oil. In any case, it
should be finished with two coats of good
outdoor paint, preferably dark green in
color, or with one coat of shellac, followed
by one coat of the best spar varnish.

Sand Box—For little children the sand box
or sand table is the piece of playground appa-
ratus that brings the largest returns. But place

it out of the way of stray balls and other simi-

lar dangers. .
A good size for the box is live by ten feet.
First remove the sod from an area of those

 

 

108 THE AMERICAN CITY

dimensions, and if the natural drainage is poor,
replace the top layer of soil with gravel. Pro-
cure two. boards fifteen feet long and eight
mcheswxde, a few nails, and a joist, two by
three inches, and eight feet long. Saw the
mist into pieces two feet long, sharpen the
ends, and drive them into the ground sixteen
inches at the points that are to be the corners
of the box. From each board cut a piece five
feet long for the ends of the box. Nail the
boards to the corner posts so as to form the
sides and ends; and, if you wish, bevel the
tops.

The apparatus is complete when you have
hauled in the load of sand, preferably of the
grade known to dealers as "fine beach.” Be
sure it is free from earth. It should be
changed at the first suggestion of foulness.
To keep out stray cats and dogs, it is well to
place a woven wire fence four feet high about
the box.

To make a sand table, construct one or more
boxes, eight inches deep, of any desired size.
preferably not over three by six feet. Build

a strong table to support the boxes, about
twelve inches above the ground.

Swing—Ordinarily, a branch of a tree, a
rope and a board are all that is needed to make
a swing; but when the tree is not conveniently
present, make a strong simple frame of two
posts set in concrete and a crossbar at the top.
If you tie the rope to the crossbar, or to
hooks placed in it, the rope will soon wear
through. A better way is to place eyebolts,
two to three inches apart, in the crosspiece.
Into the eyes insert a two-inch galvanized iron
pipe, with holes drilled two inches from each
end; place oxbow pins in the holes to hold
the pipe in place, and tie the rope to the pipe.

Horizontal Ban—For the bar itself a gal-
vanized iron pipe, carefully sandpapered, two
inches in diameter and six feet long, will serve

 

 

SETTING THE POSTS

as well as the more expensive and less durable
hard wood. Two inches from the end of the
pipe drill holes five-eighths of an inch in diam-
eter. For the supports, use posts four inches
square and nine or ten feet long. Six inches
from one end of each, exactly in the center,
bore a hole two inches in diameter. To inter-
sect this hole at the center at right angles, bore

VOL. XIII, No. 2

another one-quarter of an inch in diameter.
Set the uprights in concrete. Dig holes for
them three feet deep, six inches or more
square. In a tub, or some other convenient
receptacle, mix one shovelful of Portland ce-

 

THE HORIZONTAL BAR AT SWANZEY

ment, two shovelfuls of sand, and four of
coarse gravel or small stones, with enough
water to make a watery mud pie. At one of
The Companion demonstration playgrounds
the small children, who, although unable to
handle carpentry tools, insisted upon doing
something, gathered the stones. Mixing con-
crete is no more difficult, although much more
fascinating, than making mud pies. When the
cement has been thoroughly mixed, pour a little
of it into the bottom of the hole, then put in
the upright and pour the rest of the cement
round it. See that the upright stands plumb
and leave it undisturbed for forty-eight hours,
by which time the cement will have hardened.

In placing the other upright, remember that
the horizontal bar must not belie its name.
Probably you will have to experiment several
times with the depth of the foundation layer
of concrete before you.fix the upright at just
the right height above the ground to make the
bar horizontal. Place the post with the large
hole pointing toward the other post. Pour the
concrete as before. When it has hardened for
forty-eight hours put the bar in place through
the holes. and bolt it there with quarter-inch
carriage bolts. You can set both posts and the
bar the same day: but the slower method de-
scribed above will give better results.

If you wish a removable crossbar, use a pipe
six feet six inches long. and arrange the fas-
tening as directed in the description of the
teeter, which follows. With the bar removed.
the uprights can be used as a jumping stand-
ard. To hold the string or stick over which
the contestant jumps, drive three-inch nails
one inch into the side of the uprights. Always
jump from the side of the uprights opposite to
that in which the nails are placed.

An adjustable bar can be arranged by pierc-
ing the uprights with as many holes as you
want, and fastening the bar in place as directed
in the description of the teeter.

- wlr- __— g n.

 

 

AUGUST, 1915

See that the children who use the bar have
a soft place in which to land. Sand will save
injuries and prevent mud puddles from form—
mg.

Teeter—A board over a fence or a rock is
a teeter, but a better one can easily be made.
For the uprights, get two
pieces of five-by—five-inch
joist five and one-half feet
long. Four inches from
one end of each piece bore
a two-inch hole. Have
ready a piece of galvan-
ized iron, two-inch pipe
two feet long, with a cap
on one end, and a three-
eighth-inch hole drilled
two inches from the other
for an oxbow pin. You
can use another bow pin
instead of a cap, or can
substitute carriage bolts
for both, or can drill holes
through pipe and wood,
and bolt the pipe in place,
as you do the horizontal bar; but the first sug-
gestion is the simplest, since it permits the easy
removal of the pipe.

Dig holes, with their centers eighteen inches
apart, three feet deep, six inches square. Set
first one upright, then the bar, then the other
upright, as directed for the horizontal bar. Be
sure to allow the concrete sufficient time to
harden.

The plank should be fourteen feet long, two
inches thick, and ten inches wide; to keep it
in place upon the pipe, bolt to it on the under
side two crosspieces of hard wood, each two
inches square and ten inches long. For the

 

THE OXBOW PIN

 

 

THE TEETERS AT ARDONIA SCHOOL

carriage bolts that are to hold these cross-
pieces in place, bore four holes, each six feet
nine inches from each end of the plank, and
three inches from the edge. Pad the ends of
the plank to form a protection from sudden
Jars.

The teeter is so popular and so liable to
abuse that the plank should generally be taken
in every night, and the bar removed when the
playground is to be closed—officially—for more
than a few days.

Giant Stride.—With the giant stride boys and

THE AMERICAN CITY

Io9

girls are able to indulge in the passion for
flying that has been a characteristic of the race
from Icarus to Darius Green, and from Darius
Green to the Wrights. You can make cheaply
and easily a satisfying substitute for the ex-
pensive and complicated stride of the city play-
ground.

The basis is an old wagon wheel and a pole
eighteen feet long and five inches in diameter
at the small end. In almost any village the
wheel can be had for the asking, and the pole
probably can be cut in the woods.

If you use a wheel with a wooden axle stub,
remove the axle from the skein, which is the
“tapering metal sleeve surrounding a wooden
axle spindle to protect it from wear." Shape

 

THE GIANT STRIDE

the top of the pole to fit into the axle skein,
and fasten the skein securely in place.

If you use a wheel with a metal axle, cut off
the axle about a foot from the hub, and
sharpen it to a point. Here is where you may
have to call upon the blacksmith. Cut off the
spokes four inches from the hub. Into the
middle of the small end of the pole bore a two-
inch hole about six inches deep, and drive the
axle into it. If the blacksmith is helping you,
have him shrink an iron collar on the end of
the pole, to keep it from splitting. It is well
to use an all-metal wheel and axle.

Cut sixty feet of one-inch Manila rope into
four equal pieces. With copper wire. or by
splicing, attach the ropes to the hub. Knot
them at the bottom, and about every two feet
for the lower eight feet. After it has hung
in the sun and rain until it has stretched as
much as it will. apply a thin solution of pine
tar to preserve it.

Set the pole in concrete. four feet in the
ground. At that height, the lower knot of
the rope should clear the ground by about two
feet. It is well to place a tin or other water-
proof cover over the hub. if it is exposed. The
entire wheel may be used. and the ropes tied
to the felly; the result is a lengthened flying
stride, but an increase in danger.

Ball Fields.—The regulation ball field, with

ninety-foot base lines, requires three acres,

110

but a field half that size will serve. A back-
stop is easy to contrive, although probably the
side of a shed will continue to be the most com-
mon form. Be sure that small children are
not in range of fast balls.

The standard football field requires two and
three-quarters acres. Goal posts for Rugby
should be erected in the middle of the ends of
the field, eighteen feet six inches apart, with
crossbars ten feet from the ground. For soc-
cer—which is justly growing in popularity—-
the goal posts should be twenty-four feet apart,
with the crossbar eight feet from the ground.

Comparative Expense Accounts
Making a playground demands intelli-
gence and energy, rather than money. The
iArdonia, N. Y., and the Keene, N. H., play-
grounds are independent of each other, yet,
as the following table shows, the cost of
each proved to be about the same.

 

 

ARDONIA KEENE
HORIZONTAL BAR . . . . .. $2.15 $1.17
Bar . . . . . . . . .. $ .65 $ .57
Bolts . . . . . . . . . ** .04
Uprights . . . . . 1.00 .56
Labor  .50 .oo
TEETER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.37 2.1 1
Plank . . . . . . .. 1.17 1.50
Supports  .20 .29
Pipe and cap. . .25 .25
Two bolts.. . .. .05 .04
Bowipin . . . . . . ** .06
Boring holes. . .20 .00
Labor . . . . . . . . .50 .CO
GIANT STRIDE . . . . . . . . . 1.73 2.97
Pole . . . . . . . . . ** .50
Wheel . .. . ** .50
Rope  1.23 1.77
Wire  .00 .20
Labor  .50 .00
SAND PILE . . . . . . . . . . .. *** 1.12
Two boards
Joist
Nails
CEMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.29
Totals . . . . . . . . . . . $7.54 $7.10
** Donated.
Supervision

Whether your playground will be useful
to the community after the children have
forgotten the fun they had making it, and
after the novelty has worn off, will depend
very largely upon your skill in supervision.
The person in charge must be more a states-
man than a policeman. He must keep order
by organizing a smoothly running. rigor-
ously efficient democracy. He must teach
fairness: he must inspire the older children
with a wish to take care of the younger: he
must organize the players so that they them-
selves attend to the details of play, and, in-
deed, assume much of the responsibility of

THE AMERICAN CITY

vii... x111, No. 2

playground management. He must know
how to play, but it is even more important
that he know human nature. Expertness in
games is not his chief recommendation.
His command of psychology must be of an
immediate and practical sort.

This description of a playground paragon
applies to a man, but women are among the
most successful playground administrators.

The leader must remember constantly
that the playground is merely a; means to
an end. He must not assign to: his appa-
ratus any virtue in itself. ‘

A significant statement comes from one
of the leaders of The Companion demon-
stration playgrounds:

“When the first piece of apparatus was ready
for use at Ardonia, the oldest boys enjoyed it.
while the girls and the small children stood by
to watch them. A few weeks later the girls too
were using the giant stride, and soon afterward
their play hours were allotted them. Now
everyone has a different attitude toward play.
If all the pieces of apparatus are used, the re-
mainder of the children begin a game. The
play spirit has spread quickly since the play-
ground was started, and very few children
stand round simply looking at what the others
are doing. Country children are always con-
servative at first, but when they realize the

pleasure that can come from a new play their

enjoyment is more lasting than that of city
children.”

The play leader must remember that chil-
dren inherit the play instinct, not the games.
Games must be taught by the leader to the
children. They must be vital; the test of
the efl‘iciency of the playground is the games
the children play outside it. Unless the
leader can exert an influence over the entire
play life of the youth under his care he is
not a thorough success.

Kindergarten games, such as the simple
folk dance shown in one of the illustrations,
are best for younger children. Later they
seek play that combines competition with
drama. As they grow older—from eight to
eleven—their games become more competi-
tive; then is the time when, in order to keep
fun. not glory, as the object of play, it is
necessary to stimulate the competitive spirit
by motives inside rather than outside the
game. Giving prizes should be avoided as
much as possible.

Girls of from eleven to fourteen should
be encouraged to play lively games, lest, in
the words of Mr. Joseph Lee, president of
the Playground and Recreation Association
of America, “they suffer from premature
young ladyhood.”

Digitized by 600816

Showing the
Development
of the Now
Obsolete
Hand-
Pumping
Fire
Apparatus

 

The slowness of
the improvement
here shown stands
out in sharp con-
trast to the rapid
evolution of mod-
ern motor lire ap-
paratus, some re-
c e n t ty p e s o f
which are shown

on the two follow-

 

in g pages.

 

Photographs by courtesy of Dreyfou:

These Cities Are Proud of Their Auto-
mobile Fire Apparatus. Is Your City
Properly Equipped? ‘

'3'

 

 

DART COMBINATION FIRE TRUCK IN USE AT WATERLOO. IA.
[112]

AUGUST, I915 THE AMERICAN CITY n3

 

SOUTH BEND COMBINATION CAR WITH DRAW-BAR FOR TOWING STEAM FIRE
ENGINE AT MANITOWOC, WIS.

 

BOYD CITY SERVICE TRUCK, ALHAMBRA, CAL.

 

AMERICAN-LA FRANCE TYPE OF PUMPING ENGINE AS USED IN ELIZABETH. N. J.

- Two Modern Types of Fire Stations

 

BUNGALOW FIRE STATION, DENVER, COLO.

Built on park land at Twenty-second Avenue and Colorado Boulevard. On one side of the building
are the captain’s office, two rest rooms for the firemen and a kitchen, while the other side is equipped as
a dormitory. There is a full basement where coal and fuel for the truck are stored.

 

NEW FIRE STATION AT AMARILLO, TEXAS

This building. erected at a cost of $15,000, has enabled the city to secure a reduction of 12 cents in its
insurance key rate

[114]

 

‘ ll
l ll‘ M

PRIVATE

[MINIMUM-ll

 

Q
i
Q
E
Q
Q
E
Q
g
E
muluJ

'l‘ ii

GIFTS FOR PUBLIC
PURPOSES

‘ mummmmuummmmnnmmmIllnzalunnmnI-wmm;_l£

EDITOR’S NOTE—Under this heading THE AMERICAN CITY purposes to publish
from timt to time articles regarding notable or unique gifts from individuals in behalf
of municipal progress or social welfare. Photographs and information for this de-

partmenf are requested.

For the Welfare of the People of Pittsburgh

 The Sarah Heinz House

1 .
~ One of the most unique and successful
social uplift institutions in this part of the
country recently took up work in its new
home, when the dedication exercises of the
Sarah Heinz House, North Side, Pittsburgh,
were held in the auditorium of the new
building.

The work of the Sarah Heinz House was
begun fourteen- years ago in three small
rooms. Its objects were the development
and training of character in the young men
of the community. On the opening night
three boys were present, and on the second
night twenty. The increase in interest and
membership advanced at such a rapid pace
that the whole house was soon turned over

 

for the use of the boys. Two years later
the girls claimed recognition and were or-
ganized into two groups, according to age.
Since the beginning of the club the work
and play have been under the supervision
and direction of competent men and women.

The present plan in the House is that of
dividing the boys into numerous small clubs,
each of which has its own rules and require-
ments for membership. The House is al-
most entirely self-governing. Smoking,
drinking, swearing, and all other vices are
discouraged. The boys are given an oppor-
tunity for both recreation and work, and
the girls are also well taken care of.

The new building is a memorial erected
by H. J. Heinz in honor of his wife, and
the institution is supported and conducted

THE SARAH HEINZ HOUSE. PITTSBURGH

[115

116

entirely by members of
the Heinz family. The
building is equipped with
many luxurious fittings
and accessories. There is
a large swimming pool, a
billiard room, an interme-
iiate game room, a junior
game room and a well-
equipped gymnasium of
ample size. Sewing
classes are held for the
girls, and they are also
instructed in domestic scio
ence, bead work and ap-
plied art. '

The present enrollment
of the House is a little
over 400 and is equally di-
vided between boys and
girls. To be eligible for
membership a girl or boy

must be between the ages of seven and
Much of the work of the
House is done by boys and girls who have
graduated, as it were, and now help in do-
ing what they can for the younger ones.
The great work this institution is doing can
It is keeping off the

twenty-five.

hardly be estimated.
streets this great number

and is directing their minds and energies in
the right way, so that they may become, in

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 2

 

Photograph by courtesy of Pittsburgh Bureau (Ti Recreation:
SWIMMING POOL IN THE OLIVER BATH-HOUSE

maturity, clean, intelligent and useful citi-
zens of the community and of the country.

The purpose of the Sarah Heinz House is
stated as follows:

I. To provide wholesome social and recrea-
tional opportunities.

2. To utilize leisure time and energy.

3. To study individual requirements and
awaken and direct latent ability.
4. To develop Christian character and train

of young people

 

Photograph by courtesy of Pittsburgh Industrial Development Commission
OLIVER BATH-HOUSE, PITTSBURGH, PA.

 

AUGUST, 1915

for efficient citizenship the young people of the

community.
5. To draw together neighborhood residents

and friends for mutual helpfulness.
6. To train for service in the community.

In these six items are embodied the prin-
ciples of real social uplift—practical, every-

day, useful work.
+ d-

The Oliver Bath House
The new South Side public bath-house

was presented to the city of Pittsburgh on
Thursday, June 17. This bath-house was

erected according to the provisions of the
will of the late Henry W. Oliver, for the

free use of the people of Pittsburgh. The
presentation was formally made by Mrs.
Henry R. Rea, daughter of Mr. Oliver, to

THE AMERICAN CITY

117

Mayor Armstrong. The exercises were at-

tended by a number of people prominent in
civic and educational fields of work, and
were held under the auspices of the South

Pittsburgh Board of Trade.
The new bath-house is the most elaborate

and best equipped structure of its kind in
the city. It contains a pool 40 by 80 feet,

with swimming rings, spring-board and
other apparatus. The balconies which en-
circle the room are equipped with lockers.
Huge skylights and electric lamps furnish
the pool with light. The building is con-
structed of stone, concrete, tile, steel and
brick, and is equipped with modern heating,
ventilating and drainage systems and ap-
pliances.

 

Massachusetts Colleges Helpful in Public Work

A recent study to ascertain the degree in
which Massachusetts colleges contributed
service in public and semi-public work in
1914 revealed that 125 professors of these
colleges served the state of Massachusetts
in such positions in nearly 200 capacities.
The investigation was conducted by a com-
mittee of the University Council of Massa-
chusetts and was composed of President
Richard C. Maclaurin of the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, chairman, Presi-
dents Harry A. Garfield of Williams and
Ira N. Hollis of Worcester Polytechnic.

While it is natural that the greater part
of this administrative and advisory work
should be taken up by the larger colleges,
much is done by the smaller institutions,
and the women’s colleges furnish members
for those boards whose work particularly
concerns women. No less than 20 members
of the faculties of Massachusetts colleges
served upon state commissions or boards.
There is also a group of men who are not
themselves members of commissions, but
who are called upon to assist the latter by
giving expert advice. Such work in 1914
required the services of 21 men and women,
and included the testing of materials or
machines; collaborating in the preparation
of a food material exhibit for one of the
commissions; giving medical advice and
statistical information; advising the Civil
Service Commission, the Massachusetts
Highway Commission, the Metropolitan
Water and Sewage Commission, and the

State Board of Agriculture, and acting as
consultant in gypsy moth work.

In furnishing expert advice to municipali-
ties during 1914, 43 college teachers were
utilized. The list of towns served includes
Boston, Cambridge, Somerville, Lynn, Sa-
lem, Rockport, Wakefield, Framingham,
Wellesley, Quincy, Brockton, Cohasset,
Bridgewater, Taunton, Fall River, New
Bedford, Bourne, Concord, Marlboro, Bil-
lerica, Milford, Middleboro, Worcester,
Amherst, Gardner, Adams, Springfield,
North Adams, Williamstown, Waltham and
Pittslield.

Public-spirited societies composed of pri-
vate citizens drew upon the colleges for a
large portion of their management—an im-
portant service that the college professor
performs, in most instances, gratuitously,
as a contribution to the public welfare.
Some 70 of the instructing staffs of the col-
leges were utilized in 1914 for such work
as serving on a school board or other local
body, a committee of some industrial group
seeking for light on a public problem, a
charitable organization, a town planning
board or a society for getting at the proper
apportionment of taxes.

The institutions from which the profes-
sors rendering services in the various capa-
cities have come include Harvard, Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology, Worcester
Polytechnic Institute, Williams. Massachu-
setts Agricultural College, Tufts, Wellesley,

Mount Holyoke, Smith til Lowel Textile.
- Digitized by 008 C

g!

L.

lIllIlllliilillllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllullilllullllmlllllllnllmllllll"IllIllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllulllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll"MINNIE

FACTORS IN THE SUCCESS OR
FAILURE OF STREET PAVEMENTS

:uillllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllHllllllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllIllIllllllllllllIIllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllIll|lllllllllIlllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllnllllmlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllkI‘:

IlllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

IllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

Emma’s Nora—The following is the first of the series of articles under the above heading

to run monthly in THE AMERICAN CITY, as announced in the July number. The next six
articles in‘the series will be:

ASPHALT BLOCKS—E. J. Morrison. President, The Hastings Pavement Company.

BITUMINOUS MACADAM—Philip P. Sharples, Manager, Tarvia Department, Barrett Manu-
facturing Company.

BRICK—Will P. Blair, Secretary, National Paving Brick Manufacturers Association.
CONCRETE—W. A. McIntyre, Chief Road Engineer, American Portland Cement Manufac-
turers Association.

GRANITE—Zenas W. Carter, Field Secretary, Granite Paving Block Manufacturers
Association of the United States.

Woon BLOCKS—H. S. Loud, Chief Engineer, United States Wood Preserving Company.

The articles will be published in alphabetical order, as listed above. As the manufacturers
of the various types of pavement are vitally interested in the proper construction and mainte-
nance of their products, and have necessarily made a very careful study of this subject, they
are able to offer thoroughly practical advice regarding factors to be considered and mistakes
to be avoided. It is not the intention of this series of articles to advocate the merits of any
particular kind or brand of pavement. The assumption will be in each case that a city has
decided to lay a pavement of the type under discussion; the object of each article being to

offer suggestions as to how the longest life may be obtained for such a pavement at the least
possible expenditure to the municipality.

Sheet Asphalt Pavements

By Daniel T. Pierce
Executive Assistant, The Barber Asphalt Paving Company, Philadelphia

SPHALT pavements have been laid the editor of THE AMERICAN CITY in re-
A to an ever-increasing extent for the questing this article, it is that there should
last thirty-five years. For twenty be pointed out some of the neglected factors

years of this period sheet asphalt construc- in the building of successful asphalt sur—
tion has been standardized—that is to say, faces.

it has followed, or should have followed,
well-settled rules and theories, and since

the appearance of Clifford Richardson’s G’ading of the Mine'al £89380“

“The Modern Asphalt Pavement” in 1905, From the beginnings of sheet asphalt
there has been no good excuse for poor construction it was appreciated, by those

asphaltic construction. who gave the subject any thoughtful con-

Despite these facts, faulty construction sideration, that the grading of the mineral
constantly occurs and one cannot make even aggregate was the most important factor
the most casual Observation 0f PaVing Oper- of all. The older conceptions on this sub-
ations without seeing acts of commission ject have recently been given new Sig'
or omission that mean more or less serious nificance by Mr. Richardson's investigations
faults in the pavements under construction. of the colloidal character of the mineral

As the writer apprehends the purpose of matter of Trinidad asphalt. Heretofore

[118]

Digitized by 600816

 

 

AUGUST, 191 5

the grading of the mineral aggre-
gate of a sheet asphalt mixture has
been considered only with relation
to the amount of bitumen that a
sand of a given grading would
carry—i. e., the amount of asphalt
cement that would adhere to the
surface of the mineral particles, fill
the voids between them and form a
dense mat without the occurrence
of excessive bitumen.

A pound of ordinary sand con-
tains 129,000,000 particles, having
44,378 square feet of surface. A
pound of finer sand—of which 30
per cent of the particles will pass
80— and 100-mesh screens, and 7
per cent will pass a zoo-mesh
screen—contains 232,075,000 par-
ticles, having 60,503 square feet of
surface. A pound of dust or filler
such as is used in paving mixtures
contains 192,715,475,500 particles,
with 527,820 square feet of surface.
These figures are given for the
purpose of enabling one to realize
how enormously the surface area
presented by the mineral matter of
a paving mixture increases as the
sand particles decrease in size.
Filler or dust is the finest material
ordinarily considered with relation
to a paving mixture. The colloidal
investigations, however, have taken
us a step further, as may be judged
from the fact that if a cube with a
dimension of I cm. is divided only
to the coarsest colloidal size (.0001
mm. in diameter) the number of
particles produced would have a
surface 100,000 times greater than
that of the original cube.*

The observed effects of the pres-
ence of colloids in solution in the
bitumen of Trinidad asphalt are
such as to confirm and emphasize

 

’Those who are interested in pursuing
further the rcsult of Mr. Richardson's in-
vestigations along this line may be referred
to the following articles:

“A Unique Geoph sical Phenomenon"—
Journal of Physical hemistry, Vol. 19, No.
3.

“Colloids in Their Relation to Bituminous
Road Construction. the Asphalt Paving and
Other Industries"—thhnology Monthly
aqnd Harvard Engineering Journal, Vol. II,

o. 2.

“The Theory of a Perfect Sheet Asphalt
Surface"-—]ournal a;
dustrial Chemistry, une, 1915. Vol. 7, No.
6, page 463.

THE AMERICAN

 

Engineering and In- Composition of sheet

asphalt mixture for
heavy traffic

CITY 119

the ideas that have hitherto been
held as to the importance of fine
grading of sands entering an as-
phalt mixture. The factor most
often ignored in this connection is
the great importance of the mate-
rial of a size passing the 100- and
the 80-mesh screens. For a heavy
traffic street the pr0portion of 80-
and Ioo-mesh material in the sand
should be at least 34 per cent, and
for light trafi‘ic mixtures not less
than 26 per cent. This is not only
of importance in connection with
the stability of the mixture, but it
will be found impossible, if this
portion of the grading is deficient,
to add an adequate amount of dust
or filler; for in the absence of suf-
ficient 80- and loo-mesh particles
the filler will “ball.” Observing
this, the unskilled asphalt contrac-
tor is likely to diminish the amount
of filler instead of increasing the
amount of 80- and loo-mesh parti-
cles, with the result that an unsat-
isfactory pavement will be laid.

One of the first steps in the build-
ing of a sheet asphalt pavement
should be to have the available sup-
plies of sand carefully examined
and to reject sand that does not
come up to requirements. The
character and shape of the sand
grains is important. With respect
to the adhesion of the bitumen,
there is as much difference between
sands as there is between a ground-
glass surface and polished glass.
A hard, clean quartz sand, moder-
ately sharp, is the most desirable
for aSphalt mixtures.

Pavement failures often arise
from the fact that anything is re-
garded as filler which will pass a
zoo—mesh sieve. Such material
may, however, not be a filler in any
proper sense. It is the amount of
material which is so impalpably fine
as not only to pass a zoo-mesh
sieve, but also to remain suSpended
in water for at least fifteen seconds,
which is of value as filler; 65 per
cent of the zoo-mesh material in a
paving mixture should be fine
enough to satisfy this test. Ground
limestone is ordinarily used for this

120

purpose, but it is not so satisfactory as finely
ground Portland cement; and the slight ad—
ditional cost of a mixture in which Port-
land cement is used as filler is amply jus-
tified by the better results obtained. As to
the amount of filler in proportion to the‘
aggregate as a whole, it should be such that
the finished surface mixture will contain at
least 10 per cent of zoo-mesh particles.
Neglect of any of the factors just men-
tioned as pertaining to the grading of the
mineral aggregate which forms 90 per cent
of a paving mixture, will affect, to a greater
or less extent, the success of the finished
pavement.

Tbe $inder Course

Neglect of the importance of the binder
course sometimes goes so far as to lead to
its omission altogether. It is that part of
the pavement which forms a cushion be-
tween the wearing surface and the foun-
dation. Practically every one whose opin-
ion is of value is agreed that “close” binder
is much to be preferred to the “open” binder
still used to a considerable extent. Open
binder is merely coated stone of from V;
inch to 1 inch in size. Close binder is prac-
tically an asphaltic concrete mixture of
stone, sand and asphalt cement. A better
binder course than the open form can be
made by the use of old surface material
softened by steam and mixed with stone.
Additional asphalt cement must be added
to coat the stone and enrich the old surface
mixture. Binder prepared in this way, al-
though costing less than close binder, is
superior to ordinary open binder for the
intermediate course of an asphalt pavement.

The fault most frequently noted in con—
nection with the laying of the binder course
is that it is placed too far in advance of
the surface mixture, while to get the best
results the wearing surface should be
placed on the binder course before the lat-
ter has a chance to cool and gather dirt.
Despite this well-known fact, we not infre-
quently see a block or more of binder course
laid one day and the laying of the wearing
surface delayed until the next day. Not
only does the binder course cool off under
these circumstances, but it 'is likely to be-
come more or less dirty, and this weakens
the bond between it and the wearing sur-

face.
It may not be out of place to mention

I.

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 2

here a fact that is of considerable impor-
tance in the preparation of close binder, as
well,as in the making of asphaltic concrete
weai‘ing surfaces. This is the inadvisability
of heating sand and stone in the same drum,
for the reason that the stone becomes too
hot by the time the sand is heated to a
sutiicient temperature. It is highly desir-
able to heat the stone and sand separately.

The raking of the wearing surface and
of the binder course is also a factor of im-
portance in the success of pavements of
this type. Only by the greatest care and
skill can a perfectly even distribution of
the material be obtained. Entirely too
much is left to the roller man. The broad
wheels of the roller do not search out the
weak spots or those that are not as dense
as the surrounding material; but these will
soon. appear under traffic if the raking has
not resulted in an even distribution of the
material and the elimination of all lumps.
A loaded wagon tire, it must be remem-
bered, exerts a great deal more pressure to
the inch than rollers exert. Loaded traffic
will find the weak spots that the roller
glosses over.

Smoothers should be used only at joints
or where one day’s work joins the preced—
ing day’s. Too free use of the smoothing
iron means that an attempt is being made
to obscure defects. Slightly porous spots
will close up under traffic, while the use of
smoothing irons to correct such defects may
seriously damage the wearing surface.

The rolling of an asphalt pavement is
something of an art. Skilled roller men are
perhaps harder to obtain than any other
class employed by asphalt pavers. Where
work is being done by contractors who are
properly equipped for it, it will be observed
that the rolling is probably begun with a
2V2-ton roller, followed by a 5-ton and
completed with an 8—ton roller; the lighter
one being also used in cross rolling the
street. If this represents perfection in roll-
ing—the object of which is, of course.
thoroughly and uniformly to compact the
wearing surface—it is evident that the same
results cannot be obtained by the use of
an 8-ton roller for the initial and only roll—
ing of the pavement. While it would be
unfair in some cases -to require that the
contractors should provide themselves with
rollers of different weights, this cannot be
ignored in any account of the factors that

Digitized by 600816

Hm. m -
a HIM-aw“ *

\
:

f‘munnuh'

 

LAYING SHEET ASPHALT, APPROACH TO THE CAPITOL
Note cross-rolling with light-weight roller

 

LAYING CONCRETE FOUNDATION WITH BOOM-DELIVERY MIXER FOR BERMUDEZ
ASPHALT PAVEMENT IN FRONT OF CAPITOL, WASHINGTON, D. C.

[121]

122

contribute to the construction of perfect
asphalt surfaces.

The Foundation

It should go without saying that concrete
foundations for asphalt pavements should
be of sul’licient thickness and that this thick-
ness should be adapted to the traliic that the
street is expected to carry. In purely resi-
dence districts 4 inches may be sul’ticient,

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 2

different from that of any tral’tic that pave-i
ments have heretofore carried. Trucks with
rounded rubber tires have the effect of
pushing pavements out at right angles to
the movement of the truck; while hereto-
fore we have had only to contend with the
compressive action of loaded vehicle tires
and the back-thrust of rapidly moving pleas-
ure cars.

The effect of motor-truck tral’tic empha-

 

CONCRETE FOUNDATION FOR ASPHALTIC CONCRETE \VEARING SURFACE
Note roughness of surface

but 5 inches would be better, while there
are streets of such heavy traffic that 8
inches would not be excessive; and in Lon-
don one very heavy trahic street has re-
cently been provided with a 12-inch con-
crete foundation. All ideas as to the thick-
nesses of concrete foundations have, of
course, had to be revised in the light of the
enormously increased weights that pave-
ments are now called upon to carry in the
form of heavily loaded motor-trucks. The
action of tradic of this description is also

sizes the need for lateral support of all
types of asphaltic pavements, in the form
of headers or curbs, and also makes it
necessary to consider the advisability of
revising standard proportioning of the
thickness of binder course and wearing sur-
face. Where very heavy motor-trucking is
to be expected, better results will be ob—
tained by increasing the thickness of the
binder course and decreasing the wearing
surface; that is to say, where ordinarily
there would be laid 1% inches of binder

AUGUST, 1915

and a 2-inch top, it will probably be found
desirable on streets carrying motor-truck
traffic to increase the binder course to 2%
inches and decrease the top to 1% inches.
Some authorities are of the opinion that
even better results would be obtained under
such circumstances by laying a 2%-inch
binder course and only an inch top, the
object being to overcome the thrust of the
motor—truck tires.

An important factor in connection with
the foundation is the degree of smoothness
or roughness with which it is finished.
F rom time to time advocates arise for
smooth-finished foundations, while, on the
other hand, we find those who not only ad-
vocate but have patented various schemes
for leaving projecting stones above the con-
crete for the purpose of “anchoring” the
top to the foundation. The best advice on
this point, in the opinion of the writer, is
that which counsels the laying of a mod-
erately rough concrete surface without pro‘
jecting stones. In other words, the sur-
face should not be “floated,” but should
be left in the condition it will naturally
take if not too thoroughly tamped. There
should be no projecting stones, for the rea-
son that these result in an uneven thickness
of the top and make it impossible to com-
press the entire pavement uniformly under
the roller. The schemes which call for pro-
jecting stones on the surface of the con-
crete foundation contemplate the elimina-
tion of the binder course and apply more to
asphaltic concrete than to sheet asphalt con-
struction.

This suggests a comment upon the irregu-
larity of so-called asphaltic concrete mix-
tures. A miscellaneous and unclassified
group of pavements under this general term
have come into considerable popularity in
recent years. The mixtures range all the
way from sheet asphalt formulas with the
addition of 20 per cent of fine stone to com-
binations of 60 per cent of stone and 40
per cent of sand. Of course, these cannot
be of equal merit, and in general it will
be found that the more nearly the asphaltic
concrete approximates the standard sheet
asphalt surface mixture plus the stone, the
better it will be.

We can hardly leave out the asphalt in
a consideration of asphalt pavements,
though here we enter the field of conten-
tion. A good many paving failures are the

THE AMERICAN CITY

123

result of the low-bid curse—that is to say,
the requirement that municipalities must
accept the lowest bid, whether or not it is
the best bid. This works out badly in two
ways: it means that the contractor will, in
fact he often must, use the cheapest mate-
rials, and with a very slight margin of
profit, or none at all, there is always a
strong temptation to “skin” a job. One
corrective for this situation THE AMERICAN
CITY has already discussed (“Wide-Open or
Alternate Specifications?” March, 1915),
the way being pointed out by means of
which municipalities may retain the option
of accepting the low bid for products of
different classes. This policy is sharply
distinguished from the plan of lumping to-
gether in one specification products of
widely differing character and price; for
when this is done, and the low bid must be
accepted, an effective monopoly is given to
whatever may be cheapest. Alternate or
classified specifications are, therefore, a
factor in the success or failure of pave-
ments.

It is assumed that the description of the
desirable chemical and physical character-
istics of the asphalt to be used is such as to
secure a good material. It will, however,
aid in securing better pavements if some
requirement is' added that the asphalt shall
not .merely show desirable characteristics
when it leaves the refinery, but that it shall
retain these characteristics after combina-
tion with the aggregate.

Inspection

Even with the best specifications it is, of
course, necessary that there should be such
plant and street inspection and control as
will make it sure that the specifications are
being observed as to quantity and quality of
asphalt and flux, temperatures, proportion-
ing of the mixture, amount of cement in
the foundation, and the thickness of the
latter, as well as of the binder course and
wearing surface. Obviously these are all
factors in the success or failure of asphalt
pavements.

Inspection in name only will not accom-
plish anything, nor is it always wise simply
to employ an “expert” and assume that all
will be well. As an example of the truth of
this statement may be instanced the expe-
rience of a certain city in New York State.
It accepted a pavement on one of its ave-

Digitized by 600816

124 THE AMERICAN

CITY VOL. XIII, No. 2

 

LAYING SHEET ASPHALT ON FIFTH
Motor trucks insure delivery of the mixture at proper temperature.

AVENUE, NEW YORK
Thorough raking is an essential to the

best results

nues on the advice of one of a firm of
experts who told the city council that “your
pavement has been laid in accordance with
the requirements of the specifications and
will give you excellent service.” Just one
year later (June 12, 1914) another member
of the same firm had to write a letter say~
ing that from 40 per cent of the pavement
on some blocks to 100 per cent of the area
of other blocks would have to be resurfaced.
Evidently in this case the prime factor of
failure was the choice of the experts who
supervised the work.

The foregoing. of course, is not a com-

plete guide as to things that should be done
or avoided in the building of a sheet
asphalt pavement. It represents merely an
attempt to point out some of the factors
that count in success or failure. There is
no mystery about building a sheet asphalt
pavement. There are easily available
sources of information on the subject, and
the faults that too often occur are due not
so much to the difficulties of first-class
work, or even ignorance on the subject, as
to the impulse to follow the line of least re-
sistance and “get the job finished” in the
easiest possible way.

 

ROLLING NORTHEAST BOULEVARD. PHILADELPHIA
Using 2%-, 5. and 8-ton rollers to secure perfect compaction of the asphalt surface

First Aid to the Injured

Instructions Given to Members of the Uniformed Force of the Fire
Department of the City of New York

Shock

HOCK is a more or less profound de-
S pression of the nervous system. Col-
lapse is another term used in describ-
ing this condition. A person sustaining in-
juries, burns or even sudden fright is liable
to suffer from shock. The amount of shock
depends not so much upon the nature of the
accident as upon the character of the indi-
vidual.

Symptoms of Shock.—The onset of the
symptoms is likely to be unnoticed unless
looked for.

There is either apathy (a stupid condition
in which the patient manifests no interest
in what is taking place about him), partial
or complete unconsciousness, feeble breath-
ing, face pale, pinched and anxious; eyelids
drooping, eyes dull and pupils dilated; pulse
feeble, usually rapid, and often absent at
the wrist; the skin is cold, and there may
be shivering; sometimes the mind wanders.
These symptoms may follow the slightest
injury, and again they may be absent or
only present in a slight degree after the
severest accident. In most cases reaction
will take place in a few hours; in others no
reaction takes place, and the person dies
from heart failure.

Treatment—If there is severe bleeding
it must be stopped, but no more than this
should be done until after attending to the
shock. Place the patient in a horizontal
position, the head slightly lowered; give a
dessertspoonful of whiskey or alcoholic
liquor in a tablespoonful of hot water every
fifteen minutes until five or six doses have
been taken. Wring out flannels in hot
‘water and lay them on the chest and abdo-
men; then cover the patient with a blanket
to keep in the heat. Place hot water bottles,
hot bricks or anything hot along both the
sides of the body and legs, inside the thighs
and under the arm pits; in using hot water
bottles or hot bricks care must be had not
to burn the patient, and to warm and stimu-
late the patient in every way is the object
of treatment.

Sufocalfon

- If a person has been under water, or in a
room full of illuminating gas or thick with
smoke, in a' sewer, old mine, or well, or has
been hanged or choked, in every case the
result is the same: the air has been pre-
vented from reaching the lungs, conse-
quently he is suffocated. The person may
be completely insensible, breathing slightly,
or not at all, his face purple and swollen,
lips livid; but these signs are not always
present, for instance, in cases of exposure
to a noxious gas.

Treatment—If it be hanging, cut the
rope. If water, take it out of him; do not
let the fact that hours have elapsed be your
excuse, as in apparent drowning, as well as
in other forms of suffocation, people have

. recovered after being insensible for long

intervals. A person taken out of the water,
either drowned or apparently so, may have a
purple, swollen face, livid lips, and eyes
bloodshot, in which case he has fought
against death and has been suffocated by
the exclusion of air from the lungs, and
possibly has drawn water instead of air
into them. If he appears pale and fiabby,
it is probable he has fainted or there has
been some failure of the heart. The treat—
ment must be carried out on the spot, except
in extremely cold weather, when it is proper
to remove the body to a place of shelter if it
be near. The first object is to make the
patient breathe. Send immediately for
blankets, dry clothes and stimulants; allow
the chest and shoulders to be exposed to the
wind. Open the clothing about the neck and
waist; turn the patient on his face; clasp
your hands together beneath the stomach
and lift as high as possible, letting the head
hang down so that the water can run out.
Hold in this position for a few seconds and
turn patient on his back; if breathing is ab-
sent, apply smelling salts to the nose, hold-
ing the container a few inches away from
face; tickle the nose with feather or straw;
dash cold water on the chest and face; or
first cold water, then hot water, being care-

[125]

Digitized by 600816

126 THE AMERICAN CITY

ful not to burn the patient. If the above
measures are not successful in a few mo-
ments, you must resort to artificial respira—
tion.

Artificial Respiration

To carry out artificial respiration, Syl-
vester’s method is the best. The patient is
placed in a recumbent position; shoulders
slightly raised by a coat or blanket rolled
and placed under the shoulder blades, throw-
ing the head backward; the mouth must be
opened, the jaws parted and held apart by
the insertion of a cork, with a string at-
tached; the tongue must be pulled forward
beyond the lips and held in this position by
an assistant armed with a handkerchief or
rag of any kind; the throat must be cleaned
out by passing a finger into the mouth to
detect the presence of any foreign body,
such as false teeth, tobacco quid or chewing
gum, or any other article that might be
found there; remove these at once. This is
an important matter and if not attended to
your efforts at restoration will not be suc-
cessful. If you have no assistance to man-
age the tongue, drive a long pin through
the tongue about half an inch from the tip;
this pin will rest against the upper and
lower lips and prevent the tongue from
falling back into the throat, causing suffo-
cation and defeating the purpose for which
you are working. Kneel behind the patient’s
head, grasp him by the forearms, half-way
between the elbows and the wrists, draw
his arms up and over his head, rather quick-
ly but steadily, until his hands touch the
ground or door behind the head. Hold them
there for a couple of seconds. This motion
draws up the ribs, thus expanding the chest,
and air enters; the arms are held back two
seconds to allow the air to enter and fill the
lungs. The first’movement is now reversed
—i.e., carry the arms back to the chest
walls until they rest against the sides, the
forearms on the top; press the forearms
firmly downward and inward against the
walls of the chest, for the space of one sec-
ond ; this action depresses the ribs, contracts
the chest and forces the air out. Then again
repeat the first movement of drawing the
arms back, and repeat the movements alter-
nately, regularly and persistently, at the
rate of sixteen times per minute, until some
effort is made by the patient to breathe.
When evidence of returning breathing is
seen. the use of ammonia inhalations is now

in order, slapping, dashing cold water until
gradually respiration is resumed. Do not
be discouraged if you are not immediately
rewarded by your efforts to revive the pa-
tient; sometimes an hour or an hour and
one-half have intervened before favorable
symptoms of recovery have been mani-
fested. In every case where the services
of a doctor can be obtained, send for him
immediately. The movements of the arms
should be made with regularity and force.
Hot water bottles should be placed along
the sides of the body, between the thighs
and at the soles of the feet.

Burns

Burns are dangerous, however caused.
Influenced by their location, depth and ex-
tent, they are divided into three classes or
degrees:

First Degree: When the skin is simply red-

dened.
Second Degree: When the skin is blistered.

Third Degree: When the skin is charred.

If they are of large size they are apt to
be fatal.

They are always accompanied by shock.
Treat by applying freely on the affected
parts carron oil (which consists of equal
parts of linseed oil and lime water) ; cover
the parts thickly with cotton batting or fian-
nel; secure the whole with a light bandage.
The air must be kept from the burned parts
and they must be kept warm. Burns may
be treated with free applications of sweet
oil, fresh lard, vaseline, etc.

Scolds

Burns from steam may be treated by dust-
ing the parts thickly with bicarbonate of
soda (commonly known as baking soda).
Cover the parts in the same manner as
burns from heat, with cotton batting or
danneL

W 011an

A wound is a breach of continuity of the
tissue, or a division of tissue. Wounds are
of various kinds: incised, lacerated, con-
tused, etc., and are dangerous in proportion
to their location, extent and depth. For
practical reasons this subject will be treated
from the standpoint of asepsis—i. e., teach-
ing how to dress a wound so as to lessen
the danger of blood poisoning. If a doctor
is available, his services should be secured.
Wounds should be treated with an antisep-
tic solution made of a tablet of bichloride of

Digitized by 600816

VOL. XIII, No. 2

AUGUST, 1915 T HE

mercury, dissolved in a quart of water.
These tablets are carried in the medical bag
accompanying each hook and ladder truck
in the Department. Take some gauze, soak
it in the solution and wash out the wound,
being sure to remove all foreign matter,
such as grit, splinters, pieces of cloth—in
fact, anything that does not belong in the
wound—then place a compress of gauze wet
with the solution on the wound, then band-

age comfortably to prevent the ingress of
germ into the wound.

Hemorrhage or $Ieeding

When a wound occurs, it is usually ac-
companied by bleeding—this may be pro-
fuse or small. When the small blood vessels
are opened the bleeding is called oozing,
because it comes from the capillaries. When
the larger blood vessels, such as the arteries
and veins, are opened, the hemorrhage is
profuse, and requires immediate attention
for its control. If the wound is in an artery,
the blood flows with a spurt or impulse, and
is bright red in color.

If the wound is in a vein, the blood flows
smoothly, and is of a dark red or purple
color. Frequently both artery and vein are
opened, because they, as a rule, accompany
each other, running side by side. We then
have a mixed hemorrhage, which makes
it impossible to determine from its appear-
ance whether an artery or vein has been
opened or both. Quickly checking the flow
of blood is the object to be attained, and
for this reason it is better to compress the
blood vessel by placing your linger or thumb
in the wound, making as much pressure as
you can, placing a compress over the wound
and binding it tightly on. If this does not
control the bleeding, you must apply a tour-
niquet at a point between the wound and the
heart; they may be made from rubber hose,
rope, cord, suspenders, bandages or any
cloth that will encircle the injured limb—a
handkerchief folded in a triangle in which
a small stone or any hard substance is
placed, may be wound around the limb, and
a loop through which a stick may be passed
can be used as a capstan for tightening the
compress.

Study the situation of the arteries in
order that you may know at what points to
compress them, but unless the wound is in
the leg or arm, the bleeding must be arrested
by placing the fingers or a pad directly over
the bleeding point, as when the wound is

AMERICAN CITY

127

in the chest or abdomen it is not possible
to reach and compress the arteries which
convey the blood to the wound; any hemor-
rhage may be stopped by direct application
of pressure to the bleeding point.

In the upper arm the artery lies on the
inner side of the bone and under the biceps
muscle; by pressing the thumb deep under
this muscle and toward the bone the artery
may be compressed.

In the upper part of the thigh the artery
lies in front and just below the center of the
groin; by deep pressure with the, two
thumbs at this point the blood supply of the
whole leg may be cut off.

The supply of blood to the shoulder, arm
pit and whole arm is interrupted by com-
pressing the artery which lies under the
collar bone; to do this, stand behind the
patient and thrust the lingers far down be-
hind the collar bone.

A bleeding wound should be treated as
follows: Lay the patient at full length, the
head very slightly raised, raise the part of
the body wounded to a higher level than
the rest, expose the wound—that is, if there
is clothing or anything else in the way, re-
move it—then cleanse the wound and band-
age it as described before. Venous bleeding
in a limb is controlled by raising the limb.

In cases where there is bleeding from
places to which it is difficult to apply pres-
sure or a bandage properly, a piece of ice
may be held on the compress, allowing the
very cold water to reach the wound. Ice
or cold in any form will arrest moderate
bleeding; use very cold water if a bleeding
wound is to be washed, or else use water
as hot as can be borne—either contracts the
blood vessel. Warm water or warmth in
any form increases bleeding.

Fractures

A fracture is a broken bone. In simple
fractures the bone is broken, but skin is not
injured to such an extent as to expose the
bone.

A compound fracture is so called because
the skin and the intervening parts are also
divided down to point of fracture. In com-
pound fractures the ends of the broken bone
may be driven through the skin. A com-
pound fracture is more serious and danger-
ous than a simple fracture.

Treatment—The treatment by any but a
surgeon must depend on the surrounding
circumstances; rid yourself of the idea that

Digitized by 600816

128

something must be done immediately. There
is not the least hurry about setting a frac-
ture. If the patient can remain at or near
the scene of accident until the surgeon
arrives, place him in a comfortable position
and uncover the injured part, cut every-
thing such as clothing away with scissors
or sharp knife, place injured part on a pil-
low or other soft material; lay a wet cloth
on the fracture and sprinkle it frequently
with cold water. Do not by unnecessary
handling add to the suffering of the injured
one and perhaps retard his recovery.

If a patient must be moved for any rea-
son before the arrival of the surgeon, you
may draw the bone into as nearly its nat-
ural position as possible by placing one hand
above and the other below the seat of frac-
ture and pulling steadily without using un-
necessary violence ; take two pieces of board
as long as or longer than the bone that is
injured, and, if possible, as wide as the limb
is thick, place on them a pad made of cot-
ton batting or any soft substance, apply

them on the limb and secure firme by tying
them with strips of cloth or handkerchiefs,

placing them above and below the seat of
the fracture; anything with a fiat surface
may be used for splints. In an emergency
for a fracture of the leg below the knee, a
soft pillow may be placed under the leg,
turning up the sides of the pillow and secur-
ing it firmly about the leg with strings of
cloth, handkerchiefs, etc.

Transportation of Wounded

When it is necessary to remove an in-
jured person from one place to another it
should be done in such a manner as to
cause him as little danger and suffering as

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 2

possible. By rough handling and transpor-
tation the sharp ends of a broken bone may
be thrust through the flesh or may cut into
an artery, or the wound may bleed afresh.
After the wound has been attended to, the
patient should, if possible, be placed on a
stretcher. Stretchers may be improvised
from doors, shutters or boards; and, what is
more convenient for use in the Department,
horse blankets, carried on the apparatus,
stretched over the handles of the short
hooks and secured by safety pins, make a
good means of transporting the injured.
When ready to place the patient on a
stretcher, one bearer kneels on each side
of the patient and joins hands underneath
his hips and shoulders with the bearer on
the opposite side; a third man attends to
the wounded limb and looks after the band-
age or splints that may have been applied.
The bearers then rise to their feet, raising
the patient in a horizontal position, and by
a series of side steps bring the patient over
the stretcher (which should always be
placed at the head of the patient on a line
with his body), he should be lowered quietly
onto it and made as comfortable as possible.
The taller of the two bearers places him-
self between the handles at the head of the
patient and the other at the foot. The
bearer at the head starts with his left foot,
the other with his right. Should they keep
step, the stretcher would roll badly. The
patient is carried feet first, excepting when
going up a hill or upstairs, when he is car-
ried head first. Other means for transport-
ing the injured when a stretcher cannot be
procured or improvised have been taught
in the Department schools of instruction,
and are familiar to all members of the uni-

formed force.

EDITOR’S Nora—This material on the treatment of in-
jured persons is contained in a manual issued by the Fire

Department of the City of New York for the instruction

of the men of the service.

The system of calisthenics,

which has been made a compulsory daily requirement of
the Department and which is set forth in the same man-
ual, was reproduced in the July issue of THE AMERICAN
CITY under the heading, “Keeping the Fireman Fit.” See
also the front cover illustrations of the City Edition of

this number.

Digitized by 600816

PICTURES AND PARAGRAPHS

Items and Illustrations of Interesting and Ingenious Ideas

 

Block Numbers on Street Lights

There are indeed new things under the
sun, and one of the latest is the block num-
ber on street lights. Block numbers are now
shown on the Huntington Drive, between
Los Angeles and Pasadena, Cal. In that
section the illuminated street sign is used in
several places, but this is the first instance
where the block number has been used in
connection with it. The letters and num-
bers are white upon a background of blue
glass, the glass strips being supported by a
framework of metal. During the daytime
the signs are plainly visible, and at night

 

ILLUMINATED ' STREET. SIGN SHOWING
BLOCK NUMBER g a

they are illuminated by the light from the
large frosted glass globe located immedi-
ately behind them. Both the street sign and
the block number are practical and are ex-
tremely helpful to passersby. ‘

Giving the Trees the Right Start

An excellent method of securing newly-
set shade trees so that’they will make a
proper start and keep their vertical position
until thoroughly rooted, is exemplified in
the accompanying picture. The trees
here shown form one of several lines of
shade trees bordering the walks leading

 

MODE OF SECURING NEWLY SET SHADE
‘TIIEIHS

to the new wing of the Massachusetts State
House, in Boston. All are well grown, and
are secured to one another by a wire about
6 feet above the ground, fastened through
a one—foot section of old hose pipe. Each
tree is braced from the back by means of a
6-inch board. The end encircles the tree
bole. being cut rounding, with a one-foot
section of split rubber hose for protection
to the bark; wire is passed through and
secured to the board, and encircles the tree
in the hose. Several layers of burlap are
sewed about the trunk to a height of 5 feet
from the ground. These protecting and
straightening devices are kept in place sev-
eral weeks.

[129]

130

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 2

 

FIFTY-FOOT BED OF ENGLISH DAISIES ON THE FRANKLIN-LOUISIANA STREET
BRIDGE, HOUSTON, TEXAS

A Bridge in Bloom

Over the stream in Houston, Texas, called
'BuFfalo Bayou, in the center of a bridge
which covers the intersection of three
streets, is found the charming bed of Eng-
lish daisies seen in the accompanying illus-
tration. The bed is 50 feet in diameter.
In the center is a large Phoenix Canariensis
palm, and surrounding this are 400 daisy
plants bright with many-colored flowers.
There is another bed of similar character
on Capital Avenue Bridge, and many street
intersections in Houston have been beauti-
lied with these refreshing plots of flowers.
When the blooming season of the daisies

ends, the'bed is planted to petunias.
-l- -l-

The “Kids’” Own
Park

The city of Pitts-
burgh has added an-
other to its string of
parks. None of the
city officials was pres-
ent at the dedication of
this latest breathing
spot, but they would
have been had they
known about it.

Jitney Park is the
new one. The land-
scaping and other de-
tails of construction
were managed by the
small boys and girls
whose homes are in the
congested Soho dis-
trict. The engineering C.'='-:H'h‘.r_‘-.'
work was under the

 

direction of “Boots” Shannon, Ebenezer
Garrison, “Red” Kovensky and Mickey
Donovan. Ebenezer represents the negro
race. Jitney Park is a park of all nations.
It lies in the very heart of Pittsburgh’s
worst tenement district. The ground is a
hillside near the bank of the Monongahela
River. At one place there is a flat on which
baseball games are played. The older boys
conceived the idea of a park—“to make it
nice for the kids,” they explained. The
accompanying photograph shows how they
started.

The boys have cleaned up the whole hill-
side—several acres of waste ground—and
they did it without encouragement from

, their elders or from the city authorities.“

 

(If ("itfsl‘lfrgjlr Industrfdf I’cT’c.'r_.Jf‘m..‘nr Cmnmisxirm

THE “KIDS’” OWN PARK IN PITTSBURGH

AUGUST, 1915

THE AMERICAN CITY I31

 

 

When some one discov-
ered the park and reported
it at City Hall, Mayor
Armstrong made personal
investigation. The Play-
grounds Association, too,
displayed a lively interest.
A number of park swings
have been given to these
young citizens of foreign

parentage. Supt. W. F.
Ashe, of the Bureau of
Recreation, has volun-

teered to give his aid and
advice, and gives assur-
ance that although he is
in favor of these young-
sters managing their own
park, the city will gladly
furnish such equipment as is needed to
make it a real playground.

STAIRWAY CUT IN A FALLEN FIR TREE
IN A PARK IN PORTLAND, ORE.

 

 

 

STUMP OF TREE USED AS A BAND-STAND IN A PARK IN

TACOMA, WASH.

Novel Uses of Trees in Western Parks

During a severe storm in Portland, Ore.,
one of the magnificent fir trees which beau-
tify Macleay Park fell headlong down a
slope, and lay, a hundred-foot giant, appar-
ently quite “done for.” It proved, however,
that the line tree was yet to serve its great-
est usefulness. From top to bottom of its
immense length a stairway four feet wide
at the broadest point was cut, and this was
edged on both sides with a rustic railing.
The tree is now the delight of visitors to
the park, especially children. It takes the
place of a steep and slippery path which
had long been considered dangerous.

Another example of a converted tree is
the cedar stump used as a band stand in
Wright Park, at Tacoma. Wash.’ This is
twenty feet in diameter, twelve feet high,
and easily capable of holding twenty-live
musicians. It originally came from west-
ern Washington, where the first proprietor
used the inside as a residence, having hol-
lowed it out for that purpose and put in a
full-size front door, which is visible in the
photograph. It was exhibited at the Alaska-
Pacilic Exposition held in Seattle, after
which it was purchased and donated to the
Metropolitan Park District of Tacoma by
W. W. Seymour, a former president of the
park district and an ex-mayor of Tacoma.
The stump was installed in Wright Park
as a band stand by the park district com-

missioners.

How to Avoid Root Growth in House Drains
By William Robert Marshall

HILE the majority of municipali-
 ties prohibit vitrified stoneware
sewer pipe in cellar bottoms and
compel the use of cast iron pipe inside the
foundation walls, and to a distance of from
6 to 10 feet outside of the foundation walls,
few have been able to pass and enforce an
ordinance prohibiting the use ofwvitrijied
stoneware sewer pipe for house drains
from the house to the main sewer. Pasa-
dena, Cal., however, recently passed an or-
dinance prohibiting the use of any other
than cast iron pipe for the entire house
drain, and prohibiting also any replacement
of stoneware pipe where it has been neces-
sary to repair a clogged or leaky drain.
This ordinance is being rigidly enforced
The accompanying photographs show the
need for the law in this respect more clearly
than any argument that could be advanced.
Fig. I shows the root growth in a ditch
where a clogged stoneware house drain
hadlto be actually broken out to remove
the obstruction, and shows the drain relaid
with cast iron pipe with caulked joints.
The fallacy of relaying stoneware pipe in
this ditch is obvious, as the roots would
soon force an entrance through the cement
joints, or raise the pipe and break the joints
in their quest for moisture, and soon ren-
der the? drain useless. I investigated one
casevvhere-the plumber who was replacing

a clogged stoneWare drain with cast iron

told me that he had laid a new drain of

 

FIGURE 2

 

FIGURE 1

i
l

stoneware. pipe on the same job less than a‘ -
year before. .

Fig. 2 shows a stoneware drain removed,
where the roots had sheared the pipe at
the joint and had entered and grown both
ways until the drain was.
completely clogged.

Fig. 3 shows an in-
stance where the root ob-
struction extended through
the parkway into the
street to the main sewer.
The difference in first
cost between cast iron
pipe and stoneware pipe
would go a ':short_ ‘way
toward paying 3'10? ,‘fthis
destruction of lawns,
street pavement, labor and
material to put the drain
in use.

Fig. 4 shows two sec-

AUGUST, 1915

tions of a removed stoneware drain that

THE AMERICAN CITY

I33

tary engineers that it is unnecessary to

was solid with root growth, and the dark dwell at length upon the comparison. A
mass to the right of them is a section of
the root removed.

 

FIGURE 3

In talking with several plumbing con-
tractors regarding the cost of removing
and replacing these clogged drains, I found
that the prices ranged from 50 cents per
foot to 85 cents per foot, including the re-
placement with cast iron pipe. Taking
twenty jobs of removing clogged stoneware
drains and replacing them with cast iron,
I found that they averaged approximately
$52. Figure the actual difference in cost
of the two kinds of pipe, and see what the
difference would have
been in the first place. In
most cases it is impossible
to estimate beforehand
the cost of remedying
such trouble, as it is im-
possible to tell, until the
drain is dug up, how far
the root growth extends.
In many cases the roots
enter the drain in the yard
and extend to the main
sewer in the street, neces-
sitating taking up the
pavement and, in some
cases where the sewer is
on the opposite side of
the‘ street‘ on car-"line
streets, of tunneling un-
der the tracks.

The advantages of cast iron for house
drains over vitrified stoneware pipe is so
well established and recognized by all sani-

few of the most salient points, however,
may be informing to the layman reader.

Cemented joints of vit-
rihed pipe cannot be made
tight to withstand a pres-
sure test, settling, expan-
sion and contraction,
tamping in and refilling
the ditch all disturb the
joint. It is impossible to
make a tight joint unless
they are bedded in con-
crete, and, when the joint
offers too much resistance,
the roots may shear the
joint at the bell.

Roots crossing drains
will raise or depress the
pipe and start the joints,
making an opening
through which the roots
in quest of moisture readily enter and grow
prodigiously.

Cast iron pipe with joints caulked with
oakum and molten lead can be made tight
and will withstand a pressure test. A line
of cast iron‘drain will offer more resistance
to root pressufe and can be thrown out of
alignment without breaking the joints. Any
argument against cast iron pipe for house
drains on account of the increasing use of
disinfectants and washing powders, acids

 

7-7 FIGURE-4

and alkalies, etc., is met by the absence of
deterioration in the cast iron pipe and fit-
tings taken out of the old Astor House,
New York, after eighty years of service.

A

Clean Water for Thirsty Horses

By C. M. Fassett
Commissioner of Public Utilities, Spokane, Wash.

Public Utilities of Spokane, in a
conversation with the Washington
State Veterinarian, was informed that the
public horse-watering trough was respon-
sible for the spreading of disease among
the horses, and that some other means of
furnishing water for horses was desirable.
Correspondence with other cities where im-
proved methods were said to have been
adopted failed to elicit the desired informa-
tion, so the Superintendent of Water pro-
ceeded to design a new system, which has
resulted in the building of the horse foun-
tain shown in the photograph. It has been
in use only a few weeks, but it seems to
meet the need.
Water is supplied from the city mains
through a 94-inch tap. The two valves are
below the frost line and are counter-

TWO years ago the Commissioner of

 

weighted stop and waste valves, operated by
chains from the levers shown in the pho—
tograph, thus making the fountain avail-
able for use in freezing weather, when the
old trough had to be shut down. The g4-
inch riser from the valve is enlarged to
1% inches near the top, and the two elbows
and three nipples are 05-inch, with a
strainer in one of them. This arrangement
prevents the water from coming out with
too much force, as the pressure on our
mains is about 90 pounds. The buckets are
extra heavy galvanized iron, fastened to
the fountain with heavy steel chains.

The fountain is of reinforced concrete,
built in place by our men at a total cost of
$106.87. We shall be glad to furnish to
any interested official, upon receipt of 25
cents, a blueprint showing the design and
working parts in detail.

HORSE-WATERING FOUNTAIN DESIGNED AND BUILT BY THE WATER-WORKS DIVISION
OF THE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES, SPOKANE, WASH.

Its advantages are: the saving of water, since no water is drawn except for use; the minimizing of the

danger of transmitting contagious disease among the horses; its use in freezing weather, since the valves
are set below the front line

[134]

 

 

Municipal Expenditures and Properties

HE Bureau of the Census has pub-
lished a voluminous report on “Mu-

nicipal Revenues, Expenditures and
Public Properties.” This covers the year
1913 and gives the figures for cities, towns
and villages of 2,500 or over. The govern-
mental cost payments for all such munici-
palities in the United States reach the enor-
mous total of $1,246,636,677, an average of

$27.29 per capita. These payments are sub-
divided as follows:

T l CPer
ota a ita
Expenses of General Depart- p
ments:
All general departments . . . . .. $666,383,920 $14.59
General government . . . . . . . . 68,941,203 1.50
Protection to person and
property . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 140,697,979 3.08
Conservation of health and .
sanitation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60,422,613 1.32
Highways . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87,112,487 1.91
Charities, hospitals and cor-
rections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32,896,351 0.72
Education:
Schools . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 223,797,037 4.90
Libraries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9,010,247 0.20
Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21,437,750 0.47

Miscellaneous and general. . . . 22,068,253 0.48

Expenses of Public Service En-

terprises . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64,194,462 1.41
Interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 132,274,356 2.90
Outlays . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 383,783,939 8.40

The foregoing figures include, of course,
only what are ordinarily termed govern-
mental cost payments, and do not include
any moneys expended for public improve-
ments as the result of the issuing of muni-
cipal bonds.

The value at the close of fiscal year 1913
of public properties and assets of funds
other than sinking funds, of incorporated
places having a population of 2,500 and
over, is given as follows:

Lands, Buildings and Equipment of Gen-
eral Departments:
General government . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $218,984,088
Protection to person and property. . . . 183,493,316
Charities, hospitals and corrections. . . . 122,655,981

Schools and libraries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1,018,528,315
Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967,488,281
All other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79,522,624

Lands, buildings, equipment of public ser-
vice enterprises . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1,507,133,398

Assets of investment and public trust
funds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 289,241,921
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $4,387,047,924

 

The Cruelty of Wretched Pavements

In campaigns for the improvement of the
neglected streets, of which too many are
to be found in most cities, the following
statement of the case from the humane
point of view is worth quoting. It has, spe-
cial reference to conditions in a certain
large Massachusetts city, and is published in
the Brookline Townsman of July 3, 1915.
The author is Dr. Francis H. Rowley, of
Brookline, head of the Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals:

“If horses could talk, those of us who know
them best have no doubt as to some of the
things they would say. Man’s inhumanity to
them would be the chief subject of their con-
versation, at least if they are half as human
as we think they are. Not only would owners,
.breeders, drivers, hear a few things much to
their discredit, but cities and towns would be
summoned into court and charged with some
of the worst forms of cruelty from which
these faithful toilers have suffered.

“To require a locomotive to haul a train of
cars over a track that wrecks it before half
its days of usefulness should be over, and then
send it to the scrap heap, is an economic folly.
To ask a horse to drag our heavy loads of
coal, ice. iron, lumber—the merchandise of all
sorts by which cities grow rich and great. over
streets that wear it out even before it has

reached its prime, is not only an economic
folly, it is a cruelty that not only horses but all
decent men must condemn.

“Nothing less than this is guilty of
to-day. There are streets in our city where,
no small part of the year, the pavements are
so slippery that it is torture for a horse to
travel on them. There are others so full of
holes, so uneven, so wretchedly out of repair.
that no self—respecting horse, left to himself,
would ever set foot upon them.

“To be jerked and pulled, now this way,
now that, because the loaded wagon you are
straining to drag to its destination sinks into
a hollow here, or bangs into an elevation there:
to go home at night with feet bruised and shoes
torn off by such pavements, with legs aching
in every muscle because no clean, level surface
has been provided where the feet could get a
grip—if we were horses, who of us would not
start a union for self-protection, and strike
before the week was over?

“But horses do talk. Their language is not
audible, it is visible. You see it in that swollen
joint, that sprained tendon, that limping gait,
which speak of the roads over which men have
made them travel.

“Money? No money to put our streets in
order? We are robbing our taxpayers of their
money by refusing to do it—saving at the
spigot and wasting at the bunghole. We are
doing more.”

 

[135]

Digitized by 600816

News and Ideas for Commercial and

Civic Organizations

Bonds of $4,500,000 for Municipal
Improvements

 

KANSAS CITY, Mo.—The Commercial
Club of Kansas City took a very active in-
terest in favor of the bond issue of $4,500,-
000 for municipal improvements recently ap-
proved by the voters.

Heretofore public improvements in Kan-
sas City have to a large extent been paid by
special assessments. The park and boule-
vard system, costing in the neighborhood of
$15,000,000, also street paving, sewers,
water-works, etc., have all been paid in that
manner and the Club realized the impor-
tance of securing a bond issue distributed
over a number of years to pay for many
needed improvements.

There were nineteen different proposi-
tions and the entire issue was approved by
a vote of 9 to I. The Commercial Club
held many meetings for the purpose of
stimulating an interest in the bond measure.
There were addresses by the Mayor and
other city othcials. Although it seemed cer-
tain that the bonds would carry, it was real-
ized that each proposition must have a two-
thirds majority of the highest number of
votes cast for any one proposition, and the
Club felt it imperative to get out a full vote.

In order to do this the young men of the
Commercial Club who belong to the Young
Men’s Division of the Public Affairs Com-
mittee were enlisted. They organized so
that a captain was assigned to each ward.
and each captain appointed two lieutenants
for each precinct of his ward. The Com-
mercial Club members were asked to give
the use of their automobiles for a greater
part of the day. By this means the Club
was able to get out a very large vote, and
was not only successful in its efforts, but
created an interest among the young men
and caused them to feel that they were a
valuable asset to the organization. As an
incentive to the workers, a prize was offered
to the captain whose ward would poll the

[186]

largest vote. The day after election the
victory was celebrated at the luncheon meet-
ing of the Public Affairs Committee, when
the prize, a silver loving cup, was presented.

+4-

Commission Manager Charter Pre-
pared by Chamber of Commerce

ST. AUGUSTINE, Fun—The Chamber of
Commerce of St. Augustine has been the
means of giving to the people of that city
a commission manager charter which it
feels will insure the economical and efficient
management of municipal affairs. In prep-
aration, the Board of Commissioners of the
Chamber corresponded with the principal
officials of many cities operating under the
commission form of government, carefully
studied their charters, and consulted the
most noted authorities on the subject of
charter-building. An educational press cam-
paign was then carried on for several
months, informing the people about the ex-
periences of the various commission-man-
aged cities.

Early in the spring of this year the new
charter was published in pamphlet form and
mailed to a large percentage of the voters
of the city. It was also published in full
in the local daily. Petitions were circulated
and signed by fully 75 per cent of the voters
asking the legislature to pass the charter.

In accordance with the provision con-
tained in the bill that the measure should
become law only upon ratification by a vote
of the people, such a vote was taken early
in June and resulted favorably.

A few of the special features of the St.
Augustine charter are contained in the fol-
lowing summary:

It provides for the adoption of a “civic
plan” for St. Augustine, thus insuring future
improvements and civic development along
definite and comprehensive lines, and toward
the accomplishment of a general plan devised
by expert opinion and previously approved and
adopted by the people of the City.

Digitized by GOOSIC

AUGUST, 1915

It creates a purchasing department, designed
to. effect great saving in the purchase of sup-
p ies.

It safeguards the city in franchise matters.

It affords a means for avoiding much un-
necessary tearing up of streets for service con-
nections.

It corrects the faulty system of taxation
previously in use, affording a means for equal-
izing the tax and for increasing the recorded
taxable values while reducing the millage
levied. .

It provides the means whereby the people
of any particular locality within the city may,
by their own initiative, obtain needed improve-
ments which will especially benefit their

property.
-I- -l-

State Financing Irrigation Bonds

SHERIDAN, Wvo.—The Sheridan Com-
mercial Club succeeded this spring in se-
curing the necessary legislation permitting
the investment of state funds in bonds of
irrigation projects in the state of Wyoming.
It is believed that the bill will have a de-
cidedly beneficial effect in encouraging the
development of many sections of the state
heretofore undesirable for residential pur-
poses, owing to the lack of any water sup-
ply. ,
To secure the passage of the bill, the
Commercial Club sent a representative to
Cheyenne, who spent nearly six weeks
working in its interest at an expense to the
Association of only $200.

'l-'l'

Two Commercial Organizations
Financed Through Taxation

AMARILLO, TEX—The Board of City De-
velopment of Amarillo is an organization
which functions much the same as a cham-
ber of commerce, but is a branch of the city
government, so constituted by authority of
Section 24 of the charter, which reads as
follows:

“The Commission shall have the authority to
appoint what shall be known and designated
as a ‘Board of City Development,’ which shall
be composed of not exceeding fifteen members,
who shall serve without compensation. and
may prescribe the qualifications and duties of
such Board and their term of office, and may
appropriate not exceeding two mills on the
dollar valuation of the taxable property in the
city of Amarillo, from the general fund of
said city, to support the work of the Board.”

The only officers connected with the
Board who receive a salary are the secre-
tary and his assistants, who are appointed

THE AMERICAN CITY

I37

by the Board outside of their own number.
They hold office at the pleasure of the
Board, which fixes ,their salaries.

An ordinance defines the duties, functions
and powers of the Board, and prescribes
that the president of the Board shall assign
each director to a certain department of
the work, and that each director shall select
from among the citizens of the city a com-
mittee to assist in the work, such selection
to be subject to confirmation by the Board.

An annual income of about $18,000 is de-
rived from the Special tax of two mills au-
thorized by the charter. Since its inception
in June of 1914, the plan is said to have
worked very successfully and to have com-
manded the sympathetic cooperation of the
people. The advocates of the plan claim
that too much time and effort are ordinarily
devoted by commercial organizations to col-
lecting the necessary funds with which to
carry on their work, and that only the more
liberal and public-spirited citizens contribute
toward its support, while the non-partici-
pating citizens frequently derive the great-
est' benefit. By making the organization an
arm of the city government, however, all
the property-owners, through taxation, au-
tomatically become supporters of the work,
and it is felt that their interest in public
matters is more easily aroused than would
be possible otherwise.

+£-

TUCSON, Ania—The Chamber of Com-
merce 'of Tucson has devised a plan whereby
each property holder becomes a contributor
to the Chamber’s publicity fund. There is
a law in Arizona permitting county boards
of supervisors to appropriate $2,500 from
the general tax fund for the purpose of in-
ducing immigrationinto the county and
$600 additional for the salary of a Com-
missioner of Immigration. The Chamber
of Commerce, by an arrangement made with
the supervisors, secured the use of this fund
of $3,100. The Mayor and City Council .
were then petitioned to appropriate $7,500
each year besides for the work of the Cham-
ber. To make this proceeding legal, a city
publicity commission was appointed, con.-
sisting of three members of the Board of
Directors of the Chamber, the City Man-
ager and one member of the City Council.
A monthly allowance of $625 out of the
total amount of public funds set aside for

Digitized by 600816

138 THE AMERICAN CITY

the Chamber’s use was granted by the com-
mission, out of which the overhead ex-
penses of the Chamber are met. An ac-
counting of the expenditures is made quar—
terly to the city auditing committee. In
addition to these funds, the membership
dues of the organization add about $2,400,
making a total sum of $13,000 available for
the use of the Chamber of Commerce an-
nually.

Under the above arrangement, property
owners pay V2 mill on each dollar of their
city valuation, and in addition I/é mill on
their county valuation. Owners of county
real estate only, of course, pay but 9.6 mill
on the dollar.

-1- 'l-
The “Round Table”
APPLE’I‘ON, Wis—The “round table”

discussions which are conducted under the
auspices of the Manufacturers' Commit-
tee of the Commercial Club and are held
at intervals of every three or four weeks
are said to have proven popular and bene-
ficial, especially in the matter of further-
ing “safety first” principles. At each meet-
ing so far held the topic for discussion has
been some phase of the “safety first" sub-
ject, seeking to reduce industrial accidents.

The first step taken in the organization 0f
the movement was to issue a call to manu-
facturers represented in the membership
of the Commercial Club, asking if “round
table” discussions along the lines of direct
interest to them would be popular, and if
so, whether they would have their mill fore-
men, department superintendents and mem-
bers of the “safety first” committees present
at the organization meeting. The idea
was instantly popular, and at this first
meeting about 150 men were present. A
permanent secretary of the “round table”
was elected, who, with the secretary of the
Commercial Club, comprise the arrange-
ments and program committee. Meetings
subsequent to the first were all largely at-
tended and much good has come from the
discussions. Every man present is urgently
invited to take part in them, and in conse-
quence a collection of valuable suggestions
is obtained at each meeting.

It is believed by manufacturers in Ap-
pleton that the discussion of “safety first”
ideas in this “round table” fashion has
greatly increased the efficiency of the

VOL. XIII, No. 2

workers. The subject is of so vast ex-
tent that it was thought it would probably
run without any Sign of exhaustion for
some time, when the program committee
will present new subjects of equal interest.

*4-

A Home Products Dinner

SIOUX FALLS, S. D.—In order to sustain
the interest in home products which had
been aroused among Sioux Falls residents
last autumn through the holding of a
“Made in Sioux Falls” exhibition, the Com-
mercial Club of that city recently held a
“Made in Sioux F alls” dinner. Each article
served had been made in that city, the menu
specifying the brand or maker of the viand
in every instance. The dinner was paid
for by the manufacturers, and the guests
of the evening were the retail merchants
who were in a position to handle home pro-
duced goods.

Talks were given upon community build-
ing and the promotion of home industries.
It is believed that the occasion was the
means of bringing about a better under-
standing between the manufacturer and re-
tailer and of creating a desire for coopera-
tion among them. '

'l-i'

Educating Boys in Citizenship

BOSTON, MAss.—For more than a year
the “Under Forty” division of the Boston
Chamber of Commerce has been devoting
attention to the Boy Scout movement, and
incidentally is having a large part in con-'
verting the raw material of citizenship fur-
nished by the Boy Scouts in Boston into a
finished product. The directors voted in
M arch of last year to decorate Scouts who
win the honor, to the number of not more
than 30 in any one year, with a civic merit
badge known as the “Boston Chamber of
Commerce efficiency badge.” Examina-
tions were accordingly prepared and con-
ducted by the Chamber this spring upon
civic and commercial subjects, in which the
boys were given an opportunity to qualify
for the badges. Seven boys and young
men took the examination and five passed.

The boys were examined upon questions
relating to Boston’s commercial and indus-
trial importance; history and purpose of the
Boston Chamber of Commerce; the leading
industries of New England; electric roads
in Greater Boston; railroads, steamship
lineS, imports, exports, etc.

Digitized by 600816

Aucusr, 1915

Industrial Development Through
a Unified Transportation System

JERSEY CITY, N. J.—That the Jersey City
Chamber of Commerce is alive to the city’s
opportunities for industrial expansion is
seen in the argument of the Chamber’s Port
Development Committee favoring the or-
ganization of an industrial development
railroad in Jersey City.

Briefly, the railroad is designed to accom-
plish two purposes: first, to provide inter-
connecting service between the eight trunk
line railroads whose termini are located in
that immediate vicinity; second, by grid—
ironing the lower section of the city with
spurs and side tracks, to develop that sec-
tion which is flat and has almost no eleva-
tion above tidewater to overcome, and which
is now of low value and of little use, into a
highly valuable manufacturing and ware-
housing district. In '
other words, it is the in-
tention to make more
useful the already exist-
ing railroad facilities by
tieing them all together
and connecting them with
the sections available for
industrial develOpment.
These sections, it is hoped,
will then be in great de-
mand and soon be fully
occupied by prosperous
industrial concerns.

The report contains a
map showing the main
stems of the proposed rail-
road and the sidings or spurs running off
of them and off of each other.

It is estimated that the improvement of
the directly aEected district would increase
the value of Jersey City taxable property at
least $50,000,000. The committee suggests
that the city of Jersey City build and oper-
ate the industrial development railroad, or
lease to an operator for a financial consid-
eration. A bill, prepared by counsel for
the Chamber and the city, and enacted as
Chapter 350 of the Laws of 1915, gives the
city power to carry the recommendations
of the report into effect. The City Commis-
sioners have already set the City Engineer
at work to report to them in more detail as
to route, cost, plan of financing, etc.

The reader’s attention is directed to the
report itself for further details of the plan,

(40' nun. u warm 0-.- gut-1)

NAME—

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

 

 

139

also to the same committee’s report on the
Morris Canal. The latter plays an impor—
tant part in the plans of the Port Devel-
opment Committee to make Jersey City such
a commercial center as its natural advan-
tages warrant. The plan includes the or-
ganization of all available water-frontage,
with coordinated railroad trackage and ter-
minal buildings. The Morris Canal has
been the subject of almost constant agita—
tion for thirty years, breaking out occa-
sionally into active attempts~ to abolish the
canal by legislation. For the first time in
the agitation the Jersey City Chamber of
Commerce introduced the element of a con-
structive deve10pment program as the basis
of legislation, and brought about the defeat
of the latest attempt to pass the abandon-
ment bills.
-I- -l-

STREET PAVEMENT REPAIR CARD

MARK WIYH (XI LOCATION OP STREET

PAVING IN NEED OF REPAIR

I [nun «nu 0/ urn! no man kn)

FILL DU? INFORMAYION ON
OTHER SIDE OF CARD

(“1' tum. no plan [b nun ml,

.. ADDRESS

 

POSTCARD SENT OUT BY ROCHESTER CHAMBER OF

COMMERCE

A Post Card Report on Paving

ROCHESTER, N. Y.—Among the many
Good Roads activities of chambers of com-
merce, that of the Chamber of Commerce
of Rochester, N. Y., is interesting and note-
worthy. The accompanying reproduction
shows one side of a post card which has
been distributed in copies of the regular
bulletin issued by the Chamber. The street
diagram is easily filled out to show the loca-
tion of paving discovered to be in need of
repair, and on the other side of the card is
space providing for a description of the
damage, kind of pavement, whether damage
is between tracks or not, probable cause of
damage, and further details. The card is
printed with the address of the Good Roads
Committee, and is designed to be mailed
with a one-cent stamp.

Digitized by 600816

140 THE AMERICAN CITY

Knowing One’s Town

EVANSVILLE, IND.—More evidence of far-
sightedness where young people are con-
cerned is seen in the recent movement of
the Evansville Business Association to ac~
quaint the school children, and through the
children, their parents, with facts regard-
ing their home town. This is being done
through the distribution to the children in
the public schools from the third to the
eighth grade, and to the high school stu-
dents, of a booklet telling many things
about Evansville of which the residents
should be informed. The booklet sets forth
Evansville’s natural advantages, its pOpu-
lation, the extent of its manufacturing and
jobbing interests, and such other details as
will enable the reader to converse intelli-
gently about Evansville when occasion de-
mands. Through the natural inclination of
young people to discuss such matters in
their homes, the parents, too, will acquire
information regarding their city of which
they were previously ignorant. Also, the
introduction of local topics into the geog-
raphy lesson at school breaks the monotony
of those lessons and renders the study
more practical.

VOL. XIII, No. 2

Monthly Reports by Mail

GREENSBORO, N. C.—The secretary of the
Greensboro Chamber of Commerce has
adopted the plan of mailing typewritten
reports each month to the directors of the
organization instead of merely reading
them at the directors' meetings. The re-
port includes a brief statement of receipts
and disbursements, summarizes the work of
the past month and gives the plans for the
ensuing month. The directors are in this
way enabled to study the report in detail
and are kept constantly informed of finan-
cial conditions, and it is possible also for
the directors who miss meetings to be ad-

vised of what transpired at the sessions.
'I- 'I-

The Year’s Work

SEATTLE, WASH.—The Seattle Municipal
League published “the story of the year" as
a supplement to a recent issue of its bulletin.
The results of the year’s work, finished and
unfinished, are shown in an interesting and
comprehensive manner in the diagram here-
with reproduced. The report also contains
several pages of well-displayed text under
appropriate headings, a paragraph being de-
voted to each principal activity.

Results Accomplished by Municipal League
of Seattle, May 1, 1914 to April 30, 1915

Better Government City Development

1. The three councilman ole-tel I. |. Mm run your“.
numb. ms. were m by the new when Wm-

m not.
I. 0990.“ new no" NIL

I. r t all {or d to It)
lawr. I. way. "
m:»««::»- In ally II“! -
rat. a“ tonne m
nt- tor eon-mm purposes.
8. Instrumental In newt

Manama-uh.“
“mu-hutch“;

loud-ed In In wuhtun for
city-county mould-1m

I.

I

4.

5. World for the adoption at I."
Mr (honor.

C.

‘l.

at
ordinance loud-l $Wm.

Mum on the “Mn-I.

M .- nu" par! In “no bl
Micro-co.

Wont-d with In! connle Io-
!oro loci-Juan for nub-lam o!
mutuan MmL

l. 099...! "coon-fully two one“!
chum In bundle; ordinance

I. W tuna-N117 public ur-
n! II at; but pork.

to. may not“! .
t (or tune from auditorium.”

ll. loo-to am no. WM
mum. trauma MIL

Health and Welfare

hunt-twan- Md.-
u-uo-Io-g v

Mun-lump...
outlaw.

mums-dun...
m

gum-mammo-

MMH mom
«mind-dull. v

I
l
o.
I. hand out. “two-n- to: um
I.

Education

t. to“ for the no...» out. ul-
wdw um“...

I. have! out. school who] which
you local-tun.

3. watuwanu- l
#8:...“ '

awn-wanna”
Mum nods-onu-
Mm

Unfinished Projects Undertaken
During the Year

Better Government City Development

I mnuuumcnamu Canaan an.
IBM.“  ‘ .‘m M .- m

I. Rocha-clout.- of the an, em: . «an, M m u.- my,

m
Vmuu o! Jot-nu line! at
Ma unuspnotCltrHol-IM

.Wmmmuwm
MIRIku

I

I

I

I. Inn-uto- em for In '1.-
mm

0.

ammummmnm
not.

 

Health andWelhre

L mama-cch

I. Antenatal-w .b
w‘orgtomommmml “elm
to... l n "I "h". m”' a. 2 «III at m m an.

Education

.mmmuwmu
I“

Digitized by 600816

Better Assessment Methods in Two Small
Municipalities

By Walter W. Pollock
President, Manufacturers’ Appraisal Company, Cleveland, Ohio

Valuation has recently been adopted

in two Eastern municipalities—Brad-
ford, Pa., and Ridgeheld Park, N. J., for re-
vision of real estate tax assessments. Brad-
ford is a city of about I 5,000 population in
the oil district of northwestern Pennsyl-
vania, and Ridgeheld Park is a suburban
village of about 6,800 population on the
Erie Railroad within twenty minutes’ ride
of New York City.

Most of the discussions of the subject of
tax assessments of real estate and most of
the legislation on that subject have in the
past centered around questions of adminis-
trative organization, rather than upon the
definition of exact methods to be used for
tax assessment purposes. There has been a
great deal of more or less futile discussion
of the methods of inducting the assessors to
their offices, with something to be said on
both sides as to whether assessors should
be elected or appointed.

In the state campaign in Ohio last year
Governor Cox, who had recently induced
the legislature to abolish the local elective
tax assessors and establish appointive

THE Somers Unit System of Realty

     
  

L_LL____Av

5”- : a! <
m -. 
1 .3. "9% loss IOY. my.

Y“ AH BELL .
N o At.sz g
WASHINGTON ‘
57- 7%
3!

county assessors, was opposed by the present
Governor, Willis, who made much of the
idea that the people should be permitted to
elect their own assessors. Neither partisan
discussed the question of putting into ef-
fective statute the requirement that assess-
ors should use systematic and uniform
methods for determining valuation. The
constitution requires the “true value in
money,” but this definition has apparently
been insufficient, because of lack of adequate
means for ascertaining the “true” value.
The city of Bradford, however, has in-
augurated a new plan by adopting a city or-
dinance under which the assessor is required
to make an accurate and complete analysis
of land and building values. The Bradford
ordinance requires the assessor to exercise
judgment of unit-foot values upon the va-
rious block frontages, as required by the
Somers System, and as adopted by assessors
in cities where the Somers System is not
used in its entirety. It requires the holding
of public meetings and a full discussion of
all of the elements of each frontage value
by the citizens of Bradford. For lots hav-
ing but a single street accessibility it re-

MAP OF CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT OF BRADFORD, PA.

Figures in streets represent opinions tentatively expressed of percentages of usefulness of the several

block frontages. The 100 per cent frontages on Main Street are the best locations in the city. The
unit-foot values on these blocks were determined to be 800, and the other unit-foot values were in the

proportions hated by the percentages.

Digitized by 600816 [1411

142

quires the adoption of a uniform depth per-
centage, showing the values at depths other
than that of the unit of quantity—one foot
front and 100 feet deep. For lots located
at or near street intersections, the ordinance
requires the adoption of uniform methods
for computing the enhancement due to such
location, as compared to lots having a single
street accessibility. Uniform methods are
also required for showing the enhancement
due to alleys, railway trackage, water-
frontage, or other enhancing inHuences. In
a similar way uniform methods are required
for the appraisal of new reproductive and
depreciated values of buildings.

All of the steps which go to make up the
value of a given site are required by the
Bradford ordinance to be set down upon
land value records and building value rec-
ords. The assessor will thus be able to show
definitely to each taxpayer the basis of the
assessment of .his prop-
erty, and he will also be
in a po’sition to make com-
parisons between the as-
sessments of his property
and the property of other
taxpayers.

The Somers System
was given a most careful
investigation by the Ex-
ecutive Committee of the

Board of Trade of Brad-
ford, and Mayor De Go-
lier and Finance Commis-
sioner Lindsey, as well as
the three other members
of the City Council, have
been working in complete
harmony in the installa-
tion of the system. The
central business district
was first tentatively appraised by the ex-
pression of opinion of the relative values
of the various block frontages. On Main
Street the 100 per cent or best front-
ages were first located, and then opinions
were expressed as to comparative values of
contiguous locations. After the holding of
several public meetings at which property
owners were given an opportunity to ex-
press their opinions of the frontage per-
centage values, the assessor finally deter-
mined the monetary value, and the 100 per
cent frontages were given a unit-foot value
of $300, the contiguous frontages being re-
duced to the proportionate amounts as des-

A 5

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

co 4'
a:
g a
LIN- '6 a
as 25 25 as 3
0
30 3o 40 4s "
AUL. 50

BEST DISTRICT OF RIDGEFIELD PARK, N. J.
The street figures are unit-foot values

VOL. XIII, No. 2

ignated by the percentages previously de-
termined. There have been a large number
of public meetings at which property owners
have participated with interest in the dis-
cussion of unit-foot values. The new as-
sessment, it is anticipated, will be a tremen-
dous improvement over the old valuations,
which were claimed by Bradford taxpayers
to have been made without equity or jus-
tice as between the different properties.
Ridgefield Park is a village in which mu-
nicipal affairs are conducted in large meas-
ure in the evenings, most of the residents
being New York business men. There were
several thousand lots and nearly 1700 build-
ings. The municipal officials determined the
values in percentage form throughout the
entire area of the village. As the most val-
uable block frontage was deemed to have
a unit-foot value of $100, the percentages
were also dollar values and required no sub-

sequent transposition. There was active
discussion of the unit-foot values, which
was participated in by the community at
numerous evening meetings, and the discus-
sion was continued when the residents of
the village were on their way back and forth
to New York.

By the Somers System methods it has
been possible to obtain the approximate full
value of land and buildings. In the State
of Pennsylvania the statute does not re-
quire separation of land and buildings,
and former assessments were made with-
out such separation. In New Jersey, how-
ever, the law requires hat the land and

Digitized by 00816

AUGUST, 1915

improvements thereon shall be separately
appraised. It is a well-known fact that
assessors working without system usu-
ally appraise the land at considerably less
than full value, and the buildings at a con-
siderably higher proportion of full value
than the land. Such inequities can be read-
ily pointed out and cured by the adoption
of uniform methods for assessment ap-
praisal, and the result in Ridgetield Park,
as in other cities where the Somers System
has been installed, has been to secure a
higher value for land and a lower propor-
tionate value for buildings. The ordinary
assessor does not, as a rule, apply factors
for depreciation upon buildings, notwith~
standing the fact the buildings are con-
stantly subject to depreciating influences
due to wear and tear and obsolescence, as

THE AMERICAN CITY

143

well as lack of utility for the sites upon
which they are located.

In both Ridgelield Park and Bradford the
use of the Somers System has increased the
land values and decreased the building

values, without the exercise of special dis-
crimination. In other words, a true valua-
tion of land and buildings has brought about
that result. It is possible that when the
taxing authorities shall slinally determine the
assessable values of the prOperties in both
of these municipalities, it will be decided to
appraise all properties at some percentage
of full value, or the assessors may decide to
finally appraise the buildings at a lesser per-
centage of full value than the land. Unless
some such action is taken, there will be a
material reduction in the tax rate.

 

Cartooning for Terminal Markets

 

 

From the Chirago "I’rodurv 'I'N'miunf \r-Igi"

 

THE HYSTERICAL HUMOR OF CONGESTED TRAFFIC CONDITIONS \VHICH MODERN
MARKET FACILITIES WOULD REMEDY

gun—nu—nu—n—nu—nu—

Items of Municipal and Civic Progress

Community Use of School Houses
in Wisconsin

The remarkable increase in the use of
school buildings for community purposes in
districts maintaining a high school or state
graded school is shown by the tabulation
which appears below. The Bureau of Civic
and Social Center Development of the Ex-
tension Division of the University of Wis-
consin sent out a questionnaire to each of
the high school and state graded school
principals of Wisconsin during four suc-
cessful years, with the results shown in the
table:

1910- 1912- 1918- 1914.
11 13 14 15
Number of responses . . . . .. 176 441 491 578
School houses used as com-
munity centers . . . . . . . . . . 86 266 384 509
Total number of community
meetin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1265 2452 7932 9031
Neighbo ood assemblies or-
ganized . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 15 111 200
Principals undertake secre-
taryship . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 8 80 162
School houses as polling
places . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 50 72 109
Principals as voting clerks. 0 0 8 17
Seating provision for adults 12 74 180 242
Young people organized. . . 24 60 102 204
School houses equipped
with gymnasium . . . . . .  . 0 12 51 180
Library used b community 65 271 298 479
Systems emp oying com-
munity secretaries . . . . . . .' 0 1 2 7
'l- '1-

An Up-To-Date Form of
Educational Recreation

Park shows on the recreation grounds of
Boston are given live evenings a week,
weather permitting. These free evening
entertainments include stereopticon slides
as well as motion pictures of high grade,
carefully censored, presenting both educa-
tional and health subjects, with current
news-of-the-world films and entertaining
pictures or cartoons. Music in some form
accompanies each evening’s show. Pictures
showing the city’s resources for recreation,
civic progress and good living are a special
feature of each evening’s program.

The undertaking is an experiment entered
into by several organizations to combine
educational features with rational enter-
tainment and definite aids to good citizen-
ship. City departments concerned sanction
the plan and give considerable help.

Seymour H. Stone, of the Boston Asso-
ciation for Relief and Control of Tubercu-

[144]

4-.

 

  
  

losis, is chairman of the main committee.
A sub-committee is charged with arrange-
ments for conducting the entertainments,
consisting of D. M. Claghorn, Director of
Social Work for the Boston Y. M. C. A.,
Dr. G. W. Tupper, of the Immigration De-
partment, State Y. M. C. A., and E. B.
Mero, Secretary of the Public Recreation
League and Social and Civic Secretary for
the Boston Y. M. C. Union, 48 Boylston
Street. The cooperating agencies are, in
addition to those mentioned: Women’s Mu-
nicipal League, Massachusetts Child Labor
Committee, Instructive District Nursing
Association, Milk and Baby Hygiene Asso—
ciation, Massachusetts Society for Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals and the Poster
Campaign of the Associated Charities.

4"!-

Results of a Help-Your-City
Suggestion Campaign

To stimulate public cooperation with civic
officials, the Toronto Bureau of Municipal
Research issued on May 2, 1914, a bulletin
inviting citizens to send complaints and
suggestions to a Help-Your-City Suggestion
Box opened by the Bureau. Attached to
this bulletin were blank post cards to be
filled in by the citizens with details of any
defects they might notice.

There was an immediate response from
all parts of the city. The Bureau investi-
gated all complaints and forwarded to the
city departments concerned details of the
complaints, together with reports by the
Bureau’s inspectors. Post cards detached
from this bulletin continued to come in un-
til November, and from then onwards citi-
zens forwarded suggestions and complaints
on their own stationery. The city officials
welcomed the cooperation thus secured and
were prompt in replying to complaints and
suggestions, and, when possible, taking ac-~
tion. The Bureau was thanked several
times for drawing the attention of officials
to defects which would have continued
without remedy but for the coéperation of
the general public secured through the
Help-Your-City Suggestion Box.

Most of the communications received

Digitized by 600816

AUGUST, 1915

were concerned with subjects of a purely
local character, such as broken curbs, faulty
sidewalks and damaged pavements. A num-
ber of more serious defects were revealed.
Among the latter were a dangerous bridge,
danger at an ill-protected level crossing, and
lack of adequate protection along the water-
front. Some of the complaints were trifling
and a few were frivolous. For instance,
one anonymous correspondent, anxious to
cooperate in any effort to make Toronto a
better and brighter city, wrote asking that
a certain judge be supplied with a new set
of teeth. But most of the complaints were
justifiable, and in a majority of cases rem-
edy was secured.

Early this year the Bureau made follow-
up inspections, and discovered but few in-
stances of neglect to profit by the informa-
tion gained in this campaign.

>On May 7 of this year a reprint of this
bulletin was issued. Up to the end of June
63 suggestion cards had been received, 51
had been closed by securing action or satis-
factory explanations why remedies must be
delayed, and all 63 complaints had been fully
investigated. The results secured varied
from repairs to a plank sidewalk to consid~
erable dredging operations to clear a lagoon.

From the beginning this campaign has
been carried out in a spirit of cooperation
with the heads of departments, and not in a
spirit of fault-finding. The underlying
principle of the campaign is stated in the
bulletin: “The city departments can’t see
everything. There aren’t enough hours in
the day. A quarter million pairs of eyes,
cooperating with the city departments,
should increase greatly the promptness and
effectiveness of the various city services.”
The campaign has been accepted in this

spirit by the city ofiicials and by the general
public.

4-!-

Neighborth Health Chronicles

The Health Department of New York
City has recently begun the publication of
four-page leaflets in the form of neighbor-
hood health chronicles. A small portion of
these is devoted to local news for a particu-
lar district, the text of the remaining pages
being devoted to general health notes writ-
ten in popular style, this matter being iden-
tical in all the chronicles.

The chronicles are issued monthly and

THE AMERICAN CITY

145

will embrace the following: Columbus Hill
Chronicle, Chelsea Chronicle, Everybody's
Chronicle (for the negroes of Harlem),
Kip’s Bay Chronicle, Gramercy Chronicle,
Yorkville Chronicle, Bronx Chronicle, East
Side Chronicle, Jefferson Chronicle (for

the Harlem Italian district), Brownsville
Chronicle.

The various neighborhood associations
concerned have 'promised to distribute the
publications from house to house in their
respective districts. It is hoped to carry on
in this way at low cost a large amount of

direct health education among the people
of New York City.
4- as

A Municipal Renting Agency in 
Italian City

Commerce Reports for July 14 contains

the following item by Consul John H.
Grout, of Milan, Italy:

“The city of Milan has undertaken a muni-
cipal renting agency, principally in order to su-
pervise, to a certain extent, hygienic living con-
ditions among those occupying large working-
men’s apartments or homes. F irst-class apart-
ments and homes are also taken for rent by this
municipal agency, which does not confine itself
solely to the needs of the laboring classes.

“The idea was first proposed by Dr. Pietro
Ferrari at a tuberculosis congress in Milan, and
a movement to establish such a renting agency,
which had for its chief purpose the investiga-
tion of the hygienic conditions and locations of
apartments and homes, was launched by the
city authorities of Milan, taking as its guides
the municipal renting agencies of Paris and
Stuttgart.

“Should an owner care to place his property
in the hands of the municipal renting agency,
the prOperty is first inspected by the proper city
ofiicials, and a report is made as to its cleanli—
ness and location. It is then entered upon the
bulletin called The Home, issued free by the
ofiice and illustrated by maps of the city of
Milan, showing the exact locations of the va-
rious vacant apartments.

“Furnished rooms are not dealt with. No
charges for services are made by the ofiice, and
the work has been taken up exclusively to
benefit those who seek apartments or houses
for rent. The bulletin, The Home, is re-
edited and reissued whenever necessity de-
mands it.

“In Milan there are very few ‘real estate
agents,’ as known in America. All details of
renting an apartment are usually taken care
of by the ‘portinaio,’ or porter, who represents
the owner of the building and who is installed
on the premises. Rents are payable every SIX
months in advance, and notice to leaye an
apartment is usually given six months in ad-
vance.”

Digitized by 600816

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

Three or four men with hand
rakes can do no more work than

one man equipped with a

“PENNSYLVANIA”

Lawn Cleaner and Rake

It pays for itself many times
in labor saving, and works per-
- fectly. The three revolving wire-
tooth rakes clean up every bit of
litter, passing it into a roomy
basket, which is easily emptied.
It leaves the grass upright.

24-inch cleaning are
36 H u H

-The “PENNSYLVANIA”

Lawn Cleaner and Rake is
acknowledged an absolute neces-
sity on numerous estates, parks
and golf courses in this country
and abroad.

a, shipping weightZSO lbs.

‘6  H

“The Pennsylvania People”

WMEM m

PHILADELPHIA. PEN NW

 

41

‘

 

When writing to Advertisers please mention Tn: Aunxcut Cur.

 

C opie: my be ordered of

\
. 1,

Municipal and Civic Publications

_ Tan AunICAN C1", with the exception of Government publication: and
those indicated a: free. which should be ordered direct from the Mice: publishing them

 

MAIIHEws, ERNEST R., Chadwick Professor
Of Municipal Engineering in the Uni-
versity Of London.

Refuse Disposal. A Practical Manual
for Municipal Engineers, Members of
Local Authorities, etc. 160 pp. Detailed
drawings and illustrations. 1915. $2.00

The different methods of waste collection are treated
in the first chapter, unsatisfactory methods of waste
disposal in the second, and the conversion of refuse
into manure in the third. The following six chapters
deal with the destruction of waste by urning, after
which a chapter is devoted to the description of de-
structors suitable for villa es, workhouses, hospitals,
factories, etc. In chapter I the author tells us that
although the amount of clinker per ton of refuse burnt
varies, the average is about 30 per cent. It is posSible
to make a revenue out of this, for the clinker may be
used in the manufacture of bricks, concrete and con-
crete flags, as a foundation for new roads and foot-
paths, and for use in bacterial filter beds. .Two chap-
ters are given over to a discussion _of chimney con-
struction in waste-disposal plants, while the last deals
with vacuum cleaning in large buildings. The book,
which forms a comprehensive resumé of refuse dis-
posal practice in English and Continental countries, is
profusely illustrated with photo aphs of plants and
apparatus besides a number of rawings showing the
details of plant construction.

CAPES, WILLIAM R, Secretary, New York
State Conference of Mayors and Other

City OtIicials.

Cost and Methods of Collecting and Dis-
posing of Ashes by Cities. (Data gath-
ered in March, 1915, for the City of Au-
burn. Issued by New York State Con-
ference of Mayors and Other City OfIi-
cials.) 7 legal size pages; ’ small type.
(Supply limited.) Free

LUMSDEN, L. L.,
SriLEs, C. W., and
FREEMAN, A. W.

Safe Disposal of Human Excreta at Un-
sewered Homes. (United States Public
Health Bulletin No. 68; April, 1915.) 28
pp. Illustrated. Free

HAWEs, JOHN B., 2d, M. D., Secretary, Massa-
chusetts Tuberculosis Commission.

Consumption: What It Is and What to
Do About It. (Welfare Series.) 107 pp.
Illustrated. 1915. 65 cents

This work aims to meet the need for a book on con-
sumption which is not so short that certain important
practical details are omitted, nor so long and so re-
plete with historical discussion as to de eat its pur-
pose. To serve the ph sician, the patient and the
patient’s family practicaly, the author, after a short
description of the nature and s mptoms of the disease,
gives an ex sition of practi and advanced methods
of home an out-of-door treatment. Many other help-
ful hints are included in the book, such as practical
information as to reaching various health resorts,
what the children of consumptive parents should know,
correct diet, and the problem of paying the bills for
medical treatment.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE,
OHice of Public Roads. (Logan Waller

' Page, Director.)
Road Models. (Bulletin NO. 220.) June
7, 1915. 24 pp. Illustrated. 15 cents

HEWES, LAURENCE 1., Chief, Economics and
Maintenance, Oli‘ice of Public Roads, and
GLOVER, JAMES W., Professor of Mathematics
and Insurance, University of Michigan,
Collaborator, Oflice Of Public Roads.
Highway Bonds: A Compilation Of Data
and an Analysis Of Economic Features
Affecting Construction and Maintenance
Of Highways Financed by Bond Issues,
and the Theory Of Highway Bond Calcula—
tions. (Bulletin No. 136 Of the United
States Department of Agriculture, Office
of Public Roads. Logan Waller Page,
Director.) Charts, tables and illustrations.
136 pp. Feb. 12, 1915. 25 cents

BOSTWICK, ANDREW LINN, Librarian, Munici-
pal Reference Branch, St. Louis Public
Library.

The Regulation of the Jitney Bus, A
Discussion of City Ordinances. (Mu-
nicipal Reference Number of the St. Louis
Public Library Monthly Bulletin. New
Series, Vol. 13, No. 7.) 30 pp. July, i915.

ree

CURTIS, FLOTENCE RISING, Instructor, Uni—
versity of Illinois Library School.

The Collection of Social Survey Ma-

terial. (Pamphlet issued by the American

Library Association Publishing Board.)

1915. 15 pp. 15 cents

CHICAGO MUNICIPAL REFERENCE LIBRARY.
Speculation or Scalping in Amusement
Tickets. Analysis of Municipal Ordi-
nances Prohibiting or Regulating the Sale
Of Tickets of Admission at Advanced
Prices. Prepared at the request Of Alder-
man Willis 0. Nance, member of the Chi—
cago City Council.) May, 1915. 20 pp.

Free

HIGHLAND, SCOTLAND G.

Plumbing Code and Control of Plumb-
ers. 1915. 12 pp. Illustrated. Free

CITIZENS UNION or THE CITY or NEw YORK.
Preliminary Brief for Municipal Home
Rule, submitted to the Constitutional Con-
vention Of 1915 by the Citizens Union of
the City of New York. 11 pp. Free

BRANCH, G. V., Investigator in City Market-
ing, Oli‘ice of Markets and Rural Organ-

ization.
Retail Public Markets. (From Yearbook
of Department of Agriculture for 1914.)
1915. 184 pp. Illustrated. 5 cents

[147]

Digitized by 600816

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

The Finest Fire Department
Can’t Save Your City

from a disastrous fire if circumstances are against it.

Even though they are the most efficient fighters and
your apparatus the best, fire .can’t be fought successfully
when there is poor water pressure, caused by clogged
water mains.

The National Method

of cleaning water mains takes out all the dirt and filth. It is an economical and
sure way of eliminating the danger of poor water pressure.

This method cleans them without blocking traliic or laying new pipe. We
make them as clean as new at a fraction of the cost of installing new pipe. We
guarantee satisfactory results.

Investigate the National Meth
od, Mr. Chief. Prompt action
on your part may save thousands

  
    
   

  

II/atigsigim of dollars’ worth of property.  Wat“ Mm.”
Before an us now for mformat-zon. -' After

__ Cisangng the
National Water Main Ghana!

Cleaning Company
Hudson Terminal 81:13., NEW YORK CITY

 

 

48 “Mumm-WNMWCI".

AUGUST, 1915

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE,
BUREAU OF THE CENSU8.
Central Electric Light and Power Sta-

tions and Street and Electric Railways,

1912. (With Summary of the Electrical
Industries.) 1915. Quarto. 440' pp.
Maps, diagrams, photographs. $1.00

This volume is one of two in which are presented
statistics of the electrical industries based on the cen-
sus of 1912, the other being devoted to telephones and
telegraphs and municipal electric tire-alarm and p0-
lice-patrol signaling systems. In the report on cen-
tral electric light and power stations and street and
electric railways there are 'ven detailed statistics cov-
ering the development of t e industries, output, equip-
ment, finances, traffic, employees, and salaries and
wages, together with descriptive and analytical text.
The illustrations are numerous. An interestin feature
is the inclusion of two articles by Thomas ommer-
ford Martin, secretary of the National Electric Light
Assoctation, one discussing the recent developments
and advances in the light and power station industry

and the other dealing with street and electric rail-
ways.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT or COMMERCE,
BUREAU OF THE CENSUS.
Telephones andTelegraphs and Munici-
gal Electric Fire-Alarm and Police-
atr

ol Signaling Systems 1912. 1915.
Quarto. 208 pp. Maps and diagrams.
50 cents

This is the companion volume of “Central Electric
Light and Power Stations and Street and Electric
Railways,” the two combined giving full statistics of
the electrical industries in the year 1912. About two-
thirds of the present volume 15 concerned with tele-
phones, tracing the development of the industry, and
giving statistics of equipment and traflic; comparison
of Bell and other systems, financial statistics, and
schedules of telephone exchange rates in 1,160 rep-
resentative cities and towns in the United States.
Data relative to land, ocean and wireless telegraphs,
both commercial and governmental, are given. In
the statistics of municipal electric tire—alarm and police-
patrol signalling systems, only those systems are
comprised with are used exclusively for sending sig-
nals or messa es to the central OfliCes of fire or police
departments, ocal telephone systems adapted for the
conveyance of alarms not having been included in the
census.

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY OF MECHANICAL EN-
GINEERS.
Rules for the Construction of Station-
ary Boilers and for Allowable Working
Pressure. (Report of The Boiler Code
Committee.) 1914. 114 pp. Diagrams.
Single copies to non-members of the So-

ciety, 80 cents; special rates on large
orders.

UNITED STATES BUREAU OF STANDARDS.
Safety Rules to be Observed in the
Operation of Electrical Equipment and
Lines. (Bureau Of Standards Circular
No. 49; Part 4 of the Proposed National
Electrical Safety Code.) Second edition.

May 4, 19115.. 50 pp. 5 cents
CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO.

An Ordinance Regulating the Manufac-

ture, Storage, Use, Sale or Distribution

of Inflammahle Liquids. (Pages 4225-

4248, in Journal of the Proceedings of the
City Council, March 29, 1915.) Free

NATIONAL FIRE PROTECTION ASSOCIATION.

Field Practice. (The Inspection Manual
of the National Fire Protection Associa-

tion.) 1914. 199 pp. $1.50

THE AMERICAN CITY

149

NEw YORK STATE DEPARTMENT or HEALTH.
The County Tuberculosis Hospital.
(Special Bulletin No. 5; issued by the
Division of Publicity and Education.) 1915.

24 pp. Illustrated. Free

Contains “The County Tuberculosis HOSpital; Why
Every County Needs One,” by Edward A. Morse,
Advisory Expert in Public Health Education, State
De artment of Health; and “Tuberculosis Hospital
an Sanatorium Facilities of New York State," re-
printed from a bulletin of the State Charities Aid
Association.

RUSSELL SAGE FOUNDATION.
Boyhood and Lawlessness. The Neg-

lected Girl. By Ruth S. True. (West
Side Studies, carried on under the direc-

tion of Pauline Goldmark.) 1914. viii +
143 pp. Illustrated. $2.00

The district selected for study consists of the de-
tached and lawless section of 80 blocks, in the West
Side district of New York City, which border upon
the Hudson River, between Thirty-fourth and Fifty-
fourth Streets, where, it is believed, are centered some
of the most acute problems of modern urban life.
The book aims to describe with sympathy and insrght
the conditions here found; it does not attem t to
prove preconceived ideas or test the ellicacy 0 any
special remedies. With regard to the boys, lack of
Opportunity for play and physical freedom are found
to be a chief cause of delinquenc . The girls are
equally handicapped by want of un ertakin and care
on the part‘ of parents and community. he futility
of placing all the blame for misdemeanors upon these
iuvenile oR’enders, and of endeavoring to reform
them, through the courts and through charity, without
reforming their surroundings, becomes evident from a

. reading of the book.

DAVIS, PHILIP, Head Worker, Civic Service
House, Boston, Editor, in collaboration
with

HERMAN, MAIDA.

The Field of Social Service. 1915. 436
pp. Illustrated. $1.62

A book which had its origin in the need for a ref-
erence or text book covering the entire fieldof social
service, for use in a course intended for voluntary
social workers. The plan takes the form of articles
under these main divisions: “Background in Social
Work"; “Community Problems"; “The Community
and the Child”; “Social Agencies”; “Salaried Posi-
tions in Social Work" (Supplement I); “Opportuni-
ties for Training in Social Work" (Supplement II).
Among the large number of well-known contributors
are the followin : Joseph Lee. Meyer Bloomfield, John
Ihlder, Samuel alcCune Lindsay, and Henry Bruére.
An article is included on the Opportunities for civic
and social work open to commercial executives.

AMERICAN JOURNAL OF PUBLIC HEALTH.
Articles on Negro_Health. (Pages 183-
203; 207-224, American Journal of Public
Health, March, 1915.) 30 cents

“The Negro Health Problem in Southern Cities,"
by William F. Brunner M. I). Health Officer, Savan-
nah, Ga.; “The Negro Health Problem in Rural Com-
munities," by A. G. Fort, Ph. B., M. D., Director of

Field Sanitation, Georgia State Board of Health;

“The Negro as a Problem in Public Health Charity,"

by Lawrence Lee, M. D., Savannah, (3a.; “Practical

Remedial Measures for the Improvement of Hygienic

Conditions of the Negroes in the South,” by M. L.

Graves, M. D., Galveston, Tex.; “Syphilis Among

Insane Negroes," by S. S. Hindman, M. D., Path-
ologist, Georgia State Sanitarium, Milledgeville, Ga.

WILEY, MABEL A.
A Study of the Problem of Girl Delin-
quency in New Haven. (Document of
The Civic Federation of New Haven, NO.
15; prepared for the Section on Social and
Industrial Conditions.) March, 1915. 39

pp. One map. Free

Digitized by 600816

I"

THE AMERICAN CITY

SANITATION

We show illustrations of our Canco Trash Burner and Canco Fly
Trap, two articles to help in the “clean up” campaigns which are
spreading over the country.

“CANCO” RUBBISH AND
TRASH BURNER

This is practically the only burner on the market that will withstand
heat without warping, the body being made

from ONE PIECE OPEN HEARTl-l Sl'lEE'l' STEEL.

Owing to its peculiar construction it is
practically indestructible. All joints of the
burner are welded; no rivets to become loose.

 

Canco Burner is the only burner which has
a solid bottom, detachable base or pan. With
ordinary burners the ashes are generally scat-
tered around
wherever the
rubbish is burnt,
making an un-
sightly appear-
ance.

“CANCO” FLY TRAPS

There are some that look' like Canco
but they are about as similar as a

“ilivver” car is to a high speed racing
car. First of all, the Canco is an all
metal trap. No wood pieces to warp
or rip off. It must wear and it’ll catch
more flies than Mr. Carter has pills.
Joints are all electrically welded. It is
made on strictly mechanical lines and
after a careful study of other makes and
their operation.

AMERICAN CAN COMPANY

New York, N. Y. Chicago, Ill. Toledo, Ohio San Francisco, Cal. '
With offices in all principal cities

 

48 When writing to Advertiser: please mention Tn; Airmen Cm.

 

 

AUGUST, 1915

FRANCIS, HENRY R., Assistant Professor of
Landscape Extension, The New York

State College of Forestry at Syracuse
Un1vers:ty.

Suggestions for Proper Procedure in
Systematic Street Tree Plantin for
Towns and Cities of New York. Bulle-
tm of The New York State College of
Forestry, March, 1915. Vol. XV, No. 4.)
56 pp. Illustrated. Free

BETZ, DR. HERMAN, Chief of the Division of

Food and Drug Inspection, New York
Bureau of Food and Drugs.

Sophistication and Contamination of
Food Products. (Monthly Bulletin of
the Department of Health of the City of
New York, Vol. V, No. 6, June, 1915.)

7 PP. Free

CARTER, H. R., Senior Surgeon, United States
Public Health Service.

Malaria: Lessons on Its Cause and
Prevention. (Prepared for use in schools.)
Supplement 18 to Public Health Reports.
Revised edition, January 20, 1915. 24 pp.
Illustrated. 10 cents

LE PRINCE, J. A. A., Sanitary Engineer, United
States Public Health Service.

Control of Malaria; Oiling as an Anti-
Mosquito Measure. (Reprint No. 260
from the Public Health Reports, February
26, 1915.) 12 pp. Diagrams. 5 cents

LUMSDEN, L. L.

Typhoid Fever: Its Causation and Pre-
vention. (Public Health Bulletin No. 69
of the United States Public Health Ser-

vice. Prepared by direction of the Sur-
geon-General.) May, 1915. 22 pp. 11-
lustrated. 5 cents

JAMESON, ROBERr M., Secretary of the Bureau
of Mun1c1pa1 Research and Reference,
University of Texas.

A Model Health Code for Texas Cities.
(Bulletin of the University of Texas. N o.
23, April 20, 1915. Municipal Research
Series No.8.) 95 pp. Bibliography. Free

BROWN, EDWARD F., Superintendent, Bureau
of Welfare of School Children, New
York Association for Improving the
Condition of the Poor.

The Health Su ervision of School
Children of New ork City. (Reprinted
from The Medical Review of Reviews,
September, 1914. Published by The New
York Association for Improving the Con-
dition of the Poor.) Free

HESS, ALFRED F., M. D., Visiting Physician,
Willard Parker Hospital.

The Neglect to Provide for the Infant
in the Antituberculosis Program. (Pub-
lished by the Department of Health of the
City of New York; reprint series, No. 25,
February, 1915.) Free

Reprinted from The Journal of the American Med-
ical Association for December 19, 1914.

THE AMERICAN CITY

151

THE Cmc PRESS.
The American Ci
complete list to date.

Water Consumption of Cities. The EEect of Meters
on Water Consumption. (Tables.) No. 98. 10 cents.
Some Fundamentals of Housing Reform. By Dr.
James Ford, Harvard University. No. 99. 15 cents.
How to Attack the Sewage and Garbage Problems.
By Rudolph Hering, Consulting Engineer, New York
Citr'ly‘rl.1 gohmmrm cents. f C B d B H
e st etic reatment o i ri ges. y enry
Grattan Tyrrell, C. E., Consultting Engineer, Evans-
ton. Ill. No. 101. 15 cents.

How to Organize a City Planning Campaign. By
Frederick Law Olmsted. No. 102. 15 cents.

Public Laundries in America. By Donald B. Arm-
stron . M. D., Superintendent Bureau of Public Health

and ygiene, New York Society for Improving the
Condition of the Poor. No. 102a. 10 cents.

Pamphlets. (The

Refuse Disposal in Small Cities and Towns. By
Samuel A. Greeley. No. 108. 10 cents. '
The Duty of Municipal Food Inspection. By Will-

iam P. Capes. No. 104. 10 cents.

Fighting Fires Before They are Lit.
Ray. No. 105. 10 cents.

How to Promote the Planting and Care of Shade
Trees. By J. J. Levison. No. 106. 10 cents.

The Eflicient Utilization of Water Storage Reser-
voirs. By George W. Fuller. No. 107. 10 cents.

The City’s Need, the University's Opportunity. By
Herman I. James, J. D.. Ph. D. No. 108. 10 cents.

A Notable Development in Ornamental Street Light-
ing. By Walter C. Allen. No. 109. 10 cents.

How to Determine Relative Values in Sanitation.
By George C. Whipple. No. 110. 15 cents. ,
By

Co—partnership in Housing in Great Britain.
Henry Vivian, . P. No. 111. 15 cents.

Relation of t e Motor Bus to Urban Development.
By F. Van Z. Lane. No. 112. 15 cents.

Has Your City These Maps? By William P. Capes.
No. 113. 10 cents.

Water Supplies and the Part They Play in City and
County Planning. By Charles W. Leavitt, Jr. No.

1 1 4. 1 5 cents.

Chambers of Commerce and City
George B. Ford. No. 115. 10 cents.

The Modern Park Cemetery. By Hare & Hare,
Landscape Architects, Kansas City, M0. N0. 116.
15 cents.

Public Comfort Stations; Their Economy and Sani-
tation. By Donald B. Armstrong, M. D. No. 117.
15 cents.

Rose Valley—A Garden Suburb (near Philadelphia).
No. 118. 10 cents.
By

Public Health Work in Rural Communities.
Samuel A. Greeley, C. E. No. 119. 15 cents.
By Dr.
20 cents.

Public Bath Houses and Swimming Pools.
William Paul Gerhard, C. E. No. 120.
t . By Frank Koes.
o. 121. 15 cents.

Civic Unification of a Small Clivy
By Philip S. Platt,

Planning.

ter, Consulting Civic Engineer.

A Model Wet-Wash Laundry.
M. A. No. 122. 10 cents.

A Combination of Municipal and Privately Owned

Utilities. By G. B. Baskerville, Jr. No. 123. 10
cents.

A List of City-Planning Reports. No. 124. 15
cents.

Handicaps to Legal Bond Issues. By Robert R.
Reed. No. 125. 10 cents.

Water-Supply, Sewage and Refuse Disposal for

Small Towns and Villages. By Rudolph Henng, D. Sc.
No. 126. 15 cents.

City Planning and Real Estate.
Ford. No. 127. 10 cents.

Coniferous Ever reens and Evergreen Shrubs for

Parks and Public rounds. By H. E. Holden. No.
128. 15 cents.

Points of Difference in Water Works Franchises.
By Philip Burgess. No. 129. 10 cents.

The Jitney Bus. By Clyde Lyndon King, Ph. D.
No. 132. 15 cents. ‘

Engineering Coiiperation—A Plan for Municipal

Economy in Small Communities. By Frederic Bass.
No. 130. 10 cents.

By George B.

A Step Towards Solving the Industrial Housing
Problem. By Warren H. Manning. No. 131. 10
cents.

Digitized by 600816

By.

By Martin H. _

,f

THE AMERICAN CITY

8

       

It lasts as long as
the pavement

y: 1lllllllllllllllllllMllIllllllllllllllllllllllllillllIllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

THESE brick and granite

pavements are pretty
old, but the original Barrett’s
Paving Pitch in the joints
is still on duty and is still
maintaining a perfect seal
against the intrusion of water
and frost.

It still clings to the blocks in
every kind of weather regardless
of the expansion or contraction.

Chemically the pitch in these
joints is just as good as it ever was
and if it could be taken out, it
could be melted up and used
over again in a new pavement.

 

In none of these old pavements
is to be found a single crack, for
every joint is an expansion joint.

The pavements are much quieter
than if the joints were filled with
cement and the footing for horses
is better because a shallow groove
is left at the top of each joint.

From the viewpoints of satisfac-
tion and economy, no other tiller

max is equal to Barrett’s Paving
m 1mg} 1;... Pitch.
We point to the illustrations
i319"; 22' herewith, and to many other
streets all over the country with
similar records of egciency, tc;
demonstrate the tru ulness 0
27m  our claims.
Paved
1894 Booklets free on request.

BARRETT MANUFACTURING CO.

New York Chicago Philadelphia Boston
at. Louie Cleveland Cincinnati Pltteburah
Detroit Birmingham Kama- City
Minneapolis Salt Lake City Seattle

THE PATERSON MFG. CO. Limited:
1 Montreal Toronto thni . vaneouver.

1‘“ ' H immmmIummmnmummnmnmnmunmmmmnnmmmunmnmnnnmmnmmnIIInmunInIm1mIuIumunmmuunnumInuumImmnlImnnmnumnmummmmnnnmlmmlulmlmmlmmum‘ |l ‘ m ‘ w

       

9

St. John. 31.3.. Halitax,N .. ydney. N.8.

M
‘Ji

[.

WHWIMWH“llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll[IllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllll“HilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllulllllllllllllllllllmmmHIHNHNNHMMWWWWWWH mummmmmuumuluunmumummmnummnmmmmmm

lawmmm mammal” lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllmlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllWillllllllllIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll ‘r 1 l" l' “W? ""l‘ 

I

‘4 When writing to Advertiacra please mention Tn: Aunxcan Cut.
A

_

Conventions and Exhibitions
m

ON THE CALENDAR

AUGUST 16-28.--OAKLAND, CAL.

National Education Association of
the .United States. Secretary, Durand W.
Springer, Ann Arbor, Mich.

AUGUST 18-2O.—SAN FRANCISCO, CAL.

The American Association of Park
Superintendents. Secretary, R. W. Cot-
terill, Seattle, Wash.

AUGUST 23-25.—SAN FRANCISCO, CAL.

National Single Tax Conference. Sec—
retary of the Conference Committee,

James H. Barry, Of the San Francisco
Star.

AUGUST 24-27.—CINCINNATI, OHIO.

International Association of Municipal
Electricians. Secretary, Clarence R.
George, Houston, Tex.

AUGUST 24-27.-—BOSTON, MASS.

National Conference on Universities
and Public Service. Held under the aus-
pices of the Society for the Promotion Of
Training for Public Service. Secretary
Of Conference, Edward A. Fitzpatrick,
Box 380, Madison, Wis.

AUGUST 31-SEPTEMBER 3.—CINCINNATI, OHIO.

International Association of Fire En-

gineers. Secretary, James McFall, Roan-
Oke, Va.

SEPTEMBER 7-9.—NEw YORK CITY.

The New England Water-Works
Association. Secretary, Willard Kent,
Narragansett Pier, R. 1.

SEPTEMBER 6-Il.—OAXLAND, CA
, League of California nicipalities.
Secretary, H. A. Mason, Pacihc Building,
San Francisco, Cal. Joint Meeting with
the California Conference on City Plan-
ning.
SEPTEMBER 8-IO.—CINCINNATI, OHIO.

Smoke Prevention Convention. Ad-
dress Smoke Inspector Towner, Grand
Rapids, Mich.

SEPTEMBER 7-IO.—ROCHESTER, N. Y.
American Public Health Association.

Secretary, Selskar M. Gunn, 755 Boylston
Street, Boston, Mass.

SEPTEMBER 13-16.—ATLANTIC CITY, N. J.
Association of American Portland
Cement Manufacturers. Secretary, Percy
H. Wilson, Land Title Building, Philadel-
phia, Pa.
SEPTEMBER I3-I7.——OAI<LAND, CAL.
Pan-American Road Congress. Under
joint auspices of American Road Builders’
Association and the American Highway
Association. Secretary American Road
Builders’ Association, E. L. Powers, .150
Nassau Street, New York City. Execu-
. tive Secretary American Highway Asso-
ciation, I. S. Pennybacker, Colorado Build-
ing, Washington, D. C.

SEPTEMBER I3-I7.—SAN FRANCISCO AND OAK-
LAND, CAL.

Tri-State Good Roads Association.

Good Roads Congress. Secretary, George

E. Boos, Medford, Ore. (Meeting to be

merged with the Pan-American Road
Congress.)

SEPTEMBER I6-I7.——-SAN FRANCISCO, CAL.
American Society of Mechanical En-
gineers. Secretary, Calvin W. Rice, 29
West Thirty-ninth Street, New York City.

SEPTEMBER IO-I$.—SAN FRANCISCO, CAL.
American Society of Civil Engineers.
Annual Convention. Secretary, Charles

Warren Hunt, 220 West Fifty-seventh
Street, New York City.

SEPTEMBER IO—I8.—SAN FRANCISCO, CAL.
American Institute of Electrical Engi-
neers. Secretary, F. L. Hutchinson, 33
West Thirty-ninth Street, New York City.

SEPTEMBER 20—23.—SEATTLE, WASH.
American Association of Public Ac-
countants. Secretary, A. P. Richardson,
55 Liberty Street, New York City.

SEPTEMBER 20-23.——WASHINGTON, D. C.
Illuminating Engineering Society. Sec-
retary, J. D. Israel, 29 West Thirty-ninth
Street, New York City.

SEPTEMBER 20--25.—SAN FRANCISCO, CAL.

International Engineering Congress.
Secretary, W. A. Catell, Foxcroft Build-
ing, San Francisco, Cal.

SEPTEMBER 26-OCTOBER IO.—DENVER, COL.

International Soil-Products Exposi-
tion. Address Secretary International
Dry Farming Congress, Ralph H. Faxon,
Denver, Col.

SEPTEMBER 27-29.——ST. LOUIS, MO.

National Association of Commercial
Organization Secretaries. S e c r e t a r y,
James A. McKibben, Secretary Chamber
of Commerce, Boston, Mass.

SEPTEMBER 28-30.—SPOXANE, WASH. .

League of Pacific Northwest Munici-
palities. Annual Conference. Secretary,
Charles G. Haines, Ph.D., Whitman Col—
lege, Walla Walla, Wash.

OCTOBER 6-8.-—MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.

National Housing Association. Sec-
retary, Lawrence Veiller, 105 East Twenty-
second Street, New York City.

OCTOBER II—lZ.—DAYTON, OHIO.

National Paving Brick Manufacturers’
Association. Secretary, Will P. Blair,
824 Locomotive Engineers’ Building, Cleve-7
land, Ohio.

OCTOBER I H 5.—DAYTON, OHIO.

American Society of Municipal Im-
provements. Secretary, Charles Carroll
Brown, 702 Wulsin Building, Indianapolis,

Ind.
[153]

Digitized by 600816

A

THE AMERICAN CITY

     
   

means that the far-sighted own-
ers and builders selected the
highest grade Portland Cement
that present-day knowledge and
the most modern equipment can
produce.

“Built with ALPHA” means
that the thing on which the life
of the building most depends is
a cement that represents 24
years of experience—a cement that i»:
tested‘hourly day and night by clmnm a
and chemical engineers whose Elllllll_'_ll'll}' in up-
holding quality is supreme. ,  w ..

You can be sure that the grip of the concrete will be ‘  a; A;
everlasting, that the structure will be imperishable, when H

ALPHAWWCEMENT

The High-Water Mark 0! Quality

..'..|i.ii.':l::::

f.“ i1la

is specified and handled right, for every bag of ALPHA is guaranteed to gore than meet all standard requirements.

Six great ALPHA plants on six trunk-line railroads; one plant with private docks directly on the Hudson River;
capacity, 25,000 barrels daily; storage for 2,000,000 barrels. Specify ALPHA and be sure of prompt shipments of

properly burned, pro rly ground, properly aged cement at all times, and a service that is on a par with the high
quality of ALPHA ement.

r ’ - P t y 
[If “I _l‘r‘?.’u Tull, In? ny-l ['Ffe'lfgr', T'rlglltifnr'
Al’s'rul’un‘ t‘r’7."ri.-'r:'1.'l;f   u   .HJ’H./
[irlhi-'Iri'd‘?:'u.f (Jun-tun  r.  rinsfsfzrqgl',

ri'u‘ln‘,‘ -, n'rl'J'KJC'r'l13.1". t'a‘liel' t "l r. .P'r'fs' it?‘ "In .' :‘ih’r'z’. I."

     

  
  
 
  
 
    
 
   
  
 
  
     
 

‘P
. _ " ' ‘. ) 1' I. ' )
3.x P.'.-r:2.’;'*.‘.   .17.! NJ [1-er  .-_,
1 f- ' .‘ u A- " If ‘ . I ’I '
am my mini rr.r   HI: rufur: rvh‘ Em
r ' r - . .' r . . ' , ,
It. 3' til: “I [I '  J’.‘f:--'If-J‘ll" .1: '- Iii-ti (rill I'I‘."  r_'.1 If )I'l’t‘ r: l: f ‘trrzr :1.

Alpha Portland
Cement Co.

(ieneral Oliices:
 EASTON, PA.

Branch Oiiiccs:
NewYork Chicago l’hiladrlphiu
Boston Pittsburgh Builalo
Baltimore Sasannah

48 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tn: Alanqu Cur.

AUGUST, 191 5

National Association of Commercial
Organization Secretaries

At the Planters’ Hotel, St. Louis, Mo.,
September 27-29, inclusive, will be held the
annual meeting of the National Association
of Commercial Organization Secretaries.
It will be the first convention of the new
association, which was formed in Cincin«
nati last year as a consolidation of the
American Association of Commercial
Executives and the Central Association of
Commercial Secretaries. An excellent
series of papers and discussions has been
arranged for by the Committee on Pro-
gram, which consists of William George
Bruce, Secretary, Merchants’ and Manu-
facturers’ Association, Milwaukee; John
Wood, Secretary, Chamber of Commerce,
Roanoke, Va., and Howard Strong, Secre-
tary, Minneapolis Civic and Commerce
Association.

The principal features of the program
are:

Address by President S. Cristy Mead, Secretary,
The Merchants' Association of New York.

"Organization Advertising, Committee Report II,"
by Carl Dehoney, manager, Convention and Publicity
D rtment, Chamber of Commerce, Cincinnati.

Chamber of Com-

Roland
ommerce,

horndike Deland, Secretary,
mercc, Denver, Colorado.

“Most Helpful Secretarial Literature,” b
B. Woodward Secretary, Chamber of
Rochester, N_. 

“Organization Costs and ReSults,” by George W.
gilllette, Secretary, Chamber of Commerce, Columbus,

10.

“The Problems of the Commercial Or anization in
the Town and Small City,” bgv J. P. ardy, Secre~
tary Commercial Club, Fargo, orth Dakota.

' The Technique of Association Administration.” by
Robert \Vadsworth, Secretary, Chamber of Com.
merce, Youngstown. Ohio.

“The Universit and the Secretary,” by Edw_ard D.
Jones, De t. of conomics, Universrty of.Michigan.

“Agricu tural and Commercial Organizations,” a
committee re rt on the subject, by W.  Holmes
Chairman), ecretar , Commercial Club, Sioux City,
owa; Bruce Kenne y, General Secretary, Business
Men’s League, Montgomery, Ala.; Carl J. Baer, Sec-
reta& Chamber of Commerce, Little Rock. Ark.; L.
B. nham, Assistant Secretary. Chamber of Com-
merce Cleveland, Ohio- H. V. Eva, General Secre-
tary Commercial Club, Duluth, Minn.

‘State and Sectional Organizations." a committee
report on the subject, b J. R. Babcock (Chairman),
Secretary Chamber of ommerce, Dallas, Tex.; F. C.
Butler, Secretary, Chamber of Commerce, James.
town, N. Y.: Howard R. Heydon, Federation Secre-
tary, New Jersey State Chamber of Commerce, Jersey
City, N. J.; Walter S. Whitten, Secretary, Commer~
cia Club, Lincoln, Neb.; John Wood, Secretary,
Chamber of Commerce, Roanoke, Va.

+4-

Exhibition of Street Cleaning
Apparatus and Appliances

New York Department of Street Clean—
ing announces that it will hold its second
annual exhibition of Street Cleaning Appa-
ratus and Appliances in the First Regiment
Field Artillery Armory, Sixty-eighth Street

THE AMERICAN CITY

ISS

and Broadway, New York City, during the
week beginning October 11, I915.

The street cleaning apparatus eligible to
entry includes all sorts of brooms, brushes,
sweeping machines, flushing machines and
other equipment or appliances used in
cleaning streets and removing snow; carts,
wagons, motor trucks or other vehicles used
for collecting garbage, ashes, rubbish and
street sweepin'gs; conveyances for trans-
porting refuse, by water or by rail; meth-
ods for the disposal of garbage, ashes, rub-
bish and street sweepings, including garb-
age-reduction work, garbage crematories,
incinerators, destructors, etc.

Exhibitors will not be required to pay
entrance fees; legitimate street-cleaning
apparatus and appurtenances will be given
free space in the exhibition hall. Other
costs of placing their exhibits and all risks
must, however, rbe home by the exhibitors,
excepting that storage will be provided,
without charge, for pieces of apparatus
which arrive in the city of New York prior
to the evening of October 9. Application
for Space should be made prior to Septem-
ber 10.

Commissioner J. T. Fetherston ex-
pects that at the time of this year’s exhibi-
tion the “Model District,” for which a spe-
cial fund was provided by the Board of
Estimate and Apportionment, and which is
to be equipped with modern apparatus, will
be well under way. The “Model District”
should prove an attraction to manufactur-
ers and inventors, as well as to visiting
officials.

4- 4-
Pan-American Road Congress

The advance program of the Pan-Ameri-
can Road Congress outlines the work to be
followed at the ten sessions which will be
held at the Municipal Auditorium, Oakland,
Cal., September 13-17, inclusive.

The Congress is to be held under the
auspices of the American Road Builders’
Association and the American Highway
Association, acting jointly. Assistance in
details on the Pacific Slope will be rendered
by the Tri-State Good Roads Association
and the Pacific Highway Association.

The Executive Committee of the Pan-
American' Congress consists of Governor
Charles W. Gates of Vermont, chairman,
Franklin, Vt.; Major W. W. Crosby, Pro-
gram, Baltimore, Md.; James H. MacDon-

Digitized by 600816

THE AMERICAN CITY

IROQUOIS

Paving and Road Making
Machinery and Tools

The long- Send your
service, name for
trouble- Highway
proof line. Builders’
Based on mailing

22 years’ list.
experience Prompt

in design shipment
and use. from stock.

 

Portable, Semi-Portable and Stationary Asphalt Plants
Tandem and Macadam Rollers (all sizes)

Heating Kettles (50 to 400 gals.)

Fire Wagons, Surface Heaters, Tampers

Hand Rollers, Pouring and Melting Pots, etc., etc.

Write for Special Bulletin

1915 Iroquois Portable

Asphalt Plant

Increased Capacity, Convenience, Economy

 

The Barber Asphalt Paving Company
Iroquois Works ‘ Buffalo, New York

a When writing to Advertisers please mention Tn: Alarm Cur.

AUGUST, 1915

ald, Finance, New Haven, Conn.; J. E.
Pennybacker, Arrangements, Willard Build-
ing, Washington, D. C., and E. L. Powers,
Publicity, 150 Nassau Street, New York.
Among the acceptances already received

from those designated by the Committee on
Program are the following:

5. E. Bradt, Secretary, Illinois Highway Commission.

H. E. Breed, First Deputy, State Highway Commis-
sion, New York.

Lamar Cobb, State Engineer, Arizona.

G. P. Coleman State Highway Commissioner, Vir 'nia.

\V. H. Connell, Chief, ighway Bureau, Philadefphia.

Geo. W. Cooley .State Highwa Engineer. Minnesota.

A. W. Dean, Chief Engineer, assachusetts Highway
Commission.

Hem; Welles Durham, formerly Highway Engineer,

orough of Manhattan.

A. B. Fletcher, State Hi hway Engineer, California.

W. S. Gearhart, State ighway En ineer, Kansas.

5. D. Gilbert Auditor, tate Hig way Commission,
New York.

Henry S. Graves, Chief, U. S. Bureau of Forestry.

Fairfsx CHarrison, President, A. H. A., Washington,

Curtis Hill, City Engineer, Kansas City, Mo.

THE AMERICAN CITY

157

Prevost Hubbard U. S. Department of Agriculture.

A. N. Johnson, Bureau of Municipal Research, New
York City.

H. J. Kuelhn‘i’. County Highway Commissioner, Mil-
waukee, 18:

N. P. Lewis, Chief Engineer, Board of Estimate and
Apportionment, New York City.

James H. MacDonald, formerly Highway Commis-
sioner of Connecticut.

T. W. MacDonald, State Highway Engineer, Iowa.

W. A. McLean, Chief Engineer, Ontario Highway

Commission.

E. R. Mor an, State Road Engineer, Utah.

M. M. O’S ughnessy City Engineer San Francisco.

L. W. Page Director . S. Otiice of Public Roads.

Dr. J. H. Pratt, State Geologist, North Carolina.

F..F_. Roiers, State Highway Commissioner, Michigan.

Williamt . SRtoy, State Highway Commissioner, Wash-
in on ate.

Paul Sargent, Chief Engineer, Maine Highway
Commission.

Prof. L. S_. Smith, University of Wisconsin.

W. D.’ Sphier, Chairman, Massachusetts Highway Com-
mission.

Col. E. A. Stevens, State Commissioner of Public
Roads, New Jersey.

George W. Tillson, President A. R. B. A., Borough
of Brooklyn, N. Y.

A W. D. Uhler, Chief Engineer, Pennsylvania Highway

Department.
A. D. Williams, Chief Road Engineer West Virginia.
J. F. Witt, County Engineer, Dallas, exas.

 

Securing Satisfactory Street Shade Trees

By Harry J. Mueller
City Forester, Department of Parks, Harrisburg, Pa.

Probably no work in horticulture requires
more judgment and good management than the
planting of trees along city streets, with all
their modern improvements. The soil and ma-
terials of which streets are formed are usually
ill-fitted to sustain the healthy growth of a
tree. This, together with the impurities in the
air—the injurious smoke and gases in the man-

ufacturing districts—makes its life almost im-
possible.

Selection of Varieties

It is necessary, therefore, that selection of
trees for our streets should be limited to vari-
eties that thrive under these adverse condi-
tions. Taking all the points into considera-
tion, the most satisfactory trees for street pur-
poses include Norway and sugar maples, orien-
tal plane, linden, American elm, sweet gum,
red and pin oak, horse chestnut, tulip and
ginkgo. These include all the good qualities
desired in a shade tree, and readily adapt them-
selves to their environments.

Care should be taken to have a straight
trunk, with the head beginning not lower than
seven feet, with strong leaders—for on these
depend the future shape of the tree. Although
the tree is to be more or less formal in shape,
its natural habit of growth should be pre-
served, at the same time keeping it symmetri-
cal and full-headed.

The top should be cut back to about one-
third. For the best results the active leaf sur-
face and the active rootlets must be in direct
proportion. The interdependence of the roots
and leaves is complete. If the leaves are de-
stroyed by insect attack, a corresponding

amount of roots dies from lack of nourish-
ment; if roots are reduced in transplanting,
the foliage of the whole top will suffer in pro-
portion, and probably not survive the shock.

In the nursery the tree should be trained to
withstand the hardships of its final home. An-
nual transplanting cuts the long anchor roots
and develops lateral rootlets, as lateral
branches are developed when the leader is
headed back. In this way a bunchy, fibrous
root system is obtained that will sustain the

demands of the top when the tree is finally
planted.

Preparation of Soil

At least 56 cubic feet of ground should be
excavated from the hole, and good top soil,
enriched with well-rotted manure, or bone
meal, should take the place of the clay hard-
pan, brickbats, cement, broken bottles, and
other refuse materials usually encountered.

There is one condition of soil which is most
favorable to all trees, and that is a deep, mod-
erately loose, sandy loam, which permits sat-
isfactory aeration and furnishes an even wa-
ter supply.

Air and Water Essential

Besides food, a tree, like an animal, needs
air for respiration. Not only the leaves, but
the surface of the twigs, branches and roots
are covered with breathing pores which con-
duct air into the interior.

That roots breathe is often forgotten. When
a tree is planted too deeply, or the ground
around it raised in course of improvements,

Digitized by 600816

THE AMERICAN CITY

MUNICIPAL
SHOPPING

O

9

D.

HONOLULU

 

‘. o
O o  a
‘0

When the city of Honolulu, T. H., decided to
register Motor Vehicles, this thriving community
searched the world for the “best” possible product
at the “best” price.

Naturally, attention was directed to Baltimore, the
home of “ BALTO ” Porcelain Enameled Iron
Signs. In this particular instance TIME was at a
premium—Honolulu talked with us via WIRELESS—
in “ 72 hours” this contract was closed and part of
Honolulu’s order for Automobile and Motorcycle

License Tags was ACTUALLY IN WORK—that’s
service.

Service alone did not guarantee this contract—
quality, finish and dependability were the virtues
which first suggested themselves to the oHicials of this
far away city, and these virtues alone have given our
product the world-wide distribution it now enjoys. For

quality and service in the development of the most
modern and artistic municipal signs, we lead.

Sketches, quotations, suggestions and
samples are yours for the asking. Write
our Service Bureau—

Department C

THE BALTIMORE ENAMEL & NOVELTY CO

BALTIMORE, MD., U. S. A.

41 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tn Ann-1m

Digitized by (330816

 

AUGUST, 1915

many a tree is lost by this act of ignorance.
The more compact the soil, the deeper the
cover, the surer the result—death from suffo-
cation. The same is true of trees having wet

feet, 1'. e.,. overfiooded with water—the reduc-
tion of air kills them.

Sub-Sailing Necessary

it is, therefore, absolutely necessary to sub-
5011 the bottom of the hole prepared for the
tree, in order that it may
live under these artificial
conditions. A half stick
of 20 per cent Red Cross
dynamite exploded in the
bottom of the hole at the
depth of 3 feet will produce
, the needed natural condi-
tion—rendering the soil
porous and easily aerated.
It will also reestablish the
line of communication be—
tween the top soil and the
water table by which the
tree will be amply supplied
with all the water it needs,
without depending on what
comes to it from the sur-
face. This is very impor-
tant, as a good sized tree
ten years old, in full leaf,
will draw through its stem
and give off into the air,
through its leaves, thirty
or more barrels of water
daily. If it had to depend
on what came to it in the
form of rain, it wouldn’t
last a week. .

By tamping the bore hole
with bone meal, an addi-
tional benefit is received,
a good plant food being
thus evenly distributed
through the soil to be grad-
ually available to the grow-
ing rootlets.

How to Set the Tree

The tree should be set
about as deep as it stood
in the nursery, the roots
spread naturally. Sift line
soil around the roots and
work it in close to them with a pointed stick,
so that no spaces remain unfilled to within
4 inches of the top. This is then firmly
tamped with a stomper and saturated with
water. When it has absorbed all the water
it can hold, cover it with a loose soil to act as
a blanket in retaining the moisture.

A 15-foot stake should be used in order to
support the top, as well as the stem, and keep
it from being bent out of shape by strong
winds. Trees with heavy foliage often have
their tops snapped off in the winds. The con-
stant swaying of the stem also interferes with
the establishment of fine hairlike feeding roots
in the soil.

mm W m
LEW,

WILL DZVlLOPED
ORG/5 R0073

M nuts/we

’RAYIDW no no ' r i
L? OY MARIO MTWWST V

THE AMERICAN CITY

WILL 0‘ V34. my

run: arr» :rkmur "was
ANNUALLY mum ran,
In: W 0mm: M

A 101.6 mac‘ch

 

I59

Later Care

In order to keep the trees growing, constant
care is necessary. Cultivation by keeping the
ground broken up to retain the moisture is
as important for the tree as the cultivation of
field crops. Evaporation is taking place over
every square inch of soil exposed around the
tree. If the opening contains 6 square feet, or
864 square inches, the tree occupies but 10
square inches, or I/86th of the total area.

A0 ' GCOINAOT
LESS WM “VI/V NOR
m: THAN.EI¢HY

(IT me N m

vamzu: m
cum-am weer
. mo: Mum HEM

CHE: TNUT ’W‘ 3‘ W‘J
PV DAN-AT WIT LONG.
DNA/IN 3PT. INTO m

A71.er mm M!

.INMTZR m "' '

sown: FIN '
mat ammo/m.

PI r w J" ’5‘ r
a r m RIWIO
WI 7‘ 709.90“. OR 07H£H~
WIOE [NR/6""

PROVIDE m “A [AIME
'Y W1. IN. WITH
0 VIVA" l I"

:uasauwa l5 NICEJJARY r0 N L "
THE "(1‘ LIVE IV THE crrr UNDSR
ARTIFICIAL CONDI TION.’

IVY "zwxve "00¢"

o'nao' on ":11":
[Dec-hearan '0! [Tim m 11a
—- I of

SPECIFICATIONS FOR STREET SHADE TREE

When the ground becomes hard and caked,
the tree receives just I/86th of the moisture
given of? each day, but if the ground is cov-
ered with a dust mulch practically all the
moisture goes through the tree, and is used by
the leaves in manufacturing starch and wood.

A few handfuls of ground ‘bone spaded into
the ground in the spring will help materially in
pushing the tree ahead. Water only during
very dry spells; too frequent watering will rot
the roots.

If these directions are followed you can
hardly lose the tree in transplanting, and in
a few years you will have a tree worthy of
your efforts, instead of one that merely exists.

Digitized by 600816

THE AMERICAN CITY

5‘55,ka

All-Steel Playground Apparatus
for Parks, Public Playgrounds,
Schools, Private Yards, etc.

 

  

An all-steel galvanized \

product throughout,

 , specially designed for
the wear and tear of 3.
outdoor use. All de-

 g tails of bearings, con-
‘ ‘ nections, etc., have
been worked out to the highest standard of per-
fection. Pipe Fittings which are threadless
and require no set screws, drilling or tapping of
either fitting or pipe, thus simplifying and cheapening the cost of
erection.

 

 

Perhaps we can be of service to you in deciding the problem of equip-
ment. Write us fully advising as to your ground space, apparatus de-
sired, and we will cheerfully furnish plans and prices gratis. Our
Services are yours for the asking.

 

Catalog C-3 covering
a full line of the
latest and approved

playground appara-
tus sent on request.

 

 

EVERWEAR
MFG. co.

Springfield, Ohio

 

4-8 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tn: AXIIICAN Crrv.

I

if H #77  iii  __ _—__, _ __ .—___

g Methods, Materials and Appliances
III

News from Engineers, Manufacturers and Supply Houses Ill
- SIS-EE—

 

 

The 700,000th Meter—A Novel
Distribution

After the 600,000th meter 'of the Thomson
Meter Company, of Brooklyn, N. Y., was com-
pleted (September, 1913). every ofiicer and
employe received a cash gift from the com-
pany. The 7oo,oooth meter having been
finished June 16, 1915, a similar celebration
was planned for and took place on July 2nd, at
which time another series of cash gifts was
distributed.

On account of illness Mr. Frank Lambert,

 

the president, was not able to attend the fes-
tivities, and the treasurer, Mr. Joseph W. Kay,
presided, assisted by the secretary, Mr. Seth D.
Higley. Luncheon was served. after the distri-
bution of gifts, and all joined in singing, in
honor of Mr. Lambert, “For he is a jolly good
fellow.” Prominent on the table at which Mr.
Kay presided was the silver loving cup that
was presented to the company by the employes
in 1913; this cup was filled with flowers and at
its base was a placard inscribed with these
words of Mr. Kay’s: “A single flower to the
living while we can view its beauty and smell
its fragrance is better than those piled moun-
tain high on the caskets of the dead.” It was
after the impressive repetition of this sen-
tence that, when the gifts were distributed,
each employe was given a single flower.

It was a joyous occasion in an atmosphere
of harmony, for the closest ties seemed to bind
workmen and officials and in turn to bind both
to that intangible thing “the company.” 5.0

 

 

much was this felt that a visitor was led to
exclaim, “And yet it is said corporations have
no souls.”

'1"!-

Gas Power Plants for Municipal
Service

The accompanying illustration shows the
municipal power plant of the city of Bradford,
Pa., one 135-h0rsepower Bruce-Macbeth gas
engine, which furnishes power for operating
a 2,000,000—gallon capacity centrifugal pump.
During a given summer period this outfit
pumped 180,000,000 gallons of water at a cost
of $7.66 per million gallons. Previous to this
installation the cost of operating this plant had
been approximately four times as much ($28.94
per million gallons). Owing to the efiicient
operation of this pumping plant the fire under-
writers voluntarily reduced the insurance rates
in this locality from 25 to 50 per cent. These
facts are taken from the published annual re-
port of the Water Commissioners of Bradford,
Pa., t0 the state.

 

which are

Bruce-Macbeth gas

manufactured by the Bruce Macbeth Engine
Company, of Cleveland, are used very ex-

engines,

tensrvely in municipal service. The engineer-
ing department of this company is at the ser-
vice of any municipality or public utlility cor-
poration supplying either electrical current or
water. It will be glad to make a thorough
investigation of the requirements in any par-
ticular case, and to offer recommendations
covering the outfit and method of installa-
tion that will give the best results for the
service desired, also to give a definite estimate
of annual cost of operation.

[161]

THE AMERICAN CITY

Gqclone -Waulcegan
Sanitary Fence

SOLVES THE BACK-YARD PROBLEM -
The most effective enemy of dirt and disorder in
the back yards and alleys of your town or City 15.

Cyclone-Waulieg‘an Sanitary Fence

\\'herever it replaces the old board fence it
solves the problem of community health-—
tends to abolish disease and fly-breeding
Conditions and transforms unsightly
back yards into sanitary and sate

play—grounds for Children.

These photographs tell a true story.
Note the contrast.

     

  
   
     
 
   
   
   
 
    

  
 
  
 

   
  

Cyclone-Wauhegan
Sanitary Fence

  

     
   
   
 
   
   
   
   
  
         

is neat and strong; built of
a heavy galvanized \vire. evenly
space-cl: flI‘I‘lll}-' woven. Easy to set up
on \voml or iron posts: self—adjusting to
uneven grunntl. lt makes a permanent
improvement that acltls value to the premises

Sold Under a Strong Quality Guarantee
Illustrated Catalog giving;r various designs sent
free on request. \Vrite for it.

Cyclone Fence 00., Dept. 107, Wauhegan, Ill.

  

  

 
 

o... 'o.

IIIIIIIIIIII!
I

“- l'i

‘ :1

.IIHH'LI con-w

IE? rearszi.

Jo ...-_-‘_. v

_ ‘.J_._Ll-..'l

' .
h-
s
I
a

3.... .
!!

12 I
:1

 i1 RON FE NCES

There‘s .1!) iron fence in New York
that was erected in the time of Kim:
George Third. After 151) years it's as
solid as ever.

1! right materials and workmandtip
are useiL iron fenees and gateways have
an everlasting lnstingnexs. It's the l
kind “is build. 15 it the kind you want
to buy ’ I

“'e still if you wish Ilt'tilKII one espev
L'irillv for you. .

Send for eataltn; and prices. }

ENTERPRISE
IRON WORKS 

H 2445 Yandoo St.. Indianapolis. Ind.
"‘.I__.:;¢-'f."a;:nnnnln°t: Tit-nonujlcjxf

. and

Il “It‘ll-O

I.
s.
o

' :-

 

   

The capacity of our plant is about two
lmillion feet of rubber covered conductor
lper ten hour day. '

 
  

l
l

We are equipped to handle large orders
lwith despatch but no order is too small
for expert attention.

SIMPLEX WIRE &CABLE @

MANUFACTURERS

20! DEVONSHIRE ST. BOSTON
Guano w W

 
        
     
 

Q When writing to Advertigetl please mention Tu Axum: Cur.

‘

AUG., 1915

Street Lighting Fixtures for Mazda
“C ” Lamps

With the development of the Mazda “C”
lamps for high candlepower, specially designed
fixtures are required in order to successfully
utilize these lamps for the severe conditions
of street lighting service. The life of the
lamp and the efficiency of the complete unit
are vitally affected by the globe shape, venti-
lation and weatherproof qualities of the fix-
ture. Inasmuch as the lamp renewal cost per
year for each fixture greatly exceeds the first
cost of the complete fixture, it is self—evident
that any construction increasing the life of the
lamp without lowering the emciency of the
complete unit is of prime importance, and that
no makeshift device or rebuilt arc lamp should,
from an economical standpoint, be considered
for installation with these comparatively ex-
pensive lamps.

The Westinghouse lighting unit shown here-
with appears symmetrical, both with and with-
out the reflector. Ago-inch reflector of the
concentric type gives the fixture a finished ap-
pearance. The globe is of acorn shape, de-
signed to utilize the light to the best efficiency.
A diffusing globe is recommended on account
of the high intrinsic brilliancy of the lamp,
and because of its suitability for good street
lighting requiring minimum glare.

 

MAZDA LAMP WITH REFLECTOR, SHOWING
GLOBE LOWERED FOR REMOVING LAMP

For Meter Box Installations

The meter coupling yoke made by the  W.
Clark Company, of Mattoon, Ill.,’lS desxgned

NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS

163

to be used in place of meter coupling and is
adapted to installations in meter boxes of all
kinds and also to meters placed in basements.

  
    

     
  
   
 

'4‘ I:

 

19inch} t
1.118th

71;
- n
'3 v1
*2
o n
a
 5‘53
u o
. .1,
- S
' 1
’ . 5I n I .
.c 
_ N '
’3 .. 
.2 3.-
.“ a 
I. 1
. g 4: 
a:

   

- "‘7‘1—
0
O

CLARK METER COUPLING YOKE

It is made up without the use of a union or
right and left fitting, as there is enough flexi-
bility in the riser pipes, owing to the manner
in which the meter is cut in, to permit the as-
sembling of the two parts of the coupling yoke
after each has been screwed on to the riser
pipe. The yoke is placed by cutting into the
line without taking out a section, and by mak-
ing a single cut do the work. When the pipe
is cut in two, the ends are bent by means of a
bar, lever or spade, throwing them sufiiciently
in opposite directions to admit the meter be-
tween the risers in a crosswise position, or at
an angle of 90 degrees with the line of service
pipe. The risers are held perfectly rigid, thus
eliminating all possibility of meter or riser
pipes coming in contact with the wall of a box
body and thus conveying frost to the meter.
There is an easy sliding adjustment for tak-
ing care of meters of different lengths, and all
expansion and contraction of the service pipe
is provided for. The lock shield adjusting
screw construction, requiring a special socket
key to operate, eliminates the necessity of seal-
ing the meter, although, if a wire seal is de-
sired in connection with the screws at the top
of the meter, the same wire can readily be ex-
tended around any part of the yoke and a
single seal used .to seal the entire installation.

THE AMERICAN CITY

  
    
   
     
  
     
     
   
   
   
       
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
      
         
           

When in Doubt
‘ Specify “Clow’s”

This applies to anything you may re-
quire in the equipment of water

works, and guarantees prompt de-
liveries and satisfaction.

  

  

CAST [RON PIPE

Hub and spigot, flanged or threaded,
shipped the same day orders are re-
ccived.

We carry a very large and complete
stock of Special Fittings. May we
add your name to our Monthly Stock

“St? LAMP POSTS

in large number, and in attrac-
tive designs, always on hand.
Special Catalogue upon re-
quest.

  

CLOW MANHOLES

are made from the best pig
iron, in all patterns. Let us es-
timate on your requirements.
Other Clow Products are:
Fountains, Valves, Hydrants,
Plumbing, Heating and Steam
Fittings.

Write for our Illustrated Cat-
alogues and Price Lists, and
get posted on “The Clow

Line made for a Critical
Trade.”

JAMES B.CLOW&SON S

Established [878
Harrison Street Bridge, Chicago

  

Sales Offices
New York Milwaukee St. Louis Kansas City
Minneapolis Loo Aussies San Francisco
Works:

Chicago Neweomsrstown,0hlo. Coshoeton.0hlo

 

Sectional Construction
With
Interchangeable Parts
Means
Low Maintenance Costs

A damaged stand—
ard ordinarily calls
for a new standard.
But when a heavy
d r a y , carelessly
handled, crashes:its
terriflc weight into
a

Uni on
METAL

Lamp
Standard

it doesn’t mean a
b r o k e n standard
(possibly a broken
head to the passer-
by) —- it means
m e r e I y a bent
shaft. —— easily and
inexpensively r e -
placed in perfect
union with the old
future and base.
T h a t ’ 3 economy
(and safety).
\Vrite for photos
and data.

lh‘algn No. l‘lT'l-(‘-—Patcntel_i
litulimyt-rl with llolupllane Glass
ling-L Ni), l_l.':i'..'lJli

THE UNION METAL MANUFACTURING (0.

C;\N’l'().\'. OHIO

Cunudinn Union Nletal Limited
Gnlt, Ont. Canada

lilt-a'l R1 HUTORSL
\‘L L. 1".ilrn‘l::1:l. llil W". 1th St" New York City.
'l'I-lt'lllnlllt", iii—det 
[C :.r R My.  ."xnrtla 7th :51... Philadelphia. Pa.
l’L-tI'IILlffrll-Anelri'we Cu. Boston.
I- la. l‘iler, Winnipeg, Can.
interstate lulectnn: (.10., l.t:.l., New Orleans,La.
wnnlnt'L-e: General Electric Co.
Oklahoma City. Okla.
Houston, Texas.
‘l'upll'll ltltEI. :ri. {' 'u. “tall Lulu: (.‘lty, Utah
('. j. l-i-‘M‘_'Eu-r lull-rtnr (fr... Grand Rapids. Mich.

l'.ll'l.’;I_? .“l.Li<_"3 Liectric {‘o.
T“ 111 i'l'lh.‘ l-u‘r_)_ ‘ .1[. Oakland. Calii.
1A." 'le‘lt'fi, I .‘1"._ Hostile, “nah. Portland. Ore.
lawn-m (‘anmlizm Representative.
R ll. 'l'. l‘ringle. '.i'- King 'mt.  'I'oronto. New 3111:! Bldg"

Tl 5'15 M onuanl

lmllnn, Iii-1.1:“-
}.l ill-m. '1 CIA“

 

50 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tns Anmcnl Cur.

‘

AUG., 1915, NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 165

The coupling yoke will accommodate meters
of every manufacture. It is made in 54-inch,
%-inch and 1-inch sizes, and also in a special
%-inch sxze to accommodate meters with %-
inch spuds. It is particularly well adapted to
use in the South, where the meter is placed on
a line with the service, and where, instead of
usmg a riser, street ells may be connected to
the service pipe and screwed into the coupling.
Stop cocks may be used inside the meter box
in connection with the coupling yoke, when
desired. In use in basement connections the
yoke is furnished with tappings in the top on
one end for the outlet side of the house

supply. .1. .1.

C. F. Rouze with the Knox Associates

The Knox Motors Associates of Springfield,
Mass., an association recently organized to act
as sole distributors of the products of the
Knox MOtors Company, announces the ap-
pointment of C. F. Rouze as sales manager.
Mr. Rouze succeeds H. F. Blanchard, who for
several years past has been sales manager of
the Knox Motors Company, and who has re-
cently resigned that position.

Mr. Rouze has been in charge of the Knox
branch office at Kansas City, Mo., since Feb-
ruary, 1914, and because of his past experience
both in the motor truck and tractor field is
particularly well qualified to supervise the
marketing of the latest Knox product—a four-
wheeled tractor which has demonstrated its
efiiciency in the highway hauling of such
commodities as lumber, coal, structural steel,

ore, contractors’ materials, etc.
'1' 4°

In the Service of a California City

Chief Frank L. Hilton, of the Alhambra,
Cal., Fire Department, says that the Boyd city
service truck shown on page 113 of this issue
has been in service in Alhambra for 13 months
and has made 37 runs to fires. In answering
out-of—town calls it has been obliged to travel
over some very bad roads, but no trouble has
been experienced in its use. It is fitted with
Goodyear solid tires, and carries 227 feet of
ladders, including a 55-foot extension ladder,
also a 4o-gallon chemical tank, 300 feet of
chemical hose, axes, a door-opener, crowbars,

etc.
4- +
Road Signs That Last

Woodbury County, Iowa, believes that long-
lived road signs are a good thing, and they
believe in telling about a good thing after they
have it. Through the County Supply Com-
pany, of Sioux City, who are local agents for
the Indestructible Sign Company, of Columbus,
Ohio, they recently placed an order for signs
for all their roads, and then when the signs
were up they published an official map giving
the exact wording, mileage and location of the
signs. The Blue Grass Road and the Red Ball

Route out of Des Moines have just been
‘ equipped with signs made by the Indestructible
Sign Company, as have also the roads in
Fergus County, Montana.

Waterproof Flooring for Public
Buildings, Docks and Alleys

A neat leaflet issued by the H. W. Johns-
Manville Company, of New York and every
other large city, presents the advantages of the
J-M waterproofing and mastic materials. The
J -M mastic fiooring made by this company has
for its base Trinidad Lake asphalt. This, by
reason of its ductility, toughness, strength and
durability, when prepared for use in the mastic
floor covering, provides a surface that is water-
proof and’ at the same time practically wear-
proof under ordinary service conditions. It is
also unaffected by acids, alkali and brine. It is
sanitary, as it can be quickly and thoroughly
cleaned by the simpleprocess of fiu-shing, after
which it dries out immediately. It will not
originate dust, is noiseless and has a peculiar
holding quality which prevents slipping. It
can be made in any consistency between ex-
treme hardness and softness, and, while always
dense. possesses a certain amount of resiliency
and does not cause foot-soreness and fatigue.

 

 

 

MASTIC FLOORING AS USED FOR RAILROAD
STATION WORK

It is also damp-proof. It is easily laid and
easily repaired if changes in the floor surface
are made necessary at any time. It can be
laid over any foundation which is firm and
stable, and can be applied over wood, brick.
concrete and tile already in place. It is adapted
for use in connection with many industries
and classes of construction, among which may
be especially noted alley paving, court houses,
gymnasiums, jails, loading docks, railroad sta-
tions and school houses.

'l'd°

George P. White Promoted

The Buffalo Steam Roller Company, of Buf-
falo, N. Y.. announces the promotion of Mr.
George P. White to be manager of its Phila-
delphia ofiice. Mr. White has been connected
with this company for a number of years. With
this appointment the location of the Phila-
delphia office in the Bulletin Building is
changed to room 404 on the fourth floor.

THE AMERICAN CITY

   

   
     

l

 

. I I ‘ I ‘.
. , I I. .
Tire d I. i J‘. x 3 Tire

 

  
  

492 Cities

Favor These Tires

Fortified

   

Fire Fighters Depend on Them

Look for the facts—past records—when
you buy hre truck tires.

Be sure they will do what you expect them
to. Or if you expect trouble from every tire
then you don’t know Goodyears.

Last year alone 52% per cent of all new
motor-driven fire apparatus in this country
was equipped with Goodyear Fire Truck |
Tires.

You know there must be real reasons when
one tire can lead like that.

Commencing 1914 there were 344 City
Fire Departments using Goodyear tires.
In the one year 148 new cities were added.
That means 492 cities favored Goodyears.

The record so far this year will far over-
top the past.

Then here is another significant fact. 78
cities in 1914 already using Goodyears,
Specified Goodyears on new apparatus pur-
chased.

This, we claim, is the best proof we know
of that Goodyear tires excel.

We suggest to you, when next in the mar-
ket for lire truck tires, that you remember
the name and reputation of Goodyear.

The two types shown above are the types
you soon must come to. The Cushion Tire
is built for the heavy apparatus. The Forti-
fied Tire is built for the Chief’s car and the
lighter apparatus.

Write us for beautifully illustrated free
book, “Getting to the Fire.” Address
Desk 138. (2500)

    
      
       
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
       
   
   
   
   
   
     
     
 

 

 

Fire Truck Tires

The Goodyear Tire & Rubber (30., Akron, Ohio
Maker. of Goodyear Fortified Automobile Tires

 

 

Artificial
Daytime

As the sunlight
fades away, the or-
namental lighting
systems in hun-
dreds ofcities flash
on — brightening
streets and boule-
vards —driving
away darkness —
extending daytime
five to eight hours.

C UTTER
Standards

have helped to establish
artificial daylight in
many cities in all
climates.

Our posts are built from
experience gained through
twenty-five years serving
the public in cities through-
out the country. We have
been building the very high-
est quality of lighting fix-
tures and giving, always,
adequate service.

An Engineering Depart-
ment‘has been installed to
further assist you in plan-
ning for better lighting in
your city. We will be glad
to give you help gratis.

Write for our new catalog No. 13.

showing our latest designs or High
Efiiciency Mazda Lamps.

Geo. Cutter Co.

413 N otre Dame St.
South Bend, Ind.

61 When writing to Advertiser. please mention Tn: AXIIICAI Cut.

A k

 
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
    
 
   
    
 
   

 

For Contractors and Boards of Public Works

 

 

 

Corrosion of Soil Pipe

Everyone interested in
metal pipe for any use, as
well as those interested in
soil pipe, should read from
cover to cover the little
eight-page booklet on soil
pipe just published by the
Central Foundry Company,
90 West Street, New York.
Within its pages he will
find published for the first
time an entirely new and
novel hypothesis to account
for the difference in the -re-
sisting power of various
kinds of metal pipe to the
ravages of corrosion, and
this new hypothesis is well
worth pondering. The
booklet is unusually well il-
lustrated, and concrete ex-
amples that can be readily
verified by the reader are
given to bear out the com-

pany’s contentions.
4° 4°

A Street Scraper

A simple and effectual street scraper (the
Iron Horse brand) is manufactured by the
Rochester Can Company, of Rochester, N. Y.
It is made of heavy black iron, braced with
%-inch wire rod, and has a long hardwood
handle. This is said to have given the best
of service to all users in the cleaning of
streets and stables, and to be very durable.

It measures 30 inches in width and 10 inches
in depth.
'1' '1'

The Gravity System of Road Oiling

Studebaker, of South Bend, Ind., has pub-
lished “Catalog No. 1007,” which describes and
illustrates this company’s gravity road oiler.
This machine will distribute all kinds of emul-
sions for laying dust and binding and preserv-
ing the surface of roads. It handles cold oils
up to and including 40 per cent asphaltic base,
and in extremely warm weather oils with as
high as 60 per cent. Three distributing pipes,
each 6 feet long, divided in the center, give
a spread of 6 or 3 feet, as desired. They are
perforated in such a way as to insure evenness
of distribution. As the outlets work inde-
pendently, each pipe can be operated separately
or in combination with the others, thus giving
control of the quantity of oil used and of its
spread. Oil leakage is prevented by three posi-
tive shut-offs—a valve inside the tank, a
plunger in the horizontal cylinder and a shut-
03 valve at each pipe. This machine can be
fitted for operation in three ways: First. by
putting a seat at rear so as to enable one man
to give his entire attention to the distribution
of oil; second, by levers and rods, so as to be
controlled by the driver from his seat, and,

 

WATSON BOTTOM DUMP MOTOR TRUCK FOR ROAD IMPROVE-
MENT WORK

third, by combining both of the above plans
so that either the driver or the driver and the
helper can control the operation, as circum-
stances require.

+ '1‘

A Road Building Bulletin

The Du Pont Powder Company, of Wil-
mington, Del., realizing the growing need for
a bulletin written in a plain, popular style cov-
ering the location, building and maintenance
of roads, announces the publication of a
treatise on this subject for free distribution.

Although the obvious purpose of this publi-
cation is to promote the rational use of ex-
plosives in road work, the text is much broader
in its scope. The introductory chapter con-
sists of a discussion of the need of permanent
roads and highways and their relation to civic
and economic progress. Recommendations are
given for permanent locations and the width
and character of road desirable under different
conditions. Detailed advice is included regard-
ing the removal of stumps and boulders from
the right of way.

A chapter on drainage discusses every phase
of the subject from the crowning of the sur-
face to the control of large streams, and con-
tains instructions with regard to cut and fill
work in hard ground and in rock, for both
straight and side hill cuts. The chapter on
road building equipment includes everything
from the smallest drag scraper to rock crush-
ers and steam shovels. Special attention is
given to the use of different classes of road
surfacing material, and advice is given on
the construction of earth. shell, sand clay,
macadam, brick and concrete roads. This is
followed by a chapter on the upkeep of country
roads and by a treatise on explosives and their
handling and use.

[167]

   

“antigenic”

RUST PROOF

Good taste and good judgment go together in fencing. Among the varied styles of Excelsior
Rust Proof fence you will find one just suited to your location—a fence that will not  butwill
enhancethe view. Excelsior Rust proof fences w
The large wires are fastened together with a patent clamp so that they cannot slip. The fence
Best of all, it is dip galvanized. The spelter isput on much heavier
than on ordinary fences. That's why Excelsior Rust Proof fences have longer life thanortlinuy
fences and are not eaten by rust. Ale your hardware dealer also about Excelsior Rust Prod

Tree Guards, Bed Guards, Trellises and Trellis Arches.

 

stands erect, without sagging.

 

THE AMERICAN CITY

Ornamental
Lighting
Poles

are designed to add
beauty to your streets.
but they do far more.
’l‘hey help make your
town prosperous by
attracting business.

This particular (1c-
sign of pole is [or the
high ellicicncy Tpr
"C" Mazda Lamp.

Let us tell you more
about this pole, or we
will show you our
other designs.

ORNAMENTAL
LIGHTING POLE C0.

Poles for ell Types of Lighting
114 Liberty St..New York

 

’ll last because they are not the tumble-down kind.

   
  
  
   
  
    
    
      

and Protects

Write direct for catalog C.

  

The
Coleman Boulevard

Lamp

Makes and Burns Its
Own (ins tram
Gasoline or Kerosene

   
       
 
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
 
    
   

It is made of cast iron. oop-
per and brass. Will not rust
out. Stands 12 feet high. In
storm proof and bug proof.

It gives a strong. white light
and throws it down on the
street and sidewalk where it is
wanted and not up among the
tree tops.

Giving 1000 candle power.
midnight service costs 3 cents
per lamp per night. All night
service 5 cents per night. In
competitive tests we have
never tailed to show the lowest
opt-rating cost of any gasoline
or electric light made.

It is lighted and turned on
from the ground in less than a
minute. It is thoroughly prac-
tical and the extra. “gas pro-
ducer” insures against failure.
Also made to give 300 candle
power.

Write nearest house.

the Coleman Lamp Co.

Wichita. Kansas
Toledo, Ohio
St. Paul. Minn.

Dell“, Tex.

When writing to Advertisers please mention Tn Armour u.

L

Digitized by 00816

Ava, 1915

The book is fully illustrated with photo-
graphic views and special plan and sectional
drawings of roads. It may be obtained free
on request by anyone interested in the subject.

+4.

Building Country Roads

Through the united efforts of the Oregon
State Highway Commission and good road en-
thusiasts of the coast state, miles of rural
road, including a number of market routes,
were improved by paving with cement during
1914, and miles more are contracted for during
the coming summer.

In an eflort to hold down the expense and
at the same time increase the efficiency of the
working forces and allow the completion of the
work in short time, the Highway Commission

NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS

169

How Water Was Secured for Hope-
well, N. J.

In securing a water-supply for the town of
Hopewell, N. 1., the contractors, Stothof’f
Brothers, of Flemington, N. J., drilled two
wells through the red sandstone to the granite
formation underneath, one 261 feet, the
other 243 feet deep. In the 260-foot well
a flow of 8 gallons per minute at the sur-
face was obtained, but in drilling the other
well the same vein was encountered and the
water from the first well was lowered. Upon
completion of the second well a flow of 35
gallons per minute was obtained, which the
town is using. A surface reservoir was built,
into which the water flows by gravity and
from which it is pumped with a triplex pump

 

PORTABLE TRAIN OUTFIT USED BY OREGON STATE HIGHWAY COMMISSION

contracted with the Orenstein-Arthur Koppel
Company, of Pittsburgh, for the furnishing
of portable tracks and trains of “Koppel”
V-shaped cars. This equipment is said to have
been thoroughly tested during the past six
months and to have met with the approval of
the Commission members. In view of the
large mileage of roads to be improved this
year, additional equipment will be put in ser-
vice. The raw material—concrete, stone and
sand—is brought to the working point in trains
of cars, sections of the portable track being
placed along the road to be improved and
leading to the concrete mixing apparatus.

4-4.
PullMeOut

Is the slogan on the insert in a folder just
issued by The Pioneer Asphalt Company, of
Lawrenceville, 111.. under the caption of “A
Big Story Briefiy Told,” and to him who heeds
the slogan that company will send much valu-
able information about the Pioneer products
and many suggestions that will go far toward
pulling t e road maker out of the difficulties
that surround him.

and a gas engine to a reservoir 160 feet higher.
A suction line is connected with the well
proper, so that in case the natural flow is in-
adeiifuate water can be pumped from the well
itse .

Both of the wells were finished 8 inches in
diameter, but were started with a diameter
of 10 inches, which was increased to 20 inches
in the rock. They were then cased out and
cemented between the outside of the casing
and the wall of the 10-inch hole with liquid
Portland cement, so as to shut out the pos-
sibility of surface contamination. By using
a pump the 260-foot well could pump 60 gal-
lons, the 243-foot well 100 gallons a minute.

The water is clear and of good quality. and
the usual temperature is 52 degrees. It is
an unusual circumstance to obtain a gravity
supply of water of this amount in this sec-
tion. No supply was encountered in the
work until the point was reached where the
change of rock occurred, between the sand-
stone and the granite.

Municipalities interested in artcsian wells or
water-supply outfits will find Stothofl’ Brothers
fully experienced along this line.

THE AMERICAN CITY

Your Town’s Best Advertisement—

A MORRIS ORNAMENTAL
STREET LIGHTING SYSTEM!

F new people—new industries—
] are to be attracted, it is just as
necessary for your town to
advertise as it is for the individual
merchant or manufacturer.

No other method of civic adver-
tising will yield so great a return
in CIVIC BETTERMENT—in 
MODERN DEVELOPMENT, as 233;} WW
a wealth of sparkling—twinkling, m“ ""
up-to—date street lights, mounted

on MORRIS ORNAIEN'I'AI. Gssr
laou Snunsans.

 

You do credit to your “Main Streets”
—to your parks—to your residential
sections, by installing MORRIS STAND-
ARDS. Their effect is dignified, harmoni-
ous, graceful. Made from the best
chemically-analyzed pig iron (no scrap)
they embody all that is staunch, rust-
proof, everlasting.

   

Innis Susana: are playing a promi- 533‘?“ $1,?”

8
nent part in the rapid expansion of 

I,‘ hundreds of Cities and Towns the country @503, 

over.
6-1. m Tu sun Cluster
Statigdard. on No. Ask for illustrated booklet—"The Origin
31-346- MW 0130 ’0' and Development of Better Street Liz t-
3-uaha: one o more than ing _ n8 Value...

600 00m m.

ELIER P. MORRIS, Sales Agent
‘3. LI.IR7Y "REIY. RIM YORK

ORNAMENTAL BMW, . _

Cast 1'0" CENTRAL FOUNDRY cm
L I G H T I N G ammo" and Sole Ownsnofl-‘oundriu u

Anmston' . B-unc. sdins . .
 Ntwlzt.NI.I.l’.l‘A:mnes.lnd. 1A3:timor.ld. NY

LL60

   

 

’4 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tn: Aussies! err.

..

