 

87 Nassau Street
New York

SEPT., 1915

Volume XIII
Number 3

Sand-Clay Road Construction*

A Cheap Method of Road Building by Which Many Bad Sand and Clay Sections
of Country Roads May be Improved

By T. R. Agg

HE name “sand-clay" is given to a
type of road surface that consists of

7 natural or artificial mixtures of sand
and clay, loam or gypsum, or of all of these
materials. Such surfaces are constructed
both on clay soils and on deep sand soils.
The character of the sand and of the clays
encountered varies so greatly that it is im-
possible to lay down specific rules and pro-
portions for the construction. Exceedingly
surprising results are often obtained with
most unpromising materials and under un-
scientific methods of construction. A gen-
eral description of the methods and mate-
rials that have been used and the principles
involved may, however, be given.

Types of Soil

Cumbo.—This soil is the familiar black,
waxy soil found in widely scattered locali-
ties in the Mississippi Valley. It is an ex-
ceedingly fine-grained. dense, sticky soil and
one that when wet rolls upon the wheels of
vehicles until they become solid balls of
mud.

.S‘laking Clay.—This type of clay is found
mixed with a varying percentage of sand, is
somewhat coarse-grained and becomes soft
and mushy when wet. It is of a yellow to
reddish color and of varying degrees of
stickiness. Since it is not uniformly sticky,
it is not the best material to use on a deep
sand soil but must of necessity be used in
many instances, being the only material
available for the work.

Semi-Plastic Clay—This material is of a
yellow or reddish color, of fine texture, and
in physical characteristics resembles gumbo.

 

fReprinted, by permission, from the Service Bul-
letin of the Iowa State Highway Commission.

Since it is sticky, it is a good binder for a
sand road and is quite stable, but on account
of its physical characteristics it is more dif-
ficult to handle than the sedimentary clay.

Sand Clay Soils.—InSome localities there
is found a soil which consists of a natural
mixture of sand and one of the types of
clay, proportioned about right for road sur-
facing. If deficient either in sand or clay,
this mixture can often be adjusted during
the construction by the addition of the ma-
terial that is lacking. These materials are
rarely uniform in composition, and must be
mixed on the road to secure uniformity.

Loam—Loam is a brown or black porous,
coarse-grained soil containing more or less
sand. It is not a good material for road
surfacing on account of its poor bonding
properties, but it is sometimes the only ma-
terial available in a region of sand roads.
Its use is advisable only under such condi-
tions.

Smut—The sand soils vary greatly in
fineness and clay or loam content. \Vhen
deep and free from clay or other bonding
material, they become loose when dry, and
in this condition on a highway they make
a surface of very high tractive resistance._
If on a low-lying road so that they are con-
stantly water-saturated, they remain fairly
stable, but in such instances are not of in-
terest in this discussion.

Sand-Clay Comlruclion on Gumbo or Clay

Addition of Natural Sand-Clay .lli'xturcs.
—The road to be improved is graded so that
proper side ditches are obtained and the
middle portion is made about Hat. Upon
this section the natural sand-clay mixture
is spread in a layer about ten inches thick

Digitized by 6008161711
-

I72

}

I .I
' '2' u _ it
 tar, » M vs;

I ......

 

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

VOL. XIII, No. 3

 

 

THERE \VAS SOME SAND IN

THIS STRETCH OF ROAD IN THE

OUTSKI RTS OF WATERLOO

at the middle and six inches at the edge,
the width being from ten to sixteen feet.
The sand-clay mixture is spread with a
grader and. as soon as thoroughly soaked by
rains, is harrowed to break up the lumps
and thoroughly mix the materials. The
road is again shaped with a grader and
opened to traffic. If the natural sand clay
mixture is dehcient in clay, a proper
amount of the gumbo or clay is thrown on
from the sides of the road before mixing.
By Addition of Sand—The roadway is
shaped as described before and the sand is
spread on the surface to a depth of about
six inches. While still dry the road is

plowed to loosen the clay or gumbo below
the sand and mix the two together. After
the plowing the mixing is completed with
a disc harrow and this can best be done
when the road is wet. After a thorough
mixture is obtained the surface is shaped
with a grader and is compacted by trafiic.
Similar results are obtained by spreading
the sand or fine gravel on the road in a
layer three or four inches thick and allow-
ing traHic to use it. When the road is soft
after rains the sand will be mixed with the
soil, and if it appears that additional sand
is needed it is added. This method is less
effective than the one first described. but

 

 

 

IT TOOK A STRONG TEAM TO HAUL A LOAD OF MATERIAL THROUGH
THIS SOIL, \VIIEN \VORK STARTED ON BUILDING A DEMONSTRATION
SAND-CLAY ROAD AT A ROAD SCHOOL THERE

SEPTEMBER, 1915 THE AMERICAN CITY 173

 

 

THERE WAS A SAND-CLAY HILL THREE-QUARTERS OF A MILE AWAY.
AN ELEVATING GRADER CUT OFF THE TOP OF THIS AND LOADED IT
UPON DUMP WAGONS. IT WAS HAULED TO A SAND STRETCH AND
DUMPED IN THE CENTER OF THE ROAD. THE CLAY HAD NEARLY
THE RIGHT PROPORTION OF SAND FOR SAND-CLAY ROAD BUILDING

 

A LIGHT GRADER SPREAD THE CLAY TO AN EVEN
DEPTH OF 18 TO '20 INCHES, AND ALSO THREW
SOME OF THE SAND FROM THE SIDE DITCHES

ON TOP OF TIIE CLAY

 

 

 

IT TOOK 2,124 CUBIC YARDS OF CLAY, HAULED 4,400 FEET AT A COST
PER YARD, IN PLACE, OF 51.6 CENTS, TO CONSTRUCT THIS 2,800 FEET
OF SAND ROAD, WHICH GAVE GOOD SERVICE FOR SEVERAL YEARS

UNTIL PAV ED

 

174

in time a serviceable road will result if it is
given proper attention and is kept free of
ruts.

Sand-C lay Construction on Sand

By Addition of Natural Sand-Clay Mix-
tures—The sandy road is shaped to a
slightly crowned section with shallow
ditches and with a nearly fiat section in the
middle portion, upon which the clay mix-
ture is to be placed. The sand-clay mixture
is then spread on the sand in a layer about
twelve inches thick at the middle and six
inches thick at the edges. and when wet is
thoroughly mixed with a harrow and
smoothed with a grader. If the sand-clay
mixture is deficient in sand, the defect is
remedied by throwing on sand from the
road side.

By Addition of Clay—The amount of
clay that should be added is theoretically
the amount necessary to hll the voids in the
sand. The voids can be determined by the
water displacement method, which will in-
dicate roughly the amount of clay to use.
A somewhat larger proportion of clay of
the sedimentary type is needed than of the
ball clay. The use of too much clay should
be carefully avoided. Enough clay is spread
on the surface of the sand road to fill the
voids in a layer about ten inches thick.
This is then mixed with the sand by plow-
ing and discing until a thorough mixture
is obtained, and the mixing should be done
while the road is wet. This is the vital part
of the construction and is a tedious and dis-
agreeable job, but the success of the con-
struction depends upon the thoroughness
with which the mixing is done. The sur-
face is then smoothed and is compacted by
trafiic.

Where no clay can be found to mix with
the sand and no natural sand clay mixtures
are available, loam is often used instead.
The construction is carried out as just de-
scribed. The results to be expected are not
as good as if proper materials were avail-
able. but a crust is formed that will be ser-
viceable except in long-continued dry
weather. It is apt to break through to the
sand if not made of ample thickness.

Gypsum Roads.—This type is almost al-
ways used on sandy roads. and the method
of construction is the same as described for
the placing of natural sand-clay mixtures.

In all sand—clay and gypsum construction,

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 3

thorough mixing and careful proportioning
are essential if first class roads are to re-
sult. When the road is opened to traffic it
is not a finished product, but will require
smoothing with the grader or drag at inter-
vals for a year. Quite often it will be ap-
parent as time goes on that more sand or
clay. as the case may be, is needed, and such
should then be added a little at a time until
the road becomes smooth and firm.

Not infrequently the ingredients for a
sand-clay road are thrown together in a
haphazard manner, the mixing being left to
be done by traffic. and the road receives
little care and in spite of the neglect be—
comes a fairly good road. The time and
expense necessary for the best results are.
however, fully justified by the better ser-
vice the road will give.

C haractcristics.—The sand-clay road is
resilient, fairly dustless, and will be smooth
if properly built. It does not become muddy
except a little on the surface. is serviceable
for moderate traffic. and requires little can:
after it once becomes solid. It may be dam-
aged by long-continued dry weather. The
cost ranges from $350 to $1,200 per mile for
roads fourteen feet wide. depending. as
would be expected, on the availability of
materials and the cost of labor.

++

Progress Reports of Experiments
in Dust Prevention and Road
Preservation, 1914
A professional paper contributed under
date of July 12. 1915, from the office of
Public Roads. is issued as Bulletin No. 257
of the United States Department of Agri—
culture, with the above title. It reports ex-
periments at Lemon City and West Palm
Beach, Fla.. and gives supplementary re-
ports of experiments in 1913. at Miami,
Fla., and Rockville Pike, Md: in 1912 at
Washington. I). C.. and at Chevy Chase,
Md, in both 1912 and 1911; at Jamaica.
N. Y., in 1911; at New York City. Ridge-
wood. N. J.. Boise, Idaho, Ames. Iowa. and
Knoxville. Tenn, in 1910: at Youngstown.
Ohio, in 1909: at Newton, Mass. Garden
City. Dodge City, Bucklin and Ford, Kan.,
in 1908. and at Bowling Green. Ky., in 1907.
The materials used and the methods em-
ployed in the experiments. the several kinds
of roads. the varying conditions of traffic,
and analyses of materials and cost data are

given.

Digitized by 600816

A County Road Partially Reformed

 

To the patient horse or the impatient motorist, the present condition of this county
road is a vast improvement over its former rats and mud. But to horse and motorist,
as well as to pedestrian and roadside dweller, a row of trees along each side would
inject an element of beauty into the scene, besides adding not a little to the comfort
of life on summer days

 

Getting Together Down South

What Some Commercial Organizations Are Doing to Promote Agricultural Development

By F. Roger Miller
Secretary, Board of Trade, Morristown, Tenn.

of a friend who was then secretary

of the chamber of commerce in one
of the largest and most prosperous cities of
the South. I had been reading some of his
literature and was particularly interested
in the statement on the front cover of a
beautifully lithographed booklet, which
read:

TEN years ago I strolled into the office

“This organization is efficiently serving
every business interest of the city and
county. and is working for the development
and improvement of every department of
activity in this and adjacent territory.”

I had visited the city often. I was not
prepared to accept his statement in whole
and frankly told him so. He took it good-
naturedly and then told me in elaborate de-
tail of the numerous things accomplished
for the commercial, industrial and civic in-
terests of the city—of the new factories
brought there during the preceding year,
of railroad rates and claims adjusted, of
municipal achievements galore, of great
conventions landed, of thousands of book-
lets and circulars sent to the four corners
of the globe, and of the large space given
that city in the great trade journals and
magazines of the nation.

When he had concluded his interesting
summary, I said: “That is all very fine, Bob,
but it seems to me that you have overlooked
one thing of vital importance, not only to
your city but to the entire territory you
claim to serve. That one neglected oppor-
tunity is the development of the agricul-
tural resources of this section upon which
you should be able to depend for the bulk
of the food products consumed in this city.”

He laughed. “It takes you country fel-
lows a long time to get rid of your hayseed
notions, Miller,” he said; “I thought you
had been here long enough to forget the
cows and chickens. This is not a farmers’
club, but the chamber of commerce in a city
of 85,000 population.”

“But,” I insisted, “along every car line

[176]

L

and main pike throughout the county I see
hundreds of acres of waste land, scores of
abandoned farms, orchards grown up with
briars and Sassafras, and the few farms
actually working have despair and discon-
tent painted all over them in letters a rod
high. From your city dealers I learn that
your meat supply comes from the North and
West, your potatoes from Michigan, butter
from \Visconsin and Iowa, Hour from the
West and Northwest. apples “from New
York, peaches from Georgia. green vege-
tables from Florida, celery and lettuce from
California, poultry and eggs from Georgia,
Alabama, eastern Tennessee and Kentucky.
In fact, Bob, as nearly as I can figure, 90
per cent of the farm products consumed in
this city are produced in sections from 200
to 1,500 miles away. Why? The land
looks as though it had been productive at
some time in its history. There can be no
question about the demand right here for
all of these things that are being shipped in.
What’s wrong?"

“Oh, that’s easy of explanation,” he said.
“The best farmers have moved to town in
order to enjoy our superior advantages in
schools, churches, street cars, paved streets
and the like. Some have gone west, and
the majority of the remainder are poverty-
stricken and shiftless, as a class. True, we
are dependent upon other sections for our
food supply, to a large extent, but we sell
them our manufactured products, so, after
all, we're simply trading with our own cus-
tomers. These things are of no interest to
an organization of this kind, for our work
is the building of a city, and we have our
hands full at that without wasting time or
labor in the rural districts.”

“Then take down your sign,” I said, “for,
like the fellow who was knocked—Hat for
the announcement that he could lick any
man in the United States, you’re claiming
too much territory.”

The conversation I have related in the
foregoing might have occurred in any one
of a hundred cities of the South at that

Digitized by 600816

SEPTEMBER, 1915

time. It actually did occur in one of the
largest, and, ten years ago, one of the most
progressive of them all.

At the national convention of commercial
secretaries in Cincinnati last fall I was im-
pressed with the important place given the
subject of farm development on the general
program and in the daily discussions.
Curious to know just how far the movement
had extended in the South, I subsequently
addressed a questionnaire to the secretaries
of 50 leading commercial organizations in
12 states. The replies from the majority
were lengthy and enthusiastic. For ex-
ample:

Some Definite Achievements

Secretary Bruce Kennedy, of the Cham-
ber of Commerce, Montgomery, Ala.,
writes:

“This Chamber of Commerce has consid-
ered the improvement of agricultural condi-
tions and rural life its actual duty. Our plans
provide for a department of agriculture with
a manager and five committees, which are ac-
tive throughout the year. Four years ago we
secured a farm demonstration agency, which
works through this ofiice for the development
of grain and cattle raising. In four years we
have had a large reduction in cotton acreage
and much more interest in grain, cattle, a1-
falfa and other crops than ever before. Last
year we had 1,100 acres planted in clover and
our farm agent gave treatment to 93 described
farms. We have organized parties of city men
and taken trips over the county at specified
times during the year, and at the present time
we are engaged in holding meetings in the
country at which we discuss diversification and
improvement of social and economic condi-
tions. Recently we have started a movement
to bring the housekeepers of Montgomery and
the producers of farm stuffs closer together
on specified days for the marketing of pro-
duce. The high cost of living has forced us
to consider a radical change from the old sys-
tem, and we are now asking the farmers to
bring their produce to the city and sell it with-
out license, while urging the housekeepers to
buy from them. We have arranged with the
city government to relieve the farmers from
license and to protect them in their business.
We keep on file a list of the white farmers of
the county and send them such pamphlets and
other information as will be beneficial in the
improvement of their condition. We have or-
ganized the hay growers of the county and the
cattle raisers, and have secured an expert in
,tick eradication whose duty it is to advise
with the cattle growers. Work along all of
these lines has been reasonably successful and
is growing.”

Secretary R. B. Naylor, of the Wheeling,
W. Va., Board of Trade, writes:

THE AMERICAN CITY

I77

“The Pan Handle Agricultural Club, com-
posed of business men and farmers scattered
over the two counties of Ohio and Brooks,
was organized in March, 1913. The directors
are farmers and business men and are active
members of the Board of Trade. The purpose
of the organization is to develop the agricul-
tural resources of this section by field studies,
farm demonstrations and club work among
the people, also the study of farm accounting
and cow testing. Through the farm demon-
stration work, 500 acres of alfalfa have been
sown, 200 acres of soy beans, and the farmers
have bought 24 carloads of fertilizers under
the advice of the agent employed; this is a co-
operative way, savmg a great deal of money.
'1 his fall we assisted 21 men who had been
demonstrating good orchard culture in getting
a market for their product. The Club was
responsible for a very good apple show given
this year, in which many of the growers par-
tieipated. We have a fairly good organization
of boys’ corn clubs and girls’ canning clubs,
all of which are doing good work. Cow test-
ing work is conducted from headquarters, the
samples of milk being taken by farmers to the
ofiice once each month. These samples are
examined in the laboratory and reports re-
turned to the farmers during the first four
days of each month, giving the farmer a but-
ter fat record for each cow, as well as the
total weight of product each month. The Club
now employs three farm agents, two of whom
are giving their attention to special crops, soil
improvement and dairy improvements. One
lady is directing the work of the boys' and
girls’ clubs and giving the same attention to
farm women as the other agents give to the
men of the. farm. One man is employed to
conduct the cooperative buying and selling for
the district.”

Secretary N. Buckner, of the Asheville,
N. C., Board of Trade, writes:

“Five years ago the farm demonstration
work wasstarted in this county. The first
year we could induce only three men to plant
an acre of land and cultivate it in accordance
with instructions. The highest yield that year
was 96 bushels and I well remember that a
great many people hooted at the idea that such
yields could be made profitable. Since that
time, in the men’s and boys’ demonstration
work, the yield has reached 158 bushels, 54
pounds of dry corn. This year we have 155
boys entered and conduct a corn show at
which $200 will be awarded in prizes for
yields and seed selection. Since September
of 1913 we have had a demonstrator in the
field all of his time. The work has been of
enormous benefit to Buncombe County. Of-
ficials of the United States Department of
Agriculture in my ofhce recently estimated that
the increase in corn yield in one year
amounted to 240,000 bushels as a result of
the demonstration work in this county. Corn
was then selling at $1 per bushel on the local
market. Cooperating with the State Depart-
ment of Agriculture, we are now promoting

Digitized by 600816

178

the organization of greater beef-producing
associations, the idea being to develop the best
strain of pure bred cattle already here by the
purchase of pure bred sires for use in produc-
ing grade stock from native cows."

Secretary R. W. Holcombe, of the Co-
lumbia, S. C., Chamber of Commerce,
writes:

"The Columbia Chamber of Commerce is
one of the pioneers in the agricultural devel-
opment of the state. Our farm demonstration
bureau was established two years ago and we
have obtained wonderful results. This de-
partment, then but three months old. took
second prize at the state fair. Out of the
44 counties in the state. 38 were represented.
We are now organizing canning clubs for the
farm girls and inducing the merchants to use
Richland County products exclusively. We
have encouraged the farmers to diversify,
raising more grain, live stock, and products
needed for home consumption. Acreage sown
to grain and cover crops in this county this
year will greatly exceed any previous year.
"orty farmers have been induced to begin
systematic corn breeding and the farm agent
assists them in selection. Staple crops are
grown on three school plots of nine acres, as
rotation demonstrations. Boys’ corn clubs
and poultry clubs have been organized, hun-
dreds of farm bulletins have been distributed.
and farmers have been induced to plant more
than 6,000 fruit trees this fall.”

Bristol, Tenn-Va., is devoting the major
part of its attention to the promotion of
highway construction, but is taking up this
year the matter of closer relationship be-
tween the business men of the city and the
farmers.

Morristown, Tenn., has a county-wide
organization in the Board of Trade, one
department serving the city, and the Farm
Department devoting its entire time and at-
tention to agricultural development. Fif-
teen committees are directing the work
along as many lines of farm and rural life
improvement. A county demonstrator has
been employed, corn and poultry clubs or-
ganized. canning and garden clubs will be
added this year. and the organization of a
county homemakers' club for farm women
is now in progress. The Board of Trade
conducts a “community house" which is the
meeting place and headquarters for all of
these organizations and includes a rest
room for women and children. Poultry
packing houses and boiler plants are al-
ready established: a new creamery began
operations in October, having been organ-
ized by the Board of Trade, and plans are

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 3

now being perfected for the establishment
of a large meat packing plant.

Chattanooga, Tenn., has recently estab-
lished two new public market houses, and
the Chamber of Commerce is working out
several plans for the development of farm-
to-consumer systems of marketing.

The Wholesale Merchants and Manufac-
turers Bureau in December appointed a
special committee of 14 to consider ways
and means whereby New Orleans, La., can
broaden its scope as a distributing center
for both staple and perishable farm prod-
ucts. This committee is now working out
detailed plans for diversification and mar-
keting systems to be presented to the pro-
ducers of that section.

The Tampa, Fla., Board of Trade pro-
moted the construction of brick roads
throughout the rural districts. inducing the
county to vote $1,000,000 in bonds for this
purpose. Seventy-five miles of brick road
will be completed this year.

The Jacksonville, Fla., Board of Trade
last year inaugurated an agricultural and
market bureau, especially designed to im-
prove farm and other rural conditions in
the county. A farm adviser was employed
and placed in the field. An exhibit of the
agricultural products of the county was
held last fall in the Board of Trade audi-
torium.

The Huntington, W. Va., Chamber of
Commerce has secured the services of a
county demonstrator, organized boys' and
girls’ clubs, conducted demonstration work,
a corn show, fall festival and club exhibits.
A system of direct marketing has been
worked out and a large auto truck will be
used this year to gather farm produce and
deliver to city consumers.

From others of the hfty cities included
in the canvass I have received replies or
direct information concerning farm devel-
opment work launched within the last two
to five years, indicating that the movement,
although still young, is widespread and
growing.

C orporation lines are forgotten. Coun-
ties have become great communities, and
the business men of the city are working
shoulder to shoulder with the business men.
of the country for community development
and the improvement of all conditions in
which they are now mutually interested.

Digitized by 600816

The First Step in Community Development
By Paul Walton Black

Auriion’s Nora—In this discussion of the Survey it was im-
practicable to use the real name of a town because of the ensuing
embarrassment to that town; and as long as a real name was not
raise. it was decided that by using an imaginary town a greater
number of typical problems could be discussed and the article would

be of wider benefit.

The conditions and situations are such as have

been found in various towns in Wisconsin.

OME time ago at the annual meeting
S of the Commercial Club of Maple
Crest a report was given showing
that there had been a continued decrease
in the population of the town in the pre-
ceding decade. Ten years before the school
census estimated a population of 4,500.
Since then the population had dwindled to
4,000. The gravity of «the situation was at
once realized, as evidenced by the discussion
which followed.

Many suggestions were made, but it was
soon very plain that until the causes for
the condition were known, little could be
done. There was a man in the Commercial
Club, the editor of the newspaper, who had
lived in a town where a community survey
had been successfully made. He suggested
that the results desired could be best ob-
tained by a similar survey in Maple Crest,
explaining that by a community survey was
meant a study of the whole community, its
conditions and activities, with a view to
discovering their relationships and which,
if any, were in need of attention. The Club
was favorably impressed with its possibili-
ties, and at its next meeting a committee
was appointed on Community Development.
This committee consisted of three members:
a chairman, a banker, who was open-minded
and not accustomed to taking sides, the
newspaper editor as secretary. and a pro-
gressive woman chosen by these two. This
committee was instructed by the Club to
gather information on the possible cost of
the community survey, what outside help
would be needed, where it might be secured,
and to make recommendations on procedure.

The secretary took up the correspondence
at once and got information as to the ef-
ficiency and cost of the community survey
if conducted by a national foundation, or
by the University Extension Division, or by

private social survey men. The committee
felt that there were local people who could
be secured without expense to gather the
data and that a man to direct the work was
all that they needed. This seemed to be
the most economical plan they could work
out, and at the same time it would train
the local pe01)le to study conditions at home
and prepare them for further service in
building up the community. The Commer-
cial Club approved of the findings of the
committee, and instructions were given to
obtain a Survey Director and proceed with
the work.

When the Survey Director met with the
committee he suggested that the original
committee be enlarged to include progres-
sive men from the following fields: com-
mercial, industrial, agricultural, health and
sanitation, governmental, and educational.
This enlarged committee selected unbiased
held workers fi'om the community to gather
the necessary data, which was turned over
to the committee, who analyzed it under
the supervision of the Survey Director.
While the investigation of each worker was
to center about his particular field, he was
instructed to include in his report any facts
which seemed to have a bearing on the
survey as a whole.

Commercial Survey

The hrst report heard by the committee
was that of the investigation in the com-
mercial held. The field worker had gone
to the various business houses and obtained
access to their records, from which he dis-
covered that there had been a decrease in
the volume of trade which was greater than
the decrease in population. From their
records a list was made of the people
who did not patronize their home stores to
such an extent as they had some years pre-

[1791

Digitized by 600816

180 'THE AMERICAN CITY VOL. XIII, No.3
Maple Crest were
in poor condition
also, making it
unsafe to haul
heavy loads to
their market.
One condition
which was favor-
able to Maple
C r e s t w a 5
brought out and

 

WHY TRADE WAS DIVERTED FROM MAPLE CREST TO BURTON

viously. A more extensive study showed
that Burton, a new town ten miles distant,
had taken this trade from Maple Crest. The
investigator submitted a map including the
territory of both Burton and Maple Crest.
A line was drawn around Maple Crest, in-
cluding the farthermost families trading
there five years before, and a second line
was drawn including the farthermost fami-
lies whose present trade centered in that
town. A similar circle was drawn around
Burton, which disclosed the fact that not
only many country people who formerly
patronized Maple Crest were now trading
at Burton, but that even residents of Maple
Crest were going to Burton to trade. The
reasons for this were discovered when a
comparative study was made of the busi-
ness houses of the two places. Burton was
found to have a more complete and up-to—
date stock of goods, more obliging clerks,
and better advertising, and with the gradual
growth of trade Burton was able to offer
better prices. The advertising work of the
people of Burton had shown marked re-
sults both in turning trade in their direc-
tion and in holding it. This would have
been of transient benefit, however, if prices
and the courtesy of the clerks had not been
of the best.

From the public records the investigator
platted the roads over which trade must
come to the two towns. This showed that
two roads to Burton, though more round
about, were better than those to Maple
Crest, and made it easier for a thickly set-
tled area lying between the two towns to
reach Burton. The bridges on the roads to

gave hope for the
situation. On ac-
count of the rail-
road competition
freight rates
were lower.

The extent to
which the com-
munity patronized the mail-order houses
was fairly accurately estimated by getting
data from the freight and express offices.
the banks and post ofiice. This estimate
was checked up by taking at random enough
individuals to get an average and finding
out about how much they had bought
through the mails. It showed a large
amount of trade going to distant cities
whose business houses paid not a cent in
maintenance of schools, churches. city gov-

'ernment, or other interests of the Maple

Crest community.

Industrial Survey

The investigation in the industrial field
showed one condensery employing a maxi-
mum of fifty men; one canning factory de-
manding a hundred men and women in the
summer; a boot and shoe factory which had
recently burned on account of poor fire pro-
tection, throwing out of employment fifty
men and women; a flour mill employing ten
men, and a small tannery employing eight
men. Railroad transportation facilities
were shown to be good and cheaper than
in some nearby places. A small river ran
beside the town, furnishing some regular
but limited water-power possibilities.

Related to the industrial situation was the
problem of poverty. \Vages and conditions
of work were fair in season, but the large
percentum of unemployed made relief neces-
sary at certain periods of the year. Be-
cause of the uncertainty of employment
throughout the year people were moving
away. The beginning of a housing prob-
lem was evidenced in the lack of sanitary

SEPTEMBER, 1915

provisions and in insufficient thrift to per-
mit good living conditions. Some other
towns in the state with no greater natural
facilities for industries had the head of
about one family in ten in industries, but
Maple Crest showed only one in eighteen.

Agricultural Survey

The agricultural survey was made of a
general nature because of local conditions.
No system of farm accounting existed and
facts were rather diflicult to obtain. Such
estimates as could be worked out, based on
the value of land, and the income from it,
showed some farms paying a good rate of
interest, but quite a number falling short of
their possibilities. The soil was good and
dairying was growing. Alfalfa had been
tried by several farmers. but for some rea-
son without success, and they gradually
came to think that alfalfa could not be
grown there and were shipping it in from
a distance for dairy purposes. Potatoes
grew very well in the community, but they
were being grown without reference to
unity of variety. The grains consisted
chiefly of oats and some wheat, and hay
was an important crop.

At the beginning of the backward move-
ment in the community of Maple Crest, a
Farmers' Elevator was constructed because
the farmers felt that advantage was taken
of them on every hand in the sale of their

THE AMERICAN CITY 181

small grains. A few years ago a company
built a condensery and offered better prices
for milk, and little by little the cooperative
creamery lost its patronage until it finally
closed down. A comparison of prices’
showed that at the beginning higher prices
were paid for milk than they could afford
to pay at a cooperative creamery, and since
the competition of the creamery had ceased
the price of milk had dropped below the
creamery price.

A list of the farmers with dairy herds
showed that some had Jerseys, some Hol-
steins, some Guernseys and still others
mixed herds. Those who were making the
least or losing on the proposition were doing
so because of a lack of knowledge of judging
animals and too infrequent testing for but-
ter fat production to find out what animals
were paying and what ones were not.

Some fruit was raised, but much of it was
wasted on account of a poor market and
lack of cooperation among the producers.

Due to lack of labor-saving devices, im-
proved machinery and poor social and edu-
cation conditions, the young people were
moving away to the cities, leaving the
farms to be tilled by the older people, who
were less progressive than they.

Educational Survey

The educational study brought out the
fact that in comparison with other com-

 

WHY PEOPLE MOVE AWAY

 

182 THE AMERICAN CITY VOL. XIII, No.3

rate, it ran high among infants and also
very high for tuberculosis. At two differ—
ent periods in the past ten years typhoid
fever broke out, once traceable over a milk
route to a farm home, and once to the ex-

munities of the same size in the state and
with similar 'conditions, a much smaller
proportion of the taxes was devoted to
school purposes. W’hat buildings they had

were, with the exception of one, of stable
character. They were quite old, and while
they were not overcrowded, they failed to
have the equipment of the present-day pro-
gressive schools in the way of recreation

tended use of surface wells in one section

of the city.

Clean-up campaigns (according to the

custom) had been conducted each spring:

but after this one clean-up

 

 

 

REASONS FOR A TYPHOID FEVER EPIDEMIC

facilities. equipment for thg training of the
boys and girls in the lines that would make
them find their places in their own com-
munity. But little instruction in agriculture
or manual training was given, and domestic
science was tabooed. Some agitation had
been made for medical and dental inspec-
tion, but that was dropped because of some
who felt it was encroaching upon the rights
of American citizens. No provisions were
made for the continuation of education for
the grown people. A beginning of a good
small library existed in the city, but its use
was limited.

Health and Sanitation Survey

The general health conditions were about
as would be found in a community of this
size. The investigator secured from the
death certificates the causes of deaths, and
a classification of these according to cause
and age showed that a higher tuberculosis
death rate existed than for the state as a
whole. There was a higher infant death
rate than should exist. As to the morbidity

| day, conditions throughout

the remainder of the year
were conducive to fly
breeding and to the devel-
opment of health men-
aces.

Municipal Govemmenl

Survey

The problem of city
government was ap-
proached from the stand-
point of community de-
velopment. A study was
made of the charter and
the city ordinances with a
view to ascertaining their
possibilities in assisting in
any plans for town pro-
motion that might be
adopted. The attitude of
the city officials was
studied, so as to estimate the kind and
extent of support that could be expected,
from the standpoint of the city govern-
ment, in carrying out the plans adOpted
by the committee. In order to secure the
data for drawing conclusions in the above-
named problems it was necessary to study:
(I) the organization of the city govern-
ment—how the officials were elected, how
the difTerent branches were correlated, the
extent to which powers and responsibilities
could be. traced: and (2) the efficiency of
the services which the town performed—as
fire, water, streets, sewers, markets, police.
etc.
The findings showed that too small
amounts had been spent on roads and
streets, and that these expenditures had
been so distributed as to make impossible
the adequate development of any one of
them. The school appropriations had not
increased with the growing demands of the
present in educational needs, making it im-
possible to provide adequate manual train-
ing, agriculture, home economics and ree-

 

SEPTEMBER, 1915

reation facilities. The fire department had
good equipment, but neglect in keeping a
close scrutiny on the amount of water avail-
able had made it impossible to save the shoe
factory from total destruction by fire.

The city officials were paid only a very
small sum for their services and the meet-
ings were so infrequent that the offices did
not attract the most able men, nor did the
small amount of time given to official busi-
ness permit of anything more than the same
routine that existed for years. The type
of men in office and the business policy of
administrations showed an ultra-conserva-
tive spirit in the people, which evidenced
that they did not grasp the idea that in or-
der to develop a community money must be
spent in many ways. As in the advertising
world. a city must often spend a great deal
to get the returns in development and in
increased appreciation of life.

Other Survey:

The findings in the various studies had
so interested the community development
committee that when the Survey Director
suggested that investiga-
tions into some fields of r
social welfare, as con-
trasted with the fields of
obvious commercial value
already studied, be now
taken up, the committee
heartily approved. It was
decided that further study
should be made, including
recreation, music. city
planning and beautifica-
tion, the charity situation
and club activities. It was
felt that these helds
needed the attention of
the community because
they intiuence the lives of
those who already live in
the community as well as
play a big part in the decision of people
who contemplate moving into the neighbor-
hood.

Recreation Survey
No attempt had been made to supervise
or direct the recreation of the people. One
public park in the edge of town showed
some possibilities of development, but, aside
from some sporadic supervision of the
school play, no attempts were made to en-

THE AMERICAN

 

CITY 183

courage the development of the play in-
stinct. The growth of the gang Spirit was
evidenced by the discovery of several gangs
of boys having their headquarters in alleys
and in vacant buildings. The town of Bur-
ton was drawing large numbers of young
people to their parks and places of amuse—
ment by fostering ball games, picnics, stock
shows and exhibits, pageants, home talent
entertainments and other attractions for the
public. It was very evident that little had
been done in Maple Crest to induce the out-
sider to come in for purposes of recreation,
and little was done to make the life of the
residents interesting and more healthful by
wholesome recreation opportunities.

Music Survey

The old singing school had gone many
years ago and all that remained was the
little development thrOugh the schools and
churches. A struggling band and orchestra
were having more or less regular meetings.
The survey discovered several persons able
to lead groups in the development of music.
Enough musically inclined people were

 

A STEP IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION 1N RURAL
SCHOOL RECREATION

available to make it worth while to bring
them together. Some one to push the mat-
ter was needed.

Civic Improvement Survey
The only organization which could in any
way be said to have interest in city plan-
ning and civic improvement was the
\Vomen's Club. It had been behind the
clean-up campaign each year. and had as-
sisted materially in making the public park

‘.

184

better, but the organization spent most of
its time in programs of intensive develop—
ment of its members and not in programs of
interest in problems of community life.
There was evident need of a city plan which
would give definiteness to the activities of
the city departments and form a basis for
cooperation in city improvement and beauti-
fication by the various individuals and clubs
in the community.

Charity Survey
The relief given to various families was
carried on by the churches and individuals
with no unity of policy. Relief was fre-

e'\

.
.-.g._.‘

PREPARING “"ORK FOR THE

quently obtained from various sources at
the same time and evidenced a waste of
funds.

REC OMMENDA TIONS

COMMERCIAL—In view of the fact that
_ trade was being diverted to Burton, mail-
order houses, and other places, it was rec-
ommended: (I) that the stores obtain a
larger and better stock of goods; (2) that
the business men and their clerks form
classes in retail selling and business adver-
tising under the University Extension Di-
vision; (3) that Maple Crest cooperate
with the county arrl state to secure road
improvement and extension in every direc-
tion, especially in the thickly populated dis-
trict where the trade naturally fell to Maple

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

VOL. XIII, No. 3

Crest but was now being diverted because
of better roads; (4) that a general adver-
tising campaign be begun and that a close
study be made of the mail-order advertis-
ing, also that of nearby competitors, so as
to be able to meet the competition success-
fully; and (5) that prices be made to meet
this competition.

INDUSTRIAL—The committee felt that on
account of the natural resources and local
conditions the community should: (I)
strive to bring in such industries as would
utilize the labor supply in such a manner
as to give work to those needed only a part
of the year in the existing industries and

 

 

Fl RE DEPARTMENT

offer to the unemployed in the community
an inducement to work; (2) develop the
water-power to its maximum for local pur-
poses; (3) improve the housing situation
and other local conditions in the city so
that the health would be improved and the
city he made more attractive to those seek-
ing a place for developing small industries.

AGRICULTURAL—On account of the fact
that some farms were not paying it was
felt that: (I) a movement should be started
in the county to secure a man from the
University or a hired expert to assist in
developing the agricultural resources; (2)
associations should be formed among the
dairies handling a single breed, in order
that better leaders of the herds might be

SEPTEMBER, 1915

secured and each man have the opportunity
to concentrate efforts on one kind of cattle;
(3) that a method be devised whereby farm-
ers having cattle that did not pay could sell
them and get better ones and pay for them
as they were able in milk checks or other-
wise; (4) the growing of uniform varieties
of root cr0ps and grains should be fostered,
as well as the growing of alfalfa, which
the survey showed could be raised success-
fully by proper treatment of the soil and
would be a great help in dairying; (5) the
farmers should be induced to repair and
keep in perfect running order their co-
operative creamery as an insurance against
the decrease in the price of milk sold to the
condensery; (6) a market in the city, which
would handle fruits and all other farm
products with the maximum net returns to
the farmers and the minimum loss of prod-
ucts, should be established and developed;
(7) labor-saving devices, making farm life
easier and more attractive, should be in-
troduced.

EDUCATIONAL—By a comparison of the
school equipment and standards with other
places of similar economic and educational
needs it was recommended that: (I) cer-
tain of the school buildings be remodeled
with provisions for gymnasium work in-
doors and outdoor play space, and that
proper equipment should be provided; (2)
the teaching of agriculture be introduced in
the high school, and the subject developed
as rapidly as possible in the rural schools as
well; (3) domestic arts and sciences be in-
troduced; (4) encouragement be given to
University Extension courses for those be-
yond high school age; (5) that an increase
in the expenditure of public funds for edu-

cational purposes be made gradually to ac-
complish this.

HEALTH AND SANITATION.—On account
of the recent epidemics and the high tuber-
culosis death rate, it was agreed that: (1)
health education should be begun at once
in as many ways as possible and be backed
by the city Board of Health; (2) every
effort should be put forth to induce the use
of every available water connection and the
extension of water mains into the sections
now unprovided; (3) there was urgent need
of sewer extension in various parts of the
city to get rid of the unsanitary outhouses
that breed flies in summer and endanger the
health of the whole community all the year

THE AMERICAN

CITY 185

around; (4) weekly clean-up campaigns
should be started, with a back yard contest
instituted and prizes offered for the best
results in improvements and beautification.

GOVERNMENTAL—The lack of interest on
the part of the people in city government,
resulting in an easy-going attitude on the
part of the otiicials, made it seem necessary
to advocate a campaign for better city gov-
ernment. At the same time it was felt that
emphasis should be given to the very im-
portant relation of the administration to
community development and to the creation
of a public sentiment that would back
up movements for civic progress. This
would necessitate more time and concen-
tration of efforts on the part of the city of-
ficials and consequently larger remunera-
tion, but in the end would be a paying in-
vestment for the community.

RECREATION.—Because recreation induce-
ments were offered at Burton and other
nearby towns, the committee recommended
that the high school instructor in charge
of athletics be given general charge of rec-
reation in the community of Maple Crest.
The playground and recreation development
should begin with the school playgrounds;
they should be open to the general use of
the community; gradually the equipment
could be increased, and it might be possible
eventually to pay a man to devote his entire
time to that phase of development.

MUSIC—The importance of developing
local musical talent and inducing the whole
community to sing was brought out by the
Survey Director, so that the committee saw
that frequently a “community sing” would
help to mold the community life and develop
the community spirit and pride, without
which none of the community development
plans could succeed. They saw that a good
band was an asset to the city and laid plans
for assisting it as well as all other musical
groups which make community life better.

OTHER ACTIVITIES.—In addition to the
fields covered by the above recommenda-
tions, there remained the conditions and
activities that affected the emotional life
and the social welfare, and aside from this
had a direct bearing on the economic pros-
perity of the community. The beautifica-
tion of the city by public and private im-
provement: the deveIOping of clubs and
organizations; working up a pageant, a
play, or a festival not only makes life more

Digitized by 600816
A-

186

livable for the residents, but draws others
to town and helps it to advertise itself
through traveling salesmen and others who

appreciate a community that offers some-
thing aside from the daily routine.

Preparing for Action
The committee realized that although the
recommendations were practical, it would

be impossible to raise the necessary funds

to accomplish everything immediately, and.

suggested that the attention of the com-
munity be centered about one or two of the
most pressing problems. By solving these
problems the people would realize the wis-
dom of certain improvements and appre-
ciate the fact that money spent to increase
the well-being and prosperity of the town
increases the well-being and prosperity of
each person within the town. Thus expen-
ditures for community development would
be regarded as a good investment.

For the purpose of getting the community
together to solve these problems and creat-
ing a “community spirit" which would make
possible the realization of the development
plans a Community Institute * was pro-
posed. It consists of a three-day program-
in which the local community problems are

 

' See article on “Community Needs and the Com-

munity Institute,” in the Town and County Edition of
THE AMERICAN City for May. 1915.

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 3

brought before the community and experts
are secured for conferences and public dis-
cussions on their various phases. The sur-
vey determined the problems needing atten-
tion and could easily form the basis for the
program plan. \Vith the data on local con-
ditions at hand the speakers on the program
would be able to give valuable suggestions
in working out the plans.

Conclusion

Community development means progres-
siveness; it means cooperation; it means the
correlation of every condition and human
activity into one great plan which will make
conditions foster the fullest and freest self-
expression in the highest sense of the word.
To secure this development a survey must
study all conditions and activities so that
the members of the community will see
when the results are put before them that
commercial success, industrial development,
agricultural progress, educational demands.
health conditions, recreation needs, and wel-
fare development depend on good city gov-
ernment, and good city government on each
of these; that they are inter-dependent;
that one is as important as the other, and
that the development of each and every one
in its proper relation to every other is ne-
cessary to make a community advertise it—
self in a contented and boosting people.

 

Study for a Rural Neighborhood Center
By Frank A. Waugh

TERLING. MASS” is situated in Wor-
S cester County, near the center of the
state. It has an area of 58.3 square
miles of hilly land naturally wooded and
reasonably difficult of cultivation. While
much of the soil is stony and hard of man-
agement, it is fertile and makes good farm-
ing land when well managed. Early in the
settlement of Massachusetts—i. e.. about
the year I720—this land was opened up for
farming, and while the agricultural depres-
sion of 1880-1900 had its marked intiuence
here, and while the p0pulation of the town
actually decreased somewhat during this
period..none of the farm land has ever been
wholly abandoned. Some helds have gone
back to the production of forest timber,

which is the best use under present eco-
nomic conditions.

In a word, Sterling is a typical and’almost
exclusively rural farm section. Nearly all
the inhabitants are engaged in agriculture,
the leading market product being milk. In
general, however, the farming is of a diver-
sified type. There is practically no manu-
facturing in the town. A certain number
of well-to-do people from Boston, \Vor-
cester, New York and elsewhere maintain
summer homes in the town.

In the center of the township lies the vil-
lage of Sterling, which is more particularly
considered in the present study. This vil-
lage forms the community center for the
surrounding farm district. An extended
study has been made of the economic and
social conditions in this town, and, follow-
ing these, our present studies have been
directed to the problem of supplying a suit-

Digitized by 600816

SEPTEMI‘ER, 1915

THE AMERICAN CITY

187

PHI-"Inf U ‘ J

v.3 ' ..
you... r - a - ' ' - -
_. un- a “rm: 3".» 180‘: w‘a‘«~u‘-.a¢vd ‘

11'

 

STUDY

able physical frame for the social and edu-
cational needs of the community.

The town has a total population of 1,359
(census of 1910). The school p0pu1ation
(census of 1913) shows 227 children be-
tween the ages of live and fifteen. There
are eleven district schoolhouses outside the
central village now under consideration, but
three of these have already been closed and
others will probably soon be abandoned, the
general tendency being to consolidate the
work, especially in the central village.

C ivic C enter

The village of Sterling contains a popu-
lation roughly estimated at 500. At the
focal point of this settlement has grown up
in a natural way a well—defined civic center.
The nucleus is formed by a triangular town
common planted with well-grown maples
and elms. The main street of the town,
carrying considerable through traHic and
including a through electric trolley line.
passes along one side of this common in a
general northerly and southerly direction.
Along this main street and facing on the
common are the town hall and the principal
store buildings; on the north side of the
common are the post OFFICC and one church;
on the west side of the common are another
church, a fire station and the library. The
high school is a shortdistance from the

"  u'

W.

IFOR A NEIGHBORHOOD CENTER FOR STERLING, MASS.‘

northeast corner of the common, but within
sight. Thus practically all the public build-
ings of every kind whatsoever are already
effectively grouped about a well-prOpor-
tioned and well-developed open space.

This problem was taken up by myself and
Mr. Phillip H. Elwood, Jr., in a series of
studies made in connection with our land-
scape extension work in Massachusetts.

In our studies of this civic center we have
suggested only minor changes. The new
Butterick Memorial Park now under con-
struction will open attractively from the
north side. We have suggested a club
house. to be placed near the northwest angle
and to be used by the Grange, the Woman's
Club and similar social and educational
groups. We have also suggested near the
south angle of the common a small art
building in which a permanent collection
can be kept and temporary exhibitions in-
stalled.

At the extreme southern angle of the
common we propose to build an attractive
trolley waiting station with public comfort
provisions underneath. This is very much
needed. The location is such that a small
building of simple and dignified architec—
ture will add greatly to the pictorial effect
of the common. especially as viewed by vis-
itors approaching by the main road from
the south.

A

188 . THE AMERICAN CITY

Business Center

Practically all the business of the town is
conducted in small stores which already
have locations along the main road facing
on the east side of the common. This loca-
tion is altogether satisfactory, and we hope
to see it maintained. Adequate room for
any probable expansion is to be found to the
north and south of the territory already
occupied.

Much may be done, however, for the im-
provement of this business section by adopt-
ing some simple architectural scheme of
unification. This would mean a common
design with regard to facade, building line,
cornice line, etc. In this connection we
have especially proposed an arcaded side-
walk or porchway for the ,front of these
stores. At the rear of these stores we pro-
pose a service drive and area which will
take the store deliveries out of the public
street and otherwise facilitate business.

Recreation Center

A special feature of our plans for Ster-
ling is the development of an adequate rec-
reation center. This is to be built up from
an existing schoolhouse shown on the
drawings. Opposite the schoolhouse will
be placed a community building for recrea-
tional uses. This would include bowling
alleys, a gymnasium and similar features.
Immediately north of the schoolhouse an
enclosed playground for small children is
provided. Between the schoolhouse and the
recreation building is also a small play-
ground for larger children and adults,
really an outdoor gymnasium. This can be
flooded during the winter to provide skat-
ing. Southward from this section, across
a convenient street, two direct approaches
open toward the athletic field to the south-
ward. The enclosed triangular space is to
be used for school gardens, and with the in-
cluding drives would form an attractive
ornamental feature at a particularly effec-
tive point.

The athletic field is of simple type with
space for baseball, football, track events,
etc., and is furnished with grand-stand,
bleachers and parking space for automo-
biles.

This recreational center is connected
with the present high school building and
the northern parts of the village by a nar-

VOL. ’XIII, No. 3

row, but direct, street, a part of which re-
mains to be opened.

At this point mention should be made of
the two lakes and the picnic grounds located
about a mile from the village center and
much used for purposes of recreation by all
the inhabitants of the surrounding country.

In connection with the recreation fea-
tures of the town, especial attention may be
directed to Butterick Memorial Park, im-
mediately adjoining the common and the
high school grounds and notably accessible
from the village center. This park provides
a pleasant loitering and picnic ground for
all those who have no land of their own.
Its prime intent is to supply a fine example
of the original wooded hilly land of the
town in perpetuity always accessible to all
citizens.

An important feature of this park, how—
ever, will be an outdoor theater for public
meetings, dramatic performances, musical
entertainments and other public events.

Real Estate Subdivision

Our plans for the village of Sterling con-
template some redistribution of land held
for residence purposes. We believe that in
a small country village of this character it
is radically important to supply each home
with ample Space, our ideal being not less
than one-quarter acre to each residence.
This will give space for lawn, garden, stable
and other essentials. This type of develop-
ment stands in open contrast with that of
the English and German garden cities, now
sometimes imitated in America; but we con-
sider our plan essential to the preservation
of the character of the old New England
village.

Trafc Circulation

In a rural village like. Sterling, problems
of traHic circulation are much less urgent
than in large cities. This particular village
is reasonably well served by one railroad,
one through trolley line and a good system
of streets. We have suggested a better
location for the railway station, have
planned for a trolley waiting station, and
have proposed a few slight alterations in
the arrangement of streets. These moder-
ate and wholly feasible improvements
promise to put the town in possession of
traliic facilities fully adequate to its needs.

Our plans provide further for slight re-

Digitized by 600816

SEPTEMBER, 1915

visions of the freight trackage, and for
future factory sites in connection; also for
a farmers' storage and marketing exchange
in the same group.

Conclusion

In our plans we have undertaken to pro-
vide: (a) for the further development of
a civic center already singularly beautiful
and effective; (b) for a business center in
close and vital connection with it; (c) for
a recreation center convenient and acces-
sible at a short distance from the business
and civic center; (d) for a characteristic

THE AMERICAN CITY 189

and harmonious deveIOpment of the village
colony of homes; (e) for the proper cir-
culation of all trafhc; in a word, for all the
social, educational, recreational, industrial
and business requirements of a rural com—
munity. It has been our wish, while pre-
serving and enhancing all the fine and
characteristic features of a typical New
England country town, to organize and
complete all the various elements in accord-
ance with the highest principles of civic art,
thus giving to the community a sound and
beautiful physical body in which we hope
will develop every intellectual and moral
grace.

 

rmlIl'llll'lll-llllnllllllllllIlllllIlilHllllnllllBIIIIIIIHUIllIllllllllullllllllllnlllllllllllllllnlllIll-llll-llllllllullll'lllll-llllIllllnlll‘

EXPERIENCE AND OBSERVATION

llll'lnllillllllll'llll-

Some Points in Brick Road
Construction

The construction of a brick road in moun-
tainous country and on grades requires
careful attention from both the engineer and
the contractor. It is not good economy to
place brick pavement on other than a first-
class base, and on most of the soils this is
concrete. The most economical construc-
tion, in the opinion of the writer, is a com-
bined base and curb molded at the same
time. The curb should be 12 inches, and
if a 16-foot road be constructed, 14 feet of
brick will meet the requirements, 2 feet
being made in curb. There are the follow-
ing items to be observed in this class of

construction :

1. That if the base be made of the soft
aggregate, the curb should be constructed
of an aggregate that will stand abrasion.

2. The forming on the inner side of the
curb should be so placed as to extend down-
ward only to where the top of the base will
come. The writer recently observed a piece
of construction in which a 5-inch base was
being constructed, but the forming was ex-
tending down into the base more than 2
inches. W hen this was removed the groove
was filled with fresh concrete, but was not
bonding properly and this careless piece of

Information or suggestions for this department, .accompanied b .
will be apprcctand by the c stars

photographs or drawings if possible,

lllllil llIll‘ ll'lllllllll

mun-mlulummnmmmnm:mumummmmuHumn-urmmu:autumn-1wInnlzInnIummlmmnmuuunImnzullnmui

construction was tending to weaken the
pavement at the most vital point.

3. Brick pavement on a country road and
upon a concrete base should be properly
grouted, the cost of grouting being only
from 10 to 12 cents per square yard extra,
and a brick road properly grouted having
from 30 to 40 per cent greater wearing ca-
pacity than an ungrouted pavement.

Brick roads, as well as other classes of
construction, require skilled engineers and
workmen to get the best results. A fault
that the writer has frequently observed is
the insuflicient amount of expansion, both
longitudinal and transverse.

The importance of an engineer who un-
derstands his business in connection with
specifications and contracts was forcibly
brought to the attention of the writer at a
recent letting at which representatives of a
certain brick firm sought to substitute a set
of specifications that had been prepared by
a well-known brick man. These specifica-
tions were skillfully dr-1wn, but represented
no standard of any kind; the only require-
ment, so far as the brick were concerned,
being that they should be well burned.
Thus a brick made out of ordinary clay and
well burned could have been used under
such specifications, and the inspector or en-
gineer would have been helpless in enforc—

Digitized by 600816
A

190

ing any other rule. This class of work on
the part of any material man is detrimental
to the business he is trying to promote.
Honesty on the part of the producer and
the contractor is essential to maintain the
confidence of the public.

The friends of the brick road can boast of
its superiority, but it should not be expected
to compete in price with other materials in
certain localities. This is especially true
in West Virginia. There are certain sec-
tions of the state that have macadam mate-
rials, other sections have concrete materials,
and other sections of the state are within
reasonable distance of paving brick mate-
rial. It is to the interest of brick makers
to see that bad specifications are not forced
upon engineers who have not carefully
studied this question and who have not had
any experience to prevent such advantages
being taken. Honesty and efficient service

should guide all parties.

A. D. WILLIAMS,
Chief Road Engineer, State of West
Virginia.
'I' 'l'

Resurveys in Small Towns and
Villages

At present, almost all the towns and vil-
lages with which I am acquainted are in
a disgraceful condition as regards their
landmarks, and in many cases it is impos-
sible to retrace a survey with assurance
that it coincides with the original.

Some of the chief deficiencies are: (1)
many of the monuments destroyed or lost
because the only record of them was in the
mind of some old inhabitant who is now
dead; (2) stakes or stones that have been
reset inaccurately by a careless surveyor, or
pulled up and set over secretly by a prop-
erty owner; (3) inaccurate chaining in the
original survey; (4) deficiencies and in-
consistencies in the records. All of these
may be encountered in one survey, and it
is rare indeed when none occur.

A few years ago I assisted in the resur-
vey of a tract composed of a number of
outlots in the southern part of a small city.
These lots had been laid out without much
regard for uniformity of size or arrange-
ment, and are shown on the official plat of
the city, drawn some fifty years ago. There
are no written descriptions in detail of
these lots in existence, and unfortunately
the draftsman forgot to insert the meas-

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 3

urements in this portion of the plat. Scal-
ing the distances on the plat was not de-
pendable, as we found on scaling a number
of lines whose length was given.

We prospected around and ran several
trial lines, and found one or two old stakes.
By assuming these to represent certain cor-
ners we ran lines from them and found a
few more stakes. As soon as we were sure
just which corner a certain stake repre-
sented, we began to make headway. This
survey cost over $300, whereas it could
probably have been made for $70 or $80
if the records had been complete and we
had had three or four monuments to start
with.

Another difficult‘problem of resurveying
is in a certain Minnesota village. The
residents have been very active in subdivid-
ing and platting, selling odd corners with-
out platting, and rearranging what has al-
ready been laid out. No extreme accuracy
was attained in any of the surveys, nor was
much attention given to the permanency of
the monuments. At the present time they
have not a single known monument in the
village, and I have spent considerable time
both in digging and making inquiries among
the older inhabitants. The most feasible
way of resurveying this village appears to
me to be as follows:

The original plat consists of four rec-
tangular blocks, divided by 80-foot streets.
the center line of the main street coinciding
with a north-and—south quarter line. The
starting point for the survey was the center
of the section, 210 feet north of the north
line of two of the blocks. This point was
in the center of the railroad track. but it is
now lost, and the track having been shifted
within the last few years. it is hard to esti-
mate its approximate position. It is natu-
rally undesirable to make wholesale excava-
tion of the track, so we must get along
without this point for the present.

To reestablish the center of the section
by rerunning the quarter lines would, of
course, be the thing to do if the adjacent
land were ordinary farm land; but having
no idea as to how accurately this was— done
in the first instance, I should not expect it
to correspond with the original location
closer than several feet, and this would
raise havoc with the property lines in the
village.

First, then, careful and thorough search
should be made for some of the other re-

Digitized by 600816

SEPTEMBER, 1915

corded monuments. Failing in this, run a
rectangular traverse enclosing the four
blocks, setting temporary corners. This
traverse should be carefully run, and tested
for closure by latitudes and departures.

With this rectangle as a framework, next
tie in all objects that one would expect to
have been located with reference to the
prOperty lines when their position was
known. Under this head would come build—
ings in the business district, which are usu-
ally built right up to the property line, side-
walks, crossings, old fences and possibly
rows of trees.

Plot all these points accurately, using as
large a scale as convenient, and by trial
adjust the outlines of the blocks to these
points in a way that will cause the minimum
of disturbance to existing lines and prop-
erty. From this plat, stake out the four
blocks on the ground and divide up into
lots as called for by the records. It may
be necessary here to allow for overrun or
shortage. A further search should then be
made for some of the original corners, as-
suming the new lines as approximately cor-
rect. If one or more are found, and they
agree with the layout, it may reasonably
be held that the survey is correct as it
stands: permanent corners should then be
set with suflicient ties, and a complete rec;
0rd made of them. If, on the other hand,
none of the original corners is found, I
cannot see what further can be done except
to adopt the new survey and have it ac-
cepted and approved by the village.

Having the original plat survey com-
pleted, use one side of this as a base line
and proceed in the same manner with the
addition immediately adjoining the original
plat, and so on till all are relocated. A new
plat of the village should then be made
showing all the results of the survey in
full detail.

MONUMENTS AND THEIR LOCATION

Monuments usually consist of stone posts,
concrete posts, iron pipe or rods, and
wooden stakes. The latter were largely
used in the earlier days, notably in the gov-
ernment land surveys. They are not at all
suited for city monuments and should only
be used for temporary hubs. In sub-divid-
ing a block, wooden stakes may be used at
the individual lot corners to mark out the
lots, provided permanent monuments are
set at the block corners. Iron stakes are

THE AMERICAN CITY 19!

not much more permanent than wood, and,
like them, subject to disturbance by frost.
Stone posts are lasting, but are usually not
set deep enough, or tamped solidly. They
are often found tilted to one side, leaving
one to estimate where their center was orig-
inally located. If stone posts are used, they
should be set deep enough to avoid danger
of being heaved by frost, and very thor-
oughly tamped. If the nature of the soil
is loose, or liable to washing, the post
should be set in a bed of concrete. It is
better to set the post, and afterwards cut
the cross or drill a hole in it at the inter—
section point, than to try to make the center
of the cross or hole fit the intersection by
levering the stone about in the ground.

In villages where the authorities will not
go to much expense for this purpose, a good
monument is made by digging a hole with a
6- or 8-inch post-hole auger, making it not
less than 3 feet deep, and as much deeper as
circumstances require. Enlarge this hole
around the bottom to make a footing, and
fill the hole with concrete,.bringing the top
to the desired height. A few inches at the
t0p should be a richer mixture than the rest,
and the very top can be finished with neat
cement and nicely squared up. Before the
concrete hardens, a copper bolt about 3
inches long should be set in flush with the
top to mark the intersection point.

The most suitable location for monu-
ments is a matter that deserves considera-
tion. Those placed in the center of streets
are subject to frequent disturbance, and
when running lines from them the transit
is in danger from passing vehicles. which
also frequently obstruct the line of sighl.
Besides, sewers are generally laid in the
center of streets. °

If placed on the property lines at block
corners, it is seldom possible to set directlv
over them on account of fences and build-
ings.

Monuments set on an offset of from I to
5 feet are the most convenient. I prefer a
5-foot offset, because most modern transits
can be focussed on an object 5 feet from
the plumb-bob. W'hatever offset is chosen
should be uniform throughout the village.
I think two monuments to a block, with
extra ones on the outer blocks of a sub-

division, are sufficient.
B. JAMES REYNOLDS,

Engineer and Surveyor.
Redwood Falls, Minn

Digitized by 600816

Proportional Representation in Ashtabula, Ohio

In an editorial entitled “The City Man-
ager—and the Next Step,” THE AMERICAN
CITY said, last January:

“The short ballot idea and the city manager
idea have evidently ‘arrived.’ And the next
step forward—if we may venture the predic-
tion—will be the adoption of the proportional

representation. method of electing city coun—
cils."

To Ashtabula, Ohio, belongs the credit of
having become the pioneer in making this
prediction a reality. At the November
election of 1914 Ashtabula had adopted a
new charter providing for seven councilmen
and a city manager. At a special election
held on August 10, 1915, this new charter
has been amended so as to provide that
when the councilmen are chosen in Novem-
ber they shall be elected by the Hare system
of proportional representation.

The adoption of this innovation in Ameri-
can municipal government is the result of
a campaign of education conducted by the
local Committee on Charter Amendment,
with the assistance of municipal experts of
national reputation. A leaflet used in the
charter campaign contained the following
explanation of the amendment:

“The large powers which the city charter
gives the council make it very important that
the peOple should be fairly represented in that
body if the charter is to be a success.

“The election of the seven councilmen by
the ordinary election-at-large plan now in the
charter will not give either the people living
in ditferent sections of the city, or people hav-
ing different opinions regarding city policies,
the representation in the council to which
they are entitled.

“The proportional method of election pro-
vided in the charter amendment will give this
representation much better than it could be
done by the ward plan. for it allows each
quota of voters in the city to elect one coun-
cilman. By quota is meant one more than
one-eighth of the whole number voting at the
election.

“The election of councilan by the propor-
tional method is similar to their election by
wards in that it allows the voter but a single
vote. In fact, this system is frequently termed
‘the single transferable vote.’ It allows the
voter to express as many choices as he pleases
and then provides that his vote shall be
counted for his highest choice which it Can
help to elect. By this method practically every

[192]

one’s vote counts in the election of some can-
didate he prefers, while by the ward plan a
great many voters—frequently a majority—
lose their votes by the defeat of the candidates
for which they voted. The charter plan of
election is no better than the ward plan in this

respect.

“The charter commission. a majority of
whom favored the idea of proportional or true
representation of the people in the council,
held that as the people here knew little or
nothing of the proportional method of election.
it would be wiser to submit it to them as an
amendment to the charter than it would to
incorporate it in the charter before it was
adopted.

“Experience in countries where this system
has been in use for several years has proven
it to be entirely practical as a method of elec-
tion.

“The following are three of the more impor-
tant advantages this plan of election has over
the plan now in the charter:

“I. By requiring the support of a different
quota of voters for the election of each mem-
ber of the council, it makes it impossible for
any party or faction to elect a majority of
that body by centering its vote on four candi-
dates. This is the feature of this form of
election that takes the work of the city out
of politics.

“2. It will give any minority comprisipg
more than one-eighth of the voters of the City
a chance to be represented in the councxl.

“3. It will insure a satisfactory continuity
of policy in the city government.

“The voter’s part in this plan of election is
very simple, as shown in Section 46-1 of the
amendment. The work at the precincts is also
short and easy, consisting simply in counting
the ballots according to first choices and for-
warding them in properly marked packages to
the otiice of the county board of elections at

the City Hall.

“The work of the county board of elections
in compiling the vote and transferring the
surplus ballots and the ballots of defeated can-
didates, in accordance with the choices the
voters have marked on them, is governed by
specific rules which cover every detail in-
volved in this operation.

“Fair play in transferring ballots is assured
by rule (r) in providing that the candidates
and others shall be allowed to be present and
see it done.

“The amendment also makes important and
desirable changes regarding nominations, till-
ing vacancies and the recall.

“This amendment makes no change in the
form of the non-partisan rotating ballot pro-
vided in the charter.”

Digitized by 600816

How a Minister Added One Hundred Members
to a Village Commercial Club

By Rev. N. M. Tatum

Worth County, in the northwest cor-

ner of Missouri, and is the smallest
county in the state, being twelve miles wide
and twenty-four miles long; yet it seems to
us to shine the brightest of all counties in
the state. That Grant City is truly a “city
set on a hill” is attested by the lights on
the Court House dome, that can be easily
seen for many miles beyond the county line,
even to a distance of thirty miles to the
north in Iowa.

Pas! History of the Commercial Club

Like many other commercial clubs, ours
had existed for three years without general
public approval. It was, however, a fine
educator. The old idea predominated that
a commercial club was simply for merchants
and town people, and therefore no success—
ful attempt was made to interest the farm-
ers. The fee was $5 a year per member,
and the average citizen could not see how
he would get five dollars’ worth in return
for his investment. Then we had fifty mem-
bers. But before putting on the contest the
price for membership was permanently re-
duced to $1.50, to be in reach of all. This
is one of the reasons for larger membership.
There were 150 members when the contest
began.

Conical for New members

Early in 1914, at a business club meeting,
Mr. J. F. Robertson, who had been president
of the club since its organization in 1911,
and who had been present at almost every
meeting for the three years of its exist-
ence, declined reélection, saying that the
honor which carries with it responsibility
should be passed around. Judge Edward
Kelso was elected president and has demon-
strated his ifitness for the place.

At a banquet held during that month,
many men came together to exchange ideas
on how to infuse new life into the club and
present the vast possibilities of community
development. It was found that individual
work, whether in town or country, was the
key to the club’s success. The men talked

GRANT CITY is the county seat of

until after the town clock announced the
midnight hour, without a man leaving the
hall. The right movement launched by the
right man reached us at the right time, and
every man went out to tell his neighbors
of the fine work a commercial club could do.

A little later, at the urgent call of the
secretary, when nearly all the 150 members
met at the Court House, it was unanimously
decided to have a contest for new members,
the “Blues” against the “Reds,” the contest
to continue for ninety days. At roll call the
odd numbers were pitted against the even
numbers. Lewis Elliott. a farmer six miles
west of town, was chosen captain of the
"Blues," and Ollie Stabe, a farmer three
miles east of town, captain of the “Reds,”
The losers were to pay the expense of a
banquet at the close of the contest. The
campaign began at once in real earnest, red
and blue buttons were ordered, and each
new member (as well as every old member)
was labeled.

By virtue of this contest 223 new mem-
bers were added to the club, 80 from the
“Blues” and 143 from the “Reds.” The
kindliest feeling existed throughout, and,
at the banquet when the result was an-
nounced, the “Blues” fairly fell over each
other to see who would be first to pay at
the secretary’s table.

The finest body of men that ever gathered
in Grant City assembled in the Court House
on June 16, 1914, for the banquet. A spicy
program had been arranged, consisting of
short talks and of music by orchestra and
the Commercial Club Quartet. A wild dem-
onstration by 350 good-natured men fol-
lowed the announcement of the result of
the contest. Everybody talked of greater
work for the club as twenty gallons of ice
cream and other good things were being
consumed.

The Minister's Part

But what part did the minister have in
the contest for new members?

It was twelve o'clock, midnight, when the
club adjourned on March 24, 1914, after

Digitized by (ETC

[193]

I94

deciding to put on the contest. I said to
my captain: “We must win this contest.
I’m the only minister on the ‘Red’ side, so
we must get busy at once." After going
home that night I prepared a list contain—
ing the names of 75 men that I must see
at once in behalf of the club. I was up at
five o'clock next morning and at the tele-
phone. The first man to get was, of course,
the telephone manager who was on duty
that night. After explaining to him what I
wanted, he greatly assisted me in the task
of getting some of the men I desired. Some
men, however, refused to have their early
morning slumber disturbed, regardless of
curiosity at so early a call. Fifteen men
were secured for the "Reds" before break-
fast, and by noon I had increased this num—
ber to thirty.

The contest was really won during the
first two weeks of the canvass. The best
time to enlist new members is at the very
first, when the interest is lively and there
is plenty of material from which to draw.
The number of names I had secured with
fee paid was not known to anyone except
my “Red” captain until five minutes before
closing the contest, when I placed the list

THE AMERICAN CITY

do work of this nature.

VOL. XIII, No. 3

and check on the secretary’s table. By
proper management and work at the right

time I secured 105 of the 143 members for
the “Reds.”

But, by helping to build up a commercial
club, shall I be charged with lowering the
standard and dignity of the gospel ministry,
which I regard as the greatest calling
known to man? There are some men in
the ministry who will say that I have gone
too far in this line of work because I am
a minister. There are three kinds of ob-
jectors in the ministry:

In the lirst place there are those who cannot
They are not adapted
to it, do not know how to approach men suc-
cessfully with a manly, business appeal.

In the second place, there are those who
could, but will not, do this kind of work.
They refuse because they say it is not in line
with a minister's job—his work should be con-
fined to preaching, visiting the sick, extending
sympathy and similar duties; he must not come
in touch with the throbbing multitude.

Then, in the third place, there are those who
do not enter into such public enterprises be-
cause they have not caught the vision of ser-
vice to all the people.

During the three months’ close associa-
tion with the Commercial Club in the con-

 

VIEW’ OF GRANT CITY, MISSOURI

SEPTEMBER, 1915

test, I met more men and formed more last-
ing friendships than I could have done in
three years in the old ministerial way of
total abstinence from everything not in
“my” church. There is great opportunity
for the minister of to—day to align himself
with some splendid public enterprise out-
side of his own church and show by his
works that he is a man among men.

W hat the Club Has Already Accomplished

Early in the summer of 1914 the town
members of the club planned to have a good
Fourth of July celebration and invite the
entire county to come and enjoy it. This
plan was carried to a glorious success. The
town pe0ple raised $1,000 and spent it in
showing the people a good time that day.
There were 10,000 people present in Houser
Park, a number which tallies almost ex-
actly with the population of the county.
Some people came a distance of forty miles
to see the aer0plane. which was the chief
attraction. We also had speaking, baseball,
and music by two well-organized bands.
This was the largest and most orderly crowd
that ever came together in Grant City, and
was a great boost for the Commercial Club.

Business improvements are becoming evi—
dent along many lines. Through the influ-‘
ence of the club a company was organized
and a grain elevator erected a few months
ago. Then under inspiration of the club the
merchants and the County Court laid a
cement pavement around the square at a
cost of $15,000. This is the first town of
its size in Missouri to have such paving. A
member of the Commercial Club in a few
hours one morning last October raised
$2,000 by voluntary subscription for the
“White Way," which is now a reality. The
roads have been improved in every direction
from Grant City, and bridges have been
built. The farmers take more interest in
the roads since becoming members of the
Commercial Club, and they have a new
pride in maintaining the Commercial Club
standard. The merchants say that more
country people are coming to Grant City
to trade now that they have come to the
realization that this is their logical home
town. One illustration may sullice as an
example:

A few miles from town lives a prosperous
farmer who had been going a greater dis-
tance to another town to trade. After see-
ing what the Commercial Club was actually

THE AMERICAN CITY

195

 

 

TYPE

OF ORNAMENTAL LIGHTING
IN GRANT CITY

USEI)

doing for the town and country he caught
the spirit of his neighbors. Recently when
he decided to build, he was asked by his
workmen, “Where shall we get the lum-
ber ?" and replied most. emphatically, “We
shall get it in Grant City, or there will be
no building on this place." This is the
spirit of the surrounding country.

Greatest of all, we destroyed the imagi-
nary line between town people and country.
people. The people stand together for a
better, greater community. The most suc-
cessful get-together meeting in the town
was on September 23, 1914, when the club
had an old-fashioned country picnic for
members of the club and their families.
Everybody brought a basket of something
good to eat and spent the (lay enjoying
games, contests, music and a line address by
Mr. W. A. Jones of Kansas City on "Ideas
and Ideals in Community Building." It
was reported in the country that the town
people would eat by themselves. One man
from the country voices the sentiment of
several hundred country people who were
at the picnic. He says:

“When dinner was announced I came up to

t

' I. °"<;.'.‘:'*'-5qu-‘:
%- "1.4 

 ' .1“ .' fi- hint

539-3 k

‘.- .g‘gd.‘ — ‘1.

 

 

TIIE COMMERCIAL CLUB PICNIC, GRANT CITY

a long row of well-laden tables with a friend
and told him that we were expected to eat
with the country people to-day, as the town
people were going to eat by themselves. We
searched to find a place where there were only
country people, but it was a forlorn hope. I
couldn’t tell a man in town from a man in
the country, for they were all together. It
was the finest picnic I ever attended. We
must certainly make it an annual affair.”

The Commercial Club, with its member-
ship of 373, has established a new boundary

line that includes the home of every man
who belongs to the club. There are 183
members from town and 190 from the coun-
try, a fact which buries the old idea that a
commercial club is for merchants and town
people only. The club stands for better im-
provements, better roads, better schools,
better churches, better citizenship, and, in
short, for a town which, to its citizens, is
the best town in Missouri.

 

From Prairie to Park and Playground

city park were voted five years ago
by the people of Alliance, Neb. The
ground was purchased at that time, but
nothing was done until a few months ago,
when a committee of the Commercial Club
called upon the City Council and urged im-
mediate action. A Park Board was soon
appointed with full authority to proceed.
This was made up of Commercial Club
members, and the work accomplished in
five months reflects credit upon the Club.
The Park Board began its operations
with many handicaps, one of which was the
small initial appropriation of only $1,000
to work with. The interest of the citizens
generally, however, and the hearty coooper—

BONDS in the amount of $5,000 for a

ation of the City Council, made it possible
to do a great deal with that small sum.
The Council later appropriated $2,000 more
after seeing what had been accomplished
with the original thousand.

During the first five months 780 trees had
been planted, 1,200 feet of American fence
had been installed with iron posts set in
cencrete, two ball grounds had been laid
out, and five large swings for the children
had been erected. It is planned to further
increase the beauty and usefulness of the
park, in order if possible to make it the
best of its kind in western Nebraska.

The photographs herewith reproduced
show the site before any improvements had
been made, and the park on opening day.

 

 

SEPTEMBER, 1915 THE AMERICAN CITY I97

 

BLASTING FOR THE TREES AT CITY PARK. ALLIANCE

 

TIIE OPENING DAY AT THE PLAYGROUNDS IN ALLIANCE, NEB.

 

THE CHILDREN ENJOYING TIIE PLAYGROUNDS IN ALLIANCE ()N THE OPENING DAY

Digitized by 600816
A

Beautifying a Sewage Disposal Plant

 

STRUCTURES AND SURROUNDINGS OF THE SEWAGE-DISPOSAL PLANT AT
HARRISON, N. Y.

sigank i'.

. 1*."

Photographs by courtesy of Alexander Potter, of New York, Consulting Engineer
PLANTING ON THE HARRISON SEWAGE SPRINKLING FILTER BEDS

_ Digitized by 600816

[198]

 

 
 

. ’ f ' ' / ’ ‘ / ‘.

New Bulletins

DANBURY, CONN.—Danbury C. C. Items.
Published monthly by the Chamber of Com-
merce.

HIBBING, MINN.—The Hibbonian. Pub-
lished monthly by the Commercial Club.

JAMESTOWN, N. Y.—The Citric Weal.
Published monthly by the Board of Com-
merce.

Musxooss, OKLA.—The G. M. A. Report.
Issued periodically by the Greater Musko—
gee Association.

McKzsspon'r, Pin—The Key-Port. Pub-
lished monthly by the Chamber of Com-
merce.

SELMA, ALA.—Chamber of Commerce
Bulletin. Issued occasionally by the Cham-

ber of Commerce.
'1- '1-

Flood Abatement Activity

CLEAN, N. Y.—Following the disastrous
floods in March, 1913, from which the city
of Clean suffered in common with many
other towns throughout New York state,
the Clean Chamber of Commerce appointed
a flood abatement committee, to which was
assigned the task of deciding upon plans
which would secure the city against the
menace to life and property by dangerous
floods.

The committee, which consisted of men
who had no direct interest in the flood
abatement work, began by applying to the
Federal Government for information re-
garding similar work elsewhere in the
United States. Much research followed,
and after the report of the committee had
been adopted by the Mayor and Common
Council, a bill was introduced into the New
York Legislature in January, 1914, asking
for an appropriation of $150,000 for flood
abatement purposes, on condition that the
city of Clean bond itself for a like amount.
The bill was signed by Governor Whitman
on May 24, 1915.

An almost unanimous vote of the citizens

News and Ideas for Commercial and
Civic Organizations

 
     

’ ‘ WWW”

of Clean was polled in favor of the city’s
contributing $150,000 toward the project.
Thus $300,000 has become available for
straightening, dredging and diking the Al-
legheny River, Olean Creek, and their trib-
utaries within the corporate limits of the
city. And thus hundreds of acres, now in
the flood zone, will be converted into dry
and desirable residence, factory and garden
property. Where there are now only
swamps, city streets will be extended or
opened, and in due time building will be
commenced. ‘ ‘

The work is being done under the direc-
tion of the Superintendent of Public Works.
The Flood Abatement Commission of Clean
was formed, pursuant to a provision of the
bill for a local commission of five men to
look after the interests of Clean. The
rights of way have been secured and the
preliminary plans completed. The Commis-
sion has engaged executive engineers from
Albany, who are at work upon the final
plans. It is expected that the machinery
and equipment of the contractors will be
on the ground by the last of November at

the latest.
E. W. FITZGERALD,

President, The Flood Abatement Commission
of Clean.
4' '1-

Free State Employment Bureaus

YOUNGSTOWN, Onto—Through the ef-
forts of the committee on unemployment of
the Youngstown Chamber of Commerce, a
branch of the Free State Employment Bu-
reau, which is maintained jointly by state
and city, was secured for Youngstown.
There are seven other such bureaus in
Ohio, which are operated under the super-
vision of the State Industrial Commission,
and are located at Cleveland, Columbus,
Akron, Cincinnati, Toledo and Dayton.
These labor exchanges make no charge for
services, either to applicants for work or to
applicants for workers. Every effort is
made to supply the employer with the best

[199]

Digitized by 600816

200

help available and the applicant with the
best position which can be secured.

The employment committee of the
Youngstown Chamber is well satisfied with
the manner in which the work of the local
bureau is conducted, and with the way in
which the local employers of labor are mak-
ing use of its services.

The following will illustrate the volume
of business which is being done by the
seven Ohio agencies. During the month of
July of this year Cleveland placed 2,897
persons; Toledo, 1,793; Columbus, 1,011;
Cincinnati, 799; Youngstown, 606; Akron,
541; and Dayton, 507, a total of 8,154 per-
sons. This is an increase of 147 per cent
over July of 1914, which is partly accounted
for, no doubt, by the fact that three new
agencies were established during the year.

The following are figures which were
given to the Chamber recently by the super-
intendent of the local branch, giving an idea
of the work done by him in Youngstown
since the establishment of that branch four
months ago:

Number of new registrations . . . . . . . . .. 3,010

Number of requests for workers . . . . . . . . 2,504

Number of applicants referred to posi—
tions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2,467

Number of applicants reported placed. . 2,074

PAUL L. HARVEY,
Of Youngstown Chamber of Commerce.

4"!-

School Census

DALLAS, Tex—The general school fund
of Texas is pro rated on a per capita basis,
each independent school district receiving
approximately $8 per pupil of school age
who is enumerated and listed. The census
heretofore taken in Dallas to determine
what appropriation was necessary for
school purposes has apparently included
only those who were actually in attendance
upon the schools, and the result was unsat-
isfactory. The Dallas Chamber of Com-
merce, therefore, had a thorough canvass
made. of all the business houses that em—
ployed children of school age, and recom-
mended the taking of an additional census
to include every child of school age in the
city, whether in or out of school. Such a
census was taken, with the result that over
3,000 names were added to the list, and

brought approximately $24,000 more to the

schools of Dallas.

J. R. BABCOCK.
Secretary, Chamber of Commerce.

THE AMERICAN CITY

V0L. x111, No. 3

Charter Investigation

NORFOLK, VA.—The Chamber of Com-
merce of Norfolk has taken the initiative in
a movement to secure for that city a new
charter providing for a more simplified and
business-like form of government than the
one now employed. There is in force in
Virginia at present an Optional Charter
act, passed by a recent legislature, giving
the municipalities in the state the choice of
several forms of government should a
change be desired. The committee of the
Chamber appointed to investigate the sub.
ject is opposed to using the authority
granted by this act, on the ground that the
grafting of a new administrative method
upon their present charter would involve
the result in too much uncertainty and
would. be liable to lead to complications.
None of the forms given in the act seems
to the committee to be adequate. After
making certain investigations on its own
part the committee, therefore, decided to
recommend the adoption of a new charter

. for Norfolk embodying the city manager

principle.

It was desired, however, that the people
of the city should be sufficiently informed
as to the merits of the various types of city
government in use to act wisely when the
subject came to be voted upon. The Cham-
ber accordingly appointed a special com-
mittee of three citizens of different political
faith and ideas with regard to a charter, to
visit a number of cities where'commission
government is in use, also cities where the
city manager form has been adopted, to
study their workings at first hand with a
view todetermining their relative merits,
the findings to be presented to the people.

The special charter investigating com-
mittee visited the cities of Des Moines, 1a..
Memphis, Tenn., and Dayton and Spring-
field, Ohio. the first two of which have the

- commission form of government and the

last two the commission-manager plan of
government. The situation existing in
each city as a result of the plan in use, as
well as the plan itself, is discussed in the
report.

The committee found that although com-
mission government represents a distinct
advance over the old type of municipal gov—
ernment, and that the non-partisan primary,
the small governing body, the short ballot
and the abolition of ward representation

Digitized by 600816

SEPTEMBER, 1915

have gone far toward giving cities 3 busi-
ness-like administration, it did not, in their
judgment, provide an organization of the
greatest elliciency. The principal objection
was to the lack of administrative unity and
harmony owing to the fact that the execu-
tive function is divided among live men of
equal authority and dignity, there being no
one person whose duty it is- to view the
affairs of the city as a whole and plan and
direct them as a whole.

The committee was more than ever con-
vinced, after concluding its investigations,
of the accuracy of the Chamber’s judgment
in the hrst instance, and urgently recom-
mended the adoption of the city manager
plan. It also recommended that the Cham-
ber of Commerce inaugurate “a continuing
program of education, to the end not only
that people may be prepared to vote intelli-
gently on the adoption of a new form of
government, but that there shall be awak-
ened such a general and enlightened inter-
est 0n the subject of efficient administration
that the new government will not shortly
be permitted to fall into corrupt or incom-
petent hands."

THE AMERICAN CITY 201

The report, with the recommendations
which it contained, was presented to the
board of directors and unanimously adopted.
It was then printed in pamphlet form and
10,000 copies mailed to the voters in the
city. The matter now rests with the citi-

zens of Norfolk.
W. A. COX,
Secretary, Chamber of Commerce.

+ 4-
Civic Art

DENISON, TEx.—The accompanying cut
shows the park entrance and a section of
the Union depot at Denison, the latter hav-
ing been built by the Missouri, Kansas &
Texas Railway at a cost of over $250,000.
Part of the ground upon which the depot
was erected was given by the citizens of
Denison through the efforts of the Denison
Chamber of Commerce.

The adjacent well-kept park, with its
fountain and ornamental lighting effect,

presents a picture of civic attractiveness the

year round.
W. A. KING.
Secretary, Chamber of Commerce.

 

UNION DEPOT, DENISON, TEXAS, SHOWING PARK, FOUNTAIN AND LIGHTING EFFECT

202

Municipal Improvements

LINCOLN, NEIL—The long and persistent
campaign which has been conducted by the
Lincoln Commercial Club in the interest of
a garbage disposal plant for Lincoln, of a
plan to beautify the waste lands of the city,
and of park bonds, came to a successful
issue in the municipal election held this

spring.

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 3

in the year and that the annual “clean-up
week” will eventually be abolished.

During the campaign an effective adver-

tisement was furnished to The Lincoln S un-
day Star by the Commercial Club, to which

the newspaper generously gave nearly a full
page. The advertisement is reproduced
herewith.

The movement to reclaim and beautify
the waste lands along Salt Creek, hereto-

The Club takes especial pride in the bond

 
         
     
       
 

 

 

What We Do

The I ' tice

The ‘Remedf
Successful

l
l
Protects l
i

done in Lincoln today.

, mm:

the cat-edme may.

modern. sanitary plant.

Thin. plm hr. ltt't'r. rcLumm-m-Jt-J lw‘

. “a

'l‘llE LINCOLN “SUNDAXW ’

PAGE TO THIS ADVERTISEMENT PREPARED BYa

THE COMMERCIAL CLUB

issue for a garbage disposal plant. There
will now be a uniform system of garbage

WHAT DOES LINCOLN no

3 GARBA

Lincoln's Garbage it piled in a lilthy. disease—breed-
Ing dump only a leiv blocks treat the Haytard

Why take Garbage lrorn your door and dump it at
another man's door? Yet that 'u what is being

human-endanth Maul
W

City collection and destruction ol Garbage with a

Plants 0! the type propmed lor Lincoln have been in
tucceatlul operation in other cities lot years.

Dirt it dangerour-Garbage especially so. It breeds

lliea which carry diaeue. The sanitary dished ol

 I !-.,!.. he 33--
. ,..I “up-

.:' .. (wep- uu uh,

Vote FOR the Unrljugc Bonds Tl!"h'_d‘d}’.r

’ MED NEARLY AN ENTIRE-u???“

collection glad-meaty wastes will be dis- »‘

posed of in a sanitary manner which will
do away with the city dump for all time.
The Club feels that a foundation has been
laid for keeping Lincoln so clean that the
city will be ready for inspection every day

fore an eyesore, has
received the hearty co—
operation not only of
the railroads traversing
that section, but-of the
owners of the land, who
have agreed to donate
such parts of it as may
be necessary for high-
ways and for artificial
lakes, and have indicated
a willingness to contrib-
ute financially toward
improving the territory.
It is the intention also
to plant trees and
shrubbery and cultivate
the ground for alfalfa
and other forage crops.

 
 

 

Public Health Garbagewillproteetthehealtholour children. These improvements

I In “'cwmulmt. Canada. .1 tr-un \ll'Hiil" lull the kI/C bl    

Econom  5' is" '   - "  I     '  ' when completed the ap-
p T...“ _ .1 my. ...‘ l_‘_.  .‘ 1', LI. H. . .--' --;=‘_i,'_!fne ' '

._g .. - . .  .- . ‘j. proach to Lincoln wrll

,h;  be in great contrast to

its present neglected ap-
pearance.

The park bonds which ‘
\M'l‘t‘ \-':')tt?~l.3xill he used
lut' the 455ij Illll'lli'tse,
in'iC'otlhtrnclinq a

   
 
    

.LlHJ
l1u11]t_-\';1I'(l in :1 M'Clitm of
the. city- where one is
needed.

W. S. WHITTEN.

Secretary. Lincoln Commer-
cial Club.

AB“ 4» a
- Since Reorganization
HAiLE‘fo'tl, PA.—Tl1€ Hazleton Chamber
of Commerce, sinceits reorganization in
May, has devoted considerable attention to

the interests of its merchant members. A

live merchants’ bureau has been organized
and a suburban tour followed by a “subur—

.2"

5391231323, 1915

ban day” were successful events. The bu-
reau has contracted for two talks by Frank
Jewel Raymond, business expert, to be held
in September.

The public welfare committee has
worked out and instituted a plan of investi-
gating solicitations, through which all the
members of the Chamber will be protected
from fraudulent and petty solicitations.

An armory building was felt to be needed
in Hazleton, and the Chamber of Commerce
aroused sufficient public sentiment in favor
of such a project to secure from the State
Amory Board an appropriation for the
erection of such a building.

The Fourth of July celebration was un-
dertaken by the Chamber, which raised the
funds and provided for a day and evening
of athletic events, band concerts, fireworks
and a generally good time.

HARRY H. FREEMAN.
Secretary, Chamber of Commerce.

4» 4»
Movement for Taxation
Exemption

Jonnsrown, PA.—With the Johnstown
Chamber of Commerce leading the move-
ment, the commercial organizations in the
third-class cities of Pennsylvania are pre-
paring for another assault upon the State
Legislature in an effort to secure laws for
the exemption of machinery and the gradual
exemption of improvements from taxation.
A hard but losing fight was made in the
last legislature by the Taxation and Home
Rule Committee of the Johnstown organi-
zation. The defeat was due to certain in-
terests in the larger cities which desired a
repeal of similar laws enjoyed by Pitts-
burgh and Scranton, the two second-class
cities in the state. Had the Johnstown
measures for tax exemption gone through,
the “repealer” would probably have lost
out; therefore a concentrated attack was
made upon the third-classcity bills. The
soundness of the stand of the Johnstown
Chamber of Commerce was demonstrated
when Governor Martin G. Brumbaugh
vetoed the Pittsburgh “repealer” on the
ground that the present law was right in
principle.

At a meeting of the League of Third-
Class Cities, held in Reading last fall,
Johnstown and the other commercial or-
ganizations 'of the state had representatives
there, getting the municipal odicers’ organi-

THE AMERICAN CITY

203

zation lined up on their side of the battle.
When the next legislature convenes, the
third-class cities will have their lines drawn
even tighter than before.

The following third-class cities were ac-
tive in their support of the measures:
Allentown, Altoona, Chester, Easton, Erie,
Harrisburg, Hazleton, Johnstown, Mead-
ville, Oil City, Reading, Titusville, Wil-
liamsport and York.

The machinery exemption calls for a
complete absence of tax for that class of
property. The plan for the graduated ex-
emption of improvements is based on a five
per cent reduction each year for ten years,
so that at the end of that period all improve-
ments will be taxed at only fifty per cent of
their real value. The taxes on land will
remain at par as at present.

In a booklet recently issued by the Cham-
ber, entitled “Making Johnstown a Live
City,” the statement of the Taxation Com-
mittee is as follows: ‘ '

Every citizen has visions of better streets,
brighter lights, more efficient public safety and
a school educational system upon a broader
plane. These advantages all spring from the
adoption of an equitable taxation system
where one man does not shoulder part of an-
other’s portion of expense. When a taxpayer
knows that he is paying only his just share
for municipal management and public im-
provement, he cheerfully settles the bill. Study
of and campaigns for some of the fundamen-

tals of such an equitable system is the work
into which this committee has plunged.

P. H. MAHAFFEY, Chairman.

To encourage enterprise by untaxing
progress is the “Johnston Plan.”

I. KENNARD JOHNSON,
Assistant Secretary, Chamber of Commerce.

4"}

Four Referenda

PATERSON, N. J.—The Chamber of Com-
merce of Paterson has been testing out the
referendum idea the past year as a method
of learning and recording the sentiment of
the members on questions of policy. Ref-
erenda were sent out on the following four
questions: the establishment of a credit bu-
reau; the establishment of a trahic bureau;
merchant marine; legislative matters.

A satisfactory response was received on
the first two questions, since each held a
single thought, and after reading the sub-
ject matter concerning the establishment of
the bureaus, each member could record his
yea or nay vote without much doubt.

Digitized by 600816

204

The response with regard to the mer-
chant marine, however, was not so prompt,
for the reason that eight questions relating
to the subject were submitted, some of them
much involved, and the members laid this
referendum aside for further consideration.

In sending out the referendum ou.legis-
lative matters, the secretary desired to dis-
cover the best way of keeping the members
informed of the bills before the State Leg-
islature and of deciding on which ones ac-
tion should be taken by the organization.
The referendum was in the form of a re-
port of the legislative committee of the
Chamber, which met about the middle of
. the session of the State Legislature when
the majority of the bills were on first or
second reading. The committee selected all
the bills which affected the trade and indus-
tries of the city and of the municipality and
county, and recorded their approval or dis-
approval. The statement was then mailed
to the members, who were asked for their
opinions on the policy of the committee.

It is the intention of the Paterson Cham-
ber of Commerce to experiment further
during the coming year with the referen-
dum, believing it to be an excellent means
of maintaining interest in the organization
and in what it is endeavoring to accom-

plish.
JOHN J. FITZGERALD.

Secretary, Chamber of Commerce.

i- '*

City Financiers Cooperate with
Farmers

DETROIT, MICH.—An excellent illustration
of the interest city capitalists are taking
in farm life and the improvement of the
quality and increase in the quantity of farm
products is to be found in the recent action
of three old and well-known Detroit banks
m offering prizes for the best bushels of
corn grown in twenty of the leading agri-
cultural counties of Michigan.

The PeOple's State Bank, the First and
Old Detroit National Bank, and the Union
Trust Company have united in apprOpriat-
ing $300 from which to pay a first prize of
$10 and a second prize of $5 for the first
and second best bushels of corn grown in
each of the following twenty counties:
Wayne, Macomb, Oakland, St. Clair, San-
ilac. Huron, Tuscola, Genesee. Livingston,
Washtenaw, Monroe, Lenawee, Hillsdale,

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 3

Jackson, Ingham, Shiawassee, Saginaw,
Gratiot, Clinton and Eaton.
The corn submitted by the various coun-
ties will be shown at the Michigan state
fair, to be held at Detroit, September 6 to
15, 1915, and the awards will be made by
the regular fair judges. In addition to
stimulating the production of corn, a crop
second only to wheat in forming the basis
of national wealth, this contest will un-
doubtedly aid in increasing state-wide in-

terest in attendance at the fair.

BYRES H. GITCHELL.
Secretary, Board of Commerce.

1- e-
Peach Day

Musxocsa, Okra—Muskogee County
recently found herself possessed of a large
crop of peaches, with no provision having
been made for marketing them. The peach
growers were called together and a hasty
organization was formed. A canning plant
was arranged for, the machinery leased,
and a great many of the peaches were taken
care of in that way. It was apparent that
the outside world did not know that Mus—
kogee is a peach center, and consequently
there were few peach buyers in the terri-
tory.

With the object, therefore, of impressing
that important fact upon the residents of
Muskogee County, the Greater Muskogee
Association declared that August 14 would
be known as “Peach Day." Arrangements
were made with the growers of peaches to
bring in quantities of the fruit, and with
the storekeepers, bankers and custodians of
the large office buildings that each obtain
from them at least a bushel basket of the
peaches and set them in front of his place
of business, attaching a card bearing the
words, “G. M. A. Peach Day. Take One
With Us.” The Mayor issued a proclama-
tion declaring August 14 to be “Peach Day,"
and calling upon the people of Muskogee to
each send a peach to some friend in an-
other state with a‘ letter telling about Peach
Day.

The press bureau was kept busy sending
news matter to the trade papers affecting
the peach trade, to further advertise the
peaches of Muskogee County.

“I. SCOTT RADEKER,
Managing Secretary, Greater Muskogee Association.

Digitized by 600816

SEPTEM BER, 1915

Committee Regulation

JAMESTOWN, N. Y.—The Jamestown
Board of Commerce has worked out a plan
of committee control which consists of a
wall chart and two index cards, each of
which is reproduced herewith.

The card marked No. I is a sample of the
wall chart (actual size 22x28 inches).
This hangs at the side of the secretary's
desk, where a glance will show him the con-
dition of the activity of every committee.
No. 2 is a committee card (size 4x6

DA!!! 0' IIU'INGS

 

 

 

THF. FIGURES IN THE ABOVE TABLES INDICATE:
A—.-\bsent; P—Present; I—Ill; O—Out of town

inches), and one such card is made out for
every committee. The members' names are
listed as shown, and the dates of the meet-
ings. No. 3 is an individual membership
card (siZe 4 x 6 inches), and gives a list of
the committees upon which the member has
worked, together with his attendance rec-
ord. The result of the attendance record
is given. from time to time in the monthly
publication. The individual card is also

THE AMERICAN CITY

  
  

 

205

used in making up committees, so that no
one member will be given too much work

and as many as possible given committee

appointments.

F. C. BUTLER,
Secretary, Board of Commerce.

4"!-

Commercial Organizations in

France

WASHINGTON, D. C.—The Bureau of
Foreign and Domestic Commerce at Wash-
ington has recently issued a monograph en-
titled “Commercial Or-
ganizations in France,”
which contains a history
of the French organiza-
tions, a survey of their
rights and functions, the
distinguishing features of
the various bodies, lists of
all the chambers of com-
merce in France, regula-
tions governing them. an

COMMITTEE i account of their participa-
, I. g u rues ” "MA __.. z' ' ‘ ' ' _
MEMBERS  —!—l‘~‘-9'—i‘~'——-————— . iron in legislation and in J
' n, m‘ f'rn _ I. I I; (llClal work, and a descrip—
p' "  until-J. " : tion of all the commer-
”  ‘ I -H. cial institutions of the
,_ #MHHH? I ——  A- government. The mono-
4  7, I i1“, “ graph is No. 98 in the.
I K A I.- _* '7 g _ i J: Special Agents Series, and
' ‘1, as.-. '-rlTaT;: _ ' .   may be obtained for ten
__ .. II . — ~ - l  cents from the Superin-
.... .-—-—— i tendent of Documents,
Washington, D. C.

"EuBERs I ’ / In France the chamber
‘1”‘l‘i/l" ' “mm-Emu“  _,7AW#- of commerce is a ublic
comm-TEE " flir‘lj‘m‘u - ~' I ' ‘ body controlled bypleo'al

. , . , . .o o l ’ , b
‘  ’ ‘ .I-IiIIIIII .: T i; 7: ministrative powers and
._ IIIIIIIIIIII I  working in cooperation
“’-“ II II -1 - r— with the authorities of the
Card NO. 3 government. The French

government COrrelates and
coordinates every feature
that can be made to act
upon the commercial development of the

Nation. A most eti’ective system of com-
mercial direction and regulation, trade pro-
motion and industrial education is said to
be maintained by the Ministry of Commerce
and Industry.

E. E. PRATT.

Chief, Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce,
Department of Commerce.

Digitized by 600816

206

For Increased Membership

MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.—The Minneapolis
Civic and Commerce Association has
adOpted a new device for increasing its
membership. Its members have been fur-
nished with a booklet giving the names of
the persons on the membership committee,
with their addresses and business and resi-
dence telephone numbers, also containing
a list of the members of the Association,
corrected to date of publication. On the
inside cover is the following message:

“The Committee on Membership furnishes
you with this book in order that you may di-
vide your friends and business acquaintances
into two groups:

“1. Those who are members.

“2. Those who are not members.

“The committee is interested in the second
of these groups and solicits your aid in trans-
- ferring them to group I.

“On page I is a list of the members of the
Committee. If you will suggest to one of
them the names of some of your friends who
are not members, he will be glad to call and
explain to them the advantages of member-
ship in the Association.

“Help to make the membership of our Asso-
ciation commensurate with our city-wide ser—
vice.”

Members are asked to keep the book on
their desks or in their pockets, where they
can constantly refer to it to ascertain
whether or not the person in mind is a

member of the Association.
HOWARD STRONG,

Secretary, Civic and Commerce Association.

+rl'

A New Organization
MARIE’I‘TA, OIIIO.—A1th0ugh the Mari-

etta Chamber of Commerce is not quite two
months old, the work of the organization is
well under way. There are 400 members,
paying a minimum fee of $25 a year. The
Chamber was organized on the departmen-
tal plan, with a director at the head of each
department. The departments are: Indus-
trial Development, Civic Improvement,
Trade and Commerce, Retail Merchants,
Transportation, County Development, Or-
ganization. Each department has its sub—
divisions, with a chairman at the head of
each. There is but one standing committee
—the Ways and Means Committee—which
acts as the members’ council.

The new organization at once asked the
City Council to set apart for the Chamber’s
use the old city hall building, which was
done. It is being restored for the Cham-
ber’s immediate occupancy. The building

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, N0. 3

will also be headquarters for the Merchants'
Association and the civic clubs throughout
the city, as well as the Ad Club and the
Agricultural Agent.

By a resolution passed at a recent meet-
ing of the Board of Directors, the Chamber
went on record as endorsing the work of
the Associated Charities, the Federation of
Women’s Clubs, the Salvation Army, the
established churches, and the established
fraternal orders; also the advertising pages
of the regular newspapers published in
Marietta and in Washington County—all
charity or advertising propositions not in-
cluded in this classification to be presented
to the Chamber of Commerce for endorse-
ment.

The Chamber is at present financing a
campaign for a special road tax of 1.5 mills.
If the election is carried in November, an
income of more than $225,000 a year for
live years will be available for road con-
struction. At the end of that period, a
similar proposition will be presented to the

voters.

JAMES H. WARBURTON,
Managing Secretary, Chamber of Commerce.

4"1'

A Vigilance Bureau

COLUMBIA, MO.—The Retail Merchants’
Association of Columbia has a “Vigilance
Bureau” which censors all advertising and
charity propositions that are presented to
the proprietors of business establishments
in the community. A set of by-laws was
drawn up for the Vigilance Bureau at a
meeting of all such proprietor members of
the organization. These by-laws the hu-
reau uses in approving or disapproving
propositions, and certain other rules were
established to meet conditions not specific-
ally provided for in the by-laws.

In cases where the proposition presented
for endorsement does not appear to the sec-
retary to be covered by the prescribed rules
and regulations. the matter is submitted to
the president of the organization, who re-
fers it to the chairman of the vigilance com-
mittee. The vigilance committee renders
its decision on the proposition, which is
reported to the president, who then sends
it back to the secretary. If the proposition
has been considered favorably by the vigi-
lance committee, the secretary fills out an
endorsement slip which is given to the so-
licitor, and the solicitor must show the slip
to all members of the organization whose

Digitized by 600816

SEPTEMBER, 1915

 any
patronage he wishesgibefore the proposition

will be considered. Members are provided
with a card furnished by the Vigilance Bu-
reau, which is kept in a conspicuous place
in their otiices. .

The effective service Which the bdreau
performs makes many friends for any com-
‘hnercial organization renderin it.

‘ . + ' + ,  ‘
‘Motion Pictures Taken by a
Chamber of Commerce

REDLANDS, CAL—A motion picture cam-
era is owned by the Chamber of Commerce.
Five lilmslhave been gken: one showing
interestingand historic points in and around.
Redlands; one of the orange industry, com-
plete from seed to consumer; one of the
“Road Building Bee,” at which 200 citizens
spent a day widening and improving a road
into the mountains, and two of Fourth of
July celebrations. ’

The camera man is a local photographer
who has had experience in taking motion
pictures. He does the work on contract,
guaranteeing 1,000 feet of perfect film. A
committee from the Chamber of Commerce
works with him, planning the details and
general character of the film.

The complete film is shown in one of the
local moving picture houses. The Chamber
of Commerce takes over the house for one
or two evenings, paying the proprietor his
actual house expense. The proprietor is
always willing to make such an arrangement
because of the advertising he receives. The
film is shown together with the regular pro-

3: Secretary: Rstail Mere

THE AMERICAN CITY

207

gram of pictures, and the receipts, above
the house expense, go to the Chamber. The
film is then put on the circuit, or pieces of
particularly interesting lilm are given to the
weeklies. One of the Redlands nlmsJ-that
illustrating the orange industry—is being
shown at the San Francisco Exposition.

M. A. RIPY,
_ Secretary, Chamber of Commerce.

4» I 4»
Children’s Day

HUNTINGTON, lam—One of the new ac-
tivities of the Huntington Chamber of Com-
merce is the entertainment of the children
of the worthy poor in Huntington and the

A county- in which the city is located without

expense to themselves or parents. The idea
of children’s day was so popularly received
last year that it was decided to extend the
plan this year to include the children of the
entire county. More than 3,500 children
were entertained this year. The Chamber
has lent its support to this activity in the
belief that a movement which encourages
the formation of acquaintanceships early in
life between the people of the city and
country and helps to knit together the in-
terests of each, is worth while.

The program included prayer, the presen-
tation of an American Hag to each child, a
short talk on civic pride and the child’s
civic duty, an automobile ride, a lunch
served free, games of all kinds, including a
merry-go—round, music by a children’s band,
and a child’s play, given out of doors, taken
from a Russian folklore story.

C. B. WILLIAMS.
Secretary, Huntington Commercial Association.

 

THE MOTION-PICTURE CAMERA AT WORK FOR THE REDLANDS CHAMBER

OF COMMERCE

A

 

 

A ROCHESTER BOYS’ CLUB MEETING

Organizing Rochester’ s School Boys for
Accident Prevention

By Roland B. Woodward
Secretary, Rochester (N. Y.) Chamber of Commerce

was killed in a traffic accident near
the school grounds. The fatality was
one of an epidemic which seemed to be
spreading over Rochester that summer.
Drastic measures were needed to check it.
The police had not relaxed their customary
vigilance in enforcing the traffic laws,
which, however, seemed to be of but little
avail. Therewas a crying need for a pub—
lic accident prevention campaign as effec-
tive and’popular as Rochester's industrial
“safety first‘" efforts, which have enabled
some of our largest industries to reduce
their accidents as much as 73 per cent.
Great quantities of “safety first" litera-
ture had been prepared and distributed by
Accident Prevention Committees of the
‘Chamber of Commerce in‘ preceding years.
An educational campaign of considerable
extent and intensiveness had been con-
ducted through the press and other me—
diums. Excellent results had been obtained,
but circumstances, unfortunately, would oc-
casionally combine against us. It is the lot
'of any city, and happens in the best of well-
regulated communities, despite eternal agi-
‘ tation.
The Chamber knew the answer and had
sought long for ways and means. The an-

SOME time ago a public school pupil

[208]

swer was that there had been found no way
to apply the principles of successful organi-
zation to public accident prevention. Here
was a city of more than 225,000 souls which
was not organized to devote personally
some time and actual effort to “safety
first” campaigns.

The Chamber realized that the public
schools presented very promising oppor-
tunities for such organization. Accord-
ingly, detailed accident and fire prevention
courses were drafted for the pupils. The
Board of Education, however, ruled that
the teachers were already too much occu-
pied with matters considered of more press-
ing importance to permit of any systematic
and extensive instruction in these courses.
Their presentation to the pupils was left to
the discretion of the faculty. Consequently.
the committee's plans could not be effected
in toto. I

The accident to the pupil mentioned it
the opening paragraph, however. furnish 2d
a fortunate solution. Without sugges’ion
from outside sources, the Boys' Club of th‘lt
school appointed a Safety Committee. the
members of which stationed themselves at
dangerous localities nearby and carefully
guarded the younger ones on their way to
and from school.

SEPTEMBER, 1915

There is a Boys’ Club in each of thirty-
three of the city’s forty schools. The mem-
bership of each club is limited to thirty
pupils, whose influence for good is felt
throughout the school. They are the older
boys from the grades above the fifth. They
are the leaders whose actions are copied by
the younger pupils. Almost any cause es-
poused by these clubs is taken up instanter
in the schools, which are attended by 40,000
pupils in Rochester.

This tremendous power is being utilized
by the Chamber. Plans are now under way
for the organization this fall, when school
reopens, of a Junior Safety Council within
the Rochester Chamber Council, No. 9, 0f
the National Safety Council, which has
recently been given charge of the Cham-
ber’s accident prevention campaigns. The
scheme is this: each Boys’ Club will name
a Safety Committee of six members who
will represent their body in the Junior
Safety Council. They will comprise the
Council’s membership. ~

Weekly letters giving descriptions of re-
cent accidents to children were sent out
during the spring to each committeeman
for distribution throughout the school.
These accidents, and ways and means
. whereby they might have been avoided, are
discussed by pupils at special meetings of
the clubs. In addition, the safety commit-
tees receive weekly letters covering acci-
dent prevention in a general way. Follow-
ing is a sample letter sent out May 10, 1915:

“To Manuals or Bovs’
Scuoons:

“The baseball team wins whose members use their
heads. _ They are careful and thoughtful of every op-
portumty t0 clout in the runs. They are on the
lookout for every loophole as fast as it appears in their
opponents’ defense. They are on the job all the time
—|oeen, constant and alert, and they win their games.

‘ “Safety First’ is but another ball game. The player
who does not die on the bases is he who gets safely
home each night. Sometimes he is ‘clouted’ home by
another ‘player.’ In every case, however, the big man
—the player who is worth the most to his team—use:
his head.

“Every street is a baseball diamond; every trolle
car, every wagon, every automobile may be consi -
ered a player on the opposite team. He must be
watched carefully all the time or he will tag you at
second. or at home, and that means the loss of a leg
or an arm. Not merely failure to score a run. which
in this case would mean help for your home when
you grow up. If you are thoughtless and are tagged
on the bases you may be made a cripple for life!

“It's a great game. boys—this ‘Safety First.’ Put
on your masks, your shin guards and chest protectors
and get into it. The boy who wins is he who use:
his head and who occasionally 'clout: in a run’ by
showing his friend how to do the thing safe. Look
both ways before crossing the street. Play safe!

“Yours for safety, ’
"SAFETY COUNCIL,

"RocaEern Canaan or Commence."

The actual accidents described in the
other letters are not picked haphazard, but

Cu!” or ms GRAMHAR

THE AMERICAN CITY

209

follow a well-defined system for concen-
trating upon the various classes of common
mishaps.

The meetings at which the foregoing are
read are conducted with most impressive
formality, the boys observing all the rules
of order. Formality appeals to them, so
they will be permitted to draw up and adopt
by-laws for their Council, and elect their
own ofiicers, executive and standing com-
mittees; in short, they will conduct the
Council's activities with all the regularity
of the Chamber of Commerce.

The Chamber’s rooms will be thrown
open for meetings of the Junior Safety
Council on one night in each month. In
the interim the youngsters will be asked to
keep constantly on the lookout for hazard-
ous conditions. When such are found they
are to be reported by the boys at regular
monthly meetings for action by. the Cham-
ber and the proper city authorities. Safety
buttons of appreciable value will be given
as rewards for this service. A Chamber
of Commerce safety medal will be the su-
preme reward for saving a life.

The constitution of the Boys’ Club or-
ganizations provides that

“It shall be the aim of members of this club
to stand for clean speech, clean sports, clean
habits, a spirit of loyalty to the school, club
director, fellow members and self, for a policy
of self-government and for higher standards
of scholarship.”

Here are some of theschool insignia re-
quirements:

“1. A boy must not be absent from the club
more than twice during the semester without
a satisfactory excuse accepted by the director.

“2. A boy must be a good loser as well as a
good winner.

“3. He must take an active part in the busi-
ness meetings by making motions or talking
on something of interest to the club at least
twice during the semester.

“4. He must obey the Constitution abso-
lutely.”

Preliminary meetings of the Junior
Safety Council were held last Spring. The
adults who attended were astonished by the
exhibition of confidence and skill with
which the lads made their reports. Here is
the medium through which accidents may
be greatly reduced in Rochester. Such an
organized campaign will be carried by the
pupils into nearly every household. The
extent of its immediate influence will be
tripled and the child will grow up to be

the safe citizen and emphaof to- rrow.
Digitized bi 008 €

 

Local Printed Publicity;for Commercial
Organizations“

By Wycliffe C. Marshall

Assistant Secretary, Harvard Square Business Men’s Association, Cambridge, Mass.

be known properly, within and outside
of the organization, some form of sys-
tematic, local publicity is essential. The
two most prominent purposes of such pub-
licity were described by two secretaries in
recent public addresses as “preserving the
sustained enthusiasm on the part of the
members,” and “focusing public attention
upon their cooperative achievements.”
Printed publicity is the most commonly
employed method for accomplishing both
of these ends. The most common forms
which this work takes are either space in
the news columns of local newspapers or an
official organ, isSued periodically.

hGraluilous Newspaper ‘Publicily for
Commercial Organizations

Gratuitous newspaper publicity, when
properly prepared, is invaluable to an or-
ganization. For the whole country it is
safe to say that commercial organizations
receive as much free news space as any
other one type of association. This liber-
ality on the part of the press usually is ap-
preciated, and that it is generally regarded
as an invaluable aid by secretaries is shown
by the reports from these organizations of
widely‘varying size in all parts of the coun-
try, and Operating under every conceivable
condition, in places of from 5,000 inhabit-
ants upward. Many obvious benefits the
local papers oifer to those commercial or-
ganizations which are not strong enough
financially to have an official organ. Col—
umns of free newspaper space for publicity
work that it would bankrupt any organiza-
tion to pay for at space rates are thus se-
cured without cost.

Successful results,

[F a commercial organization’s work is to

of course, depend

 

“Abstract of report prepared in the second year
work of the Graduate School of Business Administra-
tion, Harvard University. The report is based chiefiy
on material received from secretaries in reply to a
questionnaire sent out by Professor Paul T. Chering-
ton, and on replies to letters written by Mr. Marshall.
The author also gives credit in his paper to certain
material obtained from a report submitted at the 1914
convention of the American Association of Commer-
cial Executives b Carl Dehoney, of Cincinnati, and
Thorndike Delan , of Denver.

[210]

A

upon the contact between the organization
and the press. The contact is made in va-
rious ways. Concerning this point, replies
to a questionnaire sent to 42 associations lo-
cated in places having upwards of 5,000

population are interesting.
The secretary in one city of the Middle

West writes:

“We employ a publicity man, who covers the
meetings of our governing committee for the
local daily newspapers and also furnishes the

newspapers and trade journals withocopy.of
general interest relating to matters in which

we are interested.”

In the words of the secretary of an or-

ganization in a southern city:‘

“We called together representatives from
four of the more important newspapers . . .
and . . . they unanimously agreed to give the
organization one-half page in each of their
newspapers every Sunday, or as much thereof
as they could conveniently give, to interesting
reading matter.”

In one of the largest cities:

“During the year . . . a considerable part of
the time of the' manager was given to personal
interviews with newspaper men in order to
inform them of the plans and work of the As-
sociation. In general it was the aim of the
Bureau to keep the relations between the Asso-
ciation and the press as cordial as possible,
and to make the headquarters known as a
place where newspaper men are always wel—
come and where no effort will be spared to
aid them in getting the information they

want.” '
Confiding in the newspaper men, and

trusting in their good judgment as to the
opportune time for publishing news, fosters
this necessary cooperation.

Methods of preparing the material and of
issuing it to the press vary, of course, ac-
cording to the size and the nature of the
locality, the size and kind of organization,
the frequency with which news items de-
velop, the amount of news, and the type of
newspapers reached. One of the larger or-
ganizations outlines its practice in this

branch of the work. Its report states:

“Because of the larger circulation of the
Sunday newspapers and the greater attention
given to them by readers in comparison with
the week-day editions, special material was
prepared for them; arrangements were made

Digitized by 600816

SEPTEMBER, 1915

for the publication on Sunday of descriptive
articles, usually illustrated with photographs,
maps or diagrams. Most of these were pre-
pared by the Industrial Bureau and were made
up of information gathered in the survey
which that Bureau is making of the city’s in-
dustries. . . . The news of the Association
was given out either in the form of articles
prepared by the Bureau and distributed as oc-
casion arose, or through . . . [the official or—
gan], advance copies of which were sent regu-
larly, with suitable letters to all the city news-
papers. The more important news of the As-
sociation was given to the newspaper as soon
as it developed, for publication on the same or
the following day. Articles containing the
information which it was desired to make pub-
lic were prepared, duplicated by means of the
neostyle, and distributed by messengers.
Sometimes as many as three such articles were
sent out in the same day.

“Whenever meetings were held where there
were speeches, stenographers were employed
to take the speeches as they were made and
transcribe a sufficient number of copies for the
press. These copies were distributed within
a few minutes after the Speeches were deliv-
ered. . . . Whenever information that seemed
adapted to editorial comment was prepared, it
was sent personally to the chief editorial

writers.”

Regular space, so necessary to sustained
interest, is sometimes obtained in the local
press by the commercial body. At least two
commercial organizations in the United
States buy space in local newspapers at
regular advertising rates, for the purpose
of publishing a miniature newspaper page
dealing with those facts of their organiza-
tions which should be known to the public.
Paid-for space seems to be the exception,
however. Even where a regular column is
carried by the paper for the organization,
free space is the rule. The secretary gen-
erally conducts the department, to which
from three-fourths of a column to nearly
half a page is devoted. Such news appears
daily, weekly, bi-monthly, or at other regu-
lar intervals, as a rule, in one of the local
papers.

Oficlal Organs of Commercial Organizations

The ofiicial organ, either as a supplement
to newspaper publicity or as substitute, has
been tried in all classes of cities by a va-
riety of organizations. The publication in-
terval ranges from weekly to quarterly, not
including three specialized dailies issued
under unusual conditions. On a canvass of
the number of such official organs, records
were found of over 140 published at present
by different. associations in the United

THE AMERICAN CITY

21!

States. No apparent relation exists be-
tween the number of pages in organs and
the size of the organizations printing them.

A consideration of the merits and the de-
fects of organs as issued by commercial or-
ganizations involves an examination of
these publications under such main heads
as: (1) control and reSponsibility; (2)
make-up and nature; (3) cost; (4) circu-
lation.

Considerable diversity exists in the type
of name used for these papers. The titles
of 55 papers out of 121, nearly 50 per cent,
fall into three groups: (1) Bulletin; (2)
Journal; (3) -er and -tan names. Over
one-sixth of the organs have miscellaneous
names, no two alike. The following table
classifies the titles of the official organs
issued by these 121 commercial organiza-
tions:

No. of

Title Organs
Containing word “Bulletin” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 36
Containing word “Journal” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
The name of place with suffix “er” or “ian”... 9
“Greater (the name of the place)” . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
“(Name of the place) Magazine” . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4
Name of the place . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4
Name of the organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4
Name of the lace modified by a qualifying term 4
“(Name of t e place) Spirit” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3
“(Name of the place) Progress” or “Progress”. 3
"(Name of the lace) Commerce" . . . . . . . . . . .. 2

“(Adjective) A airs" . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2

With word “Record” or “Recorder” . . . . . . . . . . . 2

“O timist," alone or modified . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2

“T e (name of the place) Country” . . . . . . . . . .. 2

With term “Business” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2

With term "Doings" . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2

Miscellaneous . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26

Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 121

The opinions of secretaries as to what
ought to be treated in an organ, and how it
ought to be dealt with, indicate that no
rules can be laid down, and that individual
taste must govern. On almost every con-
ceivable point opinions not only differ but
directly conflict. Some favor making the
organ a simple, condensed record of the
organization’s work. Others put the main
emphasis on its “inspirational” possibilities.
Some favor emphasis on the personal side;
others consider this feature undignined.
Thus through every phase of publicity, ex-
pressed via the organ, unassailable general-
ization is impossible.

Into a comparatively few groups the con-
tents of these organs may be gathered. The
items appearing in 75 of these papers were
grouped under a few headings for the test:
organization items, miscellaneous items, 10-
cal items, items about the commercial or-
ganizations of the country, state items, na-

Digitized by 600816
A

212

tional items and world items. An examina-

tion of these items shows:

(1) That the items in the weeklies rank:
(a) Organization items
(b) Local items
(c) National or world items
(d) State items
(e) Miscellaneous items
(f) Items about other organizations
(2) That the items in the fortnightlies rank:
(a) Local items
(b) Miscellaneous or national items
(c) Organization items
(d) World items

(e) Items about other organizations or state
items

(3) That the items in the quarterlies rank:
(a) Organization items
(b) Local items
(c) Miscellaneous items
(d) Items about other organizations or state
items
(4) That this is the rank of the items in the
monthlies:
(a) Organization items
(b) Miscellaneous items

(c) Local items
(d) National items

(e) State items
(f) World items
(g) Items about other organizations

This analysis reveals the fact that there
is not enough organization news in most
cases to fill the organ, and that, even when
local items are added, other classes of mat-
ter have to be drawn upon to fill up the
empty space. Men want facts, ideas and
pertinent information concerning organi-
zation work not furnished by the local
newspapers and national periodicals.

Local items include matter concerning:

(1) Persons

(2) Transportation
(3) Industry

(4) Agriculture

(5) Commerce

(6) Banks

(7) Social life

(8) Charity and religious activities
(9) Recreation '
(10) Civic work

(11) Real estate aEairs

Among the miscellaneous items are in-

cluded :

(1) Epigrams

(2) okes

(3) oems

(4) Repeated mottoes
(5) Exchange matter
(6) notations

(7) nclassified items

Regular departments appear in 27 of the
75 papers. In the weeklies the common de—
partments are:

(1) Editorials
(2) Otiicial notices

The uncommon departments of the week-
lies are: '

(1) Contents

(2) Other associations' notes

(3) New members

(4) Applications for membership

(5) Articles on South American trade
(6) Briefs about members

(7) Executive committee

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 3

(8) Package car service for the week

(9) Finance news

(10) Business locals

(11) Fraternal news

(12) Theatres

(13) Metal quotations

(14) The Register—points about members and
visitors to city

(15) Woman’s place in building state

(16) Business thought by leaders

(17) Late inquiries

In the monthlies, these are the common
regular departments:

(1) Table of Contents

(2) Otlicers, Directors and Standing Committees
(3) Departments and Otlicial Stat?

(4) Membership Directory

(5) Index to Advertisements

(6) Editor'nls
(7) Meeting notices
(8) Notes
(9) Transportation
(10) Statistics
(11) Finance
(12) Building operations .
(13) Other commercial organizations
The uncommon departments in the month-

lies are :

(1) In the Pit and on ’Change

(2) Popular Talks on Law

(3) The Secretary's Corner

(4) Doings in the Pit in Futures

(5) Grain Inspection .

(6) Price Table of Grain and Provistons

(7) Receipts and Shipments at the City

(8) Meetings during the month

(9) Full-page hotograph

(10) Our Civic rogress . . .

(11) Work now in hand by the administrative

forces _

(12) Minutes of the Executive Committee

(13) Bureau of Information .

(14) Proposed sailing of ocean steamships

(15) The city a quarter of a century ago

(16) Current events

(17) Industries

(18) Current literature

The more pages there are in the ofiic1al

organ, the more apt it is to be dwided into
regular departments, consxderable 111 num-

ber.

Conclusions

Certain general conclusions develop from
the great mass of material examined cover-
ing the local printed publicity work of the
commercial organizations of the United
States. The “sustained interest” of the
members and publicity in the community
for the organization are the two objects of
printed publicity. As a rule, the press is
willing to cooperate as much as is required.

According to the testimony of the secre-
taries of the leading American commercial
organizations, the utilization of the news—
papers is very important, with many advan-
tages. Informal, rather than formal, con—
tact between the reporters and the secre-
taries is preferred as being more effective.
In regular space some secretaries conduct

Digitized by 600816

p,

ho
.

'—

1

SEPTEMBER, 1915

weekly news departments; in the heading
for this department frequently appears a
design or association seal such as appears
on the organization’s stationery.

“Individualize the copy for the news-
paper” is the advice of the more progres-
sive secretaries. The work of the smallest
commercial. organization can be helped
greatly by the local newspapers. The peo-
ple in small cities can be reached just as
effectively as those in the largest city in the
country by using the local press.

One of the endless disputes among com-
mercial executives is over the question
whether the various forms of gratuitous
newspaper publicity thus described do or
do not entirely render an organ unneces-
sary. Printed publicity, the secretary of
one association with over 600 members in
a town of 18,000 population declares, can
be best promoted through the local news-
papers rather than an official organ.

In computing the cost of both methods,
the figures indicate that in point of cost as
well as of circulation the advantage seems
to lie with the intelligently used free news-
paper space rather than with the official
organ for most organizations.

The really valuable field of the weekly
organ seems to lie exclusively among the
larger organizations. For the monthly, the
field seems to extend to smaller organiza-
tions. But the practical value of the
monthly, except as a record of the organi-
zation’s proceedings, seems not to be very
well established outside of a few rare cases.
Under ordinary conditions its usefulness
seems limited in scope. Six causes gener-
ally contribute in whole or in part, as the
secretaries testify, to this effect:

( 1) Restricted circulation;

(2) The difiiculty of obtaining enough per-

tinent association news of recent origin;

(3 The duplication of free association pub-
licity in the local newspapers;

(4) The frequent attempt, perhaps uncon-
sciously, to fill the place of other news me-
diums'in the community and in the country;

(5) The difficulty of keeping the paper up to
a high standard attractive enough for it to be

im"“t'0nsistently read; and

(6) The great‘expense of publication.

Notwithstanding these" obstacles to suc-
cess in many cases, there is something so
alluring about the “official organ” idea that
few organizations and still fewer secre—
taries seem to be content until they have
experimented with it.. Our figures show

THE AMERICAN CITY

213

that organs are now being published, with
varying degrees of success, by organiza-
tions of all sizes in every kind of city.
Most of these have started as monthly pub-
lications. In the smaller organizations the
most common experience is that they sur-
vive only a short'time. If they live at all,
they become a monthly record of the or-
ganization's work and drop their other fea-
tures. In the larger organizations the com-
mon history is that they develop into week-
ly papers, if they continue to live at all.

Local conditions vary so widely that c:n-
structive suggestions of general value are
difficult. These figures, however, seem to
establish doubt of the advisability of a com-
mercial organization of less than 2,000
members issuing an official weekly publica-
tion. Available rec0rds show that. in ordi:
nary cases, a four-page weekly will satisfy
the requirements of 2,000 members, and
that where the membership reached 3,500
or more an eight-page paper often seems
desirable. Elasticity in the number of
pages in the paper can provide for weekly
contingencies. These conclusions, of
course, are subject to modification by local
conditions.

A careful examination of the official or-
gans, in the light of the experience of the

many organizations, leads to these broad
conclusions :

(1) The name of the publication is a mat-
ter of local choice, but that most commonly
used is “Bulletin.”

(2) The United States registry laws for
second-class mail matter require the setting
aside from the membership fees of each mem-
ber of a commercial organization a certain
sum as subscription for the official paper pub-
lished. Even in these cases where it is not
desired to have the official organ admitted to
the mail as second-class matter. a normal sub-
scription charge of $1 would provide some
revenue for the support of the paper and at
the same time aid in cutting down waste cir-
culation.

(3) Regular departments, though used suc-
cessfullv in some exceptional cases. may well
be avoided, as their use encourages padded
items in weeks when there is not enough news
to fill the department space.

(4) Most of,the secretaries are verv cau-
tious about advertisements and use illustra-
tions sparingly.

(5) Careful secretaries try to avoid in their
official organs local, state, national, world and
miscellaneous news. recognizing the fact that
other publications already cover these items.

(6) The most successful plan seems to be to

Digitized by 600816
4-

214

print, in brief, only organization news and
news about the actrvrties of other commerual
organizations.

To fit cases where commercial organiza-
tions do not think it advisable to publish a
regular official paper, the use of a weekly
post card notice to take the place of an of-
ficial organ is suggested. On this card
could be printed in 1-2-3 order brief refer-
ences to important plans and undertakings
of the week. \Vhere the reader is anxious
to know details too elaborate to be given in
such a card, inquiry at the association office
should procure the extra information
needed. Every quarter there might be is-
sued a detailed report showing the plans
and accomplishments for the preceding four
months. . This combination of n0tice.cards
and periodical records of achievements

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, N0. 3

seems to cover most of the necessary
ground in addition to free newspaper pub-
licity for at least moderate-sized organiza-
tions.

Out of this analysis of the experiences in
local printed publicity or organizations op-
erating under almost every conceivable con-
dition, two points stand out conspicuously:

I. The gratuitous cooperation of the local

press has possibilities of enormous value.
p 2. The official organ is a costly method
of publicity in the long run. The publica-
tion of such an organ should be undertaken
only after a thorough examination of local
conditions to establish its ability to do the
necessary work of interesting the members
and focusing public attention more eFfec-
tively and more cheaply than any other
available method.

 

.. ' A Record of Untiring Civic Service
By Mrs. Dudley w. Robinson ‘

tion, of South Pasadena, Cal., dur-

ing sixteen years of unselfish work
for the public good, has seen its charter
membership of 31 increase tenfold.

At first the meetings of the organization
were held in the homes of the members;
later the assembly room in one of the
churches was secured for this purpose, and
still later, with further growth in useful-
ness and membership, permanent quarters
Were rented in Masonic Hall. From the

THE Women’s Improvement .Associa-

first a club-house was planned for, and it
has now become a reality, as the accom-
panying views of exterior and interior pro-
claim. It is a modern, convenient building,
well suited to its purpose. The original
cost was $10,800. The furnishings are
costly and beautiful, and make the house
a most attractive meeting place.

The club luncheons and meetings have
become social and educational events. De-
lightful evening gatherings are held month-
ly, and are planned for the free entertain-

 

WOMAN’S CLUB HOUSE, SOUTH PASADENA, CAL.

SEPTEMBER, 1915

THE AMERICAN CITY

215

 

INTERIOR OF SOUTH PASADENA WOMAN’S CLUB HOUSE

ment of all the people of South Pasadena.
Musicales, lectures, dancing parties and
other instructive and enjoyable events have
taken place. A Dickens Carnival, held
shortly before Christmas, 1914, netted
nearly $1,000 and put the Association on
a gratifying financial basis.-

The improvement work of the Associa—
tion began in its first year, when an un-
sightly, weed-grown lot on Mission Street
became a beautiful garden Spot. The little
park was kept up by the Association for
several years, and when the Santa Fe Rail-
road took part of it for business purposes,
the care of the park was taken over also.
The El Centro School received a Bag from
the Association and the school grounds were
laid outr and planted. The drinking foun-
tain beneath the oak tree on Meridian Ave-
nue is the product of many months of plan-
ning ’5hd endeavor; it was erected in 1906
at a money cost,of nearly $400, besides
much material and labor furnished by the
people of 59th Pasadena, and is an attrac-
tive, shady resting-place from the ever-
present sunshine.

In conjunction with the W. C. T. U., the
Association spent much time and money in
getting the small charges of the Boys’ and

Girls’ Aid Society Home interested in liv-
ing, growing things. Plants were provided
and a gardener was hired to teach the chil-
dren. Arbor Day exercises were first held
in 1906, when many shrubs and trees were
planted. Three years later a garden con-
test among the school children was inaugu-
rated, and an exhibit of the products was
held and prizes were given. In 1907 a rest
room in the library was furnished by the
Association, and some pieces of furniture
were donated for the librarian’s room, as
well as a liag for the library building.

In cooperation with the Chamber of Com-
merce the Association has made an annual
cleaning day a lasting institution. All the
results of a th0rough clean-up are hauled
away free of charge through the courtesy
of the Citxszouncil. This is in itself a
large undert£ing, and one that should be
appreciated by every householder in a town
where no other provision is made for free
disposition of garbage and waste material.
The Association has always been active in
philanthropy and alert constantly to assist
in making the town both healthful and
beautiful, and with its excellent equipment
it is now in position to do more effective
work for South Pasadena than ever before.

A

PRIVATE GIFTS FOR PUBLIC PURPOSES

Under this heading Tn: AIEIICAN CITY is publishing occasional articles regarding notable or
unique gifts from indiz‘iduals in behalf of municipal progress or social welfare.

information for this department are requested.

Photographs and

 

OPENING EXERCISES, J. I). OLIVER PL.\YI-‘IEI.D, SOUTH BEND, IND.. JULY 3, i915.
MAYOR FRED w. KELLER SPEAKING

The J. D. Oliver Municipal Piayiieid, South Bend, Ind.

A large playheld in the most congested
section of the western part of South Bend
has been made possible through the gener-
osity of J. D. Oliver, of the Oliver Chilled
Plow Works. The playheld consists of a
tract of land of about five acres and was
sorely needed. It is in the heart of the
foreign population. located at the junction
of the New York Central and Grand Trunk
Railways and adjacent to the Oliver plow
factory. By reason of its location, it is the

most important of any play space in the
city. Mr. Oliver has given the city free use
of the land for playground purposes.

The equipment of the new playheld,
which was formally opened on July 3, con-
sists of a quarter-mile running track; two
standard baseball diamonds; tennis courts;
volley ball courts; outdoor gymnasium;
field house, with baths, etc.; indoor baseball
diamonds, and has a division each for small
boys and small girls.

 

151:1 XL} IN 1T1..\'I"li L) IN'I'U

VU LL HY L'.\ LL .\'1‘

'l'llli

01.1 \‘ LR I’LAYFI ELD

 

Chambers of Commerce and Public Highways

The Importance of Promoting Public Education as to the Proper Construction
and Maintenance of City Streets and Country Roads

An address delivered at the American City Bureau Summer School, in
the Sage Foundation Building, New York, on August 6, 1915, by Arthur

H. Blanchard, M. Am. Soc. C. 13.. Consulting Highway Engineer and
Professor in Charge of the Graduate Course in Highway Engineering,
Columbia University, New York City.

I
r'

way work in the hands of laymen, but also
they must be shown that engineers are
broad-minded, well-educated men, capable
of holding with credit the highest adminis-
trative oliice, and do not constitute a tribe
of human beings capable only of running a
transit, turning a lathe or wiring a house.
It is self-evident that politicians who reap
the benefit of having their servants in con-
trol of public works will oppose the policy
of educating the people. It is well known
that many of these satellites, through either

HERE are 2,300,000 miles of public
I highways outside of municipalities

in the United States. There was ex-
pended during 1914 for the construction
and maintenance of these highways $200,-
000,000. A conservative estimate shows
that at‘least $50,000,000 was wasted.

Of the 48 states, 38 have highway depart-
ments. There are over 3,000 counties in
the various states. The county and town-
ship highway work is in the hands of 100,-
000 highway officials. The 12,000 munici-

palities in the United States each has from
one to twenty oliicials in charge of depart-
ments whose work pertains to highways.

In the states, counties and towns certainly
not over five per cent of the highway 0f-
ficials possess the training and experience
necessary to efficiently and economically
perform the duties imposed upon them.
With reference 'to municipalities and incor-
porated villages, the percentage may be in-
creased to twenty-live.

The chaotic conditions and waste of pub-
lic funds indicated by the above facts may
be attributed primarily to three factors:
first, too intimate relationship between poli-
tics and highway work; second, the attitude
of the public; third, the status of the engi-
neer in public life.

As this audience is composed of men fa-
miliar with public activities, a statement of
the innumerable disadvantages resulting
from the control of highway work by poli-
tical appointees'would be a repetition of
platitudes. ‘

The public neither appreciates the char-
acter of the duties of highway oliicials, nor
does it take pr0per interest in the expen-
diture of its funds. The people must not
only be educated with respect to the com-
plex work for which highway officials are
held responsible and the waste of public
funds directly attributable to having high-

purpose or ignorance, place the personnel
of highway organizations, the deve10pment
of systems of highways, the employment of
labor and the purchase of materials used in
construction and maintenance, directly in
the hands of political parties. Graft, waste
and extravagance are coupled with this
practice. It should not be lost sight of,
however, that a considerable percentage of
the waste of public funds on highway‘im-
provement is also directly attributable to
laymen in control of highway work, whose
intentions are of the best, but whose knowl-
edge of the fundamental principles is so
meager that it is impossible for them to
carry out their good resolutions in an eco-
nomical manner.

The engineer must explain to the public
in the language of the people the work for
which the highway official is held respon-
sible; he must outline the necessary quali-
fications which the highway officials must
possess in order to perform their duties
ei’liciently; he must bring to its attention
the evils of political control and the waste
of public funds through ignorance, and he
must outline methods by which efficient,
honest, broad-minded engineers may be se-
cured to hold throughout good behavior and
efficient service the multitude of offices re-
quired to carry on the highway work of

this country.
Digitized by m

218

Lessons from Europe

As in the case of many public activities,
it is practicable in connection with this
problem to derive valuable suggestions
from practice in foreign countries. The
pe0ples of those countries are much older
than the people of the United States. A
review of their histories indicates that they
have passed through the same transition
period which we are entering. In France
many years ago the people and the servants
of the people realized the advantages accru-
ing from the establishment of a permanent
organization of efficient, well-trained high-
way engineers, and hence there was created
the renowned Department of Roads and
Bridges of France. Passing across the
English Channel we find similar conditions
in Great Britain. In order to secure a dol-
lar’s worth for every dollar expended, the
British public realized that it was necessary
to have in control of their public works men
trained in a profession directly dealing with
every economic and engineering phase of
public improvements. It therefore inaugu-
rated the practice of requiring that appli-
cants for a given municipal or county posi-
tion shall have attained the grade of mem-
bership in the Institution of Civil Engineers
of Great Britain commensurate with the re-
sponsibility of the work of the particular
office. Many leading municipal and county
positions require that the applicant shall,
first of all, hold the highest grade of mem-
bership in the Institution, while positions in
small counties, towns and districts require
in many cases associate membership.

It would seem desirable in this country
that a step along the line of English prac-
tice might be taken, and in the case of posi-
tions of highway olhcials, require in the
constitution of a state or the charter or or-
dinances of a city that the applicant should
hold a certain grade of membership in the
American Society of Civil Engineers and
have had a certain number of years of ex-
perience in highway work.

J4dequale Preparation Essential

In many cases the public demands the
construction of hundreds of miles of high-
ways'in a short period without adequate
preparation for the immense amount of
work entailed. It is well known that the
construction of a great mileage of highways

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 3

requires a large organization of thoroughly
educated and experienced highway engi-
neers and that such an organization can-
not be developed over night. The millions
expended annually in the United States on
public highways have created such a de-
mand for highway engineers that many
months are required under even ideal civil
service regulations to secure men having
the proper qualifications. That a highway
engineer encounters many obstacles in the
development of an efficient engineering or-
ganization is known to all who have given
the subject consideration. The people and
the servants of the people are continually
interfering in the legitimate work of the de-
velopment of the highway department. As
an illustration may be cited an unfortunate
application of the worn-out residence quali-
fication as contained in a provision of the
New York highway law now in force,
which requires that inspectors of construc-
tion shall be residents of the county within
which the highway to be constructed is lo-
cated. It is evident that it is impossible
under this regulation to secure the most
capable men from civil service lists; and,
furthermore, in many cases an inspector of
construction, who has had experience with
the particular type of pavement which is to
be built, is not available in the county where
his services are required.

Many are familiar with the demands of
the public and lay bodies that highways
should be constructed without allowing the
engineering organization suflicient time to
carry on the investigations of local condi-
tions which are absolutely necessary in
practically every case if economical and
suitable types of construction are to be
built and the proper location, grading and
drainage provided. In few instances is a
fifth of the time granted which is required
for this important step preliminary to the
construction of a highway. To give some
idea of the magnitude of the work involved
by prOper investigations will be cited the
following factors which should be taken
into consideration: location, topographical
and geological structure, drainage, sub-
grade, foundation, width, grades, present
and probable future trafhc, relation to the
highway system, climatic conditions and the
cost of available materials; It is obvious'
that an adequate investigation of all the
above factors requires considerable time.

Digitized by 600816

SEPTEMBER, 1915

Foundations, Surfaces and W Mill:

The demand for mileage results in pres-
sure being brought to construct cheap roads.
In many instances the appropriations for
given routes are not large enough to build
the types of pavements required to carry
the trath to which these interstate and in-
trastate trunk highways will in a few years
be subjected. In this connection may be
cited the recommendation of the New York
State Department of Efficiency and Econ-
omy that all sections of highways properly
designated as state and county highways
should be built upon cement concrete foun-
dations, and, furthermore, that only first-
class wearing surfaces, such as bituminous
concretes, brick and stone block should be
used. It is obvious that the acceptance of
this recommendation would increase the
cost of construction per mile, but it is like-
wise obvious that these wise recommenda-
tions would give the state, at the termina-
tion of the life of the bonds under which
the highways are constructed—in this case
fifty years—an asset of the grading, drain-
age and permanent foundations and, for at
least twenty-five years, satisfactory wearing
surfaces if pr0perly maintained.

Without doubt state commissions have
been unduly influenced, in the consideration
of the requisite width of improved surface
of many trunk highways, by the demands
of the people for the immediate construc-
tion of many hundreds of miles of high-
ways. Here again in the state of New York
the State Department of Efficiency and
Economy has presented recommendations
which Spell ultimate economy for the state.
Its recommendations are to the effect that
many of the trunk highways should be built
with widths of improved surface Bf 18 and
20 feet, rather than only 16 feet. In this
connection it is of interest to note that the
Highway Committee of the American So-
ciety of Civil Engineers recommended sev-
eral years ago that “Where motor traffic
forms a considerable proportion of the
total traffic likely to use a highway, the unit
width of traffic lines sh0uld be considered
as 9 or 10 feet, instead of 7 or 8 feet as
heretofore, because of the greater clearance
required for the safe passing of the units
of such traffic." Furthermore, as far'back
as 1908 the First International Road Con-
gress, held in Paris, adopted this resolution:
“There should be but one roadway for every

THE AMERICAN CITY

219

kind of vehicle proportioned to the inten-
sity of the trafiic, 19 feet 8 inches (6 me-
ters) wide at least.”

It is, of course, well known that the main
county highways of England have an im-
proved surface of 20 feet and that the main
trunk highways of France are practically 24
feet in width. When the rapid deve10p-
ment of touring car and motor truck traffic
and the development of motor-bus routes
are given consideration, it is obvious that
a greater width than 16 feet of surface suit-
able to travel upon is absolutely required.
Few people realize the traffic to which our
trunk highways will be soon subjected. As
an illustration might be cited information
furnished by the Public Service Commis-
sion of the State of New York to the effect
that over one hundred motor-bus routes are
to-day in operation within the state. In
some cases the motor-busses carry as many
as 40 passengers, have a horse-power rating
of 75, weigh loaded as much as 8 tons, and
have an overall width of 90 inches. It is
well known to the traveling public that
when meeting motor trucks and motor-
busses having widths of nearly 8 feet, it is
necessary, in order to avoid a collision on a
16-foot roadway, to turn out on soft shoul-
ders. Accidents resulting therefrom are
daily occurrences.

Funds for Maintenance

At last the people of the United States
are beginning to appreciate the fact that in
order that value should be received for the
money expended in the construction of
highways, it is necessary that the highways
be efficiently maintained. Some method
must be devised in order that the legisla-
tures shall annually appropriate sufhcient
funds to pr0perly and economically main-
tain improved highways. Legislature after
legislature has followed the usual proce-
dure of discounting the estimate submitted
by highway departments. Hundreds upon
hundreds of miles of state highways are to
date impr0perly maintained, due, in many
cases, to a lack of funds. The fact must be
accepted that as years go on the financial
burden of maintenance will be increased,
due in part to material additions to the mile-
age of improved highways. It should fur-
ther be borne in mind that if maintenance
is curtailed in one year to the extent of
$500,000 and miles of highways are thereby

Digitized by 600%

 

220

left unrepaired, the necessary appropriation
in the following- year to repair the damage
to the highways not maintained may amount
to $1,000,000 or more. In other words,
many types of construction wear very rap-
idly after they first begin to show signs of
deterioration.

In conclusion, it should be emphasized
that the primary objects of the educational
campaign advocated are: first, the econom-

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 3

ical and efiicient eXpenditure of the millions
of dollars annually appropriated for high-
way work; and second, the appointment of
members of the engineering profession to
the innumerable positions of responsibility
in public life which demand the combination
of administrative ability, the broad judicial
mind, honest character and the technical
knowledge, training and experience pos-
sessed by engineers.

 

Increased Radius of Curb at Street Corners
By William M. Kinney

T most street intersections the radius
of the curb at the street corner is

such that a motorist desiring to turn
the corner finds it impossible to describe an
arc of turn that will enable him to maintain
a moderate rate of speed and still keep his
machine on the proper side of the pavement

while turning
into the cross
street. The ra-

dius of the curb
curve is usually
but little over a
foot, hence the
driver cannot
commence to turn
until he has prac-
tically passed the
corner. Increas-
ing the radius of
the corner curve
up to, say, 12 or
14 feet, will per-
mit most types of
cars to turn a
corner at the
same distance
from the curb as
when driving
down the street.

Changes such as suggested by the accom-
panying sketch have been made at several
street intersections in Chicago, notably at
Lincoln Parkway and Diversey Boulevard,
and at Devon and Evanston Avenues.

How materially the possibilities of mak-
ing the desired turn-within the proper con-
fines are facilitated will be seen by refer-
ring to the sketch. The double dotted lines
show the curb at the usual street corner,

 

2.. ; ly belongs.

while the double solid lines back of these
illustrate what has been accomplished at the
two localities mentioned, the change at Lin-
coln Parkway and Diversey Boulevard be-
ing shown in an accompanying photograph.

Without such construction a driver fol-
lowing the line A in the direction noted
by the arrow,
and turning into
the intersecting
street, would
have to cross its
center line and
could not pass
two cars com-
ing toward him
as indicated by
the arrows B. In-
creasing the ra-
dius of the curve.
as shown by the
solid lines, per-
mits the driver to
follow the arc of
the curb and thus
keep to the right
of the center line
of the street,
where he proper-

This

l

is clearly illustrated by the line C.

, Such an improvement is particularly de-
sirable on boulevards or where other streets
intersect with boulevards. It is likewise
desirable at intersections of narrow streets.
This subject deserves the attention of engi-
neers in charge of street improvements, and
the practice suggested should be univer—

sally adopted, if for no other reason than
to increase safety.

Digitized by 600816

SEPTEMBER, 1915 THE AMERICAN CITY 22;

 

Concrete curb laid with a radius as shown in this picture does not permit the car to turn the corner within
confines that will permit keeping it on the proper side of the street

 

This view shows how increasing the curb radius enables a car turning into an intersecting street to follow the
curb curve. Wheel markings visible on the pavement in the photograph show this convincingly

 

 

A TYPICAL STREET JUNCTION IN THE RESIDENTIAL SECTION OF LYNCHBURG, VA.

Width between property lines, 60 feet; paved roadway of bituminous macadam, 24 to 30 feet wide;
park space, 9 to 12 feet; sidewalks, 4% to 6 feet wide; concrete gutters 18 inches wide, with 6-inch con-
crete curbs. '

 

CONCRETE ROAD, WILLIAMSBURG, PA.

Width between property lines, 54 feet; roadway. 24 feet wide, paved with Alpha Portland cement; 5-foot
aidewellu; 10-foot parking stripe; curbs 24 inches deep, with 6-inch face.

SEPTEMBER, 1915 THE AMERICAN CITY 223

 

HOYT STREET, PORTLAND, ORE.

Paved with bitulithic. Total width between property lines. 60 feet; 12 feet from property line to edge of
pavement; 36 feet from curb to curb; parking strip 8% feet wide.

 

CINCINNATI-HAMILTON PIKE, LEADING OUT OF DAYTON, OHIO

Length, 2% miles; width of roadway, approximately, 24 feet; paved to a width of 14 feet for the entire
distance with Trimble vitrified shale paving block. On each side of the brick paving are concrete header:
8 inches wide and gravel bermes 4 feet in width.

An Ordinance for Economical and Systematic
it Street Development

Y ordinance adopted‘flJuly 13, 1915,
B Philadelphia has taken an important
step forward in the," application of
common sense to street de‘lrelopment. The
new ordinance is the outcome of recom-
mendations made to the Board of Survey-
ors of Philadelphia by a special committee
consisting of Joseph Johnson, J. H. Web-
ster, Jr., Charles F. Puff, Jr., H. M. Fuller
and B. A. Haldeman. In its report the

committee gives special emphasis to the im- '

portance of elastic street planning and to
the advantages of adapting pavement
widths to traffic needs. To quote in part:

“The modern tendency in street planning is
toward a marked differentiation between
streets intended for traffic uses and those for
residential purposes. A primary system of
wide streets for the former has become neces-
sary to meet the constantly increasing demands
for urban circulation; but few such streets are
needed of their maximum width until long af-
ter their opening. During the period while
they are growing in importance as traffic car-
riers, full width paving is not necessary; and
the cost of construction and maintenance can
be very greatly reduced by paving roadways
and sidewalks for only such portions of their
width as may be needed for traffic uses in the
near future, leaving the unpaved spaces for
grass plots and trees.

“Many planners advocate the establishment
of widths of street sub-divisions in accord-
ance with a system of units for the various
kinds of traffic, the widths, being based upon a
unit of 8.‘pr,9 feet for"each;’line of vehicles, 2
feet for each line ofzpeslestrians and multiples
of the pedestrian widths for grass plots. thg
latter to contain rows of trees wherever dc;
sirable.

“It seems economical in establishing the
widths of roadways upon. streets thl may
be required to carry heavy traHic. wit double
tracks. to plan them for a certain number of
lines of vehicles of the unit width between
tracks and curbs, allowing at least 18 feet for
a double line of street cars. This, in a street
80 feet wide, with a vehicle unit of 8 feet,
would make the roadway width 50 feet. The
unit standard should not be applied too arbi—
trarily, however. and 52 feet is suggested as
the prOper width for a roadway for six lines
of travel, including two street car tracks.

“A roadway 52 feet wide is rarely needed
in a street at the time of its original paving.
indeed. it is usually many years before such
width is necessary for traffic purposes, and
it is in the original paving of wide streets that
the theory and economy of the elastic principle
is best illustrated. A width of 36 feet would,

[224]

in a gi'eat majority of such streets, be ample
to carry all traffic, including double track street
railway, for a long period of time; and, except
for some special reason, the roadway should
be improved of this width with provisions for
future widening. In the case of an ultimate
roadway width of 52 feet, this would tempo-
rarily increase the planting width 8 feet on
either side, and trees should be set back far
enough to avoid disturbing them by future
widening. The economy would consist in the
difference in the cost of constructing and
maintaining» 16 feet of grass plot for an in-
definite period, as against the construction and

"maintenance of I6feet of unnecessary and

unattractive pavement. Estimates of the cost
of various forms of cross sections for streets.
varying from 50 to 150 feet in width, based 5
upon 25-year periods, show a saving of from '

30 to 50 per cent in the favor of the elastic
street.” *

The text of the new ordinance follows:

AN ORDINANCE

To provide for the more economical construction and
maintenance of streets and a more uniform method
of placing street improvements, by authorizing the
adoption and approval of standard plans and cross-
sections -and requiring that street improvements be
constructed in accordance with the locations shown
thereon, and providing a method of enforcing com-
pliance with the same.

Sac-non l. The Select and Common Councils of
the City of Philadel hia do ordain, That the Depart-
ment of Public Wor 9, Board of Surveyors, is hereby
authorized and em wered to adopt, approve and
place on file in the ureau of Surveys standard plans
and cross-sections of streets showing the locations
and widths for footways, roadways, planting spaces
and rows of trees.

SECTION 2. No improvement of any kind, for which
a location is shown upon the said plans and cross-
sections or upon the plans hled as provided for in
Section 4 hereof, shall be placed in any street except
in the location so provided. and no Bureau or Depart-
ment of the city, 'or' public service or other corpora-
tion, company or individual shall place any such im-
provement! in any street without having first obtained
the proper location and the lines and grades from
the Surveyor and Regulator of the District.

SECTION 3. In the event of the failure upon the
part of any owner of abutting property to conform to
the said plans in the setting of curb. the laying of
footwalks, or the making of other improvements for
the cost of which said owner shall be liable, the Bu-
reau of Highways shall notify the said owner to re-
construct said improvement in accordance with the
approved plan within thirty days, and upon failure
to comply with said notice the improvement shall be
reconstructed under contract by the Bureau of High-
ways and the cost of the same shall be charged against
the abutting property and collected by the contractor
in the manner now provided by law for the collection
of assessment bills for street improvements.

SECTION 4. \Nhenever any street is to be improved
by grading, curbing, paving, repaying, macadamtzmg.
or other approved surfacing. or hv the planting of
trees. if, in the judgment of the Board of Surveyors
the full width of the roadway as then confirmed IS
not immediately required and will not be required to

 

—.

' Two plans for the application of .the elastic prin-
ciple to street widening in Philadelphia are illustrated
in THE AMERICAN CITY for July, 1915. page 41.

Digitized by 600816

SEPTEMBER, 1915

accommodate travel and a temporary reduction in the
width of said roadway is advisable and will result in
economy of construction and maintenance, the said
Board of Surveyors shall direct that a plan be pre-
pared for its approval showing the proposed widths
and locations of roadways, footways and other surface
improvements in accordance with a standard cross-
section. for a street of that width. adopted as author-
ized in Section 1 hereof and on file in the Bureau of
Surveys; which plan. u n approval by the Board of
Surveyors. shall be file in the Bureau of Surveys as
a supplement to the records of the confirmed plan
and a copy of the same shall be filed with the Bureau
of Highways, and the said plan shall be followed in
making all street improvements.

SECTION 5. When, by reason of increase of travel,

THE AMERICAN CITY

225

the .roadway of any street previously improved of the
minimum width under the provisions of this ordinance
shall be required of a greater width than that shown
on the aforesaid plan in the Bureau of Surveys the
Board of Surveyors is empowered to authorize and
direct, by resolution, that the said roadway shall be
wrdened to the lines as orginally confirmed, the date

of said resolution to be placed upon the plan. As

soon as practicable thereafter the Bureau of Highways.
when authorized by ordinance of Councils, shall re-
gradc, reset curb, pave, or repave and rebuild inlets
on the confirmed lines; the additional new paving to
be assessed against abutting property where legally
chargeable.

SECTION 6. All ordinances or parts of ordinances
inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed.

 

Efiicient Budget Making“

By Herbert R. Sands
or the New York Bureau of Municipal Research

HAT does the word “budget” mean
W in your town? Does it mean only
the annual estimates or requests
for appropriations which your department
heads submit to you each year? Or does it
mean only the annual estimates of next
year’s income which you or your city comp-
troller or auditor prepares each year? Does
your annual budget relate only to the fu-
ture, or does it also reflect the past?

W if]: Raped to the ‘Pasf

With respect to the past, does your annual
budget include a balance sheet showing all
that your town owns and all that it owes
and a surplus or deficit account? Although
a campaign for better municipal accounting
methods has been in progress for several
years, the fact remains that most cities are
yet unable to produce a complete balance
sheet. Obviously, a statement of the sur-
plus which a city administration has accu-
mulated or the amount of deficit which it
has incurred is of equal informative value
with the balance sheet itself. The directors
of every successful private corporation, be-
fore proceeding to develop new financial
plans, always have before them a complete
balance sheet showing the amounts of the
various classes of the corporation’s assets
and liabilities. They would not think of
continuing business without such statements

 

’An address to the recent annual Conference of
Mayors and Other Cit Ofiicials of the State of New
York, at Troy, the sogan of the conference being
“Efiiciency First.”

periodically and regularly. The work of a
municipal corporation is much more com-
plex than that of a private corporation.
How much greater, then, is the need for
conducting its financial affairs with equal
care and understanding.

With respect to the past also, does your
budget include an operating statement—
i. e., a statement of operations of the pre-
ceding year? Such a statement should al-
ways be included. It should set forth un-
der proper functional classifications all of
the revenues which have accrued during the
past year and the expenses which have been
incurred. Reports of warrants paid or cash
disbursed have a real value when consider-
ing the city’s liabilities or the need for bor-
rowing, but nothing less than a statement of
actual expenses will meet the needs of ef-
ficient budget making. By expenses is
meant the cost of supplies actually con-
sumed and services actually rendered for
purposes of operation and maintenance
during the period under review. A broader
basis for judgment will be afforded if the
expenses of two or more years are shown.

, In fact, the budget maker should not be

content with statements of expenses alone,
but should insist also on having statements
of unit costs from every department with
respect to every function and activity for
which unit costs can be compiled.

With respect to the past also. does your
budget include a fund statement showing
(I) the unencumbered balances of appro-
priations which still remain available for

Digitized by 600816

226

expenditures or application to the general
fund to reduce the amount of next year’s
tax rate, and (2) the unapprOpriated bal-
ances of the city’s current revenues which
still remain available for appropriation?

No budget is complete without such a state-
ment.

W it]: Raped to the Future

With respect to the future, does the
budget of your town contain a work pro-
gram, not only for the ensuing year, but also
for the next two or three or even five
years? Such a program or plan is desirable
in order that plans projected or work begun
any one year may not be left uncompleted
at the end of a year. Just as it is necessary
when building state or county highways to
plan in advance a complete system, and then
to adhere to it and build according thereto
from year to year as money is made avail-
able, so is it important for a city when ap-
propriating money for street extensions,
park extensions or development, extension
of health, sanitary or other social work, to
make such appropriations according to a
definite, preconceived and approved plan
and thereby insure the completion of what
is begun. A work program in your budget
is desirable irrespective of the administra-
tive term of your officials—whether it be
one, two or four years, although the shorter
the term the more essential is it to have
such a plan in order that there may be a
continuity of accomplishment from one ad-
ministration to the next.

With respect to the future also, does your
budget contain an estimate of eXpenses for
the ensuing year? As already pointed out,
the expense basis is the only logical and
satisfactory basis on which to predicate an
appropriation bill. Estimates of expenses
for each function and activity of the sev-
eral departments, set forth in a parallel col-
umn with the expenses of two or more past
years, will afford a comparison and breadth
of vision which will be of much assistance
when deliberating on the budget. It is sur-
prising, after all of the agitation for better
budget methods, that even in a number of
our larger cities requests for apprOpriations
are still submitted without any basis of
comparison whatsoever, either with respect
to expenses or revenues.

With respect to the future also, does your
budget set forth detailed estimates of reve-
nue accruals? Instead of setting forth

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 3

merely the estimated amount of cash which
will be collected during the ensuing year
from tax levies, water rates and half a
dozen other main sources, the budget
makers should be furnished with detailed
estimates of the various kinds of revenues
and amounts thereof which will accrue dur-
ing the coming year, and in parallel columns
there should be clearly set forth the corre-
sponding amounts which have accrued dur-
ing the two or more years immediately
preceding.

The annual budget should be the means
whereby the city officials would render an
accounting, not only to the legislative body
which grants appropriations, but also to the
public, with respect to the efficiency with
which they have expended the appropria-
tions granted them previously. The render-
ing of such a report enables the legislative i
body and the public to form better judgment
concerning the requests which are submitted ‘
for further appropriations.

Need for Publicity

All city officials have no doubt expe-
rienced criticism from their respective pub-
lics because of appropriations which were
or were not made at budget—making time.
In a large proportion of such cases, the of-
ficials no doubt felt that such criticism was
due to a lack of understanding or informa-
tion on the part of the public. To avoid
such criticism and also to get the power of
public interest behind the administration
program, it is essential that the public be
taken into confidence frankly and com-
pletely at budget-making time. Nothing
less will serve the purpose, because so long
as star chamber proceedings are continued, i
just so long will the public remain skeptical.
The annual budget-making period should
serve to bring city officials and their con-
stituents into a close working relation which
will make for efficient results throughout
the rest of the year.

’Defects of Present Methods

Defect No. I is the general misunder-
standing of the word“‘budget.” To the
average citizen and city ofhcial the Word
means only the annual estimates or requests
for appropriations and the appropriations
as made or adOpted. This interpretation or
conception is entirely too limited. Inade-
quate information is made available as a

 

Digitized by 600816

SEPTEMBER, 1915

basis for judgment in making appropria-
tions. The efficient budget maker should see
to it that all the statements which I have
already mentioned are included.

Defect No. 2 is that, wherever the method
is followed of making segregated appropria-
tions, the administrative oflicials are handi-
capped. With several years’ eXperience
with the segregated appropriations in nu-
merous cities to draw upon, the conclusion
is evident that, although the plan has been
of inestimable benefit in focusing public and
ofiicial attention on budget methods, and
particularly on the relations of expenditures
to the preceding estimates and appropria-
tions and thereby curtailing expenditures
and forcing a detailed accounting of expen-
ditures, it nevertheless has and does handi-
cap the administrative ofiicial to an unneces—
sary extent. In short, the plan does not pro-
vide that flexibility which is essential for
efficient administration.

Defect No. 3 is that the public is not taken
into confidence of the budget makers. Al-
though no reason exists for not having the
fullest publicity of budget-making proce-
dure, yet in many cities the entire matter
is kept practically in the dark, so far as
the public is concerned.

Defect No. 4 is that in some cities insuf-
ficient time is allowed for consideration of
budget statements before the adoption of
the annual appropriation bill. As a rule,
department heads do not send in their ap-
propriation requests sufficiently early, and
even after such requests are received there
is not sufiicient time in which properly to
analyze them, publish them, hold public
hearings, and, in short, to have that full
deliberation on the subject that is desirable.
In some cities not only is there a failure to
adopt appropriations until two or three
months after the beginning of the fiscal year
and after expenditures have already begun
to be made, but even appropriation requests
are not prepared or submitted until long
after the year has begun. There are also
other illogical arrangements of dates with
respect to budget making which are unsatis-
factory both from a political and adminis-
trative point of view. For example, in some
cities the appropriation bill may be adopted
by an outgoing administration after election
and before the new administration assumes
office, and the new administration be com-
pelled to depend upon it throughout the
ensuing year. What outgoing ofiicials un-

THE AMERICAN CITY

227

der such a plan can do to handicap their
successors is obvious.

How lo Establish Eg'iclenf Mellion

(I) A complete budget procedure for all
departments should be drafted and the in-
terest of all department heads therein
should be secured. It is only by establish-
ing team work and official enthusiasm that
an entire plan of efficient budget making
can be put through successfully. The draft
of procedure should set forth clearly just
what kinds of statements the budget shall
include, and should specify dates, places,
etc., which are incident to the realization
of the plan.

(2) A central authority should be desig-
nated for the granting of allotments. The
experience of every city official has demon-
strated that it is impossible at the beginning
of a year to foresee all of the contingencies
which will arise during the year. Hence it
is proposed that in making appropriations
for a year that they be made not for each
minor function separately, but for definite
objects of expenditure, such as personal
services, supplies, materials, equipment,
fixed charges, etc., and that from time to
time during the year—say quarterly or at
six-month intervals—allotments of the an-
nual appropriations shall be made to the
several departments according to the func-
tions and sub-functions of such depart-
ments. Appropriating in that way will af-
ford all necessary control over expenditure
—such, for example, as the control of per-
sonal service—and will establish a sound
basis for purchasing, because it will facili-
tate entering into contracts for definite lines
of supplies, material, etc., for the entire city
as a unit and facilitate a financial saving
thereby. As compared with the segregated
appropriation plan, the combination of ap-
propriating as indicated, and allotting by
functions, will furnish an equal amount of
accounting and administrative control and
at the same time accord that flexibility
which the segregated plan lacks.

The authority which is to grant the al-
lotments will vary in different cities accord-
ing to the kind of government—whether it
is a commission-governed city, a unicameral
or bicameral government, a centralized or
decentralized executive, etc. Suggestions
as to where the allotment authority should
be vested for seven different forms of gov-
ernment are as follows:

Digitized by 600816

228 THE AMERICAN CITY

Supplemented Allotments to be
by Made by

.———_—_——————_——.—

Legislative
Typical City. Executive. Body.
1. New York . . . . . . . . . . Decentralized. Unicameral. . .
2. Chicago & Pittsburgh. Centralized. . . Unicameral. ..

. . . . . . Board of Est. and App. Board of Est. and App.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mayor.

(Large as in Chi-
cago or small as
in Pittsburgh.)

3. Philadelphia . . . . . . . . . Centralized. . . Bicameral . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jointly by mayor, chair
man of finance com-
mittee and contr‘ollu'.

4. Springfield (Mass.) 81

Atlanta (Ga.) . . . . .. Decentralized. Bicameral . . . . . . . . .. Administrative boards Joint finance committee
appointed by council
. or self-continuing. . . .
5. Bridgeport (Conn.).. . Decentralized. Unicameral . . . . . . . .. Administrative boards Mayor.
mostly appointed by
the mayor . . . . . . . . . .
6. Denver C010.) 8:
Portlan (Ore.).... Decentralized. Commission . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Council (Commission)
(Pure commission
as in Denver. or
commission includ-
ing elected mayor.
as in Portland). . . .
7. Dayton (Ohio) . . . . . . Centralized. . . Commission . . . . . . . . City manager . . . . . . . . . Council (Commission)

 

In New York the Board of Estimate and This being true, the council should pass judg-

Apportionment is composed of the chief ex-
ecutives of the greater city and has practically
full power with respect to revenues and ex-
penditures. Therefore, it is logically the
proper body to make allotments.

In such cities as Chicago and Pittsburgh, the
mayor has most of the responsibility and
should, therefore, be given facilities for
achieving satisfactory results. Usually the
mayor has a majority of council with him.

In cities where political conditions are as in
Philadelphia, it will harmonize the different
factions and make for better success of the
plan if authority to make allotments is vested
in a committee of three, comprising the mayor,
representing the executive branch; the chair-
man of the joint finance committee of the leg-
islative body representing the legislative
branch; and the comptroller. supervising the
technical features.

In Springfield and Atlanta the mayor is
chairman of the joint finance committee. which
is composed of five members representing both
the legislative branches. Most of the boards
are appointed by the joint legislative bodies—
hence the joint finance committee would repre-
sent the judgment of the several executive au—
thorities.

In such cities as Bridgeport. the form of
government is really decentralized, inasmuch
as the mayor is compelled to work through
the several boards. However. the fact that he
appoints such boards obviates the necessity for
requiring anyone other than himself to pass
judgment on allotments.

In Denver and Portland, the commission
being both the legislative and the executive
branches of the government, it is the only logi-
cal body to pass upon allotments. The latter
would, of course. be submitted for approval by
the respective commissioners.

The theory of the Dayton form of govern-
ment is that the council (commission) shall
act in a supervisory and advisory capacity.

A

ment upon the allotments submitted to it by
the city manager.

(3) The procedure which has been
drafted should be formally adopted by resoo
lution or ordinance of the appropriation
body.

(4) A bureau or division or staff should
be established for the purpose of budget su-
pervision—i.e., it should be the duty of
some one or more persons attached to the
central financial office or 'finance committee
of the legislative body to oversee, audit, and
supervise the budget-making procedure
throughout the year and not have it be of
mere mushroom growth each year.

(5) Install as rapidly as possible an ade-
quate system of apprOpriation and property
accounting, expense accounting and unit
cost accounting.

(6) Devise, publish and formally adapt
standard classifications of functions and of
objects of expenditure, and then publish
such classification in pamphlet form in order
that they may be available in all city dc-
partments for requisitioning, auditing,
charging, reporting, preparing estimates,
etc.

(7) Devise standard forms on which de-
partment heads shall submit their budget
statements, such forms to provide for show-
ing all of the detail and all of the compari-
sons that it is desirable to have in the
budget. .

(8) Insist on adequate publicity methods.

Digitized by 600816

VOL. XIII, No. 3

_.-——-u.__—— —A*M n———-—-——“-A .——-——-—"'-—

The Engineer in Municipal Affairs*

. By Manley Osgood
City Engineer, Ann Arbor, Mich.

is concerned with directing nature to

man’s use and convenience. In the
municipality, man has come together and
organized that he may have various con-
veniences which are not enjoyed by his
brother in the rural districts. “that organi-
zation could have more use for a man
trained to direct nature’s forces to man’s
use and convenience, or where could the
civil engineer find a better field for his
endeavor?

Early in the history of every city a com-
petent engineer should be employed to de-
vote his whole time and attention to the
affairs of the city. Smaller municipalities
should consult freely with the engineers of
nearby cities or with consulting engineers
on all matters of public service. The du-
ties of the engineer employed by any city
should be whatever he may find to do in
the service of the people of the city, to-
gether with the keeping of such records of
all that he does as will be intelligible to
a man of like pursuits many years later.

In selecting their city engineers I would
suggest that the larger cities should draw
from the smaller cities, taking only engi-
neers whose work has been of the highest
class; and the smaller cities should depend
upon the recommendation of successful en-
gineers in the larger cities or in private
practice. Cases in larger cities may be
found whenit is advisable to promote the
assistant engineer to the vacant position of
city engineer, but as a general rule the posi-
tion of city engineer in a smaller city will
better equip an engineer for the position in
the larger city than will the subordinate po-

CIVIL engineering in all of its branches

sition in the same city in which the vacancy.

occurs. Too much care cannot be exercised
in selecting a good engineer.

For purposes of comparison, I gathered
statistics from the various city engineers
in Michigan cities ranging between 15,000
and 25,000 population. The results in sev-
eral instances were appalling to anyone who
realizes the value of engineering service to

 

'From a paper read before League of Michigan
Municipalities at Alpena, Mich., on June 25, 1915.

l the municipality. In one case a city of

15,000 to 20,000 people employed one man
part time only at the sum of $900 per an-
num, and allowed him one man to help
when necessary at $2 per day—the wages
of a man without any intelligence. Other
cases were nearly as bad. I know from my
own experience that it is absolutely impos-
sible for a city of this size to have even
the most necessary engineering work done
with. such a department. And yet the tax
rate in cities where such conditions prevail
is higher than where adequate departments
are maintained.

Politics should never enter into the ap-
pointment of an engineer, and your city
engineer, once appointed, should hold his
position as long as his work is up to a high
standard. He should have the authority to
hire and discharge his assistants. I have
worked for a city in another state where
the mayor appointed the city engineer and
all of the engineering department em-
ployes. There was a complete change in
the department every two years, for no
mayor succeeded in holding office two suc-
cessive terms. You can well imagine the
result as far as efficiency was concerned.
Each administration found few records and
left few. There was no index or system
of any kind and no incentive to make one,
for it would hardly be completed before the
maker would be replaced by the next mayor.
The condition and accessibility of records
are an excellent indication of the character
of the engineering department in any city.
These records should be the property of the
municipality in all cases and maintained
for the use of its people. a

The engineer of to-day spends as long a
time in preparing himself for the work that
he is to undertake as does the lawyer or the
doctor. Is he not then entitled to the same
consideration? No city would attempt to
conduct its affairs without the service of an
attorney, but yet the lack of engineering
advice is quite as costly as the lack of legal
advice, and may be even more so. No man
hesitates to call in a doctor when he thinks
his life is in danger. The lack of engineer-
ing, also, may be responsible for the death

p . [229]
Digitized by 600816
A

 

230

of one, or many, in places where the layman
would suppose no danger lay.

One of the most important duties of the
city engineer is to look as far into the fu-
ture as it is given one to look. Your engi-
neer has at his command a vast wealth of
statistics and the experience of others in his
periodicals and in the reports of officials in
other places. The interpretation of these
statistics and reports, in which the engineer
is trained, gives to him a knowledge of what

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 3

results will follow certain conditions which
cannot be had by the layman. The first cost
of an engineering project is not to be con-
sidered in many instances in the light of the
resulting costs to follow. Sometimes an
affair which seems of very trifiing impor-
tance to the layman, and is given only pass-
ing consideration, may become a matter of
serious consequence in the not distant
future.

 

Letters to the Editor

Should Legislation Precede City
Planning?

To the Editor of Tm: AMERICAN CITY:

Thomas Adams’ article in the May num-
ber of THE AMERICAN CITY has excited a
good deal of comment out here, and I be-
lieve that a large pr0portion of the think-
ers on city planning problems agree pretty
generally with Mr. Adams’ statement.

We are beyond the stage of merely talk-
ing about city planning and are ready to do
concrete things. Ten years of experience
as City Attorney of San Francisco has con-
vinced me that the failure of much of our
best civic effort is due to the lack of proper
authority or to failure to secure legal status
for such proposals as we may bring for-
ward for the betterment of physical condi-
tions in our cities.

Those engaged in public life soon must
be convinced that there can be no beneficial
growth of communities except along well-
planned and well-ordered lines. Waste and
disorder are certain to result from lack of
plan in municipal administration. Sensible
city planning contemplates every phase of
municipal activity and produces economy
and efiiciency, while bringing into harmony
the several departments of city government.

But to take the first practical step in any
city to bring the municipal departments to-
gether is difiicult. If we are to have it
somebody's business officially to plan ahead
for the city and to attempt to coordinate
the executive departments. how far should
this authority go and how be constituted?

It was to attempt such practical steps,
dwelling always upon the sensible, and, if
possible, logical, thing to do that some of
us joined together to form the California

Conference on City Planning; and for these
reasons also I felt impelled to accept the
presidency of this organization.

If we look over the elaborate plans and
reports of many of the cities in this coun-
try, we find very little as yet in execution.
This, I think, is for the reason that Mr.
Adams states—the plans being largely got-
ten up by committees without any public
authority. While these estimable efforts
have undoubtedly been of great educational
value, we feel that hereafter it is possible
to give legal status to further committee
efforts that will command the attention of
the actual city authorities and bring them
into touch with a real city plan.

We have secured from the last legislature
in California two new laws of great prac-
tical importance along the lines Mr. Adams
suggested. The first is a law which author-
izes the creation of an advisory city plan-
ning commission in every city, and which
provides that all ordinances relating to any
streets, franchises, buildings, or other mat-
ters affecting physical changes in the city,
must be referred to this commission for a
report before action by the city council.
The second law requires that all maps of
new subdivisions, either inside the city or
within three miles of the city limits, must be
approved by the city planning commission
in the nearest city, if there be one.

While these are only two steps forward,
the California Conference on City Planning
feels that they will be of great service to
the state. When our next conference meets
in September, further matters of legal au-
thority are to be taken up and thoroughly
discussed.

This state is certainly indebted to Daniel

H. Burnham, E. H. Bennett, Charles Mul-

Digitized by 600816

SEPTEMBER, 1915

ford Robinson, John Nolen and the other
great city planners of the country who
have made plans for California municipali-
ties. W'e are also anxious and insistent
that the proper legal authority be secured
to put some of these splendid schemes on a
practical basis of execution.

PERCY V. LONG,

President, California Conference on
City Planning.
San Francisco, July 28, 1915.
'b *

Ownership of Water Meters
To the Editor of THE AMERICAN CITY:

The article on “Privately-Owned versus
Publicly-Owned Wafer Meters,” appearing
in the July issue of THE AMERICAN CITY,
was interesting to me because it contained
an element of economical city administra-
tion. Every municipal student or worker is
endeavoring to obtain etiiciency and econ-
omy, and the means by which they can be
accomplished is a secret that requires much
time and thought.

In considering the question, “Who shall
own the water meters?” it is approached,
of course, from the standpointof the city’s
welfare. The question then naturally arises,
What is the function of the water meter?
This question can be satisfactorily answered
by assigning to the water meter a twofold
benefit—conservation of supply and justly
equalized rates. The water meter of to-day
is regarded by many towns and cities that
have a scanty water-supply as indispen-
sable, and its economical value is almost
universally approved. Its mission is well
founded, having been forecasted in these
words, “and they shall eat bread by weight
and care, and they shall drink water by
measure.” Now, who should be the owner
and custodian of the measure? The town
or the city reserves the right to say, and it
should be determined by the economical
advantages to the public treasury.

Possibly the only and chief fact in favor

of private-owned water meters is the in-
vestment of first cost and upkeep. Should
all other things be equal, a solution would
be easy and this fact alone would settle the
matter. But to be weighed against this
fact of investment is the important and the
inestimable fact of management, control
and responsibility of the water meter.

If the water meter is privately owned, it
would be highly improper to trust the care

THE AMERICAN CITY

23:

of it to the owner and to place the care of
it in the hands of the municipality would
involve a division of responsibility. Such a
division gives rise to much trouble, expense
and loss. The kind of meter and the price
to be paid for it cause trouble. Unless the
municipality assumes the buying, cheap me-
ters and speculation exist; and in case the
municipality does the buying, it must neces-
sarily be responsible for the meter. Where
a citizen has to bear any expense imposed
upon him by the municipality, he has no
personal opportunity to know about the cor-
rectness of the charge and as a usual thing
honestly doubts it. He does not want to pay
any more than any other citizen, and it is
impossible to have all meter bills alike. The
cost of installation will differ as well as the
upkeep, in which case he will usually say
he was given an inferior meter. He also
thinks the charge is too much and the city
is at fault. The troubles that arise from
such an arrangement are too numerous to
mention. No charge of any kind should be
made against tenants, but against property
owners. The cost to a municipality to carry
out effectively and efficiently private owner-
ship is very great.

The city of Staunton has had about ten
years of experience with water meters and
has now principally only three different
makes. The city owns and installs the me-
ters free of cost to the property owners.
They are placed on the walkway just inside
the curb lines. They are entirely protected
against frost or any other damage and are
always accessible to the city officials. The
meter has been a great thing for Staunton
and is sought after by its citizens. A plan
to meter every service pipe is being carried
out by putting in a certain number of me-
ters each year.

City government is for the benefit of the
citizens, and it should be so managed and
administered as to bring to them the great-
est good with the least burden. Under
proper management, citizens soon learn that
they are being served and that their wel-
fare and comfort are prOperly looked after,
with no trouble to them.

That the city own the meters appears to
me from experience to be better for the
manufacturer, citizen, city and everyone

concerned. 5. D. HOLSINGER,

General Manager, City of Staunton, Va.
July 28, 1915.

Digitized by 600816

A

The City and the Feeble-Minded

The Bureau of Municipal Research of
Toronto, Ontario, publishes a well-edited
bulletin, entitled “Citizen Control of the
Citizen’s Business.” The theory of the
Bureau is that Toronto’s citizens can control
Toronto’s aHairs only through “frequent,
prompt, accurate and pertinent information
with regard to Toronto’s business.” A re-
cent issue carries on its first page the fol-
lowing striking question:

ARE ALL CHILDREN
ALIKE

p

The bulletin emphasizes the childish man-
ner in which cities ordinarily approach the
problem of their feeble-minded and normal

backward children. A “Catechism About

the Feeble-Minded,” by Dr. Helen Mac-
Murchy, is quoted in full, as follows:

“1. Why should I read this catechism? Be-
cause I am a Canadian and because I pay taxes.

“2. Who are the feeble-minded? Those
whose minds are the minds of children, no
matter how old they may be. They cannot
learn properly at school, their minds are
always undeveloped, they cannot control them-
selves, cannot manage their own affairs, cannot
earn their living unless continually directed
and supervised. They form a large proportion
of the unemplOyed, the unemployable, the de-
pendents, the ‘ne’er-do—weels,’ the paupers, the
prostitutes, the criminals.

“3. Where are the feeble-minded? In our
Public Schools, Separate Schools, Industrial
Schools, Homes, Refuges, Orphanages, Hos-
pitals, Houses of Industry, Industrial Farms
and all other charitable institutions—in our
Gaols, Prisons, Prison Farms and Penitenti-
aries—and at large in the community.

“4. What is the number of the feeble-
minded in Canada? About two or three per
1,000 population.

“5. Is the number of the feeble-iiiiiided in
Canada increasing, and if so, why? Yes. Be-
cause feeble-minded persons have many chil-
dren. and because there are some feeble-minded
immigrants.

“6. Could the number of feeble-minded per—
sons in Canada be prevented from increasing?
Yes. Permanent care of the feeble-minded
from an early age would prevent the natural
increase, and a stricter medical examination
of immigrants in the country from which they
come as well as at the port of entry would
prevent increase by immigration.

[232]

“7. Who supports the feeble-minded? You
do. You pay School Taxes and Municipal
Taxes. You subscribe to charitable institutions.
You belong to some benevolent society. You
help with relief work. You pay the cost of
the administration of justice, the upkeep of
penal institutions and the salaries of school,
sanitary, municipal, police and all other otlicers
and officials. It is a big hill.

“8. Can the feeble-minded earn their own
living? Many of them can almost or quite earn
their own living, if trained, and if cared for
and supervised in a suitable institution, the
only place where they are ever really happy.
Almost all of them can be taught to do some-
thing useful.

“9. What is the cause of feeble-minded-
ness! Heredity is the cause in about 80 per
cent or more of all cases. Four out of every
five feeble-minded persons had one or more
feeble-minded parents, or grandparents, or
both. In one out of five cases the cause is
accidental or unknown as yet.

“to. Can feeble-mindedness be cured? No.

“11. Can feeble-minded children and young
persons be trained, improved and made useful
and happy? Yes.

“12. Why should we care for the feeble-
minded in Canada? Because we that are
strong ought to bear the infirmities of the
weak. Because it costs less to care for them
than to neglect them. Because if we don’t
they will leave behind them so many feeble-
minded children that it will be bad for Canada.
One feeble-minded man and one feeble-minded
woman, born in Ontario and married in On-

ttario, have had ten children, all feeble-minded.

“13. th0 will help me to care for the
feeble-minded? Your School Trustee, who has
the direction of the Teacher, the School Nurse
and the School Medical Inspector.

“Your Warden, Reeve, and Council.

“Your Mayor and Alderman.

“Your Member of the Legislative Assembly.

“Your fellow-citizens, your friends, your
neighbors, your family.

“Yourself.

“14. What should we do for the feeble-
minded, both for their sake and for the sake
of the country? Have Medical Inspection of
schools so that we may know where our feeble-

.minded children are. (Toronto, of course, has

a Medical Inspection Department.)

“Have auxiliary classes for all children who
are backward, so as to get them forward. if
possible. and to find out why they are back-
ward. If it is found that the reason of re-
tardation is feeble—mindedness. then they need
special training.

“Have Training Schools and Homes for
feeble-minded children.

“Have Industrial Farm Colonies where adult
feeble-minded persons may earn their living
and be safe and happy and be prevented from
being a source of evil and expense in the
community."

Digitized by 600816

How Filtration Plants Work

Excerpts from a New Book on “Water Purification Plants and Their Operation"*

By Milton F. Stein
Assistant Engineer, Cleveland Filtration Plant

The Theory of Filtration

ILTRATION is a combination of sev-
F eral processes. The most obvious of
these, although not the most impor-

tant, is the straining out of particles too
large to pass the interstices between the
sand grains. However, as most of the par-
ticles of suspended matter are so small as to
readily pass through these spaces, it is ob-
vious that other processes must be acting to
remove them from the water. The small
pockets formed by adjacent sand grains act
as minute sedimentation basins in which the
suspended matter may settle. Bacterial ac-
tion plays a most important role. After a
filter is in operation for a time a slimy gela-
tinous film forms on the surface and ex-
plorations into the sand will show similar
jelly-like matter forming between or coat-
ing the sand grains. Examination will
show this jelly to be of bacterial origin, as
is also shown by the fact that it forms when
filtering clear waters. The surface coating
has been named the Schmutzdecke (dirt
cover) by the Germans, who attribute most
of the efiicacy of the filter to its action, and
place so much confidence in it that they
consider a sand bed a foot thick sufiicient,
if properly coated, to yield a satisfactory
emuent. The Schmutzdecke probably re-
tards much of the suspended and colloidal
matter, but the bacterial jelly within the
sand is also important, both because of its
straining effect and because it entraps and
holds particles of silt and bacteria on the
“sticky-fly-paper” principle. The efficiency
of a filter increases with age, due to con-
tinued bacterial growth and the resulting
formation of slime and jelly in the interior.
This jelly-like matter is capable of absorb-
ing color from the raw water and may ef-
fect a reduction up to 25 per cent. There
is also a small amount of chemical action

 

‘Copyright. 1915, by Milton F. Stein. These ex-
cerpts, With the accompanying illustrations, are repro-
duced in THE AMERICAN CITY by permission of the
author and of the publishers of the book, John Wiley
& Sons, Inc., of New York.

within the filter, in the way of oxidation of
the dissolved organic matter contained in
the water.

While a properly working filter bars the
passage of practically all the bacteria in the
raw water, a considerable number may
sometimes be found in the effluent. It has
been proven by experiment that these result
from growths in the sand and underdrains,
and also that they are harmless varieties.

Slow Sand Filtration

This process is of English origin and
dates from about 1830. From England it
was disseminated throughout the Continent,
where it is now widely used. In America
it has found extended use in the older in-
stallations and in the purification of’ the
supplies of large cities, although of recent
years the mechanical process has become
an important competitor in plants of large
size, and has far, outstripped it in the case
of supplies for smaller towns.

A general view of a typical slow sand fil-
tration plant is shown by Fig. I. It con-
sists of duplicate sedimentation basins d-d,
the filter units g-g-g, the otiice and labora-
tory e, and various auxiliaries.

The water is drawn from the river
through the intake 0, and pumped to the
sedimentation basins by low-service pumps
in the station b, entering the basins through
a distributing grid of pipe which may ter-
minate in the aerating risers c-c-c, to re-
move obnoxious gases from the water and
distribute it uniformly across the basins.
It is sometimes desirable with turbid waters
to use coagulants to assist in clarification,
in which case the necessary apparatus, simi-
lar to that used in mechanical filtration, is
installed in the building e, which is enlarged
for that purpose and for coagulant storage.
The size of the basins is dependent on the
amount and fineness of sediment in the raw
water, the period of sedimentation being
generally from four to twelve hours. In
filtering clear lake water, where the re-
moval of bacteria is the main object. the

[233]

Digitized by 600816

THE AMERICAN CITY VOL. XIII, No. 3

234

The filtering medium consists of a bed of
clean quartz sand 1:, of a size of grain ap-
proximating that of granulated sugar. In
technical terms it has an cfective size * of
about 0.3 to 0.4 millimeters and a uniform-
ity‘l- coefiicient of about 1.5. The depth of
sand bed is generally from 3 to 4 feet in a
new filter, decreasing as the dirty sand is
scraped off with continued use. This sand
is underlain with a foot of gravel i, so
graded as to increase in coarseness toward

sedimentation basins may be omitted en-
tirely.

After passing through the basins the
water is collected by the inlets of the pipe
manifold at the lower end, which is con-
nected with the settled water main extend-
ing through the court between the two rows
of filters. Branches from this main lead to
each filter, terminating within the filter in
a Hoat valve which maintains a uniform

depth of water over the sand.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

N;

FIG. 1.—GENERAL VIEW OF A SLOW SAND FILTER PLANT

Each filter consists of a water-tight basin
of masonry or reinforced concrete, gener-
ally roofed over with a groined arch con-
struction supported on columns, the whole
being covered with several feet of soil
and sodded, as an additional protection
against freezing of the water, which mate-
rially affects the efiiciency of filtration.
Covering the filter also prevents the for-
mation of algae by excluding the light
necessary for their growth. Access to the
interior is provided by an inclined runway
and by numerous double-covered manholes
in the roof, which also furnish the neces-
sary light and ventilation for carrying on
work in the filter. The area of these filter
units is from one-fourth to one acre or
more, depending on the total capacity of
the plant.

the bottom. The function of this gravel is
to prevent the sand from being washed
into the collector system with the filtered
water, and to allow ample water passages
through which the filtrate can fiow to the
collecting pipes. Open-jointed tile pipes, 1',
from 4 to 8 inches in size, rest on the filter
bottom, buried in and surrounded by the
gravel. Generally one such collector pipe
serves the area between two adjacent rows
of columns, and carries the filtered water
to the main collector k, which is placed
through the center of the filter unit.

It is most important that the filtration
proceed at a uniform rate, and to this end

 

’The eiective :s'u of a sand is that size of sand
grain than which 90 per cent of the grains are larger.

TThe uniformity media's»: is the ratio of the size
of sand gram than which 60 per cent is finer. to the
elicctive size.

SEPTEMBER, 191 5

each filter unit is provided with a regulator
house I, the lower portion of which forms
a water-tight well containing the regulation
mechanism. The arrangement shown, used
in the Albany plant by Mr. Allen Hazen,
will illustrate the general principle of regu-
lation, although not of the most recent type.
It does not profess to operate automatically,
and- therefore will better serve to empha-
size the attention required to maintain a
uniform rate of filtration, even by more re-
cent “automatic” types. The well is di-
vided into two parts by a concrete dia-
phragm. m, and by tight wooden stop planks
lllL' diaphragm. 'l'ln- lillmtv.
ir-t‘tL-(l It}; the main ls. firms intn tln-
«cnrnpar'ttnt-Ht of the. Well through llll‘ \‘Jlll't‘

{llHl‘Ct l'lll-

lll'sl

I. E‘lxllig' tln-rein In it h-uiglit lunar than thi-

Seftllng linaln

THE AMERICAN CITY

235

arranged, indicate the loss of head through
the filter. A valve and drain pipe are pro-
vided, leading to a main drain for emptying
the filter.

Mechanical Filtration

The primary difference between rapid
or mechanical and slow sand filtration is in
the higher rate used in the former process
—IO0,000,000 to 150,000,000 as against 3,-
000,000 gallons per acre per day, or about
50 to I. This high rate necessitates reliev-
ing the filters of the burden of removing

  
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 

M

\

'.I.;\__

 

. I . . . H. _ . - '; ‘. . .
\i;sv,¥?i%§i.f!ii§%£auin. ' 'v ‘ " -
\ \ . . . w ' . I — , u "
u. t. L:t--"-_.~:'E_.._ ' ' ' "

 

 

 

FIG. 2.——GENERAL VIEW OF A MECHANICAL FILTER PLANT

water level over the sand by a distance ‘1',
representing the friction of the water
through the sand,_gravel and under-drain
system or “loss of head” through the filter.
The water fiows through the orifice n into
the second compartment of the well, and
thence through a valved branch pipe to the
main, .9, which carries the effluent of all the
units to the filtered or “clear” water basin,
ready for delivery into the distribution sys-
tem. The rate of flow through the orifice n
is a function of the difference in water level
between the two compartments of the well
when the orifice is submerged, and a func-
tion of the water level in the first compart-
ment when that in the second is below the
bottom of the orifice. By arranging a fioat
in each compartment so as to indicate this
difference in water level on a dial, the rate
of filtration may be determined from the
reading of the dial, and can be regulated to
the desired amount by means of the gradu-
ated valve 0. Two other floats, similarly

coarse suspended matter, which is accom-
plished by coagulation and sedimentation.
It also follows that, as the rate of clogging
the sand varies directly with the rate of
filtration, the filter beds must be cleaned
daily, and of necessity this must be done
in situ, to avoid a laborious removal and re-
placing of the sand. Since there is no time
for the formation of a Schmutzdecke by
natural biological processes, a substitute
‘must be applied in the shape of a jelly-like
'film, or “mat,” of coagulum, which forms
with great rapidity on starting the filter
after cleaning.

Fig. 2 shows a typical rapid sand filtra-
tion plant. The general similarity, in parts
and arrangement, to the slow sand plant is
readily grasped. The most striking feature
is the contraction or concentration of the
whole plant as compared with the slow sand
type. The settling basin is present as be-
fore, but is often deeper and of a different
type of construction and more thoroughly

236 THE AMERICAN CITY

baffled. The office and laboratory building
remains, containing also the coagulant ap-
paratus and storage, for which reason it is
frequently called the “coagulant house or
building.” The court between the filters
assumes a different shape, though maintain-
ing its functions, by being divided into a
lower story or pipe gallery, containing the
piping, valves and regulating devices, and
an upper operating platform. We may
imagine the individual regulator houses as
expanding and merging into one continu-
ous structure over both the former court
and the greatly contracted filter units, their
former locations being indicated only by the
remaining characteristic groups of valve
stands on the operating platform.

The advantages of this new arrangement
as regards ease of operation and access to
all parts are easily seen. The whole filter-
ing area is under the eye of the operator;
he may examine the distribution of the raw
water and its quality at all points. By ma-
nipulating a few valves he may drain any
unit sufiiciently to examine the sand surface
and mat in a very short time. The tendency
toward vertical stratification of the sand is
nullified by the small area, and a uniform
horizontal hydraulic grading of the sand
bed is maintained by frequent washing.
The capacity of the units is generally less
than those used in slow sand filtration, so
that the effluent may be more closely con-
trolled by individual samples, and any de-
fective unit can be shut down immediately,
with small loss of pumped and coagulated
water, and the fault can be found and cor-
rected with a minimum of labor. The for-
mation of the mat, or artificial Schmuts-
decke, can be controlled as to consistency
and thickness by applying coagulants di-
rectly to the raw water in the filter after
washing.

Two important differences in the theory
and operation are these: bacterial growths
in the filter bed are not required, owing to
the artificial mat formation; therefore the
beds may be sterilized by adding hypochlo-
rite to the settled water and the presence
of “after-growth” bacteria in the eliiuent
done away with. Negative head in the
sand bed, so scrupulously avoided in slow
sand filtration, is featured in the rapid pro-
cess, as decreasing the necessary depth of
filter tubs and tending toward a uniform
distribution of rate over the bed. This is

VOL. XIII, No. 3

possible because the filters are washed so
frequently as to minimize the chance of
sufiicient air being liberated within the bed
to affect the operation.

The settling basin shown in Fig. 2 is con-
structed of reinforced concrete, of a type
frequently adopted where land is limited or
expensive, as the vertical side walls give a
maximum capacity with the least area. A
basin similar to that shown in Fig. I, with
earth embankments, is less frequently used
for mechanical filter plants. The water
enters through. the inlet manifold, termi-
nating in the risers b-b-b-b, which may ex-
tend above the water, acting as aerators as
shown, or not, according to the conditions
to be met. The basin is provided with baf-
fles, C,-C,-C,, whose function it is to pre-
vent undereurrents and to maintain a uni-
form fiow throughout the basin. After
passing through the basin the water is col-
lected by the risers d-d-d-d of the outlet
manifold and carried to the filters through
the settled water main e.

The floor of the basin is of smooth con-
crete with a decided pitch from all sides
toward the center, where a sump f is lo-
cated. In this sump is a drain valve oper-
ated by a handwheel h, by means of which
the basin may be emptied for cleaning
through the main g. After being emptied.
the remaining mud is washed out through
the drain by means of a hose. Fig. 2 shows a
single basin, which necessitates either shut-
ting down while cleaning, or by-passing the
water directly to the filters by closing
valves i and j and opening valve 1:. Many
plants have duplicate basins, one of which
may be cleaned at a time without interfer-
ence with the operation of the plant.

The coagulant house shown is three
stories high. The first floor forms the main
entrance to the filter house, contains the
wash water pumps, air compressor, receiv-
ing room and storage for coagulants, stair-
way to upper floors, etc. The second floor
contains the combined ofiice and laboratory,
the solution tanks 1-1-1 and orifice boxes
m-m-m, from which pipes n-n-n carry the
coagulant solution and discharge it into the
raw water main a at 0. Sometimes addi-
tional coagulant pipes are provided, so that
the coagulants may be introduced at the
center bafile of the settling basin, C,. or
into the settled water main e. The third
floor is on a level with the tops of the solu-

Digitized by 600816

SEPTEMBER, 1915

tion tanks and is used for charging these
and for coagulant storage. It also contains
a scale for weighing chemicals and the stir-
ring apparatus of the tanks. An elevator
01' hoist is installed, serving all floors, but
primarily for carrying up barrels and sacks
of coagulant to the third floor.

Fig. 3 shows the section of a modern con-
crete filter house. It will be seen that the
filters are in two rows, with the pipe gallery
and operating platform between them, and
a sub-basement for filtered water storage
below, making a very compact and econom-
ical arrangement. The water from the
settling basin enters. the pipe gal.—
tlit'tmgll the eat-111w]
11min- c. extending thv length mt
the gallery with :t \‘ulu-rl lll‘illlt‘ll
it.) each illlt'l'. 'l‘llt? lt'Yt'l
Hf Illt: \x'Ithrr (lll lllt‘ llllt‘l'a
Illii}' l_l'-' l't’fqulfllt'tl l)_\' lllléll
valves :Lttzu‘ht-tl tn the
ends of lllt" et-ttlwl tame:-
inlets. as flu-

lL'I‘_\' water

shown in

 

 

THE AMERICAN CITY

   
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
   

237

troughs by opening the sewer valve 5, Fig.
3. Assuming the filter to be piped for air,
the compressor is then started and the air
valve t opened, admitting compressed air to
a grid placed just below the surface of the
filter gravel, which distributes the air uni-
formly through the sand bed by means of
minute perforations in the pipes of the grid.
The purpose of the air is to loosen the sand,
mix it, and remove dirt by the abrasion of
the sand particles. After three to five min-
utes of air washing the air valve is closed
and the wash valve u is slowly opened.
Filtered water flows from the wash-water
pipe 1" through the mllectnr sys-
‘u-m :lel upmarul {lirunglt lllt.
«it‘uiIH-t‘ upcllillga, which are pru—
1mt'tiur1t-rl In uln- El uniform nip
\x'LLi'tl

til illL‘

"Ml l M“

ll . -
.J' \~|\

the

lily

UVIJI‘ ill't‘Cl

llllt‘r ‘.'.:1-l1

titan in; 11pm .ll'tl

l.lll'Irll_'-j'l1 .ll. wuntl t‘nur'-

illllglll-Y

T .
k1‘.’nl‘l‘!."(“‘ 

Itl'l'l
L;l‘.'lllt‘r§ 1 ll}(l1':tllllL‘illl_\'.

File-r Err-f

 

 

. ..__ ____

 

 

_ .... .- . _ H
o.‘-.;\-.--oo....o-..J -..-..' . u - . .,

n-r-xca-l-e-sz .- --.-. _1 .‘LL:
.__-.._.. __._._—. J—-—_—p-—— J:-—--...\.‘ cw
. _,_.,_.._,_.I‘._. .I _,,_...I_._.,.... .. ',

 

 

MECHANICAL FILTER PLANT

right-hand filter, or the level for all the fil-
ters may be fixed by an overflow pipe in the
settling basins.

The filtering material through which the
water passes consists of a 30-inch layer of
sand similar to that used in slow sand filters
in quality, but slightly coarser (effective
size 0.4 to 0.6 mm.). In operation it is
covered with a mat or film of coagulum.
The sand rests on about a foot of graded
gravel, generally increasing in size from
one-eighth inch at the top to three-quarters
inch at the bottom. The gravel in turn is
supported by perforated brass strainers,
through which the water passes to the col-
lector pipes below.

In washing a filter it is first shut down
by closing the settled-water and effluent
valves p and q and draining it to the top of

the dirty water escaping by means of the
wash troughs 20-10 and sewer outlet to the
sewer :. After the sand is clean the filter
is again put in operation. Washing re-
quires about 12 to 15 minutes per filter.

Wash water may be obtained by tapping
the wash—water pipe into a pressure main,
obtaining the required pressure by means
of a reducing valve. This involves a waste
of pressure and there is also danger from
water hammer in the high-pressure mains,
due to chattering of the reducing valve. A
better way is to have duplicate centrifugal
wash pumps drawing from the clear-water
basin and discharging into the wash-water
main at the proper pressure, or, better yet,
to have the pumps discharge into an ele-
vated tank of proper height and dimensions
to insure a uniform pressure.

A Brief for Municipal Home Rule

New York has prepared in pam-

phlet form a statement of the funda-
mental principles of municipal home rule ad-
vocated by its Committee on Constitutional
Convention. The twelve principal headings,
each of which in the pamphlet is accom-
panied by explanatory matter, are as fol-
lows:

I. The Constitution should contain a
broad grant of general powers to munici-
palities.

2. For purposes of enumeration merely,
and not of restriction, the language of the
grant of power should contain illustrative
particulars.

3. It should be provided that municipali-
ties are presumed to have such powers with-
in the general grant as are not denied to
them by the Constitution.

4. Municipalities should have the power
to adopt their own charters upon approval
by the electorate.

5. There should be a self-executing pro-
vision for the drafting and adoption of char-
ters by municipalities in addition to any
method prescribed by general law.

6. The effect of a municipal charter so
adopted or amended should be to supersede
all previous law of a character which regu-
lates local matters in a manner not per-

THE Citizens Union of the City of

 

mitted to the legislature under the powers
reserved to it by the new Constitution.

7. Special legislation in regard to local
affairs should be totally prohibited.

8. The amendment should specifically pro-
vide for the power of the legislature to
regulate the affairs of cities by general city
laws applying alike to all cities of the state.

9. Power should be expressly reserved to
the legislature to pass laws local in applica-
tion when they affect matters of state con-
cern as distinguished from matters of a
local nature.

10. There should be preserved to the leg-
islature its supreme power to restrict the
power of municipalities in regard to taxa-
tion, debt limit, borrowing money, extend-
ing credit and the like exactly as in the
present Constitution, with the simple pro-
viso that restriction should be required to
be made by general law applicable alike to
all cities.

II. The present power of the legislature.
to regulate and fix wages, hours of labor,
etc., of wage-earning employes of a muni-
cipality or of a contractor should be re-
tained, but should not be inserted in this
part of the Constitution.

12. Counties lying wholly within a city
should be treated as cities.

MOTOR APPARATUS OF THE DES MOINES FIRE DEPARTMENT

[233]

Des Moines’ Fire-Fighting Equipment
By Will Burnet

Chief, Fire Department, Des Moines, Iowa

S a result of the use of eighteen
A pieces of motor apparatus, which
have now been in service for a year
and a half, the efficiency of the Des Moines
Fire Department has been greatly in-
creased. In 1912 the Department re-
sponded to 891 alarms, the total loss being
$356,967; in 1913 the alarms numbered
1,011, with a loss of $288,927; while in
1914 the alarms increased to 1,133, but the
loss was only $194,053.
The motor apparatus comprises one 85-
foot aerial tractor, four ladder trucks, three

r Inf—1
! .9 is
[_a *’
l .51 , t.
" ‘ 5-5? m}:
o. ,

“r

_ '._: ',
“ “H ‘9‘ 
- I . ‘l‘r

  

,. '5‘.

I

a.

f11h~

33
I

 

"I if r

EIGHTEEN PIECES OF

pump and hose cars and eight combination
chemical and hose cars. The foregoing are
all six-cylinder equipment, of American-
La France and Seagrave make, equipped
with Firestone, Goodyear and Dayton air-
less tires. There are also two chie-f’s cars

A of Chalmers type.

During the present year the Department
has spent $25,000 in remodeling the stations
in which the motor apparatus has been

placed. Des Moines has in all 15 stations,
and the force comprises 127 men.

 
        

.."I'

EQUIPMENT, COSTING OVER $100,000

 

Fire Department Organization in Industrial
Plants

A Paper Read at the Cincinnati Convention of the International Association
of Fire Engineers. August 3|. l9l5

By N. V. Holmes
Fire Marshal, Sears, Roebuck 6‘: Co., Chicago

HE organization of fire brigades to
T protect private plants has of late
years been given more attention
than ever before. Members of these bri-
gades by frequent, prescribed drills given at
unexpected times, followed by practical
talks on duties, causes of fire, conditions to
avoid in plant and their homes, have a de-
cided bearing on the reduction of fire losses.
Inasmuch as members are to serve as
“first aid” in handling a fire before the ar-
rival of the city Department, they should
work under orders of the first oHicer re-
sponding from the city Department.
A brief description of the department

which the writer has organized in our Chi-.

cago plant is as follows:

Each floor has its own company of
twenty-six members, consisting of a cap-
tain, two lieutenants, six pipemen, six fire-
door men, three valve men, three fire escape
and stairway guards, two chemical extin-
guisher men, one axeman with Pyrene ex-
tinguisher and two men with tarpaulins.

There are twenty-four companies in the
plant during the regular working hours.
These companies are drilled bi-weekly at
unexpected times. The drills, with some
slight modifications, follow out the rules of
the fire college of the New York Fire De-
partment.

At night the fire protection is taken care
of by a detail of night watchmen, who are
divided into two companies of nine men
each. One company is on duty in a squad
room while the other is pulling boxes
throughout the plant. These companies
change watches at midnight.

Fire-Fighting Equipment
In order to make quick response to
alarms, the fire department is provided with
an automobile hose wagon of the regulation
type, fully equipped with hose, tarpaulins,
basement pipe, deluge set and smoke hel-
mets. This automobile is stationed in a

[240]

hose house directly in the rear of the Fire
Marshal’s residence, which is located oppo-
site the center of the plant.

The plant is equipped with a Gamewell
Fire Alarm System, alarms being received
in the Fire Marshal’s office, from where
they are automatically transmitted to the
watchmen’s dormitory, hose house and Fire
Marshal’s residence.

The sprinkler system for the plant is en-
tirely supervised by the American District
Telegraph supervisory service, the register
in the Fire Marshal’s ofiice recording
waterfiow signals at the same time they are
received at the supervisory office.

The main source of water supply is from
a 36-inch low pressure city main, our plant
being the first consumer, as the city pump-
ing station, with a capacity of one hundred
million gallons every twenty-four hours, is
our nearest neighbor.

We have three 1,000-gallon Knowles un—
derwriters’ pumps, equipped with Fisher
automatic governors, with a constant water
pressure of 125 pounds. Three steel grav-
ity tanks, with a combined capacity of 180,-
000 gallons, located in a fireproof tower 30
feet above the highest row of sprinklers,
cut in automatically in case the pump pres-
sure (through an accident) drops below 75
pounds gravity pressure. By pumping into
any of the Siamese connections, any one
of the 43,000 sprinkler heads, comprising
the entire equipment, can be reached.

Duties and Training of Watchmen

The safeguarding of the Chicago plant
and warehouse requires a force of sixty-
five night watchmen, who report their
rounds to a central station operated by the
American District Telegraph Company.
Rounds are completed in forty-five minutes.
watchmen working in two shifts, changing
at midnight. Men off their beats are held
in reserve as an auxiliary t0 the regular fire
companies.

Digitized by 600816

SEPTEMBER, 1915

Inspections are carried on constantly, our
guides being the rules and requirements of
the National Board of Fire Underwriters;
rules of the Bureau of Fire Prevention and
Public Safety, City of Chicago; and the
very complete suggestions contained in
Field Practice Inspection Manual of the
National Fire Protection Association. Our
department has also been greatly benefited
by periodical visits, through nearly all our
different plants, of the engineers of the In-
dependent Inspection Bureau of Philadel-
phia.

This department believes that fire preven-
tion is entirely a matter of education, and
to this end talks are given employes from
time to time, as well as to members of the
fire companies, on this important subject.

To safeguard private institutions, the
work of the watchmen is especially impor-
tant. These men are virtually in charge of
the plant for the majority of the twenty-
four hours each day throughout the year,
and great care should be exercised in their
selection.

A watchman should be active, alert, of
middle age, one who will take an interest
in his duties, and should, of course, be paid
for services rendered. He should have at
least two nights off each month; in fact, the
position should be made such that only the
very best of men can qualify.

It is the practice of a great many con-
cerns, in filling positions of this kind, to
select a man who has had long service with
the concern. Such a man may be handi-
capped by his advanced age, or maybe he
is crippled as a result of an accident, and
is therefore given this position of night
watchman, which is considered by some a
sinecure. His honesty is not to be ques-
tioned, but when the critical time comes he
may be alone in the plant and unable to
handle the situation as it should be han-
dled, the result being a partial or total loss
to the property in his charge.

Too many employers expect a man to
perform watchman’s duties for twelve or
fourteen hours out of the twenty-four. No
man, whether he is old or young, can satis-
factorily “deliver the goods” for a long pe-
riod of hours. Sometimes watchmen never
receive instructions from their superinten-
dent, nor from the Fire Marshal of the city
in which they are located. The writer be-
lieves it would be a good thing if the watch-

THE AMERICAN CITY

241

men were under the supervision of the
Chief of the Fire Department. Then the
Chief or his assistants could occasionally
visit the watchmen and instruct them in
their duties. This would greatly lessen the
tire losses in our respective communities.

Watchmen '3 Reporls

Watchmen should make nightly reports
showing conditions of the property under
their control; whether rubbish has been re-
moved from the building; oily waste taken
to the boiler room and burned by day em-
ployes ; windows properly closed and intact;
packing material properly safeguarded, and
all private fire apparatus in its place and
ready for use. These reports should show
pressure on sprinkler risers, pressure tanks,
pressure on dry system, height of water in
gravity tank and condition of fire pump.
The report should be turned over to the
superintendent, or whoever is in authority,
and an effort made to rectify mistakes im-
mediately.

The watchman should know how to han-
dle controlling valves on Sprinkler system,
how to set dry valves, how to pump up
gravity and pressure tanks and pressure on
dry systems.

Watchman’s signals should be sent into
a central station rather than recorded on a
portable or stationary clock. One reason
for this is that from any part of the plant
the watchman can call the Fire Depart-
ment. Another is, his rounds are con-
stantly supervised, and in the event of an
accident to him or his falling asleep, a run-
ner would be dispatched from the central
station, so that the plant in question would
have the supervision required.

If a portable clock is used, no one knows
until the next morning whether or not the
watchman made his rounds, and it generally
happens that the first thing destroyed or
burned is the watchman's clock. This, of
course, raises a doubt in everyone’s mind
as to whether the watchman was perform-
ing his part or had fallen asleep, and the
tire was the result of his carelessness.

Watchman service should be maintained
at all times when the plant is not in opera-
tion, and the record of such service be
shown on such mechanical device as will
not permit of the evasion of duty. Records
should be checked over, filed and dated each
day.

Digitized by 600816

 

The Possibilities of Future Development in the
Service Rendered by a Hospital to a
Community”?

It is Better Charity to Keep a Man from the Need of a Hospital Bed than to

Care for Him when in One

By A. R. Warner, M. D.
Superintendent, Lakeside Hospital, Cleveland, Ohio

EYON D and above a hospital's service
B to the individual sick in its beds, to
the‘medical profession, to the cause of
medicaleducation, and to the growth of hu-
man knowledge, stands that hospital’s final,
resultant, real service to society as the ulti-
mate measure of excellence. There is yet
occasionally a hospital performing only the
hrst elementary function of a hospital—the
furnishing of bed and board to individual
sick; but there are now many at‘the other
end of the scale giving service which is the
product of hands skilled in many ways and
the work of several professions—at least
of the nursing, the medical, the ecclesiastic,
and the sociologic. These hospitals can
render the greatest service to society: it is
therefore these that society will in the end
elect to preserve and support.

Prevention of Disease and Public Health

The era of prophylactic medicine is no
longer a hope: it is come, a reality in fact,
though it will develop in degree. The
health centers established, the more frequent
routine periodic physical examinations, the
work of the factory physician and social
service department, and the frequent use of
the visiting nurse by insurance companies,
indicate that individuals and corporations
are becoming convinced that it already pays
in days of health and productive labor better
than its cost.

The composition of the average hospital
ward is a public disgrace and a reproach.
Here are found typhoids because we drink
our sewerage, visceral and brain syphilis
because doctors, dispensaries or hospitals
have been too careless about letting patients
slip away half cured, a menace to others

 

’ From a paper read at. the recent. annual conference
of the American Hospital Assomation, in San Fran-

cisco.

[242]

and a prospective public burden; here is
sometimes tuberculosis, but never chicken-
pox, because the community calls chicken-
pox contagious and isolates it, but not as
yet tuberculosis; here are men sick because
they worked in a danger of which they knew
nothing; here is a long line of men useless
from the primary and secondary eFfects of
alcohol. Hospitals see the needlessness, the
ridiculousness of it all even better than
others; but although it often means hard
work to raise the money to pay the cost, they
generally endure it in a silence and with a

degree of inaction that does not indicate

patience or any other virtue.

If a factory begins to send to a hospital
cases of lead poisoning or other industrial
disease to till the spare beds, there is a
sacred duty, a trust, to be fulfilled—not to
appeal to the trustees for more beds for
these poor sufferers, but to tell the facts, all
the facts, to the local authorities, to the state
board and to the public. What the authori-
ties cannot do to—force a correction of the
faulty working conditions, public opinion
can, and it will be done. Then the extra
beds will not be needed. It is not always a
compliment to a, hospital when some fac-
tories elect to patronize that hospital; and
if a hospital’s collective conscience and re-
gard for duty can be kept dormant by the
prompt payment of ward rates, it is thereby
classified if not standardized. The public
has long talked about cemeteries as the
burying-ground for the results of medical
incompetence, and the public is beginning
to talk about the hospital record room as the
burying-ground for the responsibility for
human lives carelessly, needlessly, wrong-
fully damaged or lost. A policy of silence,
inaction, disregard toward industrial care-
lessness and other causes of needless suffer-
ing and death makes the hospital an acces-

Digitized by 600816

SEPTEMBER, 1915

sory to the crime. The working conditions
of some manufacturing plants are— wrong
entirely through ignorance and not through
wilful carelessness. But this does not les-
sen—it increases rather—the hospital’s re-
sponsibility to make the effort to relieve the
detrimental working conditions; for the
hospital’s story told direct to the managers
will in such cases promptly bring the de—
sired results.

The Practical Use of Facts and Records

The preservation of public health in all
its forms is a major work for every hospital.
No contribution of facts pertaining to pub-
lic health problems can in any way equal
that collected by hospitals. This is due to
the fact that the records are written, that
both the primary and secondary diagnoses
are collected together in the indexes, and
that large series are rapidly collected. The
poor, the people reached best by hospitals,
are affected first and most by community
conditions unfavorable to health. The out-
patient department, by its numbers, is ex-
tremely sensitive to changing conditions.
The diagnoses made in a day or aweek are
a fairly accurate picture of the state of pub-
lic health in the locality—a fact just begin-
ning to be put to any use. The hospitals
are the keepers of the public health more
than we sometimes realize. In these days
cities have epidemics of smallpox only when
some dispensary misses that first case from
the crowded foreign settlement.

Dispensaries will not always be depart-
ments or adjuncts of hospitals—“poor rela-
tions,” as they have been called. The pub-
lic interest will follow the profession to the
newer fields. Although the man with tuber-
culosis, brass poisoning, or typhoid will con-
tinue to get most careful attention, keener
intereSt and higher regard will be placed in
the work of preventing others from getting
the same troubles. The primary philan-
thropic institution will then be the one in
the closest contact with the people, the dis-
pensary, and the one which writes daily in
its records the danger signals and the fore-
casts of the health of the community, now
so little considered. Financial support al-
ways follows interest. Around the dispen-
sary will be grouped the acute wards, the
convalescent hospital, the hospital farm, the
departments to train the maimed and handi-
capped back to usefulness, and other depart-
ments. Such an institution will be equipped

THE AMERICAN CITY

243

to mend the accident or misfortune in the
best way possible at the same time that it
is promptly preventing more from the same
source.

Sometimes even routine work and records
can be used quite effectively. When the
Social Betterment Committee of the Fed-
erated Churches of Cleveland decided to
attempt to secure the closing of the segre—
gated vice district, the ministers counted the
men and boys who visited this district, and
asked what the harvest must be. The two
hospital superintendents who were members
of the committee counted the cases of dis-
ease coming to our clinics. We questioned
every man as to the source of his infection
and were soon able to demonstrate that 40
per cent of the fresh infections with vene-
real disease was acquired in this small iso-
lated vice district, although only 10 per cent
of the prostitutes, street walkers and other
habitually immoral women known to the
police were inmates of this district. \Ve
brought the Mayor and Chief of Police Of
the city to our clinics to Show them the con-
stant stream of needless human suffering
that came from this district to overwhelm
the offenders and the innocent of this and
succeeding generations—not to point out the
wealth of our clinical material. We opened
our hospital records to them that they might
realize the aftermath. The result of it all
was the addition to the plans of our City
Hospital of a pavilion of I 50 beds for the
isolation of the venereal disease, together
with an increase in the beds now available:
and recently—too recently to count our gain
—the complete permanent closing of the dis-
trict by a forceful, sincere Mayor and an
efficient Chief of Police, equally determined
to rid Cleveland of all traces of commer-
cialized vice. The crowding in our derma-
tological clinic will, I believe, soon become
a little less troublesome.

The fields for service to public health and
preventive medicine open to hospitals are as
yet mostly possibilities for future develop-
ment, but the proper use of hospital records
and opportunities already promise to pre-
vent more disease than their beds could pos-
sibly relieve with treatment. Incidentally
the record room work gets results cheaper
than the ward. Is the “summum bonum”
the medical profession or is it public health ?

$roader Responsibilities to Patients
Usefulness is the measure of life and of

A Digitized by 600816
A

244

life’s happiness. Usefulness may be less-
ened or abolished by disease, and thereby
bring not only dire misfortune to the indi-
vidual, but a problem to society. Such a
problem begins when full usefulness ends;
it is solved only when usefulness is again
' restored.

To hospitals society assigns the solving
of these problems when the individual’s re-
sources are inadequate. The limits of the
hospital field are therefore from the ending
of usefulness to the restoration of usefulness.
The interval between the discharge from
the hospital after an acute illness and the
day the man can return to work is, usually,
at least a dangerous risk, if not a serious
damage to a working man. Supervision of
convalescence saves too many chronic con-
ditions, too many over-strains, and too many
lives not to eventually become general. Hos-
pitals must make the use of convalescent de-
partments a routine: the longer stay in the
wards at high cost can never stand against
the far cheaper and better farm life, the
open air, the sunshine, and the graded sched-.
ule of work in the garden to bring a man
back to working condition. This and much
more will come when the hospital’s work
no longer ends when the patient is “able to
go home,” but when he is “lit to go to work.”

Research and Educational

In the last few decades many medical
schools have established chairs of Experi-
mental Medicine and have provided ample
laboratory facilities for borderline work
with good and sufficient results. Notwith-
standing the work of these university re-
search posts, there has come to hospitals a
feeling of direct responsibility to increase
the store and use of medical knowledge by
actively encouraging the study of problems
presented by their patients instead of pas-
sively permitting this to be done. Animal
experiments done in hospitals and labora-
tory work to prove and to check the theories,
explanations and observations of the staliC
are becoming more common. It is in the
hospitals that the practical clinical problems
actually present themselves, and there is a
growing belief that it is in the hospital that
most of these will not only be solved for
the day by a shrewd guess, or keen logic,
but be so proven by animal experiments and
other means that the work will be of value
to others, and a benefit to posterity.

There is another benefit from the cost of

A.

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 3

experimental work often, if not always.
worth more than the knowledge gained.
Hospitals are becoming progressively more
and more interested in the training of young
medical men for their own future use and
for others. Without experimental work
they are trained to depend on the say of
others; with it they are trained to think
and to prove. It pays to train men right.
Lakeside Hospital has recently backed this
belief by adding five men to the resident
staff and by equipping a new laboratory,
that thoughtful observation, study and dem—
onstration, or “research work,” as it is often
called, may be increased among them to
the extent of five men's full time. By no
means does this make us the leader in this
particular; rather, followers in a line that
is content to look to the future for even
moderate results. The clinical clerk is an-
other evidence that hospitals are taking an
active interest in medical education.

Cooperation and Mutual Helpfulness

The idea of mutual cooperation between
hospitals'as it is developing is hOpeful and
prophetic. The very idea of active compe-
tition between hospitals, of a bitterness of
feeling, and of any rivalry that is not sim-
ply altruistic eagerness to serve better and
absolutely free from thought of gain to self,
is unreservedly repulsive; it is entirely for-
eign to the purpose of all endowments,
grants, or expressed tenets of purpose of
any hospital. The public servant, institu-
tional or individual, who reveals for an in-
stant a selfish aim is instantly discredited.
Honor and gratefulness are but the ac-
knowledgment of debt for uncompensated
service.

The union of hospitals to increase the ul-
timate service to the community is broaden-
ing in scope. New York hospitals united to
lessen waste in buying. Philadelphia hos-
pitals united in an effort to increase the in-
dividual eiiiciency of the institutions. The
New York dispensaries and the Cleveland
hospitals have each united for the primary
purpose of increasing the combined contri-
bution of all the local institutions to the
public welfare of the community, helping
each to fit its work to the others and to the
existing needs. eliminating overlapping and
wasted energy. Surely we may look for-
ward to the day when all hospitals shall
present to society harmonious united ser-
vice, adapted with the greatest care and in

Digitized by 600816

 

 

SEPTEMBER, 1915

absolute unselfishness to the needs of the
time.

\Vhat are days and weeks spent in a hos-
pital worth to patients, and what do the
“cured” and the “improved” in the discharge
notes of medical and surgical histories
mean? Dr. Codman, of Boston, has been
asking these questions for some years. A
few hospitals are now really trying to find
out by thorough follow-up systems how
beneficial the average “cure” proves to be,

THE AMERICAN CITY

245

and to appreciate the later influence and the
final effect of particular treatments. We
are entering on the stage of the collection
of the actual results as fundamental facts.
From these there will come comparisons,
deductions, lessons learned, and based upon
these, future progress in many ways.
Known results can be compared with the
cost, one method with another, and society
will be able to buy its health more intelli-
gently.

 

Training fer Community Center Work

E\V modern social developments have
F proceeded more rapidly than that of
the playground movement or have
had as important reaction upon popular so-
cial thought in its efforts to enlarge the
leisure opportunities of the people. The
playground movement has successfully dem-
onstrated that recreation is an all-the-year-
around necessity. From that movement has
also come the important realization that
recreation is needed by adolescents and
adultsas well as by children.

But with the admittance of the adult to
the playground, he has brought his own de—
sires for social and cultural development
and his racial and group needs. So the
school house was added to the playground,
the community center was born and the
playground director became the community
center leader.

With the announcement of the opening
session this autumn of the New York
Training School for Community Center
Workers, this almost dramatic development
of the community center movement in the
last few years is brought to mind with pe-
culiar vigor.

The community center—which is the re-
cently adopted name of the wider developed
social or recreation center—is a self-gov-
erning, progressively self-supporting or-
ganization formed by the people of a neigh-
borhood to secure opportunities for recrea-
tion and development. The public school
house, which in the past stood in frigid
idleness after school hours, is now utilized
as the headquarters for the association’s
activities. The once closed rooms are used
for evening meetings for numerous social,
literary and athletic clubs of the neighbor-
hood, which before found a precarious and

dangerous existence in quarters over sa-
loons, old stables or expensive commercial
meeting rooms. Dancing is encouraged
under the supervision of a competent floor
committee in an effort to keep the boys and
girls from the demoralizing influences of
the public dance hall. In the auditorium of
the school, concerts, lectures, forums and
community meetings are held to provide
entertainment and opportunity for develop-
ment of the older folk. And this is not all.
Many of these community center associa-
tions through their volunteer committees
are seeking to help their neighborhood in
every way, from clean-up campaigns to
free employment bureaus for their out-of-
work neighbors.

While most of the work of a community
center is done by the various committees
of the local association, there is always
need for a resourceful leader who——with
cultural and technical training, and, most
of all, with the vision of the possibilities
within these heterogeneous individuals and
groups-can avoid the dangerous pitfalls
which have wrecked so many endeavors of
community cooperation in the past.

To bring together the lessons of practical

.experience, to pass them on in an organized

form, and to discover men and women pos-
sessed with social insight and ability to
lead—these are the~ important fields of
work which the New York Training School
for Community \Vorkers, under the direc-
tion of John Collier, is preparing to occupy.

As the Training School is the outgrowth
of a group of community center workers
gathering together for the interchange of
experience during last winter, its course of
study reflects a very direct approach to the
problem. Practice work done by the stu-

Digitized by 600816
-

 

246 THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 3

The correlation of

dents, closely controlled by. the Supervisor
of Training, will be the basis of all the
work of the school. This part of the
course will consist of work in the already
developed community centers and in two
projected centers which will be operated by
the staff and students of the school.

A seminar of lectures and conferences,
led by men and women with authoritative
viewpoints, will supplement the practice
work. On looking over the list of t0pics,
on each of which an average of five con-
ferences will be held, one is impressed by
the wide field of interest which the com-
munity center touches. One realizes, too.
that this phase of betterment work is full
of social imagination—is interwoven with
the very stuff of constructive democracy
and richer life.

The following is the list of the seminar
topics, which is promised to be later en-
riched by others:

“The Conception of Social Forces."
social enterprise;
worker.

“Public Education.” Its history. especially with
reference to the broadening of educational content
and contact; the school conceived as an agency in
social development.

“The Problem of Leisure.” The theory of play;
leisure as affected by power machinery and urbaniza-
tion: leisure viewed as the container of vital interests.

“Group Organization.” Its principle, its varied
forms, its relation to social movement and change in

general; the need of community tradition; folk-ways
and folk-art.

' Constructive
the reasonable aim of the social

“The Playground Movement."
playgrounds with community centers.

“The Local Approach." Group interests. neighbor-
hood interests and community interests. treated as an
approach to the general political problem. ‘

‘City Planning." The problem of community liv-
ing in its physical aspects.

“Immigration as a Community Problem."

“The Psychic Mechanisms." The translation of en-
vironmental influence into personal character.

“The Socialization of Fine Art." Pageantry, the
civic theatre, uses of the motion picture, the commun-
ity center in relation to arts and crafts.

“Commercialized Recreation." Lessons from Corn-
petitors of the Community Center.

a. The Saloon and Related Recreations.

b. The Theatre and the Motion Picture Show;
Results of Commercialization; Sumptuary
Regulation of Fine Art.

“Socal Insurance."

“\Vhat It Means. To Be An Economic Institution."
The business principle.

"Delinquency." The delinquent individual and the
delinquent group. The relation of the community
center movement to this problem.

"Consumers‘ Cooperation." Extra-Political Democ-
racy.

The necessary opportunity for the stu-
dent to develop his own thought. upon
both the practice work and the seminar,
will be provided by a series of group and
class conferences wherein will be' given
oral and written reports, required reading
and original themes, led by the staff and
consultants of the school.

The work of the school will begin on the
18th of October and continue until the I 3th
of next May. Inquiries should be ad-
dressed to the school at 70 Fifth Avenue.
New York City.

 

A Plan for Fire Drills in Schools“

T has been authoritatively stated that “one
school house in the United States burns
for every day in the school year.” This

probably underestimates rather than over-
estimates the number of tires which an-
nually destroy school property. At any
rate, too many precautions cannot be taken
to protect children against this ever-present
danger or to guard against the accidents
which so frequently occur when alarms of
fire are sounded in schools.

Coolness and courage on the part of prin-
cipals and teachers are, of course, the first
essential on occasions of this sort, and fire
drills can accomplish wonders in meeting
situations of this kind; but the wisest
course, after all, is so to construct school
buildings that children may readily escape

 

’ From a bulletin on First Aid to the Injured and
The Prevention of Accidents. issued August, 1915,
jointly by the De artment of Public Instruction and
the State Board 0 Health of Virginia.

from them without bodily injury upon the
first discovery of the flames.

Economy may sometimes cry aloud
against the suggestion to spend a few extra
dollars to anticipate the remote possibility
of fires in school houses, but assuredly it
is a false economy that raises such protests.
And besides, the possibility of tires is never
remote. To assume that any particular
school, no matter where it is to be built, will
escape this dreadful danger, is to take des-
perate chances. There is only one argu-
ment to be made for running risks as to
burning children alive, and that is that it
saves a little money. Even that is not
sound; diminished tire risks mean dimin-
ished expense in the long run. But grant
that it is cheaper to risk burning the chil-
dren; most taxpayers have children or
grandchildren in school, and once the ques-
tion is brought home to them, it is a safe

Digitized by 600816

SEPTEMBER, 1915

guess that they will spurn that kind of econ-
omy and that legislators may vote for
safety with the positive assurance that they
will lose no political friends by taking such
a step.

Until the public mind is thoroughly quick-
ened to a proper realization of the impor-
tance of safeguarding school children
against the danger of fires, we shall have to
await developments in the matter of proper
building laws with such patience and uneasy
resignation as may be commanded. In the
uncertain interim, however, it will be the
part of wisdom for principals and teachers
alike to be constantly—yet not nervously—
on the watch for tires and to school them-
selves to meet such emergencies. Below we
otier some fire drill suggestions that are
well worthy of careful study:

Preliminary; Adequate Stairways—There
should always be at least two stairways in all
two-story school buildings. These should be
wide enough for a column two abreast to walk
easily up and down. A sufficient number of
good roomy stairways are far preferable to
the usual type of outside fire escape.

Fire Escapes—All fire escapes on buildings,

in which children congregate should have
roomy balconies and be tested and proved by
competent authority at least twice yearly.

Doors—All doors should open outward and
ought never to be locked while children are in
the building during the day. (In dormitories
night watchmen should be in place at night.)

Fire Extinguishers—Fire extinguishers of
an approved type should be part of the equip-
ment of every large school.

Fire Drill Supervision—This should be sim-
ple and direct, therefore adapt the teaching
staff to the requirements.

The Principal of the school should be su-
preme with an understudy trained to take
charge in an emergency. He should accu-
rately gauge the time necessary to discharge
the school, and enforce measures of discipline
rigidly upon every pupil or teacher who fails
to observe all requirements. The principal
should also require from the janitor a daily
report as to the condition of fire exits and
apparatus.

Assistants—One teacher on each floor
should have general direction of the tire drill
on that floor. This teacher should be chosen
by the principal with due regard to tempera-
mental fitness. Excitable or highly strung
teachers should not be assigned to this task,
whatever their other qualifications may be.

Duties of Assistants—Upon these assistants
falls the duty of changing the exits when pre-
arrangement in drill practice or actual tire
conditions render such a course necessary.
Assistants are authorized to sound the alarm.
and where electric alarms are used should be
thoroughly instructed in their use.

THE AMERICAN CITY

'work and be at attention.

247

The Teacher.—Each class is, of course, un-
der the immediate direction of its teacher,
whose paramount duty will be to preserve ab-
solute discipline in drill. A single piece of
disobedience at a critical time might be at-
tended by awful consequences to the whole
school.

The Janitor should daily inspect all stair-
ways and exits to prevent their obstruction
from any cause whatsoever: fire escapes must
always be kept free from accumulations of ice
or snow. In large schools the janitor should
do fire patrol duty hourly and register on an
approved watchman’s clock. He should daily
test the alarm signals where the electric sys-
tem is used.

Drill Exercise—F ire drills should be held at
least twice monthly without notice either to
teachers or pupils. Everyone in the building,
whether. visitor or not, should be included in
it. Order and military exactness should mark
the whole proceeding and every movement
commanded by a bell signal.

The First Signal should be a series of de-
liberate strokes on a gong, which it is under-
stood should never be used for any other pur-
pose. The number or character of the strokes
may be used to indicate the general location
in the building of the fire or supposed fire.
This signal should be. repeated once. At the
first stroke of the gong, pupils should stop
Each movement
thereafter must follow the taps of the teacher’s
bell.

First Tap of teacher’s bell, pupils rise and
stand in aisles by desk.

Second Tap, they move forward two abreast
to exit, at absolute command of teacher, who
will halt the line at the doorway and then
move the line forward steadily in order of
precedence (previously determined). Lines
from the various rooms should follow in close
sequence, but never crowd into each other.
The teacher should stand at the door of the
class-room until half or two-thirds of the
pupils are out, then move forward with the
line.

Preeedenrc.——To avoid confusion, the pre-
cedence of classes should be determined in ad-
vance so as to prevent crossing or jumbling of
lines in march to exits. Precedence should be
given the primary grades in assignment of
exits and precedence in line of march.

Position of Teachers—One or more teach-
ers on the lowest floor should remain stationed
between foot of stairway and exit until all
have passed out. The other teachers from the
upper floors should take positions at intervals
on the stairways and along the line of march,
the last teacher, principal and assistants bring-
ing up the rear. N o pupil should be permitted
to leave the line of march for any urpose
whatsoever. Teachers should see t at the
files are spaced so as to prevent touching.

If fire escapes are used, the teachers should
be stationed one to each balcony. Two teach-
ers from- the lower floor should lead the line
from the building. Where instrumental music
is available, it would be well to use it in drill.

Digitized by 600816

  

Jr”

  

THE AMERICAN CITY

iv”: V

   

 

Hand Picked !

Every ounce of cement rock used in making Pennsylvania
Portland Cement, is picked by hand.

This is more than a mere talking-point. It is an important
reason for the remarkable high quality and uniformity of
our Cement.

We shall continue to employ the hand method until some-
one devises a mechanical process with discriminating
powers in the selection of materials.

Pennsylvania Portland Cement is made in one plant under ‘
one supervision in the heart of the Lehigh Valley district— 
the source of the cream of cement rock.

For years it has been given preference on engineering jobs l
where quality has been a paramount necessxty.

“ One Source—One M ill—One Standard ” 1

PENNSYLVANIA CEMENT CO. (
30 East 42nd Street, New York

Manufacturers of

PENNSYLVANIA
FORTRAN!) CEMENT

47

When writing to Advertisers please mention Tn: Annie“! Cur.

SEPTEMBER, 1915

Assignment of Exits—In assigning exits
where the capacity of fire escapes is limited,
the lower floors should use inside stairways in
order that the classes above with their longer
journey may have uninterrupted use of the fire
escapes. All stairways five feet or more in
width should accommodate double lines of two
each; all stairways "so" used should have a
centerghwand-rail.’ Any change .from regular
assignment” will be indicated by assistant in
charge of floor.

Modifications—Many buidings. used for
school purposes in Virginia are remodeled
structures, poorly adapted in many instances
for cut-and-dried drill regulations. Such
buildings require that unusual care be taken
in devising adequate drill maneuvers or in
modifying the above plan, for it is in such
school houses that the greatest danger in case
of fire exists.

School Trustees are especially urged to in-
quire carefully and provide fully as to fire pro-
tection matters.

First aid to the injured and the preven-
tion of accidents will hereafter be a regular
part of the curriculum of the schools of

THE AMERICAN CITY

249

Virginia, as a result of a law passed at the
1914 session of the General Assembly. In
accordance with the provisions of this act
the educational and health authorities of
the state jointly have prepared a first aid
manual, which was revised and carefully
criticised by a number of eminent surgeons.
One hundred thousand c0pies of this manual
have been printed and are now ready for
distribution in the schools.

The manual contains a digest of the fun-
damental principles of first aid and takes a
wide range, covering all _ subjects from
bruises and colics to resuscitation, snake-
bite and the various forms of chemical
poisoning. The different sections are nu-
merically arranged and are fully indexed
for rapid reference. One entire chapter is
devoted to fire drills in the schools, another
to the prevention of accidents on the rail-
roads, and still another to the handling of
horses and teams.

 

South Pasadena’s First Installation of Ornamen-
tal Street Lighting

By C. Wellington Koiner

Superintendent, Pasadena Municipal Light Plant

OR some months South Pasadena con-
F sidered the question of providing a
system of street illumination, and it

was finally decided to light two of the main

system will be tapped and S. L. transform-
ers will be connected into the system. In
the parkways on other streets, one-inch
Sherardized conduit will be extended, in

thoroughfares with 400 candle-power, 6.6
ampere, Type C Mazda lamps used in con-
nection with the N ovalux unit with a Poly-
case Alabaster globe. These units were

which will be pulled 600-volt twin TUbbCf-.
covered wire for supplying 80 candle-power, :5
6.6 ampere, Type C Mazdalamps at low?
voltage. These units will carry either 8x1

mounted on copper-clad lighting posts made
by the Union Metal Manufacturing Com-
pany, of Canton, Ohio, having a height of
approximately I 3 feet 6 inches to center of
globe, and spaced approximately 110 feet
apart on each side of the street. The lamps
are fed by means of the conduit system,
which is run in the parkway about 12 inches
beneath the surface. This system is of 1%-
inch Sherardized conduit, made by the Na-
tional Metal Molding Company, of Pitts-
burgh, in which is pulled twin cable insu-
lated with varnished cambric, lead covered.
and having 5,000 volt insulation. The cable
was supplied by the Standard Underground
Cable Company, of Pittsburgh. The cost
of this installation was $1.10 per property
front foot.

As other streets are improved, this main

16 or 8x 18-inch round globesf The height
of the post will be II feet 6 inches. The
cost should range from 70 to 80 cents per
property front foot.

South Pasadena has been paying a street
lighting rate of 7 cents per kilowatt. This
rate has been considered very high. By the
installation of a street lighting system
which will be owned by the city when it is
completed, the authorities will be in a posi-
tion to secure competition for the supplying
of current for street lighting. In this way
the city will be enabled to have a great deal
more light than heretofore and at a rate.
for the ornamental lighting system, of half
what is paid at the present time. It is
planned to extend the ornamental lighting
system throughout the city as fast as the
people will authorize it.

Digitized by 600816 f’

THE AMERICAN CITY

  
    

      

          
 
  

’ ..

’z

{/I,
I

III

Put Yourself
In My Position

Suppose you, Mr. \Vater
Works Superintendent, were
a fire chief lighting a blaze ?
Yet—even with men trained
and equipped to light, with pumping
engines working to their limit, you fail
to defeat it. The pressure in the
water mains is too poor to adequately
feed the engines so that a sufficient
quantity of water can be pumped. ‘

What Would You Do ?

This question asked then, would be too late.

 

It must be answered before the disaster, not
after property and lives are lost.

Poor water pressure is caused by clogged
mains. But, this danger can be removed by

The National Method

of cleaning outwater mains. It makes old mains as eflicient as new. It gets
r1d of all the dirt Wthh retards the water. It is far cheaper than relaying

new pipe and eliminates all possible danger of poor water pressure from
111115 source.
Ask us what shouId be done in your case

NATIONAL WATER MAIN CLEANING co.
Hudson Terminal Building NEW YORK CITY

48 _ Vthn writing to Advertisers please mention THE AMERICAN CITY.

SEPTEMBER, 1915

Another advantage of the ornamental sys-
tem is that the poles that have heretofore
been required for street lighting can be
moved to the back yards, thus eliminating
poles on thoroughfares to a large extent.

While this system is spoken of as orna-
mental, it is also useful, being highly eco-
nomical in the distribution of light along
the shaded thoroughfares. This is espe-
cially so with the one-light units. It was
decided, after considering all lighting units
in use at the present time, to standardize on
the one-light unit, using 80 candle-power
lamps for residence streets and 400 candle-
power lamps for the business streets. This

decision was based on the principle that it
is better to put in one neat lighting unit
and take care of it than to put in posts
carrying from two to five lamps, which
cost more to maintain and which usually
carry small light units which detract from
their appearance when illuminated. It was
also conceded that the multiple units were
not as attractive in the daytime as a neat
one-light ornamental unit.

The Fair Oaks Avenue lighting improve-
ment has been highly satisfactory to all the
people in South Pasadena, and also to all
others that have seen it, and it is said to
be one of the prettiest installations in
Southern California.

 

THE AMERICAN CITY 25!

 

TYPE OF LIGHTING STANDARD USED IN
SOUTH PASADENA

A SOUTH PASADENA STREET IN THE EARLY EVENING

This photograph was taken by exposing the plate in the dusk for a time; then closing the shutter until
the lights were turned on, the camera remaining in the same posmon.

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

SANITATION

We show illustrations of our Canco Trash Burner and Canco Fly
Trap, two articles to help in the “clean up ” campaigns which are
spreading over the country.

“CANCO” RUBBISH AND
TRASH BURNER

This is practically the only burner on the market that will withstand
heat without warping, the body being made

from ONE PIECE OPEN HEARTH SHEET STEEL.

Owing to its peculiar construction it is
practically indestructible. All joints of the
burner are welded; no rivets to become loose.

 

Canco Burner is the only burner which has
a solid bottom, detachable base or pan. With
ordinary burners the ashes are generally scat-
' ’ \ '. tered around
’“‘ wherever the
rubbish is burnt,
making an un-
sightly appear-
ance.

“CANCO” FLY TR APS

There are some that look like Canco
but they are about as similar as a
“ilivver”. car is to a high speed racin
car. First of all, the Canco is an al
metal trap. N 0 wood pieces to warp
or rip oil. It must wear and it’ll catch
more flies than "Mr. Carter has pills.
Joints are all electrically welded. It is
made on strictly mechanical lines and

after “a careful study of other makes and
their operation.

AMERICAN CAN COMPANY

New York, N. Y. Chicago, Ill. Toledo, Ohio San Francisco, Cal.
' " " ' With offices in all principal cities

 

 

4" _ When writing to Advertisers please mention Tux AMERICAN Cur.

 

Items of Municipal Law
Compiled by A. L. H. Street

Street Sprinkling Assessments

The legislature of a state may validly
empower a city to levy special assessments
against property benefited by the sprinkling
of streets to defray the cost thereof, accord-
ing to a decision handed down by the
Supreme Court of New Mexico in the case
of City of Roswell vs. Bateman, 146 Pacific
Reporter 950. This holding is sustained by
similar decisions, which have been an-
nounced by the appellate courts of Minne-
sota and Indiana, and is based upon the
theory that sprinkling constitutes an “'
provement” of the street, especially where,
as was the case in Roswell, it appears that
a street is almost impassable in dry seasons
unless sprinkled.

The courts of Missouri, Kentucky, Illi-
nois, Michigan, Massachusetts, Utah and
Montana have reached contrary conclu-
sions, although they were based upon some-
what different statutory and constitutional
provisions than are in force in the states
which uphold the right to levy such assess-
ments. The Missouri Court of Appeals has
declared: “A special tax against abutting
property is based on the idea that the work
for which the tax is laid is an improvement
of the property, and sprinkling to keep
down the dust, while good for the comfort
of the inhabitants, is too intangible to be
denominated an improvement of the
property.”

'1- '1-

Regulation of Telegraph Companies

After a telegraph company has applied to
a city council for permission to maintain
its poles in streets, and has been granted
that right on condition that an annual li-
cense fee be paid, the company cannot es-
cape liability for payment of this amount
on the theory that it is engaged in interstate
commerce under permission granted by
Congress, or that the laws of the state do
not require consent of municipalities to the
location of poles in streets. “Cities have
a right to make reasonable classifications of
grants and privileges, and have the right
to attach dissimilar conditions and impose
dissimilar burdens upon each class. It is
only when different burdens are imposed

lm- .

upon persons in the same class, holding un-
der the same or similar grants, that there
will be a violation of the equal protection
feature of the Federal Constitution. When
classification is allowable? the discrimina-
tion must exist in the class to which the
particular grant or privilege applies and be
an attempt to impose upon the complaining
party in that class burdens that are not im-
posed upon others in that particular class,”
before an unlawful discrimination may be
found to exist. (Kentucky Court of Ap-
peals, Postal Telegraph Cable Co. vs. City
of Newport, 169 Southwestern Reporter
700.)
'I' 'I'

Use of Streets by Public Utilities

The Ohio Supreme Court will be called
upon to determine the extent of rights of
individuals and companies to use streets for
the purpose of stringing electric wires or
laying pipes, without obtaining a franchise
from the city. The question has been raised
in a suit brought by the Union Gas & Elec-
tric Light Company, of Cincinnati, against
the Diamond Lighting Company. The first
mentioned company seeks to enjoin the
other, a private, concern, from using cer-
tain streets for lines, on the ground that
the Union Company has an exclusive fran-
chise for use of the streets for lighting and
heating purposes. The Court of Common
Pleas in Cincinnati refused to grant the
relief demanded, holding that, under the
Ohio laws, there can be no exclusive right
to such use of a street, and that, since titles
to streets are vested in the abutting owners
subject to their use for public purposes,
abutting owners have an absolute right to
exercise, or confer upon others, the privi-
lege of connecting property by means of
electric lines laid in the street, so long as
the paramount use of the street for public
purposes is not impaired.

This decision of the Court of Common
Pleas seems to accord with previous de-
cisions of the highest courts of Ohio and
most of the other states to the effect that
a public utility cannot be granted an ex-
clusive franchise to use a street, but ap-
pears to be in the face of most of the appel-

[253]

Digitized by 600816

THE AMERICAN CITY

When the block is worn out the Pitch still clings

 

WHENEVER an old, pitch-filled,

block pavement is torn up, the
pitch filler will be found clinging to
the blocks when they are piled up on
the sidewalk.

You can hardly knock it off; in fact, the only
way to make the pitch let go is to subject it to
such heat that it will melt and flow away.

No matter whether the pitch has been in the
pavement five years or thirty years this condi.
tion will still be the same. Moreover, after
twenty or thirty years the pitch is still chemically
and physically good.

If new paving pitch were not so cheap the old
pitch in a twenty year old pavement could be
melted and scraped from the old block and used
over again in a new pavement and put to work
for twenty years more.

Booklets free on request.

Boston

New York Philadelphia

Chicago

St. Louis
Pittsburgh Detroit Birmingham Kansas City Minneapolis Salt Lake City

Good pitch, such as Barrett’s Paving Pitch, is
absolutely inert to the action of rain and frost
and weather. The tendency of pitch to cling
firmly to the block is responsible for the fact that
Barrett’s Paving Pitch maintains .a perfect,
waterproof seal throughout the pavement, pro-
tecting the foundation from water and frost.

No matter how the block may contract or ex-
pand in varying temperatures, the pitch adapts
itsel to the varying width of the joint and never
lets go of the block.

Every joint is an expansion joint with Paving
Pitch and no special expansion joints are needed,
consequently a pitch-filled pavement cannot
crack or swell up or explode. It will not thrust
manholes or curbing out of position in hot
weather. It is free from the stresses which
characterize a cement-filled pavement at every
turn of the street and every intersection.
Cincinnati

Seattle Q

Address our nearest ojice.

BARRETT MANUFACTURING COMPANY

Cleveland

 

 

Tux Parnasou Mrs. (30., Limited: Montreal Toronto Winnipeg Vancouver St. John,N.B. Halifax, N.S. Sydney.N.S.

DOD-'IO-C'l—ODI—fl'-liO—lll—l'D-O-O—"'_ n..- p p p 1 I O—l00-O'O-I.._COO-O'l—OOVpF'

i! 1 M | H “HIM ll llilllll Will in l l  11‘ Ill l l

Whrn writing to Advertisers please mention Tm: AMERICAN CITY.

SEPTEMBER, 1915

late court decisions so far as it recognizes
the right to use a street for laying wires
or pipes, without first obtaining permission
from the municipal authorities.

4- 4-
Cities as Legatees

It was within the powers of the cities of
Baltimore and New Orleans to receive lega-
cies under a will for the purpose of “edu-
cating the poor, without the cost of a cent
to them, in the cities of New Orleans and
Baltimore, and their respective suburbs.”
“Municipal corporations, at least in this
country, are authorized to take and hold,
unless specially restrained, property, real
and personal, in trust for purposes in aid
of the objects of the corporation, or for
objects which will promote, aid, or assist in
carrying out or perfecting those purposes.”
(Louisiana Supreme Court, City of New
Orleans vs. Salmen Brick & Lumber Co.,
66 Southern Reporter 237.)

'1"!-

Racial Discrimination in Ordinances

A city is powerless to adopt a valid ordi-
nance prohibiting white persons and colored
persons from residing in the same block,
since that violates the constitutional right
of persons to acquire and enjoy property
without unjust discrimination. (Georgia
Supreme Court, Carey vs. City of Atlanta,
84 Southeastern Reporter 4’56.)

4- '1-
Municipal Power Over Buildings

A person who owns a building which is
afterwards taken into the fire limits of a

city has a vested property right, which can-

be interfered with by the city authorities
only on the ground that the building con-
stitutes a nuisance or is so maintained as
to endanger the public health, morals or
safety. It is within the police power of a
city, however, to adapt an ordinance for-
bidding repair of a building after it has
depreciated 50 per cent in physical condi-
tion, and requiring payment of a reasonable

THE AMERICAN CITY

255

fee for examination of the plans and speci-
fications covering a proposed improvement
and for issuance of a building permit.
(North Dakota Supreme Court, Russell vs.

City of Fargo, I48 Northwestern Reporter
610.) ‘

4"}

Regulation of Store Buildings

The ordinance of the city of Chicago
which forbids retail sale of goods on more
than one floor of a store basement, and on
any floor more than twenty feet below the
street grade, is a valid regulation in the in-
terest of protecting shoppers who con-
gregate in large numbers in such places. It
is not invalid because sales are permitted
upon many floors above the street, nor‘be-
cause limited in its operation to department
stores. (Illinois Supreme Court, City of
Chicago vs. Mandel Bros., 106 Northeast-
ern Reporter 181.)

s- 4-
An Invalid Fire Ordinance

An ordinance of a municipality restrict-
ing the construction of buildings of com-
bustible material within established fire
limits must, in order to be valid, operate
without unjust discrimination. Hence, an
ordinance which permits the city authori-
ties to grant special permission for the con-
struction of wooden buildings within such
limits is void. (Missouri Supreme Court,
Hays vs. City of Poplar Bluff, 173 South-
western Reporter 676-)

'1"!-

Regulation of Sales of Ice

It is beyond the authority of a city to
adopt an ordinance regulating the prices at
which ice shall be retailed. The ordinance
of the city of F itchburg, which purports to
require hawkers and peddlers of ice to ob-
tain a license before pursuing their occu-
pation, is invalid, as being unauthorized by
the city’s charter. (Massachusetts Supreme
Judicial Court, Greene vs. Cook, 106 North-

eastern Reporter 573.)

FACTORS IN THE SUCCESS OR FAILURE OF STREET PAVEMENTS

The second article in (his series, announcement of which was made in the August

number, will be published in THE AMERICAN CITY for October, I 9/5

 

Digitized by 600816

THE AMERICAN CITY

MUNICIPAL
SHOPPING
VIA WIRELE§§,/"

Q ~ \A"; ‘ "

D‘a

HONOLULU

 

When the city of Honolulu, T. H., decided to
register Motor Vehicles, this thriving community
searched the world for the “ best ” possible product
at the “best” price.

Naturally, attention was directed to Baltimore, the ‘i
home of “ BALTO ” Porcelain Enameled Iron
Signs. In this particular instance TIME was at a
premium—Honolulu talked with us via WIRELESS—
in “ 72 hours” this contract was closed and part of
Honolulu’s order for Automobile and Motorcycle

License Tags was ACTUALLY IN WORK—that’s ‘

service.

Service alone did not guarantee this contract—
quality, finish and dependability were the virtues
which first suggested themselves to the oiiicials of this
far away city, and these virtues alone have given our
product the world-wide distribution it now enjoys. For
quality and service in the development of the most
modern and artistic municipal signs, we lead.

Sketches, quotations, suggestions and
samples are yours for the asking. Write
our Service Bureau—

Department C

THE BALTIMORE ENAMEL & NOVELTY CO

BALTIMORE, MD., U. S. A. i

51 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tm: AMERICAN CITY.

Digitized by 600816 ‘

   

   

ON THE CALENDAR

SEPTEMBER 6-IO.—ROCHESTER, N. Y.
American Public Health Association.
Secretary, Selskar M. Gunn, 755 Boylston
Street, Boston, Mass. ‘

SEPTEMBER 6-II.—OAKLAND, CAL.

League of California Municipalities.
Secretary, H. A. Mason, Pacific Building,
San Francisco, Cal. Joint Meeting with
the California Conference on City Plan-
ning.

SEPTEMBER 7-9.—NEw YORK CITY.

The New England Water-Works
Association.
Narragansett Pier, R. I.

SEPTEMBER 8-IO.—CINCINNATI, OHIO.

International Association for the Pre- ‘

vention of Smoke. Annual convention.

Secretary, 5. H. Viall, 10,618 South Wood
Street, Chicago, Ill.

SEPTEMBER IQ-I6.—-ATLANTIC CITY, N. J.
Assoaation of American Portland
Cement Manufacturers. Secretary, Percy

H. Wilson, Land Title Building, Philadel-
phia, Pa.

SEPTEMBER I3-I7.—-OAKI.AND, CAL.

Pan-American Road Congress. Under
joint auspices of American Road Builders’
Association and the American Highway
Association. Secretary American Road
Builders’ Association, E. L. Powers, 150
Nassau Street, New York City. Execu-
tive Secretary American Highway Asso-
ciation, I. S. Pennybacker, Colorado Build-
ing, Washington, D. C.

SEPTEMBER 20-23.—WASHINCTON, D. C.
Illuminating Engineering Society. Sec-
retary, J. D. Israel, 29 West Thirty-ninth
Street, New York City.

SEPTEMBER 23-OCTOBER 2.—NEw YORK CITY.
American Educational and Vocational
Training Conference. Secretary, A. D. V.

Storey, Hotel Biltmore, New York City.

SEPTEMBER 27-29.—ST. LOUIS, MO.

National Association of Commercial
Organization Secretaries. S e c r eta r y ,
James A. McKibben, Secretary Chamber
of Commerce, Boston, Mass.

SEPTEMBER 28-30.—SPOKANE, WASH.

League of Pacific Northwest Munici-
palities. Annual Conference. Secretary,
Charles G. Haines, Ph.D., Whitman Col-
lege, Walla Walla, Wash.

OCTOBER 6-8.—MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.
National Housing Association. Sec-
retary, Lawrence Veiller, 105 East Twenty-

second Street, New York City.

OCTOBER II-IZ.—DAYTON, OHIO. .

National Paving Brick Manufacturers’
Association. Secretary, Will P. Blair,
824 Locomotive Engineers’ Building, Cleve-
.land, Ohio.

Coveons V ibi ‘ '~ '

Secretary, Willard Kent,’
 ki‘OCTOBER, ~13-15.—HUTCHINSON, KAN.

. i i . . . . . i 4

OCTOBER I 1-15.;DAYTON, OHIO.
. American Society of Municipal Im-
'rovements. Secretary, Charles Carroll
rown, 702 Wulsin Building, Indianapolis,
Ind.

OCTOBER II-IOI—NEW YORK CITY.

Exhibition of Street Cleaning Appa-
ratus and Appliances. To be held under
the auspices of New York Department Of
Street Cleaning, J. T. Fetherston, Coni-
missioner.

OCTOBER 12-13.—FREDERICI<s_BURC, VA. . .

League of Virginia Municipalities.
Sercetary, Luther C. Brinson, Portsmouth,
V3. ‘ ‘

-League of Kansas Municipalities. Sec-

retary, C. H. Talbot, University of Kan-
sas, Lawrence, Kan.

OCTOBER 20-21.—VIRGINIA, MINN. . . .
League of Minnesota Municipalities.
Secretary, Prof. Richard R. Price, Uni-

versity of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn.

+ + 1
Fourth National Housing Conference

Many workers for housing reform will
welcome two innovations to be made by the
National Housing Association next month
in the Fourth National Conference on
Housing in America.

One of these new features is the devoting
of an entire evening to the relationship Of
taxation to housing. Papers on this subject
will be presented by C. B. Fillebrown, Of
Boston, and E. R. A. Seligman, of New
York. The discussion will be Opened by
Edward T. Hartman, Of Boston, and Allan
Robinson, of New York.

The other innovation is the fact that a
national housing conference will for the
first time be held in a city where housing
evils have not reached the chronic stage
found in most of the larger and Older cities
of the United States. It is recognized,
however, that Minneapolis is by no means
ideal in housing conditions. Indeed, inves-
tigations made by the Minneapolis Civic and
Commerce Association have shown that it
has, in some degree, every type of housing
evil known to older and larger cities. It is
believed that delegates will find its housing
problems thoroughly typical Of the average
American city.

The conference proper will last three
days and will be followed by a Minneapolis
Housing Institute, which will be practically

[257]

Digitized by 60081?

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

 
 

The Modern

_ Make It Safe
ml. For Them to Play

 
    
   
 

There is more than appearance to playground
apparatus—more than mere strength and “stay-
ing” ability—there must be smoothness, ease,
quietness of operation to assure the utmost of
pleasure and satisfaction from each appliance.

    
     
   
 

For small or limited ground spaces, there is
nothing that can so satisfy and keep in motion
large groups of children as a climbing and slid-
ing combination. Children WILL climb some-
where, somehow, and the above combination
accomplishes the double purpose of exercise
and entertainment with safety.

 
 
      
   
 
     
 

A complete line of public playground apparatus fully
described in Catalog C-3 which will be sent on request. _

EVERWEAR MFG. CO., Springfield, Ohio

  
   

53 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tn: Aunrcur CITY.

SEPTEMBER, 1915

a fourth day’s conference, and which it is
expected the delegates will attend.

There will be two general sessions each
day as well as section meetings, an inspec-
tion trip and round table luncheon discus-
sions. The section meetings, each of which
will occupy a whole morning, are especially
designed for delegates who are actively en-
gaged in special phases of housing, and will
afford opportunity for full discussion of
practical details of their problems. The
first section appeals particularly to those
engaged in building or managing small
dwellings, members of limited dividend
companies, building and loan employers and
employes, as well as to social workers. The
second appeals to those engaged in draft-
ing or administering housing laws, ordi-
nances or regulations, members of local

THE AMERICAN CITY

259

housing committees, state and city health
officials, building inspectors, and, again, so-
cial workers who so often have to deal
with the results of bad housing which good
legislation well enforced would prevent.

The housing institute on October 9 will
deal chiefly with the practicability of devel-
oping garden suburbs in America for wage
earners and with standards for housing
codes.

One of the features of the conference
will be an exhibition planned by the Local
Committee to show what has been done in
various cities toward developing a model
dwelling. Over one hundred companies are
engaged in promoting improved dwellings
and already a considerable number have
promised to send exhibits, some including
models.

 

The American City Bureau Summer School ‘

Under the direction of the field staff of
the American City Bureau, and with the co-
operation of many leaders in commercial
organization and civic work, a Summer
School for Secretaries was successfully
conducted during the three weeks ending
August 7. Two weeks of the course were
spent in class-room study at East Dorset,
Vt., while the third week was divided be-
tween Boston and New York

The distance which several of the stu-
dents traveled to attend the school, and the
close application which all gave to the in-
struction and lectures, were a striking indi-
cation of the growing desire of ambitious
men to fit themselves for careers of real
usefulness in chamber of commerce work.
Of those who took the course some are al-
ready filling secretarial positions, while
others not now occupying such positions
are looking forward to entering the com-
mercial organization field as a life work.
The regularly enrolled students were:

A. L. Oliger/of Emporia, Kan.; N. B.
Shouse, of Muskogee, Okla.; Paul F. Col-
lier, of Durant, Iowa; Alfred Jenkins and
F. P. Mabee, of Detroit; Edwin B. Lina-
liury, of Pontiac, Mich.; Frank C. Saxton,
of Toledo; Luther M. Walton, of Reading,
Pa.; W. H. Hart, of Meriden, Conn.; T. C.
Fitzgibbon. of Sharon, Pa.; Alexis J. Col-
man, of Elizabeth, N. J.; J. Buckner Deb—
nam, of Dover, N. J.. and Walter K. Sum-
ner, of Glens Falls, N. Y.

There were also many others who at-
tended some or all of the meetings in Bos-
ton and New York, but who were unable to
spare the time to take the complete course.

The lecturers whose cooperation added
so greatly to the attractiveness and prac-
tical value of the Summer School, included:

Edward A. Filene, James A. McKibben,

Harold O. \Vellman, W. H. Chandler, L. B.
Hayes, George S. Smith, of Boston; John
Nolen, of Cambridge, Mass; Charles A.
Beard, Frederick A. Cleveland, S. C. Mead,
J. C. Lincoln, John C. Young, W. H. Ma-
honey, George B. Ford, Shelby M. Harri-
son, Arthur H. Blanchard, Edward T. De-
vine, Henry Gaines Hawn, Richard S.
Childs and H. S. Gilbertson, of New York;
Richard B. Watrous and E. E. Pratt, of
Washington, D. C.; Alfred L. Smith, of
Hanover, N. H.; Sherrard Ewing, of Read-
ing, Pa.; L. D. Upson, of Dayton, Ohio;
Clinton Rogers Woodruff, of Philadelphia,
and R. H. Gitchell, of Detroit.
' The class-room instruction during the
first two weeks devolved chiefly on Lucius
E. Wilson, Director of Campaigns, and
Daniel A. Reed and J. Harold Braddock,
Vice-Presidents of the American City Bu-
reau.

It is probable that a similar educational
opportunity will be afforded next summer to
men who feel the need for training in the

practical administration of commercial and
civic organizations.

Digitized by 600816

THE AMERICAN CITY

One man can clean up. the
Autumn leaves and trash quicker

and better with a

“PENNSYLVANIA”

Lawn Cleaner and Rake

than three or four men with hand

rakes.

The three revolving rakes create a
suction that cleans the lawn on the
same principle as a vacuum cleaner

operates on carpet.
Every bit of trash is lifted and

passed into the roomy basket. This
is easily emptied.

24-inch cleaning are
36 6‘ H u

The wire-tooth rakes leave the
grass standing upright, raising the
low crab grass so the mower can reach
it.

The “PENNSYLVANIA” Lawn
Cleaner and Rake is considered an
absolute necessity on large estates,
municipal parks and golf courses in
this country and abroad.

a, shipping weight 80 lbs.

H  (C

“The Pennsylvania People’ ’

JMWFWMQW

PHILADELPHIA. PENNSYLVANIA

4‘

In

 

When writing to Advertisers place nation Tin Annual Crn.

e e d e e e e
MunICIpal an CIVIC Publications
Copies may be ordered of Ta: Aunrcur C111, with the eruption of Government publication: and
those indicated a: free, which should be ordered direct from the office: publishing them

‘ . l

STEIN, MILTON R, Assoc. Mem. Am. Soc.
C. E., Assistant Engineer, Cleveland
Filtration Plant.

Water Purification Plants and Their
Operation. Charts, diagrams and illus-

trations. 258 pp. First Edition. 1915. $2.64

Citing the difficulties Often experienced when tak-
ing over the work of operating a water purification
plant, the preface states that the writer's object has
been “to give instructions for the operation of water
purification plants as simply and concisely as is con-
sistent with reasonable clearness.” Further: “It has
been attempted to include . . . all information and
data required in the operation of the plant, such as
instructions for preparing standard solutions, making
bacterial and chemical tests of the water, handling
coagulants, washing filters, keeping records, etc." The
nine chapters of the book treat of water and its im-
purities, types of purification plants, water tests, co-
agulation and sterilization. water softening, sedimen-
tation and filtration and general operation. Four ap-
pendices include: analysis of coagulants, standard so-
lutions, specifications for lime, soda, ash and aluminum
sulphate and a weir table. Copious illustrations are
included in the text in addition to many carefully
prepared charts and diagrams.

GORCAs, WILLIAM CRAWFORD, Chief Sanitary
Oli‘icer, Panama Canal, Surgeon-General,

U. S. A., Major-General, U. S. A.
Sanitation in Panama. 298 pp. Illus-
trated. 1915. $2.15

Previous to his appointment as Chief Sanitary Of-
iicer of the Canal Zone the author had been in charge
of the health work at Havana. Cuba. It was while
he held this position that the important discoveries
regarding yellow fever were made. Doctors Reed.
Lazear (who later died of yellow fever). Carroll and
Agramonte formed a Board which conducted experi-
ments that definitely proved ccrtain facts, as follows:
(1) Yellow fever is conveyed only by the female
stegomyia mosquito; (2) the mosquito is infected by
the blood it obtains from a person in whom the dis-
ease has been developing for at least 3 days; (3) 12
to 20 days elapse before the mosquito can communi-
cate infection; (4) the patient does not show symp-
toms until 3 to 6 days after being bitten: (5) the
yellow fever parasite is sub-microscopic but is killed
by a temperature of 55° C. This Information fur-
nished the principles needed to combat successfully
the disease of the tropics. Chapters X to XXII deal
with the actual sanitation work. based on these prin-
ciples, which was undertaken in Panama. How the
work was organized, the methods of sanitary inspec-
tion. hospital work. etc.. are all fully discussed. Fre-
quent photographs illustrate concrete drains and
ditches, screened water‘barrels and the mosquito squad
spraying marshes with oil from tanks strapped to their
shoulders. In addition to. this preventive work in the
case of yellow fever and malaria. measures were taken
to prevent the outbreak -Of bubonic plague and a spc~
cial colony was created ’for the reception of lepers.

TAYLOR, WINIERED LOUISE.
The Man Behind the Bars. 1914. 302

PP- $1.63

“Doubtless the key to my own position is the fact
that I always studied these prisoners as men, and I
tried not to obscure my vision by looking at them
through their crimes.” These words in the preface
give the keynote to the author‘s attitude in the pages
which follow. Fifteen interesting chapters. inter-
spersed with well-related anecdotes, tell Of the au-
thor’s various experiences in her study of prison con-
ditions and in her actual association with convicts.
In summing up in the last chapter it is stated: “The
basic principle of reform in those who prey upon so-
ciety is the changing of energies destructive into ener-

gies constructive." In other words, the actions Of
convicts are the result of prompting instincts which
in themselves are not necessarily evil, and which. fur.
thermore, if properly directed (or unhindered in their
expression) may lead to lives of positive benefit to the
community.

THE AMERICAN ACADEMY OF POLITICAL AND
SOCIAL SCIENCE.
The American Industrial Opportunity.
Vol. LIX, May, 1915; whole NO. 148, of
The Annals of the American Academy of
Political and Social Science.) 357 pp.
Paper, $1.00; cloth, $1.50

This issue of the Annals contains the following pa-
pers:. “The Resources of the United States and Their
Relation to Opportunity." by R. Malcolm Keir; “Pro-
longing Life and Developing Personal Powers,” by
. ease Norton; “The Importance of Research as a
.Ieans of .Increasing Agricultural Production.” by
M. B. Waite; “Agricultural Education and Agricul-
tural Prosperity," by A. C. True; “The Efficienc
Movement in Its Re ation to Agriculture," by W. .
Spillman; “The. Selentilic Study of Marketing," by
Selden 0. Martin; “The Relation Of Research to the
Progress of Manufacturing Industries,” by W. R.
Whitney; “Motion Study as an Increase Of National
Wealth," by Frank B. Gilbreth: “Low Wa es and the
Low Wage Environment.” by Frank P. alsh; “The
Adequacy of American Wages," by Scott Nearing:
“Industrial Output and Social Efficiency," by Charles
Ervin Reitzel; “The Theories Advanced in Explan-
ation of Economic Crises," by E. M. Patterson:
“Taxation of Land as a Remedy for Unem loyment,"
by Bolton Hall; "Socialism as a Cure or Unem-
poyment,” by John Spargo; “Statutory Provisions
for and Achievements of Public Emplo ment Bu-
reaus." by Henry G. Hodges; “Public ureaus of
Employment,” by Charles . Barnes; “Casual and
Chronic Unemployment," b Morris Llewellyn Cooke:
“Profit Sharing as an In uence in Industrial Rela-
tions," b A. E. Pfahler; “Some Thoughts on In-
dustrial nrest,” by Daniel Guggenheim; “The New
Government Regulation of Business,” by( James T.
Young; “The Influence of the Federal eserve Act
Upon Commercial Borrowing," by Thomas Conway,
Jr.; “The Free Port an Agency for the Development
of American Commerce." by Frederic C. Howe; “The
Modern Terminal Port,” by William oshua Barney;
“The Waterways and Commercial volution,” by
Ralph H. Hess; “The Reconstructed City.” by . Rus-
sell Smith; “The Attitude of Business Towar s For-
eign Trade." by Edward Ewing Pratt; "Branch Banks,
and Our Foreign Trade,” lay William S. KIes: “South-
American Markets," by harles M. Pepper; “The
UnitediStates’ O portunity to Increase Its Foreign
Trade with Soutli America." by Lorenzo Daniels:
“Cobperative Pioneering and Guaranteeing in the
Foreign Trade,” by Edward A. Filene.

ENGINEERING NEws. -
Redresed Granite Block Pavements.

(Issue of May 27, 1915.) 4 pp. Photo-
graphs. 15 cents

The practice of clipping used granite pavin blocks.
relaying, and covering them with asphalt is iscussed
and the size qualifications for the blocks in different
localities is quoted. Employing old blocks as a
foundation for asphalt is said not to have been found
satisfactory because the large size of the blocks mili-
tates against a smooth surface under the present
heavy trafhc. This dithculty, in the cases discussed in
the article, is met by clipping the blocks to a smaller
size and laying them 11 on a carefully prepared bed.
In conclusion, the artice states that "OffiCIals of the
cities which have tried redressed granite-block ave~
ments have reported no fault to be found with em;
they have obtained what proves to be substantially
a hrstoclass granite-block pavement at one-half to two.
thirds the cost of a pavement Of new blocks.”

[261]

Digitized by 600816

THE AMERICAN CITY

CYCLONE'WAUKEGAN

Help Abolish
To Make SANITARY FENCE Disease-

. ‘ In hundreds of cities and towns .
 l k yt‘lone Sanitary Fence has receive  l
Ute unqualified approval 0! health and
. Civic inrprovement authorities. . .
‘ lulu-Hence has shoun that one Cyclone
 1* ence in :1 block leads to others and starts a general 

clean—up n overuent that is permanent and beauti-
ang. because Cyclone I’euee is a standing protest
a"Hairlst disense-hreerling conditionsLopeus the alleys and
1—iack}nrds to ensy inspection, to sunshine and fresh air.

Cyclone Sanitary Fence is substantially built of heavily
galvanized wire. closely and firmly woven. It is easy to erect on
Woollen or iron posts um! adjusts itself to uneven ground. It is
econo'nueul— cheaper titun wood, for it lasts many years without decay
or repairs. We build it in various ornamental designs of our own to suit

our customers. Handsomely Illustrated Catalog Free on request.

CYCLONE FENCE: CO., Dept. 107 Waukegan. Ill.

“’2 maintain all
Engineering [Je-
pdltllltiilt w h o s e
StrVic‘U is at your
IllN'IHJSL'Li free. of cost.
\K‘ritcusulmutyour
fetter: [IrUiIit‘Illb' and
we will be })lC.iSml
to aid you with ex;
pert suggestions.

"‘¢t _
r5
.
.I'

0.
.‘l

1
3“,
-9 l
I
I

GATEWAYS

ORNAMENTAL gateways give an undeniable dig-

Inity and air of exclusiveness to a place, that to
most of us, is distinctly desirable.
In our catalog we show an unusually large assort-
ment of designs from the simplest to the most elabo-

rate. But mostly the simpler ones.

Fences are there to go with them; both in wire and iron I

You will be interested in seeing the unclimbsblc fcnccs  I W 

that effectually police property.  
We have a notion you will find in it, pretty close to Our plant is 0 en to visitor-3 at all times

the fence or ateway you want. . . .
The prices wi I encourage you. Send for this catalog. ‘ dunng working ours! excepting Saturdays“
All processes will be cheerfully and carefully

' 1 ' d b ’de .
 S E Parti(36:11:33]:chozl:?:¥£:;tag:d srfcieties
IRON WORJCS SIMPLEX WIRE & CABLE co.

particularly welcome.
Manufacturers

8448 Vanda St. Indianapolis. Ind. 201 Devon-hire St.. Boston

ChiCIBO SIB Francisco 1|.

 

54 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tm»: AHERICAN CITY.

SEPTEMBER, 1915

GODINEZ, F. LAURENT, Consulting Lighting

Specialist. ,_ ,
Display Window  and the City

Beautiful. (Facts an Meals for Pro-
gressive Merchants.) 223 pp. “19%;: $2.19

By means of a profusely» illuStrated text this $600!:
shows what can be accom lished’b scientific lighting
methods to make indivi ual .win ow dis lays more
attractive and our city street; more beauti 11]. In his
preface the author sa 3: “The public lighting of the
American city has su ered from an overdose of what
may best be described as commercial utilitarianism."
In the case of at least one city, it is shown, the in.
itiative and activity of the local Chamber of Com-
merce overcame this objection, and a re ime of evolu-
tion and progress was inaugurated. he book con-
siders the city street as a unit in the lighting. system
and insists that as streets are the common pro erty 0f
the citizens they should receiVe primary consi eration.
Besides treating of gas and electric li hting effects. the
book devotes a special chapter to “ olor Attraction,”
and the various means of intensifying or modifying and
of composing colors is explained. The last chapter,
“Modern Dis lay Lighting," describes a series of ex-
hibits in win ow lighting which resulted from the co-
operation Of the Jersey City Chamber of Commerce
and the Public Service Corporation of that city. In
these displays all the resources of light, color andq
action were combined in such an unusual fashion that;
highly; interesting and instructive results Were 0b-
taIne . '

HALL, NEerN MARSHALL, Minister of the
North Congregational Church, Spring-
field, Mass., Member-at-Large of the
Springfield Board of Education.

Civic Righteousness and Civic Pride.

1914. 198 pp. 31-35

Pointing out that civic questions are at bottom moral
questions, the author shows that the ideal democ-
rac cannot be attained by model charters, the refer-
en um, nor b similar devices alone. The chapters
are made up 0 a series of sermons by the author, and
treat of such subjects as immigration, civic responsn-
bility, vice suppression, public schools, the saloon, and
the Civic work of wonien. Em basis is placed through-
out upon the larger scope o the modern city’s ac-
tivities—“every man’s house his castle" is being re-
placed by a higher doctrine of self-sacrifice for com-
munity betterment. The writer’s conception is well
summed up in a paragraph in the chapter on One
Righteousness and Civic Pride: “The develomnent of
civxc pride means a development of the consc10usness
Of unity, the sense of the mutual Interdependence of
every citizen, and a consequent development Of the
principles of democracy."

TAYLOR, GEORGE A., Editor of Building and
Real Estate Magazine.
Town Planning for Australia. (Intro-

duction by John Sulman, F. R. I. B. A..
President. Town,' Planning Association of

N. S. W.) 1914. Quarto. 136 pp. 109
illustrations. ~ 75 cents

In popular style the author first writes of the great
need for town planning in Australia, giving a sum-
mary of town planning in ancient times, the progress
made in England, France and Germany, and “The
Tragedy of Washington City.” Australia's unusual Op-
portunity for building a capital on virgin soil is then
discussed. with a detailed description of the prize
plan of Walter Burley Griffin, briefer mention (with
illustrations) of the second and third prize plans,
and a section devoted to the composite plan finally
adopted. Gary. Ind., and Forest Hills, L. I., are
described in subsequent chapters and the remainder
of the volume takes up special problems such as
water, sewerage, lighting, transportation, heights of
buildings, financial aspects of city planning, and or-
ganization and administration, concluding with gen-
eral remarks on the ideal city and how to attain it.

Mor'r, FRANK K.. Mayor of Oakland. Cal.
A Review of Municipal Activities in the
City of Oakland, California, 1905-1915.
1915. 46 pp. (Supply limited.) Free

THE AMERICAN CITY

263

SNEDDEN, DAVID. Commissioner of Education
for Massachusetts,
WEEKS, RUTH MARY, and
CUBBERLEY, ELLWOOD P., Professor of Educa-
tion in Leland Stanford Junior Uni-
versity.
Vocational Education: Its Theory,
Administration and Practice. (Three
Studies originally published in separate
volumes of the Riverside Educational
MonOgraphs.) 1914. 401 pp. $1.30

The three articles in this volume embrace a general
program or plan for future vocational education or-
ganization, an intensive study of vocational educational
methods as applied in public schools, and an exposition
of the work that has been done in rural schools and
the steps necessary to make the results more far-
reaching. Mr. Snedden (“The Problems of Vocational
Education") takes up the historical aspect, detines vo-
cational education and shows the present need for it,
discusses state support, types of vocational education,
cooperation of agenc1es, relation of vocational to
cultural education, and types of schools. Miss Weeks
(“The Perlds School: A Study in Vocational Train-
ing”) go'e's into the details of the organization and
management of trade and industrial schools in Europe
and America, and formulates a definite ideal type of
trade school for uidance in future efforts. The final
article b Mr. Cu berley (“The Improvement of Rural
Schools’) shows how rural schools have been neg.
lected. There is need for undamental changes in a -
ministration, and to effect t is the states must be per.
suaded to expend more money. The author further
discusses the organization and supervision of rural
schools. The three articles together form an interestin
and comprehensive exposition of the subject, and eac
of the authors appears to have a profound sense of the
importance of vocational education in modern life.

MAWSON, THOMAS H. & SONS, Landscape

Architects. _
Exeter of the Future. (A Policy of Im-

provement Within a Period Of 100 Years.)
Quarto. 34 pp. Illustrated. 75 cents

Proposals for giving to Exeter a dignified monument
expressive of its corporate civic existence and com-
parable in beauty and magnitude to the ancient Ca-
thedral, form the theme of this report, which is In 110
sense intended to take the place of a general_town
planning scheme. The main feature discussed Is the
Municipal Center. Then follow plans for a new rail-
way station with appropriate surroundings. In con-
clusion there are given miscellaneous suggestions, and
a chapter on suitable connections between the Ca-
thedral and the rest of the civic scheme. The report
is distinguished by unusual charm and .interest. it
emphasizes the fact that no part Of a City can exist
for itself alone, but helps to make or mar the
whole.

PRICE, L. L., M. A. .
Co-operation and Co-partnership. Glas-

gow. 1914. 264 pp.

Half the volume is devoted to a discussion of the
factors to which coOperation and copartncrship owe
their origin, the various theories of leaders who
advocated them, and the respects in which, as worked
out in Great ,Britain, they have failed to meet in-
ordinate ex ctations. Part two takes up concrete
instances 0 successful experiments, analyzing, in
particular, the principles of the Rochdale plan, and
giving an account of the English and Scottish coOper-
ative wholesale societies. The methods of other
coéperative socities are more briefly included, and the
meaning of the terms “copartnership,” “coopera-
tion,” “profit-sharing,” and “industrial partnership" is
discussed.

COMMITTEE ON TRAINING FOR PUBLIC SERVICE,
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY.

Report of the Committee on Training

for Public Service. March 27, 1915. 16

pp. (Supply limited.) Free

Digitized by 600816
‘

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

sum» 76-1.“!!! wmqu-Hm m Content Current Tran
W (a the WM Municipal plant.

1113 Best Evidence .o_f Satisfactory Service

 

 

 

HE Pittsburgh Municipal Light Plant has

had in service for the past five years a

Westinghouse Metallic Flame Arc Lighting

System, consisting of 1200 lamps and sixteen

75-1ight Westinghouse Cooper Hewitt Rectifier
Constant Current Transformers.

The performance of this equipment has been so
eminently satisfactory that, in extending the service, an
order was recently placed for an additional equipment
of 900 Metallic Flame Arc Lamps and twelve 75-light
Rectifier Constant Current Transformers of the same

type.

 

Catalogue Section DS~29O gives full particulars _ , ‘
about Westinghouse Metallic Flame Arc Lamps \ , y'

Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co. 

SelesOchesinAllLugeCities. EAST PITTSBURGH. PA. magmas”,

 

55 When writing to Advertisers please mention THE AMERICAN erv.

. 4“” _ -

SEPTEMBER, 191 5

THE AMERICAN ACADEMY OF POLITICAL AND
SOCIAL SCIENCE.
Read'ustments in Taxation. (The A»-
ml: or March, 1915.) 275 pp.
Paper, $1.00; Cloth, $1.50

An introductory chapter by Prof. Edwin R. A.
Seligman of Columbia University outlines the mod-
ern tendencies of taxation systems in America and
describes the need for more centralized control in
matters of taxation, for separation of local and state
revenues, and for a classified property tax. Sectional
associations of tax commissions are especially recom-
mended. The remaining discussions take up specific
problems of national, state and local taxation. Among
those of particular interest from a local point of view
may be mentioned the following: “Taxation of Public
Utilities,” by Delos F. Wilcox; "The Disproportion
of Taxation in Pittsburgh,” by Shelb M. Harrison;
"Reduction of Tax on Buildings in t e City of New
York," by
Taxation," by J  Pastoriza. One chapter sum-
marizes the work accomplished by various state tax
commissions, giving interesting figures.

IVES, GEORGE, M. A.

A History of Penal Methods. (Crim-
inals, Witches, Lunatics.) Printed in
Great Britain. 1914. 409 pp. $3.16

Part of the author’s task has been "to analyze the
theories and assumptions on which the criminal laws
are founded, and to exhibit their falsity." In this
connection many instances of revolting and barbaric
punishments are described. In the second place he
endeavors to show the forces which play on people,
the usual resistance, and the resultant conduct, with
the purpose of aiding in classifyin offenders on ra-
tional principles, in order that eac may receive the
treatment proper to his condition. His constructive
suggestions are in favor of probation, parole, educa-
tional work in reformatories, parole on conditional
release, humane and patient care of discharged men.
and asylum treatment of those who cannot safely be
restored to freedom.

LYTTON, CONSTANCE, and
WARTON, JANE, SPINSTER.
Prisons and Pnsoners.

_ (Some Personal
Experiences.)

1914. 337 pp. Portraits.

$1.10

A personal account of four imprisonments under-
one by Lady Constance Lytton as a militant suf-
ragette; first under her own name and later under
the assumed name of Jane Warton. ‘I‘ he sincerity, im‘é
presmonability, and rehnement of the writer’s person-
ality make her analysis of the effects of prison life
upon the individual of unusual appeal. - Imprisonment
was sought.for.the purpose of studying these oetIects.
The narrative is of interest as a contribution to lit-
erature. upon prison reform, as a’, plea for militant
sut‘l'ragism, and as a study in psychology.

KELLAWAY, HEEERT J., Landscape Architect;
‘F. A. S. L. A. ‘

How to Lay Out. Suburban H0me
Grounds. Second Edition, Enlarged. 1915.

134 pp. Illustrated. $2.15

Landscape architecture as a practical art becomes
each year more universal, not only in the large public
and private undertakings, but also in less retentious
.suburban homes. It is this latter class 0 dwellings
with which the book is concerned. The prospective
home-builder should first exercise care in the selec-
tion of the site and not be-too hasty to start construc-
tion. In every locality there is a need for initial plan-
ning, for esthetic as well as economic reasons, and
each site
'which advantage should be taken in the development.
The various ste s in the above process are discussed
‘in fourteen pro usely illustrated chapters, and a thou-
sand hints and sug estions are included which cover
every phase of gar en planting and arrangement, the
choice of shrubs, plants and trees, disposition Of
hedges, how to make lawns, and the use of architcco
tural adornments.

THE AMERICAN CITY

Edward Polak; “The Houston Plan of ,

presents conditions and opportunities of.‘

265

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR STUDY AND PRE-
VENTION OF INFANT MORTALITY.

Transactions of the Fifth Annual Meet-
ing. (Held in Boston, November 12-14,

1914.) 1915. 391 pp. $3.12

“Saving the babies and teaching the mothers" is
the theme taken up in this volume under the four
main divisions of Prenatal Care, Obstetrics, Public
School Education, and Nursing and Social Work. In
the main, the work to be done is regarded as dis-
tinctly a public health problem. The reader gains a
firsthand idea, from those who have been most
prominent in this new and important movement, of the
progress that has been made and of the lines along
which it is desirable to direct future ed'orts. Among
the many interesting papers may be mentioned “The
Development of Prenata Care in the United States,”
by Mrs. Max \Vest Of the Federal Children’s Bureau
at Washington, and “Some Possibilities of the Public
Schools in Reducing Infant Mortality," by David
Snedden, Ph. D., Commissioner of Education in Mas-
sachusetts.

PICHT, DR. WERNER.

Toynbee Hall and the English Settle-
ment Movement. (Revised edition, trans-
lated from the German by Lilian A.
Cowell, Girton College, Cambridge.)
London, 1914. xii + 248 pp. 2 charts.

31-33

An historical and critical account of the English
settlement movement, with special reference to Toyn-
bee Hall, the “Mother of Settlements." Excursus 1
contains a detailed histor of the University Exten-
sion movement, and exprains why it has failed to
reach the working man. In Excursus II is shown how
this problem has been solved by the Workers’ Edu-
cational Association. The appendix gives a list of
sizttlemlfnts in Great Britain, with a short description
0 eac .

BOSANQUET, HELEN, LL. D.

Social Work in London (1869-1912): A
History of the Charity '

Society. 1914. x + 420 pp. F rontispiece.
. $3.13
The first part of the volume chronicles the origin

and internal development of the Charity Organization
Society. .In art two is developed the wider theme
of the princip es- which the Society tran'slates into ac-
tion, and their application tothe problems of London
life. Under this section are included activities in
connection with housing and sanitation; the care ot
the defective, the sick, the poor, children; pensions;
.winter distress: and miscellaneous needs. The his-
tory is authorized, though not official. It puts the
reader in touch with -most of the £hilanthropic
movements in London, voluntary and o cial, during
the last half century.

DEARLE, N'. B., M. A., Shaw Research Student
of the London School of Economics and
Political Science... 1907-9. .

Industrial Training. (With Special Ref-
erence to the Conditions Prevailin in
London.) Studies in Economics an Po-
a litical Science, No. 39, London SchoOl "of
-Economics.. «London, ‘1914. xiii + 596
pp. $2.80

Based upon a study of actual conditions in the lead-
ing trades in Gre ter London. The author, after set-
ting forth his pro lem, analyzes the four main meth-
ods of acquiring a trade, name] , "regular service,"
“migration,” “following up," an "picking up," com-
garing their relative value. He then devotes a num-

er of chapters to actual conditions in London, sum-

ming n his conclusions in a final chapter entitled
“The eeds of the Future." The fact that almost
every form of industry is to be found in London.
carried on in establishments of various sizes, makes
this study of particularly wide interest.

Digitized by GOO§I€

Organization '

v

THE AMERICAN CITY

HERWIG 

CAST METAL HOLDER FOR
vsmunou TYPE C LAMPS

Patent Pending

PRACTICAL AND DURABLE

Perfect Cooling Syetem —Finieh Block Beked Emmel
Mode in All Since
The Fixture for Street and Public Place Lighting

CAST METAL OUTDOOR LIGHTING
FIXTURES OF EVERY DESCRIPTION

Write for Complete Catalogue No. 10
I'Ierwlg Art Shade & Lamp 60., Z!” N. Helsteld St., Chicago, Ill.

GIANT

Playground
Ap paratus

STANDS THE TEST

Catalog No. 14 will

furnish good suggestions
for your selections.

GIANT MFG. C0., 240 So. Main, Council Bluffs, Iowa

VENTILATION

    

No. I“

 

 

The Fence Beautiful and Substantral . -
Your lirst consideration in buying fence should grounds and estates, is but one of many Excelsior
be to get one that looks well, will last and give styles. Extra heavy galvanizing by dipping the

“ fence after it is com-
nency is a leature of all oleted prevents rust.

Excelsior Rust Proof Ask your hardware

Fences. They are made   dealer for Excelsior

of large wires fastened Rust Proof F ence-ealso'
together wtth patent clamps. not twisted or for Excelsior Rust Prool Tree and Bed Guards,
woven. The fence shown above, especially Trellises and TrellisArclres. Write direct for
adapted to cemeteries and extensive public illustrated Catalog C.

WRIGHT WIRE COMPANY, Worcester, Mass.

real protection. Perma-

 
 

 

 

50 When writing to Advertisers please mention THE AMERICAN CITY.

 

f

 

Methods, Materials and Appliances

El El
3 =
El News from Engineers, Manufacturers and Supply Houses El
kEIEI : J

 

r

 

 

BARNEY OLDFIELD RACING WITH THOMPSON AT THE FIRESTONE PICNIC

The Institute of Paving Brick
Manufacturers

Like most organizations that fill a real need
this institute is less the result of a deliberate
plan on the part of an organizer than the out-
growth of a spontaneous desire on the part of
certain manufacturers for more intensive prac-
tical study into brick-making problems. Cer-
tain conferences held at the time of the Detroit
meeting resulted in the appointment of a meet-
ing in Youngstown on May 25. Officers were
elected there and a committee appointed to
draw up a constitution and by-laws, which
were adopted in a meeting at Canton on
June 29.

The next meeting will occur at Alton, 111.,
on September 22. The place is selected with
a view to the opportunity it affords to visit the
plant of the Alton Brick Company. It has be-
come the rule of the Institute to combine plant
inspection with theoretical study, and its in-
vestigations at Alton will be a continuance of
those pursued at the plants of the Bessemer
Limestone Company in Youngstown and the
Metropolitan Paving Brick Company in
Canton.

At the forthcoming Alton gathering inspec-
tion will occupy the day and the meeting will
be held in the evening. A paper upon electric
drives in paving brick plants by Eb. Rodgers
will be a feature of this meeting.

The organization of this institute is an evi-
dence of the new day that has dawned in com-
petitive industry, a day when competitors take
mutual pride in the advance of their profes—
sion, and realize that more is to be made by
each through a reputation for good service

accruing to all than through jealousies and
secrecy. The Institute is advancing one of the
cardinal objects of the National Paving Brick
Manufacturers Association and has its hearty
approval and cooperation.

++

The Firestone Picnic

Firestone Tire & Rubber Company has be-
gun the publication of a new house organ,
“The Firestone,” and the August number con-
tains an interesting description of the annual
Firestone Picnic (attended by 15,000 “Fire-
stoneites”), with‘ pictures of the day’s sports.
Barney Oldfield in his Fiat Cyclone is shown
racing with De Lloyd Thompson, the aviator,
in his aeroplane. Other entertainment, such
as ball games, races and water sports is vividly
described and portrayed.

++

Philadelphia Oiiice for Austin-Western

The Austin-Western Road Machinery Com-
pany, of Chicago, 111., has opened an ofiice
in Philadelphia at 314 Bulletin Building for
the further convenience of its customers and
others in that territory. Mr. E. M. Terwil-
liger, who has had many years’ experience in
the road machinery. and more especially in
the road roller business, has been placed in

charge of the ofhce.
'l- '1-

Street Lighting Poster

The King Foundry Company, of St. Louis.
Mo., has prepared an illustrated poster for
distribution which advantageously displays
its line of new standards for street lighting.

[267]

THE AMERICAN CITY

‘I'III ILOII GI. ‘I’ILI.

the merits of a conduit after it’s put under-
ground—and then a wrong selection is apt
to prove costly. Investigate before you
decide, then you’ll decide on

QUICK SHIPMENTS      FIBRE

0F CAST IRON “\ connurr
PIPE AND FITTINGS , “mugging.-

INTEREST YOU? mmf .. m.

and electrolysis—labor sim-
plicity—joint econo In y—
b r e a k a g e s—transportation
charges — shipment facilities.

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
 

Book Disagood waytoget
the facts.

Every size of pipe from 3 to 48inches " The Fibre Conduit CO.
can be shipped by us in Omgobum, N. Y.

24 HOURS *  ....... cm... ... 

We have the largest stock of Special
fittings in the country.

Do you receive our monthly stock
reports? They Will be sent upon
request.

CLOW SPECIALS FOR
CAST IRON PIPE

 

 

 

Ornamenlal
lighting
Poles

are designed to add
beauty to your streets.
but they do far more.
They help make your
town prosperous by
attracting business.

This particular de-
sign of pole is for the
high eliiciency Type
"C" Mazda Lamp.

Let us tell you more
about this pole. or we
will Show you our

 
  

 

 

Cutting-in the Hanged and threaded
cast iron pipe also carried in stock.
Shipment from Chicago, Coshocton or
Newcomerstown, Ohio.

JAMES B.CLOW&SONS

 

Established 1313 Other dwm- _
Harrison Sgszt oligige, Chicago ORNAMEMAL
. u ' . a. TING POLE (:0
’31?an- Mnmngeanzelse'i but 553mg “0" '
Works: Poll for all Tm of Lighting

Chicago Newcomerstown.0hlo. Coshocton,0hlo

114 “but! Stu Now York

    

57 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tn: Anemone CITY.

 

Sum, 1915

Out of the Ruins

The fire which partially
destroyed the Edison
Phonograph Works in De-
cember, 1914, resulted in
Thomas A. Edison conceiv-
ing the idea of a storage
battery searchlight for use
in connection with fire-fight-
ing work at night. This
searchlight equipment, as
shown in the illustration
herewith, consists of a 20-
inch incandescent search-
light with a 750-watt Mazda ‘3
nitrogen-filled lamp, having’
a mean candle-power of
1,500 and giving a reflected
intensity at the axis of the
beam of 1,100,000 candle-
power. By means of an ad-
justable focussing attach-
ment the beam may be con -
centrated to penetrate dense
smoke. Or, by giving a wide
angle, it will flood the sides
of large buildings with light.

The Edison storage bat-
tery searchlight, whether
used in the form of an indi-
vidual unit as shown or at-
tached to the fire apparatus,

provides a safe and certain . .
illumination at an mstant’s notice With no cost

maintenance except a few cents, once or twice
a year, for charging current—unless, of course,
the lamp is being used. The perfected Edison
storage battery searchlight is now ready for
sale to municipal fire departments or private
factory and industrial works owners. Further
descriptive matter and illustrations may be
secured from the Edison Storage Battery

Company, Orange, N. J.
4° 4°

An Economical Fire Fighter

The Davis Sewing Machine Company, of
Dayton, Ohio, has published a new booklet de-
scriptive of the Dayton Tri-Car Chemical,
which is intended either as the ideal light
equipment for metrOpolitan fire departments,
or else as a complete fire-fighting outfit for
small cities. No matter what the population
of your municipality, if you are interested in
fire protection, you will find this booklet of
considerable interest. The up-keep expense
of the Dayton Tri-Car Chemical is very
low. The cost of renewing tires is not more
than one-fifth of that for heavier motor appa-
ratus. Each machine is equipped when it
leaves the factory with Dayton airless tires
of special fire truck type, which are puncture-
proof. Other makes of tires are optional.
The chemical tanks may be recharged at the
mere cost of the chemicals—about 60 cents per
charge. Add to this a small amount for oil
and gasoline and you have practically all of the

maintenance expense.

Comi ht.
Thomas AsEdilon

NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS

259

 

EDISON’S NEW INVENTION T0 AID IN
FIRE FIGHTING

Grand Prize for Road
Machinery Exhibit

The Austin-Western Road Machinery Com-
pany exhibit at the Panama-Pacific Exposition
has been awarded the Grand Prize for the col-
lective exhibit. This is unique, in the fact that
it is<the only Grand Prize for road machinery
offered in the entire Exposition, so that no
other individual road-making machine or col-
lective road-making machines can receive such
a high honor as this.

In addition to this special Grand Prize, the
Medal of Honor has been awarded to the
Austin and Western elevating graders, Austin
gyratory crushers, Austin motor rollers, Austin
street sprinklers and sweepers, Austin com-
bined sprinkler and sweeper; and the Gold
Medal has been awarded to this company’s
dump cars, jaw crushers, ditching machines.
road graders, plows, reversible horse rollers,
street oilers and motor lawn mowers. making
a total of 16 prizes, viz.: the special Grand
Prize and 15 medals.

rhi-

A Change of Name

The Pacific Tank & Pipe Company, of Port-
land, Ore., has changed its name to the Na-
tional Tank & Pipe Company. The personnel
of the new corporation remains the same and
all water-works officials interested in the sub-
ject of wood water pipe are requested to keep
the name and address of the National Tank 8:
Pipe Company in mind when seeking quota-
tions and information relative to this product.

A

THE AMERICAN CITY

MOTT LAM P POSTS

 

FAMOUS BOARDWALK. ATLANTIC CITY . LIGHTED WITH MOTT LAMP POSTS

WRITE FOR CATALOGUES AND PRICE LISTS
OVER ONE THOUSAND DESIGNS

FOUNTAINS

 

DISPLAY

FOUNTAINS
FOR

PUBLIC SQUARES
PARKS, ETC.

MANHOLE
FRAMES

GRATINGS

TREE GUARDS

 

WRITE FOR
CATALOGUES

 

FOUNTAIN IN BEDFORD AVE. BROOKLYN. N.Y.

DRINKING
FOUNTAINS

WITH

SANITARY
CUPS, ETC.

SETTEES
VASES

RAILINGS

STR E ET
SIGN POSTS

THE J. L. MOTT IRON WORKS

FIFTH AVENUE AND SEVENTEENTH STREET

NEW YORK CITY

When writing to Advertisers please mention THE Autumn CITY.

Sana, 1915

A Goodyear Gavel

_ When President T. J.
Gough was about to call to
order the Ohio Fireman's
Association Convention at
Bellaire, Ohio, on August 3.
after surveying the top of
the table with a worried
and disappointed look for
a gavel with which to bring
the chatting firemen to at-
tention, and which the com-
mittee evidently overlooked,
the irrepressible I. E. Da-
vies, of The Goodyear Tire
& Rubber Company, of Ak-
ron, Ohio, saw an opportunity to render a
valuable service to the Association.

Fishing from his pocket a section of Good-
year cushion tire mounted on a wooden base,
Davies marched up the aisle to the president’s
table and deposited his offering there, to the
great amusement of the convention. With the
improvised gavel President Gough was able to
bring the firemen to order and launch the con-
vention, which by common consent is the most
successful ever held by the Association.

The Fire Truck Tire Department of the
Goodyear Company has issued a booklet en-
titled, “Vest Pocket Facts of Interest to Fire
Chiefs.” This booklet contains a list of cities
in the United States and Canada using Good-
year tires on fire equipment, also several tables
showing carrying capacities of different types
of the tires. .

To secure best results from rubber tires,
either pneumatic or solid, it is very important
that the weight of the machine be taken off of
the tires while standing in the engine house.
There are a number of efficient devices on the
market for this purpose.

 

A POPULAR TYPE OF STREET CAN

NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS

271

 

TURBINE PUMP OWNED BY CITY OF YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO

For Water-Works Pumping Stations

The Kerr Turbine Company. of Wells-
ville, N. Y., is distributing Bulletin No. 51,
“ ‘Economy’ Geared Turbines,” which explains
the advantages often obtained by interposing
gears between turbine and driven generator,
pump, blower or pulley. and also describes the
new method by which “Economy” turbine
gears are so accurately hobbed that no grinding
or polishing is necessary for finish. These
gears are said to be so quiet in operation that
they make no more noise than the windage of
a direct-connected outfit. A copy of this bul-
letin will be sent by the company on request.

Recent sales to municipalities reported by
the Kerr Turbine Company include the fol-
lowing: Atlantic City, N. J., an 18,000,000-gal-
lon Economy Turbo-pump; Baltimore, a 500-
kilowatt Turbo-generator; Williamsport, Pa.,
a 425-horsepower turbine for driving a pump;
Youngstown, Ohio, two 250-kilowatt Turbo-
alternators. The exports include orders for
the East Hull Gas Company, Groves England;
the Corporation Gas Works, Birkenhead, Eng-
land; and Armour de la Plata, Argentina.

The photograph herewith reproduced shows
one of three “Economy” steam turbine-driven
pumping units recently shipped to the city of
Youngstown, Ohio. Each pump has a capacity
of 5,000 gallons per minute against a head of
250 feet, and is direct-connected to an 800-
horsepower condensing multi-pressure stage
turbine with oil relay governor.

1"!-

Trash Cans for Street Corners

The Steel Basket .Company, of Cedar Rapids,
1a., has published an interesting booklet show-
ing various designs of refuse cans for park.
cemetery and street use. The type of can illus-
trated herewith is one which has proven very
popular and serviceable for street corner ser-
vice. This can is made of heavy material, and
in such a manner as to stand the abuses to
which such cans are subject, and has the de-
sirable feature of being entirely closed. com-
pletely hiding the contents. The Steel Basket
Company makes a specialty of working out any
individual ideas which municipalities or indi-
viduals may wish to suggest in the refuse can
line, and will gladly submit prices and sketches

on request.

THE AMERICAN CITY

   

Almost Unanimous YOUR TOWN ’8 BEST
ADVERTISEMENT i
i

. 650 cities have orna-
mental street lighting.

586 ofithem use Alba.

' Alba

Ornamental Balls

are attractive, efficient, and
make the best use of the
light—economy.

  9 OUt   ELlu8inLl2I32‘lnlnll: ::.:O::.m

WM
Macbeth - Evans CENTRAL FOUNDRY COMPANY
Glass Company

Operators and Sole OonarsoIFoundriesat
P i t t s bur gh

mm HoltAh. Banana-.Ala. MahaNJ.
Newark,N.J. thd. Mania. 1“!

is a MORRIS Orna-
mental Street Lighting
System.

Hundreds of cities and Towns i
use Moms Cm Iaon Srsxn- ‘
ARDS including the City of New B
York where Moaaxs STANDARDS
have the approval of the
Municipal Art Commission.

Moms S'umnaans withstand

all weathering action ensuring
Maximum Service.

Over 500 Designs for
Every Requirement.

Ask for Catalogue.

 

 

    
 

  

The
Coleman Boulevard

Lamp

Makes and Burns Its
Own Gas from
Gasoline or Kerosene

 Candle-power
Single Light

'A standard like this offers a
very economical method of
lighting streets eliiciently. The
initial cost is low as is also the
maintenance cost.

This standard is free from
excessive embellishment, there-
by heightening the decorative
and imposing lamp design.

The old style swinging arc
lamp is being rapidly dis-
placed by such designs as these.
The first installation in New
Haven, Conn. has been fol-
lowed by Baltimore, Rochester,
Qincinnati and other large
Cities.

Our new catalogue will show

you many designs. Write for
it today.

 
     

Itismsdeofcuthomeop-
per and brass. Will not rust
out. Stands 12 feet high. Is
storm proof and bug prooi.

It gives a strong, white light
and throws it down on the
street and sidewalk where it is
wanted and not up ‘among the
tree tops. ‘

Giving 1000 candle wer.
midnight saviee costs cents
per lamg per night. All night
service cents per night. In
competitive tests we have
never tliailed to show mmat
opera :1 cost 0 any 'ne
or electrfc light made.

It is lighted and turned on
from the ground in less than a
minute. It is thoroughly prac-
tical and the extra ‘ gas pro-
ducer” insures against failure

Also made to give 300 candl
power. ‘

    
     
   
   
   
   
   
        
 
     
   
     
    
      
 

 Write nearest home.
The Coleman lamp Co.
Casey-Hedges Co. f _  ,_.  W;ng
Chattanooga, Tenn.   833113.“ if?“

  

 

59 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tan AMERICAN Crrv.

Digitized by 600816

 

 

Sen, 1915

Liquid-Fly-Killers and a Tea Party

Is the heading under which a recent issue
of The Survey tells the story of a little girl
near Atlanta, Ga., who as hostess to her dolls
at a tea party gave them in mistake instead of
tea a cup of poisoned fly-killer, some of which
she also drank, with the result that she died
four hours after, adding one more to an al-
ready too long list of fatalities from this cause.

'1' *-
Retires from the Motor Fire
Apparatus Field
Mr. E. A. Wilkinson.has announced his

resignation from the Nott Fire Engine Com-
pany, under date of August 16; also his with-
drawal from the manufacturing and selling of
motor Fire apparatus, with which he has been
connected for eighteen years. Mr.'Wilkinson
has made arrangements with the King Motor
Car Company, of Detroit, Mich., to act as Dis-
trict Distributor for the northwestern part of
Ohio, with headquarters at Toledo, where he
will be glad to welcome his many friends
whenever they are in the vicinity.

+ +
Chimneys Built to Withstand Storms

The reinforced concrete chimneys built by
The Weber Chimney Company, of Chicago, are
used in connection with all types of boilers,
for all kinds of copper, zinc, lead and other
smelting purposes, heating and ventilating,
malleable iron and glass furnaces, garbage
incinerators, etc. The type of construction
has been standardized, and is known as the
Weber coniform chimney, so named because
it is built in the form of a true frustum of a
cone, being a true circle and having a uniform
thickness of walls at any given cross-section
throughout. Special designs are prepared to
suit special conditions of space, foundation
and other local factors.

A description of the manufacture of these
chimneys and a statement of their advantages
is given in the company’s booklet called “Weber
Chimneys.” Many views of these chimneys
erected in various places are included, one of
which, in Youngstown, Ohio, is herewith re-
produced. A long list of users is also given.
The reinforcement of the chimneys consists of
vertical steel bars encircled at regular intervals
by steel rings properly bent to the required cir-
cle. the weight and number of these bars being
entirely dependent upon the dimensions of the
chimney. etc. The joints of bars connecting
lengthwise are made very irregular to prevent
many joints at one height. All the tensile
stresses due to wind pressure, etc., are taken
up by the vertical steel reinforcement. All the
mixing is done at the base of the chimney, and
therefore inspection can be readily made be-
fore the concrete is placed in the form. These
chimneys have often demonstrated by actual
tests that they withstand the most extreme
wind storms without their stability being af-
fected in the least. This company also con-
structs towers and other types of circular wall
construction.

NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS

273

 

WEBER CONIFORM CHIMNEY. ERECTED FOR
THE CITY OF YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO

THE AMERICAN CITY

Union METAL
LAMP STANDARDS

GIVEN HIGHEST AWARD

PANAIIA PACIFIC INTERNATIONAL EXPOSITION

THE ABSOLUTE SUPERIORITY OF UNION
METAL PRESSED STEEL AND PRESSED COPPER
LAMP STANDARDS HAS BEEN RECOGNIZED
BY THE JURY OF AWARDS OF THE PANAMA-
PACIFIC INTERNATIONAL EXPOSIT ION TO
THE EXTENT THAT THEY HAVE‘GIVEN OUR
COMPANY THE HIGHEST AWARD.

POINTS OI" SUPERIORITYs—

(1) They are Handsome. Clean Cut, (7) They have light weight. conse-
Massive. quently low freight and low
(2) Ti‘iey tgave great strength and cost of erection.
u“ ' .ty' ., . ., (8) Sectional construction 'ves eat
(3) They are the safety First flexibility in choice ‘3: .13”.

Standards.
(4) They have scientific sectional (9) Th‘? "e “3° ‘30de Mdud‘

construction. anmlitdy superior met-St iron-
(5) They insure against deaths and (10) THEY ARE COVERED BY

accidents. AN ABSOLUTE TWENTY
(6) They serve as shock absorbers YEAR GUARANTEE.

to protect lamps and glassware.
Sand for complete Catalo‘ oI Desiins

123.13; The Union Metal Mia. Co. Canton, (Illio

 

MAYOR — ALDERMAN
— MERCHANT

Without risk to you. or to any one at you.

wewiilshiptoyourtownoneofour
famous ACORN BOULEVARD ARC
STREET LAMPS titted with our auto-
matic extinguishers on thirty days' trial.
The lamp will produce 2.(I)O candle power
and light your streets as bright as day.
with the closest approach to sunlight ever
invented by light engineers.

it has been placed everywhere in com-
petition with gas. naphtha. acetylene. elec-
tricityandevery known form at mod-
ern lighting. and is pronounced by all who
see it the handsomest street lamp ever in-
.WI

Make Us Prove Our Claims

Keep track at actual running costs—
watch it under the most unfavorable
weather conditions—see it exti uish it-
self at the a pointed hour—anti y your-
self that it oes the work; then order as

man additional lamps as needed at our
specinl price.

Remember it is shipped for trial free oi
all cost engating transportation and the
gasoline u in the trial—i! not as rep-
resented there is no obligation to buy.

Full description and special Introductory
Proposition sent you upon request. Hun-
dreds of Cities. Towns and Villages now

using .
Write us to-dqy—No.

 

|_, ARCHER AW

ENAMELED IRON SIGNS
WROUGIIT IRON POSTS
“ROYAL” SIGN BRACKETS

Sand for Catalogue

ROYAL ENAMEL!“ & MPG. 00.

General 0 less:

326 W. MADISON STREET
'p'ifst'p ’ mas. ILL CHICAGO

 

ACORN BRASS MFG. CO. CHICAGO. U. 8. A.

 

00 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tns AMERICANG‘ I
Digitized by (308 C

 

c o

 

ST. PAUL STREET REPAIR DEPARTMENT USING THE LUTZ HEATER

A Portable Paver

“Practical Methods Applied to Modern
Paving” is the title of an interesting collection
of views published in pamphlet form, with
comment, by The Equitable Asphalt Mainte-
nance Company. of Kansas City, Mo. This
company is the manufacturer and lessor of the
Lutz surface heater, a machine to repair, re-
surface and maintain asphalt and other bitu-
minous pavements, cementing asphaltic or other
bituminous pavements on granite, brick, cobble
or other hard pavements. The pamphlet opens
with a picture of this machine, and the rest
of the illustrations show city streets where the
machine is in action or where it has been used.

The Lutz method consists in drawing a large
volume of air, heated to the proper tempera-
ture, from a heating chamber, and blowing it
with great force upon the asphalt or other
bituminous pavement, thereby gently heating
and softening without flame the old pavement
to the consistency of the new material. Then
with the use of hoe and rake all disintegrated
materials, uneven or worn surfaces, are re-
moved and joints cut, and while the pavement
is still hot sufficient new material is added to
bring up the grade and contour of the street.
The temperature of both materials being at the
vulcanizing point. when the surface is tamped,
smoothed and rolled, a perfect weld is pro-
duced. In laying an asphalt pavement upon an
old stone or brick surface it is sometimes diffi-
cult to prevent the asphalt from creeping or
shoving. It is claimed that by the use of the
Lutz method every square inch of the underly-
ing surface of the asphalt adheres firmly to the
old pavement. After a thorough cleaning of
the pavement it is heated gently as above ex-
plained; under this heat the pores of the brick
or stone are opened. and while still heated it is
painted with hot liquid asphalt. After the
pavement has cooled and the pores are closed
the new asphalt mixture is applied, which is

said to make a perfect. adhesion, rendering
complete a smooth, nOiseless and sanitary
street, easy of traction and easy to keep clean.

+ +
The Aztec Way

is the title of a circular booklet issued by the
U. S. Asphalt Refining Company, of New
York, containing a number of interesting il-
lustrations of streets and roads on which
Aztec sheet asphalt, Aztec liquid asphalt, or
Aztec road binder has been used. In addition
to sheet asphalt pavements, Aztec asphalt is
also used for asphaltic concrete pavements, as-

phaltic macadam pavements, brick and block
hller, waterproofing, roofing, etc.

+ +
“City Special” Dump Wagon

Catalogue No. 1,005, issued by Studebaker,
South Bend, Ind., refers particularly to bottom
dump wagons and dump boxes, and includes
illustrations of the 2-yard and 3-yard “City
Special” dump wagon, which is particularly de-
signed for municipal service. Other illustra-
tions of special interest to municipal officials
are those of Studebaker “Refuse Wagons.”
designed for light loads such as ashes, rubbish,

etc.
4- *-

Perfection Plant to Racine

The J. 1. Case Threshing Machine Company
of Racine, Wis., has taken over the plant and
equipment of the Perfection Road Machinery
Company of Galion, Ohio, makers of Perfec-
tion road graders, drags and rooter plows. The
product of this company has been sold ex-
clusively by the Case Company for several
years. The Perfection plant will be moved
from Galion to Racine and the graders. with
added improvements, will be manufactured and
sold hereafter as Case graders.

[275]

THE AMERICAN CITY

Sung Gasolqbra
Street Lighting

To save money in installing
ornamental street lighting sys-
tems, municipalities should re-
quire prices on Standards de-
livered f.o.b., city, and also
prices for making the
installation separately.

Up-to-Date Municipali-
ties or Engineers should
write at once before in-
stalling any ornamental
cluster systems to

The Sun
Street Lighting Co.

1501 Market Street
CANTON. OI'IIO

 

   
   
   
   
     
     
     

  

A KING
WHITE WAY
IS
'EFFICIENT
AND
ORNAMENTAL
MANY DESIGNS

PRICES RIGHT

CATALOG
AND

“KING SELLING

 PLAN” FREE
KING FOUNDRY (10., St. Joseph, Mo.

    

29 years’ experience in the manufacture
of all kinds of bench and certi£catee—

incéudirgl Mudnitélpai wunmengi Publif 
I etr an aura al—ena ea no 0 u
eiiciildocumenu technically. as well as mechanically

ect.
peg will be worth your while to eon-nit no on your

next lame.

ALBERT B KINGS: CO INC

204 BROADWAY
181'“. 1886 ~—- NEWYORK CITY

 

 

Artificial
Dayt im e

As the sunlight
fades away, the or-
namental lighting
systems in hun-
dreds of cities flash
on — brightening
streets and boule—
vards—driving
away darkness —
extending daytime
five to eight hours.

CUTTER
Standards

have helped to establish
artificial daylight in
many Cities in all
climates.

(. [)u 1' posts are built from
experience gained through
lki't‘l'll}'—ll\‘tf years serving
Illt‘ public in cities through-
out the country. Wye have
been liuiltlingthc veryhigh-
est qualin of lighting {ix-
IuI‘t-s .‘iml giving, always,
:‘itleilllzite SL‘I'VlCC.

..\I1 [imprint-(51‘ngDepart-
ll'it’lli has been installed to
l-ili‘illt‘l‘ assist. you in plan-
ning: lisal' limit-1‘ lighting in
fi'niii' til}; \lx'e will be glad
:rn :ix'r Mill help gratis.

’ "r_".‘,' Uni-'1'.  NHL 
-.:  .: r . '.'   .‘:j..'.':~ 2:11" 
l   i;  "\l " ‘.l l. i':I.'l‘

Geo. Cutter C0. in.

413 Notre Dame St.

 

61 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tn: Axum“ Cur.

 

 

 

Sen, 1915

NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS

277

 

ERECTING CONCRETE PIER FOR CITY OF CHICAGO

Chicago’s Municipal Pier

The new concrete pier being erected by the
city of Chicago, as shown in the illustration
herewith, is probably the largest structure of
its kind ever built into fresh water. It is
double-decked over all, 292 feet wide and
3,000 feet long, and the superstructure, which
is entirely of steel and concrete, rests on a
sub-structure of piles which alone cost $1,000,-
000. The total cost of the pier will be about
$4,000,000. The Marsh-Capron Mfg. Com-
pany, 485 Old Colony Building, Chicago. 11].,
feel justified in taking considerable pride in
the statement that every yard of the concrete
used in the construction of the superstructure
of this mammoth pier is being mixed with
Marsh-Capron Rail-Track mixers. Every pub-
lic official having to do with cement or concrete
work is invited to write for the Marsh-Capron
catalogue, which contains material and statis-
tics showing why Marsh-Capron concrete
mixers are particularly economical and effec-
tive in connection with concrete construction

work of all kinds.
'1' '1'

Granite Block Paving

“Permanent Paving” is the title of an inter-
esting illustrated booklet of 16 pages published

by the Granite Paving Block Manufacturers’
Association of the United States, whose ofhces
are in Boston. This sets forth the advantages
of granite block as paving material, claiming
that it is wear-resisting, tough and free from
chipping and flaking, and, being close-grained,
free also from the absorption of impurities.
Many views are given of streets paved with this
material, with statements as to the absence of
maintenance cost for periods of years. An
especial point is made of this saving in up-
keep expense. The improved granite block is
small; it is carefully made, with hand-dressed
head and sides, which permit the laying of the
block with very small joints, giving an even-
surface roadbed. The joints are filled either
with a grout of one part Portland cement and
one part sand, or with a bituminous hller. They
are laid on a foundation of concrete with a
slight sand cushion between the blocks and the
concrete. This makes a pavement which is
waterproof, sanitary, easy to clean, and with
a smooth, even surface which minimizes the

noise. The texture of the granite surface per-
mits both rubber and steel tires to take hold, so
that easy, non-slippery traction is given. The
pamphlet contains a list of some of the Ameri-
can and foreign cities where granite block pav-
ing is in use.

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

A Glimpse
Into the Year 2015

After one hundred years roll past,
throu h storm and sunshlne, even

thoug badly handled and knocked by

"stones—even then—you will be able
to read

: Indestru ctible Signs
“ T/ze Sign; t/zat Outlz've Fat/zer Time ” —

One hundred years is a long, long time to keep signs in
good condition, but you can be sure that Indestructible
. Signsiwill remain readable all that time.

How could they be otherwise?

They are not made like other signs. They are
built from the rust-resisting iron “Armco” (Am-
erican Ingot Iron) the most durable iron manu-
factured. The letters of the sign are drilled into

 

the plate, then filled with bright aluminum, thus
making them stand out clearly yet indestructibly
and permanently.

The letters can never be erased. Even though

the outer coat of paint wear off, the letters will still
be readable.

Your citizens will never complain of battered
signs when they have Indestructible Signs on every
corner. Write now for our booklet telling you
some more facts regarding “The Signs that out-
live Father Time. ”

BRODY‘IAY

62 When writing to Advertisers please mention THE AMERICAN CITY.

 

The Indestructible Sign Co.
528 Deuison Ave., Columbus, Ohio

   

Sales Agents, The Good Roads Machinery Co.
Kennett Square. Pa.

