 

87 Nassau Street

New York

DECEMBER, 1915
0 V lume XIII
 ‘ :1me '6

 

Dividends to the Taxpayers

A Small City's Experience as Its Own Paving Contractor

By Edward J. Stevens
Clty Engineer, Dowaglac, Mich.

to investigate the possibilities of a
city’s doing its own public improve-
ment work. This tendency is greater in the
cities that have gone through exposures of
graft and ineliiciency of workmanship.
The crooked contractor—crooked through
the aid of the political ring—is doomed.
One of the chief drawbacks that munici-
palities have experienced in performing
their own public improvements has been the
quality of the favorites of the cliques that

THERE is an ever-growing tendency

often rule in the City Hall. The chair-
warmers in the ol’hces of the City Engineer
and the Board of Public Works must move
out along with the crooked contractor. Ef-
ficiency, harnessed with petty graft and
political favoritism, makes a poor team and
will never haul a real load, even though it
is working on a pavement of good inten-
tions. Many cases can be cited where cities
have tried to do all their own work under
the old system and have failed. These cities
are being held up as horrible examples.

 

REAR VIEW OF CONCRETE MIXER USED FOR STREET PAVING IN INJWAGIAC

[467]

,f'

468

Well-meaning people are pointing towards
them as showing the utter futility of such
attempts. ‘

The Conditions of Success

To make a success of such public work
it is primarily necessary that the executive
management be placed, unhampered, in the
hands of an experienced, efficient and con-
scientious engineer. He must have the hon-
est cooperation of the council, the whole-
hearted support of his subordinates and the
confidence of the different committees un-
der whose jurisdiction he is working. Team
work is absolutely necessary to insure a
successful issue on public improvements.

The advantage to be gained by a city’s
doing its own work is not only a saving to
the taxpayer. Since the only money that
goes out of town is for the raw materials,
one can readily see that the balance of the
cost of such improvements is distributed
directly 'to the laborers and merchants. The
experience in Dowagiac has been directly
beneficial to the general business interests of
the city. The contractor’s profits remain in
the community, and the surplus wages of
the higher paid workmen go into a bank
account or an investment instead of going
out of town with the contractor’s outfit.

' The writer had charge of the municipal-
ized public work recently done for Dowag-
iac, Mich., a thriving manufacturing and
agricultural city of 5,300 population. The
conditions under which the engineer worked
were ideal. Backed by a Mayor and a
Council of unquestioned integrity, sup-
ported by the Superintendent of the Board
of Public Works, and having the unqualified
support of the foreman on the job and the
cooperation of the man behind the shovel,
the undertaking progressed favorably from
the start.

The work done in Dowagiac has been
gratifying both to the taxpayers and to the
Common Council. It would not have been
such a success had it not been for the ex-
cellent team work given by all connected
with it. Satisfaction is expressed, not only
in the showing of money saved, but also in
the knowledge that the materials called for
in the specifications have actually gone into
the work—an important factor to any city
that has experienced a session with a con-
tractor so solicitous for the welfare of him-
self that he forgot to put the material in
the job.

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 6

The first work attempted was made pos-
sible by a resolution of the Council empow-
ering the city to build its sidewalks, pave-
ments and sewers. This resolution directed
that the best of machinery and tools be pur-
chased and charged to the Contingent Fund
The Contingent Fund is remunerated to the
extent of 10 per cent of the purchase price
of said machinery at the end of each sea-
son, and this percentage is charged pro rata
to each one of the jobs for the season.

Laying Cement Sidewalk:

As the heavy machinery for the paving
was somewhat late in arriving and getting
set up, the construction of cement sidewalks
was started first. The appropriations passed
made it possible to build 54,000 square feet,
but, on account of the difference between
the actual cost and the contractor’s prices,
on which the estimates are based, it was
possible to build 63,960 square feet.

Prior to this season, this class of work
had been let by contract. Last year the
prices were 7 cents per square foot for
straight walk and 8 cents for crosswalks;
the season before the prices were 8 cents
for straight walk and IO cents for cross-
walks. These prices were for the walk
only, the engineering, inspection and grad-
ing being paid for out of the Contingent
Fund.

The walks built were standard and 4
inches in thickness. An International mixer
was used for mixing the concrete, and a
force of men was employed adequate to
handle the work. Water was obtained free
from the city hydrants and the gravel
was hauled about a mile on the aver-
age. The city paid $4.50 for teams for
ten hours’ work, this being 50 cents more
per day than the prevailing wages for this
community and giving the city the pick of
the best teams. Each team was required to
haul ten loads (15 cubic yards) per day.
and was allowed to leave after that work
was done. The cost to the city for pit
charges was 25 cents per load. Stripping
and keeping the pit in condition cost 272
cents per yard, which gave a net cost on
the job of 49.16 cents per cubic yard laid.
The grading for the sidewalks cost more
than usual, as in most cases the walks laid
were replacements of tar-walks that had to
be broken ‘up and removed before the sub
grading could be started.

As the walks are not yet finished; it is im-

Digitized by 600816

 

DECEMBER, 1915

possible to give data for the entire season’s
work. Up to the time of commencing the
paving work the city had built 30,711 square
feet of walk at a total expense of $2,003.93,
including engineering, inspection and grad-
ing.

Under the contract system these walks
would have cost:

1914 PRICES. 1913 wens.
29,721 sq. ft., at 7c. . . . . 82,080.47 At 8c . . . . . . . 82,377.08
990 sq. ft., at BC. . . . . 79.20 At 10c . . . . . . 99.90
Engineering and grading 419.38 419.38
Cost 1914 . . . . . . . . . .. 82,579.05 Coast 1913. . . 82,896.90
Cost 1915 . . . . . . . . . .. 2,003.93 Cost 1915. . . 2,003.93
Saving . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8575.12 8893.03

The engineering, inspection and grading
for the work done on the above job cost
$419.38. The machinery for the cement
walks cost $477.81, IO per cent of which was
charged to the work and included in the
above cost.

The saving over 1914 prices on this part
of the work is a trifle over 28 per cent, and
over 1913 prices 44 per cent. The cost of
the walk per square foot is 6% cents;
wages—foreman, $5 per ten-hour day; fin-
ishers, $3 per day; common labor, $2 per
day.

‘Paving the Streets

There was considerable protest from citi-
zens when the subject of municipal paving
came up, and even some misgivings on the
part of some of the aldermen themselves,
but the way was finally smoothed out, and
after debate it was decided to build a con-
'crete pavement with a Tarvia A wearing
surface. This variety of pavement can be
recommended, for residential streets only,
‘for three prominent features: (1) the in-
itial cost is the cheapest for the quality;
(2) the life of the wearing surface is lim-
ited only to the time a city neglects to keep
the surfacing in repair; (3) the low cost
of resurfacing (less than 7 cents per square
yard). This resurfacing ought to be done
at least once every five years.

The subgrading and curbing presented no
unusual features. It is possible that better
results could have been obtained if patent
metal forms had been used on the curb in-
stead of wood. When that portion was fin-
ished, the real work of building the pave-
ment began.

The concrete base was laid in two courses,
one course following the other before the
mixer was moved forward. The bottom
course was placed 4 inches thick and was a

THE AMERICAN CITY

469

mixture of 1 part cement to 7 parts bank
gravel. The second course was laid 2 inches
thick and was a mixture of 1 part cement to
2 parts gravel. When the weather was
very dry the subgrade was thoroughly wet
down to retain as much moisture in the con-
crete aggregate as possible. The last course
was struck off by means of a specially con-
structed form or template built to conform
to the shape of the crown of the pavement.
The surface was immediately rough finished
by means of floats and long-handled trowels,

the surface being reached by means of a ,

bridge that slid along on the finished curb.

The mixing of the concrete was done
with a Koehring No. 11 steam power pav-
ing mixer, which gave excellent results.
This mixer is an end loader. The gravel
is dumped from wheelbarrows, which are
filled for a capacity to make the proper
mixture, directly into the skip, which is
4 feet 4 inches wide at the lip, giving ample
room to discharge the entire contents of the
barrow without wasting. Alongside of the
skip is placed a box for holding cement
piled on from the supply on the curb. By
this means the cement is placed with the
gravel before the skip is hoisted to dis-
charge its load into the drum. After the
skip is emptied, water is supplied to the
mixture under pressure from a tank con-
taining 15 gallons. When the mass has
reached the consistency desired, it is emp-
tied from the mixing drum into an auto-
matic bucket suSpended from a 20-foot
boom. This boom has a maximum swing
of 180 degrees and a maximum elevation
of 20 degrees slope, which was ample for
all heavy grades we encountered. The
bucket, after filling, is delivered along the
boom to any spot desired. The concrete
thus delivered is spread by workmen and
struck off to the desired shape by means of
the template.

The template was made by the city and
answered the purpose admirably. It would
be an improvement to place some simple
roller-bearing device on the steel shoe that
was fitted to the ends of the template, to
slide it along on the curb. Stiffness in the
template was obtained by means of truss
rods, and the shape of the crown was re-
tained by a vertical truss.

The work was started by a gang inex-
perienced with the type of mixer, and pro-
gressed as follows: The first day 333 square
yards of finished concrete was laid, the sec-

Digitized by 600816

H

47o

ond day 472.88 yards, the third day 793.33
yards, the fourth day 836.90 yards, and
from that time on the average was from
870 to 880 square yards per day. On one
day, where no street intersections inter-
fered, 915 square yards were laid. The rat-
ing of the machine, as given by the manu-
facturers, is 900 square street yards 'of 6-
inch concrete per ten-hour day. As many
machine makers give the maximum capac-
ity, this green gang, whipped into line in
four days, produced, in comparison, very
satisfactory results.

The price paid for cement was $1.60 per ‘

barrel f. o. b. Dowagiac. A rebate of 40
cents was allowed for the return of empty
sacks and a discount of 2 cents per barrel
for cash in ten days. As far as possible the
cement was hauled direct from the car to
the job and stored on wooden platforms
placed between the curb and the sidewalk,
in quantities calculated to eliminate a sec-
ond handling on account of too great or too
small a quantity in one place. Extra care
was given the handling of empty sacks. The
idea was impressed on the man who looked
after the sacks that every one represented
10 cents. The sacks when emptied were
thrown clear of the work, and were gath-
ered, counted, bundled and stored each

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 6

night. Great care was taken to keep these
sacks dry. By taking these precautions our
losses due to torn, wet and lost sacks were
low. Out of 18,768 sacks, representing
$1,876.80 rebate, the loss on the above item
was $23.96. Five dollars of this loss was
caused by a workman carelessly leaving a
bundle exposed to a rain storm.

The expansion joints were made Sid-inch
wide along the entire length of the curb,
and every 30 feet across the paving. This
was done by placing M-inch wooden strips
in the concrete where joints were needed,
and partially drawing them to break the
adhesive bond as soon as the concrete had
an initial set. On the radials it was found
impracticable to use these strips, on account
of drawing the boards, so use was made of
Elastite, a prepared expansion joint. W’ here
Elastite was used the joints were made only
%-inch thick. While the expansion joints
were highly satisfactory along the curbing,
they did not work out so well on the cross~
section joints, as it was almost impossible to
keep the shape when the concrete was
(lumped against it.

The concrete was allowed to set six days,
or until it was dry in damp weather, before
the Tarvia was applied. The surface'of the
concrete was swept clean‘of all refuse and

 

TllF. FINISHED PAVEMENT ON ORCHARD STREET, DOWAGIAC

DECEMBER, 1915

THE AMERICAN CITY 47:

 

SI’READING TARVIA ON OAK STREET, DOWAGIAC

sand and the joint openings thoroughly
cleaned.

Use was made of two large wheel kettles
which were made to. order at a cost of $99
apiece. Paving pitch was placed in the
kettles and allowed to heat until a tempera-
ture was reached that permitted the tar to
run freely. The pitch was now drawn off in
specially built receptacles, each fitted with
a long, slim nozzle, and was run into the
joint openings.’ At first we mixed a small
percentage of torpedo gravel with the pitch,
but this method, having no value beyond the
saving of pitch, was abandoned, as an ac-
counting of expense showed that the extra
time used was costing more than the pure
pitch. The price paid for pitch was 75
cents per 100 pounds, less the freight. To
protect the curb from becoming covered
with bituminous material, steel shields were
at first used, but these were abandoned for
building paper, because the shields froze to
the curb.

The bituminous wearing surface cost
10% cents per gallon, with a rebate for
barrels and freight. After the concrete had
reached a condition of sufficient dryness,
spreading the Tarvia was begun, the same
kettles being used for heating it that were
employed in heating the pitch. The bar-

rels were elevated to the top of the kettle
by means of a specially built skid and al-
lowed to drain into the kettle. After being
heated to the proper temperature, the Tar-
via was drawn off into the same receptacles
that were used for the pitch, but with a dif-
ferent nozzle, one with a flat perpendicular
nose about %-inch wide and 5 inches long.
The fluid was applied to the concrete with
a sweeping motion. On a 30-foot pavement
three men were employed abreast, thus
carrying a straight face of tarred surface
up the pavement. The surface was then
swept with a fiber brush and all unevenness
and depressions in the concrete were filled.

Immediately a thin layer of sand was
spread over the hot mixture, care being
taken that the sand was dry, as wet sand
will chill the mixture and allow it to curl.
Bank sand and a very fine uniform gravel
were both used on this work, and the best
results were obtained from the gravel, as
it seemed to give more body to the surface,
after being rolled with a hand roller weigh-
ing about 3,000 pounds. TraHic can be al-
lowed on this class of paving the second
day, but better results can be obtained by
keeping vehicles off for at least four days.

For the benefit of other engineers who
care to analyze the costs by partials, I have

472

prepared the following tables showing costs
per square yard:

COST PER SQUARE YARD—OAK STREET

Engineering . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .042341
Grading . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 195581
Storm sewers—material. . . . . .038000
Storm sewers—labor . . . . . . . . .029221 total . . . . . . .067221
Surfacing—material. . . . . . . . . .048441 ‘
Surfacing—labor . . . . . . . . . . . .020041 total . . . . . . .068482
Concrete and curb—material. . 428063
Concrete and curb—labor. . . . . 147521 total . . . . . . .575584
Overhead (10% of machinery. ‘
spreading tax. books, etc.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .029636
Total cost per square yard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .978845

The estimated cost of work at contract
prices was $5,313.20; the actual cost of
work was $3,987.83, a saving to the tax-
payer of $1,325.37, or 24.94 per cent. The
cost of engineering on the estimated cost
was 3.233 per cent, on the actual cost, 4.2
pencent.

COST PER SQUARE YARD—ORCHARD DIVI-

Ensm' ' SIGN 048291
eermg . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grading . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .178830
Storm sewers—material. . . . . .038989
gathrmsewers—labor . . . . . . . . . total . . . . . . .088100
sang—material . . . . . . . . . .

Surfacing—labor . . . . . . . . . . . .017181 total . . . . . . .068079
Concrete and curb—material. . 466744
Concrete and curb—labor.. . . . 136799 total . . . . . . .603543
Overhead (10% machinery.

spreading tax, books. etc.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .028013

Total cost per square yard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.014856

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, N0. 6

Estimated cost of work at contract prices
was $10,633.13; the actual cost of work
was $8,095.04, a saving to the taxpayer of
$2,538.09, or 23.869 per cent. The cost of
engineering on the estimated cost was 3.62
per cent, on the actual cost 4.75 per cent.

It will be noted that the cost of the
Orchard-Division paving is greater than
that of the Oak Street paving. This re-
sulted from the employment of a green
gang of workmen and the excessive amount
of underground work. The total saving on
the entire paving was $3,863.46.

Since compiling the above figures, the
entire work has been finished, including a
small sanitary sewer and a storm sewer.
The saving to the taxpayers is shown by the
following table and represents a conserva—
tion of over 23 per cent from the estimated
cost, which was made on a basis of contract
prices.

Estimate. Cost. Saving.
Orchard Div'nionpaving..... 810,633.13 88,095.04 82,538.09

Oak Street pavmg . . . . . . . . . . . 5,313.20 3,987.83 1,325.37
Sidewalk work . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,383.31 4,442.72 940.59
Oak Street sewer . . . . . . . . . . . 478.50 340.45 138.05
Orchard Street storm sewer. . 2,654.85 1,896.21 758.64

824,462.93 818,762.25 35,700.74

 

Our Village Playground

By August Bechtold, M. D.
Vlce-Presldent, Commercial Club, New Athens, [11.

URS is a village of 1,200 inhabitants.
We have, among other societies, a
Commercial Club, to whose mem-
bership is admitted any citizen who has the
advancement of our village at heart. Some
of the meetings of the Commercial Club are
largely talking meetings, others are action
meetings, which accomplish some good.
One of these action meetings proved very
beneficial. The president of the club sug-
gested buying $200 worth of apparatus, pro-
vided the village would grant the necessary
land for a playground. After talks pro and
con, a committee was appointed to visit the
Village Board. To our surprise, the Board
met us more than half-way, not only fur-
nishing the necessary space, but promising
to put up and take care of the apparatus
and to furnish light and management.

Donations were then collected. The Com—
mercial Club headed the list with $25, indi-
viduals gave from $1 to $10, and the village
gave $100. The following equipment was
ordered: one dozen park benches, a large
slide, a giant swing, three ordinary swings.
two horizontal turning poles, a ladder and
a climbing pole, and trapeze and rings.

Upon arrival last spring, the apparatus
was put up, and it has been in daily use
ever since. The Village Board of Man-
agers soon found that a few reasonable
rules were needed. Such rules were made,
and they have not been broken. Residents
living opposite the playground enjoy watch-
ing the children, who play there from 7
A. M. until 10 P. M. There have been very
few tights and accidents, and few occasions
to reprimand anybody.

Digitized by 600816

DECEMBER, 1915

 

THE AMERICAN CITY

473

THE BOYS’ BRASS BAND, NEW ATHENS, ILL.

On Wednesday evenings a brass band of
thirteen boys plays concert music from 8
until 10, after which 'hour the park is
closed. The village is situated on the banks
of a river, and the boys are in the habit of
going swimming, to the anxiety of their
parents, but it is believed that the play-
ground has kept quite a number of boys
otherwise pleasantly occupied. The play-
ground is exhibited with pride to visitors,
and many children from the country play
here while their parents shop at the stores
down-town.

The following simple rules are the ones
that have helped to make the conduct of this
ground successful:

I. The play apparatus was installed for the
special beneht of children. and all children of
school age must at all times have preference
over any and all applicants up to 8 P. M.

2. Swings must be used singly—that is, each
swing must be occupied by one child or other
person at one time, as doubling up tends to
overload the swing, and, while they are built
strong, such use may cause a link to break,
causing personal injury.

3. Children and others must not walk on the
slide or deface it in any other way. It should

be used in the regulation manner, namely, by
sitting with face forward.

4. Children and others must not climb to the
top of the frame, or climb or crawl to top
center, as this is a dangerous practice and
may result in injury to the person doing it,
as well as to those below.

5. The benches that have been placed in the
park must not be carried to remote parts of the
park, but must be left in that part of the park
being used as a playground.

6. The playground will be closed to the gen-
eral public at 10 P. M. daily. and reopened at
7 o’clock the following morning.

7. Anyone found guilty of defacing any of
the playground appliances or park parapher-
nalia will be prosecuted to the full extent of
the law.

8. Persons while occupying the park and
playground must at all times use proper lan-
guage. Any person or persons using profane
or boisterous language at any time will be
prosecuted to the full extent of the law.

Any person violating any of the above rules
and regulations will be suspended from fur-
ther use of the playground for a given length
of time on the first offense. and continued vio-
lation will result in permanent suspension from
the park as well as from the playground.

Any person or persons who refuse to vacate
the park after IO P. M. after having been given
due notice by the village marshal or one of
the playground committee, will be arrested and
prosecuted for loitering.

 

An Instance of Practical and Esthetic

plants in small towns is that of the

Industrial Housing

By Paul R. Smith

a MONG the problems of industrial prepared. The plan decided upon called

Hopedale, Mass., the
Draper Company has
solved the problem in
a satisfactory manner,
combining the practical
and the esthetic in house
construction and sur-
roundings. The traveler
in passing through
Hopedale is impressed
both by its excellent
tree-lined streets and by
its attractive houses and
well-kept grounds.

In 1909 the Draper
Company added twelve
new double houses to its
already large number.
The services of Arthur
A. ShurtleFf, landscape
architect, were secured.
and Mr. Shurtleff, with
a committee appointed
by the company. looked
over the available loca-
tions. The site decided
upon was a ledgy piece
of land covered with un-
dergrowth and overlook-
ing the mill pond above
the works. After a top-
ographical plan of the
property had been made.
sketches for the treat-
ment of the ground were

[474]

‘

 

TOI’OGRAI’IIICAI. PLAN 01" THE HOPEDALE PROPERTY

for a loop road which followed the edge
proper housing of employes. In of the mill pond between the pond and

 

DECEMBER, 1915

the proposed buildings. The houses faced
this road, and their back doors were reached
by a special service road. This not only
guaranteed an economical arrangement, but
segregated the back yards, which could be
easily hidden by shrubbery.

In arranging for the housing of employes
it is essential that the houses be within a
reasonable distance from the mills. This
means that the groups of houses should be
near enough to the mills to permit the ten-
ants to walk to and from their work and to
go home to dinner.

It is worthy of more than passing thought
to consider the types of double houses,
which it has for years been the policy of
the Draper Company to build. The term
“double house” usually brings to mind the
ordinary two-Hat house that is often seen
in suburban districts—a house having an
upper porch directly over the lower porch,

   

  
 
   

 
 
 

- ///I /I/

/ 
m ,

PLAN OF THE VILLAGE OF HOPEDALE, MASS.

THE AMERICAN CITY

475

both in the front and rear, without thought
of individuality. Such houses are generally
built for rental only, and utilities are con-
sidered the only essential. These houses
do not require the services of architects,
but are constructed after the owner’s ideas
by the contractor in charge. The Draper
Company’s houses, on the other hand, are
entirely different, in view of the fact that
not only was an architect consulted, but
several well-known architects, including
Messrs. Peabody & Stearns, Robert Allen
Cook, Edwin J. Lewis, Jr., Messrs. Chap-
man & Frazer, J. Williams Beal and Walter
& Kimball, were employed, who submitted
plans so that there would be houses of
several different types harmonizing as a
group, with about the same accommoda-
tions in each, but entirely different in ex-
terior design. These houses are all built
with living rooms on first floor and sleeping
rooms on second floor.
These cottages are not
only of attractive de-
sign but are well built,
planned for utility, and
contain modern con-
veniences.

The group is arranged
to consider the natural
beauties of the mill pond,
and no structures are al-
lowed to interfere with
the view of the water
from the roadway. The
natural vegetation of the
shores has been retained,

; . and shrubbery. and trees
have been added to the
vicinity of the buildings

\) to unify the entire group.
Lawn spaces and plant—
ing beds are provided.
 and the tenants keep
 them in good order.
L Competition in the care
\ of the grounds between
the various tenants is
keen, as each year the
Draper Company offers
prizes for the best kept
grounds. These prizes
are in the form of
money, and the winners
are decided upon by a
committee commissioned

Digitized by 600816

476

by the Draper Company, which considers the
care taken of the grounds throughout the
entire season. One can readily see that under
these conditions the lawns would be cared
for, weeds eradicated, shrubbery beds cul-
tivated, and that a general feeling of clean-

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 6

liness would prevail. A water supply is
brought to each house through the neck of
land joining the peninsula with the main
shore.

These houses are popular and there is al-
ways a waiting list of tenants.

 

A Tale of Tribulations and Triumphs .

The County Improvement Work of the Greater Davenport [Iowa] Committee as Picturesquer
Portrayed by Secretary Irving C. Norwood and Printed in the Proceedings of
the Recent St. Louis Convention of the National Association
of Commercial Organization Secretaries

N the summer of 1912 the Secretary of
I this organization and the President of
the First National Bank, who is a live
one and wanted to make himself solid with.
the soil-tillers, toured Scott County in a
1909 Cadillac visible, distributing literature,
calling meetings, ticketing the bell cows of
every township and doing other needful
things in connection with the formation of
a county agricultural organization. The
Commercial Club provided an oHice, furni-
ture, stenographic help and other neces-
saries, the government contributing $1,200
a year, the business men of Davenport dug
up an even larger sum, and the farmers of
Scott County yielded $124.19. With a fa-
voring wind their moans could be heard for
miles. Cheered by results, we induced a
kindly millionaire with a penchant for agri-
culture to guarantee the payment of any
deficit that might be incurred, and launched
the Scott County Farm Improvement
League on a chilly world. Then we bought
a second-hand Ford car and a tank of gaso-
line, hired a solemn young man from Ames
and were ready for business.

Our success was not exactly immediate.
Although the young man from Ames can
tell from looking at a rolled oat whether it
was planted with a drill or a shotgun and is
equally proficient in other directions, he was
at first the object of considerable suspicion.
Some farmers met him on the wrong side
of the front gate with their hands on their
Ingersolls, and some of them shooed their
stock in the barn when the second-hand
Ford car hove in sight. His advice was as
welcome as a case of smallpox and was fol-
lowed as literally as the ten commandments.
And when he insisted there were better
methods of testing seed corn than by look-
ing at it wisely through a pair of ten-cent

specs, that cholera serum was not invented
by black-hearted confidence men to separate
the farmer from his loose change, that al-
falfa will grow in Scott county and that
sprayed trees yield more and better fruit,
he was looked upon as a hopeless and dan-
gerous lunatic.

Two years elapsed.

Tested corn came up and untested corn
did not; serum-treated hogs lived and un-
treated hogs died; sprayed orchards bore
fruit and unsprayed orchards did not; al-
falfa grew and thrived and returned big
yields. The farmers began to smile upon
the young man from Ames. Some gave him
buttermilk. A few invited him to supper.
The second-hand Ford car got a new set of
tires. The live bank president began to be—
lieve some of his own agricultural predic-
tions. The Secretary of this organization
began to hope. ,And the farmers began to
give up money.

Another year slipped by.

The second—hand Ford car and the young
man from Ames are welcome guests on
every farm. The live bank president is
known as the farmers’ friend, and his
bank’s rural deposits make him blush. The
Secretary of this organization calls farmers
by their first names and hopes one of them
may some day join the Commercial Club.
The government still produces $1,200 a year,
the business men still dig up even more, but
the farmers—God bless ’eml—are parting
with about a thousand. The sun shines, the
birds sing, the corn crop grows as thick as
clover, the hogs die of old age, the alfalfa is
cut twice a week, the orchards groan with
the weight of sanitary, sprayed fruit, and the
Scott County Farm Improvement League is
considered to be the best ding-busted or-
ganization in the whole blame state.

Digitized by 600816

Intelligent Civic Advertising

By Edna Cain
Associate Editor, Quitman (6a.) “Free Press"

HEN the people of Quitman, Brooks
W County, Ga., a town of 5,000, had

progressed beyond the country vil-
lage stage and had a lot of outgrown habits
and outgrown mental attitudes, they began
to experience a sort of community irritation
which developed into a spirit of “knocking”
the town.

Then they organized a development
club. Everybody had been saying that
Brooks County was better as a county than
Quitman was as a town, so they called the
new organization The Brooks County In-
dustrial Club, although it was chiefly com-
posed of business men in Quitman. Then
they started out to advertise Brooks as the
Banner County of Georgia. The club was
organized at the beginning of 1914. It has
advertised the county according to pro-
gram, but it has done far more than that
in stimulating civic progress in the town.
The new spirit, once created, has made
possible more actual achievements inwthé
way of public growth in the last year than

1

a;

in any previous year of the town's ex-
istence.

A Spectacular Success Secures Attention

Every community is likely to have cer-
tain features peculiar to it which provide
special material for advertising. Brooks
County is especially fortunate in this re-
spect, and among other such assets is the
Hickory Head Agricultural Club, one of
the oldest farmers’ clubs in the South. This
club had originated the plan of building
small cold storage plants on the farms,
which were used in curing a large surplus
of bacon and hams for market. The
Brooks County farmers are believed to be
the only ones in the whole country who
have done this sort of thing, and for
twenty-five years the county has raised
more bacon for market than any other
county in the state.

Lately a great campaign led by the
Georgia Chamber of Commerce has been
in progress to get the people of the state to

A“

I.“

I
c -u-—3—-J“r
: m-
.. 9»;
= .: Au.

 

iijltllt: .

"
ml

all.
——h.

THE BROOKS COUNTY PAGEANT, QUITMAN, GA.

478

raise more food products and less cotton.
The secretary of the new Brooks County
Industrial Club, Mr. Edward Young Clarke,
saw the value, in connection with this cam-
paign, of the county's supremacy in food-
producing, and he planned the first Animal
Industry Convention in Georgia, which was
held in Quitman in May, 1914, under the
auspices of the State Chamber of Com—
merce and the Industrial Club. A pageant
of Brooks County people and products was
devised, and the event was cleverly adver-
tised throughout the state.

The convention was a wonderful suc-
cess. There were 10,000 people in town,
and the farm pageant showing country
hams, thoroughbred live stock and food
products of all kinds on
artistic fioats made by
the farmers themselves
was a revelation not
only to the visitors but
to the home people.
Community pride was
aroused in the breasts
of even those doubting
Thomases who had not
believed the convention
would amount to more
than the usual circus
day gathering of local
people.

Last spring another
Animal Industry Con-
vention was held, and
the success of the first
convention was repeated
on an even larger scale.
Farmers who had not participated in the
first convention came with remarkable ex-
hibits, and the pageant of farm floats and
decorated automobiles was over three miles
long, the ofiicial checker enumerating over
2,000 separate entries. Towns within a
radius of a hundred miles were invited to
join in the pageant, and many of them sent
dec0rated automobiles to represent their
people. The State Chamber of Commerce
arranged an automobile tour from other
sections of the state, and .thus brought hun-
dreds of visitors.

The crowd present was estimated at 20,-
000, and the visitors realized that a new
form of agricultural display had been in-
augurated when they saw the line of really
beautiful fioats representing agricultural
products and industries. As a climax to

()NE 01"

THE AMERICAN CITY

Till-I

VOL. XIII, N0. 6

the show, the visitors were fed with an
enormous basket dinner at long tables in
the Court House park. Three hundred
Brooks County hams were made into sand-
wiches and dispensed free at booths, and
the rest of the feast was on a similar scale.

The Georgia Chamber of Commerce and
the Industrial Club promoted these con-
ventions in the only county in the state
where such'a display seemed possible, as
an object lesson to Georgians in the raising
of food products, but the efi'ect on the home
people, which was not considered, was
quite remarkable. Thr0ugh these suc-
cesses they gained a community spirit
which is attained only when people work
together and succeed in a big undertaking.

 

FLOATS IN THE IMHIEANT

FA [3. M

These two big public events focussed the
attention of the town and county 0n the
Industrial Club. It was recognized that the
club could not have had the pageant with-
out the farmers and business men, but also
that the undertaking would never have been
organized and the crowd brought to town
without the leadership of the club.

Better C We Equipment

During the year there have been many
less spectacular things accomplished which
have literally changed the map of the town.
The new Quitman spirit made possible many
changes which people wanted but did not
believe it possible to bring about. There
had been, for example, a “City Beautiful"
movement, fostered by the \Noman's Club
and much discouraged by the men, who

DECEMBER, 1915

would not vote against allowing the cows
to run at large on the streets; the new
Quitman spirit gave a conclusive majority
against the cow, and now the front fences
are coming down and lawns are flourishing.

An election was called for free schools,
street paving and a modern water and light
plant to replace the antiquated equipment
which was being operated at a loss by the
town. This election was the crucial test.
If the bonds carried, it meant that the new
Quitman spirit was a real force and had
come to stay. There were still those
among us who did not believe that “the 'old
order changeth,” and who thought we were
doing well enough as we were. Each item
in the election was voted on separately, and
the highest vote in opposition to any of the

 

NEW QUITMAN IllGll
COUNTY

THE SCHOOL,

three issues was 28. It was astonishing,
even to advocates of' the bond issue, who
felt confident of winning by a small ma-
jority.

Last fall the beautiful new $40,000 school
was made free to the children of the town
and county, although not a cent of county
taxes support it and the city tax rate was
increased by two mills when it was made
free. Additional street and sidewalk
paving to the amount of $70,000 was laid,
and, as the work progressed, citizens peti-
tioned for a great deal more than the bond
issue provided for. The new water and
light plant is being installed at a cost of
$40,000, with modern equipment of a type
which, it is said, only two or three cities
in the South have yet acquired. When the

THE AMERICAN CITY

MADE
AS \\'ELL AS THE

479

first water and light plant was put in, the
City Council got a “bargain” in machinery
which proved very expensive in the end.
This time they employed an engineer and
took his advice as to equipment, which was
purchased with first consideration for elli-
ciency and economical operation. An en-
gineer also supervised the paving for the
city, and through his advice proper grades
were established.

Plans for Future W ark

Plans have been worked out for the build-
ing of a $15,000 Carnegie library, another
enterprise of the Woman's Club for which
the City Council has appropriated a main-
tenance fund, thanks to the new Quitman
spirit. The Industrial Club and the

- I . ' - '
..' ' 3 ..-F-¥"~V%£rfm ”1~_£.-".*'.'.' '

FREE TO THE CHILDREN ()1:

T0\\'N

TIl Ii

Woman's Club had a “City Beautiful"
evening at the motion picture house, where
over one hundred slides secured from the
American Civic Association were exhibited,
showing the best methods of street and
park improvement. and there are tentative
plans for. improvement along this line.
Last fall Secretary Clarke planned a
Harvest Festival with a fiddlers’ convenL
tion and a horse-swappers' convention and
a dance on the streets at night. The hun-
dreds of people who came from the sur-
rounding country c0nvinced every one that
wholesome recreative and social gatherings
should be promoted by towns ‘as one of the‘
great agencies in stimulating community
spirit. Furthermore, some of the mer-
chants declared that the event drew people‘

1"

 

480

to town whom they had not seen in their
stores in five years.

As a result of the advertising, a great
many people are seeking homes in Brooks
County. To take care of these, and to draw
further attention to the work of the Indus-
trial Club, Secretary Clarke planned a Citi—
zens’ Land Sale Day, which took place in
October. The Brooks County people who
had land to sell came to town that day to
meet home-seekers, and the local people did
everything possible to help the visitors find
what they wanted in the way of farms.

A remarkable enterprise of state-wide im-
portance which has grown out of the In-
dustrial Club’s work here is a Georgia mo-
tion picture“ showing the resources and the
great variety of the state’s products, from
the mountains to the coastal plains. The
Industrial Club had a motion picture made
of the Brooks County pageant this spring,
which was received with so much interest
wherever shown in the state that Secretary
Clarke and President Haden, of the State
Chamber of Commerce, conceived the plan
of making a state motion picture and using
it to advertise the state in other sections.
The picture was made under Mr. Clarke’s

' See page 519 of this issue.

 

THE AMERICAN CITY

Von. XIII, No. 6

direction, and the first exhibition was in
Atlanta at the Auditorium in October, and
was witnessed by 10,000 people, with Gov-
ernor Harris presiding. The 1,500 feet of
Brooks County film was incorporated in the
agricultural section of the picture.

In addition, there are many minor enter-
prises for improvement through which the
Industrial Club is keeping the new Quitman
spirit constantly exercised. White Way
lighting for the streets, good roads for the
county, a canning plant to take care of the
county’s surplus products, are among the
projected improvements, to say nothing of
the organization of a deve10pment company
to finance and make possible the selling of
idle lands to home-seekers, with such im-
provements as they may require.

It is only proper to say that in the work
Secretary Clarke and the Club are doing
the Free Press has been an able ally. The
new editor, Mr. Royal Daniel, came to the
paper about the time Mr. Clarke became
secretary of the club. An experienced
newspaper man, hefhas made an attractive
paper, and in it has given,.,concrete and in-
telligent expression to the new spirit of the
town.

 

Schoolhouse Sanitation

Forty states of the Union have taken
some legal action toward safeguarding the
sanitation of public school buildings, accord-
ing to a bulletin on “Schoolhouse Sanita-
tion” just published by the United States
Bureau of Education.

Thirty-eight states have some legal pro-
vision regarding the school site. Nearly all
of these provisions are state-wide in their
application, and are mandatory in character.
They include the proximity of “nuisances,”
availability of the site, and size of the site.
Nineteen states have laws prohibiting the
location of school buildings within a spe-
cified distance from places where liquor is
sold, from gambling houses, houses of pros-
titution, and noiSy or smoky factories.

Thirty of the states have sought to regu-
late the water supply of the public school.

Some form of protection against fire and
panic is found in 36 states. Blanket regu-
lations, or the power to make such regula-
tions, exist in 12 states. General or special
construction with a view to fire prevention
is dealt with in IO states. Thirteen of the
states have something to say as to corridors

and inner stairways; 24 have regulations as
to exits, and 25 as to exterior escapes; IO
mention alarm and fire-fighting apparatus;
and II states provide by law or regulations
for fire drills. Less than half the states, ac-
cording to the bulletin, have any legal word
on ventilation. Thirty cubic feet of fresh
air per pupil per minute is the conventional
amount specified.

In the matter of cleaning and disinfect-
ing, slightly more than one-fourth of the
states have regulations which control con-
ditions to any degree outside the districts
themselves. Some of the laws and regula-
tions are almost model; others are wholly
inadequate. A few state boards of health
have done notable work in this particular.
Special cleaning and disinfecting follow in
seven states immediately upon discovery in
any school of any of a certain class of dis-
eases. Three of the states have a Special
list of specific diseases that call at once for
action, including scarlet fever, smallpox and
diphtheria in all three states, measles in
two, and infantile paralysis, epidemic spinal
meningitis, and bubonic plague in each.

Digitized by 600816

Village Growth and Decline in Ohio

By Paul L. Vogt
Professor of Rural Economics, Ohio State University

N the scientific organization of a village
I community it is necessary to consider
first the influences which tend to destroy
any social adjustment which may be de-
vised. The central valley of the United
States is now,suliiciently well developed so-
cially to afford a basis for determining some
of the more permanent of these influences
in this phase of American life.

The results of statistical investigation
herein presented apply principally to con-
. ditions in the state of Ohio. This state, be-
cause of its relatively high development and
the variety of industrial and social condi-
tions presented, may be considered as typical
of all the territory lying between the Ohio
River and the Canadian border, and extend-
ing from the Atlantic coast to the semi-
arid belt beginning in Kansas and Nebraska.
Here are to be found some of the largest
cities, the best agricultural lands, the most
important mineral resources, and the most
highly developed transportation facilities in
the United States, together with the most
typical illustrations of legal and political in-
fluences upon industrial and social coordi-
nations. The results obtained from this
state should be typical of the entire section
mentioned.

W hat is the Village Problem?

The problem of village growth is closely
related to that of increase in the general
population. The population of the state of
Ohio, according to the 1910 census, was
4,767,121. This .was an increase of more
than 600,000 during the decade. Each cen-
sus period since 1850 has shown an increase
over the preceding one varying from 13.2
to 20 per cent. If the present rate of in-
crease should continue, Ohio would have a
population of 8,000,000 or more within the
next few decades. Will this increase result
in a doubling of the population of all classes
of communities or will it go primarily to
the larger centers? Should the forces op-
erating to-day continue, they would proba-
bly produce results similar to those already

noted in the census records. The statistical
resources available afford the best means of
arriving at an answer to the question as to
what the probable future effect of present
operating forces will be.

The problem of village growth and de-
cline is of special importance, because many
of the villages in their ambition to foster
their own growth already have unpleasant
memories of thousands of dollars spent by
public-spirited citizens or of grants of land
by. village councils to industrial concerns
which had no more hope of success than if
they had been located in the moon. There
has been a failure to understand the scope
and limitations of growth in a given en-
vironment, and a failure to appreciate the
type of industrial advance that would have
the largest chance of permanent success.
Moreover, other villages have been delayed
in their development because local interests
have opposed the introduction of means of
transportation, in the belief that such means
of transportation would transfer trade to
the larger centers and would thus injure
business.

A more scientific understanding of the
forces operating to make villages grow and
of the natural limitations to the rapidity of
growth of some of them should help other
communities imbued with ideals of progress,
to determine what is the best course to pur-
sue with reference to proposed improve-
ments in village industry. It should also
help in determining what should be the true
aims of the small community as to growth
and as to the organization of the social life
of the present with reference to that
growth.

Some of the questions which arise in this
connection are: What villages grow and
why? What villages decline and why? Are
new village centers appearing? What
forces are operating to change past ten-
dencies? To what extent would it be pos-
sible to stay urban centralization by encour-
aging village growth? Can a village com-
munity, by taking thought, attract popula-

[481]

Digitized by 600816

[fl-—

482

tion, and, if so, along what lines may village
industries be safely encouraged? The
answers to these questions should help ma-
terially in the solution of some of the prob-
lems of our smaller communities.

The Evidence of Census Statistics

In attempting to arrive at definite conclu-
sions in regard to the causes of village
growth and decline, data have been collected

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 6

ganization and relationships rather than in
social aggregation. The suburban town is
likely to become an appendage of the city
and to be transformed into a residence place
for people who have most of their business
and social connections in the nearby city,
and who choose the village for residence
in- order to have such advantages as larger
houses, yards, cheaper rents, etc. These
places have sometimes been called “sleeping

 

MAP OF OHIO. SHOWING GRO\VTH AND DECLINE, 1890-1910, OF
INCORPORATED VILLAGES UNDER 2,500 POPULATION, 1890

in regard to incorporated places having a
population of under 2,500 in 1890. The rate
of increase or decrease between that date
and 1910 has been determined, and the re-
, sults as to growth or decline are presented
in the accompanying map.

The evidence from this map tends to re-
fute popular ideas as to the effect of certain
influences on village growth. In the first
place, proximity to a large city is not neces-
sarily disadvantageous. The principal ef-
fect of proximity to the city is to be found
in the change in social and industrial or-

communities,” since but little of the social
life of the residents tinds expression there.
Social and industrial connections are with
the city instead of with those living near.
Another conception which appears to be
discredited is that electric lines tend to in-
jure the growth of a community. While
in some cases villages tapped by electric
lines have lost in population, in general,
when all electric line villages are consid-
ered, the influence has been favorable to
growth. The electric line has had its prin-
cipal effect upon the business and social or-

Digitized by 600816

 

DECEMBER, 1915

ganization of the village rather than upon
its size. Electric lines have an effect upon
the kind of trade, upon amusements, upon
local community solidarity, and to some
extent upon the moral and religious life.
Their total effect is doubtless beneficial,
because they increase the possibilities of
socialization and do away with the crude-
ness and lack of progressive spirit which
thrives in communities not brought into
contact with the larger currents of social
life.

A third influence, often overrated, is that
of location at a railway junction point.
The map shows that in a number of cases
junction point towns have actually lost in
population, while in the immediate environ-
ment towns with but one railway connection
have increased.

Village growth appears to be affected
more by local relationships with nearby vil-
lages and by local economic conditions than
by urban connections or transportation.
Good wagon. roads, better stores, special ef-
fort to please the farmers and to provide
for their comfort and needs, coéperation
with them in getting facilities best suited
to the deve10pment of the rural environ-
ment, affect village growth more than do
the more distant factors.

Tendencies brought out by the map show-
ing the distribution of growing and declin-
ing villages are proven further by the fol—
lowing tabulation of the relation of village
growth to the different types of transporta-
tion facilities. This tabulation applies to
villages of less than 5,000 population in
1910, which were incorporated in 1890.

Influence of Transportation Facilitie: on Growth and
Decline, 1890-1910, of Village: Incorporated Be-
fore 1890 and Having Les: Than 5,000 Popula-

tion, 1910.’
TYPE or r—Number—, r—Per Cent—a
Taaxsroaunon Inc. Dec. Inc. Dec.
No railway . . . . . . . . .. 17 39 30.4 69.6
On river or lake only. 6 5 50.0 50.0
On elec. railway only. 12 18 40.0 60.0
On one steam railway
only . . . . . . . . . . . . .108 71 60.9 39.1
On two or more rail-
ways (st. or el.)..171 40 81.1 18.9
On el. ry. regardless
of other ry. connec-
tions . . .  . . . . . . .145 44 76.8 23.2

 

" In a negligible number of cases the exact trans-
.portation facnlities could not be accurately determined.

The most favorable situation appears to
be a combination of steam and electric
facilities. The least favorable is to have no
railway connection of any kind. Electric
railway connection alone, so far as the
period under consideration is concerned,
does not appear to be favorable to village

THE AMERICAN CIT-Y

483

growth, possibly on account of lack of
facilities for handling heavy freight. We
note that 60.9 per cent of the places on one
railway have been growing. The laws of
Ohio preventing discrimination on the long
and short haul may be in part responsible
for this condition.

The problem of village growth is one that
concerns primarily the social aggregations
now in existence. The organization of new
villages, “garden cities,” except as “satel-
lites” to a large city or as suburban indus-
trial centers, will never be a factor of large
importance. The number of newly incor-
porated places of under 2,500 population in-
creased by 122, or 20.6 per cent, in 1890-
1900, while the total increase in newly in-
corporated places during the last decade
was 78, or but 8.6 per cent.

While the total increase in number of
newly incorporated places was less during
the last decade, the proportion of all vil-
lages showing an increase was much
greater. The following table shows this
more clearly:

Per Cent Ohio Village: Increasing or Decreasing in
Population, Decade: 1890-1900, 1900-1910

(—1890-1900—\ r—l 900-191H

Number Per Ct. Number Per Ct.

Increasing . . . . .. . 312 53.2 301 63.3
Decreasing . . . . . . 270 46.0 172 36.2
Stationary . . . .. . . 4 .8 2 .5
Total . . . . . . . 586 100.0 475' 100.0

 

' Total by actual count, incorporated villages under
2,500 population, 1890, included in Table 2 Statistics
of Population. Ohio, U. 5. Census. 1910. Total given
in introductory table by census far 1890 is 486.

In attempting to determine the influence
of rural free delivery on village growth,
the following tabulation has been made. In
this, 551 incorporated villages having a pep-
ulation of less than 2,500 in 1900 have been
considered. In a number of cases incor-
porated villages in the neighborhood of
large cities had no separate postot’fice, so
the records in this table do not correspond
exactly to the census tabulations of incor-
porated villages.

Growth and Decline ' of Incorgorated Village: in Ohio
Having Lu: than 2.500 opulation in 1900. Ac-
cording to the Number of Rural Free Delivery
Route: in 1911

 

r—Increasing-a r—Decreasinge
Routes No. Per cent No. Per cent
0 . . . . . . . 65 39.7 99 60.3

1 . . . . . . . 39 45.9 46 54.1

2 . . . . . . . 65 62.5 39 37.5

3 . . . . . . . 42 50.7 41 49.3

4 . . . . . . . 40 71.5 16 28.5

5 . . . . . . . 24 75.0 8 26.0

6 . . . . . . . 12 66.7 6 33.3

7 . . . . . . . 6 66.7 3 33.3
293 53.2 258 46.8

 

‘ See Hoagland, “Movement of Rural Population in
Illinois,” Journal Political Economy, 22: 913-927, for
similar data for Illinois.

Digitized by 60%16

484

This table shows that the per cent of de-
crease is much greater in those villages hav-
ing no rural routes centering in them. The
per cent of villages growing in population
increases almost constantly until six routes
are reached, then the per cent falls back
to 66.7 for those places having six and
seven routes.

In view of the many other factors respon-
sible for village growth and decline it is im-
probable that the fact of carrying mail from
a certain center to a given environment
gives that center an advantage over others.
The recent introduction of the parcels post
might work in this direction. By a liberal
use of the telephone persons living in the
rural districts can get promptly by parcels
post from the rural route centers articles
that formerly were secured by a trip to the
neighboring small country store. This in-
fluence, however, is too new to be measured.
The probabilities are that instead of rural
routes being the cause of village growth,
both the location of rural routes and the
village growth are due to the existence of
good roads in certain sections and to certain
initial advantages as distributing centers
which some villages had over others. The
fact that 28.5 per cent of the villages with
four rural routes, 25 per cent of those with
live rural routes and 33.3 per cent of those
with six and seven rural routes were de-
creasing indicates that something more
fundamental than rural routes was reSpon-
sible for village growth and decline.

In order to get at local judgment as to
causes of growth and decline, a question-
naire was sent out to the mayors of 86 vil-
lages, 43 on the decrease and 43 on the in-
crease during the last census period. From
these, 58 replies were received, 36 from vil-
lages that had increased and 22 from those
that had decreased. An analysis of causes
of the increase shows the following:

CAUSE Number Per Cent
Railroads . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 14

Retired farmers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 11

Natural resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 14

EtTorts of the people . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 11

Industries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 14 39

Natural growth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 5

Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 6

Evidently by far the most important
cause of village growth is industrial de-
velopment.

The villages which declined were also
predominantly influenced by“ industrial con-
ditions, as is shown by the following:

THE AMERICAN CITY

- ment.

VOL. XIII, N0. 6

. CAUSE Number Per Cent
Failure of natural resources . . . . . .. 12 55
Decline of factories . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5 23
Fire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 9
Mistake of census taken . . . . . . . . . . . 3 13

Coal mines gave out on oil fields had
failed in 12 of the 22 cases, and in 7 cases
fire or closing down of factories had les-
sened industrial activity, thus compelling
shifting of population. The decline repre-
sented in most instances a return to normal
relationship to economic environment.

While it has been impossible, from data
available, to study the effects of manufac-
tures on growth of villages under 2,500
population, the United States Census of
Manufactures, 1899 and 1909, shows that
places under 10,000 population have been
increasing in number of establishments,
number of wage—earners employed and in
value of product in Colorado, Delaware,
Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Missouri,
South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, and
West Virginia. The increase in these
states indicates that the smaller places have
the greatest opportunity of industrial growth
when they develop manufactures adapted
to the natural resources in their environ-
The day of encouragement of any
and all types of manufacturing by grants
of free land, exemption from taxation or
liberal stock-taking by local parties, is, or
should be, past, and any industry which
desires to locate in a small community
should be of suhicient stability and be so
related to the environment that it is a real
addition to community life. It should also
be able to take care of itself without chari-
table subsidies from local agencies.

In conclusion, the data indicate:

(1) That the prime cause of village growth
or decline is economic;

(2) That railway and electric line communi-
cation favors rather than hinders village
growth;

. (3) That close proximity to a city aids vil-
lage growth;

(4) That, so far as Ohio is concerned, loca-
tion on one railway does not necessarily inter-
fere with village growth;

(5) That location at junction points does
not necessarily aid village growth;

(6) That good roads, rather than rural free
delivery, aid village growth;

(7) That proximity to other villages has a
marked effect on village growth;

(8) That the parcels post may ultimately
favor rural route centers;

(9) That industrial activities in the village.
unless the village is a “satellite” of some large
city. will have the larger chance of success
if they are closely related to the natural re-

Digitized by 600816

DECEMBER, 1915

sources of the rural environment. Lumber
yards, brick manufactures, creameries, canning
establishments and similar activities closely
related to the production in the community
grow most naturally;

(10) That the village tends to maintain a
close relationship to the economic development
of its environment, prospering or declining as
that environment prospers 0r declines.

The village community in an agricultural
section will serve itself best by working
for the development of that section rather

THE AMERICAN CITY

485

than by trying to exploit its environment by
price agreements, neglect to provide for the
comfort and convenience of its customers,
and by trying in general to get the most out
of the territory with which it is connected
instead of trying to put the most into it.
The village has now, and will have in the
future, large possibilities for growth, but
those possibilities will be realized only as
the village discovers the lines of natural
deve10pment and puts its energies into them.

 

A Real Community Building

By 0. R. Geyer

cated 0n the Missouri River, has a

new Court House, which is being de-
voted to the task of making community
workers. So successful has this undertak-
ing been that within a few months the en-
tire county has been remade into a live com-
mumty.

At one time when the river traffic was at
its height, Boonville was one of the most
prosperous cities along the
Missouri. It soon settled
down to a staid, satisfied
existence, until other
cities and towns began to
pass it in the prosperity
march. It was seen that
the county and town must
pull together, and the need
of a new court house fur-
nished the right oppor-
tunity. The Commercial
Club reached out into
every corner of the county
to take in new members,
and soon began to make it-
self felt in every move for
the good of the entire
county. Now the new three—story $125,000
Court House is being paid for jointly by
the town and county.

On the first floor are located the City
Hall and all city oilices, the Commercial
Club rooms, a large room for the use of the
women’s clubs and other organizations, and
a rest room for the women who come to
town to do their trading. The county’s
farm adviser also has his headquarters on
this floor, which resembles an ideal com-
munity center. The second and third floors
are given over to the county’s business.

BOONVILLE, MO., a town of 5,000, 10-

To-day the Court House is the center of a
great many of the activities of the women,
as they have been made to feel that they
have as much right to the use of the build—
ing as the men themselves. Then, too, farm
news circulates about the building on a par
with political gossip and with the informa-
tion emanating from the Commercial Club
headquarters.

As a direct result of the new spirit which

 

has taken firm hold of the town, a splendid
$75,000 high school building has just been
completed, a new governmentbuilding has
been occupied, and the streets have been
paved and lighted with a modern type of
“white way" lights. The town is one of the
most active forces in the good roads move-
ment in the state, and active citizens are
reaching out for other things to do, all be
cause the Court House has been made to
serve the purpose for which it was intended
originally—that of a community center for
the entire county.

I"

Promoting Public Health by “Want Ads” and
Epigrams

By Fred Niederhauser

N the public health work of Dr. J. B. An-
I derson, city health commissioner of
Spokane, Wash., publicity is a most im-
portant factor. Through the local press,
the people of the city are dealt with frankly
and openly in every new undertaking of the
health department. Dr. Anderson has also
formed the habit of
giving out short, time-
ly interviews to the
newspapers on the
questions of food,
diet and care of the
body. It is evident
that he realizes the
eagerness with which
people read matter
pertaining to their
physical well-being,
and is using that in-
terest in a construc-
tive manner. He finds
no difliculty in obtain- 0
ing wide publicity for
such statements, since
the local newspapers
are always eager to
use them.‘ Dr. Ander-
son has been at the
head of the Spokane
health departmentfor

Look”

WARNING!

 

 

STOP SPITI'ING
Under Penalty of Disease

 

LOST—By the people generally, appreciation
of the vrtal necessity of fresh air and sun-

shine. Finder will be rewarded with perfect
health.

WARNING TO CERTAIN BIPEDS,
GENUS HOMO

Stop making a garbage pouch out of me.
Put good, wholesome

food into me. If this
warning is not heeded I

am going on a strike.

(Signed)
HUMAN Srorucn.

 

Listenii

 

F 0 U N D—The secret
of unsanitary streets.
alleys and some homes
—carelessness of Mr.
Citizen.

TOO VITAL TO
2 CLASSIFY
o F o R S A L 1»: — Good

health. Price reason-
able. Location, every—
where. Consideration,
wholesome food; atten-
tion to personal hy-
giene; cleanliness
around home. Apply
Common Sense.

 

The frequency with

four and a half years. Ordinan A722 : «Mingus: which the average
His homely way of *muwmpuwdumm" person consults the

u u g‘ ”
saying things to the L——— want ad column of

public is undoubtedly
responsible for much
of his successingain-
ing the cooperation
of the citizens. All the time he is urging
them to do a little better; to pay more at-
tention to sanitation and to their personal
health. He is always trying to get them
to break their own records.

One of Dr. Anderson’s publicity efforts
took on the nature of a health “want ad”
column, from which the following quota-

tions are taken:

WANTED—Public sentiment that will recog-
nize the necessity for cooperation in the pre-
vention of disease.

[486]

A

Department of Health «(Sanitation

A POSTER DISPLAYED IN PUBLIC
PLACES IN SPOKANE, WASH.

the daily newspapers
made this publicity
“stunt” an instant hit,
and through it the

Doctor reached many persons who probably
could not have been reached in any other

way.

Like all other successful health oliicials,
Dr Anderson is a vigorous enemy of the
Hy. “The fly is the death angel's commer-

cial traveler,” he said in one of his publicity

tirades; “he has srx legs and a dozen grips
on each leg from which he retails his sam-

ples.” Athhis year’s Interstate Fair, held
in Spokane in September, he exhibited a

Digitized by 600816

DECEMBER, 1915

large fly constructed to scale, to illustrate
preventable infant mortality. Photographs
of this model and of its surroundings in the
exhibit are herewith reproduced. The fly’s
eyes blinked once every ten seconds, in ac-
cordance with this inscription placed above
the model: “Death follows in my wake.
\Vatch me blink. Every time I do a baby
dies from a preventable cause. Observer!
What are you doing to help prevent this
drain on human resources ?” The card seen
between the cannon and the fly reads: “We
do not initiate; we transmit ruin and de-
struction.” Just above this is a sign not
shown in the picture, which says: “It is
within the power of man to render us both
harmless.” A hemisphere hangs at the
back, and is occupied by a skeleton which is
driving the cannon and the fly, the purpose
being to convey to the mind of the observer
that these are two large instruments of de-
‘struction which could be overcome by a
eaceful disposition on the one hand and
cleanliness on the other.

Dr. Anderson’s method of dealing with

AN EXHIBIT ON PREVENTABLE INFANT
MORTALITY

troublesome questions is illustrated by his
campaign against spitting in the street cars
and other public places. Instead of the
conventional sign and red cross notice, with
the amount of the line for violation men-
tioned, he had notices printed with the fol-

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

437

lowing warning in bold letters: “Stop spit-
ting, on penalty of DISEASE.”
I cannot resist the temptation to quote

 

TllE FLY THAT BLINKS EVERY TIME A
BABY DIES

Dr. Anderson's advice on the use of patent
medicines:

lion WEAK LUNGS—Purchase a nice chamois-
lined chest protector. Put it on your pet
poodle dog, and take ten deep inspirations
tbreaths) slowly before an open window each
morning. Retire to a warm bath room and
take a cold sponge above the waist line. This
(10 daily.

 

l-‘ou Continuum—«Take three or four of
Dr. l’att-nt Medicine’s Pink Pills. Roll each
till aro'und the block. using your hand as pro-
:cller. Drink one pint of cold water before
breakfast and at bedtime. Eat with regularity
less meat and more vegetables. Wash your
teeth with a toothbrush. Don't forget to
.lioroughly masticate your food.

 

FOR DYSPEPsm.——Procure a box of Char-
coal Dyspepsia Tablets. Put them in your
tlower pot. Charcoal is good for house plants.
Go to your dentist and have your teeth cleaned
and tilled. Avoid anger. If fatigued, rest be-
fore eating. Select a good, wholesome diet,
avoiding condiments and spices. Avoid mid-
night lunches, consisting principally of salads
and coffee.

In performing his duties as health officer,
Dr. Anderson is always reminding the peo-
ple that it is not his problem, not his work,
but their work, to make and keep Spokane
healthy. He is always placing the respon-
sibility upon the people themselves. Here
are some of his clean—up epigrams that stick
in the memory:

For your sake clean up; for the kid’s sake

stay clean. .
It is not the rubbish of to-day that kills. It
is the accumulation of to-morrow’s to-morrow

 

 

THE AMERICAN CITY VOL. XIII, No. 6

u f
‘  “you canl'cook.

"   buy your food

m’ a cleanplaca

’1.“ ‘11.? :j “V: IL";

{,rvft’ 5" .

deserves your ’* 3—7?

AN EXHIBIT SHOWING THE RIGHT AND WRONG WAYS OF DISPLAYING FOOD
FOR SALE

errant  ,,
%ur backyard indicates how -

clean you area/Ire You satisfied
wrl'h your :‘Cpulrf‘llon for Cleanliness ?

BEFORE ms SHRINE

I -PLEDGE
vow and declare to do all that within
me lies ,to make SPOKANE the cleanest

and healthiest city in 1110 world .

h...‘!...

A STRIKING METHOD OF PROMOTING INTEREST IN CLEAN AND \VELL-KEPT YARDS

Spokane's Health Commissioner preaches the gospel of cleanliness and good 'health by exhibits and
pledges such as these

 

 

DECEMBER, 1915

added to to-day’s that becomes a menace.
Clean up, then, to-day, and to-morrow will
need no cleaning.

The mirror reflects back in careful detail
objects in front of it. The city is the mirror
in which the stranger, standing aside, gets a
reflection of the citizenship. A dirty, ill-kept
City reflects what?

. If you persistently maintain a foul and reek-
ing back yard, can you consistently pray, “Thy
Kingdom come on earth”?

The following dramatic bit has proved

effective :
CAMP PROSPERITY

SAFETY-FIRST: Halt! Who goes there?
Yorcz: General Prosperity accompanied by
twms.

SAFETY-FIRST: Advance, General Prosper-
ity, and give the countersign.

VOICE: The T wins—“Cleanliness”
“Sanitation.”
. SAFETY-FIRST: Proceed, General Prosper-
ity, together with your close allies. The Twins
are indeed welcome, and they shall have all the
care and attention this camp can bestow.

and

THE AMERICAN CITY

489

Through a system of grading and pub—
licity he has succeeded in getting the res-
taurants to competing with each other for
the highest percentage of cleanliness.

As an advocate of publicity, the Doctor
seldom turns down an invitation to furnish
a health exhibit for a show, fair or exposi-
tion. At the National Country Life Con-
gress held in Spokane, his exhibit contrast—
ing a sanitary and an unsanitary farm drew
much favorable comment. The health ex-
hibit furnished by him and his staff for the
Interstate Fair held annually in Spokane

was borrowed in toto last year for the ex-
hibit at the Washington State Fair at
North Yakima, and immediately after the
meeting it was borrowed by the Washing-
ton State Board of Health and used by
them for several months as a part of the
traveling state exhibit.

Items of Municipal Law

Regulation of Jitney Busses

Under the power of a city council to pro-
mote the safety of pedestrians and passen-
gers upon local means of conveyance, it is
held by the California Supreme Court that
an ordinance is valid which forbids opera-
tion of jitneys in the city by persons who
have not obtained a permit to do so, paid
a reasonable license fee, and given bond in
the sum of $10,000, or taken out an insur-
ance policy to that amount, indemnifying
against injuries caused by their negligence.
It is also decided that it is a reasonable
regulation to require applicants for a permit
to have had at least thirty days’ experience
in driving an automobile in the city. (Ex
parte Cardinal, 150 Pacific Reporter, 348.)

+-l'

Ordinance Rough on Rats

The ordinance of the board of health of
the city of New Orleans providing for the
rat-proofing of all buildings and superstruc-
tures in the city, for the purpose of sup-
pressing the bubonic plague, is a valid ex-
ercise of the police power of the state in the

interest of the safety of the people. “Every
possible presumption is in favor of the va-
lidity of such an ordinance until the con-
trary be shown beyond reasonable doubt.”
(Louisiana Supreme Court, City of New
Orleans vs. Ricker, 69 Southern Reporter,

273-)
4- 4-

Enforcement of Regulatory

Ordinances

It is within the power of a city to adopt
and enforce an ordinance forbidding taxi-
cab drivers to enter upon passenger station
premises and wharves for the purpose of
soliciting transportation of persons or bag-
gage, but the ordinance is not violated by
the mere presence of drivers in such places
while not soliciting business. The chief of
police, acting in an official and not a per—
sonal capacity in causing the arrests of
drivers, is not personally liable for costs
assessed on award of an injunction against
unlawful arrests under such an ordinance.
(Washington Supreme Court, Seattle Taxi-
cab & Transfer Co. vs. City of Seattle, 150
Pacific Reporter, 1134.)

Digitized by 

Needed in Every City

 

Adequate Power and

Common Sense in Fire Prevention
By Clement J. Driscoll

Of the New York Bureau of Municipal Research

“The buildings consumed [by fire in 1914], if placed on lots of 65—foot
frontage, would line both sides of a street extending from New York to
Chicago. A person journeying along this street of desolation would pass
in every thousand feet a ruin from which an injured person was taken.
At every three—quarters of a mile in this journey he would encounter the
charred remains of a human being who had been burned to death.”—
From page 12 of the Government Report entitled “The Fire Tax and
Waste of Structural Materials in the United States,” Bulletin 418, De-
partment of the Interior, U. S. Geological Survey.

It would be interesting to know how many municipal and state oHicials
throughout the country have read this statement, presenting as it does
. the tremendous fire waste of the country and the awful sacrifice of human
life accompanying it.

It would be more interesting to know how many of the municipal and
state officials who have read this warning have made inquiry as to how
large a contribution their communities have made to this waste of prop-
erty and human life, and what steps they have taken to surround the
people of their communities with proper safeguards which would tend to
reduce the sacrifice of human life and the destruction of property due
to fire.

Indeed, it would be more than interesting to ascertain, if possible, how
many of the public officials, both state and municipal, upon reading this
statement, have to themselves admitted their share in the responsibility
for the children made orphans, mothers made widows and families made
homeless as a result of their official negligence, indifference or gross

carelessness.

N discussing the fire waste of the coun-
I try, it is to be remembered that, like the
health problem of the community, the
problem of fire protection is essentially one
of dollars and cents. In other words, like
health, protection against fire is a purchas-
able commodity and can be secured in a
large degree by the expenditure of money.
But the expenditure of money in the in-
terest of fire protection must be in accord-
ance with intelligent procedure and to the
end of obtaining a minimum number of
fires rather than wholly toward efficiency
in the extinguishment of them.

It is appalling to note that in this coun-
try, with a few exceptions, the vast sums of
money expended for fire protection are de-
voted almost entirely to the development of
efficiency in fire extinguishment.

The community with the largest fire-

[490]

 

 in

houses, the prettiest painted automobile ap-
paratus and the best—dressed firemen, is fre-
quently confident that it is being adequately
protected against destruction by fire, al-
though not one dollar may be expended in
that community for the prevention of fire.
The same community, with its highly prized
and properly admired fire department, will
sometimes be without even a building code.

The Bureau of Municipal Research, as
a result of surveys made in many cities.
large and small, throughout the United .
States and Canada, has concluded that the
increased fire waste and loss of life due to
fire and panic may be attributed principally
to the following causes:

I. The absence in most communities, with the
exception of a few large cities, of ade-
quate building regulations

Digitized by 600816

 

DECEMBER, 1915

2. The lack of requirements providing for plac-
ing buildings of the older type of con—
struction in a condition which would
render them reasonably safe for habi-
tation

3. The absence in most cities, small and large,
of proper fire prevention inspection

4. The failure in practically all of the cities of
the country to provide for an adequate
inspection of dwellings, in which the
majority of fires occur

5. The failure of the legislatures to provide

municipal oliicials with adequate power to
enforce orders relative to fire prevention

6. The division of responsibility for the inspec-
tion of buildings and the enforcement of
fire prevention regulations so as to make
it especially diliicult to fix responsibility
for negligence and 'carelessness in this
kind of work, as demonstrated by the
recent Diamond Factory fire in New
York, which caused a loss of 12 lives

7. The failure of the educational departments
of the country to provide for the proper
instruction of the children in the schools
in the matter of fire prevention

8. The inadequacy of the laws with relation to
fire insurance, in that fire insurance ‘com-
panies are not prohibited from paying a
loss until the municipal fire department
authorities have certified that the fire
was not in any way due either to the
gross carelessness or culpability of the
insured

9. The neglect of officials to provide for the
scientific training of firemen

All of these causes can be removed in
whole or in part in communities of all
sizes without the expenditure of any large
sums of money. The lack of building regu-
lations throughout the country, as found by
one investigating fire-protection conditions
every day, is most amazing. In many com-
munities, and indeed in cities of over
100,000 population, not only are the building
regulations in force inadequate, but in many
instances it is scarcely possible to find a
complete copy of the building requirements,
because the regulations were adopted so
many years ago.

Communities desiring building develop-
ment, for selfish reasons, frequently permit
the construction of fire traps Within their
city limits rather than lose a large factory
or mercantile establishment which is about
to locate in their city.

But a few days ago in a city within 40
minutes of Broadway, tenements housing
12 families were observed, being con-
structed entirely of wood and in such a
manner as not only to invite their destruc-
tion by fire, but to make the escape of the
tenants in case of fire almost impossible.

THE AMERICAN CITY

49I

To provide proper fire—prevention meas-
ures it is essential that the city first guard
against the construction of buildings of a
type which creates a hazard that cannot be
reduced by any amount of inspection or
auxiliary fire-fighting equipment.

The municipal authorities must be
granted the broadest possible powers in the
matter of inspecting and enforcing orders
relative to fire prevention. The power to
enforce these orders must be centralized in
one official or one official body in the com-
munity. In almost every city where the
state undertakes, through a factory or labor
department or state fire marshal, to inspect
and supervise buildings of a certain class in
all communities within the state, regardless
of whether the community is equipped with
its own fire department, it is the experience
of the Bureau that inefficiency results.
There is a clashing of authority between
the state and the municipal officials which
invariably results in permitting dangerous
hazards to exist.

The safeguarding of lives and property
in a city is primarily the function of the
officials of the city itself, and every building
within that city should be under the im-
mediate supervision, in so far as fire pre—
vention and protection are concerned, of
the fire department of that community, and
that department should be held strictly to
account for the conditions found to exist.

It is wholly illogical to enact legislation
which places five houses on one block under
the jurisdiction of the chief of a fire de-
partment, and two or three houses on the
same block under the exclusive jurisdiction
of state officials, when the responsibility,
after all, for fire extinguishment and the
safeguarding of the lives of the people upon
that block is placed upon the shoulders of
the chief of the fire department. -

Moreover, to reduce the fire waste it is
necessary that the fire-fighting force, not
only the chief, but all of his firemen as well.
have a thorough understanding of every
building, its construction, its contents and
the hazard it presents within the city. The
records of the fire department, if it is to be
efficient, must include an adequate descrip-
tion of these buildings to provide the oHi-
cials of the department with a guide when-
ever they may be called upon to extinguish
a fire therein.

Digitized by 600816

492

Needed in Every City—A Municipal Fire-
Prevention Commission, with the Local
Fire Chief as Executive Ojicer

Where the state has, for the most part,
failed in legislating upon the subject of fire
prevention is in its attempts to enact stat-
utes inflexible, complex and intricate,
which seek to meet all conditions of build-
ing construction. This failure is especially
notable regarding the installation of sprink-
lers. The attempt of many states to de-
scribe through legislation the kind and
character of a building in which a sprinkler
system shall be required has in a large de-
gree proved a failure, for the reason that
it enabled dishonest. greedy builders to de-
sign buildings which, although constituting
a greater hazard than the type of building
in which the statute demands the installa-
tion of a sprinkler system, do not techni-
cally come within the class established by
the statute. Therefore, cities should urge
that the state give them the power, through
a properly constituted fire-prevention com-
mission, of which the fire chief should be
the executive oflicer, to establish rules and
regulations and to enforce these rules in the
same manner and under the same conditions
as if they had been enacted as statutes.
For the purpose of establishing a practical,
inexpensive and workable body, this com-
mission should consist of the centralized
executive, whether he be a city manager or
a mayor, the superintendent or inspector of
buildings, two citizens, to serve without
salary, and the chief of the fire department.

The whole aim of this commission should
be in effect to provide for a campaign of
education in matters of fire prevention, to
create and enforce rules and regulations

which will remove from the buildings of the
community conditions which make them
especially hazardous, to utilize the services
of the uniformed firemen in the making of
fire—prevention inspections, and to support
the chief of the fire department and his men
in reducing the fire waste of the community
through inspections which will be properly
recorded and reported upon.

As an aid to the firemen in the making of
their inspections. and as an aid to the offi-
cers of the department in the fighting of
fires, all inspections should be reported in
detail on specially provided printed forms,

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No.6

upon which there should appear headings
calling for detailed information arranged in
such a manner that the inspector or fireman
must have carefully inspected the premises
in order to fill out the answers. So as to in-
sure the rcmoval of conditions reported
upon, the regulations of the fire-prevention
commission should be so drastic as to em-
power the chief of the fire department to
force the removal of the hazard by causing
the premises to be vacated in the event of a
refusal to remedy the condition. This
power vested in the chief would go a long
way toward making safe unsafe buildings.
The average chief of a fire department is
very anxious to reduce his fire loss and the
hazardous conditions which result in fire.
and his enthusiasm is far greater in this
matter than that of the prosecuting attorney
or the courts with all of their legal techni-

calities and procedure.

Only a few days ago, in a city a short dis-
tance from New York, a condition was 01%
served in a large building which placed that
building in constant danger of destruction
by fire, and every minute that it remained
brought that building closer to destruction,
yet the chief of that city had twenty days
before requested the prosecuting attorney
to proceed against the owner of the prop-
erty in order to have the hazard removed.
His power ended with the filing of this in-
formation with the prosecuting attorney,
and beyond that he had no method at his
disposal either of hastening the remedy for
the condition or speeding the prosecution.
Consequently, the hazard remained. A fire
occurring in this building as a result of this
condition could cause a conflagration, and
yet the insurance companies would willingly
pay the loss and the prosecution of those at
present responsible would probably be for-
gotten.

It is our experience that the fire-fightiffg
force headed by a uniformed chief ism
most instances the only body in the com
munity enthusiastic in the matter of enforc-
ing fire—prevention orders. Consequently.
to obtain the best results, it is urged that the
power of the uniformed chief to enforce
conditions which will tend to minimize the
chance of fire be everywhere increased.

Last year, of a total of 12,011 ares occur—
ringwithin buildings in the city of New
York, 8,897, or more than 74 per cent, oc-
curred in tenement and private residences.

Digitized by 600816

 

DECEMBER, 1915

Needed in Every Cily—Inspeclion of

Dwellings by Firemen

In almost all of the cities in the United
States the majority 0f the fires occur in
dwellings, and yet, except in New York
City and a few other places where there is
in operation a special tenement—house stat-
ute, there is practically no inspection of
dwellings. The result is that the whole
effort in cities where there is a tire-preven-
tion inspectional service is in the direction
of inspecting the large buildings, such as
factories, hotels, and the like. These, for
the most part, are already the subject of in-
spection by many different agencies, such as
state department, insurance companies, and
in many cases engineers employed by the
owners of the property, but the dwellings,
in which are housed numbers of people and
in which the greatest number of fires occur,
receive little or no attention from the oili-
cials charged with the duty of preventing
tires. Not only are they not inspected by
the owners and tenants, but they are not the
subjects of advice or counsel from experts
in matters of fire prevention.

True, a campaign of education through
public schools and social centers is effective
in bringing to the notice of the occupants of
dwellings common practices conducive to
fire; but frequently the housewives who are
present at these gatherigs never visit the
cellars of their own homes, and do not

THE AMERICAN CITY

493

appreciate the extent of the danger which
exists in'the congested cellar, clothes closet
and garret 01 in the misplaced, unprotected
gas jet.

These conditions can only be pointed out
to the housewife by the fireman who in-
spects her home. Moreover, it is the ex-
perience of fire chiefs in cities where house-
to-house clean~up campaigns have been con-
ducted that the tenant in the dwelling is
ever ready to comply with the requirements
and orders of the fire department without
even the necessity of a written order from
the chief. '1 he dangerous condition pointed
out by the fireman in the home is usually
remedied as quickly as possible, without
opposition, while the dangerous condition
in the large factory and public building
usually is not removed until after it has
been argued in several courts of law.

When it is remembered that 60 per cent
of the fires in America are caused by care-
lessness, and that 2,000 lives are sacrificed
and 6,000 persons injured in tires annually,
it should not be difficult to bring about re-
forms which will make the cities safer.

If the officials would devote as much
energy to developing the fire-prevention
work of the fire department as they devote.
to the fire-fighting side it would not be long
until America could boast of as low a tire
waste and as little loss of life in connection
with fire as the European cities.

 

Constitutional Amendments in Three States

Important Forward Steps Taken at the Recent November Elections

Massachusetts

T the November election the voters
A of Massachusetts adopted two
amendments to the state constitu-
tionl One of these empowered the Legis-
lature “to authorize the commonwealth to
take land and to hold, improve, sub-divide,
build upon and sell the same, for the pur-
pose of relieving congestion of population
and providing homes for citizens.” The
other gave authority to impose and levy a
tax on incomes.

Pennsylvania

In Pennsylvania three constitutional
amendments were adopted. They provided:

I. For the increase of the debt of the city
of Philadelphia to the extent of three per
cent of its assessed valuation, if approved
by the voters of the city at a public election,
the moneys thus derived to be used for the
exclusive purpose of port and transit devel-
opment;

2. That legislation may be enacted requir-
ing the payment of compensation for in-
juries to employes and for occupational
diseases “regardless of the fault of em-
ployer or employe”;

3. For the registering, transferring, in-
suring and guaranteeing of land titles by
the state or by the counties thereof.

Digitized by GOOSI’C

494
Maryland

Four important constitutional' amend-
ments were adopted. '

I. The first of these stipulates that the
General Assembly shall provide for the
separate assessment of land, improvements
and personal property, and that all taxes
thereafter levied by the state, the counties
and the city of Baltimore “shall be uniform
as to land within the taxing district, and
uniform within the class or sub-class of im-
provements on land and personal property
which the respective taxing powers may
have directed to be subjected to the tax
levy." This amendment, therefore, gives
to the people of Maryland a large measure
of home rule in taxation, including the right
to reduce or abolish taxation on improve—
ments or personal property.

2. The second amendment gives to the

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 6

counties and the city of Baltimore the
power, subject to certain legislative defini-
tion of the jurisdiction in the first instance.
to form their own charters and amend their
own laws. This iscoupled with a 20 per
cent initiative.

3. By the third amendment the General
Assembly is given the power to provide
“(a) for the suspension of sentence by the
court in criminal cases, (b) for any form
of the indeterminate sentence in criminal
cases, and (c) for the release upon parole

. of convicts imprisoned under sentence
for crimes.”

4. The referendum becomes effective in
Maryland, by the provisions of the fourth
amendment, on the petition of 10,000 voters
on state-wide measures and on petition of
10 per cent of the voters of any county on
purely local laws.

 

Proportional Representation Tried Out
' By Clarence Gilbert Hoag

the United States or Canada by pro-
portional representation took place
in Ashtabula, Ohio, on November 2.

The number of seats in the council of
Ashtabula is seven. The object of the pro-
portional system is to assure a seat in the
council to any group of voters in the city
numbering approximately a seventh of the
voters who unite in the support of a candi-
date. The election was at large, nomina-
tions were made by petition, and the ballot
was non-partisan and preferential.

The first-choice votes received by the
fourteen candidates were as follows:

THE first election of a public body in

McClure . . . . . . . . . . . 392 Corrado . . . . . . . . . . . 196

Ho an . . . . . . . . . . . .. 322 Tilton . . . . . . . . . . . .. 193

Me ‘une . . . . . . . . . . . 309 Flower . . . . . . . . . . . . 147

Gudmundson . . . . . . . 292 Carlson . . . . . . . . . . . . 138

Earlywine . . . . . . . . . 289 Cook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 114

Rinto . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 237 Loose . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107

Briggs . . . . . . . . . . . . . 211 Lampela . . . . . . . . . . . . 25

As the total number of valid ballots was
2,972, a moment's calculation showed that
any candidate who g0t 372 votes was sure
of election, as not more than seven of them
could get that number each. McClure,
therefore, who had 392 first-choice votes,
was at once declared elected and the 20 bal-
lots he had received above the needed 372
were transferred to other candidates, each
one to the candidate preferred next to Mc-

Clure by the voter who had cast it.

The next step was to eliminate the can-
didates one by one, each time the one then
lowest on the poll, transferring each of his
ballots separately to the unelected and un-
eliminated candidate next preferred by the
voter who cast it.

The upshot of the count was the election
of Messrs. McClure, Hogan, McCune, Ear-
lywine, Gudmundson, Briggs and Corrado
—in that order. This council is declared by
the newspapers of Ashtabula to represent
the whole city with extraordinary fairness.
The Beacon points out that it represents the
business, professional and laboring men;
the Republicans, Democrats and Socialists;
the native-born, the Swedes and the Ital-
ians; the wets and the drys; the Protestants
and the Catholics, and the different wards
and sections of the city. It is only a coun-
cil thus truly representative of all the prin-
cipal interests and opinions of the city, pro-
portionalists contend, that is lit to be en-
trusted, according to the fundamental prin-
ciples of democracy, with the spending of
the taxes of all. Proportionalists hold, too,
that admission to the council of the true
representatives of all sections of public
opinion is the real secret of securing the co-
operation of all in the government.

Digitized by 600816

The Visualizing of Proposed Municipal
Improvements

Projects in Portland
By Haldane White

ISUALIZATION of bridges, via-
V ducts, boulevards and other munici-
pal projects has been found by
oBicials of Portland, Ore., to be an ex-
tremely successful means of demonstrating
to the public the need and the general ap-
pearance of projects proposed. It has been
so successful in the Public Works Depart-
ment of Portland that it is being used in
connection with nearly all such undertak-
ings. .
The Portland system of visualization was
worked out by H. W. Holmes, former chief
of the Municipal Bureau of Highways and
Bridges. A photograph is taken of the site
of a bridge, viaduct, highway, boulevard or
other project, and the plan is painted in on

 

the photograph to exact scale, showing ac-
curately just how the structure will look
when completed. The photograph gives to
those interested in the project a much bet-
ter idea of how the work will look when fin-
ished than can be shown by blue prints,
tracings or perspectives.

The most recent visualization made in
Portland is the proposed viaduct over the
Oregon Washington Railway & Navigation
Company tracks at East 60th Street in East
Portland. It is to be paid for with money
derived from an assessment district. The
taxpayers wanted to know what their via-
duct would look like, so the photograph was
taken and the structure drawn in to exact
scale. The same thing has been done with
a number of other projects, and the results
have been far better than could have been
secured from reports and map drawings.

PROPOSED VLADUCT VHMMUJZED TO EXACT SCALE ON PHOTOGRAPH

[496]

496

Camden’s Contemplat-
ed Changes

By Gen. John A. Mather, Jr.

President, Camden Cit Plan
Commission, Camden, . J.

HE particular improve-
T ment suggested by the
City Plan Commis-

sion, of Camden, N. J., as
visualized in the accompany-
ing pair of illustrations, pro-
vides for changes in the
street layout at the intersec-
tion of two of the most im-
portant thoroughfares—
Broadway and Federal
Street. The work of remov-
ing the unsightly telegraph,
telephone and wooden trolley
poles, and of burying the
wires, is already progressing,
thanks to the earnest cooperation of the
city officials and the Public Service Cor-
poration. The present wooden trolley poles
are to be replaced with iron poles, and ade-
quate ornamental street lights will be in-
stalled. Twelve feet is to be taken from
'the sidewalk in front of the Court House,
‘increasing the street space to that extent
at this most con‘geste point. Additional
'area will be secured“ or :avehicular traffic
by moving the curb line back 73'feet at the
intersection of Federal and"Arch Streets,

and increasing the radius of the curb lines

 

THE CAMDEN

THE AMERICAN CITY

THE SITE

IMPROVEM ENTS VISUALIZED

VOL. XIII, N0. 6

 

OF CAMDEN’S PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT

at Broadway and Federal and at Sixth and
Arch Streets.

The work of the City Plan Commission is
gaining recognition not only from the
ofhcials but also from newspapers, civic or—
ganizations and the general public, and it is
a pleasure to feel that its efforts are meet-
ing with the approval of the community.
The city’s population is about 105,000, and
hundreds of new buildings are being erected
to meet a more than normal increase in
new residents.

There is plenty of work ahead for the
City Plan Commission. The
improvements already pro-
posed are only a'beginning.
Plans are now being pre-
pared for improvements at
various points in the city, in-
cluding a comprehensive and
effective one for a boulevard
and fine residential section.
A complete survey and plan
of the city is being prepared

_ under the supervision of the
expert advisor of the Com-
mission, Dr. Joseph Cacca-
vajo. It is not too much to
predict that within a very
short time the results ob-
tained in Camden will serve
as another argument in favor
of the appointment of city
plan commissions in all the
growing municipalites.

Reducing the Cost of Street Improvements
By Chester B. Masslich .

FLORIDA city has attracted some
A attention because of a claim that it
is saving I 5 per cent of the former
cost of street improvements. What it has
done is to apply business principles to the
financing of street contracts. To be sure,
it required a special act of the legislature to
authorize the application of these principles,
for the general laws gave no such authority.
Miami was growing. It needed better
streets, and a reform in street-improvement
procedure was necessary. The mayor
brought together the heads of his depart-
ments, and it was agreed that their own ex-
periences in street paving had not been
altogether suHicient for their guidance and
that a consultation with experts would be
desirable. The finance committeeman had
more than a local knowledge of business
and financial conditions, and he sought the
views of investment bankers in the North.
The city attorney called to his assistance
outside counsel experienced in the law of
municipal finance. The engineering de-
partment consulted experts in' its line. To-
gether they framed the new charter and the
Legislature passed it.

What they sought was primarily saving
of cost and more directness and expedi-
tion in carrying the construction and
financing to completion, coupled with
justice to the abutting property owner.
The most uneconomical part of the old
charter was the time-honored provision
that the contractor must accept debt
certificates, notes or bonds of the city if
the city chose to make payment in that
way. Miami had been not unlike other
cities in overlooking the contractor’s need
of funds to pay employes and purchase
material during the period of construction.
It had overlooked the fact that he must hy-
pothecate or sell any municipal paper he
might receive, and that he would ordinarily
do that at a disadvantage to himself, be-
cause he would be engaging in a field of en-
deavor not his own. Besides, he could not
know when making his bid that the paper
issued would be legal, nor even if legal
whether he could find a market for it. All
contractors are aware of these disadvan-
tages, and it is a matter of common knowl-

edge that they attempt to save themselves
from risk of loss on securities by increasing
their bid for the work. In effect, they com-
pel the city to buy an insurance policy for
them and to pay a heavy premium for it.

To change the charter in this respect was
not quite a simple matter. Special assess-
ment laws are necessarily rather involved.
One of the necessary changes was to pro-
vide means by which the city might obtain
cash for the payment of the contractor, and
obtain it in time to make monthly payments.
The old charter had authorized bond issues.
These were marketable, but at no very satis-
factory price, for there were investors who
hesitated to buy even a general city obliga-
tion where no other mode of payment had
been expressly provided than through the
rather precarious collections of special
assessments. Not all the big insurance
companies that were seeking to find invest-
ment of their funds in good municipal se-
curities cared to buy Miami's bonds. In still
other respects they fell short of measuring
up to the standard of gilt-edged invest-
ments. The new charter was, therefore, so
drawn as to require the bonds to mature in
annual instalments within ten years, and to
require an annual tax levy upon all taxable
property within the city to pay the princi-
pal and interest next accruing. No part of
this tax levy could be omitted except to the
extent of funds actually in hand at the date
of the levy and pledged to the payment of
the securities. Interest and principal were
required to be payable in New York in gold.
Fractional bonds were eliminated and all
were required to be issued in denominations
of $500 or $1,000. A requirement was made
that no bonds should be sold at private sale
except by unanimous vote of the council,
nor at less than par without a vote of five-
sevenths. Bonds with these features met
the approval of the most critical investors.
and the insurance companies no longer hesi-
tated to take them.

But it was necessary ,to provide for a
sale of the bonds before the time for the
first monthly payment on the street con-
tracts. Authority was accordingly given

to sell them at any time after the passage of

[497]

Digitized by 600816

498

a resolution definitely ordering the improve-
ment. This provision required that the
amount of the bonds should be based on
estimates instead of actual cost, which was
not quite revolutionary, although in the ma-
jority of street-improvement laws it seems
to be assumed, contrary to all usage in pri-
vate business, that a contract for work
should precede the arrangements for financ-
ing it.

These changes paved the way for the
main feature of the new plan—the promise
of cash payment to the contractor. In order
to prevent a new administration from over-
looking this positive advantage, the new
draft required that the notice of the letting
of jobs should definitely state that the suc-
cessful bidder would be paid in cash on
monthly estimates, and would not be re-
quired to accept debt certificates or any
other municipal paper in payment. And
when Miami reached this point it was, if
not quite alone, at least in a very select
minority.

It was foreseen that no extensive plan
of street improvement could be carried
out without the cooperation of those who
were to be taxed, and it was determined
to give the property owners every oppor-
tunity for consultation and protest. The
new charter provided that they were to be
heard before the final passage of the resolu-
tion ordering the work, and again before
the confirmation of the assessment. It
recognized the distinction between different
kinds of .street, sidewalk and sewer im-
provements in respect to the distribution of
cost, so that the city’s share of certain im-
provements might be greater than its share
of others, and so that the division of the re-
maining cost might be based upon benefits
accruing to the property assessed. In do-
ing this the frontage rule was maintained
for most improvements, as a prima facie
standard only, subject to alteration if the
circumstances failed to sustain the justice
of the rule. Individual improvements were
required to be separated in their inception
and at the time the assessments were laid,
in order that property owners might present
their objections without the embarrassment
of having to object to two or more improve-
ments put through at the same time as a
log-rolling measure; but for economy of
administration the charter provided that at
certain other stages of the proceedings, as

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 6

in the letting of contracts and issuing of
bonds, improvements might be combined.

The avoidance of red tape and the
prompt, efiicient conduct of the whole pro-
ceeding required attention. And so a cal-
endar of procedure was prepared which
would permit the letting of contracts within
three weeks of the initial proceeding and
the confirmation of the assessments two
weeks thereafter. An expeditious method
of determining the legality of the assess-
ments was afforded by giving every prop-
erty owner the right to contest the assess-
ments or the amount of his benefits by a
special proceeding in court, with the right
of appeal, the costs to fall on the property
owner if he failed to reduce his assessment
by 10 per cent. Provision was made by a
short statute of limitations for setting at
rest, after a brief period, all questions
affecting the legality of the assessments.
As a further assurance of their legality it
was provided that all assessments should be
paid within thirty days after confirmation
unless attacked in this special proceeding
or unless the property owner signed an
agreement waiving all questions of irregu-
larity and illegality. On his signing that
agreement he was to have the privilege of
paying his assessment in instalments during
a period of years. The other changes made
were largely to clarify the act.

The proof of the pudding was in the eat-
ing. As soon as the charter had been
adopted a contractor whose bid had been
accepted offered a generous reduction on
condition that he be paid in cash. The
saving on this $70,000 contract is said to
have been $11,000, and the ofiicials believe
that on new contracts the saving will be
even greater.

What Miami has done may, in large part
at least, be accomplished by other cities.
The difiiculties to be surmounted lie largely
in the inclination to follow precedent, even
though proved defective by experience and
business judgment. In some cases consti-
tutional limitations will, in practice, pre-
vent the issuance of general city bonds for
special assessment work. Other obstacles.
may be found in some states. But no con-
tractor who has ever bid on municipal
paving jobs has a shadow of doubt that the
field for improvement in the economical
conduct of municipal street improvements

is large.

Digitized by 600816

 

The Ogden Water Supply
Discovery

‘ By David Larson

HINK of discovering a subterranean
T lake or stream of pure water which
now augments the municipal water-
supply to the extent of 12,000,000 gallons
every time the hands of the clock go
around! That is what was done in Ogden,
Utah, and whenever the city needs more
water, the city commissioners merely order
another six-inch pipe or two set, and a foun-
tain of pure water springs up.

Up to a year ago the city was supplied
with water from mountain streams. This
supply was pure and cool, coming from the
snow treasures high in the mountains. The
pipe line carrying the water to the city was
never touched by daylight until it reached
the reservoir above the city. But Ogden is
a growing city, and there was a call for
more water, so the commissioners started
a search. They found just what they were
seeking, and now Ogden has an abundant
water supply.

This is what happened. Ogden has the
commission form of government; three men
a:t as city managers. Mayor A. G. Fell,
Commissioners T. S. Browning and Chris
Flygare went through the famed Ogden
Lanyon—the source of the old water supply
—into the Ogden Valley. This valley is
bowl-shaped and surrounded by mountains.
It had been known for years that artesian
wells gave an unlimited supply in this valley.
It was good water, and the commissioners
wanted it, so they obtained an option on
75 acres of land, which they later purchased.
and started to drill. This was in October
of last year. The test well, a 2-inch pipe,
struck water at a depth of a little less than
100 feet. and by the end of the year ten 4—
inch pipes were pouring out water to
capacity.

Early this spring 6-inch casings were
used with the same favorable result. One
of these wells is gushing out 1,260,000 gal-
lons of water every 24 hours. Every well
has been as active during these months as
when it was placed, and that too during the
dryest season this state has known. Drill-
ing additional wells has seemed to have no
effect on the full flow of the others.

To prove the scope of the subterranean
00w, wells were drilled in the four corners

— _———-—.—__—...____.._—

v
.* l‘ I
r I. . .‘
'I
l

     

 

 

 

 

 

UNI-Z OI" T‘lllf. '.\'rl".\\' ARTESIAN WELLS IN
OGDLNS WATER SYSTEM
Flowing 1,260,000 gallons every 24 hours
[499]

f

500 THE AMERICAN CITY

of the 75-acre tract, and water was found
in each case, which, it is believed, demon-
strates that the underground water channels
are extensive. As to the purity, the water
has been tested, examined, reported and
passed by all sorts of boards of chemists
and censorships and declared to be perfectly
pure. As to permanency of iiow, Dr. F red-
erick J. Pack, of the University of Utah,
makes the following statement:

“The Ogden Valley presents as nearly ideal
conditions for the existence of artesian water
as can well be imagined. The valley proper is
somewhat circular in form. Abundant streams
of water drain in from the north, east and
southeast, and all converge toward a point
near the southwestern part of the valley,
where they unite, and then pass from it through

the narrow defiles of Ogden Canyon. It is just
at this convergent pomt that the wells have

been drilled.”

Ogden’s municipal water supply has been
increased so as to supply a population of
100,000, double what is needed at this time.
The cost has been small compared with the
results. The purchase of the ground, the
drilling of wells, the intake tank and build-
ings, and the 36-inch pipe line to connect
with the distributing system cost about
$150,000. The system has been a money-
maker for the people; in fact, the net profits
have been more than $60,000 a year, so it
will readily be seen that the added expendi—
ture for the new supply will soon be financed
by the system itself.

A great deal of the credit for the effi-
ciency of this municipal water system is due
to the commission form of government,
under which three men manage the aEairs
of the city corporate as they would those
of a private corporation.

+-l'

A Water Tower of Picturesque
Design

A water tower of both artistic and sub-
stantial structure is shown in the accom-
panying photograph. It was built by the
Chicago Bridge and Iron Works for the
village of Riverside, Ill. It replaces a
brick tower built in 1870, which supported
a wooden tank. This tank had to be re-
built once or twice, and, finally, in 1913, it
was burned, in spite of the fact that it con-
tained water. It was then decided to put
up a more satisfactory tower, and under the
supervision of Dabney Maury and Douglas
Graham as consulting engineers, and W. D.

r_.___________.___—_—_____—.___._

 

WATER TOWER, RIVERSIDE, ILL

Mann, as architect, the present tank was
erected.

The plan involved carrying out the ap—
pearance of the original brick tower, while
adding 20 feet to its height. An elliptical-
bottom steel tank of 150,000-gallon capacity
was installed. The steel plate roof and or-
namentation, as well as the new brick work,
complete the simple, harmonious and
effective design.

iv-l'

Ownership of Water Meters

To the Editor of THE AMERICAN CITY:

The correspondence in THE AMERICAN
CITY on the subject of the ownership of
meters has been interesting to me in view of
the fact that the city of Duluth has recently
taken over the ownership of 8,000 or more
meters that were installed after the acquisi-
tion of the plant by the city, at the expense
of the consumer, the consumer paying in
some instances as high as $12 a meter. The
advantages of the installation of meters
have long been recognized, not only for the
purpose of establishing a just charge for
service rendered, but also to reduce the cost
of operation of the plant, the total consump-
tion of water, and capital expense in con-
nection with the construction of water
mains and reservoirs.

VOL. XIII, No. 6

 

 

DECEMBER, 1915

The Water and Light Department of
Duluth, after the acquisition of the plant
from the private company in 1898, was un-
able from lack of funds to furnish meters to
its customers, and was obliged to require
customers to bear the expense of installa-
tion. In other words, the Department pur-
chased a meter and installed it, making a
charge as high as $14 or $15. This, how-
ever, has been gradually reduced, until the
charge at the discontinuance of the policy,
on July I of the present year, was $10 each.
A great deal of opposition has been made to
this policy of forcing meters upon the con-
sumers, perhaps increased to some extent by
the fact that the Hat rate charge of $6 per
year for a live-room house, with $2 each for
bath, toilet and lavatory, was low. The con-
sumer objected to the installation of meters
in almost every instance, not only on ac-

count of the initial charge, but also for the '

maintenance charge for repairs, which he
contended the Department had no right to
make without his authority; in many cases
the consumer absolutely refused to pay the
bill. Other trouble was experienced by the
customer’s failing or refusing to supply a
suitable place for the meter to prevent its
freezing, his contention being that he had
a perfect right to allow his own property to
freeze up if he so wished, and that the city
had no right to complain, much less to
charge him for repairs upon his own
property.

Commencing with July I of the present
year the Department is furnishing all new
customers with meters and setting them free
of charge, and in addition is taking over the
01d meters, if the customer so elects, at a
price of $9 for a §é-inch meter, less 8 per
cent annual depreciation, diminishing value
basis. This allows $2.59 for a meter fifteen

THE AMERICAN CITY

501

years old; for all meters of longer age, a
Flat allowance of $2.50 each is made.

A complete table showing allowances for
all sizes for the various periods up to fifteen
years and over is given below. The total a1-
lowance to customers for their meters will
be between $50,000 and $60,000. This, how-
ever, is not paid in cash, but is credited on
each customer’s account, either for gas or
for water, or for appliances purchased 0f
the Department, as he may elect. Some of
the credits, of course, will pay the custom-
ers’ bills for a year or more; other cus-
tomers’ credits would not be sufficient to pay
for one month’s bills.

As a whole, this policy has been very sat-
isfactory to a large majority of customers,
although a few, as is usual in similar cases,
complain of being defrauded. One of the
principal arguments used when a customer
has paid $10 or more for his meter and re-
ceives a much smaller amount than this, say
as low as $2.50, is that the city is making a
big profit by the policy of taking over the
meters. It is easily shown, however, that a
customer could not expect to receive full
compensation for the amount paid for his
meter, any more than in the case of any
sale of second-hand property. The case of
meters, however, is different in this respect:
while the city takes back the meter at a
depreciated value, it still leaves that par-
ticular meter in exactly the same position,
performing the same service to the cus-
tomer that it did before he conveyed title to
the Department.

While the Department proposes to fur-
nish and maintain meters free of charge to
the customer, it has notified the customer
that he will be held responsible in every in-
stance for damage to the meter caused by
freezing, scalding, or other act for which

ALLOWANCES FOR METERS
8 P1111 Cur Dznzcmrrou—Drmmsmxc VALUE

Date Set % M
1915 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9.00 13.50

1914 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.28 12.42

1913 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.62 11.43

1912 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.01 10.52

1911 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.45 9.68

1910 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.93 8.91

1909 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.46 8.20

1908 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.03 7.54

1907 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.62 6.94

1906 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.25 6.38

1905 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.91 5.87

1904 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.60 5.40

1903 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.31 4.97

1902 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.05 4.57

1901 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.81 4.20

1900 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.59 3.86

Previous . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.50 3.60

1 1 y. 2 3 4 6
18.00 33.50 56.00 85.00 175.00 375.00
16.56 30.82 51.52 78.20 161.00 345.00
15.24 28.35 47.40 71.94 148.12 317.40
14.02 26.08 43.61 66.18 136.27 292.01
12.90 23.99 40.12 60.89 125.37 268.65
11.87 22.07 36.91 56.02 115.34 247.16
10.92 20.30 33.96 51.54 106.11 227.39
10.05 18.68 31.24 47.42 97.62 209.20

9.25 17.1.9 28.74 43.63 89.81 192.46
8.51 15.81 26.44 40.14 82.63 177.06
7.83 14.55 24.32 36.93 , 76.02 162.90
7.20 13.39 22.37 33.98 69.94 149.87
6.62 12.32 20.58 31.26 64.34 137.88
6.09 11.33 18.93 28.76 59.19 126.85
5.60 10.42 17.42 26.46 54.45 116.70
5.15 9.59 16.03 25.50 52.50 112.00
4.80 9.00 15.00 25.50 52.50 113.50

Digitized by 600816

502 THE AMERICAN CITY VOL. XIII, No.6

he is responsible or which he can prevent.
It would seem to be more reasonable and
logical for a utility to charge a customer for
repairs or damages to its own meter than it
would to charge a customer for repairs to
his meter, especially if made without his
authority or against his wishes.

We believe that the policy of the Depart-
ment-owned meters is going to work out
satisfactorily to both the customer and the
Department, and that the extra cost to the
Department of furnishing and maintaining
the meters is a much better use of its sur-
plus revenues at the present time than re-
ducing its water rates would be.

D. A. REED,
Manager, Water and Light Department,‘
Duluth, Minn.

++

 

Lighting the Drinking Fountain

A particularly attractive public drinking LIGHTED DRINKING FOUNTAIN AT LYNN,
fountain which occupies a conspicuous loca- MASS.

tion at the head of a square in Lynn. Mass.,
is shown in the accompanying illustration. four incandescent electric lighting units,

The structure is of concrete in simple and each inclosed in a glass globe about 8 inches
artistic design. On top of the canopy are in diameter.

 

The Bubbling Fountain

This is a magic cup A drink is nothing but a drink.

That needs no lifting up, \Vater is water: always the same.

And gushes the cool drink They could not turn it into a game.
From an ever-flowing brink, Charily. with solemn mien.

From an ever-filling hollow. They lean—

As you swallow, These incurious of heart !—

You can feel the water go And. hurrying, depart.

Against your lips with tumbling How But the children know ’tis a gay. rare thing
And all its noises hear. To drink outdoors from a running spring;
As if you were a deer And laugh

Or a wild goat, And quaff,

Sucking the water in your throat As if their zest

Where a little brook goes by Would challenge to a test

Under the trees and the summer sky. The bounty of this store

Oh, it is fun to drink this way! Which gives. and still has more.

Like a pleasant game to play. They drink up all they can: a

Not like drinking in other places.
And it is fun to watch the faces

That come and bend them at this urn.
Something you can learn

Of each person's secret mind:

W'ait in turn to drink again.

As 1 watch the reaching lips

lt seems to be .my mouth that sip-s:
l stoop and rise with each one.

Know which is selfish, which is kind; But “he.” they are done, .

Those who guard their dignity, And their facesare touched With sprav,
And those whose curiosity is turning cold. The)’ QEIWH)’ Wipe It awaY-

Many of the young are old And this. sometimes. I regret—

.’\nd think Because their lips look prettier wet.

—Ry HELEN llovr, Kenosha, \\’is., in The Playground.

 

A Preachment on Water

From the Bulletin of the Chicago School of Sanitary Instruction, Conducted by the
Department of Health, Chicago, Ill. (Issue of October I6. I95)

face of the water,” reads an an-

.cient chronicle. Water was evi-
dently primal stuff, vital in the evolution of
the world from the beginning. ‘ ’

It still forms two-thirds of the earth’s
surface, seven-eighths of the animal body
and nine-tenths of some plants.

Man at birth is about ninety per cent
water. He never much outgrows this pro-
portion, though at times by his apparent
aversion to it he would seem afraid of over-
saturation.

But there is little danger that he will
drink too much water; the trouble often is
that he does not take enOugh.

Most sedentary people drink too little of
it and err in drinking too much at meal time.
A glass with each meal, preferably at the
end, will aid digestion. But to wash food
down in chunks is a pernicious though
common practice, exceedingly unfair to the
stomach to say the least, and a bad use of
good drinks.

A glass or two between meals, one at bed'
time and another upon arising, is not too
much water. Hot weather and exercise will
make their own demands to vary the pro-
gram.

Charged water is a poor substitute for
the plain article and injurious to some peo-
ple. The sudden drinking of large quanti-
ties of ice water not only checks digestion
but may shock the heart, akin td a blow in
the solar plexus.

Purity of man’s water supply is hardly
less important than that of the air he
breathes.

To recognize typhoid, dysentery, diarrhea
and cholera as the chief water-born diseases
is to see the need of constant vigilance
against this intestinal quartette. They come
unbidden to his door; the first three of
them come often, seeking to enter with
water or food, contaminated by bowel, blad-
der or mouth discharges from some neigh-
bor.

The repulsiveness of this, let alone the
danger of it, would seem enough to make
everyone of us alert to preach and practice
to good effect.

“THE spirit of God moved upon the

While municipal authorities are expected
to safeguard the community water supply,
each individual must have an eye to protect
hisgowh’drink from'accidental secondary
sources. 'When in doubt, boil it!

Those who journey out of Chicago into
other cities, towns or to summer resorts are
not as safe as at home. For them there is an
added suggestion: Carry a couple of ounces
of chloride of lime solution in strength of
two teaspoonfuls to a quart of water. A tea-
spoonful of this stock solution added to two
gallons of suspected drinking water will
purify it. Agitate in a stone jar and let it
stand covered with several thicknesses of
cheesecloth. This will aerate the water,
protect it from air contamination and re-
move the flat taste peculiar to water that
has been boiled and not aerated.

Chicago’s drainage canal achievement,
her. intercepting sewer to further stop lake
contamination, and her measures to prevent
the dumping of human and animal excreta
into her water supply from passing ships,
have had a vastly beneficial effect upon her
health and life record. But a constant lab-
oratory watchfulness of the crib intakes is
still maintained of necessity.

Externally a cold dip or sponge is a val-
uable stimulant to circulation and respira-
tion and promotes body activity and health,
if so taken as to produce a warm glowing
surface. 'Most people need to attain to the
cold bath or shower by gradual usage; es-
pecially children and old people do not bear
them well.

A cold plunge or sponge, with goosefiesh,
blueness and shivering, is a good remedy
wrongly applied.

A warm or hot bath properly taken is as
useful as a sedative for tired muscles and
weary nerves as is the cold one for stimula-
tion. Neither of them agrees with a full
stomach.

By all means learn to swim—there may
be another Eastland.

Pass the water bottle, please. I hope the
cook and waitress who handled that bit of
ice had clean hands. Even an occasional
typhoid “carrier” in the kitchen is a bad
bargain.

[503]

Digitized by 600816

,f

 

THE TOWN HALL AT ARLINGTON, MASS.

Arlington’s Civic Center

HE town of Arling-
T ton, Mass., has
an arrangement

of public buildings that
form what may proper-
ly be regarded as an at-
tractive civic center.
Town hall, public li-
brary and a large gram-
mar school are grouped
on a single plot of land
in the heart of the town.
The town hall was
recently erected at the
cost of about $150,000,
donated by former resi-
dents. It contains the
municipal offices and a
public auditorium on the
ground floor seating
1,200. There is a stage
of 1,000 square feet.
Egress from the building
is through a lobby on

[504]

 

By W. B. Conant

 

 

BASE OF THE ARLINGTON
FLAGPOLE

either side and at the
front of the hall, with
outer doors equipped
with Corbin pressure
rods which automatically
open the doors.

The public library
stands about 600 feet
southeast of the town
hall, and between the
two is a fountain and

water basin, with walks
bordered by Japanese
privet hedges neatly
trimmed. The fountain
is the design of the artist
Cyrus Dallin, a resident
of the town. It repre-
sents in bronze an Indian
bending to drink over a
pool. The water bubbles

‘from a concrete block

about 6x6x4 feet, and
falls into a basin, flow-

THE AMERICAN CITY

DECEMBER, 1915

 

THE WELL-KEPT GROUNDS OF ARLINGTON'S CIVIC CENTER

 

THE KNEELING-INDIAN FOUNTAIN,
With “ripple” of corrugated concrete

5

09

506

iug thence down a corrugated concrete in-
cline 8 feet wide and 60 feet long to a pool
15 x40 feet, with the run-off to the sewer.
The corrugated channel gives the effect of
depth and great agitation to the shallow
water flowing down its surface, the edges
being a little higher than the center, causing
the ripples to assume a spiral shape.

At the opposite side of the town building
is an artistic flagpole which consists of a
carved granite base with an eagle with out-
spread wings at each
corner. On the base is
imposed a bronze pedi-
ment representing at the
four corners a Colonial
soldier, a clergyman, a
teacher and an Indian
squaw. The base bears
the legends Liberty,
Honor, Patriotism, Obe-
dience. The pole is of
southern heart‘pine and
is surmounted by a figure
of Liberty. This struc-

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 6

ture is also the work of Cyrus Dallin.

The lighting of the center is by means of
large incandescent lamps installed in glass
balls, in groups of 5 and 2 units, on iron
posts. The trolley suspension wires along

the street are attached to the same poles
that carry the 2-lamp groups.

 

PLAN SHOWING RELATION OF THE ARLINGTON PUBLIC

BUILDINGS

O

 

The Cleveland Ornamental Lighting System

By Ward Harrison
Illuminating Engineer

The ornamental street lighting system
recently adopted by the city of Cleveland
is of particular interest because of the ex-
haustive study which preceded its adoption,
and on account of the fact that the unit
selected represents something quite different
from past practice in “\Vhite Way" lighting.
The unit itself is an ornamental copper
frame lantern mounted upon a specially
designed post, the lighting being furnished
by a Mazda lamp surrounded by a circular
band of Holophane refracting glassware.

The selection of the incandescent unit
was made after a series of careful tests
which included various other types of up-
to-date ornamental units, and after an in-
vestigation of practice in other cities. The
use of the octagonal lantern as an enclosing
unit for the incandescent lamp is a de-
parture from present practice. In carrying
out the design, the daylight, as well as the
night, appearance of the unit has been
given consideration. The engineering
features of the lantern were developed by

the Engineering Department of the Na-
tional Lamp Works; Mr. Betz. the Cit.v
Architect of Cleveland, is responsible for
the artistic merit of the lantern and stand-
ard,

The fixture is especially designed to pro“
vide an even illumination on the street and
uniform lighting of the building “031$
The band of Holophane refracting glass-
ware diverts into useful zones the light
which would otherwise escape at angles
where it would be wasted, or where the
glare would cause discomfort to the PCdes‘
trian. It reduces, also, the relatively high
intensity which ordinarily is found aim!“
the second story of adjacent buildingS
and which interferes with the effect-
iveness of electrical display signs at “"5
height. The unit does not appear ex‘
tremely brilliant unless one stands a $110rt
distance away from the post and looks UP'
ward. The light is so controlled that the
maximum candle-power is directed toward
the street at a point midway between the

Digitized by 600816

 

DECEMBER, 1915

 

DIAGRAM OF THE CLEVELAND LIGHTING
UNIT

standards. The high intensity in the upper
hemisphere necessary for properly illumi-
nating the fronts of adjacent buildings is
obtained by affording the least possible ob-
structiontothetransmission of the light rays
through the top of the lantern. The lamps
give a mellow, steady white light. An indi-
vidual transformer is placed in a man-hole
near each post. W'ith the high voltage in-
sulation between the primary and secondary
coils of these individual transformers, the
voltage in the post will never exceed 100.
This eliminates all danger when the post is
accidentally broken or overthrown. It is also
practicable for the patrol man to renew
lamps immediately upon burnout and thus
keep all the units in service. A break in
the circuit at any post does not affect the
operation of the remainder of the system.

The average diameter of the lantern is
18 inches and'the overall length 30 inches.
The lamp is supported in a vertical tip-
down position. with the lower part of the
bulb surrounded by the refractor band.
The outer glass is subdivided into eight
small panels. This is advantageous from
the standpoint of maintenance cost, and the
appearance of the eight-sided. fixture is
more pleasing than that of similar units
with fewer panels. This form permits the
use of ribs less than 94 inch wide, and by
this means shadows are entirely eliminated.
One of the panels is hinged in order that

THE AMERICAN CITY

507

ready access may be had to the interior of
the lantern.

The consideration of keeping the units
clean led to the investigation of pebbled or
wavy glass for the sides in preference to
the more common ground or frosted types.
It was found that the introduction of more

 

THE NEW LIGHTING STANDARD IN
CLEVELAND

508

than a very slight amount of opal into the
glass would cut down the usefulness of the
refractor and practically do away with the
favorable distribution of light. It was
therefore considered essential that the glass
of the panels be of such type as to break
up the light rather than diffuse it com-
pletely. The glass adopted has a slight
opal content, although clear crystal glass is
used for the top sections.

Several hundred of the standards to be
installed in Cleveland will be equipped with
1,000 candle-power, 20-ampere Mazda C
lamps, but for the sixty units surrounding
the Public Square and for all the more im-
portant thoroughfares 1,500 candle-power
lamps have been chosen. The lamps are
supplied from a 6.6-ampere, constant cur-
rent line, and, as mentioned above, each
lamp is in turn operated from an individual
transformer. The constant current ratio

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, N0. 6

characteristics of these transformers allow
the installation of new lamps of slightly
higher efficiency with no change of connec-
tions or other adjustments.

In the Cleveland trials it was found that
the most efficient forms of arc and in-
candescent lamps which had the same
operating cost showed approximately the
same volume of light on photometric test
when equipped with clear glassware. Set-
ting aside this consideration of operating
cost, the factors causing the decision in
favor of the incandescent system were:
dseirable distribution of light, simplicity
of operation, the expectation of improve-
ments and reduction in cost in incandescent
lamps, the practicability of using lamps of
different sizes on the same circuit, the
adaptability of the system to changes and
improvements, and the pleasing and dis-
tinctive appearance of the unit.

 

The Care of Trees in Los Angeles

The City Club of Los Angeles, Cal., re-
ceived, some months ago, a clear and definite
report from its committee appointed to in-
vestigate the condition of the street trees
of the city and to make recommendations
for their improvement. This report is
based on the realization that “streets are
beautiful and cities attractive very largely
in proportion to the attention given to the
cultivation of trees,” and cites “the mar-
velous results in other California cities,
such as Pasadena and Riverside
all because of the tree planting and contin—
uous care policy adopted by these cities but
a few short years ago.” It makes certain
recommendations to atone for lost time.

The report makes this statement:

“The ‘existing trees have been planted in .a
haphazard manner as regards variety, um-
formity of appearance and suitable location.
The maintenance of the trees has been ne-
glected both in cultivation and pruning. In
recent years various attempts have apparently
been made by owners of subdivisions. to plant
and maintain uniform street trees, wrth fairly
good results: but whenever the lots pass into
the hands of individual owners the trees in

many instances show the lack of proper atten-
tion."

The eleven miles of trees planted a year
previous by the Park Department, princi-
pally on streets connecting with county
roads leading into the city, were found to be

in excellent condition as a result of the con-
tinuous maintenance provided. This work
had been performed by men temporarily
out of employment, and cost $1.25 per tree
for planting, excavating and staking, and
the maintenance has amounted to about 5
cents per tree per mouth, water not charged.

Los Angeles has an ordinance providing
for the planting, protection and care, and
the removal and change, of ornamental and
shade trees on public streets, for their main-
tenance and for levying and collecting as-
sessments to pay the cost. Under this plan
an ordinary tree may be provided, planted
and maintained for five years at an average
cost of about $4 per tree. Immediate pro-
cedure under this ordinance has been urged
upon the City Council by a committee of the
1915 General Entertainment Committee,
and is endorsed by the Street Tree Com-
mittee of the City Club.

To the Park Department of Los Angeles,
which is well equipped for the work, both in
its personnel and in the maintainance of a
nursery, properly belongs the carrying out
of the plan for rehabilitating the city’s shade
trees. The Park Commissioners exercise
jurisdiction over numerous areas of park
property situated at more or less regular in-
tervals of space throughout the city. This
makes possible a division of the city into

Digitized by 600816

DECEMBER, 1915

THE AMERICAN CITY

509

 

A LOS ANGELES STREET WITH NO TREES BUT TELEGRAPH POLES *.

districts, with a park as headquarters in
each district. The plan proposed by the
Park Commission and urged by the Street
Tree Commitee of the City Club, includes
the immediate planting of the main city
thoroughfares, as mentioned above, and the
annual appropriation of $20,000 to pay for
the services of two men in each district to
cultivate, prune and maintain existing
trees, to plant young trees in unplanted

spaces and to remove undesirable speci-
mens. As a means of securing revenue to
supply this fund, the committee suggests
the enforcement of an ordinance adopted in
the spring of 1913, which provides that the
city shall receive IO cents for each and every
wagon load of gravel taken out of the river
bed. It is estimated that this source of in-
come would provide the $20,000 needed an-
nually for the city’s trees.

 

THE SAME STREET IN LOS ANGELES AFTER PLANTING

Types of City Streets and Pavements

 

URSULINE AVENUE, LOOKING WEST FROM BROAD STREET, NEW ORLEANS, LA.

Width between property lines, 106 feet 6 inches; neutral ground strip, 20 feet 6 inches wide, between
18-foot paved roadways; sidewalks 26 feet wide, including parking strips

0

 

SAN BENITO ROAD, IN ST. FRANCIS WOOD, A RESIDENCE SUBDIVISION IN
SAN FRANCISCO

Paved with a mixture of crushed rock and asphalt on a concrete base. W'idth between property “a”,
55 feet; roadway, 24 feet wide; sidewalks, 6 feet wide, with 8-foot parking strips. planted with young "cc"
Slim"! and “OWCTiY‘K Plants. Curbs reinforced with Wainwright curb bar, and cement sidewalk laid with a
simple brick pattern

[510]

DECEMBER, 1915 THE AMERICAN CITY sit

 

NORTH AVENUE, MILWAUKEE, “'18., IN THE SEMI-RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
Fifty feet between curbs; paved with creosoted blocks

 

ONE OF THE BEAUTIFUL'STREETS I.\' 1.08 ANGELFS, CAL.

A 5-inch concrete base with a 1-inch binder course and a’ 2-inch asphalt wearing. surface. \Vidth between
property lines 60 feet; width of roadway, 40 feet; sidewalk and parking stl‘lp each 5 feet wide

     

 
 

~ it.u-u'ulm'"UmI'linilimlzmm11wlinllzmllhIin imuiliillluml'lil“Hi illllll‘lll"l‘l":5 I

 

 :rivmm éiltlUTaui-‘Illtllilu;ll"

FACTORS IN THE SUCCESS OR
FAILURE OF STREET PAVEMENTS

-..IIIlillllllllIIillilllililiiliililli:iilllillldHI:Iiii.1lIlllilllllllilliiiliuilllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllll|lllllllllllllllillllllllllllIlillllllliilllllllllliliiilllllllliillllillllillllllilliillllllihlllllli'llllllmmll  ‘

lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliI ‘

lllIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllI'll“f l 1-H: ‘ 

l

       

,ll’lllll"'l|1f§lllll.el Elliéllii ,

EDITOR’S NOTE—The following is the fourth of the series of articles under the above

heading to be published in THE AMERICAN CITY, as announced in the July number. The
three articles which have already appeared are :" ‘

. SHEET ASPHALT PAVEMENTS—Daniel T. Pierce, Executive Assistant, The Barber Asphalt
Paving Company.

ASPHALT BLOCK PAVEMENTS—Edwin J. Morrison, President, The Hastings Pavement
Company.

BITUMINOUS MACADAM PAVEMENTS.—Philip P. Sharples, Barrett Manufacturing Com-
pany.
'The remaining articles in the series will be:

CONCRETE—W. A. McIntyre; Chief Road Engineer, American Portland Cement Manufac-
turers Association.

GRANITE—Zenas W. Carter, Field Secretary, Granite Paving Block Manufacturers Asso-
ciation of the United States.

WOOD BLOCKS—H. S. Loud, Chief Engineer, United States Wood Preserving Company.

The articles will be published in alphabetical order, as listed above. As the manufacturers

of the various types of pavement are vitally interested in the proper construction and mainte-
nance of their products, and have necessarily made a very careful study of this subject, they

are able to offer thoroughly practical advice regarding factors to be considered and mistakes
to be avoided. It is not the intention of this series of articles to advocate the merits of any
particular kind or brand of pavement. The assumption is in each case that a city has

decided to lay a pavement of the type under discussion; the object of each article being to

offer suggestions as to how the longest life may be obtained for such a pavement at the least
possible expenditure to the municipality.

This series will be followed by one on various types of patented pavements.

Vitrified Brick Pavements

By Will P. Blair
Secretary, National Paving Brick Manufacturers Association

in the use of vitrified brick as a
wearing surface for streets and
roads, reaching a maximum of about
twenty-five million yards laid in 1914, es-
tablishes the successful use of vitrified
brick for paving purposes. Clearly the
factors of success embrace details of con-
struction which most largely contribute
toward making such a pavement one of
greatest possible merit. ,
Failure must be accounted for by the very
absence of details of construction necessary
to its success. To the extent, therefore,
that we are able to point out the elements
of successful brick pavements on the one
hand, and, on the other hand, are able to
make clear the things that are to be avoided,

THE gradual increase from year to year

[512]

thereby directing the hand that both plans
and constructs the brick pavements, will this
contribution be of value to those who are
called upon to pay for the pavements, and

a comfort and satisfaction to those who use
them.

The factors that contribute to the suc-
cess of a brick pavement are so easily un-
derstood and so easy of execution that it
would seem reasonable that there should be
no failures or even partial failures at all.

It is entirely proper to say that there is no
reason for failures, though there are many;
but for these there are excuses only.

The Foundation

A foundation that remains intact is the
first prerequisite, which is equally neces-

Digitized by 600816

DECEMBER, 1915

sary to the success of all forms and types of
road construction.

In order that this condition may be main-
tained, it may be necessary to lay a con-
crete base over the top of the soil. This
may be necessary for several reasons. A
very frequent reason is that of the
difliculty of keeping the sub-base dry. A
saturated or even moist condition of the

 

THE AMERICAN CITY 513

prerequisite to which altogether too little
consideration is given. This is especially
so in our northern climate, where the sub—
base is subject to freezing and, in case of
moisture, to great expansion.

At all events, a dry sub-base—whether it

-be so from natural condition or brought

about by artificial means—is a necessity for
uniform and sufficient support of the pave-

A SUCCESSFUL BRICK ROAD, 16 YEARS IN SERVICE
Buhrer Avenue. Cleveland, Ohio, built in 1900, with a sand foundation and cement filler

sub-base will not render a uniform sup-
port to the pavement. A concrete base is
necessary where the grade of the pavement
is elevated above the surrounding earth, so
that the impact will be transmitted evenly
to the entire width of the roadWay. Unless
a concrete base is thus provided, the natural
soil is pressed unevenly from under the
pavement. In every case, even where soil
conditions are favorable to a natural drain-
age, artihcial means should be used for tak-
ing moisture quickly and completely from
underneath the roads to a point below the
frost line. The maintaining by such means
of a dry state underneath the'road bed is a

ment and its loads, and is of even greater
importance to prevent injury from climatic
effects. It is also necessary that this base
—whether of natural sOil, gravel, broken
stone or concrete—be made smooth and
brought to a grade corresponding with that
of the finished street.

A very common practice that greatly im-
pairs the pavement is often permitted just
at this point: after the sub-base has been
properly prepared in every respect, it is de-
stroyed by the contractor himself by haul-
ing over it the material which he is to use
subsequently in the further construction.
The use of the road bed at this stage for

514

any purpose should not be permitted unless
thoroughly protected by sheeting it with
planks at least two inches thick.

If the design of the road provides for an
artificial foundation of gravel, broken stone
or concrete, it is highly important that the
gravel or stone be uniformly and thor-
oughly compressed. In any case—gravel,
broken stone or concrete—a smooth sur-
face corresponding to the grade of the fin-
ished street is necessary; otherwise the
monolithic brick-wearing surface must rest
on an uneven support. What will happen
to an unevenly supported surface from the
shock, impact and weight of the traffic is
apparent. As well expect that a forged
steel shaft of highest quality will run on
bearings out of line without crystallization
as expect a road surface to remain un-
broken when irregularly supported.

The Sand Cushion

The preparation of the sub-grade, which
may include the artificial foundation, hav-
ing been finished to a smooth grade corre-
sponding with that of the finished street, the
next step necessary is to supply a cushion
of sand uniform in depth and density, of
about 1% inches. It is necessary to com-
press this cushion thoroughly so that it
shall form a uniform support to the wearing
surface of the brick that are to be placed
upon it.

A very common practice which tends
towards failure is merely to strike off, by
luting or with a template, this sand cushion
to its proper depth and to let this suffice. A
uniform density cannot be secured by such
treatment. It is necessary to roll, fill the
depressions, reroll and again repeat in order
that the. requisite uniformity shall be at-
tained. This uniform density is not only
necessary for the ultimate support of the
pavement itself, but unless so compressed
it will contribute greatly to the injury of
the pavement in other steps of construction.
Thus, after the brick are placed upon the
cushion and the brick surface is to be ironed
out by rolling, the spots in the sand cushion
containing the larger quantity of sand will
be relieved of such surplus by a flow of sand
into the Open joints of the brick surface:
and this will make impossible a complete
application of the cement filler to such
joints, thereby resulting in very weak and
insufficient joints.

The brick should always be laid better

THE AMERICAN ClTY

VOL. XIII, No. 6

edge uppermost in the first instance. There
is but one better edge to a brick of any kind.
One would hardly expect a face wall in an
elegant building to be laid up without refer-
ence to the better edge. There is beauty as
well as service in a well-built brick street.
It is both economical and easy to place the
brick in the street with the better edge up in
the first instance. It is altogether too preva-
lent a practice to drop them in hit or miss,
so to speak. To make amends for this prac-
tice, an equally baneful practice is resorted
to—that of picking out the brick and turn-
ing them over, which needlessly disturbs the
carefully prepared sand cushion.

Expansion C ushions

Expansion relief next to the curb is a
benefit to the pavement. A transverse ex-
pansion cushion in a brick pavement is of
no value whatever; yet a requirement for
a transverse cushion is frequently found in
present-day specifications, with no under-
standing of the fact that the longitudinal
expansion of pavement is cared for. almost
without exception, by compression, distribu-
tion or both. The ill-considered application
of the expansion cushion before the applica-
tion of the filler would be a surprise in some
localities, but such a blundering practice
was observed by the writer in the con-
struction of a very important road but a
few days since. The almost common use
of the molded strip will perhaps eliminate
this bad practice at a very early day.

Rolling lhe Surface

After the brick are dropped into the street
with the best edge up, it is necessary to roll
the brick surface in order to iron out the
slight unevenness of surface due to variable
sizes of the brick. This is best accom-
plished by the use of a tandem roller,
weighing from 3% to 4 tons, first rolling
longitudinally in courses from the outer
edge of the pavement, approaching the cen-
ter and crown, then crosswise at an angle
of about 45 degrees, and again lengthwise,
thus securing an even surface little by little.
The use of a heavy or horse-drawn roller
either causes the brick to rebound or ca-
reens them, so that the purpose intended
fails of accomplishment.

The Cement Filler

The function of the cement filler rightly
understood would perhaps tend to superin-
duce a greater care in its application. The

Digitized by 600816

DECEMBER, 1915

purpose of the cement filler is to unite the
brick units into a monolithic wearing sur-
face and to maintain it as such; to afford
a slab upon which the impact, the unit of
traffic, will be transmitted to the larger sur-
face; to unite so closely the brick units that
the wear will be confined to a surface wear,
so to speak; to assist in maintaining a con—
tinuity of surface alignment; to avoid chip-
ping the edges and corners of the brick by
traffic uses; to make easy and inexpensive
its cleaning; to assist greatly toward a sani-
tary condition well-nigh perfect—the pur-
pose as a whole contributing to the satisfac-
tion in use, as well as to the durability of
the pavement. To attain the greatest suc-
cess in this respect it is necessary to mix
thoroughly the sand and cement in a dry
state and in the pr0portion of one to one.
In the application of water to this dry mix-
ture it is necessary that it shall be done
slowly, mixing to a mortar and then diluting
to a consistency which will enable the mix-
ture to flow readily into the joints, assisted
by a broom. It is clearly necessary that
this proportion be maintained in place. At
this time of the application it is necessary
for the brick to be both clean and thor-
oughly dampened to secure a thorough ad-
hesion of the filler. During the setting the
filler should be protected both from weather
conditions affecting its quality and from
destruction by its too early use.

A it! from the Association

These plain and simple requirements are
so easily understood and detailed directions
therefor so readily obtainable from the Na-
tional Paving Brick Manufacturers Asso-
siation that failure seems inexcusable—suc-
cess with brick pavements is spelled better
by disposition to comply than by any word
having a meaning akin to skill in construc-
tion. Yet, an important road involving an
expenditure of many thousands of dollars
was inspected by the writer very recently
where not a single one of the details men-
tioned here was complied with. Utter dis-
regard of every essential was manifest.
The road was a complete failure before a
single vehicle had passed over—not even
had the engineer been on the work.

THE AMERICAN CITY

515

The National Paving Brick Manufac—
turers Association has done its duty in co-
operation with the American Society for
Testing Materials in furnishing municipali-
ties and the public a complete measurement
of quality by which no bad brick can be
imposed upon the purchaser. Why should
there then ever be a brick street failure?
Especially why, when success means so
many years of satisfactory service. with no
burden for maintenance?

A Fundamenfal Lack

What we have here said relates mainly
to details, to that which directly affects the
success or failure of the pavement. But
may we not suggest a fundamental which
influences failure in all municipal work, or
rather the lack of a fundamental?

The public has long since been educated
to guard scrupulously the cash box—the
paying in and the paying Out. The cashier
is disgraced forever by the default of an
inconsiderable sum of money: a crucial test
of exactness and accuracy is demanded.
No leniency or excuse is permitted: the loss
of a dollar is a crime.

But how about value of the thing received
in exchange for the money? Where is the
public sentiment that demands accuracy and
exactness of value? And where is the mu-
nicipality that maintains a system—a scale
to weigh, a rule to measure, the certificate.
an oath—by which the defaulter becomes
known when he slips over a hundred in
value in place of the thousand called for
in the bond? Rather, is it not true that the
guardian of exchange is unknown of record
and only seen—sometimes with back turned,
or engaged with a ten o'clock lunch—as a
stranger to the specification, a certificate of
quality or accomplishments unknown, char-
acterized by a name indicating the lowest
paid oliicer of the city but charged with the
worth of the largest expenditure? Who is
there that is really required to know what
he might know the moment immediately pre-
ceding the payment of the purchase price,
—whether the street or road is to be a suc-
cess or a failure—in order that a discrep-
or default, called a failure, may not result?

km:

Digitized by 600816

News and Ideas for Commercial and

Civic Organizations

 

New Bulletins

ASHEVILLE, N. C.—Merchants’ Associa-
tion Stimulator. Published monthly by the
Merchants’ Association.

LAFAYETTE, Inn—The Bulletin, Pub-
lished semi-monthly by the Lafayette
Chamber of Commerce.

MARIETTA, Onto—Marietta. Published

occasionally by the Marietta Chamber of
Commerce.

SALEM, Onto—Salem. Published from
time to time by the Salem Chamber of
Commerce.

SHREVEPORT, LA.——Chamber of C ommercc
Bulletin. Published monthly by the Shreve-
port Chamber of Commerce.

+ +
A Milk Investigation

BOSTON, Mass—The Committee on Agri-
culture of the Boston Chamber of Com-
merce has made an investigation of the
milk industry in New England, the sc0pe of
which is suggested in the title of its report,
“Investigation and Analysis of the Produc-
tion, Transportation, Inspection and Dis-
tribution of Milk and Cream in New Eng-
land.” The study was made at the request
of the New England Milk Producers’ Asso-
ciation (an organization of about 2,000
New England farmers). in the hope that
light would be thrown upon the fundamental
causes for the apparent standstill in the pro-
duction of milk in New England. It was
conducted in cooperation with the agricul-
tural agencies in the various New England
states. the Federal Department of Agricul-
ture assisting.

The report outlines the present conditions
in each phase of the industry. An attempt
is made to give the reader a mental picture
of how milk and cream are produced, trans-
ported, processed, inSpected, graded and dis-
tributed, including the principal costs and
problems connected therewith.

In the chapter on “Suggestions and Rec-

[616]

H

ommendations, the authors show that a
first-class product is the prime essential, and
state the important factors contributing to
that result. The enactment of uniform laws
and regulations for grading and labeling the
product is recommended, also laws giving
boards of health power to issue licenses to
dealers and to enforce the rules. A uniform
system of buying is recommended, also the
establishment of country milk stations,
many of the existing evils being unavoid-
able in direct delivery to the car. The func-
tions of the country milk and cream station
are defined. There are suggestions in re-
gard to the cost of plants, and for their
financing and management. Improvements
in farm economy and in the method of rail‘
road transportation are suggested. Recom-
mendations were also made for improve-
ments in city distribution and for more co-
operation among dealers. Some methods
for reducing costs and for better cost ac-
counting are given. The wide advertising
of the food value of milk and its products
is recommended as one means of increasing
the demand.

Copies of the‘report may be obtained by
anyone interested, upon application to
James A. McKibben, Secretary, Boston
Chamber of Commerce.

4"!-

Grade Crossing Elimination

Assured

ERIE, PA.—The Erie Board of Commerce
has had the satisfaction of seeing its efforts
toward grade crossing elimination re-
warded.

Before the amalgamation of the Chamber
of Commerce with the Board of Trade,
those organizations had been active in
arousing the interest of their members in
the subject, but the first important work
was done after the amalgamation a little
over a year ago, when city ohicials entered
into a tentative agreement with the manage-

Digitized by 600816

DECEMBER, 1915

ment of the New York Central Railroad.
The Pennsylvania Railroad had still to be
won over, and in order to bring together
the olbcials of that road and the city oHi-
cials, a dinner was held in the Board of
Commerce rooms, at which the mayor was
designated as spokesman. The question of
grade crossing elimination was presented
squarely to the railroad officials as a matter
which would be insisted upon even though
a portion of the expense had to be borne by
the city of Erie. And incidentally, ques-
tions of train service which sorely needed
attention were taken up.

As a result of that conference and din-
ner, the operating vice-president of the
Pennsylvania Railroad went over the
ground personally the next morning and
left instructions that plans of the necessary
changes be drawn up and executed as speed-
ily as possible. This was followed by one
conference after another between the city
othcials and railroad officials in an effort to
come to an agreement in regard to the plans
and terms. In these the Board of Com-
. merce did not participatepfeeling that it
had done its part in bringing the matter to
an issue.

An agreement for a general grade elimi-
nation was reached during October just
passed, the matter having first been pre-
sented to the public at a Council meeting,
to which the Board of Commerce sent a
delegation for the purpose of supporting the

proposed arrangement.

R. C. WELLER,
Managing Secretary, Erie Board of Commerce.

+ + I
A Referendum for a New City Hall

UTICA, N. Y.—The voters of Utica de-
cided on election day that their city should
begin seriously to get ready for a new city
hall. That in itself is nothing remarkable.
but the way the result was brought about is
decidedly interesting. The situation was
handled by the Utica Chamber of Com-
merce.

Like many other cities, Utica had habit-
ually failed to make prOper provision for
its growth. Enough land had not been pur-
chased for the sites of municipal structures,

thus frequently compelling the city, when.

it desired to increase any of its property
holdings, to purchase lands having newly
erected buildings.

The present city hall was built in the fif-
ties. lt is unsanitary, and, though carry-

THE AMERICAN CITY

517

ing all the records of the city, is a fire trap.
For some years thoughtful citizens have
realized the need of a new city hall. A spe-
cial committee of the Utica Chamber of
Commerce recently took up the question for
study. It had for its assistance a report
made by Olmsted Brothers, of Brookline,
Mass., on a certain section of the city which
was suggested as a civic center, giving
sound reasons why it was available.

The committee further found that this
civic center site included a city block on
which was a million-dollar court house, the
other half being filled by ordinary buildings
and shacks. No one of .them had any par-
ticular value; one new building of any con-
sequence, however, would make the site un-
available. The committee secured options
on the section, also, from disinterested and
competent sources, an unofficial appraisal of
its real value, and a reasonable estimate of
the rentals that might be secured from the
property. It found that even by allowing
considerably more for the site than its ap-
praised value, the city might take it and se-
cure enough rent from the buildings to pay
the interest on the bonds, thus being able
to hold the property until an opportune time
for constructing the new city hall.

The committee made a careful arrange-
ment of the arguments for making the in-
vestment at the present time and of the
arguments against it. These were sent as
a referendum to the members of the Cham-
ber of Commerce, about eleven hundred.
When the vote was returned it was found
that it totalled four to one in favor of pur-
chasing the site. The committee then pre-
sented to the Common Council a c0py of the
referendum, with a statement of the vote
of the Chamber of Commerce, and with the
request that the Council secure an unofficial
referendum of the voters of the city on
election day. The Council agreed and the
result on Nov. 2 was just a litle short of
two to one in favor of buying the site. On
election day the committee placed hangers
and cards at all the polling places, request-
ing all the voters to vote on the project, but
without trying to influence their opinion in
any way.

Every one in Utica seems satisfied at the
present time with the vote, and none more
so than the members of the Chamber com-
mittee who carried on the negotiations.

DENIS F. HOWE.
Secretary, Utica Chamber of Commerce.

Digitized by 690816

For Organized Play

MADISON, Wis—The Madison Board of
Commerce completed in June last a survey
of the city's existing and possible recrea-
tional facilities, the results of which are set
forth in great detail in the report. The na—
ture and scope of the survey were deter-
mined by a committee‘of men and women
representing the city’s leading civic, educa-
tional, religious, labor and social interests,
who also gave their support and approval to
the work of the executive committee.

The report is concluded with the follow-
ing general recommendations:

“In order that this survey may become of
immediate practical value and serve as a basis
for permanent constructive effort, we recom-
mend the appointment of a committee. to be
called ‘The Madison Central Play and Recrea-
tion Committee,’ to serve until such time as the
city government is authorized by statute to
appoint a permanent committee or commis-
sion. we recommend that this committee shall
he organized as follows:

“i. That it shall be appointed under the in-
itiation and control of the Madison Board of
Commerce, but with the cooperating approval
of the city park. school, church and charity
officials, to the end of securing the cooperation
of all agencies with the community and estab-
lishing the tradition of fitness for service in
the recreative life of the city.

"2. That it shall be composed of five mem-
bers to act as a body on all questions of policy
and procedure. and to act individually as rep-
resentatives of the interests of the whole city
in the promotion, organization and administra-
tion of the following grOUps of facilities:

“(a) Physical Culture and Outing Activi-
ties—Including gymnastics, athletics, aquatics,
tramping, etc., and facilities or organizations
for such activities: the regulation of commer-
cial sporting exhibits.

“‘(b) Social Center Activities.——Including
community and club activities, entertainments,
dances. discussions, etc., and places and organi-
zations for such activities; the regulation of
commercial social activities and loating places.

“(c) Musical Activities—Including public
musical entertainments, musical clubs, etc., and
commercial entertainments.

“(d) Dramatics, Pageants and Special Cele-
brations—Including club dramatics, commun-
ity or city pageants. celebrations or holidays.
and the regulation of theatres. movies. etc.

“(c) Individual and Domestic (Home. Fam-
ily) Recreation—Including home gardening.
handicrafts, music. reading. tine arts. games.
amusements, social events. outings. family use
of galleries. museums. libraries. etc."

Among the functions which it is recom-
mended the play and recreation committee
shall have are the following:

“To create associations and foster existing
associations that extend the infiuence of va-
rious classes of recreational activities to large
numbers of people. (For example, boys' and

x
h

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 6

girls’ athletic leagues; business men's tramp-
ing clubs, art associations, etc.)

"To promote an organization for the use of
facilities that will produce among the adults a
democratic self-initiation and self—support in
their recreation, independent of public support.
(For example, club or association use of

schoolhouses, etc.) .
“To organize or promote the organization of

groups which have no organization. adequate
facilities or wholesome activities. (For exam-

ple, newsboys or street boys.)

"To advertise and promote the use of the
wholesome recreational facilities of the city
and its environment so that all classes may
know its recreational resources and be able to

' use them.” ‘

The report contains many graphic charts
and photographs. Copies may be obtained
for 50 cents each by writing to the Madi-

son Board of Commerce.

E. M. MCMAHON.
Secretary, Madison Board of Commerce.

1"!-

Civic and Commercial Activities

SPENCER, Mass—Since its recent organi-
zation as successor of the old Board of
Trade, the Spencer Chamber of Commerce
has demonstrated that a live commercial or-
ganization, even in a small town, may be
'made a real factor in community better-
ment. Some of the Chamber's activities are
of a strictly commercial character, while
others have to do with public health and
civic development. Two examples may be
cited.

The Chamber performed a valuable ser-
vice to the town by preventing the estab-
lishment of a municipal piggery and swill
disposal plant which a nearby city at-
tempted to divert to Spencer. It was the
intention to purchase several farms in out-
lying portions of the‘ city for such use. The
Chamber of Commerce circulated petitions
opposing the project. and, after learning
that the Board of Health could prevent its
establishment, was instrumental in having
an ordinance passed prohibiting such under-
takings. The Chamber earned the grati-
tude of the townspeople for the service.

An arch has been erected across Main
Street bearing the motto: “Spencer Salutes
You. Speak Well of Us." This will be
electrically illuminated each night free of
charge by the Spencer Gas Company.

A contract also has been completed
through the Chamber for the occupancy of
a vacant factory by a brass manufacturing
concern, where ultimately 100 persons will

be given employment.

RALPH J. CORCORAN,
Secretary, Spencer Chamber of Commerce.

Digitized by 600816

I

DECEMBER, 1915

“ Health Sunday”

HOT SPRINGS, Ame—Sunday, October 3,
was observed as “Health Sunday” in Hot
Springs, Ark. Such a movement was felt
to be needed even in this famous health re-
sort, and was decided upon at a conference
of physicians with representatives of the
Ministerial Alliance and members of the
Business Men’s League. Physicians dis-
placed the pastors in their pulpits at the
evening service for that day and lectured
upon health and sanitation, necessary pre-
caution against disease, a cleaner, better,
healthier city, and the beautification of
lawns, back yards and alleys, carrying
throughout the thought of a general uplift
of civic affairs.

It is the intention to hold another “Health
Sunday" in about six months.

GEORGE R. BELDING.
Secretary, Business Men's League.

+1-

A Union of Forces

SOUTH BEND, IND.—An amalgamation
was effected in South Bend recently be-
tween the Chamber of Commerce and the
Commercial Athletic Club. The new or-
ganization is known as the Chamber of
Commerce and Commercial Athletic Club.
Consolidated. This is now the only com-

 

 

'HOM[‘. OF SOUTH BEND'S CONSOLIDATED

‘ ORGANIZATION

mercial organization in the city. Its mem-
‘bership of 750 includes all the different civic
and commercial interests of the community.
‘ The building formerly occupied by the
Commercial Athletic Club is the home of
the new organization. There are club rooms
and card rooms, directors’ rooms, an assem-

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

519

bly hall, a gymnasium, bowling alleys—in
fact, all the equipment necessary to further
the social welfare of the members, as well
as the civic and industrial interests of the

city at large. -
L J. DARE.

Member Board of Directors, Chamber of .Commerce
and Commercial Athletic Club, Consolidated.

+ a-
City Directory Library

SYRACUSE, N. Y.—The Syracuse Cham-
ber of Commerce has recently installed in
its rooms a very complete andup-to-date
city directory library of about 1,000 cities
and towns in the United States and Canada.
The library is open to the public and is
referred to constantly. The members of
the Chamber find the classified indexes of
great value in compiling mailing lists and
in enabling them to get in touch with new
customers. Merchants, manufacturers,
newspaper men, commercial travelers.
representatives of the Police Department
and of many other lines of work consult

the library.
H. EDMUND BULLIS,
Assistant Secretary, Syracuse Chamber of Commerce.

4"!-

The Georgia Motion Picture Film

ATLANTA, GA.—The Georgia Chamber of
Commerce has prepared a motion picture"
film approximately 5,000 feet in length
which is being used in Georgia and through-
out the United States to arouse interest in
the state of Georgia. It requires two hours
to run the film.

There are presented views of public
buildings in the state, including its educa-
tional institutions and other public enter-
prises; views of the state's mineral re-
sources, and of its apple and peach or-
:hards, watermelon fields, pecan groves.
sugar cane fields, corn fields, and hog and
cattle ranches; views of the state's water-
power development, of its modern cities, of
its timber wealth, the latter through views
of pine forests, hardwood forests, manufac-
turing plants and shipping scenes; facts
about the climate of the state, demonstrated
by ofiicial figures of the Weather Bureau;
views relating to the water-supply from
springs, rivers and artesian wells. which in-
sure the health of Georgia's people; views
of many places of historic interest in the
state; views of scenes in the mountains of

 

' See the Town and County edition of this issue.

526

North Georgia, on the sea coast, etc.; views
showing road conditions in the state; also
graphic pictures of the cotton industry, from
its planting and chopping time through the
various processes to the finished product of
the Georgia mills.

The pictures have much life detail in
them, showing actual work in progress.
Two films were made, one to be run in all
the motion picture houses of Georgia, to
acquaint the people of the state with its re-
sources and to arouse civic pride. The
other film will be accompanied by a lec-
turer throughout the East and West. It is
planned to show this not only to large
audiences, .but also at private exhibitions,
and to select groups of financiers and busi—
ness people, to impress them with the many
opportunities Georgia offers to outside capi-
tal for investment. It will also be shown
to groups of especially invited farmers, to
secure, if possible, an increase in the agri-

cultural population of the state.

ALBERT M. SMITH.
Secretary-Manager, Georgia Chamber of Commerce.

4- v!-
1915 Year Book Ready

N aw YORK Cruz—The Merchants’ Asso-
ciation has just issued its 1915 year book.
It is illustrated with portraits and views of
the headquarters in the Woolworth Build-
ing, and contains besides the usual list of
officers, directors, standing committees, etc.,
the reports of the seven executive depart-
ments under the immediate direction of the
secretary. These are the Bureau of Re-
search, the Publicity Bureau, the Member-
ship Bureau, the Traffic Bureau, the Indus-
trial Bureau, the Convention Bureau and
the Library. The reports are followed by a
brief account of the Association’s plan of

 

   

 

.‘

KNOCK ER

  

- [

SIGN PAINTED ACROSS THE ENTIRE SIDE OF A BIG MARKET BUILDING IN SPRINGFIELD,
MASS.

THE AMERICAN CITY

omeone has said that when the Creator md made all the good things there still mmahedmuukbhni& 
and reptiles and poisonous insectsand when He had hmshed there were some scraps leftéol'le

it withsuspicionwrapped ll Wllll jealousy. marked it with a yellow streak and called it a KNOCKER._

This product was so fearful to contemplate that He had tr;- malxe something to counteract Malawi“
of .3 child. the brm at .3 mm. wrapped these in {l‘u'lt‘ pnderwered it with brotherly love simian!
and called it .1 BO OSTERszde him a lover of fields and tlowersend manly -- '

VOL. XIII, No. 6

organization, illustrated by a diagram.
Then follow alphabetical and classified lists

of the Association’s members, 3,300 in num-
ber.

The volume contains 240 pages. Copies

may be obtained without charge by writing
direct for them.

ROBERT H. FULLER.
Bureau. The Merchants'
ew York.

Manager, Publicit
Association of

'1'!-

Birmingham’s Industries

BIRMINGHAM, Ayn—The Industrial Bu-
reau of the Birmingham Chamber of Com-
merce has recently issued a booklet contain—
ing an authentic, alphabetically arranged
list of the products manufactured in the
district, stating also by whom made, which
the Chamber hopes will
open the door to new
industries. In the pref-
ace to the booklet it is
urged that Birmingham
merchants and jobbers,
as well as the citizens
generally, use the arti-

cles manufactured in
those plants. It was a gratification to find
that there was such a large range of diver—
sified industries in that section, and that
many of the articles seen in the store win-
dows which it was thought were manufac-
tured elsewhere and shipped into the dis-
trict, were actually made in Birmingham. '

On ‘the front page of the booklet, in-
genious use has been made of the “Made in
U. S. A.” trademark, as shown by upper
half of the cover, here reproduced.

WM. C. RADCLIFFE,
General Secretary, Chamber of Commerce.

we want you to

Know What '5

W

Illllm
ALA IA HA

 
    

—.

__..

     

     
 

mammal:

  

 
   

 
  

 

  

Good Roads Activities of Commercial
Organizations

Continuing the Work in Wayne
ounty, Mich.

DETROIT, MICH.—For the last few weeks
the Detroit Board of Commerce has been
working with great diligence upon the prob-
lem of securing funds with which to con-
tinue the work of road-building in Wayne
County. There was danger that the work
of constructing roads outside the cities and
villages in that county
would be halted unless
the Board of Supervis-
ors could be induced to
spread a half-mill levy
on the tax rolls for the
purpose of continuing
it. The Board of Com-
m e r c e, therefore,
brought every possible
influence to bear upon
the Board of SuperviS'
ors to make them feel
the urgency of such ac-
tion. In a referendum
on the question sub-
mitted by the Board of
Commerce, the mem-
bership voted over—
whelmingly in favor of
the funds being raised
in such manner. Let-
ters were also received from prominent
merchants indicating how greatly beneficial

 

A GOOD ROAD MAKES THIS HILL AN EASY CLIMB

t0 Detroiters were the fine roads in Wayne
County—and such evidence is weighty, since
Detroit citizens pay a large per cent of the
county taxes. These letters, with the result
of the vote referred to, were presented to
the Supervisors for their enlightenment, and
each alderman was visited by members of
the Board of Commerce and the question
discussed.

 

THE BEST ARGUMENT FOR GOOD ROADS

The Supervisors voted favorably upon the
half-mill tax. This will provide $300,000,
suHicient to carry on
the work during the
coming year.

There is a law in
force in Michigan at
present, known as the
Newell - Smith horse—
power law, providing
for the raising of
road-building funds by
the imposition of a
25-cent tax on the au—
tomobile owner for
every horse-power his
machine will develOp
at the standard rating,
and a 25-cent tax per
hundred—pound weight
of the machine, the
intention being to se-
cure the money from

[521]

 

522

the heaviest users, as well as destroyers, of
the roads. The law provides that half of
this revenue is to go into the state highway
fund and that the balance shall come back
to the county to be used in its own road-
building work. It was feared, however,
that this plan would be attacked as uncon-
stitutional, as was the case with a previous
law of the same nature.

The good roads at present in Wayne
County owe their existence to the activities
of the Detroit Board of Commerce, a $2,-
000,000 bond issue for building them having
been secured in 1909 through the efforts of
that body. This bond issue has now become
exhausted, however, and although Wayne
County has concrete roads that are famous.
there are about 1,300 miles of roads outside
the cities and villages yet to be improved.

GEORGE W. CUSHING.
Editor. The Detroiter.

+ +
A Farmer Boys’ Contest

JANESVIUE. Wis—The Janesville Com-
mercial Club recently closed one branch of
a campaign instituted a year ago to bring
about closer codperation between the busi-
ness men of the city and the business men
of the surrounding country, namely, the
farmers. .This was a good roads contest
participated in by the farmer boys of Rock
County. Eight townships were represented.
55 boys taking part in the contest. Each
boy was assigned a strip of road to take
care of with a split logr drag, grader or
other such equipment. The work included
filling up holes and repairing washouts.
Through arrangements made with the town
boards, the boys were paid in cash for the
actual time spent on the roads. A prize was
offered to the boy in each town who had
been most successful in caring for the strip
assigned to him.

The idea of the contest was to interest
the boys in the importance of good roads
and educate them to the best methods being
employed in road building and repairing.
It was borne in mind that the boys of to-day
will be the men of to-morrow, and that
upon their shoulders will rest the responsi-
bility of carrying on the county work al-
ready so well started.

The business men of Janesville further
rewarded the contestants by giving them an
automobile ride to Madison, the capital.
While there they were entertained at dinner

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, N0. 6

at a hotel. After dinner the boys and their
hosts, numbering nearly eighty persons,
called upon Governor Philipp, who received
them in his omce in the Capitol and ad—
dressed them brielly. Later the party was
conducted over the campus of the Univer-
sity of Wisconsin by Professor James of
the agricultural school.

The plan has the hearty endorsement of
the County Highway Commissioner and of
a majority of the members of the Board of
County Supervisors. It is probable that a
similar plan will be carried out next year.

\V. J. MCDOWELL.
Secretary, Janesville Commercial Club.

'1'!-

Washington County Votes for
Good Roads

MARIETTA, Onto—The voters of Wash-
ington County (the county in which Mari-
etta is located). voted in favor of the levy
of a mill and a half for building county
roads when the proposition was presented
to them on November 2. The proceeds from
the tax, in addition to the state funds avail-
able for that purpose, will furnish the
county with about $200,000 a year for five
years. The road building for which this
amount will be expended is in addition to
the regular road work undertaken annually
by the Commissioners.

The campaign was launched and managed
by the Marietta Chamber of Commerce. A
strong county organization was necessary,
however, to push the campaign, and a news-
paper man was selected by the Chamber as
county manager. He appointed a county
committee. They in turn selected township
chairmen, and these latter organized their
respective townships. A vigorous publicity
campaign was then opened—financed large-
lv by the Marietta Chamber—and a wide
distribution given of literature, form and
personal letters, etc. The farmer was con-
vinced that it was a county campaign in
his interests and not a city political move-
ment.

It is noteworthy that the laboring men in
Marietta, although they were not obliged to
use the county roads and might be expected
to oppose the plan, were sulhciently inter-
ested to vote in favor of taxing themselves
in order that the roads might be built. This
was due, without doubt, to the interest
aroused by the 400 members of the Cham-

Digitized by GOOSIQ

DECEMBER, 1915

THE AMERICAN CITY 523

 

BOULEVARD \VITH SAFETY ISLES, IN MARSHALLTOWN, IOWA

ber of Commerce, who employ approxi-
mately 75 per cent of the working people in
the city. These members were asked to
handle the campaign in their own places of
business. The plan was apparently logical,
for only a small percentage of the pe0ple in
the city voted against the tax.

JAMES H. VVARBURTON.
Secretary, Marietta Chamber of Commerce.

+ v!-
Boulevards of Beauty and Utility

MARSHALLTOWN, Iowa.—The accompany-
ing illustration shows how Marshalltown
has solved the problem of caring for the
constantly increasing number of automo-
biles entering the city, which had begun to
be a serious one. The boulevard streets that
surround the public square are 60 feet wide
between curbs. The safety isles are oval,
and are 8 by 15 feet.

The Marshalltown Club is responsible for
the improvement. A committee from the
Club secured an agreement between the
Board of County Supervisors and the three
city councilmen to construct such a boule-
vard. The cost of repaving the streets is
met by the county, the city and the property
owners. who pay their proportionate shares.
The Marshalltown Club agreed to pay for
the electroliers, which were installed three
to the block, and the city assumed the light-
ing expense.

The boulevard forms the nucleus of a
pleasing civic center. The public buildings
already facing the square are the County
Court House, the new $100,000 Y. M. C. A.

building, the Government building, the Ma-
sonic Temple and the jail.

J. SIDNEY JOHNSON,
Secretary, Marshalltown Club.

+ *-
Why a Bond Issue Was Opposed

Los ANGELES, CAL—At a special election
on October 26 the voters of Los Angeles
defeated a proposed bond issue of $2,850,-
000 for good roads. The defeat was due in
part at least to the action of the Los Angeles
Chamber of Commerce, which, while recog-
nizing the importance of additional good
roads for Los Angeles County, was not in
favor of the methods by which it was pro-
posed to Spend the proceeds of the bonds.
Among the objections pointed out by the
Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce in the
circular issued to its members were the fol-
lowing:

“We opposed the bond issue, believing that
the County District Assessment Plan, whereby
the county furnishes rock and oil (at a costof
about.$3,8oo per mile) and the benefited prop-
erty stands the balance of the expense (which
amounts to about $5.700 per mile). proportion-
ately divided about 40 per cent and 60 per cent,
respectively. is more equitable and just: the
county already having built under the Assess-
ment District Plan about 200 miles of road at
an expense of $749.!50, the interested property
owners paying $1,160,096. thus making a saving
to the county of $1,160,096.

“Another serious objection to the pr0poscd
bond issue is the fact that no official estimate
of cost has been made—there never having
been an official survey of many of the proposed
roads—nor has assurance been given that
bonds are sufficient to complete roads. and
under the circumstances we thought it an un-

f

524

businesslike proposition to place before the

peo le.
“gome of the roads proposed do not connect

with any other paved roads, and others are
lateral, or connecting, roads only; the building
of which, while of great importance to the
property through which they run, are not of
equal benefit to all portions of the county, and
therefore should be built by direct assess-

ments.”
FRANK WIGGINS.

Secretary, Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce.

4- 4-
Preparing for the Dixie Highway

MARTINSVILLE, Inn—Martinsville citi-
zens desired to have Dixie Highway routed
through their city. The city’s natural re-
sources are mineral water, clay and shale.
By reason of the former there are eight
sanitariums in Martinsville which are visited
each year by large numbers of people from
all over the country, and the presence of the
last-named minerals accounts for the two
large paving brick plants just outside the
city. These are the Martinsville Brick Com-
pany and the Adams Clay Products Com-
pany. It was thus seen to be “good busi—
ness” to work for the routing of Dixie

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 6

Highway through the city, aside from the
growing spirit of town patriotism which
strengthened the desire. A battle was
waged, cooperatively with some of the
neighboring cities, with a favorable result.

As an appreciation, a movement was im-
mediately undertaken to pave with brick a
stretch of roadway two and a half miles
long connecting with the paved streets at
the city limits. This being the beginning
of the permanent roadway, a celebration,
including a street pageant, was conducted
by the Martinsville Chamber of Commerce,
with Governor Ralston as the chief partici-
pant

A brick monument was built on the scene
of activities, each brick bearing a name, the
owners paying 25 cents for the brick.
Bricks were prepared for Governor Ralston
and for the various members of the Dixie
Highway Association and others who par-
ticipated in the festivities. Each laid a
brick in the monument, also in the pave-
ment, the Governor laying the first brick in

the pavement.
JOHN E. NORTHWAY.

Secretary-Manager, Chamber of Commerce.

 

AFTER THE DIXIE
Governor Ralston is standin_ at the right of the center.

follows: 1 and 2—Cunningham
way”; 4—]. C.

HIGHWAY CEREMONIES IN MARTINSVILLE

The seven most prominent participants are as

. rothers, who are building the road; 3—Carl Fisher “Father of Dixie High-
McNutt, Vice-PreSident, Dixie Highway Association; 6—John  Northway, Secretary,

Martinsville Chamber of Commerce; 6—W. S. 'Gilbreath, Field Secretary, Dixie Highway Association;

7—E. I. Poston, Manager, Martinsville Brick Co.

 

 

MERCHANTS’ COOPERATIVE DELIVERY WAGONS IN ARKANSAS CITY, KANS.

Cooperative Delivery Systems

A Factor in Reducing the High Cost of Living

Raymond B. Gibbs
Secretary, Chamber of Commerce, Olean, N. Y.

FFICIENCY, service, economy.
These are words we hear in connec-
tion with business every day. Civic-

commercial organizations are especially in-
terested in all movements which tend
towards greater eliiciency, better service
and strict economy. Investigation shows
that the establishment of merchants’ co-
operative delivery systems covers all three
points.

Advantages of the System

Efficiency is brought about by freeing
the merchant from the necessity of being a
stable-masteror a superintendent of drivers,
horses, wagons, etc. The merchant, thus
being relieved from the worry and care of
delivery, can give his undivided attention
to the buying and selling of the goods in
which he is dealing. Through the coopera-
tive plan the work of delivering is turned
over to a man who devotes all his time to
it and therefore becomes skilled in doing
that particular thing.

On the side of service we find a well-sys-
tematized business with definite hours for
delivery. The merchant, freed from the
arduous duties of continually looking after
deliveries, systematizes his work, gives
more attention to buying and renders better
and more prompt service to his customers.
The customers, also, soon learn to get their
orders in by a certain time, knowing that
when this is done delivery will be made
promptly. They appreciate the. merchants’
delivery service, which becomes as certain
and regular as the mail deliveries and

eliminates the necessity of expletives to
impress the merchant with the need of
making delivery at once.

When we come to the economical side of
the question, we are astonished to find that
the cooperative system, wherever estab-
lished, has brought about a reduction in the
cost of delivery of from 20 to 50 per cent
of the former cost. This is not surprising,
however, when one stops to think that
every delivery wagon in the city under the
old system takes in practically every sec-
tion of the city several times during the
day, while under the cooperative plan it is '
only necessary for one wagon to cover the
territory. The drivers and horses, always
making the same route, become thoroughly
familiar with it and are able to make de-
liveries rapidly and to the entire satisfac-
tion of the consumer. At first it may be
thought that the saving will go to the mer-
chants only, but in these days of close mar-
gins the Saving will eventually come to the
consumer.

A well-established cooperative delivery
system is also an important factor in cre-
ating a better spirit of cooperation among
the merchants and a higher degree of civic

patriotism among the citizens of the com-
munity.

Organization and Operation

The cooperative delivery systems now in
use may be divided into two classes: first,
those systems where the manager takes
over the delivery business, promising a re-

[526]

1"

526

duction in delivery service to the mer-
chants; second, systems where the mer-
chants form a stock company and hire a
general manager to conduct the business.

Briefly, either system is organized and
operated as follows:

The merchants turn into the new com-
pany, at a fair price, such part of their
equipment as can be used. A central sta-
tion is built where the goods are brought
and distributed. Near the central station is
another building for stabling horses and
other equipment. The wagons start out the

___+ms

O

MERCHANTS mauvm c0.

PONTIAC. M IGH'.

 

TAG SOLD TO MERCHANTS BY MERCHANTS'
DELIVERY COMPANY OF PONTIAC. MICH.,
FOR ORDINARY DELIVERIES

Original measures 4% x 2% inches

Dealer's Name

MI Infant: lltllmy GI.

Pontiac. Mich

 

ENVELOPE SOLD TO PONTIAC MERCHANTS
FOR C. O. D. DELIVERIES

Original measures 5% x 2% inches

first thing in the morning and collect from
the different stores. All the wagons then
come to the central station, where the pack-
ages are distributed to the booths represent-
ing certain routes. The wagons next leave
at a certain time, cover the routes and re-
turn again to collect from the stores. Four
trips a day are usually made, and an extra
one on Saturday evening.

In order that the system may work prop-
erly from the start, considerable educational
work is necessary. The housewives are
educated through the daily papers and
through the distribution of leaHets in regard
to the operation of the system. and are
urged to get their orders in on time. just

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 6

as soon as the customers become familiar
with the system, they are well satisfied
with it. They know exactly when deliv-
eries will be made and they know they must
get their orders in on time so as to receive
them on the next delivery.

Investigation shows that the merchants
themselves are delighted with the system.
Many merchants who have operated under
the old and the new delivery plan say that
rather than go back to the old system they
would go out of business. The responsi-
bility and worry of the delivery are off their
minds.

In a number of instances cooperative de-
livery systems are conducted without a cen-
tral station, the transfer being made from
one wagon to another on the street, or each
wagon picking up orders for its district
from the different stores. Where this plan
is followed a big reduction in the cost of
delivery has resulted, and in order to start
the system there is need only of a manager
and the cooperation of the merchants.

A few of the details of the working of
the system are explained as follows:

None of the drivers are allowed to solicit
orders. A person may hand an order to the
driver addressed to the firm that it is de-
sired to have furnish the goods. C. O. D.’s
are taken care of by the drivers, who check
them with the manager, and settlement is
made with each merchant at the close of

. the day. Orders which come in just after

the delivery wagon has left must wait until
the next delivery. A special wagon is often
kept to take care of large articles, when it

is advisable to make delivery direct from
store to customer.

W here (he Syslem is W orking

There are scores of cities in the United
States which are doing their delivering un-
der some form of the cooperative plan. Be-

low is given a brief account of some of the
delivery systems now in use in cities in
various sections of the country :*

ANN ARBOR, Mica—Population, I4.817.‘l'
Conmany is composed of 26 stockholders, all
merchants, and was capitalized for $10,000.

' Other cities in which cobperattve delivery systems
are in operation are as follows:

Angola. Ind.; Ames. Iowa; Emporia, Eureka. Olathe.
Salina and Wellington, Kans.; Adrian. Albion. Battle
Creek. Goldwater and Pontiac. Mich.: Columbia and
Independence, Mo: Grand Island, Neb.; Albion. Ba-
tavia, Brockpqrt. Fairport. Holley, Leroy. Newark.
Perry and “’arsaw. N. Y.; Bellevue, Findlay. Fre-
mont. Mansfield. Massillon and Tiflin. Ohio; Black-
well, Okla: and Laramie, Wyo.

'i‘ U. S. Census figures used throughout article.

 

Digitized by 600816

I)ECEMBER, 1915

The wagons collect from the stores, bring the

goods to the central station and unload, and

the orders are routed, each wagon taking

everything in its territory. After the delivery
is made. the wagons return to the stores for
the next prickvup. The stockholders are pay-
ing 2% cents for meats and 3% cents for gro-
ceries per delivery. Non-stockholders pay $4
cent more for the same class of goods. The
shoe stores, dry-goods stores. drug stores,
clothing stores, etc., are charged 5 cents per
delivery. Packages are transferred through
regular delivery from one residence to an-
other for 10 cents each. The cost of delivery
to the merchants previous to installation of the
system was 6 cents to 8 cents per delivery.

ARKANSAS Cm’, KANs.—Population, 7.508.
Privately owned system. Milburn double-
deck delivery wagon is used here, as it is in
seventeen of nineteen Kansas towns which
operate systems of this kind.

EXCELSIOR SPRINGS, Mo.——Population, 3.900.
System privately owned. Saving to merchants
of from 10 per cent to 20 per cent. Excelsior
Springs is a health resort. and naturally many
of the residents are hard to please, but all but
the ultra-particular are well satisfied with the
system.

GOUVERNEUR. N. Y.—Population. 4.128. Or-
ganized in 1913. Organization is purely a mu-
tual one and not incorporated. The town is
divided into four districts. The stores mark
the name of the customer and the district on
each package. No central station is used, each
wagon serving all the stores and taking the
goods for its own district only. Cost of deliv-
ery per package slightly under 2 cents; former
cost. 6 cents. Customers are pleased with
system and would not consider returning to
the old method.

INDEPENDENCE, KANs.—Popu1ation. 10.480.
System privately owned, established two years
ago by individuals who took in all equipment
at its worth at the time. Delivery cost re-
duced from 15 cents per order to 10 cents per
order. System satisfactory to both merchants
and customers.

THE AMERICAN CIT}

527

MARSHALLTOWN, Iowa—Population, 13,374.
Cooperative delivery system is incorporated
for $100,000 and operates systems in Oskaloosa
and Marshalltown, Iowa, and Greeley and
Loveland, Colo. System established at Mar-
shalltown early in 1914, a reduction in cost of
delivering being guaranteed to the merchants.
The cost per package is on the average 2% to
3 cents. The system is operated from a cen-
tral collecting and distributing station and is
satisfactory to both merchants and customers.

NORWALK, Onto—Population. 7,858. Mer-
chants’ Delivery Company owned by grocers.
Cost of delivering from 2 cents to 3% cents
per package. Central station used. Ten
wagons required where twenty were used by
the merchants under the old system.

OSAGE, KANs.—Population, 2.432. System
has been established for six years. Cost of
delivery about one-third of cost under old
method. Merchants also run cash system and
like it better than old credit system. The de-
livery boy gets the cash and settles his account
every night.

POTSDAM, N. Y.—P0pulati0n, 4.036. System
privately owned. each merchant paying a flat
rate of $9 to $16 per week. The merchants
report that it is one of the finest things they
have ever done to lessen the expense, work
and worry of the retail merchant who has to
deliver. The merchants under the old system‘
were using twelve wagons. twelve men and
twenty horses. while now the work is being
done better with four teams. four men and
four boys.

STOCKTON, CAL—Population, 23,253. Sys-
tem organized two years ago has resulted in
a saving of 25 per cent to the merchants. Com-
pany is capitalized at $25,000. Each merchant
put in his delivery outfit at a fair price.

YPSILANTI, Mien—Population. 6,230. About
twelve years ago two merchants of Ypsilanti
who were running tive wagons decided to de-
liver their goods together. Three wagons were
used, and in about a year three other merchants
decided they wanted to deliver their'goods in
the same way, so a stock company was organ-

 

TYPE OF DELIVERY WAGONS IN USE IN WESTERN NEW YORK

 

528

ized with stock at $125 per share. The firms
taking stock turned in all their usable horses,
wagons, harness, etc. In five years’ time all
the butchers and grocers of any importance
fell into line. The delivering is done with
seven wagons and seventeen horses, with one
wagon in reserve in case of accident. The
horses are in good condition, as they are not
raced all over town. Up-to-date wagons are
used, costing from $200 to $250 and made spe-
cially for the business, with a drop center,
where the driver stands and loads and unloads
his goods from back to front. The company
owns its own barn, which was paid for by an
assessment of $1 a week upon each member.
Expenses are never less than 2 cents per
order and never over 2% cents. Non-stock-
holders are charged 20 per cent additional.
The equipment recently inventoried at $4,500,
making the stock for the ten original shares

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 6

issued by the company now worth $450.

The wagons leave the last store at 6.30, 8
and 10 A. M., and 2 and 4 P. M. About four
months in the winter the 6.30 trip is omitted.
Customers and merchants are pleased with the
system. The wagons leave the stores as regu-
larly as a train of cars leaves a station. The
customers look for the wagons at regular
hours and make their plans accordingly. The
C. O. D. system works finely. Every C. O. D.
is put in an enve10pe with the name and ad-
dress of customer, and instructions are given
the driver to bring back the goods or the
money. Cash is turned in to each store within
twenty-four hours from the time the goods
left the store.

THE ORLEANS DISTRIBUTORS, INC—The Or-
leans Distributors, Inc., operate systems in
Geneva, Canandaigua, Albion, Medina, Hor-
nell, Penn Yan and Newark, N. Y.

 

The Declining Tuberculosis Death Rate

The striking chart shown on this page is
one of a series of 21 prepared by The Pru-
dential Insurance Company for the National
Association for the Study and Prevention
of Tuberculosis. The Department of Health
of Newark, N. J., calls attention to this
chart as an effective answer to those critics
of present-day preventive measures in the
anti-tuberculosis campaign who claim that
the money spent has yielded small results.

It is shown that in the combined experience
of New York, Philadelphia and Boston the

Mortality from Tuberculosis of Lun 3. I8I5—I9I4

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

tuberculosis death rate has declined almost
continuously since the discovery by Koch
in 1882 of the tubercle bacillus. The death
rate in these three cities, combined, has been
more than cut in half since that date, or, to
be exact, it has declined from 380.6 per
100,000 of p0pulation in 1882 to 164.6 in
1914. The 1914 death rate was therefore

only 43.2 per cent of that of 1882, or, to
put it the other way, the death rate of 1882
had, by 1914, fallen 56.8 per cent.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Raising the Standard of Motion Pictures

SURVEY of the motion picture situ—
A ation in Berkeley, Cal., has recently
been conducted by the Motion Pic-
ture Survey Committee of the City Club of
Berkeley. To aid the committee in arriv-
ing at the facts, the children of the sixth,
seventh and eighth grades in three public
schools in Berkeley were asked to write
essays upon the subject, “What I Like Best
in Moving Pictures.” The report of the
committee is based upon visits of its mem-
bers to the eight motion picture theaters
of the city and upon the children’s essays.
The report, for which great credit should
be given to Prof. T. H. Reed, of the Depart-
ment of Political Science, University of
California, contains four tables in which
the actual findings of the survey committee
are tabulated. Table I analyzes the artistic
and moral value of ten programs in which
35 films were displayed, and shows a dis-
tinction between the moral value of the
plays for adults and the moral value for
children. Table II analyzes the kinds of pic-
tures which are most enjoyed by the Berke-
ley children, and indicates the preference of
the children to be six to one in favor of the
adventurous, blood—letting kind of drama
rather than for the educational kind, and a
preference of three to one for comedy
against the educational. Table 111 gives a
list of the favorite films of the Berkeley
children in the three schools referred to,
and Table IV gives a list of the four fa-
vorite motion picture players and states the
preferences by the same boys and girls.

It is made clear from the tables that the
kind of pictures exhibited cannot be greatly
changed without endangering the actual
usefulness of the motion picture theaters,
and that attention must therefore be di-
rected to improving the quality of the pic-
tures, especially those of adventure and
comedy, and to securing as large a propor-
tion of educational films in each program as
possible.

The recommendations of the survey com-
mittee and the conclusions reached are given

in full:
RECOMMENDATIONS

The committee is of the Opinion that it
would be undesirable at the present time to
establish an official censorship of picture films
in Berkeley. Censorship is a method which
should only be resorted to when every other
method has failed. It is, under ordinary cir-

cumstances, unwise to entrust to a few indi-
viduals the right to determine what the taste
of the community should be.

The committee feels that there are three
important constructive steps which may be
undertaken in Berkeley.

1. An eti'ort to crystallize public sentiment
in Berkeley upon the motion picture situa-
tion. To this end the report of this commit-
tee was presented before a largely attended
meeting of the City Club, and is now printed
in this Bulletin for general circulation. It is
earnestly recommended that the various or- .
ganizations of our city which are interested in
civic betterment, take under consideration this
problem, and endeavor to create a high stand-
ard of judgment with regard to the Quality of
motion pictures to be exhibited in our city.

2. Friendly cooperation with the picture the-
ater proprietors to secure the elimination of
the worst film. The committee believes that
the time is ripe for the City Club, the Civic
League, Mothers' Clubs and other organiza-
tions to urge upon motion theater proprietors
the elimination of the worst of the films now
exhibited in this city. This should be done in
a friendly spirit of cooperation. Motion the-
ater proprietors are anxious to give the public
what the public wants in so far as the films
available to them will warrant. They will
welcome suggestions through representative
individuals or committees concerning the sen-
timent of large bodies of people of the com-
munity. It is important for us to realize that
the motion picture proprietors are not en-
tirely their own masters in the selection of
films. They must offer some kind of a pro-
gram every day, and the list of films upon
which they may depend is limited. It is only
the T & D and other very large concerns
which have anything like a free choice among
the films at the exchanges, and of course even
these are limited to films produced.

3. Special Programs for Children. The com-
mittee recommends that wherever possible, ar-
rangements should be made with the propri-
etors of theaters to give on Saturday after-
noons, or some other time when children are
particularly likely to be in attendance in large
numbers, programs suited to children. This
does not mean, as we have already pointed out.
necessarily a juvenile program. It simply
means a program from which those films detri-
mental to the taste or morals of children are
removed.

CONCLUSION

There is no more attractive form of amuse- .
ment in the community than motion pictures.
The popular prices at which they are offered
to the public means their employment by
every one. It is this universality of appeal
which creates the motion picture problem for
children. No other similar infiuence has had
a tithe of the power over them exerted by the

“photo” play. Children never attended the
legitimate theater in large numbers. Only _a
few children ever read extensively. Practi-

cally all children go to the picture shows. For
1529]

Digitized by 600816

530 THE AMERICAN CITY

one boy who reads a dime novel fifty attend
the "movies." The picture shows may open
to them a new world of interest and beauty.
It may acquaint them with the great events
which have thrilled mankind. On the other
hand, it may debase and degrade them in man-
ners and morals. The subject of the motion
picture is, therefore. one which every citizen.
especially every parent, should approach with
the most serious purpose. We must not per-
mit ourselves to be carried away by idle
prejudices or by finical appreciation of moral
values. Many grave mistakes have been made
by would-be censors who have permitted their
opinions to be warped by an over-sharp nose
for the prurient and have forbidden the pro-

V01.. XIII, No. 6

duction of plays of great moral worth. On
the other hand, we must be firm and steadfast
in our purpose to have for our children the
best that is attainable in motion pictures. This
does not mean that we are likely to secure
perfection. We are. however. in line to bring
about great improvements.

The committee has not yet been disbanded.
but is preparing to conduct another campaign
of investigation and suggestion. and. by hold-
ing conferences with the managers of motion
picture theatres. to do. indirectly and with as
little publicity as possible, what many cities are
expecting to do through censors in raising the
standard of motion pictures shown in the city
theatres.

 

A Gift“ or a Bridge

By W. B. Conant

tural design was completed last

spring at Proctor, Vt., at a cost of
over $25,000. The facing of the arches and
the balustrades are of Vermont marble, the
core arch being of concrete 18 inches thick.
The bridge consists of three Norman arches
and is 140 feet in length. Mrs. Redheld
Proctor, widow of the late senator from
Vermont, was the donor.

3 ROAD bridge of handsome architec—

 

The first bridge on the site was built in
1794. This was of wood, and was carried
away by a Hood in 1811. A second wooden
structure was erected and was carried away
in 1839. In 1841 a covered bridge was built.
which remained until 1914.

The present structure has a sidewalk on
either side of the roadway, and is lighted by
clusters of incandescent electric lamps on
metal standards, at either end.

i  Mull-nu w.

1 ' .

CONCRETE-AND-MARBLE ROAD BRIDGE AT PROCTOR, VT.

 

Preparing for Newark’s Two-Hundred-and-
Fiftieth Birthday

'By John Cotton Dana
Librarian, Free Public Library, Newark, N. J.

dred and fiftieth birthday, a celebration

of the anniversary has been arranged
for next year, to continue from May to
October. There is every indication that it
will be an elaborate festival and an enjoy-
able merrymaking time. The primary ob-
ject in observing the anniversary of the

IN commemoration of Newark’s two hun-

ll

. b’ _
.. . I -
.‘

rob-.7 fin? limo-E huh-ll
.; I'm-a». a guy a 9 y!

2509‘ ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION

NEWARK NEW JERSEY
MAY - OCTOBER - 1016

 

THE FIRST-PRIZE POSTER

founding of Newark, however, is to call
attention to the progress which the city has
made in the last half-century. At the be-
ginning of this period, Newark began to
withdraw from under the shadow of her
great neighbor, New York City, to establish
independent resources and to extend her
activities, thus becoming a strongly individ-
ualized unit among municipalities.

A fund of $250,000 has been raised in
Newark with which to finance the anniver-
sary celebration, and a committee of one
hundred citizens is at work executing the

plans.

The Poster Contest 5

Posters to arrest the attention and inter—
est people in the celebration were obtained
by means of a contest recently closed. The
winners were selected from 230 entries.
Many of the drawings submitted were very
well done, and the judges found the task of
rendering the decision a difficult one.

The first prize of $1,000 was awarded to
Adolph Treidler, of New York, whose de-
sign won instant approval. In this the tall,
commanding figure of Robert Treat is
shown with left arm outstretched, directing
the landing of the founders of Newark.
He seems also to be pointing to some nearby
object, and after another glance the ob—
server sees the large lettering, “250th An-

1'.
.1-
3

ti th . _. x I _ -
i 250 --— Anniversary ~

i (. '( febrafion  ‘

 "I.

  
   

I - .2
r .a’ ' a.

‘4. v q H:
r e - 6 ..
(I __ . l ' 0‘ 090

MAYzo 0 TOBR1910 ~'
THE SECOND-PRIZE POSTER

  

r-

niversary Celebration of Newark, N. J.,
May to October, 1916.”

The second prize of $500 was won by
Miss Helen Dryden, also of New York.

[531]

.-

532

Miss Dryden's poster is a fantastic draw-
ing combining the historic feature with the
spirit of pageantry. The ship represents
the beginning of Newark, and the figures
in the foreground typify the carnival as-
pects of the celebration.

The third prize of $300, awarded by the
votes of those who attended the Poster
Show at the Newark Free Public Library,
was won by A. E. Foringer, of Grantwood,
N. J. In Mr. Foringer’s poster Newark is
represented as a beautiful woman poised on
the wheel of progress.

The 230 designs submitted were the work
of 163 artists, and the collection is a very
creditable expression of the poster art in
America. The posters were on exhibition
at the Newark Free Public Library from
October 13 to 31, and were viewed during
that time by over 9,000 visitors from New
York and elsewhere. Sixty-four of the best
designs were exhibited at the Anderson
Galleries in New York from November 8
to 13. From there they were sent to Phila—
delphia, Boston, Trenton and New Bruns-
wick, and later will be exhibited in other
cities in the United States.

The winning posters are to be reproduced
in the artists’ colors as an eight-sheet poster,
as a hanger, and as a poster-stamp, to be
used in advertising the celebration, which
opens on May I with a music festival.

The Memorial Building

It was felt that the city should erect an
enduring monument of the celebration, and
a memorial building capable of meeting
many public needs was decided upon. Such
a building will cost $1,500,000, and in a ref-
erendum on the subject presented to the
people '31 November the voters decided in

favor of raising the needed sum by the sale '

of bonds. the total amount to be provided by
successive apprOpriations of $500,000 per
year for three years or more.

At present Newark possesses no commo-
dious auditorium in which may be held large
conventions. music festivals, fairs or other
civic gatherings. A building suitable for
such occasions had been in the minds of
Newark citizens for some time, and the men
who have been thinking out the designs for
the memorial structure have incorporated in
the general idea some of the most attractive
features ever thought of for such an en-
terprise. The Committee of One Hundred
will proceed. therefore, on broad lines.

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. x111, No. 6

.\'one of the details of the precise plan and
scope of the building have been determined
absolutely by that body, but the following
tentative and unofficial scheme was worked
out several months ago, and is, in fact, a
composite gleaned from the ideas and opin-
ions of several public-spirited Newarke’rs.

It was generally agreed that the building
must be centrally located, where it will be
most accessible at all hours of the day and
evening, and that it must be large, stately
and in a fair degree monumental. It has
been suggested that the building have thir-
teen stories.

Within, on the ground Floor, there :hOllld
be a large auditorium, with a stage ample
for the largest choruses, and all the equip-
ment for the most elaborate performances.
In time, perhaps, a pipe organ may be in-
stalled, large enough for the most ambitious,
and in the auditorium may be held free or-
gan recitals by a municipal organist.

Next, on the ground floor, there should be
an adequate exposition hall, so arranged
that there may be run into it directly from
the street level the heaviest machinery and
motor truck loads, and even earloads of in—
dustrial exhibits. There should be galleries
around the hall to seat large audiences, and
on the floor could be held pageants, gym-
nastic drills of school children, etc.

Above the three or four floors taken by
the hall and auditorium may be eight or
more stories, each laid out in the simplest
possible manner, with almost no structural
partitions. The floors could be divided as
needed. For certain purposes a floor would
be omitted here and there, to give high
ceilings for large rooms to be used for pur—
poses demanding such a setting.

On the first floor above the auditorium
there might be a few rooms, varying in
size, suitable for small concerts, for cham-
her music. and even for musical study and
practice. also for the meetings of educa-
tional and philanthropic organizations.
Here, too, the large civic bodies would hold
their public meetings for the discussion of
public affairs.

In a comparatively small Space—extended
for special exhibits—could be displayed the
plans for the future development of New-
ark and its suburbs, now being worked out
by the Board of \Vorks, the Interurban
Conference. the City Plan Commission, etc.
Next would come the permanent exhibit of
Newark’s industrial products. This would

Digitized by 600816

DECEMBER, 191 5

doubtless take a whole floor, and perhaps
two or three. The art museum would come
next, but, with New York's resources at its
doors. this would require less space than
the science and educational museums. The
latter have already begun in a small way
to lend material, pictures, lantern slides and
objects to the schools, much as is done by
the Educational Museum of St. Louis. For
all the museums, mom will be needed to in-

THE AMERICAN CITY

S33

stall and equip, and to ship and receive
many things to all parts of the city.

On one of the topmost fioors might be the
Museum of N ewark’s History, beginning
with the [colonial days. A choice collection
of material for a museum of this kind is
already in existence in the New Jersey His-
torical Society’s building. It is possible that
this. might find a home in the memorial
building” as a permanent loan.

 

Child Labor ll‘i Your Town

By Helen C_. Dwight
Publicity Department, National Child Labor Committee

. OW much child labor is there in your
H ' town? Do you know?
Do you know what legal right the
small boy on the corner has to sell you a
paper? Is he a licensed vendor? Is his
schooling going on in spite of his selling?

Do you know how many children work
in factories or stores or offices in your
town? Do you know during what hours
they work? Do you know how many chil-
dren work at fruit stands, in bowling alleys,
at soda fountains, as messengers, as deliv-
ery boys?

Do you know how your state child labor
law is enforced? How your juvenile courts
enforce it? How your children’s societies
enforce it? Do you know whether the fac-
tory inspector, board of education or super—
intendent of schools issues work permits in
your town? Do you know what a work per-
mit looks like?

Child labor has come to be too much an
abstract problem with us. We are apt to
regard it as a Cause—something uplifting
and worthy, but remote from us. \Ve may
believe in the principles of child labor re—
form, but we are not 'likely to apply them
to the children who live about us.

Yet here at last is a chance to do some-
thing deiinite about child labor. The Na-
tional Child Labor Committee announces
that January 22, 23 and 24 are to be Child
Labor Days. Saturday will be observed by
synagogues. Sunday by churches and Sun-
day schools and Monday by secular schools,
clubs, civic leagues, and so forth. Two
programs for use on Child Labor Day have
been prepared. one for clergymen and one
for schools. Hymns, prayers, poems and

readings are given. In the program for
schools it is suggested that the children pre-
pare essays on child labor, or debate on the
subject: “Resolved: That Congress should
enact a law prohibiting interstate commerce
in child-made goods.” The following of
either of these suggestions will tend to make
the children take a more intimate view of
the child labor problem. But it is only
through an active interest in the working
children of the community that child labor
can come to have a civic significance.

Why not start a survey in your town?
Why not mark the beginning of it by the
observance of Child Labor Day?

These things the National Child Labor
Committee asks of every one. And, fur-
thermore, it asks for definite action on the
Keating-Owen Federal child labor bill now
before Congress. If you want that bill
passed to fix a standard for the employment
of children throughout the country, there
are three things for you to do. The first is
to write the National Child Labor Commit-
tee, 105 East Twenty-second Street, New
York City, for a copy of the bill and a copy
of the pamphlet telling why you should
support it; the second is to write your con—
gressional representatives asking them to
pass the bill; and the third is to pass reso-
lutions in your clubs, leagues and other or-
ganizations endorsing the bill.

Why not do these things on Child Labor
Day? In other words, why not make Child
Labor Day a real thing—a time for you and
your neighbor and your whole town to learn
what the real significance of child labor is,
what that significance is to you and to the
welfare of your community?

Digitized by 600816

 

LOOKING THROUGH THE WINTER DARKNESS TO THE TREE OF LIGHT

The People’s Christmas Tree

son there stands in Madison Square,

New York City, the Tree of Light—
the people’s tree—from whose radiance
have been lighted many other trees
throughout the country, each with its mes-
sage straight to the hearts of the lonely
rich and poor? Do you know that this is a
wonder-tree, because each year it comes-—
who can tell whence or by whose agency ?—
as the richest of all gifts, one of love and
light, unmarred by any material motive in
the unknown givers, untarnished by any
hope of package gifts on the part of the
hundreds whose uplifted faces glow with
the perception of its meaning? And do you
know that from Christmas to Christmas
there shines a star over the place where the
tree stood—the Star of Hope—continuing
the message till the Tree of Light itself
shall shine again?

How can such a thing be done anony-
mously—so that it is said that not even the
Mayor of the city knows the givers of the
tree? The answer is found in the hearts of
a group of idealists, whose determination
to create the mystery of Christmas for
everybody is greater than any thought of
self, and who have met with perfect co-

DO you know that every Christmas sea-

[534]

operation and courtesy on the part of those
whose help is indispensable in keeping their
identity a secret. Since that first commun—
ity Christmas tree in Madison Square.
three years ago, many others have for-
gotten themselves in helping to perpetuate
the gift. They send their communications
to “Tree of Light, Station G, New York
City,” and deposit their gifts with the Tree
of Light Account, Plaza Branch, Union
Trust Company, Fifth Avenue and Sixtieth
Street, and the bank gives them receipts.
Surely somebody knows; but nobody will
tell. If the press and the police understand
the secret, they also understand that the
keeping of it is their opportunity to join in
one of the biggest interests of life, and they
maintain the mystery. In these days of en-
terprise, when the snapping of photographs
on which to hang a “story” is one of the
everyday achievements required of report-
ers. the press has found high compensation
for the foregoing of such commonplace
triumphs, in grasping the opportunity to
tell a story of much larger scope and finer
human quality. It was a policeman who
gave the name, “the Star of Hope,” to the
star that burns above Madison Square
throughout the year—placed there to lighten

 

DECEMBER, 1915

somewhat the increased gloom that seems to
settle down over the city when the Tree of
Light is gone. Of this, Roy L. McCardell
wrote in the New York World:

“We are thankful that in the heart of the
city, in Madison Square, a new star gleams—a
sign of man’s love for his fellow-man in the
llrmament. It is announced that ‘an unknown
person’ has been granted a permit to burn a
large electric star against the sky there in the
city’s heart every night of the year from dusk
till dawn. An advertisement? Yes, and the
best advertisement ever put forth—publicity
for a throbbing thought of love and kindness!
The new star is to burn in the sky ‘as a symbol
to all who see it, of Hope, Peace and Good—
will l’ There let it burn its message of tender
altruism against the sky the while we build a
better city underneath that star l”

In the Square, beneath the star, the place
of the tree is marked by a star-shaped bed,
where flowers bloom from early spring un-
til late autumn.

A special eflfort was made in last year’s
celebration in New York to convey a
peace message to the multitude who gath-
ered around the tree and listened to the
music and joined in the choruses. COpies
of the Peace Hymn written by Rev. H.
Periera Mendes were distributed to the
people and sent to various cities through-
out the country, and, later, even to Europe,
with accounts of the ceremonies. Voicing
this plea for peace, Os-ke-non-ton, a Mo-
hawk Indian singer, represented primeval
America in the leading of the throng.
When the lights—turned on who knows by
whom P—began to glow from the lowest
branches of the tree and extended gradually
upward to the topmost light of all, trum-
peters stationed at the 'base of the tree
sounded their greetings to the four quar-
ters of the heavens and were answered by
other trumpeters on the steps of a neigh-
boring church, where stood Os-ke-non-ton
in the garb of his tribe, waiting to lead the
chorus of 300 voices in the singing of the
Peace Hymn to the music of America, as
the procession moved from the church to

the tree:

“Father, enthroned on high!
Humbly Thy children cry
Send peace on earth.
May peace, prosperity
Fill earth from sea to sea;
May mankind bend the knee
In fear of Thee.”

Standing on the platform, the Indian

chanted one of his tribal songs, an invoca-
tion of Thanksgiving to the Great Spirit,

THE AMERICAN CITY

53S

and then delivered, with band accompani-
ment, Arthur Farwell’s “Fulfillment,” with
its opening cry,

“Joy! Brothers, Joy!
light behold."

One of the women who was distributing
the multitudes of leaflets containing the
words of the Peace Hymn, was approached
by a sailor, who asked doubtfully: “Say,
lady, you wouldn’t think I was religious if
I asked you for one of them, would you ?”
“Why, not at all!” she answered, handing
him a leaflet. A little later she saw the same
sailor edging his way around through the
crowd to reach her again, and soon she
heard him ask: “Say, lady, you don’t think
the boys on the ship would think I was re-
ligious if I took a bunch of these down
there for them, do you ?” “Of course not,”
she reassured him, and the peace message
went with him, to do its work regardless of
creed or lack of creed. How strong an
appeal the message had made to the multi-
tude may be judged from the fact that when
this same giver of leaflets tried, after mid-
night, to find some copies of the hymn lying
on the ground to carry home to friends, not
one was visible; the crowd had taken them
away—taken them home from the Square
that, the year before, had been littered with
discarded programs.

The American Press Association sent out
to newspapers all over the country an illus-
trated story showing how this way of keep-
ing Christmas was being adopted in various
cities, later sending out another story to
small towns, giving suggestions for estab-
lishing a new national custom, that of plant-
ing a living Christmas tree in some public
place in each town. In 1913 more than 160
towns were in correspondence about their
community trees with the New York head-
quarters, and in 1914 at least 300 places had
their own trees. Now and then it is found
that in some city the movement is not being
directed with a fine perception of its highest
possibilities. To such a city is often sent a
reprint of a letter which appeared in the
local paper of an Ohio town, written by a
citizen who had caught the real meaning of
the Tree of Light. He said:

“In reading an account of the proposed
Christmas tree to be erected in the public
square, it seemed to me that the true purpose
of a municipal tree has been misunderstood.
The great evergreen which stood in Madison
Square, New York, last year, from Christmas

The far~spread vision of

Digitized by 600816
A

536

Eve until New Year’s, was the embodiment of
quite another idea. ~

“This tree was undecorated save for the
hundreds of electric lights hidden in its
branches, the white star which crowned it, and
the fall of snow which came just at the right
moment. No gifts were heaped at its foot nor
suspended from its branches, but every evening
groups of singers, sometimes adults, sometimes
children, gathered on a pine-sheltered platform

THE AMERICAN

CITY VOL. XIII, No. 6

neous and anonymous. * * * By all means
reach the needy children through the usual
charitable channels, but DON ’T distribute gifts

from the tree. Let us keep our tree free from
the material misinterpretation of Christmas—
that the spirit of the Eternal, whose symbol it
is, may teach us the real meaning of Christmas.

It is impossible to give any detailed
picture of the spread of this movement and

 

PHILADELPHIA’S BEAUTIFUL TREE

near the tree and sang the Christmas hymns
and carols, embodying the religious experience
of many peoples. At evening, as soon as the
lights began to twinkle in the tree, the crowds
would gather—young and old, rich and poor,
happy and unhappy—and soon hundreds of
voices would take up the song. Elbow to
elbow in the throng, stood men and women
from every walk in life. If. under the influence
of the spiritual idea for which the tree stood,
material gift-giving resulted, it was sponta-

   

of its wonderful influence—of the response
it has met in the hearts of the people.
Choirs that wouldn’t sing together, secta-
rians that wouldn’t pOp corn together, as
Zona Gale has so characteristically por-
trayed,”* have been harmonized and united.
The Ohio town alluded to above gave up the

 

' See “A Great Tree," in Everybody} Magus-inc,
December, 1913.

DECEMBER; 1915

THE CHRISTMAS DECORATIONS IN PENN

intended distribution of gifts from the tree,
in response to the letter quoted. One of
the most beautiful community Christmas
trees ever seen was the great Norway
spruce, 65 feet high, with a spread of 50
feet, which was brought last year from a
farm in Burlington County, New Jersey,

THE AMERICAN CITY

SQUARE, READING, PA.

set up in Independence Square, Philadel-
phia, and trimmed with 4,000 lights. The
tree had been planted on the farm, just be-
fore the Civil War, by Benjamin Ridgway,
to celebrate the coming marriage of his son.
The boy went to the war, and was killed be-
fore Fredericksburg on December 13, 1862.

A SCENE IN THE CHRISTMAS FESTIVAL OF MARSHALLTOWN, IOWA

f

 

538

Permission to cut down the' tree for the
1914 celebration in Philadelphia was given
by a later owner of the farm, and the de-
cision to use the tree in this way was
reached on the anniversary of the death of
the boy for whom it had been planted.

One very picturesque celebration was
held at Hampton, Va., aided by the pagean-
try of passing boats. In large and small
places, from the Eastern to the Western
coast, community trees brought the same
message of Christmas remembrance to all
peoples. To mingle with the orderly, ab-
sorbed crowd on Christmas Eve and hear
the comments; to know that the “down-and-

T,H,E, AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 6

outer,” when life seems hopeless, comes to
be near the place where stood the tree that
“somebody cared enough to put here for
me ;” to hear the lonely stranger in the fur
coat say: "This is my Christmas tree i"—
these are some of the compensations of the
idealist.
“The message of peace still rings in the
hearts of the multitude, and it is hoped next
year to have a Peace Tree in every city in
EurOpe.

Enrros’s Nora—Novella & Company. Ltd.. 2 West
Forty-fifth Street, New York City, are getting out a
book of carols, bearing on its cover a picture of the

Tree of Light, to be used for this year's chorus sing-
ing around community Christmas trees.

 

Dayton’s Exhibit of City Manager Government

By Lent D. Upson
Executive Secretary, National Cash Register Company

first exhibit of city manager govern-
ment—an effective presentation of
social work and social needs which had
more than local significance. The exhibit
offered to students of government from all
over the country an excellent Opportunity
to judge critically the results of two years
of a unique type of city administration.
The exhibit, of'course, had a local pur-
pose—t0 show simply and straightforwardly
the progress of city government during the
past biennium. And in a large measure it
was successful. Here was a city report seen
by 50,000 people. It was a report in models,
charts, photographs, music, folk dancing
and word-of-mouth explanations by the men
and women doing the work. It was seen
and read and studied by half of the city’s
population, and that population went away
knowing that city employes are earnest hu-
man beings, conscientious in the service
which they are rendering. The total cost
was less than that of printing a city report.
The show was held in the basement and
first floor of Memorial Hall during the
week beginning October 9, and was super-
vised by the local Bureau of Municipal Re-
search in cooperation with the city govern—
ment, the schools and the county. An un-
usual effort was made to present a very
creditable exhibition, and in character and
size it has probably not been outclassed ex-
cept by New York City. The show was

DAYTON, OHIO, has concluded its

informally opened, and there were no
speeches except as each bureau of the gov—
ernment was required to have men con-
stantly on the ground to demonstrate its ex-
hibit, answer questions, and receive sugges-
tions from the visiting public. Wherever
possible the normal activities of the muni-
cipality were shown, and the public found
a critical interest in the examples of folk
dancing, school' music, testing of supplies,
cleaning of sewers, building brush brooms,
road making, dairy and food inspection.
etc.

The exhibit had a further interest because
it emphasized some of the newer character-
istics of city government. Throughout the
show was seen the cooperation which newly
exists between departments: the use of po-
lice by the Health Division, the service ren-
dered by the Department of Correction in
the cleaning and maintenance of parks, etc.
There was also a certain inspiration ob-
tained by departments in learning what
other departments were doing and in realiz-
ing the advances which were being made.

Finally, the exhibit was the worst blow
that the unfriendly critic of the new gov-
ernment has received. No person having a
knowledge of municipal administration in
America. and familiar with the standards
by which municipalities must be judged,
could hesitate in believing that Dayton has
marched far ahead of most cities in the

country. _

Digitized by 600816

DECEMBER, 1915 THE AMERICAN CITY

SHOWING SOME OF THE ACTIVITIES OF THE DAYTON SCHOOLS

THE ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT’S SEWER EXHIBIT

 

 

_ 4 1_—.,, '—~—-_—

Illustrations of Pro'vision for Fire Protection
in Two Cities 

"‘ [llIllIIHHIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIllIlIIllIllllllIlllllllllll|||llllllllllllllllllllllllllHlllllllllIll|lll||||||||lll||lHliIlIIEIHIH|llll|HII|lil||!!|_!l|||llllllIllilll!Illlllllilllllllll|l|||llIllllHIIIillilllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllll|Ill!lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllW

  
   

illlliil|lHII|HIIIHIH|[I]lIIIllli'l'T'E|liI}llIHI![IIIIUHNIHHHIHHIlil&

 

lllllllilllllilllllllHIlllllllllnllllllIIII'IIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllll

 I u . I. ‘ I ‘ I m _ _ ' d  " Pvt“; .
:5.Lllllllllllllll[III||IIlilllllllllllllHlllllllllHIllilllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllIHIJIJHIHIllI1{IIIIIillilllllllllllHIIIHIIHIIIIII||llIlllllllillllIJlllllllllllllU|ilillllllllllillllillllllllllllllllll|IllllllillllllllllIlllllillllllIIHIIIIIIIIIIIHMMWIWMHIHW

75-FOOT AERIAL TRUCK IN USE IN RICHMOND, IND.. CARRYING 306 FEET OE
LADDERS AND ONE LADDER PIPE

“Hm

_J

 

21- .-' _ -_ - 

NEW STATION AND MOTOR APPARATUS OF THE FIRE DEPARTMENT IN

OCEAN CITY, N. J.
[540]

 

Motor Apparatus for City Sanitation

— us STREET Cumming; bunt/w. -

1_.__._—- a-
a

 

MOTOR FLUSHING AND SPRINKLING MACHINE USED BY THE CITIZENS STREET CLEAN-
ING BUREAU OF CHICAGO

 

GARBAGE TRUCK IN USE BY THE PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT, BOSTON, UNLOADING
AT THE DUMP

[541]

 

Missouri Supreme Court Finds for

Commission Government

The Missouri Supreme Court, in an opin-
ion filed on November 17 by Judge Bond,
sustained the act of the Legislature of 1913
providing the commission form of govern-
ment for such municipalities in the state as

might choose to adopt it. In his opinion
Judge Bond said, in part:

“The cases cited from other jurisdictions
demonstrate that Missouri was only following
the trend of those measures of reform pre-
viously enacted in the leading states of the
Middle West and in other parts of the coun-
try for the eradication of inefiiciency in the
working of their governmental agencies.

“The union in their hands of equal judicial
as well as administrative authority does not
violate the constitutions of the various states,
since it has been uniformly held that the muni-
cipalities so governed are not in any sense
sovereignties, and hence do not fall within the
provisions of the constitution which apportion
the powers of sovereign states.

“The salutary measures enacted by the legis-
lature of this state on this subject reflect credit
on that body and result in the protection of
urban life and the promotion of civic better-
ment. The act under review was devised, and
in our opinion will contribute, to these ends
and was enacted under full constitutional war-
rant.’

*4'

A. N ostrum War

Health Commissioner Goldwater, of the
New York Health Department, is making
an attempt to regulate the sale of proprie-
tary and patent medicines in New York
City by a section in the sanitary code of the
Health Department providing that any pat—
ent medicine sold in the city after Decem-
ber 31 of this year must have its formula
registered with the Health Department.

Some manufacturers of patent medicines
have indicated their intention to resist the
enforcement of the ordinance. That the.
Health Department will be able satisfactor-
ily to meet the situation is indicated by the
reply of Dr. Goldwater to one firm which
declared in a circular addressed to a num-
ber Of New York pharmacists that it would
not give up its formulas to the Health De-
partment nor put them on the labels, assur-
ing the pharmacists that they would “back

[542]

them up to the limit.” Dr. Goldwater’s re-

ply follows :

“GENTLEMEN: Through the courtesy of a
local pharmacist there has come into my pos-
session a_ copy of your circular letter to retail-
ers in this City, in which you announce it to be
your intention to contest Section 117 of the
Sanitary Code. If you will be kind enough to
let me know the name of your. principal dis-
tributor in this city, the Department will be
very glad to place his name on its list for pre-
ferred attention after the first of January.

“Very truly yours.
“(Signed) S. S. GOLDWATER,
“Commissioner.”

The section referred to reads as follows:

Section 117. Rmuurruc rm: SAL: or PROPRIETARY
um. Pit-ram MEDICINES.—NO proprietary or tent
medicine manufactured, prepared or intended or in-
ternal human use, shall be held, offered for sale. sold.
or given away, in the City of New York. until the fol.
lowmg requirements shall, in each instance. have been
met:

The names of the ingredients of every such medicine
to which the therapeutic effects claimed are atributed
and the names of all other ingredients except such as
are physiologically inactive shall be registered in the
Department of Health in such manner as the Regula-
tions of the Board of Health may prescribe.

The expression “proprietary or patent medicine,” for
the purposes of this section. shall be taken to mean
and include every medicine or medicinal compound
manufactured, prepared. or intended. for internal hu-
man usc. the name, composition. or definition of which
is not to be found in the United States Pharmaco~
pmia or National Formulary, or which does not bear
the names of all of the ingredients to which the thera-
peutic effects claimed are attributed and the names of
all other ingredients except such as are physiologically
inactive. conspicuously. c early, and legibly set forth.
in English. on the outside of each bottle. box. or pack
age in which the said medicine or medicinal compound
is held. offered for sale. sold, or given away.

The provision of this section shall not. however. ap-
ply to any medicine or medicinal compound, pr
or compounded upon the written prescription of a duly
licensed physician. provided that such prescription be
written or issued for a specific person and not for gen.
eral use. and that such medicine or medicinal com-
pound he sold or given away to or for the use of the
person for whom it shall have been prescribed and
pre ared or compounded: and provided. also, that the
sai prescription shall have been filed at the establish-
ment or place where such medicine or medicinal com-
pound is sold or given away, in chronol 'cal order
according to the date of the receipt of sue prescrip-
tion at such establishment or place.

Every such prescription shall remain so filed for a
period of five years.

The names of the ingredients of proprietary and
patent medicines. registered in accordance with the
terms of this section, and all information relating
thereto or connected therewith. shall be regarded as
confidential. and shall not be open to inspection by the
public or any person other than the official custodian
of such records in the Department of Health. such per-
sons as may he authorized by law to inspect such rec-
ords, and those dulv authorized to prosecute or err
force the Federal Statutes. the Laws of the State of
New York. both criminal and civil. and the Ordinances
of the City of New York. but only for the purpose of
such prosecution or enforcement.

This section shall take effect December 31. 1915.

In contrast to the bluff and bluster re-
ferred to, attention is called to a letter

Digitized by 600816

DECEMBER, 1915

which the Commissioner has received from
a well-known drug firm in the city, which
reads as follows:

“DEAR SIR: We beg to say that we intend
to comply with the provisions of Section 117
of the Sanita Code of the Department of
Health of the ICity of New York, and in order
to do so we hereby apply for the proper forms
of registration so that we can fill the same out
and hle the formula in your oflice.

“Thanking you in advance for your courtesy.
and with all good wishes‘: we remain,

“Vice-President.”
&- i-
A Mayor’s Letter to City Employes

In an effort to create in the city employes
of Savannah the right attitude toward their
work and to raise their standards of ef-
ficiency, Mayor W. J. Pierpont has had dis-
tributed among them a printed communica—
tion in which the ideal public servant is de-
scribed. He says, in part:

“Good service means a manifestation of per-
sistent interest in the welfare of the city. It
means an appreciation of all its interests and
a willingness on your part to do whatever you
can to promote them.

“The man whose heart is in his work does
something more than the work that comes
regularly to him. He keeps his eyes open and
his mind active, and shows a spirit of willing-
ness to cooperate with all of his fellow em-
ployes for the good of the corporation in
whose employ he is.

“You are asked to show this spirit in your
relations with your employer, the city of Sa-
vannah. You should appreciate that you are
a part of a great business machine whose
smooth and satisfactory working depends upon
each and every part putting forth the best
effort possible. To that end every employe
of the city is asked to note and report these
things promptly to the Mayor’s Mice, by tele-
phone or in writing. cards being supplied by
the head of your department for that pur-
pose:

“WArER LEAKS.—The waste of water costs
the municipality many thousands of dollars
yearly. Report leaks as quickly as possible.

“BAD SIDEWALKS—Every year the munici-
pality is sued because of sidewalks that have
become dangerous to pedestrians.

“FIRE DANGER—Collections of trash, that
once ignited may endanger property.

“ENCROACHMEN'rs.—It is the policy of the
municipality to stop any further encroachments
beyond the building line on any street or lane.

“NEW BUILDINGS.—The municipality has but
one building inspector. Alterations and im-
provements to buildings should be reported.

“NUISANCES.—It is the desire of the munici-
pality to protect its citizens from nuisances
of any character that the law does not permit
or tolerate. Included in this are dirty or
trashy yards or lots, offensive odors. etc.

“NEW BL'smEssr-zs.——Justice to all business

THE AMERICAN CITY

'543

interests demands that the municipality should
promptly know of any new business concern,

so_ that all may be on the same basis as to tax-
ation.

“OBSTRUCTIONS on OTHER Dawns—Every
employe of the municipality should consider
himself charged with the duty of protecting
citizens from the dangers that arise from un-
lighted obstructions on the highways, or other
conditions that are dangerous to limb or life.

“By showing your interest in these and other
matters, you will show that you have a real
interest in the affairs of the city. As its ex-
ecutive head I ask for your assistance, not
for a day or two, but continuously.”

**

A Message from the Mayor

of Melrose

The city of Melrose, Mass., is constantly
at work, with the aid of a number of civic
associations, in building up sentiment on
the part of individuals for the improvement
of the place. A message from the Mayor
appealing to the citizens to help in keeping
the street parking strips in good condition,
was first published in a local paper. It has
since been printed in little slips, which are
kept on hand by the city for constant dis-
tribution. This simple method embodies a
suggestion for other places. Here is Mayor
Adams’ letter:

ONE WAY TO IMPROVE THE CITY

Citizens who are interested in the beauty of
the city, and who take such fine care of their
own lawns and grounds, are earnestly invited
to care also for the grass space at the outside
edge of the sidewalk of both their own and
adjoining vacant lots. Such work will add
greatly to the appearance of both the streets
and the estates.

There are upwards of 100 miles of sidewalks
in Melrose, and it is obvious that no appro-
priation adequate for the work can be made.

Will the people of this city, interested so
much in its advancement and who do so many
good things, also join in this work, and thus
help to keep Melrose the most attractive resi-

dential place anywhere?
Charles H. Adams,

Mayor.
'1' '1'

Mural Decorations in New York

High Schools

The activities of the Municipal Art So-
ciety of New York in the decoration of the
city’s high schools, a field which it has made
its own for a number of years, are presented
in the October Bulletin of the Society.
Since 1907 this organization has been the
directing spirit, and a frequent donor, in
this important work, so full of possibilities

Digitized by 600316

544

in stimulating the sense of form, of color
and of dramatic action of the children at
their most impressive age.

The Society's initial gift to the Morris
High School of decorations by Edwin W.
Deming was later followed by its assuming
the entire decoration of the Washington
Irving High School. The adornment of the
entrance hall with a series of mural paint-
ings by Barry Faulkner, rendered possible
through the gift of Mrs. E. H. Harriman,
is in an advanced stage of progress, and an
overmantel by Miss Frances Grimes has al-
ready been installed. The decoration of the
great staircase hall with suitable panels is
also under way, the gift of the Society, and
a prize design by Robert K. Ryland for the
auditorium awaits the completion of ar-
rangements to secure a fund for its instal-
lation.

Discussing the work of other agencies
along these lines, the Bulletin describes the
paintings by Mr. Frederick Lincoln St0d~
dard which the General Organization of the
Eastern District High School of Brooklyn
has installed in that school, the prize com-
petitions 0f the Society of Beaux-Arts
Architects, and the mural painting class
conducted by Dr. Henry E. Fritz at the
New York Evening Industrial High School.

vh'l‘

Surveying Cleveland’s Educational
Facilities

The Cleveland Foundation is just com-
pleting a comprehensive survey of the exist-
ing educational facilities of the city of
Cleveland, which will be embodied in 25
volumes—readable pocket editions—describ-
ing every factor in the school life of the
city’s children.

Aiming to create a strong, well-informed
public opinion in support of an adequate
school policy, the Survey Committee has
endeavored to make this survey as interest-
ing as possible and to keep the citizens in-
formed of each step as it is taken. To this
end a scheme of cooperation with the press
was devised. The survey volumes, each
comprising a single, complete section of the
work. are issued at intervals of about one
.week. The most important features of each
volume are presented at a public luncheon,
and on the same day the local papers publish
a report of the section presented.

The work of the survey was done by 25
educational experts under the direction of

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 6

Dr. Leonard P. Ayres, 0f the Russell Sage
Foundation. About eight months was de-
voted to the task, which, it is estimated, 'will
cost about $30,000. The list of sectional
reports is as follows:

P Child Accounting in the Public Schools—Leonard
. . yres
Educational Extension-Clarence A. Perry
Education through Recreation—George E. Johnson

F inancin the Public Schools—Earle Clark
A Health ’ork in the Public Schools—Leonard P.
. yres

Household Arts and School Lunches—Alice C.
Broughton

Measuring the Work of the Public Schools—Charles
H. Judd

Overcrowded Schools and the Platoon Plan—S. 0.
Hartwell

School Buildings and E uipment—Leonard P. Ayres

Schools and Classes for xeeptionalChildren—David
Mitchell

School
P. Ayres

The Public Library and the Public Schools

The School and the Immigrant

The Teaching Staff—Walter A. Jessug‘

What the Schools Teach and Might each—Frank
lin Bobbitt

The Cleveland School Survey (Summary volume)—
Leonard P. A res

Boys and irls in Commercial “fork—Bertha M.

Stevens
Department Store Occupation—Iris Prouty O'Leary

Dressmaking and Millinery—Edna C. Bryner I
Railroad and Street Trans rtation—R. D. Fleming
The Building Trades—F. Shaw
The Garment Trades—Edna C. Bryner
The Metal Trades—R. R. Lutz
The Printing Trades—F. L. Shaw

R “gig: Earning and Education (Summary volume)—
. . utz

Copies of these reports may be secured
from the Survey Committee of the Cleve-
land Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio, or from
the Division of Education of the Russell
Sage Foundation, New York City, at 25
cents per volume postpaid with the excep-
tion of “Measuring the “fork of the Public
Schools,” by Charles H. Judd, “The Cleve-
land Survey,” by Leonard P. Ayres. and
“Wage Earning and Education,” by R. R.
Lutz, the price of which is 50 cents each.

*4'

A Municipal Research Society

The Dallas Society of Municipal Re—
search was formed last month at a dinner
which Mayor Henry D. Lindsley gave to
the municipal ol’licials and executives of
Dallas and a few prominent citizens.

The Society differs from the usual re-
search bureau in that the personnel consists
of the department heads of the city govern-
ment, the members of the Board of Com-
missioners and the president of the Board
of Education. It was decided to make the
Mayor ex-ofiicio president of the organiza-
tion; the members of the Board of Commis-
sioners and the president of the Board of
Education vice-presidents, these individuals

Organization and Administration—Leonard

Digitized by 600816

DECEMBER, 1915

to act ex-ofiicio without vote. An executive
committee of seven members was to be
nominated by the president and approved by
the society, the secretary to be appointed in
the same way.

The purpose of the organization is:

"To study and initiate progressive, efiicient
and economical methods in municipal business
affairs and to bring about a closer cooperation
of the various departments of the Dallas city
government. with a view to improving living
conditions in Dallas and making the govern-
ment”of the greatest possible service to its citi-
zens. '

In presenting his plan for the Municipal
Research Society, Mayor Lindsley said that
before executing the many plans for muni-
cipal improvements which the administra-
tion has in mind, he wished to have the best
thought of the department heads relating to
each one. He also pointed out the impor-
tance to each department head of a broader
knowledge of the big administrative prob-
lems of the city.

The by-laws of the organization will con-
tain a clause confining the activities of the
society strictly to the study of municipal
questions and improvements in city govern-
ment, and it is asserted that the movement
will be kept entirely free from politics.

'1- '1-
City Planning Lectures

Thomas H. Mawson, city planner and
lecturer on landscape design at the Univer-
sity of Liverpool, England, has arranged
to deliver lectures at several of the larger
universities in the United States during the
coming spring. His subject will be the
scheme upon which he is at work for the
replanning of Athens. The titles of the
lectures are :“Athens of the Past," “Athens
of the Present," and “Athens of the Fu-
ture." The first deals with ancient Athens,
the second is in the nature of a survey of
the resources for the creation of a new
Athens which shall conserve and restore all
that remains of past glories. while the third
shows how this dream for the future of the
city is to be realized.

Mr. Mawson’s plans for Athens have
reached the stage where he is able to illus-
trate the lectures by lantern slides contrast-
ing the old city with the new one, and so
assure his hearers that it is the intention to
treat the Athens of the past with the respect
which is its due, and that modern needs can
be met without disturbing it and without
the clashing of interests or esthetics.

THE AMERICAN CITY

5.45
A Municipal Thanksgiving Service

The city of Cuero, Texas, observed
Thanksgiving Day in a municipal home-
coming and thanksgiving service, by procla-
mation of the Mayor. To make this suc-
cessful, the cooperation of all the govern-
mental, commercial, civic, fraternal and re-
ligious bodies was earnestly invited.

The service was held in the evening in a
public hall, and was formally Opened by the
Mayor. Music was furnished by the muni-
cipal band and the municipal choir, assisted
by a soloist. There was also singing, in
which the audience was asked to join. The
devotional portions of the service were con—
tributed by local pastors, one of whom de—
livered the muincipal sermon.

One of the reasons for bringing Cuero's
citizens together upon this occasion was
that the important subject of providing
playgrounds for the city might be presented
to them. The offering of the evening was
used to start a fund for the acquisition and
improvement of one or more of the beauti-
ful parks adjacent to the city, which it is
desired to make available for playground
purposes.

4"1'

Vocational Assistance for

New York Children

Superintendent Walter L. Sears, of the
New York Public Employment Bureau, has
recently devised a Vocational Guidance
Blank for the use of boys and girls who
apply to the Bureau, the purpose of which
is to aid the vocational counselor to deter-
mine each young person's adaptabilities and
aptitudes and thereby direct him or her to
a proper vocation.

The applicant is asked to consider care—
fully before writing (lown the answers to
the eighty-six questions, some of which are:

Has anyone ever suggested or advised you
as to what your future course should be with
regard to a vocation?

What is your greatest ambition?

Of what particular benefit has your schooling
been to you?

Do you take regular physical exercise?

\Vho has the greatest interest in your wel-
fare?

\Vhat kind of reading have you done?

What do you look for hrst in the news-
papers?

Do you find yourself assuming a position of
leadership among your fellows in your work
or recreation?

Are you willing to pay the price in hard work
to obtain success?

Digitized by 600816
A

546

After filling out this blank, the boy or girl
is advised regarding the course of studies
to pursue in order to increase his qualifica-
tions, the Bureau, in the meantime, making
every effort to find him suitable employ-
ment.

For the regular work of the Bureau two
new branches have been opened, one at 540
East Seventy-sixth Street, and another in
Brooklyn at the corner of Franklin and
Java Streets. The official records of the
Bureau for the first year of its operations,
which are now available, show that 8,207
positions were offered by 2,210 different
employers, 40,463 applicants for employ-
ment were registered, and 5,430 positions
were reported as filled.

**

Overhanging Signs

The action of the Art Jury of Philadelphia
in regard to illuminated overhanging signs
is noteworthy.

When the first designs for overhead signs
were submitted to it, the Jury adopted a gen-
eral resolution recommending the refusal of
permits for new signs and the removal of
those already erected. The Department of
Public Safety was not prepared to refuse all
applications for permission to erect such
signs, and therefore requested the Jury to
act upon individual signs. This the Jury
did, at the same time seeking to minimize
the nuisance as much as possible by means
of the recommendation adopted by the De-
partment of Public Safety, that such signs
be limited in the extent of overhanging the
sidewalk, and also by the effort to make the
signs less obnoxious and garish than they
have sometimes been.

Each sign represents a cost which, com-
pared with the cost of other undertakings
passed upon by the Jury, is practically
negligible, yet the Jury considers the de-
basing of public taste resulting from the
erection of these signs perhaps greater than
that resulting from any other cause. The
Jury has therefore called its recommenda-
tions to the attention of the Mayor and City
Councils of Philadelphia, in its Fourth An-
nual Report, as follows:

“The Art Jury has carefully considered the
subject of overhanging signs. whether illumi-
nated or not. and has investigated the practice
in New York. Boston. Washington and the
principal foreign cities. The Jury has con-
cluded that the advantages of such signs are
greatly overbalanced by their disadvantages.

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 6

The danger to pedestrians from all signs pro-
jecting over the sidewalk ts one that cannot
be obviated and is in itself a sufficient reason
for refusing permission for their erection.

“While illuminated signs add somewhat to
the light of the city at night, this additional
light is better distributed by signs parallel to
the facades of the buildings, to which they can
be securely affixed, against the walls. A con-
tinuous series of overhanging signs interferes
with the light of the street in the daytime and
reduces the value of properties fronting on the
street because of the unattractiveness in the
view along the street overhead. This detriment
to the appearance of streets is becoming accen-
tuated as signs are projected from building
after building, not only from the lower, but
from the upper floors as well, while one Sign
cuts off the view of others and so diminishes
the value of this method of advertising. A
continuation of the process will result disas-
trously to the appearance of the city as a whole
and will be an increasingly serious menace to
the lives and limbs of the people who use the
sidewalks as the signs become older and their
supports rust or become otherwise weakened.

“The Jury therefore recommends to the
Chief of the Electrical Bureau and the Depart-
ment of Public Safety that all further permits
for the erection of signs projecting over the
sidewalk be refused.

“It further recommends that as soon as pos-
sible a general plan shall be devised for the
ultimate removal of all such signs already
erected and for the future restriction of all
private signs to those closely attached to the
walls of buildings and parallel therewith.”

*4.

A Workingmen’s Reading Room

The public library of Calgary. Alberta.
established in the downtown section of the
city last winter a reading room for work-
ingmen which proved to be a successful ex-
periment.

A local motion picture theatre was at the
time empty; it had been bought by the gov-
ernment for post office purposes, but was not
yet required for use, so rent was free. An,
electric company gave the light, the city
gave the water and a small appropriation,
citizens contributed books and old maga-
zines, the Park Department supplied
benches, and the library had some old tables
which it loaned. Checkers and chess were
added. and these, with some of the furni-
ture, were paid for by the library—the total
expenditure being about $30. Free station-
ery was provided and thousands of letters
were written by the men.

The reading room was open from Janu-
ary I to April I, and there were from 150
to 250 men in the room at all hours of the
day during that period.

' Digitized by 600816

 

' Conventions and Exhibitions

 

ON. THE CALENDAR

DECEMBER 13-17.—CIIARLESTON, S. C.

Southern Commercial Congress. Man-

aging Director, Clarence . Owens,
Southern Building, Washington, D. C.
DECEMBER 14-17.—-WORCESTER, MASS.

International Road Congress. Gen-
eral Secretary, Herbert N. Davison, Sec»
retary Chamber of Commerce, Worcester, .

Mass.
DECEMBER 15.—JEFFERSON CITY, Mo.
;Léague of Missouri Municipalities.

Secretary, M. V. Carroll, Sedalia, Mo.
DECEMBER 27-JANUARY1L—COLUMBUS, OHIO.
American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science. Secretary, Dr.
L. 0. Howard, Smithsonian Institute,
Washington, D. C.

DECEMBER 27-JANUARY 8.—WASHINGTON, D. C.

Second Pan-American Scientific Con-
gress. Secretary-General, John Barrett,
LL.D., Pan-American Union, Washing-
ton, D. C. ,

DECEMBER 28-29, WASHINGTON, D. C.

American Association for Labor Leg-
islation. Secretary, John B. Andrews,
131 East Twenty-third Street, New

, York City.
DECEMBER 28-3o.—WAsmN(;TON, D. C.

American EconOmic Association. Sec-
retary, Allyn A. Young, Cornell Uni-
versity, Ithaca. N. Y.

DECEMBER 28-31.—WA5HINOTON, D. C.

American Civic Association. Secre-
tary, Richard B. Watrous, Union Trust
Building, Washington, D. C.

DECEMBER 28-31.—WASIIINGT0N, D. C.

American Political Science Associa-
tion. Secretary, Chester Lloyd Jones,
University of Wisconsin. Madison, Wis.

DECEMBER 28-31.—WASHINOTON, D. C.

American Sociological Society. Sec-
retary, Scott E. W. Bedford, University
of Chicago. Chicago, Ill.

DECEMBER 3O.—NASHV1LLE, TENN.

Engineering Association of the South.
Secretary, W. Harwell Allen, Stahlman
Building. Nashville. Tenn.

JANUARY 8.—NEWARK. N. J.

American Academy of Arborists. Sec-
retary. J. J. Levison, Park Department.
Brooklyn. N. Y.

JANUARY 12-15, 1916.——BALT1MORE, Mn.

American Institute of Chemical Engi-
neers. Secretary, J. C. Olsen, Cooper
Union, New York City. '

JANUARY 17-18.—,B05TON, MASS.

American Forestry Association. Ex-
ecutive Secretary, P. S. Ridsdale, 1410 H
Street, N. W.. Washington, D. C.

JANUARY I7-Ig.—WASHINGTON. D. C.

National Civic Federation. Secretary,
D. L. Cease. Metropolitan Tower, New
York City.

JANUARY I&20.—NEW YORK CITY.

American Society of Heating and
Ventilating Engineers. Secretary, J. J.
Blackmore, 29 West Thirty-ninth Street,
New York City.

JANUARY 18-20.-—CHICAGO, ILL.

American Wood Preservers’ Associa-
tion. Secretary, F. J. Angier, Mt. Royal
Station, Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, Balti-
more, Md.

JANUARY 19.—TRENTON, N. J.

New Jersey State League of Munici-

alities. Secretary, C. J. Swartz, City

all, Trenton, N. J.

JANUARY 19-2o.——NEw YORK CITY.

American Society of Civil Engineers.
Secretary, Charles Warren Hunt, 220 W.
Fifty-seventh Street, New York City.

JANUARY 20-22.—MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.

National Society for the Promotion of
Industrial Education. Secretary, Alvin
E. Dodd, 140 W. Forty-second Street, New
York City.

JANUARY zI.—NEw YORK CITY.

American Society of Engineering Con-
tractors. Secretary, J. R. Wemlinger,
South Ferry Building, New York City.

JANUARY 27.—BOSTON, MASS.

Massachusetts Association of Boards
of Health. Secretary. Dr. Francis H.
Slack, Health Department, City Hall An-
nex, Boston, Mass.

FEBRUARY 8-10.—WASII1NGTON, D. C.

Chamber of Commerce of the United
States. General Secretary. Elliot H. Good-
win, Riggs Building, Washington, D. C.

FEBRUARY 15-18.—-CHICAGO, ILL. ~

National Conference on Concrete
Road Building. Secretary, J. P. Beck,
208 S. LaSalle Street, Chicago, Ill.

FEBRUARY 22-25.—P1TTSBURO, PA.

American Road Builders’ Association.

Annual convention and exhibit of road
building machinery. Secretary, E. L. Powers,
150 Nassau Street, New York City.

+ +
National Municipal League

An extremely interesting discussion of
the provisions which should be embodied in
an ideal city charter was a feature of
the twenty-first annual convention of the
National Municipal League, held in Dayton.
Ohio, November 17-19. The League’s Com-
mittee on Municipal Program submitted in
pamphlet form its draft of a model City
charter. After careful discussion by the
convention, a number of the recommenda-
tions were approved by those present and
the rest were referred back to the commit-
tee with the understanding that the revised

[547]

Digitized by 609216

THE AMERICAN CITY

LE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FOR EVERY MUNICIPAL
HAULING NEED THERE IS A

{a

NEW TYPE CH AIN LESS TRUCK

Chainless trucks of the new Packard line are built
in 1, 11A, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6-ton sizes, all uniform
in design; with special frame lengths and speeds
to suit the work for which they are chosen.

They have all kinds of power attachment—
hydraulic hoists for dump bodies, power winches
for hoisting heavy weights, power pumps, swinging
cranes and similar appliances—all driven from
the transmission.

Any chassis may be fitted with any type of
body, whether for passenger or commercial ser-
vice. Send to Department L for catalog.

PACKARD MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit
II.III_IIIII-IIIIIIIUII-I'UIIII
Ask the man who owns one

 

 

 

 

 

 

I
I

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

JHUH

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l

 

 

 

NIH
|

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

n}.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

c: When writing to Advertisers please mention Tu Amman Cur.

DECEMBER, 19i5

charter in its entirety would be submitted
to the whole membership for an advisory
referendum vote.

f‘Municipal‘ Progress in Twenty-One
-Years” was the theme of the annual mes-
sage of the League’s retiring President,
W'illiam Dudley Foulke. It was an address
full of optimism as to the future of Ameri-
can municipal government.

In addition to the reports of the various
committees of the League, the important
items on the program included Secretary
W'oodruff’s address on “The American Con-
ception of the City”; papers on “Progress
of Home Rule in Ohio,” by Mayo, Fesler,
Secretary, Cleveland Civic League; “Civic
Education,” by Charles W. Dabney, Presi-
dent, University of Cincinnati, and Dr. E. A.
Fitzpatrick, of Madison, VVis.; and “Pro-
portional Representation in Ashtabula,” by
Prof. A. R. Hatton, of Cleveland. There
was also a joint session with the City Man-
ager Association. in which the subject for
discussion was “Professional Standards for
the New Profession of City Manager.”

Notable among the group meetings held
in connection with the convention were the
sessions of the Civic Secretaries Committee.
These sessions were attended by a live
group of secretaries of important city clubs
and civic organizations, and resulted in the
development and interchange of many prac-
tical ideas.

The ofiicers and Council of the National
Municipal League, as elected at the Dayton
meeting to serve for the ensuing year, were:

President
Lawson Purdy, New York

V ice-President:

Miss Jane Addams, Chi- George McAneny, New
cago, Ill. York

John Stewart Bryan, . Horace McFarland,
.Richmond, Va. Harrisburg, Pa.

Richard S. Childs, New Robert Treat Paine. Bos-
York ton, Mass.

Charles W. Dabney, Cin- L. S. Rowe, Philadelphia,
cinnati, Ohio Pa.

Walter L. Fisher, Chicago Charles Richardson, Phil-

Frank J. Goodnow, Johns adelphia. Pa.
Hopkins University Chester ll. Rowell. Fres-
A. Lawrence Lowell, Har- no. Cal.
vard University Dudley Tibbits, Troy,
N. Y.
Secretary

Clinton Rogers Woodriiif

THE AMERICAN CITY

W. P. Bancroft. Wilming-
ton, Del.

Charles . Bonaparte,
Baltimore, Md. _

John A. Butler, Milwau-
kee, Wis.

Harvey Stuart Chase,
Boston, Mass.
Julius Henry Cohen,

New York

Mrs. B. W. Corkran, Jr..
Baltimore, Md.

Dwight F. Davis, St.
Louis, Mo.

George B. Dealey, Dallas,

Texas

Albert DeSilver, Brook-
lyn, N. Y.

C. 0. Dustin, Springfield,
Mass.

Mrs. Charles Farwell Ed~
son, Los Angeles, Cal.
Rev. William G. Eliot,

Jr.. Portland, Ore.
William Dudley Foulke.
Richmond, Ind.
Charles J. France, Seat-
tle. Wash,

Clarence L. Harper,
Philadelphia, Pa.

549

\V. D. Lighthall, Mon-

treal, Canada
Meyer Lissncr, Los An-

geles, Cal.

Knowlton Mixer, Buffalo,
N. Y.

Frederic Cook More-

house, Milwaukee, Wis.

Oliver McClintock, Pitts-
burgh Pa. .

T. P. Newberry, Detrmt,
Mich.

Elliott Hunt Pendleton,
Cincinnati, Ohio

James W. S. Peters. Kan-
sas City, Mo.

F. S. Spence,
Canada

Howard Strong, Minne-
a olis, Minn.

A. o Weil, Pittsburgh,
Pa.

Henry M. Waite, Dayton.
Ohio

Thomas Raeburn W’hite,
Philadelphia, Pa.

James H. Wolfe, Salt
Lake City, Utah.

H. A. Toulmin, Jr.. Day-
ton, Ohio

Toronto,

Hart.

+ +
City Managers’ Association

Seventeen city managers discussed the
ideals and practical problems of their new
profession at the second annual convention
of the City Managers' Association, held in
Dayton, November 15-17. Various muni—
cipal problems were presented in a series of
carefully prepared papers. followed by dis-
cussions from the Hoor. Perhaps the most
stimulating feature of the program was the
“round table,” comprising reports of actual
accomplishments from the city manager
cities. In addition to such a report from
each manager present, statements were sub-
mitted by letter from several who were un—
able to attend.

The oiiicers elected were: President,
Henry M. Waite, Dayton, Ohio: Vice-Presi-
dent, M. H. Hardin, Amarillo. Tex.: Secre-
tary-Treasurer, Ossian E. Carr, Cadillac,
Mich. The next annual meeting will prob-
ably be held during the same week and at
the same place as the National Municipal
League, as was done so successfully at the
Dayton meeting.

Albert Bushnell
Cambridge, Mass.

++

Texas Town and City Plan Ass’n

The Texas Town and City Plan Associa-

tion is the name of an organization per-

Treasurer
Georsc Burnham. Jr. fected at Dallas on October 30 by repre-
E Council sentatives of commercial clubs from various
rnest Hamlin Abbott, Augustus Raymond Hat- ' ' " ‘ '
New York . to". Cleveland. Ohio Cities of Texas. Dr. Oi: (. Ahrles, Chair-
Miss Grace Abbott. Chi- Raymond V. Ingersoll. man of the City Plan (ominittee of Sher-
cago. Ill. Brooklyn, N. Y. ' -
Chgrics \er yam... cammus G. Ridden New man, was elected Pres‘ident, and J. F. Sur-
yracuse, i . . York " .
M. N. Baker. Montclair, Herman G. James, MS ratt, Secretary of the Sherman Chamber
N. J. tm. Texas of Commerce, was elected Secretary.

Digitized by 609816

THE AMERICAN CITY

  
   

  
   
  

‘0

o 8

:3 b mumu
—-l

 
 



     

“ HE production of Port-
land Cement,” says an

authority, “requires the great-

est care and long experience.

It is a. scientific and chemical procedure,

representing th* antithesis of guesswork

or slipshod methods.”

Whether the cement-user makes his own pri-
vate tests of cement or not, it must be satisfying
to know that all the ALPHA CEIVIENT he uses
is made under the strict supervision of chemists,
who test hourly, (lay and night, to be sure the
proportioning is exact, the burning thorough,
and the gagrindini,r liner than required by standard
specifications.

Under the ALPHA system of supervision it is impossible for cement lacking

proper binding power to be shipped out. Every sack is guaranteed to more
than meet every recognized test. Specify ALPHA and be SURE.

Ask the ALPHA Dealer in your community for the valuable free book, “ALPHA
CEMENT How to ['se It." it tells and shows how to make scores of improvements.
It )‘utl don't know the .\I.-l’l-l.--\ dealer. write us, mentioning what you are planning to
lJlllltl. .\“;i\ lint' liiml; NH. 13.

ALPHA PORTLAND CEMENT COMPANY
General Offices: EASTON, PA.

Sales Offices: New York. Chicago. Philadelphia. Boston. Pittsburgh. Buffalo. Baltimore. Savannah

48 When writing to Advertisers please mention THE AHERICAN CITY.

DECEMBER, 1915

K. K. Hooper, of The Dallas News, and
J. R. Babcock, Secretary of the Dallas
Chamber of Commerce and Manufacturers’
Association, made brief addresses. Presi-
dent Ahrles said that the pr0paganda con-
ducted by The News had caused the Sher-
man Chamber of Commerce to send out the
call for the organization meeting.

The object of the new organization will
be to promote the adoption of sane methods
of city planning in the municipalities
throughout the state.

**

Ohio Municipal League

The fifth annual meeting of the Ohio Mu-
nicipal League, held in Dayton on Novem-
ber 17, was devoted to the problem, still
pressing for Ohio cities, of city finances.
The papers read and discussed included:

"Facts about City Revenues and Expenditures."
C. E. Rightor, Director, Dayton Bureau of Municipal
Research.

“Should the Smith One Per Cent Law be Repealed,
or Should New Sources of Revenue Other than In-
creased Taxes on Property be Sought ?" W. T. Don-
aldson, Assistant Budget Commissioner, State of Ohio.

“A Plan of Action for the Ensuing Year to Secure
Statutory Reform of the Tax System. ' Bascom Little,
President, Cleveland Chamber of Commerce.

A committee was created for the purpose
of devising and conducting a campaign of
education for tax reform, to be secured
either through the popular initiative in 1916
or from the Legislature of 1917. The of-
ficers elected were:

President—Stewart L. Tatum, Springfield

Secretary-Treasurer—F. \V. Coker, Ohio State Uni-
versity, Columbus

First Vice-President—Henry M. Waite, City Man-
ager. Da ton

Secon Vice-President—Harry L. Davis, Mayor-elect
of Cleveland

Third Vice-President—George W'. Harris. Cincinnati

Fourth Vice-President—H. S. Holton. Columbus

Executive Board—Mayor Newton D. Baker, of
Cleveland; R. T. Bailey. Kent: Miss Rose Moriarty,
Elyria; Judge John R. Cassidy Bellefontaine; Mayor
Charles A. Stolberg, Canton; .Iayor-elect Charles F.
Milroy, Toledo. * +

Association of Urban Universities

At the second annual meeting of the As-
sociation of Urban Universities, held in
Cincinnati, November 15-17, President Sid-
ney E. Mezes, 0f the College of the City of
New York, was elected President; Prof.
Augustus R. Hatton, of Western Reserve
University, Cleveland, Vice-President; and
Prof. Fred B. Robinson, 0f the College of
the City of New York, Secretary-Treasurer.
The next annual convention will be held in
New York City. .

The object of the Association is to pro-
mote cooperation between the universities
and colleges situated in cities and the gov-
ernments and administrative agencies of
these cities.

THE AMERICAN CITY

55I

City Planning Exhibition and
Conference in Boston

“A Metropolitan City Planning Exhibi-
tion for City and Town Advance” was held
in Boston November 12 to 20. This exhi-
bition was arranged by the Council of Fifty,
representing civic and social organizations
interested in an adequate and practical plan
for the development of the Boston District
by civic foresight. The exhibition was held
in the new east wing of the State House.
It comprised the American City Bureau’s
Exhibition of American and Foreign City
Planning, supplemented by much local ma-
terial. A series of public meetings was
held, many of them illustrated by motion
and stereopticon pictures.

On the opening day of the exhibition
there was held the Third Massachusetts
City and Town Planning Conference. This
meeting of the local planning boards from
the many cities throughout the state was
arranged by the- Homestead Commission
and resulted in the formation of the Massa-
chusetts Federation of City and Town Plan-
ning Boards.

The total attendance at the exhibition is
estimated at 50,000. A campaign of educa-
tion on city planning was conducted simul-
taneously in the public schools and the
churches, November 14 being made “City
Planning Sunday.”

The Committee of Arrangements for the
Exhibition comprised: Herbert J. Kellaway.
Chairman; Ephraim Harrington. Secretary;
Miss J. A. Bruorton, Daniel A. MacKay,
Patrick F. O'Keefe, Arthur A. Shurtleti',
John J. Walsh, and chairman of Executive
Committee W. R. Greeley, ex oHicio; E. B.

Mero, Executive Secretary.
4' 4'

League of Kansas Municipalities

The recently elected officers of the
League of Kansas Municipalities are as fol-
lows:

President—\V. L. Porter, Commissioner of Parks
and Public Property, To eka.

Vice-President—R. J. opkins, City Attorney, Gar-
den City

Secretary—C. H. Talbot, Lawrence.

Trustees—R. \V. Hemphill. Mayor, Norton: J. E.
Howard. Commissioner of Water and Light, Wichita;
C. A. Stout, Commissioner of Finance. CoiTeyville.

The resolutions adopted at the League’s
convention, which was held at Hutchinson,
October 13-15, favored municipal home rule
and “the adoption of an honestly drawn
and workable initiative and referendum
amendment to the state constitution.” The
1916 convention will be held in Indepen-
dence, October 12-14.

Digitized by 600816

49

THE AMERICAN CITY

SANITATION
While our “CANCO” garbage
canin point of appearance and
strength of construction is without
a ‘peer, yet our equipment—the
most comprehensive in the country
—is such that we can make any

sort of garbage container at short
notice.

 

We shall be pleased to estimate
on any city or park requirement.

AMERICAN CAN COMPANY

Chicago NEW YORK San Francisco

WITH OFFICES IN ALL LARGE CITIES

When writing to Advertisers please mention Tn: Aunrcul Crnr.

Digitized by 600816

DECEMBER, 1915

League of Texas Municipalities

Sanitation and public utilities were the
principal topics of discussion at the third
annual convention of the League of Texas
Municipalities, held November 11 and 12 at
Greenville, Texas, with the largest attend-
ance of the League’s history; and the great-
est common need of the cities, as expressed
by the officials present, was the need of
civic education of their citizens to support
the improvements which the officials are
ready and anxious to make. '

A paper by Dr. B. F. Arnold, health of-
ficer of Greenville, and addresses by Dr.
W. B. Collins, state health ofhcer, V. M.
Ehlers, state sanitary engineer, and Charles
Saville, city sanitarian of Dallas, were fol-
lowed by a stereopticon lecture on sewage
disposal by R. E. McDonnell, consulting en-
gineer, of Kansas City, Mo. Prof. J. M.
Bryant, public utility expert from the Uni-
versity of Texas, read a paper entitled
“Rates for Public Utility Service,” which
brought forth long and animated discussion.

 

. Municipal and C

C opie: may be ordered of

THE AMERICAN CITY

Tn: AInICAN City, with the exception of
#4803 indicated a: free, which should be ordered direct from the Mice: publishing the»:

553

Other features of the program were papers
on “Street Maintenance,” by A. D. Duck,
city engineer of Greenville; “City Plan-
ning,” by Mayors Ed. H. McCuistion, of
Paris, and J. B. Marmion, of Houston
Heights; “Taxation,” by Tax Commissioner
J. J. Pastoriza, of Houston; and “Legal
Powers of Cities under the Home Rule En-
abling Act,” prepared by Dr. Herman G.
James, of the University of Texas, and read
by Edward T. Paxton, of that institution.

The entertainment on the part of the city
of Greenville included an old-fashioned
chicken barbecue.

Hillsboro was selected as the meeting
place for the 1916 convention, and the fol—
lowing officers were elected:

President—Mayor Ed. H. McCuistion, Paris
Vice-Presidents—Mayor J B. Marmion, Houston

Heights; City Attorney C. F..O'D0nnell, Dallas; Mayor
\Vm. H. Knight, Hillsboro

Dr. Herman G. James, Director of the
Bureau of Municipal Research and Refer-
ence, of the University of Texas, continues
as Secretary-Treasurer of the League.

 
 
   
 

ivic Publications
Government publication: and

i'FWWWWWM

JAMES, HERMAN G., J. D., Ph.D., Associate

Professor of Government and Director
of the Bureau of Municipal Research and
Reference, University of Texas.

A Handbook of Civic Improvement.

1915. 119 pp. Paper, $1.00

Aiming to show the average citizen and city official
what is to be expected of the city government, this
concise handbook orientates the reader from the start
by a sharp differentiation of municipal functions as
opposed to municipal organization. These functions
are, rimarily Public Health, Safety, Education, and
Moran. and Social Welfare and City Planning, and
the book ex lains in each case how proper execution
results in t e achievement of a broader and more
significant civic life. As the social survey has proved
an immediate practical means to the attaining of this
ideal. the book has been equipped with question sheets
at the end of each chapter, which may be used as the
basis of a city survey in the particular field with
which the cha ter is concerned. In this manner the
book may be ibund of use to civic organizations and
to college classes in municipal science. A select bib-
liography of‘ works devoted to the different municipal
functions is included in the volume. ’

ROMAN, FREDERICK WILLIAM, Ph. D. (Berlin),
Professor of Economics in Syracuse
UniverSIty.

The Industrial and Commercial Schools
of the United States and Germany: A
Comparative Study. 1915. 382 pp. $1.50

The author traces the chief characteristics of Ger-
man and American schools, with special reference .to
the preparation that children secure for commercial
work, emphasizing certain facts, ideals and conditions
obvious in both countries. Considerable s ace is de-
voted to the history and development of in ustrial and

Q

commercial schools throughout the states of the Ger-
man Empire. The same careful treatment is accorded
American trade schools, with special attention to en-
dowed schools such as Pratt Institute and the New
York Trade School. State-aided schools, private in-
dustrial schools and Christian association organizations
are considered also, as well as such typically American
institutions as business colleges and correspondence
schools. In the last chapter is discussed the im-
portance attached to habits and morals in industrial
education schemes, with a comparison of the condi-
tions in the two countries. The author finds that for
the German teachers “the moral problem is ‘ ' ‘
quite outside the whole school organization" and that
in truth “they [the German teachers] argue that edu-
cation does not improve morals but gives power for
the exercise of a more refined immorality." From
this fact it is concluded that, although Americans un-
doubtedly “can learn far more from Germany re-
garding industrial and commercial schools than the
Germans can learn from us,” nevertheless, when we
consider the high social tone in America2 we recognize
that “German industrial and commercial school de-
velopment could in turn learn much frbm America."

lDAYl‘gnRAYMONI—j E.,'C. E., Instructor in Civil

of Illinois.
Promotion of

Engineering, University
‘Member Society for
Engineering Educatibn.

Manual of Surveying for Field and
Office. 1915. 395 pp. Photographs, dia-
grams, charts and tables. $2.50

This book is a manual of the practice of surveying,
for the use of civil engineering students in their prepa
ration for field and office exercises in conjunction with
a treatise on surveying, or for use alone. . . . The
preface informs us that the aim . . . has been to pro-
vide an ethcient means of teachin ‘students the proper
procedure in making surveys. an the pro er‘ methods
of computing and mapping." The first c apter deals

Digitized by 600816 If

THE AMERICAN CITY

All-Steel Playground Apparatus
for Parks, Public Playgrounds
Schools, Private Yards, etc.

  
 

product throughout,
specially designed for 1 I
the wear and tear of
outdoor use. All de-
 . .. tails of bearings, con-

nections, etc., h a v e
been worked out to the highest standard of per-
fection. Pipe Fittings which are threadless
and require no set screws, drilling or tapping of
either fitting or pipe, thus simplifying and cheapening the cost of
erection.

An all-steel galvanized \

 

Perhaps we can be of service to you in deciding the problem of equip-
ment. Write us fully advising us as to your ground space, apparatus
desired, and we will cheerfully furnish plans and prices gratis. Our

Services are yours for the asking.

Catalog C-3 covering
a full line of the
latest and approved
playground appara—
tus sent on request.

EVERWEAR
MFG. CO.

Springfield, Ohio

 

 

50 When writing to Advertisers please mention THE AMERICAN CITY.

 

DECEMBER, 1915

with general instructions for held and office work and
emphasizes the more difficult and important parts of
surveying, such as note keeping, precision of measure~
merits, consistent accuracy, and efficient methods of
com uting. The rest of the book attempts to progres-
sive y build u‘g the practice of surveying from element-
ary work wi ta to complete topographic surveys.
Special features 0 the volume are: convenient size for
carrying in coat pocket; book is complete in itself so
that there is not need to refer to other works; simple
formulas for the determination Of latitude, lon 'tude
and azimuth; description of instruments employe ; nu-
merous cross references, etc.

AMERICAN ACADEMY or POLITICAL AND SOCIAL
SCIENCE.

Public Budgets. (Vol. LXII, November,
1915; _Whole NO. 151, of The Annals of the
American Academy of Political and Social

Seience.) Vlll + 324 pp. $1.00
This issue of The Annals, edited by Prof. A. R.
Hatton, of Western Reserve Universit , contains the
following pa rs: “Budget Making an the Work of
Government,’ by Henry Jones hord; “Evolution of
the Budget Idea in the United States.” by Frederick
A. Cleveland; “The Budget and the Legislature," by
Rufus E. Miles; “The Proper Function of the State
Budget,” by S. Gale Lowrie; “The Budgetary Pro-
Visions of the New York Constitution." by Charles
A. Beard; “California’s State Budget,” by._lohn Fran-
eis Neylan; “The Illinois Budget’ b Finley F. Bell;
“Budget Methods in Illinois,’ by anhn A. Fairlie;
“State Budget Making in Ohio," by . O. Hetternan:
“Finanmal Administration of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts," h Ernest H. Maling; “Taxation and
the Mumci al udget," by Milton E. Loomis;
“Sources of evenue," by Herbert S. Swan; “Account-
ing Basis. of Budgetary Procedure " b Will B. Had-
ley' “.UnIt Costs In Recreational Faci ities," b Paul
T. Beisser; “Some Suggestions for Pre aring a udget
Exhibit,” b J. Harold Braddock; “ udgetar Pro-
cedure Un er the Mana er Form of City overn-
ment,” by Arch M. Man e]; “The Budget as an Ad-
ministrattve. Pro ram," by Henry Bruére; “The Ger-
man Mumcipal udget and Its Relation to the Gen-
eral Government,” by Karl F. Geiser; “The Budget
Procedure of English and French Cities,” by D. C.
Baldwin 5 “The Movement for Improved Financing and
Accounting Practice in Toronto,” by Horace L. Brit-
tain; “County Budgets and Their Construction." b

Otho G. Cartwright: “Budget Making for Smal
Cities,” b Lent D. Upson; “The Preparation of Esti-
mates an the Formulation of the Budget—The New

York City Method," by Tilden Adamson; “Budget
Making in Cleveland,” by May-:0 Fesler; “Budget
Making in Chicago," by Charles . Merriam; “Select
List of References in National, State, County. and
Municipal Budgets in the United States,” by Harr
A. Rider. The volume closes with 23 pages of book
reviews, an index and a cumulative index.

WArUPPA PONDs AND QUEQL‘ECHAN RIVER
COMMISSION, City of Fall River, Mass.
Report of the Watuppa Ponds and Que-
Euechan River Commission to the City

ouncil, City of Fall River, together
with the Report of Fay, Spolford and
Thorndike, Consulting Engineers. Sep-
tember, 1915. 248 pp. Special sections of
photographs, charts and maps. (Applica-
tion should be made to Fay, Spofford &
Thorndike. Boston.)

The “'atuppa Ponds and Quequechan River Com-
mission has recently issued this report, by Fay, Spof-
ford 81 Thorndike, of Boston, dealing with the pro-
posed development scheme for the city of Fall River.

he engineering features include a three-stor con.
duit for carrying hot discharge and cool con ensing
water for the mills, in addition to a system of sur-
face drainage. A common cooling pond is designed
for all the mills along the river. The civic problems
involved include a new sewerage system, the abate~
ment of nuisances along the river, the conservation
and control of water, and other items aliecting the
public welfare. The estimated cost of the work is
about $3,000,000, but it is thought that the sale of the
146 acres of land which will be reclaimed should re-
duce this figure by at least one-third.

THE AMERICAN CITY

SSS

BROWN, EDWARD F ., Executive Secretary, New
York School Lunch Committee, Associa-
tion for Improvement of the Condition
Of the Poor.

Health Aspects of School Lunches.
(New York City Health Department, Re-
print Series NO. 26, April, 1915.) 16 pp.
(Order from New York Department of
Health.) Free

CHICAGO CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
Twentieth Annual Report—Year 1914.
1915. 114 pp. (Order from Commission.)

Free

JULIAN, JULIAN, B. E., Borough Surveyor,

Cambridge.

An Introduction to Town Planning. A
Handbook Dealing with the Principles of
the Subject and a consideration of the
Problems Involved. Powers of Local
Authorities, etc. 149 pp. Diagrams, Plans
and Appendices on Garden Cities and
Garden Suburbs, Schedule of Town Plan-
ning Act, etc. 1914. $1.75

Until the passing of the Town Planning Act of 1909
the English local authorities “had been powerless to
control the character of a town's growth, or even to
decide the direction of a new street; while a land-
owner who might wish to lay out his estate on healthy,
convenient and pleasant lines might find his schemes
thwarted and his estate spoiled by the action of a
neighboring landowner with other and perhaps less
beneficent ideas.” Under the new régime there are
opportunities for many persons to confer in regard to
the development of a town so that a scheme may be
evolved for regulating its future growth. The present
work aims to serve and foster the growth of such
gatherings, besides dealing with the principles of town
planning in a manner of interest to the general reader.
After a historical résumé of town planning in ancient
and mediaeval times, the book traces the origin of the
movement in England. The present-da ,problem is
fully considered: the utility of town planning tours
is discussed. and emphasis is laid upon the impor-
tance of the practical considerations in the prepara-
tion of town plans. The four appendices deal with
garden cities and garden suburbs, specific examples of
English town planning. programs and resolutions of
congresses, and a schedule of the Town Planning Act.
The bank closes with a consideration of various books
and papers on town planning.

LA MO‘I‘TE, ELLEN N., R. N., Former Nurse-in-

Chief of the Tuberculosis Division,
Health Department of Baltimore.

The Tuberculosis Nurse: Her Func-
tion and Her Qualification. A Hand-
book for Practical Workers in the Tuber-
culosis Campaign. (Introduction by Louis

Hamman, M. D., Physician in Charge

Phipps Tuberculosis Dispensary, Johns

Hopkins University.) 1915. 292 pps
1.61

This book is presented to the public—nurses, physi-
cians. social workers, anti-tuberculosis associations and
all those engaged in public health work—with two
objects in view: “First, to offer a working model by
which any community can gain some idea as to how
to organize and conduct tuberculosis work; second, to
oR’er conclusions. gained through practical experience.
as to the nurse's part in the anti-tuberculosis cam-
paign." Approaching her subject from the point of
view of the visiting tuberculosis nurse, the author out-
lines the daily routine: finding patients. Obtaining a
diagnosis. disinfecting the house. getting in touch with
relief-giving institutions, with dispensaries and hospi-
tals, etc. Special chapters are devoted to the nurse's
relations with the physician. the invalid’s family and
with the diHerent ministrant institutions. The author
believes a wholesale. widespread educational campaign
should be prosecuted in order to impress upon people’s

Digitized by 600816

THE AMERICAN CITY

MUNICIPAL
- SIGNS

OF EVERY CHARACTER
FOR EVERY PURPOSE

”GUARANTEED

BA ml P° " °E:2:~"m

.SIG-NS "w"

“BALTO” Guaranteed Porcelain Enameled. Iron Signs

stand alone in their field—the one and only one absolutely
dependable sign product.

     
 

‘i

 

These signs are made of the finest grade of vitreous Porcelain Enamel

fused on specially processed iron at a temperature of 1600 degrees Fah-
renheit—each color separately fused.

“IE-ALTO” Signs, exclusively, are fitted with
non-corrosive metal sleeve eyelets—this

feature protects the enamel at this point
and adds anothei distinctive element of
finish to our signs.

    
   
       
      
     
      
       

 
 

We produce every possible character of municipal
si ns—any size, shape, color combination or design.

ithout obligation our Service Department will
be leased to submit sketches and quotations.
Additionally, we will send FREE, at our expense.
to any authorized purchasing ofiicial or bod a
'useful and attractive sample of finished Porce ain
Enameled Iron. writ. Department C.

The Baltimore Enamel & Novelty co.
_ BALTIMORE. MARYLAND

  

51 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tn: AMERICAN Cur.

‘7

DECEMBER, 1915

minds the importance of the three fundamental
agencies in the anti-tuberculosis campaign—the hos-
pital, the dispensary and the public health nurse.
‘AMERICAN JUDICATURE SOCIETY (CHICAGO.)
Second Draft of So Much of the Metro-
politan Court Act as Relates to the Se-
lection and Retirement of Judges. . Bul-
letin IV A (Bulletin IV in part reVised.)

April, 1915. 127 pp. Free

D1CKERMAN,JUDSON C.
Comparison of Electric Light and Power
Rates. Article reprinted “from Power.
Pages 8 to 15 of No. 1, of Vol. 42, July 6,

1915.) Charts and diagrams. Apply to
author.

GERHARD, DR. WILLIAM PAUL, C.'E., Consult-

iiig Engineer for Sanitary Works, New
York City.

The Disposal of Household Wastes.

Third Edition, Corrected. 1915. Dia-
grams. 195 pp. (Science Series No. 97.)
50 cents

A former work entitled “House Drainage and Sani-

tary Plumbing," published in this series, did not in-
clude a discussion of the question of how to dispose
of the waste matters of the household, but a volume
on the subject was promised for the future. In the
preseift work, portions of which have already a8 eared
in serial form in eriodicals, the author ful ls his
promise. Amon t e subjects considered are: the
est methods 0 treatment of the sewage of farm
houses, isolated country houses, suburban dwellings,
houses in villages and smaller towns, and of larger in-
stitutions, such as haspitals, asylums, hotels, prisons,
colleges, etc., and of the modes of removal and dis.
posal of garbage, ashes and other solid house refuse.

WEAVER, E. W., Pd. M., Formerly Director of
the Vocational Guidance and Industrial
Education Bureau of the Buffalo Cham-
ber of Commerce, and

BYLER, J. FRANK, Ph. D.. Principal of the

George Brooks School, Philadelphia,
Pa.

Profitable Vocations for Boys. 1915..
Diagrams. 282 pp. $1.07

It is pointed out that while “the industrial situation
demands an increase in the vocational content of the
school curriculum," any process of reconstruction must
necessarily be slow, and meanwhile “the teachers can
do much in their classes towards giving a boy about to
leave school a general survey of the field of occupa-
tions, helping him to form a definite purpose, showing
him how to investigate questions which deal with the
choice of a career and the best methods of preparation
for success along particular lines, directin his atten-
tion to the vocational training facilities of t e commun.
ity, showing him how to utilize them and placing before
him an index to vocational literature." Ultimately
"some definite rules for the sci tific management of
the individual by the aid of w ich the prospective
worker may be enabled to clioose‘wisely, prepare thor-
oughly and advance himself rapidly" will be formulated.
Already these rules are being worked upon and the
right principles are being fol owed b members of a
new profession—the social engineer. orty-four short,
compact chapters treat further of this subject, besides
giving in detail the nature and functions of a large

number of professions, trades and occupations. Adopt--

ing the prophec of Roger \V. Babson that “the
crowning .work 0 an educational system will be voca-
tional guidance,” the book quotes him further to the
effect that: “Some day the schools of the nation will
be organized into a great reporting bureau on em-
ployment op ortunities and trade conditions, directing
the youth 0 the nation—so far as their qualifications
warrant—into the lines of work which then offer the
greatest opportunity."

UNITED STATES PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE, Rupert
Blue. Surgeon General.

Municipal Ordinances, Rules and Regu-
lations Pertaining to Public Health

THE AMERICAN CITY

557

Adopted During 1913 by Cities of the
United States Having a Population of
Over 10,000 in 1910. (Reprint No. 230
from Public Health Reports, January 9,
1914, to October 2, 1914, inclusive.) 1915.
455 pp. 50 cents

MASSACHUSETTS HOMESTEAD COMMISSION.

Second Annual Report of the Home-
stead Commission. 1914. (Public Docu-

ment No. 103.) 1915. 144 pp. Tables and
.: diagrams. Free

POE, CLARENCE, Member Organization Com-

mittee, National Conference on Market-
ing and Farm Credits.

How Farmers Co-operate and Double

Profits. 1915. 244pp. $1.60

Actual reports of what has been done and is being
done, and stories based on first-hand investigations.
make this work a practica guidebook on the subject
of rural cooperation whic workers engaged in or-
ganizin cooperative enterprises can refer to on any
particuuar pomt. ' A list of ten practical ways for start-
ing cooperation in a neighborhood includes: Coopera-
tive buying of fertilizers and foodstuffs, joint owner-
ship of important farm machinery. organized market-
ing of sta e crops, stock ownership in enterprises for
the,secon ary handling of products, cooperative mar-
keting of country produce and live stock, joint pur.
chase and ownership of pure-bred live stock, mutual
insurance associations, rural credit associations, co-
operative tele hone companies, and social-welfare or.
ganization an improvement. EurOpean pro ress and
experiments along these lines are referre to and
given in detail where necessary, as well as the Amerio
can experience. The book points out that from effi-
cient cooperation every material benefit is to be gained,

but, “important as are the dividends in cash, the divi-
dends in brotherhood are greater.”

OLMSTED BEOTHERS, Landscape Architects,
Brookline, Mass.

Report of Olmsted Brothers on a Pro-
posed Parkway System for Essex
County, New Jersey. (Submitted to the
Essex County Park Commission, June 4,

1915.) 84pp. Map and diagram. (Order
from Secretary of the Commission, New-

ark, N. J.) Free

This. report was submitted to the Essex County Park
Commission because of the need of a general plan for
a system of parkways which the commissioners could
use when passmg upon the desirability of parkway
plans brought forward by interested citizens, and also
to help them to decide upon a policy of their own.
The text develops (progressively an extensive scheme
for the artistic an practical planning of parkways.
roads, driveways, etc., throughout the county. taking
into consideration the existing facilities and improve-
ments, and urging that the problem be attacked by the

citizens working in close cooperation for the general
benefit of all.

SHERMAN, .HENRY C., Professor of Food
Chemistry, Columbia University.

Food Products. 1915. 594 pp. Photo-
graphs, charts, tables and diagrams. $2.42

The general plan of this volume is “to devote a
chapter to each important type of food, covering (1)
an account of its production and preparation for mar-
ket, with such brief statistical data as will indicate the
relative economic importance of the industry; (2) the
proximate composition and general food value; (3)
questions of sanitation, inspection, and standards of
puritg; (4) special characteristics of composition, di-
gesti ility, nutritive value and place in the diet.”
After a discussion of the prinei al constituents and
functions of foods and of food egislation, the book
considers the following foods: milk, cheese, eggs,
meats, poultry, fish, grain, vegetables, fats and oils,
sugars, etc. Lists of references appended to the dif-
ferent chapters will facilitate the extension of the
work covered by the text along either chemical, eco-
nomic, sanitary, or nutritional lines. In the appen-

Digitized by 600816

A"

THE AMERICAN CITY

| n
i . .. '4'“
rd":sz gap-n fat?"
-/ -_gf_'fil’-_ .—ul\\l‘If-=____'\'

llllll

ll

ll *

l

l

l
(I,

l
l

l

1
l

l

= “*m
p————-——__

L...

_

.t . . t _‘_. ---.k I! 1‘
1 1:. ~..._ r_- .
‘.1.l.l.l_._l..l.,l..|.I..l..l. I . w‘. I I ' W'“ "' “- .|.|.l.l..l.I.|.'.'.'
.ul‘ . - . I
“av-r if :tg'. - ' "up.

MI

W
I.
ii

The Van Blerck Motor Company specialize on high speed,
high duty Motors for commercial purposes, such as for use in
Fire Trucks, Caterpillar Tractors, Electric Lighting Sets, Centri-
fugal Pumping Sets, Vacuum Cleaning Machinery, Gasoline Elec-
tric Cars, etc., concentrating its entire resources, capital, plant,
organization, engineering talent and equipment inlthe produc-
tion of a standardized article.

The Model ‘D" Van Blerck is manufactured in four, six,
and eight cylinder units, delivering power as follows:

Model D-4 Four Cylinder 5_1-4'“x6”— 48 to 90 H.P.-—700 to 1600 R.P.M.
Model D-G Six Cylinder 5,’/£"x6”H 70 to 140 H.P.—700 to 1600 R.P.M.
Model D-8 Eight Cylinder 5}=5”x6”~100 to 185 H.P.—7OO to 1600 R.P.M.

Complete technical specifications of these engines are printed
in convenient form and will gladly be sent you on receipt of
details regarding your actual requirements.

VAN BLERCK MOTOR COMPANY
MONROE, MICHIGAN

mummeimmummllmnmmnu-uumnmmrmmmm inmuvnnmmmnennnrn-Ieimmk 1. Il.I-'I 'M 'IlI-I.t mum?-
.

.n |.u_mu- I | :.I 1: Hum IIII-IltIIHIIII IIlmmlnmHill-Inlllllllulm-umr-mnuumm'mmmi llilull'tL-IH-I!I|l|Hl|lllllllI Ill IOIIIIIIIIllmlllmmmlhl'll"lllml' I “I” I"I'lu-llII-‘CIIIIIII‘IIHHHINIIH'IIH

mmMillillllllllIllillIlllllllllllllllll!llillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!llllllllllllllllIllIilllllllllllllllllllllltll

"“M’WMWMWWWWWWWWW!!!“llllllllmmlllilllmlllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllll

 

53 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tn: Axum“: CITY.

DECEMBER, 1915

CONNELL, WILLIAM H., Chief, Bureau of High-
ways and Street Cleaning, Philadelphia,

Pa.
The Organization, Character of Person-
nel, Scope of Work and Methods of
Operation and Control of a Large Mu-
nicipal Highway De artment. (Pages
439 to 469, Journal Of he Franklin Insti-
tute, Vol. CLXXIX, NO. 4, April, 1915.)
Illustrated. 50 cents

DEPARTMENT or SOCIAL WELFARE, (The Mil-
bank Memorial Fund) Of the New York
Association for Improving the Condition
Of the Poor.

Constructive Social Measures: A Re-
view of Two Years’ Work. (June, 1915.)
Illustrated. Free

This pamphlet describes the permanent and the
special activities of the.department besides telling
something Of its organization and ideals. The perma-
nent activities include the Milbank Memorial Bath.
W'et-VVash Laundry, Food Supply Store, People’s
Kitchen, etc. The section on special activities tells
of the welfare work with school children: School
Lunch Committee, Bureaus Of Food Sup ly and of
Public Health and Hygiene, and the Venti ation Com-

mission.

g

llllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

Road Graders.
The Case NO. 1 road grader is described in a
catalogue issued by J. I. Case T. M. Company,
Inc., 705-755 State Street, Racine, W'is. Seventy
years' experience in machinery production has en-
abled this company to Offer im rovements in me-
chanical construction which wil interest city and
county Officials having to do with roads and

paying.

Waterworks Valves.
The Coldwell-Wilcox Company, \Vater Street,

Newburgh, N. Y., will send on reguest a catalogue
relative to waterworks valves. which are descri ed

as “The kind that don’t wear out."

Fencing and Tree Guards for Public

Grounds.
Catalogue G of the Wright Wire Company
\Vorcester, Mass, describes their dignified an
substantial fencing for parks, cemeteries, play-
grounds, etc., also their rust-proof tree guards,
tlower-bed guards, trellises, etc.

Meter Boxes and Meter Testing Machines.

Any. municipal thcial interested in water sup ly
can secure an interesting circular entitled “ he
Latest Ford Story," by addressing the Ford
Meter Box Company, \Vabash, Ind. Ford meter
boxes and meter-testing machinerv are widely used
by water-works departments, and lists of present
users will be sent on application.

Fire and Pohce Alarm System.
If your municipality is not thoroughly up to date
as to its tire and police sional system. the cata-
logue published by the Gamewell Fire Alarm
Telegraph Company, Newton Upper Falls, Mass.
will be Of interest to you.

Motor Trucks for Munici a1 Serv1ce.
The Packard new type chain ess trucks meet every
need for the diversified hauling problems of the
municipality, and a catalogue relative to the va~
rious kinds of municipal public work for which

IilllillllllllllllllllllllilllllNIWWWWIWIHHWWWHWWIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllilIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll' -

. ’
Manufacturers
’ Available Free of Charge for Readers of THE AMERICAN CITY

Advertiser: are invited to submit catalogue: or circular: suitable for mention in these columns.
THE AVMERICAN CITY should always be mentioned when writing for this material.

:‘illlili'illllllliililllillllllilllllllillllllllillllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!.ili'i'[l!IllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllilllllllllllllllllllillllLIlJiiilllllllllllll

THE AMERICAN CITY 561

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY, NEw

YORK CITY.
Your Rights and Duties Under the

Health Laws Of New York City. 11 pp.
(Order from the Company.) Free

COMAN, KATHARINE, Late Professor of PO-
litical Economy, Political and Social
Science in Wellesley College.

Unemployment Insurance: A Summary
of European Systems. (Prepared for the
Committee on Social and Industrial Jus-
tice of the Progressive National Service.)
1915. 21 pp. (Order from the Progressive
National Service, New York City.) Free

THE CIVIC PRESS.

The American City Pamphlets. Three
pamphlets have been issued during the last
two months:

Municipal Clinics for School Children. By Edward
1". Brown. NO. 136. 10 cents.

How a Small Municipality Is Prohting by a City
Plan. No. 137. 15 cents.

Precautions to be Used in Securing Successful
Bituminous Macadam Pavements. By Philip P.
Sharples. No. 138. 15 cents.

.1.

ll

Literature

I l

l

mlIlillillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

E
E
E
E
E
E

l
i

these auto. trucks are being used can be secured
b addressing Department L of the Packard Motor
ar Company, DetrOit, Mich.

Sidewalk, Curb, Gutter and Road Forms.

Bulletin relative to these forms, tellin why they
are used on over 10,000 contracts. Blaw Steel

gonstruction Company, Department H, Pittsburgh,
a.

Street Corner Cans.

Catalogue describing automatic closing cans for
keeping refuse out of sight on streets and in arks.
Steel Basket Company, 708 South Third Sireet,
Cedar Rapids, Ia.

Mexpet.

This is the title of an interesting monthl publi-
cation relative tO the products Of the .chican
Petroleum Com any. I.td., 52 Broadway, New
York City, whici will be sent free of charge to
anyone interested in materials for paving and
road-building work.

Street Signs and Safety Signs.

The importance Of the proper distribution of
“hanger” and “Safety-First" signs by munici-
palities can hardly be overestimated. The illus~
irated printed matter Of the Stonehouse Steel Sign
Company, Clayton Building. Denver. COL, shows
a most interesting variety Of "Safety-First" signs
for every purpose.

Garbage Cans and Street Trash Cans.

The American Can Company, of New York, will
be pleased to furnish any city or park department
with estimates and illustrated printed matter rela-
tive to garbage and trash containers of all kinds.

Water Meter Specifications.

The Badger Meter Company. of Milwaukee, “'is.,
has published specifications relative tO its disk
meters, turbine meters and compound meters,
which will be sent free of charge to anyone in-
terested.

Digitized by 600816 I"

THE AMERICAN CITY

  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
    

believe this?

There are hundreds of cities and
towns that have solved the park
and boulevard lighting problems.
The Type C Mazda Lamp has
helped them. They have found it
to be the most efficient as well as
the most economical method.

 
 

Surely you want to be in this
class of progressive cities. Let us
assist you in planning a white way
or some extension work. We are
at your St‘I‘VlCL‘. U'ri'ri'for {Hf-OIVHJIH'ON. _

H
.. ... _ - W“ I _
- . _,  I .  . y'
. . ' - A, ' "I J; l
- I s 5'1 ' " °' . a:
, . 9
' co 9 u Q -~ 
_ I ' v.   i. 'i'. __ - '. "L; 
_ - ‘3' " . ' f". “i ’ .' .I‘ . 
.- . South BendJn 
.d _. .‘c .x' ‘_-‘__'*LJ‘:_
54 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tax Autumn erv.

A L Digitized by 600816

DECEMBER, 1915

Engineering Instruments.

Catalo ue No. 4, issued by the Butt & Buff Com-
pany,.:amaica Plain Boston, Mass., illustrates and
descri es some of the latest designs of hi h-grade
engineering instruments which are manu actured
by this company for the use of civil engineers.

Sanitary Towels.

Any reader of THE AMERICAN Cirir interested in

rotecting the health of his city will iind the book-
et _entitled “Public Service” well worth reading.
It is distributed free of charge by the National
Paper Products Company, 105 Canal Street, Car-
thage, N. Y., makers of sanitary towels and towel
containers.

Concrete Park Benches.

Park departments _which are looking for a very
unique and artistic park .bench can secure an
illustrated circular regarding such a bench by

Erliting to the Art Concrete Works, Pasadena,
3.

Monolights for Street Lighting.

A letter to the King Foundry Company, St.
Joseph, M0,, will secure for anyone interested in
street lighting a copy of a new booklet relative
to the attractive street-lighting standards fur-
nished by this company.

Good Pavements and How to Get'Them.

An illustrated 16-page pamphlet stating the merits
of sheet' asphalt pavements, and giving testi-
monials from places in which such pavements are
in use. The Barber Asphalt Paying Company,
Philadelphia, Pa.

Be Strong—for Health, Success and Wealth.

A pamphlet of 8 ages describing the Giant play-
ground apparatus or boys and girls, and picturin

'THE AMERICAN CITY

563

Fire Department Ladders.

A booklet of 24 pages showing by some striking
illustrations and by careful description the ma-
terial used in the manufacture of this company's
fire ladders and the methods employed to insure
the strength of the product. James Boyd &
Brother, Incorporated, Philadelphia, Pa.

Power Sprayers for Trees and Shrubs.
Catalogue No. 30, issued by the Bean Spray Pump
Company, 224 West Julian Street, San José, Cal.,
describes a complete list of power Sprayers for
use in parks. cemeteries, streets, public grounds,
etc., for keeping trees and shrubs in healthy con-
dition through the removal of insect pests.

Street and Road Machinery.
Municipal and county ofiicials who are considerin
the purchase of additional equipment of this kin
for the coming season will find the catalo ue of
the Good Roads Machinery Company, of ennett
Square, Pa., of particular interest.

Fire Department Apparatus and Supplies.
The catalogue of the. Anderson Cou ling & Fire
Supply Company, of Kansas City, an., relating
to automobile lire apparatus and miscellaneous fire
department supplies, may be secured for the ask-
ing.

Resurfacing of Old Roads.

Illustrated booklet containing an address by Wm.
D. Uhler, Chief Engineer, State Highway De-
partment of Pennsylvania. before the Pan-
American Road Congress, at Oakland, Cal., Sep-
tember 16. 1915. The Atlantic Refining Com-
pany, Philadelphia, Pa.

Nursery Trade Price List.
The Fall-Spring (1915-1916) trade price list of
choice young nursery-grown ornamental trees,

 

it in use. Giant Manufacturing Company, Counci vines, perennial plants and bulbs. A _six-page
Bluffs. Iowa. folder. Atlantic Nursery Company, Berlin, Md.
r I Ell :2

r a '

ll] News from Engineers, Manufacturers and Supply Houses

k—*‘E I E "

To Reach the Fire Escape

The accompanying picture of a lire-escape
casement door is included in the publication on
“United Steel Sash” issued by the Trussed
Concrete Steel Company, of Youngstown,
Ohio. The distinctive feature of this door is
that, while it has the finished and handsome
‘ appearance of a fine type of casement, it is built
on modern ideas of fireproof construction. The
door is provided with a panic bolt and handle.
so that even under the worst lire conditions it
can be opened immediately by a pressure on the
projecting lever. It cannot be locked. thus ob-
viating any possibility of the occupants of the
building becoming imprisoned in trying to
reach the Fire escape. The necessity of provid-
ing a panic-bolt door of this nature in connec-
tion with tire escapes is readily understood. as
the finest fire escape in the world is of no value
when it is not accessible in case of actual fire.
It too often happens that the occupants of a
burning building become panic stricken, and,
if the door is equipped with a lock. the key may
not be available; it is therefore of first import-
ance that the door should open almost auto-
matically.

Ill Methods, Materials and Appliances

A _ _ _— .———_—

 

FIRE-ESCAPE (,‘.\Sli.\ilil\'T DOOR \VITH PANIC
BULT. \\'()()I)\\'.~\Rl) BUILDING. DETROIT

.f

THE AMERICAN CITY

MOTT LAMP POSTS

 

FAMOUS BOARDWALK. ATLANTIC CITY. LIGHTED WITH MUI'I‘ LAMP POSTS

WRITE FOR CATALOGUES AND PRICE LISTS
OVER ONE THOUSAND DESIGNS

FOUNTAINS

 

DISPLAY DRINKING
FOUNTAINS ' FOUNTAINS
FOR
PUBLIC SQUARES WT"!
PARKS, ETC. SANITARY
_ CUPS,ETC.
MANHOLE __
FRAMES
GRATINGS SETTEES
—— VAS E S
TREE GUARDS RAI LI N G s
STREET
WRITE FOR
CATALOGUES SIGN POSTS

 

 

FOUNTAIN IN BEDFORD AVE. BROOKLYN. N.Y.

THE J. L. MOTT IRON WORKS

FIFTH AVENUE AND SEVENTEENTI-I STREET
NEW YORK CITY

55 When writing to Advettiuen please mention Ta: Amman Cur.

DEC, 1915 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS

New Novalux Units

The Form 6 units are the latest addition to
the comprehensive line of Novalux units made
by the General. Electric Company for the
operation of the high candle-power Mazda C
lamps. They have excellent light-distributing
characteristics, giving the maximum light at
the 10-degree angle.

These new units are made in two different
general types, one for mounting on brackets
or permanent fastening to mast arms, while the
other is for the regular method of suspension.
These two types are termed the bracket and
pendent types. respectively.

The bracket type shown herewith is equipped
with the same insulator that is used with the

 

BRACKET TYPE OF FORM 6 NOVALUX

G. E. series incandescent brackets. This inter-
poses an insulation between the unit and the
pole which will withstand voltage strains up
to 25,000 volts. This insulator has great me-
chanical, as well as electrical, strength, because
it is composed of only one massive porcelain.
In addition to this important “Safety First”
feature, it is adapted for either open or con-
cealed wiring of the unit.

The handsome appearance of the Form 6
units is worthy of more than passing notice.
Substantial, simple, but with harmonious lines,
they will improve the appearance of any street
where they are installed.

One of the important features of this unit is
the method of ventilation, which gives a liberal

supply of cooling air, but absolutely prevents
the entrance of insects.

565

Meeting a Powerful Test

The city of New York recently made tests of
30,000 feet of, fire hose furnished by the Em-
pire Rubber & Tire Company, of Trenton, N. J.
After testing the required number of sections,
picked at random, to (300 pounds pressure, the
city tried the utmost resisting powers of one
section. This section withstood a pressure of
1,000 pounds, the limit of the gauge, without
bursting. This is the second time that Empire
tire hose has successfully met a test of 1,000
pounds pressure conducted by the New York
Fire Department, the first test being on October
19, 1913. The second test was particularly grati-
fying to the Empire Company, as when the
first record was made it was the opinion of
some people that it was merely an accident
which could not be repeated. The real merit
of the hose appears to be proved by this second
trial of a section picked at random from a
delivery of 30,000 feet. The tests were con-
ducted by Chief Demarest. of the Department
of Supplies and Repairs, who is in charge of
all tests of apparatus for the Department.
Commissioner Weeks. representing the Fire
Department, and Mr. Gaynor, representing the
Comptroller’s ofiice, were also present through-
out the tests.

4' 4'

Motor Trucks for All Kinds

of Service

Like Kelly Does, the periodical published
by The Kelly-Springfield Motor Truck Com-
pany, of Springfield, Ohio, contains, in its No-
vember issue, some particularly interesting
photographs of motor apparatus for municipal
service. Two of these pictures show the
Kinney - Kelly high - pressure combination
Husher and sprinkler in operation in Albany
Street, Boston. In one, a spray 60 feet wide is
shown, the machine being able to throw a spray
of any width between 8 and 60 feet. The other
of the two photographs shows the Husher in
action, cleaning a stretch 20 feet wide. with
a pressure of 50 pounds. The tank of this ma-
chine has a capacity of 1,200 gallons. Another
page features motor fire apparatus, and there
are illustrations of a number of other types of
Kelly motor equipment for commercial use, to-
gether with information about the service ob-

tained from this company: trucks.

A Cry for Help

The Federal siren is an electrically-operated
sound signaling device for cities. small towns
and villages, factories. etc., and a fog signal
for lighthouses, nreboats, etc. The double-
head type shown in the illustration is, on ac-
count of its sound power, designed for large
towns and cities. This is the largest siren made
by this company. Both cylinders in the sound-
ing mechanism revolve, and the effect is to
double the volume of sound adapted for use
where a signal apparatus of greater penetra-
tion than the single head is required. The
approximate penetration is three miles. This
siren gives a distinctive call for help—a lire
emergency or danger signal that is instantly

Digitized by 600816 I

THE AMERICAN CITY

FL____ I I Am

SIMPLEX STEEL TAPED CABLES

  
   
 
   
   
  
   
   

COPPER
CONDUCTOR

RUBBER ;
INSULATION - -

BRAID

JUTE FILL‘NG

sznvmc. “ "
‘rTRn‘E—DJWE “*

STEEL TAPE I 

l - STEEL TAPE ;
I
I

SERVING _
TARREDJUTE

 

BEST

l because

TWO STEEL TAPES

are wound on spirally .in

OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS
SIMPLEX WIRE &CABI.E (é

MANUFACTURERS

I 201 DEVONSHIRE s1: BOSTON
CHICAGO SAN FRANCISCO

 

 

50 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tax Anuncul CX‘I'Y.

 

 

DEC, 1915 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS

 

DOUBLE-H EAD FIRE-ALARM SIREN

recognized as such. When used as a town

alarm it should be elevated, in the center of

town, and protected against the weather by a
roof so arranged as not to hinder the pene-
tration of sound. The signal is manufactured
by the Federal Sign System, of Chicago.

ii'l'

A “Fool-Proof” Lawn Mower

Park and cemetery superintendents will be
interested in the lawn mower here illustrated.
It is made by the Supplee-Biddle Hardware
Company, of Philadelphia, and is said to be of
such simple construction that an ordinary day
laborer has no difliculty in using the machine
and keeping it in fine condition. There is a
heavy spring directly under the cylinder bear-
ing, which acts as a sort of buffer or shock-
absorber between the cylinder and the dead
knife. This knife is bolted rigidly to the
frame; the cylinder bearings are universal, and
the adjustment for wear is taken up by means
of a single set screw immediately over the
cylinder journal, held tight by a lock nut.
There is no fine adjustment to get out of order,
and the cylinder is bound to be in alignment
with the lower knife. A simple turn of the
' set screw drives the cylinder closer to the dead
knife to take up the wear. This lawn mower

is pictured and its c.r'm.-trm.'tm11 tilt-scribed m It
circular issued by the mam]tactm'm‘s.

 

A SHOCK-ABSORBER LAWN MOWER

567
The Poison Risk

The record of cases of children's
illness caused by the use of poison-
ous fly destroyers shows for the
months of July and August, 1915. 22
cases of poisoning, of which 8 were
fatal and I4 non-fatal or uncertain.
Illinois had the highest number of
cases—six; Indiana, Iowa, Massachu-
setts, Michigan and Pennsylvania
each had two cases, and there was
one case in each of the following
states: Georgia, Missouri, Nebraska,
New York, Oklahoma and Ohio. Of
the non-fatal or uncertain cases, the newspaper
reports show that recovery was doubtful in a
number of cases. the children being still dan-
gerously ill at the time the newspaper articles

appeared.
'1' '1'

Shower Mixers in the Playground

One of the most important features of the
playground is that which offers the facilities
of well-equipped shower baths to all who care
to use them. To get the most satisfactory re-
sults from the shower bath equipment, two
things are indispensable: namely, capacity to
handle crowds rapidly, and perfect safety
against scalding for the bather. Showers fit-
ted with the ordinary hot and cold water
valves to be operated by the bather are waste-
ful of time, and steam, or hot water, to say
nothing of the ever-present danger of scald-
ing by having the water too hot, or acciden-
tally moving the hot water valve while bath-
mg.

All the old inconveniences are said to be
removed by the installation of the Ingham
shower mixer, manufactured by the Imperial
Brass Manufacturing Company of Chicago.
Many cities and towns are equipping their
playground bathhouses with this mixer; the
city of Chicago alone is installing large num-
bers in playgrounds and neighborhood build-
mgs.

The simplicity of construction

and the “foolproof” operation of

__ this mixer recommend it for use

__,..__~-:”f"_j--" where a large and varied num-

  ' ' ber of people have access to it.

It gives the bather instant con-
trol over the water. No time or
hot water is wasted in adjust-
ment of temperature. The mixer
is provided with a single handle
and an indicator. The various
temperatures available are plain-
ly marked upon a dial, so that
no mistake can be made. Thor-
ough mixing takes place instantly
in the chamber. The bather has
only'to give the handle a turn to
obtain the desired temperature.
Danger of scalding is absolutely
eliminated, as the temperature
remains fixed until the shower is
turned off. The bather cannot
raise the temperature beyond a
certain predetermined point.

 

MORRIS  ~-
ORNAMENTAL {MN
STREET LIGHTING 3—..“3
STANDARDS mull
Cast Iron— 5

CENTRAL FOUNDRY comm

Amman. Ala.

ll Newu'k.N.J. Viacom-Jud. Mmld 5166'.

57

 

THE AMERICAN CITY

:- “LIQ‘I

37”:- _" 9-1-1. 1-,}

- 1
I
..._A...-...'...'_

i J,”
"-

Suitthe ence to the Need” i

Protection is of prime importance in a fence for playgrounds and public places, but dignity, fine
Above is shown one of the many styles of

appearance, strength and long life are all essentials.
“. E C  S I o R” Fence for Schools, Play-
“ R" grounds, Public Buildings,

 PROOF Parks and Large Enclosures

Made of large, substantial wires galvanized after weaving. This galvanizing is much heavier than
in ordinary fences, so there is no chance for rust to get a hold. The heavy horizontal and upright
wires are so clamped together that they do not slip and cannot be twisted out of position. We

also make Excelsior Rust Proof Lawn and Flower Bed Guards, Tree Guards, Treiiises and
Treilis Arches. Write for illustrated Catalog C.

WRIGHT WIRE COMPANY, Worcester, Mass.

 

giving utmost satisfac-
tion in hundreds of
cities. "' "' "' "' * Over
1,000 Designs.

Expert advice on out-
door lighting problems.
Ask for catalogue and
list of installations-

\

\

\

This illustration shows
a glimpse of the beau-
tiful installation of

ALBA

Lighting Equipment

0 at the San

Exposition.

N'ne out of every
ten cities with orna-
mental street lighting
use Alba.

Information on mm:

Macbeth-Evans Glass Co.
purrsauaon

Diego

Eulaa P. MORRIS, Sales Agent
180 LIIIRTY SI’REIT. NEW YORK

Reprucnn'ng

Operators and Sole Ounce of Foundries at
Holt. Ah- Buanc Ah. M N. Y.

 

When writing to Advertisers please mention Tax Aunrcax Cut.

A

DEC., 1915 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS

- “,.. .- ,.-..

This is a sure protection against damage suits.
The time required for bathing is reduced to the
minimum, which means that the number of
bathers that can be accommodated is tremen-
. dously increased.

The mixer is adjusted when first installed,
' and after that no further adjustments are
necessary. It is automatic, noiseless and self-
cleaning, and is made in styles to suit both
individual and multiple showers.

The company issues an interesting illus-
trated booklet called “A Good Mixer,” which
will be sent free to playground othcials, archi-
tects, or others who seek information upon
this subject.

4' 'l'

Supplying Cities with Motor
Fire pparatus

Recent shipments made by the American-
La France Fire Engine Company, Inc., of El-
mira, N. Y., include combination chemical en-
gine and hose cars for Pelham Manor, Wood-
mere and Waverly, N. Y., Old Forge, Pa.,
Rutland, Vt., and London, Ont. Other types
of this company’s motor fire apparatus have
been delivered to Naugatuck, Conn., Dayton,

569

Ohio, Jersey City, N. J. (which ordered seven

first size steam Fire engines), and Lancaster.
Pa. New‘orders for combination chemical and _
hose cars have been placed by Atlantic City,
N. J., Amherst, Mass., Glendora and Hermosa,
Cal., Red Lodge, Mont. Springfield, Ohio,
Brockport and Carthage, N. Y., and Kitannmg.
Pa., while other pieces of apparatus have been
recently ordered by Atlantic City, Dobbs Ferry,
N. Y., Mt. Carmel, Pa., and Washington, D. C.

4' 4'
A Buyers’ Reference Work

The 1915 edition of Hendricks’ “Commercial
Register,” with which “The Assistant Buyer”
has been incorporated, is devoted to the inter-
ests of the architectural, contracting, electrical,
engineering. hardware. iron, mechanical, mill.
mining, quarrying. railroad, steel and kindred
industries. The products of these industries
“are listed from the raw material to the fin-
ished article, with the concerns handling them
from the producer to the consumer." It thus
forms a comprehensive annual register of pro-
ducers, manufacturers, dealers and consumers
connected with the above industries. valuable
as a buyer’s reference work.

 

For Contractors and Boards of Public Works

7 , . 7 ,. . . ., lei
Tractors in Municipal Hauling

The city of Cincinnati, Ohio, recently de-
cided to look into the merits of the gasoline
tractor for municipal hauling. Among other
things it determined to find out how much
tractors could haul, whether several trailers

could be handled conveniently. whether the
tractor engine was equal to the task of hauling

   

heavy tonnage up an 8 per cent grade, and
whether the tractor brakes could be depended
upon to hold back the combined weight of
several heavily loaded trailers down an 8 per
cent grade.

When preparations for the experiment were
completed, a rugged-looking Knox tractor was
brought on the scene. The place chosen for the

 

NO DIFFICULTY IN MAKING TURNS WITH THIS LINE OF TRAILERS

THE AMERICAN CITY

  

I. CFC/01;" ,, .
Properfypr  g .-
i'ence .  \t '-

for Parks, Private Grands r eeteries

Tho.- prntcctinn of [ml-lic :Hltl plivniv mum-Hy from thoughtless people and from viciously reckless people i~: a
I‘Ttulllf'lll that l-Jilllm tlu- :mthxd'itlva in 111.1113:communities.

rismlrlury is turn, Hunt-rs :lrt' plurkml. litter is aruttcrul, irregular paths are cut acros‘s lawns. Against these
;:.:i ‘1. Inn}: lIRI uf ntht-r .lltllbl'r-i which :lrt' of common occurrence

CYCLONE PROPERTY PROTECTION FENCE
OFFERS MAXIMUM AND PERMANENT PROTECTION

   
 
     

Our franc is built nf heavily unlinnizmi “ire. [impla- Our posts are built of tubular steel—tho hirongf'a'. it'le
.mll I'kf‘Ill‘; ---;:.1: ml. with rlrr.‘['1l\' u'rimm-l lurk-rm. .mrl i: iltlf’1 Hf pth t‘nrwtruction—there is no weak side. They support lll'.‘
arm-h- im. L,l"l. I‘inr' lull: wirm int luv ~‘-"'r!|.:n;: wither xii-l“. heavy idlrrlc‘ properly, make the fence durable—resin Hillmk
"mkm: uhml-mi; m--r it w.“ :1‘ .Illv im;: -~-:lrl-‘ ur 51min from any direction.

Cyclone Property Protection gippcnla to you llt'CdLlaf.’ it i-x t‘.t‘l3[lt)[l"llC-1l—“(.ht'jfr. r
ilk”! \‘thl, {Mr H. 1‘ \\-I-.1r_lIr-r-1ltlml. tire-proof. rvpuir-primt— gum the grounrh :1 -1;l.l-
i.lr]li.l.ll‘.'iJTIl‘-l:l‘-i:iI'tlll'..‘:1I;lIl(‘t‘

1'" l1” l-‘Hi' "l -'”~“"””'* It is snnitnr) :lnw~;m:wwitl1 tin; (idll]]1,tit‘3C;l}'lI'Lg, utmightly fence lam"; tin-w nut
t - .litfl [Ill'IIii'lllx'Hi Il'.ll|il'r.- llTl “1,4”er ,IH. my“: (1mm. “Ht lutlmr Hugh.
“"“i’m 1"“ "'“r'V “‘3 HIM I'll-cmw'rmu le‘t'r.lrtrnn'nt \Hli :Itl‘cisf: and UJ-Optrrutc with «1111'?!thtrident-I Hf
..rl-,;],r._l:.-i_..1rMy.“ [IIIPTI'IHF‘II‘IIg‘lHii 1mm» .Inrl I‘---|’.t1'I'-- m .mlw- Un-ir truce prohlcnn free of charge “1- “apply -:-u::
' ' I "w i I '.'-".il‘ l '." HI .Jt‘l

-':rr< tum intun-w-r tn: «unwrinrvnni eruption at nmntrml cost.
, -I':‘1\: .m-l arrinng

llIu-auatr-rl catalog free on request.

CYCLONE FENCE CO., Dept. 107, WAUKEGAN, ILL.

 

   

 

 

For Your Type-C Mazda Lamps

the standards that give you
beauty and grace with guaranteed service

Uni on METAL
LAMP STANDARDS

Not only do “Union” Standards embody the
highest type of artistic design and correct con-
struction for highest ehiciency. but each
standard is backed by a service guarantee.

 

The Guarantee

“We will replace, at any time within twenty years from

the date of erection. any Union Metai pressed steel shaft

that fails from any cause whatever (except by wilful.

malicious damage) for the nominal sum of Three Dollars

($3.00) each net F. O. B. our factory. Canton, Ohio.”
You can’t go wrong in choosing the "Union."

Given HIGHEST Award Panama-Pacific International Exposition

The Union Metal Mfg. Co. Canton, (thin
C

anadian Union Metal. Limited, Galt. Ontario, Canada

 

 

Design 1471
(Patented)

 

53 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tn; AIBICAN Cny.

DEC, 1915 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS

test was Gilbert Hill, a 7,000-foot stretch with
a mean grade of 6.2 per cent, maximum grade
8.3 per cent, minimum 1.8 per cent. The sur-
face of the street was granite block.

Six trailers were used—ordinary, municipal
type dumping wagons, as shown in the illus-
tration. The city authorities had specitied that
there should be no load whatever on the rear
wheels of the tractor, and the demonstration
was accordingly made with the entire load
rolling on steel wheels. The six trailers were
loaded with mud, and the total weight of this
pay load, as shown by the city scales, was
38,550 pounds, making it an interesting matter
for speculation as to whether the big “gaso-
line horse” would be able to haul this unusual
load, weighing approximately 20 tons, to the
summit of the hill.

The train was started at the bottom of the
hill, made the ascent, turned at the top of the
hill without stopping, and with all the wagons
tracking perfectly, and returned to the foot
of the hill. In coming down the grade the
entire load was held back by the tractor only,
the brakes on the trailers not being set at any
time.

The tractor was brought down the entire
length of this 7,ooo—foot grade in low gear.
Two complete stops were made at the steepest
part of the hill to demonstrate the ability of
the tractor to hold back the load.

The weights hauled in this demonstration
were 25 per cent in excess of the loads to be
hauled by the city of Cincinnati in actual ser-
vice, and Knox equipment has, therefore, been
purchased.

4"1'

SnOw Removal
During Storms

The Champion snow-plow,
made by The Good Roads
Machinery Company, of
Kennett Square, Pa., is a
simple, durable device for
rapidly cleaning city streets
of snow and ice both during
and after storms. To ac-
complish this effectively a
plow must be able to move
with the traffic and at the
same speed in order not to
block the street. and must be
able to keep going during
the entire storm.

The Champion plow is so
designed that it fits all
standard motor trucks. and
can be quickly attached
without boring holes in any
part of the truck. The steel
scraper blade is 10 feet long
and 14 inches wide. and is
hung to a semi-circular steel
frame, providing angular
adjustment, and making it
possible to set the blade
either for right-hand or
left-hand cutting, or, in fact,

57I

at any desired angle. The automatic blade re-
lease is so constructed that when the cutting
edge strikes an obstacle, such as a manhole
cover or a car track, the blade releases to pass
over the obstruction and then immediately re-
turns to its operating position. The plow also
has a lifting device and a tilting device.

'1» '1»
Spraying Asphalt

A report of some road construction work
near Hammond, lnd., describes an interesting
instance of the use of the asphalt-spraying
nozzles made by the Spray Engineering Com-
pany, of Boston. An ordinary tank was used
on the truck, and this was towed by a tractor
which furnished compressed air at 30 pounds
gage. Bermudez asphalt was heated by means
of a wood tire beneath the tank to a tempera-
ture of about 300 degrees F. The nozzle with
the large aperture—Io-D Special—was used.
The work was done on an ordinary country
road; most of it lay through a marsh, but it
had been built up to grade. It consisted of
9 inches of crushed limestone, 3—inch ring,
rolled, with asphalt at the rate of 1% to 1%
gallons per square yard; then a coat of crushed
limestone, “concrete” size; then asphalt at
about % gallon per square yard; and, finally,
a surface coat of very tine crushed limestone.
The roadWay was 20 feet wide, and the two
coats of asphalt were laid at the rate of 2,000
linear feet in ten hours. This piece of work
was inspected at one time by about twenty-five
functionaries, including county road commis-

 

THE CHAMPION SNOW" PLOW ATTACHED TO MOTOR TRUCK

IHE AMERICAN CITY

 

6739 CLOW
“ NEVALEAK”
BIBB

NO RUBBER T0 ROT

Water, leaking drop by drop,
amounts to 15 gallons in 24
hours, or more money-waste in
a year, than the “Nevaleak”
Bibb costs.

Fuller action, quick opening,
compression seat. N on—leak,
non-splash, non-hammer.

Where safety and dependa—
bility are demanded——

Specify the “Nevaleak”

“ The Bibb Without the Rubber Ball"

Made in sizes, L45, 3:; and 3.1; inch for
Sinks and Laundry Trays. Made of
Clow's Red Metal.

Send for Circtdar No. 125

 

JAMES B.CLOW&SONS

Established [818

534-546 So. Franklin Street, CHICAGO

Sales Offices

New York Milwaukee St. Louie Kan-no City
San Francisco

Minneapolis Loo Angela

 

 

Ornamental
Lighting
Poles

are designed to add
beauty to your streets.
but they do far more.

attracting business.
Th'm particular de
.sign of pole is for the
high emciency Type
" C " Mazda Lamp.
Let us tell you more

about this pole, or we
will show you our

other designs.

~ ORNAMENT“.
LIGHTING POLE CO.

H- b in in. “ “wilt
lldUbutySleo'Yoek

 

Sun GaSolabra
Street Lighting

To save money in installing
ornamental street lighting sys-
tems, municipalities should re-
quire prices on Standards de-
livered f.o.b., city, and also
prices for making the
installation separately.

Up-to-Date Municipali-
ties or Engineers should
write at once before in-
stalling any ornamental .
cluster systems to

The Sun
Street Lighting Co.

1501 Market Street
CANTON. OHIO

 

59 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tm: AMERICAN CITY.

1380,1915 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS

, rat

sioners, road contractors, representatives of
asphalt firms and others, and all gave un-
stinted approval of the work of the spraying
nozzle. Probably no one of the party had ever
seen asphalt applied so thoroughly and rapidly,
and it was stated that the only difhculty was
to build the road as rapidly as the asphalt
could be laid. -

'1'" 4.
Getting Efficiency out of a

Revolving Shovel

'The “Erie” shovels, manufactured by the
Ball Engine Company, of Erie, Pa., have now
been put in use as far east as Boston, Mass.,
as far west as Des Moines, Iowa, as far south
as Winston-Salem, N. C., and as far north as
Canada, and are installed in many of the larger
cities, such as Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Buf-
falo, Rochester, Cleveland, St. Louis, Balti-
more, Detroit, etc.

Among the advantages claimed for the Erie
shovel is the automatic crowding device, which
enables the operator to follow grade in a me-
chanically perfect way, economically excavat-
ing shallow as well as deep cuts and maintain-
ing a level floor bottom. Streets or roadways
can be crowned evenly on both sides by the
shovel; boulders encountered at grade can be
removed by the shovel; cuts as wide as 35 feet
on the floor bottom can be excavated at one
cut; by applying the power of both the hoist-
ing‘ and crowding engines at the same time,
lifting in the same direction, extremely difficult
materials can be eitcavated; few moves are
necessary, as the shovel excavates a distance

573

of over 8 feet on the Floor bottom before it is
necessary to move up. Teams or cars can be
loaded 23 feet from the center of the shovel
and do not have to be accurately “spotted,”
and teams can be loadediron an 8-foot bank
without taking them into she pit, which saves
time and the cost of a snatch team. No cranes-
man is required, nor anexceedingly skillful
operator, to obtain the rated‘ capacity of the
shovel, and only one pit man is needed, pro-
vided proper plank sections ‘are furnished on
which to operate the shovel; these can be
swung from rear to front of the shovel by a
chain attached to a dipper, with the assistance
of but one man to attach them.

4"1'

Testing Segment Block

for Sewers '

The November issue of The Segment Block,
published by the American Sewer Pipe Com-
pany, of Akron, Ohio, contains some interest-
ing testimonial letters and reports of tests of
Amco segment block for sewer construction.
This issue is called “The Test Number,” and
is devoted to answering the inquiry, “What has
Amco done to prove itself indestructible ?" It
puts the public in touch with the engineers
under whose supervision the tests referred to
were made, and from whom further informa-
tion can be obtained. Photographs of a num-
ber of the weight tests are given, and one of a
suspension test, in which 5 feet of 84-foot
Amco segment block, weighing over 3 tons. was
hoisted above the ground, the block remaining
intact, as though cast in a solid.

 

« EXCAVATING WITH THE REVOLVING'SHOVEL‘

THE AMERICAN CITY

These are the new

N ovalux
Ornamental Units

With their advent

the art of Ornamental MAZDA .
street lighting moves miles ahead

In their every line are

character and elegance and style
distinctiveness to grace the thor-
oughfares wherever installed

In their design is the

evidence of specialized study and
intimacy with street lighting
needs; they make the

most of the wonderful
MAZDA C lamp

‘ Built into them is

the inflexible G—E standard of
quality and durability to
bring them down through

the coming years

Made in any

candle-power and for your
circuit what ever it is

Why not-

Make YOUR community
distinctive with the

Novalux Ornamental Units

General Electric
0 Company 0

General Office: Schenectady, N.Y.

Sales Ollices in all Large Cities

 

5878

 

00 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tm: Annxcu Ct".

DEC., 1915 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS

575

 

THE SCHRAMM PORTABLE AIR COMPRESSOR AT \VORK

For Removing Rock in Road
Building

The ever increasing demand for Quicker
methods for removing rock in road building,
ditching, excavating or quarrying has brought
about a tremendous demand for portable air
compressor outfits such as shown in the accom-
panying illustration. This particular machine
is one of the new Schramm portable No. 2
equipments. About seven hundred of these
machines are being used for such work.

The picture shows a street grading under-
taking in suburban Philadelphia. About seven
feet of rock must be removed. This would
be a difficult job by the old hand methods
and also by means of the old style steam
drills. Here the machine is drilling over
200 feet of holes per day. The machine does
not require any attention after starting, and it
takes only thirty seconds to start. About four
gallons of fuel are used per day, and two to
four buckets of water. There are no boilers
to keep going, no cumbersome drills to move
about. no steam condensing and getting down
into the drill, no coal. water or ashes to haul-—
in fact. nothing to do but to give attention In
the drilling itself. In winter time these facts
are all the more appreciated.

The machine weighs only 1,200 pounds, and
being of very rigid and low construction with

broad wheels and steel truck underneath, it
can be set anywhere. There is very little vi-
bration, and it does not matter at what angle
the machine is operated.

These outfits are built in various sizes,,and
full particulars can be secured as to their many
uses by writing to the home office of the manu-
facturers. Chris. D. Schramm & Son, 308—12
North Fourth Street, Philadelphia, Pa. Their
further uses include drilling through c0ncrete.
cement, steel or wood. riveting, chipping, caulk-
ing of joints and other pneumatic tool work.

4"?

Culvert Specifications

The Canton Culvert 81 Silo Company, of Can-
ton, Ohio, has recently issued a sheet of
“Standard Specifications for Corrugated Metal
Culverts.” These have been prepared primarily
with a view to cooperating with railway and
highway engineers. contractors and others in
supplying them with a list of specifications for
reference and for possible adoption as a basis
subject to modifications as desired. The speci-
fications do not apply to any single or arbitary
style of culvert (either riveted or nestahle).
but are designed to allow a choice among
various makes. at the same time assuring the
production of a first-class standard article. A
copy of the specifications will be sent on re-
quest to any one properly interested.

f

:7___.

 

Effective

Street

Lighting

For the best possible street
light we can highly recommend
this standard. It is the best
possible street ornament ‘by
day, and there is no better
standard manufactured forxeven
street illumination at night.

The lampshave been placed
at the correct distance. from

centers by our
obtain» the best
lighting standard.

The casting is manufactured
from especially prepared and
mixed’ iron, non—corrosive and

indestructible.

We make many designs.

These are shown

logue which we shall be glad

to sen i you.

The Casey-Hedges Co.

CHATTANOOGA. TENN.

 

61

THE AMERICAN CITY

engineers to
results as ‘a

in our :ata-' ‘

EIL- gladl}: send you an
Ailleriean Bouleviird Arc
for thirty cinys' free trial!
Install the Are where all may
see! \‘t'atcli it extinguish itself
at the appointed time! Satisty
_\’('}tlr:.t.'li that it gives. Ll steady
light of {All} cantileapower at
LtIII‘il’UXllllilicl)’ rule-hall cent
per hour!

Nuw's the time to put all
American Boulevard Are to
the test! It's. guaranteed
:~.r_~r111 proof but we w.1nt you
in am- Mr youtsell'l We want
t“ «i'IIJViI'ILIl: you that there's
lit-[illile to get out “1' order and
l.;ik'i_‘ iruuhIel Write us -—
TlLfi1[.llrl'-'-'i

AMERICAN GAS
MACHINE CO.

55] Clark Street.
ALBERT LEA, NHNN.

    
    

  

'I.

 

PH
0
"i

A Standar

every need. iThe
flexibility OffOUI'
line gives a variety
of very pleasing
combinations.

Writeforour
latest poster,
cluster and
mono] it:
catalogue.

No. 2002

King Foundry Co.

ST. JOSEPH, MO.

 

When writing to Advertisers please mention Ta: Airmen Cr".

