 

 
    
  
   
 

87 Nassau Street
New York

OCTOBER, 19-15

Volume x111
Number 4

Dust Suppression on Suburban and Country
Roads

By William H. Connell

Chief, Bureau of Highways and Street Cleaning, Philadelphia, Pa.

dust on the suburban and country
macadam streets and roads in the
city of Philadelphia are as follows:

These streets and roads receive bitu-
minous surface treatments of the character
best suited to them respectively with refer-
ence to the type of construction, the trafiic
and social and local conditions in each in-
stance. Generally speaking, two methods
of treatment are used on the roads to sup-
press the dust: first, bituminous surface
treatments, intended to eliminate the dust
nuisance and preserve the roads: and sec-
ond, a cheaper method of bituminous sur-
face treatment, used simply for the purpose
of laying the dust on macadam, cinder and
dirt roads, and not intended to preserve the
road.

The first method of treatment is used only
on macadam roads that have been put in
good condition, as it is a waste of money to
put a high-class bituminous surface treat-
ment on a road that is full of ruts and pot
holes and not properly shaped up. The
bituminous materials used in the city of
Philadelphia consist of coal tar treatment,
hot application, known as Tarvia A: coal
tar treatment, cold application, known as
Tarvia B: water gas tar treatment, hot ap-
plication, known as Ugite No. 2; water gas
tar treatment, cold application, known as
Ugite No. I; and asphalt cut-back treat-
ments, which consist of a mixture of 60 per
cent to 65 per cent of 80 to 100 penetration
asphalt, conforming to specifications adopted

THE methods adopted to suppress the

 

‘ ' From a paper delivered at the Pan-American anl
Congress, September 13.17. Oakland, Cal.

by the Association for Standardizing Pav-
ing Specifications at Pittsburgh in 1913, and
35 per cent to 40 per cent of 53 to 60 com-
mercial naphtha. All of these materials are
applied in quantities just sufiicient to paint
the road and to avoid the possibility of
building up a pad. In other words, the pur-
pose is simply to have a film coat of bitu-
minous material on the surface of the road
and to re-treat the road as often as is neces-
sary to maintain the film coat; in this way
we eliminate the pushing and rolling under
trafiic which occurs with bituminous pads.

The method of applying these bituminous
materials is as follows: The roads are first
lightly sprinkled with water and swept with
a horse-drawn broom. They are then swept
with hand brooms until the surfaces of the
stone are free from dust. This sweeping.
however, should not be done in such a man-
ner that the stone dust or binder will be
removed from between the stones. The
bituminous material is then applied with a
pressure distributor at a certain rate per
gallon, which varies on different roads. de-
pending upon their condition and also upon
whether it be a first, second or third treat—
ment. The bituminous material is allowed
to remain on the road for about twelve
hours. or over night. after which fine
washed gravel

Passing Per Cent
56-inch screen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 100
No. 4 screen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . r . .. soto6o
No. 6 screen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2') tn 30
No. 10 screen . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..nut over ’10

is spread over the road at the rate of 13 to
18 pounds to the square yard. according to

[279]

Digitized by 600816

 

APPLYING BITUMINOUS MATERIAL WITH AUTO‘ PRESSURE DISTRIBUTOR

 

SPREADING GRAVEL AFTER APPLICATION 01“ BITUMINOUS MATERIAL

[2280]

Digitized by 600816

 

281

THE AMERICAN CITY

Ocrom-zn, 1915

 

an. .36 n3. II. ii i. |$uu§h§ v.53

 

M. $96.1” V\%\\¥§M§.\ §\\§\ “Qagikmcxxg K83 .3 E “Gm. 8m. 3%.»... .l- .| . I - . Nah EQERN‘EEQK xghwéx

\ QQxQn, h.\m.\%\.§w§i§\w\§% $6RQM §xnvmiwb§§wkx as .v 3 .v 3 v i i I -I. .. i l g.qu Xx .0 WVSEEQ

. . g QQ .N 8 .N QQ .N ill .. . I \30 SV % RUMKGQQN

.11 m. \«xwxgg \QKENIMQ MW.» 33%» umvhéx .I. 3.39 3&6. I I h3un §\\ um ER N6 hunk xEEhik

QMQNQK» %\Q.\ $3me \VIQQQMEKE . .~\\.. .\R¥%¥«\~\§ N\. w \\. mama». i I . -I 33% QSEMEK Qua“.be xxuauwk

\SQ§ \meg k§~\§ Eh; Kc..kath KQQQ V h.%§.\m\€\ m6. m6 . 8 . | I . EQKKE Q6365 Kuoqubh hkav

QQ. GK» . m6. . . - . hhxxomuw. Q%\\Bm....§u\ “BK 5&3.»

. \ ||||I|||| I k9 . RQ. «66% . i .| I I . have Rune Q6§h§d§u~ “m‘ hikhk

\N    a mg. g . “M95. l- i - . . I . .QMQQRQ Ensaitrvax Nx. Qikm.

HXRNN   thMNNQSQQEQM 5.35th ‘5‘.ka  h. V “KIN QWN “WV ilhank Q9. hut: in“. Run awn»an kmox wdmtiv kuom‘ QWIK

3% gavwg QN§§§$ mg Rack «#3.. .3 Nu. mm Q IIJEE 33%;th .5 mummiek “6.6% ehm8¢
. .

m..\m.\ “\M\ In.\m.\

bnwmmw. 9.5343 .3: 9i HER
III I ii I.  I II.

I I . ii| i.I .I I|I||1.||.||.|I||!1IIIIIIIIII|I.| . II It. .I IFIIIIHIIHHUL

    

 

 

 

 

 

I II _

 

 

            
    

 

 

Ital»? g §§§I§§I§e
have“. . 35% .

 

  E»I§§§§E§§a.in

 lwmwm. '36 Iqu . I66. 628 .938. Ixuugwlhmgg BI ‘ s I .3 Imww. Ea m6§xu5§k§¥ 33:90- 33‘ IVE “5on
v.33. Q3. 

 

 

 

 

           
    

   

§§Q¥§§x§mim§ ~36 axkxhk

6&tQI

 

 

 

ggg .935 ._ “..§.;,_.,_...._§__ _, . .EI initisfguhwnwwm ._ .QQ w
. .kamungm awn he» .  ER Elbsqhugh HRH. ._ QMQMMk
a. .. .RVQ sagkax Q‘— .9“. Rut HQ .9“: M
as» ngqgg x§§30§§ §%\\
5% $5.3.

é he‘s‘k‘hbk hut-‘3“: 2%

LS
5.53% $3.5...“ 9859.3 g
60‘ vaginii

b§§xhwu 5%ka a bagixx «6 \NRVQSN

 

    

hvxmsk,‘ bx ER 5% §Q§

Digitized by 

282

the amount of bituminous material applied.
In some cases clean trap rock chips passing
a %-inch ring and maintained on a 94-inch
ring are used.

The reason for using fine washed gravel
in place of stone chips is twofold: first, to
use a covering that will not grind up and
pulverize before the bituminous material
has set up, and thus incorporate with it and
build up a pad,‘ as is the case with stone
chips, which pulverize very quickly under
any appreciable amount of traffic: second,
it contains only 10 per cent of the fine sand,
and the pebbles constituting the rest of the
material are so hard that they do not grind
up and pulverize for from three weeks to
two months, according to the tratiic. The
process of pulverizing is so slow that the
fine material is washed off the road after
each rain, thus doing away with the neces-
sity of sweeping the road to eliminate the
dust, as is the case when stone chips are
used.

These treatments last for a year, and not
only have they proved to be the most eco-
nomical method of preserving roads of this
character, but the cost is less than the cost
of sprinkling the roads three times a day;
this, by the way, is not sutiicient to lay the
dust, and it must also be understood that
sprinkling with water will not preserve the
roads under automobile traffic.

The second class of treatment generally
used consists of asphaltic road oil of from
18° to 23° Beauine gravity. This material
is applied to all the macadam roads that
are not in fit condition for the first-class
bituminous surface treatment, and to all dirt
roads, and is applied at the rate of from
2/10 to % gallon to the square yard. On
some roads, according to the amount of
traffic and whether or not the road is
shaded, it is necessary to give the treatment
in May and again in September. Such
roads, however. are the exceptions. In
most cases this method of treatment will
last for one season. The roads, as a rule.
are not swept before the application, nor is
any covering put over this bituminous ma-
terial, as it is applied in such small quan-

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 4

tities that there is scarcely any necessity for
covering. The purpose in putting on this
small quantity is to insure its disappearing
from the road before the winter sets in, in
order to avoid the mushy condition that pre-
vails when there is too much oil on the road
in this season of the year.

The paint-coat method of tar bituminous
surface treatments on first-class macadam
roads has been a success for seven or eight
years in this country, and it has also been
used to a great extent for a number of
years in England.

The asphalt cut-back paint-coat treatment
is somewhat new, and has been largely de-
veloped in Philadelphia during the last four
years. The successful results in Phila-
delphia have led to its use in other localities
in the East this year, notably by the High-
way Department of the state of Pennsyl-
vania.

The asphalt cut-back bituminous surface
treatment was evolved through research
work carried on with a view to finding some
way of utilizing an asphalt in the paint-coat
method of treatment which had been so suc-
cessful with the tars. In order to do this.
it was necessary to use a comparatively stiff
aSphalt so that it would set up quickly on
the road. This necessitated cutting back an
asphalt of about 100 per cent penetration
with from 35 per cent to 40 per cent of
naphtha. The purpose of the naphtha is to
make the material of such a consistency
that it can be applied to the road when it
is moderately warm. In other words, the
naphtha simply acts as a carrying agent,
and after it has done its work it evaporates
and leaves the paint coat of asphalt on the
road.

This material has proved to be a success
under a four-year test by re-treating, of
course, every year or two, or as often as
necessary, as is also the case with the tars.

The methods of bituminous treatments

described. however. are not applicable to all
conditions. The roads treated must be built
of comparatively hard stone. and the traffic
conditions must be taken into consideration.

 

Digitized by 600816

 

Resurfacing Old Roads

A Paper Read at the Pan-American Road Congress, in Oakland. Cal.
September l5, l9l5

By William D. Uhler

Chief Engineer, Pennsylvania State Highway Department

confronting road authorities to-day
is the question of resurfacing or re-
habilitating old stone roads. This condi-
tion in most cases is the result of neglect.
Failure to make repairs or to restore the
worn-out portions before a road has de-

ONE of the most important problems

teriora-ted through to the foundation neces-‘

sitates the rebuilding of the road and a large
expenditure; whereas, through skilled main-
tenance, the outlay can be reduced ma-
terially and spread over a period of years.
There are, of course, other reasons for re-
surfacing old roads, as, for instance, the
improper selection of the original material,
which is responsible for rapid deteriora-
tion; and the constantly increasing 'and
varied traiiic, causing abrasive action too
severe for the type of road. This latter
condition is noticeable particularly in
suburban communities and communities
where water-bound macadam roads were
laid in the early stages of development, and
where the population has increased rapidly
and where all classes of vehicular traffic
have caused the original roadway to de-
teriorate more rapidly than would have been
the case had the development not occurred,
thus creating the necessity for repairing
and resurfacing in order to make the wear-
ing qualities of the road as good as those
in the nearby cities.

The essential points to be considered in
the selection of a proper type of surface for
an old stone rOad are the character and
amount of traffic, the grades, and, as a rule,
that most important factor, the funds
available for the work. When the traliic
has been determined and the character of
surfacing selected, a thorough study should
be made of the existing foundation and
drainage facilities. Many surfaces have
been sacrificed for the want of proper at-
tention to the foundation, and too often it
is taken for granted that any stone road is
.a suitable base for almost any type of sur—
face. Test holes should be made at suffi-

cient intervals in the road to determine the
depth of the existing foundation, and
usually it is found that a considerable por-
tion must be restored before a surface can
be applied. Irrespective of the type of sur-
face selected, the preparation of the founda-
tion must be given the same careful atten-
tion. Too much stress cannot be laid on
the desirability of having proper lines and
grades before resurfacing, in order to avoid ‘
increasing or perpetuating the ditiiculties of
future improvement of these roads. The
question of providing proper under-drain-
age must be considered and drains installed
where necessary.

In order that the various methods to be
employed can be described conveniently,
this subjectwill be divided into the follow-
ing classifications: (I) \Nater-bound and
bituminous macadam; (2) bituminous-con-
crete and sheet asphalt; (3) vitrified or
other block pavements.

W aler-Baund and Bituminous Macadam

The methods used in the preparation of
the base for both water-bound and bitu-
minous macadam are the same. If any holes
or depressions are found in the base, the
road should be dug out and replaced with
good sized clean stone, keyed with a smaller
size and rolled with a Io-ton power roller
until thoroughly compacted. The roadway
should then be cleaned thoroughly and the
existing surface broken or loosened with
picks, barrows, or, if necessary, rollers
equipped with spikes, so that the new ma-
terial will bind properly with the old sur-
face. Where the new surface is wider than
the old base or where, in improving the
lines, it rests partly on the old surface and
partly on the old shoulder, it is necessary to
provide a new first course or base where an
old one does not exist, in order to support
properly the top layer or wearing surface.

After the base course has been finished
there should be laid a layer of properly

[283]

Digitized by 600816

284

graded, approved stone, passing a zyg-inch
mesh screen, and being retained on a 1-inch
mesh screen, this stone being known as
“1%g-inch stone.” The stone should be
spread upon the base course with shovels,
from piles along the side of the road or from
a dumping board, but in no case should the
stone be dumped upon the first course sur-
face. This layer should be rolled with a
roller weighing not less than 10 tons, until
it is compacted to a firm and even surface.
The total thickness of the surface course
should be not less than 3 or 4 inches after
rolling. \\'hen a surface course of a depth
of 3 inches is specified it should be laid in
one layer and a 4-inch course should be
laid in two layers of 2 inches each.

Should difficulty be experienced. while
rolling, in getting the stone to compact
thoroughly, sprinkling with water or spread-
ing lightly with screenings will prove bene-
ficial.

After the surface course of stone has been
thoroughly rolled, screenings, varying in
size from dust to M inch, should be spread
with shovels from piles along the side of
the road. or from dumping boards; but,
again, in no case should the screenings be
dumped directly upon the surface of the
stone. These screenings should then be
thoroughly rolled with a io-ton steam roller,
additional dry screenings applied, and the
rolling continued without the use of water
until the interstices of the stones are filled.
The road should then be sprinkled with
water, rolled, additional screenings spread
and the sprinkling and rolling continued
until the surface is well bonded and set.
The rolling in all cases should begin at the
sides and work toward the center of the
roadway, thoroughly covering the area with
the rear wheels of the roller and should be
continued unitil the surface is hard and
smooth and shows no perceptible tracks
from vehicles passing over it.

To protect a water-bound macadam road
from the ravages of automobile traffic it
should be given a bituminous surface treat-
ment of either approved tar or asphalt.
Prior to applying this bituminous material
the surface of the road should be cleaned
thoroughly by sweeping with machine and
hand brooms. A fter all the caked dust has
been scraped off and the stone exposed
uniformly over the surface, the bituminous
material should be applied.

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 4

Ella min on: Macadam

[n resurfacing with bituminous macadam
the base course should be prepared as for
water-bound macadam, after which stone
passing a 2%-inch screen and retained on
a 1-inch screen should be spread upon the
base course, with shovels, from piles along
the side of the road, or from a dumping
board, to a depth of 3 inches after rolling.
After the broken stone has been laid and
placed true to line and grade and cross-sec-
tion it should be rolled with a roller weigh-
ing less than 10 tons, until the stone has
been thoroughly compacted and ceases to
creep in front of the roller. When the roll-
ing has been finished there should be spread

evenly' over the surface a quantity of ap-

proved bituminous binder not less than 1%
nor more than 1% gallons to each square
yard of surface area. The binder should be
heated to the proper temperature for the
material used.

After the bituminous binder has been ap-
plied there should be spread a layer of
94-inch dry, crushed, approved stone, free
from dust, and in such quantity as will just
cover the surface and till the surface voids.
Rolling should be continued until the sur-
face is thoroughly bonded; the surface then
should be swept clean of all loose stone and
an application of bituminous binder of ap-
proximately % gallon to the square yard of
surface area applied evenly. This binder,
in turn. should be covered immediately with
a thin layer of dry stone chips, free from
dust and rolled lightly. The quantity of
chips should be just sufficient to absorb the
excess of bituminous material remaining on
the surface and to prevent the existence on
the surface of an excess of binder.

$ituminous Concrete and Sheet Asphalt

Resurfacing

Bituminous concrete and sheet asphalt
pavements should be laid on'a concrete
base, instead of on the old existing ma-
cadam foundation which heretofore has
been the generally accepted practice for
country roads. In view of the increased
amount and change in character of traffic.
even though slightly more expensive. it is
advisable to provide for either a 4-inch or a"
5-inch concrete base on top of the broken
stone or telford base. due to the tendency
of macadam to shift or to consolidate fur—
ther under traffic and possible sub-grade

Digitized by 600816

 

 

OCTOBER, 1915

trouble, all of which tend to bring about a
wavy or uneven condition of the surface.

In resurfacing old water-bound macadam
roads, where the base consists of either tel-
ford or macadam, the broken stone surface
should be removed to a depth sufficient to
conform to the required cross-section and
grade. Where the telford surface is ex-
posed, the irregularities are broken off
with a napping hammer and the depressions
filled in; and upon this prepared surface is
placed a 4-inch concrete base, mixed in the
prOportion of 1:3 :6, laid so as to secure a
very rough but regular surface to form a
bond between the concrete base and the bi—
tuminous top.
crete base a concrete header curb should be
constructed extending 6 inches beyond the
fixed edges of the bituminous pavement and
to the finished grade. After the concrete
base has developed a hard set,’ and from one
to two days prior to the placing of the bi-
tuminous wearing surface, the base should
be cleaned thoroughly of loose and foreign
material by sweeping, and then covered
with an asphaltic cut-back mixture consist-
ing of equal parts, by volume, of asphaltic
cement, 55 to 65 penetration, and commer-
cial naphtha, 52 to 55 gravity, the mixture
being applied by a pressure distributor at
the rate of one-eighth gallon to the square
yard. The object of this paint coat is to
secure a better bond between the concrete
base and the bituminous top. The bitu-
minous top, 2 inches in thickness, is laid
under the same requirements as to prepa-
ration, laying, rolling and inspection, as for
a standard sheet asphalt pavement.

The following penetrations are recom-
mended for the asphaltic cement:

Heavy Team or Medium or
Motor Traffic Light Traffic

Trinidad as halt. 45-50 penetration 50-55 penetration

Bermudez, exi-
can and Cali-

fornia .  . . . . 50-55 penetration 55.60 penetration

Experience has demonstrated that the
turning of traffic on and off a bituminous
surface will result in grinding or cracking
the edges. Also, unless a perfect bond has
been secured with the base—~and this can-
not be relied upon—heavy wheel loads. at
a distance of I to 2 feet from the edge, will
produce a spreading of the bituminous sur-
face. To prevent this. provision should be
made, no matter what the formation may be.
for a 6-inch concrete header curb on either

THE AMERICAN CITY

In conjunction with the con- '

285

side of the road, if it is not paved to the
full width.

In resurfacing with a sheet asphalt top,
the concrete foundation should be laid true
to line and grade, and the binder and wear-
ing surface laid to a uniform depth and
raked to true cross section and grade, after
which it must be rolled thoroughly.

Unquestionably, the most important single
point in the laying of sheet asphalt wear-
ing surface is the rolling. More pavements
are failing to-day through displacement
from original form than from all other
causes combined. Aside from the other
reasons to which this result may be attrib-
uted—and there are undoubtedly many—it
is certain that unless a pavement is free
from waves at the time of its completion it
never will be, as the tendency of the pave-
ment is to push under traflic, thus increasing
the wavy condition. It is important, there-
fore, that all pavements be thoroughly com-
pressed, carefully rolled and cross-rolled.

In the preparation of bituminous mix-
tures, all materials should be subjected to
rigid plant and laboratory inspection.

V ilrified and Other Block Pavements

Where the character of traffic demands
block pavements it is poor practice to lay
them on other than a stable foundation.
Under these circumstances it is, as a rule,
more economical to use either a 5-inch or
6-inch concrete base, the depth depending
upon the character and volume of traffic for
which it is designed. If a concrete base is
used, it should be laid true to line, grade
and cross-section, after which a sand
cushion should be spread to a uniform depth
of from I inch to 111/2 inches. This cushion
should be shaped carefully to a true cross-
section by means of a templet having a steel-
faced edge covering at least half the width
of the area to be paved. The cushion should
then be moistened slightly and rolled over
its entire surface with a hand roller. After
rolling, the templet should be drawn over
the surface again to shape the cushion
finally.

The blocks meeting the required test
should be laid on edge in straight rows at
right angles to the curb. except at intersec-
tions, which should be paved at an angle
of 45 degrees to the center lines of the in-
tersecting roadways. After the blocks, as
laid, have been inspected and approved for

Digitized by 600816

286

rolling, and the surface swept clean, the
pavement should be rolled with a self-pro-
pelled roller weighing not less than 3, nor
more than 5, tons. The rolling should com-
mence at the edge and continue back and
forth toward the center until the center of
the roadway is reached; then the opposite
side should be rolled in a like manner. The
pavement should then be rolled transversely
at an angle of 45 degrees, repeating the
operation in the opposite direction. Before
and after this rolling has taken place all
broken or injured blocks should be removed
and replaced.

After thorough rolling, the joints should

be tilled with grout composed of one part '

clean sand and one part Portland cement.
Special attention must be paid to the mixing
and placing of the grout; the standard prac-
tice recommended by the National Paving
Brick Manufacturers Association should be
followed. Soon after the joints have been
grouted and the cement tiller has set, the
expansion joints next to the curb should be
poured. Attention also should be paid to se-
curing a proper bituminous filler which will
not be too brittle in winter nor too soft in
summer.

The same general practice as here out-
lined for vitrified block pavement is appli-
cable to a more or less .extent in the laying
of either granite or wood block; the dif-
ference, as a rule, being that in the laying
of granite block the sand cushion is from
IV; to 2 inches in depth. The blocks should
be sorted and gauged, those of the same
width and depth being paved in consecutive
rows across the full width of the road and
rammed with hand rammers instead of be-
ing rolled. after which they should be
grouted with a cement grout.

In paving with wood block, a layer of
mixed sand and cement I inch in thickness.
mixed dry in the proportion of one part of
Portland cement to four parts of sand,
should be spread upon the base and brought
to a surface parallel to the grade and con-
tour of the finished pavement. Prior to
the laying of the wood blocks this cushion
of sand and cement should be sprinkled
lightly with clean water and the blocks im-
mediately set thereon. Care should be
taken to set the blocks with the fibre of
the wood vertical. in straight parallel
courses, at right angles to the curb. After
laying, the blocks should be rolled with a
self-propelled roller weighing not less than

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 4

3, nor more than 5, tons, and the joints then
filled with fine, clean, dry sand passing a
Io-mesh sieve.

No attempt has been made to give in de-
tail the specifications for all classes of ma-
terial entering into the various methods of
resurfacing, as this information can be ob-
tained from any of the standards now in
use.

The foregoing description, however, cov-
ers in general the methods employed in re-
surfacing work; but, in order that the best
results may be obtained, there are several
points which should be emphasized in sum—
marizing the subject.

Paints Needing Special Emphasis

In the resurfacing of water-bound ma—
cadam, it is frequently the case that the
engineer in charge of the work allows too
small a stone to be used, which, it is true,
will require decidedly less rolling, but will
not stand the motor tratiic of to-day.

Another fault quite often found is the
spreading of screenings before the IVrinch
stone is thoroughly locked, and very fre-
quently using too large quantities of screen-
ings, thereby causing a heavy crust to form
on the'road surface. .

The success of the bituminous treatment
of water—bound macadam roads depends
entirely upon the cleanliness of the road
before the application of the material.
Many failures are due to the lack of
proper care in this most important detail.
In cleaning the surface of the road, the
sweeping should be windrowed along the
edges of the wearing surface, in order to

.prevent the running off of the bituminous

material. which later should be swept back
on the road. Special attention should also
be given to the applying of the chips, just
sufficient chips being used to prevent the
traffic from picking up the bituminous ma-
terial.

In bituminous macadam or penetration
work, no bituminous binder should be ap-
plied unless the stone surface is thoroughly
dry and the temperature of the air is 65
degrees or higher. and special attention
should be paid to the heating and applying
of the binder. '

One of the important features in connec-
tion with obtaining the best results in bi-
tuminous concrete construction is the use
in the wearing surface of good, hard,
durable stone, free from dirt and decom-

Digitized by 600816

OCTOBER, 1915

posed material, as decomposed stone in the
mixture will naturally develop weak spots
in the pavement and ultimately result in
failure.

The penetration of the asphaltic cement
used in the mixture should be governed by
the character of the traffic requirements.

As before stated, the success of all bi-
tuminous concrete and bituminous pave-
ments is very largely dependent upon the
rolling, and the best results can be obtained
only by using a light roller for the initial
compression and a heavier roller for the
final compression, with an equal amount of
transverse and longitudinal rolling.

In the laying of sheet asphalt or bitu—
minous concrete where brick gutters are
used and adjacent to block runners along
car tracks, it is good practice to lay the
finished surface of the pavement from %;
to % inch higher than the brick gutters or
runners. It is dimcult in the rolling to se-
cure final compression next to these blocks,
and trafiic will further compress that por-
tion of the pavement, naturally causing the
development of low spots which hold water
a and result in deterioration.

Special attention should be paid, also, to
the heating of the various aggregates enter-
. ing into the pavement and also to the com-
bined mix, as many failures are caused by
overheating. No overheated material should
be used under any circumstances, as fail-
ure is bound to result.

In vitrified block paving, avoid the ten-
dency to place too great a depth of sand

THE AMERICAN CITY

287

cushion, as latter-day experience has proven
that the sand working up in the joints has
been responsible for many failures, and the
success of the pavement is dependent very
largely upon the method of mixing and ap-
plying the grout filler. The grouting,
although a simple proposition, has in many
cases been handled so carelessly that the
success of a good pavement has been de-
stroyed. ,

The practice of placing transverse joints
in brick pavements appears to be unneces-
sary, as the curb joints generally will sumce.

In laying wood block pavements care
should be taken to see°that the wood blocks
are properly protected from the elements
when delivered on the job and before lay—
ing, as too frequently the material is de-
livered along the line of work so far ahead
of the laying that the blocks dry out, and,
after placing, if they become saturated, un-
due expansion results.

The old road having been resurfaced, its
life and success depend upon the main-
tenance, which in turn depends largely upon
attention to details. A patrol maintenance
system will do more to preserve roads and
pavements and prevent deterioration than
any one thing.

The trouble in the past has been that the
average engineer has been interested only
in the construction end of the work, while
the most important problem confronting the
road engineer of to-day is the rehabilitation
and proper maintenance of the old resur-
faced roads.

The International Pavedway
By H. G. Spalding

Managing Director

ing of good roads enthusiasts during

the Advertising Convention in Chi-
cago, on June 23, when the name was se-
lected and tentative plans were adopted, the
International Pavedway Association was
organized in that city on August 27.

The plans as adapted call for a hard sur-
face highway from San Antonio, Texas, via
St. Louis, to Detroit: the six states through
which it will pass having 21.6 per cent of

GROWING out of an informal meet-

the population and 18 per cent of the area
of the country, nearly all of the principal
cities in each being connected and the line
followed being as free from Hood and other
unfavorable conditions as can be found in
a stretch of over 2,000 miles.

The movement is being supported by the
good roads advocates and enthusiasts in the
six states and by. the different lines of in-
dustries which are directly and indirectly
benefited by the building of permanent high-

Digitized by 600816
A

288 THE AMERICAN CITY

ways and the extension of the available
motoring and touring area. No part of the
money contributed is to be used in the
building of roads, but will be used in the
preparation and distribution of literature
and the publication of matter of a construc-
tive character in the newspapers along the
route or adjacent thereto.

The economy of permanent roads as dis-
tinguished from dirt, gravel and untreated
macadam and rock roads will be made plain,
and examples of construction in different
parts of the country presented. The use
of brick, concrete, asphalt, asphaltic con-
crete and other long-lived wearing surfaces
will be consistently advocated at local meet-
ings and through the press.

An inspection of the entire route will be
made at once; in fact, the route through
Michigan and Indiana has already been tra-
versed and the course across Illinois will
be covered early in October, local meetings
to be held at the more important points.
Missouri, Arkansas and Texas will be cov-
ered by early December. In the meantime
the two directors in each state are taking
up the matter of forming local and state
organizations through which interest in the
project will be fostered and the campaigns
for the necessary bond issues or tax levies
will be conducted.

The fact that in two of the states bonds
have been already voted for permanent
roads along nearly half the course, and the
further facts that the state highway com-
mission of Illinois has made a ruling that
no state aid will be given on anything less
than a concrete or brick road, and that
Michigan will pay $3,400 a mile state reward
on this type of road, makes the proposition
of securing the construction of a permanent
road the whole distance far simpler‘ than
would otherwise be the case. \Vith the im-
provement of the highway laws. the in-
creasing of the tax on automobiles and the

VOL. XIII. No. 4

 

.\i.u' bu‘J\\ mt; RUU'IL' U1" 11\1 r.t(.\.\i [UNAL
PAVEDWAY

using of convicts in rOad construction the
movement will be still further accelerated.

The Association will also work with other
highway bodies in urging federal aid in
road building, and as the six states on the
route have over 22 of the representation
in Congress, a considerable leverage would
exist in this direction. The fullest cooper-
ation on the part of state highway commis-
sions is also assured.

The administrative oliicers of the Inter-
national Pavedway are: H. G. Spaulding,
South Bend, Ind., Managing Director; L.
M. Vaughan, Secretary, and H..C. Adams.
Treasurer, Danville, Ill. P. C. McArdle.
Chicago, Assistant State Highway Engineer
and Vice-President of the Northwestern
Road Congress. is the engineer. These men
will have active charge of the promotion of
the route and for the first few months at

least will maintain headquarters at Dan-
ville, Ill.

 

Two Pamphlets on Rural Life

FIELD, Jess”; Secretary for County Work for
the National Board of the Young
Women’s Christian Association of the
United States of America.

College Women and Country Leader-
ship. so pp. (Contains a List of Country
Life Books compiled by Anna Taft.)
1915. 25 cents

FooHr, HAROLD \V.. Specialist in Rural School
Practice, Bureau of Education.

Efficiency and Preparation of Rural
School Teachers. (Bulletin, 1914. No.49.
Whole No. 623, United States Bureau of
Education.) 58 pp. Photographs and
Diagrams. 1915. 15 cents

Digitized by 600816

 

 

_: _ r, 
'_ ii_ " '
I

N}

4' I -__q I.
. ‘ .. __. “NH-w]! buanuumul

(3' v .1... v —--‘I
N ‘- f  I ' .
‘7 .II-

How a Small Municipality is Profiting by a
City Plan

An Iowa Community Which Has Had the Foresight to Adopt a Plan and the
Wisdom to Act on It

than 3,000 population, is demon-

strating the value of city planning.
The movement had its inception at a meet-
ing of the Emmetsburg Commercial Club in
February, 1914, when a city plan was advo-
cated by one of the members who had be-
come interested in the question and who
presented the result of his investigations.
A committee was appointed which, after an
active campaign, secured the necessary ap-
propriations from the various boards and
organizations of the city, and the City
Council, in May, 1914, passed an ordinance
creating the Emmetsburg City Plan Com-
mission. Ray Floyd VVeirick, Landscape
Architect, and Sawyer & Watrous, Archi-
tects, all of Des Moines, were appointed as
city planners and as consulting advisers for
future improvements. A survey of the city
was made, and after a careful study of local
conditions the plans were prepared and
oliicially adopted.

The Commission kept in close touch with
the progress of the work, and every effort
was made to combine beauty and utility in a
far-sighted, practical city plan. Much pub-
licity attended the work as it progressed,

EMMETSBURG, a city in Iowa of less

and upon the completion of the plans in
November, 1914, a public meeting was held,
at which the designs were displayed by the
city planners, who gave an illustrated lec-
ture on city planning and described the new
plans in detail.

In addition to its strategic location in a
rich agricultural region, Emmetsburg is
situated upon the shores of a lake which
can be made very beautiful. The lake shore
is, in fact, already partially improved. And
the town has been laid out with many wide
main avenues, two of which are sections of
important cross-state highways. These ex-

isting advantages have, of course, aided in
the preparation of the new plans, which
contemplate improvements covering a pe-
riod of fifty years. While some of the
plans decided upon will not mature for
many years, it was found that many fea-
tures of them could be undertaken at once.

A few of the general principles under-
lying proper city planning and some of the
specific recommendations to Emmetsburg
are outlined in the following excerpts from
the report made by the architects after com-
pleting their survey:

[289]

A

 

290

TOWN (ENTERS

"In ancient times the whole life of a city re—
volved about one common center, as the square
where the fountain stood. In the life of a
modern town, however. one cannot revolve the
life of the town about one center. There
should be one place where the administrative
features tend to gather; there should be other
centers where the citizens gather for recrea-
tion. There should be educational centers and
there should be so'cial centers. As in the case
of the school buildings, the educational life
tends to concentrate towards the blocks in
which the schools stand, so the business and
administrative interests tend to concentrate in
another part of the town in the interests of
efficiency.

“In our genera-l plan we have indicated the
following centers: Civic Center, Recreation
Centers, South Side Park, City Park, Lake
Shore, Social and Educational Centers, South
Side Schools, High School District, Chautau-
qua District at Lake Front.

CIVIC CENTER

“The Civic Center is intended to.be the place
where the dignity of the town shall be empha—
sized, by making a collective grouping of all
the buildings about which the general interests
of the city revolve. In this center we propose
a grouping of the Court House, Public Library.
City Hall, Civic Club and Post ORice. Around
this group the various fraternal club buildings.
churches, Young Men’s and Young Women’s
Christian Association buildings, hotels and in-

terurban depot would naturally be placed, once
the Civic Center is established.

BUILDlNGS

“In general, it is stated that for public build-
ings to show off as they are intended by their
designers, they need extra space about them.
This condition we have provided for. Build-
ings grouped as we have shown them grow in
dignity, and a much better effect is secured
than where they are scattered about, without
sullicient grounds around them.

.4 
“pr. _

llll‘. l'KUl’l )Sl'll)

THE AMERICAN CITY

CIVIC CENTER

VOL. XIII, No. 4

l'l..\(‘ll\'(; U!" BUILD] NCS

“To be convenient and easily found. an im-
portant building should be on the axis of a
principal street or approach. We have so ac-
cented the Court House; for Emmetsburg is
primarily the county seat, and this fact should
be emphasized in our plans. We have there-
fore given to the Court House its greatest
possible dignity. Public buildings that do not
stand in artistic relation to the lines of the
streets or occupy some very important site are
not only difficult to find, but they also con-
tribute much less to the beauty of the town be-
cause they are less seen.

RECREATION CENTERS

“Next to public building sites in importance
come the parks, or recreation and outdoor life.
bike the streets, these parks should be con-
stantly extended in order to keep pace with
the growth of population. It is generally true
that parks are acquired by periodic spasms of
public clamor for such advantages, each on its
own merit and without any comprehensive plan
for the improvement of the city as a whole.
Annual assessments for maintenance of these
spaces might be divided among adjacent and
contiguous property owners as their interests
appear, because neglect of this prime necessity
causes dissatisfaction with and disuse of these
areas. As system and continuity of effort are
generally lacking in these matters, we recom-
mend careful consideration of this subject in
Emmetsburg.

THE LAKE AND ITS SURROUNDINGS

“Our plan for the development of the park
about Medium Lake is largely self-explana-
tory. The axes of Broadway and Union are
to be utilized as accents. A large island is to
be built by dredging around the two small
islands, and the shores drawn out into the lake
to form firm ground for parkways skirting the
shore. It is our idea that a parkway or boule-
vard. for pleasure trafiic exclusively. shall be
carried clear around the lake section south of
the Rock Island Railway. A pavilion on the

island, lighted at night. will show beautiful re-

 

FUR li.\l.\ll{'l'Sl{I'RG

OCTOBER, 191 5

tlections in the water when seen from the busi-
ness district. The bathhouse location will af-
ford splendid bathing facilities in the summer
and skating shelter in the winter. The boat-
house, with architectural landing extending
across the foot of Broadway, but not interfer-
ing with the center line vista. will be located in
the most efIicient place. With this arrange-
ment of lake and shores you can have regattas
and night boat parades which will draw peOple
from all over the state. We suggest that you
make some special day in each year the time
for particular water celebrations. Why should
not Emmetsburg be a little Venice in Iowa?

“By placing a Chautauqua building near the
lake. as we have indicated on the plans. an
added dignity can be furnished to this part of
the city. Such a location would be convenient
not only to the townspeople. but also to vis-
itors from the country round about.

“Another step would be the establishment of
bridle paths around the lake shore. We must
be prepared for the virtual abolishment of the
use of horses within our cities, except for
recreation purposes.

"Visitors to Europe long remember the ef-
fect of splendid church and cathedral spires
above the sky lines of cities when approached
from the water. The same effects will be
noticeable at Emmetsburg, both as seen from
the water and from the lakeside parkways.
The suggested Court House tower. like W est-
minster's at London. rising sheer out of level
masses of buildings and dominating all, even
church towers, will draw the eye with welcome
relief from much that is mean and sordid.

“Under the general city plan, the most pos-
sible will be made of the lake as a termination
for street vistas, and as an outlook from such
buildings as a new hospital and dwellings in
the blocks surrounding the lake.

“Water has always had a peculiar fascina-
tion for all races of people. This is because
it so nearly reflects human emotions. We can
find all types of moods expressed by water—
quiet, cheerful. stormy, active. The proximity
of bodies of water has always tended to make
men broader and better. The possession of
the lake will always tend to give individuality
to your town and to enhance its attractiveness.

INDIVIDUA LITY

“If a town is going to be interesting. if it
does not wish to be commonplace, it must have
individuality. Just like people, towns have
characters. None of us want our home cities
to be drab. uninteresting, monotonous places in
which to exist. It takes unusual characteristics
to give a town individuality. Edinburgh is
best remembered because the city is crowded
up around a high, frowning rock on which
stands the old castle; Rome is remembered
for its old ruins; Naples for its Vesuvius; Bos-
ton for its remarkably crooked streets and old
graveyards; Washington for its handsome
avenues radiating from the national Capitol:
Kansas City for its highly efficient system of
parks and limestone boulevards: Minneapolis
for its chain of lakes encircled by parkways.

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

STUDY FOR BOAT-LANDING AT THE FOOT
OF BROADWAY, EMMETSBURG

The city plan for Emmetsburg will give your
town a strong individuality of its own, making
it something different and more refreshing
than the great majority of other towns which
all look and grow much alike.

“What are the factors which tend to give a
town individuality? Some of these character-
istics are the nature of the local scenery, the
color of the local building materials, the daily
life of the citizens, and the character of the
local industries. The factors of individuality
in the local scenery of Emmetsburg will be
the lake and the wide cross-state pikes leading
in over the flat country.

“There is no large supply of local stone of
any particular color to give the town a char-
acter for buildings of any certain hue. This
affords an Opportunity to set a standard which
will be agreeable to your citizens. American
cities tend to assume a dull. grayish. weather-
beaten appearance. due to dust, smoke and cli-
matic changes, and the presence in the air of
manufacturing acids in smoke. Such condi-
tions soon obliterate the appearance of fresh-
ness and newness. and the structures age with
comparative rapidity. With the use of.gla7.ed
brick and tile and terra cotta. however. new
color effects are being obtained. as such mate—
rials are but little affected by the atmospheric
conditions. Rain washes off most of the dttst
and soot. In this particular we call your espe-
cial attention to the color scheme in the civic
center as shown in the tinted perspective draw-
ing. Vitrified brick. with terra cotta and tile,
would give you a new Court House more dur-
able than stone and cheaper in first cost and
such a building. viewed up the Union Mall.
would produce an impression lmtil unusual and
pleasing.

“For a long time to come, Emmetsburg's

292

 

THE LAKE SHORE IN EMMETSBURG

probable function will be to furnish agreeable
homes for people interested in small manufac-
turing plants and the classes of business which
supplement the development of the vast agri-
cultural resources of our state. Your object
should be to furnish a town in which it is
agreeable, interesting and uplifting to live.

PROPER CITY PLANNING

“Let us emphasize that proper city develop-
ment is merely prudent design. According to
Mawson, ‘It is a matter of bringing things
along in their proper sequence and connecting
them up in a harmonious manner.’ Town im-
provement consists essentially, not in improve-
ment to a high degree of some particular cen-

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 4

BEFORE IMPROVEMENT \VAS BEGL'N

tral point, as a show place, but in giving atten-
tion to all parts of the city, insuring against
dark corners and neglected areas. Town im-
provement has primarily to do with the ele-
ments going to make up the essential structure
of the town, not with mere frills of so-called
beautification.”

I mprovements Already Made

The following summary of improvements
made in accordance with the Emmetsburg
plans during the first seven months since
their adOption has been submitted by the
Emmetsbnrg City Plan Commission:

 

('UMI’LETED SAND BEACH ON THIS \VICST SHORE OI" THE LAKE

 

 

OCTOBER, 191 5

PAVING

The city of Emmetsburg in February let a
contract for $101,000 worth of paving, cover-
ing 24 blocks. This includes all the business
streets and the streets to both railroad stations
and around the Court House Square, also sev-
eral streets with center parking as the com-
mencement of the boulevard system. On the
business streets the paving will be 60 feet
wide. the width varying on other streets, de-
pending on their importance for traflic. The
system was installed absolutely in accordance
with the city plans, the width of pavement,
sidewalk extensions, parkings, center parkings,
etc., all being as recommended by the city
planners. The result is a harmonious and
very satisfactory arrangement on the princi-
pal streets and around the civic center. Peti-
tions have recently been presented to the City
Council for 20 additional blocks of paving in
the residence streets, and proceedings have
already been started for these extensions.

STREET LIGHTING

The Commercial Club has been for several
months investigating a new
and more eHicient system of
street lighting for the busi-
ness streets. and in July let
a contract for the complete

installation of 111 single-
light, high power street
lights. The standards are

of a design and color care-
fully selected and approved
by the city planners. All
the wiring is by under-
ground cable, with conduits
laid before the paving was
put down.

REMOVAL OF POSTS
FROM STREETS

The city planners in their
report recommended that all
poles and wires be removed
from the business streets at
as early a date as possible, and that this im-
provement be extended throughout the resi-
dence district as soon as practicable. Accord-
ingly, the City Council at one of its meetings
early this spring ordered the removal of all
poles from paved streets. This takes the
poles out of the entire business district and
from the civic center and the streets leading to
the railroad stations. The electric light, tele-
phone and telegraph companies were duly noti-
tied and the work of removing the poles was
soon well under way. The telephone company
put its lines in underground conduits of a per—
manent nature under the pavement, while the
telegraph and electric light companies have
perfected an arrangement by which all their
service is distributed through alleys without
encroaching on any of the business streets. In
this connection the City Council has also
passed an ordinance prohibiting any sign posts
or any posts or obstructions on the sidewalks.
As the main streets have 60-foot pavement
with 20-foot sidewalks on each side, the elec-

THE AMERICAN CITY

I . ‘ 74-! If   I I __ "V _'_I-H.‘J 1‘
' -'--:"~i_. k I ‘ 3"L'
‘ : r. - r
1 .' " . s .o -‘, _
1“ . I“ i I m I -— *v I
._..;.'...-- .   .s..-

- “‘15... “i I_ _

 

293

trolier posts being the only ornament, the effect
will be both spacious and pleasing.

TRAFFIC MONUMENTS

The city planners recommended trailic mon-
uments at the intersections of the main traffic
streets, and these have been arranged for by
the City Council. On six of the main inter-
sections, the bases are already in, with under-
ground conduits leading to them, and the
Council is now arranging to install these trafo
tic monuments within a short time.

LAKE IMPROVEMENTS

The work on the improvement of Medium
Lake, a beautiful sheet of water which ex-
tends to within three blocks of the main busi-
ness part of town, has continued from year to
year. Over $30,000 has already been spent by
the community in deepening this lake with a
big suction dredge and building up the shores
and surrounding parks and boulevards. Fur-
ther development is being carried out this year
in accordance with the city plan. About $7000
a year is being spent in this work, and enough

QW-

--—-——_.._'4__.f-_. . —¢

THE HIGH SCHOOL IN EMMETSBURG

money has been pledged by the citizens and
put in the form of bankable notes, payable in
instalments, so that sufficient funds are avail-
able to continue the work for the next four
years. It is expected that this will complete
the work of dredging and deepening the lake
and complete the building of the principal
islands and surrounding boulevard. The work
is being pushed rapidly with gratifying results.

HIGH SCHOOL GROUNDS

In connection with the plans for the High
School grounds, the city planners recom-
mended the purchase of adjoining land for
park and recreation ground. and that the in-
tervening street be vacated. This spring the
School Board submitted to the people the pro-
posal to purchase an additional block of
ground for a High School campus, and this
purchase was almost unanimously approved
by the people. The purchase was completed
and the Council has vacated the intervening
street in accordance with the plans, and the

294

School Board is already making arrangements
for the grading and improving of the grounds.
The School Board has also taken steps to
carry out the landscaping plans of the city
planners at the East and South Side Ward
School buildings.

LIBRARY GROUNDS

The Emmetsburg Public Library is located
in the proposed Civic Center and is one of the
permanent buildings of that group. This
spring the Library trustees employed Mr.
Weirick, one of the city planners, to complete
the landscaping of the Library grounds. This
was done and the results of the planting are
already evident. In fact, the landscaping done
by the Library Board this spring has already
received so much favorable comment from the
people that it is giving a big impetus to future
development of the city plans.

CITY PARK

The Park Board has been trimming up and
cutting out trees this year. and doing other
work in accordance with the plans. A large
tennis court has been built in the City Park,
with back stops constructed of iron and set in
concrete, at a total cost of about $600. These
tennis grounds are located as suggested by

the city planners and follow the plans in every

detail.
CENTER PARKINGS

In the present paving there are five blocks
of center parking on the wide boulevards.
These center parldngs have been all connected
with the city water-supply, and arrangements
have been made for automatic sprinklers to
play upon them, so that the parking car'i be
sprinkled as needed without the necessity of
having hose or other equipment for that pur-
pose. Some of these center parkings have
already been graded and planted with grass
seed by the Council in connection with the
Park Board. and the others will be finished
in like manner as soon as the paving is com-
pleted around them.

FILLING IN PARKING

The City Plan Commission. in its report to
the City Council. suggested the filling in of
West Main Street in order to enable the com-
pletion of the parking suggested by the city
planners. This recommendation has been car-
ried out. thus placing that street in readiness
for tree planting and other improvements. in
accordance with the city plans.

BETTER CITY BUILDING

The city planners suggested the need of bet-
ter business buildings and more residences. and
already there is a marked tendency in this
direction. Two of the principal banks are al-
ready remodeling their buildings to make them
absolutely modern and up-to-date, and several
of the stores are putting in new fronts. A
large number of new residences are also being
constructed, many of them artistic bungalows

and modern houses which are a credit to the
town.
TREE PLANTING

Considerable tree planting has been done this
year. and this has followed very closely the
recommendations of the city planners, the

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 4

most notable achievement being the planting
of trees for one-half mile on the road to the
cemetery. This was done by the women’s or-
ganizations. A number of individuals also did
some tree planting and landscaping which have
followed the lines of the plans; and the City
Plan Commission has started organizations on
several streets that will result in cooperative

tree planting for several blocks on important
thoroughfares.

BAND-STAND

One other improvement of a minor nature
illustrates the general trend of such matters.
The band-stand located in the Court House
Square was not artistically designed when first
built. This year, through the efforts of the
Commercial Club, the Women’s Civic Improve-
ment Association and the County Supervisors.
this band-stand was remodeled and placed in a
mere appropriate setting. It is still only a tem-
porary arrangement. as the Civic Center is not
far enough advanced for the permanent loca-
tion called for in the city plans, but the pres-
ent arrangement is conceded to be a great im-
provement and shows the tendency toward

harmonious treatment and general esthetic
values.

STREET IMPROVEMENTS

As an illustration of the careful and system-
atic method of improvements now being
adopted, the City Council required all prop-
erty owners, before the new pavement was
laid, to replace water connections with heavy
lead pipe, and that all sewer connections and
other public service connections of various
kinds be reinforced and new manholes put in.
so as to reduce the possibility of having to
take up pavements in the future. Further-
more, connections with the water mains and
sewer system have been made to provide for
several public drinking fountains on the streets,
and these connections were all made before the
paving was put down.

CONCLUSION

In conclusion. it is truly remarkable what
progress has been made within the seven
months following the adoption of the new
city plans. There have been unanimity of pur-
pose and loyalty throughout. This is not a
spasmodic improvement crusade. but a deter-
mined effort on the part of the whole commun-
ity to better conditions and secure modern im-
provements in order that advance may be made
along true, progressive lines. All these im-
provements, which are far-reaching for a
community of the size of Emmetsburg, have
been accomplished without any lawsuits and
almost without friction. The city plans have
been a unifying force. The Mayor and City
Council. as well as the other public boards and
«idicers of the city, together with the Com-
mercial Club and the \Vomen’s Civic Improve-
ment Association. have cooperated with the
people in securing- results which are a credit to
the community. The most hopeful sign of all.
however, is the determination to press on with
the improvements until Emmetsburg becomes
a notable example of what can be accom-

plished in a small community by practical and
efficient city planning.

Digitized by 600816

 

Expert Supervision of Small Water-Works
A By Cleveland Loper

Assisstant Professor of Engineering, Washburn College

HE more one sees of small water-
T works plants, the more convinced
he becomes that some sort of expert
supervision of them is needed. There are
several ways in which this might be accom-
plished, but the scheme outlined by Paul
Hansen, Engineer of the Illinois State
Water Survey, seems to offer more mutual
benefits to municipalities and consulting en-
gineers than any other. He urges the em—
ployment, on an annual basis, of consulting
experts to supervise the Operation of small
water-works plants and sewage treatment
works. He estimates that the ordinary
small city could secure suchfservices for
about $600 per annum. Several small plants
could join together and pay enough to
secure a real expert, and require from him
semi-monthly or monthly visits. It is be-
lieved that this expert, through instruc-
tions to local employes and by regular re-
view and analysis of monthly operation re-
ports, could so increase the effectiveness,
safety and economy of the water-works that
the services rendered would be many times
the value of the fee.

The Water and Sewage Division of the
Kansas State Board of Health, owing to the
incessant labor and vigilance of its former
engineer, W. C. Hoad, now a member of
the engineering faculty of the University
of Michigan, and later of his pupil and
capable successor, Prof. C. A. Haskins, has
done much to modernize design, promote
the economical expenditure of money, and
to educate the inhabitants and officials of
small cities of the state concerning the im-
portance of installing and maintaining a
'pure water supply. Limited appropriations
for the work, and consequently a limited
force of men, have prevented a much de~
sired extension of the activities of the de-
partment to include regular and frequent
sanitary inspection of the water~works
plants after installation. As a result, much
inefficient management is being tolerated,
and many unsanitary conditions have de-
veloped.

Realizing this situation and having some
spare time, the writer decided to make a

survey of a number of the small plants in
the eastern part of the state. Preliminary
to the actual inSpection of the plants, the
water-works files of the State Board of
Health were drawn upon for much valuable
information concerning the equipment,
source of supply, method of handling the
same, and other general considerations.
This information in the form of type-
written notes is of considerable aid during
visits to the various plants, since it gives a
general view of each development even be-
fore it is actually seen.

For the purpose of this paper, which
is to emphasize the need of expert super-
vision and frequent inspection, two small
municipal plants have been picked as rep—
resentative of conditions so far discovered.

The first, serving a village of 1,200 peo-
ple, was visited on November 27, 1914.
This municipality, after a varied water-
works history, employed competent engi-
neers of Kansas City, Mo., to develop some
springs about two miles northeast of the
corporation site. A brief statement of the
equipment of this plant is as follows: Three
circular brick collecting wells at ,the spring
site; 18,360 feet of 4-inch fiow line with
a 90-foot fall to the city; a 311,000-gallon
reservoir which was originally sunk as a
circular open well in an attempt to obtain
ground water; a small pump house near it
containing a 15—horsep0wer gasoline en-
gine Operating a ISO-gallon per minute tri-
plex pump: 18.600 feet of 4- and 6-inch
main, and an old 115.000-gallon steel tank
elevated on a stone base 35 feet high.

The springs as now developed are deliv-
ering about 72,000 gallons daily to the res-
ervoir. Since the consumption is only
about 40,000 gallons daily, the surplus over-
fiows and forms a small lake just east of
the reservoir. During the last summer a
very heavy fall of rain caused this lake to
rise and overfiow into the reservoir for a
few hours, making the water quite turbid
for several days. This same storm washed
out a part of the flow line, and while this
was being repaired the reservoir furnished
an eight days' supply.

[295]

Digitized by 60081“

 

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 4

FIGURE 1

Hogs as Sanitary Police

After going to this expense to obtain a
permanent and sanitary water-supply for
its people, the city insured its sanitary
qualities in a way of which some idea may
be gained from picture No. I. This shows
one of the collecting wells at the spring

 

site. The surrounding two acres owned
by the city was still a part of a large hog
and cattle pasture. There .was still con-
siderable surface tiow from the springs
about the wells, and the hogs had developed
this into a sticky mud wallow a foot or two
deep, against the side of this well. The

FIGURE 2 ‘

 

OCTOBER, 191 5

brick walls, although laid in cement mor-
tar, were unplastered inside or outside, and
an inspection of the inside revealed numer-
ous leaks. The surface of the water inside
was only a few feet below the surface of
the wallow.

Fig. 2 is a general view of all three wells
set in a line along a small ravine. A close
view is given of the highest one. No water
stood around this well, but the soft, sandy
loam had encouraged the swine to develop
a fine, deep, dry rooting place. Of course
every shower that came along readily
soaked down through this contaminated soil

THE AMERICAN- CITY

297

two or three months. It was the original
idea of the city officials that the stock
would keep down the weeds which on de-
caying might contaminate the water. In
a situation of this sort the proper course
to pursue is very evident. The two acres
owned by the city should not only be fenced
hog-tight, but, better, reasonably man-
tight, so that careless or irresponsible per-
sons might not get to the springs without
some trouble. The surface fiow of the
springs should be led away from the wells
in a clean channel. The weeds should be
kept down and blue grass sown and prop-

 

 

FIGURE 3

and undoubtedly contributed largely to the
water in the well. The top of the lowest
well is lower than the soil back of it. Be-
sides the mud puddle in front, the hogs
had rooted and tracked considerable mud
and filth down on the top, even on to the
perforated cover of the manhole.

These conditions were reported to the
State Board of Health, which, through its
Division of Water and Sewage, imme-
diately ordered a general clean-up in the
immediate vicinity of the springs. The
writer has not visited the place again, but
it is understood that conditions are now
much improved.

This was an aggravated case of lack of
supervision. The superintendent stated
that he had not been out there for perhaps

erly cared for. It would be better if the
city could own the entire water-shed, com—
prising only ten or fifteen acres, above the
site, and keep it fenced and in sanitary

condition.

In the other village under discussion, the
plant was built in 1914, and was inspected
by the writer on December 23. Being un—
able to find a suitable ground water, the
municipality built a low dam across a creek
three miles south of town. The water is
pumped by centrifugal pumps to a settling
basin, whence it runs by gravity on to the
filters and then into the clear water well.
It is then pumped by centrifugal pumps
through the three-mile supply line into the
city mains.

298

The Bridge at the W ater-W ark: Intake

In the writer's opinion there are two un-
desirable conditions in connection with this
plant. The first is illustrated by Fig. 3. It
shows the proximity of the dam and water-
works intake, and a large county bridge.
It seems unfortunate that this large bridge
should span the impounded water 'so close
to the point where it is sucked into the
water-works system. This bridge is un-
doubtedly subject to a great deal of traf-
fic. The floor planks are spaced about two
inches apart, so that the passing of every
vehicle would cause considerable dirt and
trash to drop into the water. A herd of
cattle crossing the bridge would kick all
sorts of filth through, and every rain would
wash the fioor clean and add to the con-
tamination of the city supply.

In taking exception to this situation, the
writer realizes that there may be many
good water-works engineers who would
consider the possible contamination from
this bridge as negligible. He has talked
with a number of engineers about it, and
one or two are inclined to consider it of no
consequence, in view of the fact that the
water is subsequently treated and filtered.
At the same time, it is believed that an at-
tempt to remedy this situation should be
made, by carrying the intake above the
bridge, or by paving and draining the
bridge floor, or both. During dry weather,
when there is no fiow over the dam and
traffic is apt to be heaviest, there would be

an accumulation of polluting materials in.

the water and the filters might be over-
loaded. Stating the matter conservatively,
the writer does not believe that to allow a
continuous dribble of filth into the city
water supply, even if it is treated and fil-
tered, is consistent with present-day prog~
ress in sanitary science.

The other condition has to do with the
attitude of the citizens toward the water,
which is backed up to considerable depth
for perhaps two or three miles. The young
people of the city have seen in this fine strip
of water an excellent opportunity for motor-
boating and fishing and have even agitated
the question of building a club house near
it. In a comparatively shallow stream of
this sort, motor-boating is, of course, par-
ticularly objectionable. After a boat or
two had passed up and down several times

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 4

the water would be little less than mud, and
few filters could handle it efficiently.

The Board of Health was notified of this
situation, and after a visit of inspection the
Assistant Engineer wrote the Mayor, set-
ting forth his findings and strongly urging
the administration to exercise its authority
in prohibiting all boating, bathing and fish-
ing, and to keep a close watch on all opera-
tions, such as stock feeding, burying of
dead animals, etc., on the drainage area
above the plant. This letter was published
in the city paper where everyone could see
it, so that the citizens might understand the
attitude of the Board of Health and learn
that the whole matter was largely one of
self-protection during the warm summer
months. Yet, it is safe to assume that.
in the absence of expert inspection and pub-
lished reports, some of the objectionable
practices will still go on.

In connection with the above-mentiOned
plants, only sanitary questions have been
considered. There are many other prob-
lems, such as records and accounts, pump-
ing stations and machinery. purification
works; distribution systems, the effect of
topographical and geological conditions on
sources of supply, etc., all of which should
be- considered by the expert and which
should constantly be the object of his
thought and analysis. Perhaps the most
noticeable thing in connection with small
plants is the unsystematic, inefiicient, not
to say slipshod manner in which they are
organized and managed.

A Superintendent Equal to His [ob

At one place only has the writer found
anything like adequate operating data. The
superintendent at this place is sufficiently
public-spirited and privately interested to
keep detailed records of every department
of his plant, including such items as item-
ized cost of extensions, house connections,
repairs; supplies and incidentals; quantities
and cost of chemicals used; pumpage and
head pumped against; time of starting and
stopping pumps: total hours pumped month-

- ly: water consumed; water wasted through

release of pumps; general expense; station
expense; revenue from sale of water, me-
ters, etc., and loss and gain. He can go
back over his records and tell what he was
doing almost any half day since he took
charge of the plant.

Digitized by 600816

OCTOBER, 1915

It would be the duty of the supervising
expert-to encourage this sort of thing and
make scientific use of all data in adjusting
rates, comparing the operation of pumping
machinery, engines, settling basins and tile
ters, and the cost of fuels of various kinds.

The fact that it is no uncommon thing for
the shallow, dug wells—the sort of supply
upon which so many eastern Kansas cities
must depend—to fail, sometimes soon after
installation, seems to indicate that, in an
effort to secure excellence of design, not
sufficient study has been made of local geol-
ogy with reference to water-bearing forma-
tions. Wells of this sort have been placed
on the bottom lands of small creeks, where
under normal conditions, if a shallow hole
were dug, water would immediately collect,
only to fail during the first short, dry pe-
riod that came along. The result has been
to promote, among the citizens and officials
of the city which has suffered this sort of
misfortune, a thorough distrust of engi-
neers and engineering advice, no matter
which was responsible for the location.
Under the feeling that they have been
“stung,” they are apt to attempt to solve
their own trouble by developing an auxil-

THE AMERICAN CITY 299

iary supply that is not at all suitable from ‘

a sanitary standpoint.

_ ‘ If the two small cities which have been

mentioned, together with five or six others,
had retained for a reasonable annual. sum
the services of the right sort of expert on
water-works, they would have been spared
the troubles which have been touched upon
and others which have not. In the first case
the supply would never have been endan-
gered as it was and the superintendent’s
pump trouble would have been readily
solved; most of the citizens of the second
village would soon be educated to the point
where they would have no desire to use
their fine little plant as a summer resort:
none of them would be apt to deve10p un—
suitable auxiliary supplies and run the risk
of having them condemned and themselves
liable to a fine for using them without per-
mits, and all of them would know whether
their water-works were on a business basis
or not, and self-supporting instead of being
a drag on the general fund. The munici-
palities would be much benefited and the
reputations of the consulting engineers

would be better safeguarded.

 

Lighting the Streets of Griffin, Georgia

By G. J. Drake

Superintendent, Lighting Plant, Griflin, Ga.

N ornamental street lighting system
A was installed in the city of Griffin.

(321., last September. The prbject
was assured by the agreement on the part
of a majority of the merchants to pay for
the installation according to the frontage
of their respective buildings. After this
was done, a committee was appointed by the
Board of Trade, and this committee was
authorized by the merchants to complete
the matter, having full power to act.

The system is composed of live-light
standards made by the Casey-Hedges Com-
pany, of Chattanooga, Tenn., and the light-
ing is done by three-wire 220 volts alternat-
ing current. The current is obtained from
one centrally located transformer and dis-
tributed underground with lead-encased
cable enclosed in galvanized iron pipe. This
transformer is energized by a separate
feeder running from the sub-station. so that
all the \Vhite W'ay is controlled from the
station. Arrangements were also made for

 

cutting out each block separately. The sys-
tem is operated from dusk to 10.30, except
on Saturdays, when it is run until midnight.

ONE OF GRIFFIN’S BUSINESS STREETS '

.
l
i

Motorizing' the Fire Department of Weymouth,
Mass. '

By Arthur W. Davis
Secretary of the Cltlzens’ Association, Weymouth, Mass.

N telling the story of how the town of
Weymouth, Mass, came to add four
pieces of motor apparatus to the equip-

ment, it is necessary to begin by explaining
that Weymouth, unlike most towns, has its
thinly settled section in the center of the
town, and that the four principal villages
are widely separated and located either on
or very near the boundary lines. There
always has been, and still is to a limited
extent, a strong sectional feeling, which
has prevented the passage of town acts in
line with modern progress.

In 1910 the equipment of the fire depart-
ment consisted of two steam fire engines,
one chemical engine, four hook-and-ladder
trucks and seven hose wagons, all horse-
drawn and quartered in seven separate
houses; each of the fire houses in the
smaller villages contained a hose wagon
only.

The firemen were all “call” men, and the
horses were used in the same way—that is,
they came when they were called, provided
they were within calling distance. During

the daytime there were seldom long waits,
but at night valuable time was frequently
lost in getting to the stables and then get-
ting the horses to the tire houses.

As long as the express business depended
on horses for transportation, things were
fairly satisfactory, but when the express-
men substituted automobiles for horses, a
problem arose which was almost impos-
sible to solve. Owners of horses objected.
and in some cases positively refused, to al-
low their animals to answer alarms, a1?
though the town paid $5 per team even if
the horses did not leave the fire house, and
although payment for one hour’s time was
allowed the driver for each trip.

An article in the town warrant of 1910
asking for $3,500 for an automobile hose
wagon was voted down. In 1911 an article
asking for $5,000 for, an automobile chemi-
cal and hose combination was tabled, and a
committee of ten was appointed to act with
the engineers to investigate the needs of
the department and report at the next an-
nual meeting.

" " :- .WEYMOUTH FIRE DEPT.

‘13.“:2‘13 as}... .

 

 

TRIPLE COMBINATION IN USE AT FAST WEYMUUTII, MASS.

[300]

OCTOBER, 1915

"I"

__ g _ ..._.
H. lI‘i 3‘1llll'l'H l'IHi:

._. .n,..¢.... . _

THE AMERICAN CITY

301

['11: PT '

 

COMBINATION CHEMICAL AND HOSE TRUCK IN SERVICE AT NORTH \VEYMOUTH, MASS.

This committee, after investigation, em-
bodied their findings in two articles in the
warrant of 1912, one calling for $5,500 for

an auto hose wagon and the other to see if '

the town would buy land and build a new
tire station and police station combined.
The first article went into the hands of a
committee to investigate the cost and main-
tenance of a suitable wagon, preferably one
with a pump, and to report at the next meet-
ing. No action was taken on the building
project.
Building the "Baby Carriage”

The department was still dependent on
horses and horses were harder to get than
ever before. In some cases horses were
taken from the first wagon that approached
the” house and impressed into service.
Tired of what promised to be a never-end-
ing attempt to induce the town to provide
horseless apparatus, the men of Ward
Three (Weymouth Landing) started out to
do something for themselves. Wallace H.
Bicknell (then Captain of Hose 3, now Dis-
trict Engineer) appeared at a meeting of
the Citizens’ Association and explained his
plan. His idea was to buy a good second-
hand touring car and rebuild the body. He
said: “We have the men right in town who
can do the job and do it all right, but we
want all the people to help." There was
no diliiculty in enlisting the support of the
Association. A joint committee was ap-
pointed to solicit money. The ward was
divided into districts, and each man was

assigned a district to canvass—and he can-
vassed it. Publicity through the local press
was given nnstintedly and interest was not
allowed to flag.

As soon as it became apparent that the
people of the ward were going to support
the scheme, business grew brisk. Captain
Bicknell saw a big Matheson car on the
market and bought it while the buying was
good. Work began immediately. While
the local wheelwright was making the new
body and the ironwork, the garage man
across the road was overhauling the ma-
chinery. Cash was constantly coming in,
and people from all parts of the town were
watching the progress.

On January 28, 1913, Combination 3 went
into commission in the Ward Three house
as an unofficial addition to the Weymouth
department, and on March IO it was ac-
cepted by the citizens as a gift from the
people of \Vard Three. The equipment con-
sisted of two extension ladders, four hand
chemicals. the axes, bars, etc., found on all
hose wagons, and 700 feet of regular fire

hose. The crew was limited to six men,
and they have made a wonderful record.
One of the first alarms after the new piece
went into commission was from a shop
owned by one of the selectmen (a two-mile
run), and the owner got wet by the spray
from 3’s stream as soon as he got out of
his house, which was next to the burning
building. That year there was no article
calling for new apparatus in the warrant.

A.

302

The meeting of 1914 came. North Wey-
mouth wanted $3,500 for a combination and
East W eymouth asked for “a sufficient sum
of money” to purchase one. Combination 3
had been answering alarms in all parts
of the town, with volunteer chauffeurs, and
now asked for a permanent man. All three
articles were sidetracked and another com-
mittee was appointed.

A Reversal of Opinion

Then we had a fire. The department got
out quickly and the “Baby Carriage” (as
Combination 3 was then called) broke down
and crawled into East V’Veymouth Square
ten minuteslate, with a man lying out on
the running-board holding the carburetor
together.

“7 e lost a manufacturing plant where the
fire started, the largest garage in town and
the Town Hall. Hingham, Hull and Quincy
sent help, but when water would have
counted we had no apparatus to throw the
streams where they were needed. About
forty houses caught fire, but none were
badly damaged, as there were so many
streams available. But the three big build-
ings and their contents were total losses.
Everybody blamed everybody else because
we had no automobile pumps, and a town
meeting was called.

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 4

The committees report was ignored and
$24,500 was voted for the purchase of three
pieces of apparatus. Three men were ap-
pointed to act with the Board of Engineers
and they went right at it.

One of the first votes taken by the com-
mittee was that the three machines should
be of the same make. After a thorough in-
vestigation of the different makes, the ma-
jority of the committee decided on the
Knox, and we now have a combination hose
and chemical model at North Weymouth, 3
triple combination No. 12 with pumping ca-
pacity of 700 gallons per minute at East
Weymouth, and a duplicate of the latter at
South Weymouth, all with Goodyear cush-
ion tires. Each piece has a permanent man
on duty at all'times and a Universal box has
been installed.

The “Baby Carriage” still guards Ward
Three and is driven by some one of her
volunteer chauffeurs. The people feel
rather disappointed that their part of the
town can get so little after giving so much,
but the broader spirit is spreading and “All
\Veymouth for All Weymouth” is surely
coming.

Meanwhile the people refuse to allow the
engineers to sell any of the old apparatus.
and they pay storage-charges on three of
the old hose-wagons.

A First-Aid Meet

The first Miners' First-Aid Team was or-
ganized about fifteen years ago. The Penn-
sylvania State Y. M. C. A. has encouraged
the work all this time, has organized numer-

ous teams and held many contests. George

B. Landis, Educational Secretary of the As-
sociation, managed the third annual Somer-
set County meet, held last month in Boswell.
Pa.—the largest meet ever held in the
Pennsylvania bituminous region.

On the morning of the contest 28 teams-

of 6 men each reported, representing 9 com-
panies from 23 mining towns. A Mining
Institute was held. and a crowded house
listened to addresses by Austin King. Chief
Inspector of the H. C. Frick Coke Com-
pany, and H. D. Mason, Jr., Assistant En-
gineer of the United States Bureau of
Mines. Motion pictures were shown on
safety. first-aid and newer methods of min-

ing.

In the afternoon all the teams paraded
to the ball-grounds, and in the presence of
2,500 people the contest was staged. The
events included problems of treating
wounds, fractures, burns and other in juries.
under various conditions, and were fiercely
contested. The judges were chosen by the
Somerset County representative of the
American Red Cross, and included physi-
cians, representatives of the United States
Bureau of Mines, the Mine Safety Appli-
ance Company of Pittsburgh, and the Cam-
bria Steel Company, of Johnstown. The
prizes consisted of lamps. aluminum dinner
buckets, a cup, a first-aid cabinet. medals.
and Red Cross certificates. and money was
given to purchase further personal prizes.

These annual meets have resulted in won-
derful progress in the preliminary care of
wounded men by their fellows, so that an
injured man usually comes to the surgeon
with a much better chance for his life.

Digitized by 600816

 

Efficiency in County Government

To the Editor of THE AMERICAN CITY:

The solution of our county problem in
the United States is second onlyto our need
for greater efficiency in the government of
our cities. The question of county organi-
zation and administration, however, is a
phase of our political life that has been
sadly neglected. Behind this neglect, the
county, as an institution of government,
has too often fallen into the hands of un-
scrupulous politicians who employ it chiefly
as a means of exploiting local taxpayers.
In reality there is no county organization in
the majority of our states that deserves to
be dignified with the title of “government.”

I have read with much interest the article
by Mr. Don C. Sowers in the September
number of THE AMERICAN CITY, entitled “A
County Business Administration.” I am
thoroughly in accord with Mr. Sowers in
his contention that we need a real county
government. We must first get an efficient
scheme of organization, however, before we
need bother about the introduction of ef-
ficiency methods in conducting our county
affairs. Mr. Sowers clearly expresses this
idea himself when he says:

“In general, it may be said that there is no
organization of county government at the pres-
ent time. The general features of city organi-
zation are usually determined by charter pro-
visions; the general organization of states and
the national government are outlined in con-
stitutions; but there is no one place where one
can go to learn what the county organization
is. A few provisions are usually found in the
state constitution. For the most part, however.
one has to search through all the session laws
to find out what the county is supposed to do,
and even then one cannot be sure that he has
found them all, for there is always the danger
that some law or provision may have been
overlooked. In other words, the county or-
ganization is provided for by a patchwork of
laws passed at various times by various legis-
latures without any attempt having been made
to provide a simple, workable organization.
Officials are elected to do certain things, with-
out regard for what other ofi‘icials may be

doing and without regard to coordinating the
work of the various omcials.”

This same condition has attracted my
attention in connection with my work in
the Southern States, and I have recently
completed an investigation of county gov-
ernment in the state of Virginia. Here I
found that the constitution of Virginia
shackles upon the counties of the state a

government under which a job is provided
for about one out of every ten voters—the
selection of these job-holders being virtu-
ally left to the job-seekers themselves. The
county of Prince George for example, which
in 1910 had a population of only 27 to the
square mile—the total being less than 8,000,
of which 58 per cent were negroes—has
over 60 officials holding positions of public
trust. Thirty-five of these oflicials are
elected by the people, while the appoint-
ment of 23 is either directly or indirectly
controlled by the Circuit Court. This con—
dition is typical of every county in Vir-
ginia—a state, however, of rural counties,
containing practically none that can be
classed as urban or semi-urban.

As Mr. Sowers says, such counties as
these need a charter. Possibly even better,
they need local self-government, under an
optional state law. I have urged in Vir-
ginia that the counties be granted local
self-government and given authority to es-
tablish a government organized along the
lines of the “manager” or “controlled-exec—
utive” plan. I have also taken the posi-
tion that the greatest source of present cor-
ruption and inefliciency in the Virginia
counties can be traced directly to the in-
fiuence and active participation of the cir-
cuit judges in their internal administrative
and legislative affairs.

In truth, the present judicial system, with
its non-judicial powers that have been
tacked on to it from time to time, is the
greatest single barrier to the establishment
of a truly efficient and representative county
government in Virginia. In any scheme
of reform proposed for the reorganization
of county government, therefore, the inter-
ference of the judiciary in administrative
or legislative affairs should be entirely re-
moved.

The plan I have suggested for the gov-
ernment of the Virginia counties, which.
as I have stated, are almost entirely rural
communities, provides for a County Board
of Supervisors, consisting of five super-
visors, to be elected from the county at
large and not by magisterial districts as at
present. This body names one of its own
members chairman; and, in order that it
may be truly representative of the pe0ple
of the count ', its members should be elected

[m]

Digitized by 600816

304

by proportional representation. Retaining
entire legislative powers. and its integrity
as the body politic condensed, the County
Board of Supervisors vests its executive
functions in a single administrative officer
known as the “county manager.” The
board also appoints its own clerk.

The county manager is appointed by the
Board of Supervisors, and he may be re-
moved by the board at any time for cause.
The selection of the county manager, how-
ever, is not restricted to residents of the
county nor of the state.

Under the immediate control of the man—

Supervtlor
supervisor
Mont."

hunt."

Superchar-

 

The QUALIFIID VOTER: chat) oloot ltvo
aumuaons fro. the 000m at In", by
vacvoarxouar ltvnlnlltltIOI eve Q yearn.

ni- ooum sum or will": , e um
elect Ito ova GIAIIIAI.

Ad-tntotrlttvo and Ixoouttvo 10:.
am he not“ tn a com IAIA the shall
be elected the BOARD 0f IUTIIVIIOII.

no mo Judtotu ornate-Hon “on
no undo: the stunt» o! I cum Jame:
who :hull be olectoi b1 the IDARD 0? l0!!!-
VIIO I.

ager, the government of the county is di-
vided into six administrative departments.
The county manager selects and appoints
the heads of each of these departments on
the basis of training and qualifications, and
fills the minor positions by appointments
from a list of residents of the county rec-
ommended by the State Civil Service Com-
mission.

The county manager is thus the “busi-
ness” head of the county. In other words.
the qualified voters of the county, under
this plan, are the “stockholders;” the super—
visors are the “board of directors ;" and the
county manager is the “general manager."

The offices of commonwealth attorney and
sheriff—in reality state oHices—are filled by

10!!

-f

- ltd

THE AMERICAN CITY

80°!!VISOII

t

VOL. XIII, No. 4

appointment of the Governor of Virginia
and placed under the control of the attor—
ney-general.

The office of county coroner is abolished,
and its duties and responsibilities trans-
ferred to and vested in the commonwealth
attorney. The medical officer in charge of
the county health department is made sub-
ject to the command of the commonwealth
attorney when medical assistance is re-
quired in the performance of the functions
of coroner.

By studying the accompanying chart, the
general outlines of this plan can be easily

mucus»

Quotable.

al'l.
County
Court

DUC‘fIOI

I
l
v .'
’ I
a a
' u
u
v
o . ‘
' o
' p
v o
. ' '
mum -- u
v o
n ' n
IAI‘UII . ' t
u o
l
a
. o ’
n
u
I O
' I
,. ‘v .

I

. C

ul'

0. v

1

It.

\‘vllumn

be
PLAI

RROIOIIIZATIOI
0' TI!

 

OOUITY OO'IIIIIIT

 

grasped. It is neither radical nor undem-
ocratic, for it merely proposes to apply the
principles of business efficiency to the or-
ganization of county government and to
substitute an etiicient, representative and
responsive organization for the existing
governmental monstrosity in our American
counties.

I sincerely trust that we shall be able to
accomplish something in the reorganization
of our county governments, and I am de-
lighted to see that THE AMERICAN CITY is
taking an interest in the work.

LEROY Honor-:5.
Counselor, The Southern Commercial
Congress.
\Vashington, D. C., September 16. 1915.

Digitized by 600816

 
 
  

News and Ideas for Commercial and
Civic Organizations

  

{-
{I
{-

 

New Bulletins

A MARILLO, Tax—Aggressive Amarillo.
Published monthly by the Amarillo Board
of City Development.

BIRMINGHAM, Aux—The Birmingham
Alagazine. The ofiicial organ of The Busi-
ness Men’s League, The City of Birming-
ham and Ad Men’s Club. Published
monthly by the C. W. Roberts Company.

LAFAYETTE, INn.—The Bulletin. Pub-
lished semi-monthly by the Chamber of

Commerce.
'1- '1-

Eau Claire’s White Way

EAU CLAIRE, \Vts.—The accompanying
illustration shows the attractive “white
way” lighting system which was recently in-
stalled in Eau Claire through the efforts

of the Civic and Commerce Association.
The company which installed the system
removed all the wooden poles from the
streets specihed for the “white way,” and
no poles are now allowed in those streets
except the combination trolley and elec-
tric lighting posts. Each pole carries only
the two wires necessary for the lighting
system and the trolley feeder, and no wires
are allowed to be run from these poles to
the buildings for any purpose.

There is a law in Wisconsin which pro-
vides that when two-thirds of the property-
owners of each block in the section of any
municipality in the state in which it is de-
sired to establish a lighting system have
consented to the installation of such light-
ing system, the common council or vil-
lage board is empowered to provide the

 

TIIE EAU CLAIRE WHITE WAY

[305]

306

lighting by ordinance and contract, the re-
mainder of the property owners to be forced
into the arrangement should they be op-
posed to it. The statute further provides
that the portion of the installation and
maintenance of such lighting system to be
paid by such propery owners shall not be
less than two-thirds of the total cost there-
of. It was this law which made a “white
way” possible in Eau Claire.

The system was installed at small ex-
pense. By combining the lamp post and
trolley wire stay, an additional post is not
only dispensed with, but the cost of the
lamp. post is considerably lessened. The
total cost of installation was $32.13 per
post, the abutting property owners assum-
ing two-thirds of this cost. The cost of
maintenance and operation was figured at
$21.45 per post per year, and the cost per
front foot to the property owners at the
two-thirds rate, $0.215 per year. The opera-
tion cost is computed at the rate of one-
half cent per kilowatt hour for current
burned. To this was added the necessary
charge .for maintenance and upkeep, such
as yea‘rly painting of the poles, cleaning the
globes, furnishing and replacing lamps and

globes.
RICHARD F. KAISER,

Secretary, Civic and Commerce Association.

+4-

A Civic Song Contest

GRAND RAPIDS, MICH.——The Civic Music
Committee of the brand Rapids Associa-
tion of Commerce announces a contest for
a Grand Rapids civic song and invites con-
tributions of verses to be passed on by a
board of judges. A cash prize of $50 will
be awarded to the person whose poem is
accepted as best adapted to the purpose.

What a national or state song means-to
the larger sphere, a civic song should mean
to a city. Grand Rapids would raise its
thousands of voices in tuneful accord on
many occasions if a civic song were adopted
which possessed verses depicting the his—
torical romance. beauty, sterling type of
citizenship, high ideals and ambitions of the
city, the song to be set to music of such
harmony as to at once captivate and to en-
dure through all time.

Details in regard to the contest may he
obtained from the Grand Rapids Associa-

tion of Commerce.

\V. K. PLUM”,
Secretary, Association of Commerce.

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. .\'lll, No. 4

Two Junior Chambers of

Commerce

New ORLEANS, LA.—A Young Men's
Branch of the New Orleans Association of
Commerce has recently been formed. This
was done wholly upon the initiative of a
group of young business men in the city.
and not from any suggestion by the senior
body. These young men felt that there was
a gap in the public-spirited business com-
munity by reason of the lack of an eHective
and organized participation by the younger
men in the work of civic upbuilding, and
they petitioned the board of directors of the
Association of Commerce to authorize the
organization of a young men's branch.
Their request met with ready approval, and
the idea proved so popular that nearly 200
members of the new auxiliary were present
at the organization meeting in July. The
membership is now over 300 without any
regular membership campaign having been
carried on. Practically every commercial
and professional group in the city is repre'
sented.

The object of the organization is to pro-
vide a means for acquainting the young meh
of New Orleans with civic questions and to
afford a medium for the expression of their
opinions on matters affecting the younger
business element. Membership is open to
all white men between the ages of 18 and 30
who are not in control of, a commercial en-
terprise that is eligible for membership in
the senior organization.

Control is vested in an executive com-
mittee of 21 members, whose chairman is
the presiding officer of the association. Its
committee organization is the same as that
of the senior body, with the addition of such
committees as are needed to handle matters
coming more especially within the purview
of the younger men. To give the mem-
bers training in handling the practical pfOb'
lems which come before a commercial asso-
ciation, it is proposed to have a few mem-
bers of each committee attend all meetings
of the corresponding committee of the Asso-

ciation of Commerce.
E. E. JUDD,

Com'mercial Agent, Bureau of Foreign and Domchc
Commerce, in Commerce Reports.

'1' '1' -

COLUMBUS, Inn—The Boys' Auxiliary 0f
the Columbus Chamber of Commerce is 3
small organization, about 22 in number, but
the boys have gone about their work in great

Digitized by 600816

OC'ronr-zn, 1915

earnest. They have elected their president,
vice-president, directors and secretary, and
their meetings are conducted as seriously as
the deliberations of a large business cor-
poration.

The boys devoted their attention during
the summer to the subject of alley sanita-
tion. There were six committees sent out
on this investigation, and each member of
the committee, in crossing an alley, regard-
less where he happened to be, would jot
down conditions as he found them. The
result of the survey was a surprise even to
the grown-ups.

The Columbus Chamber has been holding
lectures along the lines of work in which
the boys are interested, and plans to secure
for the coming season the best speakers ob-
tainable on these subjects. The Chamber
is also planning a campaign through which
it is hoped to build up an organization of at

least 100 boys.

J. H. HOUK.
Managing SeCretary, Columbus Chamber of Commerce.

*1-

Quiney Chamber in its Own
Building
QUINCY, ILL—The Quincy Chamber of
Commerce is now located in its own build-

 

CHAMBER OF COMMERCE, QUINCY, ILL.

THE AMERICAN CITY

307

ing. recently completed, a view of which is
shown in the accompanying illustration.
The structure is of pressed brick, three
stories above the basement. On the lirst
floor are the directors’ room, the various
offices of the building department, a gar-
ment room, and a lounging room. On the
second floor is the convention and banquet
hall, a rest room for visiting women and
children, and the office of the county farm
adviser. The third floor will be used en-
tirely for the purpose of exhibiting Quincy's
manufactured products.

The nucleus of a building fund was
formed several years ago through a dona-
tion of $1,000 by a retired merchant of
Quincy. The same donor offered a few
months ago to purchase and donate a site
for a Chamber of Commerce building if the
Chamber would finance the erection of the
structure. The offer was accepted. A fund
for carrying on the industrial work of the
Chamber had previously been raised by sub-
scription, and it was decided to use a por-
tion of the industrial fund to help finance
the project. The use of this fund, however,
is an investment, and all the net revenues
from the building will be turned into the in-

dustrial fund.

C. F. PERRY,

Secretary, Quincy Chamber
of Commerce.

++

Two Meetings of

Secretaries

PROVIDENCE, R. I.—The
Providence Chamber of
Commerce believed that
the commercial executives
of Rhode Island should be
organized into a strong
association in order to ad-
vance the many enter-
prises already on foot for
the good of the state. It
therefore promoted the
formation of the Rhode
Island Association of
Commercial Executives.
which took place on the
morning of September 3,
ten Rhode Island secre-

taries being present. The
secretary of the Provi-
dence Chamber was

elected president.

308

The meeting of the Rhode Island secre-
taries was followed in the afternoon by the
annual meeting of the New England Asso-
ciation of Commercial Executives. This
took the form of a cruise, participated in
by both associations, on the waters of the
Providence and Seekonk Rivers and on
Narragansett. Bay, on the United States
Power Yacht “Monomy,” as the guests of
Col. John Millis of Newport. C01. Millis
is the United States engineer in charge of
the work being carried on by the Federal
Government in those waters. He accom-
panied the party on the trip and explained
the large water-way improvements already
completed and in process of construction by
the Federal Government, the state of Rhode
Island and the city of Providence. Fol-
lowing the cruise an old-fashioned clam-

bake was indulged in at Rocky Point.

CLARENCE A. COTTON,
Secretary, The Providence Chamber of Commerce.

++

A System of Credit Service

JAMESTOWN, N. Y.—The Retail Division
of the Jamestown Board of Commerce has
recently created a retail credit bureau on a
broad and systematic basis. The service
comprises the publication of a complete di-
rectory of the credit customers of Chautau-
qua County, together with the combined ex-
perience of several hundred merchants.
The book is, in effect, a composite ledger,
and the merchant consulting it is enabled
to obtain a glimpse into the ledgers of
every other merchant and see at once how
each customer pays his accounts with other
dealers. The book, which will contain
nearly 25,000 names, will be issued an-
nually.

The service also provides for a weekly
bulletin of legal information, such as suits,
judgments, garnishments, mortgages, etc.,
which can in any way affect credits. A
monthly bulletin gives the names of all
families moving to the city, away from the
city, or from place to place within the city.
A card index will be kept in the ofiice which
will contain all the changes from day to
day, thus affording the subscriber the privi—

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 4

lege of being able to obtain the latest in-
formation regarding a customer at all
times.

Five dollars is charged for the loan of
the credit book and $1 monthly for the ser-
vice. At the end of the year a rebate of $5
is made to those subscribers who are mem-
bers of the Board of Commerce, which
makes the net cost to members $12 annually.

F. C. BUTLER,
Secretary, Jamestown Board of Commerce.

-l- '1‘
A Report on Vocational
Education
PHILADELPHIA, PA.—An investigation

has been completed by the Public Educa—
tion Association of Philadelphia which
promises to be a great aid to the advocates
of vocational training in that city. The
Association has collected data in regard to
vocational courses taught in all of the
schools—public, private, and philanthropic
——in the vicinity, and the results have been
published in a pamphlet under the title, “A
Survey of Opportunities for Vocational
Education in and near Philadelphia.”

The scope of the investigation includes
industrial, commercial, and professional
education, and 180 institutions were covered
by the survey. The material has been care-
fully classified and analyzed, and arranged
in chart form, so that the student desiring
information in regard to a particular course
can, at a glance, compare the requirements,
the tuition fees and the time required in
the various institutions offering such a.
course.

A carefully arranged index at the back
of the volume lists over 250 subjects having
a vocational bearing taught in the institu-
tions included, with references to the pages
on which more detailed information regard-
ing them may be found.

C0pies of the report of the survey may
be obtained from the Public Education As-
sociation, 1015 Witherspoon Building,
Philadelphia. The price is 25 cents.

PAUL N. FURMAN,

Secretary, the Industrial and Technical Education
Conference of the Public Education Association.

mm

 

 

 

For Monthly Reports and Yearly ‘ Bills“

concerned, the organization's accom-
plishments are its dividends and
must be exploited to the greatest possible
advantage if general interest is to be re-
tained; granted that the annual report, in
which committee work is described in con-
siderable detail and is used only as a refer-
ence work; granted that some account of an
organization’s activities is desirable, that
with few exceptions the news in a report is
read only when fresh, why should not the
activities of the organization he reported
monthly? Public interest is a great deal
more liable to absorb then. Accomplish-
ments can be related more elaborately, so
that the yearly report need be only the
briefest review of the larger work, for de-
tail of which reference is made to the vari-
ous monthly reports; but with no reference
to organization routine or to those defen-
sive arguments and appeals for support on
which the occasional report lingers as if in
apology for the secretary’s employment or
even the organization’s existence.
The monthly report system has this
greater advantage, in the opinion of one

eastern member of the Association:

“As a general proposition we have no stand-
ards by which we measure our own work or
the work of the organization. It is this entire
absence of standard, plus the absence of com-
parative statements, necessarily made public at
short intervals, that are at the bottom of most
organizations’ inediciency. It is mighty hard
to induce us to use devices that measure our
daily work. The unavoidable obligation to
make frequent comparative reports works won-
ders, I believe.”

In committee reports of the best organi-
zations, I find a full committee list put right
out in front. One organization uses the
chairman’s photograph with each commit-
tee report. while several put the full com-
mittee list in the margin opposite the text.
As a means of extending committee work.
of making acceptance of committee appoint-
ments more certain and of giving commit-
teemcn the feeling of participation in the
aHairs of the organization, this method is
plainly good business.

Pictorial forms to supplement reports are
in favor. These are splendid for rapid com-

GRANTICI) that so far as members are

 

’ From a paper on the Technique of Association Ad-
ministration, presented by Robert Wadsworth, Secre-
tary Youngstown (Ohio) Chamber of Commerce. at
the Annual Convention of the National Association of
Commercial Organization Secretaries, in St. Louis.
September, 1915.

prehension, usually to explain how the
work and income of the organization are
apportioned. Parallel columns may be used,
the planks in the platform being the debit
column, while in the other are credited the
things on the program done and those
done which were not on the program. In
this plan the sentences are short and
pointed. This is in fact a real trial balance.

In the reports of the organizations which
are generally regarded as most successful,
the name of the secretary never appears ex-
cept when necessary. The accomplish-
ments are always those of the committees
and directors.

Bills for dues in different commercial or-
ganizations are mailed out in a great variety
of intervals. The question is more im-
portant than is customarily supposed. I
believe there is a great advantage in having
bills mailed out yearly and no oftener. I
heard an experienced secretary once say
that “A bill for dues is a psychological in-
vitation to resign.” At least it will be
agreed to, I believe, that the receipt of a
bill puts a man on the defensive: it is
gently, but actually, asking him to sign a
new contract. A man usually feels as if
he is depriving himself if he doesn’t take
this occasion to consider what the organiza-
tion has done during the period since his
last payment that displeased him or what it
failed to do that he strongly favored.

Let us take the case of an organization
that bills its members four times a year,
and let us assume that the typical member
is not typical and that he pays his dues for
each quarter promptly and without a second
notice. At the end of a year he has received
at least four bills, for, let us say, $6.25.
he has made out four checks for $6.25 and
has received four receipts for $6.25. One
organization’s experience factually proves
that men feel that their financial support of
the organization is greater than if once a
year they got a bill and signed a check for
$25. The average man who is billed four
times a year (and this is one-half as true
of the semi-annual plan) will receive a bill
for the next period so soon after receiving
the receipt for the previous period, even if
he pays promptly, that a feeling of annoy-
ance results. This statement is not meant
to apply to the more diHicult collections.
There is the additional advantage of simpler
bookkeeping in favor of the annual plan.

[309]

Digitized by 600816

Training the Commercial Organization Secretary 1
By Charles A. Beard

Supervisor of the Training School for Public Service, New York Bureau of Municipal Research

lieved that the secretary of the

chamber of commerce did his full
duty if he located factories, drew trade and
sang the praises of his city; in other words,
it was once thought that the secretary
should be merely a promoter of industrial
undertakings. His success was measured by
the number of new smoke stacks he added
to the city. He was not regarded by the
community as a leader in any civic enter-
prise. On the contrary, he too frequently
felt contempt for the local politicians, and
even if he took an interest in the city gov-
ernment he was restrained from any im-
portant action by the fear of becoming in-
volved in “politics.”

Even though the civic secretary aims to
do nothing but protect business against gov-
ernment regulation and interference, neces-
sity compels him to give attention to com-
plicated problems of legislation and admin-
istration. If his sole interest is the pro-
motion of industries, he cannot ignore the
fact that the government of his city is of
vital concern to his enterprise. If he has
not already done so, he will soon learn that
high-grade manufacturers do not want to
build their plants in badly governed cities,
where the physical and social conditions are
repulsive and such as to lower the stand-
ards of life for their employes. In seeking,
therefore, to increase the number of indus-
tries in his city, the secretary must take into
account problems of transportation, the lay-
out and maintenance of streets, housing and
sanitation, education and recreation, finance
and budget-making, fire and police protec-
tion, and all the other branches of city gov-
ernment which involve the physical and
moral welfare of the citizens.

In fact, in many cities the first task of a
new secretary of the commercial organiza-
tion is not to capture more factories, but to
improve the living conditions—if for no
other reason than to make the city attrac-
tive to promoters looking for new factory
sites. In some places it is high taxation
and wasteful municipal finance that stir the
organization to an interest in the local gov-
ernment; in other places it is a particularly

THERE was a time when it was be-

[310]

knotty transportation problem; again it is
an appalling death rate that gives the local
“booster” pause. Whatever the source of
the original inspiration, it is clear that
commercial organizations are moving from
a spasmodic effort in the improvement of
local government to a broad and well-
planned scheme of civic work.

The work so well begun is not likely to
come to a stop. Rather does it seem estab-
lished beyond question that our commercial
organizations will give increasing attention
to every vital problem of government in its
relation to community welfare. Indeed, it
is a conservative estimate that the organi-
zation secretary, unless he has a special
bureau of municipal research under his
control, must devote fully half of his time
and energy to civic affairs. Particularly is
this true in the cities of minor rank, where
there are no citizens’ associations working
on municipal programs. Even in the larger
cities well supplied with such associations,
the commercial secretary must view many
of the problems of government from the
angle of the particular interest which he
represents.

Under these circumstances, therefore, it
would seem stiperfiuous to say that the or-
ganization secretary must be broadly
trained in economics, finance. municipal ad-
ministration and social science, as well as
in many branches of commerce and indus-
try. Moreover, the commercial secretary
should supplement his academic and busi-
ness training by practical contact with the
broad problems of municipal government,
such as budget-making, finance, transpor-
tation, municipal utilities, public health and
safety. education and vocational schools.
While there are many kinds of experience
which will add to the power and efficiency
of the commercial secretary, it seems that
at the present hour there is nothing more
vital and indispensable than discipline in
municipal research and investigation.

In view of this new turn in the affairs of
commercial organizations, the Training
School for Public Service, conducted by the
Bureau of Municipal Research in New
York City. has made special arrangements

Digitized by 600816

Ocromaa, 1915

to offer to secretaries already in the work
or to young men contemplating a career in
that field, practical contact with those prob-
lems of public administration which the
civic committees of commercial organiza-
tions are most likely to encounter. In other
words, the School recognizes the role which
the enlightened secretary must play in the
public affairs of his community, and regards

- Letters to

The Duty of Civic Organizations
to Emphasize Individual Re-
sponsibility in Munici-
pal Sanitation

To the Editor of THE AMERICAN CITY:

The development of effective methods of
sanitation is greatly hindered by the failure
on the part of people in general to appre-
ciate the individual’s duty in this regard.
While one’s duty to one’s neighbor was, a
long time ago, defined in accordance with
the Golden Rule, no special effort has yet
been made .to define this duty as regards
sanitation. Boards of health and sanitary
experts are supposed to attend to this mat-
ter, and paternal government is expected
to obtain the necessary results by some
method which will relieve the individual of
any burden.

So general is the idea of governmental
duty as against individual obligation, that
the sanitary officers of government, while
bes’peaking the cooperation of those served,
expend a great deal of time and energy in
attempts to so regulate the details of sani-
tary operations as to free the individual, as
much as possible, from responsibility or
participation in effective work.

No one more fully realizes this tendency,
and its adverse effect upon desired results,
than the municipal ofiicer whose duty it is to
clean the streets and remove the household
wastes. This official finds at the outset tha‘
he is expected to obtain results and to give
service, in spite of careless actions on the
part of the public generally, and with due
regard to individual comfort. The tax-
payers pay him well for his services, and
there their duty ceases; it is for him to
overcome all obstacles and to give efficient
and economical service and to maintain con-
ditions of public health and comfort.

THE AMERICAN CITY

311

cooperation in training organization secre-
taries as coming legitimately within the
scope of its activities. The authorities of
the School take this action on the assump-
tion that a career as director of an organi-
zation so vitally concerned in civic matters
is worthy of the best talent and that it
should attract the highest type of trained
thinkers and organizers.

the Editor

Formerly it was considered the duty of
the individual to see that the highway in
front of his premises was cleaned, period-
ically at least; and we find in the earlier
records of New York City that the city
fathers ordered the householders to clean
their streets upon a certain day or- to pay
a specified sum to an individual who agreed
to do the work for them.

While not set forth in the record, we have
reason to believe that the public was more
easily satisfied with less efficient results
than it is at present.

The collection and disposition of those
wastes defined as ashes, rubbish and gar-
bage have but recently been considered a
municipal duty, and even to-day in many
cities the individual has to arrange for that
service at his own expense.

Justice Cullen, in an able opinion, says:

“The state, especially of late years, with ad-
vancing civilization and with increase in the
knowledge of hygiene, has in many respects
raised the sanitary conditions and requirements
in accordance with which it requires its citi-

. zens to live; but it has not assumed to furnish

from the public funds the cost entailed by these
sanitary rules with which it compels the cm-
zens. by threatened penalties, to comply. . . .
Indeed, the distinguishing feature that char-
acterizes such services as municipal is that
they are primarily the work of indivndual citi-
zens, not assumed by the government through-
out the state at large, but rendered necessary
to be performed by municipalities on account
of the condition of life peculiar to such mum-
-ipalities.”

The distinguished judge in this Opinion,
while discussing a different phase of this
question from that here considered. points
out exactly the legal status of the individual
in no uncertain terms. The reiterated claim
of the rights of a taxpayer is here denied.
and by inference it is shown that only that
part of the work which it is practically im-

possible for the individual to perform is as-

Digitized by 600816

A.

312

sumed by the municipality, and up to that
point the individual is to do his part.

Public officials who seek popularity by en-
deavoring to arrange service merely to re-
lieve the individual are not only exceeding
their ofiicial limitations, but are fostering a
spirit which will return in many forms to
mock them when they attempt to enforce
proper regulations.

Civic betterment associations devote most
of their investigations and criticisms to the
acts of public officials, while it would often
be more profitable if the investigation and
criticism were directed against the failure
of the individual citizen to do his share.
Of course such a radical change of method
would be found unpopular and would limit
the membership of such an association, but
in the end better conditions would be fos-

tered and less ground for complaint would
exist.

Streets are set apart for the general bene-
fit rather than for the exclusive use of the
abutting resident. For that reason there is
some excuse for making the maintenance of
the pavement and the cost of cleaning a
charge upon the municipality at large; but
that argument does not include the right of
the individual to increase the litter by his
carelessness. This item of careless littering
is estimated to cost the city of New York
some $400,000 per annum—a needless ex-
pense without compensating benefit.

The duty of the individual is evident in
this matter, and ordinances prescribing pen-
alties for violations of the rules governing
the littering of the streets should be strictly
drawn and sternly enforced.

\Vhile the individual is not equipped for
the furnishing of transportation of the.
household wastes to their place of final dis-
position, he should not be relieved from
providing proper receptacles for their de-
posit at the premises, nor from so placing
them for the collector as to conserve an eco-
nomical and efiicient removal. The com—
plainant against uncovered vehicles for
transporting the wastes through the streets
very frequently furnishes imprOper recep-
tacles and uncovered garbage cans.

There is a tinge of humor in the action of
one who purchases land in the vicinity of
the place of final disposition of the wastes
——d0ing so because he gets a bargain owing
to the location being adjacent to this muni-
cipal operation—and then demands that the

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 4

nuisance created by this offensive trade be
abated in order that he may profit by the
improvement and sale of his property. The
person so involved seldom evidences an ap-
preciation of the humor, however.

In the matter of “swat the fly” campaigns.
we find the point at issue lost sight of. We
measure the success of fhese movements
by the quarts of insects destroyed and issue
statistics as to the number of unborn pests
so denied an existence, as though the fly
were the offender and his demise the end
to be attained; whereas the fact is that the
fly could not exist without filth to feed upon.
The fly does not originate the filth; on the
contrary, the presence of flies is an indica-
tion that filth is accumulating. This accu-
mulation is caused by individual careless-
ness—and the “swat” should be reserved
for this offender rather than for the fly.
Such campaigns violate hygienic laws, in
that they treat a symptom rather than the
disease.

We have, then, the plainly stated neces-
sity, based on moral and legal obligation.
of individual cooperation with oflicial en-
deavor in improving the sanitary conditions
within a municipality, and the plain duty
of the administrative oHicials is to demand
such cooperation instead of requesting it.
Failure to make this demand. while it tem—
porarily benefits the officials from a political
popularity standpoint, still greatly retards
sanitary progress and results in unhealthful
and uncomfortable conditions of municipal
life.

Here. too, the individual ofiicial must sub-
ordinate his desire for popularity to the
general welfare, and add as his donation to
the cause of cooperation a sacrifice of per-
sonal political ambition.

To attain the end sought in the promotion
of betterment of sanitary conditions, it is
not necessary to add to the already large
number of associations for social uplift; but
there should be an amendment made to the
constitution or by-laws of existing organi-
zations setting forth the necessity of indi-
vidual actions in matters of common inter-
est, pledging the individuals to unremitting
performance of this duty and providing for
the excommunication of the unfaithful per:

son who neglects to do his share at all

times. liiiwaan D. VERY,

Consulting Engineer.
New York, August 4. 1915.

Digitized by 600816

OCTOBER, 1915

Property Owners to Own Water
Meters

To the Editor of THE AMERICAN CITY:

The recent articles in THE AMERICAN
CITY in reference to the ownership of
water meters have been very interesting
and should be considered by everyone using
meters or contemplating their installation.
Our experience in Lancaster, Pa., has been
that property owners should own their own
meters; then there is no trouble in the col~
lection of meter repair bills after the owner
knows the nature of the repair. It is a
hard matter to collect repair bills for meters
that are owned by the municipality, as the
property owners use the argument that they
pay taxes and that it should be the duty of
the city to keep up the repairs.

We have about 5,300 water meters in ser-
vice. When any of these meters is out of
service we send a duplex mailing card to
the property owner which calls his attention
to the fact that his meter is out of order and
that it will be taken out for repairs within
a certain time. If he wants to know what
the trouble is, he calls at the ofi‘ice; but the
card states that the reading of his meter at
this date is the same as it was three months
previous. which shows that something is
wrong with the meter. He signs the return
card, which is filed, and we proceed to take
out the meter and test it. We charge for
the actual material used in repairing the
meter, making no charge for labor, and
with our twenty-live years’ experience with
water meters, we can always collect the bill.
\Vhen new meters are placed, we make no
charge for repairs Within one year unless
the meter is damaged by hot water or frost.

THE AMERICAN CITY

313

We are placing about 500 meters a year,
all of them purchased by the property own-
ers, who are informed at the time of pur-
chase that the meters belong to them and
that they must keep up the repairs.

The city stands back of the meters and
the manufacturer stands back of the city,
and in no one case has either been called
on to make good that responsibility. We
make a charge of $8 for a §«§-inch meter,
and the owner installs it at his expense sub-
ject to the rules and inspection of the De-
partment of \Vater. The city buys only
standard meters, factory tested and guar-
anteed. After their receipt the Department
makes a 10-foot test on every meter, which
must register 100 per cent before being
sold.

We make a test of all meters in service
every two years, meters from I inch up
being read every month. Bills on all meters
are rendered every three months. It is to
the advantage of water consumers to use
water meters, as the schedule rates on any
ordinary property with all conveniences
amount to about $19, while the minimum
rate with a meter is but $10. The property
owner more than saves the price of the me-
ter by its installation, and the city saves the
waste of water which our inspection system
shows to occur in numerous cases where
meters are not used.

JOHN T. BRAINARD,
Secretary, Department of \Vater,
Lancaster, Pa.
September 8, 1915.

[EDITOR’S NOTE—For other expressions of
opinion and experience regarding the owner-
ship of water meters, see Issue of September,

1915. page 231, and July. 1915. pages 53-55.]

 

Polis, Metro-polis, a City, a City-man, a Polis-man, the Policeman
By John Cotton Dana in “The Newarker”

The ablest group of men the world has
ever known—they lived about 2,500 years
ago—when they wanted to speak of their
city, said “Polis,” just the word we use now
to refer to the men who try to keep our city
in good order and enforce its rules.

\Vell, what of it? Why, for one thing,
the Policeman has a fine old name. of ex-
cellent ancestry. Once his name stood for

his city itself, and now it stands for him,

his city's guardian. That gives him some—
thing to live up to.

Then, the Police man is the City-Man.
He largely represents us all, and where
you find good Policemen, there you usually
Find a well-managed city.

Anyway, if we were all as polite and
oliliging as our Police are. this city would
be so gentlemanly that it would need no
Policemen—and they all would lose their

jobs!

Digitized by 600816

Putting Human Interest into an Engineering
Report

 

WATER BUREAU COMMISSARY DEPARTMENT
Furnishes hot coffee and “cats” to the men detailed on street work at night during the winter months

The foregoing is one of the many “human
interest” pictures in a unique annual report
issued last month by Morris Llewellyn
Cooke, Director of Public Works of Phila-
delphia. The report bears the title “Plain
Talk,” and, to quote its title page, it dis-
cusses

ECONOMIES PUBLIC SINGING
GAS WORKS DRINKING WATER
PIGEONS STREET CLEANING
GOOD ROADS BRIDGES

SIGN BOARDS CONTRACTS
GARBAGE BAND MUSIC
CITY PLAN PUBLIC UTILITIES
CRAFT STREET LIGHTING
MARKETING WATER WASTE

AND OTHER THINGS
OF GENERAL INTEREST

The Introduction arouses the interest of
the recipient. It reads:

DEAR READER

Please forget that this is a public document.
Read it rather as a study in home—making—as
the record of one year of effort to make of
Philadelphia the best place in all the world in
which to live. This report of the Director of

[314]

Public Works to the Mayor of the city is
really a story of the stewardship of 4,000 city
employes working for the other 1,600,000
citizens. o

The following excerpt is characteristic:

In the prize competition, Arthur C. Merrill,
superintendent of meters, Bureau of Water,
thus describes an improvement which is splen-
didly indicative of the new spirit of the de-
partment:

The establishment of a commissary department in
the Bureau of Water to provide meals for the men
engaged in emergency work is a step in the right di-
rection. It has been installed at a very small cost
and in addition to decreasing the hardship required
of these men at such times, it will return many fold
its cost by giving each man an increased etliciency.

Work of this nature usually comes in severe weather
and invariably requires continuous attention both
night and day until the job is completed. Unless the
break has occurred near a place where food can be
bought during the night, the men have been obliged to
practice Christian Science and believe that they were
not hungry and did not need warm drink unless some
thoughtful citizen in the neighborhood took pity on
them and made a pot of coffee and some sandwiches.

Happily this condition is now ancient history and
the Water Bureau, while looking out for the welfare
of its workmen, has decreased the time which any sec-
tion of the city might be deprived of its normal water
supply through breaks in its distribution system.

 

Making a Pump House Adorn a Park

By John P. Berry

Superintendent, Water-Works, Waterloo, Iowa

N a setting of green trees, and surrounded
I by foliage and Howers, the pump house
over artesian well No. 4 in Waterloo,
Iowa, adds beauty to Cedar River Park. It
is not far from the municipal bathing beach,
and thousands of people view it during the
summer months. The house was erected
and the floral adornments added under the
direction of the writer, who in cooperation
with the water trustees conceived this plan
of increasing the attractiveness of the park.
Two years ago the water-works trustees
decided to increase the watersupply by add-
ing another artesian well. The work was
begun in November, 1914, and completed in
record time in April, 1914. The well is
1,378 feet deep. For the first 200 feet it is
15 inches in diameter, and for the remain-
ing distance 8 inches. St. Peter sandstone

was struck at 800 feet. This stratum, which
is about 40 feet thick, is a pure white water-
bearing sand. Jordan sand was found at
1,300 feet; this is about 75 feet thick, also
pure white and water-bearing. As soon
as the drill struck' this stratum the well be-
gan to How, and continued to How until the
pump was installed.

The Construction of the House

By permission of the park board the well
was drilled in Cedar River Park, 100 feet
west of the east line. This portion of the
park is subject to overfiow when the Cedar
River is at Hood stage. For this reason it
was necessary to place the door line of the
pump house about 9 feet above the street
grade. This was accomplished by building
a foundation 8 feet high and filling in, plac-

 

PUMP HOUSE OVER ARTESIAN WELL NO. t, WATERLOO, IA.

[315]

316

ing concrete retaining walls, or terraces, to
The first terrace wall is 29

hold the fill.

inches high, one foot thick, and 50 feet
square. The second terrace is 28 inches
high and is set back 3 feet from the first;
it is carried on twenty concrete posts. The
third terrace is also set back 3 feet and is
carried on posts. On top of the third ter-
race is a cement walk, 8 feet wide, extend-
ing around the building, which is unique and
was designed by the water department.

The well house is 21 feet square, and
measures 12 feet to the eaves. The outside

is of pressed brick in two colors, with panel
effect. The inside is of glazed tile, mottled
with green to a height of 5 feet, and white
from that point to the ceiling. The ceiling
is of steel, painted white. The 'first roof has
long, drooping eaves covered with tile; the
second is of the same construction and is 3
feet above the first, making the building re-

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No.4

semble a Japanese pagoda. It is surmounted
by a 35-foot tower for handling machinery.

@ecorations of Greenery

A triangular piece of ground west of the
house has been transformed into flower beds
and planted with hardy shrubbery and
tiowers. The space between the terraces has
been planted with flowering shrubs—snow-
berry, barberry, matrimonial vines and
weeping golden bell. Forty varieties of
shrubs and flowers have been used.

A novel rustic seat has been provided.
It is of cement and is covered by a grape
vine carried up through a 4-inch water-pipe
and spread over the top of the arches. re—
sembling an umbrella. A hydrant and drink-
ing fountain has been placed near by for the
convenience of the public.

This well alone provides for the entire
water consumption of the city of Waterloo.
Its capacity is 1,400,000 gallons daily.

 

Ordinances for Smoke Abatement
By Martin A. Rooney, M. E.

Smoke Inspector, Nashville, Tenn.

MOKE ordinances have been in force
S since the last part of the thirteenth
century, when the common council of
London prohibited the use of “sea cole"
within her borders and prescribed hanging
as one of the penalties for violation of the
law. Since that time numerous attempts
have been made by legislative bodies to
prevent this sort of atmospheric pollution.
and most of the thickly populated centers of
Europe have had in force smoke laws for
the past one hundred years or more. In
this country the first ordinance was adopted
in Chicago in 1881, and at present about
eighty of the more important cities have
laws on this subject.

A ulhorily

In this country smoke abatement ordi-
nances are usually enacted by the city gov-
ernments, only one state, Massachusetts,
having state legislation on the subject.
Cities derive the power to regulate the emis-
sion of smoke from the police power dele-
gated to them from the state by their char—
ters. This power is defined as the power of

the government to preserveand promote the
public welfare by prohibiting things hurt-
ful to the comfort and welfare of society
and establishing such rules for the conduct
of all persons and property as may be con-
ducive to the public interest. In some cases
cities have been empowered by special acts
to pass ordinances abating the smoke nuis-
ance. It has, however, been held by the
courts (Rayane vs. Lorange, 66 Mich. 373)
that this is not necessary, since a city may
abate a nuisance without special grant of
the legislature, provided that the thing pro-
hibited is a nuisance per se and that the
abating ordinance be reasonable; that is, it
must be in the power of those creating the
nuisance to prevent it, also the ordinance
must be certain in its terms and specifically
define the nuisance. Smoke ordinances can
be passed under this provision of the com-
mon law; for smoke is certainly a nuisance
in itself and can be easily abated by its
producers; and dense smoke is perfectly
susceptible of definition, since there are
several standards for measuring it, and
since the terms “dense” and “smoke” are

Digitized by 600816

OCTOBER, 1915

easily defined and recognized by the ordi-
nary citizen. In practically all cases in
which smoke ordinances have been before
the courts, they have been sustained in all
of their essential provisions.

Essential Features of 0 Smoke Ordinance

The functions of a smoke ordinance are
to define and prohibit the production of of-
fensive smoke, to establish penalties for its
production and to take precaution against
the installation of equipment which would
aggravate the nuisance.

An ordinance for any particular locality
should be designed to meet local conditions.
The character of industries, the fuel and
the form of government of any particular
locality will, of course, affect the form of
its smoke ordinance; however, all of the
most successful smoke ordinances are simi-
lar in their essential provisions. Of course,
an ordinance for a large city will differ from
one in a smaller town. In a large city the
supervision of construction of plants is im-
portant, while in the smaller town the police
features of the ordinance overshadow all
others.

SMOKE INSPECTORS—Most smoke ordinances
provide for the appointment, salary, bonding.
etc., of a smoke inspector and assistants. The
smoke inSpector’s work may be properly placed
under the police or health department, or,
better, under a separate department. The best
ordinances provide that the smoke inspector
be a mechanical engineer, and in some cities
that he must be chosen by civil service exami-
nation. This provision is very important since.
manifestly, it would be very difficult for a per-
son untrained in the burning of fuel and gen-
eration of power to enforce a law dealing inti-
mately with these subjects, as a smoke ordi-
nance must.

CITY SUPERVISION 0F CONSTRUCTION.—In
large cities. to prevent each new plant from
adding to the volume of smoke in the air. it
is provided that no furnace can be constructed,
repaired or operated without the approval of
the smoke inspection department. Therefore.
the law usually provides that a permit must
be secured from the smoke inspector before
the installation or alteration of a furnace can
be begun, and a certificate must be issued by
him before it can be operated. Usually the
class of apparatus to be approved is left to the
discretion of the smoke inspector; the ordi—
nance in force in the city of Cincinnati being
the only one which prescribes rules for the
installation and construction of apparatus.

PROHIBITION or DENSE Snows—Some cities
(Cleveland. for example) simply prohibit the
emission of dense smoke and allow no period
whatever during which it can be emitted.

THE AMERICAN CITY

3‘?

Since, however, the emission of dense smoke
for short periods is not objectionable, and
since, under conditions prevailing in an ordi-
nary power plant, it is unavoidable in cleaning
and building fires, the emission of dense smoke
is usually allowed for a certain period varying
from five to fifteen minutes in one hour, the
period being six minutes in most ordinances.
The provision that smoke may be emitted for
a certain number of minutes consecutively is
bad, for it may be interpreted to mean that
smoke can be emitted for five minutes with a
clear interval of one minute and then for an-
other live minutes, and so on. In some places
emission of dense smoke is allowed for a long
period at the time fires are being started.
some providing that they must be started be-
tween certain hours. The city of Boston is
the only one that classifies stacks according
to their size and use and allows a different
amount of smoke from different classes of
stacks. When the ordinance was adopted in
1910 comparatively long periods were allowed
for the emission of smoke, the ordinance be-
cgming stricter each year until 1913 and there—
a ter.

DEFINITION OF DENSE SMOKE—The present
anti-smoke laws vary considerably in defining
dense smoke. In some it is defined merely as
offensive smoke, in others as smoke which de-
posits soot. in others as smoke which cannot be
seen through as it issues from the stack. Some
use a glass of a standard color with which the
smoke must be compared, others use charts
similar to the Ringleman Chart. Most of the
ordinances lately adopted define No. 3 of the
Ringleman Chart as dense smoke. which
seems to be the most satisfactory definition.

PENALTIES.—-The penalties for the emission
of smoke vary from fines of from $200 to
$300 for each violation, to imprisonment.
Practically all ordinances provide that the
emission of smoke may be summarily abated
by the proper authorities.

PERSONS LIABLE—Owners, operators, man-
agers. engineers, firemen and all who have to
do either directly or indirectly with the main-
tenance or operation of furnaces are named
as liable for the violation of the ordinances.

SPECIAL Famous—Several ordinances em-
body features peculiar to themselves. The
Memphis ordinance provides that all accidents
to any steam-generating apparatus shall be re-
ported to the smoke inspector within twenty-
four hours. The Denver ordinance provides
that it shall be a good defense in a prosecution
if the person charged with violating the ordi-
nance can show to the satisfaction of the court
that there are no practicable means by which
the emission of dense smoke from his particu-
lar apparatus can be avoided.

The cause of smoke abatement would be
greatly advanced if the laws were more
uniform. It is to be sincerely hoped, there-
fore, that municipalities in adopting new
measures will pattern them in their essen-
tial features after the best at present in use.

Di itizedb GO i [Q
g y 19g

 

 

 

MHF._,_ - - ~-
#—

p~ _*:-:_::_"""1 '.*"_j...".':.. __'
_, 1 Z'-;,.- ".<: .- d. ' ..- I
I —‘ . L! I p ‘I _
. ‘- ——— .'
' i. — .- '  I _ _ ._ -.‘_-4‘- nit-9‘

. a

 

 

‘.  Y .. .

4 . ,_ . _ I“ . m. -.. I '-
~ - 1E; . '. -
'.' _rfi—\._I . 1H”

.-
l..

The Water-Front Improvements
at Stillwater, Minn.

By Frank T. Wilson

St. Croix, is unusually picturesque

and advantageous. As in many
other cases, however, no foresight was ex-
ercised in the early days in laying out the
town along attractive and practical lines.
The long, narrow, flat surface of the water
front was cut up with railroad tracks and

THE site of Stillwater, Minn., on Lake

industrial plants and presented a very
shabby appearance. The area between the
bank and the railroad tracks served as a
dumping ground for the city. The four
streets included in this neglected area meet
the lake front at right angles and are, in
order, from south to north, East Nelson,
East Chestnut, East Myrtle and East Mul-

 

BOAT HOUSES AND UNSIGHTLY BANKS AT STILLWATER

OCTOBER, 1915

bery Streets. The tract
between East Nelson and
East Chestnut, except the
north one hundred feet,
belonged to the city and
was known as the levee.
A time of awakening
came to Stillwater with
the great civic revival
which is sweeping the
country. Attention was
first directed to the neg-
lected levee. The move-
ment for its improvement
originated with the Still-
water Citizens’ Associa-
tion, which by means of a street carnival
had acquired a fund of about $1,000. A
proposition was made to the City Council
that the Citizens’ Association would start
the reclamation of the levee with the same
sum that the city would put into it. Nego-
tiations between the city and the Northern
Pacific Railroad for the removal of the
sheds and tracks from a certain portion of
the river front finally resulted in an agree-
ment by which the city was granted the use
of the ground north of the levee along the
shore of Lake St. Croix for park purposes
for a period of twenty years. The railroad
company reserved the right, however, after
five years, on a year’s notice, to resume
possession of its pr0perty, provided that it
needed the grounds for railroad purposes.
In due time the work was entrusted to
an executive committee representing both
the City Council and the Citizens’ Associa-

 

V'IEVV FROM SOUTHEAST CORNER OF OLD LEVEE

THE AMERICAN CITY

319

 

THE OLD LEVEE IN WINTER TIME

tion, and a beginning was made under local
advice without any definite plan. The Citi-
zens’ Association contributed $750 for this
initiatory work, and the city about $1,000.
Several months later Mr. Elmore Lowell,
a life-long citizen of Stillwater, offered to
put $5,000 into the work on condition that
it should be conducted in accordance with
the plan of some good landscape architect.
Mr. Lowell’s proposition was accepted.
Mr. W. A. Finkelnburg, of Winona, Minn.,
was selected to plan the work, and under
his supervision the improvement of the por-
tion between East Chestnut and East Nel-
son Streets, now known as Lowell Park.
was carried out. The park occupies a tract
of ground approximately 150 by 550 feet.
The general scheme of the park includes
a lawn in the rear at such an elevation that
in all ordinary stages of the river it will
be above high water mark. The lawn occu-
pies about two-thirds of
the ground, is diversified
by groups of trees, shrubs
and flowers, and is ter-
raced to a broad parterre

of double walk extending
along the levee front.
Flower beds between the
walks constitute a strik-
ing feature of the formal
part of the park, and a
hedge adjacent to the rail-
road tracks adds to the
beauty. The east line of
the parterre is defined by
a cement retaining bench,
which elevates the walks
two feet above the levee
proper. The levee, forty

I

320

 

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 4

A GLIMPSE OF LOWELL PARK, STILLWATER

feet in width and paved with cement, slopes
from the cement bench to a stone retaining
wall, which marks the river edge. Suitable
walks and steps give the public convenient
access to all parts of the park.

The cost of the park was as follows:
River wall . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. $2,386.21

Filling grounds . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . 2,194.51
Grading surface soil and seed1ng.... 642.50
Walks and flower beds . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1,020.20

Cement benches, steps, wall cap . . . . .. 1,264.30

Wooden seats . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 154.00

Shrubs, trees, etc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 114.63

Engineer’s fees, tools, etc . . . . . . . . . . .. 295.82

Ornamental lights and wiring . . . . . . .. 325.83
Concrete paving of levee (40' x 550') 3,100.00
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $11,498.00
This. sum was contributed as follows:
Citizens’ Association . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. $750.00 -

Jacob Bean . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 500.00

Elmore Lowell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,000.00

Forty-three citizens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,200.00

City of Stillwater . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,048.00
$11,498.00

The citizens of Stillwater were so en—
couraged by the good results secured in
Lowell Park that a movement was started
for carrying the improvements north of
Chestnut Street. Morell & Nichols, of
Minneapolis, have prepared a study for a
considerable distance along the water front,
extending from Chestnut Street north to
East Mulberry Street. Two main problems
enter into the proposed improvements: one

is the laying out of the flat space between
the banks and the railroad tracks from East
Chestnut Street to East Mulberry Street;
the other is the improvement of the bank
and provision for an attractive and prac-
tical construction of floating docks and
walks and the grouping of boat houses.
The flat space between the water front and
the railroad station is centrally located and
offers an ideal site for a sunken garden.
The portion of the water front north of
East Myrtle Street and beyond East Mul-
berry Street will be devoted principally to
trees, shrubs, lawn and walks. The Lake
Drive along the water front will be event-
ually a part of the parkway system. Part
of the bank below the Drive will be planted
with low shrubbery and the remaining por-
tion will be maintained as a beach. An at-
tractive stairway at the foot of East Myrtle
Street makes it easy to reach the beach, the
floating dock and walks and the boat houses.
A pergola extending on both sides of the
stairway will serve as an outlook and a
music pavilion.

On account of the rapid change in the
water level, the desired construction of the
floating docks and walks requires some en-
gineering skill. The recent dismantling of
the logging boom above the city furnishes
an unusual opportunity to get material for
the walks. These walks, in additiOn to pro-
viding for landing and for access to boat

OCTOBER, 1915

houses, protect the beach from the washing
of the waves and furnish on the inside a
safe place for children to play and wade
in the water. The architects suggest that
the floating docks and walks be anchored
by strong iron pipes and ornamental posts
imbedded in concrete, in order to make this
feature of the improvement permanent. '
Stillwater is blessed with wonderful op-
portunities for becoming one of the most
attractive towns in the Northwest. The
present proposed improvements, started in a
modest way by a few citizens, will lead to
bigger things and will furnish an example
to other towns similarly situated. The exe-

THE AMERICAN CITY

321

cutiou of the proposed park improvement
will depend largely upon the good-will of
the railroad company which owns the land.
Stillwater has followed the usual practice
of American cities in freely relinquishing
shore rights to railroads. It has even gone
further: nearly all the land has been created
during the past twenty years by the citizens
of Stillwater with scarcely any expense to
the railroad. However, the railroad has al-
ready granted permission to use a portion
of the property improved in the project,
and it is hoped there will be no difficulty

in making satisfactory arrangements for
the remainder.

The Improvement of the Davenport River-Front
By Leonidas Willing Ramsey

Landscape Architect

1TH a large part of the $1,000,000
 river-front reclamation project
completed, this pioneer work of
Davenport, Iowa, is. drawing the atten-
tion of every wide-awake city along the
river. Until a few years ago the river-
front was a dumping ground for the refuse
of the city, and was littered with tin cans,
barrels, boxes and all manner of garbage.
Strangely enough, no one had seriously
considered taking advantage of this loca-
tion beside the broad Mississippi, to make
the site a beautiful park, where the river
could be enjoyed by day and the reflections
of the city of Rock Island appreciated at
night. It is true that a few physicians and
city-beautiful enthusiasts had sent general
criticisms to the newspapers, but no one
had offered a logical scheme for its recla-
mation.

A few years ago, however, the Greater
Davenport idea struck the city; while plans
were being made to encourage and secure
commercial enterprises, W. D. Peterson,
who had observed water-fronts in Europe.
pointed out that if Davenport wished to
become an example to the other river towns,
and at the same time improve her general
appearance, no greater work could be done
than the reclamation of her river-front.
He interested the City Council after a re-
port was drawn up by A. M. Compton, City

Engineer, and later an appropriation of
$75,000 was made, so that the first part of
the work might be carried out. Mayor
Alfred C. Mueller gave his support to the
plan, and a Levee Commission was formed,
composed of W. D. Peterson, W. H. Kim-
ball, A. M. Compton and Rudolph Clausen,
a local architect. Mr. Peterson devoted
most of his time to the work. The Greater
Davenport Committee, composed of thirty
prominent citizens, became interested in the
matter, and, under the leadership of their
secretary, Irwing C. Norwood, did all in
their power to carry out the scheme and to
interest the other cities along the river.

The New Park

By last fall the first part of the river-
front scheme had been completed. A wall
had been built of rough stone from river
bottom to hfteen feet above low-water
mark. This is the outer boundary to the
park, which is'about a block wide and ex-
tends three blocks parallel to the shore.
The space back of the wall, which was 20
feet deep in places, and estimated to con-
tain 333,333 cubic feet, was then filled in.
Much of the till is composed of sand
pumped from the river. This was carried
to the wall in large barges and then dumped
into place by huge cranes. The remainder

Digitized by 

322

 

0f the filling material was street sweepings.

The park will soon be ready for the pub-
lic; the park commissioners are busy push-
ing the work, digging holes for trees
and laying out drives. Black dirt is be-
ing hauled, and the site is rapidly being
brought to grade. The park is designed
primarily for pedestrians, where the peo-
ple of the down-town district can find
refuge during hot summer days. Along the
sea wall at the river’s edge will be a 12—
foot promenade. Directly behind this wall
is a row of trees, under which benches will
be placed. Between the walk and the tree
line temporary bleachers may be erected, in
the event of regattas or municipal fireworks
displays.

The central feature of the scheme is a
band-stand. Seats will be placed around
it, and municipal concerts will be held

 

THE RIVER-FRONT PARK IN

THE AMERICAN CITY

DAVENPORT

VOL. XIII, N0. 4

 

  

there. Two shelter houses are included in
the scheme; these may be replaced by
statues at some future time. There is a
comfort station located at the entrance to
the park, so as to be easily accessible to
people using the ferry. The boat harbor
is designed to accommodate a suliicient
number of boats, and it is thought that
when concerts are given upon the river
there will be a renewed interest in boating,
as one will be able to drift about and enjoy
the music. The views on the opposite side
have been carefully preserved, so that the
reflections up and down the river may be
enjoyed to their fullest extent.

\_.-..—-—-a—

 

A Comprehensive Plan

The ground already reclaimed is but a
sample of the entire reclamation project,
which, for a city of 50,000, seems of mam-.

BROUGHT TO GRADE

OCTOBER, 1915

moth proportion. When it is completed
there will be an Academy of Sciences, a
municipal casino and. a new union station
upon the water-front. The location of
these buildings has not been definitely set-
tled, but the accompanying drawing will
show their approximate situation.

The remainder of the reclamation project
embraces the up-river end of the present
park site. This will be the industrial sec—
tion for the new levee; it is to be not
merely a thing of beauty but of utility as
well. The fill for this section runs four
blocks up the river from 135 feet to 225
feet from the present bank, and in some
places 35 feet deep. Between the indus-
trial and the parking sections will be a
tract 200 feet wide and 1,000 feet long,
sloping to the river at a 10 per cent grade,
for a ferry and excursion boat landing.

With the construction of a river-front
terminal, which will be equipped with urban
freight-handling machinery and a municipal
warehouse, the principal feature of the in-
dustrial section, Davenport looks for the

THE AMERICAN CITY

323

resumption of the river freight traffic,
which, thirty years ago, was the principal
industry of the Mississippi Valley. Even
during the short time since the beginning
of the levee reclamation work, there has
been a noticeable increase of river freight.
The reclaimed land along the terminal will
be rented to commercial houses at a'figure
which will ultimately retire the bonds is-
sued for the reclamation project.

While the cost of the entire scheme is
estimated at $1,000,000, by the expenditure
land worth $3,000,000 will be added to the
city’s property. The project will not be
completed until 1916. City Engineer Comp-
ton has resigned as such, and has been
made engineer for the levee commission,
to devote his entire time to the work.

A number of cities along the Mississippi
have followed Davenport’s example; a
large number have the matter under con-
templation; others also along the Missouri
and Ohio rivers have sent delegations to
view the actual Operations and to study the
plans.

 

Getting the Immigrant Child to School

Every immigrant child arriving at a
United States port of entry will henceforth
be reported immediately to the school an-
thorities in the locality to which he is des-
tined, so that he may be placed in school
without loss of time and without danger of
being shunted off into unlawful employ-
ment. This is made possible by cooperation
between two Federal bureaus—the Bureau
of Immigration of the Department of La-
bor and the Bureau of Education in the
Department of the Interior.

According to the plan agreed upon by
Commissioners Caminetti and Claxton of
the two bureaus concerned, the port officials
will have the names of immigrant children
between the ages of five and sixteen copied
from the manifest sheets submitted by
steamship captains, and forwarded, daily or
weekly, to the county or city superintendent
of schools.

Bureau of Education officials point out
that the success of the Plan will depend al-
most entirely upon the school authorities.
If the attendance ofiicer follows up at once
the families where the newly arrived immi-
grants have been received, it will be pos-

sible to enroll every child in school. Other-
wise, the child is apt to accept employment
and be forever beyond the influence of
American education.

It is pointed out that about 160,000 chil-
dren between the ages of five and sixteen
enter the United States annually; 85 per
cent of these come from non-English speak-
ing countries, particularly from southern
Italy, Poland, Russia, Lithuania and other
eastern and southern European and Asiatic
countries. Unless these children come into
contact with American life through the pub—
lic school, they are likely to grow up igno-
rant of American institutions and thor-
oughly unfit for citizenship.

The plan of sending the names of these
immigrant children immediately to county
and city superintendents is a first step in
the upbuilding of a domestic immigration
policy by the United States Government,
according to Dr. H. H. Wheaton, special
agent in immigrant education of the United
States Bureau of Education. who says. “It
marks the beginning of the end of the doc-
trine of laissez-faire with reference to the
Americanization of the immigrant."

Digitized by 600816

:L_'_'||llllll||l||illll!l|lIEll:IlIllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllulllllllllllllllllllllllMHHWIWMHIIMWWWWWWlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll “Vi-film“"3"”i‘liililllliii'i  ‘ 

 FACTORS IN THE SUCCESS OR
 FAILURE OF STREET PAVEMENTS

ill"|llllllIllIlllllllllllllIllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillI!!!llIllIIllll|llllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIHllllllllllllllillilelllll Nth".  2g

 

.iiillll!|lllllIIllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllli

 

‘EDITOR’S Nora—The following is the second of the series of articles under the above

heading to be published in THE AMERICAN CITY, as announced in the July number.

The

first of the series, on Sheet Asphalt Pavements, by Daniel T. Pierce, Executive Assistant,

The Barber Asphalt Paving Company, appeared in the August issue.

cles in the series will be:

The remaining arti-

BITUMINOUS MACADAM—Philip P. Sharples, Manager, Tarvia Department, Barrett Manu-

facturing Company.

BRICK—Will P. Blair, Secretary, National Paving Brick Manufacturers Association.
CONCRETE—W. A. McIntyre, Chief Road Engineer, American Portland Cement Manufac-

turers Association.

GRANITE—Zenas W. Carter, Field Secretary,

Association of the United States.

Granite Paving Block Manufacturers

WOOD BLOCKS—H. S. Loud, Chief Engineer, United States Wood Preserving Company.

The articles will be published in alphabetical order, as listed above. As the manufacturers
of the various types of pavement are vitally interested in the proper construction and mainte-
nance of their products, and have necessarily made a very careful study of this subject, they
are able to offer thoroughly practical advice regarding factors to be considered and mistakes
to be avoided. It is not the intention of this series of articles to advocate the merits of any

particular kind or brand of pavement.

The assumption will be in each case that a city has

decided to lay a pavement of the type under discussion; the object of each article being to
offer suggestions as to how the longest life may be obtained for such a pavement at the least

possible expenditure to the municipality.

Asphalt Block Pavements

By Edwin J. Morrison
President, The Hastings Pavement Company, New York

E start out with the assumption that
W a municipality has decided to lay
an asphalt block pavement and that
a discussion of the merits of different classes
of pavement and comparison of their mer-
its, or demerits, has no place in this article.
It is a fortunate editorial restriction that
requires us to take up the question after the
type of pavement has been selected; for of
all human problems that breed dissension
and discord among property owners and
oliicials, none is so potent as the usual dis-
cussion over the selection of a type of
pavement.

The chief factors in the success of an
asphalt block pavement can be briefly
summed up in the statement that first-class
blocks Should be well laid on a suitable and

[324]

substantial foundation. The specifications
necessary to produce this result cannot be
so briefly stated. As “a chain is no stronger
than its weakest link,” a pavement must be
designed so that both the foundation and
the wearing surface will each perform its
allotted part. A good wearing surface may
be destroyed by the failure of the founda-
tion and thus bring discredit upon a sur-
face material which would be entirely ade—
quate if properly supported. On the other
hand, a suitable foundation will hold up a
relatively poor wearing surface and render
its failure less pronounced.

Foundation

A very large percentage of the failures
of the past have been due to inadequate

Digitized by 600816

3’

- .4—-— - o‘. -'1;-'-'_ '-
h  it
‘ '  ‘O.

Q".

 

-h .
('1.

_.

READY TO RELAY THE BLOCK IN REPAVING AN OPENING

 

REPAIR COMPLETED, AND SURFACE COVERED WITH TRAP ROCK GRITS

326

foundation. Many pavements are being
laid at the present time upon an insufficient
foundation, thus laying the basis for future
failures. It is the opinion of the writer
that the question of providing a suitable
foundation is one of supreme importance.
We are undergoing a period of rapid
change in traffic conditions, the significance
of which it is hard to fully realize. This
changing condition is due to the introduc-
tion and use of the motor truck. This
twentieth century juggernaut is increasing,
both in size and numbers, with startling
rapidity, and is producing a new set of con-
ditions which must be provided for in the
construction of pavement, but more particu-
larly of pavement foundations.

A few years ago the horse-drawn truck,
carrying loads of from one to three tons,
was about the most severe test that the
average pavement had to withstand. Now
the motor truck is rapidly supplanting the
horse-drawn vehicle and carrying loads of
five, six and seven tons. These trucks
weigh approximately five tons light, and
when fully loaded develop wheel loads four
and five times greater than the former
horse-drawn vehicle. With these increased
wheel loads comes simultaneously an in-
crease in speed from three miles an hour to
fifteen or twenty miles an hour. The re-
sult is startlingly apparent. Wearing sur-
faces which are at all soft or plastic are
being rolled into humps and ridges, and
concrete foundations that have withstood
for many years the old traffic conditions are
being cracked, broken and destroyed.

Where will the increasing size of motor
trucks st0p? If the last fifteen years have
seen this great change in traffic conditions.
what changes will take place in the fifteen
years to come? It certainly is very neces-
sary to provide an adequate foundation to
meet present traffic conditions. and it is the
part of wisdom to provide somewhat for
the future, for a concrete foundation ought
to be so laid that it will outlast several gen-
erations of wearing surface.

Of course it makes a great difference
whether the street to be paved is a through
line of traffic or a side street. which nor—
mally would have only to carry the traffic
originating on the street itself or providing
for its needs. It also makes some differ—
ence whether the street is in a great metro-
politan district or in a little community far
removed from centers of big activity. The

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 4

community will, indeed, have to be far re-
moved to escape for any great time from
the motor truck. In this consideration of
changing traffic conditions we have left out
of consideration the pleasure automobile—
for, as far as wear and tear on asphalt block
pavements are concerned, it is practically
a negligible quantity.

We are squarely confronted, then, with
the proposition that the first important ele-
ment in the success or failure of the pave-
ment is its foundation. When a street is
torn up and excavated, and the contractor
has assembled materials and equipment for
laying the foundation, the relative cost of
an inch or two more or less of concrete is
comparatively small. If it is a financial
question, and the appropriation is absolutely
limited, it is better to put in a substantial
foundation and economize on the thickness
of the wearing surface, for a wearing sur-
face can be renewed without disturbing the
foundation, but a foundation cannot be re-
newed without disturbing the wearing sur-
face. On all streets subject to a through
traffic, we think a 6-inch foundation of the
best Portland cement concrete should be
used, coupled with especial attention to the
thorough rolling and compacting of the
subgrade; while on residential streets, of
purely local traffic, under conditions where
it has been. customary in the past to use a
4-inch concrete foundation, we should cer-
tainly advise laying at least 5 inches, for
every street is liable to become a thorough-
fare at some period of time while being
used as a detour or on account of some
obstruction.

Old macadam has been, and can be, very
successfully used as a foundation for as-
phalt blocks. The important points in util-
izing old macadam for foundation are, first,
to make sure that the old macadam really
exists, and second. to be able to utilize the
macadam with the least possible disturbance
of its surface. It will usually be necessary
to scarify and reshape the macadam surface
to some extent in order to produce a degree
of uniformity that will enable the blocks
to be laid upon a mortar bed about one inch
in thickness. The action of traffic on a
macadam surface is generally to produce a7
hard. compact upper crust, or shell, well
adapted to act as a foundation, if it can be
let alone and the inequalities provided for
by the mortar bed. Where it is necessary to
tear up this hardened surface, the effect of

Digitized by 600816

OCTOBER, 1915

 

THE AMERICAN CITY

327

SURFACE TREATMENT, SHOWING APPLICATION OF THE PAINT COAT

the scarzi'fier is to loosen and shake up the
larger stone underneath and detract very
materially from its value as a foundation.

Wearing Surface

The present standard sizes of asphalt
blocks for street use are 5x 12 inches, the
depth being 2, 2y; or 3 inches. This does
not mean that blocks cannot easily be made
of any depth, from I inch to 4 inches, if de-
sired, either for new work or repairs. It
may be interesting to note here that in the
early days of the asphalt block industry,
twenty-five or thirty years ago, the blocks
were generally made 4 x 12 inches, with a
depth of 5 inches, and laid on a gravel and
sand foundation, the theory being to make
a block of such volume and rigidity that it
would not require a concrete foundation.
Of course the ultimate utility could never
be gotten out of a block of such depth, and
furthermore, the expensive materials which
entered into its composition made its cost
excessive.

The next stage in the evolution of the
aSphalt block pavement was a block 4 inches
in depth, laid on a light concrete foundation,
with a sand cushion of 1 inch or 2 inches
introduced between the concrete and the
block. This led logically to the 3-inch and
2-inch block laid on a more substantial
foundation, with a mortar bed taking the
place of the sand cushion.

We have pointed out that to secure suc-
cess it is necessary to provide a good as-

phalt block, to be laid upon an adequate
foundation. To secure this good block is
for the layman and the average engineer a
much more baffling problem than to insure
a good foundation. With the multiplica-
tion of plants producing asphalt blocks it is
inevitable that there should be a consider-
able difference in the materials used and in
the methods of manipulation, and naturally
in the resultant product.

The important materials entering into the
structure of the block are crushed stone, in-
organic dust or filler, and asphaltic cement.
Crushed trap rock has been adOpted as the
standard stone because of its toughness,
grittiness and recognized superiority as a
road material. It is essential that the
crushed trap rock should be clean, and to
insure this the stone should be brought

, from the quarry free from screenings and

foreign matter, and the final crushing and
reduction to standard sizes should take
place at the plant where the blocks are
made.

The inorganic dust is produced by grind-
ing up a limestone rock, and this also must
be clean, of proper chemical composition
and uniformly ground to a great degree of
fineness. The purpose of the inorganic dust
is to fill the voids of the crushed trap rock
and serve as a medium for carrying the
asphaltic cement. It also has an important
effect chemically in combination with the
asphaltic cement. The asphaltic cement
furnishes the binding material which holds

328

this aggregate of broken stone together.

These three materials are combined at
temperatures averaging about 300 degrees
F ., and at this temperature are molded into
block form at great pressure. In order to
produce the density and homogeneity re—
quired to make the asphalt block practically
non-absorbent, a pressure of more than 200
tons on the 5x 12 face of the block is re-
quired. It can readily be understood that
this compression of about 7,000 pounds per
square inch is greater than any load which
the block will be subjected to on the street,
even if motor trucks keep on increasing in
size as rapidly in the future as they have in
the past.

How is the municipality going to deter-
mine whether the asphalt blocks for the
wearing surface of its streets are good or
not? An inspection of surface indications
will tell something, but not much. Unless
the municipality is provided with a labora—
tory, where the asphaltic cement can be re-
claimed from the block and tested for bitu-
men, paraliine, penetration, melting point,
brittleness and tensile strength, it will, of
necessity, have to take a great deal for
granted.

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 4

One method of overcoming this dif-
ficulty is to visit the plant and see how the
materials are handled and the blocks made.
Any layman can tell whether the materials
are being handled carefully and whether
the processes and methods are being con-
ducted skillfully, with accurate records of
temperatures and weights of materials. \V e
are, indeed, of the opinion that this is about
the only method of determining the intrin-
sic merits of the material. The contrac-
tor’s agreement to maintain the wearing
surface is, of course, a valuable guarantee
of wearing quality for the usual period of
five years; but what the municipality really
wants, and hopes it is buying, is a material
that will last for fifteen or twenty years.

Maintenance

If the municipality has selected a respon-
sible contractor and manufacturer, the
maintenance of its streets will be assured
during the guarantee period. At the ex-
piration of this period the municipality
itself becomes the guarantor, and right here
lies one of the most important elements in
the success or failure of the pavement. It
is a curious fact that the average munici-

 

WARBURTON AVENUE, BETWEEN
Paved with 2-inch asphalt blocks on a concrete foundation

YONKERS AND HASTINGS-ONoHUDSON, N. Y.

OCTOBER, 1915

pality having had no trouble or expense
with a pavement during the guarantee pe-
riod is prone to assume that this happy con-
dition will last forever. We believe it is a
fact that more waste and loss accrue from
the neglect of the pavement after the ter-
mination of the contractor’s guarantee than
from all other causes combined. We have
seen many pavements that should have
lasted, in a serviceable condition, for twenty
years, allowed to deteriorate through sheer
neglect so that repavement became neces-
sary at the end of ten or fifteen years.

Asphalt block pavements are very easy
to repair. The repairs can be made at any
time without delay, by the municipality’s
own street department, no plant being
necessary, the only requirement being a
few blocks on hand in the street department
yards. The defects which usually develop
are slight depressions around manhole
heads, or along street car tracks, which
should be remedied promptly by taking up
the blocks, restoring the grade by a little
additional mortar bed and relaying the
blocks.

One of the most frequent sources of
trouble is due to the opening of the pave-
ment to get at subsurface structures and
the repavement of the Opening in a slipshod
manner, or a settlement over this opening
due to improper back filling of the trench.
Here, again, asphalt blocks demonstrate
their utility and economy. The depression
in the pavement does not destroy the sur-
face or do any injury to the individual
blocks, but wherever such depression occurs

THE AMERICAN CITY

329

the blocks should be promptly taken up, the
grade restored by additional concrete or
mortar bed, and the blocks relaid to true
line and grade. If the edges and corners of
the blocks have been somewhat damaged or
mutilated so as to produce large or un-
sightly joints, these should be filled with
fine broken stone or grits and poured with
an asphaltic filler. This treatment will not
only restore the street surface to its origi-
nal contour, but will make a perfect repair
which will become invisible after a few
weeks of traffic, and the pavement will be
as good as new.

Surface Treatment

Old asphalt block pavements that have
been laid ten or fifteen years often develop

-a hard, dry condition of the surface, which

tends to cause a pitting of the surface of
the block and chipping of the joints. This
condition can be absolutely overcome by a
simple and inexpensive application of a
bituminous paint coat, followed up by a thin
sprinkling of fine trap rock grits or a suit-
able dry sand. This bituminous paint coat
must be scientifically prepared by combin-
ing a heavy bitumen with a solvent, which
will have the effect of softening up the hard
asphaltic cement in the surface of the old
blocks, and after the evaporation of the sol-
vent leaving a thin layer of stable bitumen
to unite with the old material. This surface
treatment can be applied at an expense of
only a few cents per square yard and will
completely arrest the tendency toward brit-
tleness and add many years to the life of
the pavement.

The Importance of Alley Paving
By Robert F. Hall

HE paving of streets has for many
years absorbed the interest of cities,

towns and villages, and great strides
have been made in this direction, but it is
only within recent years that the alley has
emerged from the eclipse into which the
street has thrown it.

The importance of the paving of alleys,
particularly from a sanitary standpoint, is
attracting constantly increasing attention
from municipal authorities, neighborhood

improvement clubs and individual property
owners. Unsanitary alley conditions have
become the subject of energetic measures
of reform, and thus call emphatically for
some form of permanent pavement.

It is a peculiar psychological fact that an
unpaved alley, presenting, as it usually does,
a muddy or dusty appearance, encourages
property owners to throw into it an infinite
variety of rubbish, whereas a paved alley,
with a smooth, clean surface from fence to

Digitized by 600816

330

fence throughout its entire length, influ-
ences householders to place rubbish and
refuse in receptacles provided for the pur—
pose and to keep the alley neat and clean.
Some cities by ordinance require open
fences along alleys, because householders
hesitate to deposit in the alley rubbish that
will be plainly visible from the back yard.

Alley pavements should be as substantial
as those in the street, because they have to
carry the maximum load which is permitted
on the street. The drainage is usually
towards the center of the alley to sewer in-
lets provided at the low points. Thus the
entire alley acts as a gutter for the surface
water.

In the last two years concrete has had
broad acceptance as an alley pavement ma-
terial and there are also precedents of as
much as nineteen years’ standing.

An alley in Richmond, Ind., between
Tenth and Eleventh Streets and running
from Main Street to the alley between
Main and A Streets, was built in 1896 under
what would now be considered poor speci-
fications, and yet after almost a score of
years it is in excellent condition and shows
little wear. It was marked off in squares
a little larger than those common in side-
walk construction, and the only wear no-
ticeable has been along these division lines.

Eight years ago an alley was laid in Vin-
cennes, Ind., bounded by Second, Third,
Main and Busseron Streets. Two unpro-
tected longitudinal joints, about 2 feet
apart, anticipating a sewer to be built at a
later date, permitted wheel traffic to follow
and break down the edges, but this has con-
stituted practically the only wear. Modern
specifications avoid longitudinal joints. Ten
years ago an alley or driveway was laid in
Vincennes, Ind., behind the Post Office.
Horses are hitched daily along one side of
the pavement, but neither their constant
pawing and stamping nor steel-tired traffic
has had appreciable effect, and marks left
by the finishing tools are plainly visible.

Pittsburgh adopted specifications for con-
crete in 1914, calling for one-course con-
struction, using local river sand and gravel
or crushed stone, 1:2:3 mixture, a mini-
mum thickness of 6 inches and steel-pro-
tected expansion joints every 25 to 30 feet.
Drainage is cared for by a slope of %, inch
per foot toward the center for narrow alleys

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 4

without gutters, and of M inch per foot
crown for wider alleys. The first alley in
Pittsburgh was 12 feet wide and 109 feet
long, and as a result of the satisfaction
given, bids were immediately advertised
for concrete alleys to be built in several sec-
tions of the city.

The city of Detroit paved 100 alleys with
concrete in 1914, and it is probable that
1915 will see double that number similarly
paved. Detroit alleys are usually 20 feet
wide, with concrete laid 6 inches thick.
Special machine sweepers have been se-
cured by this city to clean alleys, and here-
after those paved will be swept weekly and
cleaned as thoroughly as paved streets.
Dayton, Ohio, has consistently used con-
crete for alley pavements. According to
Gaylord C. Cummin, former City Engineer,
from 1907 to January, 1915, a total of 95.96
miles, or 51,948 square yards, was laid.
Minneapolis has a number of excellent con-
crete alleys. The general specifications
cover a 6-inch, 20-foot pavement, divided
into 38-foot sections by expansion joints
and dished 2 inches for drainage. Chicago
has probably the greatest yardage of con-
crete alleys of any city in the country. Since
the beginning of 1911 more than 206,000
square yards have been laid, and the 1915
program contemplates more than 150,000
square yards additional.

The successful alley pavement must be
moderate in first cost, dustless, durable, self~
cleaning and non-absorbent of liquids—
qualities characteristic of concrete. Hav-
ing these advantages, this material is rap-
idly taking the same position for alley con-
struction that it did many years ago for
sidewalks.

The propaganda for better alleys is coun-
try-wide and gaining momentum. Many
districts are said to have been rehabilitated
by alley betterment, and property values in-
creased by hundreds of dollars, at actual
costs of $50 to $75 per 30-foot lot. Any
program of physical municipal house clean-
ing can logically start with the alley. Ordi-
nances against careless disposal of garbage
and other wastes are diflicult to enforce if
ruts and mud exist; there is no incentive, no
standard of neatness. On the other hand.
such laws are largely self-enforcing where
good pavement conditions exist. Civic pride
is appealed to and the neighborhood is
cleaned up of its own volition.

Digitized by 600816

OCTOBER, 1915 THE AMERICAN CITY 331

 

THE IMPROVED APPEARANCE OF THE ALLEY AFTER BEING PAVED \VITH CONCRETE

 

\VESTCHESTER AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO

Width between property lines, 50 feet; width of brick pavement, 24 feet; tree lawn, 8 feet wide, with
a 5-foot sidewalk. This is one of several similar streets in a block 2 miles square. In this section no trees
are planted in the tree lawns, the space being left for conduits and other street utilities

 

CRESCENT STREET, TORONTO, ONT.
Paved with Rocmac. Width of roadway, 24 feet; of parking strips, 12 feet, of sidewalks, 5 feet

[332]

 

OCTOBER, 1915 THE AMERICAN CITY 333

 

LAYTON BOULEVARD, MILWAUKEE, WIS.

The main boulevard on the city’s South Side. It consists of two 80-foot roadways, a 80-foot parked space
in the center and a 15-foot parked sidewalk on each side. Paved with bituminous macadam

 

A VIEW ALONG SELYE TERRACE, ROCHESTER, N. Y.

The street is 60 feet wide, with a 24-foot roadway, 4-inch curbs, 3-foot gutters, 6-foot walks, and 10-f00t
parkway strips. Paved with asphalt

 

THE STAGE OF TILE PAGEANT, WITH THE THRONES IN THE FOREGROUND

A Peace Pageant

By Mrs. Milton Perry Smith
President, Sioux City (Iowa) Woman's Club

A community entertainment which was
recently given at Sioux City, 1a., had for
its theme the teaching of constructive
peace. Pageantry, “the poetry of the
masses,” was the vehicle through which the
subject was presented, because it combines
in the most striking and most lasting way all
the poetry, music, art and drama which it
is necessary for any community entertain-
ment to contain if its object is educational.

The cause of constructive peace, new,
and therefore little understood, had' been,
though not opposed, still not openly cham-
pioned, by public opinion in Sioux City; but
since the beautiful presentation of the
Peace Pageant there is a more intelligent
community consciousness of the subject.

The Peace Pageant was written by Miss
Cora Mel Patten and Miss Elma C. Erlich
of Chicago. In Sioux City it was produced
under the personal direction of Miss Patten.
It consisted of the processional, the plant—
ing of the Peace Tree with a beautiful sim-
ple ceremony. and then the pageant proper,
which required over 165 speaking parts, be-
sides the music, tableaux and pantomime.

The whole city was interested from the
start. The affair was undertaken and
managed by the Sioux City VVoman’s Club,
not for money-making purposes, but for the
purpose of presenting an educational and
inspiring performance in the interest of
peace, which through its spectacular nature
would reach some minds which could not
be otherwise stirred. That this result has
been accomplished is evident. An observer,

[334]

who said afterwards, “Tell me, what was
all this for the benefit of ?” was answered
by a thoughtful child, “I don’t know, but
I think we all got the benefit.”

Preparations for (he Pageant

The cast of the characters was selected in
a purely democratic way. A notice was
inserted in all the newspapers calling for
all who were willing to take the parts—
speaking, singing or dancing—to assemble
in the public library on a certain day for a
test. The applicants were judged accord-
ing to face, figure, speaking voice, and
dramatic ability, and all were given parts.
As it was to be a real community perform-
ance, social standing was not considered,
and in many cases extremes met on the
common ground of brotherhood. It was
noticeable that the children from the
suburb, Smith Villa, came first, and in
greater numbers than from any other neigh-
borhood. This was due to the fact that
for the last twelve years the grown peeple
and children of this vicinity have held an-
nually a community festival in their own
Children’s Park, and have become so satu-
rated with the community spirit that when-
ever there is a park entertainment they
take it for granted, without being told, that
they are needed, and they come cheerfully.

The cooperation of the Commissioner of
Parks and Public Property was first sought
and proved to be most valuable, as it car-
ried with it the skillful services of the Su-
perintendent of Parks and his force of

OCTOBER, 1915

gardeners. The latter ol‘ticer designed and
personally directed the construction of the
two beautiful rustic thrones used in the per-

formance.
The Processional

The performance began just before sun-
set and continued about two hours, when
darkness drew the closing curtain upon the
lovely scene. The audience of over 4,000
were seated upon the grassy slope of the
hillside in Grand View Park. Hundreds
of automobiles took position on the drive
skirting the rim of this great green amphi-
theatre. The stage setting was ideal, and
was left absolutely untouched by any arti-
ficial devices, as it needed none. A dense
growth of young Russian olive trees formed
the background and wings, while another
thick clump of the same bushes sheltered
the orchestra. In the foreground to the left
of the stage a hole was dug in the ground,
awaiting the coming of the Peace Tree.

The processional started from the pergola
on the hill beyOnd the rear of the stage
(dimly outlined in the picture) down the

THE AMERICAN CITY

335

hill to the right, and circled around the
small lake, where they were lost from the
view of the audience for a short time, ap-
pearing suddenly again out of the foliage
and advancing towards the stage. It was
a long, brilliant, motley crowd of histori-
cal, allegorical, and fantastic figures, danc-
ing girls, forty-two nations with their dags,
and cunning little citizens of peace carrying
the national banners. In the train came
Peace, a beautiful fair-haired girl, carrying
the customary white dove. Behind her, a
sturdy young evergreen tree was borne by
eight boys and girls dressed in pure white.
When they reached the spot prepared to
receive it, a halt was made and the children
began their ceremony. A beautiful white
box containing thousands of peace pledges
which the children had signed was placed
in the earth at the foot of the tree. A
young girl in white stepped forward and
delivered the following simple little speech:

“Friends:. We, the young people of Sioux
City, are gomg to present a pageant to-day tell-
ing of those who toiled and suffered that peace

 

A SCENE IN THE PAGEANT
Father Time in the center, standing between Faith and Fear

336

might come—and of her coming at last. Now,
we do .not wish this pageant to pass like a
dream in the night. We, who are strong in
youth and in hope, wish to place in this park
a remembrance of what you shall see to-day—
a symbol. of our young hopes. May it remain
a memorial in our midst forever.”

At the conclusion of the ceremony a
large white-bordered American flag was
unfurled, a gift to Grand View Park from

the Sioux City Woman’s Club.

The Pageant

The pageant proper then took place,
divided into three episodes, but without any
perceptible intermission. The first episode
is a beautiful pastoral scene, in which the
tribes of primitive-earth men and women
with their children about them join in
simple dances and pleasant fellowship.
Father Time sits on his throne attended by
Faith and Fear, the two opposing forces
which supply the conflict running all
through the drama. Into the happy scene
steals Fear, awakening distrust among the
tribes-men and urging them to prepare
themselves for war.

Presently a short and severe conflict
takes place, in which many are killed and
carried off the field. Mother Earth moans
and wails for the desolation which has
come upon her children. War is glad and
laughs diabolically; then summoning his
Furies—Violence, Famine and Death—he
strides off triumphant. '

The second episode introduces the Spirit
of Prophetic Peace, one of the most im—
portant figures in the pageant. He intro-
duces one by one the Builders of Peace.
those who, through the long ages have
toiled that peace might come. They are
thirty-three in number, among them Henry
of Navarre, William Penn, Benjamin
Franklin, George \Vashington, Thomas
Jefferson, Victor Hugo, Abraham Lincoln,
Leo Tolstoi, \Villiam T. Stead. Frances
\Villard, Jane Addams, Baroness Von
Suttner, and many others. In the midst of
the group of women workers Fear enters.
saying, “Shall puny women drive war from
the earth?” Faith promptly answers with
dignity, “They conquer through their very
womanhood.”

A striking climax is reached in the third
episode. Father Time, rising on his throne.
says. “Is it not time for Peace ?” There-
upon Columbia advances with her standard
bearer, carrying the peace flag. The band

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. 4

played America and the whole audience

arose, and afterwards sang together “Beau-

tiful America,” which seemed particularly

appropriate for a community song in the
middle western states.

0, beautiful for spacious skies,
For amber fields of grain,
For purple mountain majesties

Above the fruited plain!

America! America!
God shed his grace on thee,

And crown Thy good with brotherhood
From sea to shining sea.

The children of the nations ask Columbia
to "call the world to peace!” The New
Mother, representing the women pacifists of
America, enters leading the New Child,
who represents the rising generation. After
an extended dialogue among the nine lead-
ing nations, the New Child extends his lit-
tle hands, and all the nations lay their
swords in his arms. He carries the bundle
of swords up to the throne and lays them
at the feet of Father Time. The beauty and
sublimity of this ceremony, in which the
simple child was the central figure, were
deeply impressive, and many eyes were
filled with happy tears. One man, who had
been ashamed to wear a peace pin where
it would be seen, quietly unfastened his pin
from underneath his coat lapel and put it
on the outside, where it has remained ever
since. The visualization of the central idea
of peace, presented in such a dramatic form.
did more for the cause than a whole series
of sermons and lectures on the subject.

The C fly 3 Response

The value of pageantry to the com-
munity is now an accepted fact, and when
it is coupled with a great educational m0-
tive the beneficial result can hardly be esti- '
mated. It is a matter of pride to the direc-
tor and organizers of this peace pageant
that the whole city responded so promptly
to an undertaking the nature of which
was not at all well known. There had
never been any pageantry in the city be—
fore, nor even any entertainment in this
particular park, which is a new acquisition.
But from the first the newspapers gave
columns of space to free announcements.
pictures of those who were to take part. and
later of the performers in their costumes.
The city oflicials, especially the park force.
gave valuable aid in constructing the rustic

Digitized by 600816

OCTOBER, I 9 I 5

thrones; the school teachers drilled the
children, the orchestra and the best singers
in the city gave their services free of
charge, and the club women, of course, by
the hundreds were filling in all the gaps.
The principal business houses placed blue
and white peace pennants upon their street
decorations and on all delivery wagons. On
the day of the celebration these pennants
were flying from automobiles all over town.
Pageant headquarters were established in
a leading jewelry store, where, all the week,
peace pins, peace pennants, librettos, tickets,
etc., were sold. The peace pins were sold
for two cents each, so everybody wore them.

Protecting the Tree

The pageant closed just at nightfall. As
if awed to silence by the splendid spectacle
and its embodied lessons, the crowd passed
out of the park in silence. As I moved

THE AMERICAN CITY

337

along with the crowd surging between the
stage and the orchestra, I noticed an ob-
struction directly in the center of the mov-
ing mass of people. Nearing the place, I
made out the figure of a man, standing
slightly stooped, but firmly resisting the
bumps which came upon his back from
those stumbling forward in the darkness.
Coming closer, I discovered the nature of
the obstruction. It was a workman lean-
ing forward, shovel in hand, guarding the
young Peace Tree. Had it not been for
this man and his voluntary protection, the
life of the little Peace Tree would have been
crushed out, trodden under foot of man.
As it is. though transplanted in the middle
of July, it bids fair to grow and live long,
and be, as the child said: “A symbol of our
young hopes, as the years lengthen into
decades and we, who are young to-day,
shall stand beneath its boughs, gray-haired
men and women.”

 

A Spectacular Fire in Atlantic City

 

'I‘lllS FIRE, WHICH OCCURRED ON AUGUST 20, DESTROYED IN A SINGLE HOUR 12 SHOPS
ON THE BOARDWALK IN ATLANTIC CITY, WITH A LOSS OF APPROXIMATELY $100,000

Four Recent Developments in

 

THE AMERICAN-LA FRANCE CAR, \‘VITH FORD CHASSIS, FOR USE IN
SMALL COMMUNITIES

 

 

‘ ‘ In.

 

    

L_—._.—_.—_ _

PACKARD (IIIAINIJiSS MOTOR TRUCK WITH FIRESTONE TIRES, IN USE IN
PARNASSUS, m.

[338]

 

Motor Fire Apparatus Design

 

KNOX FOUR-WHEEL TRACTOR WITH GOODYEAR TIRES. SHOWING ITS
AVAILABILITY FOR HAULING FIRE APPARATUS

 

LATEST TYPE OI" AHRENS-FOX ENGINE, BEING TESTED BY THE NE\V YORK
FIRE DEPARTMENT

[339]

 

i-llI-lll-llll-llllllll-lll-llml-lllnl-ID-3  1:

Items of Municipal and Civic Progress

mm-lll-lllnll-llll-ll'llmul-l a

 

City Hall Switch-Board

One of the innovations introduced by
Fred M. Lockwood, Manager of Operation
under the recent amendments to the charter
of the city of San Diego, Cal., has been the
installation of a central telephone switch-
board in the city hall.

Prior to this installation there had been
thirty individual telephones in the various
offices, for which the city was paying $5
each per month.

Under the new arrangement six trunk
lines are run into the switch-board, the total
cost of which was $32.50. There are thirty
stations on the switch-board, the cost of
which is $I each per month. There is an
operator whose salary is $60 per month.
Taking the monthly cost of the thirty sta-
tions and the salary of the operator to-
gether, the cost is $90 per month, as against
$150 per month under the old scheme.

Included in the service from the central
switch-board are two outside lines, one run-
ning to police central station and one to

headquarters of the chief of the fire depart-
ment.

“IRWIN-Ilium q
E

 

The New Map of the
City of New York

A recent number of The Municipal En-
gineers“ Journal (New York) describes the
making of the new oliicial map of the city
of New York. The map was recently com-
pleted under the direction of Nelson P.
Lewis, Chief Engineer of the Board of Esti-
mate and Apportionment of New York
City, and is now available. It comprises a
total area of about 973 square miles. This
area was divided into 21 sheets each cover-
ing a territory having a length of 57,7084
feet and a width of 25,4263, this including
an allowance on the perimeter of the map of
5,400 feet for the border, the actual size of
the sheet being 8.01 feet by 3.53 feet on the
scale of 600 feet to the inch.

To transfer the map from the index
sheets, illuminated tables were secured with
a. working top 4 feet 6 inches by 3 feet
6 inches, from which an interior area of 3
feet 10 inches by 2 feet 10 inches had been
cut away. In this top a ground glass plate
3 feet 11 inches by 2 feet 11 inches was set.
The sides and bottom of the table were

 

WORKING ON THE NEW MAP OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK

[340]

OCTOBER, 1915

boxed in and equipped with three loo—watt
Mazda lamps. With this powerful illumina-
tion under the copy it was possible to trace
through two thicknesses of heavy paper
with results quite equal to those obtained
in making ordinary tracings.

Another convenience was a low platform,
about 27 feet by 28 feet, with a smooth sur-
face, on which it was possible to assemble
the sheets in order to properly judge not
only the map as a whole, but also the effect
of lettering common to several sheets, as
well as to finally unite the edges of the
separate sheets. The accompanying illus-
tration is of this operation.

All the city departments cooperated in
furnishing information concerning terri-
tory within the city limits, even to the ex-
tent of making original surveys.

In the absence of a suitable civil service
eligible list, all applicants for employment
who succeeded in presenting a sample of
their work satisfactory in quality and in the
element of speed, were given employment.
The maximum force at any one time was
22, this necessitating shifts for day and
night work, which greatly expedited pro-
gress and also made extra equipment un-
necessary. Printed instructions were given
to all draftsmen, and their observance re-
sulted in avoidance of confusion and insur-
ance of accuracy.

The preparation of the city map was be-
gun June 30, 1914, and completed February
15, 1915. The map, as a whole, has been
lithographed on a scale of 2,000 feet to the
inch in twelve sections, and the completed
lithographed map measures 7.4 feet by 7.12
feet. Copies are available for public use,
the cost to the public being $4 for single
copies and $3 in lots of 25 or more.

Mr. Arthur S. Tuttle, Deputy Chief En-
gineer, Board of Estimate and Apportion-

ment, was in direct charge of the work.
'1' '1'

Safety-First Instruction to Children
The public school children of New York
City are being instructed in safety-first
principles. Through the cooperation of the
Police Department with the Board of Edu-
cation, police sergeants are sent to the
schools to deliver fifteen-minute talks to
the children at the 9 o’clock assembly on
such subjects as the prevention of street
accidents and the dangers of bonfires. They
also explain why the police have to break up
certain games on the street, and point out

THE AMERICAN CITY

341

the results of mischievous acts. The chil- ‘
dren are taught to overcome their fear of
the policemen and to regard them as their
friends. Good results of the work are said
to be already apparent in the better under-
standing which exists between children and

the police.
'1' '1'

“Municipal Improvements” in
Sunday Editions

The Pittsburgh Gazette Times published
during the past summer an article on muni-
cipal improvement in each of five consecu-
tive Sunday editions. The articles were
published at the instance and under the di-
rection of the Art Commission of Pitts-
burgh and covered five divisions of the sub-
ject: (1) Comprehensive City Planning,
(2) Development of Business Districts,
(3) Development of Residence Districts,
(4) An Ideal Park System, and (5) Devel-
0pment of the Water-Front.

An attempt was made to present the mat-
ter in a form that would appeal to the
average newspaper reader. Post-card an-
nouncements calling attention to the articles
were sent to the various civic and commer-
cial organizations in the city in the hope
that those bodies might derive some indirect
benefit from them, and that they might lead
to the presentation of illustrated lectures on

the same topics at some later time.
'1' '1'

Shall Schools be Closed
During Epidemics?

Doubt as to the wisdom of closing schools
during epidemics of contagious diseases is
expressed by Dr. Francis George Curtis, of
Newton, Mass, in a bulletin on the “Health
of School Children,” which has been issued
by the United States Bureau of Education.

Dr. Curtis says:

“If the schools are closed when an outbreak
occurs, the children are turned loose from
supervision; they mingle freely with one an-
other in the streets, on playgrounds, and in
each other’s houses. They are having an. extra
vacation and enjoying themselves thoroughly,
and are unwilling to admit that they feel ill,
lest they be kept at home and prevented from
having a good time. For this reason they will
not say they feel ill until the disease is well
advanced, and they may be active sources of
infection for some time before it is discovered
that they are ill.

“If the schools are kept open and the children
continue in the class rooms as usual, they are
under strict observation and examined daily by
the school physician, suspicious and infected
cases being sent home for observation or
treatment.”

Digitized by 600816

THE AMERICAN CITY

II “II

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.
o

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I“ ..I 3-3;”.
"T
k.

I . . _ "’J
xiv-unarm- 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

...:'.?'r" -
' " 9-  g ‘
I1; .‘ - _ 3:" b R".  _-' .-.
w ' ‘ 3. ._. I: a. I
germ $51“  «r:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

F ORTY CITIES EMPLOY
PROF ITABLY 81

Q

TRUCKS IN MUNICIPAL
SERVICE OF ALL KINDS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

==

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PACKARD NEW TYPE CHAINLEss TRUCKS, in
seven sizes—1, 1V2, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6-ton units—
constitute the only complete line of silent up-to-
date chainless trucks. All models are uniform
in design, with special chassis lengths and speeds
as; will be most advantageous in the work for
which they are selected. Let us send you a catalog.

 

 

 

 

 

 

ll

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ll

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ll

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PACKARD MOTOR CAR COMPANY. Detroit

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

lll

 

lull l |"“”‘“Ill‘llll".l .l' ! ll 1 ll 1 l l l ll ll ! | l lllll ll l l ii

Illltill ! I
llllllllllnl'hll Illll __ ____ _ __
46 When writing to Advertisers please mention THE AMERICAN CITY.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l

H

 

ml

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

' l

l

Conventions and Exhibitions
W

ON THE CALENDAR

OCTOBER 6-8.—MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.
National Housing Association. Sec-
retary, Lawrence Veiller, 105 East Twenty-

second Street, New York City.

OCTOBER 6-8.-—-NORTH YARIMA, WASH.
League of Washington Municipalities.
Secretary, Dr. Herman A. Brauer, Uni-
versity Of Washington, Seattle, Wash.

OCTOBER 8.—BOSTON, MAss.

The American School Hygiene Asso-
ciation. Secretary, Thomas A. Storey,
M. D., College of The City of New York,
New York City.

OCTOBER 11-12.—DAYTON, OHIO.

National Paving Brick Manufacturers
Association. Secretary, Will P. Blair,
824 Locomotive Engineers Building, Cleve-
land, Ohio.

OCTOBER II-I6.—NEw YORK CITY.

Exhibition of Street Cleaning Appa-
ratus and Appliances. To be held under
the auspices Of New York Department of
Street Cleaning, J. T. Fetherston, Com-
missioner.

OCTOBER 12-13.—FREBERICI<SBURO, VA.

League Of Virginia Municipalities.
Secretary, Luther C. Brinson, Portsmouth,

a.

OCTOBER 12-15.—DAYTON, OHIO.

American Society of Municipal Im-
provements. Secretary, Charles Carroll
Brgwn, 702 Wulsin Building, Indianapolis,
In .

OCTOBER I3-Is.——HUTCHINSON, KAN.

League of Kansas Municipalities. Sec-
retary, C. H. Talbot, University of Kan-
sas, Lawrence, Kan.

OCTOBER 13-1 5.—-BLUEFIELD, W. VA.

Southern Appalachian Good Roads
Association. Secretary, C. B. Scott, Rich-
mond, Va.

OCTOBER 19—21.—PIIILADELI>HIA, PA.

Fourth Annual Safety Congress of
the National Safety Council. Secretary,
W. H. Cameron, Continental and Com-
mercial Bank Building, Chicago, Ill.

OCTOBER 21-22.—VIRCINIA, MINN.
League of Minnesota Municipalities.
Secretary, Prof. Richard R. Price, Uni-
versity Of Minnesota. Minneapolis, Minn.

NOVEMBER 4-5.—AI.BANY, N. Y.

North Atlantic Conference on .Tuber-
culosis. Address National Association
for the Study and Prevention Of Tubercu-
losis, 105 East Twenty-second Street, New
York City.

NOVEMBER IO—lZ.—PIIILADELPHIA, PA.

American Association for the Study
and Prevention of Infant Mortality. Ex-
ecutive Secretary, Miss Gertrude B. Knipp,
1211 Cathedral Street, Baltimore, Md.

NOVEMBER 10-13.—PHILADEI.PIIIA, PA.
Conference on Valuation Principles
and Methods. Held under the auspices of
the Utilities Bureau of Valuation. Acting
Director, Morris Llewellyn Cooke, City
Hall, Philadelphia.
NOVEMBER 11-12.—GREENVILLE, TEx.
League of Texas Municipalities. Sec-
retary, Prof. H. G. James, University of
Texas, Austin, Tex.

NOVEMBER 16-I8.—HARRISBURO, PA.

Third Annual Pennsylvania Industrial
and Public Welfare and Engineering
Conference. Under the auspices of the
State Departments and The Engineers’
Society of Pennsylvania. Director of Ex-
hibits, Paul Gendell, 31 South Front Street,

Harrisburg, Pa.

NOVEMBER 17-19.—DAvTON, OHIO.

National Municipal League. Secre- ’
tary, Clinton Rogers WoodrutT, North

American Building, Philadelphia, Pa.

DECEMBER I-3.—WASIIINGTON, D. C.
American Institute of Architects. Sec-
retary, Burt L. Fenner, 101 Park Avenue,

New York City.

DECEMBER 7-IO. NEw YORK CITY.

American Societcy of Mechanical Engi-
neers. Secretary, alvin W. Rice, 29 West
Thirty-ninth Street. New York City.

DECEMBER 13-17.—CHARLESTON, S. C.
Southern Commercial Congress. Man-
aging Director. Clarence J. Owens, South-
ern Building, Washington, D. C.
DECEMBER 27-JANUARY I.—-COLUMBUS, OHIO.
American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science. Secretary, Dr.
L. 0. Howard, Smithsonian Institute,

Washington, D. C.
'1' '1'

American Association of Park
Superintendents

The seventeenth annual convention of the
American Association of Park Superinten-
dents occurred in San Francisco, August
18-20, sessions being held in the new muni-
cipal auditorium.

New Orleans was selected as the city in
which the 1916 convention will be held, the
time to he decided by the Executive Com-
mittee, but October as the month tentatively
agreed upon.

The following oiiicers were elected for

the ensuing year:

President Emil T. Mische, Portland. Ore.
\"ice—Presidents—J. W. Thompson, Seattle. \Vash.;
John T. Walsh, New York City: Alexander Stuart,

[343]

 

Digitized by GOOSIC

THE AMERICAN CITY

udlllelk W0 d 3a Wall"  

    
   
       

a‘O'o

  

    

   

 

 

v '. 'Tv.

' .
«r. a _.
5-“ ’ .

VESTONS A’iVALL HOLD

HillliltllllillilllIi'Elil'Willi'i'ti'.Q'.I"I='“ll” "'V'"i'i7i}!LH'le‘.EiUI7iQ'Q'.5"l'i'i'I'I“:1".!I'I.'*i'u'-IT'-'i'iTiT'i'i'fI'll-3H7? I'a'l [ali‘it'iii ti'i'.‘iiiiI'iTi'lliIiiilllllilllliillliiliiitlllill

ll'lIEIII Ili. .

O

      

.- \ ;
V '.

4"." o’.‘ ‘
' .

     
   

‘ . I

I - '  '—
. h _.
i . f :

Ullittlililtlttllttlll '

 
  
  

       

AGAINS‘.

lllliillllllllfllf

ta "—
iii :

iiiiiiiH

i'il
‘ ‘ [HEN Galveston was at the mercy of another great tropical gale, when

 

     

 

ships were being blown ashore and all cmumunieation with the main-
land was cut off, the question everywhere was: Will the concrete
sea—wall, erected to insure Galvestmi from destruction, stand the brunt of the
storm as it did in 1909-?
New'sipaper headlines and (.Iispatches tell the story. Once more the great
wall. in which were mixed 28,500 barrels; of

ALPHA‘"iititti‘i°CEMENT

shiml the lashng and the battering of the livery hag (if ALPHA you buy is sure to
Killt'. and iii t‘I't‘tlltUI With lILH'iIIi: Hm'etl he as good as that used in building the

(.‘nzll\‘t'>~‘t(.n'l. Galveston Sea “fall. The Six great
) . \ “ “. ' ‘ ¢ . _ .b ._ ’ ,. _ .

ALI HA QLMLRrI 11"“ _l'““ “5“! “1 ‘* ALPHA plants have a daily capacnty of

large numlier nf t't'JllhlI‘llL‘llllllfi where eiin- .35 {Hm hunch... leading building_ln3terial

eretc had to meet unusual etiiiditiuiei and

. - d -aIer.' can 811 1 il\' '01.
cement of the lilttltt'Hl grade waa required. L _ H ‘ ‘ Hf 3? l _ , .
ALPHA CEMENT r'L'IlI'L‘H't'IllS :31 Yeah (if A” l‘.ll\elu[it' I\0. 2 shomng \10“S of

experience"in'cenient«taking and i~a lt‘Hlt‘ll lw “Uléll’lk‘ k"’”'~“'tt’ CON-“11110110115 311d 3013389
' . ~ " . r at ' \ . ‘

expert t.‘l1("I'lIlrélH every hour, day and night. lliilltl-lltmlx. ALPHA CltK'IILNT—-HOW TO

during its nlainifaetnre. l'Hl: l I," sent (Ill request.

ALPHA PORTLAND CEMENT COMPANY 8233' Easton, Pa.

Sales Offices: New York, Chicago, Philadelphia, Boston, Pittsburgh, Buffalo, Baltimore, Savannah

 

        

l

*    LPH
. :_.I‘H' ‘

 . l i x w

o-u'
'a
I.

 

40 When writing to Advertisers please mention THE AMERICAN CITY.

Digitized by 600816

OCTOBER, 1915

Ottawa, Canada; Emmett P. Griffin, East St. Louis,
111.; Eugene V. Goebcl, Grand Rapids, Mich.; L. P.

Jenson, St. Louis, Mo.
Secretary-Treasurer—Roland Cotterill, Seattle.

Twenty-four new members were admitted
to membership, the by-laws were amended
to require five years’ practical experience
as a qualification for active membership,

and the admission fee was raised to $10.
'1' '1'

Pan-American Road Congress

At a session of the Pan-American Road
Congress on September 17, at Oakland,
Cal., a committee of seven was appointed
by the American Highway Association to
work on a plan for consolidation of the

four organizations comprising the Congress,
with the idea of “bringing into closer rela-
tion the efforts for road improvement in
the eastern and western portions of the
United States.” The four organizations
included are the American Road Builders’
Association, the American Highway Asso-
ciation, the Tri-State Good Roads Asso-
ciation and the Pacific Highway Associa-
tion. The members of the committee are
S. E. Bradt, Illinois; W. R. Roy, VVashing-
ton: A. B. Fletcher, California; W. D.
Sohier, Massachusetts: T. H. MacDonald,
Iowa; W. E. Atkinson, Louisiana: G. P.
Coleman, Virginia; and F. F. Rogers,
Michigan.

The committee will take up the question
with similar committees from the other or-

Copies may be ordered of

BATESON, WILLIAM, A. C. A., F. S. A. A., Bor-
ough Treasurer. for the County Borough
of Blackpool, Editor, Assisted by Many
Experienced Authorities on Municipal
Work and Practice.

Municipal Office Organization and Man-
agement: A Comprehensive Manual of
Information and Direction on matters con-
nected with the work of Officials of Mn-
nicipalities. xix + 483 pp. Quarto. About
250 diagrams and forms. 1915. $8.00

In response to a wide demand for a handy work
of reference on municipal questions, this work has been
com iled by the editors with the hope that it "may
ten to the establishment of uniformity of administra-
tion.” It is the first attempt in England to bring to~
gether in a concrete form an adequate compilation on
the techni ue of municipal administration, organiza-
tion and 0 cc management. Even the details of office
equipment—filing systems, mechanical devices, printed

THE AMERICAN CITY

Municipal and Civic Publications ;

partment
Greenwood. Borough Treasurer's De

SO“:

ganizations represented, and will report to

the board of directors before the next con-
vention.

'1"!

American Highway Association

At its annual meeting, held in Oakland
on September I7, the American Highway

Association elected the following officers
and directors:

President, Fairfax Harrison, President of the South-
ern Railway; First ViceoPresident, Logan Waller
Pa e, District United States Officer of Public Roads
an Rural Engineering: Treasurer, John Burke,
Treasurer of the United States. Directors: J. H.
MacDonald, former State Highway Commissioner. Con-
necticut; E. J. Mehren, Editor of the Engineering
Record; George L. Cooley, State Highway Engineer,
Minnesota; Jose h H. Pratt, member North Carolina
State Highway ommission; Henry G. Shirley, State
Highway Engineer, Maryland; \V. T. Beatty, manu~
facturer, Chicago; and C. R. Kenyon, President of the
Indiana Good Roads Association.

4» 4o
League of California Municipalities

At the closing business session of the con}
vention of the League of California Muni-
cipalities, at Oakland, Cal., on September
I0, Allen H. Wright, City Clerk of San
Diego, was elected president, and Visalia
was decided upon as the place of the next
convention. The other ofiicers elected are
as follows:

First Vice-President, Wallace Rutherford, City At-
torney, Napa; Second Vice-President, Lorin A. Hand-
ley, President of the Board of Public Works. Los
Angelcs: Secretaries, H. A. Mason. board and ordi-
nance expert of the Board of Supervisors, San Fran—
cisco, and \V. J. Locke. President of the Bureau of
Municipal Reference, Alameda.

Tn; Auztucxn CITY, with the exception of Government publication: and 1.
those indicated a: free, which should be ordered direct from the ofiice: publuhmg them 1.

forms, etc—are illustrated and discussed. The book is
divided into 25 sections; the first, "Organization in
General,” by William Bateson, treats of the need for
etiicient organization and how such a system should be
developed in the various ramifications of public ser-
vice. The remaining sections, which are concerned
principally with the separate departments of municrpal
povernment. are as follows: II and III, by \Villiam

Bateson, “Collecting and Recording Statistics” and
“Ofiice Equipment”; IV, “The Town Clerk’s Depart-

ment,” by Arthur S. Wright, Chief Clerk, Town Clerk’s

Department, City Borough of Blackpool; V, “Finance
Department.” by William Bateson; VI, “Finance De-
(Local Taxation Licences),” by Harold
partment, County
Borough of Blackpool; VII, “Finance Department
(Printing and Stationery Branch)," by \Villiam Bate-
\'lll, “Public Health Department,” by Fred
Berry, C. R. S. 1., Chief Clerk. Public Health Depart-
ment for the City Borough of Blackpool: I.\'. “Police
Department.” by \V. J. Pringle, Chief Constable,
County Borough of Blackpool; X, Parks and Pleasure
Grounds.” by Percy Farnsworth, Borough Treasurer,
County Borough of Bolton. who is also responsible for
the sections on “Cemeteries and Burial Grounds.”
“Baths and “lash-Houses” and “Markets and Fairs”

Digitized by 600816

345

.l

THE AMERICAN CITY

  

They

been saved

hail proper pro “antion been
taken to inspect the water—
mains. \\-'li}-'?

  
       
   
 

  

When the fire broke out, awry moans was used to light it,
but the pressure in the clog-gal WE'llCI‘ mains was inadequate
to feed the pumping engines. [_.'iiiic(‘ossary loss of property
followed.

 
      

\Yr-ilL-r mains IIt'L‘Il not remain (logged with dirt. They can be made
like now through chaining llll‘lll l)_\'

The National Method

This cost. is ‘w'Illflll- — l-Lil' has" [ill-ll} lire l)L"('EIIIHL‘ you have failed to inspect
laying new pipe. lii‘siihw. i1 t'llllll- the condition of your water mains.
natthzill(langirrnipour \K'LI[til-[WPHHIH'C lIlVL'HllnglL' now. Look into the

    
   
         
       
    

from dirt and lilth in thy Iii:iiii-;. liitnrv. l‘rox‘cnt 'the disaster before
'l‘hnnsnntla of dollar! w iri li ul‘ iii'np- it lllilhllt'llH.
(:rly in your l.‘il'\' nut}; llt' in iluiigvr n1“ \Vrili- In 115 in learn how.

   

Hudson Terminal Building

National Water Main Cleaning Co., NEW YORK CITY

 
  
 

 W'lxen writing to Advertisers please mention THE AMERICAN CITY.

Digitized by 600816

OCTOBER, 1915

(Sections XI to XIII); XIV, “Old Age Pension Acts,
1908 and 1911,” and XV “National Insurance Acts,
1911,1913,” by William hateson- XVI, "Public Li-
braries," by \Valter I’owell, Chief Librarian, Birming-
ham Public Libraries; XVII, “(ias Department," by
Ii. Cooke, Accountant, Birmingham Corporation (ins
Department; XVIII, "Electricity Department,” by
“An Expert"; XIX, “Tramways Department,” by
S. B. N. Marsh, Accountant, Birmingham Corporation
Tramways; XX, “Waterworks Department," b Fred-
erick J. Alban, F. S. A. A. A. C. I. S.; XX , “Jus-
tices’ Clerks Department,” by R. Eccleshall, Justices'
Clerks Department, Birmingham; XXII, “Ilousing and
Town Planning,” by W. S. Body, Town Clerk's Office,
Birmingham; XXIII, “Education Department.” b
j. E. Pickles, Director of Education, County Borough
of \Vest Bromwich; XXIV "Surveyors’ Department,”
by “An Administrative 0 cial”; XXV, “Sewage Dis.

sal Department.” by J. 1). Watson, Engineer and
. Ianager, Birmingham Tame and Rea Drainage Board.

M UNRO, WILLIAM BENNETT, Professor of Mn-
mc1pal Government In Harvard Uni-
verSIty.

A Bibliography of Municipal Govern-
ment in the United States. 472 pp. £915.
2.50

Professor Munro’s reface explains his conce tion
of the function of a bibliographical work as foll’bws:
"A satisfactory bibliography of municipal government
ought to contain references: (a) to discussions of an
elementary character for the benefit of general read-
ers; (b) to detailed discussions and semi-technical
treatises such as are likely to prove useful to the
special student of the subject, and (c) to more elabo-
rate bibliographical lists tor the use of those who
desire contact with all the materials on any particular

hase of the subject." In addition to this, Professor

lunro states that “a distinct preference has been
given~to those reports and discussions which deal with
American problems in the light of our own conditions
and ex erience," which references to European ma-
terials ave been incorporated “wherever a substantial
reason for so doing has appeared." The preference has
been given largely to works of recent date, and the
question of accessibility has been considered. The
book is divided into 9 chapters, as follows: General
[Reference] “’orks; Political Machinerv and Direct
Legislation: Municipal Organization; City Planning
and Public Im rovements; Public Utilities; Sanitation
and Public Iealth; Public Safety; Education and
General Betterment. and Municipal Finance. These
general heads are further divided into 76 subheads.

11 many cases theactual book references are followed
by concise descriptive sentences. An admirable 53-page
index to authors and subjects may be used by the
student in conjunction with the table of contents for
the speedy location of references.

HITCHLER, THERESA, Superintendent of Cata-
loging, Brooklyn Public Library.

Cataloging for Small Libraries. Re-
vised Edition. 316 pp. Drawings and
diagrams. 1915. $1.25

The object of this book is to put at the disposal of
those in charge of small libraries the information
gained by the wider experience obtained in the large
city libraries. The first part deals with general prin-
ciples: the accession book. entries by author. title and
subject and cross references. Chapter 7 discusses the
ways of recording pseudonyms and initials; Chapter 8,
anonymous books: Chapter 9, joint authors: Chapter
10, periodicals; Chapter 11, cyclopedias and diction-
aries; Chapter 13, sacred books and anonymous clas~
sics; Chapter 14, corporate entries: Chapter 15, editors,
translators, illustrators. etc. In Chapter 16 the ques-
tion of “analytics” is taken up—the making of separate
cards when more than one author or subject is in-
cluded in one book. Serial publications are next
treated, and in Chapter 18 various kinds of titles are
Considered. The last seven chapters treat of biography,
added editions. supplements and continuations, biblio-
graphies. etc. Noteworth is the. Section on biblio-
graphical and typographica terms with definitions, also
the list of books under the heading “Reference Aids
for the Cataloguer." The book contains numerous
illustrations of properly made out index cards. which
enable the reader to grasp the methods dealt with
quickly and easily.

THE AMERICAN CITY

347

BENNETT, HELEN CHRISTINE.
American Women in Civic Work. 277
pp. Illustrated with portraits. 1915. $1.25

The eleven chapters of this book include interest-
ing sketches of Jane Addams, Caroline Crane, Sophie
“’right, Kate Barnard Albion Bacon, Hannah Schoff,
Frances Keller, Julia Tutwiler Lucretia Blankenburg,
Anna Shaw and Ella Young. Each of these persons—-
well known for some signal contribution in service-—
is treated in a direct and sympathetic manner from
the point of view of things actually accomplished.
Iiow Ilull House was started; where Kate Barnard
obtained her inspiration, and how Anna Howard Shaw
worked her way up from a log cabin in the Michigan
woods to her present position of fame, are among the
accounts given. A photograph of the subject of each
chapter is inserted in the text.

CITY or NEW YORK.

Municipal Year Book of the City of
New York, 1915. (Prepared under the
Direction of the Chamberlain for Distri-
bution by the Municipal Reference Li-
brary.) 155 pp. 1915. 15 cents

The object of the Year Book, according to Cham-
berlain Brucre’s Foreword, is “to present in concise
and intelligible form the more important facts relating
to the cit government." Made possible by the joint
efforts 0 the city departments and the Munici al
Reference Library, the book should be of great va ue
and assistance not only to citizens of New York but
also to officials and citizens elsewhere who are inter-
ested in the city administration. Mayor Mitchel in
a short introduction tells of the origin of the pub-
lication—the “Manual of the Corporation of the Cit
of New York,” compiled annually by the city clerk
from 1841 to 1870—and of the revival of this pub
lication during the last year of his predecessor’s ad-
ministration as the Municipal Year Book. There are
thirteen main sections in the book dealing with the
various departments of the city administration and
with the executive, legislative and judicial functions.
In addition there Is a section devoted to “Miscellan-
eous Activities" and one to “County Ofiices.” The
last division contains a number of statistical tables
concerning budget appropriations, tax rates, assessed
values, area and mileage, birth and death rates. etc.
A directory of the different city offices follows and a
good index furnishes the key to the whole.

RYAN, OSWALD, of the Indiana Bar, formerly
of the Department of Government, Har-
vard University.

Municipal Freedom: A Study of the
Commission Government. (Introduction
by A. Lawrence Lowell, President of Har-
vard University.) 233 pp. 1915. 65 cents

Pointing out how the principle of “checks and bal-
ances" in the American constitution, although intended
as a curb on the arbitrary and ill—advised acts of pub-
lic officials, “became instead an obstacle to the wise
and salutary measures of men who had at heart the
best interests of the people." the book discusses com-
mission government reform. and points to it as the
first step in achieving municipal freedom. Nine com-
pact chapters deal with the important features of mu-
nicipal reform—efficiency, fixing responsibility, changes
in organization, vitalizinc the ballot. the party system,
etc. A valuable Appendix comprises four sections as
follows: I. “The Des Moines Plan as Provided by the
Iowa Commission Government Act”: II. “The Com-
mission-Manager Plan as Outlined in Selected Sections
of the Dayton Charter”; III. “Preferential Voting as
Provided in the Charter of Grand Junction, Colo-
rado." and IV, “Selected References on Commission
Government.” This book is one of a new series en-
titled “Thc American Books." of which 5 volumes
have been published and which purposes to deal with
vital problems of the day.

CITY or CLEVELAND, DEPARTMENT or PUBLIC
UTILITIES. DIVISIoN or LIGHT AND HEAT.

The Cleveland Municipal Lighting
Plant. (Bulletin No. 1.) April, 1915.

26 pp. Photographs and diagrams. Free

Digitized by GOOSIC‘

 

THE AMERICAN CITY

SANITATION

While our “CANCO” garbage

can in point of appearance and
strength of construction is without
a peer, yet our equipment—the
most comprehensive in the country
—is such that we can make any
sort of garbage container at short
notice.

 

We shall be pleased to estimate
on any city or park requirement.

AMERICAN CAN COMPANY

Chicago NEW YORK San Francisco

WITH OFFICES IN ALL LARGE CITIES

When writing to Advertisers please mention Tn: AMERICAN Crnr.

Digitized by 600816

OCTOBER, 1915

NATIONAL BOARD OF FIRE UNDERWRITERS.

Building Code Recommended by the
National Board of Fire Underwriters,
New York. An ordinance providing for
tire limits, and regulations governing the
construction, alteration, equipment, repair
or removal Of buildings or structures.
Fourth Edition, completely revised. 1915.
326 pp. Illustrated. Free

The fourth revised edition of the Building Code rec-
ommended by the National Board of Fire Under-
writers brings this important work up to date in regard
to recent developments, and offers to the public “a
safe, practical, conservative building ordinance which
represents the best engineering practice of the day."
Three new features of this edition will prove of more
general interest: (1) The use of numerous notes in
the text to serve either as recommendations, cautions
or explanations; (2) the introduction Of cuts illustrat-
ing details of construction, and (3) the use of frequent
cross references in the text to aid the reader to quickly
find allied subjects. The object of these changes has
been “to make the Code a guide or textbook for the
use of Commissions engaged in drafting building ordi-
nances . . . . [by covering] . . . . all the
essential features Of construction which such a Com-
mission would be likely tO discuss."

HUTTON, WILLIAM.

Country Plumbing Practice. 310 pp.
Drawmgs, Diagrams and Photographs.
1914. $2.00

The purpose Of this book, as stated in the introduc-
tory note, is “to offer some assistance in designing and
installing the various appliances necessary for the sup-
ply of water by gravity or mechanical power and for
the disposal of sewage and kitchen wastes by the bio-
logical process." Further, “The maintenance of the
appliances in proper repair has also received considera-
tion, and it has been the intention throughout to ar-
range the subjects treated in a manner which would
appeal to the men who are most likely to require as-
sistance—the plumbers who are called upon to install
or repair any of the hundred and one appliances which
the requirements of local conditions may entail." The
text is copiously illustrated with section and cross
section drawings, diagrams and photographs, which
serve as a continuous commentary on the text, cm-
phasizing and explaining the more difficult problems.

THE SOCIAL RESEARCH SERVICE, 150 Pine Street,
San FranCIsco, Cal.

The Single Tax Index. Vol. I, NO. I.
For the quarter ending January I, 1915.
102 pp. $1.00

This work comprises an exhaustive analytical and
synthetical Index of the Land Question throughout the
world. including such sub'ects as Single Tax, Land
Tax, Tax Reform. Land alues, Land Mono Oly, etc.
Taken together, these subjects are represente by about
2.500 titles with numerous references and cross refer-
ences. There is no introduction to the book, as the
method and Object are self-explanatory: there is, how-
ever, a short key to explain minor intricacies. such as
the specific subject chosen for indexing purposes when
more than one title is employed in general use.

DEVINE, EDWARD T.
The Normal Life. 1915. 233 pp. $1.00

The introduction tells us‘ that the general theme of
this book is Social Construction, accepting the faith
which the phrase implies, namely, that it is we who
are responsible for the well-being of ourselves and
0f posterity. But Social Construction presupposes an
ideal; this ideal the author discerns and classifies as
“The Normal Life": “The normal life rather than
abnormalities, prosperity rather than misery. health
rather than disease.” The normal life of man falls
into seven natural divisions: before birth, infancy.
childhood, adolescence. early maturity and old age,
and these divisions furnish the subjects for thc.sn<
Chapters of the book. An appendix gives a classified
list of uestions which may prove “suggestive for
local study of the social provisions essential to secur-
ing a normal life in any community.”

THE AMERICAN CITY

349

BARNARD, J. LYNN, School of Pedagogy, Phila-
delphia;

CARRIER, F. W., Principal, Wilmington (Mass.)
High School;

DUNN, ARTHUR WILLIAM, Specialist in Civic

Education, United States Bureau of 
Education, and '

KINGSLEY, CLARENCE D., High School Inspec- I
tor, Massachusetts Board Of Education.

The Teaching of Community Civics.
(Prepared by a Special Committee Of the
Commission on the Reorganization of Sec-
ondary Education, National Education
Association.) Bulletin, 1915, NO. 23,
Whole Number 650, Of the United States
Bureau of Education. 55 pp. 10 cents

The Letter of Transmittal which prefaces this pam-
phlet maintains that “Not until boys and girls have
reached the years of adolescence, the high-school age.
can they begin to gain any very full understanding
of abstract principles of soc1al, civic and overnmental
life.” The serious instruction for goo citizenship
should be concentrated mainly in the last years of
the school course. Although many textbooks and
manuals some good and some not so OOd, have been
prepared on this subject, “there is stil need for good
manuals on community civics that will he] teachers to
treat the subject in an inductive way and) to relate it
properly to other subjects and to the st, present and
future life of the students.” “The caching of Com-
munity Civics" endeavors to meet this need; it fur-
nishes a careful discussion of the aims and methods in
teaching community civics, and a detailed plan for the
treatment Of the elements of welfare. in which such
subjects as Health, Protection of Life and PrOperty,
Recreation, Education, Civic Beauty, Transportation
and Charities are treated separately, from the point of
view of the high school teacher. Selected biblio-
graphical suggestions are appended with particular
reference to the establishment Of laboratories for re.
search in civics.

CONFERENCE OF MAi'ORs AND OTHER CITY
OFFICIALS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

Etiiciency First: Proceedings of the
Sixth Annual Conference of Mayors and
Other City Officials of the State of New
York. (Troy, N. Y., June 1, 2 and 3,
1915.) 148 pp. Free to libraries, civic or-
ganizations and city officials on receipt of
postage, 6 cents per copy; to others, $1.00

This book, entitled “Eli'iciency First " from the
slogan of the conference, contains the following papers
Of Special importance: ‘Efiicienc First,” Hon. Ross-
] n M. Cox; “Efi'icient Budget .Iaking.” Herbert R.
Sands: “The State Comptroller’s Relation with Mu-
nicipalities,” Fred G. Reusswig: “The Home Rule
Constitutional Amendment,” lion. Arthur L. An.
drews; “W'h New York State Cities Should Have
Home Rule,’ Henry Bruére; “A Health Survey of
the Cities of New York State,” Dr. Hermann M.
Riggs; “What Is the Limit of Social SerVIce \Vork by
a Municipality?” Harry Olson: “Municipal Finance,’
Hon. \Vm. A. Prenderpast; “City Planning In New
Yorl: State,” Arnold \V. Ilrunner; “City Streets and
How to Pay for Them.” Nelson P. LeWIs; “Park and
Play Ground Facilities.” Charles Downing Lay;
“Transportation in the City Plan,” Daniel L. Turner.

YOUNG MEN’s CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION.

Ways and Means. The Young Men’s
Christian Association Among Industrial
VVOrkers. Outlines and Illustrations. 72
pp. 15 cents

This booklet was prepared by the industrial De art-
ment of the International Committee of the YAM.‘ . A.
for the use of Association branches located‘in indus
trial regions, and is a compilation of suggestions as to
ways and means for work among industrial men and
boys. Some of the subjects treated are: .volunteer
leadership, the industrial experiment commissmn, in-
dustrial workers, program for industrial men, Industrial

Digitized by 600819
A

 

#

the blocks contract, the joints widen.
the pitch rink: and keep; the sea!

intact.

THE AMERICAN CITY

 
 

In Hot Weather

the block: expand, the joint: grow
narrow, the pitch squeezes upward. The

sea! is intaet.

Every Joint an Expansion Joint

 

H I". use of cement err-int as :1 lillet' int' hrieh
I pavement tittet'ttpm to defy nne Hf the
uldest laws of nature. In hut \vt-ntltet‘.
hriek will expand; in euld weather, L‘r'-I'1ll';l\‘i.
\Vhen brick and cement are ern't'il'ainetl in one
pavement, making: :1 great tnnn« :lith. II'(_'IIl{’!1tl-'rll$
internal stresses reveal tlmnselves. mun-times
by explosion, when the pavement lutekles up
with a shower {if It‘atgttients. Swim-times the
expansion thrmvs the enrh out of line or develops
long, unsightly cracks.

To remedy this Ct'JIIt'liIir“an eneineera attempted
more or less unsuccessfully to provide for ex-
pansion hy the nae [If an expanniun juint filled
with n plugtic material

If the Much is mi inferiur quality the use Ill
cement in the joints: Inn)" wive tn: {‘IHICL‘I the
edqu from nln;1.~tir'~n hv tt’ntiie. lint [Mini litielx'
requires nu melt prwteetiwn, especially if the
bricks are laid prut'terly, Cheat? t.::>,eether. (In the

other hand expansion joints, coming at a distanee
of R or 10 feet apart, must necessarily be 50
wide. in order to take up the great expansion.
that prt'iteetion of the edges is impossible and 50
in old eemenhhlled pavements you will find widt
ermves running across the pavement at the ex-
pansion jnint where the exposed edges of thc
li'ls‘t line of bricks have been hammered into
L List.

The. use of Pitch Filler instead of cement obviates
all these LiiiliCUItit’S. Every joint is an expansion
him. In cold weather the pitch sinks in the
joint as the block contracts, but as every joint :5
LH] expansion joint the amount is inhnitesimal.
ln warm weather the pitch merely rises a litth in
the ii tin t. In either case the pitch adheres hm}?
tn the lil- reli. preserving an absolutely 15“thme
pt‘rIL‘L‘l seal.

The best pitch for the purpose is Barrett's
Paving Pitch.

Ifoohietr mt rennet!

BA RR VII “1‘ N UNI ' l“.-\ C" [‘1 1 RI NU ('(')c\--'I PAN Y

‘ . I.t'111i.‘~1 Cleveland

New Yuri-C (IiiliL‘ItL’Jfl I‘ltiliuielliliid Iinr'tlm

I’ittslmruh Detroit Birmitn:li.ttn KrmmnCitv h'llttmntimlin S.tlLI,-.tkr_-Cit_v Seattle

Cincinnati

'l‘ltt-.PA"1'1..H.~;H.\: Min. Cw, Limited: hinntl'enl 'I'urcdito Winnipeg Vancouver St. John,N.B. Halifax, NS. Sydney.N-5-

___—____’_,.-/

 

u \Vhen writing to Advertisers please mention THE AMERICAN Cur.

Digitized by 600816

    
 
  
  

   
          

 

OCTOBER, 1915

reading course, industrial surveys. A useful list of
lantern slides, motion icture reels, exhibits and help-
ful literature is inclu ed. Throughout the book the
matter is in concentrated form made more accessible
by the employment of leaded subtitles and headings.

HENDERSON, CHARLES RICHMOND, D. D., Ph. D.,
Professor of Sociology and Head of the
Department of Practical Sociology, Uni-
versity of Chicago.

Citizens in Industry. (In "The Social
Betterment Series,” edited by Shailer
Mathews, D. D.) 342 pp. 1915. $1.59

Passing from a general consideration of “the situa-
tion and its problems," the book, in the first chapter,
takes up the consideration Of modern industrial life
and the welfare organizations and activities which aim
at amelioration. It is shown that recently the transi-
tion from philanthro y and weiiare schemes to
social legislation has been eti'ected. In the second
chapter the problems of health and safety—particu-
larly with regard to industrial communities—are dis-
cussed; chapter three is devoted to “economic induce-
ment to secure efficiency of labor”; chapter four to
improvin conditions of home life; chapter five to the
neglecte youth, and chapter six to vocational educa-
tion and liberal culture. The last three chapters dis-
cuss the function of the social secretary training em-
ployes for self-government, wages and arbitration, and,
finally, to a consideration of the moral and religious
influences in industry. The book closes with a valu-
able list Of establishments which have organized wel-
fare work.

BASHORE, DR. HARVEY B., Inspector for Penn-
sylvania Department of Health.

Overcrowding and Defective Housing
in the Rural Districts. First Edition;
First Thousand. 92 pp. Illustrated. £915.

1.00

Overcrowdin —the reat problem of city life—:9
shown in this olt to e also a problem in rural com-
munities. As in the city, the rural problem is be
ginning to demand attention in. View of its effect on
the public health. The conditions described in this
_book. improper sanitary arran einents, small windows
and bad ventilation, are foun frequently to occur in
the rural districts where already tuberculosis is often
the cause of death. In addition, it is pointed out:
“\Vhile the great ma‘ority Of people subjected to
overcrowding and bad ousmg conditions do not pre-
maturely die, yet they have a lessened physical and
mental vigor, and so have less ability to perform
properly their daily work, the result being a loss to
themselves and their families as Well as to the State."

lHLI)ER, JOHN, Field Secretary, National Hous-
ing AssOCIation.

City Housing—Past and Future. (Na-
tional Housing Assomation Publications.

No. 28, July, 1915.) 14 pp. 5 cents

THE UTILITIES BUREAU (Morris Llewellyn
Cooke, Acting Director), Publishers.

The Utilities Magazine. Ollicial Organ
Of the Utilities Bureau. (Vol. I. No. 1,

July. 1915-) 32 pp. $1.00

The Utilities Bureau, of which The Ufilitics Maya.
zine is the or an, was established for the following
purposes: 1, o collect and collate data as. to rates,
service standards and cost factors in municipal utili-
ties; 2, to repare this-matter for the .use of Cities, etc:;
3, by stu y and adVIce to hel) Cities to. solve their
utility problems; 4, to codify al legal dcmsmns; 5, to
keep lists of experts (engineers, lawyers, accountants,
etc.): 6, to encourage the introduction of up-to-date
methods of scientific organization and management: 7:,
to publish and disseminate information regarding muni-
cipal utilities (servtce standards, rates, franchises. pub-
lic contracts, etc.): 8, to assist in the presentation of a
city's interests before regulative or judicial bodies: 9,
to “serve as a national agency through which American
cities may coOperate b exchanging data as to cost

factors, service standar s and rates.”

THE AMERICAN CITY

3SI

MACKENZIE, W. LESLIE, M. A., M. D., LL. D.,
and
CRUICKSHANK, D., M. D., D. P. H.,
Editors.
Problems of School Hygiene. Being a
Report Of the First Conference of Scottish
School Medical Oliicers. (A Collection of
Papers by Different Scottish Medical Au—
thorities.) 112 pp. 1914. 75 cents
The last few years have witnessed in Scotland the
organization, by the Inspectors of Schools, of a splen-
(Iiu system of educational medical service extending
to the supervision of teachers and school children
throughout the country. This book gives the results
of the first conference in which representatives of all
the various school medical officers assembled, and in-
cludes a large number of papers prepared for the oc-
casion. Among the contributors are such names as
those of Sir John Struthers, Doctors W. Leslie Mac-
kenzie, A. Campbell Munro, J. IIally Meikle, Robert
and William Bruce, L. I). Cruickshank, etc., authors
of articles on Medical Inspection, School Hygiene,
School Medical Research and Physical Education and
Training. Throu bout the book, as was the case with
regard to'the con erence. the keynote is synthesis, the
object being a closer and more effective cobperation

beigeen local and central health authorities in Scot-
an .

CITIZENS’ LEAGUE OF INDIANA.

The Citizen. A Monthly Magazine.
Organ of the Movement for a New Con-
stitution for the State of Indiana. (Vol.
I, No. l, July, 1915.) 24 pp. IO cents

INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF CHIEFS or
POLICE.

Proceedings of the Twenty-Second An-
nual Convention. (Held at Cincinnati,
Ohio, May 25 to 28, 1915.) 123 pp. Free

CHENEY, CHARLEs IlENIIv, Editor.

What City Planning Commissions Can
Do. Compiled for the California Confer-
ence on City Planning. (Bulletin No. 1,
June, 1915.) 22 pp. Illustrated. 50 cents

RICH MONI), CAL.
Result of the City Planning Contest on
the Canal Subdivision. (Showing the
winning and honorable mention plans and
the composite or tinal plan, with related

LEWIS

matter.) 32 pp. Plans and photographs.
Free
NEW YORK AsSOCIATION FOR IMPROVING THE

ConTION OF THE POOR, and
NEW YORK DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, BUREAU
OF CHILI) HYGIENE.

Flies and Diarrheal Disease; Second
Year’s Investigation. A Joint Study by

the two above-mentioned Bureaus. Pub-

lication No. 91 of the A.VI. C. P. Illustra-

tions and diagrams. 46 pp. September,

1915. Free
THE CIVIC PRESS.

The American City Pamphlets. Four

pamphlets have been issued during the last

month:
The Jitney Bus. By Clyde Lyndon King, Ph. D.
No. 132. 15 cents.
Sheet Asphalt Pavements. By Daniel T. Pierce.
No. 133. 15 cents.

How to Avoid Root Growth in House Sewers. By
\N'illiam Robert Marshall. No. 134. 10 cents.

Organizing Rocliestcr's School Boys for Accident
Prevention. By Roland B. WoOdward. No. 135. 10

CCIIIS,
Digitized by GOOEIC
h

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

MUNICIPAL
SIGNS

or EVERY CHARACTER
FOR EVERY PURPOSE
" GUARANTEED

' u
PORCELAIN
- ENAMELED

.SIG-NS "w"

“BALTO” Guaranteed Porcelain Enameled Iron Signs

stand alone in their field—the one and only one absolutely
dependable sign product.

These signs are made of the finest grade of vitreous Porcelain Enamel

fused on specially processed iron at a temperature of 1600 degrees Fah-
renheit—each color separately fused.

“BALTO” Signs, exclusively, are fitted with
non-corrosive metal sleeve eyelets—this

feature protects the enamel at this point

and adds another distinctive element of
linlsh to our signs.

  

 
        
     
   
  

  
 
      

_ We produce every possible character of municipal

signs—any size, shape, color combination or design.
1thout obligation our Service Department W'lll

be dpleased- to submit sketches and quotations.
Ad itionally, we will send FREE, at our expense,

' to any authorized purchasing official or body a ‘ E

useful and attractive sample of finished Porcelain  DO NOT
Enameled lron. Write Department c.  

The Baltimore Enamel 8: Novelty Co.
, BALTIMORE, MARYLAND

 
     

  
 

50 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tn: AnnICAN Cr".

 

 

OCTOBER, 1915

PARSONS, SAMUEL, Fellow of the American
Society of Landscape Architects.

The Art of Landscape Architecture.

Its Development and Its Application to

Modern Landscape Gardening. 347 pp.

Illustrated. 1915. $3.72

“The first man we can find who really seemed to
comprehend and present intelliginy the idea of a pub-
lic park in America was Andrew Jackson Downing,”
of whom William A. Stiles, writer on landscape archi-
tecture, has said that he was our first authoritative
writer on the art of landscape gardening, and that he
ado ted “what was then called the English style of
gar ening” as Opposed to the predominating “French
or Italian style, where one sees the effects of art
slightly assisted by nature." The preface of this book,
following Downing's contention, maintains that land-
scape architecture, above other arts, is based on na-
ture and should be practiced on natural lines. To
further the maintenance of this proposition the book
endeavors “to show that landscape gardening has been
and is the result of an evolution and growth of an
important art, based on the deepest instincts of human
nature." In Chapter 15 these instincts are shown to
be identical with the modern awakened interest in
communit life. conditions and development. This
attitude should be encouraged: “The park idea should
pervade the city everywhere throughout its streets,
and particularly around its residences and public
buildings"—in other words, “a city should be looked
upon, if ideally laid out, as a great public park in
which a community is to live an move and have its
being.” Furthermore, the city lanner “should make
his standpoint of design that o the community, and
thus evolve for his citv a unihed artistic creation real-
izing, the ideal of both architect and landscape archi-
tect.

PORTER, R. LEE. ~
Social Work With Families and Indi-

viduals. (A Brief Manual for Investiga-
tors.) Studies in Social Work, No. 1,
The New York School of Philanthropy.

January, 1915. 16 pp. 5 cents
BULLOCK, EDNA D., Compiler.

Selected Articles on Single Tax. (De:
baters’ Handbook Series.) 1915. xxvin
+ 1 P - $1.07

Adapte to t e needs of the general seeker for in-
formation as well as the debater. The arrangement is:
brief, bibliography, general, affirmative and ac tive
reprints. A bIbliography of literature that wi set
the subject squarely before the average citizen's mind
is given, with due regard, also, for the economic stu-
dent of the abstract theory of taxation. Societies and
other sources of especially valuable publications on
the single tax are listed.

KIMBALL, THEODORA, Librarian, School of
Landscape Architecture, IIarvard Um-
versity.

Bibliography on Streets: Their Arrange-
ment, Lighting and Planning. Special
Libraries, Vol. VI, No. 3, March, 1915.
(This issue of Special Libraries contains
also a “List of References on the Budget
of Cities” compiled under the direction of
the Library of Congress.) 56 pp. 25 cents

NEw YORK STATE CONFERENCE or MAYORs AND
OTHER CITY OFFICIALs, Bureau of Mn-
nicipal Information. (William. P. Capes,
Director.)

Street Lighting by Electricity in New
York State Cities. Describing Orna-
mental and General Systems. Unit Cost
and Methods of Assessment. 64 stenog-
raphic pages. Free

NATIONAL CHILD LABOR COMMITTEE.
High Cost of Child Labor. Exhibit
Handbook. (Pamphlet No. 241; January,
1915.) 20 pp. Illustrated. 10 cents

THE AMERICAN CITY

353

WEAVER, EMILY P.,
WEAVER, A. E., and
WEAVER, E. C., B. A., Editors.

The Canadian Woman’s Annual and
Social Service Directory. 322 pp. 1915.

$I-09

Into this useful compilation the editors have man~
aged to crowd the maximum of facts of interest to
civic and social workers in Canada and elsewhere with-
out surpassing the Iimits of a handy volume. While
the hook is primarily occupied with women's interests
in literature, art, the rofessions, and social and eco-
nomic welfare, nevert eless there remains much of
interest to workers of the opposite sex. The prefatory
note tells us: ‘Our purpose has been to suggest the
backgrounds of Canadian life—-the country, the people,
the government—to giVe information as to the more
important lines of women’s work, women's associations
and social agencies, to aid those seeking sources of in-
formation or desirous t0 COOperate with other workers."
The chapter headings refer us to such subjects as
historical notes government, widows’ pensions, courts
pure milk, child welfare, education, professions an
employmenthjournalism, literature, art, music, crime,
charities, religions, etc. The appendix furnishes sup-

tilementarg‘ information and statistics with regard to
specral su Jects.

DUNN, ARTHUR W., Special Agent in Civic
Education, United States Bureau of
Education.

Civic Education in Elementary Schools
as Illustrated in Indianapolis. (United
States Bureau of Education, Bulletin, 1915,
No. 17. Whole No. 642.) 35 pp. Out-
lines. 5 cents

KNIGHT, HOWARD R.
Play and Recreation in a Town of 6,000.
(A Recreation Survey of Ipswich, Mass.)
98 pp. Illustrations and charts. 1915.
25 cents

PHILADELPHIA BUREAU or HIGHWAYS AND
STREET CLEANING, William H. Connell,

Chief.
Highways: A Problem in Municipal
Housekeeping. Report for 1914 of the

Philadelphia Bureau of Highways and

Street Cleaning. 174 pp. Illustrations,

charts and diagrams. 1915. Free
PAINE, F. D.

Ornamental Post Lightin of City

Streets. Iowa State College ulletin No.

13. Engineering Extension Department,
Technical Service. (Vol. XIII. No. 29,
March I, 1915.) Illustrations, charts and
diagrams. 16 pp. Free

CARVER, T. N., Adviser in Agricultural Eco-

nomics. United States Department of
Agriculture.

The Organization of a Rural Com-
munity. (Prepared for the Oiiice of Mar-
kets and Rural Organization. From year-
book of Department of Agriculture for

1914.) 1915. 58 pp. 5 cents

PERMANENT COMMITTEE ON COMPREHENSIVE

PLANS, Department of Public Works,
Philadelphia.

Report on the Proposition of a Central
Traflic Circuit. 1915. 19 pp. Illustrated.
Free

THE CIVIC LEAGUE or CLEVELAND.

Taxation in Ohio. (Report of The Civic
League of Cleveland.) 1915. 19 pp. Free

Digitized by 6008?

 

 

THE AMERICAN CITY

STANDSWEARANDTEAIZ
Keep the “Kidlets” Busy

and keep ’em out of mischief is the slogan among leading
educators. Hence municipalities are. installing play-
grounds in parks and open spaces With suitable playground

apparatus. “  ”
PLAYGROUND OUTFITS

are the heat. for public or privillC‘ use. Their universal
usefulness and popularity attest this fact, and no play-
ground or back yard
Hlltlllltl he without them.
(1111' "lit'll'R-IN-HNIC” CHIH-
l'.inatirm for prixate yank; makeS
play out Hf L'Xert'iae an] :tllurtlS
:lu enulesa llt’ltl fur the “writing
out (it new aml variuuse “stunts.”

  
  
  
 
   

Catalog (2—3": almuiue‘ a full
line of the latest and {IIJIH‘HVCKl
playground equipment will he
sent on requeat.

Everwear Mfg. Co.
SPRINGFIELD, OHIO

\Vhen writing to Advertisers please mention TH! Axum“; C111.

   

Manufacturers’

Literature

Available Free of Charge for Readers of THE AMERICAN CITY

Advertisers are int-1'th to submit catalogues or circulars suitable for mention in these columns.
THE AMERICAN Cirv sltould always be mentioned when writing for this material.

 

Cellular Tires for Fire Apparatus.

Booklet issued by the Swinehart Tire 8: Rubber
Company, Akron, Ohio.

Municipal Progress.

Catalogue covering use of motor sprinklin trucks,

ambulances, garbage trucks, police patrols y cities
and towns. General Motors Truck Company,

Pontiac, Mich.

Sound Accounting.

Municipal ofhcials interested in securing a busi-
ness-like system of accounting for the various
municipal departments will find this booklet of
interest. Clinton H. Scovell 8: Company, 110

State Street, Boston, Mass.
Fire Hose That Will Not Crack.

Booklet relative to special construction of fire
hose in order to prevent deterioration by crack.

ing. Bi-Lateral Fire Hose Company, 326 West
Madison Street, Chicago, Ill.

Water Meters Advantageous or Otherwise.

A series of articles on this subject by Edward
W'. Beemis, Neptune Meter Company, 90 West
Street, New York City.

Public Service.

Booklet relative to the protection of public health
in cities through the use of individual towels.
National Paper Products Company, 105 Canal

Street, Carthage, N. Y.
Alpha Book No. 2.

Contains valuable information regarding cement
and concrete work. Alpha Portland Cement Com-

pany, Easton, Pa.

Knox Detachable Tractor.

Catalogue relative to the Knox Model 35, 4-wheet
tractor for fire de artment service. Knox Motor

Associates, Spring eld, Mass.

Drinking Fountains.

Catalogue containing illustrations of wide variety
of drinking fountains suitable for park, street and
school usc. Rundle-Spence Manufacturing Com-

pany, Milwaukee, Wis.
Dump Wagon for Street Work.

Catalogue regarding the Moore low-down model
dump wa on. Hamilton Smithing and Manu-
facturing ompany, Ilamilton, Ohio.

Culverts for Municipal and County Use.

Booklet relative to “Genuine Open Hearth Iron”
culverts, describing how these are furnished ready
to lay and in lengths to suit all purposes. New-
port Culvert Company, Newport, Ky.

Red Book No. 1.

Regarding lleltzel forms .for curb, gutter and side-
wak and road construction as used by over 5'26

municipalities. Heltzel Steel Form 8: Iron \Vorks,

Warren, Ohio.

Paving Mixers.

Illustrated folder relative to the Jaeger concrete

mixer, especially designed for paving work.

Jae er Machine Company, 215 West Rich Street,
Columbus, Ohio.

Pumping Engine for Highway Construction.

Catalogue relative to the Atlantic gasoline pump-
ing engine, destgned especially for road building.
Harold L. Bond Company, 383 \Vest Atlantic
Avenue, Boston, Mass.

Metallic Flame Arc Lamps.

Catalo e DS-290, giving full particulars about
these amps as used by the Pittsburgh municipal
lighting plant. Westinghouse Electric & Manu-
facturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.

Outdoor Lighting Fixtures.

Catalogue No. 1.0, illustrating various fixtures for
street and public building lightin . Herwi Art
Shade & .Lamp Company, 2139 North Ha stead
Street, Chicago, Ill.

Fence Catalogue G.

Illustrating and describing fencing for park, ceme-
tery and playground use. Wright Wire Company,
\\ orcester, Mass.

Fibre Conduit Book “DS.”

Regarding the installation of underground con-
duit suitable for ornamental street lighting sys-
tems and describing the simplicity and economy
of te fibre conduit. Fibre Conduit Company,
Orangeburg, N. Y.

Street and Park Trash Cans.

Booklet relative to refuse containers for keeping
paper and'trash off streets and out of gutters.
iizzliestic Company, 513 Erie Street, Huntington,
n .

Fountains and Park Ornaments.

Illustrated catalogue showing various models of
fountains, statuary. sun-dials, vases, benches, etc.,
for park and cemeter use. Erkins Studios, 227A
Lexmgton Avenue, ew York.

Instruments for City and County Engineers.

Catalo‘ue, includiii illustrations of the Gurley
Light ransit. W. ' L.  Gurley, Troy, N. Y.

Hand Book on Streets and Highways.

Illustrations and descriptions of street sprinklers,
street sweepers, street Rushers, road oilers, dump
wagons, etc. Studebaker Corporation, South
Bend. Ind.

New Ways to Make Highways.

Rook relative to details of road construction and
maintenance, fully illustrated by pictures and sec-
tional drawings showing how to secure the best
results in road building. Dept. 406, Dupont

Powder Company, Wilmington, Del.

Panama Giant Road Machine.

Describes this machine and its wide range of use
for all sorts of road-building work. F. B. Zieg
Manufacturing Company, Fredericktown, Ohio.

The Retail Credit and Adjustment Bureaus;
Their Organization and Their Con-
duct

lly C. O. llanes, Secretary Retail Merchants’ Asso-
ciation, Columbia, Mo. Credit Bureau Supply
Company, Box 86, Columbia, M0.

[355]

Digitized by 61-30816

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

When giving the lawns the final clean-up
this fall use a

“PENNSYLVANIA”

Lawn Cleaner and Rake

With it one man can remove all the cut-grass and trash quicker
and better than three or four men W1th hand rakes.

The three revolving, Wire-tooth rakes clean up every bit of litter
and pass it into a roomy basket,
which is easily emptied. They leave
the grass upright.

The “PENNSYLVANIA” Lawn

Cleaner and Rake is an economic
necessuy for large estates, parks
and golf courses.

EARLY everyone knows the cutting 24-inch cleaning area, shipping weight 80 lbs.
efficiency of the“PENNSYLVANlA  u u u u u  a
Quality Lawn Mowers" with all the
blsdes of oil-burdened and water-tempered

crucible tool steel. The line— “The Penngylvania People»
“Pennsylvanin” "Golf ”

33§§§isi§§fj "§33i§.t:$.5’°"°' agilig' VIEW“ (@2797

PHILADELPHIA. PENNSYWIA

 

 

 

 

53 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tm: AMERICAN CITY.

Methods, Materials and Appliances

El News from Engineers, Manufacturers and Supply Houses

{EEIEEIEN

 

 

 

 

 

 

k—EIEI_E—J

A Refuse Receiver for Parks

and Streets

One of the specialties of The Majestic Com-
pany of Huntington, Ind., is the street and
park refuse receiver illustrated on this page.
Every city which takes pride in civic beauty
and cleanliness provides some sort of recep-
tacle for the collection of waste paper and
refuse incidental to city streets and parks.
The Majestic receiver is both sanitary and
neat in appearance. It keeps the can, which
becomes soiled and possibly battered from
emptying, out of sight, in the ingot iron shell,

THE MAJESTIC TRASH RECEIVER

or container. This container stands on four
wrought-iron legs, keeping it away from the
sidewalk and water-washed filth. The can is
covered by a cast-iron top, which fits onto the
shell and is chained to it. It is simple and
easy to open the top, lift out the can, empty it
and return it to the container. The receiver
is finished in dark green enamel, with the
words “Refuse Can” lettered on the shell.

 

A New Four-Wheel Tractor

The Knox Motors Company, of Springfield,
Mass., has recently placed on the market a new
four-wheel tractor for fire service, a view of
which is given on page 339 of this issue. Sim-
plicity, accessibility and reliability have been
the keynote of the design, and the Knox Com-
pany makes even greater claims for this model
than for any they have heretofore perfected.

While the principle of attaching the tract-
tor to steamers, ladder trucks, aerials, etc., is
the same as on the three-wheel tractor, the
design of the tractor proper has been changed
materially. Among the new features are the
patented hydraulic brakes, enabling the oper-
ator to exert with ease tremendous power on
the rear axle drum; the differential lock, with
which the tractor and its load may be operated
in bad going and on slippery places; control
board at the steering column, within easy
reach of switches, fuses, gauges, and speed-
ometer; unique jack shaft brakes; the ease of
adjustment and renewal of shoes.

The motor, while retaining the overhead
feature, is of entirely new design. It has four
cylinders, 5-inch bore and 5%-inch stroke, and
is said to be capable of pulling its load over
the steepest grades and as fast as safety will
pemiit on level road. ~

The fifth wheel, or trailer platform, is made
of unusual size and is so constructed as to fit
the platform of any steamer, ladder truck, or
other form of apparatus. In coupling, the
connection is made by means of an ordinary
king bolt, and the original springs are pre-
served. Both these points are important, and
are not found where the rear platform is
made a permanent and integral part of the fire
apparatus itself. In case of accident to the
motor mechanism, or during the periodical
overhauling necessary on all motors, the fire
apparatus itself can be quickly detached by
removing the king pin; or, at the discretion of
the fire chief, the tractor can be quickly trans-
ferred to some other fire station. In towns
where there is one steamer, the original front
axle can be preserved, and in case of an un-
expected emergency the change back to horse-
drawn apparatus can be made in thirty
minutes.

Full equipment is furnished with this new
model, including the Bijur electric starting and
lighting system; trailer platform complete:
two electric side lamps; one electric tail lamp;
one electric searchlight; Willard storage bat-
tery, 6 volts, I60 ampercs; electric siren horn;
Pyrene fire extinguishers; speedometer; com-
plete set of skid chains, etc. Several options
are given on the tire equipment, standard sizes
of which are 34 x 5, single, front; 40 x 6, dual,
rear.-

[867]

THE AMERICAN CITY

Propel! ‘ _
Fence - _

I'or Parks, Private Ciru  o eineterigs

This protui'tinn ui [mialii‘ JIIIII privutc prupt-rly frnm thoughtlcas people and from viciously reckless people is a

prolilt-m that lmtIILw IIIL‘ :IUIIIHTIIIL'H in many L‘UIII‘IIIUIIIIICH.
Shruhlu-ry in turn, lIr.n\\'i-r.s~ Itrl‘ [nIurkuL li1tcr In waltwn-d. irregular paths are cut across lawns. Against the-st:

and :1 long list of ullu-r :lIJIIHt‘H which are of L'mumon ncrllrrunvr

CYCLONE PROPERTY PROTECTION FENCE
OFFERS MAXIMUM AND PERMANENT PROTECTION

5

(yo/on?  i   -_  ~ _ 

i
-4 
.J\ 23-

 

Our fence is built of hemily gaivnninil wire. LI'I'HL'IEI Our posts are built of tubular sleek—the strongest form
and t'\'l’-III}‘ 41!:u'uil. with :vaply Li'IlIlllL‘i [‘Ir'ki'h‘ :m'i l‘=.1I)I|'.'i of in»: rune-[ruminn—there is no weak side. Thcysupport the
firmly IanU-I l-"Ii-i» lmr'i; “III‘F -:i In;- mulmuu L-jthcr xiii", hairy l‘ahric pn'ipcrly, make the [ence durable-*rcsist shock
making rlimlrim; inn-r i! pm: IIl‘.lII__\' illalui-'~ilrl-.-_ ur mum I'r-i'ml any direction.

Cytlunt- Property Protection aunt-uh to you lwcaunc it is u‘onomicaIH'cheapirr
than u-rwi. {at it ix wanifhvr-pro-If. hrir—nroof. rt-nair-proof—-gives the grounda a 5:31»
_ arimtiull}; Iir'nslwrl HIIIH'JI'HIIIW'.

“I” "n" 1h" “WV” ““‘”'”'-l_‘” [I is sanitary ilmn» .nmy “ith the damp. decaying. unsightly fence- line; due-9 nut
[1““T“ “WI I"""3‘R_I“"-"‘1 1"3"l"r‘ I.” I.iII-!rlJi‘1 {Ia-s \‘ii-w; IIHIH nut Imrimr [I'm-II].

It'm‘s' “41"”15‘11-111 “Mk “I' [Mr :‘HiHIlr-I-IEHL: ulvi-iarrim-nt u'iTl :uivi-w. and (Tu-operate with superintendent: of
'_-"ik:|11'-*1" "WOW" WIN-"TILMUI'I'-"!1‘ park-- and I--«t.i1i-< In «hr IIII'Ir fi-nirv problems firm of charge. “1: supply cun-
I"”'-"“ Jr" '11"T"”'-“""' “I HF” #{rmtinn i-Hgmr-i‘r tn :-I11p=rintt-:1'I f‘I'L‘ITIi'N‘I at nominal cost.

nip-«13:11. ur- :1 HIILItII'IL: an»! “tram;

l.”“_:1rm.nfm IllIHHtirL-II :Tululr'ig [rue on request,

CYCLONE FENCE CO., Dept. 107, WAUKEGAN, ILL.

 

FIBRE CONDUIT

BEST ADAPTED FOR USE IN
ORNAMENTAL STREET
LIGHTING SYSTEMS?

"T his Question must be answered from the
points of

Quality of Material

Economy of Material
Economy of Construction
Merit of Completed System

All these points are discussed in our little
book “ DS"

SHALL WE SEND IT?

_ The Fibre Conduit Company"
ORANGEBURG, N. Y.

Chicago
San Francisco

 

58 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tm: AMERICAN CITY.

 

0a.,1915 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS

359

 

THE POSSIBILITY OF
A Troy trailer hitched behind a demonstration car, hauling a party of children to the docks for a day's outing

SUGGESTING

Street Signs for Highland Park

A large order was recently received by The
Indestructible Sign Company, of Columbus,

Ohio, from Highland Park, III., one of Chi-,

cago's finest suburbs. This company's signs
were approved by the City Beautiful Commis-
sion as well as by the Board of City Commis-
sioners, which is made up of some of the most
prominent bankers and business men of Chi-
cago who make their homes in Highland Park.

or or
A Fire-Fighting Truck in Parnassus

The borough of Parnassus, Pa., has installed
a Packard 3-ton chainless motor truck for its
fire department. This piece of apparatus is
illustrated on page 338 of this issue. The
motor governor is adjusted to allow for a
speed of 25 miles per hour, this being consider-
ably in excess of the speed designated for a
3-ton truck in ordinary commercial service.
The main reason for the purchase of this type
of fire truck is that the Councilmen of Par-
nassus have been given an excellent opportun-
ity to study the performance of a Packard
truck which has been in the service of the
North Braddock, Pa., fire department for four
and one-half years, and has been out of ser-
vice only one week during that time.

Since it carries about nine-tenths of its load
on the rear axle, the Parnassus truck is capable
of the maximum tractive effort in slippery
going and on heavy grades. With its ability to
get over the ground is combined the advantage
of effective brakes. The equipment of the truck
includes two 35-gallon polished copper chem-
ical tanks, of Champion style, 200 feet of
M-inch chemical hose, one shut-off nozzle. one
hose reel, two extra acid receptacles and
holders, soda bags, pressure gauge, all neces-
sary wrenches and trunnion bearings, one De-
troit door opener, two dash signal lights. two
head lights, one swivel searchlight. all operated
by electricity, special speedometer. enclosed
gear ratchet horn, 24-foot extension ladders.
and a complete set of machine tools. The cost

USING TRAILERS IN JITNEY

SERVICE

of the complete vehicle was in the neighbor-
hood of $5,200.

Parnassus ofiicials justify their choice of fire-
fighting apparatus by the statement that, in a
city of their size, dependability is the biggest
essential feature. They point out that in a
large city, where several pieces of apparatus
answer each alarm, the failure of an individual
vehicle is not of vital importance; but in a
municipality of the size of Parnassus all de-
pendence must be» placed on the single unit
owned, and therefore it is imperative that a
vehicle of known reliability and efficiency be
purchased.

* *

Identifying Prisoners

The “Y and E" criminal identification equip-
ment, manufactured by the Yawman & Erbe
Manufacturing Company, of Rochester, N. Y.,
has been adopted by prisons and police depart-
ments in many cities throughout this country.
It includes every article of measuring furni-
ture and instruments. all filing cabinets, record
cards and index classification, every implement
needed for the taking of finger prints, with full
and complete printed instructions for the in-
stallation and operation of all parts of the
system. The booklet on “Criminal Identifica-
tion,” published by this company, shows how
this equipment is applicable to the satisfactory
use of the Bertillon and the finger print sys-
tems for reCording prisoners. It is amply illus-
trated with views which make clear the appear-
ance and use of the equipment. It contains
facsimile letters from the cities of Spokane,
W'ash.; Syracuse, N. Y.; Baltimore, Md. and
Toledo, Ohio, testifying to the value of this

system.
'i' 'i'

Educational Pictures

A series of outdoor prints and lantern slides
for educational purposes is manufactured and
supplied by the J. llorace McFarland Company.
of Harrisburg, Pa. A number of schools and
colleges are using these prints and slides for

THE AMERICAN CITY

Fence of Beauty
and Permanence

Every Excelsior Rust Proof Fence is as permanent ‘---. .. i '

a fence as can possibly be made. Everybody knows that nist" " - ii   I " " i
is the great fence destroyer. Buy the fence that is rust proof.

fence is made to escape rust. The large strong wires are heavily covered with zinc, put on by a
special dip galvanizing process. Every spot and every point is so thickly covered that rust gets no
start. There are many styles. Suit the fence to the location. Send for illustrated Catalog C of
Excelsior Rust Proof Fences, Tree Guards, Bed Guards and other products.

WRIGHT WIRE COMPANY, Worcester, Mass.

 

\\l

“mu
,.
\“ .‘\

\\\\\\
t\\\‘
\\ \
\\\\\‘
st
\\\\\
\“ .\\
\\\\‘
\

‘ \
\t\\\\\
\\ \\\
\\\\ \
\\\\‘
kn

% AREINVARIABLY CHOSEN WHEN BEAUTY OF DESIGN %

/
% and serviceable construction are considered /
% Nu 01 her line {)l-Slrliltlkll’dSI)t'l‘1]lll.$il)f$0111L111)"t‘UIHlJiiIflthilS—‘Illl KING units g

/ )‘nl'ioll‘t‘ 't “1“” ll‘ 5- ".r'u a~°r - . '
Z  “ is: 335.21"; 33.3:22:grin:t:3.g'::::.‘;‘:;:iJami}s21“m P“- g
% THE KING FACTORY IS pole manufacturing %
% the largest exclusive plant in the world %
WRIT]: TODAY FOR SEND Now FOR %
% Luv-Li" (“’l'm'd WM” illustrated folder Show“ /
/ chewing-Istr'rndru'tls for ing KING monolights %
% :ttrjh‘lr‘: llllgrhltliiff' ;lsl;il,i3:i  parks and g
/ KING FOUNDRY C0. cmcmo OFFICE %
% 31h and Doniphan Ave. 530 Monadnock %
% ST. JOSEPH. M0. cmcmo, ILL. %

 

54 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tm: AMERICAN Crrv.

om.,1915 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS

their class work. The series includes sets on
general landscape plantings, herbaceous plants
and borders, formal and informal gardens,
civic improvement, and miscellaneous outdoor
subjects. The photographs are selected from
a collection of more than 30,000 negatives ac-
cumulated in twenty years of effort and travel.
They measure 8x 10 inches, unmounted, and
are packed in suitable containers. A condition
of their sale is that they shall be used for edu-
cational or exhibition purposes only and not
reproduced as lantern slides or in publications.
The lantern slides made from these subjects
may be had both colored and uncolored. The
set on civic improvement shows the “before
and after” effects of simple planting for both
the city and the country home, the proper treat-
ment of children's gardens, playgrounds, pub-
lic and private parks, water-fronts, etc. A
number of the pictures show how the natural
beauty of a landscape is marred by billboards,
poles and wires, ash-dumps and other alleged
"necessities" of modern life.

+°h

Smooth Sidewalks

A folder issued by The
Philip Carey Company, of
Cincinnati, asks its readers
to choose between two side-
walks, views of which are
herewith reproduced. The
one represents a walk which
has been laid without ade-
quate provision for the ex-
pansion caused by a hot
summer day; the other pic-
tures a walk in which an ef-
fective expansion joint has
been used. This company
manufactures the “Elastite”
expansion joint, known as
“The Sandwich Joint” on

account of its construction.

It consists of a heavy body of special asphalt

compound sandwiched between two layers of
asphalt-saturated wool felt, the whole bonded
together. The feature of the joint is the in-
creased compressibility secured by increasing
the volume of the asphalt compound, and keep-
ing it in a solid body instead of distributing it
throughout the joint in several thinner layers.

 

SIDEWALK WITH ELASTITE EXPANSION JOINT

361

This joint is adapted not only to sidewalk use.
but also to all kinds of paving and to other
construction work in which expansion must be
provided for.

'1' '1'

A Chemical Car for the
Smaller Places

The front Cover of a red-bound pamphlet
issued by the American-La France Fire Engine
Company, of Elmira, N. Y., is “mortised” to
show underneath a photograph of American-
La France chemical fire apparatus mounted on
a Ford chassis. and the pamphlet is devoted to
a presentation of this apparatus. Reliability,
light weight, strength, ease of operation, in-
stant availability of repair parts are the fea-
tures of the Ford chassis which caused its
adoption by the American-La France Com-
pany as standard for this kind of light
chemical car. Chemical engines are an import-

ant part of the equipment of up-to-date tire de-
partments, and this car offers the same oppor-
tunity to the small cities and towns that larger

 

SIDEWALK WITHOUT ADEQUATE EXPANSION JOINT

places enjoy—that is, the advantage of appa-
ratus which will arrive at the fire directly after
it is discovered and which can at once play on
the fire a stream many times as effective as
water, and without delay due to coupling, lay-
ing hose, etc. A view of this car is given on
page 338 of this issue.
i' *

Gas Power

“Bruce-Macbeth Gas En—
gines and some Valuable
Facts about Gas Power” is
the title of a new booklet
just issued by The Bruce-
Macbeth Engine Company,
of Cleveland. Every mu-
nicipality that is interested
in the reduction of power
and light costs, and every
gas engine operator who
desires to get the most effi-
cient results from his equip-
ment, will find this booklet
of interest.

It gives in concise form

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

/

Mom: mm for High
Evident; Nara

sat-(mes; YOUR
TOWN’S

BEST ADVERTISEMENT
IS . . . MORRIS .

ORNAMENTAL STREET LIGHTING

UNDREDS of cities and Towns use
MORRIS CAST IRON STANDARDS including
the City of New York where MORRIS
STANDARDS have the approval of the
Municipal Art Commission.
MORRIS STANDARDS resist all weathering
action ensuring Maximum Service.

      
      
       
       
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
     

9 out of every 10

cities that have ornamental
street lighting

  
  

. use Alba

Ornamental Balls

  

Alba Balls make it easy
to have modern street

lighting with low current
consumption.

Or er 500 Designs for Every Requirement
Ask for Catalogue

ELMER P. Moms, salu Agent
18' LIBERTY SIREET. NEW YORK

Representing

CENTRAL FOUNDRY COMPANY

Operators and Sale Owuen of Foundries at

Annietan. Ala. Holt. Ale. Bessemer. Ala. Medina. N. Y.
Newark. N. J. Vinomnee. Ind. Baltimore. Id. 11-64

Information on request

Macbeth - Evans

Glass Company
P i t t s burgh

      

A High
Candle-Power
Single Light

A standard like this offers a
very economical method of
lighting streets eliiciently. The
initial cost is low as is also the
maintenance cost.

This standard is free from
excessive embellishment, there-
by heightening the decorative
and imposing lamp design.

The old style swinging ' arc
lamp is being rapidly dis-
placed by such designs as these.
The tirst installation in New

Haven, Conn. has been fol-
lowed by Baltimore, Rochester,  
CinCinnati 311d Other large Our plant is open to visitors at all times

Cities” during working hours. excepting Saturdays.

0111' new Satalogue  511?" All proteases will be cheerfully and carefully
'~ $03052?“ wigns. nte or explained by competent guides.

 

 

 

   

Parties from schools, colleges and societies
‘  particularly welcome.
. T J  C0.
, Casey-Hedges Co. SIMPLE" “3313335”

201 Devonuhlre 51., Boston

  Chicago San Frauen—sen

 

55 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tm: AnnTCAN CITY.

OCT., 1915 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS

the principal advantages of gas power, together
with some facts and figures regarding the re-
sults Bruce-Macbeth gas engines are giving in
different kinds of service. It also contains sec-
tions on .producer gas plants, Bruce-Macbeth
Engineering Service, How to Obtain Maximum
EtiiCiency from Gas Power plants, and Meriam
Steam Process. the new process discovered by
Mr. J. B. Meriam, engineer and designer of
lhe Bruce-Macbeth Engine Company, whereby
low pressure steam for heating and industrial
purposes can be generated as a by-product by
the ordinary gas engine; also a section of Gas
Engine Data for the operators of gas power
plants. The booklet is illustrated throughout
With reproduced photographs of Bruce-Mac-
beth installations.
* *

Eti‘icient Nitrogen Street Lighting

The widespread use pf the nitrogen lamp
for.street.lighting has made it necessary to
deVise equipment which will furnish adequate
ventilation to carry off the excessive heat
which this lamp generates, in order that the

FOR USE \VITII
l..\.\ll’

AN!) VENTILA'I‘UR
NITROGEN

GLOBE

rated life of the lamp may he maintained.
The h‘lacheth-Evaiis (ilass Company, of Pitts-
burgh, is making units which are said to
combine all the essential features of such
equipment. The ornamental globes are made

 

363

from either Alba or Monax glass. Monax
is a new diffusing glass which, while it totally
obscures the filament of the lamp, absorbs a
very small percentage of the light. It has
the appearance of alabaster or crystophane,
but is not a cased glass. Because of its being
a one-piece glass, and also because it possesses
great heat-resisting qualities, it is exception-
ally durable; it can also withstand rapid
changes in temperature. The ventilator on
top of the globes is made of heavy spun
copper, and consists of three parts—the body,
the weather cap and the knob, all held se-
curely together by a heavy screw. This is
designed to withstand the deteriorating ef-
fects of the weather for a great many years.

s ol- '
“Chief, You’ll Say the Same Thing!”

With this greeting the hrm of James Boyd &
Bro., of Philadelphia, devotes a recently-issued
folder to the maintenance of the proposnion
that “Modern fire equipment pays.” The thrill-
ing story of a tire rescue is told:

"The Boyd aerial is in the tire house. An alarm
comes in. Bing! Bing! Bing! The box struck is a
mile away; the driver throws over a switch, and in-
stantly the Boyd aerial is rolling toward the fire. At
the end of four minutes, over rough roads, but causing
no injury to the truck, due to the even distribution
of weight and strong springs, the truck is in front of
the burning building. A woman is caught on the
fourth tioor! There is no time to be lost! The roof
is alread sagging! A ladder-man runs out on the
main lad er and seats himself on the end rung. The
driver of the Boyd aerial pulls down one lever, and
the main ladder shoots up with the man on the end.
lle snaps the ladder lock in place and pulls the same
lever down once more. The turntable swings around.
Gracefully and gently the ladder is swung into the
burning building. The woman is rescued, the entire
operation consuming less than one minute. The res-
cued woman and the fireman are swung out from the
blaze and lowe‘red to the street on the ladder as gently
as if they were on an elevator. ‘Modern equipment
pays,’ says the chief."

Great advantages are claimed for this aerial
on account of its raising and lowering device,
the even distribution of weight. the strong ma-
terial, the simple and powerful worm and gear
drive, the laminated ladder made of specially
selected wood, and the powerful motor.

**

A Combination Device for
Pumping Plants

The foot valve and quick-cleaning strainer
manufactured by the Emerson Pump & Valve
Company, of Alexandria, Va, is a simple.
strong and etiiCient device adapted to the suc-
tion or intake of any type of pump. it has
been adopted by the ['nited States Govern-
mentn and is found in the equipment of some
of the most extensive pumping plants in the
country. It is picgured and described in a
pamphlet gotten out by the company under the
title of "Emerson Steam Pump EHiciency." and
an illustration of it is reproduced on page 365
of this issue.

The font valve proper is made extra heavy;
although the gate valve has no spindle. spring
or hinge, it operates freely in heavy guides cast
in the valve body. This provides a simple,
durable construction, and obviates all trouble

   

._—_-4——__—

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

Public Comfort Station, Indianapolis. Ind.

JUST AS
Public Comfort Stations

are a necessity in every commu-
nity so 18

CLOW PLUMBING

a necessity in every Public
Comfort Statlon.

The Clow hvladden Patent Auto-
matic Closet, Pan Tank Automatic

Urinal, Adamantose Lavatories and
Red Brass Trimmings are the best
by test fixtures.

Our Sanitary Engineers will advise
you about Surface and Underground
Stations. Correspondence invited.

JAMES B.CLOW&SONS

Eatabllahed l878

Harrison Street Bridge, Chicago

Salea Officea

New York Milwaukee St. Louis Kansas City

Minneapolis Lon Angelen San Franciaco
Works:
Chicago Newcomerstown, Ohio. Coahocton, Ohio

 

Claw Madden Potent Automatic Chasm and in—
lndianapoh's Comfort Station.

.4

 

Artificial
Daytime

As the sunlight
fades away, the or-
namental lighting
systems in hun-
dreds of cities flash
on — brightening
streets and boule-
vards—driving
away darkness —
extending daytime
five to eight hours.

C UT TER
Standards

have helped to establish
artificial daylight in
many cities in all
climates.

Our posts are built from
experience gained through
twenty-five years serving
the public in cities through-
out the country. We have
been building the very high-
est quality of lighting fix-
tures and giving, always,
adequate service.

  
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
    
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
 
   

An Engineering Depart-
ment' has been installed to
further assist you in plan-
ning for better lighting in
your city. We will be glad
to give you help gratis.

Write for our new catalog No. 13.
showing our latest designs or High

Eliiciency Mazda Lamps.

Geo. Cutter Co.

413 Notre Dame St.
South Bend, Ind.

When writing to Advertiaers please mention Tn: Annxcax Cur.

0a., 1915 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 365

caused by the cramping of the standards on two principal business streets. A
gate or the breaking or bend- photograph of one of the lighting units is here-
ing of spindle or hinge when with reproduced. The brackets are made by
foreign substances, such as the Union Metal Manufacturing Company. of
stones or chips, lodge under Canton, Ohio. Nitrogen-filled 250-candle-
the valve gate. This feature power lamps are used, with Holophane shades.
also makes possible generous of. .1.

openings through the valve, ,
with only a low lift of the gate, Protecting the Trailic Oti‘icer

ahd Prevents "hammering." The trafhc officer’s stand shown in the ac-
Smce the water enters the companying photograph is the invention of
valve Close to the bottom» a Freeborn Coggeshall, of Newport, R. I. It is

Dump .CQUiPPed With this toot a great aid in controlling traffic, forming a
valve is enabled to take prac-

tically all the water from a pit
or sump before air can enter
the suction pipe.

The strainer is raised and
lowered by ropes; the whole
operation of raising, cleaning and lowering it
into position again takes scarcely a minute,
does not require the removal of a single bolt
or the use of a tool, nor does it disturb the suc-
tion pipe.

The strainer is made of heavy perforated
flange steel. It is riveted to a substantial top
casting having a collar which fits loosely
around the suction pipe, so that it may slide
up and down without cramping, the suction
pipe acting as a guide. As the combined areas
of the perforations greatly exceed the area of
the suction pipe on which the strainer is used,
a free and ample flow of water is always as-
sured. The strainer is made to withstand all
kinds of rough service, and besides being built
in combination with a foot valve, is also made
singly, supplied with a base.

or or
The San Antonio Lighting Standards

The city of San Antonio, Tex., has an orna-
mental lighting system which includes 110

 

A TRAFFIC OFFICER’S SHELTER

natural island for the proper diversion of
vehicles. The umbrella relieves the ohicer
from the blinding glare of the sun, and thus
from undue fatigue in service. The mirror re-
flects all traffic approaching from the rear. A
grooved rubber mat is used to stand upon in
cold and damp weather, and a burlap curtain
which buckles onto the hrst rod and extends
around to the third gives further protection
from wind and storm and yet leaves an open-
ing for easy egress on the lee side. The stand
is readily shifted to suit various conditions.
Mr. Coggeshall has thoroughly tested its use
himself and has been able to keep perfectly dry
in bad storms, without overshoes or raincoat.

+&'

Larger Quarters

The New York office of The Fibre Conduit
Company, of Orangeburg. N. Y., is now at 101
Park Avenue, corner of 40th Street. This
change has been made in order to get prOper
THE SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS, COMBINATION accommodations for the company’s increased

TROLLEY POLE AND STREET- business, the new quarters being three times as
LIGHTING FIXTURE large as the old.

 

THE AMERICAN CITY

NOVALUX

Ornamental
Units

By day, from the
standpoint of civic
beauty—its unobtrus-
iveness and adapta-
bility to artistic treat-
ment, tend to make the
single light standard
the first choice of good
judges.

By night, a brilliant,
soft illumination, flood-
ing the streets, side-
walks and, building
fronts, is now possible
by the combination of
high candle power
MAZDA series lamps
and the Novalux Or-
namental Units.

These units are sci-
entifically designed to
direct the light to the
greatest advantage;
built to thoroughly
protect the lamp, ar-
tistic, pleasing — the
Novalux Ornamental
Unit by day as well as
night is one of the most
efficient and up-to—date
forms of street lighting.

General Electric
0 Company Q

General Oil ice,Schenectady,N.Y.
Sales Oflices In all Large Cities

 

5665
57 \Vhen writing to Advertisers please mention Tm: AMERICAN CITY.

For Contractors and Boards of Public Works

 

“Made for You in Kalamazoo”

The Root adjustable sidewalk snow scraper
is made by the Root Spring Scraper Company,
of Kalamazoo. This device deposits all the
snow on one side of the walk, either to the
right or the left, and gives the same results

 

 

 

THE RUUT SXUVV SCRAPER

either side up. It is adjustable to any width of
sidewalk. The workmanship is of such a char-
acter as to withstand hard knocks. When col-
lapsed the scraper takes up very little room,
and it is like a sleigh for an overland trip.
The illustration reproduced on this page shows
the scraper in position for use.

++

Concrete Mixers to be Rated
Uniformly

The National Association of Mixer Manu-
factnrers. at its August meeting. took steps
toward the providing for the uniform rating of
batch mixers. This resolution provides that
the members of the Association in future cata-

logues and circulars shall specify the capacity

of their mixers as "size of wet mixed batch."
and not otherwise. The resolution further pro-
vides that the dry unmixed capacxty of a mixer

 

 

may be approximated at one and one-half times
the wet mixed batch, assuming the use of ce-
ment. sand and I%-inch crushed stone, with
1% gallons of water per cubic foot of mixed
concrete. The members of the Association
further agreed not to use the dry batch rating
in their correspondence, advertising. etc., unless
the standard wet batch rating were used also
and with equal prominence.

++

Cleaning and Sprinkling Streets

The Tili‘in line of street sprinkling and
fiushing machines embraces not only horse-
drawn sprinklers and fiushers of gravity and
automatic types, respectively. but gasoline motor
pressure fiushers and sprinklers mounted either
on horse-drawn gear or Tiliin motor chassis.
In a very attractive illustrated pamphlet of 16
pages, published by the Titiin Wagon Com-
pany, of Titiin, Ohio, these various types are
presented. The company maintains a free in-
formation service, in order that any city or
individual may intelligently determine the type
of machine most desirable to use in each case.
In applying for this service, data should be
given on city water pressure. cost of water,
area to be covered, street widths, grades. etc.
All the Tiliin motor truck chasses used to
carry the sprinkler and tiusher truck models
are built in the Company’s shops. which fixes
the responsibility for the entire vehicle and in-
sures promptness in making repairs and ad-
justments when need arises. The Titiin 3%-
ton, goo-gallon auto fiusher is especially fea-
tured in this pamphlet; it is a combination
constant pressure fiusher and sprinkler, and is
a universally useful machine. By a special at-
tachment the auto fiusher pumps its own
charge from rivers or cisterns, where stami-
pipe and hydrant filling are not available.
A number of dumping wagons. open and sani-
tary for street cleaning and garbage collection
are included in the catalogue. The company
also builds upon specification many special (le-
signs for the miscellaneous needs of individual

cities.
'i' 'i'

Steel Forms for Sidewalks,

Curbs and Sewers

The service oli‘ered by Blaw steel forms is
set forth in an attractive folder issued by the
Blaw Steel Construction Company, of Pitts-
burgh. lt describes and pictures the use of
these forms in the construction of Concrete
roads, sidewalks, curbs and gutters, in walls,
columns, dams. piers, reservoirs, sewers, aque-
ducts, drains, water supply and railroad tun-

[367]

f,

A

THE AMERICAN CITY

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS

Office of City Forester

H. K. McCAY. Chief Engineer
R. BROOKE MAXWELL City Forester

Baltimore. Md.. June 17th, 1915.
THOS. MEEHAN & SONS,

Dresher. Penna.

Gentlemen z—ln the Spring of 1908 our Park Board purchased of you some 600 European Lindens
of 3 to 3% inch calliper. in 1911 they bought from you another lot of 326 trees of same variety and
size. These trees were planted on Charles Street (extended) between 29th Street and University Park-
way, and during the past four or iive years i have had the opportunity of watching their development.
The loss in this planting has been practically negligible, and the growth of the trees has been altogether
satisfactory. 1 consider this tree an admirable one for street and park planting. and that its good
points places it in a class above the average of our shade trees. l am so pleased with the species that
l have used it in the planting of several of our fine streets during the past few years. I have every

reason to continue my faith in the trees and hope to use some more of them as our funds here will
permit.
Very truly yours,

R. BROOKE MAXWELL, City Forester.

 

68 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tn: Auuzcax erv.

OCT., 1915 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS

nels, shafts and subways.
The forms are designed for
all engineering undertakings
in concrete construction, no
matter what the size or pe-
culiarity. One set of side
rails can be used for curb.
curb and gutter, and side-
walk work; the Blaw slip

369

 

joint connection fastens any

 

number of side rails together
in one easy operation. In
wall construction the forms
are set up and shifted by
hand in units of 20 to 30
square feet. A standard
panel is 2 feet square,
flanged on four sides, and is
built entirely of steel; verti-
cal and horizontal liners as-
sure the alignment. Forms
for work on columns, heavy
walls. sewers, etc., can be
leased on reasonable terms.

'1-+

Removing Stoppages

from Sewer Pipes

The Schick patent sewer
and pipe cleaner, as illus-
trated herewith, is some-
thing entirely new in sewer cleaners. Designed
to bring about a big saving for cities in elimi-
nating trouble and expense. It is not necessary
to dig up the street in order to remove stop-
page from the sewer. The method of using the
Schick plunger is quite simple; by connect-
ing a hose to pipe or hydrant and turning on
the water a sufficient pressure is obtained to
entirely remove any ordinary stoppage. By
getting down into the manhole the plunger
can be easily inserted in the main pipe of
the sewer. When the plunger has been prop-
erly inserted in the sewer pipe it forms an
air- and water-tight joint; therefore, when
the water pressure is turned on, all stoppage
has to give way on the other end.

These plungers are a great convenience for
toilets, sinks and small sewer openings in the
cellar. A great number are being used suc-
cessfully in all parts of the United States on
account of the simplicity of operation and
the positive effect.

\‘Vhere the opening is 4 inches or larger in
size. the plunger is inserted in the pipe. The
illustration shows the plunger entirely in-
serted in the main pipe. High-grade rub-
ber is used and a brass hose connection. For
family use the 4-inch size is recommended.
while for city sewer pipe. running from 8
inches to 12 inches, the 6-inch size should be
used. This device is manufactured by the
Davenport Manufacturing Company. of Daven-
port. Iowa.

+ +
New Roads Out of Old

The interesting photograph herewith repro-
duced shows the Galion scarifier in actual work

  
 
   
 
   
 
  

 

.. ._\

 

m... . ' '.‘.

 
 

- I- " _,.-- M"
in. ' "d (I I
 r/
: - . r I
‘ _ / 7!
//,I
/}
ad’
H

.3. \_‘ '
. \ k

. 0:
_\‘\\\\-"

TIIE SCIIICK SEWER CLEANER

on the Lincoln Highway, tearing up an old
macadam road and getting it ready to be re-
paved with brick. This machine is made by
the Galion Iron Works & Manufacturing Com-
pany, of Galion, Ohio. It sc-arifies to a uni-
form depth of from I to 8 inches as desired,
thoroughly, quickly and economically. An im-
portant feature is said to be that of absolute
safety to the operator.

THE GALION SCARIFIER AT \VORK ON THE

LINCOLN HIGHWAY

 

THE AMERICAN CITY

MOTT LAM P POSTS

 

FAMOUS BOARDWALK. ATLANTIC CITY. LIGHTED WITH MO'IT LAMP POSTS

WRITE FOR CATALOGUES AND PRICE LISTS
OVER ONE THOUSAND DESIGNS

FOUNTAINS

 

DISPLAY DRINKING
FOUNTAINS FOUNTAINS
FOR
PUBLIC SQUARES m
PARKS, ETC. SANITARY
— CUPS,ETC.
IVIANHOLE —.
FRAAIES
GRATINGS SETTEES
-— VAS ES
TREE GUARDS RAI LI N G S
STREET

WRITE FOR
CATALOGUES

 

"  SIGN POSTS
N

FOUNTAIN IN BEDFORD AVE. BROOKLYN. .Y.

THE J. L. MOTT IRON WORKS

FIFTH AVENUE AND SEVENTEENTH STREET
NEW YORK CITY

When writing to Advertiacrs please mention Tu: Axum/m Cur.

 

 

