 

 

Town 8: CoujrgnEmnox
‘1'!- Ameriean City ‘

 
 

87 Nassau Street
New York

JULY, 1915

Volume XIII
Number 1

    

 

 

Practical Aids in Highway Construction

N the live following pages are repro-
duced some of the plans which form

a valuable feature of the Second Bi-
ennial Report of the Wisconsin State High-
way Commission, recently published by the
State of Wisconsin. Among other features
the report contains the following brief out-
line of the state-aid highway law of Wis-
consm:

Prospective State Highway System. The
law provided that each county board should
lay out a county system of prospective state
highways leading from the market towns and
railway stations to all of the towns in the
connty, and that these roads should connect at
the county lines with the systems of adjoining
counties. It is only on this system of main-
traveled roads selected by the county boards
that town, village, county and state money
may be expended, and then only for the defi-
nite improvement of certain portions of this
systiem, fixed when the funds were appropri-
ate .

Town Initiative. Any town, village or city
under 5000 may provide by vote for the im-
provement of a portion of the prospective state
highway. system lying within its limits, levying a
tax equal to at least one-third of the estimated
cost of road improvements, and two-fifths of the
estimated cost of bridge improvements; the ex-
act location of the improvement being fixed by
the unit of government first voting the tax. The
officials of the local unit of government apply
to the state and county for state and county
and. in an equal amount each of the estimated
cost of road improvements. and for 20 per
cent and 40 per cent respectively of the esti-
mated cost of bridge improvements.

County Initiative. If a county board so

votes, it may provide by county tax two-thirds.

of the cost of road improvements on the
county system, and four-fifths of the cost of
bridge improvements, in which case the towns
pay directly no part of the cost, the state pay-
ing the remaining one-third and one-fifth re-
spectively. In the case of such action by the
county board, the location of the work is se-
lected by the county board.

Distribution of State Aid. The funds pro-
vided by the state are allotted to the counties
on the basis of the petitions for state aid re-
ceived from the units of government in the
county, plus the petitions from the counties

themselves, in those cases where the county
made appropriations. The state money is pri-
marily distributed on the basis of the valua-
tion of the county as equalized by the State
Tax Commission, those counties which apply
for a proportion of the state aid available
larger than their proportion of the state valu-
ation receiving a second distribution of state
aid which is provided from the shares of those
counties which apply for less than they were
entitled to receive if they had called for it.
The county boards in November distribute
the state aid available for the county among
the units of government applying for state and
county aid. The county work may receive the
full state aid in preference to the town im-
provements in case the county board so de-

cides. . .
Surveys. It IS prov1ded that surveys for

road improvement shall be made by the coun-
ties and the plans approved by the state high-
way commission, and that surveys for bridge
improvements shall be made by the state high-
way commission. To date, practically all sur—
veys and plans, both road and bridge, have
been made by the state highway commission,
which the law provides may do so in case the
county board or county highway commissioner
so requests.

Construction. The actual construction in
each county is performed under the immedi-
ate direction of a county highway commis-
sioner elected by the county board from a list
of eligibles furnished after an examination by
the state highway commission. The law pro-
vides that the work shall be done by contract
unless the county highway commissioner and
the state highway commission decide that it
may best be done by the day labor or force
account system. As a matter of necessity, by
far the larger portion of the state aid road

work has been done under the day labor
system.
Responsibility for Maintenance. After com-

pletion of the work, if the improvement con-

.sisted of simply grading, culverting and drain-

ing a road, the road is maintained by the town.
village or city in which the improvement lies.
If in addition to grading, draining and culvert-
ing the road, a permanent surface is placed ac-
ceptable to the state highway commission, the
road is thereafter maintained by the county.
In the case of a bridge improved in an accept-
able manner, the maintenance is thereafter im—
posed on the county.

[1]
Digitized by 600816 f

THE AMERICAN CITY VOL. XIII, No. I

STANDARD CROSS SECTION SHEET

for

EARIH ROADS

Cross Sections of Finished "0:11de and Gravel Roan:
mm 8 foot Surfaces mu be me. some for like Soulcmd Construct-on Canal-hon:

All slopcs m cm: must b. fund tau-db, masons" NW C 55
'rlmmed tome alone: specified mien Nov-ch I5. ISM Appvovnd

     
   
       
           

MT

omounf 01 mu? m

dim-s mu acng ~ No? Des: - E‘V-d
(man mfevcuahng amen
a "’9 °' no“ Ho 2 58C?IOF‘ m Cut: on I 3 ht to moderately W 50.5

Hones: . n 20w———~4

©  "'m‘d """m‘ '
COI‘00' "N'N‘ V.

on From-
Ditcn M7000 1080! alone when
ground slope: toward hu

no: Section On an: less "05 fut above surrounding land

i} - ° - .I

'i  — 1“
@  ‘ NV "'0' rod to I"
an Prat”. H '0” mom. ’0
3'0" “com.” on. mam-O m’m"" ' Oonh "3

h I n
m m, Not 133:? nzs—o

No4 Sachem on FM: mom man 4 tec’ anon surrounding Iona

Dinnbcyond to. of an“.
when ground atom venom fill

" ' "‘°"‘”""""" _ i

I ,,
: 9 r l I '
© * I ‘ . Cn'u 'cu'vou 'o On 'm-u 6

v . -
Handcut ditch "0’ ‘63: 25 o

-f necessavv

H05 Seuionm Cut 0 heavy Clay Soils
Us. mo: :echon one fov Food OCHIH. Work on some son:

Not less 4 nzo'so'

r" ‘-—-‘ '°
‘ ’ - I heroin
© _ US! 900"! mu when.th - l3?0 » c.nn‘, Te,‘,,.° '0 - ‘ I ' mun
-. m -*‘ ’ exceeasdt-O and i; '0! tone: "or"; ,

No? less hon 33-0'

 

n06 Sacrio 0n Havana:
ol— 0

,.
l
4- . 9; o’ 
- _' _
Slope «coming "5 ° [  it
90 table Ccnhv «cured 'o 
on mm ' stop: «coming
® To Ionic

No? Section 10* ad: null or dug out Rood:

SLOPE: REQUIRED IN THE VARtOUS SOILS

 

m Anew: Villa 1195 Mona Fills more "004
30nd.50rdycva!t~' 3n: tool
Loam Ii 9.0 3 so I 0* yo i
bebconvacIa ' b0 3 on I It .9 .
Haw: Vbn Q 0o 0 3 v. o I pg I
I

Send Rock Asa 3m 3 '0 unsound:

Digitized by 600816

3

THE AMERICAN CITY

July I, 1915

.38 a: .Su 85.33? 338 3. ~55; .85: 3 and .2 .85 was 2: Ha 33:38 23 a9 «gone a: 3:8.— 335» 5 3: 82. :33? .3383 2: was

630388 3

2.305.533 05 .86.. «an? no «so 3 a. 2.5 8.8 25 3 26 .596 23 8a:— 3 3.: gen 2.. 3323.888 5853: .3550 23 $25 .0359... an m4 .332 35 5
:32: 9:3 3 «382938. .3338 as: 63.29 noon «an nuns—o “on «65 5:32—93 u a. 325. .33.— ouSn no coca—a v.3 5ah§oun= 0—: no 3:8 .258 coon d

365th 5.8.3 an“

33%

1%....9‘11‘
3% kgmswnnxh £62th

thQQ M «R QQ§Q~<¢RW

xxSthtQM x §§§V§x \kquxQuuSt

.7229 $42. mop.“ mQ~H<QZ<Fm

Ski § \\§\\n\\ \xtasu. 5.3?! .33“ sxxxl \\\\S 59 3 \\\\§§ S». .b
\txk Ex» \\ SS .3 \xqu. \\\\g .\SN\\\.\ 3‘ \san3 E‘SQ V8. \\\k\; S
.3 is}: \xxl \\\\x§ a \x waQ. . Qt \uN\\\§. \\ \S‘QM.‘ $8 Lug

.33...”
L! 5:39
.3 55.9%

“9% 5 3t“ «.5

it x.» uk‘n ha Q. \*\h\l\! *«QQ‘E‘: \\ 3:!“ ss QuukxN 5%

N 5Q
225$. kg Sink». a.st
.ncal 3t xs

.3%-\ §§£ E
.3 K 51‘ 3Q

\\ is}. 3th $.96} 5.3%.». Gas... \klx \\ .31\
L93? 25%; {xxx \Q 3% EQK Q ttsxs
«Satin $3. $3 ‘1 \\\\\~ \qunxh t3€§§
‘30.}. Vx‘ wknx 285‘ \tmkxu. qugn. .‘
h! txisxsxv. 2!: \\ K3 Qxxth ex prét \
55“ \6 sksh xii“. sisxh \\u. 5:6“ .ksi
is}. so. §§Qxh 92‘ska .53.. KO 63‘ 3.3%

su§\\Q\ \Fé‘uvt six ‘3. sixth 8“ ‘3“.

Eco ‘hu3khntk
tututk. .Ku the.

3.3.. § .3»

.33}. \\ {Q .33‘
Ptxu \k-‘xQQ

“V wt

.IHIntNQ§oth\ \\ .
(hers Mt; Nut. _

.
.- uq0§8 to N835“. ~

“>34 ‘thN.U t“ Uh.“ “QR NQ\t\ho

«Sq News .36in
1/153“ ‘S 0.3% n\

I’l‘.‘"ll

as» net 3&5“

.15: ~98 pm... msmwi i
uu «hi i i i Ii (iv

 

 

 

Digitized by 600816

No. I

’

VOL. XIII

THE. AMERICAN CITY

deco.— Ea 33m 53833 .8 2:5 «on: :a ..8 9.5353 9:. 3333a «.3350 32E.

4.823 05 5 32.8.22: no 33553 was 28.3088 «33 2: 9:2» 6:0 anon 3 269: .3 373 0:3 a .53 on 3 2. «.523 a .35 :65 :5.— caou a 85:33

.244...“ Emu—>48 HBHMOZOU adorn”:

.22 §§t «£8852

thx .3“ Mange Gist grip“
gxtsN x‘§§b\\ ksuis‘a‘k

in; S.» l...4§$§% 3 his.“
...:....:.....:..Q§!m
Cl. Iltllll-Oltgtwtwu

wk .6 h. an!
.3354 .3 53‘ 965% 33. 56k
.3. a.» Rhewsg wkngQN 33in
.§§§\H¢::§§§3 9.38: 95w 3»
a g g

“hvux inks“ 2&9»
e ‘tsw: «$3.4»th n
.w $3§WN.§N3.¢§QD N
V \SNSN §.N\.u\&!Q MN
a
«SEQ a a

i. .,,//.-
n7 ,/.

-~ ///z

‘V’X/
/>

[/4

on

;\\

/

l/' .
i/i

.‘- ‘ f

_   . wWKHNMmW 

“Vm§.v§w

Who SEN“. .6an

u...

w.
«3: In: §.R®.§w.¢ tr.
(ix hi

.6}

.

. .
A» 333‘ .t 3 533$». 53‘

6. s 3N waste...

 

@ $whtthtg§
e kinumémmsauni

I

m-

9

 

 

a.

Digitized by 600816

.3

THE AMERICAN CITY

1, 1915

July

.Eozav HOP—ands

.38 2: 53 83a 3.3. 285: 2: «a 2% m

tssthV i.sz h. u.

  

ansxeoQ‘
«SQ kxbxkx Ikkxxahi 932%?

>\§\MK<>\>\§V >§k§%§‘ >§h§9uu<z

3:2}. «6 \h\\\ kssxxb
. VSQK .ls‘ \\ Q ‘3

 

.N .ht

quvKiuQ {06K RQM> 43.0

‘3 \§ X3 .\N~\\§\u ‘3‘). thQQ \QQQ \\ \ka3

\5 53¢ Sits.» \§\ .§m\\ Q\ N“ ‘3. £3: ARR
.\.§§¥u EKRxQ th \xikaQ. K} \thS
.tsxxxua *3 a}: thgax .Q&. ‘3‘ .3 Q3
obi“. \.\§~( n§u§x .QQVSq‘ 4 8:2}. n. \§\§§S§\2§
2% \\\§ 528 \§ \\§\ Ex \sqt‘ §¥R .‘ .MQ t.‘
0 an.ng \§\\§ .Qu‘ \QQ
q\\.§u\ Vk§n§sts saxk 3
\\§\ \§ \\§\.\ ‘6‘. t 939% ‘\ n§5~§n§§ «as ‘9ka \8

3‘5} X‘qu at}: ‘23 «Vnk \\ h% N \hQsh

65.3%.“. thuSQ QQK htsuakth

65:55 .38: Sch “$.33. .23;

ist §..~.< {tutelmp‘xxak

and 332 5.8398 8 308.9550 2:. 5888 38¢ 3 233 33.. 9.3338
* 3.5. .38 05 no 057833 2: 5:; 258 .8993 a an @829 3.828 .3. 3 288:. 88.383 :03 3a .—

FDQVS FGEADU 445nm:

    

Nutxwvt t. *S‘sk 3! ksa E3 k\\ Erb‘xgxq §~Q

$3.. Q ‘3 \kstsxV {QR
.mkksaxywx 8% Et ¥\.§ him 5Q .htki

Lg
6:31.59 LSD Q :2}: as: \R “ks: kQ \§\\\§Q \ksxukl Qx

ix
2.363 gt 32.36“. Such a» $.\ tx Sean: «Q :39. \Q \393. “SEQ §§l nth Sud

9%
m. .

       
       

    

  

6&3
I‘dhg a3».- 2“ \tiw \§§ Yokks! Vtsgk‘ \kaxus S x: .. ..... .-N\
.\§§&\8 \\\§ \§ «‘8: \vaxkze. ‘ \K\;\§u st? .... z:
x.ng sxskss ks? \Ss {TV §\ \Q 93.» sling
Vs: Es. u\\\\£ \: \RR Q}. ‘93 nEkax .Sctilzim
.xxskuta at}: 3 \\\\\X Q \u\k\Q \\\§‘
$kahx \lxx .{QQ .355. \skksq E‘ \\\k ‘5. \VW: .... -.h.
133%“ “$3 Ax \xk Q§x \xuu&MB VEvKuQuh $3 .ufxxé
Re a\\h\~\ OC§ MEKQK «is \K\& Q ‘53K 8539.... ..... 1m

 
 

     

          
          

Vtksntx RV \xxxxxn \5‘ AK!“
.nsusk 9% n\§§8w Lam hsknx Nxa. as \SRCM 93$: .... 31-9
0.3“. \Q 05 lsth \u .339“ UP 3%! \Q \Qmit ku.$.vll:.h.
.QVS‘Ls \\.\k\\ \\ 9&9}... \\ gxxs

  
   

   
 

      
      

asQwQ‘kux 33“ {‘0‘ £§.£\\\at \Eu ‘3 Susie \5 .... .....V
$8: 3% .3. .833 kskxuu ~%\ (£56 Est \xo mwviim.
Basasx Q‘x h \khsxa \\ wxwx \Q uk‘xn kkxtaw a5 gixiiltm

   
   

.N .Mt :hvibchxsxwk kQ ‘25s xv V .3 \sL
(3KQ V \§ \Nsn sxuu.‘ \SVK §\ .3 «CR ‘3‘} \un .xkgxg \o
«8‘» Qv!‘ Ex \ckhssQ m. hat .3 k3 K~xtuu \3 skuxh ...... -- N
.to\t§§kn§6 For: .Sb S north.

       

 

 

 

u. .mt
wrist 39.} 96 so :2: to»

ink \bSt

 

    

i _ _ with. \\3\§ 9\
\bxxstbuw \RQ Khx SQ

\“—
s
\
\
\

   

 

. . n £54k has}
.1 \Nsus‘.‘ it?

 

 

 

u! .555”. . .
V§§§hx¥t§§ _

Digitized by 600816

‘ ‘ ‘ i .

 

Illllli
.333 at. 3 88 5 5a.. 92.3 .o .33! 38:3 38 a 3 #3.; 30388 Bob so»: 53395 33 3338 33"» a .33— .a 38 one 8 and 62308

I .33 25.23. ._8 c.3388 a 3 vote. or...“ .35 8.3 558 5 :5 53 «0 once 05 22.20 03 .3533: 896 8an 305.3 8 a. :8 ESE 3 38.5.— 729
o. .53 2E. 63832.. 35 coo: .333 5a 938 2.8 9:. 985 .332 33- .3 5—5 noon o2:— o>ona :32? “83.35 3.8 2: "0 8:3 v.85 no 8:8 238 233
N dozam 935 m8 Gui—24.8
I.
I
I
X ..o..a.... 1.8
L haunt 9950 .5 £9.50?—
VO 32:05 but :9: z "83.4.3.3 2.29010 0(2- #0 tar—bun oaouo
v.9: 53: 9c.too.o(£

no...“ L Da<20 Daddtdnrn
w... 5909223 2.95.: E289;
I
C
N
A {aim If. .3
W. 1:4.ruQ F009 03:3 3.39 01.8610 o<oa $0 .5125 a £2...»
R ..o..7.. .150
E .0»
M s, \s.
A
E
H
T

:. 1010.3... HORN

30 .0 it»
:04 32 t: +2!

\I‘ér um. m§§ 
“\Huimmmnwni‘iniiiu 23.3 
£505.35
83:22.1?

33:26 325: 33...? 1
5... v3.83 as! Elm. L250
#50; v2.33 7 3.03 or; :02... on :6... 3.9. is 2:; (3.50.5 sot<i .noouf3 =6
8 v2.8. .3362 :0 ice {on E0; or; on 3:! £33.32. :6: .258 3.2.» v3... 398.... v5 33; =< _L
LuLuO

 

Digitized by 600816

 

SKETCH OF FUTURE CIVIC CENTER IN KEOKUK, IOWA

Community Centers for Small Cities and Towns

Economic and Esthetic Necessities of Our Modern Communities;
With a Few Examples

By Alfred F. Muller

much has been written of the Civic
Center. As a result public interest
has been so thoroughly aroused that there
is to-day hardly a large American city that
has not made definite progress toward a
monumental grouping of its future public
and semi-public buildings. It has become
the common realization that here indeed is
a glorious opportunity that every city may
use to add to its convenience and beauty.
Our smaller cities and towns have unfor-
tunately. however, not as yet become con-
vertcd to this idea; for among them there
is prevalent a belief that such centers are
only for the metropolis, the capital cities
and the commercial mart. T0 the smaller
communities the Civic Center has meant
the enormous piles of masonry projected
for such cities as Cleveland, Denver, Chi-
cago and St. Louis. They have failed to
appreciate the underlying principles of the
civic center and the proportional expendi-
ture for such centers by each city, town or
village, according to its size and means.
They have not realized that a civic center

MANY plans have been made and

plan is nothing more than a rogram of
future development, a scheme into which
each building, as it is built, fits naturally. In
other words, that a group plan is drawn up
and adopted, then the necessary land is
bought, and as each new building is erected
it is given its prearranged place in the group
plan; that the gradual construction of a
civic center may cover a period of from
ten to twenty-live years, and that in con-
sequence the burden of financing is spread
over a similar period—and not, as is so
often erroneously thought, coming all at
one time.

The civic center, or perhaps more ap-
propriately for the smaller cities or towns,
the community centre, is a real necessity
regardless of size or wealth. \Ve are going
to have tow'n halls, court houses, post-
oliices, hotels, theatres, club houses,
churches, etc., whether our communities
embrace populations of 5,000 or 500,000,
whether they are rich or poor. These
buildings are the basic elements that make
up the community center, and every city
and town has them.

[7]

A

The Advantages of Grouping
What are the advantages of grouping
such buildings? Briefly they are:

I. Centrally located and organically arranged
groups of public buildings make for the most
economic dispatch of business. The waste of
time and energy spent in running to and fro
between scattered public buildings is enormous
and is absolutely unpardonable in this sup-
pdsedly etiicient age. '

é. Inasmuch as the public building reflects
the character and civic pride of the citizens,
the utmost must be done—and usually is done
--to make each individual building the most
artistic creation possible within limited means.
But our cities and towns must go still further;
they must place each building in a prominently
situated group in which all are of harmonious
architecture, and in which each adds to the

other by its proximity.

In other words, public buildings have a
two-fold mission to fulfill—(a) the most
economic transaction of public business,
and (b) the adding of the greatest possible
amount of architectural beauty to the com-
munity. The only embodiment of these two
requisites is the community center.

Ir The Main Essentials of Community Center:

There are certain essential principles
that apply to community centres—be they
in large or small communities. They are:

I. That the buildings be grouped in a cen-
tral location. easily approached from every
section of the city or town and in proper re-
lation to the general plan, especially to the
system of traliic circulation;

2. That the buildings be prominently placed
in order that they may furnish the key-note
to the architectural expression of the city;

THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. I

 

NEPONSET GARDEN VILLAGE, EAST
)VALPOLE, MAss.

3. That they form a unified, harmonious, ar-
chitectural whole and include a dominant fea-
ture or building;

4. That they be so individually located as
to be seen to the best advantage from an
architectural standpoint, forming good vistas -
along important axes, and toward this end ar-
ranged preferably about an open space. For
such an arrangement adds not only immeasur-
ably to the impressiveness of the buildings.
but the buildings in fair return decorate and
frame the open space and contribute to its
beauty.

5. The group must have distinctiveness and
individuality. That is, each community center

 

I’ROI’USEI) COMMUNITY CENTER, MONTCLAIR, N. J.

JULY, 1915

should be expressive, to some extent, of the
spec1al character of the community itself, v1'z.,
its climate, its population, or perhaps its his-
tory.

Three Examples

To illustrate, three plans for communi-
ties differing widely, not only in function
but in population; have been chosen.

The first is that for Keokuk, Iowa. Keo-
kuk is a thriving industrial and commercial
city with a population of 14,000, situated on
the Mississippi River. Its natural advan-
tages include not only the river but a large
“back country” rich and relatively inex-
pensive. To these advantages has recently
been added one of the engineering feats
of the century, the Keokuk Dam, which
will provide 200,000 electric horse-power.
\Nith all these natural advantages, Keo-
kuk’s future growth is a certainty, and
plans for a city of 50,000 instead of 15,000
are only within reason. Keokuk has not

THE AMERICAN CITY

yet begun to build its public edifices, and" ‘

in ' ' ay ere longi become a
t .

reality. T ‘
public, and semi-public buildings" grouped
around an open space. It is prciposed to
give this group a central location on the
principal street of the city with the City
Hall on the main axis and dominating the
group. The other buildings include a
county court house, a Federal building, a
public library and a city market.

The second illustration is a sketched-the
plan proposed for Montclair, N. J. Mont-
clair is a beautiful residential suburb with
a population of approximately 20,000,
within easy reach of New York City, whose
higher towers are visible by day and its
magic lights by night. Montclair, because
of its nearness to New York and its nat-
ural beauty, has an assured future as a

‘

09")

9

residential satellite of the metr0polis. At
present it has no public buildings of its
own. The local public business is trans-
acted in rented quarters, as is also that of
the Post Office. Montclair consequently
has a wonderful opportunity. \Thf. plan.
here WW-grmipmgnin
harmonious fashion about an open green,
of a Town Hall, Post Office, public baths
with gymnasium and semi-public buildings.
Advantage was taken, in the choosing of
this site, of the existing High School,
Grammar School, library and churches“.
W'lrieh—me—evl-so—shewn—in—the—perspative.
The open green shown in the sketch is at\
present partly covered with comparatively :
inexpensive buildings, whose destruction is ,
more than warranted by the resultant effect.

The third  shoivs the com-
munity center for the cooperative Neponset

Garden Village, in East Walpole, Mass., the

population of which approximates 5,000.
Here again we have an open space, this
time with a community building on the axis
of the main street, which dominates the
whole scheme. About this green may be
arranged dwellings, if desired, public and
semi-public buildings of a character in har-
mony with and subservient to the com:
munity building. ‘

These three examples illustrate con-
cretely what can be done in communities
varying greatly in size and charazter. The
general principles of design are ever the
same, demanding only skill and foresight.
The business advantages of grouping over
present-day methods of scattering buildings
is obvious; the cost is no greater—and if
well managed it ought to be decidedly less
—while the added charm and dignity given
to the community are immeasurable.

Consequently, the Community ,Center be-
comes not a dream but a civic necessity.

 

. ‘ , o‘.
' . .'

of

The Index for Volume XII

THE AMERICAN CITY

covering the first six issues of l9l5, is ready, and will be sent
to subscribers upon application

 

Digitized by 600816

 
      

.Itul‘

Kim's—nu t‘mtt5T1.\N(‘tL ILLINFI'H

 

Kincaid, Illinois—A Model Mining Town

By A. T. Luce
Engineer in Charge

ning, in their application both to

beautification and to public utilities,
have been applied to Kincaid in the desire
to produce a truly model mining town.
Realizing that the miner who has congenial
surroundings at home not only is the better
worker, but is better satisfied and more to
be depended upon, Mr. F. S. Peabody, of
the Peabody Coal Company, entered upon
this undertaking.

As Kincaid has been founded with its
future development in view, the many mis-
takes familiar to a town that just “springs
up" have been avoided. By anticipating its
growth and character every detail has been
worked out ahead to make it an attractive
place to live in as well as an important in-
dustrial center. '

The Location and the Design

The site for the town was selected on a
piece of rolling land overlooking a broad
valley and the South Fork of the Sangamon
River on the northeast. The Chicago &
Illinois Midland Railroad crosses the river
just east of the town-site and runs in a
northwesterly direction along one side of

[10]

THE economic principles of town plan-

the town. Springtield, the state capital, is
located about twenty-five miles away, and
Taylorville, the county seat of Christian
County, lies seven miles east.

The heart of the town was located near
the lake, and a fine white enamel brick de-
pot was built at this point. From the
depot streets serving as principal arteries
run in all directions to the residence dis-
tricts. Where the ground was irregular,
the streets were located as near as possible
to the natural depressions, thereby facili-
tating drainage, furnishing the most attrac-
tive building sites, minimizing the amount
of grading in street and sidewalk construc-
tion, and giving to these streets pleasing
curves which tend to further the park-like
appearance of the town.

Attractive Features

One of the principal features of the plan
lies in the many parks, playgrounds and
gardens. These are located so that prac-
tically every lot is near both a park and a
garden tract. The parks are located upon
the higher ground. while the gardens, small
farm tracts and commons lie along the
river bottoms. These bottoms are subject

 
 

 

 

 

JULY, 1915

to overflow on rare occasions, and conse-
quently are not adaptable for building pur-
poses, but they form a rich garden spot for
those who desire to have small truck patches
or pastures.

Another interesting feature of the plan
is the block just north of the business dis-
trict, which is reserved for a public park
and civic center. Here it is planned to lo-
cate the post office, the public library and a
large concrete encased water-tower of ar-
tistic design. This park will tend to sepa-
rate the residence from the business district
and put these public improvements in a
place where they will not only be centrally
located, but where they will appear to best
advantage.

THE AMERICAN CITY :1

connection is provided opposite each lot to
facilitate the connection of the house drain.

The sanitary sewer leads to the Sanga-
mon River at a point below the town. Here
sewage purification works are planned, to
prevent a nuisance being created at times
when the river is very low. These works
will lie in a naturally secluded place where
they will be further screened oFf by shrub-

bery. Five .miles of sewer have already
been laid.

The W aler Supply

The water-supply consists of a system of
cast iron pipes laid in each street and con-
nected to an elevated tank and the pumping
station. Valves are placed at various cor-

 

THE RAILROAD STATION

Kincaid has not only received careful at-
tention relative to its general design and
location, but has been provided with such
public utilities as will materially add to its
attractiveness.

The Sewer System

The sewer system consists of the so-called
“separate system,” where the run-off from
the streets is cared for in a system of
sewers separate from that which disposes
of the house drainage. The storm water
sewers lead to the natural water courses,
where the water finds its way to the river.
The sanitary sewer system is equipped with
flush tanks at different points, which auto-
matically discharge clean water into the
sewer every few hours and flush it out.
Concrete manholes are provided, approxi-
mately 150 feet apart, to permit repairs
and inspection of the sewer, and a branch

AT KlNCAID

ners to control the system and allow repairs
and extensions to be made without shutting
the water off from any great area. Fire hy-
drants are located near enough together to
afford ample supply of water in case of fire.
At present the water is being pumped
from the lake by an electrically operated
pump, as the permanent supply has not been
installed. This will consist of a large im-
pounding reservoir a short distance from
town, equipped with a filter plant and capa-
ble of furnishing pure water to the city. A
large standpipe or water tower will be built
to supply pressure and act as a reserve in
case of fire. Three miles of the distribution
system have already been laid and are now
in operation. 3

The Slreels

Ten miles of the streets have been
brought to grade, and six miles of concrete

12 THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. I

 

T\\’O OF THE FOUR-ROOM BUNGALOW’S

sidewalks have been built. The business
streets and principal arteries are 80 feet
wide; the residence streets, with a few ex-
ceptions, are 66, these exceptions being 50
and 60 feet wide. Inasmuch as the streets
are all to be improved with a hard surface

ness streets, and 20 feet within the business
district. In the residence district the side-
walks are located one foot from the prop-
erty line, thus leaving a large space for
lawns and trees between the walk and the
roadway.

 

A FIVE-ROOM BUNGALOW

material—brick in the business district and
macadam in the, residence section—it was
decided to make the roadway of the resi-
dence streets from 20 to 24 feet and that of
the business streets 40 feet.

The sidewalks vary, being 5 feet wide on
residence streets, 8 feet on outlying busi-

The engineers, Messrs. Alvord and Bur-
d‘ick, gave to the town all of the elements
of attractiveness that were within their
scope, and to their efforts are being added
those of the landscape architect, Mr. O. C.
Simmonds, who by careful attention is en-
deavoring to further develop the landscape

 

ti ROW’ OF BUNCALOWS ON SPRINGFIELD STREET

July I, 191 5

effects and increase the park-like appear-

‘ ance.

A nursery of some 20,000 trees and
shrubs has been located on the borders of
the lake, and from here the plants are being
transplanted to the parks and roadways.

The shaping of the architecture of the
community was given into the hands of Mr.
George W. Maher, of Chicago. Mr. Maher
has prepared a series of about thirty dis-
tinct designs for four- and five-room bunga-
lows, and from these designs over fifty have
been built. Not more than two of the same
plan have been erected; and as the archi-
tectural treatment of each plan is so en-
tirely different from the others, the group-
ing of a number of the houses has not given
the appearance of repetition. Provisions
have been made in each house for electric
lights, bath and sewerage. Trellises and
flower boxes have been built to encourage
the growth of flowers and vines. Several
two-story stucco houses have also been
erected, and they illustrate to the future
builders of Kincaid the beauty of this kind
of outside finish.

In the architectural treatment of the
business district, the designers have en-
deavored to unite beauty and safety by the
drafting of building regulations stating that

all buildings must be built of fireproof ma-
terial and faced with white enamel brick
or terra cotta. As examples of the beauty

THE AMERICAN CITY 7 ' 13

of this type of building, three two-story
structures were erected, consisting of a
bank with oHices above, a general and a
hardware store with a public hall on the
second floor.

Kincaid, while principally a mining town,
has, besides the advantage of, cheap coal,
that of cheap electricity. The Middle West
Utilities Company has brought the power
plant to the coal mine and built a mammoth
power station on the bank of the Sangamon,
which furnishes light and power for the
mines and some twenty-live towns within a
radius of fifty miles. This plant and equip-
ment cost approximately a million dollars
and has an ultimate capacity of 40,000
horse-power. As the plant is located within
a quarter of a mile of one of the mines, fuel
can be readily obtained, and with the assist-
ance of the most up-to-date equipment, elec-
trical power can be furnished very cheaply.

Two mammoth coal mines of steel and
concrete construction are located near the
town-site and are being developed as rap-
idly as possible. Their capacity will be
4,000 tons each per day.

The growth of Kincaid will be watched
with interest by students of municipal and
economic affairs, as it oFfers a rare oppor-
tunity to see how a town planned and built
under careful study will develop and what
effect congenial home surroundings will
have upon the miner.

 

Bridges and Street Obstructions

The accompanying pho-
tograph shows the present-
day method of some rail-
roads in bridging city
streets. This is done, even
in the case of very narrow
streets, for the purpose of
lessening the cost of the
bridges by the use of light-

weight girders. Such
bridges as these require
supports over the street

curbs, and herein lies the
great objection of the pub-
lie to them. The street posts
are unsightly, they hinder

street and sidewalk trafhc, and they shelter
night hawks. City oflicials and civic asso-

STREET OBSTRUCTED BY

 

GIRDER POSTb

ciations should'be alert to prevent the erec-
tion of such structures.

 

’ Country Planning

The Country Has as Much Right to be Planned as the City

By Frank A. Waugh .
Professor of Landscape Gardening, Massachusetts Agricultural College

ITY planning has become a pretty well
C established idea throughout the civi-
lized world. Most intelligent Ameri-
cans know what it means. It should be
observed especially that the movement for
city planning has almost wholly superseded
the earlier propaganda for a city beautiful,
and has achieved a much wider respect.
Many able men of superior technical train-
ing are now engaged professionally in this
work.

It is now time for country planning to
emerge. The country has as much right
to be planned as the city. In certain direc-
tions there is more to be accomplished in
country planning than in similar work in
the congested municipalities. Something
over half the people still live in the country,
and their daily lives need the service of
civic art as much as those of their city
brothers.

Ideally, the city and the country should
be planned together. They belong together.
They are merely complementary parts of
one civic community—all parts of the same
fabric of civilization.

There are practical difficulties, however,
in securing suitable plans for the country.
The cities have wealth, initiative, boost.
They can readily employ high-grade profes-
sional men to plan their streets, boulevards,
parks and playgrounds. In the country it is
practically impossible to secure the money
with which to employ such expert service,
and it is equally impossible to find the or-
ganized leadership to initiate such improve-
ments.

Under these circumstances a somewhat
novel movement has come into the field.
This is the development of university exten-
sion work in the field of landscape archi-
tecture. Extension work has recently he-
come well established and highly organized
in all parts of the country, especially under
the direction of the various state agricul-
tural colleges. Their work has naturally
been directed to the improvement of condi-
tions in rural districts, and in such general

[14]

   

improvement campaigns the importance of
logical country planning early becomes ob-
vious.

Extension work of this sort has been
definitely launched in Massachusetts and
Illinois, and it is being taken up in a less
formal way by sundry other agricultural
colleges. The work has gone far enough
to prove its value, and the indications are
that it will soon become a recognized part
of all sound college extension throughout
the country. On this account it is especially
desirable to recognize the principles on
which this work is established, to ascertain
the field in which it can Operate, to discover
the problems on which substantial service
can most readily be given, and to outline
sane and constructive policies.

In a broad way it may be said that the
object of such extension work is to do for
the country what prOfessional city planners
do for the city. Laying aside all propa-
ganda, all preaching, all gush, and gener-
ally all talk about the beautiful country, the
attempt will be to supply definite plans for
the improvement of all public property.
This would include parks, playgrounds,
school grounds, cemeteries, roads, public
reservations, public buildings, railroad sta-
tion grounds, and everything of that sort.
The ideal would be to have all this country
equipment brought up to the highest degree
of physical perfection—to have everything
planned, convenient, orderly, sanitary, and
incidentally beautiful.

An extension staff working in this field
operates exactly like a professional land-
scape architect’s organization. The men
employed should be thoroughly trained in
the principles of architecture and landscape
gardening. Whenever any improvements
are contemplated in any part of the country
served, such as development of new play-
grounds, improvement of school grounds,
new fair grounds, etc., the landscape ex-
tension staff will attack these problems in
the strictly professional manner. An ex-
amination of the land will be made, the

Digitized by 600816

jun, 1915

necessary surveys prepared, studies made,
plans drawn, reports delivered, and the
work generally carried out in full profes-
sional form, care being taken that no sloppy,
shabby, or unprofessional work of any sort
is delivered.

It is a highly necessary part of this work
also that the construction be supervised by
the extension service—that is, that the ex-
tension men be always urgent to see that
the work is actually carried out. In fact,
we regard the follow-up service as an essen-
tial part of the plan. For inasmuch as most
important undertakings require several
years for completion, and inasmuch as local
committees are notoriously negligent, it is
important for the extension office to send
some one annually to check up the job and
see that progress is actually being made in
the right direction.

The question arises early in such a
campaign as to what shall be relation of
this semi—gratuitous public service to the
work of the professional landscape archi-
tect. While this question may present
some theoretical penumbra, there are no
practical difficulties, providing the exten-
sion oliice exercises reasonable judgment.
It should be the policy of every such ex-
tension oliice to turn over to the profes-
sional architects absolutely every job which
can be put into their hands, and to bring to
bear on every community the utmost pres-
sure to secure the employment of profes-
sional men whenever funds are available
and whenever the local community will con-
sent to such an arrangement. In the vast
majority of cases handled by such an ex-
tension organization, there is no possibility
of employing the professional men. Either
the work must be done as a piece of public
service, or it is not done at all. On the
other hand, such work going on throughout
the country stirs up a strong interest in
landscape gardening and may easily result
in developing a considerable field for the
professional men. Instead of taking work
away from the regular oliices, it should sup-
ply them with more work.

Conclusions Reached in Massachusetts

Some of the conclusions which we have
reached from our work in Massachusetts

THE AMERICAN CITY 15

may be summarized as follows:

I. There is a strong demand for this sort
of service. It is not necessary to adver-
tise in any way, nor to run a so-called “cam-
paign of education” in order to stimulate
a demand.

2. While a certain number of local lec-
tures are desirable, and even necessary,
dealing with the work of civic art, this fea-
ture of the extension service should be re-
duced to the minimum, all the strength of
the service being placed upon actual work.

3. The extension otlice should turn out
plans, and these should be of the highest
possible professional grade, both in struc-
tural design and in rendering. It is more
important to have thoroughly good plans
in this kind of work than in private prac-.
tice.

4. However, the plan is only a means to
an end, and the accomplishment of the work
must be held steadily in view. As it is much
harder to accomplish concrete results in
public work than in private work, it is
necessary to follow up all the jobs vigor-
ously.

5. A good oflice file of plans and reports
must be kept; the service must be consist-
ently studied; definite principles must be
developed and kept in view; general poli-
cies must be studied and carefully observed
by all members of the staff. Only in this

way can a public service of permanent value
be established.

6. We have found the first and readies-t
demand for this service to come from school
superintendents desiring the improvement
of school grounds. Following partly from
this comes the demand for playgrounds,
then for country parks. In the course of
the year, however, a very diverse line of
work comes into the oliice, covering prac-
tically the entire field of landscape gar-
dening.

7. It has been our policy thus far to
charge the actual expenses of this service
to the local communities to which it is
given. That is, the local community pays
expenses of travel, surveys, superintendence
of construction, etc., but does not pay any
professional fee to the extension otiicer,
who receives his salary from the state.

(W

Digitized by 600816

Enlllllfllllillllilllllhlll ‘lllhlllllllilllllll‘Imlfnlllllm-Inull-I:lU‘:llII1lIl:lllIIl'liIluIllillll-lllIlll-JUSH-i

5 EXPERIENCE AND OBSERVATION

photograph: or drawing: if possible, 5

J

i Information or suggestion: for this department, accompanied b
E will be appreciated by the c iton

"IINlHIHMIIMHIINFIIIMIINHIIMl“IllMINlNINPMIIHIIHHIIIHIINHIIHlMINIMINHIIHEIIM’HINHIINlIIlNIIHVIIINIIUTHIUVIIIHIIII

The Curb-Sign as a Street Indicator

As a method of indicating the names of

streets the curb-sign possesses distinct ad-
vantages over the old form of wooden
street post sign. This new method was
first introduced in Tropico, Cal., it being
the desire of the officials of that city to do
away with unsightly signs and posts. Since
being adopted this form of street indication
has received much favorable comment.
' There are two reasons for the increasing
popularity of this method: it is very inex-
pensive, costing for nothing but the paint
and the work of painting the street names;
then again, there is nothing unattractive
about it, and it is never a hindrance to
passers-by. The sign may be painted di-
rectly on the plain cement, or black letters
may be used on a white background. A
black background with white letters gives
an effective variation.

T rcpico, Cal. ALBERT MARPLE.

 

An Ugly House Which Has Been
Made Attractive

The possibilities of stucco in remodeling
have not been utilized fully as yet, but the
experiments that have been made in this
direction are most interesting. Here is a
small cottage in Worcester, Mass—the
home of Louis N. Wilson, Librarian of
Clark University—that has been much im-
proved at a nominal expense. The clap-
boards were taken 03, the ugly porch re-
moved and the whole exterior wired and
plastered at a cost of $600. Other im-
provements were made, as enlarging the
hall and making a new entrance porch, but
the improvement effected by the substitu-
tion of plaster for clapboard is so marked
that it is well worth presenting as an ex-
ample of how the individual home owner
can help to make more attractive the street

on which he lives.

THE STREET SIGN ON THE CURB

[16]

July I, 1915 THE AMERICAN CITY 17

 

THE SAME HOUSE AFTER IMPROVEMENT

The Front Garden and Its Relation to
Street Beauty

By Elsa Rehmann

ban streets beautiful. They do their

share when they provide shade for
walks and roadway. The front garden
should have its part in this matter of street
beauty. There should be stretches of sunny
lawns, but the laying down of sod does not
make a lawn. A lawn is uninterrupted
greensward—no matter how small—bor-
dered by trees, shrubs and fiowers.

For the suburban front garden deciduous
shrubs should form the backbone of the
planting, while small-growing trees, vines
and fiowers should be the attractive addi-
tions. There are several reasons why de-
ciduous shrubs should be made the main
planting: they are comparatively cheap and
easy to grow and to take care of; their size
is in suitable pr0portion to the small garden;
there are so many different kinds that much
variety can be obtained through different
combinations of them; from early spring to
late fall there may be continuous bloom,
and in autumn and winter the color of her-
ries, of foliage and of twigs and branches
never allows a lapse of interest.

Large-growing trees are generally not
good for the small front garden, because
they form too dense shade and their roots
take up too much room. But there are
many small-growing trees like dogwoods,
Howering apples, magnolias, June berry and
sorrel tree that are not only in better pro-
portion to the small garden, but have the
attraction of flowers.

Perennials and annuals can be used in
many different ways to fill in the gaps be-
tween shrubs, and they add much interest
in color.

The Wise Use of Shrubbery

For small front gardens where the houses
are from 4 to 20 feet back from the side-
walk, the planting along the house founda-
tions alone is generally enough. Most of
this planting should be of low-growing ma-
terial. Many people do not take the final
height of the shrubs into consideration.
There are a great many small shrubs. To

[18]

TREES alone cannot make our subur-

“i:

give but a few examples: Thunberg’s
spiraea and the small deutzia are a delicate
spring combination of white Howers; hyper-
icum and Indian currant give a midsummer
bloom; barberry and snowberry make an
attractive autumn and winter combination
of red and white berries; kerria has vivid
green branches in winter; and some of the
wild roses have bright red twigs. Success
in this planting depends not only on good
choice of material, but on the way in which
the plants are placed in relation to one an~
other and on the prOportions in which they
are used.

Large—growing shrubs, small trees and
vines can be used at the corners of houses
and wherever they are not in the.way of
windows. The cOmbination of shrubs of
different heights is an interesting problem,
and one that offers as many solutions as
there are different kinds of houses and dif-
ferent kinds of window spacing.

There are many ways to vary the outline
of the border, and the width of the border
will vary with its outline. A width of from
3 to 5 feet is enough for a single row of
shrubs, but seldom will the use of a single
straight row be the best way in which to
make the border.

The study of shrubs for combinations of
blooming effects, for continuance of bloom,
for autumn and winter coloring, for con-
trasts and harmony of foliage effects, for
changes in height, is fascinating and per-
plexing. All these elements must be con-
sidered in relation to the shrub border along
the house front.

It is only when one takes up the study of
shrubs that he realizes their number and the
many different varieties of each kind and
the marked differences in these varieties.
There are infinite possibilities in the small
lot front in the single instance of variety
in shrub material. No two lot fronts need
look alike if a careful selection is made of
all the available material for a good plant-
ing. If planting were done along each
house foundation, it would give a continu-
ous line of varying shrubbery on either side

Digitized by 600816

JULY, 1915

of the street, which, together with the street
trees, would make a veritable parkway.

A Color Scheme for the Street

With some cooperation among lot owners
the street would be constantly in bloom
throughout the flowering seasons, and in
autumn and winter would be a continual
array of brilliant foliage and berries and
colored branches. If rightly planned, the
Howers would be so distributed that every
part of the street would seem to be always
in bloom, and the autumn and winter inter-
ests would be distributed in the same way.
Each lot would present several periods of
bloom, which would be helped out by the
neighbors’ bloom or be offset by the foliage
of neighboring shrubs.

Throughout the spring the street may be
full of yellow blossoms by the use of bar-
berries and forsythias, spice bush and cor-
nelian cherries, kerrias and Howering cur-
rant. It can be a revelation of white
throughout the summer and early autumn
with all the spiraeas, dogwoods, viburnums,
privets, elders, clethra and hydrangeas. Al-
most throughout the blossoming seasons
there can be pink shrubs in bloom: pink
Japanese quince, flowering apples and cher-
ries and plums, azaleas, laurels, and wild
roses, tamarix and summer spiraeas. Or

THE AMERICAN CITY :9

the color combinations can change from
month to month; the yellow and white effect
of forsythias and spiraeas in April can give
way to the purple and white of lilacs, wis-
taria, mock oranges and pearl bush to
change again into the pink and white of
wild roses and viburnums, and so on
throughout the seasons. These can only
serve as meager illustration of the possible
combinations. The color harmonies are en-
hanced by the addition of perennial as well
as annual flowers. I

Wherever the houSes are placed further
back from the sidewalk, the street beauty
will be increased by large lawns, large trees
and by the boundary planting enclosing the
lawns. Each lot will be a subject for indi-
vidual treatment, depending on the size and
position of the place, but in these larger
places the street effect should not be for-
gotten.

Even ‘where the only planting possible is
along the house foundation, the shrubbery
borders should be like the friendly hedge-
rows on country roads. They will give the
narrowest strip of grass the real meaning of
the word “lawn”—greensward bordered by
shrubbery. While they will be attractive
additions to any house, softening hard lines,
easing sharp corners andhiding bare walls,
they will at the same time be a contribution
to civic beauty.

 

A New Agricultural Agent Law

The farming industry in Kansas has re-
ceived fresh impetus through the recent en-
actment of the agricultural agent law ef-
fective after July I, this year.‘ The act
makes available to county farm bureaus 0r-
ganized for the purpose of giving instruc-
tions in agriculture and home economics to
the people through practical demonstrations
and otherwise, and which fulfill certain con-
ditions, a portion of the federal and state
funds in the control of the Kansas State
Agricultural College, and also certain
county funds, to provide the necessary
equipment for the bureau and for the em-
ployment of a demonstration agent for each.

To be entitled to use these funds. the

county farm bureau must have a member-‘

ship of 25 per cent of the farmers of the

county, or as many as 250 farmers, and pre-
sent to the board of county commissioners
a copy of its constitution and by-laws, also
a certified statement that it has on deposit
at a local bank not less than $800. subiect
to its order, for providing the necessary
equipment of the bureau. Having com-
plied with these requirements. it mav apply
for and receive not less than $800 nor more
than $1,600 per annum, from the above—
mentioned funds of the Agricultural Col-
lege, to be used towards the salary of a
county agricultural agent. Applications
must be made before lune I and December
I of any year.

The act provides that a similar sum shall
be appropriated by the board of county com-
missioners upon the presentation by a farm

Digitized by 600816

20 THE AMERICAN CITY

bureau of its list of members and a cer-
tificate of deposit of not less than $800 in
a local bank of the county.

Any two adjacent counties located west
of a line passing through a certain territory
which jointly organize a farm bureau. may
apply for and receive the same appropria-
tions upon the same conditions, the board
of county commissioners in each of the two
counties contributing half the amount per
annum stipulated for a single county farm
bureau.

County farm bureaus already organized
may avail themselves of the provisions of
the act by fulfilling the same requirements,
except that in lieu of the certified statement
of deposit required of newly organized
bureaus, a statement from the director of-
extension of the Kansas State Agricultural
College to the county commissioners that the

VOL. XIII, No. I

proper equipment for the bureau has been
provided, is acceptable in these cases.

The members of the county farm bureau
residing in the several townships choose
from among their number a person who is
known as the vice-president of that town-
ship. The several vice-presidents thus

chosen select ten persons from their num-
ber, who constitute the executive board of
the county farm bureau.

The agricultural agent is selected by the
executive board thus formed, and his work
is under the general direction and super-
vision of the Kansas State Agricultural Col-
lege. The constitution and by-laws of each
farm bureau, and all accounts and expendi-
tures of funds, are subject to the approval
of the director of extension of the Kansas
State Agricultural College.

 

The Cooperative Delivery

By W. L. Bailey
Department of Political Science, Crlnnell College

observed as an active principle of pro—

gressive community life in the smaller
cities and villages, it is Cob‘pcration. If, as
we are now constantly being told, it will do,
and has indeed done, much for the farmer
and the rural community, it has still
greater practicability and opportunity in the
smaller municipalities. Many look to this
spirit and principle to reconstruct American
rural life, as it has done beyond a doubt in
Ireland, Denmark and elsewhere.

The crude individualism—every man for
himself—that is the bane of the farmer's
better interests, is the outcome of pioneer
farming conditions. But there are physical
conditions which isolate people in the coun-
try that are absent in the town. Perhaps,
in the latter, the spirit of personal rivalry
is enhanced by the very closeness of neigh-
borhood. But, at the same time, the need
for cooperation on the part of the merchants
of the town is greater than for'the farmer.
They must combine, organize, cooperate,
with others of their kind to hold their own
against more highly organized central,
wholesale and other interests. Cooperation
must be the watchword of all progressive

IF there is any one motto that should be

persons and communities outside of the-
greater cities.

This new spirit will not come all at once,
nor easily. The American citizen has too
long played a catch-as-catch-can game in
business. But if the principle can prove
itself to be a good one in some minor but
useful and practicable way, it will then the
more readily commend itself in others.
There are, to be sure, some forms of co-
operative enterprise now afoot more or less
locally, such as cooperative credit banks,
stores, elevators. Often doctors are found
with common office quarters, office help,
waiting r00ms. The various charitable
agencies of a town are often organized to
reduce the burden and give more efficient
service. Religious denominations of any-
where near the same beliefs will often
merge or use a common building.

But the business men, who presumably
have well developed business instincts,
ought to be the first to do this thing. They
should have no prejudices, ideal objections,
or beliefs to stand in the way of letting the
old cutthroat individualism give way to co-
operation where it proves to be a paying
proposition.

Digitized by 600816

'July I, 1915

That this is possible and that the results
are highly desirable both from the point
of view of the merchant and the consumer
in the community, is shown by the story of
the Grinnell Cooperative Delivery Com-
pany. This experiment in a not more than
ordinarily prosperous town of five thousand
in central Iowa, is being widely imitated by
others, both larger and smaller, nearby and
at a distance. It is only one of the coopera-
tive links that bind this community to-
gether and give the town a rather char-
acteristic life of its own. What can be
done here, and in such a minor phase of
the general life of the place, can be largely

THE AMERICAN CITY 21

tion of the city, along the same street, to
the same house, often with insignificant
orders, with great wear and tear on horses,
wagons and men, was obvious. The ser-
vice to the consumer was often lacking in
promptness and reliability. Favoritism of
the larger or favored customer was com-
mon and a frequent source of complaint
and loss of trade.

The system began with seven grocers
forming a stock company. They turned in
their horses and wagons at an appraised
value, or cash, as they chose. A common
barn with a manager in charge was ob-
tained. The work of twelve wagons (with

 

CO—OPERATIVE DELIVERY OUTFIT OF A CITY OF OVER 5000 POPULATION

extended. At any rate, the principle and
spirit of cooperation has proven practicable
and useful.

The scheme was first put in operation in
April, 1910. \Vhen Grinnell merchants un-
dertook it, the plan was new—at least they
knew of no other case. Its first four years
have been thoroughly successful and many
requests for information have been received
from various parts of the Middle West.

The cost of delivery was found to be a
large part (possibly a third) of the ex-
penses of store operation. And in many
ways it was the most bothersome—hiring
and managing help, adjusting complaints of
irregularity and favoritism in the delivery
service. Grocers and butchers, supplying
as they do frequent and daily needs, felt the
difficulty most keenly. The passage of the
old practice of personal marketing, together
with the use of the telephone order, made
the problem a greater one every day. Then,
too, duplication of service in the same sec-

team and driver) was at once done by seven
wagons and nine men, thus practically cut-
ting the cost of service in two. All the
other grocers and butchers in the city,
eighteen in all, have since come into the
scheme, but hire their work done by the C o-
operative Delivery Company. The cost of
service is apportioned to members and.non-
members on the basis of number of orders,
not according to their value. Payment is
made to the company each month. An
apportionment of the cost is made every
two years. The city is divided into seven
districts, one wagon going to each. Four
deliveries are made each day and five on
Saturday. One wagon leaves each store at
each hour of delivery, so that all fare alike.

The system has proven most satisfactory
to both merchants and customers, and has
therefore bound by better feeling the two
largest and most separated classes in the
community. It has been a community

builder.

‘.

Working for the General Good

The Story of a Middle-Western Commercial Club

By C. A. Neyman
Secretary of the Community Club of Plano, Ill.

longer purely economic, but extends

even to the social, the educational
and the spiritual. In this movement the
smaller communities are taking their place
as pioneers, for the reason that they are not
so hampered by a multiplicity of detailed
problems as are the larger centers. Often a
single aspect expresses the genius of one of
the smaller places, and when this is discov-
ered and kept in mind, the application of a
certain amount of intelligence will secure
community advancement. But prosperity
can reach its highest point only when there
is actual cooperation among all communities
to protect the peOple, and this attitude in-
volves unselfishness and large vision.

THE work of the commercial club is no

The ‘Purpose of the Community Club

With such a purpose—“to promote the
social, educational, commercial and moral
well-being of the community”—the Com-
munity Club of Plano came into being.
Plano is a small manufacturing city that
has had a checkered career. Times of in-
dustrial prosperity amounting almost to
“booms” have been followed by serious re-
verses. The people, as a consequence, have
become skeptical and afraid of new things.
Plano is unlike many small communities
which depend largely upon a surrounding
farming population for their support; it is
made up mostly of working people without
leisure or adequate funds for self-develop-
ment. Into this situation the Community
Club has been introduced, aiming to de-
velop better individual conditions from
every standpoint and to promote the general
welfare. It wishes to become a clearing-
house for organizations and individual
ideas and to prevent overlapping and waste.
However, it does not desire to consolidate
all of these organizations or to dictate to
them their policies, but wherever the social,
or educational, or moral, or commercial
movement finds expression, it wishes to be
of aid.

The club hopes for a club house which
shall include gymnasium, bowling alleys,

[32]

billiard and card rooms, auditorium,
kitchen, rest rooms for men and women,
committee rooms and ofiices. At the pres-
ent time such a house is unattainable, and
the club is doing the best work it can in
temporary quarters, which provide for
bowling, pool and billiards, cards, music,
and office work. The rooms are comfort-
able and serve as headquarters for many
of the social and commercial activities of
the town.

Membership and Management

The membership embraces approximately
200 men: those who are in business and
who come most closely in touch with the
commercial aspect of the club work are
called regular members and pay $1 a month
in dues; the others are social members and
pay dues amounting to $4.20 per year. This
social membership includes the membership
of two other clubs which have been con-
solidated with the Community Club and
whose property goes to provide the equip-
ment for the social side of the club life.

The management of the club is in the
hands of a board of directors, elected for
two-year terms, and this board employs the
secretary, who is the real executive of the
club. In this way the club has become
directly connected with the church life of
the town, because the pastor of the Baptist
Church serves as the salaried secretary.
The work of the club is carried on through
small committees, whose chairmen are in-
variably members of the board of directors.
Thus the activities are always well in hand
and are not allowed to drag. Standing
committees have been appointed as follows:
House, Membership, Credit Rating, Pub-
licity, Promotion, Playground, Public
Welfare, and Charity Organization.

W ork Accomplished

The merchants of the community have
had created for them a system of credit

rating, which rates every individual in the
community doing business with them. The

purpose of this system has been to improve

Digitized by 600816

JULY, 1915

the credit standing in the community, and
the system has already brought about a
quickening of the public conscience regard-
ing accounts. It is the purpose of the mer-
chants to hold a monthly bargain day, on
which to build up local trade and extend
the trade radius of the city by offering
genuine bargains. The farmers, who have
been heretofore somewhat alienated from
the town, are becoming members of the club
because of the social advantages which it
offers, and they have already used the club
rooms for meetings on important subjects
which concern their welfare.

A public playground has been established
and partly equipped. The plot of ground
secured is a beautiful one, and, when de-
veloped, will be a noticeable improvement.
Here mothers and children can go for rest
and play on summer afternoons. This play-
ground work goes hand in hand with the
work of the Plano Gymnasium, an insti-
tution maintained for the boys and girls of
Plano, equipped and managed by the sec-
retary of the Community Club through the
kindly support of the business and profes-
sional men of the city. Its work is vitally
linked with that of the Community Club,
and those in charge of both organizations
look forward to the day when both may
be housed under the same roof. Indus-
trially, the club has been of considerable
benefit to the community. Through the
activities of its Promotion Committee it has
located two new factories.

W be Living

Another important feature is the work
of the Charity Organization Committee.
This committee has secured the cooperation
of the merchants in town to such an extent
that they will not give to out-of-town chari-
table organizations or to solicitors of any
kind unless an endorsement has been se-
cured from the secretary of the club. In
this way much money which has heretofore
been foolishly expended is kept at home,
and the visitation of frauds is discouraged.
By the aid of the housewives, who refuse
to hand out food at the back doors, this

THE AMERICAN CITY 23

committee is able to control all tramps who
come to town. The tramps are sent to the
office of the club with cards from the women
to whose homes they have come. Their
individual cases are investigated and re-
corded, and they are given a work test; if
worthy they are fed and sheltered at the
expense of the club.

During the holidays the club, through its
Charity Organization Committee, organized
the entire Christmas giving to the poor and
needy of the community. Churches, lodges
and other organizations which had been in
the habit of giving at Christmas time were
brought into this movement. Cases of in-
dividuals and families were investigated;
aid was obtained from all sources; money
to be expended was brought into a common
fund, and clothing to be given away was
brought to the club house. From this com-
mon fund help was given where needed and
in a more systematic manner than ever be-
fore. Thus by~the expenditure of several
hundred dollars the whole field was covered
and the overlapping of aid prevented.

Open meetings of the club are held once
a month, when important subjects of gen-
eral interest are discussed. Speakers from
out of town are usually secured for these
meetings. At a recent meeting the tax
problem was discussed, and the‘ board of
directors is now considering a movement
for a better system of taxation.

Women, also, are given a share in the
club work whenever it is possible. Occa-
sionally they are called upon for aid; fre—
quently the club rooms are thrown open for
their exclusive use, and the bowling alleys,
the card and billiard tables afford them a
novel form of amusement.

The principle on which the club works
seems to be fundamentally sound, and the
club has already accomplished enough prac-
tical work to make it a permanent factor
in the community life. Addressing itself,
as it does, to general uplift work, it has a
big task before it, but the success of the
past argues well for the eHiciency of future
effort.

 

STATION AVENUE, COOPERSBURG, PA.

A Country Town Efi‘icient

. By Edmund de S. Brunner
Secretary, The Coopersburg Neighborhood Association and the Moravian Country Church Commission

VVO years ago, in the lower end of
Lehigh County, Pennsylvania, there

slept the little village of Coopers-
burg. Lying in the midst of a fertile farm-
ing region, reached by both the railroad and
the interurban trolley, with possibilities on
every side, the inhabitants all but boasted
of the deadness of the community. Nearby
farmers went to other towns to sell their
produce. The retired farmer lived and
ruled in Coopersburg, and there seemed no
future.

To-day the town is one of the most enter-
prising along the line of the Philadelphia &
Reading Railroad. It is known as resource-
ful and wide-awake. Houses are going up,
bank deposits are increasing, community
Spirit is strong. This, in brief, is the result
of two years of earnest work through an
organization designed to meet every social
need of the community as it arose.

This organization is known as the Coop-
ersburg Neighborhood Association. It
works through various committees, such as
Industrial, Recreation, Home and School,
Health, Civic Improvement, and Publicity.

[24]

It presents a unified financial appeal based
upon committee budgets. It coordinates all
the various organizations in the community
and prevents the necessity for any new
ones. One of its first acts was the taking
of a social inventory or survey, the results
of which have just been published. The
Association’s motto was, “A Village Sur-~
veyed is a Village Unafraid.” Knowing its
weaknesses, the Association built on its dis-
covered resources to correct them. The sur-
vey was directed by T. Maxwell Morrison
of the Presbyterian Church and Country
Life Department, now of Bellona, N. Y.,
and was taken in cooperation with the Mo-
ravian Country Church Commission.

W Ital the Social Survey Disclosed

The results showed that the industrial
pessimism was without ground, that of 750
members of the community, 550 were de-
positors at the local national bank. It
proved that the two largest industries, em-
ploying a total of 150 hands, were handi-
capped by a lack of houses in the town,
which forced their employes either to go

JULY, 1915

back and forth from the farms or nearby
towns, or else board in the rather poor
hotels in the community. It disclosed, also,
that just on this account there was a con-
siderable waste in the wages of the em-
ployes. The lack of sympathy between the
town and the farmer was discovered, and
the worthwhileness of several small local
businesses, employing only a few hands, was
proven.

The recreational situation was found to be
typical of many small communities. The
people had a love for fun, but there was no
effort to meet the human desire for recrea-
tion. Many people went to other communi-
ties, notably the nearby cities of Allentown
and Bethlehem, to patronize commercialized
amusements. Others in summer contented
themselves with pitching quoits, and there
were the usual loafers around the hotels
and in the pool rooms. Apart from an illy
supported baseball team, a Boy Scouts pa-
trol, the lodges, and a few church organi-
zations, there was nothing else.

The remedies for the situation were eas-
ily found. The public school was a large
modern building standing in an open, level
field, not far from a good-sized pond. The
possibilities for a neighborhood park are
excellent, but the school situation itself
needed attention. v It was found that, be-
cause there were only two years in the
high school course, some people with chil-
dren were kept from moving into the town,
and that there was a general lack of sym-
pathy between the school and its directors
and the people of the community. There
was no library of any account and no night
school work, in spite of a definite need for
both.

The usual rural health conditions were
disclosed as far as sanitation, ventilation
and strictness in quarantine are concerned.
The death rate for the preceding decade
was found to be 14.8.

The only discoverable civic assets were
beautiful shaded streets and sidewalks well
above the average for a small town. Of
community pride and spirit there was none.

It is interesting to note that this situation
reacted on the religious complexion of the
town. All the churches draw home mission
aid. In fact, the combined salary of the
three pastors, so far as the town pays it, is
less than the average salary of male teach-
ers in the public school. One church, con-
stituting but 9 per cent of the total church

THE AMERICAN CITY 25

membership, was found to be raising 60 per
cent of the money given in the town for re-
ligious purposes.

W ork of the Neighborhood Association

This was the situation that confronted
the Neighborhood Association when it be-
gan work February 4, 1914. The men at its
head were far-seeing and earnest, infused

, with a deep religious spirit. They believed

that prospering churches and poor recrea-
tion were incompatible, that poor health and
schools prevented industrial progress. On
the platform that poor economic conditions
are irreligious and that irreligion makes for
economic weakness, they went ahead to
work out the program that was derived
from the survey results.

First of all, a Building and Loan Associa-
tion was started, which is just concluding
a successful year of business. This an-
swered the double purpose of helping build-
ing and inducing saving on the part of many
who had been wasting their wages. Over a
score of line, new houses have been put up.
Signs advertising the town and giving direc-
tions to autoists have been put at the en-
trances of the borough. A community en-
velope has been issued. A public-spirited
citizen has placed at the disposal of the As-
sociation a large tract of land to offer as
free factory sites. In this way the charac-

 

THE NE\V HIGH SCHOOL AT COOPERSBURG

26 THE AMERICAN CITY

VOL. XIII, No. I

 

THE LAKE IN COOPERSBURG

ter of the future population is controllable.
The Industrial Committee avoided the temp-
tation to bring in the hrst industries that
applied—some of them unstable indeed. On
the other hand, it did get behind and
strengthen several local industries of the
proper caliber, thus giving employment to
more hands.

The recreation work has been a hard
problem. Progress, however, has been
made. A 7-acre picnic ground has been
placed at the Association’s disposal, which
will be put into shape this Spring. The
ground around the high school has been
leased, including the baseball field, and the
first steps toward a community park in the
heart of the town have been taken. There
have been numerous entertainments by local
talent, and a number of first-class outside
attractions have been brought into the town,
An orchestra has been organized and the
band and baseball team aided. A Women’s
Auxiliary is responsible for some type of
recreation each quarter, any profits from
which go into the Neighborhood House
fund. In the near future there will be ten-
nis courts in the community, and the pond
will be opened for swimming.

The Home and School Committee has
performed all the work of a Parent-Teach-
ers’ Association. A number of meetings
have been held with a view to bringing the
home and school closer together and in-

creasing the sentiment in favor of higher
education and of adding another year to the
high school course. Annual May Day ex-
ercises have been held, and electric lights
have been installed in the school building.
The school has become quite a social cen-
ter. On a recent evening three meetings
were in progress, all looking toward ad-
vancing the town.

The Health Committee is holding annual
Clean-Up Days, bringing in lecturers on
health topics, publishing weekly articles on
health subjects in the local newspaper, and
distributing literature from house to house
on starving the fly, tuberculosis protection
and the like.

The greatest task of the Civic Improve-
ment Committee was taking the social in-
ventory. But it has accomplished other
work as well. The town’s history is being
written at its instance, town colors have
been adopted, a town song has been written,
and when the old station was damaged by
fire, by prompt action, because it was not
necessary to call a meeting, the committee
within twenty-four hours had asked for a
new station, and the contract for it has
been awarded. An Old Home Week, built
around a cluster of church anniversaries,
was held in May.

The great goal of the community is to
erect close to the public school a Neigh-
borhood House. Here the community can

JULY, 1915

congregate in winter. It will contain com-
mittee rooms, resting rooms for farmers’
wives, a reading room, a game room, a stage
for entertainments, a gymnasium which can
also be used for an auditorium, a manual
training room, a domestic science room, and
locker rooms and shower baths. There will
also be place for the band, the orchestra and
the tire apparatus. With the coming of this
house, for which all are enthusiastically
working, will come many other things now
on the program; and then, the old program
accomplished, will follow the need for a

THE AMERICAN CITY 27

new inventory and the lining up of new
tasks.

This has been accomplished in a small
Pennsylvania-German village. It is an ef-
fort at solving the rural side of the village
problem. It is working in an over-churched
community. It is bringing into the com-
munity the greatest country life leaders for
monthly community mass meetings, which
are designed to keep sweet, strong and pure
the springs of religious faith and vision
from which this work sprang and because
of which it has thus far been carried on.

 

The Official Responsibility of the County in
the Tuberculosis Campaign*

By George J. Nelbach

Executive Secretary, Tuberculosis Committee, New York State Charities Aid Association

steadily growing conviction, inten-

sified by experience, that the county
as a political unit has a very important role
in the tuberculosis movement. The prob-
lem is so immense, the cost of dealing with
it on an adequate scale so great, and the
allied problems involved so fundamental
that it will undoubtedly make strong de-
mands upon all of our civic machinery.

The state, which is, generally speaking,
the most efhcient administrative unit, has
its share to do. In my opinion the function
of the state is to carry on the campaign of
popular education; to enact needed laws em-
powering the local communities to do their
work; to see that they adopt constructive
measures of relief, control and prevention;
and to see that the duties imposed upon
these localities are adequately and effec-
tively performed.

But for the work which is most actively
engaging our attention at the present time
and which constitutes the direct attack upon
the disease, a less extensive unit than the
state is needed. This work no state in the
union excepting Pennsylvania and the very
small ones, such as Rhode Island and Dela-
ware, has undertaken-on a state basis. The

THE last six years have witnessed a

 

‘Read before the Sociological Section of the Na-
tional Association for the .Study and Prevention of
Tuberculosis, Seattle, Washington, June 15, 1915.

strong lessons of experience indicate that
the most practical way of carrying on this
direct attack is to organize it on a local
foundation; and so the county has come to
be regarded as substantially the most prac-
tical political subdivision of the state to cope
with the problem.

The city, of course, has its share to do.
As compared with the county, the city is
usually the more eiiicient administrative
agency, but the number of cities large
enough to deal with the problem indepen-
dently is comparatively small. The great
bulk of the population of this country is
gathered in townships, villages and cities
too small to take up this work themselves.
The responsibility of the county is there-
fore primary.

In the direct attack on the disease, hospi-
tal segregation, especially of the moderately
and far advanced cases—though strongly
challenged in some quarters, notably by a
group in England—is still regarded by the
preponderance of opinion as the single most
important weapon. The cost of construc-
tion and of maintenance of tuberculosis hos-
pitals is considerable, and the difficulty of
securing adequate appropriations from state
funds for a system of state hospitals is such
that some form of local provision has had to
be worked out. Moreover, under a state
system of hospital control there is consid-

Digitized by 600816 I

28 THE AMERICAN CITY

erable doubt whether the state would locate
its institutions so that they would be readily
accessible for the patients and their rela-
tives and’friends. Far advanced cases can-
not, and many others will not, go far from
home for care and treatment. Excepting
the cities large enough to deal with the
problem themselves, the county seems to
be the most practical local unit for hospital
control, for then the patients in the remote
rural sections, in the hamlets and villages,
as well as in the cities, are provided for.

Slates Having County Hospilals

Laws imposing upon the counties the re-
sponsibility of providing hospital care for
the tuberculous have been enacted by thir-
teen states: New York, Illinois, Ohio, Wis-
consin, Minnesota, Indiana, Missouri, Iowa,
Michigan, Washington, New Jersey, Ken-
tucky and Texas. In Maryland, at the con-
ference recently called by the Governor of
that state, it was decided to draft and pre-
sent to the next legislature a bill providing
for county hospitals, and in Alabama a bill
for county hospitals has been drafted and
will be introduced in the legislature in July.
Further evidence that the subject of hos-
pital control of the tuberculous is regarded
as one of local and not state responsibility
is afforded in the case of Massachusetts—
the pioneer in so many matters ah’ecting
social and civic welfare. That common-
wealth originally provided four large state
institutions, but about four years ago en-
acted a law providing that the towns shall
provide the tuberculosis hospitals; the town
and not the county being selected as the
local unit because, generally speaking, the
town is well populated and has greater pres—
tige under the New England form of gov-
ernment than the county.

As to institutional provision for incipient
cases, there is much to commend in the plan
of state care, including the desirability of
change of climate from some portions of
the state, the greater efficiency of the state
as an administrator, and the fact that the
number of incipient cases recognized is
usually small. But there is considerable
danger of confusion in the minds of public
authorities as to the relative importance be-
tween providing state care for the incipient
cases and institutional provision for the
others. When it comes to choosing between
the two, the establishment of state sanatoria
should yield precedence. The sanatoria for

VOL. XIII, No. I

incipient cases have had very little, if any,
effect upon the real problem, that of dimin-
ishing infection, and in some states their
establishment, and in others proposals to
establish them, have actually delayed the
more serious and fruitful attack upon the

disease.

Responsibility for management and
A dminislralion

In the provision of a series of county
hospitals there is, of course, the possibility
that some may be unwisely located, poorly
planned, and inefficiently administered. In
this connection the state, in enacting the
statute providing for county hospitals,
should clearly define how the institutions
are to be established and conducted, and
focus responsibility for their management
and administration. It should reserve to
itself authority through its health depart-
ment to approve sites, plans and location of
buildings, and to inspect and supervise the
operation of the institutions. The statute
should provide for the complete separation
of the hospital from pauper institutions and
from the administration of poor law of-
licials. To my mind, the statute should be
permissive, not mandatory. Public authori-
ties resent mandatory legislation and are
very resourceful in postponing taking the
decisive action contemplated by the statute.

Counties too small to have hospitals of
their own may be permitted, with the ap-
proval of the state health department, to
combine in the joint establishment of a
hospital: Those counties having very large
areas and sparse populations and inadequate
or no general hospital facilities whatever,
may find it more advantageous to establish
general hospitals with tuberculosis divisions
than to combine with other counties in the
establishment of a Special tuberculosis hos-
pital.

73roviding the Funds by Referendum

Considerable difficulty has been expe-
rienced recently in inducing the counties to
provide the needed institutions. The cost
of public administration has gone up with
the cost of living. Taxes are high and
getting higher. In many cases the county
authorities, fearful of increasing the tax
rate, have not felt disposed to provide the
funds needed for the establishment of hos-

Digitized by 600816

JULY, 1915

pitals. In some states this disposition to
hold back in the traces has been overcome
through the provision of a state subsidy;
in others by an amendment to the statute
authorizing the county authorities to submit
the hospital proposition to the vote of the
electors. While in some quarters there
seems to be some obiection to the economic
advisability of the state subsidy, the plan,
nevertheless, has two distinct advantages:
it does away with undue delay in the pro-
vision of hospital care, and it gives to the
state a powerful lever with which to en-

THE AMERICAN CITY 29

minority of the voters had availed them-
selves of the opportunity of expression.
This was especially true of referenda on
propositions amending the state and federal
constitutions. It is interesting to note, how-
ever, that upon this human life question
substantially as many persons in these coun-
ties voted either for or against the hospital
proposition as voted for the candidates for
governor.

The following table gives some interest-
ing statistics on these four hospital refer-
enda in New York:

Pop. Av. Annual

(Federal Number of Vote Vote Majority Total Total

Census Tuberculosis for against for Vote on Vote on

Name of County 1910) Deaths Hospital Hospital Hospital Hospital Governor
Lewis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24,849 17 2,803 2,157 646 4,960 4,992
Chcnango . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35,575 27 4,919 2,949 1,970 7,868 7.958
Suffolk . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96,138 88 9,525 7.226 2,299 16,751 18,651
Nassau . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83,930 78 ‘ 6,798 6,641 157 13,439 16,299

force satisfactory standards of administra-
tive efficiency, the granting of the subsidy
being conditioned upon the maintenance of
proper standards.

The utility of the referendum plan for
the establishment of hospitals was demon-
strated in New York at the general elec-
tions last November. Four counties took
advantage of the amendment to the county
hospital statute enacted by the legislature
of 1914 and providing for the referendum
method of securing funds for hospital pro-
vision. In spite of the untoward business
conditions and the uncertainty as to the
effect the great European war would have
upon business and employment, and in spite
of high taxes, the electors returned decisive
majorities for the hospital proposition in
three of the counties. In the fourth countv
the proposition was carried by a majority
of only 157. This small majority was due
to the fact that both factions of the domi-
nant political party were strongly opposed
to the hospital proposition and fought it
with all their resourcefulness. In a num-
ber of instances electors who were not tax-
payers failed to receive the hospital ballots,
though they demanded them and were au-
thorized by law to vote on the question. All
four counties were distinctly rural in char-
acter. Only one had a city, and a small one
at that—8.000 population.

In New York of late years the referen-
dum method of political action had fallen
somewhat into disrepute, because only a

A Vision of ‘Possible Usefulness

The county, in my opinion, has other im-
portant responsibilities in the tuberculosis
movement besides that with respect to hos-
pital provision.

I favor making the county hospital the
center of the organized movement against
tuberculosis within the county. I must
admit that I know of no county in any state
in the Union in which that is done, though
the trend is toward that plan in several
counties of New York. In the interest of
efficiency I think the county should itself,
through its hospital,_provide the necessary
machinery for the discovery and diagnosis
of cases, for the sanitary and medical super-
vision through dispensaries and visiting
nurses of such patients as cannot or will
not, for one reason or another, go to a hos-
pital. The county hospital should also carry
on a campaign of popular education, sup-
plementing that of the state, rather than
look to the several cities, towns and villages
to take up and carry on these lines of Work
themselves.

This conception of the wider development
of the hospital’s function has much to com-
mend it. For the uncertainties of coopera-
tion and coordination on the part of the
political subdivisions of the county, it sub-
stitutes the single administrative control of
the county. Moreover, it is quite likely to
lead to a much more satisfactory manage-
ment and administration of the hospital
itself. Medical men say that there is prob-

Digitized by 6008?

30 THE AMERICAN CITY

ably nothing in the practice of medicine so
uninteresting and deadening as the treat-
ment of advanced cases of tuberculosis. It
would seem that a much higher grade of
medical superintendent could be secured for
a county hospital if he had the duty and
opportunity of organizing this extremely in-
teresting work of extending the hospital’s
influence out into all parts of the county.
It is also probable that a more interested
and active board of managers could be se-
cured with this newer conception of the hos-
pital function.

In one regard I would make an excep-
tion to this: I think the physicians should
continue reporting their cases to the local
health authorities. The doctors report their
communicable diseases to the local health
ofiicer and they have been getting more and
more in the habit of reporting to him their
cases of tuberculosis. To require them to
do otherwise would probably lead to con-
fusion. It is simpler to have the local
health ofiicers refer the reported cases of
tuberculosis to the county hospital.

The natural leaders in all this extension
work; in the establishment and maintenance
of clinics and of a staff of visiting nurses;
in the development of after care; in the
study of local conditions affecting the de-
velopment of tuberculosis, and in the con-
stant education of the community in regard
to tuberculosis and its treatment and pre-
vention, are the superintendents and man-
agers of the hospitals. They are constantly
in contact with the subiect. They see it in
all its phases. They know many of their
patients over a considerable period of time,
and have the opportunity to study the sub-
ject in all its bearings. True. they have
serious responsibilities in securing the
smooth and efficient Operation of the hos-
pitals. Nevertheless, I am strongly of the
opinion that they should add thereto the
leadership and direction, from start to fin-
ish, of the movement against tuberculosis

VOL. XIII, No. I

in the county. Single administrative con-
trol means increased efiiciency, and that is
what is needed in the tuberculosis move-
ment as in every line of civic, social or busi-
ness activity.

It may be urged that the politicians would
find it easier to seize hold of such single
administrative control than of the health
administration in the several cities, town-
ships and villages of the county. But that
danger, I am confident, is becoming less and
less each year. In a number of states the
people have declared recently in unmistak-
able terms that they want public health, are
willing to be taxed for it, and will brook no
political interference with its administra-
tion. The tuberculosis movement is in most
places the best organized phase of the public
health campaign, and one of the duties of
the voluntary organizations is to safeguard
the public tuberculosis agencies from the
blighting effect of sinister politics, and to
hold up to a high sense of duty those
charged with official responsibility. I am
confident that the state and local associa-
tions, supported by a steadily increasing
public sentiment, will be able to keep the
tuberculosis movement out of the hands of
political manipulators.

Up to a few years ago the county as a
local governmental unit was somewhat neg-
lected. More recently, however, substantial
improvements in the administration of
county affairs have been effected and a
higher grade both of organization and ad-
ministration has been reached. The trend
now is decidedly up-grade. The county is
taking on more and more lines of social wel-
fare work, such as probation; general hos-
pital care, completely separate and distinct
from pauper relief; care of dependent chil-
dren, and health work through full time
health officers. To develop our tuberculosis
campaign, with the county as an adminis-
trator, is not only in line with expediency,
but is decidedly in consonance with the
trend of local governmental evolution.

 

WWW”

 

Keeping the Fireman Fit

entitled to every possible means of

keeping their fine physical fitness for
work. Subjected to irregularity in hours
for sleeping and eating, and to great strain
through exposure and deeds of daring and
endurance, they are also often the victims
of lack of exercise. In companies where
the work is insufficient to keep the men in
their first condition of physical efiiciency,
some counteracting system is needed to
forestall the gaining of surplus weight and
girth and to maintain strength.

The Fire Department of New York City
has done a country-wide service in prepar-
ing a simple system of calisthenics and
in making this a compulsory daily exer-
cise. The plan is applicable to fire de-
partments in cities of various sizes, and
therein lies the value of giving ample space
to its presentation in the pages of THE
AMERICAN CITY. In his letter to the force,
with which the handy little manual of in—
structions opens, Commissioner Robert
Adamson says, in part:

“The drills have been worked out with great
care by a committee consisting of Captain
Charles E. Field, Mr. Clarence H. Fay, Sec-
retary of the Department; Chief Medical
Officer Joseph E. Smith, and Mr. G. Hinman

THE picked men of the fire service are

 

GROUP 1. “Poeition”:—Arms hanging freely at sides
as in (Fig. l).

 

Exercise 5. Anne front horizontal, aide horizon-
tal, front horizontal and return.

Four counts. $513. 2).
One:— Arm: rant (3).
Two :— Arms ' me

side
of hands turned up (b).
Threez— Arms front (a).
Founo- Position.

 

 

Barrett, Secretary to Deputy Commissioner
Laimbeer. The exercises are the simple ‘setting
up’ exercises such as are used at West Point,
in the National Guard, and by many athletic
instructors. The best in a number of physical
manuals has been adopted and adapted to the
use of members of this Department. Fifteen
minutes a day are to be devoted to practicing
the exercises. The company commanders are
expected to see that the exercises are regularly
carried out, except when the men are fatigued
from fire duty when the exercise hour arrives."

Certain general instructions precede those
for the drill:

1. Every movement should be done with
vim and enthusiasm—slovenly sliding through
the exercises without getting strong, muscular
coiltractions will not produce the desired re-
su ts.

2. Emphasize all movements which con-
tract the large muscles back of the shoulders.
This helps to straighten the spine and deepen
the chest.

3. Keep the head erect and set well back
during all the movements.

4. The leader of the drill should count the
numbers for the movements of the exercises
with a strong voice and precision.

5. In counting for the movements it should
be remembered that where the body bends
from the hips (as in a forward body bend) the
rhythm of the count should be somewhat
slower.

6. Each exercise will be repeated to 32
counts.

Exercise b. Arms front horizontal, up 0\'er
bead, front horizontal and return.
Four counts. (Fig. 3).
One:—-- Arms front (a).
Two:— Arms up (b).
Threez—Arme front (a).
Four;— Position.

 

Group I
Burrito I:

figure 3 Figure ~|

Exercise c. Arms side horizontal, up over head,
side horizontal and return.
Four counts. (Fig. 4).
One:-— Arms side (a).
Two:-— Arms up (1)).
Three—Arms aide (a).
Four :— Position.

[31]

Digitized by 600816

32 THE AMERICAN CITY VOL. XIII,No.I

Exercise: for Firemen—Continued

Exercise d- Fingers to shoulders. elbows swung GROUP m. “Position"‘——Ssmc as for Group 11

forward, then to side and return. (1:1,. 6).
Four counts. (Fig. 5). I ‘ .
One:— Fingers to shoulders (8.). Exercise 3. borward bending.
Two:— Elbows swung forward (b). Two counts.
'I‘hreez—Elbows swung side (3). ()nc:— Forward as

Fourt— Position. ' in (Fig. 11).
. l‘woz— Position.

   
 

’7
cm II:
has" It
Exercise b. Side bending.
Two counts.
Onez— Bend as in (Fig. 12).
Two:— Position.
Note—Bend to right and left sides alternately.
GROUP ll. “Position”:—- Exercise 0. Alternate front and side bending
Hands on hips (Fig. 6). Four counts. (Figs. 11 and 12).
One :— Down as in Exercise (3)
Exercise a. Half squat Two:—- Position
Two counts. . 'l‘hreez—Bend as in Exercise (b)
One:— Down as In (Fir- 7). Four:— Position
TWO 1- Pomt'on' Note—Bend to right and left side alternately.
(Stone H 3mm Exercise d. Slapping abdomen.
5.3:“: mm 7 Slap abdomen vigorously, using both bands.
Exercise b. Raising knee. GROUP IV. “Position"'-—Samess for Group! (Fig. 1).
Two counts.
One:-—Raiseasin (Fig. 8). Exercise 3,, Arm side and side bending.
Tw01— Position. Four counts as in F ig. l3.
Note.-_—Right and left knew to, be One:— Arms to
raised alternawa side s)
“v02? bend
Threez—. Return
to erect po-
‘ sition (a).
y ‘our :— Position.
Exq‘cise c. Side toe touch. / legg (181:3
wo counts. 0 n
One:-— Touch toe to floor  b 1e“ alternately

.ut side as in (Fig. 9).
Two :— PositiOn.

Note.——Right and left alternatey.

 

Exercise d. Jump
to straddle.
Two counts.
Onez—Jum to po-
sitionin( ig.10).
'l‘wo :—Posit ion.

Exercise b. Arms over head and
side bending.

Four counts as in Fig. 14.

One:—— Arms over head (3)

Two:— Side bend (b).

Cm?" ThreeI—Return to erect poetioni

PM!» L (9):
'5‘" N Four:—~ Position.

Note.—Bend to the right and left alternntely.

 

     

Group II
Fm «-
Figure 9

Digitized by 600816

 

JULY,1915 THE AMERICAN CITY 33

Exercises for Firemen—Continued

Exercise (3. Hands to shoulders and forward Exercise (3 Alternate [lawman and front'body
banding. . bend.
Four counts 88 In Fit 15- Four counts as in Fig. 19.
One:-- Hands (0 shoulders  Half squat 
Twoz— Forward bend (b)- . . Twoz— Rise to position.
Threw—Return to erect position (a) Three:—Front body bend
Fourt— POBition Four:—- Position.

   

e
‘67-'23?“—
b di‘
Group V
Elem «1
new 20

Exercnse d Arms forward
horizontal and forward ben-

 

Exercise d. Jump in straddle and side bend

dine gour- counts as in Flig‘idzlo.( )
F0 countsas in Fi .16. nez— um to at c a
Ong— Arms forwai‘d (a). Two:—« Bond) to side (b).
Two:— Forward bend (b). Threez-Body upright .(a)
'I'hree:—Return to erect position (a) Four?— Jump to position
Fourz— Position. Note—Bend to right. and left alternately.

GROUP V- “Position”:—Same as Group 11 (Fix. 6)- cnour VI. “Position”:——Same as Group 1 (Fig. 1).

Exercise a. Side charge and side body bend.
Four counts as in Fl . 17.
One:— Chargetosi e(a).

Exercise a. Side charge, arms side and over.
head and return to position.

Twoz— Bend to same side (b) Four com.“ 3‘ in n" 21' .

Three:_30dy upright (a) One:—-—- Side charge and raise arms at

Four:— Position' ' Two '— Rasilstegihs over head (b)
Note—Charge and bend right and left alternately Thre'e:_Remm arms out to side (A).

Four :— Position.

 

Exercise b. Front charge
and front body bend.
ggur counts as ingif. 18‘. ( )
e:— Charge ran a
Two:—- Bend forward (b).
Three:—Body upright (a)
Four:-— Position.

Note—Charge with right and left foot alternately. Note—Charge to right and left sides alternately.

 

Digitized by 600816

34 THE AMERICAN CITY VOL. XIII, No.1

Exercises for Firemen—Continued

  
  
    
  
  

Exercise b. Side charge arms front and side. Exercise b. Side charge—arms side and side bend.
Four counts as in Fig. 22. Four counts as in Fig. 26. .
One:-—- Side charge and raise arms at One:—- Side charge, arms out at Olden (3)-

Bide (10- Two :-— Bend to same side as charge, touch
Twoz— Swing arm to front horizontal (b). hand to door (b).
Three :-—Return arms out to side (a). Three;_. Body
Four :— Position. 5 return to up-
.Note.—~Charge to right and left sides alternately. right (a). .

Four:—Position.
. ........ .- Note.— Charge
° 7*  ---------Ir;,-- a and bend to
‘ ----- -- ' t and left
si in alter-

nately.

Exercise c. Front ,
arms over head and front
bend.

Four counts as in Fig. 27.

Onez—Charge to front, raise
arms over head (a).

'I‘woz— Bend to front and
bring fingers to touch door

   
 

Exercise c. Front charge,
arms front and over head.
Four counts as in Fig. 23.
Onez—Front ch e arms
front horizon (a).
Two: —Raise arms over

head (b). ' 0 v (b).
Three:-—Return arms to $23.: 'l‘hreez—Body return to up-
front horizontal (a). Finn 2: right (a), min:
Four :—Position. Foun— Position, rm :1
Note—Charge with right and left foot alternately. Nata—Charge with right and left feet alternately.

Exercise d. Forward charge, hands behind head
and forward bend.
Four counts as in Fig. 28.
One:— Charge forward, hands behind
head (a).
Two:— Bend forward (b).
Threw—Body return to upright (a).

Exercise d. Front charge, arms
front and side.
Four counts as in Fig. 24.
One :— [Wont char e, arms
front horizon (a).
Two:——— Arms swung out to

sides. Four:— Position.
Thrgggtmtum mm to Note—Charge with right and left foot alternately.

Four :— Position.
Note—Charge with right and
left foot alternately.

 

( \
1°}?
' l

a

I
it
‘1

      

b
%"'\ . .
r-;. Exercise a. Side charge—bend
“Elsa forward—hands to door.
” ‘ ‘ Sour cougt; as }in Fig. 25. .
:—" L. , to m t
he thrust' (ea)c. use ms yea? my?
'l‘woz— Bend forward, {ouch """ “We 1'
palms of hands to door
mam, Mum to up caoue vm. “Position”:-£ameasin Groupl (Fig.1).
right (a). ' .
Fouri— Poem“; Exerl“?i: counts as in Fig. 29.
Note—Charge to right and left One:— Squat and touch hands to door (a).
sides alternately Two :- Extend one leg to rear as in (b).

Threez—Return leg to same as (a).
Four:— Recover to standing position.

Note—Extend right and left leg alternately.

 

’- Digitized by 600816

JULY, 1915 THE AMERICAN CITY 35

Exercises for Firemen—Concluded

Exercise b. Side charge, arms side horizontal, Exercise b. Raising straight leg forward.
touch opposite foot. . - Two counts as in Fig. 34.
Four counts as in Fig. 30. . onez— Raise one leg straight in front as in
Onc:—- Charge to side, extend arms side 
horizontally (a). _ . Two:—— Position.
TW°=— Togwhdcgzmz foot With 0990'!“ Note—Raise right and left legs alternately.
an _ [H . . . .
Threez—Body return to upright (a). do on hips dam this exam”)

Four :— Position.
Note—Charge with right and left foot alternately.

 

my:

PM)!

 

Exercise c. Breathing exercise.

Exercise 0. TWO 001111“ 88 in  35..
Sour counts as in Fig.d31. ed b d ted Onez— Charge to aide alrigwahale.  l
:-— t ' t t, raising arms at a u
ne Still-1:8 (£33- m we y o T length Mtge hug. Y8 1 1
Extend both 1 to rear as shown in (b . wo:— Recoverposl on an exhale, s ow
meg—Remfngsto a, ) lowering extended arms to side:
Four:— Recover to standing position. Note—Charge to right and left alternately.
Exercise d. Side charge, arms in thrust; twist Exercise d. Front brea ' exercise.
to side and extend both arms. Two counts as in Fig. .
Four counts as in Fig. 32. . Onez— Charge forward, inhale, ' '
One:—— Side clgzrdge, arms in thrust (a). arms slowly frontwise at full
Twoz— Twist y to charging Bide, extend length above head.
both arms (b). Two :— Recover position, exhale, lo '
Three:— Return to front face (a). arms slowly irontwiss at ml
Four:— Position. length to sides.

Note.—Charge to right and left alternately.

 

7/

“mp IN

 

 

Est-erm- 0
FUN ti
GROUP IX. “Position”:—Same as Group I (Fig. l). N Ch h h d I f I l
_ __ .t . .
Exercise a. Clasping knee. Ole “'89 “'1 Hz t an e t egs alternate y
Two counts as in Fig. 33. .
One :—- Raise one knee and clasp With both .
hands: 33 in figure. This manual contains also instructions for first
Two:—-— Position. aid to the injured, which will be‘reproduced in the
Note...” right and left knee. “Wkly. August issue of Tm: AHERICAN Luv. '

Digitized by 600816

 

WHERE 81.5% WORTH OF WORK WAS DONE IN ONE DAY AT A COST TO WASHINGTON
COUNTY OF 817

Good Roads Day in Pennsylvania

How the Movement Was Organized—Some Practical Questions and Answers

By Charles M. Ketchum
Secretary, Washington (Pa.) Board of Trade

State-\Vide Good Roads Day on May

26 last. A tabulation of the results
shows that, deSpite the fact that rain and
threatening weather prevailed throughout
the state west of the Alleghany Mountains,
there were nevertheless 5,707 miles of pub-
lic roads improved, 82,365 men at work,
14,811 teams on the roads, 1,869 drags in
constant use during the day, and 82 road
machines in operation. More than 380,000
volunteers agreed to work on the roads on
May 26, but the disagreeable weather pre-
vented many from fulfilling their pledges.
The State-Wide Good Roads Day move-
ment had its inception in Washington
County, where a very strong Good Roads
Day Association had been organized for the
promotion of a county Good Roads Day in
1914. On that day last year more than 5,000
people worked on the Washington County
roads, and there were 300 teams, 15

[331

PENNSYLVANIA observed its hrst

scrapers, 5 engines, 2 rollers and 50 road
drags, besides 700 automobiles, at work.
The estimated value of the materials and
money subscribed and expended on the
roads was $11,915. The most striking re-
sult, however, was the splendid spirit of
good citizenship which was aroused in the
county—a spirit which was directly respon-
sible for the construction and continuous
operation throughout the year of several
hundred roads in the county.

The far-reaching importance of this work
was so obvious that the Washington County
Good Roads Day Association undertook the
promotion of a State-Wide Good Roads
Day, making counties the working units.
The Central Committee of the Washington
County Association was made up of twenty
active enthusiasts—the County Agricultur-
ist, County Commissioners, County Engi-
neer, Sheriff, an editor, a private engineer, a
prominent physician, a merchant, a minister,

JULY, 1915

GOVERNOR MARTIN H. BRUMBAUGH

C enler Picture:

STATE HIGHWAY
COMMISSIONER
CUNNINGHAM
WATCHING THE

WORK OF THE ROAD

DRAG IN WASH-

INGTON COUNTY

THE AMERICAN CITY

"CLEANING UP”

 

 

PENNSYLVANIA

Bollom Picture:

“THE WHITEWASH
BRIGADE” IN FRONT
OF COMMUNITY
HOUSE

Prominent business
men of Washington, Pa..
who white-washed tele-
phone polcs along 101/;
miles of the National
Old Trails Road

 

 

THE AMERICAN CITY VOLXIII, No.1

free to promote the pub-
licity and other details of
the state—wide campaign.
As rapidly as county
good roads day associa-
tions were organized in
various counties, the
Washington County Asso-
ciation distributed litera-
ture throughout these
counties explaining the
general plan of organiza-
Signed  ..     . tion. The \Vashington
Addreu...............     .   County Plan “’35 “59d 35 3
criterion from which mod-
ified plans for various
counties were formulated.

WE NEED YOUR AUTO l
Good Roads Day. May 26

Report at County Court House

Because I believe in Good Roads. I will lend my (Car or Truck) May 26,
Between 6 a. In. and noon.  ....- ,.       

Between noon and 6 p.     

(Indicate in blank epace above which period you will serve)

My car will hold 

I prefer togo to,........   ......dietrict. If no preference is
stated. it will be inferred that you are willing to go where most needed.

 .penons besides the driver.

Phone... 

PLEDGE CARD FOR AUTOMOBILE OWNERS

an attorney, and representatives of the Fair Each county was urged to and did secure
Association, County Editorial Association, the working cooperation of the local and
commercial organizations, County Super- county granges, of which there are 833 in
visors’ Association, and the State Highway the state, with a total membership of over

Department—a body rep—
resenting all of the organ-
ized interests of the coun-
ty. Each of these com-
mitteemen was delegated
to present the state-wide
movement to all of the or-
ganized bodies of the state
similar to the one which
he represented on the Cen-
tral Committee. The Cen-
tral Committee was sub-
divided into committees on
Volunteers, Finance,
Transportation, Equip-
ment, Commissary and
Administration. Uniform
petitions were sent to all
organized bodies in the
state, and were presented
to the Governor. The re-
sult was that on April 28
Governor Brumbaugh is-
sued a proclamation call-
ing upon all road super-
visors and county commis-
sioners, and able-bodied
citizens generally, to work
upon the roads on May 26,
or to contribute a sum
equivalent to the wages of
a substitute. The State
Highway Commissioner
was then induced to ap—
point an ofiicial in his of-

Wednesday
May 26

Headquartm: Community Home
I. M. McKee, Sunler Ixf'buudu

BIO. I (MIC!

Wash-(tea, Pa. - e name-o
.Lll (3."

9!” P500! M a c nonem-

l.'tm

lay e. tote.

You have read the roolaaatione for a Itate Iide Good
my ieeued by Governor and our Oounty Judson eall
upon everyone to work on thie . The enoloeed et explains
how the Iaehington County Good Reade Day Aeooeiation atarted the
novenent throughout the etate. Already over 60 oountiee are orga-
iaed.

You have been emeeted ae a repreeentative oitiaen of your
loeality oho would puah thie work, eo we are appealing to you per-
eonally to hooet the novenent in your oo-unity. A eo-ittee hae-
been appointed in each townehip or borough to organize the work and
eee wha ehould be done to inprove the made in your locality and
finally to get the people out to do it on 0001) none DAY. lay 26th.
For a oonplete liet ot the nenbere of thie oo-ittee eee the local
papere lay 7th.

You have been appointed on that oo-ittee. the chair-an of
your eomittee will call you together eoon, when you can add to
your unberehip, it deeired, conplete your local organisation. and
take euch etepe ae nay he neeeeeary to nake the aovenent a auoeeea.

0!!! DAY m 0001') some ll "SKIING! count with everybody
working. le are counting on you to have the people out in your
oo-nity.

Iineerely youre.
Organisation (I. L. lunoe.

co-ittee. (O. I. Carothere.

(30'. C. I». We.

 

CIRCULAR LETTER ISSUED BY THE WASHINGTON COUNTY

ORGANIZATION COM MITTEE

Digitized by 600816

JULY, 1915

70,000; also boards of trade, commercial
clubs, county supervisors‘ associations, au-
tomobile clubs, county commissioners, school
superintendents, churches, agricultural and
fair boards, newspapers, the State Highway
Department, colleges and academies, medi-
cal associations, bankers and merchants.
Good roads enthusiasts went from Wash-
ing County to all parts of the state to pre-
sent the working details of county organiza-
tion and to form Good Roads Day associa-
tions, with the result that in forty-eight out
of sixty-four counties in the state such as-
sociations have been formed on a permanent
basis.

Troublesome Questions

As in every such campaign, numerous
questions were presented, purely incidental
to the primary purpose, but which demanded
careful thought and tactful adjustment in
their solution. Here are the answers to
some of them:

To I!!!) drank: a] and

“I P vane-e. I...
molten-em
“I. meet IL Manes-Ia Ia

Norman hurling 9d;qu linen

aerAeuenan I I.“

CMAL DISTRICT

cone-e0
be. Ono. m Mac-eon; Wen—e New You
More. Menu-e.

“Om J. "WW
“1" M W o-eo

I‘V. c. L. IM3‘.

neneeeavevwe roe momentous ano once-e Cover-co

W lu.__eu—a. tun—m—

ly dear hrotherx-

The Executive Committee of the Good Reade Day Aeeooiation t11e
greatly appreciatee the effective leaderehip of the ninietere
of the county in helping to eeke Good Reade Day laet year a great
eueeeee. and eehe no to again addreee you in thie intereet.

Ie rejoice that the value of good roade to the eoeiel. huei-
neee and religioue eeltare.ot both country and teen to lore and

lore appreciated by both.

I”' “IDLE-Cum
“Wit-ll“...

THE AMERICAN CITY 39

“Where shall the work be done!” Ex-
cept in the case of state and county roads,
it is best to leave it entirely to the local peo-
ple. In the final analysis it is good roads
enthusiasm that we are after. The volun-

teer will do his best work in a place of his
own choosing.

“Shall men and teams be hired!” Ex-
perience in this campaign indicates that it
is not generally good policy to hire teams
or men on country roads, as such men would
be required to work with others who are
donating their services and who will not
take kindly to those being paid. It is better
to spend contributed money for materials
and supplies, drags, culverts, slag, etc.

“Where shall we send volunteers from
the towns?” It is better to put city work-
ers on the state and county highways, where
repairs are needed. The country men are
more interested in the improvement of pri-
vate and township roads and feel that it

The city man
appreciates that the im-

provement t0 the main ar-
teries is of the most bene-
fit to his town.

“Shall we be permitted
to work on the state or
county roads?” It will
usually be found advisable
to have all improvements
on such highways done
under the supervision of
regularly appointed
officials, merely furnish-

ing them with volunteer
labor.

It ie eell knoen fact that the index of the degree of the

civilization of a people ie their country life, and an index or
the intelligence and preeperity or the country ie round in the
ueuel condition of the roade. Good roade eoet eonethi , but had
roade ooet more. We pay for bad roede in our loee of t no. eear
and tear on our horooe and vehiclee and in annoyance to our telper.

Ae ninietero of the Chriotian Religion are ueually the advenoe
agente of all that ie higheet and boot in any eoelmmity it ie rea
treehing to note hoe they are making their influence felt by the
eupport of thie good nave-eat.

to hope thie eork nay continue to eon-end iteelf to you and
that you will continue to lend your {ever and eupport and eiil en-
courage your nonbere to do oo.

A number of tinely oer-one eero reported leet year and ee
again euggoet eono toxte on the Religioue velue of Good Reade are
round in Dent. 2-27, 19:3, lunhere 20:17, lunhere 21128. leeiah
11:16. leaiah 35:8.9 10. Ieaiah 66:12, Ieaiah 0033.4. Luke 3:4

6
John 4:3,‘. Aete 28: 5; and on the Value of a good Publio Spirit.
“h.  P'e  

Hoe are you for the 26th? I e

apeet to eervo my country on that
day 'in the trenchee'. Do you?

Sincerely youre,

HIV. 0. I» IOIII.

 

“Who furnishes lunch
for those who go from
towns?” They usually
take their own lunch. In
some special instances this
plan is not followed, as in
Washington County the
Equal Franchise Associa-
tion furnished 250 lunches
for a bodv of student vol-
unteers from Washington
and Jefferson College.

“Why should I go out

“and work on good roads

day? I pay enough taxes;

THE RELIGIOUS ASPECT or THE GOOD ROADS MOVEMENT what doI get out of this!”

Digitized by 

40

You will get better roads.
You will earn the esteem
and respect of the biggest
and best men in your com-
munity. You will have an
opportunity to distribute your
knocks where they will do
some good and be able to
see some direct results from
your labor.

“H ow can we do the most
effective work on our dirt
roads?” By the establish-
ment of a road drag patrol
system.

An Educational Movement

The greatest value which
can come from the promo-
tion of a Good Roads Day
campaign cannot possibly be
measured by the tangible re-
sults. There is a much

deeper and more far-reaching effect to be
realized from the successful culmination of
Primarily it is but a
great educational campaign and experienccr

such a movement.

THE

( . H’ l.‘ .'  _-" .3. .' I‘.’I.“.-.' .‘rrgi.  t:
.\ l'u.'~'\l“..\.l\'l‘l,l' \"l ['X'll'il'ili
FOR GOOD ROADS DAY

AMERICAN CITY

 

VOL. XIII, No. 1

(if I may coin the word).
It develops an enthusiasm for
better roads—an enthusiasm
which is the first and great-
est requisite for obtaining
the most lasting and positive
benefits.

A Good Roads Day pre-
sents a medium for the elim-
ination of petty community
jealousies and inspires in
their place a spirit of cooper-
ation. It presents an object
toward which all elements of
society and business may
work with one accord and in
absolute harmony—a fun:-
tion in which the chief exec-
utives of a state, its most
brilliant lawyers and most
learned doctors, its profes-
sors, students, merchants,
bootblacks and newsboys,

are brought to a common plane of under-

standing and mutual purpose.
Pennsylvania will undoubtedly have an-
other State—Wide Good Roads Day.

FACTORS IN THE SUCCESS OR FAILURE 0|" STREET PAVEIENI'S

Under the above heading there will be published. beginning with our August number. a series

of articles which. it is believed, will prove of great practical value to everyone having to do with
the construction and maintenance of street pavements. THE AMERICAN CITY has asked representa-
tives of leading manufacturers or associations of manufacturers to write these articles and is able to
announce, as authors of the first seven of the series, the following:

Asphalt—D. T. Pierce. Executive Assistant. The Barber Asphalt Paving Company.
Asphalt Blocks—E.  Morrison, President, The Hastings Pavement Company.

Bituminous Macadam—Philip P. Sharples. Manager. Tarvia Department, Barrett Manufacturv
ing Company.

Brick—Will P. Blair, Secretary. National Paving Brick Manufacturers Association.

Concrete—W. A. McIntyre. Chief Road Engineer. American Portland Cement Manufac-

turers Association.

Cranite—Zenas W. Carter, Field Secretary. Granite Paving Block Manufacturers' Association
of the United States.

Wood Blocks—H. S. Loud, Chief Engineer, United States Wood Preserving Company.

The articles will be published in alphabetical order. as listed above. As the manufacturers of
the various types of pavement are vitally interested in the proper construction and maintenance of
their products. and have necessarily made a very careful study of this subject, they are able to
offer thoroughly practical advice regarding factors to be considered and mistakes to be avoided. It
is not the intention of this series of articles to advocate the merits of any particular kind or brand
of pavement. The assumption will be in each case that a city has decided to lay a pavement of the
type under discussion; the object of each article being to offer suggestions as to how the longest life
may be obtained for such a pavement at the least possible expenditure to the municipality.

TEMPORARY
section
'00". 98:57

. 454--

r---|5°"“-*' '. .
r-----D‘O’---¢llfr
P-‘-----W---‘-—

: cuss {mimi

 

NOTE TEMPORARY SIDEWALKS BETWEEN TEMPORARY AND PERMANENT CURBS

Application of the Elastic Principle to Street Widening
in Philadelphia

An important feature of Philadelphia’s
new and comprehensive city planning scheme
is the standardization of the cross-section
sub-divisions of the streets. A standard of
18 feet is used as the width of a roadway
for two lines of vehicles, to be increased by
a unit of 8 feet for each additional line,
except in streets to be occupied by a double-
track street railway, for which an 18-foot
unit is allowed; this gives roadways of 18,
26, 36 and 52 feet for streets of the various
widths up to 88 feet. The roadways of some

50-foot streets are being made 18 feet wide;
of some 60- and 64-foot streets 26 feet, and
of some 88-foot streets 36 feet; these may
be widened in the future to meet the needs
of increased traliic without disturbing
abutting property. Avenues 108 and 148
feet wide have sidewalks each 18 feet wide,
divided into footwalk and parking spaces,
and two driveways each 26 feet wide, sepa-
rated by parking spaces which may later be
thrown into roadway or occupied by street
railways.

TEMPORARY
SICUON
GOVT STREET

.,
r-ec-T-w-+—w--r- isn‘-
r---+---+sr<r- - - --

:ems:w: ms:

cm-.. -uoopnuu. «on... -- .a... .

“I” cm W unavo-

L-lso

O

-l3"0'-*-6'0"'r-‘60'-'i*‘60'-'1

\vaa was '

use!“ KAI-3 o'vw

MAD U 5UI~I"$
'NLANL’NID

 

NOTE SIDEWALKS: BETWEEN PERMANENT CURB AND BUILDING LINE

Digitized by 600816

   

. New Bulletins
Franklin, Pa.—Member3’ Bulletin. Is-
sued from time to time by the Franklin
Board of Trade.
Knoxville, Tenn—Knoxville Spirit. Pub-
lished monthly by the Board of Commerce.
Marshalltown, Iowa—Commercial Jour—

nal of Marshalltown. Published monthly
by the Marshalltown Club.

Prescott, Ariz.—Yaziapai. Published
monthly by the Yavapai County Chamber
of Commerce.

Redfield, S. Dak.—Redfield. Published
quarterly by the Commercial Club.

Sterling and Rock Falls, Ill.—Sterling-
Rock Falls Journal. Published monthly by

the Sterling and Rock Falls Commercial

Club.
'I‘ 4‘

Two Important Government

Publications

The Bureau of Foreign and Domestic
Commerce at Washington hopes to have
available early in July a new directory of
national, state and local commercial associ-
ations in the United States. This directory
will be similar to that published by the Bu-
reau in 1913. By the use of certain well—
explained symbols very full information
will be given in regard to the local associ-
ations which maintain regularly established
departments to look after the retail trade,
wholesale trade, transportation problems,
solicitation of conventions, charity and so-
cial settlement work, and agricultural de-
velopment. The information in regard to
the national and state associations will in-
clude a wide range of subjects.

A “Statistical Abstract of the United
States” is published annually by the Bu-
reau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce.
The last volume of this publication has re-
cently appeared and contains the figures
for the year 1914. The book contains 707
pages, and the table of contents, which fol-
lows, indicates that the material should be

[42]

News and Ideas for Commercial and
Civic Organizations

  

of value to the secretaries of civic'and com-
mercial organizations:

Area, natural resources and population

Agriculture, forestry and fisheries

Patents and manufacturing and mining in-
dustries

Occupations, labor and wages

Internal communication and transportation

Merchant marine and shipping

Foreign commerce

Commerce of non-contiguous territory

Prices (of silver and gold bullion and of
commodities)

Consumption estimates

Money. banking and insurance

Public finance and commercial failures

Army, Navy, Civil Service, pensions, etc.

Statistical record of the progress of the
United States

Commercial, financial and monetary statis-
tics of the principal countries of the world

Index.

The publication is sent free to libraries.
educational institutions, the press, and com-
mercial and other organizations.

vbvl'

More Daylight for Ohio and
Michigan

As is doubtless generally known, there is
considerable agitation among the cities of
the Middle States for the adoption of east-
ern standard time in those cities, to provide
an additional hour of daylight at the end
of the working day for purposes of recre-
ation and other worthy objects.

Cleveland and some of the smaller cities
in the vicinity have adopted eastern time
and are enthusiastically in favor of it. Some
of the larger cities in the state are now con-
sidering its adOption; and although it seems
probable that some of them will fall into
line, the sentiment regarding the action in
others is divided.

The Cleveland Chamber of Commerce in-
troduced a bill into the last Ohio Legisla-
ture providing for eastern time through-
out the state. This was defeated, though
not unexpectedly. The object in introduc-
ing the bill was in reality one of educa-

Digitized by 600816

 

JULY, 1915

tion, in the hopes thatits discussion would
help to influence sentiment in its favor,
and a similar bill will be introduced at the
next session of the legislature. To quote
the Cleveland Chamber of Commerce:
“Eastern time is an advantage to'the farmer
and suburban resident visiting the City; it gives
more daylight during the greater part of the
year outside of working hours; it exerts a
moral infiuence upon the community, enabling
greater recreation and permitting working men
and women to return to their homes in day-
light during almost the entire year; it is an
advantage to those doing business in the East;
there is considerable saving in the cost of arti-

ficial illumination; and it enables more efficient
work in industrial plants.”

Detroit has also turned its clocks ahead
an hour, the action there being the result
of many years of endeavor by the “More
Daylight Club,” under whose direction an
active campaign was carried on. 'A refer-
endum vote taken of the membership of the
Detroit Board of Commerce showed that
1,204 were in favor of eastern time as
against 196 in opposition.

'l' 'l'

A Constitutional Amendment

League

SYRACUSE, N. Y.—Since the New York
Constitutional Amendment Convention has
been in session, it has seemed important to
the members of the Syracuse Chamber of
Commerce and others in Syracuse inter-
ested in public affairs that the people of
Syracuse have a better understanding of
the pr0posed revision of the state consti-
tution and of the many questions before
the convention. The resultwas the for-
mation of the Constitutional Amendment
League of Syracuse. The Syracuse Cham-
ber of Commerce offered the use of one of
its staff as executive secretary and agreed
to furnish meeting rooms and to cooperate
otherwise with the League to make it of
real service to Syracuse.

The main objects of the League are:

To promote public discussion and addresses
on constitutional revision questions;

To provide round-table discussions for the
study of particular amendments;

To collect information and data on these
subjects and exchange ideas with similar or-
ganizations in other communities in the state;

To enlist cooperation and to cooperate with
other local civic organizations, in order that
the citizens of Syracuse may have a clear un-
derstanding of the proposed amendments;

To formulate views and bring them to the
attention of the local delegates of the Con-

THE AMERICAN CITY 43

stitutional Convention and cooperate with
these delegates in their support.

The membership of the League is rep-
resentative, being composed of lawyers,
doctors, educators, newspaper men, poli-
ticians, ministers, students, and business
men of almost every class. Several women
interested in civic work have also joined.

The first four subjects to be taken up by
the League are home rule for cities, the
short ballot, budget changes, and conserva-
tion of the state's natural resources.

*+

In the Interest of Prosperity

CANAL Dovna, Ohio—The plan of the
Canal Dover Board of Trade to stimulate a
return of prosperity by an endless chain
system of resolutions is of interest. The
resolutions are printed at the top of a legal
size sheet of paper attached to several blank
sheets upon which to place signatures, and
are mailed to the commercial organizations
in ten cities in the state, with the request
that each organization append its signature
and start the resolutions in a certain direc-
tion from the town to which they are mailed
in the first instance, each commercial or-
ganization in that territory which receives
it to pass it on to the one in the next town,
and so on, until the territory is covered. A
list of the ten towns to which the resolu-
tions are mailed and the direction in which
the document is to be started from each
are given on the first sheet of the document,
bound into it.

The ten documents were started on their
journey March 3rd and are to be returned
to the Canal Dover Board of Trade by Sep-
tember I, covered with the signatures of
every commercial organization in the state
with which it has been possible to get in
touch, pledged to do all the things stated in
the resolutions, which read as follows:

“The Directors of the Canal Dover Board
of Trade, being desirous of doing what they
can toward alleviating the present commer-
cial depression and of hastening the era of
activity which is standing at the door of our
nation awaiting an invitation to enter. do here-
by urgently request boards of trade, cham-
bers of commerce, and other similar bodies
to. subscribe to the following declarations, to
Wit:

“1. We shall do everything in our power,
by means of newspaper publicity. mass meet-
ings. speeches. and other methods of molding
public sentiment. to stimulate confidence on the
part of our fellow citizens and neighbors in
the inherent prosperity of the country and the

Digitized by 600816 I
A

44 THE AMERICAN CITY

possibility of immediately—to-be-improved eco—
nomic conditions;

“2. We shall encourage the buying of goods
for resale, the construction of buildings, the
inauguration of public improvements, and
every other form of activity which may re-
sult in the employment of labor and the cir-
culation of money;

“3. We shall have this heading and the
signatures thereto published in our local news-
papers as soon as the signature of our organ-
ization is atiixed;

"4. We will send or convey this document
to the proper organization in a neighboring
city and urge upon said organization imme-
diate action therupon. _

In witness whereof, we have this day
caused our ofticial signature to be affixed
thereto.

Date . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. “Signature.”
+ 4-
Oratorical Contest on City '
Government

DEFIANCE, Ohio—The Defiance Chamber
of Commerce is making a steadfast en—
deavor to create in the student body of the
community an interest in the cause of the
Chamber, feeling that only through the
younger generations may the Chamber ex-
pect to arouse the spirit of civic pride and
progressiveness so essential to the growth
of a city. The Chamber of Commerce there-
fore suggested an oratorical contest, to be
participated in by the students of the high
school, upon “One Man Management of
Cities.” Special mention is made of the
essay delivered by Herbert Savage, an 18-
year-old boy, which discloses a surprisingly
clear understanding of city government.

{'4'

A Week Devoted to Home

Economics

FORT WORTH, TEX.—The “Home Eco-
nomics Week,” promoted by the F or! Worth
Record, which was recently held in the
auditorium of the Fort Worth Chamber of
Commerce, is reported to have been of great
educational value. There were lectures
upon the town beautiful, home architec—
ture, interior decoration, including furnish-
ing, the enjoyment of pictures, home sani-
tation, pure and clean food, pure water,
how to obtain household economy when
there is a limited income, school lunches,
the farm home, the rural school, and many
other allied subjects.

The exhibit of the University of Texas
School of Home Economics was of espe—
cial interest and attractiveness. This con-

 

VOL. XIII, No. I

tained a comprehensive array of tested
household labor-saving devices, which econ-
omize also time and money, supplemented
with models and charts, also lantern slide

views.
The success of Home Economics Week

as an educational influence prompted the
leading daily papers of Fort Worth to es-
tablish and maintain a special department
in their Sunday editions, in which questions
upon home economic subjects may be asked

and answered.
'1' '1'

Unscrupulous Solicitors Warned

WATERTOWN, N. Y.—A placard intended
to ward off solicitors of subscriptions or
donations to, or advertising of, illegitimate
charitable or other objects, has been issued
by the Watertown Chamber of Commerce,
to be hung in a conspicuous place in any
office likely to be visited by such solicitors.

No Subscription, Donation, Ad-
vertisement or other contribution

will be considered by us lmtil you

have presented the facts concern-
ing your proposition to the

WATERTOWN
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE

The Watertown Chamber of Commerce is
equipped with information concerning the
worthiness of the objects seeking recogni-
tion, or with facilities for procuring the
needed facts. The placard is here repro-

duced.
+4-

Safety-First Round Table

RACINE, Wis—The Racine Commercial
Club is conducting a series of round-table
discussions under the direction of its Safety
and Sanitation Committee upon such sub-
jects as First Aid to the Injured, Safe-
guarding Machinery, Ventilation, Bad Prac-
tices, and all the subjects which relate to
the safety of the men at their work or the
study of which will increase their eti'iciency.
These are open to superintendents, fore-
men and all persons who have charge of
large groups of men, and are held at the
rooms of the Commercial Club. Everyone

Digitized by 600816

JULY, 1915

present is given an opportunity to take part
in the discussions, which become very in-
structive, since each man receives the bene-
fit of the others' experience in those mat-
ters. Attention is also called to the danger
often resulting from swearing and from
much merry-making about machinery.
The discussions are made increasingly in-
teresting by the use of moving pictures and
stereopticon views in which different phases
of the subject are illustrated. The Com-
mercial Club has a membership in the Na-
tional Safety Council, which furnishes
large quantities of illustrated literature, and

this is generally circulated.
'l' 4'

City Publicity Through Motion

Pictures

GRAND FORKS, N. Dak.—Through its
Commercial Club, Grand Forks is doing
some useful publicity work by means of the
moving picture. For several months the
Commercial Club has had in circulation
throughout the Northwest several films
showing scenes in Grand Forks and in the
northwestern territory generally, including
picturesque scenes from the western moun-
tains, views illustrating advanced farming
methods, and scenes from the “Pageant of
the Northwest,” which was produced on the
occasion of the meeting of the Mississippi
Valley Historical Society in the summer of
1914, and is in itself a remarkable feature.
The pageant was planned and produced by
a society of the State University of Grand
Forks and depicts important scenes from
the history of the Northwest, including the
organization of the Hudson Bay Company,
the exploration of the Great Lakes, the dis-
covery of the Mississippi River, and the
Lewis and Clarke expedition across the
continent. These were all presented in cos-
tume, with appropriate lines. The pageant
was staged in a natural ampitheatre on the
university campus, where a little winding
stream separates the level ground used for
stage purposes from the spectators seated
on the sloping banks on the farther side.
This,“Bankside Theatre,” as it has been
named, is being fitted up by the planting of
shrubbery and the making of other improve-
ments, for permanent use as an out-of-
door theatre, and another pageant will be
produced there this year.

The films have been in constant use all
winter. The Commercial Club had them
prepared at its own expense and under its

THE AMERICAN CITY 45

own direction, and loans them without
charge to communities desiring them. The
demand for pictures, therefore, has been
greater than could be met. Through their
use many thousands of people have been
made more familiar with the scenery and
resources of their own country, with the
advantages of improved farming methods,
and with new movements along artistic
lines. It is the intention of the directors of
the Club to extend the service another year.

vb'l'

Public Sheds Attract Rural Trade

NEWBURGH, N. Y.—The Newburgh
Chamber of Commerce is cultivating the
patronage of the farming community by
furnishing to the farmers and their families
free accommodations in the way of public
sheds, including the services of a compe-
tent attendant, where they may hitch their
teams and leave them in perfect safety
while they do their trading in the local
stores. The sheds are open daily, except
Sundays, from six o’clock in the morning
until six in the evening. The accommoda-
tions are advertised in the daily papers, and
are said to be well patronized and to give
promise of being an excellent means of
attracting the trade of the farmer folk.
The entire expense is taken care of by the
Chamber of Commerce.

'1' '1'
A Secretary’s Committee
STERLING, Ill—The secretary of the

Sterling and Rock Falls Commercial Club,
H. F. \Vhittle, has found that in order to
keep live the interest of its members it is
necessary to afford them greater oppor-
tunity to give expression to their ideas,
whether they be good, bad or indifferent.
It is also considered important to collect as
many ideas’as possible and to keep the
membership in close touch with the secre-
tary. For this reason the Club has ap-
pointed a Secretary’s Committee. composed
of eighteen young business men, whom he
can call together on short notice for consid-
eration of any proposition which requires
quick action. The committee has been
working in close cooperation with the sec-
retary, keeping him informed at all times
in regard to new avenues for service or
activities which should be handled by the
Club. Industrial prospects are disposed of
in this manner, and the plan is said to have
more than justified its conception.

Digitized by GOOSIZ'
.l

46 THE AMERICAN CITY

Taxation as a Remedy for the Vacant
Lot Nuisance

The South Orange Civic Association of
South Orange, N. J., recently adopted the
following resolutions as a step in its cam-
paign against the vacant lot nuisance:

Whereas many of the vacant lot areas of the
village constitute a nuisance and menace to
health,

Resolved, that the Association. through its
appropriate committee, formulate a plan and
promote the use of such for gardening pur-
poses;

Resolved, that the Village Board be urged
to pass ordinances, if not now existing, to abate
such nuisances as weed-growing, mosquito-
breeding, dumping, etc.;

Resolved, that the cooperation of the Board
of Health be sought to this same end And,
finally, be it

Resolved, that the Board of Assessors be
urged to tax all vacant areas to the full amount
permitted by law, so that their owners may
be influenced to put them to productive use.

   

VOL. XIII, No. 1

The Civic Club and Her Brood

PITTSBURGH, Pa.—The membership appli-
cation blank of the Civic Club of Allegheny
County, with headquarters in Pittsburgh,
has some unique and interesting features,
as will be observed in the accompanying
reproduction. The Civic Club is repre-
sented in the cartoon by the hen sitting upon
the nest, and her brood represent activities
which have been hatched by the Civic Club,
and are, in such cases as the Associated
Charities, the Juvenile Court and the Legal
Aid Society, full-grown, independent, in-
corporated organizations.

\Varrendale is the Allegheny County in-
dustrial and training school for boys from
the Juvenile Court, secured by a state law
which was drafted and advocated by the

Civic Club. Through a bond issue of $90,000
the Club secured six new public comfort

 

You moyW'yn-t h

‘ Muir
, 'hutlhot
l (I am”

Noon.— _

 
  

.——.~--.——

I l Ros-deuce Adamo ____________
mfg-"i l am... w... l

r I Awhiuu (“Mnu
3 we.th

MEMBERSHIP BLANK OF THE CIVIC CLUB OF ALLEGHENY COUNTY

Growth of Queens Borough

LONG ISLAND CITY, N. Y.—A survey of
more than ordinary extent is made of the
elements which are necessary to a success-
ful, thriving community in the book descrip-
tive of Queens Borough, New York City,
just issued by the Chamber of Commerce of
that borough. It is a directory of the com-
munity's manufacturing industries; tells,
among other things. about the development
which will follow the completion and opera-
tion of all the rapid transit extensions of
the Interborough Rapid Transit Company
and the Brooklyn Rapid Transit Company
into the borough, including both the ele-
vated and subway lines; states the advan-
tages to residents living in the borough;
tells about the growth in telephone service,
about the parks, the facilities for power,
light and heat, development of its water-
front, railroad and trolley facilities, its bor-
ough government, its building development,
public libraries, water—supply and news-
papers. The book was compiled by Walter
I. Willis, Secretary of the Chamber.

stations, which are now under construction
in the city. The open-air schools were con-
ducted for two years by the Civic Club, but
have been taken over by the School Board,
and eleven additional fresh-air rooms have
been opened in the public schools. The
playgrounds were initiated and first con-
ducted by the Civic Club and are now under
the Bureau of Recreation in the City De-
partment of Public \Vorks. Medical inspec-
tion was carried on for two years without
charge to the city by the Civic Club and is
now conducted by the city Health Depart-
ment. The Educational Committee has
developed night schools for foreigners,
which have been taken over by the Board
of Public Education. The unfortunate Tree
Commission was short-lived, and dropped
out because Council refused to make ade-
quate appropriation for its work.

It will be observed that in the cartoon
Medical Inspection is looking at the Tree
Commission, which means that the Civic
Club hOpes some time to bring this little
fellow back to life. The baths represent

Digitized by 600816

 

JULY, 1915

an investment of about $200,000 in the
People’s and Soho Baths. The Municipal
Art Committee has attempted the preser-
vation of the “Point” district and the ad-
joining water-fronts. It is new, but is said
to have made a good start.

The hen is supposed to be mothering cer-
tain _ activities which are in their initial
stages, such as the solution of the billboard
problem, community centers and gardens,
and it is hoped that by next year they will
be among the little army of actual achieve-

ments and a few more eggs will be hatched

out.
4- 4-

Parks and Parkways in the Bronx

New YORK CITYI—The recent survey of
the Committee on Parks and Parkways of
the Bronx Board of Trade is an indication
of the importance which that organization
attaches to an adequate system of parks.
The facts which were collected are pre—
sented in a booklet entitled “Parks and
Parkways of the Borough of The Bronx,
New York City,” profusely illustrated with
views from the many beautiful parks which
are to be found in The Bronx. The subject
is gone into very thoroughly, from a phy-
sical analysis and description of the parks
themselves, their historical associations and
acquisition, to the organization of the Park
Department, park policing, and park ordi-
nances.

In compiling the booklet, the committee
had in mind its value as a source of in-
formation and reference for‘those interest-
ed in the Bronx parks, also as a basis
for comparisons of different kinds in sub-
sequent years, so that criticisms of the De-
partment in the borough should be based
upon a knowledge of all the facts.

mm

A Community Banquet

ROCHESTER, MINN.—A community ban-
quet was recently held in Rochester, ar-
ranged jointly by the Commercial Club and
the Civic League, the latter being a
women’s organization. The idea originated
in the Commercial Club, whose directors
were desirous of bringing the people of
Rochester together in an evening of good
fellowship that would engender a commun—
ity consciousness and help to promote the

THE AMERICAN CITY 47

community spirit. Men and women from
all walks of life, about 300 in number, were
in attendance.

Students of the domestic science depart-
ment of the high school prepared the re—
past, and it was served by teachers and
faculty members of the Rochester schools.
Twenty high school cadets, in full uniform,
assisted at the tables, and lent not only
color to the evening’s entertainment, but
highly appreciated service.

The dinner was followed by music and
addresses. Civic affairs in general were
freely discussed, and many suggestions of
ways and means of improving conditions
in Rochester were offered. The chairman
of the building committee of the Commer-
cial Club contributed an interesting talk
upon the new community house which is to
be erected in Rochester shortly, and illus-
trated his talk with lantern slide views of
the new building as it has been planned.

4"}

A “Prosperity Carnival”

PITTSBURGH, PA.—The Pittsburgh Com-
mercial Club endeavored to demonstrate to
the public through the “Made in U. S. A.
Prosperity Carnival," which it promoted
and which continued through two weeks
in May, the enormous resources of our
own country and the importance of buy—
ing goods made under the Stars and
Stripes.

Motor Square Garden, where the car-
nival was held, was laid off in streets and
avenues, the principal one of which was
known as Lincoln Highway. On either
side of this so-called highway were booths
representing the 48 states and territories
of the Union, from each of which otiicial
data regarding the history and resources of
the Commonwealth had been received, as
well as specimens of its products. In ad-
dition to the exhibits of products, much in-
formation was portrayed in pictures and
other decorations on the booths.

On the last day of the carnival the “Buy
it now" movement was agitated in addition
to the buying of made-in-U.-S.-A. goods.
The occasion was truly a carnival, for good
cheer. and optimism prevailed. It also af-
forded a means for the interchange of
valuable ideas among the business men of
the community and the promotion of rela-
tionships of lasting benefit.

Digitized by 600812.

48 THE AMERICAN CITY

An Automobile Sociability Tour

COLORADO SPRINGS, COL—The recent
Pikes Peak Ocean-to—Ocean Highway auto-
mobile sociability tour was organized and
carried out under the auspices of the Colo-
rado Springs Chamber of Commerce, the
Manitou Springs Commercial Club and the
Pikes Peak Ocean-tO-Ocean Highway As-
sociation. The party left Colorado Springs
and Manitou on April 14 and returned in
three weeks. The main objects of this long
trip of 3,300 miles were to arouse further
interest in the good roads movement and in
the “See America” idea, and to bring about
a closer acquaintance between the people of
the Pikes Peak region and those of the Mis-
sissippi states.

The pilgrimage extended through the
states of Colorado, Kansas, Missouri, Illi-
nois, Indiana and Iowa; 400 cities and
towns were visited and more than a dozen
of the most important highways making up
the Pikes Peak Ocean-to-Ocean Highway
were traveled.

Of the total mileage of 3,300 miles, there
were less than 100 miles, in round numbers,
of very poor roads. At least 90 per cent,
it was thought, of the roads traveled had
been graded and otherwise improved in a

VOL. XIII, No. I

permanent way, and a large percentage of
them, it was found, were systematically
dragged and otherwise taken care of so as
to minimize the effects of bad weather.
A running time of 27 miles an hour was
maintained for the 1,300 miles between
Colorado Springs and Indianapolis over the
Pikes Peak Ocean-tO-Ocean Highway, indi-
cating the fine condition of the roads on
that highway.

In anticipation of the approach of the
automobile party, there were frequent dem:
onstrations Of hospitality, and roads were
dragged, bridges repaired and highways
freshly marked. At Springfield, 111., Gov—
ernor Dunn oliicially received the party.
State Highway Commissioner F. W. Buf-
fum accompanied the C‘oloradoans practi-
cally every mile through Missouri, and the
party was received at diFferent points on
the route by mayors and other city officials.
Chief Manitou, an Indian chief, attired in
native costume, accompanied the party,
coming out of the mountains of the West
to visit the lands which only a short time
ago had belonged to the people of his race.
In some towns school was dismissed and
the children brought to greet the Chief,
whose dances and Indian songs were every-

 

CHIEF MANITOU POINTING OUT THE ROUTE OF THE PIKES PEAK OCEAN-TO-OCEAN
HIGHWAY TO MR. C. F. ADAMS, PRESIDENT OF THE ASSOCIATION

In the car: J. E. Mclnich. First Vice-President (at the wheel), and Col. F. W. Buffum. State High-
way Commissioner of Missouri

JULY, 1915

where an attraction of unfailing interest.

The photograph herewith reproduced
shows a section of the automobile party,
with Chief Manitou pointing out the route.

vb'l'

A Mayor’s Dinner

PROVIDENCE, R. I.—It is believed that the
“mayor's dinner is a new idea in commer-
cial organization circles in this country.
The secretary of the Providence Chamber
of Commerce recalled the old custom in
London for the Board of Trade to give a
dinner each year to the Lord Mayor, to
which all other city officials were also in-
vited, in order that cordial relations might
be established and maintained between the
public servants of the community and the
industrial, commercial and financial inter-
ests. The idea seemed a good one to adopt

THE AMERICAN 'CITY 49

in Providence, and such a dinner was there-
fore held in May, at the last meeting for
the season of the Committee of One Hun-
dred. The Mayor and all the public of-
ficials of the city were invited, regardless
of membership in the Chamber of Com-
merce, and purchased their own tickets at
the regular price.

The dinner was well attended and is said
to have been a delightful occasion and to
presage results of a far-reaching character.
The Mayor made a happy address, and two
city officials who had not formerly been
considered especially friendly toward the
organization were particularly cordial in
their comments upon the accomplishments,
activities and promising future of the
Chamber. A silver and cut-glass punch
bowl was presented to the chairman of the
Committee of One Hundred.

 

New Model Street Signs for Manhattan

HE problem of providing street signs
T of the best possible type for the
Borough of Manhattan, New York
City, is one to which Borough President
Marks has given long and careful study.
He insisted upon finding, if possible, a type
of sign that would enable people to de-
termine definitely and at a glance the name
of the street or avenue on which they might
be, and also the name of the cross street or
avenue toward which they might be looking;
that these signs should be legible at a con-
siderable distance; that they should be so
placed in relation to street lights as to be
readily visible at night as well as in the
daytime; and that they should also satisfy
the most exacting conditions as regards at-
tractiveness and economy. As a result of
this study a type has been evolved which
meets these requirements.

The new signs, like the old, are placed
on lamp-posts at street intersections on di-
agonally opposite corners. The sign con-
sists of a steel plate 22 inches long and
7% inches high, having at the centre of
the tap a semi-circular projection 113/3
inches wide at the base, with a radius of
5%; inches. On the main body of the sign
plate is indicated the name of the street or
avenue which the sign parallels; on the
semi-circular projection at the t0p is in-
dicated the name of the cross street or

avenue. The lettering is white and 4
inches high, on a dark blue background
enameled on the plate. The sign plate is
held in a bronze-colored skeleton steel
holder, into which it is inserted from the
top. The sign plates are reversible and
can be seen from either side. The holder
is so designed as to afford a rectangular
framing for the name of the street or ave-
nue which the sign parallels, and an oval
framing for the name of the cross street or
avenue. The holder or frame is made as fiat
as possible, all unnecessary ornamentation
being omitted not only to enhance the
dignity and good appearance of the sign,
but also to prevent as far as possible the
face of the Sign from being darkened by
shadows such as are cast by the projecting
ornamentation on signs of other types now
used in the city.

On each pole there are two of these frames
splayed at an angle three degrees greater
than that at which the two streets intersect.
This excess angle is for the purpose of
having the sign slightly turned toward the
observer. The frames are fastened to the
post by means of circular steel traps. The
new street signs are practically indestruc-
tible. About 1,500 have already been in-
stalled, and the work of installing them

is being carried forward as fast as pos-
sible.

Digitized by 600816

50 THE AMERICAN CITY VOL. XIII, No.1

The best of the old types is the “wing
sign.” Its great defect is that it does not
indicate the cross street or avenue. There
are throughout the city 1,505 of these
signs. When the new type was adopted, it
was planned not only to install the new
signs and frames as fast as possible, but
also to utilize the old frames by removing
them, converting them into the new types
through the welding on of a t0p projection
and replacing them on poles. The expense
of converting the old frames into those of
the new type would have been less than
that of purchasing new frames. An in-
genious suggestion by Assistant Commis-
sioner Folks, however, has been adopted,
which will obviate even this expense. His
plan is not to change the old frames, but
merely to insert in them the new type of
sign plates on which the edges of the top
projection are enameled in bronze to simu-
late the appearance of the top projection
of the frame. This will save the city
$5,625 of immediate outlay, which will,
therefore, be available for extra signs.

Even though the signs of the new type
are superior to those of the old, the de-
partment has been able to secure them at a
lower price. Signs of the old type cost
$7.50 each, whereas those of the new type
are costing $5.75 each. Furthermore, the
new sign plates which are to be installed
wherever possible in the old frames are
costing 72% cents each.

An additional suggestion by the Assistant
Commissioner has been adopted, namely,
that in the future this plan of using the
old type frame for the new type sign be
continued. As a matter of fact. the ap-
pearance of these signs with the enameled
“tOp frame” is even on close inspection vir-
tually as good as when the new signs are
placed in the new type of frame. More-
over, they can be installed at so great a
saving that under the appropriation now
available for the installation of street signs.
many more signs can be installed than
would have been possible but for this idea.
There are altogether in use throughout the
city seven other distinct types of street
signs, which will be supplanted as fast as
possible by those of the new type. Nu-
merous letters of appreciation of the new
signs have been received from prominent
citizens and associations. All welcome this

mud‘ demed ‘mprovement- NEW STREET SIGN IN NEW YORK CITY

 

Cooperation Plus Hard Work Equals a
White Way

How It Was Done in Corning, N, Y.
By Henry Ellis Bodine

Former Secretary, Corning Chamber of Commerce

namental lights transforms the most
ordinary street. Just as a beautiful
electric sign fixes in your mind the location
of the business house it advertises, so does
a brilliantly lighted business street impress
upon your mind the name and location of
the city in which you saw it. The installa-
tion of a modern lighting system is a real
event in the life of every city. A “White
Way” is a blazing municipal advertisement,
remembered and commended by every vis-
itor, one of the most conspicuous of pub-
lic improvements.
Like many other well-meaning cities,
Corning “talked \Vhite Way” for years.

a WELL-INSTALLED system of or-

The apparently prohibitive expense always
floored its most ardent advocates, but team-
work has won one of the greatest single
improvements Corning has achieved in
thirty years.

Financing the Undertaking

Oliicials of the Chamber of Commerce de-
termined that a way should be found to
finance a new lighting system. A confer-
ence was arranged, calling together the of-
ficials of the city, the lighting corporation
and the Chamber of Commerce. The
Mayor consented to support in Councils a
plan whereby the city would pay for the
electric current consumed by the new light-

 

CORNING'S WHITE WAY

[51]

52 THE AMERICAN CITY

ing system, provided the property owners
and business interests fronting the section
of Market Street to be lighted, would pur-
chase and erect the poles, glassware, etc.,
and the Coming Light & Power Corpora-
tion would purchase and lay the conduit.
cable and wire, and furnish the nitrogen
lamps for the posts. This plan divided the
expense in three parts, which solved the
problem. N 0 great burden now rested upon
anyone, and all interested had to bear their
just proportions of the cost.

The general type of post and lamp, and
their arrangement and distribution were
points determined by the Chamber of Com-
merce Committee on Municipal Affairs.

The section of Market Street that it was
proposed to light is about 3,600 feet in
length, or six blocks. The plan provided
for twelve posts per block, arranged six on
each side of the street in pairs (not stag-
gered), and placed so that at each street
intersection each of the four sidewalk cor-
ners would have a post. This arrangement
required seventy-four posts, five of which
were combination fire-alarm and lighting
posts. The lights are about 100 feet apart
and of 400 candle-power each, which gives
a lighting efficiency of practically 1,600
candle-power every hundred feet.

Like most new propositions. this one pre-
sented many technical details that were con-
stantly arising to puzzle our committees.
But the first problem was not technical; it
was the old proposition that every com-
mittee has to face—“What will it cost and
how shall we induce each of the several
hundred property owners and business men
to pay his share?” Well, we didn’t get
them all, but enough were secured to guar-
antee the lights, which is about all you can
expect in any community.

Figures were obtained from many com-
panies dealing in poles and fixtures, and
finally it was thought that $600 per block
would foot the bill for the property owners’
and business men’s share of the cost. As
there are 48 lots per block, 24 lots of 21
feet frontage on each side of the street, the
committees quickly estimated that $12.50
per lot would be about right, and solicited
subscriptions on that basis. When final
settlement was made, it was found that if
each lot had paid its share the cost would
have been $9.16 per 21-foot lot, a most rea-
sonable figure for so great an improvement.
However, it must be borne in mind that the

‘

VOL. XIII, No. 1

 

NEW LIGHTING POSTS 0N
STREET, CORNING, N. Y.

MARKET

Note the absence of all other oles. excepting the
two tall ones in the distance, wrich are stripped of
wires and ready to be removed

lighting corporation’s share is not included
in that estimate. Its part was extra.

Figures showing the actual cost for lights
in one block, just what the lot owners and
business houses paid for twelve posts and
their share of the attendant expenses, will
be of interest to towns considering install-
ing a system, and are given below:

Twelve cast iron posts ....................... .. $201.10
(We secured a discount from the straight
$17.75 rate by prompt payment.)

 

Twelve concrete bases . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41.80
Compensators, sockets. insulators. etc ....... .. 61.80
Glassware, exclusive of nitrogen lamps ...... .. 94.80

Miscellaneous materials used. washers, bolts.
galvanized iron. etc ........................ .. 8.48
Painting and grouting poles .................. .. 6.00
Freight, Ex ress. cartage, etc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 19.72
Labor erectng poles .......................... .. 11.50
Total ................................. .. $439.68

The Installation and [ls Eject

The posts were made by the Morris Iron
and Steel Company, of Frederick, Md., and
are 12 feet high with a 16-inch base, and
each is surmounted with a 400—candle-power
Nova Lux fixture. As noted, the posts
cost $17.75 each, less discount, but other
items brought the figure up to $36.64 each.
This is exclusive of a considerable expense

 

 

jun, 1915

borne by the lighting corporation, and does
not include cost of maintenance, which is
borne by the lighting corporation and the
city. All work is of good standard quality.
Nothing cheap was used. It is understood
that the Corning Light & Power Corpora-
tion expended $2,800 for cable, conduit, reg-
ulator and other necessary equipment, labor,
etc., to insure a first-class installation. With
such splendid cooperation a city cannot help
but forge ahead.

A contract is in force between the Corn-
ing Light & Power Corporation and the city
of Coming providing for burning three
lamps per block all night at $52.80 each per
annum. All other lamps are extinguished
at 11 P. M., and for them the city pays
$26.50 each per annum. All lamps are
turned on promptly at dusk.

One improvement brings another. A re-
cent development is a movement to banish
all other poles from the street. It has
worked out finer to date. Several blocks

THE AMERICAN CITY 53

are already cleared. With new vitrified
brick pavement, with concrete curbs and up-
to-the-minute ornamental standards, Corn-
ing’s business district presents an appear-
ance that reflects credit on the entire com-
munity. This section of the city is virtually
remade; it doesn't look like the same place.
The civic spirit thus aroused has had a far-
reaching effect. Many neighboring cities
have sent delegations here to inspect the im-
provements, and a constant stream of in-
quiries pours into the Chamber of Com-
merce.

Every line of business and every type of
progressive citizen shared in working out
the White Way proposition, including bank-
ers, merchants, manufacturers, the lighting
corporation, the Mayor and several ex-
mayors, and the Board of Aldermen, nearly
all affiliated with the Chamber of Commerce.
It was a common cause, and the honors are
equally divided, as is the privilege of enjoy-
ing the lights.

Privately-Owned versus Publicly-Owned
Water Meters

Excerpts from the Discussion at the Superintendents' Day Session of the Recent Annual
Convention of the American Water Works Association

In Favor of Privately-Owned
Meters

By GEORGE HOUSTON, Kalamazoo, Mich.:

Some contend that it is best for the mu-
nicipality to retain the ownership of meters,
for the reason that it gives the city full
control in the care and inspection of them,
which it could not have were they owned
by the consumer.

We do not agree with those who hold this
view, as experience has taught us that it
makes no difference along this line whether
the city or the individual owns the meter.
As fully 90 per cent of the meters in use
in our city are privately owned, we feel as
though we are quite well posted on the
question.

When we first began the installation of
meters we thought best that the city own
them, but we soon found that people were
very careless about protecting them, par-
ticularly against frost, and as we were put

to a great deal of trouble as well as expense
by reason of such carelessness, we set about
to find some way out of the difficulty.

We finally hit upon the plan of giving
the individual the privilege of either buy-
ing a meter outright or renting it. If he
buys it he gets it at cos-t, and if he rents it
he is charged an annual rental of 25 per
cent of the cost of the meter and setting
same, but is given credit for 40 per cent of
all rents paid, which will pay for a meter
in full in ten years. This, as you will prob-
ably conclude, is a modest way of forcing
the people to own meters, but it has worked
out nicely with us.

In handling matters in this way we have
never had to make an appropriation for the
purchase of meters except the first one of
$4,000. The moneys received from rentals
and the sale of meters have enabled us to
keep the wheels revolving and to have a
supply on hand at all times; and as we buy
meters only as we need them, they are gen-

Digitized by 60081?

54 THE AMERICAN CITY

erally disposed of before the bill comes due.

We have never had any more trouble in
exercising full control over privately—owned
meters than we have over those owned by
the city, and we find that persons who own
their own meters, as a rule, take more pains
in the setting and care of them than do
those who rent them.

I presume that it might be well to state
that we do not rent meters that are above
1% inches in size, but require them to be
paid for when installed, and so do not have
any large, expensive meters on hand.

If conserving the supply of water by a
complete metering of plants were to be fol-
lowed out by many of our cities, where a
shortage of water now exists. it would be
found, as we have found in our case, that
they have an abundant supply for all needs
and will have for many years to come.

The foregoing statements were presented
in a paper before the Central States Water-
Works Association in 1911, and that has
been our practice since. I doubt very much
if you could go to Kalamazoo and by vote
of our meter users or water takers have the
plan changed now, because they all prefer to
own their meters as a rule.

The city repairs the meters, charging cost
for the parts and also for the time of the
man making the repairs.

We have two methods of collecting for
repair of meters. The city does not take
off any meters that have been damaged by
freezing; we require the property owner or
some one for him—it may be the plumber
or anyone else—to bring the meter to the
oliice. Our men then repair the meter and
we make out a bill and attach it to the
meter, and some one has to pay that bill
before the meter goes out. In other cases
when repairs are made, the meters are put
back into service and a report of the time
and material is made to the office. We add
that to the next outgoing bill and it has
to be paid at the same time the bill is paid
for water, regardless of whether the bill
is being paid by the renter or by the owner
of the property. If the renter pays the
meter rental, if he is under obligation to
pay the water bill, he usually collects or
deducts the amount paid for the meter re-
pairs from the next rental paid for the
property.

The city reserves the right to furnish all
meters. We have for a good many years

VOL. XIII, No. 1

had three different styles of meters from
which consumers can make selections, so
that no single kind is adopted as the stand-

ard meter.
4- ~1-

Ownership by the Company or
the City

By C. W. WILES, Secretary Delaware
Water Company, Delaware, Ohio:

I have had experience both ways. We
have about 90 per cent of our meters owned
by the company and 10 per cent owned by
individuals. I believe in the ownership of
the meters by the company, for if a meter
has been running five or six years and the
books show that it has been dropping be-
hind, that meter ought to come out. We
took out over forty this spring, because we
thought they had been running longer than
they were likely to run correctly. We
found that 75 per cent or 80 per cent of
those meters had been running slow, so we
took them out without asking anybody’s
permission. We simply recorded on our
books that the meter had been changed and
another meter put in there. If the meter
were taken out without putting another in
its place, it would be necessary to estimate
the consumption until replaced. One ad-
vantage of the company’s owning the meter
is that there is no controversy then over its
ownership or repairs.

 

By HENRY P. BOHMANN, Superintendent
\Vater Works, Milwaukee, VVis.:

Milwaukee has about 161,000 meters in
service, all of which are owned by the con-
sumer. I wish to go on record that meters
should be owned by the city; our experience
has proved that to be the correct position
to take. We have about thirty-five differ-
ent makes of meters in service, good. bad
and indifferent; whereas if the Department
had had the selection of the meters, we
would have confined ourselves to about two
or three good types. The meters are fur-
nished by the plumbers, who charge any-
where from $10 to $20, whereas if the De-
partment owned the meters we would buy
in large quantities and furnish them for $5
or $6. Indirectly that would be of benefit
to every consumer. We have thirty-five
meter readers who read the meters monthly
and report as to how they are registering.
If they are not registering properly, the

Digitized by 600816

JULY, 1915

next step is to take out the meter, sending
a written notice to the consumer and ask-
ing him to sign the notice to have the meter
repaired. The consumer has ten days to
sign and send in that notice. In the mean-
time the meter is waiting in the shop. Af-
ter the expiration of ten days it is repaired,
and then it necessitates a second trip to re-
place that identical meter. Meanwhile the
W’ater Registrar is advised that the meter
has been taken off and replaced, and then

THE AMERICAN CITY

55

the account is averaged. That is a simple
proposition in the ordinary residence, but
out of our total revenue one-half is paid by
100 consumers. It is very difficult to find a
prOper method of averaging the account
when the customer is using from $25,000 to
$75,000 worth of water a year. The fact
that the gas and electric utilities furnish
meters is pretty good evidence, I think, that
the water departments and companies
should follow suit.

 

The Waiter and the Water—and N0 Wonder!

 

 

{TWAITERTWIAKE THAT amiss o?

 

IS THAT “THE BEST YOUR CITY (AH

r"\

|' DIRTY wmen AWAY FROMHERE"

A .PRooucs?“
#_'_“*J  I " .._ ______._.____..__

J

 

THE VVATER-VVORKS—NOT THE KITCHEN—IS THE PLACE TO PURIFY THE

CITY'S DRI N KING

WATER

f

Types of Motor Apparatus for Fire Departments

 

ANDERSON TYPE OF CHIEF'S CAR WITH CHEMICAL EQUIPMENT AND GOODYEAR
TIRES, 1N USE AT PARSONS, KAN. '

l

\“I

 

A LINE-UP OF MOTORS OF THE BALTIMORE FIRE DEPARTMENT

Including chief’s car, hose wagons, truck and engine, of American-La France, Couple-Gear and White
makes. equipped with Firestone and Goodyear tires

[56]

The Versatile Motor Truck in Two of Its
Many Lines of Service

I
\.._/

- --"..a’.‘. 41:19: i.  a: iii“; "#3? 5h...

 

A PACKARD TRUCK AND A TROY TRAILER TRANSPORTING EMPLOYES FROM THE

PACKARD COMPANY'S PLANT IN DETROIT DURING THE RECENT
STREET CAR STRIKE

Suggesting the possibilities of the trailer in connection with jitney bus service

 

PULMOTOR EMERGENCY WAGON. USED BY THE CONSOLIDATED GAS
COMPANY OF NEW YORK

Such omits have been found of value by many public service companies and other organizations

[57]

gillllll|llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllll"llIIIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllIllllIlllllIlllllIllllllllllllIIIIIlIIIIl|llIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllmlllllllE

lllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

‘ Bolton's Norr:.——While there was disappointment in many states at the
Jonrned legislatures to enact certain measures advocated by the friends
sessions were by no means barren of beneficial results.

legislation, the
to readers of Tm: AMERICAN CITY.

Legislation Affecting Municipalities

T lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIIHHIHII!IIHIIHIIIHHIIHIIlillllllilllllllliillIllllIi|i|lllil|l|ll|illlllillllillllilllllIlllillllllllllilllIlllllllliillllilllIlllllllllllllllllllllllIIlllllllllililllllllllll

E
E
E
2
iii?

failure of the recently ad-
of municipal progress, the
Without attempting a thorough survey of such

present on the following pages information regarding a few new acts of special interest

New Legislation For California Municipalities
By William J. Locke

Secretary, League of California Municipalities. San Francisco

HE California legislature, which ad-
journed May 8 last, enacted some
important legislation for the cities

and towns of that state, much of which was
introduced and passed at the request of the
League of California Municipalities. As
many of the new measures would undoubt-
edly be of interest to readers of THE AMERI-
CAN CITY, we herewith present a synopsis
of those of the most importance.

Treferenlial Voting

One of the new laws enacted authorizes
the use of the preferential system of voting
by cities and towns of the fifth and sixth
class, of which there are about two hun-
dred. The system provided is substantially
identical with the one incorporated in the
new charter of the city of Napa, Cal. Un-
der its provisions the ballot is divided into
three columns and voters are permitted to
mark their first, second and other choices.
After the polls are closed, the officers of
election canvass all the first choice votes
cast, and should any candidate have a ma—
jority of first choice votes he is declared
elected. In case no candidate has a major-
ity of first choice votes, the second choice
votes received by each respective candidate
are added to their first choice votes, and
the candidate then having the greatest num-
ber of votes over a majority is declared
elected. In the event that no candidate yet
has a majority, the votes cast in the third
column are thereupon added and the candi-
date then having the largest total vote is
declared elected.

It is claimed that this system, while avoid-

[58]

ing the expense and annoyance of a primary
election, has all its advantages and more, as
the successful candidate under this system
will represent the choice of the greatest
number of voters. The preferential system
of voting has given excellent satisfaction
wherever it has been tried. Under the new
California law the use of the system is not
mandatory.

Local Improvement Bonds

Another important measure is a new law .
relating to the issuance and redemption of
lOcal improvement bonds. Under the old
law, separate bonds are issued for each lot,
and many of the bonds are in odd amounts
and of very small denominations. For these
reasons such bonds are comparatively unat-
tractive to investors; again, in case of de-
linquency. the obligation falls upon the
bondholder to initiate proceedings for en-
forcing payment.

Under the new law. each bond runs
against the entire assessment list instead of
a single lot, which enables the bonds to be
issued in equal amounts and of larger de-
nominations. The interest and principal are
added to the municipal tax bills and col-
lected at the same time and in the same
manner as municipal taxes. Under the tax
laws of most of the cities and towns of
California, the property is sold to the city
in case of delinquency; therefore the pay-
ment of these local improvement bonds is
absolutely assured in every case beyond all
question of doubt. In fact, such a bond
should be almost as attractive as the bond
of the municipality itself, for the reason

Digitized by 600816

JULY, 1915

that payment is practically secured by tax-
ation. It is predicted that this law, by al—
most entirely removing the bondholders’
hazard, will result in saving hundreds of
thousands of dollars annually to the cities
and towns in the cost of local improvements.

C ity Planning Commission

Another new law that has attracted con-
siderable attention is a measure providing
for the establishment, government and
maintenance of City Planning Commissions
in municipalities and prescribing their pow-
ers and duties.

This law authorizes the legislative body
of any city or town to create a City Plan~
ning Commission for the municipality.
Such a commission shall consist of five
members, appointed by the executive head
of the council by and with the consent of
the other members. One member of the
commission must be a member of the legis—
lative body of the municipality; the city
attorney and city engineer are also ex-ofiicio
members of the commission. The five mem-
bers classify themselves by lot so as to hold
ofiice for two-year periods. Non-residents
are eligible to appointment on the City Plan-
ning Commission. Except the secretary, the
members of the commission shall not re-
ceive any compensation.

It is provided that the commission shall
elect one of their number President and one
Secretary, and shall hold meetings at least
once a month. The powers of the commis-
mission are as follows: ‘

I. To make recommendations regulating
the future growth and beautification of the
municipality in respect to its public and pri-
vate buildings and works, streets, parks,
grounds and vacant lots.

2. To recommend plans regarding the
proper sanitation of the city and proper
service of all public utilities, harbor, ship-
ping and tranSportation facilities.

3. To recommend the approval or disap-
proval of maps or plats of new subdivisions
or tracts of land before such maps are filed
for record.

4. It is also provided that the City Plan-
ning Commission may make a map or maps
of the city, including adjacent territory out-
side the corporate boundaries; also show
the locations or relocations proposed for
new public buildings, civic center, parkways,
boulevards, playgrounds, etc., also any pro-

THE AMERICAN CITY 59

posed widening, extension, closing or reloca-
tion of any street.

Another provision of the act requires that
all resolutions or ordinances introduced in
the City Council relative to the location of
public buildings or widening or ornamenta-
tion of streets, or ordinances relating to
housing, building codes, or zones shall first
be submitted to the City Planning Commis-
sion before action by the council. The act
also authorizes levy of a tax not exceeding
two mills on the dollar to cover the ex-
penses of the commission.

A New W ecd Bill

Another important measure is one for
which there has been considerable demand
in recent years. It is a bill designed to fa-
cilitate the removal of weeds from vacant
lots and sidewalk areas. The first section
defines all weeds bearing seeds of a wingy
or downy nature, or attaining such a large
growth as to become a fire menace when
dry, to be a public nuisance. Action is taken
by the City Council describing the pr0perty
upon which any such weeds are growing
and declaring the same, by resolution, to be
a public nuisance. The act provides that a
description of the property by lot and block
number according to the tax assessment map
will constitute a sufiicient description.

After the passage of the resolution the
street superintendent posts a notice on the
property headed “Notice to Destroy
Weeds,” which notice specifies the time for
hearing objections, which shall be at least
five days after the completion of the post-
ing. At the time mentioned the City Coun-
cil shall bear and consider objections, and
after disposing of the same the Council is
deemed to have acquired jurisdiction to or-
der the work of removal.

The. street superintendent is thereupon
ordered to abate the nuisance by removing
the weeds. After doing the work he files a
report of the cost to be assessed on the
various lots, which report is posted for at
least three days on or near the chamber door
of the Council, together with a notice of
the time for hearing and modifying or con-
firming the report. At the time fixed the
report is considered, and modified if neces-
sary, and finally confirmed, whereupon the
amounts of the various assessments are
transmitted to the assessor and tax collector
and added to the regular tax bills for collec-
tion.

Digitized by 600816

60 THE AMERICAN CITY

An Act to Simplify the Revision
of City Charters in Massa-

chusetts

N accordance with Chapter 267 of the
I lawsof Massachusetts, approved May
20, 1915, any city of the state, except
Boston, may adopt any one of four plans
of municipal government. By petition of
[0 per cent of the registered voters, filed
at least one month prior to a regular state
election, the plan proposed in the petition is
submitted to the voters for their acceptance
or rejection. The four optional plans
provided in the act are, in brief, as fol-
lows:

Plan A.—Government by mayor and a
city council of 9, elected at large.

Plan B.—Government by mayor and a
council of II to 15, elected partly by dis-
tricts and partly at large.

Plan C.—Commission form of govern-
ment; the city council consisting of 5
commissioners elected at large, including a
mayor, who shall be the commissioner of
administration; a commissioner of finance;
a commissioner of health; a commissioner
of public works, and; a commissioner of
public property.

Plan D.——City manager form, consisting
of a mayor and four other commissioners,
who shall appoint a city manager. The

duties of the city manager are defined as
follows:

“Section II. The city council shall appoint
a city manager, who shall be the administrative
head of the city government and shall be re-
sponsible for the administration of all depart-
ments. He shall be appointed with regard to
merit only, and he need not be a resident of
the city when appointed. He shall hold ofi‘ice
during the pleasure of the city council, and
shall receive such compensation as it shall fix
by ordinance.

“Section 12. The city manager shall (I) be
the administrative head of the city govern-
ment; (2) see that within the city the laws
of the state and the ordinances, resolutions and
regulations of the council are faithfully exe-
cuted; (3) attend all meetings of the council,
and recommend for adoption such measures as
he shall deem expedient; (4) make reports to
the council from time to time upon the affairs
of the city, keep the council fully advised of
the city’s financial condition and its future
financial needs; (5) appoint and remove all
heads of departments, superintendents and
other employes of the city.

“Section 13. Such city ofiicers and employes

VOL. XIII, No. I

as the council shall determine are necessary
for the proper administration of the city shall
be appointed by the city manager, and any such
officer or employe may be removed by him:
but the city manager shall report every such
appointment and removal to the council at the
next meeting thereof following any such ap-
pointment or removal.

“Section 14. The oflicers and employes of
the city shall perform such duties as may be
required of them by the city manager, under
general regulations of the city council.”

All of these optional forms of charter
provide forthe initiative and referendum
on local ordinances and certain other ques-
tions. All four plans place the conduct of
the public schools in charge of a school
committee, consisting of the mayor as
chairman and six members elected at large.

+1-

All Ohio Municipalities Authorized
to Appoint City Planning

Commissions

The following act has been adopted by
the General Assembly of the State of Ohio,
to take effect January I, 1916:

Section I. The Council of each municipality
may establish a City Planning Commission.
consisting of seven members, the Mayor. the
Service Director, the President of the Board
of Park Commissioners, and four citizens of
the municipality, who shall serve without com-
pensation, and who shall be appointed by the
Mayor for terms of six years, except that the
term of two of the members of the first com-
mission shall be for three years. Whenever
such a Commission is appointed, it shall have
all the powers conferred in Section 4344 of the
General Code.

Section 2. The powers and duties of the
Commission shall be to make plans and maps
of the whole or any portion of such munici-
pality, and of any land outside the municipality.
which in the opinion of the Commission bears
relation to the planning of the municipality.
and to make changes in such plans or maps
when it deems same advisable. Such maps
or plans shall show the Commission’s rec-
ommendations for new streets, alleys, ways,
viaducts, bridges, subways, parkways. parks,
playgrounds. or any other public grounds or
public improvements: and the removal. reloca-
tion. widening or extension of such public
works then existing. \Vith a view to the sys-
tematic planning of the municipalities. the
Commission may make recommendations to
the Mayor, Council and department heads con-
cerning the location of streets, transportation
and communication facilities, public buildings
and grounds.

The Commission shall have the power to

Digitized by 600816

JULY, 1915

control, preserve and care for historical land-
marks; to control in the manner provided by
ordinance the design and location of statuary
and other works of art. which are or may be-
come the property of the municipality; and
the removal, relocation and alteration of any
such works belonging to the municipality; and
the design of harbors, bridges, viaducts, street

fixtures and other public structures and appur-
tenances.

Whenever the Commission shall have made
a plan of the municipality, or any portion
thereof, no public building, street, boulevard.
parkway, park, playground, ,public ground,
canal, river front, harbor, dock, wharf, bridge.
viaduct, tunnel. utility (whether publicly or
privately owned) or part thereof shall be con-
structed or authorized to be constructed in
the municipality or said planned portion of
the municipality until and unless the location
thereof shall be approved by the Commission;
provided that in case of disapproval the Com-
mission shall communicate its reasons for dis-
approval to Council, and the department head
of the department which has control of the
construction of the proposed improvement or
utility; and Council, by a vote of not less than
two-thirds of its members and such depart—
ment head shall together have the power to
overrule such disapproval. The narrowing.
ornamentation. vacation or change in the use
of streets and other public ways, grounds, and
places shall be subject to similar approval,
and disapproval may be similarly overruled.
The Commission may make recommendations
to any public authorities or to any corpora-
tions or individuals in such municipality or
the territory contiguous thereto, concerning
the location of any buildings. structures or
works to be erected or constructed by them.

Section 3. The Municipal Planning Com-
mission shall be the nlatting commission of
the municipality, and all the powers and duties
provided by law for platting commissioner or
commissioners of municipalities shall unon the
appointment of a Municipal Planning Commis-

sion under this act, be deemed transferred to
such Commissmn.

Section 4. Council may authorize the Com-

mission to control the height, design and loca-
tion of buildings.

Section 5. The Commission shall have
power to control, appoint or employ such
architects. engineers and other professional
service. and to appoint such clerks. draughts-
men and other subordinates as it 'shall deem
necessary for the performance of its func-
tions; the expenditures for such service and
employments to be within the amounts appro-
priated for such persons by the Council of
the municipality; and Council shall provide for

the expenses and accommodations necessary
for the work of the Commission.

Section 6. This act shall take effect and be
in force January 1, 1916.

THE AMERICAN CITY . 61

Penalties for Fires Due to
Negligence
By act of the Pennsylvania Legislature,
approved May 6, 1915, applying to second-
class cities, it is provided:

“That where a fire originates on the prem-
ises occupied by any person, firm or corpora—
tion as a result of his or its criminal intent,
design or willful negligence, or where said per-
son, firm or corporation has failed to comply
with any law or ordinance of said cities or any
lawful regulation or requirement of any state
or municipal authority enacted or made for
the prevention of fire or the spreading thereof.
such person, firm or corporation shall, in addi-
tion to the present penalties for the punishment
of persons convicted of arson or the payment
of any fine or penalty for the violation of any
law, ordinance or lawful regulation or require-
ment of any state or municipal authority en-
acted or made for the prevention of fire or the
spreading thereof, be liable in a civil action
to said cities for the payment of all costs and
expenses of the fire departments of said cities
incurred in and about the use of employes, ap-
paratus and materials in the extinguishment of
or any attempt to extinguish any fire originat-
ing as aforesaid. The amount of such costs
and expenses shall be determined by the Di-
rector of the Department of Public Safety
based upon the wages of the firemen and other
officers for the time they were engaged in the
extinguishment or the attempt to extinguish
such fire; a reasonable amount as rental for
the use of the apparatus of said city; and the
cost of the water or other materials used in
the extinguishment or the attempt to extinguish
such fire, with an additional amount of ten per
centum on the total amount as aforesaid as
supervisory or overhead charges, all of which

shall be paid into the city treasury for the use
of said cities.”

+1-

Philadelphia Authorized to Reg-
ulate the Location, Size and
Use of Buildings

The following act of the Pennsylvania

Legislature applies to cities of the first class
(Philadelphia) :

“That for the purpose of promoting the pub-
lic health. safety. order and general welfare.
cities of the first class may regulate the loca-
tion. size and use of buildings therein and may
make different regulations for different dis-
tricts thereof. The park commission of any
city of the first class may make such regula-
tions as to the lccation. size and use of build-
ings any portion of which shall come within
two hundred feet of any park. parkway. play-
ground or other public place under its care or
management, and upon their approval by the
councils of such city said regulations shall

have the same effect as if originally made by
said councils."

Digitized by 600816 I

62 THE AMERICAN CITY

A “Municipal Forests” Act

A recent enactment of the Minnesota
Legislature enables cities in that state gov-
erned by a charter and having a population
of more than 50,000, to maintain municipal
forests. By resolution of its governing body
a city may accept such donations of land as
the governing body deems to be better
adapted for the production of timber than
for any other purpose, to be managed on
forestry principles. The donor of not less
than 100 acres of such land is entitled to
have it bear his or her name perpetually.

When funds are available or have been
levied for such purpose, the governing body
is authorized to buy, or obtain by condem-
nation proceedings, preferably at the
sources of streams, any tract of land for a
forest which is considered more suitable for
such use than for any other, as mentioned
above, and which is also conveniently lo-
cated for such utilization.

The act provides that the selection of all
such lands, and their management, shall
have the approval of the State Forester.
The city in which it is desired to establish
such forests is authorized to levy and col-

VOL. XIII, No. I

lect an annual tax of not exceeding five
mills on the dollar of its assessed real es-
tate valuation, in addition to all other taxes
authorized or permitted by law, to procure
and maintain the forests.

+1-

Scope for Municipal Activity in
Advance of Legislation

To the Editor of Tm: AMERICAN CITY:

I trust that other town planners will fol-
low the example set by Mr. Charles Mulford
Robinson last month in discussing the points
raised in my article in the May issue of THE
AMERICAN CITY, and I am grateful to you
for giving the opportunity of ventilation of
this important matter. When you have ob-
tained a number of representative views, I
should be glad to be allowed the courtesy
of space to make a reply. I trust, however,
that those who take part in the discussion
will not confine themselves to a mere ex-
pression of opinion such as that given by
Mr. Bennett, but will set out reasons in
support of their views.

THOMAS ADAMS.

Ottawa, Canada, June 23, 1915.

 

For Local Motion Picture Censorship in New York State .

A model ordinance providing for the ap-
pointment of a local unsalaried commission
of motion picture censorship has been
drafted for the Conference of Mayors and
Other City Officials of the State of New
York. C0pies have been distributed to the
mayors in New York in the hope that the
cities of the state will adopt the ordinance
with such changes as are necessary to meet
local conditions.

The Conference of Mayors of New York
, is represented by its secretary on the gen-
eral committee of the National Board of
Censorship of Motion Pictures, which
makes it possible for every city in the state
to have a voice in the censorship of all
motion pictures submitted to the National
Board. However, it is said that about five
per cent of the pictures exhibited, including
the most objectionable films, escape the
scrutiny of the National Board. It has
been deemed necessary, therefore, for each
city to adopt some plan whereby the patrons
of its motion picture entertainments may

be protected against the uncensored and un-
desirable films.

The local commission of censorship pro-
vided by the ordinance is authorized to de-
mand that any picture which has not been
passed by the National Board of Censor-
ship and which is pr0posed to be shown in
the city, shall be shown to the commission
before being publicly exhibited. 1f the pic-
ture is deemed to be improper in any degree,
the commission has the authority to pro-
hibit its exhibition either in whole or in
part. Upon discovering any violations of
the ordinance, the commission is required
to report such to the chief of police.

The Conference of Mayors agrees con-
scientiously to fulfill its obligation in the
censorship of the pictures submitted to the
National Board, and feels that the coopera-
tion of the cities themselves with the Na-
tional Board, by the adoption of the pro-
posed ordinance, will make it possible to
bring about the elimination of all objection-
able films.

Digitized by 600816

A Life Insurance Company Helps Birth
Registration
By Louis 1. Dublin, Ph. D.

Statistician, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, New York

birth registration, recently instituted

by the Metropolitan Life Insurance
Company, will probably interest the readers
of THE AMERICAN CITY, especially in con-
nection with the recent article appearing in
this publication on “Collecting Birth Re-
turns by Postal Cards,” by W. H. B. Rem-
ington. ,

The system adopted by the Metropolitan
is leading to more accurate and complete
registration of births throughout the coun-
try. The company has printed postal cards
addressed to the Local Health Officer, the
Town Clerk, or the State Registrar of Vital
Statistics, dependent upon the local condi-
tions in the states. A sample of these mail-
ing cards is shown herewith. The com-
pany’s agents, 12,000 in number, distribute
these cards in the homes of policy holders
where there has been a recent birth, or
where there is an expectant mother. She
is directed to fill in her name and address
and the name and date of birth of her child,
and then to mail the card in order to secure
the many benefits of official registration for
her baby. The form used is as follows:

THE mailing card system for improving

The Health Officer  .. .,. ..  . i9]. 
Den”:
tin-u)
(In-1n) in“)
it ...  . __.-..  .    . ....--.......  .. .. .. .. . M ,
(M nauuu h".

Pkueoend'meyouriiternturemhowtohepmy baby veil.

- . . ....._.. n ... .

The receipt of this information should en-
able the proper oflicial to obtain many rec-
ords which he might not otherwise procure.
Close to 400,000 cards have been distributed
to the district offices in virtually every sec-
tion of the United States and Canada.

It sometimes happens that children are
born without a physician or midwife in at-
tendance. In such cases no record of the
birth is sent to the Health Department.
Even when there is such attendance, it is
altogether too common to neglect sending
in a report. This accounts for the fact that
in many states which have ample legislation

not more than 50 per cent of the births are
recorded. Each agent of the company
comes in contact with a considerable num-
ber of families of industrial policy holders
every week. It is a part of his business to
keep in intimate touch with the families of
the insured. He knows when a baby arrives,
and it is, therefore, an easy matter for him
either to fill in the card himself, or to have
some member of the family till it in and
mail it. The mother is urged in every case
to make sure that her baby has been prop-
erly registered and to take no chances.

As an additional inducement to the
mother to send the card, a request has been
inserted that the Health OII'ICCI‘ send liter-
ature on child hygiene. In this way a num-
ber of cities have been made aware of their
woeful lack of facilities for conducting a
modern campaign of child hygiene. In
those cities where the Health Department
has a Visiting Nurse, a card is instrumental
in bringing about an early visit when it is
most important. The mother thus receives
valuable personal instruction and the baby
is started well in life.

The plan has already proved itself of con-
siderable assistance to Health Departments;
giving them, as it does, at least a partial
check on delinquent physicians and mid-
wives, and in recording many cases which
would otherwise have escaped official atten-
tion. This was brought out very clearly in
a recent communication sent us by the
Rhode Island State Board of Health. Dur-
ing a single month, forty-live reports of
births had been received on our mailing
cards. On examination it was found that
sixteen had not been previously reported
by the physician or midwife in charge. The
letter also stated that the system led to more
prompt returns than could otherwise be ob-
tained.

It is hoped that the plan adopted by the
Metropolitan will in like manner appeal to
other life insurance organizations and that
in this way the movement for improving the
registration of births will receive a great
impetus in the near future.

Digitized by 600816

f

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

The Tractor for Municipal and
County Paving and Road Building

For the hauling of all kinds of road-building material—crushed
rock, sand, gravel, concrete, paving blocks, etc.—the Knox Tractor
with one or more trailers makes a combination which cannot be
surpassed for tonnage capacity and low ton mile cost.

In a Knox Tractor you have a detachable, interchangeable
power plant which can be kept on the job all the time. N O waiting
while there is loading or unloading to be done.

Any type of trailer may be used—rear or bottom dump, long
or short bed, low or high body. The Knox Tractor hauls them all.

Our Booklet A explains why the tractor and trailer method is
the only real solution of heavy hauling. Write for your copy today.

KNOX MOTORS ASSOCIATES

Springfield, Mass.

New York Boaton Chicago Philadelphia Kanaaa City
.1812 Broadway 825 Tromont Bldg. 1621 Michigan Ave. 604 Abbott Bldg. 1135 McGee Street

 

48 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tu Annie”! Cr".

  

Items of Municipal and Civic Progress

   

~‘  “WIDE-IMMUNE!llMlllUlm-Wllnlmlmmumm

Motor Fire Apparatus Purchases
Statistical information secured by THE
AMERICAN CITY in regard to automobile ap-
paratus purchased during 1914 for fire de-
partment service indicates that the total
purchase of such apparatus amounted to
about 1,000 pieces. Of this number about
170 were pumping engines, 60 aerial and
service trucks, the remainder being made
up of chemical trucks, hose trucks and com-
binations of various kinds. The total cost
of the thousand pieces of apparatus is fig-

ured in the neighborhood of $5,000,000.
'1' '1'

Commission Government and Munici-
pal Ice for Bridgeport

By a two to one majority, at a special
election on June 19, the voters of Bridge-
port, Conn., expressed their endorsement of
the commission form of government for that
city. The plan advocated contemplates a
commission of five members, and no city
manager. Subsequent elections will be
necessary to provide for the appointment of
a commission to draft the charter and for
its final adoption.

At the same election, by a vote of more
than two to one, a bond issue of $200,000
was authorized for the construction of a

municipal ice plant.
'1' '1'

Revision of Charter for Richmond

A movement has been started among the
citizens of Richmond, Va., and the members
of the City Council for a revision of the
present ‘charter.

The city now has three bodies—the Board
of Aldermen, the Common Council and the
Administrative Board. The first acts as a
legislative body, the second outlines the
city’s improvements and the third has them
carried out.

There has been considerable dissatisfac-
tion because of the inefficiency of this form
of management of the city’s affairs, and the
citizens are asking the Council to draw up a
new charter under which Richmond may be
run on a more business-like basis. Meet-
ings to arouse interest in this matter have

been held by nearly every organized body in 
the city, including the Chamber of Com-
merce, Business Men's Club, Rotary Club,
Engineers’ Society, Architects' Association
and a large number of civic organizations.
The result seems likely to be that the ques-
tion will be put to a vote at the coming fall

election.
'1' '1'

Fostering City Beautification Through
the Public Schools

The Civic Improvement League of Hali-
fax, Nova Scotia, is pursuing a new method
of creating and preserving a regard for city
beautification, by issuing a bulletin for dis-
tribution among the public school teachers
and their teachers from Grade VII up, thus
presenting the whole subject in a construc-
tive way. The teachers are asked to take up
from time to time, as subjects for short sug-
gestive talks, the various points brought out
in the bulletin, to dwell particularly upon
pride in promoting and preserving the good
appearance of the city, also to ask the pupils
to take a special interest in the improvement
of the home grounds and to seek the interest
of their parents in those matters.

The bulletin endeavors to inspire in the
citizens of Halifax a genuine civic pride and
gives simple and wholesome advice upon the
various phases of home and town beautifica-
tion, with illustrations of simple planting
around the home. It also gives a list of thir-
teen prizes which have been offered by the
League for the best collection of window-
boxes, the best yard and garden, best display

of sweet peas, etc.
'1' '1'

Soft Pedal Week in Philadelphia
Feeling that the citizens might profitably
follow Clean-Up Week with a Soft-Pedal
W eek, the Committee on Unnecessary Noise
of the Civic Club of Philadelphia made such
a suggestion. The directors of the Depart-
ments of Health and of Public Safety ap—
proved the idea and endorsed the recom-
mendation of the Civic Club that the own-
ers of steam whistles refrain for one week fi
from blowing them in the early hours of ‘

a
Digitized by 600816

 

THE AMERICAN CITY

         

.— ‘ _a
. I-‘ l“ v

.J-.. I "‘Ti .' -

. . --_ -.— ———h|-‘l I
111111 1111* \\'11.1L‘l' 111111118. )‘1111 would 111111 9111111- 1‘11'1111 “11511 whistle."
51111 Lake. City 11:15 111111 many of 1101‘ 111111115 cleaned by
I h N t' l M th (1
Dirt. lyingr in water 111111115 as Shown r1-111nx'1-1'1 11111111111 tmring up streets,
above, 111:1}; 1)I'{’L‘{1 rliwus‘i- 111111 1101111113 (111:13'1111: 1r1111i1' 111‘ laying new pipe.
the drinking watcr. 11.»; :1 grain “I. mun-“1mm. U, have your mains
danger 1.” 11(fi11111 11’ 11‘;1\‘1‘ _\‘1‘.1111‘ 1111111134 :11.“- thdn :11.”- IHWY‘ rvlnnving   
in 1411011 condition. |)1)_\‘1['11{'111111~4,
BV 1110 Natimml K111111111 (11‘ 1‘11);111- Take some action on this question now.
. ' v _ . ‘ _ . _ You can't he too careful of the health of your
111g “11th 11131115, 1111 1111: 11111 91111 111‘ citizen,“
‘ ' " Hudson Terminal Bldg.
Natlonal Water Mam Cleaning Co. NEW max
I

64 “MuAWm-ummnmmm.

 

JULY, 1915

the morning; that the owners of dogs have
it on their consciences to prevent their pets
from annoying their neighbors with bark-
ing; that the owners of cats keep them in-
doors at night; that the owners of roosters
remember that crowing is -a shrill and most
unpleasant noise, peculiarly trying to those
who are ill and sleepless; that young men
who are on the streets at night remember
that loud talking, singing and whistling are
very disturbing to those who are trying to
sleep; that street vendors and newsboys see
if they cannot make quite as many sales
quietly as by shouting and yelling; and that
the Rapid Transit Company watch out with
especial zeal for fiat wheels and use more
oil on the axles of their cars. The press
gave the subject much space, and every
man, woman and child who read the papers
during that week learned that the question
of useless noise was before the public.

People who had suffered in silence, hav-
ing been taught to believe that noise is a
necessary part of city life and none of it
can be abated, took heart and gave voice
to their complaints. Two thousand such
complaints were received by .the Police De-
partment during Soft Pedal Week, while
the Board of Health and the Civic Club
ofiice received each a goodly number. The
complaints against the splutterings and
snortings of automobiles and motor cycles

came from the best residential districts, but
from the tenement districts came pathetic
appeals for relief from crowing roosters,
barking dogs, and factory bells and whistles.

The Police Department has the author-
ity to check the noise of automobiles and
motorcycles, and Director Porter is trying
to exercise that authority, but there seems
to be no help from the law for the man
or woman who is deprived of sleep by a
dog, a rooster, a whistle or a bell.

It is felt that these noises should be under
the control of the Board of Health. The
Philadelphia Board of Health, however, is
operating at present under authority
granted it when Philadelphia was but a
village.

Greater authority based upon the greater
needs of the present day is urgently needed.
The Civic Club has, therefore, called to-
gether a Joint Committee on Unnecessary
Noise, with representatives from all the
civic associations in the city. This com-
mittee will endeavor to get broader power

THE AMERICAN CITY 67

for the Board of Health in the matter of
noise regulation, and will uphold the Police

Department in all its efforts to abate the
noise nuisance.

+4-

New York’s Greatest Opportunity for
Effective City Planning

In an address before the Sixth New York
City Conference of Charities and Correc-
tion on May 26 last, Dr. Delos F. Wilcox
gave special emphasis to the fact that the
transit system is the all-compelling force
to which other plans for city development
and civic welfare must adjust themselves.
Dr. Wilcox also pointed out that the reali-
zation of rapid transit dreams in New York
City will be bitter indeed if the city feels
itself so burdened by the cost of realizing
them that it is unable to reap any benefits

except the pleasure of riding back and forth.
To quote the concluding section of the

paper:

“The main thought I wish to present is that
the dual subway system, as a great city plan-
ning enterprise, should be supplemented before
it is too late, and that while this primary city
planning force is being brought into existence
we should spare no thought, no effort, no
money needed to prepare the city for it. This
is the greatest opportunity for effective city
planning that New York ever had or ever will
have. But it is only an opportunity. It can-
not be translated into accomplishment and the
enjoyment of work well done unless we are
willing to pay attention and loosen the strings
of our shriveled purses until the last coin is
spent. We cannot turn back mid-stream; we
cannot stop until the work is finished. The dual
system is not a city plan. It is only the begin-
ning of one. Now, of all times, the curtail-
ment of the necessary expenditures for the
building and equipment of schools, for the
opening, straightening and widening of streets,
for the extension of water mains. for the con-
struction of sewers and for the acquisition of
park and playground spaces, would be a civic
crime. Now, more than ever, the relaxation of
the tenement house law or the curtailment of
its scope would be a reproach to the intelli-
gence and public spirit of the city. Now, if
ever, is the time to restrict for the public good
the selfish and unenlightened initiative of pri-
vate-minded men who do not yet realize that
the ownership or use of property, especially in
a great city, is affected with a public interest
and is subject to social control. Now, if ever,
is the time to take a portion of the increment
in land values created by these great improve-
ments which burden the community, and thus
help to stabilize investments and render more
tractable the speculative spirit of those who
forget that the city’s welfare demands, not
higher rents, but better living conditions.

Digitized by 600816

A

I

THE AMERICAN CITY

SANITATION

We show illustrations of our Canco Trash Burner and Canco Fly
Trap, two articles to help in the “clean up” campaigns Wthh are
spreading over the country.

“CANCO” RUBBISH AND
TRASH BURNER

This is practically the only burner on the market that will withstand

heat without warping, the body being made
from ONE PIECE OPEN HEARTH SHEET STEEL.

Owing to its peculiar construction it is
practically indestructible. All joints of the
burner are welded; no rivets to become loose.

 

Canco Burner is the only burner which has
a solid bottom, detachable base or pan. With
ordinary burners the ashes are generally scat-
tered around
wherever the
rubbish is burnt,
making an un-
sightly appear-
ance.

“CANCO” FLY TRAPS

There are some that look like Canco
but they are about as similar as a
“divver” car is to a high speed racing
car. First of all, the Canco .is an all
metal trap. No wood pieces to warp
or rip off. It must wear and it’ll catch
more flies than Mr. Carter has pills.
Joints are all electrically welded. It is
made on strictly mechanical lines and
after a careful study of other makes and
their operation.

AMERICAN CAN COMPANY

New York, N. Y. Chicago, Ill. Toledo, Ohio San Francisco, Cal.
With offices in all principal cltles

 

48 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tax Alma: C3".

 

mmmmmm

Municipal and Civic Publications

Copies may be ordered 0 T113 Auniciiit CITY, with the exception of Government publication: and

‘ those indicated a: free, which should be ordered direct from the oliices publishing the»:

KING, LYNDON CLYDE, Ph.D., Assistant Pro-
fessor Of Political Science, UniverSIty
of Pennsylvania.

Lower Living Costs in Cities: A Con-
structive Programme for Urban Efii-
ciency. (In National Municipal League

Series.) 1915. 355 pp. $1.62

The author first discusses how, by improved methods
of distribution and by codperative buying and selling,
the Ople living in Cities may reduce the cost of food
pro ucts. In this connection is given a detailed chap-
ter on municipal‘ markets in America and abroad, also
an account Of what has been accomplished by con-
sumers' coOperative societies in England. The sec-
ond part of the volume is devoted to a study Of ways
for increasin the productive capacity of workers
through heal -giving recreation, proper housing, and
education adapted to the needs of the majority.
Progress already made along these lines in various
countries is outlined. A chapter entitled “Lower Util-
ity Costs” takes up the question of public control of
utilities. The aut or lays much stress upon the in-
terdependence Of city and countr and the importance
of social coOperation and foresight in reducing living
fosts under the essentially urban conditions of modern
i e. .

RIDEAL, D., Sc. (London), Public Aanalyst for
the:i Metropolitan Borough Of Chelsea,
an

RIDEAL, ERIC K., B. A. (Cambridge), Ph. D.
(Bonn).

Water Supplies. (Their Purification, Fil-
tration and Sterilization.) A Handbook
for the Use Of Local and Municipal Au-
thorities. 1915. 274 pp. Numerous illus-
trations and tables. $2.65

A summarization of the science and ractice of
modern water supply and purification. he photo-
graphs and references to specific instances are mainly
European. Without undue use of technical terms,
the authors present a thorough and scientific discus-
sion of their subject, under the following chapter
heads: Pure Water—Inorganic Constituents of Natural
Waters; Animal and Vegetable Impurities; Sources of
Water Supply; Distribution; Storage; Preliminary
Purification; Sand Filtration; Mechanical Filtration;
Softening of Water; Sterilization; Electrical Modes of
Sterilization; Analysis and Interpretation of Results.

VINCENT; H. D., A. M., Principal of School

Three, and Supervising Principal in the
Evening Schools, Troy, N. Y.

Vocational Arithmetic. (With Lessons
in Spelling, Letter Writing and Business
Forms.) 1914. 126 pp. 55 cents

Material derived from the life of the community is
here converted into examples in arithmetic. The many
topics Include automobile and garage business, the
Chinese laundry, garbage collecting, road building,
school and home. gardening, oyster industry, house
lighting and heating, motion pictures, and the street
cars and autobus. Each lesson contains questions
calculated to sharpen. the pupil’s general thinking
powers and to arouse his interest. These are followed
y a. problem to.work out, words for spelling and
defining, and business exercises, all relating to the
particular subject of the lesson. The book was
originally intended for use in night schools. It is
also adapted to the highest grammar school grades.

JAUER, DANIEL J., Construction Economist,
Editor Of The Contractor..

The Economics of Contracting. Vol. II.
1915 334 pp. $2.50

In Vol. II certain subjects trated but slightly in
Vol. I (which appeared about two years ago) have
been enlarged upon at the request Of readers. Many
new subjects have been added. The chapter heads are
as follows: Estimatin and Bidding U n Contracts;
Making Contracts an Obtaining Bon s; ThehFinan-
cial End of Contracting; Preventing Law Suits and
Legal Aspects Of Contracts; Plannin Construction
Jobs; Handling and Training Men; 0 cc Filing Sys
tems; Organization Of a Construction Companprines
of Contractin and S ecialization; The Standing of
Contractors. 53y-laws or a construction company are
given in the appendix. -

BOLTON, REGINALD PELHAM.

The Problem of City Dust. (Reprinted
from the Transactions of The American

Society Of Heating and Ventilating Engi-
geers, 1915.) 7 pp. 10 cents

MARKHAM, EDWIN,

LINDSEY, BENJAMIN B., and

CREEL, GEORGE.
Children in Bondage. (A Complete and
Careful Presentation of the Anxious
Problem of Child Labor—its Causes, its
Crimes, and its Cure.) Introduction by

Owen R. Lovejoy, Secretary, National
Child Labor Committee. 1914. 411 pp.
Illustrated. $1.50

Specific conditions are graphically described in
chapters dealing with the glass and silk industries,
the sweat shop, box and candy factories, tobacco in-
dustry, cotton mills, coal mines, the canneries, street
trades and messenger service. Subsequent chapters
discuss the relation of child labor to crime and dis-
ease, its appalling costlincss, and its horrOr from the
point of view Of the humanities. An account of child-
saving agencies and of efforts toward remedial legisla-
tion is given. The final chapter deals in detail With the
problem of adapting public school education to the
demands of industrial life, and with workmen's com-
pensation, widows’ pensions, minimum wage, birth
registration and other factors having an intimate hear.
ing on the eradication of child labor.

NOLEN, JOHN, City Planner.
Preliminary Report to the City Plan
Commission. Bridgeport, Conn. (With
Supplementary Material.) January, 1915.
Submitted to the Mayor by City Plan
Commission March 10, 1915. Quarto. 79
pp. Maps and plans. 25 cents

Plans proposed by Mr. Nolen and considered and
discussed by the City Plan Commisson but not yet
approved or disapproved, constitute the material of
this report, which is based on social and economic.
rather. than csthetic, ideals for future development
of Bridgeport. Published for the urpose of calling
out expressions of public opinion. 'Fhe supplementary
material gives a brief chronological outline Of Bridge-
port, data rclative to trafiic, street cars. and food
supply}. list of industrial plants in Bridgeport; school
statistics; park and playground data; figures as to
heights of buildings; financial statistics.

UNITED STATES BUREAU or EDUCATION.

Educational Directo , 1914-15. Bulle-

tin, 1913, No. 43; w ole number 617.)
1915. I 3 + w pp. 20 cents
69

Digitized by 600816 ‘

THE AMERICAN CITY

Slat-win}: Licatructi-an Hf Levee Rand
Cdlh‘ttl b)“ liknfrui.

Li!W14?T‘iilillnliHMilliiilli?!'hili'liii'n'iinI 

  

Upp e riIlu:tr1-
tion shows an-
other section uf
same road after

the Tim-rd.

Lt.‘\‘t_’C Ru-ad at
NiidLiICT'Iun. {3.
Brick pavement
filled with Bur—
retl's Paving
Pitch in 1W2.

An Extraordinary Test

Twenty-three years ago this road at Mid-
dletown, 0., was paved with brick and
filled with Barrett’s Paving Pitch.

Recently a section of the road was damaged
by hood and this gave an opportunity to
observe carefully the condition of the
Paving Pitch.

It still clung tightly to the bricks that were
washed away. Samples of it were taken
and found to be in exactly as good condi-
tion chemically as when new. In fact, if
it were practicable to scrape or melt it off
the bricks it could be used over again today

Booklets free on request.

BARRETT MANUFACTURING COMPANY

St. Louis
Kansas City Minneapolis

New York Boston

Pittsburgh

Philadelphia
Birmingham

Chicago
Detroit

in a new pavement and would undoubtedly
give perfect satisfaction for another twenty-
three years.

Pitch is wonderful in its absolute immunity
to the action of water. It ranks with gold
and copper in its resisting power against
the elements.

Service considered, it is the least expensive
filler known and the easiest to apply. It
maintains a perfect seal against the intru-
sion of water and frost. It eliminates the
ancient expansion problem, for it makes
every joint an expansion joint.

Address our nearest ojice.

Oeveland Cincinnati
Salt Lake City Seattle

 

Tn; Panuon Mm. Co.. Limited: Montreal Toronto Winnipeg Vancouver St. John, N.B. Halifax, N.S. Sydney, N.S.

 

 

JULY, 1915

GUYO‘I‘, YVES, Editor of the Journal des Eco-

nomistes; former Minister of Public
Works of France.

Where and Wh Public Ownership Has
Failed. (Trans ated from the French by

H. F. Baker.) 1914. ix + 459 pp. $1.63

To give a true picture of industrial enterprise as
operated by states and local governments, presenting
"a compilation of rigidly investigated. authentic facts
and figures regarding public ownership and opera-
tion," is the avowed purpose of this volume,'which
covers financial, administrative, and political and social
phases of the subject. Public ownership in reference
to railways, gas and electricity, tramways, housing of
the workin classes, food sup lies, alcohol, mines, etc..
is discussed with the aid 0 statistical material, for
the purpose of showing what the financial results have
been in various countries. The study is then con-
tinued from the point of view of servrce rendered to
the consumer, effects on industrial progress, consider—
ations affecting labor, and other social aspects.

BEARD, MARY RITTER.

Woman’s Work in Municipalities. (In
National Municipal League Series.) 1915.
x1 + 343 99- $1.62

The work of women for the common welfare, in
towns both large and small, is here classified and
described» under the following chapter heads: educa-
tion; public health; the social evrl; recreation; the
assimilation of races; housing; social service; correc-
tions; public safety; civic improvement; government
and administration. The forces which haVe drawn
most of the women out into these public activities are
revealed and the growth of vision which has accom-
panied their activity is shown. It is seen that women
have contributed a large and intelligent share to
movements for civic betterment, and have shown their

capacity for sustained and unselfish labor in this

connection.

AMERICAN JUDICATURE SOCIETY. .
Articles on Municipal Courts. (Bulletin
VIII.) April, 1915. 49 pp. Free

Containing "The Branch Court of Conciliation of
the Municipal Court of Cleveland," an address by
Jud e Manuel Levine, with an introduction by John
H QNigmore; and “The Small Claims Branch of the

Miinicipal Court of Chicago," by Herbert Harley.

EVEas, CECIL C., Vice-President of the Law-
yers Mortgage Company, New York.

The Commercial Problem in Buildings.

191. 274 pp. Illustrated. $1.65

The w: evariety of factors that determine the values
of buildings in cities is analyzed in this volume. The
important part played by the cit plan, transportation
facilities, regulation of heights 0 buildings, and social
factors, is made apparent. Structural features are
discussed, with the aid of many illuminating photo-
graphs and lans of value either in building or re-
modeling. he book will be of particular interest to
persons connected with buildings intended for com-
mercial purposes, and as a basis of valuation of im-
proved real estate.

COUSINS, W. 5., Editor Of The American
Banker-Daily Bond News.

Com lete Sales of Municipal Bonds in

the nited States for the Year 1914.

1915. Quarto. 67 pp. $7.00

This volume, compiled from official sources, makes
available in simple, convenient shape an enormous
amount of information useful to mumci al and county
authorities, bankers, bond dealers. andp others inter-
ested in bond sales for public purposes in the United
States. The arrangement is alphabetical. There is
given the date of issue of the bonds, amount, purpose,
length of time for which issued, rate per cent, pur-
chaser, price, and income basis.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE,
BUREAU OF THE CENSUS.
County and Municipal Indebtedness,
1913, 1902 and 1890; and Sinking Fund
Assets, 1913. 1915. 228 pp. 25 cents

THE AMERICAN CITY 71

BURGERSTEIN, LEO, Ph. D., LL. D. (Vienna).
School Hygiene. Translated by Beatrice
L. Stevenson and Anna L. von der Osten.)

1915. xix + 188 pp. 43 illustrations and
diagrams. $1.07

The theory that the school should be an active agency
in health promotion, and the school curriculum such
that children who take part in it shall be better off in
health and vigor than those who do not, forms the
starting point of this study. The author takes up in
detail the location and plan of the schoolhouse, its
lighting, ventilation and heating, the classroom and
its equipment other rooms, the school grounds, swim-
ming pools, baths, toilets, and other matters which
should be carefully considered in connection with the
school building. An important chapter is devoted to
the hygiene of instruction, including questions at
school hours, number of pupils in classes, order of
subjects taught, home work, punishments, vacations,
etc. Other chapters are concerned with instruction in
hygiene, school diseases and medical inspection of
schools, and hygiene of the teaching profession.

MACKAY, CONSTANCE D’ARCY.
How to Produce Children’s Plays. 1915.

151 pp. $1.27
“Every public school a community theatre” is a
slogan which expresses the rapidly growing popu-
larity of the movement for child-drama. In answer
to the resulting need for books tellin just what to do
and what not to do in producing chi dren’s plays, the
resent volume has been prepared. It- includes a
istory of the children’s play movement, a chapter on
its sociological aspects, and suggestions for new
fields, as well as chapters on play-producing, scenery,
t 1

costumes and properties. I _ scusses t e special
needs of public schools, soeial settlements, and
camps, and gives lists of plays for such places.

There is a bibliography covering the whole childdrama
movement.

BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF THE CITY or NEW
YORK.

The Code of Ordinances of the City of
New York, Approved March 30, 1915.
(No. 168 in Approved Papers for the
Week Ending April 3, 1915.) 214pp. Free

The chapter heads are as follows: General I’t‘ovi-
sions; Administrative Provisions; Amusements and
Exhibitions; Bridges; Building Code; Charities; Cor-
rections; Docks. Ferries and Harbor Control; Elec-
trical Control; Explosives and Hazardous Trades; Fire-
arms; Fires and Fire Prevention; Hospitals; Li-
censes; Markets; Municipal Civil Service; Parks,
Parkways and Park-Streets; Police; Railroads; Sani-
tary Code; Sewers and Drains; Streets; Traffic Regu-
lations; Water Supply; Weights and Measures; Mis-
cellaneous; Repeal.

TAFI‘, WILLIAM HOWARD.
Washington: Its Beginning, Its Growth
and Its Future. (Pages 221 to 292, Na-
tional Geographic Magazine, March, 1915.)
Copiously illustrated. (Special Number.)
50 cents

The article falls naturally into two parts. His-
torically President \Vashington’s influence is shown
in the choice of the site for the capital city and in
the appointment of the Frenchman L’Enfant, whose
excellent plans laid the basic principles for the growth
of the city. Citing the time when Jefferson supplied
L’Enfant with specially prepared plans of twelve lead-
ing European Cities, the article points out how im-
portant was this contribution. The second part of
the article deals with recent times. The Civil War
left a gap and little was done until Senator James A.
McMillan, head of the Senate Committee on the Dis-

trict of Columbia. took up the work. Durin the
twelve years which he devoted to It be gat cred
around him such men as Burnham, Olmsted. St.

Gaudens and MCKim, and as a result of their efforts
information was obtained and plans made sufiicient
to guide all future efforts. Excellent photographs.
colored maps and plans form a running commentary
to the article.

Digitized by 600816 

 
 
 

THE AMERICAN CITY

EVBRWEA  

STANDS WEARANDTE‘AR

 

 Swing as High

as You Like

The children are safe on
EVERWEAR swings. They
are built with an eye single
to safety.

An all-steel galvanized product throughout, specially designed
for the wear and tear of outdoor use. All detail of bearings, con-
nections, etc., have been worked out to the highest standard of
perfection.

Take an X-ray look at the roller bearings by which these
swings are mounted. We give you an “inside” view. As the
swing sets this in motion, you notice what happens to the clamp?
The bearings ROLL—they obviate friction—they increase the
enjoyment of the device and prolong the life of EVERWEAR
apparatus. This is just one of the so—called “little things” to
which we have given careful attention like all the rest.

EVERWEAR swings are equipped with malleable frame
iittings and drop forged steel parts for bearings. Built in standard
sets of 6, 9, or 12 swings to the Outfit. Special designs built to
order.

A full line of the latest

and approved playground
apparatus shown in Catalog
C-3, which will be sent on

request.

The EVERWEAR
MFG. CO.

Springfield, Ohio

‘7 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tax Alma: C3".

 

JULY, 1915

OHIO LEGISLATIVE REFERENCE DEPARTMENT.

Report of the Committee for an Investi-
gation of Finances of Municipalities.
(Bulletin of the Ohio Legislative Refer-
ence Department.) February 3, 1915. 41
pp. Free

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS, 1913 and 1914 Classes
in Civic Design.
Notes for a Study in City Planning in
Champaign-Urbana. 1915. 51 pp. Illus-
trated. 25 cents

       

entions

COnv

A . . . .

     

ON THE CALENDAR
JULY 21-24.——BERKELEY, CAL.
American Physical Education Asso-

ciation. Secretary, J. H. McCurdy, 93
Westford Avenue, Springfield, Mass.

JULY 27-29.—SAN FRANCISCO, CAL.
United States League of Local Build-
ing and Loan Associations. Secretary,
H. F. Cellarius, Station A, Cincinnati,

Ohio.

JULY 31.—-SAN FRANCISCO, CAL.

American Academy of Political and
Social Science. Secretary, J. P. Lichten-
berger, University of Pennsylvania, Phila-
delphia, Pa.

AUGUST 2-7.—BERKELEY, CAL.

American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science. Permanent Sec-
retary L. 0. Howard, Smithsonian Insti-
tute, Washington, D. C.

AUGUST 3-5.—BERI<ELEY, CA1.

The American Social H giene Asso-
ciation. General Secretary, PVilliam F ree-
man Snow, M. D., 105 East Twenty-second
Street, New York City.

AUGUST Io-II.-—SAN FRANCISCO, CAL.
National Conference on Race Better-
ment. Secretary, E. F. Robins, Battle

Creek, Mich.

AUGUST II-I4.—SAN FRANCISCO, CAL.
American Economic Association. Sec-
retary, Allyn A. Young, Cornell University,
Ithaca, N. Y.

AUGUST I6-28.—OAI<LAND, CAL.
National Education Association of
the United States. Secretary, Durand W.
Springer, Ann Arbor, Mich.

AUGUST 18-2o.—SAN FRANCISCO, CAL.
The American Association of Park
Superintendents. Secretary, R. W. Cot—
terill, Seattle, Wash.

AUGUST, 24-27.—C1NCINNATI, OHIO.
International Association of Municipal
Electricians. Secretary, Clarence R.
George, Houston, Tex.

AGUST 31—SEPTEMBER 3.—CINCINNATI, 01110.
International Association of Fire En-
gineers. Secretary, James McFall, Roan-
oke, Va.

THE AMERICAN CITY 73

THE PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OP OHIO.

A Uniform Classification of Accounts
for Electric Utilities. (Effective January
I, 1915.) I914. II2 pp. Free

RICE, O. S., State Library Clerk, Compiler.

Wisconsin Memorial Day Annual, 1915.
96pp. Illustrated. Free

THE CIVIC LEAGUE 0F SAINT LOUIS.

Year Book, 1914-1915. February, 1915.
I6 pp. Fr_ee

   

SEPTEMBER 7-9.-—NEw YORK CITY.

The New England Water-Works
Association. Secretary, Willard Kent,
Narragansett Pier, R. I. .

SEPTEMBER 7-1 I.-—OAKLAND, CAL.

League of California Municipalities.
Secretary, H. A. Mason, Pacific Building,
San Francisco, Cal.

SEPTEMBER I3-I7.—SAN FRANCISCO AND OAK-
LAND, CAL.

Tri-State Good Roads Association.
Good Roads Congress. Secretary, George
E. Boos, Medford, Ore. (Meeting to be
merged with the Pan-American Road
Congress.)

SEPTEMBER. I3—I6.——ATLANTIC CITY, N. J.

Association of American Portland
Cement Manufacturers. Secretary, Percy
H. Wilson, Land Title Building, Philadel—
phia, Pa.

SEPTEMBER I3-I7.—OAKLAND, CAL.

Pan-American Road Congress. under
joint auspices of American Road Builders’
Association and the American Highway
Association. Secretary American Road
Builders’ Association, E. L. Powers, 150
Nassau Street, New York City. Execu-
tive Secretary American Highway ASSO-
ciation, I. S. Pennybacker, Colorado Build-
ing, Washington, D. C.

SEPTEMBER I6—I8.—SAN FRANCISCO, CAL.

American Society of Civil Engineers.
Annual Convention, Secretary, Charles
Warren Hunt, 220 West Fifty-seventh
Street, New York City.

SEPTEMBER 20-23.—SEATTLE, WASII.

American Association of Public Ac-
countants. Secretary, A. P. Richardson,
55 Liberty Street, New York City.

SEPTEMBER 20-23.-—WASII1NGTON, D. C.

Illuminating Engineering Society. Sec-
retary, J. D. Israel, 29 West Thirty-ninth
Street, New York City.

SEPTEMBER 20-25.-—SAN FRANCISCO, CAL.

International Engineering Congress.
Secretary, W. A. Catell, Foxcroft Build-
ing, San Francisco, Cal.

SEPTEMBER 27-29.—ST. LOUIS, MO.

National Association of Commercial
Organization Secretaries. Secretary,
James A. McKibben, Secretary Chamber
of Commerce, Boston, Mass.

Digitized by 600816

THE AMERICAN CITY

MUNICIPAL
I SHOPPING
VIA “listless/v"

°o 0‘55”
0 

D,

 

When the city of Honolulu, T. 1-1., decided to
register Motor Vehicles, this thriving community
searched the world for the “best” possible product
at the “best” price.

Naturally, attention was directed to Baltimore, the
home of “ BALTO ” Porcelain Enameled Iron
Signs. In this particular instance TIME was at a
premium—Honolulu talked with us via WIRELESS—
in “72 hours” this contract was closed and part of
Honolulu’s order for Automobile and Motorcycle

License Tags was ACTUALLY IN WORK—that’s

service.

Service alone did not guarantee this contract—
quality, finish and dependability were the virtues
which first suggested themselves to the ofiicials of this
far away city, and these virtues alone have given our J
product the world-wide distribution it now enjoys. For W
quality and service in the development of the most
modern and artistic municipal signs, we lead.

Sketches, quotations, suggestions and
samples are yours for the asking. Write
our Service Bureau— . S

Department C ‘ -

THE BALTIMORE ENAMEL & NOVELTY CO.

BALTIMORE, MD., U. S. A.

48 When writing to Advertisers please mention 1‘1: Altman Cut.

Digitized by 600816

 

3. IEE‘

Methods, Materials and Appliances

kalla

CONCRETE \"IADUCT OVER NOLAN CREEK, BELTON, TEXAS

Steel Sheathing for Concrete Work

The accompanying photograph shows the
new viaduct at Belton, Texas, the floor of
which is laid with Hy-Rib, manufactured by
the Trussed Concrete Steel Company, of
Youngstown, Ohio. This viaduct spans Nolan
Creek. It is 385 feet long, with an 18-foot
driveway and two 5-foot walks, and cost $17,-
000. Another view, showing the unfinished
floor of the viaduct, is reproduced in the com-
pany’s “Hy-Rib Handbook," which is now in
its thirteenth edition. This book of 144 pages
is profusely illustrated with sketches and views
which show the construction and use of Hy-
Rib for roofs, floors, walls, sidings, partitions,
ceilings, furring; for silos, tanks and conduits;
and for concrete work without forms.

+ 4-
The Hurry Call

The Gamewell Company, of Newton Upper
Falls, Mass., has published in pamphlet form a
list of cities using its police telegraphs. Many
letters are included from cities using these po-

‘ lice signaling systems, which indicate the value

of such service. One of the strongest of these
letters is from M. J. Burns, superintendent of

the signal system at police headquarters in
Lowell, Mass. It gives a number of instances
in which the system has been of value in that
city, such as finding lost children; avoiding
ringing the fire alarm for small fires; notifying
owners of buildings when they are found in-
securely closed or broken into; saving life by
quick calls for help, and other cases where
prompt action is essential.

Another pamphlet, issued by the same com-
pany, gives a list of cities, towns and corpora-
tions using the Gamewell fire alarm telegraph

systems.
'I- 'l-

A Record of Tire Users

F. H. Sawyer, Manager Fire Truck Depart-
ment, The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company,
has just given out figures showing that 52%
per cent of all the tire apparatus delivered dur-
ing 1914 to cities in the United States and
Canada was equipped with Goodyear tires.

At the beginning of 1914 there were 344
cities using Goodyear equipment on fire appa-
ratus. During the year 148 new cities were
added to the list, making a total of 492 cities
now using these tires. During the year 78
cities that were already on the list specified

75

THE AMERICAN CITY

 \f‘   I  ..//,/

x 3 is :-

Fixtures For M da C Lamps
Acceu't'ble

Durable
Simple

The appearance of the
fixture in well balanced
and symmetrical, with or
without reflector.

    

 

 

 

 

    
  

/. 

I

Complete with Reflector

Lllxmrlitc Fixtures l'lil\‘t' llu: l‘nllnw— f
111;; (intinctix'v failures; in II

Excellent” \‘t'IIllliilt'tl, yet wm-  
[her and i1'1su‘r1-}_)1'rml' smug. \‘ _,--"f
\-'c1'ltilutetl, skeleton-type 13111}: R‘- /"/

er'fkt‘trs.

C(nnplclie with Reflector
' ' ‘ .w ‘ L 4 ' ‘ rd
Illugcd  WILh a resultant Showing ( lube Luwtrt

maximum of conyenience in replacing lamps.
The use of “ Tned-and-Found True ” standard are lamp parts.
A specrally deSIgned auto-transformer insuring maximum

protection to lamp .against surges and against transformer
burnout, by the application of Micarta and Bakelite insulation.

.The appearance of the fixture is well balanced and symme-
tncal, wrth or without reflector.

 

Full particular. in Catalogue, Section IDS-704.

Westinghouse Electric 8 Mfg. Co.   

_/

Sale- OIEce-in AllLuge as“ EAST PITTSBURGH, m. °°"' "“ "‘“W‘

eflector

a When writing to Advertisers please mention Tn: AIERICAN CITY.

 

JULY, 1915 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 77

them as equipment on renewal orders for lire

apparatus.

Sixty-six per cent of this fire truck tire busi-
ness was in cushion tires. While not as re-
sxltent as a pneumatic, the cushion type has
the important advantage of not being subject
to puncture. The tire equipment on fire chiefs’

cars is usually pneumatic, as speed is the quality
most desxred.
*- 'l-

The Pulmotor at the Bathing Beach

The Pulmotor is doing good service at
Redondo Beach in Southern California, where
It is part of the equipment carried by the
specrally-built tri-car used for life-saving. This
car is said to have saved more than a life a
week during the season of 1914-1915. It has
a speed of 60 miles an hour. The side car car-
ries a metal buoy capable of supporting two

men in the water, and 1,500 feet of fine wire.

cable wound on a hand reel, the end of the
wire being fastened to the motor cycle. Inside
the side-car box is a complete first-aid outfit,
of which the Pulmotor is the most important
element. This apparatus, sold by The Draeger
Oxygen Apparatus Company, of Pittsburgh,
Pa., is invaluable in reviving exhausted swim-

mers.
'l- 'l-

A Wagon Cover That Opens
in Sections

The wagons used by the Street Cleaning De-
partment of the Board of Public Works of
San Francisco are of the 3-yard type, with
bottom dump and with the King steel sanitary
wagon cover. The patentee of the cover is
J. King, with the Moore & Scott Iron Works,
of San Francisco. The cover is made so as
to open by quarters, one-quarter being opened
at a time, thus hiding the contents from pas-
sers-by and preventing paper, ashes, etc., from
being blown about. Both large and small
wagons can be fitted with this cover. The im-
provement clubs and the Board of Health of
the city insisted upon the wagons being cov-
ered, and Peter J. Owen, Superintendent of
the Department, states that since this type of
wagon was adopted there has been no objec-
tion made.

An Electric Baler

More than lifty different styles of baling
presses are manufactured by Logemann Bros.
Company, of Milwaukee, whose electric baler
is featured in Bulletin No. 109. This press is
powerful, very rapid, is convenient for operat-
ing, and comes to the purchaser completely
assembled and wired to connect with feed
wires. Compression is made with the com-
pany’s screw toggle lever system, which is
claimed to require but one-third the power
used by any other method of compressing. A

 

TIIE LOGEMANN ELECTRIC BALER

choice of motors is oiiered to the purchaser,
and the electric equipment includes automatic
self-starter, automatic electric limit switches
and special overload circuit breaker, with all
the wiring in conduit. One lever controls the
entire operation. The press comes in two
styles, one making a bale of from 250 to 300
pounds, measuring 36 x 24 x 24 inches, the
other a bale of ‘ from 300 to 400 pounds, meas-
uring 42 x 24 x 24 inches. The floor space re-

- quired is 36 x 40 inches for the smaller and

36 x 46 inches for the larger size.

 

KING SANITARY \VAGON USED BY STREET CLEANING DEPARTMENT, SAN I‘ICANLISLU

THE AMERICAN CIT‘Y

We manufacture

High Test—Quick Settling

CHLORIDE OF LIME

For Water Purification

HOOKER ELECTROCHEMICAL CO.

40 Wall St., New York City Plant: Niagara Falls, N. Y.

 

       
     
       
  
 

The “A. W.” Regulator

For the control of Series Mazda
Lamps for street lighting. Saves
,lamps and gives the highest ef-
ficiency. Furnished in Pole and
Station Type.

New Bulletin, containing
Engineering data, now ready

Send for it

Electric Appliance Co. 19123321.... mi.““°“°°
The Packard Electric Co. 5°“ 9"" $359.1? om.

50 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tun AIEIJCAN Cn‘Y.

A 5

 

 

NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 79

 

FIRE EQUIPMENT AT THE CASE WORKS, RACINE, WIS._

Fire Protection for a Big Plant

The new motor truck used by the Fire De-
partment of the J. 1. Case Threshing Machine
Company, of Racine, Wis., is shown in the
accompanying picture. For years the company
has maintained its own fire department, and
the steady, conservative expansion of the busi-
ness, with its three distinct plants in Racine,
necessitates the most rapid facilities for this
very vital factor in the protection of the or-
ganization. The Motor Works is located at
some little distance from the Main and the
South Works, and with this new equipment
Chief Nelson and his fire-fighters can cover the
distance in a very short time. The car is a

special body made for the company’s “35”
chassrs.

4"}

A Rumor Corrected

The Dayton Rubber Manufacturing Com-

pany, of Dayton. Ohio. has received a letter
from William McMullin, Fire Commissioner
of Pomona, Cal., dated June 4, 1915, which
corrects an erroneous report. Commissioner
McMullin says in part:

“With regard to the newspaper and other
reports which have been circulated to the effect
that our American-La France Type 12 pumping
engine, which is equipped with Dayton airless
tires, had thrown a tire while en route to a
fire on the 10th ult., I am happy to inform you
that these statements or reports are entirely
without foundation. On the contrary, we have
had absolutely no trouble with either the car
or any portion of its equipment, either in the
way of tires or anything else, and we are
happy to be permitted to testify that our car
and tires have given us perfect satisfaction
to date."

Kalamazoo’s Cans

The City Garbage Company of Kalamazoo,
Mich., has recently ordered from the Rochester
Can Company, of Rochester, N. Y., 6,000 cans.
The type selected from the many samples sub-
mitted by various manufacturers is 16 inches
in diameter at the top and 14 inches in diam-
eter at the bottom, and is 19% inches high. It
has heavy side handles and a deep one-piece
cover. This can is perfectly smooth and sani-
tary on the inside, and frozen garbage can
easily be removed from it on account of its
Haring shape. The capacity of the can is 15

gallons.
'1' '1'
Removal Notice

Thomas H. Desmond, landscape designer,
announces the removal of his office to 36 Pearl
Street, Hartford, -C0nn., and the opening of a
studio at Simsbury. Conn. As in the past,
Mr. Desmond will serve his clients in all mat-
ters pertaining to landscape design, garden
architecture, landscape forestry, park, ceme-
tery and town planning.

++

The Carbo Way of Setting Poles

The steel poles made by the Carbo Steel
Post Company, of Chicago, are designed for
electric light, telephone. telegraph, trolley and
transmission lines and signal service work.
The principle of construction is made clear in
a booklet published by the company. The
utilization of high carbon steel, the adoption of
a form of construction designed especially to
resist strain across the line. anchorage beneath
the ground by the Carbo base, with earth
cushioning at the ground are the principal fea-
tures of this system. The pole sets direct in the
ground, and is anchored securely at the base
line, yet gives resiliency and elasticity.

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

Speed Tires

Can Never Be

Hard Rubber

It’s been proved countless times on
heavy lire trucks. The vibration is too
great.

The wear and tear on the truck means
more in destruction than the tires them-
selves are worth. So, many truck manu-
facturers had to gear down their trucks
from 25 or 30 miles per hour to only 10

   

 
    
  
  
  
   
 
   
 
  
 
   
     

A fountain in the city square or street inter-
sections, orin the city park, adds to the attrac-
tiveness of any city. Our designs are many—
at prices to tit any fund.

to 15. LAMP POSTS
But 5 eed is most essential in an efficient fire  . .
truck. 0 cut down the speed because of tires is but our deg-lgns' EEt our prICCS'—the

designs are many, the prices
right.

not necessary.

The Goodyear Cushion Fire Truck Tire was de-
signed for high speed Fire De artment service.
For speeds not to exceed 35 mi es per hour it is
without a peer.

The patented undercut sides, slantwise bridges
and resilient construction take up the shock. strain
and jar.

The anti-skid feature insures safety at high speed
and on quick, sharp turns.

Goodyear tires have stood for years the keenest
comparison with other tires. Our top placc is based
on records, not on claims alone.

Last year on 60 per cent of all new equipment,
Goodyear tires were used.

For safety, reliability, for economy, we ask you
to investigate these Goodyear tires.

Goon YEAR

-AKRON. OHIO

Fire Truck Tires

Tires for Lighter Apparatus

The Goodyear Fortified Tire with the All-
Weather Tread is the ideal extra—strength pneu-
matic tire for lighter equipment. Gives best pro-
tection against slippery pavements and rough
going. 126 braided piano wires in each tire base
mean perfect security. Contains all the famous
Goodyear features that prevent rim-cutting. skid-
ding. tread separation and blowouts.

Write today for ” Getting to the Fire. ” a beauti-
fully illustrated book on fire truck tires. Tells how
other fire departments have overcome their tire
troubles. Address Desk 138. (2410)

 

MANHOLES, SEWER INLETS
GRATINGS

We have the largest variety of pat-
terns. and carry the largest stock.
All our rustings are made of pig iron.
not” scrap.

      

 

 

BUBBLE DRINKING FOUNTAIN
15m- streets and parks.
ii'rs'ff' fr}! awnings

JAMES B. CLOW & SONS
Harrison Street Bridge

Chicago, I".

The Goodyear Tire 6': Rubber 60., Akron. Ohio I‘ 3”“ 50,” 0mm
Makers of Goodyear Automobile Tires

New YOI L; M ilwmilme 9t. Danie Kansas City
Minneapolis 1.0.“. Kuwait-:4 San Francisco

      
 

51 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tn; Airmen! Cu".

 

For Conos nd ar

 

" ' o

   

 

THE AUSTIN-WESTERN “ROAD-RIPPER"

Road Machinery for Heavy Work

A new piece of road machinery manufactured
by The Austin-Western Road Machinery Com-
pany, of Chicago, is herewith illustrated—the
“Road-Ripper,” which, as well as the “New
Western No. to” grader, is featured in a folder
sent out by the company. The Road-Ripper is
a massive scarifier attachment, which, when
hauled by a traction engine of sufficient power,
can tear up old, rutted and raveled roads with
stone or gravel surface to the depth required

at the rate of from one-half to two miles of '

road per day. The teeth are of special steel
and will penetrate the hardest surface. After
the road has been thoroughly scarilied, only a
small amount of fresh material is required, as
the old material has not been damaged. By
substituting the regular blade for the scaritier
attachment, the grader can be used to crown

the road and properly level the new material, ‘

making it ready to be rolled. The cost of re-
building old, worn-out roads in this way is
very moderate.
The New Western No. 10 grader is guaran-
teed absolutely against breakage. No brake
pin or other safety device is used. Any part
that is broken within a year, for any reason,
no matter what power is used, will be replaced
free of charge. Heavy Z bars are used on the
main frame, and in place of bolts and nuts
M-inch rivets are used, thereby eliminating lost
motion which results from loose parts, and
making a smooth, even cut. The blade has an
automatic adjustment of 22 inches in either di-
rection, controlled by the position of the stay
chains. This brings the cutting point in a more
direct line with the draft, places the blade in
such a position that its entire length is utilized,
and relieves the machine of too great leverage.
An 18-inch extension is provided for each end
of the blade; with this attachment the ma-
chine will cut outside of the wheels a maximum
‘ of four feet. The blade-lifting device is pow-
erful and very rapid.

Iron Culverts

An attractive 16-page pamphlet printed in red
and green on buff paper has been issued by The
Newport Culvert Company, of Newport, Ky.
The product of this company is known to the
trade as “Genuine open-hearth iron,” and is
claimed to be of 90.875 per cent purity and to
contain not less than I 5/ 100 per cent of copper,
for the purpose of resisting rust and corrosion.
Culverts, tanks. silos, water and feed troughs
are manufactured by this company from the
grade of iron indicated. This pamphlet is de-
voted especially to the presentation of the ser-
vice afforded by culverts of this material. A
number of illustrations are included showing
such culverts in shipment and in service. A
facsimile order from the United States Ofiice

. of Public Roads for culverts to be delivered

at Alexandria, Va., is given.
'1' '1'

An Oregon Road Project

What is said to be the largest country road
contract ever let in America has recently been
executed under award made by the Commis-
sioners of Multnomah County, Oregon, which
includes and surrounds the city of Portland.
Forty miles of this work is to be hard sur-
faced with Warrenite over old macadam roads,
and 34 miles is to be Warrenite surface on
concrete foundation. All of this work is to be
done under the license and patents of Warren
Bros. Company, Boston.

The project for improvement on a large
scale began nearly two years ago, when, at
a conference meeting of the most prominent
taxpayers of the city of Portland and Multno-
mah County, John B. Yeon and S. Benson
were urged to accept the positions of road-
master and deputy roadmaster, respectively.
They have since devoted nearly their entire
time to investigation of the road problem, in-

cluding roads of all types throughout the
United States and Canada.

THE AMERICAN CITY

 

.WHY let your lawns burn out
when .you can practically
substltute 1deal ralnfall with the

“Pennsylvania”
“Rainmaker” (lama)

0U know the high efficiency of the
“PENNSYLVANIA Quality stn

Mowers" with III the blades of oil-
hardened and wster-tempered crucible

tool steel.
The line-

"Pennsylvania"
"Great Anoricsn”
"Continental"
OOK.’.‘°“ID

"New Doperturo"
Olmu.’
Horse and Power
and Others.

 

Waters evenly an area of 300 to

500 square yards without injuring
the lawn in any way.

The improved 1915 Model works on a 25-lb.
pressure and upwards. Attachable to any
size hose. Turbine principle. Height, 29
in.; width, 27 in.; shipping weight, 52 lbs. ’

If you have the care of a large lawn,
public park, golf links or tennis courts,

you can arrange for a week’s trial. Write
today for catalog.

“The Pennsylvania People”

JMWFWWM QM

PHILADELPHIA. PENNSYLVANIA

 

 

 

53 When writing to Advertisers plesse mention Tns Aliment Cur.

‘.

JULY; 1915 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 85

Analyzing Paving and Road
Compounds

The Dulin Rotarex is a centrifugal machine
designed for extracting bituminous aggre-
gates, and is especially adapted for analyzing
paving and road compounds, such as bitulithic,
macadam and ordinary surface mixtures. A
simple speed-changing switch on the base
accommodates the machine to various mix-
tures.

.lp

 

THE DULIN ROTAREX

This little machine does in a few minutes
the work that required several hours with
older methods. It is stated to have been
proven that an inexperienced operator can
do the work of three and one-half hours in
six minutes. Samples can be taken from
mixers or wagons and their constitution de-
termined before dumping and without delay-
ing the work; hence exact information can
be obtained at every step, proportions checked,
weighings verified, etc., without loss of time
or the risk of faulty work. The states of
New York, Pennsylvania, Maryland, West
Virginia and New Jersey and many of the
largest cities make extensive use of the
machine.

The Rotarex is small and can be easily
carried from place to place. It is driven by
a Westinghouse electric high-speed motor
which will operate on any lighting circuit.
It is manufactured by the Braun Corporation,
Los Angeles, Cal.

4» vi»
The Destruction of Refuse

The sanitary disposal of municipal, insti-
tutional and industrial waste is the subject
of a booklet issued by the Jarvis-Morse Cor-
poration, of New York, which has taken over
the patents and business of William F.
Morse for the design and installation of de-
structor furnaces. A modified form of the
British destructor type has been developed,
combining the essential principles of the high
temperature destructor and obtaining the

necessary forced draft by Simple and efficient

means. These destructors range in capacity
from 30 tons per day upward. They are
operated either by steam or electric power.
Detailed descriptions of the construction and
working of these furnaces are given, together
with explanations of their adaptation to
various special installations. such as provide
for the recovery of valuable parts of the
rubbish. A Morse destructor f0r"disposing
of the bodies of small animals is a part of
the equipment of the Animal Rescue League
of Boston. Others have been installed for
the disposal of sewage sludge, for the de-
struction of refuse paper from financial in-
stitutions, and of large and small quantities
of domestic garbage and refuse, for waste
from markets, canning factories, etc. Mu-
nicipalities and others wishing to get estimates
and designs for the particular type of furnace
suited to the local needs should give some
approximate idea of the quantities to be dealt
with, the composition as regards the propor-
tion of garbage to rubbish, the location, and
whether the plant is to be for the disposal
only or to develop steam power.

vi» '1»
Pull Your Load, Don’t Carry It!

Book Two on “Troy Truck Trailers,” is,-
sued by The Troy Wagon Works Company,
of Troy, Ohio, is a clever little pamphlet of
twenty pages, embellished with sketches and
views showing the construction of these trail-
ers and the labor they perform. The» descrip-
tive matter emphasizes “the unsuspected
power” of a motor truck, which is embodied
in the principle of draw-bar pull: for example,
a 3-ton truck, fully loaded, can still exert a
draw-bar pull of about 3,000 pounds—a fact
which illustrates the money value of this prin- .
ciple. Detailed information is given showing
the extent to which the use of properly con-
structed trailers increases truck efi'iciency, and
a collection of “Short Sentences from Satisfied
Users” adds to this testimony. The essential
construction of a good trailer is analyzed, and
specifications of several models of Troy de-
sign are given. It is shown that costs may be
reduced “two ways at once” by employing sev-
eral trailers at one time and keeping one or
more traveling with the truck, one or more
being loaded and the others being unloaded.
On long trips the loading and unloading time
becomes almost negligible, but the hauling ca-
pacity is then of prime importance and the
value of the trailer is apparent.

+4»

Lectures on Municipal Wastes Disposal

Mr. Gustave R. Tuska, M. Am. Soc. C. E,
M. Am. Soc. M. E.. consulting engineer. New
York Citv, has been appointed lecturer on Mu-
mcxpal Wastes Disposal at Columbia Univer-
sity, and will deliver a course of lectures on
this subject at the university during the com—
ing year. Mr. Tuska has for some years been
acting as consulting engineer to various gar-
bage, refuse and waste disposal plants both in
this country and abroad.

THE AMERICAN CITY

    
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
   
       

Sectional Construction

“A Natural Dust Layer With

   " Interchangeable Parts
'  ' " Means
Low Mamtenance Costs

A damaged stand-
ard ordinarily calls
for a new standard.
But when a heavy
d r a y , carelessly
handled, crashesjts
terrific weight into

 

Ashburnham, Mass.

Uni on
METAL

Lamp
Standard

it doesn’t mean a
b r o k e n standard
(possibly a broken
head to the passer-
by) — it means
merely a bent
shaft —- easily and
inexpensively r e -
placed in perfect
union with the old
fixture and base.
T h a t ’ 3 economy
(and safety).
Write for photos
and data.

The [lot My Sun Will Not
llry 0m 3 “Solvay” Road

Solvay Calcium Chloride has the
peculiar and important prOperty of
absorbing moisture from the air. A
Solvay Road stands the hot rays of
the July sun, because it automati-
cally renews its supply of moisture
between every sun-down and sun-up.

SOLVAY

Granulated
Calcium Chloride

is a clean, white chemical salt, which
readily dissolves when exposed to air.
Applied to a road, it is soon incor-
porated with the surface, keeping it
smooth, slightly damp, and in a com-
pact condition.

Under ordinary traffic one applica-
tion of Solvay lasts about six weeks.
Cleanly to handle, easy to apply—
and proven by test to be a most satis-
factory and economical dust-layer and
road-binder. It is shipped in air-
tight steel drums ready to use.

 

Design No. 1:1?l-CHPatented
liquumell with llulophanc (.laal
Unit. No. USZIJU

THE UNION METAL MANUFACTURING (0.

CANTQMV. OHIO
LLunndiun Union .Vlctal Limited
Cult, Ont... Canada

lllf‘wl RHH‘TURS:
v.2 I“ l‘.il1r"l1ll=l, llH W ‘lllth 5L. New York City.
l ' l-jplulllf‘. l‘l‘y'dlll 5853

    
   
     
   
        
 
       
     
     
       
   
   
 
      
    

l: .'~;.- I'. i. .i '1 ‘ um. 71h 5L. Philadelphia, Pa.

1'1-1-1'..1|I_.;r-ll .'\::-lra-w~_- {‘n., Boston,
to l- lg. i-Ilz-r, "A'mnlru-q, Curl.
      luv-relate l'lr'i'lll: "-i . l-t-l.. New Orleans. 
Road Book ” I: give;  in- --.-‘:tlw.~.qt Iu-nvml Electric Co.
' . o . l l.:ll;1.'l, ‘l I‘lrt-I f.l'~:lal:oma City. Okla.
IOfW.  opportumly l-I i'mm, 'i .-x.-. liousipnthcnu.
I‘m-flit. l I ll'l'll -' i :.n__ ‘mlt lnkt‘ City, t
   (1);. llh-«I'irtjl iLIlI'I [llt' l 11., lil'l'Jllll Rapids. 
l'm lllt' 514“)! l'l!‘L‘tr“lL§ L‘O.
'--.i:1 I'Lin-ii-h'u'u. ' ..1, Oakland, Calif.
SEMET-SOLVAY c o       
. l .mtt-ni ('.In:uh.m Rr-meaentalgvc. Bi 1“ Bid
0 R l'. ’1'. l‘ringlc, '.I."i King '\t. F. l‘urnnto. cw r 3.,
410 Milton Avenue. SOLVAY, N. Y. $1.5m. Montreal

“M

54 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tn: AnnnICAN CITY.

