December 1916 i ‘ Publication Office 
35 Cents $3.00 a Year 87 Nassau Street, New York 














When 














THE AMERICAN CITY 














What lies back of the 
brilliance of a MAZDA 
lamp? All the facilities 
of the world’s ereatest 
lamp - makers support- 
ine the standards set by 
MAZDA Service. :: 


MAZDA 


**Not the name of a thing, 
but the mark of a service’’ 


28 


ia 
° 





—— The Meaning of MAZDA 


MAZDA is the trademark of a world-wide service to certain 
= manuf . Its purpose is to collect and select sci- 


ard ractical information concerning progress and dee 

n the art of incandescent lamp manufacturing 

bute this information to the companies entitle¢ 

this Service MAZDA Service is centered in the 

Research Laboratories of the General Electric Company at 
Schenecta vew York. The mark MAZDA can appear only 
which meet the standards of MAZDA Service. It is 

thus an assurance of quality This trademark is the property 


of the General Electric Company, 





@\ RESEARCH LABORATORIES OF 
(36) GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY 




















ing to Advertisers ple: 


ase mention Tue American City 






































NEW YORK 
DECEMBER, 
1916 


VOLUME XV 


NUMBER 6 



































Municipal Correction Farms 
By Elmer L. Scott 


Director, Department of Public Welfare, Dallas, Tex. 


l is fortunate that, in planning munici tion lie the stern facts of criminalit 
| pal correction farms, not only have we misdemeanor. Back of these lie the 

the benefit of the thought and con ng causes and conditions which lead 
clusions arrived at by practical students crime. Neither punishment nor correctio 
of criminality and penology, but in the can be viewed authoritatively, or otherwis¢ 
light of a gradual awakening, especially than in a purely mechanical manner, if the 
since 1870, there are practical demonstra- nvironment, conditions and motives 
tions of the municipal farm for misdemean those at fault, or presumed to be at 
ants in many of the most progressive sec are not understood to some reasonable d 
tions of the United States. gree 


Back of the need of a corrective institu The attitude of the public in reg 

















GENERAL VIEW OF CLEVELAND CITY FARM, WARRENSVILLE, OHIO, TAKEN FROM TI 
TOWER OF THE INFIRMARY 


} 


Showing infirmary courtyard in the foreground, dairy barns it 


the left 


the dista C the ght I ga 








624 H I AMER 
t é ( rime nals is one 
of th ( tests of tl ( ition ot 
people lt is ar fortunate conden 
tion of civilization that the misdemeanant 
s treated as an outcast of society, in whor 
ve tail to see the family relations of tl 
st and present and the possibilities of tl 
human future.’ 
The Rights of the Criminal or 
Misdemeanant 
Chere was a time when it was very 
erally true—and even in this enlighten 
ive it is still true to a degree—that, wher 
criminal or misdemeanant is arrested fot 








LCAN Citys Vor. XV, No. 6 
vhich will not only immediately protect 
societ it may save the patient and return 
him to his fellows restored to health and 


sire ieth 
With this view, then, is it not strange 
that we should assert that the first right of 
criminal is to be convicted? ‘To go eas- 
and completely free from his misde- 
eanor or crime is a menace to society and 
disaster to the criminal.” 
He must be held responsible for his un 
lawful deed, and must receive that punish- 


ent which human wisdom may best decid 


comports with the magnitude of his fault. 


D> 


it while paying the penalty, the misde 














COTTAGE AT THE INFIRMARY OF THE CLEVELAND CITY FARM, WHERE OLD COUPLES 
ARE ALLOWED TO SPEND THEIR DECLINING YEARS IN EACH OTHER’S COMPANY 


his fault and convicted, he resigns all his 
rights as a human being. It is, therefore, 
not alone to protect the rights of society, 
but from the standpoint of the misdemean- 
ant himself, that the proper corrective 
methods must be considered. 

Maiullin sympathy must be avoided when 
considering the rights of the misdemean- 
ant, and the situation must be viewed large- 
ly from the standpoint of the humane phys- 
ician, who, seeing society endangered by 
the victim of a contagious disease, seeks 
those ways and means and that treatment 


meanant has the following rights, and if he 
is denied those rights, they are denied by a 
civilization which belies itself and involun- 
tarily, thru ignorance or vindictiveness, 
puts itself on a mental and moral plane with 
the misdemeanant and criminal himself: 

lhe misdemeanant has the right to better 
health. Better health is promoted by clean- 
liness, sanitation, proper food, medical at- 
tention, labor. 

Che misdemeanant has a right to discip- 
line. This discipline should be of such 
character that its very activity shall indi- 

















LECEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 








THE KITCHEN GARDEN O rie INFIRMAR 

















THE DAIRY BARNS AT THE CLEVELAND CITY FARM 








THE CLEVELAND CITY FARM APIARY 








626 


cate that the discipline is not merely for the 
sake of the prison, but for that of the pris- 
oner; not for the sake of the institution, but 
that the prisoner may form a [ 
habits and strengthen his will. 

The misdemeanant has a right to such 
education of mind and of hand as may be 
given to him during the period of his incar- 
ceration. 

The misdemeanant has a right to those 
means that may be supplied for the regula- 
tion of his passions, which include food, 
sex, gambling, stimulants and drugs 


new set ot 


V indictiveness Condemned 

Any form of punishment that exists sim 
ply as punishment to make a man pay for 
the evil he has done is inefficient, childish 
and inhuman, and gives little or no consid- 
eration to the general welfare of society. 
While the thought of punishment for crime 
and misdemeanor should remain, the gov- 
ernment which undertakes the control of 
the prisoner, after the courts have con- 
demned him, is convicted of malfeasance 
of office before the bar of humanity if it 
does not adopt those reasonable and sane 
methods which will have that broader and 
grander end in view, namely, the return to 
society and to his family of the misdemean- 
ant or criminal with a more healthy and 
disciplined mind and a more healthy and 
disciplined body. 

“The best way for society to protect it- 
self and to disarm its enemies is to make 
honest citizens.” If the misdemeanant is 
convicted for a fault against society, what 
good has society done itself by simply re- 
moving the misdemeanant for thirty, sixty, 
ninety days or a year, and then constantly 
returning him to society more hardened, 
more enraged and more skilled in his at- 
tacks? 

For the detection and punishment of 
crime committed by a very limited percent- 
age of our citizens, we spend in one year 
one thousand million dollars—$1,000,000,000 
—as much as we spend for education, char- 
ity and religion combined for the entire 
population of the United States. 


The Human Side of the Misdemeanart 
The principle involved is that in the 
treatment of crime and the criminal and 
misdemeanant we have no right ever to 
lose sight of the human side of the con- 
victed. There is no good accomplished 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


VoL. XV, No. 6 


where he is needlessly degraded, insulted or 
abused. “Society can never gain anything 
from the humiliation and degradation of its 
members.” The prisoner is in all respects 
morally as is the hospital patient physically. 

\ hospital system that returned to society 
all patients as bad or worse than when they 
came would be closed quickly by an out- 
raged public. Our prison systems, how- 
ever, are doing this, or worse. 

The known evils of the present jail sys- 
tem, the criminal association, the idleness, 
the misdirected forms of such labor as is 
performed, the lack of sanitation, decency, 
education, training, medical attention—all 
these are known evils and are only repeated 
to emphasize more fully the requirements 
of a complete reform in methods and the 
hospital idea of returning the patient to so- 
ciety more nearly fit to occupy a place 
amongst his fellows. 

The last ten years, however, have seen 
the groping hands of those who have given 
the matter sincere, devoted study, reaching 
out and touching what seems to be a proper, 
sane and reasonably sure method of treat- 
ment. 

This takes form in what is known as the 
municipal correction farm. We are for- 
tunate, then, in discussing this not from a 
standpoint of theory, but from the view- 
point of practical experiences. These have 
extended over a period of time long enough 
to give reasonable assurance that it is 
sound, that it does accomplish much that is 
hoped for and that it gives promise of an 
ultimate efficiency which will erect a new 
monument to a really humane civilization. 

In approaching the subject of a munici- 
pal farm, then, one must view it dispassion- 
ately. Not one of the following principles 
must be overlooked: 

t. The punishment of the wrongdoer. 

2. The moral, physical and mental. better- 
ment of the wrongdoer. 

3. The training of hand and mind that he 
may be made capable of self-support. 

4. A certain degree of necessary moral and 
substantial support to the family of the pris- 
oner during the period of his incarceration. 

s. Reasonable attention and care to the dis- 
charged prisoner for the purpose of giving him 
that support and encouragement which would 
tend to prevent his gravitating to old associa- 
tions and habits and which would aid him in 
his struggles for independence and_ self- 
respect. 

It goes without saying that all of these 
plans are surrounded by material difficulties 





























DECEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 627 























LIBRARY AND REST HALL AT THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CORRECTION FARM 
AT OCCOQUAN, VA 





Here all prisoners are take fte e day’s k is ed 1 are ‘ 
when they take t the t s 

and natural discouragements. In the very should be convicted of the same charact 
nature of things, dealing with the majority of careless indifference which at one time 
of misdemeanants is dealing with the flot prevailed in the matter of physical disease 
sam and jetsam of society, but society can We come now to the testimony of pra 
not continue to allow flotsam and jetsam to tical experience and not of theory. This 
increase in quantity and multiply its vicious testimony is gathered from the foll rt 
ness. It is only a matter of time until such _ institutions, namely 
elements will have so increased that so The District of Columbia Correct 
ciety itself will be engulfed. If society were Farms at Occoquan, Va. 
to vie W as hopeless its members who are Che ( ooley | arms at Clevelar d, Oh 
ittacked by moral disease, then society The Municipal Farm at Kansas Citv. Mo 




















rHE ONLY ENTRANCE TO THE 10-ACRE MUNICIPAL CORRECTION FARM AT OCCOQUAN, VA 
There is no wall, not even a barbed-wire fence rour these 10 res Everybody, 
and officers, passes in and out thru the arch, and in that way the prisoners are counted daily I 


ilso gives a good idea of the kind of buildings at the institution; they are built for light and 








628 


THE 
I he experience ol practical results of 
these institutions is verified by many others 
in the United States that 
ducted along intelligent lines and under ex- 


have been con- 
perienced, sympathetic and able manage- 
ment The 
demonstrations indicates the following 

1. That the farm should be a farm, and 
should be purchased with the same business 


testimony of these practical 


acumen that an experienced farmer himselt 
would use. 
2. The 


acreage 


farm cannot be 
The farmer 
knowledge of 


bought by mere 


who possesses a 
stock 
etc., decides first the plan and extent of his 


agriculture, raising, 


operations, assuming 
This 


will wish to purchase. 


a reasonable quality 
of soil. determines the acreage he 
When he 
to find his acreage, he passes judgment on 
that 
nience to the city, the character of the roads 
that lead to it and the freight and passenger 
transportation service; he studies the char- 


sets out 


which is submitted to him, its conve 


acter of soil to know whether it is suited to 
the purposes for which it is intended. He 
studies its water supply 


and its freedom 


from natural overflow. The possibility of 
economical irrigation may be a factor. He 
considers also how much of the land is till- 
how how much 
could only be used for pasture, and how 


much is absolutely 


able, much is woodland, 
waste 

With a municipal farm there would als» 
be considered the natural resources, such as 
clay for brick, gravel, rock and other prod- 
ucts than agricultural on which labor could 
be engaged. 

There are two characters of agricultural 
land which might be considered as a whole, 
namely : 

1. Improved land, under fencing and cul- 
tivation. 

2. Raw, unimproved land, on which much 
labor and money must be expended in order 
to put it in usable form. 

In the matter of a municipal farm, the 
question of existing building improvements 
would be of little advantage, since it is very 
seldom that theSe would be of any service 
whatsoever in the and 
development of such a farm. 


wise businesslike 

In Occoquan, Va., for the Washington 
(D. C.) Municipal Farm, some 1,700 acres 
of swamp land were purchased at a low 
price, and in the initial period of develop- 
ment of the municipal 


farm the prison 
labor was utilized to a large degree in put- 


AMERICAN CITY 





Vor. XV, No. 6 


ting the farm in usable shape. Large profit 
to the institution was shown thru marked 
increase in farm values. 

The Municipal Farm of Cleveland, Ohio, 
while not what might be called an improved 
farm when purchased, was still a valuable 
piece of property, and the 2,000 acres cost 
originally $176 per acre. Thru advanced 
agricultural methods, together with a natu- 
ral increase in values of land contiguous to 
Cleveland, the land is now considered worth 


an average of $750 per acre. 


W ork 


lhe work done by the inmates should be 
for health, educational and productive. 

No useless labor should be undertaken 
just involves physical action. 
From a business standpoint alone it is fool- 
ish to plow and cultivate a worn-out an 
unproductive soil just to call it farm labor 
The prisoner who is engaged in work is 
taught something more than the mere dis- 
‘ipline of labor when he sees the practical 
results of his labor. 

It is farm 
with low grade milch cows, when the same 
amount of labor devoted to a selected herd 
would yield multiplied results. Farm oper- 
ations should be along lines of greatest pos- 
sible productiveness. 


because it 


foolish to stock a corrective 


The operation of a farm also should be 
so wisely directed that not only will it pro- 
duce the majority of the food required, 
such as meat, vegetable, fruits, eggs, butter 
aml milk, but should also, if possible, yield 
a surplus from the sale as an added income 
for the institution. 

The farm, therefore, should include the 
following, namely: 


Grazing land 

Land for growing crops 
Truck garden 

Dairy 


Poultry farm 
Orchard 
Hog farm 
Greenhouse 

There should be a central laundry for all 
the institutions. This would best be asso- 
ciated with the woman’s correction institu- 
tion. 

All the mending, sewing and repairing of 
clothing should be done on the farm. 

The following is a list of industries that 
could be entered into on a correction farm, 
namely : 


Kitenen work Raking 

Tailoring, repairing and Farm, garden and or 
pressing chard 

Shoe mending Dairying 

Basket making Flowers, shrubbery and 

Rug weaving landscaping 


Sewing Store room 
Carpentry Scrubbing, building repair 
Painting General cleaning 




















am beam 


~ sy 











| ‘ECEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 

















PRISONERS MAKING AND MENDING SHOES AT THE KANSAS ITY MUNIC] 
\T LEEDS, MO 


1} er a ngine oom Clerks t tant tor P 

sar Bes Guin oa The Mental Caliber of Misdemeanants 
Broom and chair making leaching lhe majority of misdemeanants are c 
Cement work Barbering : . - 

Laundry work Stenography, typewriting sidered to be an ion t mk ent ¢ 
Harness and repairs and bookke« ; fae 

aaa io | saan hcient class. While this is true te 

















PRISONERS AT WORK ON THE NEW ADMINISTRATION BUILDING AT THE KANSAS CITY 
MUNICIPAL FARM 











630 THE 
degree, environment and association have 
so seriously affected the-surface indication 
of the individual that such ambition, hope 
or desire for better things as he might pos- 
sess is hidden beneath the dirt and grime of 
a degrading mode of life. The superinten- 
dents of various corrective institutions who 
have cared enough for humanity to go be- 
neath the surface, without maudlin sym- 
pathy or cheap sentimentality, have sought 
to find the real hidden beneath the 
dirty rags of crime and have discovered 
latent qualities which only needed a new 
environment, cleanliness and_ discipline, 
whereby the individual might develop into 
a worthy, though commonplace, 
citizen. 


man 


even 


It is no idle fancy, then, if in conjunc- 
tion with the correction farm there shall 
not only be imprisonment and labor, but 
there shall be likewise an opportunity for 
mental development. There is no reason 
why there should not be a library of books 
and magazines. There should be a night 
school, and with reasonable frequency there 
might be musical entertainments and read- 
ings. 

In touching on all these, the unsympa- 
thetic reader is cautioned to bear in mind 
that such out-of-the-ordinary recommenda- 
tions in the treatment of the misdemeanant 
are not made for the purpose of coddling a 
wrongdoer, but for the purpose of discip- 
lining the mind as well as the hand, creat- 
ing in him or bringing to life a latent desire 
for decent living. The conduct, operation 
and management of an institution of this 
character must be sane and well-balanced. 
There are always two dangers to avoid in 
the handling of a 


corrective institution. 


One is a tendency to become too senti- 
mental and the other the tendency to be- 
come 


too hardened. These are not ten- 


AMERICAN 





ot & mm Voit. XV, No. 6 
dencies peculiar to a corrective institution. 
They exist in business, in the church, in the 
school and in the home. In the matter of 
mental training of the prisoner, this 
thought is worth while, namely, that if a 
normally good child is educated at the com- 
munity’s cost, it is for the good of society 
that training of mind and hand and dis- 
cipline may be given to the morally de- 
ficient at the community’s cost. The for- 
mer is for the advantage of society, and the 
latter not only for its advantage, but for its 
protection. 


Health and Hospital Service 


In setting a misdemeanant out on the 
road to self-respect and independence, the 
question of his health is of primary impor- 
tance. This affects not only his whole fu- 
ture, but also the immediate service he 
gives in the matter of his employment dur- 
ing the period of his imprisonment. The 
criminal or misdemeanant deserves special 
attention in the matter of health because 
of the fact that his wrong-doing is most 
frequently traceable to a weakened resist- 
ance. His physical condition may be caused 
by dissipation or inherent weakness. Phys- 
ical rehabilitation is absolutely essential to 
regeneration. 

Then again, as intimated above, the hos- 
pital service is valuable from the selfish 
standpoint of the self-support of the insti- 
tution, because it puts the criminal more or 
less quickly in physical condition, where he 
can be properly expected to contribute his 
labor toward the support of the institution 
A simple and inexpensive hospital ward 
with the attending features of a properly 
equipped hospital, is not at all an expen- 
sive addition to a correction farm, and is 
indispensable to the successful conduct of 
such an institution. 








betterment of urban life. 


civic bodies. 
can Crty as the source o 


may wish to use tt. 





This Magazine is Not Copyrighted 


Tue American City aims to make avoilable to the largest possible number 
of persons the ideals of thinkers and the practical exferience of workers for the 
To this end articles from any issue may be reprinted, 
in whole or in part, in local newspapers or in the bulletins of commercial or 

It is requested only that proper mention be made of Tue Ameni- 
the information. 
graphs will be loaned without charge, or cuts sold at low rates. 
righted by their authors are so indicated, 


If illustrations are desired, photo- 
Articles copy- 


All other matter is free to those who 












































The Port Terminal Factor ot Municipal 


Planning” 
By Paul Page Whitham 


Consulting Civil Engineer, Seattle, Wash. 


HE business of municipal planning has 
developed apace in recent years, so 
that it is recognized as a matter hav- 

ing to do largely with transportation and 
terminal facilities. Fundamentally the def- 
inite planning of a city is for the purpose 
of making it an efficient place in which to 
live and carry on commerce and industry— 
that is, business. It is now recognized that 
the city efficient, that is, one designed to 
best serve the purposes of business, is most 
likely to be the city beautiful in the best 
sense of the term. 

lhe modern city is essentially a business 


a a " 





facilities that have to do with the transfe 
»f commodities between land and water car 


riers. 


Port-terminal planning is not an exact 
science, as each case calls for special treat- 
ment. There are, however, certain under- 
lying or fundamental principles that apply 
generally and should form the basis of all 
development work. 

Having deep-sea ports particularly in 
mind, the subject will be taken up under the 
following heads 

I. Marginal Streets and Railways 

Il. Harbor Lines and Waterways 











PANORAMA VIEW OF A PORTION OF THE SAN FRANCISCO WATER-FRONT 


Showing the attractive character of the street ends « 


terminal. There are three ways: the high- 
way, the railway, and, for cities located on 
navigable waters, the waterway; none of 
which may be safely neglected. Neither 
should any be developed to the disadvantage 
of the others, but all three coordinated in 
such a manner as to produce the highest all- 
around efficiency. Consequently, a discus- 
sion of the port-terminal factor of munici- 
pal planning of necessity will include some 
consideration of the railway and highway 
factors. This is borne out by the following 
definition of a “port-terminal,” that is, a 
combination of waterways, marginal streets 
and railways, wharves, slips, sheds, ware- 
houses, mechanical equipment and all the 


*From_a paper presented at the recent convention 
of the League of Jashington Municipalities, at 
Everett, Wash. 


the recent dock improvements erected in San Francisc 


III. Local Shipping Facilities. 

IV. Overseas Shipping Terminals 

V. Industrial Development. 

These five subjects have to do with the 
general plan or scheme of port develop- 
ment, and they cover the basic principles to 
be considered in the port-terminal factor of 
municipal planning. 


Marginal Streets and Railways 

he terminal street and railway is the 
foundation or base-line on which the port- 
terminal plan must be built if it is to be 
really efficient. An error in the design of a 
pier affects the efficiency of that particular 
dock; but an error in the general layout or 
base line of a port terminal may adversely 
affect the efficiency of all the piers, ware- 
house and other facilities in the port. Con- 








THE AMI 


I 





AN 


R 1 


Vor. XV, No. 6 














= 











ly rRra 7 

Phe San Francis water-front is under tl risdiction of the State Board of Harbor Commissioners 

of San Francisc This B l some years agi lopted a systematic plan of improvement, the fundamental 
feature of which is the gir street and belt-line systen ordinating the entire water-front 


a4 





i 

THE SOUTH PHII 

Recently the cit Philadelphia entered into 
city whereby this proposed improvement is to be ¢ 
result will be the improvement of a large district 


railways and the municipal properties will be coi 





dest 


< 


hahaha? shy 


(ES I A ty bt ite Pa gy tare tae 


ee 





\ a ey la Pe ge 


eer 


! 
' 
! 
| 
~ ! 
~— x ; H 
vase 3 A S Fd — 
” Rs Plan 


PRoroste nevocaTan —~ §.cvarion P 
ae F 


Pan Roags 
= 
PROPOSED UELIPAL PERS 
“= 
SOUTA PAILADEL PA 
il 


—_—_——_— 


eet, 


rad 


ADELPHIA DISTRICT 
a treaty with the principal railway companies of that 
arried out substantially along the lines indicated. The 


along prearranged lines by which the water-front, the 


rdinated in one efficient terminal system 




















DECEMBER, 1916 rH! LiweneetcAN CIT 
, ; the 

> I S< ‘ S t 
industt stricts 

' r O ( 
Bek se ' 

4 transport F 
rhe og 

waterw S 

Sit S ( 

tricts 

= 
- SEE NEERERAEGEEEET — \s 
VIEW AT A SEATTLE WHARI 
. One of the dominating features the t Port I Ig 
Ss < cks fact that st ‘ iuth 
t the \ ves, as here ¢ 
kee he sheds pe t rans es er é 
k nd ¢ ymica e 
; ; ols tie Ge divectis hee ( 
te c 1 « 

t ~ t i She 
sequently, it is clear that the greatest car: he main difficulty in the way of 
should be taken in laying out the margina coordination of the trackage facilities 
streets and railways. Such streets and rail the railway companies the elves lies 
Vavs should skirt continuously, as nearly fact that the older ind etter est 

s practicable, the entire water-front, there roads dislike to give up such advantage 
coordinating the various shipping facili they may have gain s a result of 
—T 
yraen 
‘ 
» 
U ] 

















HANFORD STREET TERMINAL OF TP? 
Illustrating the system adopted of providing stor 

elevator has been constructed immediately back of 

conveyed to the sheds either in sacks 


an 


PORT OF SEATTLI 
° t the wh f « 
in gallevies to the eck s 
In this improvement it is contethnplated that the 


be improved by the construction of storage warehouses 


r 




















634 THE AMER 








SECTION SHOWING 
NEW WAREHOUSI 
VANCOUVER, B. C 


rPRACKAGE 


Laid out by the C. P. R. Company. 


I ¢ 


AND IN JOBBING DISTRICT, 


Taking into 





An Cary Voit. XV, No. 6 
the development between 
the pierhead line and the 
shore, leaving that to state 
and local authorities or 
private owners. This is 





ARRANGEMENT IN an argument in favor of 


the planning of the port 
coincident with the estab- 
lishment of the harbor 


msideration the 


topography of the ground, this is an especially efficient arrangement The lines bve the Federal Gov- 
rapidity with which this district built up goes to show that business may be ? - 

attract« by such properties when they are arranged and developed ernment. Furthermore, 
accordance with lines that will assure transportation efficiency the Secretary of War 


pioneering. From the 
standpoint their view is perfectly natural, 


and, as a matter of common equity, the well- 


railway companies’ 


intrenched roads should be compensated in 
some manner for what they may have to 
sacrifice in the readjustment necessary to 
bring about the desired results. From the 
standpoint of the port or municipality, how- 
ever, a unified system is economically cor- 
rect, and in the long run I believe would 
roads apparently 
forced to sacrifice some of their advantages 
in the first instance. The avoiding of un- 
necessary duplication of 
trackage, for instance, 
would result in a distinct 
saving. Regardless of the 
method by which the rail- 
way end of the matter is 
handled, the port plan 
should provide for a com- 
prehensive and coordi- 
nated system of marginal 
streets and railways. The 
marginal street system, of 
course, must take into ac- 
count the waterways and 
harbor lines of the port, 
which leads to a discus- 
sion of that subject. 


Harbor Lines and 
W aterways 

The location of the har- 
bor lines, of course, has 
an important bearing on 
the “port plan.” Conipli- 
cations arise from the 
fact that while the Fed- 
eral Government retains 
the right of establishing 
and modifying harbor 
lines, it does not supervise 


prove so, even to the 





3 one Manufacturing District 


might perform a good ser- 
vice to the country by refusing to take ac- 
tion in harbor line matters before the local 
authorities have prepared a comprehensive 
port plan, thus stimulating action in back- 
ward communities. 

The waterways, except those created by 
the improvement of navigable rivers or 
streams, are usually located inland from 
the outer harbor lines, and thus come under 
the jurisdiction of the local authorities. In 
the Puget Sound country such waterways, 
for the most part, are extended into indus- 
trial districts. On account of the initial ex- 


‘J & SPOOR AND AUTEUR © LEONARD. Tres 
1205 FIRST NATIONAL BANK BUILDING 








GENERAL PLAN OF THE 300-ACRE CENTRAL MANUFACTURING 


DISTRICT OF CHICAGO 


This has built up with hy rapidity on account of the efficient railway 
and other services performe 


by the company developing the tract 





























ey 


* 


Jae 








DECEMBER, 1910 THE AMERICAN CITY 625 








l — 


MUNICIPAL PASSENGER AND PACKAGE FREIGH DOCK ACK AS] 





CLOSE TO THE BUSINESS SECTION ¢ lit 

pense in dredging, or perhaps the lack of ind packag eig siness sh 
foresight to perceive what demands devel cated adiacent to the siness cent } 
opment will make upon the waterway, ther: city. The local shipping facilities t fre 
is a tendency to plat it with insufficient quentl ire not g = he same ’ 
width It is not always necessary, of ittention in their planning as tl 
course, to improve such waterways to the signed tor heavier traftx As c 
full width in the beginning; but in laying proposition the passeng« ¢ 
them out, if an error is made in the estab- freight docks and the facilities pe 
lishment of the margins of the ultimat thereto should be grouped in a t 
width, it should be made on the side of | and coordinated thy the « 
ing them too wide, rather than the revers« tion svstems 
Wide waterways, like wide streets, t to lhe rine passengt te he 
increase the value and use of the abutting surroundings wwproaches. s 
property aie attractive i gy the § . 

lhe proper solution of prol lems incident have the railway t in re g 
to the laying out of marginal streets and Usyally a_ passeng: eaching 
railways, the establishment of harbor lines water is as ae off amid surroundings tl 
and the platting of waterways must tak« are a disgrace to otherwise attractive 
nto account the uses to which the various An ideal arrangement would be for the 
sections of the port may be put most profit railway and steamer passenger tert 
ably. This, again, calls for a thoro analysis to be located in close proximity to « 
of the whole situation. ther. In most of our larger cities this is 

Local Shipping Facilities now impracticable of accomplish 


Naturally the local shipping facilities it may be teasible in some of tl 


having to do with local coastwise passenget ports. 











VIEW OF MUNICIPAL DOCK NO. 2 AT PORTLAND, ORE., WHICH IS A RIVER PORT 








636 THE 


been worked 
gut in a very attractive manner by the Ca- 


Such an arrangement has 
nadian Pacific Railway at Vancouver, by 
the city and interests at 
Cleveland, and is contemplated in the com- 
prehensive plan for the development of the 
port of Prince Rupert. 

\nother problem that should be given 
greater consideration is the matter of co- 
ordinating the city markets, warehouse and 
produce and cold storage buildings with the 
local water-front shipping terminals. 


transportation 


Rail- 
way service to local docks is not as impor- 
tant as to the overseas terminals, but is ad- 
vantageous and should be arranged for if 
practicable. 

\t those ports where there are extensive 
hodies of navigable inland waters, as at 
New York, Chesapeake Bay, San Francise> 
Bay, Columbia and 
what might be termed a 


River Puget Sound, 
“water-cartage” 
traffic has developed or may be expected 
In such ports certain classes of commodi- 
ties may be economically collected and dis- 
tributed thruout the terminal districts by 
lighters and barges. It is a traffic that ma- 
terially affects the internal life and econo- 
mies of a community, consequently it is 
one well worth fostering by providing con- 
venient and properly equipped central ter- 
minals, also facilities at various subcenters. 


Overseas Shipping Terminals 

The shipping facilities designed to ac- 
commodate the local freight carriers do not 
necessarily require a location adjacent to 
the retail business center of the city. In 
fact, usually it is better that they be located 
elsewhere, for the reason that such termi- 
nals should be conveniently situated with 
reference to ample railway yards and track- 
age facilities. It is also desirable, in ports 
of the first magnitude, to have back of the 
dock frontage extensive areas suitable for 
warehouses and intensified industrial pur- 
poses. 

There is a tendency, and rightly so, to 
provide for the overseas shipping business 
groups of piers which, combined with rail- 
way yards, warehouses, cold storage build- 
ings, and in some instances grain elevators 
and coal docks, form complete terminal 
units. It is thus practicable for vessels to 
discharge and load cargoes composed of a 
large range of products, with little or no 


shifting of berth. Also, there are adminis- 


AMERICAN 





Cite Voit. XV, No. 6 
trative and operating advantages and econ- 
omies in the terminal unit system, 


Industrial Development 

It may at first seem odd to discuss indus- 
trial matters under the head of port-ter- 
minal development; but if we stop to think 
about it we will realize that in a maritime 
city the industrial activities are very closely 
with the marine and railway 
problems. The manufacturing 
people are realizing more fully the advan- 
tages of being so situated that they can 
enjoy the privilege of shipping by both land 
and water carriers, consequently there is a 
movement to develop water-front industrial 
districts adjacent to our large seaport and 
Great Lakes cities. 

If these industrial districts can be located 
on deep water, all the better; but the com- 
paratively shallow portions of the harbor 
also can be used to advantage, where the 
industries may be served by harbor boats, 
barges and lighters. Along this line we 
note that work is already under way at the 
port of New York preparing Jamaica Bay 
water-front industrial district. At 
Newark Bay the city of Newark is carry- 
ing out a project along similar lines. At 
Seattle a project of this kind is being de- 
veloped by the construction of the Duwam- 
ish Waterway; at Tacoma by dredging the 
Hylebos Waterway; and at both San Fran- 
cisco and Los Angeles projects of a similar 
nature are contemplated. 

There has been some discussion as to 
whether or not the water-frontage in such 
districts should be owned and controlled by 
the port authorities, lease rights only being 
granted manufacturing concerns. I am in- 
clined to think that all that is necessary in 
that respect is for the public authorities to 
reserve sufficient water-frontage on which 
to provide, at convenient intervals, public 
wharves or landings, insuring access to the 
water-front of those industries not located 
immediately thereon. This, then, would 
leave perhaps three-fourths of the water- 
front in such districts open to purchase by 
those industries the interests of which make 
it of particular advantage for them to act- 
ually own and control riparian rights in 
front of their plants. Sufficient control 


associated 
terminal 


as a 


should be retained over the situation, how- 
ever, so that the construction of private 
water-front facilities would be brought in 




















maar fa: 


DECEMBER, 1916 


THE 


AMERICAN CITY 637 























NEW 2,000-FOOT SHED RECENTLY CONSTRUCTED ON THE OCEAN OR OUTER DOCK OF THI 


PORT OF LOS 


Specially designed t 


conformity, or at least would not interfere, 
with the general scheme for development 
of the port. 


ANGELES 


railway tracks. In that manner the switch- 
ing and spotting of cars can be carried on 
on one side of an industrial plant without 


‘ An important matter in connection with interfering with or interrupting the vehicle 
the development of industrial tracts which service conducted on the opposite sid 
should not be overlooked is the fact that Whether located adjacent to the water-front 

; every part and parcel of land in the district or some distance therefrom, the industrial 

} should be assured a convenient railway spur railway service should be thoroly coérdi 
track service. In order to accomplish this, nated with the belt-line tracks serving the 
a general scheme of railway development shipping and warehouse facilities along the 
of the property should be worked out before — water-front. 
the occupation of the tract by industries is Enough has been learned in regard to the 
allowed to get under way. In districts of industrial development of cities to make it 
this class it is just as important, perhaps clear that the city which definitely and 

4 more important, that the railway service be with forethought plans and prepares dis 
provided as that highways for vehicle traf tricts in which its industrial expansion is 
fic be platted. In districts where the in- to take place, laying them out on correct 
dustries likely to be attracted will not usu- transportation and terminal principles, will 

‘ ally occupy very large tracts—that is, not have a great advantage over its competitors 





more than a few acres at the most—the 
best results can be obtained if the railway 
and vehicle services are separated as far 
as practicable; that is, certain alleys and 
streets should be definitely reserved for the 
railway tracks and kept largely free from 
vehicle traffic; while, on the other hand, 
vehicle streets should be kept free from 


which allow their industrial development t 
continue in haphazard fashion 

In conclusion it may be well to summariz 
some of the principal points that should be 
kept in mind in connection with the prepa- 
ration of a comprehensive plan for a port 
terminal, as follows 


railwavs 


1. The marginal streets and 




















\ GROUP OF INDUSTRIAL BEEHIVE OR FACTORY LOFT BUILDINGS RECENTLY ERECTED 
ON THE PROPERTY OF THE NEW YORK DOCK COMPANY, FRONTING ON THE 
ATLANTIC BASIN 











638 THE AMER 
form the base line upon which to develop 
an efficient water-front and industrial svys- 
tem. 

2. The establishment of harbor lines and 
laying out of waterways is a matter of 
hardly less importance. 

These two should be of first considera- 
tion, as they form the foundation for the 
entire port-terminal plan 

3. Errors made in the design of the indi- 















i'GAN Gigs Vor. XV, No. 6 
minal district, and, furthermore, such errors 
are very difficult, if not impossible, of cor- 
rection. 

4. Analyze thoroly the entire port situa- 
tion with a view to ascertaining for what 
purposes the various districts are best 
suited, then plan the sections according to 
their probable respective uses—that is, 
overseas shipping, local shipping, or indus- 
trial purposes—coordinating them all, how- 











NEW TERMINALS OF THE C, & B. LINE AND D. & C. LINE, FOOT OF EAST NINTH STREET, 
CLEVELAND, OHIO 


Drawing showing view from the lake piers, with new City Hall on the left and County Court House on the 


right, in the Cleveland group 


vidual units—that is, dry docks, warehouses, 
factory buildings, etc —while they may se- 
riously impair the efficiency of that par- 
ticular plant, are only local in their effect 
so long as the basic plan is not disturbed, 
and such individual errors may be corrected 
from time to time. Errors made, however, 
in the basic features just referred to will 
have a far-reaching bearing on the whole 
terminal situation, as they may affect ad- 
versely the efficiency of every dock, ware- 
house and factory in the entire port-ter- 


plan project, nearing completion 


ever, so as to make one unified terminal 
system. 

5. Avoid burdening the port-terminal 
plan with details, which won't be carried 
out as suggested anyway, but make pro- 
vision for the essentials, or the foundation, 
as it were, upon which the superstructure 
—that is, the shipping facilities and indus- 
trial plants—will be erected in units, from 
time to time, in accordance with the growth 
and needs of the community which they are 
intended to serve. 





1 


ana 




















erent 














639 


Proportional Representation as a Cure for Mis- 
representation in Municipal Government 
By Ernest Batten 


Member of the Illinois Bar; Secretary-Treasurer of 
the Proportional Representation League of Illinois 


Every fool knows that a man represents 
Vot the fellers that sent him, 
But them on the fence.” 


James Russet. Lowe 


ARGE masses of the 
reached the conclusion that repre- 
sentative government has_ broken 

Certain it is that under our present 
system of conducting elections minorities 
have either too much or too little power. 
Thus the vital principle of democracy—fair 
representation—is violated. Where the two 
large parties are almost equally divided, a 
few voters, representing, perhaps, some 
foolish hobby, may so organize themselves 
as to virtually control the election by swing 
ing their support to the candidate who will 
agree (perhaps secretly) to their demands. 
In this way, by adroit use of enough votes 
to control the balance of power, the bulk 
of the voters in both of the large parties 
may be degraded into pawns. 

Citizens who invariably vote their party 
ticket and those who are indifferent to civic 
affairs have but little influence on legisla- 
tion. Legislators are dominated by those 
political views which are common to the 
majority, but subordinate thereto; yet of 
much greater influence in proportion to 
their numbers are the opinions of those who 
switch their votes from party to party as 
their interests dictate. 

Intelligence or any quality common to all 
the members of a group diminishes in pro- 
portion to the diversity of those who join 
it. Fifty peddlers share considerable knowl- 
edge in common, but when fifty doctors or 
lawyers are added (tho the total knowledge 
is increased) the knowledge is 
greatly diminished. Add grocers, carpen- 
ters and street sweepers, and their common 
knowledge is only a small fraction of what 
we started with. Still more diversified are 
the mental and moral qualities of voters 
constituting a majority of a district or 
ward. 


have 


pec yple 


down. 


common 


A group of ignorant voters large enough 
to elect one or more candidates under pro- 


portional representation, 


v€ ther by a 


be ing boun 1 to 
common purpose, will have a 
common standard of intelligence and mor- 
ality far superior to that which is common 
to the best educated and most cultured dis- 
trict majority in America. The 
that the beliefs, intelligence and 
moral standards of 


reason is 
diverse 
a district majority are 
apt to conflict and thus cancel each other, 
so that its only moving force is those quali- 
ties common to each of the majority voters. 

As the strength of a machine is that of its 
weakest part. so generally is the intelligenc« 
of a party’s candidates on a level with that 
of the element that is 
elections 


necessary to Carry 
This discourages men of excep 
tional character and ability from standing 
for public office, for they must adapt their 
program to catch the least intelligent voters 
necessary to make a majority. 

Such | uncertain. They can 
best be reached by the use of money, lies 


voters are 


cajolery and misrepresentation of the op 
posing candidate. 
Sary to 
and 


Their votes are neces 


success. They swing the election 
constitute the 
power. 


balance of polit cal 


On their low intelligence may de- 
pend peace or war and the destiny of na 
tions. Such a system reverses the order of 
nature; the unfit not only survive, but 
political control over the fit 

Even superior men, when elected to of 
fice, must trim their sails to catch each 
favoring breeze or they will fail of reélec 
tion. A man with the courage of his con 
victions is generally marked for defeat 
the next succeeding election 


gall 


How different under proportional repr« 
sentation! When those who think 
and want the same things done can elect 
their own representative, the intelligence 


171 
AlLING 


common even to the most ignorant group or 
quota will far exceed that which is common 
kind of plurality, 


and men correspondingly superior will r 


to any ward or district 
p- 
resent such a group. 

The peculiar advantage of proportional 


representation consists in allowing the mi 











640 THE AMER 


nority voters in what are now different dis- 
tricts to combine their votes for the pur- 
pose of electing a candidate of their own 
liking. If ten councilmen are to be elected, 
what is more just or reasonable than that 
each one-tenth of all the voters should be 
allowed to choose a councilman regardless 
of the ward in which he lives? Voters are 
the rightful judges of a candidate's quali- 
fications, including that of residence \ 
councilman should not represent mere 
bricks and mortar and geographical areas, 
but living human beings. 

With proportional representation — the 
man of brilliant intellect and lofty char- 
acter will be reélected as long as he satisfies 
his own group, no matter how disliked he 
may be by other groups. Profound stu- 
dents of political science, the captains of 
industry, and leaders in the labor and pro- 
fessional world will represent the groups 
to which they respectively belong. As one 
lodge, society, or organization selects its 
ablest members to send as delegates on im- 
portant business to another lodge or society. 
so the political groups will force into public 
life their real leaders, the intellectual giants 
of the country, to whom the honor of the 
position will outweigh the salary 


Proportional Representation and the 
Short Ballot 

Proportional representation and the short 
ballot are complementary. The unwieldy 
ballot generally in use puts the voter in 
a position where he can know no more 
of the fitness of most of those for whom 
he votes than if the names were taken at 
random from the city directory. Not even 
the president of a university can vote such 
a ballot intelligently. In fact, without know- 
ing something of the candidates, a college 
professor has no more voting intelligence 
than a peanut vendor. Neither can vote in- 
telligently without investigating the relative 
merits of the candidates, and without intel- 
ligent voting efficient government is impos- 
sible. 

Citizens whose sole duty at an election is 
to help elect but one representative will dis- 
play a civic intelligence unattainable under 
the long ballot. On the other hand, as in 
the purchase of a suit of clothes, the greater 
the assortment the merchant carries, the bet- 
ter the chance of getting what you want: 
so, within reasonable limits, the greater the 
number of candidates from whom the voter 


ICAN CITY VoL. XV, No. 6 
can choose, the better selection will he be 
able to make, and if candidates can be 
drawn from a larger area, so much greater 
is the likelihood of having superior men on 
the ballot. 

lhe ideal voting system is, therefore, a 
combination of both a short and a long bal- 
lot—a short ballot in the sense that no bal- 
lot can be counted for more than one candi- 
date, and a long ballot in the sense that the 
voter has a long list of names from which 
to pick his one candidate and the right to 
designate to whom his ballot shall be trans- 
ferred if it cannot help his favorite candi- 
date 

lhe Congress, the Legislature, or the 
City Council, if it accurately mirrors public 
opinion, may be safely trusted with the ap- 
pointment of all executive and judicial of- 
ficers without sacrificing the principle of 
democracy. Proportional representation, 
coupled with the city manager plan, means 
the dawn of a better day. Under such a 
charter no mayor or other executive officers 
are elected. All executives being appointed 
directly or indirectly by the council, execu- 
tive and legislative functions are completely 
harmonized. Disunity between these de- 
partments is one of the chief causes of 
\merican lawlessness. Aldermen, legisla- 
tors, and congressmen, having no responsi- 
hility for the enforcement of their own acts 
become careless of and indifferent to the 
merits of the legislation for which they 
vote. In like manner, executive officers, in- 
dependent of the legislative body, enforce 
only such laws and ordinances as meet their 
approval. This results in disrespect for all 
law. 

Another great advantage of the city 
manager plan is that the chief administrator 
is placed on a professional basis—that is, 
he is made dependent on the votes of only 
a comparatively few, who are in a position 
to know the qualifications required for the 
office and the details and difficulties of the 
work, rather than on the votes of a multi- 
tude, who have no possible means of know- 
ing these things. 

All cities now operating under commis- 
sion-manager charters, with the exception 
of Ashtabula, lack that vital spark of de- 
mocracy, fair representation. They use 
the unfair block-vote system. Frequently 
the voters of but one party are represented, 
all others being virtually disfranchised. A 


























DECEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 





: 64 
a transfer of a few votes may unseat all the trial conditions improved, but 
4 commissioners and replace them with in place in the d minant party org 
F experienced — ne wap acelpe f ws hem led in that 4 
Experience is always necessary to pro- f nearly half the voters who stay 2 : 
ficiency, yet men without experience are These men would take an active interest 
4 elected both as commissioners and mayors _ politics and would modify by their new-fou 
1 of great cities. When such officers fail to en e the pers nnel of both the new parties 
. ; nd the old. In these ways the balance: 
make good, the voters at the following elec- ver could he held. not br “faddiste” bee be 
tion, instead of ousting the system, are apt the solid, patriotic, disinterest tizens] j 
: to elect other inexperienced men with _ the untry.” 
equally bad results. The Hope of the Future 
. Reform Movements and Proportional No: constitutional ‘chetecles stead in tx 
; Representation way of the introduction of proportional 
One of the greatest problems of those representation in the cities and villages of 
who advocate any progressive movement is most states. In Illinois, for exampk 
: how to get their views before the general may be adopted by legislative act without 
i public. Those who read the literature of amending the constitution; or the legis! 
such a cause are principally those of its ture can grant to cities the option of adopt 
own cult. The obvious remedy is propor- ing their own voting systems. It may even 
tional representation. Under it any consid- bestow as full a measure of home rule as 
erable following will have its own cham-_ the cities of Ohio enjoy, where each cit 
pions in the legislative halls of the nation, may make its own charter. 


where it will command the attention it de 


Just as the most, progressive of the a 
serves. Asa result, either it will grow until 


cient philosophers could not imagine humat 
it finds expression in our laws and institu- society without slaves. so until recently 
tions, or, if impractical, it will speedily be electoral svstem 
brought to its natural death by the light of | which fairly represented minorities. Th 
critical examination. Prof. John R. Com- 


could not he conceived 


invention of proportional representation is 
mons considers that the very presence of to the political world what the di 


SCOVE 





highminded reformers in a legislative as- Columbus was to the physical world. It 
sembly will elevate its tone and be of great will tend to regenerate American institu 
education value to the nation. He says tions, abolish the gerrymander, purify elec 


“Idealist reformers would send their ablest tions, install in our legislative chambers 


spokesman. Other parties in self-defense true representatives of the noblest and most 





would be compelled to do the same. The rep- intelligent as well as of all other important 
resentative assembly would become the great i 
forum of the people. Its debates would com groups in the community, and substitut 
mand attention. It would educate the nation civic enthusiasm for political apathy 
Reformers would see that their cause is 

strengthened, not by sending eccentrics to Con } N Articles 

gress, but by sending capable all-around men. "esentan . = - > he — 

At present, having no representation whatever, |, 441: April, 1913. p. 373: September. 19 

only their extremists can attract attention 191; December, 1915, p. 494. Par 

The very nature of reform movements would ‘detail, the best methods of conducti - Lie 
change. There are many sensible citizens who ‘Vi rican Propottrenal R os ae 
to-day would gladly see political and indus ford, P 















































\ BROA PROMENADI 


PULLERIES GARDENS, PARIS 


‘ ' } ¢ ' 
es s lay 


How Paris Uses Its Parks 


By Charles J. Storey 


HE visitor in Paris is often impressed, 
even in war time, by the great va 
riety of outdoor life enjoyed by th 

people, and, above all with the daily us« 
they make of the numerous parks and gat 
dens for which the city is famous. There 
is, of course, a climatic reason for this, as 
the weather is usually so temperate that 
extremes of heat and cold such as we have 
Thus the Paris parks 


have a vear-round usefulness. The Parisian 


are almost unknow1 


enjoys his park winter and summer and 
never loses the habit ot going there for 
rest and recreation. 

lhe park system of Paris comprises not 
only the enclosed parks, as the Tuileries 
and the Luxembourg Gardens, but many 
wide boulevards edged with broad bands of 
trees and lawn, as the Champs-Elysees and 
the Avenue du Bois de Boulogne. Even o1 
the boulevards in the center of the city one 
may come upon a group of trees to save 
which the pavement has been broadened at 
that point, even at the expense OT a dislo- 


cated house line. And invariably there wil 


be a few benches under them for the weary 


pedestrian. Here | am reminded that the 
French, more accustomed to a leisurely lif 
than we are, have provided themselves in 
Paris with public benches placed at inter- 
vals along all the principal thorofares. 
his gives an inviting and friendly air to 
the city. 

With the exception of the Bois de Bou- 
logne and the Bois de Vincennes, two mod 
ern parks of about 2,300 acres each, situ- 
ated on the edge of the city and traversed 
by excellent drives, Paris parks are de- 
signed solely for the pedestrian. They are 
really more like gardens enclosed in high 
iron fences, masked by shrubbery and trees 
on the interior and ornamented by statues 
aml fountains. Perhaps our democratic 
ideas do not allow us to surround our parks 
with 15-foot iron fences, yet this arrange 
ment gives a delightful sense of seclusion 
he park is effectively shut off from the 
surrounding city and becomes a more quiet 
and restful place. 

rhe enclosing of public spaces as though 
they were private ground is no doubt a 
relic of the days when all parks were the 




















AN CITY 


THE AMERI( 


DecEMBER, 1916 





% 








; a= 
————5 > an 


4 




















ORNAMENTAL FENCE ENCLOSING THE TUILERIES GARDENS, MASKED BY EES 
ON THE INSIDI 
property of the king. It has its advan- to the pedestrian. Wide walks ar 
tages to-day and many of the small parks  mense gravel-surfaced terraces give breadth 
of Paris, even tho they be but a few acres and spaciousness. B clevet g 
in extent, owe their charm to the exclusion ment of fountains and statuary these oper 
of the city life. promenades, no matter how great in extent, 
In the planning of many of the parks of never appear empty or too large. On Sun 
Paris, a great deal of space has been given days and féte days the value of this space 











sul id 





re aoa 





PARK 


PARIS.—A SMALI 
SPACES 











PALAIS ROYAL, 


GARDEN OF THE 
PLAY 


THE 
Note the small groves for chairs 














ICAN CITY Vor. XV 














WIDE GRAVEL-SI FA PROMENADE IN 
TREES CONCEA 
S appal ent when thousan Ss ol people stroll 
or rest without crowding 
Che .walks and open spaces are covered 
with oTrave | instead ot asphalt ron 
esthetic point of view gravel 1s a more 


i 
picturesque material for parks and gardet 
It is pleasant to walk on, and, even in th 
city of frequent rains, when the gravel is 
well laid it dries quickly The white sur 
face with th 


not hold the 


gives a pleasing contrast 


green foliage and does heat i 
summer 

\t first glance the older parks appear to 
have been designed only for the children. 
to the walks and | 


gravel 
terraces, there are large play 


In addition wide 


spaces unde 
small groves, where the children may play 
and where the older folk may rest on the 


many benches and chairs hese play 
grounds, as one might call them, are not 
equipped with apparatus, yet the children 
Near by 


booths, the 


| 


are always at play. will be foun 


small toy and candy toys for 
outdoor play, such as hoops, balls, coasters 
etc. Then there are, in the larger parks, 
one-man-power carousels and swings. On 
these the children may ride for a penny 
But the best patronized park amusement is 
the little theater 
mime, but the 


Judy 


not a cinima or a panto 


old-fashioned l 


Punch and 
show. 


A. 


\ PARIS PARK, WITH A DENSE 
H STREI 


LINE O} 


n every park will be found the “Theatr« 
Guignol,” a tiny booth with a tiny stage 
before which the children sit on little 


enches in the open air; There was a time 

\merica when strolling showmen gave 
these exhibitions in the small towns and 
villages, but they are no longer seen Yet 


the ancient marionettes with their ancient 
’ still play before the 
little French children, and I cannot but be- 
there is something valuable in the 


stimulus the 


tragecly 


and comedy 


lieve 


imaginative children receive 


in these open air theatres under the trees 
lhe “Guignol” is never given indoors, but 
always in the parks, where it has been a 
French institution for generations. Could 
we only have something of the kind, some- 
thing significant of the park and the open 
ir! 

Coming back to the French love of com- 
fort, the chairs which one 
finds in their parks is perhaps worth imi- 
tating. In addition to the numerous public 
benches, there are small camp chairs which 


may be rented for two cents as long as on 


system of pay 


wishes to rest. They may be placed in any 


agreeable spot, and as there are many 


chairs to be had it is always possible to ob 
tain a seat. The small price enables any- 


one to secure a comfortable seat and elimi- 


nates one of the evils of our parks—the 



























ye Bb reryere 


~ 








DrecEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


communal benches, where women and girls 
are compelled to sit beside various sorts of 
undesirables. The problem of the tramp on 
the park bench is thus solved. Often our 
small parks in America are spoiled by the 


masher” and the tramp on _ the 





Growth and Wealth of the Playground 
Movement* 
By H. S. Braucher 


Secretary, Playground and Recreation Association of America 


WENTY-NINE years ago the first 
playground in charge of a play 
leader was established in Boston, 

Mass. Up to 1900, nine other cities had es- 
tablished playgrounds, as nearly as can be 
told from the reports received at the office 
of the Playground and Recreation Associa- 
tion of America: Chicago in 1893, Phila 
delphia in 1894, Pittsburgh in 1896, Balti 
more in 1896, Hartford in 1897, New 
Haven in 1897, New York City in 1898, 
San Francisco in 1898, Albany in 1899. 
During the six years from 1900 to 1906, 
when the Playground and Recreation As 
sociation of America was established 
thirty-six cities established playgrounds, an 
average of six cities a year. In Igoo the 
following cities took up the playground 
movement: Portland, St. Louis, Brattle- 
boro, Buffalo: in 1901, Covington, Lexing- 
ton, Springfield, Detroit, Nashville; in 1902, 
Washington and Montclair; in 1903, Louis- 
ville, Waltham, St. Paul, Rochester, Utica, 
Homestead, Montreal; in 1904, Westbrook, 
Me., and Richmond, Va.; in 1905, Los An- 
geles, Santa Barbara, Atlanta, Youngstown, 
Reading, Halifax; in 1906, Denver, Nauga- 
tuck, Wilmington, Leavenworth, Milton, 
Mass., Newton, Salem, Minneapolis, 
Orange, Providence. In the three vears 
following the founding of the Playground 
and Recreation Association of America, 
seventy-three cities established playgrounds, 
an average of twenty-four a year, four 
times as many a year as in the six years 
preceding. In I910 thirty-five cities fol 
lowed; in 1911, forty: in 1912, forty-three 
in 1913, seventy, making an average fot 


* From a report submitted at the annual ent 
of the Playground and Recreatior Associat 
America, in Grand Rapids, Mich., October, 191 





pupiic 
i 
benches. And the pay chairs in the Paris 
parks are not only a public convenience, but 
net a good sum toward the maintenance of 
the parks. 
these four years of forty cities a vear. Dur 


ing 1914 and 1915, 125 cities established 


playgrounds, an average of sixty-tv 


year, So that the rate of increase dt 


the last two years has been ten time 
rate which prevailed during the six 
preceding the establishment of the As 
tion. Che total number of cities now 
in 


playgrounds is 432. 


y pli 
5 | ad 


\t the close of the first years efi 


the part of the Association, on June ! 


1907, there were 189 regular memb« 
the Association At the close of the 


s the 
years 
SOocla 


ha 


ort o1 


vear of the Association, the number of 


members is about 5,000, an increa 
ibout 2,500 per cent. At the close 
first year’s work the receipts had 
$2,164.50; at the close of the tentl 
SI 15,455.24, an increase of 5 500 per ¢ 
rhe growth in the wealth of the 
ground movement during the ten 


however, is not measured bv the ine 


in sand bins, swings, teeters, slides 


ming pools, recreation buildings. Mill 


of dollars have been spent each vear for 


I 


physical equipment The wealth of 
movement to-day is rather in the met 
women who have been found and who 


been trained as play leaders and as we 
for the playground movement \ cor 
tive estimate of the men and women 
out America to-day working for 

play life for America places the nun 
60,000 Many of the Se men an 


to-day veterans who have served 


ten-years’ campaign They can do 
what was impossible for them tet 
ago. An atmosphere i background 


been created which makes achiever 


possible during the next ten years 
could not occur but for the past 


1 womel 








646 





The Resurfacing of Old Brick Pavements With 
Sheet Asphalt 


By Thomas H. Brannan 
Superintendent of Asphalt, Columbus, Ohio 


HE resurfacing of old brick streets 
T with asphalt is a subject that seems 
to be demanding the attention of 
municipal engineers thruout the country. 
Property owners and public officials in some 
cases are insistent upon this form of con- 
struction, and it behooves the city engineer 
to be ready to adopt it, or be able to con- 
vince those interested that it is not the thing 
to do. 

In Columbus, Ohio, there is being laid, 
on the average, about 150,000 square yards 
of sheet asphalt a year. By far the largest 
percentage of this yardage has been laid 
on new concrete foundation and on streets 
that have never been paved before. We 
have, however, a large number of old brick 
pavements that are worn out and some of 
these we have resurfaced over the brick. 

It is not my intention either to promote 
or to discourage the resurfacing of brick 
streets with asphalt, but merely to describe 
the method used in Columbus and point out 
some of the advantages and disadvantages 
of this kind of construction. 

About thirty years ago the city of Co- 
lumbus began to lay a considerable amount 
of brick pavement. Prior to that the cob- 
blestone had been used on a number of 
streets. 

Three of the old cobblestone pavements 
were resurfaced with asphalt about 28 years 
ago, and they are still being maintained. 
Two of them should have been resurfaced 
not later than the twentieth year, but the 
third (Bryden Road, Parsons Avenue to 
Twenty-second Street) is still in fair condi- 
tion, and with a reasonable amount of main- 
tenance it can be kept in repair for several 
more years. Another old cobblestone pave- 
ment resurfaced 15 years ago (Washington 
Avenue, Broad Street to Town Street) is 
in excellent condition to-day. It has not 
had any repair and shows no signs of crack- 
ing or disintegration. The service which 
these streets have given was probably the 
reason why it was decided about four years 
ago to try resurfacing some of our old brick 
pavements. 


These old brick pavements were laid on 
a gravel, a crushed stone or a creosoted 
plank and sand foundation. The brick were 
small size red brick and the joints were 
either tar or sand filled. 

In 1912 three of these old streets, having 
an area of about 14,000 square yards, were 
surfaced over with sheet asphalt. Since 
that time nine other similar streets have 
been given the same treatment, and the 
total yardage has been increased to about 
75,000 square yards. 

One of the first questions to be considered 
in this kind of construction is that of drain- 
age. All of our old streets were laid with 
a six-inch gutter. After a three-inch coat 
of binder and top has been put over the 
old brick, it therefore leaves a very shal- 
low gutter. On streets having a lateral 
grade of six-tenths per cent or over, this 
is not so serious, but for grades less than 
six-tenths per cent a three-inch gutter may 
not be deep enough to carry the water. On 
these streets one of two things can be done: 

The first method is to take up the old 
brick in the gutters for a width of three 
to four feet from the curb and lay a con- 
crete base to such a grade that, when the 
gutter is paved with new brick, these brick 
will be high enough at the outer edge to 
form a shoulder for the edge of the asphalt. 

The second method is to take up the old 
brick for a distance of three to four feet 
from the curb and concrete this space, leav- 
ing it low enough along the curb to lay 
asphalt over and still maintain a desired 
depth of gutter. The outer edge of the con- 
crete can be brought to the level of the 
old brick and an asphalt roadway can then 
be laid from curb to curb. This will in- 
crease the transverse grade or crown of the 
street near the curb, but not enough to be 
seriously objectionable. 

Before any asphalt is laid on old brick, 
it is essential that the old brick pavement 
be cleaned and all of the dirt removed from 
the joints to a depth of at least one-half 
inch. This is done most effectively by 
flushing with a fire hose. It can also be 


SNR NNN 





er 


648 THE 
done by raking out the joints with sharp 
pointed picks or hooks, and then sweeping. 
lf flushed it is necessary to give the street 
some time to dry out, and for this reason 
the sweeping is preferable during the late 
fall months. 

In case the old brick are worn thru at 
any point or are more than three inches 
below the general grade, these holes or de- 
pressions are cleaned out and concreted 
At intersecting streets it is necessary to 
either go back to the property line a few 
feet and relay the brick, bring them up 
enough to form a shoulder for the asphalt 
at the lot line, or take up the brick in the 
wing and let the new asphalt pavement 
down enough to meet the existing pavement 
on the cross street. 

\ closed binder containing from 20 to 
25 per cent of material passing a ten-mesh 
sieve is preferable to a paint coat. A paint 
coat of asphalt must be cut back with naph- 
tha in order to apply it, and unless this 
naphtha entirely evaporates before this is 
laid, it is likely to work up thru the top 
and be detrimental to the pavement. The 
large variation in the thickness of the top, 
however, would be the greatest objection 
to the paint coat. The wide tread roller 
bearing on the different depths of top will 
compress the thinnest portion and leave the 
deep only partially compressed. 
l'rucks going over the pavement after it is 
completed will further compress the deep 
spots and form depressions in the pave- 
ment. 

The depressions thus formed will likely 
produce shoving and destroy the pavement. 

We use inch-and-a-half top and inch-and- 
a-half binder on these streets. The inch- 
end-a-half binder is figured on the basis of 
one cubic yard (box measurement) laying 
20 square yards. Whatever excess there 
is over this amount is paid for by the cubic 
vard as extra binder. 

Where the brick foundation is very irreg- 
ular the binder is laid in two courses. The 
depressions are first filled and rolled and 
then the inch-and-a-half binder is laid. An 
examination of the under side of a slab of 
binder taken from a cut on a resurface job 
of this character showed the print of all 
the brick and also showed the binder driven 
in between the brick sufficiently to give a 
good bond. 

The average amount of binder required 
on all the streets that have been laid was 


spots 


AMERIC 





AN CITY Vor. XV, No. 0 
.022 of a cubic yard per square yard of 
top. This at $7 a cubic yard would be an 
item of about 15 cents a square yard for 
extra binder. This amount plus 5 cents a 
square yard for cleaning, deducted from the 
cost of excavation and new concrete, rep- 
resents the saving that can be made on this 
kind of construction. 

In our city with concrete figured at 70 
cents a square yard, and excavation at 95 
cents a cubic yard, this saving would amount 
to 75 cents a square yard of finished pave- 
ment. 

Another advantage of this form of con- 
struction lies in the fact that it is not 
necessary to have a street torn up nearly 
so long for repair, and if required it need 
not be closed to traffic at all except on the 
day that asphalt is being laid on a certain 
portion of the street. 

As a general proposition I would not ad- 
vise attempting to surface over the old brick 
on a street having a car track. The only 
way that this can be done, if the brick are 
left in, is to raise the track, and this causes 
a bad condition with regard to the grade 
of the tracks at all intersecting car lines. 

We did take up the brick in one block in 
Columbus and, by using about three inches 
of binder and two inches of top, surfaced 
over the old macadam foundation. This 
was laid on a down-town street. The work 
was (lone by the city plant four years ago 
and the street is in very good condition t» 
date. In that case it was quite an advan- 
tage to have the street torn up only a few 
days. 

Three of the streets resurfaced four years 
ago are within four blocks of the center of 
the city. I cannot see but that they are 
in as good condition to-day as if they had 
been laid on a new concrete foundation. 
They are not cracked, they have not shove, 
and they have not had and do not need an’ 
repair. One of them took an _ extraor- 
dinary amount of traffic last year when the 
parallel streets on each side of it were in 
bad condition. 

The nine streets resurfaced during the 
last four years carry a somewhat lighte~ 
trafic than the 1912 streets and would all 
be classed as residence streets. They are 


all in good condition and have not had any 
repair. 

We have not laid any surface using a 
paint coat instead of a binder, nor have we 
laid any asphaltic concrete. 


It would not 














DECEMBER, 1916 THE AME! 


require so great a depth of material to bring 
the street to grade if an asphaltic concrete 
were used and consequently this construc- 
tion would be less expensive. 

In conclusion, | would say that wherever 
it is possible 1 would prefer to resurface 
over an old brick street from curb to curb 
if the longitudinal grade will permit. | 
find that less extra binder is required for 


this construction than where ew rick 
gutters are laid. In general, our brick 
streets resurfaced with sheet asphalt ars 
satisfactory and the thing we are interested 
in now is how to get equally good result 


~° » 


with less money 





Items of Municipal Law 


Validity of Water-Works Franchise 

In the case of City of Belfast vs. Belfast 
Water Company, 98 Atlantic Reporter, 738, 
the Maine Supreme Judicial Court holds 
that a water company which adopted a con- 
tract made by its promoters with the city, 
under which it was agreed that water would 
be furnished free to the municipality for 
fire protection purposes after the expiration 
of twenty years, the city paying hydrant 
rental in the meantime and the company 
carrying out the contract for thirty years, 
became estopped to assert invalidity of the 
contract. The city is upheld in its right 
to enjoin discontinuance of the fire hydrant 
service. The court further holds that such 
an agreement cannot be deemed to be 
invalid as being discriminatory against pri- 
vate consumers, except as expressly for- 
bidden by statute. There is a statute in 
Maine which forbids discrimination in re 
spect to service afforded by a public utility, 
but the Supreme Judicial Court finds that 
the statute is inapplicable to this case be- 
cause adopted after the contract in question 
was made. 


+ + 
A City as Private Guardian 


\ pioneer resident of St. Cloud, Minn., 
having become old and enfeebled, and it 
appearing that his only child and heir re- 
fused to care for him, he deeded property 
worth about $7,000 to the city on condition 
that the municipality provide for his needs 
during the remainder of his life, and a de- 
cent disposition of his remains. On the 
old man’s death the son sought to have the 
deed set aside on the grounds of the father’s 
mental incapacity and of the city’s want of 
power to accept a conveyance on such 
terms. But the Minnesota Supreme Court 


has just declared the city’s title to be good, 
the contract having been carried out on 
both sides. The decision is not inconsistent, 
however, with a theory that the transaction 
was so far beyond the powers of a munici 
pality that a taxpayer might have enjoined 
its carrying out had timely suit been brought 
to annul the bargain before the city paid 


out anything under the contract 


+ ¢ 


Referendum Dry Ordinance Valid 

On November 3 the Minnesota Supreme 
Court handed down a decision sustaining 
the validity of an ordinance of the city of 
Duluth, under which sale of intoxicating 
liquors is forbidden. \  saloonkeeper 
sought in a proceeding to compel issuance 
of a license to him, to show that the initia 
tive and referendum provisions of the home 
rule charter adopted by the citv in IQT2 
were invalid: it being under these provi- 
ions that the ordinance in question was 
adopted. But the courts sustained the 
power of Minnesota cities to adopt hom 
rule charters and to legislate on the liquor 


question, independently of stat 
+ + 


Validity of Cafe Regulation 

The ordinance of the city of Chicago 
which purports to forbid the proprietors of 
cafés from permitting patrons to dane 
therein unless the places are licensed as 
dance halls is invalid as applied to restau- 
rants, where no charge is made for the 
privilege of dancing; the ordinance unrea 
sonably invades the property rights of the 
owners of such places. (Illinois Suprenx 


Court, City of Chicago vs. Drake Hotel 


Company, 113 Northeastern Reporter, 718.) 











650 











Civic Work of Educational Institutions 

















The New Kind of Civics in the Public Schools 


By Hyman Feldman 


l is not long since we had no civics at 
all in the public school curriculum, and 
it is only recently that vague, meaning- 
government have 
heen replaced, in many of our schools, by 
definite, thinking about the 


practical problems of administration. 


less speculations about 


constructive 


Formerly, as even now, undue weight was 
attached to problems of pure theory or of 
cultural significance. <A _ great 
taught about national and 
ments, but little emphasis was placed on 
municipal problems. A graduate of a high 
about the classical tri- 
governmental 
very 


deal was 


State govern- 


school might know 
partite division of 
find the 
“franchise” 


powers, 
but would 
term 


meaning of the 
beyond his comprehen- 
He would know the qualifications of 
the members of the 


sion. 
legislature, 
and the pros and cons of the question of 
popular 


national 


which, of 
course, involves very advanced theory, but 


election of senators, 
he unable to express an intelligent opinion 
on the functions of the Board of Estimate. 
He would know much about the cabinet, but 
little about the Public Service Commission. 
In short, such students learned least of the 
subjects about which they should have been 
taught most. 


Civics in a New York High School 

But mark the advance that some of-our 
The High School of 
Commerce, New York City, offers a fine 
example. In this school the course in 
civics is distributed between two depart- 
ments. The first instruction in this subject 
is given by the Economics Department to 
the boys who have just entered the High 
School. The second division of the course 
is given in the last term of the four years 
and is under the jurisdiction of the History 
Department. It was not mere casual pref- 
erence that caused the institution to devote 
the work of the first term to municipal gov- 


schools have made. 


ernment and the last to “civics” in general, 
for it was found that the course in munici- 
pal government was an essential prepara- 
tion for the other subjects, especially for 
those in commerce. Effective teaching was 
considerably impeded by the boys’ ignor- 
ance of both municipal administration and 
its terminology. To the pupils, “harbors,” 
“rapid transit facilities,” etc., were mere 
words. The course given during the first 
term is entitled “Municipal Activities,” and 
the theories of government are taught only 
as they bear upon the concrete problems 
studied. The work of the term is summar- 
ized in seventeen mimeographed sheets, 
which are given to the pupils from time to 
time during the term. The advantage of 
this is that the course of study can be kept 
completely up-to-date. Below is given the 
first of these papers. It is a characteristic 
one, but by no means the best. 


MUNICIPAL ACTIVITIES 
TOPIC 1—THE STREET 
Features of My Home Block 

~Make a survey of the block on which 
you live, noting the following facts: (1) width of 
the roadway; (2) width of the sidewalks; (3) location 
surface structures, as car tracks, lamp posts, etc.; 
location and character of surface openings, etc.; 
kind of pavement and grade of street. 


Problem 1.—My Home Block 

\. Draw a diagram showing a cross section view 
f the surface and the sub-surface area of the block 
on which you live. 

B. By means of numerals and suitable key indicate 
the following: 

1. The various parts of the street, as curb, gutters, 
sidewalk, etc. 

®. All surface structures on sidewalk or roadway. 

All surface openings, as manholes, etc. 

4. All sub-surface structures, as vaults, mains, sub 
ways, conduits, house connections, etc 

Ouestions.—1. State all the purposes for 
street is used. 

2. Why are the space above the street and the sub 
surface of importance and value? 

8. Show the relation between the commercial and 
general interests of the city and the condition of the 
city’s streets 

4. Show how increases in population affect the city’s 
streets, 

5. What effect on the growth of the streets does the 
ypening of new transit lines have? 

6. To whom do the streets belong? 

7. Why is the matter of street ownership of im 
portance ? 


Preliminar 


which a 

















tHE 


DrECEMBER, 1916 


Problem 2.—Street Pavements 

A. Draw a diagram showing a cross-section of the 
street pavement of your home block. 

B. By means of a key illustrate the various sec 
tions of the pavement. Describe each and tell how the 
pavement is laid. 

Problem 3.—Kinds of Street Pavements 

\. Make a list of all the kinds of street pavement 
you have seen in this city. 

B. Opposite each kind of pavement write 
features and its weak features. 

C. Summarize the good features of all the 
ments mentioned. 

Ouestions.—1. Name some causes for the deteriora 
tion of street pavements and suggest some remedies 

2. What is meant by the grade of a street 

How does this affect the kind of pavement nec« 
sary: 
4. What kind of pavement is best suited for heavy 
traffic ? 

5. What kind in suburban sections? 

6. What kind near schools, hospitals, et Expl 
why in each case. 

7. Describe the work of the municipal asphalt plant 


The rest of the work of this term is of 
similar nature. Topic 2 deals with street 
plans; Topic 3 deals with street improve- 
ments; then follow discussions of traffic 
and traffic regulations, street cleaning and 
lighting, water supply systems, 
wharves, piers, eminent domain in its con- 
crete applications, transit facilities and the 
new subway, police and fire protection, 
health, taxation, finance, etc., and all the 
boards and commissions connected with the 
above topics. 


sewers, 


An analysis of these papers shows that 
the Department of Economics fully sees the 
truth of the educational dictum that “the 
telling method is not the telling method.” 
The problems and questions are arranged 
so as to arouse thought, and that thought 
is not vague, but, on the contrary, is def- 
initely applied to concrete matters within 
the range of the students’ capabilities. It 
is a well-known psychological phenomenon 
that we are apt to know least about our 
every-day surroundings. For that reason 
each lesson begins with accurate observa 
tions of one’s own neighborhood, to be fol- 
lowed by a plan or diagram of it. When 
problems and questions have been solved, 
the lesson is amplified by more detailed con 
siderations. 


The Teaching of Cultural Civics 


It may be interposed at this point that a 
high-school student should also be taught 
the more cultural matters of national and 
state government. These are not neglected 
by any means. A whole term is assigned 
to this phase of the subject, but it is taught 
only in the eighth term—the last, long after 
the more practical and more necessary mat 
ters are clearly understov’. 


AMERICAN 


(his course, given during the term be 
fore graduation, embraces not only the 
stitutional features of federal, state and 
municipal government, but also many theo 
retical questions such as 


con 


home rule for 


cities, centralization of executive power 


etc. In addition, comparatiye government 
is studied to some extent, comparison being 
made between the governments of Germany, 
France, Switzerland, England 
United States. This the 


some of the elementary principles of a wide 


and the 
gives students 
variety of governmental functions. Text 
assignments and reports include the use not 
only of the standard high sehool texts, but 
also of the books by Bryce, Wilson, Good- 
now and Ogg. 


Applying Civic Methods to Student 
Administration 

In another the 

some use of methods that are an 

over the orthodox question-and-answer rit- 

ual. 


way, school has made 


advance 


It has applied governmental methods 
to the semi-annual elections of the G. O 
the student 
Realizing that these elections pre 


(the General Organization of 
body ). 
sented opportunity for informal civic in 
struction, the school has modeled most of 
the procedure upon that in use at New York 
City elections. Nominating petitions in th 


issued 


form of mimeographed sheets are 
by the school election officials. Instruction 
sheets to voters are passed out. These in- 


structions include paragraphs explaining 
the titles 


canvass of 


regulations, and 
the the 
vote, the tally-sheet, the preservation of 


polling-place 


functions of officials, 


the ballots after election and other matters. 


Watchers are appointed and given author 


ized certificates. Undue influence at th 


polls is provided against, ete the 


instruction in dis- 


hus 


students are receiving 


guised form in certain governmental activi 


ties 


Advantages of This Type of Teaching 

If carried to an adequate extent, such 
treatment of the subject of 
tremendous value. 


has 
It means that the school 
system has punctured that bubble of dogma, 
doctrinaire theory and “hot air’ that for 
merly went by the name of “civics.” It 
means that the school is stimulatiag“Mnterest 


n and disseminating knowledge of those 


“civics” 











652 THE 


things which concern the citizen most in 
timately. This will have a wholesome effect 
in educating him in those affairs which he 
must know intelli- 
gently at elections, referenda and primaries. 


It is in line with the newer notion of politi- 


about in order to vote 


cal science, which re gards it as consisting to 


\ large extent of a scientific investigation 


AMERICAN C 


i ie Voi. XV, No. 6 
of proper methods of civic administration. 
By emphasizing the fact that pavements 
and sewers and sanitation and finance and 
all other civic matters are specialized fields 
best administered by specialists, it is in line 
with that movement which aims to substi- 
tute administration by experts for hapha:- 
ard, inefficient officialdom. 





Problems in the Teaching of Political Science 


N the teaching of political science there 
has always been the conflict of the static 
and the dynamic viewpoints of the sub 
In economics, for example, matters 
fifty 
already earned the appellation of “classical 
their they 
seem to be based on unwarranted assump 
unit, such as the 


ject. 
only or seventy-five years old have 


theory” because in essentials 
tion or on an imaginary 
“economic man,” not corresponding to any 
actual man with has to 
reckon In teaching the subject of 
ernment” in the United States, until not so 
many years ago when Bryce’s “American 
Commonwealth” made its influence felt, em- 
phasis was placed almost exclusively on the 
mere framework—the provisions in the 
Constitution or the city charter, and the 
legislation made in connection with these. 


whom society 


gov- 


It was analogous to the method of teaching 
the human body by reference solely to its 
skeleton. It left out reference to those or- 
gans which give motive power to this skele- 
ton, which supply the infinite variations in 
its activity, and which, as they function 
well or ill, determine the state of health and 
the efficiency of the whole organism. It 
left out parties, caucuses, politicians, lob- 
bies and all else that makes government a 
problem for the practical mind. It re- 
garded a government of men as a govern- 
ment of Jaws. 


Some of the Difficulties 

Great tact is required in teaching from 
either point of view. The young man who 
has learnt much about the Supreme Court as 
a controlling lever, and does not know about 
the inner workings of political parties, of 
the alignment of big business with govern- 
ment, of the incessant conflict between the 
interests of the agrarian and the commer- 


cial groups—such a man has a one-sided 
view that makes him unfit to grapple with 
any civic problem. He must learn his les- 
on over again in a different way. Should 
he join a local political club and awaken 
to the fact that government is far different 
from the text book interpretation of it, he 
may become an utter cynic about it and lose 
the idealism with which he first viewed the 
subject. 

On the other hand, when teachers are so 
much interested in presenting the actual 
practice of government that undue empha- 
sis is placed on graft and corruption, the 
student’s conception of the administration 
of society sometimes becomes a concatena- 
tion of demagoguery and malpractice. The 
danger in the latter conception is that it 
leads to the conviction that it is best for a 
man of culture and sincerity to keep aloof, 
and it explains, in part, why so large a por- 
tion of our intellectual class will have noth- 
ing to do with politics. This indifference 
is in its effects an evil as great as more 
active maladministration. 


How the Problem Is Being Met 


The problem is being met in some pro- 
gressive institutions. In the November is- 
sue of THe AMERICAN City appeared an 
article on “The Municipal University.” In 
such institutions there are combined three 
phases of the teaching of this subject. The 
first is that which presents the static facts 
as embodied in constitutions and laws; the 
second shows how man makes use of these 
to his purposes, dealing frankly with the 
unpleasant phases of government, such as 
corruption, demagoguery, injustice and in- 
efficiency; the third is the cooperative de- 
partment in which the students cooperate 
with the city in its work and which demon- 




















— 











DECEMBER, I916 THE 


strates to them conclusively how much need 
there is for leadership, for whole-hearted 
endeavor, and for intelligent specialization 
In this way political science is not only an 
academic subject of the curriculum, but 
serves the larger purpose of stimulating a 
civic sense. Moreover, this effect is dis- 
tributed to all the students because the co- 
operation is given by those who are special- 
izing in other subjects as well 


The Importance of Original Methods 

of Teachirg 

There is another phase of the teaching 
of political science that has not kept pace 
with the growing knowledge. That is the 
method employed in actual classroom work. 
lhe methods used in most institutions are 
the same to-day that they were thirty years 
ago. It is a fact to which many students 
will testify that in many cases political 
science courses are as distasteful as Latin 
grammar. This should not be, for the sub- 
ject is a living one. If the instructor will 
make an attempt to depart from the old 
lecture or text-book method, his ingenuity 
will suggest many better alternatives which 
will add interest to the subject. 

For instance, in one school the subject of 
banking was to be taken up for the first 
time. At the previous lesson hour the in- 
structor had humorously given strict orders 
that no text-book be brought at the next 
session. He had delegated two students to 
get some descriptive folders from a nearby 
bank. At the beginning of the hour the 
class proceeded to organize themselves into 
a banking institution. They consulted the 
folders for information. There was a little 
word “capital” that aroused the first dis- 
cussion. They incorporated and capitalized. 
Examining the folder, they saw words such 
as “Resources,” “Liabilities,” “Surplus,” 
“Bonds with U. S. Treasurer,” “Demand 
Loans,” etc. These were inductively ex- 
plained, but the teacher took as minor a 
part as possible. Occasionally he informed 
them that they would all serve a ten years’ 
sentence if they carried on a procedure in 
that way, and told them what the law re- 
quired. It was not in the least like a lesson. 
Everybody enjoyed the hour thoroly. Most 
cf the important steps in banking organiza- 


AMERICAN CITY 652 
tion were taken up in this fashior 
students got the banking viewpoint 
result ota Tew lessons, so that the text-book 


assignments in this connection were not at 
all dull. In some of our institutions the 
students, under the supervision of the 
thorities, run actual savings banks that 
pay interest on dep sits. 

Similar means of enlivening the subject 
ire used here and there by wide-awak« 
structors. Legislative organization is taught 


} 


vy the establishment of a mock congress o1 
State legislature with all of its essential ma 
chinery; finance by the drawing up of 
budget, each student having- previously been 
ippointed head of a city department Ihe 
Varying jurisdiction of the courts has been 
metamorphosed into an interesting topic | 
assigning judgeships to the students 


then requiring each to “throw out of cou 





any cases which are not under his juris 
fiction. Even such topics as that of draw 
‘ng a line of demarcation between state and 


federal powers, or between city and state 


powers, is objectively taught by beginning 
with the question of how to proceed in ad 
vocating an actual piece of legislation, such 
as minimum wage, etc., and testing its va 
lidity by reference to the Constitution and 
judicial decisions. lext-book work is as 
signed, of course, but such assignments ar« 
for the purpose of home study of the details 
of a matter whose general principles one 
already knows lexts thus take on plea 
antness and clearness. The use of method 
such as these, if employed with discretion 
and judgment, will enliven a subject whic] 
can easily be made dull, and will serve to 
impress on the students’ minds the essen 
tials and the practical phases of the work. 
These methods are merely applications of 
the method of “learning by doing.” The 
are methods approved by most authoritic 
on teaching. The reason why they are not 
more widely used is that many college in- 
structors believe methods of this sort un 
necessary in higher teaching, on the suppo 
sition that their students will be interested 
in their subject whether thus presented ot 
not. Others are too much intent on chrono- 
logical sequence These habits are being 
broken, however, and institutions of learn 
ing are asking for men who are not onl 


] i ton , 
good scholars but good fi ners 


SAZIGALASIISL 





654 


A Page of Questions for Classroom Use 


Municipal Organization 
Proportional Representation 

What are the disadvantages to the minority 
of the present electoral system? Show how 
proportional representation would eliminate 
some of these disadvantages. Explain some of 
the other merits of the plan and tell why it 
will tend to get a higher class of men into the 
legislative bodice How does disunity between 
legislative and executive functions make for 
poor government? Why would it be advan 
tageous to couple a city manager provision 
with the proportional representative principle ? 


(pp. 0639-041.) 
City Planning 


The Port Terminal Factor. Give a g& 
definition of a “port terminal.” Of what 
nificance is the port terminal to the effective 
city plan? To the industrial development of 
the city? How does the design of the terminal 
street and railway affect the efficiency of the 
piers? What are the qualities of a_ well 
planned marginal street? Of a well-planned 
marginal railway? Indicate some of the prin 
ciples to be followed in the location of harbor 
lines. To what extent does the problem of 
harbor development depend upon the use to 
which the harbor is to be put? Should the 
freight and passenger facilities be grouped or 
separated? Discuss the problem of co6rdinat 
ing port facilities with the terminals of rail- 
ways and street transit lines; with the city 
markets and warehouses; with local freight 
carriers; with overseas shipping trade. Out 
line the requirements of a complete terminal 
unit. What principles should guide the allot- 
ment of water-fronts? Why should a general 
scheme of railway development of any tract 
he worked out before its occupation by any in 
dustry? Discuss the principles of railway de 
velopment of industrial tracts. (pp.631-638.) 


Municipal Departments 
Their Work 

Health Departments. About how many cases 
of illness occur annually in the United States 
What is the economic value of the waste re 
sulting from these illnesses? Discuss the re 
lationship between poverty and illness. Why 
is the present system of health insurance in- 
adequate to meet the situation? Outline the 
main provisions of the health insurance bill 
drafted by the Association for Labor Legis 
lation and point out its merits. What is the 
justification for contribution by the state? By 
the employer? By the employe? How would 
this fund be administered? Show how such a 
measure for health insurance would be effec- 
tive in preventing and reducing illness. (pp. 
694-695.) How may children aid in health 
campaigns? Describe the work of the Junior 
Deputy Police in San Diego and Denver. (pp 
606-608. ) 


sig 


True American Crry) 


Water Departments 
of the 
unaccounted for? 
water are wasted annually 


About what per cent 
water in metered systems is usually 
About how many gallons of 
? What is the esti- 


mated value of this waste? To what condi- 
tion of the pipe is this evil attributed? To 
what extent will testing pipe for water tight- 
ness be of aid in eliminating waste? What 
other tests should be applied? Describe some 
of the progress made in this direction. (pp 


000-062. } 

On what three factors does the formation 
of ice in water mains depend? Explain these 
in detail. Suggest some tried means of thaw- 
ing frozen mains and explain how they are 
to be applied. (p. 659.) 


Municipal Correction Farms 

About how much money is spent annually 
in the United States for the detection and 
punishment of crime? In what sense is the 
treatment of crime and criminals a test of the 
civilization of a people? What rights does 
the misdemeanant have? Discuss the evils of 
vindictiveness as a principle of punishment 
Why must society take account of the human 
side of the prisoner? What aims and princi- 
ples should guide society when establishing a 
prison system? 

What is a municipal correction farm? Name 
and locate two such farms. Show why the 
location of such a farm must be selected with 
great care. What are the advantages of using 
unimproved land for the site? Discuss the 
principles of management of such an institu- 
tion and indicate what industries you would 
include. What provision should be made for 
the mental and spiritual development of the 
prisoners? What is the relation between health 
and crime? What provisions should be made 
for the health of the prisoner? (pp.623-630. ) 


Public Safety 


Trafic Control. Explain the effects on traffic 
of too narrow thorofares; of street obstruc- 
tions; of poor paving; of inadequate police 
regulation; of improper parking of vehicles: 
of failure to make use of parallel thorofares 
Outline the remedies proposed for Cleveland 
by Mr. Goodrich. What is a safety zone and 
why is it necessary? What regulations should 


be made when establishing a safety zone? 
What is a movable stanchion? Describe some 
stationary stanchions. Why are they called 


“safeties”? What are the dangers of station- 
ary safeties? Which do you believe prefer- 
able—the stationary or the movable type of 
safety, and why? (pp. 698-699, 702-705.) 

Fire Protection. Describe the conditions 
which led to the passage of the Michigan mov- 
ing picture law. What are its main provisions, 
and why are they necessary? What has been 
the result of the law? 


(pp.700-701. ) 



































a ee 


- 





OSS 


The Masque of the Nativity 


A Triumph in Municipal Pageantry 


By Paul Henry Dowling 


HE civic value of pageantry was well 

r illustrated in the “Story of the Na- 

tivity,” presented last Christmas Eve 

by 400 volunteer actors and singers before 
15,000 people of Los Angeles. 

Thirty-five hundred seats had _ been 
erected in front of the band-stand out un- 
der the stars in Exposition Park, to accom 
modate the people who were expected to 
come. Men, women and children from all 
over the city rapidly filled those seats. As 
many more sat on the grassy terraces sur 
rounding the band concourse, hundreds 
lined the walls and windows of the armory, 
and a thousand more strove for a view of 
the spectacle from the 
outer edges of the crowd. 


star of Bethlehen shone trom the 

ot a tall eucalyptus tree while i ( 
mocn made a dim glow thru the light 9 
which hung over the buildings he sky 
became clear al d the Stars glowed 

the happy scene Strong arc lights, hid 
den by banks of Christmas trees, illumined 


brightly the most gorgeous and realistic cos 
tumes which could be secured from the 
many moving picture companies about the 
city. The lights of more than a thousand 
automobiles gyave flashes of brightness 

the far edges of the park. The bright 

ors of the shepherds’ cloaks were outlined 


igainst the green and brown of the stage 


tds 





Considering the enor- 
mous numbers of the pop- 
ulace who were present, 
the reception of the play 
was noteworthy. The 
usual whistles and catcalls 
from the young ruffians 
who hung around the 
edges of the crowd, heard 
when a slight delay was 
occasioned at the start of 
the performance, soon 
turned to reverent appre- 
ciation as the actors spoke 
their lines. The voices of 
the audience were hushed 
as Mrs. Lillian Burkhart 
Goldsmith, the producer 
of the play, dressed in 
white and radiant with 
gems, came to the front 
of the stage to read the 
prologue. The keynote 
was struck in the phrase 

.a play for rich or 
poor, 
Or wise or simple, Chris- 
tian, Pagan, Jew.” 

A true Oriental spirit 
was secured in the staging 
of this masque of the 








a| 


: 
; 
: 
a 
ie 


i 
i: 
3 








well-known story. The “WI 


HAVE SEEN HIS STAR IN THE EAS! 





650 THE AMERICAN CITY Vor. XV, No. 6 


setting, glistening under the rays of the 
strong arcs. And suddenly an angel aj 
peared, the beautiful colors of the lights 


reflected from his resplendent wings 

When the prolog was over a chant 
arose from behind a clump of trees Phe 
rich voices of the men of the Orphe is ( 
rang out thru the quiet of the night, a1 
there was indeed “a song in the air Harps 
and trumpets and the weird strains of an 
oboe, coming from back in the distances 
added to the impressiveness ol the musi 
lhe Stage itself, a stable scene with the 
manger in the foreground and the group of 
the Holy Family, was like a picture by on 
of the Italian masters lhe height « 
the spectacular was reached when the King 
of the South, followed by his queen, on 
large elephant, the King of East, with his 
camel train, and the King of the North, 
mounted on a large white horse and fol- 
lowed by the Roman legions, marched ma- 
jestically out of the natural scenery and 
down the green lawn There were singing 
shepherds, a small shepherd lad clad in 


1 


goatskins and followed by his dog, the 
heavenly choir, and the principals, Joseph 
and Mary, to close the masque. 

The production of “The Story of th 
Nativity’”—as the title page of the book 
read, “A Masque for the Commonwealth 

Los Angeles,” by Miss Susanna Clayton 
Ott was made possible by the services ot 
actors and singers from the Channel Club, 
the Matinee Musical Club, the Lyric, Domi- 
nant and Orpheus Clubs, the Wednesday 
\lorning, Ebell and Shakespeare Clubs, a 
hundred students of the Polytechnic High 
School and the entire choir of the First 
Methodist Church, all uniting to present 
the holiday pageant. Musical directors, 
also, Herr Adolph Tandler, Carl Bronson 
and Joseph Dupuy, all gave their services 
for this celebration before the public on 
the holiday eve. It is doubtful if such a 
spectacle could have been arranged in many 
other places, for the reason that camels, a 
handsome Arabian horse, an elephant and 
hundreds of costumes and other parapher- 
nalia were all furnished by the “movies.” 














ae eee 


«ice tne: sath 














THE KING OF THE SOUTH, IN THE MASQUE OF THE NATIVITY, LOS ANGELES 











+ tie wee 





a AF eo 


DECEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 57 


6< 




















rHE APPROACH OF THE POTENTATE OF THE EAST, WITH PRESI NTS FOR THE 
CHRIST CHILD 


Describing the scene, Mr. Henry Christen ming part of the luxurious setting for the 
Warnack, in the Los Angeles Times, said: ivine drama. the stillness ( gn 
like the 1T I praise the purpl lepths t 
All of the magic of a southern night in’ the over-arching sky were like those S 
June drew its perfumed draperies about this for which the dumb li \ i 
Christmas pxan and pageant in that great open the gladness of the stars was ‘ 9 
place. Night and sky seemed fitting, as a b the heart 





A Birds’ Christmas Tree 


By Mrs. E. H. Wehle 


T is not often that the little birds are re- forms in recent years, one of the most in 
membered on Christmas day. They are teresting of these being the creation of bird 
usually left to care for themselves on sanctuaries in many cities 

that day as best they can. The movement The form this movement took in Louis- 
begun by John James Audubon, the Ameri ille, Ky., last year, when a Christmas tree 
can ornithologist, however, has awakened a Vas provi led for the birds that visit the 
realization of the large debt, not to say Highland district of that city, is believed 
duty, human beings owe to the bird king to be unique. The idea was conceived | 

dom, which has been evidenced in numerous the Highland Civic Club and was carried 





658 


out by them with the help of the children 
in the public schools and orphanages and 
the elderly women residents of Parr’s Rest. 

The Highland Civic Club is a women’s 
organization devoted to the civic betterment 
of the Highland district, and the birds’ 
Christmas tree was one of a series of 
monthly entertainments that were given un- 
der the auspices of that club. The tree was 
therefore called a community Christmas 
tree instead of a municipal Christmas tree. 
It was located on the corner of Cherokee 
Road and Highland Avenue, this location 
being selected for two reasons: it was near 
the branch public library, where the club 
holds its entertainments, and an opportunity 
was thus afforded to further socialize the 
library; it was also opposite Parr’s Rest, a 
home for aged women, and the residents 
could obtain a full view of the tree while it 
remained there. 

The decorations consisted of a very long 
streamer of small, clear electric light bulbs, 
little cardboard baskets holding bird food 
of all kinds, including bits of raw fat, and 
strings of popcorn and cranberries. The 
streamer of lights was wound around the 
tree in such a manner that when lighted the 
tree appeared perfectly cone-shaped, and the 
clear lights gleamed out like so many stars. 
The children of the public schools and or- 
phanages in the Highlands made hundreds 


THE AMERICAN CITY 





VoL. XV, No. 6 


of little baskets of various colors and 
shapes to hold the grain, and the grain was 
all donated. The old ladies at Parr’s Rest 
strung the popcorn and cranberries; friends 
from the country donated the tree; the elec- 
tric wire cord for making the streamer of 
150 lights was donated; the bulbs were 
loaned ; the Gas and Electric Company gave 
the power and made the connections. The 
Christmas tree was therefore a real gift to 
the birds and gave pleasure to hundreds of 
people every night. And it served as a re- 
minder that the birds were God's creatures 
also and must be taken care of in the cold 
weather. 

The children from the schools and or- 
phanages participated in the song celebra- 
tion that was held around the tree at dusk 
on Christmas day, when it was lighted for 
the first time. A large company of people 
had gathered there to enjoy the occasion. 
A short talk was given on the care of the 
birds during the winter season, and on leav- 
ing each child was given a basket full of 
grain to scatter on his way home. The 
ground was for the most part covered with 
snow and it was bitter cold. Thus the little 
unpretentious tree fulfilled its mission, and 
its influence has reached not only to other 
sections of our city, but inquiries for de- 
tails about this novel entertainment have * 
been received from several far-away towns. 





Mobilizing for 


The “Health Defense Guard,” of Green- 
wich, Conn., as a life-giving measure of pre- 
paredness, has assumed considerable public 
importance. Women started this organiza- 
tion and compose its entire membership. 

The Guard came into existence as a re- 
sult of the epidemic of infantile paralysis, 
but it has come to stay as a permanent fea- 
ture of community effort. One of the clever 
ideas developed by it is the issuance of a 
“Sanitary Supplement” to the Greenwich 
Press, the local newspaper. It appeared on 
September 28 and constituted a regular 
newspaper size, six-page addition to the 
above publication with the motto, “Let Us 
Mobilize for Public Health” prominently 
displayed at the top. All of the articles 
dealt with public health in one phase or an- 
other, and a number of well-known spe- 
cialists contributed articles. Some of the 


Public Health 


titles will indicate the wide range of the 
articles: “Personal Hygiene,” by Alma M. 
Wertheim ; “Greenwich Housing,” by Anna 
A. Ryan; “Public Playgrounds,” by Lydia 
R. Coffin; “Fly Catechism”; “Soda Water 
Fountains,” by Beatrice L. Magnes. Prof. 
Irving Fisher gives some fine thoughts in 
an item on “How to Live.” Among the 
longer articles there is one taken from THE 
AMERICAN City of June, 1916, on a very 
important phase, “The High Cost of 
Sanitary Ignorance,” by George A. John- 
son. 

The influence of such a supplement is 
bound to be great. Since public health is so 
largely dependent on the personal factor— 
that is, the habits and notions of the indi- 
vidual—the dissemination of the elementary 
principles of health and sanitation is a step 
in the right direction. 





























Pn omer. 


ee 





659 


Formation of Ice in Water Mains and 
Its Prevention 


By William Whitlock Brush 


Deputy Chief Engineer, Bureau of Water Supply, of the Department ot Water Supply, 
Gas and Electricity, New York City 


HE water-works superintendent or 
engineer must know under what 
conditions the formation of ice in 

water mains occurs, before he can hope to 
prevent its formation. A neglect to realize 
that this is in itself a problem well worth 
experimentation and analysis will hinder 
efficient administration. 

In general, the formation of ice in water 
mains is dependent on three things; the 
temperature of the water in the main, the 
velocity of the flow of the water, and the 
pressure. The pressure is usually of such 
slight importance that for practical pur- 
poses we may consider it negligible. The 
temperature of the water in the main is 
approximately that of the reservoir or 
stream from which it flows. This means 
that it is seldom below 33° F., as the condi- 
tions in streams and reservoirs generally 
prevent the cooling of the water below that 
temperature. Under such circumstances 
the freezing of the water will occur only 
when it loses heat in passing thru the 
mains, so that its temperature falis below 
the freezing point, 32° F. 

When the temperature falls below this 
minimum, even by less than a tenth of a 
degree, ice will first form near the inside 
of the pipe, thus serving as a sort of coat- 
ing or inner tube of ice. This is due, of 
course, to the fact that iron is a much bet- 
ter conductor of heat than water, and that 
consequently the water nearest the pipe 
has lost heat faster than the water in the 
center of the pipe. The existence of this 
film constitutes an advantage, for the water 
then has no direct contact with the pipe, the 
contact being with the ice, which is a very 
low conductor of heat. 

The rate of flow now has a determining 
influence in the temperature of the water 
and the formation of ice. The slower the 
rate of flow, the faster the formation of ice. 
If the velocity is high, ice may be formed at 
times as frazil ice, consisting of tiny needle 
crystals which will not necessarily clog the 


main; but if it should clog the main, ther 
by stopping all flow, the water ‘rapidly 
freezes into solid ice. Such clogging mav 
also occur when the thin sheets of ice first 
formed in a main have begun to thaw, and, 
in floating thru the main as chunks of ice. 
have congregated at some point where ther: 
is some joint or turn in the pipe. With 
limitations such as these, increasing the 
velocity of the water is a good means of 
preventing the formation of frozen mains. 
Since the water of a main will not freeze 
at 32° F. or above, and since reservoir 
and stream water is usually slightly above 
this temperature, the advantage of this 
velocity of flow is that it does not allow as 
much heat to be conducted from the water 
while in the pipe as a slower rate does 
This prevents freezing. Careful tests of 
the temperature of the water drawn from a 
hydrant during cold weather will give ade- 
quate information as to whether the water 
is in danger of freezing. No rule can be 
formulated which will settle the question 
of whether or not a main will freeze under 
given conditions, as the factors involved 


are too variable. Thus a covering of snow 


will greatly diminish the depth of frost 
penetration and prevent freezing of water 
in mains when the temperature is suf- 
ficiently low to otherwise cause such freez- 
ing. Again, with pipes laid on the surface, 
as across a bridge, much can be accom- 
plished by a protective coating 

An important problem in connection with 
this subject is the thawing out of frozen 
mains. This was a much more difficult 
matter before the utilization of electric cur- 
rent at low tension was made _ simple 
enough for practical purposes. If the main 
is laid in soil, the conditions are much more 
favorable to the thawing of the main than 
in a main laid in water, for in the latter the 
heat generated by the electric current is 
rapidly dissipated by the flowing current of 
the water. In the former instance, how- 
ever, the heat generated by the electric cur- 








660 THE AMERICAN CITY 


rent passing thru the metal will thaw not 
only the ice which is formed within the 
main, but also that which is formed in the 
soil outside the main. Under these condi- 


VoL. XV, No. 6 


tions the transmission of the heat to the 
surrounding earth is at a very slow rate, 
and it is possible to thaw the pipe with little 
electricity. 





Leakage From Pipe Joints 
By F. A. Barbour 


Civil and Sanitary Engineer, Boston, Mass. 


Eprror’s Nore.—The following paper embodies the substance of a report submitted 


Mr. Barbour as Chairman of the Committee on Leakage of the New England Water 
l'orks Association, at the November meeting of that organisation. It is here published 


as a means of calling general attention to the importance of the problem, and in the 
ope that readers of Tue American City may be able to furnish more definite data for 


the guidance of the Committee. 


While municipal engineers and water-works officials have for years discussed water 
losses, such losses have been accepted too complacently as inevitable. Their total avoid- 
ance cannot, of course, be expected; but these losses can unquestionably be reduced, and 
the importance of the subject justifies a more thoro study of causes than has heretofore 


been made. 


HE fact stands out that in entirely 
y metered systems, or in systems 
where the meters exceed 85 per cent 
of the services, at least 20 per cent of the 
water furnished is, on the average, unac- 
counted for, and the question arises as to 
whether we should be content with such a 
condition. It is to be noted that this 20 
per cent loss is not based on a comparison 
of pump records with the water sold, but 
on the figures furnished by superintendents 
as to the water unaccounted for in their 
systems, these figures presumably making 
corrections for such items as pump slip- 
page. It would seem that a loss of 20 per 
cent, due to leakage from mains and ser- 
vices or to under-registration of meters, 
which undoubtedly represents the best con- 
ditions, is sufficiently sizable to justify care- 
ful consideration of possible remedies. 

We all know that the total unaccounted- 
for water in unmetered systems is enor- 
mous; presumably we all agree that meter- 
ing is the great remedy; and yet, as re- 
ported by the United States Department of 
Commerce, only 40 per cent of the services 
are metered in 201 cities, containing 26,- 
000,000 people and having an average per 
capita consumption of 139 gallons per day. 
This total loss is not the subject of our im- 
mediate discussion, but as a means of call- 
ing attention to present standards of man- 
agement a few figures may not be amiss. 

The total population in the United States 


supplied with water from public works may 
be taken, for present purposes, at 50,000,000 
people, and the average amount of water 
furnished per day at 100 gallons per capita. 
The total water supplied daily by public 
works is, therefore, in round figures, 
5,000,000,000 gallons. It is probably a safe 
statement that 50 per cent of this quantity 
is wasted. Assuming the actual cost of fur- 
nishing the useless 2,500,000,000 gallons to 
be $25 per million gallons—and this is an 
extremely low figure—the cost per day of 
the water wasted is equal to $62,500, or 
$22,800,000 per year, which is equal to the 
interest on an investment of $500,000,000. 
Figured in this rough way, the results do 
not speak well for our present-day standard 
of management of water systems. If it 
should be answered that it is not practicable 
to prevent this loss, a reasonable reply 
would be that at least we should know more 
about its causes than apparently is known 
at the present time. 

As already stated, metering is the great 
means of reducing the total waste on which 
the previous figures are based. There re- 
mains, however, the fact that in the fully 
metered systems, on the average, at least 
20 per cent of the water furnished is un- 
accounted for, and probably if more accu- 
rate data were available this percentage 
would be shown to be materially greater. 

Emil Kuichling estimated 2,500 to 3,000 
gallons per mile per day as the leakage 




















at se Estes ios 




















DECEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 66 


from well-laid mains; Dexter Brackett esti- 
mated a leakage of from 10,000 to 15,000 
gallons per day in the Metropolitan Dis- 
trict; and John R. Freeman stated that his 
best guess of the underground leakage in 
New York was from 25 to 35 gallons per 
day per capita, equal to from 20,000 to 30,- 
000 gallons per day per mile of pipe. In 
six cities, with 95 per cent of the services 
metered, reported by Brackett in 1904, 36 
per cent of the water was unaccounted for, 
equal to an average loss of 11,300 gallons 
per mile of pipe. James H. Fuertes, in the 
1906 Report to the Merchants Association 
of New York, presented statistics from thir- 
teen cities in which on the average 82 per 
cent of the services were metered, which 
showed that 31 per cent of the supply was 
unaccounted for, equivalent to approxi- 
mately 18,000 gallons per mile of pipe. 
What part of these losses are chargeable to 
the mains is unknown, but from the results 
of such leakage surveys as have been made, 
and from the reported actual losses discov- 
ered in some cities, it is probable that 7,500 
gallons per mile of pipe per day is a con- 
servative estimate of the water lost by leak- 
age from the 60,000 miles of mains now in 
use in the public supplies of this country, 
or 450,000,000 gallons daily. At $25 per 
million gallons, this is equal to a daily loss 
of $11,250 or $4,110,000 per year, or the 
interest on $100,000,000. In the light of 
this economic waste it would, therefore, 
appear that the subject of leakage from 
mains is worthy of careful consideration. 
The Committee on Water Consumption of 
the New England Water Works Associa- 
tion reported in 1913 that “in general it 
may be said that if in a well-metered sys- 
tem the water unaccounted for does not 
exceed 25 per cent of the total pumpage, 
the practice is good.’ Doubtless this should 
be interpreted to mean that a 25 per cent 
loss is good cempared with the average 
present practice, but is it good compared 
with the standard which should be set up in 
this age when we hear so much about con- 
servation? Should we complacently accept 
a loss of 25 per cent as inevitable? And if 
this loss cannot reasonably be much reduced 
in the systems already constructed, what 
about the possibility of better methods of 
construction in the pipe to be laid in the 
future? It is, of course, out of the ques- 
tion to consider the relaying of present sys- 


tems or to do more than make leakage sur- 
vevs and check the larger losses, but in the 
light of present knowledge, is it not time 
to undertake seriously an analysis oft the 


causes responsible for the present lat 


ree pe 
centage of water unaccounted for? | 
these losses are chargeable to under regis 
tration of meters, then this should 


definitely made known, and consideration 
given to the possibility ol leveloping more 
sensitive or more accurate 
paratus. 

\re we taking sufficient care in testing 
pipe for water tightness when laid? Abou 
60 per cent of those replying to a recent 
circular of the Committee on Leakage of 
the New England Water Works Associa 
tion state that the pipe is tested when laid, 
and all but six make the test before back 
filling. In the writer's experience, testing 
before backfilling in the ordinary work of 
laying distribution systems is rare, and it 
is undoubtedly from the practice of simpl 
turning on the water without any test that 
a considerable part of the present leakag 
develops. lhe standard of those who test 
as indicated by the replies received, is 
solute tightness,” but in the writer’s expe 
rience this result is not easy to obtain, ar 
only possible where the joints are gone ovet 
several times after the pressure is applied 

Where pipes are backfilled before testir 
the allowable leakage, as determined by 
such test, has varied greatly in different 
specifications. John H. Gregory, at Colun 
bus, made the limit 500 gallons per inch 
mile per day. At Akron 200 gallons pet 
inch mile per day was specified, while actua 
results at Akron showed about 70 gallons 
per inch mile per day. E. G. Bradbury, it 
his paper before the Association in I9I4 
proposed 100 gallons per inch mile per day 
as a reasonable standard for the allowabl 
leakage in testing after backfilling, and he 
figured that the difference between 500 and 
100 gallons per inch mile per day, estimat 
ing the cost of the water at $25 per milliot 
gallons, would equal a yearly cost of $5 
for water lost in a city of 100,000 peopl 
or, in other words, the city could afford to 
spend $470 per mile in order to save 400 
gallons of leakage per inch mile per day. 

\gain, are the present jointing methods 
the best qualified to maintain tightness 
after periods of use? Who knows anythit g 


about the comparative leakage when laid 


af) 








662 


and after several years? In this latter con- 
nection the history of the work at Grand- 
view, Ohio, is of interest. As reported by 
Mr. Bradbury, the supply is measured by a 
tested meter and all service pipes are me- 
tered. The 5.5 miles of pipe originally laid 
were tested before backfilling and the leak- 
age before any connections were made 
amounted to .31 gallons per inch mile per 
day, or, in the system was 
practically watertight. Subsequently 0.9 
miles of additional mains were laid, and 
gradually in the four years since the date 
of original construction the services have 
increased to the present number of 
Either by less careful work in the extension 
or by depreciation of the original work, or 
by under-registration of the gradually in- 
creasing number of meters, the unaccounted- 
for water has increased until at the present 
time it averages about 150 gallons per inch 
mile per day. An interesting feature in 
connection with these records is that the 
unaccounted-for water, based on three 
years’ observations, averages 60 gallons per 


other words, 


205. 


THE AMERICAN CITY 





VoL. XV, No. 6 


inch mile per day during the six months 
from October to April, and 213 gallons dur- 
ing the six months from April to October. 
In other words, the records indicate in this 
system that the' unaccounted-for water is 
three times as great during the summer as 
during the winter months. Whether some 
local explanation can be found for this re- 
sult, or whether it is a reasonable result of 
temperature changes, is not known, but data 
from other systems showing the unac- 
counted-for water during periods of vary- 
ing temperature would be of considerable 
interest. 

Any information of definite tests of leak- 
age from observation of mains after periods 
of use, or of the effect of temperature on 
leakage, or the results of tests of leakage 
from lead joints with different shapes of 
bell and spigot or of other types of joints, 
will be of value to the Committee on Leak- 
age. It is hoped that such information will 
be forwarded to the Committee by any en- 
gineer or water-works superintendents 
who may be able to codperate in this study. 





Providing by Law for 


When a marsh, a swamp or other mos- 
quito resort is located on the land of some 
owner who resents interference with his 
property or derives financial benefit from 
the perpetuation of things as they are, the 
official who is interested in the elimination 
of mosquitoes may have a hard time of it 
unless he is definitely empowered by law to 
proceed in his work. Such a law was 
passed in Connecticut in 1915. It has es- 
tablished not only the right of the official 
to make regulations concerning private 
property, to enter upon such land to see if 
the regulations have been complied with, 
and to survey, drain or fill the land when 
he believes it necessary, but it has also es- 
tablished a penalty of fine and imprisonment 
for any person who obstructs the legitimate 
activities of the officials in charge of mos- 
quito elimination. 

The law is as follows: 


“Section 1. The director of the Connecticut agri- 
cultural experiment station may make rules and or- 
ders concerning the elimination of mosquitoes and 
mosquito breeding places or areas, and he or his 
agents or employes may enter upon any swamp, marsh, 
or land to ascertain if mosquitoes breed thereon, or 
to survey, drain, fill, or otherwise eliminate any such 


Mosquito Elimination 


* 
mosquito breeding place. 
“Sec. 2. fhenever sufficient funds have been 
raised for the purpose by the state or by any city, 
borough, or town in which swamp. marsh, or land is 
located, or by voluntary contributions, said director 
shall drain, fill, or otherwise treat such place or area, 
or cause any such place or area to be drained, filled, 
fr mosquito breeding therein otherwise eliminated, and 
shall cause notice of any such order to be given to 
the owners of any such place or area by publishing 
a copy of such order containing a déscription of the 
place or area proposed to be drained, filled, or mos- 
quito breeding therein otherwise eliminated, with the 
proposed plan of elimination, at least three times in a 
newspaper having a circulation in the locality where 
such place or area is situated, such publication to 
begin not less than ten days before beginning such 
elimination. Any person claiming to be aggrieved be- 
cause of any such proposed draining or filling may, 
within ten days after publication of such notice, apply 
to the superior court or any judge thereof in the 
county in which such land is located, for relief from 
such order, and shall cause a copy of such application 
to be served upon said director not less than six days 
before hearing thereon, and said court or such judge 
may make any proper order concerning the proposed 
plan of elimination of mosquito breeding. 

“Sec. 3. Any city, borough, or town wherein any 
such place or area has been drained to the approval 
of said director shall keep in repair and free from 
obstruction any ditch, canal, or drain connected with 
such place or area, and, upon order of said director, 
shall construct and maintain suitable tide gates, and 
may appropriate funds for such purposes and for use 
und er the provisions of this act. 

‘Sec. 4. Any person obstructing the work of ex- 
amining surveying, or ditching, or otherwise treating 
such mosquito breeding areas, or obstructing any 
ditch, canal, or drain, or the natural outlet of any 
marsh forming mosquito breeding areas, shall be fined 
not more than peg mon toe dollars, or imprisoned not 


more than ninety days, or 














ee el epg — 


ca Act ote 











O02 


Tax Assessment by Scientific Methods 
By James G. Stafford 


Consultant in Tax Valuation (Superintendent, the Joint Bureau of Appraisal, 
Los Angeles City and County, 1915-16 


QUITABLE taxation is impossible 
without an equalized tax assessment 
Unscientific, haphazard and guess- 

work methods of realty valuation will nul- 
lify the most beneficent tax laws ever 
passed, 

When a progressive business man learns 
of some new efficiency device, such as a 
computing scale, cash register, package 
carrier, cash system, transmission method, 
or accounting practice, he makes every 
effort to install it, adapting it to the needs 
of his individual business. As a result, he 
does business at a greater profit, because 
of less expense. Community profits de- 
pend upon the introduction into every phase 
of governmental activity of similar ef- 
ficiency methods. Standardized assessment 
systems, based on common sense proce- 
dure, and eliminating guesswork and the 
personal equation, will increase community 
income, reduce expense in this one depart- 


rent of government 


ye ; 
satisfaction to all classes of taxpavers 

\ scientific tax assessment Syste s 
be based on an understanding of th ( 
tors affecting land values in cities, at s 
embody some means of measuring such 
values, and structural values as well. Frank 
publicity must be given to all methods in 
order that full public understanding be ha 


of all phases of the work of the tax assess 
ment department. 


Procedure in Los Angeles 
Modern analytic methods of realty valu- 
ation were adopted thruout Los Angeles 
city and county last year, for the purpose of 


equalizing the current year’s tax assess 
ment. The work of land and building valu 
ation was cared for by two separate depart 
ments, in charge of specially trained men 
Land valuation work revolves about the 
use of land value maps and the appraisal of 

















EXECUTIVE OFFICES, THE JOINT BUREAU 


OF APPRAISAL, LOS ANGELES, 1915-16 


Progress sheet of county appraisal work, and city index map, with symbols indicating progress 


on wall 


at left 









INDEX MAP 


Pee By 





THE AMERICAN 


CITY OF LOS ANGELES 
Sth mine 
ATLAS SHEETS 






City Vor. XV, No. 6 






-ESt-- 











THE JOINT BUREAU OF APPRAISAL 
(Ames © 9ST. sUPreINT wane 
- 
Showing how the area of the city was districted for land valuation purposes 
relative and comparative values at full Expression of relative or comparative 


worth by committees of representative 
property owners, business men, and others 
familiar with local conditions. To furnish 
a systematic basis for the land value maps 
it is necessary to district the city and make 
up proper index maps, enlarged sectional 
maps, etc. This is done while the work 
progresses, after the central high value sec- 
tion has been started. 


















































values is greatly facilitated thru the use of 
a standard of measurement. This was 
achieved in Los Angeles thru the adoption 
of the unit foot, which, being uniform, en- 
abled property owners to compare similar 
quantities of land in all parts of the ap- 
praisal district. 

With land value maps—or, to use the 
technical term, unit value maps—completed, 
















































































pan pt 1, 


ps — a 
CF yw ape t*. 
§ iés 


Showing relative values of street usefulness, expressed in terms of percentage of the highest valued 
interior frontage (marked by star), 1915-16. The relative percentage values are shown inside block lines. 
Dollar values per unit foot of 100 feet depth, indicated in streets. Note the equalization of land values, and 
their gradual Seepense from the point of highest value. This is virtually a graphic picture in relative value 
terms, of the traffic on these streets. 

Data compiled and copyright, 1916, by James G. Stafford. 











ing 

















DECEMBER, 1916 


and valuations checked and approved by the 
two assessors, it becomes a matter of dis- 
tributing those street values uniformly and 
impartially, according to the shape, size and 
location of the several parcels or lots form- 
ing the block area. 

This is clearly a matter for the mathe- 
matician. Hence, in the work of the Joint 
Bureau of Appraisal of Los Angeles City 
and County, expert computers were em- 
ployed, who thru the application of inflex- 
ible rules, carefully tested mathematical for- 
mule and computing tables, distributed over 
the several hundred thousand odd parcels 
of realty the amount of the street accessi- 
bility each absorbed by reason of its front- 
age, location, size and shape in relation to 
those streets. In this mathematical way of 
measuring the opportunity of each site in 
a city to participate in the life and trade 
of the community lies the solution of the 
problem of properly distributing the land 
values and of proportioning the tax burden. 


Depth Percentage Table 

Students of land valuation work have 
studied the effect of depth on the value of 
city sites, and have expressed their obser- 
vations in a number of tables, “curves of 
value,” as they are termed. Of thirteen 
well-established curves, eleven pivot on the 
100 feet of depth as the most useful in the 
average city sites. All acknowledge the 
relatively superior value of the parts of the 
lot nearest the street. The curve which 
seems to fit into most conditions is that 
which, starting from the street front, finds 
there is 72% per cent of value of the 100 
feet of depth in the front 50 feet, the rear 
half absorbing 27% per cent of the unit 
foot value. Another 50 feet additional 
depth adds 15 per cent to the value of the 
unit foot. Thus with four points for the 
various depths, a curve is easily projected 
which can be read to the hundredths of one 
per cent, if on codrdinated paper. 

With this depth percentage table estab- 
lished, it is a simple matter to compute in- 
terior lot values, whatever the depth of lot. 
Other tables have been perfected for com- 
puting irregular-shaped parcels, lots ex- 
tending from street to street, and also for 
corner lots of various shapes, sizes and 
locations. 


Buildings Scientifically Appraised 


While the work of land value analysis 


THE AMERIC 


AN CITY 665 


BUILDING DESCRIPTION BLANK 


foam No. + 
. " 
ME JOINT BUREAU OF APPRAISAL -LOS ANGELES c 
SSS = ies 


STv 4 COUNTY 


Trct__—¥ /72 7. kt De 
Lot No. LQ 7 _ Block No. G _ 


No. x» -* 
>» A 


























Examined by fF Date Yahi eS 
class EXTERIOR HEATING Lr 

Single Ray Windows g7 oa plece a \Cobble 
Doeble NA 2 oy 37 Ny ond. Coat On Bridie Planer 

~ \Number 5 ode 
Cahtorme lw a Stone, Wi 

ea jell Covering: [#°¢ Gas Furnace |pi,;,, 

a= 2 =~ Leth [Steam Ornamental 
Plat meat, Gene [oo MMOL Fons 
Apartment Siding, Board Pumene (Pain 
Out Buibding pest _eesunneirnemmnt> 0 cca 

Casegp aon teen No. of Fistures _ 

Shed ~~ ROOF -— 

Barn 7, Me Clb icine “SauT im aTeRES 
Church Gali. mere ita LC 
Scbooi Cat inary | Sewer Patent Beds 
Shop Plain nae I 
= fee Se 

FOUNDATION |... TO ea — 
Stone ~~ | Gee. ~ 

Be CONSTRUCTION | Good e— CONDITION 
Brock Medium | Medium |Medivm 
Wood Cheap 










|Poor / 945" 
| 6 


arne 


L0G. VALUES 


ats eT 


| SBA — 7. 


seaveoevs 25f2 _ 
tormcosts 46 25° s 
Pence eee pH 
| ors SEZO _ 
PER CORT UTUITY OL =n 


_PRESERT van vets APY O- 
paawne enase enuscneee SO 606 4HORLes Cor, 
BUILDING DESCRIPTION SLIP FOR A 
DWELLING 








Somewhat similar forms are used for other k f 
buildings. Men equipped with tapelines and blanks 
obtained detailed information of mechanic ta 
nearly 200,000 structures Angeles ( 

County. Expert “pricers” applied ost factors 
Values were then compute f I 
Bureau 


and the mathematical computation of lot 
values was proceeding under the direction 
of a staff of experts in the land valuation 
department of the Joint Bureau of Ap- 
praisal, similiar scientific work was under 
way in the appraisal of structural values. 
In order to properly classify all forms of 
improvements on land, a group of expert 

















666 THE AMERICAN CITY 


construction men, architects, builders, con- 
tractors and engineers were employed. The 
classification of structures, following the 
general lines of the Los Angeles city build- 
ing ordinances, was the first step in this 
direction. Material and labor costs were 
then made up, covering five years of vary- 
ing conditions, and the average costs for all 
the classes—some forty-odd in number— 
were made up on the basis of the reduplica- 
tion cost new on the five-year average of 
prices. 

The length of life of structures under 
varying conditions of maintenance and use 
was next arrived at, after numerous con- 
ferences with this group of local experts. 
This information furnished the basis of a 
scientifically developed depreciation table, 
in which deduction was provided for for age 
and condition. Further depreciations for 
lack of utility and obsolesence were also 
recommended to the assessors’ offices, but 
were not adopted, altho founded on the best 
practice in various parts of the country. 

The building department employed sev- 
eral hundred men familiar with building 
work and construction to ascertain the me- 
chanical data on each structure in the city. 
These men were detailed in crews of two 
each. The building descriptions were re- 
corded on specially prepared slips, on which 
were checked off the details of each build- 
ing, and on each a sketch was made of the 
ground floor plan with dimensions. This 
slip was later turned over to the expert 
“pricers,”’ who made a second inspection of 
the structure, classified it, judged its condi- 
tion, and applied the cost factor per square, 
or cubic, foot, which would reproduce the 
building new at the time of appraisal. 
Computers in the office of the bureau then 
made the calculations and extended the va- 
rious items of cost, depreciation allowance 
and the final “present” value. 


Land Values Increased—Many Tax 
Bills Reduced 
Final net results in the Los Angeles city 
and county assessment totals show some in- 
teresting points. The total land value of 
Los Angeles county increased from $440,- 
390,555 in 1915-16, to $533,617,675 in the 


PARQ GRAIL PAR 


Voi. XV, No. 6 


1916-17 assessment, a gain of $93,227,120, 
or 21.16 per cent. At the same time the 
structural assessed valuations changed 
from $175,459,990 to $169,501,500 in 1916- 
17, a decrease of $5,576,175, or 3.17 per 
cent. The tax rate decreased from 94 cents 
to 81 cents in inside districts, and from 
$1.34 to $1.21 in outside districts. 

For Los Angeles city as of March 1, 1915, 
the last year’s annexations being excluded 
from these comparisons, there is a gain of 
28.96 per cent in land values. The 1916-17 
values are $310,421,735, as compared with 
1915-16 at $240,699,030, a gain of $69,722,- 
705. Improvements are valued at $116,747,- 
600, a decrease of $24,869,055 or 17.56 per 
cent. These figures are gross, no deduction 
for exemptions of any sort being made. 
The total tax assessment, including personal 
property and money, and with the usual de- 
ductions for exempt property, for the same 
area, 1916-17 is $438,639,600, as compared 
with last year at $394,744,600, a gain of 
$43,894,630, or I1.11 per cent. The tax 
rates for various portions of the city vary 
because of the different dates of annexa- 
tion, but all show a decrease of from 9 
cents to 15 cents under’ the last year’s 
figures. 

The Board of Equalization of both the 
city and county of Los Angeles considered 
more petitions for reduction than ever be- 
fore in the history of the community, but 
made fewer changes proportionally. 

The total cost of the work in Los An- 
geles county, according to the financial 
statement of the Joint Bureau of Ap- 
praisal, which was filed April 7, was $111,- 
472. The work inside the city of Los 
Angeles required $63,948 of this amount. 
About two-thirds of the amount was ex- 
pended in the appraisal of improvements, 
the remainder in land valuation work. 

Property owners receiving their tax bills 
this fall have in many instances found them 
considerably lower than formerly, except in 
the case of property located in the central 
high value section, which in many instances 
has been raised from 50 to 300 per cent on 
the City Assessor’s books. This would in- 
dicate a large loss in revenue to the city for 
past years. 





















































FORWARD STEDS 


Reported to The American City 
BY MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS AND DEPARTMENT HEADS 





For this department the editors will welcome short articles from city, town 


county officials and heads of departments, 
others engaged in similar work. 


on subjects of interest and pract 
Photographs, 


and 
u vaive to 
plans or other illustrative 





material 


should accompany the articles whenever available 





[ Seon 
[ MAYORS 


Crom DEDARTTIENTS 
ly PUBLIC WORKS 





Election Notice to Municipal 
Employes 


Denver, Coro.—In order to impress the 
employes of the city of Denver with the de- 
sire of the administration for an absolutely 
free and honest vote at the November elec- 
tion, the following notice was issued on 
October 28: 


No city administration can be subject to or- 
ders from any political party without crippling 
its efficiency, weakening its influence and 
wronging a large number of its citizens. 

Party issues have no place in local munici- 
pal government. Whenever city officials be- 
come cogs in a state or national political ma- 
chine they cannot give the service to which the 
people are entitled. 

The present city administration of Denver 
is non-political. It was elected to conduct 
municipal affairs—not to carry elections. Per- 
sonally, I am a Democrat and shall vote for 
the candidates of my party where I believe 
them to be worthy and in favor of righting 
the present wrongs of taxation. Every city 
employe has the same right to select and sup- 
port whatever candidates he thinks best with- 
out such action in any way interfering with 
his standing in the department. No attempt 
will be made to have city employes vote for a 
certain set of candidates. 

Police officers and deputy sheriffs will main- 
tain their self-respect and the respect of all 
citizens by impartially enforcing the election 
laws and in no manner attempting to drive by 
threats, nor entice with promises, the votes of 
Denver’s vicious or unfortunate citizens. A 
free and honest expression of the people at the 
polls is of more importance to the city than the 
election of any candidate. 


R, W. SPEER, 


Mayor. 








Motor Busses in Connection With 
a Municipal Railway System 


SAN Francisco, Cat.—Upon the recom- 
mendation of the City Engineer, M. M. 
O'Shaughnessy, San Francisco is about to 
inaugurate a motor bus service in connec- 
tion with its Municipal Railway System for 
extending service into outlying districts. 
Some of the conditions leading to this rec- 
ommendation and the advantages which it 
is hoped will be derived are herein set forth 

Street car transportation in San Fran- 
cisco is provided by three street railway 
systems, the largest system being that of the 
United Railroads, consisting of approxi- 
mately 245 miles of single track; the next 
largest system is that owned and operated 
by the municipality, comprising about 45 
miles of single track; the third is the Cali- 
fornia Street Cable Railway Company, con- 
sisting of about 11% miles of single track 

The United Railroads are operating un- 
der franchises granted by the city, the 
average remaining life of which is about 
twenty years. The city, under its charter, 
is committed to the policy of gradually ac- 
quiring and operating all of its public utili- 
Under conditions the United 
Railroads are unwilling to make extensions 
to the existing system from which they will 
be unable to derive sufficient revenue to 
warrant their construction for such a short 


ties. these 


period. 
Transportation must be provided in ad- 
vance of the settlement of new districts, in 


































































»~ 


668 THE AMERICAN CITY 


order that the city may enjoy a healthy 
growth and expand and develop along logi- 
cal lines within its own boundaries. In con- 
sequence of the existing conditions, it de- 
volves upon the city thru its Municipal 
Railway System to do the pioneer work of 
providing transportation service in the out- 
lying districts. 

Extensions to the Municipal Railway 
System are at present being made and paid 
for out of profits realized from operation. 
This method of financing will, however, 
provide for only a limited rate of expan- 
sion, particularly when most of the exten- 
sions into new districts would of necessity 
not fully meet operating expenses in the 
initial years, pending the development of 
the territory which they serve. 

The city charter limits the issuance of 
bonds to 15 per cent of the assessed valua- 
tion of the real and personal property, but 
makes no distinction between bonds for 
revenue-producing public utilities and 
others, so that as the city approaches its 
limit of bonded indebtedness it becomes 
more difficult to finance projects to provide 
for the pressing needs of a growing city, 
including extensions to the railway service, 
even tho the latter return a profit to the 
city. 

These conditions led to an investigation 
of the practicability of utilizing motor 
busses for extending the service of the Mu- 
nicipal Railway System from existing lines 
into, and pioneering the development of, the 
outlying districts. Study of the problem 
indicated the possibility of operating motor 
busses having a seating capacity of about 
20 passengers at a cost per bus mile equal 
to 60 per cent of the cost per car mile of 
operating the standard Municipal Railway 
cars which have a seating capacity of 50. 
These comparative figures are based on the 
total charges, including those against capi- 
tal and operation, from which it is apparent 
that the bus will be the more economical 
until the density of travel is such as to 
exceed the capacity of the busses running 
on the same headway as the cars. The 
small initial cost of the necessary busses 
compared with the cost of railway construc- 
tion, together with the lower operating cost 
under light traffic conditions, indicate that 
the motor bus is particularly suited for this 
pioneer work of extending service into the 
more thinly settled or growing districts. 








VoL. XV, No. 6 


As a result of this study, City Engineer 
O'Shaughnessy in a report recommended 
the establishment of a bus line connecting 
with the Municipal Railway cars at Tenth 
Avenue and Fulton Street and running 
across Golden Gate Park to Ninth Avenue, 
along Ninth Avenue to Judah Street and 
out Judah Street to Thirty-third Avenue, 
following as closely as possible the route 
of a proposed extension to the street rail- 
way system. The busses are to be operated 
on a regular schedule connecting with every 
other car at the railway terminus and ex- 
changing transfers at that point. 

In his report Mr. O'Shaughnessy lays 
great stress on the point that any bus route 
once established must be maintained until 
replaced by railway operation. The neces- 
sity of this is apparent in order that the dis- 
trict may enjoy the full measure of growth 
due to an established and permanent service, 
which would not be the case if the bus ser- 
vice were liable to be discontinued over 
night at the whim of the management. 

The initial installation of this bus service 
is being made with a view of thoroly trying 
out the motor bus under San Francisco con- 
ditions, involving heavy grades in many in- 
stances, in order that, if found as prac- 
ticable as the investigation indicates, ser- 
vice may be extended into many other dis- 
tricts where it is much needed. 

N. A. ECKART, 


Engineer in Charge of Municipal Railway 
Construction. 
+ 


Beautifying a Garbage Dump 

PorTLanD, Ore.—This city in former 
years had, like so many American cities, 
considerable difficulty in disposing of its 
garbage. An incinerating system was 
finally adopted, and for this purpose the 
city purchased a five-acre tract as a site 
for a crematory and public dump. This 
tract is located within two miles from the 
center of the city, adjoining a lake. In 
1897 the city built a crematory of 25-ton 
capacity on this new location. For a fast- 
growing city like Portland the plant proved 
in a very short time to be too small. To 
overcome the situation, part of the garbage 
had to be buried on the dump. As there is 
always a considerable amount of paper 
mixed with the garbage, the dump soon 
caught fire, sending the stench from the 
burning garbage over the residence section 
of the city. Those fires were the cause 











a 








DECEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 

















GROUNDS AROUND THE COMPLETED INCINERATOR PLANT A 
BEFORE ANY IMPROVEMENTS WERE M 


=] 
> 
Z 
x 


' 
, ‘ 
| the Sta tie 
( to-d 
| lhe « ntract 
S ction ot 1 
cinerator e ere 
the s ¢ 
| 
to l ( 
IQItoO n € t 
cepted by the ci 
I | l Dec 
191! \fter 
o( us test 
¢ a or t 


View 

With the garbag 
posal question solved, at 
tention could now be 


en to the impr 





ment o! the filt! 


unsightly condition on 
= — . the ground and dump 


surrounding the plant. 








THE HEDGE OF SWEET PEAS ON THE IMPROVED GROUNDS =. 
OF THE INCINERATOR PLANT To accomplish this the 

















67 THE 








THE FORMER DUMP HEAP IS NOW A BEAUTIFUL FLOWER-DECKED LAWN 


ground had to be raised in places from 6 
to 20 feet to bring it level with the ground 
floor of the building. Only non-combustibl 
material was used in this fill, mostly wood 
ashes hauled in by garbage collectors. This 
took considerable time, but in the spring of 
1914 we had a small part of the older fill 
sowed in white clover. The result of this 
experiment was a surprise and showed what 
ashes, when leached out for about a year, 
could grow. 

To prevent the ground from being flooded 
during the rainy season, a 6-inch drain, 500 
feet long, had to be laid to carry off the 
surplus surface water from the higher ad- 
joining properties. In a fill of this kind a 
big quantity of tin cans are sure to get 
dumped with the ashes (wood ashes destroy 
the cans in a very short time), and they 
require time to settle. While the ground is 
settling, street SW eepings are spread over it 
about 18 inches deep and rolled several 
times before seeding. About one-half of 
the ground was seeded in October, 1914, 
the other half in February, 1915, and by 
July the lawn was in as fine condition as 
any lawn in the city. The work was all 
done by the regular employes; no additional 
help was needed. 

It has cost the city for seed up to the 
present date, $3.84. All the flowers, bulbs, 
plants and shrubs were either donated by 
friends or obtained from refuse hauled to 














the incinerator to be destroyed. Two hun- 
dred rose bushes were given to the plant in 
the fall of 1914 by James O. Convill, Super- 
intendent of City Parks, and about one hun- 
dred have been added since. “The last lot 
are very choice roses and were sent to the 
plant by a local floral house a little after the 
planting season. Free offers of new varie- 
ties of sweet peas and other flower seeds for 
the privilege of testing them at the ground 
the coming season have been made by seed 
dealers. The ground and location are ideal 
in bringing the foliage, shape and color of 
the flowers to perfection. 

With the coming season the improve- 
ments will be extended, and in a very short 
time the city will have a beautiful park 
surrounding the incinerator. 


: _ WILLIAM G. HELBER, 
Superintendent Garbage Incinerator. 


fo , 5 
_CITY CLERKS . 


A Card Index for Registering 
Voters 











New Beprorp, Mass.—Now that the 
country is safe once more, the presidential 
election having been decided, it occurs to 
me that the method of keeping track of 
voters by card index, as used by the regis- 
trars of voters of this city, may be of in- 











DECEMBER, 1916 


terest and possibly of assistance to boards 
of registration in other parts of the country. 
Previous to adopting the system now in use, 
the registrars could not find a specific name 
except by looking up and down the columns 
of the voting lists. Since there is a sepa- 
rate list for each of the twenty-four elec- 
tion precincts of New Bedford, this was 
“some job.” To-day it is possible to turn 
immediately to the name of the voter de- 
sired, and the registrar, with the card in 
hand, has all the needed information about 
the voter at a glance. 

The Massachusetts law regarding the reg- 
istration of voters provides that the candi- 
date shall be twenty-one years old, shall be 
assessed a poll tax, shall have been one year 
in the state and six months in the city or 
town in which he seeks to register, shall be 
able to read the constitution of the state in 
the English language, and shall be able to 
write his name. 

The voter’s name, age, residence and oc- 
cupation, together with his name in his own 
handwriting, appear on the register. In 
New Bedford the data as shown on the reg- 
ister are transferred to the voter's individ- 
ual card, as below. 

By this card it would appear that John 
Smith, a mule spinner, 38 years of age, born 


THE AMERICAN CITY 671 


In 1914, which is the time when John 
Smith’s current record on the card begins, 
he was returned by the assessors as resid- 
ing at the same place, 34 Stapleton Street. 
The next year, 1915, it appears that he was 
not returned by the assessors in April, 
when, by Massachusetts law the returns are 
required to be made, but was later found at 
288 Bolton street, in another precinct, and 
was restored to the voting list September 
8 of that year. In 1916 and 1917, the card 
shows, Smith resided at the same place and 
was returned from there, altho with a new 
division of the city into wards and pre- 
cincts his precinct number was changed to 
23. In 1918, the card shows, Smith left the 
city and was off the voting list entirely. 
According to the card, he returned to New 
Bedford in 1919, went to live at 324 Brock 
Avenue in precinct 24, and registered from 
there. 

In 1912 Massachusetts passed a party en- 
rollment law, whereby the members of po- 
litical parties were enrolled at the time 
when they voted in the primaries. At this 
time the card shows that Smith voted the 
Republican ticket and was enrolled as a 
Republican. As he had a right to do under 
the law, he changed his political designa- 
tion by making a statement in writing and 
filing it with the city clerk, 

































































1915 --. 1918 


Beck 75, page 36 


gg gnith aetna — a in 1914, and the enroll- 
Das Det 13, 1510 ~ 38 ment was according] 
Place of buth England Occupation Mule spinner changed to Democratic. 
Residence, Apr. | 3% Stapleton st. See Nat. Card In 1915 the Massachu- 
Vout _] Pou: | __,. Sweat end Number Why Ceased to be « Voter | Renewed | How setts party enrollment law 
1914 |16 | Same as above was abolished. It has, at 
1915 [1g 28% Bolton Not_ returned Sep.8| Res, the election just passed, 
1916 | 23 ove been reinstated, but it is 
1917 | 23 | Sere as wove assumed, from the card 
1918 Net ret. Lert clty (which, for the sake of 
1919 | 2% | 32% Brock ave Re-rebistered} explanation, goes into the 
| 1920 future) that Smith did not 

Party Enrollment Changed, how (191%) by statement vote in the primaries in 
1913 R 1916 1919 1917, 1918 and Ig19, and 
914 p 1917 1920 Remarks Re-registratien 1919 therefore secured no en- 


rollment. 








Original card 4 x 6 inches 


in England, and residing at 34 Stapleton 
Street, was originally registered October 13, 
1910, the original registration showing in 
Book 63, page 35, of the records in the 
office of the New Bedford registrars of 
voters. 


The record, as outlined 
above, shows that Smith 
is a naturalized citizen. In the case of 


naturalized citizens the New Bedford reg- 
istrars make a supplemental card which 
contains the record of naturalization. This 
card shows, in Smith’s case, that he was 
naturalized in the superior court for Bristol 











A ee A 




















"> 


72 THE AMERI 
County, Mass., at Taunton, on June 23, 
1910. The naturalization card is in form as 


follows, the original being 4 x 6 inches: 


CADW Cite VoL. XV, No. 6 
to a high degree of efficiency. For the pur- 
pose of maintaining and increasing this ef- 
ficiency, a large silver cup was offered by 

Mr. J. P. Jaeger (wing 












































[Receivers ot Vere ORIGINAL REGISTRATION Kew Bedford, to the interest aroused by 
NAME JOhr Smith the Public Safety Com- 
Date _ Oct, 13, 19}0 Wad 6 Pre 76 Book ¢3 Page a6 | mission, of which Mr. H. 
Place of Birth Oldnam, Lancashire, England. ss sd P. Coffin is the Chairman) 
Reudence Apri | 34 Stapleton to the school making the 
re “| best record for three 
| Residence at Reg a Stapleton able 7 7 years, not necessarily con- 
Occupation Mule spinner, Potomska Mill. 0s 
aaiiaie tas June 23, 1910, __ lhe first contest for the 
Eaiads acme ag 7. % < cup was held in 1915. 
oo aeaeemeheans The award was made to 
the school completing the 
ws Ser —. = a drill in the least time, 
rey = ~% a. - = a without taking into con- 
tu ———<—<« °° - Ooo sideration any other fac- 
aa. “Watcnnen, Holmes Mill. tors. — At the conclusion 
— __—_— I dissatisfaction was ex- 
pressed by some of the 
The New Bedford registrars believe that schools that have a large number of pupils 


they have a complete and compact system 
of keeping track of the voters, and they will 
be glad to correspond with the registrars 
of any city claiming a more useful system. 


W. H. B. REMINGTON, 
Clerk, Registrars of Voters. 





Srom FIRE 
DEPARTMENTS 


Increasing the Efficiency of Fire 
Drills in Schools 


PorTLAND, OreE.—There is a difference 
of opinion as to the real value of a fire 
drill if an emergency actually occurs. Some 
people think that childen in a flimsy frame 
building are safe if they have been drilled, 
while others think that in time of emer- 
gency the children are apt to become ex- 
cited and fail to maintain order, and that 
the drill then becomes entirely useless. 

In Portland, Ore., altho a fire drill is 
maintained, other measures of safety are 
not forgotten, so the advocates of both 
methods of providing safety are given con- 
sideration. The building code of Portland 
requires, for example, that schools over two 
stories in height must be of fireproof con- 
struction. The School Board has for sev- 





eral years required that fire drills be main- 
tained, and these drills have been developed 





and a small number of schoolhouse exits; 
it was felt that the schools with a small 
number of pupils and a relatively large 
number of schoolhouse exits had too great 
an advantage for the contest to be a fair 
yne, 

The Public Safety Commission, recog- 
nizing the need of a more equitable basis 
for conducting the contest for the drills, 
considered the giving of handicaps to equal- 
ize the schools which vary so greatly in the 
number of scholars, in the number and size 
of exits, and in the distance to be traversed 
by the pupils in making an exit. After con- 
sulting with the writer, it was decided to 
determine as nearly as possible, on a scien- 
tific basis, the quickest time in which the 
exit could be made for each school sepa- 
rately, and then rate the school drill on a 
percentage basis in comparison with the 
scientific computed minimum time. 

It is interesting to note at this time that, 
notwithstanding the great range of scien- 
tific investigations, very little information 
can be obtained concerning the movement 
of people in crowds. This is all the more 
remarkable when it is recalled that disasters 
have occurred for centuries as a result of 
people crowding together. The writer has 
been interested in the subject of the move- 
ment of crowds for some years, and has 
made experiments and observations from 
which some more or less general laws have 
been derived. 








DECEMBER, 1916 


In 1916 the contest drills for the grammar 
schools were held in June, just before the 
close of school, and a record was kept of 
the time in seconds that elapsed from the 
sounding of an alarm until the last pupil 
left the building, the number of pupils, the 
number of exits, the width of exits, the 
greatest distance traveled in a horizontal 
direction, the greatest number of steps to 
be taken in going down stairs, the number 
and width of stairs, the deportment of the 
pupils, the order maintained by pupils, the 
work of the monitors, and any special 
events. Under the general head of Dis- 
cipline were grouped three items, Deport- 
ment, Order, and Work of the Monitors, 
with a relative weight, for the total, of 30 
points in a 100. All other phases of the 
drill were grouped under the general head- 
ing of Exit Efficiency, to which a relative 
weight of 70 points in 100 was given. The 
drills were conducted under the direct su- 
pervision of the Public Safety Commission, 
which devoted a number of days to the 
work. 

It may be of interest to know how the 
exit efficiency records of the various schools 
were equalized, so a brief explanation will 
be given, together with the calculation for 
one of the schools. The minimum theoreti- 
cal time that the pupils of a school could be 
expected to get out of the building was cal- 
culated, and the actual time compared with 
it and expressed as a percentage. The rate 
of travel of a person walking at a moderate 
pace is about 5 feet per second, or 17% 
minutes per mile. As in the drills it is de- 
sirable to have the exit made in a rapid 
manner, the rate of travel in a horizontal 
direction is taken at 8 feet per second. 
This is almost twice the usual rate. The 
ordinary rate of travel down stairs is about 
two steps per second, or more nearly equals 
one foot vertical drop per second. As the 
rate of travel is considered from a theo- 
retical point basis about twice the normal 
rate, it is taken to be four steps per sec- 
ond. If the pupils are walking thru a door- 
way in one line, they will pass thru at the 
rate of two per second. The theoretical ef- 
ficiency of the exit doors in the school, 
which are all about six feet in width, is 
eight pupils per second, as there are four 
lines of pupils which can use the door at its 
maximum of efficiency. This rate is equal 
to 480 pupils per minute as the theoretical 
efficiency of one six-foot exit door. 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


673 


To make clear the use of these theoretical 
standards, an example of an actual school 
will be worked out. 


Number of pupils, 350 
Number of exits, 2 
Number of steps in exit stairs, 28 


Horizontal distance traveled in making exit, 111 
teet 

Actual time taken for drill, 1 minute 15 seconds 

Theoretical time for an exit: 28 (steps) /4 7 sex 
onds to come down steps; 111 (feet) /8 14 seconds 


to walk horizontally; allow to get started 2 


seconds; 
total, 23 seconds for one pupil to make an exit 


Now, the 350 pupils are divided into two 
groups of 175 each, one for each exit. 
There are four lines to each exit, or 44 
pupils for each line. It takes each line 
44 -- 2 = 22 seconds to pass thru the exit 
doorway. 

Total time for one pupil to make exit, 23 seconds; 
plus time for 359 pupils to pass thru exit doors, 22 
seconds; or, 45 seconds 

As the actual time was I minute I5 sec- 
onds, or 75 seconds, and the theoretical time 
is 45 seconds, the exit deficiency is 60 per 
cent on a basis of 100 points for exit ef- 
ficiency (maximum) or 42 points on a basis 
of 70 points (maximum) for exit efficiency. 

The discipline efficiency was marked by 
the Public Safety Commission as follows: 
deportment, 10; order, 10; monitors, 5; a 
total of 25 points, with a possible maximum 
of 30 points. 

The total points of this school are the 
sum of 25 points for discipline and 42 
points for exit efficiency, or 67 points final 
rating. 

It was noticed that in some of the schools 
the stairs or exits were not utilized to the 
maximum of efficiency; for example, a stair 
that was of ample width to accommodate 
four lines of pupils was only utilized for 
two lines. In some cases the monitors were 
very quick to open the doors to the class 
rooms and the exit doors, and in other 
cases the teachers were compelled to do this 
because of the neglect or slowness of the 
monitors. In several of the schools where 
there were cripples, the work of the moni- 
tors in getting them out quickly and easily 
was noteworthy. 

After holding the drills this year, the 
Public Safety Commission gave careful 
thought to the subject of improving the 
drills for the next school year. The Com- 
mission decided to recommend that there 
be a uniform signal given for the drills, as 
in some schools a gong is used, in others a 
large dinner bell, or hand bell, and this 
makes for confusion. The Commission also 
recommended that no pupils except the 
































674 


monitors should be permitted to run. It is 
considered more or less dangerous for the 
pupils to run when coming out in compact, 
dense lines, as one pupil falling might trip 
up a large number and a serious accident 
result. The Commission hopes to make the 
basis of calculation for the drills still more 


exact and scientific for the next school 
year. With the information at hand, the 
present basis is considered very satisfac- 


tory, and this article is written in the hope 
that it may be of value to others who are 
interested in schools or in the Safety First 
movement. The problem of making the 
public schools safe is of deep importance, 
for there is nothing dearer to the normal 
person than the welfare and safety of his 
own children. 
H. E, PLUMMER, 


Inspector of Buildings 


[ | C/rom 
L|CITY MANAGERS 


An Unusual Street Lighting 
Contract 
Jackson, Micu.—The street lighting sit- 
uation in Jackson, Mich., when taken over 








by the commission-manager form of gov- 
ernment, was not at all unique. The city 
was badly underlighted, and yet as much 
money was being expended as was deemed 
wise. The only alternative was to secure 
more and better lighting at approximately 
the same total cost. 

The city outside the business district was 
lighted by 4-ampere magnetite arc lamps 
under a contract that had two and a half 
years to run. A study was made of the 
situation, and it was determined that ap- 
proximately 20 per cent additional lights of 
as effective a character as the present ones 
would light the city reasonably well. The 
City Manager made an investigation of the 
types of street lights in use, including a 
visit to a street lighting laboratory at one 
of the plants of a large manufacturer of 
such equipment, and decided on an installa- 
tion of 400- and 600-candle-power gas-filled 
tungsten lamps with refracting globes. 

The power company was then approached 
and after considerable negotiation agreed 
to waive the remainder of its contract then 


THE AMERICAN CITY 





Voit. XV, No. 6 


in force and enter into a new ten-year 
After a thoro discussion of 
costs a price was agreed upon which would 
secure for the city what it needed with no 


increase in total cost. 


agreement. 


lhe greatest objection to a ten-year con- 
tract is that due to improvements in the art: 
what was a fair and satisfactory contract 
to the city at the signing of the contract 
may not be at all satisfactory toward the 
end. This type of lighting has but three 
factors that are liable to change during the 
life of the contract, namely, efficiency of 
the lamps, life of the lamps, and cost of 
current. The Jackson contract is based 
upon the present efficiency and the present 
life of lamps as guaranteed by the manu- 
facturer, and specifically provides that 
should the efficiency of the lamp be in- 
creased, the city may at its option take 
greater candle-power at the same price or 
the same candle-power at a lower price. 
rhe present life of the lamp as guaranteed 
makes it necessary to provide for four re- 
placements per year, and it is specifically 
provided that should the life be increased, 
the city be given an immediate reduction 
equal to the amount saved in cost of lamps 
per year due to such increased life. 

The contract also provides that if at any 
time during its life the power company 
(which operates in a number of cities in 
Michigan) shall enter into a contract for 
street lighting for like service and under 
like conditions, the price under this con- 
tract shall be automatically reduced to that 
level. It was further agreed that pending 
the installation of the new system the power 
company would reduce the price charged 
for the present are lamps to the price 
quoted in the new contract for 600-candle- 
power units, as soon as the contract was 
signed. 

This contract, after being most carefully 
gone over by the city, was submitted to sev- 
eral authorities not connected in any way 
with public utilities, and upon their ap- 
proval was submitted to the electors, pass- 
ing by a vote of four to one. 

The unique feature of this public lighting 
contract is that the interests of the city are 
protected thruout the life of the contract, 
and that the advantage of progress in the 
art of lighting is automatically secured. 
We believe this form to be absolutely fair 





DECEMBER, 1916 


to both parties concerned and that it will 
be very satisfactory from an operating 


standpoint. 
GAYLORD C. CUMMIN, 
City Manager. 
+ + 
A Year of Commission-Manager 
Administration 


Puoenrx, Ariz.—During the year which 
ended June 30, 1916, the commission-man- 
ager administration of Phoenix made a 
good record. A report presented by A. W. 
Costigan, accountant for the city, shows by 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


675 


and has prevented many of the appeals to 
the Superior Court which were due to the 
fact that some of the old ordinances were 
found to be conflicting. New ordinances on 
building, pure milk, traffic, etc., have also 
contributed to the public welfare. 

The engineering department has been 
particularly active. More than 23,000 
square yards of Tarvia, Bitulithic and con- 
crete paving have been laid, and plans have 
been drawn and assessment diagrams com- 
pleted for additional paving amounting to 
31 blocks. The paving of 115 blocks more 





ORGMNIZATION CHART °F 
Crrw om DHoORNre. 


Sxowma Mumere er Exmiorers on Eacn DrnentmMent 




















t_ ELe-yonsye 4} 
COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER) Mayor COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER 
asin [xz "si I= a 
Clerk Divided 
































CiyyY MaNnageER 














Mar Decor 
26 Men 


Heacry 
Oppurn 





Curr + Qner -r 
Domes 




























































































Tenqned 2 aw amiaee = p 























| Dovremer 
oYeawdars 
4 Le 

















figures and comparisons that the taxpayers 
have been benefited by the increased ef- 
ficiency of the administration and that a 
profit has been made, with a decrease in 
taxation and a corresponding decrease in 
the budget. 

The codification of the city ordinances 
has resulted in giving all citizens having 
business with the administration more ex- 
act and more easily accessible knowledge 
of what the laws of the city on any given 
point are. The similar codification of the 
criminal code has resulted in a much better 
administration of justice in the city courts 


is contemplated. During the year 91,591 
square feet of sidewalks were laid. This 
work was carefully inspected during con- 
struction, and no property owner was re- 
quired to pay for sidewalk work until it had 
been formally approved by the engineer’s 
office. 

Plans have been made for remodeling the 
basement of the city hall to accommodate 
the police department, for remodeling the 
city jail, and for a rest station, a dance pa- 
vilion, a bath house and a swimming pool 
at East Lake Park. Plans and specifications 
were made for the city band-stand and 


' 
i 
; 





| 




















THE AMERI(¢ 








A RESIDENCE ST IN PHGENIX, SHOWING 17 





AN Ci’ 








LIGI 











ITING STANDARDS 











CENTRAL FIRE STATION IN PHGCENIX, WITH 





MOTOR 


APPARATUS 





DECEMBER, 1916 

















VIEW IN EAST LAK \RK, PHOENIX 











eee 
a 








eee 

















PUMPING STATION, PHGENIX CITY WATER-WORKS 


tA 
——— 





678 T H E 


comfort station, which was completed at a 
cost of $4,292.75, and for a central fire sta- 
tion. 

Surveys and estimates for a municipal 
electric light and gas plant were prepared, 
with an exhaustive report, containing com- 
plete plans and specifications for the plant, 


the necessary buildings, machinery and 
equipment. 
The street department made excellent 


progress. Special attention was paid to 
street grading, and new methods were in- 
troduced, resulting in far better streets at 
a cost reduction of $2,974 over the expen- 
ditures of the preceding year. These reduc- 
tions are partly to be accounted for by the 
use of improved machinery, for new grad- 
ers, scarifiers and two caterpillar tractors 
have been added to the equipment. Five 
new sprinkling hydrants were installed, and 
the streets were cleaned and sprinkled at a 
saving of $5,300 over the preceding year 
\ saving of $4,023 was effected by the pur- 
chase of motor trucks to be used in the 
handling of garbage, and the service has 
been largely bettered. 
ment 


In the sewer depart- 
180 new connections were made, and 
837 feet of new sewer were laid. A new 
septic tank of 28 compartments was built, 
doubling the efficiency of the system, while 
The 
street lighting was improved by the 
erection of 294 new ornamental standards 
served by underground cables. In addition 
to these, the city has 257 five-light stand- 


savings amounting to $565 were made. 
city 





AMERICAN 





Cis Vor. XV, No. 6 

















FIRE ALARM STANDARD AND 


A STREET 


HYDRANT ON 
IN PHCENIX 

ards in service, making a total of 551 orna- 
mental street lights. There are also in ser- 
vice 254 arc lights, of which 48 were added 
during the year. Seven new drinking foun- 
tains were built and put into use, and 1,781 
new trees were set out. 

The fire department was largely extended 
and supplied with modern equipment and 
modern housing. The old volunteer depart- 
ment was practically done away with, and 
a regular force of 27 paid men was main- 
tained. A new central station was built of 
reinforced concrete and equipped with the 

most modern appliances, 
at a total cost of $15,000. 
The fire alarm service was 


remodeled and 57 new 
alarm boxes were _in- 
stalled, as well as a com- 


plete equipment of modern 
central office apparatus. 
The additions to the fire- 
fighting apparatus include 
a new La France motor- 
driven fire engine of the 
newest design. The city 
now owns three well-built 
and thoroly modern fire 
stations equipped with 
three Seagrave hose and 
chemical, motor-driven 
combination trucks, the 








BAND-STAND, AND MUNICIPAL 


CITY HAL1 


REST ROOM 
PARK, PHCENIX 


FOR 


La France engine men- 


WOMEN, IN ~ 
tioned above, and 


two 











DECEMBER, 1916 THE 


AMERICAN CITY 

















CATERPILLAR ENGINE TRAILING TWO 6-YARD DUMP WAGONS, USED BY THE STREET 
OF PHCENIX 


DEPARTMENT 


steam fire engines for emergency use. 
Thirty-eight new fire hydrants were in- 
stalled during the year. The benefit to 
the city of this improved fire department 
is hard to state in dollars and cents, but the 
fire loss was reduced to the lowest point at- 
tained in years and to a point that com- 
pared favorably with the best figures shown 
by any city in the United States. The act- 
ual reduction in fire loss for 1915-16 over 
1914-15 was $84,277, the loss in the former 
year being $170,298 and in the latter $86,- 
O21. 

Vital statistics have been kept by the 
health department with the greatest care 
Inspection of streets and alleys and of food 
supplies, and quarantine of infectious or 
contagious diseases, have been faithfully 
maintained. The open privy has been prac- 
tically abolished thruout the city. 

The water service has been largely ex- 
tended, 36,817 feet of new pipe having been 
laid and 99 new services having been added 


to the list of consumers. The monthly 
average of water pumped has been in- 
creased from 115,853,300 gallons to 119,- 
600,000 gallons. This increase was made in 
the face of a reduction of $808.71 in oper- 
ating expense. 

\ comparison of the budget figures for 
the last three years shows a decrease of 
$64,528.78. The tax rate has been reduced 
from $1 in 1914 to 80 cents in 1916, altho 
the receipts from liquor licenses and oc 
pation tax have been eliminated and _ the 
assessed valuation of the city re luced mort 
than $1,000,000. During the fiscal 
referred to a saving of $10,044.60 was ef 
fected in operation and maintenance ¢ 
the preceding year, and during the ye 
there was expended from revenue for 
provements $89,518.15, as against $54,545.41 
in 1914-15, expended from revenue for mu 
nicipal improvements in 1914-15. 

ROBERT A. CRAIG, 
Ee 





A Motion Picture Law Upheld by New York State 


The constitutionality of the law prohib- 
iting the admission of children under six- 
teen years of age to motion picture thea- 
ters, unless they are accompanied by parents 
or guardians, has recently been upheld by 
the New York State Court of Appeals. 

The decision was handed down in the 
case of the proprietor of a motion picture 
theater in New York City, who appealed 


from the lower court’s conviction for per 
mitting children under sixteen to enter his 
playhouse alone. He contended that the 
law was class legislation inasmuch as it 
permitted children unaccompanied to attend 
performances conducted for the benefit of 
religious and educational institutions. The 
Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment of 
the lower court. 














— 

















680 








News and Ideas for Commercial and 


Civic Organizations 








Chambers of Commerce in 
‘“*America First’’ Campaign 

Wasuincton, D. C.—Chambers of com- 
merce in every city where night schools are 
conducted are requested by the United 
States Commissioner of Education, P. P. 
Claxton, to cooperate in the “America 
First” Campaign of the Bureau of Educa- 
tion to 
non-English-speaking immigrants. 


increase the school attendance of 
of the Bureau believe that the most effec- 
tive way of impressing the immigrant with 
the advantages of learning English is thru 
the employer. 

In 1910, 6,588,711 foreign-born whites 
were employed in the various industries and 
lines of business activity. Until the war 
started, this number added to 
greatly by immigration at the rate of a mil- 


was very 


lion a year. Over 1,462,134 adult males, 
most of whom are wage-earners, do not 
speak English, and consequently are an 


added problem to industry in the adminis- 
tration and management of plants. 

Industrial establishments all over the 
country last year tendered codperation in 
the Americanization movement started by 
the Bureau thru the distribution of the 
“America First’ posters. Many manufac- 
turing plants reported increased efficiency 
in their immigrant employes when the latter 
had learned English. Others submitted fig- 
ures tending to show decrease in accidents 
among those learning the language. One 
large muslin goods plant produced diagrams 
and data gradually increased 
wages to immigrant girls who were mak- 
ing themselves literate by attending school. 
In this establishment, which is located in 
New York City, classes in English, civics, 
health, etc., were maintained as an annex 
to a public school. Still other plants, main- 
taining classes in English, found the cost 
of supervising immigrant workmen consid- 
erably reduced by the elimination of inter- 
preter foremen. 

On account of this direct benefit to indus- 


showing 





Officials — 


try and derived thru the 


“America First” movement, several promi- 


workingmen 


nent representatives of chambers of com- 
merce, industry and labor unions have becn 
appointed members of the National Com- 
mittee of One Hundred recently announced 
by Commissioner Claxton. These men are 
peculiarly fitted by experience and ability to 
serve as members of the Committee. 

lo enable chambers of commerce and in- 
dustrial establishments to codperate effec- 
tively in the “America First” campaign, 
suggestive plans for activity have been pre- 
pared by the Bureau's Division of 
grant Education. 


Immi- 
Among other things, the 
Division calls attenticn to the fact that sev- 
eral large industries have given a bonus or 
wage increase to immigrant workmen whose 
industrial efficiency is increased thru learn- 
ing English in night school. 


DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, 
Bureau of Education. 
+ + 


A School Savings Bank System 


SPRINGFIELD, Itt.—With the object of 
stimulating a tendency for saving and thrift 
among the pupils of the public schools in 
Springfield, the Board of Education intro- 
duced a savings system into the schools two 
years ago which has proved very satisfac- 
tory from the standpoint of the schools and 
patrons, as well as of the cooperating banks. 
It has been found upon investigation that 
many pupils, after saving a considerable 
sum, have invested their savings in build- 
ing lots, building and loan stock, or in other 
substantial securities. 

The Springfield Commercial Association 
has assisted the movement by offering two 
valuable silver cups which are awarded 
twice each year and held by the schools re- 
ceiving them until the next award. The 


“thrift cup” is given to the school showing 
the highest percentage of increase in sav- 
ings bank deposits, and the “savings cup” to 
the school having the highest percentage of 
pupils who are savings bank depositors. 








DeceMBER, 1916 


“SYSTEM 


DEPOSIT COIN HERE => 


DO NOT SPREAD THE TUBE 





THE 


Considerable publicity is 
given to the awarding of 
hese cups each semester be- 
cause of the competition 
which it produces among 
the schools. The semi-an- 
nual savings bank report 
for the half-year ending 
June, 1916, shows that there 
was an aggregate of $38,- 
156.92 on deposit in the 
Springfield banks, the total 
number of depositors being 
1,314, and eighteen schools 
being represented. 

Briefly, the plan is as fol- 


lows: Assuming that the 


THE 


ENVELOPI 





BANK’ 


AME 


RICAN CITY 


<& PUSH WELL DOWN 


USE A THIN INSTRUMENT 


board of educa 
proved of the 
that one or 
cal banks 


necessary 


tion has aj 

system and 
more of the lo 
taken the 
steps to 


have 
cooper- 
ate, an effort is made to in- 
terest the 
ing by the 
on thrift 
teacher at least 
week. When the 


terest is so 


children in sav 
few minutes’ talk 
given by the 
once a 
pupils’ in- 
that 
inx1ious to 


aroused 
they are really 
save, the teacher 


explains the gener 


begin to 
| = 

al 14ea ot 
the systematic savings plan 
and urges them to talk over 
the plan at home with their 
parents. At time the 


teacher 


this 
each a car 1 


of introduction 


gives 


which in 


due time is presented to the 


bank which’ the 
vised by his 


child, ad- 
parents, may 
select 

The child's 


nearly 


earnestness 
always receives the 
encouragement of the par- 
ent, who goes with him to 
one of the 
banks that have adopted the 
“System Bank” plan. There 
the card of introd 
presented, with ten cents, to 
the bank teller. In ex 
change the teller gives the 


any egular 


uction is 








child an “envelope bank” 
BANK represented above He ex 
plains that when the cl 
SSF-2 (a) 
Pupil_ Ss System Bank No. 
Teacher 


Oe ee... 





euams | au | 


PUPIL'S MONTHLY REPORT OF SAVINGS AND ND DEPOSITS" 








T T ‘ 
Oct. | tor. | Dee. | Jon. | Fob. | mes. | ] ‘on. | star | ome | seer [ane 














L 
“READ CAREFULLY THE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE SIDE 








( 


ARD SHOWING 


PUPIL’S 


SAVINGS 





ce EE 























682 


THE 


AMERICAN 





Cia Voit. XV, No. 6 














assures the school’s hav- 
ing an authentic record. 
Thus the children are 
encouraged to save their 
pennies, nickels, dimes and 
quarters instead of spend- 
ing them for 
things, and since an in- 
centive to earn is natu- 
rally associated with the 
desire to save, determined 
efforts are put forth by 
the pupils, after this sys- 
tem has been adopted, to 
earn money in their spare 


useless 


hours after school and 
during vacation. This 
habit, fostered by the 


home and the school, de- 
velops in the boy or girl 
an important essential of 
business success. The 
child is brought to know 
something of the value of 
money and learns that the 








THE THRIFT 
SCHOOLS BY 


AND SAVINGS TROPHIES 


returns the bank with one dollar in it, he 
will be given a regular depositor’s bank 
book, and that the initial payment of ten 
cents will be credited to him when his first 
dollar is deposited. 

The “system bank” is*an envelope made 
ot tough, durable paper, protected by a back 
and front cover, which carries the author- 
ity of the school and the advertisement of 
the local bank. The coins are inserted in 
this envelope bank thru a slot so formed 
that they cannot be taken out. At the back 
of the envelope is a hopper-slot closed by 
the bank’s seal. To remove the coins, the 
teller breaks this seal and reseals the slot 
or replaces the seal with a new one. 

The pupil, having secured his system 
bank from the bank teller, returns the card 
of introduction to the teacher and is given 
in exchange a card on which he records his 
savings as copied from the face of his en- 
velope bank. Once a month he takes this 
card to his teacher to have his report of 
deposits copied on the record card of the 
school. The pupil’s bank book presented to 
the teacher at the same time certifies to her 
the correctness of the pupil’s report. This 


AWARDED TO 
THE SPRINGFIELD COMMERCIAL 


only way to get it is to 
THE — work for it. 
ASSOCIATION It may be said also 
that this savings plan as- 
sures the banker the close coéperation of 
the home and the school. All bankers real- 
ize the value of securing a child’s patron- 
age, and holding it for years, thru courtesy 
and service. The bank that is fortunate 
enough to secure a good number of boy and 
girl depositors has laid a sound foundation 
for future prosperity. It has planned not 
only for its own success, but for that of the 
community, and the community whose chil- 
dren are learning and practicing thrift is 
sure to be a prosperous community as the 
children grow up and assume the affairs of 
their fathers. 

There is no expense to the school or the 
school board in connection with the system- 
atic savings plan. The necessary forms and 
supplies are made by the United States 
Bank Note Company, of Indianapolis, 
which holds the copyright, and are pur- 
chased from it direct by the local codper- 
ating banks; the banks, in return for the 
opportunity to inculcate habits of thrift in 
the school children and teach them to use 
their service, furnish the supplies to the 
schools free of charge. The system, which 
originated here and was first introduced 


en 





















DECEMBER, 1916 


into Springfield, Ill., has since been installed 
in over one hundred cities and towns thru- 
out the country. Among them may be men- 
tioned Aurora, Champaign, East St. Louis, 
Lincoln and Monticello, Ill.; Muscatine, 
Iowa; Boise, Pocatello and Twin Falls, 
Idaho; Pendleton, Ore.; Snohomish, Ta- 
coma and Walla Walla, Wash. 


HUGH S. MAGILL, 
Superintendent, Springfield Public Schools. 


+ + 


Luncheon Clubs for Unifying 
Membership 


ToLtepo, Ou1o.—The Toledo Commerce 
Club has originated a rather novel plan of 
getting its members to join heartily in any 
movement which the Club may be backing, 
of encouraging acquaintance with each 
other, and of making them real factors in 
promoting thought and action along civic 
lines. With these objects in mind, the Club 
has divided its membership into a series of 
luncheon clubs which meet daily. On ac- 
count of their popularity, it may become 
necessary to subdivide each one of the daily 
clubs into two sections and have each sec- 
tion meet every other week, to accommo- 
date all the members in the dining rooms. 

Notices were first sent out explaining the 
plan of organization and asking each mem- 
ber on which day it would be most con- 
venient for him to lunch with the club. 
The replies were classified with reference 
to the seven days to form the nucleus for 
the different clubs. Each club at its first 
meeting elects its own president, vice-presi- 
dent, and secretary, and a chairman is ap- 
pointed each week to take care of the pro- 
gram for the coming meeting. In this way 
all the clubs are made self-governing. The 
officers of the several clubs form in turn 
a committee of the whole, which transacts 
the general business common to all the 
separate divisions. 

A novel form of ritual has been worked 
out for the clubs, based upon Acquaintance, 
Friendship, Confidence and Cooperation. 
One member rises to his feet and says, “I 
am so and so,” giving his name and busi- 
ness, “Who are you?” The member ad- 
dressed extends his hand, repeats his name 
and business, then turns to the man on his 
right, states his name and business again, 
asking him the question, “Who are you?” 

Organizations have different ways of en- 
couraging acquaintanceship among their 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


683 


members. Some organizations attempt to 


have one man name the men at a certain 
table. The objection to this method is that 
the men reraember the faces but usually for- 
get the names, which causes some embar- 
rassment, but the method of having a man 
give his name and business leaves little 
room for such embarrassment. 

The club platform is based on this motto: 
“Acquaintance begets Friendship, Friend- 
ship begets Confidence, Confidence means 
Cooperation, which is the Life of Every 
Community.” 

At the meetings of these bodies the chair- 
man of the day presides. He is appointed 
in advance and has the privilege of using 
any program that he may approve, altho it 
is customary to inject just enough fun into 
the meetings to keep them from becoming 
tiresome, and to present for serious discus- 
sion subjects based on live questions facing 
the city or the country. The rotating of 
the chairmen gives every one a chance to 
work and keeps them all interested. Never 
in the history of the Toledo Commerce Club 
have there been so many members present 
at its meetings as have come to these lunch- 
eons. The program begins and ends 
promptly on schedule time, and the meet- 
ing’s duration is left to the vote of the 
members. 

This method enables the Commerce Club, 
or any commercial organization, to fulfill 
admirably its natural function of keeping 
the member interested, of making him fa- 
miliar with the Club’s doings and propa- 
ganda, and making him think, as well as 
of affording him opportunities for develop- 
ment thru acquaintance with others. It also 
encourages cooperation and gives the mem- 
bers an opportunity to become, in a meas- 
ure, public speakers. 

W. A. PHELPS, 
Secretary, The Toledo Commerce Club. 
+ + 

The Morris Plan at Youngstown 

Youncstown, Onto—The opening in 
Youngstown of the bank organized to oper- 
ate under the Morris Plan of industrial 
loans and investments was accomplished on 
September 11, 1916. In its first month the 
bank succeeded in doing a larger business 
for that period than any other $100,000 
company of the kind in the United States 
in the first four weeks of its career, not 
excepting the one in New York City. 
































684 THE AMERICAN CITY 


Loans at the close of October 10 aggre- 
gated $29,125. Philip H. Schaff is Presi- 
dent of the Youngstown company and El- 
mer J. Obendorfer is its Manager. 

The first Ohio company was established 
at Springfield on June 5, 1915, and there has 
been one in Cleveland since March 8, 1916, 
and one at Canton since April 6, 1916. Ex- 
Ambassador Myron T. Herrick was chair- 
man of the organization committee which 
formed the Cleveland company, and Secre- 
tary of War Newton D. Baker is one of its 
Directors. 

The first banking company to operate un- 
der the Morris Plan opened its doors at 
Norfolk, Va., on March 23, 1910; the sec- 
ond at Atlanta in 1911, and the third at Bal- 
timore in 1912. There are now 54 such 
companies in existence, extending from 
Boston to San Francisco, by way of St. 
Louis and Denver, and by the end of De- 
cember it is estimated that they will have 
loaned $26,000,000 to over 200,000 small 
borrowers. The volume of loans is increas- 
ing every month, the present monthly rate 
being in excess of $1,300,000. The New 
York Company alone is lending at the rate 
of $3,000,000 a year. 

The Morris Plan banks have helped ma- 
terially in the solution of a great economic 
and financial problem. Their purpose is to 
offer to the receivers of wages or small 
salaries such opportunities of credit as are 
open to men of larger means. It is a busi- 
ness proposition, otherwise it would be a 
failure. The sociological service it renders 
has interested many minds, but those for 
whom the plan was devised and who pa- 
tronize the Morris Plan institutions would 
shun them if they thought that borrowers 
were to be regarded as in any sense objects 
of charity or philanthropy. 

The plan is a very simple one: A man 
needs a small sum of money to tide him 
over some urgent financial difficulty. Be- 
ing unknown at the commercial banks and 
having no securities on which he can bor- 
row, he has to rely on the generosity of a 
friend, trust himself to the not always ten- 
der mercy of a loan shark, or seek relief at 
the counter of a Morris Plan company. 
Here, if his application is granted, he pays 
a small charge toward defraying the cost 
of investigation, and gives a promissory 
note signed by himself and two friends or 
co-makers who are willing to vouch for his 


Voi. XV, No. 6 





honesty and earning capacity. This note is 
discounted at the legal rate of interest, and 
for each $50 of his indebtedness the bor- 
rower agrees to pay $1 a week toward the 
purchase of a certificate of investment 
equaling the amount of his loan. At the 
end of fifty weeks he is presumed to have 
paid for this certificate in full, and two 
weeks later he may cash it at the com- 
pany’s office and pay off his note, which is 
then due. He has not had to pawn his watch 
or mortgage his furniture, and instead of 
paying a ruinous rate of interest to a dis- 
reputable money-lender, he has dealt with 
honest people who have treated him fairly 
and squarely. 

When his debt is paid he may, if he 
wishes, buy one or more of the company’s 
certificates of investment, either on the in- 
stalment plan or for cash; and these will 
be available as security for future loans, in 
which case no endorsements will be neces- 
sary. Many a man who begins as a bor- 
rower ends by becoming an investor in 
interest-bearing Morris Plan certificates; 
but one does not have to be a borrower in 
order to buy them. 

The corporation which organizes Morris 
Plan companies thruout the United States 
is the Industrial Finance Corporation, with 
offices at 52 William Street, New York 
City. 

JOSEPH B. GILDER, 
Secretary, Industrial Finance Corporation. 


+ + 
A Mutually Helpful Alliance 


Lovuisvit_e, Ky.—The fact that Louis- 
ville and the adjacent towns, Jeffersonville 
and New Albany, really compose one met- 
ropolitan center, with almost identical inter- 
ests, each prospering only as the other pros- 
pers, has suggested a somewhat unusual 
form of codperation. Representatives of 
the commercial organizations of the three 
cities met in the rooms of the New Albany 
Chamber of Commerce one night not long 
ago and formed an organization for co- 
operative activity. It was decided to hold 
three meetings annually, one in each city. 
At the suggestion of the Louisville Board 
of Trade, a committee of five from each 
city was appointed to represent the respec- 
tive cities during the ensuing year. Ander- 
son G. Moore, of New Albany, was made 


general chairman. 
WILLIAM E. MORROW, 
Secretary, Louisville Board of Trade. 




















DECEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN 








fou - ™ 
NTERNATIONAL: RAILWAY 
- COMPANY 

















Improved Terminal Facilities 

Lockport, N. Y.—A need for better rail- 
road terminal facilities had been evident to 
the citizens of Lockport for a number of 
years, but all efforts to obtain them had 
hitherto failed. The securing of such fa- 
cilities was, therefore, one of the first tasks 
of the Lockport Board of Commerce, which 
was organized last spring. These en- 
deavors have been crowned with success, 
and the old depot of the International Rail- 
way (an interurban trolley line) is being 
replaced by a modern, up-to-date depot; 
and, besides, a large freight station and new 
yards are being added to the terminal fa- 
cilities of the New York Central Railroad 
at Lockport. 

In addition to these improvements the 
construction of two barge canal terminals 
will no doubt be under way by next spring. 

The total expenditures for terminal facili- 
ties in Lockport during the year will amount 
to half a million dollars. The railroad of- 
ficials were frank in saying that Lockport’s 
being able to show a united citizenship 
thru its enlarged Board of Commerce was 
a vital factor in determining them to make 
these improvements at this time. 


RAYMOND B. GIBBS, 
Secretary, Lockport Board of Commerce. 


+ + 
A Method of Securing Civic 
Volunteers 
MitwavkeE, Wis.—The application form 
reproduced herewith is being used effec- 


tively by the City Club of Milwaukee in 
securing volunteers for committee work. 
In fact, it is the main channel thru which 


CIVIC VOLUNTEER APPLICATION 


e President of the City ¢ 























« do 
District Representative. 
The function of these representa Civil Service 
County Institutions 
Crime and Its Prevention 
Legal Advisors 
Moving Pictures 
Made f . 
Mayors Advivery Cepsorst 
Bissior 
Municipal and County Fi 
nance 
Public Education 
Concerned with matters pe 
he pubic ecbonte 
CIVIC COMMITTEES. 
Public Health. 
Abatement of Nuisances 
| Public Recreation 
City Charter 
Public Works. 
City Forestry and Beautifi Concerned with matters Raving 
do paring ate 
cation | ref ay water 
ply, public battdings, and bridges 
City Plannin; } ! 
. - omit ~ eee tab | Social Problems 
harge of matters formeriy referred A new commiticr to present 
' th Committe m River ae fe os © 
t* men 
pract 
| remedial 
Civic Education 
A new commitice to prome M | Street Lighting and Public 
os of "Tes cow | || Utilities 
(Signed) 
Home Address Telephone 
Business Address Telephone 
Please tear off this sheet and mail as soon ax convenient in the ¢ ed 
envelope. If you wish to preserve your file of Bulletins complete, a duplicate 


copy of this number will be sent on request 


workers are recruited. The form, which 
was printed on the last page of the City 
Club’s regular bulletin recently, gives a list 

















686 THE AMERICAN CITY 


Voi. XV, No. 6 

















PORTABLE HOME-INDUSTRY 


of the club’s committees, and the reader 
who is sufficiently interested to volunteer 
his services is asked to check the commit- 
tees on which he would like to serve, sign 
his name and address, tear off the sheet 
and mail it to the City Club. 

This year, from a membership of &50, 
over 130 blanks were returned. The plan 
has been used for the past four years, and 
the club is quite satisfied as to its value 

HORNELL HART, 


Civic Secretary, The City Club of Milwaukee. 


+ + 


An Industrial Display for School 
Children 

READING, Pa.—A movement designed to 
interest school children in home town in- 
dustries has been devised in Reading by the 
Chamber of Commerce, in the form of a 
unique portable display in miniature of 
“What Reading Makes and What Makes 
Reading.” The charts are being set up in 
all the schools. The exhibit shows in a 
most original way the diversity of Reading 
manufacturers. 

Practically all the city’s industries are 
represented in miniature, and their size is 
given in accompanying figures. The tiny 
wool hat and the figures $1,000,000 mean 
that many dollars’ worth of wool hats are 
made in Reading each year. In like man- 
ner the shoe, confectionery, hosiery and 
other industries are described. The display 
is attracting wide attention and creating 
much favorable comment. 


DISPLAY IN READING, PA 


An essay contest is being held in connec- 
tion with the display, the subject being the 
slogan at the top of the charts, “What 
Reading Makes and What Makes Reading.” 
Books will be awarded as prizes. 

JAMES J. McKENNA, 


\ssistant Secretary, Reading Chamber of Commerce. 


+ + 


Mnnicipal Improvements in 
Cleveland 


CLEVELAND, Onto.—Out of the chaos 
which at first dimmed the actual results of 
the November election, the city of Cleve- 
land has emerged endowed with authority 
to issue bonds in the sum of $6,750,000 for 
many important municipal improvements. 
These include an issue of $3,000,000 for 
paving and repaving the streets, $2,000,000 
for purchasing sites for schoolhouses and 
erecting and furnishing them, and $1,750,- 
000 for extending the municipal light plant. 

Thru the activities of the Convention 
Board of the Chamber of Commerce, Cleve- 
land is rapidly becoming prominent as a 
convention city. It is desirous of approach- 
ing its goal of a million population in 1920 
with the kind of streets that such a city 
should possess. The approval of the paving 
bond issue will result in the paving of 155 
streets during 1917. Nineteen of these are 
to be repaving jobs, and the total length of 
these streets is 10% miles. The estimated 
cost of this length is $1,043,000. 

The School Board will at once avail itself 
of the prospective funds for erecting three 

















— 








>> 


a 





DECEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN C 


new junior high school buildings, a new 
elementary school and seven additional an 
nexes. If the board follows the ideas of 
some of its members, school auditoriums 
will not be built. In that case 177 rooms 
could be built, figuring the cost of one room 
at $12,000, including the site. A standard 
$12,000-room provides seats for 42 pupils, 
which means that at least 7,000 more chil- 
dren could be seated without extensive con- 
tinuation of the relaying of classes, a plan 
now in vogue to relieve overcrowding 

Acting on the recommendation of the 
Superintendent of Schools, J. M. H. Fred 
erick, the board on November 9 voted to 
establish the first trade school in the his- 
tory of Cleveland's public schools. Che 
action provides for the board to take under 
its supervision a school for girls, sixteen 
vears of age and over, now being conducted 
by the Kaynee Company, blouse manufac- 
turers, at the company’s factory. The 
move incurs no cost to the Board of Edu 
cation. Instructors and equipment are sup- 
plied by the company. It is a day course, 
in which the girls are given instruction i1 
academic work as well as in the making of 
clothing. Superintendent Frederick re- 
gards this as the first step of a plan he has 
had to promote an extensive trade school 
system in Cleveland without extra cost to 
taxpayers. He expects other concerns to 
follow suit. 

he approval of the lighting plant bond 
issue opened the way to a renewal of the 
city's fight for the power contract of the 
Cleveland Railway Company, members of 
the City Council declare. The vote on this 
question will play an important part in the 
street railway arbitration which is now un- 
der way. Lighting Commissioner W. E. 
Davis says that with the expenditure of the 








$1,750,000, the city could c ire 
way power and take on 10,000 
under 3-cent light as well 
W 
M ig P < rime 
Cha er ( ‘ 
+ + 


CapILLac, Micu.—For many years the 
greatest problem that has confronted retai 
merchants and business men generally 
Cadillac is the indifferent ilmost antag 
nistic, attitude of the farmer toward tl 
city business man Many of the I 
business men of the city have recent e¢ 
in quite close touch with the farmers 
their homes, and at last something d t 
has been accomplished toward gyetting tl 
farmer to realize that he is part of th 
same community and that his interests ar 


those of the business 
Durin; 


this 


Cooperation and Potatoes 


y 
S 


the past season the fa 


region have found it ver 


SecCuare ci 


their 


1iough men to help them hat 


ry ail 


man in the city 


crops When the threatening 


1U 





en 


weather came a good many farmer 
pealed to the Chamber of Commerc« 
farm help and explained that they h 
fered as high as $4 a day and boar 
men, but without avail, and unless s 
thing could be done their potatoes 
freeze in the ground 

Thru the efforts of the Chamber of 
merce, a goodly number of Cadillac’s 
ing business men, including the mayor 
bermen, manufacturers, lawyers, do 
merchants, newspaper men, etc., wet 
ganized, and on Monday, Cctober % 
went out into the country to help the far: 
ers dig their potatoes. The only re 
ment that the farmer was asked to 
was that he provide dinner for the 





THE CADILLAC CHAMBER OF COMMERCE AS POTATO-DIGGERS 





' 
: 
: 





— 


ee 





























re 


688 THE 


who were sure to be hungry after putting 


in a good period at labor so foreign to their 
usual occupations 


Phe 


more 


result of this little expedition was 
than gratifying All of the farmers 
who secured help, and many others who did 
not ask for it, were loud in their praise of 
Cadillac’s business men, and said that it was 
the first time they had really had a tangible 
demonstration of the city man’s interest in 
the man who lives in the country. Some of 
them even published letters of appreciation 
in the ne wspaper 


EDWARD W. BREHM 
ill 


Secretary, The Cadillac Chamber of Commerce 
+ + 
Dedication of New Lighting 
System 


Peru, Inp.—The force of dramatic action 
in creating an impression is coming to be 
recognized more and more in public demon- 
strations. We are rapidly getting away 
from set speeches in public gatherings and 
introducing dramatic features which attract 
crowds, hold their interest along new lines, 
and enlist the participancy of others besides 
the dignitaries who usually furnish the elo- 
quence on occasions of this kind, and who 
have by the frequency of their appearance 
in the limelight lost the power to attract and 
hold the attention of the people. 

The ceremonies attending the recent dedi- 
cation of the of ornamental 
lighting in the district of Peru, 
Ind., were of a somewhat novel nature. It 
so happened that the installation of the fix- 
tures 


new sy stem 


business 


was completed simultaneously with 
the opening of the Miami County Centen- 
nial Celebration, so that the dedication of 
the new lights was used as the opening fea- 
ture of the Centennial program. 

On the evening of the celebration a pow- 
erful searchlight flashed its rays along both 
banks of the Wabash River and over the 
bridge that spans the stream at the end of 
the principal street of the city of Peru. The 
light revealed a great crowd of people gath- 
ered in response to the rumor that strange 
and long-forgotten visitors would reach the 
city in their canoes with the falling of dark- 
ness. As the brilliant rays were directed up 
the river, the canoes of the visitors were 
seen approaching the landing. They were 
greeted by band music and the cheers of the 
people, and the guests were assisted into 
waiting automobiles (ox carts would have 


AMERICAN CITY 


VoL. XV, No. 6 

















rYPE OF NEW LIGHTING 


PERU, IND, 


STANDARD IN 


been better, but it was not possible to secure 
them) by a reception committee composed of 
the leading citizens of the city. The stran- 
gers, who proved to be the symbolic Spirit 
of the Historic Past with staff and lantern 
to guide his footsteps, Rip Van Winkle, 
Father Time, and Miami Indian chief 
who frequented these parts one hundred 
years ago, were escorted in grand proces- 
sion to the Court House Square, where a 
stand had been erected, upon which were 
seated the city officials and the President 
and Secretary of the Peru Chamber of 
Commerce. The automobiles were stopped 
on the edge of the crowd, and the Mayor 
was introduced. He delivered a short ad- 
dress, dwelling on the changes wrought by 
the passing years and concluding with the 
statement, “In fact, we should not be sur- 
prised, so filled is this occasion with memo- 


a 


ries of the long ago, to see before our very 
eyes the Spirit of the Historic Past, the in- 




















DECEMBER, 1916 THE 
carnate Pioneer, appear before us on this 
platform to-night !” 

At this point the speaker was interrupted 
by a voice from the crowd announcing the 
arrival of strange visitors, who were then 
summoned to the platform, where occurred 
a dramatic dialog between the Mayor and 
the Spirit of the Historic Past. 

The spirit tells the Mayor thit this was 
once his home, and that he has wandered 
thru the halls and groves of time, aided by 
his trusty staff and lantern, seeking to find 
his old haunts, but nothing reminds him of 
the past and he is weary and _ heartsick. 
The Mayor, however, welcomes him to the 
city and tells him that they have assembled 
to celebrate another evidence of progress 
and prosperity, and how fortunate it is that 
he should have come to take part in the 
ceremonies. The dialog then drifts to a 
parley on the efficacy of the lantern’s pale 
light, which sufficed for the Spirit of the 
Past and his contemporaries, and the Mayor 
tells him that he holds the key which will 
unlock the lightning and cause the street to 
glow from end to end. The spirit replies 
that it cannot be done, that “‘to thus harness 
the mysterious forces of nature and force 
them to man’s bidding is wicked 


indeed, 


AMERICAN 






Cre 689 


characters 
barbers and a 


historic 
grocer, two 


entire city; the were 
enacted by a 
mechanic, and it was a democratic demon- 
stration of great satisfaction to everyone 

H. E. HERSHEY, 


Secretary, Peru Chamber of Commerce 


+ + 
Olean Being Made Secure Against 
Floods 
Ocean, N. Y.—An account of Olean’s 


flood abatement activity was published in 
Tue AMERICAN City of September, 1915 
\t that time the 
only a hope; now it is a reality, and the 
8'%4-mile river improvement at present un- 
der way is a striking example of what may 
intelligently 
community cooperation. 

One of the first tasks undertaken by the 
newly reorganized Chamber of Commerce 
was the solving of the flood problem. A 
committee of representative citizens was 


great Improv ement was 


be accomplished by directed 


formed by the Chamber of Commerce, made 
up of men who had no personal interest in 
the abatement of floods. After a thoro 
study of the subject, the plan of introducing 
a bill in the State Legislature appropriating 
$150,000, contingent upon the city of Olean 
raising a like amount, was recommended 
and adopted by the Common Council. 
After two years of effort, this bill became 
a law and the local appropriation was car- 
ried by the taxpayers by a vote of six to one 
A Flood Abatement Commission came into 
existence under the statute and plans were 





TYPICAL CROSS 


Scale 
SHOWING HOW THE CAPACITY OF THE 


¥ 1 — 
SECTION AA 


OLEAN CREEK CHANNEL IS INCREASED 


200 PER CENT 


and filled with danger.” 
withstanding, presses a button which 
turns the electric current into the new 
lights, and amid the cheering of the people 
and the music of the band the ornamental 
illumination of Broadway is dedicated to 
the people of Peru. 

The crowd of people surrounding the 
speakers’ stand was representative of the 


The mayor, not- 


prepared for a flood prevention 
which involves the straightening, widening 
and deepening of the channels and the build- 
ing of an 8'%-mile earthen dyke, as well as 
the installation of six electrically-driven 
pumping plants which will take care of the 
sewage and the discharge of lateral streams 
at flood time. The contracting company 


system 


that is doing the work has a force of over 




















690 THE AMERICAN CITY 





\BE Borver |G.5 Busser 


T) 
a) 


oo ay 
= 2 








Ka 
$ 
si” 








_ Yo & 3 8 
inv 
7, \ tA 
YA . 
, O'CONNOR & CHAPMAN -Enars 





121@_ 





CUTTING OFF THE BIG BENDS AND 


a hundred men on the ground, working day 
and night, with the hope of having the bulk 
of the work completed before the closing 
of winter. The accompanying illustrations 
show how the new channels are provided 
for the Olean Creek and how the big bends 
are cut off, thus shortening the stream over 
three-quarters of a mile within the city 
limits. 

In addition to the $300,000 provided by 
the city and the state, the individual land 
owners and corporations whose properties 
are affected by the project have contributed 
over $200,000 worth of lands and service 
in the way of bridge extensions and other 
alterations to their property made neces- 
sary by the work. Besides the right of way, 
over a hundred acres of lands have been 
donated to the city and will be graded in 
connection with the flood abatement work 
and afterwards used as parks and play- 
grounds. Many of these lands have front- 
ages on principal streets, and when the im- 
provement is completed, it will have a value 
little short of the total cost to the city of 
the entire project. 


E. W. FITZGERALD, 
Secretary, Olean Chamber of Commerce, 


BUILDING A DYKE AND A BOULEVARD 


New Bulletins 

BELLINGHAM, WasH.—Chamber of Com- 
merce of Bellingham Activities, published 
monthly by the Chamber of Commerce. 

Granp Haven, Micu.—Grand Haven Grit. 
official publication of the Grand Haven Cham- 
ber of Commerce, published monthly. 

RocHESTER, Minn.—Community Business, 
official organ of the Rochester Commercial 
Club, published monthly. 

+ + 


Recently Issued Printed Matter 

Axron, Ounto.—“Akron, the City of Oppor- 
tunity,” an illustrated booklet describing 
Akron, issued by the Akron Chamber of Com- 
merce. Also a folder of “Vital Facts, pub- 
lished in the Interest of Children, Health and 
Prosperity of Akron,” used in the campaign 
conducted by the Chamber of Commerce and 
other civic organizations in Akron to secure 
a favorable vote on the bond issues advo- 
cated by those organizations. 

EscanaBa, Micu.—A series of leaflets giv- 
ing arguments for membership in the Esca- 
naba Commercial Club, published by that or- 
ganization. 

Jamestown, N. Y.—‘*What Has the Board 
of Commerce Done?” is the title of a leaflet 
issued by the Jamestown Board of Commerce 
in which are listed a few of its accomplish- 
ments. 


VoL. XV, No. 6 























Types of Motor Apparatus in Use by Municipal 
Fire Departments 

















SOUTH BEND FIRE TRUCK, WITH GO¢ 





YIDYEAR TIRES, IN USE IN GREED 





ee 
ee 








AMERICAN-LA FRANCE PUMPING ENGINE, WITH FIRESTONE TIRES, A 
LITTLE ROCK, ARK 





Ge 








692 


Motor Trucks in Various Departments of 
Municipal Service 

















STERLING MOTOR TRUCK WITH STUDEBAKER FLUSHER IN SERVICE IN 
SACRAMENTO, CAI 


























REPUBLIC MOTOR TRUCK, USED BY THE CITY OF CHATTANOOGA, TENN 








DECEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 

















' 
; 
; 
| 
| 
; 
' 
{ S. MOTOR TRUCK IN SERVICE OF MARION COUNTY, MISSOURI 
1 
' 








nai at Ae 
ee re 




















ae ea a «Ae | : 
WHITE MOTOR TRUCK USED IN CONSTRUCTION OF THE NEW BRIDGE AT 
CLEVELAND, OHIO 

















| FIRE PROTECTION |= 


PUBLIC (} 


TRAFFIC REGULATION | 




























|HEALTH & SANITATION | 


SAFETY 


[ACCIDENT PREVENTION | 























In the preparation of this department, as announced in the September 
number, THE AMERICAN City has the codperation of the Safety First Fed- 
eration of America, 6 East 39th Street, New York. 


Health Insurance—A Preventive Measure 
By John B. Andrews 


Secretary, American Association for Labor Legislation 


HE recognition of sickness as one of 
the most fundamental causes of pov- 
erty is rapidly being brought home 

to the public as the result of investigations 
of actual conditions among American wage- 
earners. Using German experience as a 
guide, estimates place the number of ill- 
United 
13,400,000 cases, entailing 284,- 
The resultant 
from sickness 
Sickness which causes 
each of the 30,000,000 wage-earners to lose 


nesses occurring annually in the 
States at 
750,000 days of disability. 
economic and 
totals $792,892,860. 


social waste 


annually an average of 9 days causes seven 
times as much destitution as do industrial 
accidents which are now compensated in all 
under workmen’s com- 
Among 31,000 charity cases 
studied by the Federal Commission on Im- 
migration, sickness was found to be a fac- 
tor in producing poverty in 38 per cent of 
the total number of The need of 
health insurance to cope with this urgent 
problem of sickness is admitted by so large 
a number of persons that this year bills for 
universal health insurance will be brought 
before the legislatures of the leading in- 
dustrial states. 

At present in the United States voluntary 
health insurance, narrow in scope and cost- 
ly in management, serves only to reveal the 
necessity for a better concentrated and a 
more universal system. Existing voluntary 


but sixteen states 


pensat ion acts. 


cases. 


agencies, such as commercial health insur- 
ance, fail to provide the necessary medical 
care, offer only a cash benefit on almost 


prohibitively expensive terms, and cover 
only a few of the better paid workers. It 
leaves the low-paid wage-earners, who most 
need insurance, totally unprovided for. A 
system of health insurance which will dis- 
tribute the burden of sickness and which 
will include those who most need its pro- 
tection, is needed to supplement the present 
haphazard voluntary methods. 


Provisions of the Health Insurance Bill 


To accomplish this, insurance must be 
compulsory, for only so can health insur- 
ance become universal among all wage- 
earners. The standard bill of the Associa- 
tion for Labor Legislation requires the in- 
surance of all manual employes and of all 
others gainfully employed who receive less 
than $1,200 yearly. Provision is also made 
for those small employers who may desire 
voluntary insurance for themselves, and for 
others not included in the compulsory pro- 
visions. 

The benefits to be provided are medical, 
surgical and nursing attendance, including 
necessary hospital care, medicines and sup- 
plies for both the wage-earner and his fam- 
ily; a cash benefit beginning on the fourth 
day of illness, equal to two-thirds of wages 
and given for a maximum of twenty-six 
weeks in one year; a maternity benefit and 
a funeral benefit of not more than $50. 

The ease with which an insured worker 
and his family can consult a physician with- 
out extra expenditure will lead many to con- 
sult their physician while illness is still in 








Ree RA 


LECEMBER, 1916 


its incipient stage and readily curable. The 
payment of two-thirds of wages will keep 
the family above the poverty line, and yet 
will not be sufficient to induce malingering. 
The maternity benefit, the third important 
benefit, in the case of the wife of an in- 
sured worker consists of obstetrical aid, 
and in the case of an insured woman con- 
sists of care at her confinement in addition 
to a cash benefit for eight weeks during her 
absence from work. This cash payment 
during disability due to child-bearing is 
especially to be advocated in view of laws 
in some states which prohibit the employ- 
ment of women just before and after child- 
birth, and thus prevent her earning money 
at the time when it is most needed. Finally, 
the urgent need of wage-earners for fun- 
eral benefit will be met. 


Financing the Benefits 

The cost of these benefits and their ad- 
ministration, amounting to about 3 per cent 
of wages, is to be borne two-fifths by the 
employe, two-fifths by the employer, and 
one-fifth by the state. The employe is asked 
to contribute because he is to some degree 
responsible for his own ill health and be- 
cause he receives the benefit. The contri- 
bution of the employer is justified on the 
ground that illness is, to a considerable ex- 
tent, occupational in origin. For example, 
the relation between industry and tubercu- 
losis has been clearly brought out by Dr. 
Frederick Hoffman, who has found that in 
the dustier trades, and in those having more 
injurious dusts, more workers contract tu- 
berculosis than in the less dusty occupa- 
tions. In other words, the trade dusts are 
responsible for tuberculosis. Progressive 
employers have already begun to meet their 
responsibility by installing sickness insur- 
ance systems for the benefit of their own 
employes. The state’s share in the joint 
contribution is justified by the present cost 
of sickness to the state and by its recog- 
nized responsibility for community action 
to prevent ill health. The proposed distri- 
bution of the contributions thus recognizes 
the responsibility of all, and by dividing the 
cost, gives the community, the employer and 
the workman a share of the burden. At the 
same time the expense is brought within the 


THE AMERICAN CITY 





695 


reach of large numbers unable to afford 
hea'th insurance on the present basis, and 
will involve no greater expense to workers 
than many are now making for the pay- 
ment of funeral benefit alone. 

Contributions should be graded accord- 
ing to wages of the workman, and in order 
to place a money value on health the con- 
tribution should be higher in those indus- 
tries in which excessive sickness prevails 
This will prove an important stimulus for 
prevention. 

The administration is to be vested in mu- 
tual associations of employers and employes 
organized according to localities and trades, 
and managed jointly by employers and 
workers under the general supervision of 
a state social insurance commission. This 
organization will lend itself very readily 
to an effective health campaign. As a re- 
sult, the community as a whole would gain 
by the increased healthiness and by the 
diminution of poverty manufactured by 
sickness. 

As the best known method for preventing 
disease, health insurance should receive the 
hearty support of all who have come to 
realize that “an ounce of prevention is 
worth a pound of cure.” Under health in- 
surance the associations of employers and 
employes which pay out benefits will have 
a financial inducement to prevent sickness, 
since prevention will result in a saving of 
expense. The associations, therefore, will 
find it to their financial advantage to urge 
early treatment, and even to provide the 
necessary hospitals and convalescent homes 
in order to expedite recovery. Not only the 
health of the workmen, but the sanitation 
of the factory—heating, ventilation, light- 
ing, noise, and even the mode of cleaning— 
will all receive attention, since an improve- 
ment in these disease-provoking factors 
would avert much illness and thus reduce 
the cost of insurance. 

Health insurance promises to be a most 
powerful prevention, both of destitution 
and of sickness. In this country where 
workmen’s compensation has inaugurated 
the campaign for Safety First, health insur- 
ance can be relied upon when properly ad- 
ministered to give the same strong impetus 
to a movement for “Health First.” 


(Zs OSINIISOS 














606 





Junior Deputy Sanitary Inspectors 
By Wm. W. B. Seymour 


N San Diego, California, there is a and 
of boys known as Junior Deputy Sani 
tary 


Inspectors, all enthusiast for 


modern sanitation and among the most de 
pendable of the San Diego Health Depart 


ment s corps of workers 


The Contest 


Some months ago, Dr. A. E. Banks, City 


Health Officer and lover of boys, hit upon 
the idea of utilizing the energies of the 
city's youngsters in his fly prevention cam 


Realizing that the normal boy takes 


that 


paign 


naturally to any plan 


has an element 


of contest with his fellows, the health officer 
announced a fly-trap competition with a $5 
prize as ad lure and an additional honor in 
the form of a big, shiny metal badge labeled 
“Junior Sanitary Inspector.” This badge 
was star-shaped, with a green cross to desig 
nate the Health Department 
While Dr. Banks’ direct obj« was t 


secure the cooperation of San Diego's wide 
awake youngsters in ridding the city of flies, 


he had also the deeper purpose of utilizing 
the bubbling energy of enthusiastic Young 
\merica as a powerful agent in edu 


the city’s adults to rea- 


ating 


tadges and an opportunity to enter the com 
petition 

Che Mayor, the Superintendent of Play 
the President of the Board 
Health, the City Engineer and the City 
Clerk were the judges and were hard put 
to it to make 
they looked at the hundred or more eager, 


erounds, 


a decision, especially when 


hopeful young faces, all enthusiasm for th« 
part they wanted to play in the city’s wel 
are. Finally David Shelley, aged 11 years, 
was awarded the shiny $5 gold piece and 
had the honor of being the first Junior 
Deputy Sanitary Inspector. He was sworn 
in by City Clerk A. H. Wright, and Mayor 
I. M. Capps pinned the badge on the proud 
young deputy. 


s 


Motion pictures were taken 


of this award and of the contestants, and 
were shown all over the United States, 
much to the delight of the children. The 


pictures were given their first run in San 
Diego at a performance for the benefit of 
the contestants. 


The Jolt to the Grown-Ups 
From that time on, deputies were rapidly 


appointed. The boys organized and met 





lize the 
modern sanitation. 
only has he 
both aims, but so enthu- 


importance of 
Not 


achieved 


siastic have the boys be- 
that, as will be 
shown, they have volun- 
tarily knocked on the 
head one of the _ hal- 
lowed traditions of 
youth that seemed to 
them to conflict with the 
dignity of their new po- 
sition 

The idea of the fly- 
trap competition spread 
like wild-fire, and for 
weeks preceding the day 
on which the contest was 


come 














to be held, Dr. Banks 
was besieged by boys of 
all ages, and girls as Left to Right 
well, clamoring for tary Inspector 





ADMINISTERING THE OATH OF OFFICE, SAN 
Mayor 
Behind—Other prize-winners in fly-trap contest. 


DIEGO, CAL 


Edwin M. Capps, David Shelley, Ist Junior Sani- 


























every Saturday afternoon in the City Hall 
to discuss the fly campaign, gradually 
branching out into other phases of sanita- 
tion. 

At the time this plan was conceived, there 
was great need for a concerted movement 
for up-to-date sanitation in San Diego. The 
city is endowed with an unusually healthful 
climate, the effects of which could easily 
be nullified by a neglect of sanitary precau- 
tions, The grown-ups were apathetic; they 
failed to realize the amount of harm their 
neglect would cause, and their apathy 
doubled the work of the health department. 
This was why Dr. Banks turned for aid to 
the children. 

To encourage the movement, the pro- 
prietors of most of the motion picture the- 
atres in the city offered free admission to 
all young deputies who wore badges. Did 
the boys hand their badges around in order 
that free admission could be obtained for 
“de gang”? Well, the movies were patron- 
ized pretty well for a while, but a short 
time ago, when the boys held their annual 
election, they unanimously voted for the 
rescission of the free movie privilege. They 
explained this unusual action by saying that 
they considered it beneath their dignity to 
have to be bribed into working for the wel- 
fare of San Diego. Voluntarily giving up 
free movies was indeed a jolt to the pre- 
conceived notions of their elders. 


Qualifying for the Position 


At this annual election, a chairman, a 
secretary and a captain for each school were 
chosen. There was some lively campaign- 
ing, and the winners turned some political 
tricks which would have made their fond 
relatives “sit up and take notice.” 

The Parent-Teacher associations of the 
city and the teachers and principals in all 


‘the city schools were active in encouraging 


the movement, and to this end a probation- 
ary period was inaugurated to impress upon 
the boys the importance of certain qualifi- 
cations for the position of inspector. A cer- 
tificate of fitness is demanded from the prin- 
cipal of the school which an applicant at- 
tends, after which he is put upon a sixty- 
day probation. At the end of this period, if 
he proves satisfactory, he is sworn in with 
the following oath and receives his star: 


“I do hereby solemnly swear that I will up- 
hold the Constitution of the United States of 








DeceMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 697 


America and of the state of California, and 
faithfully perform the duties of the office to 
which I have been appointed; and will espe- 
cially endeavor to at all times aid in keeping 
the neighborhood in which I live clean and 
sanitary and report all unsanitary conditions 
to the Chief Inspector.” 

Up to the end of 1915, 58 boys had been 
appointed inspectors. They range in age 
from 12 to 15 years. 


How the Work is Conducted 


The results of this movement have ex- 
ceeded all expectations. Scarcely a day 
passes that Dr. Banks is not informed by 
some teacher or parent of its beneficial re- 
sults. The boys not only take a much 
greater interest than formerly in the con- 
dition of the school grounds and buildings, 
but are alive to the latest methods of sani- 
tation. They do not confine their efforts to 
the elimination of flies. Each deputy is 
made responsible for the sanitary conditions 
in his own block and is charged with the 
duty of ferreting out nuisances in his 
neighborhood. He is not permitted to 
speak to the owners or tenants of the prop- 
erty concerning such conditions as he 
finds, but is required to make reports there- 
on to the Health Department, which 
promptly investigates the complaints and 
causes abatement of the unsanitary condi- 
tions. 

The work is divided into lectures, surveys 
and reports, and one of the requirements of 
the office is that the boys shall attend the 
lectures once a week. At each Saturday 
afternoon meeting the boys are given a talk 
on some branch of sanitation. At meetings 
already held, one speaker explained the re- 
quirements of sanitary plumbing; another 
told how mosquitoes and yellow fever were 
eliminated from Cuba and the Philippines; 
a third explained the reasons for and the 
effects of vaccination; and a fourth de- 
scribed the conditions of a modern dairy. 
On several occasions the boys were taken 
on tours of inspection, one of these being 
to the Edgemoore Farms at Santee, prob- 
ably one of the best dairies in the United 
States. 

“If I were trying to evade the law, I 
wouldn’t want to have a bunch of these boys 
after me,” said the owner of the dairy after 
the boys had finished their inspection. “If 
there is anything that these youngsters have 
overlooked, I’d like to know what it is. In 

















Pa ee 


mw 


698 THE AMERICAN CITY 


an hour they found out as much about my 
plant as I learned in a year; and if I were 
to answer correctly all of their questions, | 
would have to study dairying for the rest 
of my life.” 


The Denver Junior Inspectors 


The attention of sanitary workers else- 
where has been attracted to this movement, 
and other cities are doing similar work. 
The city of Denver has practically copied 
the San Diego plan in its entirety and has 
a staff of 150 young inspectors. The offi- 
cial list of duties of the Denver juvenile 
health officers includes the following: 


Make all reports by telephone to chief clerk. 

Re a gentleman at all times. 

Report the presence of any dead animal, and if 
same is a dog, cat or chicken, if on street, remove 
to nearest alley. 

Collect all papers in the streets and dispose of same. 

Report all fires in your district. 

Report dumping of ashes, manure, uncovered ma- 
nure boxes, etc. 

Report the violations of quarantine or removal of 
placards from quarantined houses. 

Remove from street all broken bottles, boards and 
horseshoes. 

Report all broken water mains and the flooding of 
streets, also pools of stagnant water. 

Strive to keep your district cleaner than your 
neighbor's. 

Report dumping of rubbish in the alleys. 


When summoned for conference be punctual, so that 


you will cause no delay. 























Voi. XV, No. 6 


Influence on the Home 

The effect of this movement is beginning 

to be felt in the children’s homes. With en- 
thusiasm the young inspectors of San Diego 
are conducting an educational campaign for 
sanitation which is having a tremendous 
effect upon their elders. What father dare 
leave tin cans lying around half-filled with 
water as a breeding place for mosquitoes 
in the face of his son's daily protest against 
such an unsanitary condition? What mother 
would have the temerity to allow the sink 
drain to clog with grease and then expect 
her son to keep his person clean? 
The influence of the children was espe- 
cially noticeable during the recent flood con- 
ditions when typhoid possibilities threat- 
ened. The vigilance of these Juniors pre- 
vented many a mosquito from hatching to 
spread disease, and their insistence at home 
upon boiled water for three weeks until con- 
ditions improved, without doubt did much 
to prevent epidemic-breeding conditions. 
The result of this movement has proved 
conclusively that education of the children, 
as well as the elders, in matters of public 
health is an important factor in the solu- 
tion of the problems of a growing com- 
munity; and that with proper guidance chil- 
dren can be made an active help to health 
departments instead of a careless hindrance. 





Are Permanent Traffic 


T's question is one which has con- 


fronted many students of traffic for 
some time, and yet apparently re- 
mains unsolved. 

The accompanying photograph illustrates 
one of the flower urns in use in Austin, 
Minn. Of these Mayor J. H. Anderson 
writes : 


“We find that these urns are very effective 
in controlling the street traffic without the aid 
of traffic men, and I feel that they would be 
a good investment in any city of our class, for 
that purpose. 

“As far as I can find out, the idea origi- 
nated from an address given by Rev. Mr. 
Gregory, of this city, before the Civic League. 
The League took the matter up, and has been 
paying for the urns and their up-keep. 

“Our streets are not very wide, so that the 














“Safeties” Really Safe? 


intersections do not furnish an excessive 
amount of room to make the turns, but barring 
a few accidents, where the drivers miscalcu- 
late and hit the urns, often with detriment 
to both the auto and the urn, we have no com- 
plaint to make.” 

An inquiry on this subject from Mayor 
Fred W. Keller, of South Bend, Ind., to 
the Safety First Federation was referred to 
Deputy Police Commissioner Lawrence B. 
Dunham, who is in charge of traffic in New 
York City and is a member of the Federa- 
tion’s Committee on Street Traffic. He 
replied: 

“It is the opinion of the New York Police 
Department that the movable type of stanch- 
ion, such as that now in use in this city, is 
preferable to the permanently located type. 
Among the reasons for this is that portable 








ee 


alla 








DECEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


690 


hions can be moved in case of parad light and a flexibl 
public necessity, in order to permit the the safety area, but w 

ssage of fire engines or other apparatus f steel 

‘Then, again, on some of our thorofares the entire devi 

we find that, during certain hours of the day, In its simplest for it might tw 

the bulk of the traffic is south-bound in the structures at eith d 

morning and north-bound at night, and in red lights at night Py 

order to meet this situation we shift the these might be light 

stanchions to the east in the morning, suf ered wit nv: 
iently to permit an extra line of traffic t lent material Ch | 

pass, and reverse this operation in the even struction that a skiddir il uld 


ing 0 one side without ury to the d 
. > - > . ( yr h 

\ letter from Mr. B. F. Affleck, President ao Chey 

of the Universal Portland Cement Com- lane +h 





pany, of Chicago, 





Says: 


“Among the cities 
now using concrete 
Hower vases or urns 
to define ‘Safeties’ 
ind divide traffic are 
New Ulm and Aus- 
tin, Minn. On this 
subject there is need 
for considerable 
study. These urns 
ire intended to serve 
adouble purpose: by 
dividing traffic to 
minimize accidents, 
ind, by marking and 
guarding an area, to 
permit pedestrians 
to wait half-way 
across a street for a 
lull in the traffic 

“But how do they 
actually work out? 
Frequently a ‘safety’ 

msists of a small 
curbed area with a 
lighting pillar at 
each end Its pres- 
ence 1s a menace to 
trafhe. While useful 
at busy times, yet in 
the evening or on 
rainy days it in- f 
‘ reases the chance DOES IT INCREASE OR DECREASI ‘ 
for accident. When ACCIDENTS \MERICAN CITY 
pavements are wet, 
skidding while rounding a corner throws a 
wheel against the ‘safety’ curb. Traffic is sel 
dom heavy at such a time. Without. the . . : - 
‘safety’ skidding would seldom be dangerous ave setters trom citizens general ind 

“At night the careless driver often comes Particularly from those public officials wl 
to grief on the ‘safety.’ It may serve him have had to do with thes 
right, but again the cost in lives may be too 
heavy. The need for a new type of ‘safety’ eA as ; 
is apparent. ’ iccomplish the end for which such str 

“The idea would be a combination of a red tures are intended 


> ' 
Because oT these 














divergent opinions 
1 
i 


ie | ditors of 1 Hit 


feel that public 
Satety generally would profit from 
exchange of views, and to thi 


1 1 
WS ene they 


p< rmanent sate- 


ties, or who have devised other means te 










EK’ PILI SOO 
» Fo WIE a 





ere 


—————— 




















_— 





700 


Safety from Fire in Motion Picture Theaters’ 
By John T. Winship 


Commissioner of Insurance of Michigan 


law was enacted by the Legislature 

of 1913 for the preservation of the 
lives and property of the citizens of the 
state, and the enforcement of the law was 
placed with the State Fire Marshal. The 
law was placed upon the statute books after 
careful study and deliberation following 
numerous serious accidents and many disas- 
trous fires in store buildings and upstairs 
halls which had been converted into moving 
picture theaters. Hundreds of these thea- 
ters were, in themselves, veritable firetraps, 
and in many instances no precaution was 
taken to safeguard the patrons with fire- 
proof machine booths or safety appliances. 
Boys of from fourteen to sixteen years of 
age, with no practical experience, were em- 
ployed as operators. Little or no attention 
was given the seating arrangements or 
means of exit, and in case of fire or panic 
the audience was very frequently forced to 
find its way out in total darkness or by the 
light of burning films on or near the pro- 
jecting machine, which almost invariably 
was placed but a few feet from the front 
entrance and exits. 


Provisions of the Michigan Law 


At the time the law was enacted there 
were between four and five hundred such 
theaters in Michigan, and many traveling 
companies were showing motion pictures 
in churches, schoolhouses and small up- 
stairs halls. To-day there are about 625 
licensed theaters in the state, and a travel- 
ing company can exhibit pictures only in 
theaters or halls inspected, approved and 
licensed by the State Department of Insur- 
ance. 

The 1913 law provides that all places of 
amusement showing motion pictures shall 
be inspected, approved and licensed by the 
State Fire Marshal. The inspections must 
be made twice yearly and the owner is re- 
quired to pay an inspection fee of $10. 
Moving picture exhibitions are prohibited 


T Michigan moving picture theater 


* From a discussion at the recent convention of the 
Fire Marshals’ Association of North America, in 
Nashville, Tenn. 





in rooms or halls above the first floor, with 
the exception that the law provides that the 
act shall not apply to moving picture ex- 
hibitions given solely for religious, benevo- 
lent, educational and mechanical and sci- 
entific demonstrative purposes, when in the 
giving of such exhibitions there is used only 
a special-size moving picture machine, con- 
structed for the sole use of non-inflammable 
films of such size and perforations that 
standard films cannot be operated thereon. 

The owner of each theater is required to 
install a fireproof booth of certain size and 
construction, with a 10-inch vent-pipe lead- 
ing to a chimney or to the open air, and all 
openings in such booth must be protected 
with fireproof drops connected with a fus- 
ible link so arranged that the openings will 
be closed at once in case of fire. There are 
special requirements for the seating ar- 
rangements and aisle space, and all chairs 
in the theater must be securely fastened 
to the floor. Exits at least 3 feet in width 
and 7 feet high must be maintained at each 
end of the theater, and all doors must, of 
course, open outward. The entire project- 
ing equipment, electrical devices, rheostat, 
etc., must be installed in the booth, and all 
electrical wiring in the theater must be in 
accordance with the national electrical code. 
All aisles and space in rear of seats must 
be kept clear and unobstructed at all times, 
and no smoking is allowed in the theater. 

Persons under eighteen years of age can- 
not operate moving picture machines, and 
any operator found to be incompetent may 
be removed by the State Fire Marshal. 
For a violation of the law a penalty of $25 
fine or ten days in jail for the first offense 
is. provided, and for a third offense the 
owner of the theater can be fined $100 and 
sent to the Detroit House of Correction for 
not more than thirty days. 

The law further gives the State Fire 
Marshal authority to revoke any theater 
license for cause, and in the enforcement 
of the law the State Fire Marshal, follow- 
ing a five-day notice to the theater owner 
to comply, has the power to cut all elec- 
trical current from theater or building. 











DeceMBER, 1916 


Results of the Law 


The first year the Michigan law was in 
operation the Department met with strong 
opposition from the theater owners in the 
enforcement of its provisions. Of course 
many owners objected strongly because 
they could not comply with the require- 
ments of the law and were forced to go 
out of business or seek new locations. 
Many also objected because of the expense 
in making certain changes, and our inspec- 
tors were usually confronted with the state- 
ment, “We have never had an accident in 
this theater. Nothing can happen; it is the 
safest in the state.” 

A certain Lansing theater owner, whose 
two theaters had been closed by the De- 
partment, was in my office one afternoon, 
presenting objections to the enforcement 
of the regulations in his theaters. He had 
hardly left the building when the fire alarm 
sounded and the firemen responded to a 
call from a picture theater a few doors 
from his own. The fire, which originated 
from the films in the booth, caused several 
thousand dollars’ damage, and but for the 
fact that the afternoon performance had 
just closed and the audience had passed out, 
would have undoubtedly been responsible 
for loss of life. The above-mentioned 
owner viewed the destruction of the opposi- 
tion house. He must have realized the 
necessity for the requirements of the law. 
He at least offered no further objections to 
the orders issued on his theaters, and that 
same afternoon he placed a force of men 
at work making the changes demanded. 


THE AMERICAN CiTY 


7OI 


During the first few months that the 
Michigan moving picture law was in oper- 
ation, it was found necessary to close about 
160 theaters, and 60 were compelled to dis- 
continue the use of motion pictures because 
it was impossible to comply with the pro- 
visions of the law. Many of these theaters 
were, of course, rebuilt to comply with our 
regulations; in other cases the owners se- 
cured new locations. Arrests for the vio- 
lation of the law were very frequent during 
the first year of the act's operation, but last 
year only two or three arrests were neces- 
sary. In fact, we now find that in most in- 
stances the theater owners are anxious and 
willing to codperate with the Department in 
the enforcement of the provisions of the 
law. They themselves realize that a fire or a 
panic in the theater, occurring when all the 
requirements of the law have not been ob- 
served, would mean great loss of business 
and undoubtedly expensive damage suits in 
the courts, in case of injury or death. Our 
records show that but few fires have oc- 
curred during the past year in these thea- 
ters, and we have reports of several in- 
stances when fires in the films in the fire- 
proof booths have occurred and the au- 
diences did not know that a fire was in 
progress. 

Too much cannot be said in favor of the 
Michigan moving picture theater law. It 
was enacted as a safety measure, and time 
and again has its enforcement demonstrated 
that it is just what the Legislature intended 
it should be—a law for the protection of 
property and the safety of the public. 





A Winter 

Many winter fires are caused by ill-ad- 
vised attempts to thaw frozen water pipes. 

A burning match, torch, or open flame of 
any description should never be employed 
for this purpose. To wrap the pipes with 
oil-soaked rags and set them on fire is 
worse than folly—it is incendiarism. 

Pipes are almost invariably adjacent to 
walls or partitions where there is an as- 
cending current of air to feed and spread 
a flame. Even if the flame does not start 
a fire, its sudden local heat may cause the 
pipe to break and flood the premises. 


RECOMMENDATION 
Wrap the frozen section of the pipe with 


Fire Hazard 


cotton cloth and pour hot water upon it 
(even if the hot water must be obtained 
from a neighbor) until the ice in the pipe 
gives way. Rags on the floor at the base 
of or under the pipe will absorb the waste 
water. If the freezing is too severe to 
yield to this treatment send for a plumber. 

Reputable plumbers always avoid run- 
ning water pipes along outside walls where 
it is possible to do so. Property owners 
when building should look out for this. It 
may some time save them money and vex- 
ation. 

From a Bulletin of 
Protection Association. 


the National Fire 

















Cleveland Seeking to Untangle Traffic 


ALIZING _ that, 
Cleveland's 


R 
would grow 


Cleveland Press 


remedied 
conditions 
steadily worse, the 
retained Ernest P. 
rich, Engineer of the 
First Federation of \ssociate 
Director of the New York Bureau of Mu- 
nicipal Research and formerly Consulting 
Engineer of the Borough of Manhattan, to 
untangle the problem and show Cleveland 
how to remedy her traffic defects. 

After an intensive investigation, which 
included traffic counts at all the more 


unless 
soon, traffic 
( i d- 
Consulting Safety 
\merica, 


im- 


to many features of the report of general 
and local interest, but it is believed that the 
suggestions contained in the following para- 
graphs will be of value to many readers of 
THe AMERICAN Clty: 

Poor paving on parallel thorofares has the 
effect of throwing traffic together into the 
better paved street, thus causing congestion 
which better paving would automatically elimi- 
nate. 

Too narrow 
tions, such as 
boxes and 
congestion. 

The old-fashioned bridge-stones for cross- 


roadways 
needless 
show-cases, 


and street obstruc- 
poles, waste paper 
are certain to cause 





Goodrich’s Advice to Cleveland 





License drivers of vehicles. 


Papa 
en SO catty canes wie with giat, oo 
= = they can be entered at any poi 
ieiealitranee an fas tho thae 
more than 6 feet wide. 
Sein, wn atty ame 
2 on blished, to | 
Prohibit autos stopping nt ears safety 
zones. 


Stop vehicles 30 feet from safety zone. 
Rene vehicles to park within 6 inches 


Forbid any vehicle (. park for more than 
streets. 


a 





= of curb. 


Bar vehicles from turning at d 





town corners from 6 a. m. to 6 p. m. 
Stop having so many traffic policemen go 
to lunch at the hour. 


tion in controlling traf 
o” Hae srt care make metre opal 


a 
ad pen hye | pavements 
Build better 
pavements. 

a ; as 
cee a ratate to anh ellinine 

ic. 

Divert travel from congested thorofares 
and intersections. 

Keep principal street intersections in good 





“s 


corners. 
Have traffic police protect ‘busiest down- 





Remove of the 
umn poles and other ob- 





\ SUMMARY IN 


Mr. Goodrich 
His recommendations 
the files of the 
inclusive. A sum- 
mary of the principal features of the re- 
port, as displayed with the first installment, 
is here reproduced: 

In the report the four outstanding causes 
of traffic congestion in Cleveland 
stated to be: 


portant points of congestion, 
rendered his report. 
in full can be found in 
Press of October 13-25, 


were 


First—Poor paving, thorofares 
and street obstructions 
Second—Failure to make equal use of 
allel thorofares 
Third—Contusing 
Fourth- 


too narrow 
par 


legislation 
Inadequate police regulation 


Space does not permit detailed reference 


THE 


CLEVELAND PRESS 





walks should be abolished. 
mud-road days. 


They are relics of 


Roadways should be laid out in widths 
which are multiples of traffic units. A traffic 
unit is the width of the average vehicle plus 
a proper clearance. Street cars should be 
allowed 10 feet. Normal vehicles average 
about 7. A clearance of from I to 2 feet is 
necessary. A street which is designed for a 
double-track street railroad with a line of 
standing vehicles next to the curb and a line 
of moving vehicles in each direction, should 
be 58 feet wide. 

Che time allowed for parking autos on main 
thorofares as a general rule ought not to ex- 
ceed thirty minutes; on congested streets, 


twenty minutes. Oe 
Vehicles should be required to park within 
6 inches of the curb. Yet in my survey I found 








DECEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 

















TRAFFIC CONDITIONS AT CLEVELAND’S BUSIEST CORNER 
Mr. Goodrich calls this the pl graj f bad tr 
tograph was taken looking east on Euclid Avenue at a 1 
north and south on East Ninth Street a ss Euclid Avenue I 
Euclid Avenue, but is turning from East Ninth Str t 


best phot 








s Street I 
blocked by an open touring aut It is ev r 
would endanger the lives of pedestrians ng 
st beyond the « s street were two-thirds as large, 
I On the sou west ne e is ug 
zone f proper width The a f ger 
so close to the end of the safety zone, s s 
Note that a bicyclist, at the left side of the | 
random way in which the three autos in the 
the relatively large amount of s eless 
show cases, fire alarm boxes, et See a 


of mud-road days 














THE 


AMERICAN CITY 








The Titan of Commerce 


AS* and every condition of 
road and load has been 
adequately provided for in Kelly 
design and construction. 


When the storms and drifts of winter 
make a call on the reserve power and 
sturdiness of a truck, Kellys are never 
found wanting. No Kelly ever “laid 
down.” 

The Complete Line: 


Worm Drive—1'% and 2'% tons. 
Chain drive—1'%, 2%, 3%, 4, 5 and 6 tons. 


“Like Kelly Does’”— FREE 


A very useful monthly publication for all who 
operate trucks or are interested in the question. 


The Kelly-Springfield Motor Truck Company 


1312 Burt Street Springfield, Ohio 


45 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 











— 


































THE 


DECEMBER, 1916 


a number of violations of the 2-foot rule, with 
one vehicle parked as far from the curb as 
4 feet 6 inches, allowing only 7 feet 2 inches 


s roadway 

Vehicles should not be permitted to park 
etween the curb and the safety zone, but 
should stop 30 feet from the safety zone \t 
street intersections vehicles should be 
pelled to stop back of the house line and never 
on the crosswalk. 

The chains and stanchions which rope off 
safety zones in Cleveland make them sources 
f danger for pedestrians who use them 
me of the stanchions bear evidence of hav 
ing been hit by autos. An auto striking the 
rst standard carries standard and chain with 
it, sweeping along pedestrians in the zone 

The chains also prevent pedestrians from 


} 


Si 


KMERICAN CITY mA 





reaching the safety zones at any point, and s 
idd to the hazards of the street by iner« 
the travel at the ends of the zones 

Safety zones should not be less tl 

more than 6 feet wid Wher 
established the curb should bs 

per distance, so that vel 


equal effective width 
length of a thorofare 

Safety zones should be marked wit \ 
paint on the paving 

Near-side stops for street cars sl 


ut into effect thruout the ity Points w re 
motormen must stop their cars | 
passengers are to board their cars should be 
indicated at all important inters¢ 

broad lines pau ted on the pavement 

would eliminate nfusion and 





For Safer 


EDESTRIANS in the hill section of 
Grand Rapids, Mich., have not been 
subjected to the dangers attendant to 

icy sidewalks in the winter season since the 
adoption, by the Board of Works, of a sim- 
ple, yet effective, sander. 

Under the direction of the General Man- 
ager, a bin was constructed of heavy boards, 


Sidewalks 


the bottom and thus afforded a means of 
controlling the flow of sand. 

The bin is filled with a cubic yard of 
moistened sand and is hauled about the city, 
leaving behind fifteen trails of sand, four 
inches apart, which effectually correct the 
slippery condition of the walks. Each load 


supplies a half-mile. Routes are faithfu 











a 


oe 








THE GRAND RAPIDS SANDER FOR SLIPPERY PAVEMENTS 


6 feet long, 2 feet deep and 2 feet wide at 
the top and gradually tapering. A piece of 
perforated steel, with rows of %4-inch holes 
4 inches apart extending the entire length, 
was used for a bottom. A similar sieve, 
connected with a lever, was placed above 





followed, and the bins are replenished at 
various sand stations. The carts are oper- 
ated from 2 A. M. until all streets have 
been covered, and by the time the city 1S 
awake the sidewalks are in excellent con- 
dition. 





——— 

















THE AMERICAN CITY 












































} ————$——— 
| uu UTE TS TTT 











—— oe 

























































trucks! 





Cut the budget—with trouble-proof 


Detroit's 2-ton Packard serves the 






city for three years without missing a day! 


Dependable! ** Never off 


duty’’ when work is to be done. 


Low in depreciation! ** As 
good now as on its first 
working day’’—practically 
without repairs. 


Detroit's Public Lighting 
Commission makes this report 
on its first Packard truck. 


**Packards have given this 
department eminently satis- 
factory service’’ writes the 
general superintendent. ‘*A 
2-ton truck purchased in 1913 


























Ask the man who owns one 


is in as good condition as the 
day it was delivered. It has 
had practically no repairs. *’ 


What Packards are doing 
for Detroit, they are doing for 
many cities—and for every de- 
partment—lighting, water, 
fire, ambulance, police, streets. 
Seven worm-drive models— 
1 to 6% tons—make it easy to 
standardize on wear-proof, 
trouble-proof trucks. 


For expert help in organiz- 
ing your hauling, *phone 
a branch or write Detroit. 






























































46 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae American City. 

















A Fire Prevention 


N Wednesday, November 8, William 
O Guerin, ex-chief of the New York 
City Bureau of Fire Prevention, 

and chairman of the Fire Prevention Com- 
mittee of the Safety First Federation, left 
New York for a tour of the South. Novem- 
ber 10 saw him at Charleston, S. C., No- 
vember 11 at Savannah, Ga., November 13 
at Augusta, Ga., and November 14 and 15 
at Montgomery and Birmingham, Ala. 
Five days—November 16-20—were devoted 
to the problems of Nashville, Tenn. At- 
lanta, Ga., was visited on November 21, 
Columbia, S. C., on the 22d and Baltimore 
on the way home on November 23 and 24. 
While on this trip preaching the doctrine 
of fire prevention, Mr. Guerin appeared be- 
fore chambers of commerce, boards of trade 
and similar civic bodies, and gave many 
talks on various phases of fire prevention 
work. One of these talks emphasizes the 
importance of education and legislation as 
the two chief elements in an effective com- 
paign for fire prevention. To quote in part: 


There are many things to do to make fire 
prevention a success; the first and greatest is 
to conduct a campaign of education to impress 
on each individual in a community his or her 
personal responsibility for a fire occurring as 
a result of carelessness pure and simple. 

In almost every building there is some spot 
where rubbish is piled and where discarded 
articles are stored in such a way that they 
form ideal bonfires if a spark touches them. 

In every large city the number of fires that 
occur from the careless use of matches, open 
lights, cigars and cigarettes are enormous, and 
the acts of carelessness with these articles are 
legion. The arrangements and use of stoves 
and heaters too near unprotected woodwork, 
storage of hot ashes in wooden receptacles, im- 
proper use of kerosene and volatile oils, are 
all too frequent causes of fires. 

Carefulness is a moral quality, and you can 
never legislate it into the individual—you must 
teach it to him. Of course, we can have legis- 
lation that will punish the careless one, but 
we don’t want to wait until every careless act 
has been punished to bring about our reform 
of the fire waste. I dwell strongly on the mat- 
ter of education for several reasons, chief of 
which is that a careful body of men can oper: 
ate a powder mill in a frame building for an 
indefinite period of time without a fire occur- 
ring, if sufficient care is exercised. On the 
other hand, in the year 1911 in New York 
City 146 lives were lost by fire in a building 
admitted to be of fireproof construction ex- 
cept for the wooden floors and trim, neither 
of which contributed materially to the origin 





Tour of the South 


or spread of the fire. The building had ade- 
quate standpipes and hose, and the business 
carried on was women’s shirtwaists. This fire, 
like thousands of others, was caused by an 
act of carelessness, throwing away a lighted 
cigarette. The fire that destroyed the Equit- 
able Building in New York City, where a 
chief officer lost his life, as well as some of 
the employes of the building, was caused by 
some one’s carelessly throwing away a lighted 
match. 

The means of education are obviously the 
schools, the lecture centers, the boards of trade, 
the manufacturers’ associations, the merchants’ 
associations, the public press, and all other 
means available to bring the matter home to 
the people. There can be no ceasing in this 
campaign of education, for our people are 
prone to forget. In New York City a record 
has been kept monthly and consolidated each 
year, showing in what class of buildings fires 
occurred, and at what point in each building 
the fire started. This report, both monthly 
and yearly, shows that more than 60 per cent 
of all fires occur in the homes of the people. 
We do not hesitate to enter a store, a factory 
or a hotel and order the removal of rubbish, 
the safeguarding of a dangerous condition, the 
providing of fire-extinguishing appliances, or 
the ceasing of a dangerous practice, because 
these places are “affected with a public inter- 
est” and the police power of the state unhesi- 
tatingly compels obedience. But in the homes 
of the people we have a different proposition. 
We have inherited an Anglo-Saxon civilization 
based on personal liberty and the sacredness 
of a man’s home, and the state pauses on its 
threshold, only crossing it without permission 
when a felony has been committed or pesti- 
lence is within. 

Therefore, the people in their homes may 
only be reached by education. 

Our next step is to secure adequate building 
codes suitable for the needs of each commun- 
ity—not too radical, but giving an adequate 
and reasonable protection. 

The storage, sale, transportation and use of 
combustibles and explosive materials have en- 
tered largely into the affairs of our cities, and 
suitable regulations governing these matters 
are necessary. The scope of such regulations 
will naturally vary with the needs of the dif- 
ferent communities. The safeguarding of 
these necessary, but, if uncontrolled, destruc- 
tive materials, taxes the ingenuity of our best 
men, and new means of controlling or mini- 
mizing the dangers accompanying the use of 
the foregoing articles are welcomed by every 
fire chief. 

A fire prevention code should have good 
housekeeping provisions regarding the removal 
of rubbish, safeguarding lights and fires, the 
prohibition of smoking in factories, the clos- 
ing of trap doors, elevator doors, iron shutters. 
etc., after business hours each day. A good 
practice for every business house is to clean 




















THE AMERICAN CITY 


























More White Trucks are put 
into service each year than 
trucks of any other make. 


It is a significant fact that the majority 
of these trucks are purchased in fleets by 
large motor truck owners whose only 
criterion of value is performance in terms 
of eventual cost. 


THE WHITE COMPANY 
CLEVELAND 























47 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 











DeceMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 709 


up the premises at the close of each day’s 
work, as such cleaning will result in a complete 
and minute inspection of the premises, together 
with the removal of what is most liable to 
cause fire. 

In some of the largest cities the theaters 
are the best protected buildings. Theaters 


need ample exits first; then, if practicable, to 
be of fireproof construction, with plenty of 
means of fighting fire; sprinklers over stage, 
under stage, in shops and dressing rooms; 
asbestos curtains; automatic skylights over 
stage. Public buildings generally should have 
adequate exits. 





Convention of the Safety First Federation of America 


The program of the second annual conven- 
tion of the Safety First Federation of America, 
to be held in Baltimore, Md., December 7-9, 
includes the following reports and addresses: 


Thursday Morning, December 7 

Invocation. 

Roll Call. 

Welcome to members of the convention. By 
James H. Preston, Mayor of the City of 
Baltimore, and B. Howell Griswold, Jr., 
President, Baltimore Board of Trade. 

4. Address by Darwin P. Kingsley, President of the 

Federation. 

5. Treasurer's Report. By Charles L. Bernheimer. 

6. Secretaries’ Reports 
a. Frederick H. Elliott, Former Secretary. 
b. Wayne D, Heydecker, Executive Sec. 
c. Francis X. Butler, Assistant Secreta y 

Appointment of Committee on Resolutions. 


ow 


Thursday Afternoon, December 7 
STREET TRAFFIC 

1. Report of the Street Traffic Committee, regarding 
the Standard Code of Traffic Regulations, 
Headlight Glare and Code of Signals. By 
Lawrence G. Brooks, Secretary-Treasurer, 
Highway Safety League, Boston, Mass. 

Discussion led by Raymond W. Pullman, Major 
and Superintendent of Police, Washington, 
D. C.; Walter W. Nicholson, Commissioner 
of Public Safety, Syracuse, N. Y. 

2. “Baltimore’s Recent Contribution to Street Treffic 
Regulations.” By Robert D. Carter, Marshal 
of Police, Baltimore, Md. 

38. “The Work of the Tratfic Court.” By loseph 
Sabath, Superior Court of Cook County, 
Chicago, Ill. 

4. “The Pedestrians and Traffic.” ty Dr. H. M 
Rowe, President, American Automobile Asso- 
ciation; President, Automobile Club of Mary 
land, Baltimore, Md. 

5. “The Necessity of Examining and Licensing all 
Operators of Motor Vehicles.” By Arthur 
Woods, Commissioner of Police, New York 
City 

6. “The Hessulty of Distinct Examinations for Op- 
erators of Different Types of Cars.” By 
Henry L. Rose, Deputy Commissioner of 
Motor Vehicles, State of Maryland. 

Discussion led by Harold W. Newman, Commis 
sioner of Public Safety, New Orleans, La. 


Friday Morning, December 8 
THE RAILWAY TRESPASS EVIL 


1. Address by Warren S. Stone, Grand Chief, 
Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers, Cleve 
land, Ohio. 

2. Address by Edmund Leigh, General Superintendent 
of Police, Baltimore and Ohio R. R. Co. 

3. Address by Marcus A. Dow, General Safety 

ent, New York Central Lines, New York. 

4. “The Public's Interest in the Trespass Question.” 
By Harry P. Coffin, Chairman, Public Safety 
Commission, Portland, Ore. 


5. “The Chamber of Commerce and Its Interest in 
Public Safety.” By J. Irving Holcomb, 
Chairman, Public Safety Committee, Indian- 
apolis Chamber of Commerce, Indianapolis, 
Ind. 

Discussion led by Colvin B. Brown, Chief, Or- 
ganization Service Bureau, Chamber of Com- 
merce of the United States, Washington, 
D. C.; Clifford Gildersleeve, Assistant Sec- 
retary, Cleveland Chamber of Commerce, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 

6. “The Boy Scouts’ Part in the Public Safety Move- 


ment.” By James E. West, Chief Scout 
Executive, Boy Scouts of America, New 
York City. 


Friday Afternoon, December 8 


FIRE PREVENTION 
1. Report of the Fire Prevention Committee. William 
Guerin, Chairman, Ex-Chief, Fire Prevention 
Sureau, New York, ie 
Discussion led by C. Albert Gasser, Inspector, 
Bureau of Combustibles and Fire Risks, 
Newark, N. J. 
2. “How a City Can Reduce Its Insurance Rates.” 
H. E. Wood, Ex-Mayor, City of Joliet, Til. 
3. “New Phases of Fire Department Work.’ By 
Robert Adamson, Commissioner, Fire De- 
partment, City of New York. 


4. “Fire Prevention and Insurance.” gy H. W. 
Forster, General Manager, Indepe ndence In- 
spection Bureau, Phil: adel phi a, Pa. Repre 


senting the National Fire Protection Associa- 
tion, Boston, Mass. 

“Baltimore’s System of Fire Prevention Inspec 
tion.” By B. S. Mace, Superintendent of 
Insurance, Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Com- 
pany, Baltimore, Md., and a representative of 
the Baltimore Fire Department. 


Saturday Morning, December 9 


1. Report of the Committee on Health and Sanita- 
tion. Dr. Gardner T. Swarts, Chairman: 
Secretary, Rhode Island State Board of 
Health, Providence, R. 

Discussion led by E. E. Rittenhouse, Commissioner, 
Public Service and Conservation, Equitable 
Life Assurance Society, New York, N. Y 
Dr. John D. Blake, Commissioner, Health 
Department, Baltimore, Md.; Dr. William T. 
Howard, Deputy Commissioner, Health De- 
partment, Baltimore, Md 

2. “Public Safety Work in Dayton.” By H. P. 
James, Director of Safety, Dayton, Ohio 

3. Report, Committee on City and Interurban Street 
Railways, C. Loomis Allen, Chairman; Presi 
dent Allen & Peck, Inc.; Ex-President, Amer- 
ican Electric Railway Association, Syracuse, 


SS 

4. “The Safety First Movement from the Street 
Railway Point of View.’ By James R. 
Pratt, Assistant General Manager, United 
Railways & Electric Company of Baltimore 

5. “Motion Picture Industry and Public Safety.” By 
William Marston Seabury, Counsel, National 
Association of the Motion Picture Industry, 
New York City. 








Sen en 





THE AMERICAN CITY 


BE UP-TO-DATE 
Double Service rm Trolley Poles 





a 


ve, 






























THE OLD WAY THE NEW WAY (24 Hours Service) 
Two sets of poles. One set of Elreco combination poles. 
Tubular steel for supporting trolley wires. The addition of ornamental bracket and base 
7 niga transforms the ordinary plain trolley pole into f 
Cast iron standards for lighting. a handsome lighting standard. | 
“White Way”’ is obtained at less than one- 
DOUBLE EXPENSE half the cost of a separate installation, 
. . . ‘ 
Unnecessary obstruction along the curb line. Lighting wires may be attached to top of : 
Underground wiring absolutely necessary poles—saving all expensive underground con- 
; struction. 


Difficulty of keeping both sets of poles in Curb line free from all unnecessary obstruc- 
alignment. tion. 


GET FULL DETAILS AND CATALOG 


Electric Railway Equipment Co. 
Manufacturers Cincinnati, Ohio 
NEW YORK, 30 Church Street 


48 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American Crryv. 





i — 











711 


Selling City Planning to a City or a State 
By John E. Lathrop 


Director, City Planning Exhibition, American City Bureau 


fer the sale of worth-while goods 

from chance to certainty, why would 
not it do as much for the task of selling 
city planning to a city or a state?” 

The answer to that query has given sta- 
bility and assurance to the conduct of city 
planning exhibitions. The older method 
was to gather an exhibition, throw open the 
doors and implore the people to come. 
Sometimes they came in vast numbers, 
sometimes they came in less than vast num- 
bers. 

Under that method the total attendance 
at an exhibition measured the success. It 
seemed to me there was a better way—a 
way to insure absolutely that, when the ex- 
hibition should have been closed in a given 
town, no question would be raised that city 
planning had been sold to that city. 

When the solution came, it was so simple 
that naturally we looked it over with some 
suspicion. It was merely this—let us take 
the city to pieces and sell city planning to 
each piece. If, then, there be science in 
the mathematical maxim, that “the whole is 
equal to the sum of all its parts,” if then we 
sold city planning to all the parts of a city, 
we should have sold it to the whole city. 

The newer method was, as I say, simple 
in the extreme. The American people are 
prone to be “jiners.”” Do you know anyone 
who does not belong to some club, church, 
society, lodge, union or juvenile organiza- 
tion? If we reached every organization, 
should we not reach virtually everyone? We 
should, certainly. Well, then, let’s do so; 
and we did. 

Take Ft. Wayne, Ind., as an illustration. 
There the American City Bureau's city 
planning exhibition was engaged by the 
Women’s Club League, Mrs. E. A. Fauve, 
President, and Mrs. Fred H. McCulloch, 
Chairman of the Civics Department. Co- 
operating, however, were the local Real 
Estate Exchange and many other influen- 
tial bodies. 

A general arrangements committee of 38 
was formed, one member for each principal 
organization—civic, commercial, educa- 


a | modern business science can trans- 





tional, religious, technical, social. This Ft 
Wayne general committee held one meeting 
—no more. At that meeting, members hav- 
ing previously been advised to prepare as 
thoroly as possible, the skeleton of a 
schedule of meetings to be held by the dif- 
ferent organizations was constructed, to be 
amplified later. Each member was to com- 
municate with the Director, adjusting the 
meeting of his organization to the whole 
schedule. 

This general committee meeting was held 
at noon, and lasted exactly one hour, in- 
cluding the time for consuming a luncheon. 
Every essential detail was covered at that 
session, the meeting schedule begun, the 
decoration committee selected and precise 
plans enunciated for their work, so that 
none departed impressed with the idea that 
he was about to experience an exhausting 
effort that would leave him weary of civic 
labor. 

Before that afternoon had passed, the 
meetings were begun, and by night-time four 
had been held, with press matter supplied 
that would get into the newspapers without 
coaxing or cajolery. 

The plan was: to go out into all parts of 
the city, gain the attention of all sorts of 
organized thought, present city planning 
from that angle which would give that par- 
ticular organization easiest approach to 
the main subject, and invite the organization 
to come in a body to view the city planning 
exhibition and have it explained. 

In some instances, when that was pos- 
sible, it was arranged that the organization 
should meet at the exhibition auditorium 
for their regular session, then devote part— 
a major part usually—of their time to city 
planning and seeing the exhibition. 

It worked like a charm. Organized Ft. 
Wayne heard and saw city planning—club, 
society, church organization and all. When 
we were through,. we had absolutely sold 
city planning to that prairie city. 

But the most important feature of the 
plan was, perhaps, to draw together the 
civic, religious and business forces of the 
city to a common center and imbue them 











Se 





THE AMERICAN CITY 





Sterling’ Trucks—Masters of the Road 


Like trunk line compound locomotives, Sterling Trucks are built 
for strength, pulling power and stamina. They are scientifically 
engineered, massively built, properly proportioned, with strength 
where strength is needed and without excess weight. 

Sterling Trucks are more profitable to operate because they will stand rougher usage— 


take more knocks and bumps and require less attention. They’re built for the ordinary 
driver to handle—as simple as a truck can be, with all complicated mechanism eliminated. | 


Sizes 2%, 34, 5 and 7 tons. 


WRITE FOR CATALOG AND FIGURES SHOWING 
ECONOMIES OF MOTOR TRUCK OPERATION 


Sterling Motor Truck Co. 


Builders of Motor Trucks Exclusively for Nine Years 


830 ROGERS STREET MILWAUKEE, WIS. 









pila ¢> 


49 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 











TT ARR me 





I ———— 


DeceMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


with the sense of unity. Unification is the 
key to success by modern business organi- 
zations. In most civic activities, however, 
team work is lacking. Each organization 
becomes in large measure a competitcr of 
the other. There is not ¢odrdination. 

This need for unity had been dwelt on 
in extenso in the Ft. Wayne city planning 
campaign. The Real Estate Exchange, the 
Merchants’ Association, the Ministers’ 
Association and the Federation of Labor, 
we discovered, had a common meeting day. 
Never had they come into actual contact. 
By slight effort they were brought together 
at the city planning exhibition, and the hour 
set was ten o'clock at night, after each had 
held its regular session. At five minutes to 
midnight, fifty persons, men and women, 
were there from the larger number who had 
come, having devoted two hours to joint 
study of the things that appertained to city 
planning, and to Ft. Wayne's especial needs. 

Now, if city planning could be sold to a 
whole city by selling it to each piece of the 
city, why could it not be sold to a whole 
state in the same manner? This query, 
once raised, received immediate answer. So 
that at this time there is in actual process 
such a campaign of salesmanship. 

Mr. Lee J. Ninde, President of the In- 
diana Real Estate Association, resident in 
Ft. Wayne, approaching the end of his year 
of administration, arranged that which he 
denominated “The Presidential City Plan- 
ning Tour.” He called in all of us who 
were available, and we set out in automo- 
biles to visit sixteen cities of Indiana, hold 
group meetings with members of real 
estate boards, chambers of commerce and 
others representing various phases of life 
and activity in each city. 

The addresses were built on a high level 
of civic thought. “I never believed men 
could talk to and hold close attention of 
business men with such idealities as their 
subject matter,” so Senator Cox, of the 
Indiana Legislature, remarked at the close 
of the meeting in India2apolis. Yet the 
subject was treated from a practical point 
of view, showing that sound city plan- 
ning comports with sound business, conserv- 
ing property values while conserving hu- 
man, spiritual, social and esthetic values. 

The next step in selling city planning to 
Indiana was to form the Indiana City Plan- 
ning Committee, of the mayor, commercial 


713 


secretary and president of the realty board 
in each of the 25 cities that had 10,000 or 
more population by the 1g10 census. Al- 
bert H. Schaaf, of Ft. Wayne, was made 
chairman, and the writer secretary. Mr. 
Schaaf was already chairman of the city 
planning committee of the Indiana Real 
Estate Association. 

Letters were written by President Ninde 
to the realty members; by Mayor Benjamin 
Bosse, of Evansville, to the mayors; and 
by Ernest N. Smith, General Secretary of 
the Indianapolis Chamber of Commerce, to 
the commercial secretaries. Not one 
declination was sent; on-the contrary, ac- 
ceptances were cordial and enthusiastic. 

Chairman Schaaf had drafted a city plan- 
ning commission bill to be offered to the 
Legislature when it should meet in January 
This bill was published in the newspapers, 
printed also for distribution, and criticisms 
invited. Support was proffered from quar- 
ters in which the existence of city planning 
sentiment had not hitherto been sus- 
pected. Probably it had not existed in 
many of them, but the openness, the en- 
thusiasm, the novelty of the whole cam- 
paign, coupled with the consciousness that 
\merican cities have not been built along 
economic lines and are seriously lacking in 
ability to meet twentieth century civic prob- 
lems and modern business efficiency stan- 
dards, stimulated interest and induced sup- 
port. 

The third step was to arrange for city 
planning exhibitions in several cities of 
Indiana. Chairman Schaaf, backed by Mr. 
Ninde and others, took up the matter in de- 
tail and placed their influence back of the 
exhibition movement. Evansville followed 
Ft. Wayne, and the Indiana Real Estate 
\ssociation held its third convention there 
while the exhibition was on display. The 
convention adopted a formal resolution en- 
dorsing the American City Bureau’s city 
planning exhibition and the bill drafted by 
Chairman Schaaf. 

The excellence of the Indiana city plan- 
ning campaign is essentially in its adding 
to the enactment of a city planning commis- 
sion law the creation of a public sentiment 
to demand enforcement after enactment. 
The Indiana city plan law will not be a 
dead letter. It will be the embodiment of 
a lively popular understanding of the vital- 
ity of modern city evolution, 




















To assure depend- 

able service mount 

your fire fighting 

equipment on 

GMC chasses. 
Six Sizes 

3-4, 1, 146, 2, 349, 5 Too 


Worm and Chain Drive 





[cA City 


HE performance of 

GMC Trucks in all 
branches of municipal 
service in scores of cities 
and towns throughout 
the country stands as 
visible evidence of what 
GMC Trucks can do for 
you. 


Write Truck Headquarters 
for complete information on 
the GMC line— including re- 
cords of their performance 

operating cost and upkeep. 


GENERAL MOTORS TRUCK Co. 
f the Units of the General Motor 
PONTIAC, MICH. 


New York St. Louis 
Boston Philadelphia 
Chicago 





When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American Ciry. 




















DeEcEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


We called on help, too, from outside 
Indiana. These names should be inscribed 
on the honor roll, after the Hoosier State 
shall have its new statute engrossed by the 
legislative clerk; Flavel Shurtleff, Secre- 
tary of the National Conference on City 
Planning ; Richard B. Watrous, Secretary of 
the American Civic Association; Thomas 
Ingersoll, Executive Secretary of National 
Association of Real Estate Exchanges, and 


715 


George E. Hooker, Civic Secretary, Chicago 
City Club; and, though a Hoosier, certainly 
there should be added the name of Scott 
R. Brewer, Executive Secretary of the In- 
diana Real Estate Association, an enthusi- 
astic advocate of city planning; and that 
other wonderful friend of man, Mrs. Albion 
Fellows Bacon, of Evansville, who as an 
exponent of city planning and housing has 
written her name on the heart of America. 


ooo oe) eV Ve mm - 


Items of Municipal and Civic Progress 


=e) 00 MM eM | 


. . 

Charter Revision in Los Angeles 

For some time the Municipal League of 
Los Angeles has been trying to overcome 
some of that conservatism which balked its 
attempts to revise the city charter. A long 
step in such revision has been taken by the 
passage of ten charter amendments at the 
recent election. The measures adopted in- 
clude: 

No. 1. Consolidation of city and county assessment 
and tax collection offices. 

No. 2. Consolidation of municipal with state or 
county elections. 

No. 4. Authorizing city to compel railroads to ele- 
vate or depress tracks. 

No. 5. Authorizing city to make and enforce all 
laws affecting municipality. 


No. 6. Allowing public improvements by contract 
or by day labor. 


No. 7. Authorizing easements for public utilities 
thru public parks. 

No. 8. Authorizing special commissions to handle 
funds donated for parks. 

No. 10. Relating to temporary sale of power to out- 
side municipalities. 


No. 11. Allowing semi-monthly or weekly payments 
of salaries for city employes. 


No. 12. Providing council shall meet five days each 
week. 


Of the fourteen charter amendments, the 
ten which carried included all of the more 
important ones, with the exception of the 
amendment relating to the formation and 
government of boroughs. The League is 
particularly gratified at the passage of No. 
6, simplifying the procedure of street im- 
provement work, by which it is hoped that 
nearly $1,000,000 annually can be saved to 
the property holders; of No. 1, permitting 
the consolidation of city and county offices; 
and of No. 2, making possible the holding 
of special city elections at state or county 
elections. 

Having entered into the campaign with 
all its energy, the League was besieged by 
inquiries in regard to the different meas- 
ures, and requests for advice as to how to 


vote. The secretary and other members 
appeared continually at meetings for the 
discussion of the amendments and a pub- 
licity campaign was also conducted. 

+ + 


Pittsburgh’s Charter Centennial 
Celebration 

Colorful pantomime by artistically cos- 
tumed actors on a beautiful pageant ground 
under a canopy of stars on a crisp, bracing 
autumn night, graceful dancing by girls in 
classic draperies, inspiring music by a 
chorus of 1,000 and an excellent orchestra— 
these were some of the delights offered to 
the public by the “Pageant and Masque of 
Freedom,” held recently in Pittsburgh dur- 
ing the week of the city’s great charter cen- 
tennial celebration. Over 2,500 persons 
took part as performers, and more than 
15,000 others came each night as spectators 
of this magnificent event. 

The pageant was only one of the attrac- 
tions of Charter Centennial Week. On 
Sunday, October 29, the celebration was 
ushered in by special church services, and 
en the following day, “Educational Day,” 
mass meetings were held and school prizes 
on local history were presented. The his- 
torical pageant was presented on the next 
three days, and was succeeded on Friday by 
a splendid civic and military parade and 
other activities. Saturday was denomi- 
nated “Athletic Day,” and was devoted to 
many athletic contests. Aside from these 
special attractions, there were window ex- 
hibits of Pittsburgh-made goods by mer- 
chants, exhibits of historic art and relics 
relating to Pittsburgh, etc. 

The pageant was a beautiful rendition in 


























THE AMERICAN CITY 





















wig Reza sayy 3 ZL, 
VND 2S | 277 ea 


Firestone Leads 
by Big Majority 


ORE Firestone Truck 

Tires, by far, are in ac- 

tual use today than any other 
one make. 


The fact that truck owners of 
longest experience give this marked 
preference to Firestone is proof of 
**Most Miles per Dollar”’ and satis 
faction. The Firestone combina- 
tion of wearing quality with resil- 
iency insures this service. 

There is a Firestone truck tire 
for every road, load and condition, 
and a Firestone Service Station in 
every large trucking center with 
specialists at your command, to 
advise you. Call the station near- 
est you. Or write us for details 
and low prices. 


Firestone Tire & Rubber Company 
AKRON, OHIO 


Branches and Dea'ers stench cet 


TO ety 


Alp! xt ear lees H on Deas fr % alt 


od 4 > ae 
ool — 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Tut American City. 





a 


MTA // 2 
ONG = 


It 


UW4AM 
. Vial { 


ae 


Uppers 
Poel 


Pi 


v7 


VA dee 


| it 


ee | 
iN 
ld. 


Nr tw 

















fe Reema 


























DeceMBER, 1916 THE 
verse and music of the story of Pittsburgh. 
It took the spectator thru the many phases 
of American history that affected the found- 
ing and the life of this city. It was dra- 
matic in form and heroic in spirit, yet its 
poetry and its artistry were not at any time 
out of harmony with the facts of history. 

The pageant was introduced by the Spirit 
of Pageantry and Prophecy, who revealed 
its historical purpose. Amidst a fanfare of 
trumpets, the spirit appears, and then the 
following words are heard: 

“The clarion tongues of trumpets ringing, 
With clangorous summons calls the years; 
Out from the shadows, up from the deeps, 
Where Memory muses and Legend sleeps 
Reborn, a centuried host appears 
\nd answers them with singing.” 

The symbolical entrance of Religion and 
Civilization, the early struggles of the pio- 
neers of America, the wars for freedom, the 
many steps by which Pittsburgh rose from 
a small city to one of paramount industrial 
importance to the country—these and simi- 
lar features were skillfully woven together 
in the presentation. The pageant was the 
work of Prof. G. M. Baird, who, with the 
valuable codperation of W. F. Ashe, Super- 
intendent of the City Bureau of Recreation, 
devoted his most earnest efforts to the event 
for many weeks. 

The parade was participated in by about 
30,000 men, and was accompanied by about 
120 floats interspersed among the various 
divisions. All of the striking features 
known to well-managed parades were in- 
cluded and many of these improved upon. 

The effect of the Charter Centennial 
Week is bound to be lasting. Pride in 
Pittsburgh’s growth, a knowledge of Pitts- 
burgh’s history, esteem for its founders and 
its statesmen, a vision of its possibilities in 
the future, a desire to make it attain the 
ideal, were all among the influences of this 
municipal civic celebration. 


+ + 
Commission-Manager Charter Wins 


The commission-manager charter which 
was adopted in St. Augustine, Fla., in June, 
1915, was recently attacked and a move- 
ment for its revision was well under way. 
The candidates for a city charter board to 
revise the charter were nominated, having 
been chosen from both sides of the contro- 
versy, and the matter was put to a vote at 
the November election. Those who were 


AMERICAN 


Cie 717 


~ 
~ 


loyal to the present commission-manager 
charter, with possibly a few slight modi- 
fications, were elected over those who pro 
posed to upset the present form of govern 
ment, by a vote of more than two to one 
The situation in St. Augustine is indi 
cated by the fact that when the commission 
manager charter was adopted, it won by a 
bare majority of eighteen votes, and the 
average majority at the election just held 
was 329 votes. The electors have placed 
their stamp of approval on the commission- 
manager form of government and the exist- 
ing administration, the present city com- 
missioners having led the ticket 
dates for the charter board 


as candi 


+ + 


Municipal Government in 
Zanesville, Ohio 

Attention is called to a mistake which 
was made regarding Zanesville, Ohio, in 
the symposium on city managers which was 
published in THE AMERICAN City in Octo- 
ber, 1916. At the very end of the article 
is a compilation of cities that had adopted 
the city manager form of government, to 
take effect on or after January I, 
among which was included Zanesville, 
Ohio. THe AMERICAN City was misin- 
formed regarding this city. Zanesville has 
adopted a new charter which goes into ef- 
fect January 1, 1918, and which provides 
for a modified federal form of government, 
but does not provide for a city manager. 


+ + 
“Open Window” Week 


The week of December 4-10 is being ob- 
served as “Open Window Week” in New 
York City under the direction of the De- 
partment of Health in codperation with the 
local anti-tuberculosis committees. The 
purpose is to conduct an intensive educa- 
tional campaign to emphasize the value of 
fresh air in the prevention and cure of 
disease. Monday, December 4, is “Open 
Window Day”; Tuesday is “Medical Ex- 
amination Day’’; Wednesday is ‘“Walk-to- 
Work Day”; Thursday, “Sanitary Work- 
shop Day”; Friday, “Children’s Health 
Day”; Saturday and Sunday are “Sun- 
shine Sabbath” and “Sunshine Sunday” 
respectively. The application of the vari- 
ous titles to the observance of the days is 
clear. 


IQI7, 
































THE AMERICAN CITY 





The GOODRICH 


Makers of the Celebrated Goodrich Automo- 
bile Tires—‘‘Best in the Long Run.’’ 





G ©O ODRI C H Have proved their economy 
TRUCK TIRES 


TIRES on these Christie 
Tractors have been yielding good _ service 
returns for two years. 
this must be supported on “‘shock-absorbing”’ 
tires of unquestioned dependability. Safety 
of firemen and bystanders demands it. 


The B. F. Goodrich Company, Akron, Ohio 





and dependability for the 
Toledo Fire Department 


Heavy equipment like 


£3 Service Stations and Branches in All 
Important Trucking Centers. 














Hi-PRESSURE 


AUTOMATIC CHEMICAL SPRINKLERS 
AND HANDHOSE STATIONS 


FOAMITE 


FOR OIL, PAINT, GREASE, VARNISH, 
COAL TAR AND ALL FIRES! Station- 
ary Systems and portable apparatus. 
3-Gallon “Foamite’’ Hand Extinguishers 
and 60-Gallon 2-Wheel ‘‘ Foamite”’ 
Chemical Engines. 


NATIONAL FIRE EXTINGUISHER CO. 
119 South Fourth Street, Philadelphia, Penna. 


STONINGTON, CONN. 
Manufacturers of 


Compressed Air Fire Whistles 
Whistle Blowers 


Bell Strikers, Boxes, Gongs 
Etc., Etc. 
Estimates Cheerfully Given 








Loper Fire Alarm Co. | 














United StatesTires 











SCHRAMM PORTABLE COMPRESSOR 


is complete, ready to operate—Rock Drills, 
caulking tools, rivets, etc. Free trial can be 
arranged, write for booklet showing how this 
labor saving device can save you money too. 


CHRIS. D. SCHRAMM & SON, 304 N. 4th St., Phila., Pa. 











52 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 





Saas ae Bete - 


SON 6 














Widen 0 


PRYVBET 


ete Sn 


P< 











719 





Conventions and Exhibitions 





On the Calendar 


Decemper 5.-New Haven, Conn. 

National Civil Service Reform League. Annual 
Meeting. Secretary, George T. Keyes, 79 Wall 
Street, New York City. 

DecemBer 5-7.—St. Louis, Mo. 

American Association of State Highway Off 
cials. Annual atoetine-. Secretary, Joseph Hyde 
Pratt, Chapel Hill, 

DecemsBer 5-8.—NEwW sat Tice 

American Society of Mechanical Engineers 
Annual Convention, Secretary, Calvin W. Rice, 
29 West Thirty-ninth Street, New York City. 

DeceMBER 6-8.—MINNEAPOLIS, MINN. 

American Institute of Architects. Annual Con 
vention. Secretary, Burt L. Fenner, The Octagon, 
Washington, D. re 

DecemBer 6-8.—Wasuincton, D. C. 

National Rivers and Harbors Conese. Annual 
Convention. Secretary, S. Thompson, Colo 
rado Building, Washington, =m & 

DecemBer 7-8.—Curcaco, ILL, 

Northwestern Road Congress. Third Annual 

Session. Secretary, Joe L. Long, Moline, III. 
DecemBer 7-9.—Battimore, Mp. 

Safety First Federation of America. Annual 
Convention, also Annual Meeting. Executive Sec 
retary, W. D. Heydecker, 6 East Thirty-ninth 
Street, New York City. 

DecemMBer 11-18.—New York Crry. 

Portland Cement Association. Annual Meeting 
Address, A. H. Ogle, Assistant to General Man 
ager, 111 West Washington Street, Chicago, I!!! 

DeceMBER 12-14.—Sanpy, Uran. 

State Municipal League of Utah. Annual Con 
vention. Secretary, T. F. Brickley, City Re 
corder, Sandy, Utah. 

DeceEMBER 13-15.—Wasuincton, D. C. 

American Civic Association. Annual Conven 
tion. Secretary, Richard B. Watrous, Union Trust 
Building, Washington, D. C 

DecemMBer 14-15.—Syracuse, N. Y. 

Conference for Better County Government in 
the State of New York. Second Conference. Ad 
dress, Otto E. Cartwright, 15 Court Street, White 
Plains, ™ 

DecemMBerR 28-31.—CrincINNATI, Onto. 

American Political Science Association. Annual 
Meeting. Secretary, Chester Lloyd Jones, Uni 
versity of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis. 

Tanuary 15.—New Yorx City. 

American Institute of Consulting Engineers. 
Annual Meeting. Secretary, F. A. Molitor, 35 
Nassau Street, New York City. 

January 16-18.—New York Crry. 

American Society of Heating and Ventilating 
Engineers. Annual Meeting. Secretary, Casin W 
} tad 29 West Thirty-ninth Street, New York 

ity. 
January 17-18.—New Yor« Crry. 

American Society of Civil Engineers. Annual 
Meeting. Secretary, Charles Warren Hunt, 220 
West Fifty-Seventh Street, New York City. 

January 18-19.—Wasnrncton, D. C, 

American Forestry Association. Annual Meet 
ing. Executive Secretary, P. S. Ridsdale, 1410 H 
Street, N. W., Washington, 

January 18-20. —Curcaco, Int. 

Vocational Education Association of the Middle 
West. Annual Convention. Secretary, Albert G 
Bauersfeld, Sedgwick and Division Streets, Chi 
cago, Ill. 


January 19.—New Yor City. 


American Society of Engineering Contractors 
Annual Meeting. Secretary, J. Wemlinger, 
South Ferry Building, New York City. 


January 20.—Kansas City, Mo. 


Western Paving Brick Manufacturers’ Associa 
tiom. Amnmual Meeting, Secretary, G. Ww. Thurs- 
ton, Dwight Building, Kansas City, 


January 31-Fepruary 1-2.—Wasuineton, D. ¢ 
Chamber of Commerce of the United State 
imerica. Annual Meeting. Secretary, Elliot H 


Goodwin, Riggs Building, Washington, D. C. 


Fesruary 5-9.—Boston, Mass. 

American Road Builders’ Association Annua 
Convention. Secretary, E. L. Powers, 150 Nassau 
Street, New York City. 

Fesruary 7-15.—Cuicaco, Itt. 

Chicago Cement Show. (The Tenth.) Held 
under the auspices of the Cement Products Ex 
hibition Company. Secretary, Blaine S. Smith, 
210 South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Ill. 


FEBRUARY 21-24.—INDIANAPOLIS, IND. 

National Society for the Promotion of Indus 
trial Education. “Annual Convention. Secretary, 
Alvin E. Dodd, 140 West Forty-second Street, 
New York City 


+ + 


The Third California Conference 
on City Planning 


T the Third California Conference on 
A City Planning, held in October at 
Visalia, the foremost problem of 
all the cities seemed to be the question of 
zoning or districting. The general desire 
to provide a plan for protecting homes from 
the intrusion of apartment houses, flats, 
business, nuisances and industries brought 
out much discussion of the new Berkeley 
zone ordinance. The city attorney of 
Berkeley, Frank D. Stringham, in a paper 
on “The Police Power and Its Application 
to Districting and to Excess Condemna- 
tion,” took a conservative yet most hopeful 
view of the probable attitude of the courts 
toward further extension of the city’s use 
of this power. Many recent decisions were 
quoted which seemed plainly to show that 
the higher courts are becoming more and 
more liberal in their recognition of com- 
munity rights versus individual rights. 
Chester H. Rowell, of Fresno, summed 
up the methods of city planning attack and 
legislation needed in an address in which 
he declared that there were three things 
necessary to do to make the American city 
grow in an orderly and healthy fashion 
(1) proper public acquisition power, or 
what is called the right of excess condemna- 
tion, for which in California a constitu- 
tional amendment is required; (2) the early 
adoption of a comprehensive and well 
thought out zone or districting system; (3) 
a system of extensions of the city outside 
its limits by planning for future growth in 








aes 


——— el 


— 














THE AMERICAN CITY 














Official Figures From Providence Convention Tests Show Superior Efficiency of 


American-La France Pumping Cars 















































S © 
3 $s 
“#5 Make and Type of Pumper ; z 
d o& s 
a] 
$s Oo 
n> = 
a 4 
A z 
mz =) 
Test No. 1—120 Pounds. 
1. | American-La France T-12 Rotary Gear | 5'4x6—6 1,010 
2. American-La France T-12 Piston...... | 5'4x6—6 933 
5. Abhrens-Fox Type M-2 Piston.......... 5\4x7—6 931 
3. | American-La France T-12 Centrifugal. 514x6—6 856 
4. Seagrave Model T Centrifugal 534x614—6 788 
Test No. 2—At 2u0 Pounds. 
1. | American-La France T-12 Rotary Gear | 5!4x6—6 516 | 
2. | American-La France T-12 Piston 5 lgx6—6 460 
5 Ahrens-Fox Type M-2 Piston. ...... 5 lox7—-6 509 
3. | American-La France T-12 Centrifugal. 5}4x6—6 505 
4. | Seagrave Model T Centrifugal 53ix446—6 9534 
Test No. 3—At 250 Pounds 
1. | American-La France T-12 Rotary Gear| 544x6—6 423 
2. | American-La France T-12 Piston...... 544x6—6 414 
5. | Ahrens-Fox Type M-2 Piston 5lgx7—6 411 
3. | American-La France T-12 Centrifugal. 54x6—6 355 
4. | Seagrave Model T Centrifugal........ 53%{x644—6 | 355 


9- 






























































tis ja (83 
“sie og Sane 
§ ieee oi ee 
PiS 5 | sgl S (So lessipnk 
.i@ | 8 ieee ee weed! ef 
o} 34,02 38] Sp) aie 
ais | $8 4 [8] BB) a leek) 3% 
Ela #2 < SB) SE ch |aebece 
Duration—6 Hours. 
131 | 1,802 | 1,802 | 72.6 | 946.5 | 1,102 | 79.1 | 11.7 | 83.7 
133 | 1,193 | 1,193 72.6 | 86.6 1,034 | 74.2 | 11.9 | 85.6 
‘132 1,168 1,303 72.6| 99. 10% | 73.5 10.3 | 74.2 
130 1,123 1,123 72.6 | 81.5 927 6.6 MA) 81.7 
138 | 997 1,080 | 79.3 | 85.6, 006 | 65. 10.6 | 75.8 
Teed ‘Duration—3 — 
221 | 1,311 | 1,311 | 72.6 | 95.2] 570 | 68.2 | 5.99 | 71.6 
“or 1223 | 1223 72.6 88.8 | 508 | 60.8 5.73 68.5 
“216 1,245 | 1,453 72.6 105.5 | 550 (65.7 | 5.21 62.3 
218 1,225 | 1,225 72.6. 88.9| 550 | 65.8 6.19 74. 
211 1,152 | 1,248 79.3 99. | 563 | 67.4 5.69 68.1 
Duration—3 Hours Z 
261 1,193 | 1,198 | 72.6 | 86.6 442 66. | 5.10 | 76.2 
261 | 1,120 1,120 72.6] 81.3 432 | 64.6 | 5.31 | 79.4 
“971 | 153 1345 72.6| 97.6 445 66.6 | 4.56 68.2 
266 | 1,315 | 1,315 72.6| 95.5 378 56.5 | 3.96 59.2 
"258 | 1,260 | 1,365 | 79.3 | 108.2 366 54.8 | 3.38 | 50.7 





*A.L. A. M. Rating is based on 1,000 Ft. Piston Speed. Corrections are made to make H. P. proportional to actual speed. 


Wt. per 
Gal. Disc. 
Weight. at 120 Ibs. 
1. American-La France T-12 Rotary Gear . 9,940 9.02 
2. American-La France T-12 Piston . € 10,920 10.55 
3. American-La France T-12 Centrifugal. . 9,520 10.27 
4. Seagrave Model T Centrifugal . . 11,930 13.2 
5. Ahrens-Fox Tyne M-2 Piston 11,530 11.3 


NOTE 


American-La France Cars were Combination Pump, Chemical 
and Hose Wagons, ef equipped, at weights given. Cars of 





Pumper No. 1, Rotary Gear, had one of the small- 
est motors and pumped more water than any 
other car. This is significant when it is shown 
that Pumper No. 4 had the largest motor and 
umped less total water than any other car. 

Recibane Nos. 1, 2 and 3 showed highest effi- 
ciency of their respective types in all three tests. 
Pumpers Nos. 1, 2 and 3 showed no appreciable 
vibration of car or hose during any part of the 
tests. 

Pumpers Nos. 1, 2 and 3 had absolutely perfect 
scores, and no repairs or adjustments of any 
kind were made during the tests. 


other manufacturers not carry same complete equipment. 
Pumpers Nos. 1, 2 and 3 were by far the lightest 
cars in the test, omen ow carried chemical 
tank hose and full e-fighting equipment, 
which was not carried by other cars. Allowin 
for this, a deduction of at least 500 pounds shoul 
be made in weights given of Pumpers Nos. 1, 2 
and 3. 

American-La France Centrifugal and Piston 
Pumping Cars demonstrated marked superiority 
in design and performance over other piston and 
centrifugal cars, proving = av of thor- 
oughly trying out a atus ore placing on 
market is of Unestionn le benefit to purchaser. 


MERIGAN {AFRANCE FIREENGINE ( OMPANY,INC. 


ELMIRA, NEW YORK 








When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae American Crry. 




















a 


a NR LED Bm 





ue 








’ 






DECEMBER, 1916 THE 
some such way as the Germans do, by con- 
demning farm lands for future city use. 
“When this is done the millennium will not 
have arrived, but we shall have become par 
tially civilized,” he said. 

A proposed legal method for the estab- 
lishment of uniform building setback lines 
from streets was brought out by William J. 
Locke, Secretary of the League of Califor- 
nia Municipalities. He suggests that a sys- 
tem be adopted similar to that in street 
proceeding providing for the resolution of 
intention, publication of notice, hearing of 
protests and assessment of damages and 
benefits over the district benefited in order 
to meet the requirements of “due process 
of law.” It was brought out that the estab- 
lishment of such setback lines brings about 
great protection to public health and 
safety. By requiring all buildings to be set 
back a given distance from the street, the 
city can anticipate necessary future widen- 
ing if traffic in the future should increase to 
any great extent so as to require it 

The Conference unanimously decided to 
recommend the following legislation to the 
State Legislature at its session next Janu 
ary : 

Extension of the state housing laws to in 
clude a more comprehensive and stringent 
tenement house act, and the regulation of 
all types of dwellings; the establishment of 
a bureau under some existing commission 
similar in function to the work of the Mas 
sachusetts Homestead Commission, to sup 
ply information and encouragement to all 
the city planning commissions of the state: 
asking the submission at the next general 
election of a constitutional amendment for 
the public acquisition power (sometimes 
called excess condemnation) ; passage of an 
act further strengthening the power of 
cities to restrict the building of flats and 
tenements in the single family residence dis- 
tricts: and passage of an act permitting 
cities to establish building setback lines 

The officers elected for the ensuing year 
are as follows: 

President—F. C. Wheeler, Councilman, 
Los Angeles 

Vice-President—Duncan MeDuffie, Pres- 
ident Civic Art Commission, Berkeley. 

Vice-President—Thos. - H.-- Reed; - City 
Manager, San Jose: 

Secretary and. Treasurer—Chas H. Che- 


AMERICAN 


Cis 721 


ney, architect and city planner, San Fran- 
cisco 


+ ¢+ 


American Road Builders’ Association 

The annual meeting and dinner of the 
American Road Builders’ Association was 
held November 3, at the rooms of the Auto 
mobile Club of America, New York City 
Plans were outlined for the annual conven 
tion of the association, which will be held 
in Boston, Mass., 
ning February 5, 1917. The Eighth Na 
tional Good Roads Show will be held in 


during the week begin 


conjunction with the convention 

The result of the ballot for officers, which 
had been conducted by mail, was announced 
at the dinner as follows 

President—Arthur W. Dean, Chief Engineer, Mas 


husetts St ate Highw iv Commiss on 





First Vice-President—William H. Connell, Chief, 
Bureau of Highways and Street Cle ladel 
phia, Pa 

Second \ President—Austin B. Fletche S 
Highway Enginee f California 

ird Vice-President—Arthur H. Blanchard, P 
fessor of Highway Engines g, ¢ bia Universit 
Ne York 

Secretary—E. L. Pow . Edit 

[Treasurer—W WwW Crosby e sulting Eng r 
Baltimore, Md 

Directors for three years—T. R. Agg, Prof 
Highway Engineering, Iowa State College, Ames, I 
W | Atkinsor State Highway Eng 


una; Fred E. Ellis, Manager, Essex Trap Rock & 


( truction Comfy any, Peabody, Mass.; R. R. Gille 





pie, Chief Engineer of Sewers and Highways, Bor 
f the Bronx, New York City; B. Richaud, Deputy 
Minister, Department of Roads, Province of Quebex 
Canada Paul D. Sargent Chief Engineer Mair 
State Hichw Comamiasios 

+ + 


American Civic Association 

The twelfth annual convention of the 
\merican Civic Association will be held at 
the New Willard Hotel, Washington, D. C., 
December 13, 14 and 15, 1916. The pro 
gram will relate importantly to several 
aspects of the physical improvement of 
cities, towns and rural districts. There will 
be special sessions devoted to city planning 
and the development of industrial con 
munities; to county planning as an 
sion of the principles of city planning to th 
rural districts; to the schools as community 


centers; to pageants as factors in civic edu 


exten 


cation, and to national, state and city parks 
There will also be addresses on the subjects 
of the smoke nuisance, the billboard nuis 
Information 
| 


ance and unnecessary noises 
as to the details of the program may be o 
tained by-addressing -the American Civic 
\ssociation, 914 Union Trust Building 
Washington, D. C 








THE AMERICAN CITY 


BOYD 








Note 
AERIAL TRUCK | | 
Rigidity 
The Quickest & Best Hoist- of the 
ing Device on the Market Sadilier 

Combining Power, Spring and 













Hand Hoist. Can be operated 
with ease by one man, and ex- 
tended to full height of 85 ft. in 
one minute. We build all 


types of Fire Apparatus. Send 
for catalog. 











JAMES BOYD & BRO., Inc. 


** Builders of the Best™ 
25th and Wharton Streets, PHILADELPHIA, PA. 













54 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tax Amenican Crrv. 


eee Roam 








Municipal Week at Springfield, Mass. 


66 O multiply the numbers, harmonize 
the methods and combine the 
forces of those who are inter 

ested in good municipal government”—this 

object of the National Municipal League 
was promoted in a practical manner at 

Springfield, Mass., during the week ending 

November 25. The occasion was the an- 

nual convention of the League and of nine 

other affiliated groups or independent civic 
bodies, a list of which was published in our 

November number (page 591). 

Tue AMERICAN City has arranged with 
\ugustus Raymond Hatton, Professor of 
Political Science of Western Reserve Uni- 
versity, to discuss for the benefit of our 
readers some of the interesting points 
which gave zest to the Springfield gather- 
ing. This discussion will appear in the 
January number. In the present issue, 
which is being sent to press just as “Muni- 
cipal Week” is ending, there are time and 
space only for the following record of the 
business sessions: 

The election of officers and council of the 
National Municipal League resulted as fol- 
lows: 

President, Lawson Purdy, New York. 

Vice-Presidents: 

Miss Jane Adams, Chi George McAneny, New 


cago York 

Tohn Stewart Sryan, Oliver McClintock, Pitts 
Richmond, Va burgh 

Richard S. Childs, New J Horace McFarland, 
York Harrisburg 

Walter L. Fisher, Chi- Robert Treat Paine, Bos 
cago ton 

Frank J. Goodnow, Johns L. S. Rowe, Philadelphi:z 
Hopkins University Chas, Richardson, Phila 

Meyer Lissner, Los An delphia 
geles, Cal. Dudley Tibbits Tr 

Lawrence Lowell, i a 


Cambridge, Mass. 

Secretary, Clinton Rogers Woodruff, Philadelphia 
Treasurer, George Burnham, Jr., Philadelphia 
Council: 


Charles W Andrews, Dwight F Davis, St 
Syracuse, N. Y Louis, Mo 


M._N. Baker, Montclair, George B. Dealey, Dallas, 


. We Texas 
W. P. Bancroft, Wilming Albert DeSilver, Brook 
ton, Del lyn, N. Y 
Alfred Bettman, Cincin C, O. Dustin, Springfield, 


nati, Ohio Mass. 
Charles J. Bonaparte, Bal- Rev. William G. Eliot 
timore, Md. Tr., Portland, Ore 
John A. Butler, Milwau William Dudley Foulke 


kee, Wis. , Richmond, Ind 
Harvey Stuart Chase, C. Jj. France, Seattle, 
Boston Wash 








/ e) 

Clarence L. Harper Mrs Bessi I 
Philadelphia Priddy, Ypsilanti, M 

Albert Bushnell Hart S 
Cambridge, Mass. 

Augustus Raymond Hat \ 
ton, Cleveland, Oh ss 

Raymond V Ingers S 
Brooklyn, N. Y } 

Herman G. James, A SI 
tin, Texas Canada 

Camillus G. Kidder, O: Howard Strong Mint 
ange, N. J : Mir 

Sam A. Lewisohn, New Charles A. Sun K 
York sas City, M 

Ww D. Lighthall, Mor H. A. 7 min, Jr., D 
treal, Canada ton Oh 

Knowlton Mixer, Buf Henry M. Wait Dayt 
falo, N. Y Ohio 

Frederic Cook More A. Leo Weil. Pitts! 
house, Milwaukee, Wis P 

William Bennett Munro, Tames H Wolfe, S 
Cambridge, Mass Lake City, Utah 

T. P. Newberry, Detr« 
Mich. 


\ new organization, to be known as the 
National Federation of Governmental Re- 
search Agencies, was formed by the repre- 
sentatives of the research bureaus which 
were present at the Springfield meeting 
The following officers were elected 


President, Dr. L. D. Upson, Director of the Detroit 
Bureau of Governmental Researcl 

Vice-President, John Putnam, Director ft M 
waukee Board of Public Efficiency 

Secretary, C. O. Dustin, Manager e4 s 


ld Bureau of Municipal Resear 

Treasurer, T. L. Hinckley, Chief of St 
Toronto Bureau of Municipal Resear 

Trustee, E. P. Goodrich, Acting Dire 
New York Bureau of Municipal Researcl 


Among the live groups whose presence 
contributed much to the success of Munici- 
pal Week were the members of the Civic 
Secretaries Committee of the National Mu 
nicipal League. For the ensuing vear the 
following officers were elected 


President, Addison L. Winship, Secre« 

City Club of Boston, Mass 
Treasurer, Miss H. Marie Dermitt, Secretary 

Civic League of Allegheny County, Pittsburg Pa 
Secretary, W. F. Gentry, Secretar f the City Clul 
Kansas City, M« 


At the annual meeting of the Federatior 


of Planning Boards of Massachusetts the 
following officers were elected 


Chairman, Charles S. Bird, Walpol M 
Vice-Chairman, Preston Pound, W ester, M 
Treasurer, Joseph Finberg, Attlebor Mass 
Secretary, Arthur C. Comey, Cambridge, M 
Directors: Augustus P. Loring Ir., Reverly, M 
Flavel Shurtleff, Winchester, Mass Fredet I 


Omsted, Brookline, M 


The City Managers Association elected 


President, O. E. Carr, Niagara Fal N.Y 
Vice-President, K. RB. Ward, Sandusky, Ol 
Secretary, Winton L. Milter. St. Augustir 








— 


5] 














THE AMERICAN CITY 





THE GAMEWELL FIRE ALARM 
TELEGRAPH CO. 
Oe 








“Registered U. S. Patent Office” 


Manufacturers of 
Fire Alarm and Police Signal 
TELEGRAPHS 
for 
Municipalities and Private 
Parties 


The Gamewell system of to-day is 
the outcome of the combined inventive 
genius and mechanical skill of many 
whose valuable services the company 
has been able to secure during the 
past fifty-seven years, in pursuance of 
its policy of meeting at any cost the 
requirements of the varied conditions 
existing in different localities. 


Corr P dence Solicited. 


General Office and Works: 
Newton Upper Falls, Mass. 














How to Judge Fire Hose 


“How to Judge Fire Hose”’ is the title of an 
interesting little booklet. It contains a boiled 
down friendly chat and frankly discusses good 
and bad hose. This booklet will be sent free to 
anyone interested. 


Speaking of fire-hose—records show that 
Bi-Lateral hose lasts three times as long as th« 


old style or wrongly constructed hose made of 


substantialy the same high grade materials. 
The secret is in the construction. Let us tell! 
ou about it. Your name and address is all 

we want. 

BI-LATERAL FIRE HOSE COMPANY 

326 West Madison Street, Chicago, III. 

















“The Sign of 
SUPERIORITY” 


In the Motor Driven Fire 
Apparatus manufacture. It 
stands for practical, efficient, 
economic, reliable as well as 
scientifically correct Appara 


6 DOUBLY SURE” 


SOUTH BEND 
DOUBLE DUTY 


TRACTORS For 
Your Department 


A tractor that is not only built from 
a practical but from a scientific stand- 
point 














55 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 





ee ee 


AeA 8.22 








a ee 





Aten inca 2 








Practical Civics for Practical Women 
By Maud van Buren 


HE practical civic worker is not an 
imitator. She may not be an origi- 
nator, but she certainly weighs well 

in the balance of common sense every sug- 
gestion for civic betterment that comes to 
her notice, never adopting a plan merely 
because some other city has found it a wise 
one and worked it out successfully. In 
looking closely into benefits to her com 
munity to be derived from the adoption of 
certain ideas, she draws a hard and fast 
line between essentials and non-essentials. 
The municipal Christmas tree that has 
filled a need and met with so much success 
in some communities makes a strong appeal 
to her, naturally. There is poetry in it 
It may seem a nice thing to have. But be- 
cause San Francisco’s tree gives joy to 
thousands every Christmas, must her own 
Jonesville with its mercury dropping to 
thirty below round about holiday time and 
with its churches, its schools and its chil- 
dren’s department in the public library mak- 
ing it possible for every child in Jonesville 
to enjoy a Christmas celebration—must 
Jonesville indulge in this expensive luxury 
of an outdoor Christmas tree? Is it a neces- 
sary thing as compared with other needs? 
Is it a sensible thing? 

Because Chicago finds public playgrounds 
and supervised play essential to the proper 
development of the lives of thousands of 
its children, must the village of Smithville, 
with its spacious yards and its open fields, 
a town that is all playground, be put to the 
expense of a public playground? Is super 
vised play a necessity in all communities? 
And, if so, might not the supervision be left 
to the parents and teachers of slumless 
towns instead of being shifted onto society ? 
“Imitation is the sincerest flattery,” but it 
sometimes smacks of ridiculousness. 

Moreover, the practical civic worker does 
not take upon herself the duties of the local 
council. In a small town in the mountain- 
ous section of the South, a town that slept 
peacefully on for the hundred years after 
its founding until the local women awoke 
to local needs, the civic committee of the 
Woman’s Club has worked night and day 
at all manner of devices for raising money 
for local improvements. They have planted 


tne street trees, laid sidewalks arou 
school grounds, furnished a piano 
victrola to the school; they have pr 


the only culverts and street cr 


town possesses; they have furnished 
volunteer fire company with every inch 
hose and are paying regularly half t 
town’s lighting bill. Is it any wonder that 
the local council occupies its time whittling 
whistles? This is not an extreme cas« 
scores of cases women’s organizatior 
encouraging indifference or extrava 
on the part of city officials by taki 
the duties of those officials 

Che practical civic worker’s chief duty is 
education—the education of the masses to 
that point in civic consciousness wher 


they will demand of the officials they elect 


AiLy 


the education of the masses to that place in 


the essentials of a healthful community life; 


civic sense where their voices will count 
for something when thousands are about t 


) 


be expended on some scheme for mere or 


namentation, when the crying need of the 


town is pure water or a sewage disposal 
Svstem. 

And how shall our civic organizations 
educate without schools for the masses 
where practical civics may be taught? Th 
local newspaper, if put to its best use by the 


local civic organizations, is the best sections 

for the education of the masses; and the 
wideawake publicity committee of the civic 
organization allows no issue to leave the 
press without a suggestion of civic value 
somewhere within its columns. The posters 
the dodgers, the folders, the leaflets, the 
before and after improvement” views dis 
played in conspicuous windows are all edu 
cative. 

But unless the publicity comm 
given tools to work with, its well-mea 
ing efforts will eventually lag and di 
for want of ideas and material—the pul 
licity committees of almost all organiza- 
tions of women being volunteer, untrained, 
inexpert, busy members. From the wealth 
of civic material coming from the press to 
day, the most practical, the most suggestive 
must be made available to the publicity com 
mittee if best results are to be attained 





neatenceemeanaces teat 

















 ——— 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


A Fire Hose 


of unusually careful manufacture 


















Wax and Para Gum Treated 
The lining is of fine Para Gum, hand made, 
four calend th bore or lap-jointed. 
Circular balance woven, 
each strand of cotton Is 
’ yr Seay — 
wf ax ‘ara Gum, 
Swinehart pefat —etet 
- . A f, 
Tires for Every Service maiieg the \deal ‘bow for 
re departments. 
are made in twenty-four different types, which Tentness tide ond 
cover every conceivable service to which a solidifies the strands of cot- 
truck is subjected. ton, assuring long wear. 
“Swinehart Cellulars” are especially con- eect 
structed to safely carry your Fire apparatus to = - 4 we 
the blaze at a high rate of speed. locameams 
“Swinehart Ideals” are built to stand up + q 
under the heavy loads of your large municipal Fabric Fire Hose Co. 
trucks. : Corner Duane and Church Streets, New York 
Send us your truck requirements. BRANCH OFFICES: 
Your name and address brings you our illus- po 4 Ady 5. f 
trated and descriptive literature. COLUMBUS, 0. 
, MINNEAPOLIS) © NEWARK, 5. J 
H OKLAHOMA CITY MONTREAL 
The Swinehart Tire & Rubber Co. PORTLAND, ORE. PROVIDENCE P 
GAN FRANCISCO DALLAS, TEX. atentes ona 
AKRON, OHIO BALTIMORE, MD. Sole Manufacturer 














Republic 
Quality Hose 


FIRE HOSE 
Cotton, Rubber Lined Rubber Chemical 
Underwriters’ Mill Engine Suction 


STREET WASHING HOSE 


VACUUM HOSE 
Airoduct Marro Republic 


MOLDED GARDEN AND WATER HOSE 
In Lengths up to 1000 Feet 


RUBBER VALVES 


THEREPUBLIC RUBBERCOMPANY 


YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO, U.S. A. 

















56 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American Crry. 




















Municipal and Civic Publications 


Copies may be ordered of Tue American City, with the exception of Gov . 
% those indicated as free, which should be ordered direct from tae adiees Se ae Santon aad iY 


FotweLLt, A. Prescott, Editor of Municipal 
Journal. 

Municipal Engineering Practice. 191%. 

xii + 422 pp. Photographs, charts, tables 
and diagrams. $3.50 

\s sewerage, water supply and street paving have 
already been adequately treated in excellent textbooks, 
the author in this book confines himself to those mat 
ters affecting the municipal engineer which are not so 
readily obtainable in book form. After considering 
the scope and aim of municipal engineering and othe: 
more general matters, the City Plan, as the keynote 
of efficient municipal engineering, is considered in 
regard to general principles, the skeleton street plan, 
sizes of blocks, widths of streets, the street cross- 
section and street grades. Street surface details are 
next taken up, and attention is given to sidewalks, 
curbs and gutters, minor street details and street rail- 
ways. Suceessive chapters deal with bridges and 
waterways, city surveying, street lights, signs and 
numbers, street cleaning and sprinkling, waste dis 
posal, markets, comfort stations, baths, parks, ceme- 
teries and shade trees. The author takes as his aim 

“to point out a practical way to a city efficient, health- 

ful and economical.” 

Hupparp, Prévost, Chemical Engineer, Chief, 
Division of Road Material Tests and 
Research, United States Office of Public 
Roads and Rural Engineering. 

Laboratory Manual of Bituminous Ma- 
terials for the Use of Students in High- 
way Engineering. 1916. xii +- 152 pp. 
Diagrams and tables. $1.50 
Sesides being invaluable in university highway en- 

gineering courses, this book should prove a boon to 
highway engineers in charge of state, county or mu- 
nicipal work who have, or expect to have, a laboratory 
at their disposal. If the laboratory is to become a 
valuable asset in highway engineering, the engineer 
must understand the principles involved in the 
analyses of bituminous materials and thoroughly ap- 
preciate the necessity of correlating test values with 
service results, particularly in the matter of formu 
lating specifications. He must also work in close co- 
operation with the testing engineer or chemist if the 
maximum value of the laboratory is to be developed. 
Part I deals with general considerations, types of bi- 
tuminous materials, classification, refining, and the 
like. Part II treats of the actual methods of testing 
bituminous materials—density, consistency, heat, solu 
bility (non-bituminous aggregates), and miscellaneous 
tests, and the extraction of bituminous aggregates and 
recovery of bitumen and aggregate. The characteris 
tics of the more important bituminous materials are 
considered in the final section under the following 
heads: fluid petroleum products and emulsions, semi- 
solid and solid petroleum and asphalt products, refined 
tars and tar pitches, creosoting oils or wood preserva- 
tives, and bituminous aggregates. 

Root, Evrav. 

Addresses on Government and Citizen- 
ship. Collected and Edited by Robert 
Bacon and James Brown Scott. 1916. x 

+ 552 pp. $2.25 
This book is one of several to be published contain 
ing the collected addresses and state papers of Elihu 

Root, arranged by subject and covering the period of 

his service as Secretary of War, as Secretary of State, 

and as Senator of the United States, during which 
time, to use his own expression, his only client was 
his country. The lectures delivered by Mr. Root at 

Yale University under the William Earle Dodge 

Foundation on “The Citizen’s Part in Government,” 

are first given and are immedidtely followed by_his 

Stafford Little Lectures, delivered at Princeton Uni 

versity, on “Experiments in Government and the 


Essentials of the Constitution.” The remainder of the 
book is divided into three parts containing lectures 
and speeches under the following heads: “New York 
State Constitutional Conventions of 1894 and 1915,’ 
“Government,” and “The Administration of Justice.” 
Readers of Tue American City will find of particu 
lar interest the sections dealing with citizenship, put 
lic utilities regulation, civil service, urts, etc ; 
Fiinn, ALFreD Dovctass, Deputy Chief En- 
gineer, Board of Water Supply, New 
York; Weston, Ropert Spurr, Assistant 
) 7 _ ’ > j rs 4 ; 
Professor of Public Health Engineering, 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
and Bocert, CLinton Laturop, Assistant 
Engineer, Board of Water Supply, New 
York. 
Waterworks Handbook. 1916. x + &24 
pp. Photographs, charts, diagrams and 
statistical tables. $6.00 


\s a comprehensive textbook of water-works meth 
ods and practice, this excellent book will undoubtedly 
remain for long the source of information for mu 
nicipal water supply departments and the officials and 
engineers in charge of them. The sources of water 
supply and the methods for protecting them are first 
treated, and then the various means for the collection 
of water—watershed development, the different types 
of dams, wells, etc. The transportation and delivery 
of water, which has come to be such an important 
problem in recent years, is treated in Part III, and 
the distribution of water in Part IV. The closing sec 
tion, on character and treatment of water, contains 
interesting chapters on the inspection of sources of 
water supply, storage of water and improvement of 
reservoirs, sedimentation, aeration and chemical treat 
ment, water softening, preliminary filtration and de 
ferrization, filtration, and examination of water. The 
book has a carefully prepared index and is profusely 
equipped with illustrations, diagrams, charts 
tistical tables. 


Davis, Puturp, Director, Civic Service House, 
3oston, assisted by Kroiti, Grace 

Street Land: Its Little People and Big 

Problems. (Welfare Series.) 1915. xx 

+ 291 pp. Illustrated $1.45 


There is a movement to-day to provide a safer and 
saner environment for city children—to solve the prob 
lem of Street-Land—and this book is offered to the 
public in the hope that a more intimate knowledge of 
the hazards of street life and its bad effects upon the 
children will help to further this movement and 
eventually result in more wisely planned cities with 
proper recreation facilities. In an interesting “con 
versational” manner the happenings in Street-Land as 
it is found to-day in the larger cities are related. 
We read of the nocturnal adventures of “night chil 
dren,” of school deserters who claim: “I learnt more 
from Billy on the day we stayed away than teacher 
could have taught me in a week,” and of child work 
ers and vagrants on the streets. In a chapter entitled 
“Street Work: The Story of an Experiment,” the 
first efforts to help the young inhabitants of Strect 
Land are described: how the child-saving agencies 
learned to codperate and how the beginning of self 
government among street workers was effected. Ref 
erence is made to the Toledo Newsboys’ Association, 
the Boston Newsboys’ Republic, the Newsboys’ Court, 
and a model code for child labor on the streets is sug- 
gested. In the closing chapter it is pointed out that 
adequate city planning, with its provisions of school 
gardens, social centers and settlements, playgrounds, 
and the organization of the community life with direct- 
ing officials, if properly prosecuted, will result in 


and sta 


a 


bigger and better community life in which a place for 
children will not be forgotten. The book closes with 
an excellent bibliography. 





—~\ 




















THE AMERICAN CITY 











A Complete Line of Dayton Airless 
Fire Truck Tires Fire Equipment Tires 


are safe and easy- 
riding at any 


SPEED 


They are always 
reliable and long 
service makes 
them economical. 
That’s why they 
dominate the field 


‘You can buy from The Goodyear 
Tire & Rubber Company a complete 
line of tires for motor-driven fire ap- 
paratus—solid, cushion and pneu- 
matic. 


On heavy, slower-moving appara- 
tus, such as aerial trucks and tractors, 
the Goodyear S-V or S J Truck 


Tire is now the standard practice. 


For high speeds, not exceeding 35 
miles per hour—on pumping en- 
gines, combination wagons and 
squad wagons—Good year Cushion 
Truck Tires are used in a majority 
of departments. 





On Chiefs’ cars and apparatus in motorized fire equipment. 
demanding speeds in excess of 35 
miles an hour Good year Pneumatic Write for booklet 
Tires are used in most cities. - 

Because of the completeness of 
the Goodyear line and the fact that ‘ The Dayton Rubber Mfg. Co. 
each type of Goodyear Tire is DAYTON, O., U.S.A. 


superior for its purpose, three-fifths 
of all new motor-driven fire appa- 
ratus in America now rolls on 


Goodyear Tires. 








a: The Anderson Coupling 
Aeon Cie & Fire Supply Company 


KANSAS CITY, KANSAS 
Manufacturers of 


MOTOR FIRE APPARATUS 


General Fire Department Supplies 


Anderson-Hale Fire Station Door Openers 
Estimates Cheerfully Given 








The Best Material for CALKING 
Joints in Cast Iron Pipes is 


Ulco Lead Wool 


Write for particulars to 


UNITED LEAD COMPANY 
111 BROADWAY, N. Y. CITY 




















57 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 


EE 











THE 






DECEMBER, 1916 





GARDNER, FietcHer, M. D., Health Commis- 
sioner of Monroe County, Indiana. 
Practical Sanitation: A Handbook for 
Practitioners of Medicine. Second edi 
tion. 1916. 418 pp. Photographs, dia- 
grams, forms and statistical tables. $4.00 
While the original purpose of this book was to pro 
vide a handbook for health officers, it was found also 
to be in great demand by teachers, and in view of this 
fact the author, in the prescnt edition, has revised 
his text to some extent, without sacrificing the former 
viewpoint, with the object of making the volume more 
generally desirable for educational purposes. The first 
of the three sections, entitled “Epidemiology,” tells 
something of the general methods a handling infec 
tious diseases, the management of epidemics, isolation, 
quarantine and disinfection, and then discusses the 
following disease groups: Typhoid, Exanthemata 
(smallpox, chickenpox, etc.), Diphtheria, Plague, Yel 
low Fever, Septic (erysipelas,, tetanus), Tuberculosis, 
Typhus, Meningitis, Venereal, Nutritional, Ringworm, 
Conjunctivitis, and animal parasites. Under “Gen 
eral Sanitation” (Part I1), the section of most in 
terest perhaps to readers of Tue AMERICAN City, the 
field is carefully analyzed, attention being given to 
such problems as organization of sanitary service, 
local records and statistical methods, school inspection, 
factories and workshops, institutions and prisons, rat, 
fly and mosquito extermination, soil pollution, sewage 
and garbage disposal, food inspection, milk, water, 
nuisances, sanitary laws, etc. The last section deals 
with * Laboratory Methods,” and an appendix gives 
interesting data, such as inspection schedules and 
schedules for sanitary surveys of cities. 


Ki_pourNE, CHARLES H. 
The Pasteurization of Milk from the 
Practical Viewpoint. 1916. iv -+ 249 pp 
Diagrams, charts and tables. $1.25 


This practical handbook relates to the installation, 
operation and control of pasteurizing plants and is 
designed for the use of milk dealers, dairy school 
students, health department officials and the general 
public. The first chapter, on “Pasteurization in Gen 
eral,” gives an interesting resumé of the history ot 
pure milk methods. Next, the five principal types of 
heaters used in the pasteurization process are de 
scribed in a careful and interesting manner. After 
heating, the milk, in order to be officially considered 
as pasteurized, must be held for a definite length of 
time, and so at this point the author tells us of the 
devices used for this purpose. After considering tem 
perature controllers and recorders, the final steps, 
cleaning and cooling the milk, are detailed, and some 
attention is given to home pasteurization. The final 
chapters deal with the efficiency of various apparatus 
and with cea in the cream line due to the pasteuri 
zation of milk. 


Koper, Georce M., M. D., LL. D., Washington, 


D. C., and 
Hlanson, WittiAm C., M. D., Belmont, Mass., 
Editors. 


Diseases of Occupation and Vocational 
Hygiene. 1916. xxii + 918 pp. Photo- 
graphs, charts and statistical tables. $8.00 
One has but to glance at the names of the editors 
and contributors and at the subject of this volume to 
realize that at last has been published an authoritative 
textbook which will make generally accessible the long 
desired information on this subject. The book is 
divided into three parts dealing with “Specific and 
Systematic Diseases of Occupations, Fatigue and Neu 
roses, Etc.,” “Etiology and Prophylaxis of Occupa 
tional Diseases, Vocational Hygiene,” and “The Re 
lation of Clinics, Statistics, Governmental Study and 
Legislation to Occupational Diseases.” Under Part I 
are considered occupational intoxications, occupational 
infectious diseases, dust and blood diseases, fatigue 
and occupation neuroses, occupational affections of 
nose, mouth, throat, eye and ear, occupational affec 
tions of the skin, and electrical injuries and electrical 
shock. Part II treats of etiology and prophylaxis of 
occupational diseases and of vocational hygiene as 
illustrated in occupations involving exposure to con- 
ditions injurious to health. Part III considers the 


functions of clinics in the prevention of occupational 
diseases, statistical studies relating to occupational 
diseases, and legislation and governmental study for 
the prevention of occupational diseases. 


AMERICAN 





CITY 729 





McCartuy, CuHarves, Legislative Reference 
Librarian, Madison, Wis.; SWAN, FLORA 
Director of Practice, Public Schools, In- 
dianapolis, Ind., and McMULLIN, JENNIE. 
Legislative Reference Library, Madison, 
Wis. 

Elementary Civics. 1916. Photographs, 
charts and diagrams. x 


234 PP 
75 cens 
Viewing the community as ‘ living, growing, 
changing thing which is constantly reshaping and ex 
tending its political machinery to serve its changing 
and widening purposes,” the authors of this 


have attempted to make the study of government in 
teresting and significant by giving the historical back 
ground for modern conceptions of political ivity and 





by presenting in a commanding and chal! " way 
the concrete problems which have been forced upon 
us by present industrial conditions After briefly 
showing what we owe to English experience a d touch 
ing on the “revolution” induced by m« rn industrial 


methods, the actual civic problems of Heel city ad 
ministration, finance, health and beauty——are consid 
ered in a readable narrative calculated to hold the in 
terest of the children Ihe work of the state govern 
ment is next discussed and finally the federal gov 
ernment. Special problems, such as political parties 
and the ballot, justice, education and efficiency, are 
given due attention, and an appendix of twenty-two 
sections gives extremely important data and informa 
tion, such as city government charts, list of public 
officials for whom male and female electors in Chicago 
may vote, New York’s budget, Elyria, Ohio, health 
ordinances and the health ordinances of other cities, 
Indiana housing laws, Constitution of the United 
States, bonded debts of states, fire prevention ques 
tionnaire, personal safety on streets, lists of ref 
erences, and political platforms. 


KIRKPATRICK, Epwin A. 
Fundamentals of Sociology, with Spe- 
cial Emphasis Upon Community and 


Educational Problems. i916. x + 29! 
pp. $1.25 
The author aims, in this book, to reveal the funda 


mental influences affecting group life and action both 
in their earlier beginnings and in present-day life 
After an introductory consideration of the nature of 
sociology, its relation to other sciences and the essen 
tial characteristics of social phenomena, human and 
group evolution are considered Separate chapters 
consider the various needs and activities of men and 
of sociological groups inder the following heads 
economic, protective, recreative, cultural, social, edu 


cational, and moral and religious \fter the family 
comes a consideration of the community and its func 
tions, and general suggestions for community studies 
are given. The suggested community studies, which 
should be of more particular iaterest to readers of 
Tue American City, cover the different needs and 





activities of groups and humans as enumerated above 
SLINGERLAND, WititiAmM H., Ph. D., Special 
Agent, Department of Child-Helping, 
Russell Sage Foundation. 
Child Welfare Work in California: A 
Study of Agencies and Institutions. 
i916. xx + 247 pp. Photographs and 
statistical tables. $2.00 
An illuminating introduction by Dr. Hastings H 
Hart, giving numerous ———— statistics in regard 
to child welfare work in California and telling of M 
Slingerland’s untiring researches, paves the way to the 
preliminary considerations of this study After treat 
ing of the development of institutions and child wel 
fare work in general thruout the state, 101 important 
institutions are successively considered with analyses 
of the services which they are rendering Part III 
contains a summary for private child-caring institu 
tions, a general summary of all agencies and institu 
tions, the combined county and state aid for de 
pendent children, and data in regard to population, 
expense and public funds, day nurseries and _ settle 
ment centers, child relief and protection In the 
final section the conditions obtaining thruout the state 
are analyzed and the elements of progress are indi 
cated, ending with concrete suggestions and recom- 
mendations as to future development. 






































































A LASTING NEW YEAR’S REMEMBRANCE 


Would you like to do something worth while towards helping the cause 
of municipal betterment in your community? 


A WORTH-WHILE GIFT 


A year’s subscription for THE AMERICAN CiTy is a present which is 
always appreciated. Also, you can feel very sure that each additional reader 
of THE AMERICAN CiTy in your city or town means a more active interest 
in public improvements and civic progress. 


WHY NOT SEND US THE NAMES 


of several of your friends and let us enter them for a year’s subscription as a 
holiday present from you. Or send us a list of some of the city officials in 
your community or the names of the directors of your Chamber of Com- 
merce, and we shall be glad to enter the subscriptions, send you the bill and 
notify each of the persons that the gift comes from you. 


AN IMPORTANT FACTOR 


THE AMERICAN CITY is considered by many to be one of the most 
important factors in the field of municipal improvements on account of its 
active mission of bringing to the attention of city, town, and county 
officials, chambers of commerce, local improvement organizations, etc., the 
progress that is being made along important lines in the field of municipal 
work. Municipal undertakings such as paving and road building, water 
supply, fire protection, street lighting, parks, playgrounds, etc., inspired or 
helped along by THE AMERICAN CITY mean an aggregate expenditure of 
many millions yearly. The more people in your community who read 
THE AMERICAN Cry, the easier it will be to arouse and maintain interest in 
public improvements. 


THE AMERICAN CITY, 87 Nassau Street, N.Y. 


Please enter the attached list of names as subscribers for THe AMERICAN City for 
1917, sending me the bill at your special club rate. You are to notify each of these 
people to the effect that the subscription has been entered for them by me, as a holiday 
remembrance. 











Pamphlets and Papers of Civic Interest 


See also the department of News and Ideas for Commercial and Civic Organizations. for other } 


tions of special interest. 


New York City’s Administrative Progress, 
1914-1916 


This important work compris:s a survey of va 
rious departments under the jurisdiction of the 
Mayor, conducted under the direction of Henry 
Bruére, Chamberlain, City of New York, May, 
1916. The book contains 351 pages; the matter 
is well arranged and the printing is excellent. 
Photographs, charts and statistical tables. (Apply 
to the City Chamberlain’s office, Municipal Build 
ing, New York City.) 


The Sanitation of Swimming Pools 
Article by Carl Ziegler, M. D., B. S. C., Director 
Physical Education, Public Schools, Cincinnati, 
Ohio, in Mind and Body, Vol. 23, No. 252, Octo- 
ber, 1916. 10 pp. (Apply to The Turner Pub- 
lishing Company, New Ulm, Minn.) 10 cents. 


The Quicksands of Wider Use 


An article contributed by Clarence Arthur Perry, 
of the Russell Sage Foundation, to The Play 
ground, Vol. X, No. 6, September, 1916. 9 pp. 
(Apply to The Playground, 1 Madison Avenue, 
New York City.) 25 cents. 


The Development of Electric Railways 

A Historical Review of the Physical Development 
of One of the Nation’s Greatest Industries, Trials 
and Discouragements of the Pioneer Inventors 
and Promoters, Told by One Who Played a Lead- 
ing Part. By Frank J. Sprague. A 35-page, pro- 
fusely illustrated article of great interest and 
value, published in Aera, Vol. 5, No. 3, October, 
1916. (Apply to American Electric Railway Asso- 
ciation, 8 West Fortieth Street, New York City.) 
25 cents. 


The Houses of Providence 


A Study of Present Conditions and Tendencies, 
with Notes on the Surrounding Communities and 
Some Mill Villages. By John Ihider; Madge 
Headley and Udetta D. Brown, Associated. 1916. 
105 pp. Photographs, statistical tables and maps. 
(Apply to Providence Committee on Housing Sur 
vey.) 15 cents. 


An Exceptional Paper on Street Lighting 

A Civic Duty for Engineers. (Compilation of a 
great amount of street lighting data from many 
countries, presented . E. Doane as a paper 
before the Joint Meeting of the Cleveland Sec- 
tion of the A. I. E. E. and the Cleveland Engi- 
neering Society, December 20, 1915. Index No. 
325.7.) Published as a 38-page article in the Jowr- 
nal of the Cleveland Engineering Society, Vol. 
IX, No. 2, September, 1916. umerous photo- 
graphic illustrations. (Apply to the Society, 
Chamber of Commerce Building, Cleveland, Ohio.) 
35 cents. 


The Kentucky Sanitary Privy 
Bulletin of the State Board of Health of Ken 
tucky, Vol. VI, May, 1916. 28 pe. Photographs 
and diagrams. (Apply to State Board of Health, 
Normal Heights, Bowling Green, Ky.) 


Municipal School for Street Cleaners 

How the New York Street Cleaning Department 
Gives Instruction to Its Laborers and Employes of 
Higher Grades. Article by C. L. Edholm in Mu- 
nicipal Journal, Vol. XLI, No. 17, October 26, 
1916. 4 pp. Illustrated. (Apply to Municipal 
Journal, 50 Union Square, New York City.) 10 
cents. 


Financial Statistics of States, 1915 
This volume, recently issued by the United States 
Bureau of the Census, contains 125 pages, mostly 
tables of state revenues, expenditures, etc. (Ap- 
ply to the Bureau, Washington, D. C.) 


More Houses for Bridgeport 


Extensive report by John Nolen, City Planner, t 
the Chamber of Commerce of Bridgeport, Conn., 
on his Survey of Housing Conditions in this City, 
together with certain Recommendations, Descrip 
tion of Proposed Types of Low Cost Houses and 
Appendices containing other important data 
August, 1916. 62 pp. Photographs, maps, plans, 
and statistics. THe American City has a few 
copies of this report, which may be had upon ap 
plication, for 50 cents 


Wage Situation in Public Utilities 
Standards for Electric Service 


Two important articles on the above subjects have 
been published in The Utilities Magazine, Vol. 1, 
No. 7, September, 1916; the first entitled “The 
Labor Problem of Municipal Utilities,” by 
Arthur Evans Wood, Harrison Fellow in Soci- 
ology, University of Pennsylvania; the second, 
“Service Standard for Electric Light and Power 
Companies as Prescribed by Public Service Com 
mission,” by Clayton W. Pike, Consulting En- 
gineer, Philadelphia. (Apply Morris Llewellyn 
Cooke, Acting Director, The Utilities Bureau, 
1009 Finance Building, Philadelphia, Pa.) $1.00 


The Municipal Court of Chicago 


Eighth and Ninth Annual Reports of the Munici 
pal Court of Chicago for the Years December Ist, 
1913, to December 5th, 1915, Inclusive. Portrait 
photos, drawings and statistical tables. 163 pp 
(Apply to the Court, Chicago, Ill.) 


A Commendable Public Works Report 


Annual Report of the Commissioner of Public 
Works of the City of St. Paul for the Year End 
ing December 31, 1915. M. N. Goss, Commis 
sioner of Public Works. Edited and Arranged by 
George H. Herrold, Office Engineer. 180 pp. 
Colored maps showing paved streets, sewers, 
street sprinkling, bridges, etc.; statistical tables 
(Apply to the Commissioner, as above.) 


Fire Prevention Meetings 


Topics for Fire Prevention Meetings and Sugges 
tions for Their Arrangement, Designed to Assist 
Local Organizations in Considering the Subject of 
Fire Prevention. (Issued by National Fire Pro 
tection Association, Franklin H. Wentworth, Sec 
retary, 1916.) 6 pp. (Apply to the Association, 
87 Milk Street, Boston, Mass.) 


Influence of Occupation on Health 


Influence of Occupation on Health During 
Adolescence: Report of a Physical Examination 
of 679 male minors under 18 in the Cotton Indus 
tries of Massachusetts. By M. Victor Safford, 
Assistant Surgeon, United States Public Health 
Service. (United States Public Health Service 
Bulletin No. 78, August, 1916.) 51 pp. Statistical 
tables. (Apply to the United States Public Health 
Service, Washington, D. C.) 


The Manual Arts in New York State 


Study by Royal B. Farnum, State Specialist ir 
Art Education, published in University of the 
State of New York Bulletin, No. 625, October 15, 
1916. 30 pp. Illustrated with epoteqeagte. (Ap 
ply to the University, Albany, N. Y.) 


Union of Canadian Municipalities 


Report of the Proceedings of the Sixteenth An 
nual Convention of the Union of Canadian Mu 
nicipalities, Montreal, August, 1916. (Published in 
The Canadian Municipal Journal, Vol. XII, No 
10, October, 1916.). 54 pp. (Apply to the Cana 
dian Municipal Journal Comecun Ltd., Coristine 
Building, Montreal, Canada.) 10 cents. 


Se 





Ae ae mene sae ame ee 


a 





























THE AMERICAN CITY 


~ The "Panama |ine” 












The Most Complete 
In Existence 





Rear View of 
Panama Giant 


UR announcement of the “Panama Line” for 1917, soon to be 

made, will find several new machines in the assortment, every 
one embodying the essential features which have established the 
high standing of this line. 


There will be a machine at 2200 pounds, one at 1700 pounds and still another 
at 1100 pounds, all of which will have roller bearing wheels and lateral and 
angular shifting mechanism, heretofore not obtainable in machines of this size. 
No argument is needed as to the merit of these features, and every contractor 









and road official knows that by being able to obtain machines incorporating 
these features they will satisfy a long felt want and be able to accomplish 
far greater results at less expense. 

But these will not be all the new and interesting subjects in 
G the “Panama Line” for 1917. Space will not permit descrip- 


: Send 
me facts 











about the 4 tion of the complete line here, but we want to send all the 
Panama Line facts to every road contractor and official in the country’ ' 
cael %, To be assured of receiving an early copy of this 
”, literature send the attached coupon today. 

Name... : Yo, 

% 
Address. Get the Facts 
City........ 


—_— 


i ct = 


THE FE B. ZIEG MFG. COMPANY | 
Fredericktown, Ohio 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Tux Amaunican Crry. 























DECEMBER, I916 rH 


County Highway Improvement Survey 





nomic Surveys of County Highway Im, 
A Compilation and haalyeia of Data 
Selected Counties, Showing Compa 
Financial Burdens and Econ i ser s Res 
ing from Highway Improvem en a Per 
of Years. By J. Pennybacker, R 
Economics, and M. QO. Eldridge, stant 





Road Economics. (United States Office of P 
Roads and Rural Engineering, Bulletin N 
October 23, 1916. 22 pp. Photogra 
statistical tables (Apply to the a 
Washington, 1.9 


Sewage and Garbage Disposal Setialen 





The following articles on this s 

ingineermag 15 i) 

1916 “Ga s Dispos 
Angeles, C: ( imons ( 
Disposal for Two Illinois Cities,” by San 
Greeley; and “Large Activated- Sludge Pl 
Milwau ikee, Wis.” 4,2 and 3 pages, r ve 
(Apply to Hill Pu tblishing Con pany, Tenth Av 
nue and Thirty-sixth Street, New York Cit 
15 cents. 


A Symposium on School House Develop- 


ment. 
Special Schoolhouse Number f The merica 
Archite (Vol. CX, No, 2127, Septembe 1916 
Contains articles on “‘Fire Protection of Scl — 
School Remodeling or Enlargement,” “The Ir 
tervale School,” (N. Y. C.), “The Claws 
nef Oakland, Cal.,” “‘Duplicate Type Sc 
Building,” et 30 illustrated pages; 31 full-page 
plates (Apply to The American Architect, 50 
Union Square, New York City.) $1. 
Among Industrial Workers (Ways and 
Means). 
This is the title of a valuable ndbook rece 
issued by the Industrial Department of t Ir 
ternational Committee of the Young Men 
Cunten Association for the use of associatio 
nd other workers in industrial fields. The bool 
contains 118 pages, is graphically illustrated with 
photogré ap yhs of posters, industrial scenes, dia 


grams, charts and information as to sources of 
exhibit aw re lantern slides, motion pictures, 
nd the like. (Apply to Arthur M. East, Sec 
tary, Industrial Department, as above, 124 East 
28th Street, New York City.) 50 cents 


Standardization of Public Employments. 








In the November, 1915, issue, 
nicipal Research, Part 1, of ‘The Standard izati 
of Public Employments,” was published In this 
issue of this monthly (No. 76, August, 1916), 
Part II, dealing with “The Practical Side of 
Standardization in American Governments,” is 
presented. 150 pp. Charts, statistical tables 
(Apply to the Bureau of Munici yal Research and 
lraining School for Public Ser + ally 61 Broad 
way, New York City.) $1.00 

Municipal Research Bureaus. 
Citizen Agencies for Research in Government 
contribution to a history of citizen bureaus 
mt inicipal and governmental research Mus 
pal Research, issued monthly by the Bureau of 
Municipal Research and Training School for Pul 
lic Service, No. 77, September, 1916.) 124 py 


(Apply to the Bureau, 261 


City.) $1.00. 


Planning California’s Capital. 
Report of the State Capital Planning ( miss 
Upon Its Investigation of the Planning of t 
Capital of California. Submitted September 1, 
1916. 29 pp. Apply to the State Capital Pla 
ning Comaiitaes acramento, Cal.) 

The Financial Problem of Cities. 
Under this title an interesting little pan 
been written by J. D. Cloud, A.M., C.P.A., wh 
contains many hints of value to those concerned 
with municipal finance. September 1, 


Broadway, New Y 


pp. (Apply to J. D. Cloud & Co., Certified Pul 
lic Accountants, First National Bank Build 
Cincinnati, Ohio.) 


Motion Picture Film Fire Hazard. 
Motion Picture Film—Its Character " 
\n interesting illustrated article by 7. F. Ancona, 


\MER 








‘ \ S } e 
’ 5. v \ 
( 
Hospital Aid for New York School Children 
y ( I 
H. Be S 5 
Tt € _ { 
Repri ti , 
4, Oct ‘ 
Vitrified Brick Pavement Specifications 
L he 
t Pa 5 
Lt AM { : re yg 
Ss ¢ € red 
ents, Higl vs ( 
San 4 sn = 
| nt Fillers ( 
ype with Ce ( | 
Cement S I 
(or I € 4 t 
rat \ \\ | o 
\ss 830-834 f E. | ( 
an O 
Public Utility Valuation 
a 
Paper No. 133 
\ M \r S ( 
er 12, 1914, \ S ( 
Engineers. Rey : 
Society, \ LXXIN ) 
5 rt A 
lartford | 
Tangible Results in Dayton 
the ity of D 
ni 1 harte r 
anager plan. Iss S 
Organ izat \ 
H. S. Gilbertson, I S 
Na S t B ( 
Avenue, New York ( 
Social Service in Erie : 
First Annual Report 
Fe October, 1° ¢ 
< irts, diag Ss, Statistics Apply t 5 
ial Service Federation, Penn B 
5 cent } 
Thorofare System of Fitchburg, Mass 
\ Preliminary Study) f the T f S 
Fitchburg. Mass setts By Art 
Comey, City Planner, of Cambridg M : 
letin Number Four, Published } M 
Devel ent Commis I M ‘ 
embe 1915.) 15 { g \ 
r ( ss Ss 
A Civic Organ for Italian Communities 
e life of Ital P 
Vol. I, No. 1, R Septe 
Quarto size, 49 pages A ( 
Cleme t 


Cleveland’ s Smoke Problem and the Answer. 


} Mi ‘ ‘ \ R ( 
( g tr followe 
scus t f rete « Index 
N 628.53 The was st ce red 1 
lecture, Ma ‘ 1¢ ur? ' 7 Cle 
land Enginee Ss € Vol x N T 
1916 Apply to the Societ i 
serce B Idir Cle } () 








THE AMERICAN CITY 











CAREY In 


Sioux 
City 
Streets 






ExPANSION 


JIOINT 


The original and only Elastite Joint 


There has not been a poured expansion joint in the last 
thirty miles of street laid in Sioux City. Not a tar kettle 


on the job! 


Between the curbs and the concrete street slabs and trans- 
versely between unit slabs, sections of ELASTITE were 
placed. The concrete was poured simultaneously on both 


sides of every joint. 


When the concrete was set the job was finished. Not a 
spacing strip to remove, not a pint of pitch to pour. There 
has never been a case of buckling in all this work. 


And the joints are always water-tight. 





Write today for sample, specifications and 
opinions of men who know by experience. The Sandwich Joint 


THE PHILIP CAREY COMPANY 


8 Wayne Avenue, Lockland CINCINNATI, OHIO 





60 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue Amezarcan City. 




















DecEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


Massachusetts Homestead Commission. 
Third Annual Report of the Homestead Commis 
sion, 1915 Commonwealth of Massachusetts, 
Public Document No. 103, 1916. 100 pp. Pho 
tographs and statistical tables. (Apply to the 
Commission, State House, Boston, Mass.) 


A Civic Course for Elementary Schools. 


Civies and Citizenship. Being No. 1 in a Series 
ef Monographs on “Teaching in the Elementary 
Schools.” By David E. Cloyd, Dean of the 
School of Education, Des Moines College. No 
vember, 1916. 40 pp. (Apply to author as above, 
Des Moines, lowa.) 15 cents. 


Girl and Women Restaurant Workers. 


Behind the Scenes in a Restaurant A Study of 
1,017 Women Restaurant Employes By The 
Consumer's League of New York City 1916 


48 pp. Photographs, charts, diagrams, statistical 
tables. (Apply to the League, 105 East Twenty 
second Street, New York City.) 


Industrial Housing in Cincinnati. 


Low-Priced Housing for Wage Earners By 
Jacob G Schmidlapp, Cincinnati (National 
Housing Association Publications No. 34, October 
1916.) 21 pp. Photographs, plans, statistics 


(Apply to Lawrence Veiller, Secretary and Direc 
tor, National Housing Association, 105 East 
Twenty-second Street, New York City.) 10 cents. 


Utility Valuation Principles. 


Foundation Principles of Utility Valuation wit! 
Special Application to Resettlement Plans 

Paper by Bion J] Arnold before thirty-fourt! 
Annual Convention of the American Electric 
Railway Association, San Francisco, Cal., October 
7, 1915, to which the author has added 
cussion of the Depreciation of Over 





a Discus 





ad Charges 






und a Glossary of Terms 1916 53 pp. Charts 
(Apply to author, Chicago, Ill., or to the Amer 
can Electric Railway Association, 8 West For 
tieth Street, New York City, publishers 
pamphlet.) 

City Planning in Saint Louis, Mo. 
River Des Peres Plan Concerning Largely the 
Industrial and Residential Expansion and Ex 
nomic Welfare of St uis Prepared by the 
City Plan Commission in conjunction wit] 
eral of the city departments 1916 . 
Maps, charts and diagrams (Apply to the ¢ 
Plan Commission, St. Louis, Mo.) 


The Houses of Marcus Hook. 


An Industrial Village A beautifully printed bl 
green quarto pamphlet telling of the 





w cost 1 
dustrial housing development at Marcus Hook 
Pa Illustrated with full page photographs and 
plans 1916, 41 pr (Apply Ballinger & 


Perrot, Ar hitects and Engineers, Philadelphia, 
Pa., and New York City.) 









An Improved Form of Sewer and Culvert 
Pipe 

The American Casting Company, of Birmingham, 
Ala., has issued an attractive pamphlet describing 
its National lock-joint cast iron culvert pipe, with 
specifications and pictures. The many excellent 
features of this pipe which have given it wide use 
are explained and a list of some of the users is 
appended. 


Motorcycles for Fire Departments. 


“Getting the Strangle Hold on a Fire” is the title 
of a folder-pamphlet showing how useful a motor 
cycle is to the efficient fire department. “Seconds 
are as important as centuries when a fire breaks 
loose” is a well-founded contention of the pub- 
lishers of this pamphlet, the Harley Davidson Mo 
tor Company, of Milwaukee, Wis. 


Maintenance of Concrete Roads and Streets 


Two pamphlets under the titles of “How to Main- 
tain Concrete Roads and Streets,” and “The Con 
crete Road,” the latter being a reprint of a com 
prehensive paper on this subject, will be found to 
contain many hints of practical value to those en 
aged in concrete construction of roads and streets 
They may be obtained from the Portland Cement 
Association, of 111 Washington Street, Chicago, 
Til. 


Flowers, Plants and Trees for Munici- 
palities. 


Municipalities which contemplate the growing of 
trees, the beautifying of a landscape or the plant- 
ing of flowers, etc., will find it to their interest 
to consult the latest trade list of Thomas B. Mee- 
han Company, of Dresher P. O., Pa. This trade 
list describes the various plants which a wholesale 
nursery of 225 acres has to offer. 


IAG AM 


About Machinery and Supplies 


Printed Matter Available Free to Readers of THE AMERICAN CITY 


Advertisers are invited to submit catalogues or circulars suitable for mention in these columns. 
Tus American City should always be mentioned when writing for this material. 

check over these items each month and write for such printed matter as interests them will find 
this a convenient woy of keeping their information files up to date. 


INTEL NT TT 


Officials who 


Engineering Instruments. 


“Why a Gurley?” asks a leaflet issued by the firm 
of W. & L. E. Gurley, of Troy, N. rhe leaflet 
then answers itself by showing that the recognition 
which Gurley scientific instruments receive every 
where has been secured thru merit and that that 
merit consists in accuracy of construction f 


: ' . perfec 
tion of detail, durability and confidence 


Plants, Fruits, Flowers, Etc. 


A pamphlet of the Andorra Nurseries, of Mr 
Wm. Warner Harper, of Chestnut Hill, Philadel 
phia, Box A, Pa., describes the immense variety 
of plants, fruits, flowers, trees, shrubs, vines, etc., 
which this firm has been growing for many years 
Helpful hints and suggestions to planters are 
scattered thruout, and these will settle many a 
question for the busy landscape designer or park 


official. 


Trees, Plants, Etc., for Parks and Ceme- 
teries. 


A great deal of information, a large number of 
pictures and a clear exposition of prices of fruits, 
trees, shrubs, etc., constitute a pamphlet issued by 
the P. J. Berckmans Company, Inc., Box 1070-L, 
Augusta, Ga. This pamphlet will be very handy 
on the desk of the superintendent of parks or the 
supervisor of cemeteries 


Gas Engines. 


The growing use of gas engines by municipal 
water-works and electric lighting plants gives 
added interest to the pamphlet describing Foos 
gas engines, made by the Foos Gas Engine Com- 
pany, of Springfield, Ohio. This pamphlet is 


artistically illustrated and contains much valuable 
information about gas engines. 





A Ae A AE 








seen neni emcee 














er 








HE AMERICAN CITY 


AKE 


| MAKES THE SNOW GO! 








z 
| 


piac 

than one < in \ figh ng 
trim. Every winter you worr\ 
along w th the old ** \ ” nlow and 

] : 1] +] } 
shovel gang just delays the day 
when popular sentiment will 
demand eficient snow removers 
like those shown he Let the Baker-Maney Self-Loading Snow Scraper 

suggestion come trom uw, not 


With it the driver picks up, loads and dumps the snow. 
No big shovel crew needed. Saves its cost after one 
snow storm. Capacities up to 4 cubic yards. 


Put Your Snow Fights Up To Us! 
WE’LL SAVE YOUR CITY MONEY 


The best is the cheapest! Don’t you let any old-fashioned “city Dads” kid you into anything 
else. The Baker Snow Plow shown below, for instance, is a year-round tool—not only a snow 
remover, but an ice and mud scraper, 
a stone spreader, a ditcher and a 
R0AD GRADER You get back 
many times what you invest 


from the pe ple 


Baker 20th Century 
Horse Drawn 
Write for rush information—lots of Snow Plow 
d! 


anea 





SNOU 





THE BAKER MANUFACTURING CO. New York : Baker-Barron, In 
503 Stanford_ Avenue, _Springfield, | il. 221 West Broadway 
ee 


EE 


61 \ he writing to Advertisers please mention Tae American City 





















DECEMBER, 1916 ABOUT MACHINI 





Portable Asphalt Plant. 


















One of the chief types of paving plants " 
factured by the Warren Brothers Company, 
Boston, Mass., is the portable asphalt plant l 
a handsome pamphlet issued by the aleve fi 
this type of road machinery is clearly describe 
and the features which make for efficiency 
constitute an advance in constructi ire nte 






out. 






Dump Wagons and Trailers. 


Illustrated printed matter is being distributed 
the Watson Wagon Company, Canastota, 
relative to their dump wagons for collectir 
and garbage, also their trailer trucks for handling 
hot asphalt, as well as macadar and 


materials, 














Merry-Go-Rounds for Playgrounds. 


Pictures, specifications, prices, letters of test 
monial, and a good deal of reading m atter 
scribe the health merry-go-rounds adaptable for use 
in playgrounds. This pamphlet can be obtained 
by writing to The Health Merry-Go-Round ( 





| 
ade 












pany, Dept. K-14, Quincy, Ill 
Trucks for Good Roads 

The White Good Roads book, a n 
issued by The White Company 
Ohio, is a handsome, well-illustrate 
that is invaluable to the good-roads 
comp any has spent months in careful 
vestigating work of White trucks ir 
of national, state and municipal | 
the book touches every important 
truck operation in this field 


chosen pictures show the use of W 








hauling, dumping, spreading and roll 

terial, pulling graders, scarifiers, drags, 

and trailers and other construction activiti 
Valves and Hydrants 

\ pamphlet full of diagrams and pictu 

brief explanatory matter has been issu by 

Flower-Stephens Mfg. Co., of 103 8 

Street, Detroit, Mich. The company specializes it 

*“Michigan” valves and hydrants, and this publ 

cation will be useful to the water-works offx 

who wants to have on hand a pamphlet 

latest diagrams of such equipment 


Scientific Appraisals of Municipal Property 
and Industrial Plants 


\ pamphlet explaining the nature of the work of 
the scientific appraisal of industrial plants, fac 
tories, etc., especially in fire insurance cases, may 
be obtained from the Manufacturers’ Appraisa 
Company, which has its executive offices in Cleve 
land. In its long and varied experience the com 
pany has been very useful to municipalities in aj 
praisal work. 


Outline for the Study of Bitumens 





The Barber Asphalt Paving Company, of Phila 
: delphia, has published an “Outline for the Study 
{ of Bitumens.” While the whole subject of bitu 


mens is covered, the outline has been prepared 
with especial reference to the asphaltic materials 
used in highway construction. There are ref 
erences to most of the standard text-books on 
highway engineering, and the text is arranged in 


convenient question and answer form with space 
for additional memoranda. While  prepar ed 
especially for school use, the outline is a cor 
venient means of reference for anyone who finds 
it necessary to investigate the differentiation and 
characteristics of bitumens. 
Concrete Mixers. 
Descriptions of the many different types of “In 


ternational” concrete mixers, pictures of some of 
them and of their parts, sizes and specifications, 
etc., are all contained in Catalog 65N, issued by 
the Worthington Pump and Machinery Corpora 
tion, of 115 Broadway, New York City. 








RY 


\ND SUPPLIES 737 





Water Filtration and Softening. 
An 







Garbage and Trash Cans. 
“Tron He B 


cans, etc., are illustrate 


Dump Wagons for greg Work. 





























A complete descrij pact f , of the 
Bain dump wagon contained let 
issued by The Bain Wagon ¢ Ke s : 
Wis. All of its striking fea c ! 
ined wit ‘ ‘ " 
bly t € t f : 
€ cr € mh a : 
ks Equipment | 
ss K Llt 
1 ny testim r ° 
Handling and Use of High Explosives. 
[wo sections of the subject of High | 
stitute the content of two valuable pamphle 
published by the E. I. du Pont le Ne s & ( 
of Wilmington, Del Public officials intereste 
the subject of explosives will find these | 
phlets cautions, direc s es, ¢ rr 
their manufacture, har g, storage e, a 
will, i dition, pr earn a great f 
the mar ters pre é $ s gt 
ex perience s 1 
Good Roads at Low Cost. 
How this can be done b he use of Tarvia is ex : 
plained in pamphlet | res and roa 
wisdom issued by The r ( pany, 17 Ba 
tery Place, New York City Roat superint lents 
will be interested in the pointers about r I 
struction which this pamphlet contains : 
Brick for Roads and Pavements. 
From Shale Bed to Road Bed—The St f 
Best Brick Made,” is the title of a ha 
folder-pamphlet describing and _ illustrating ’ 
process of brick-making as done by T M 
politan Paving Brick Company, whose 1 office 


is at Canton, Ohio. 


Steel Forms for Concrete Construction. 


Pictures 











often speak for themselves. In a pan 
phlet entitled “Blawforms,” the hundreds of 
pictures of the steel forms manufactured by The 
Blaw Steel Construction Company, of Pittsburgh, 
Pa., have a good deal to say for themselves that 
will interest any engineer or official who is work 
ing in this field. Incl d in this pamphlet are 
pictures of Blawforms for sewers and conduits 
tunnels, heavy walls, et 

Cans, Carts and Supplies for Parks 

\ pamphlet isst — by The Steel Basket Con Ly, ; 





of 708 South Third Street, Cedar Rapids, low : 
describes the many park supplies manufact i ; 
by this comy Among tl objects scribe : 

are refuse . lawn cans, leaf carts, s t \| 
rows, platform carts, bouquet holders, street cor 7 
ner cans, etc. | 








THE AMERICAN CITY 


This House Will Solve 
YOUR School Problem! 










In any emergency nothing cat pox 3 your wants more if you should care to move it or dispose of it. 
atisfactorily than a Kolb Portable School House. <Alway ASSET! 
Why build a small school house at a great expenss Made in all s sizes and in every style—for all muni- 
of materials and labor when you can get a Kolb cipal purposes. Meeting Houses, Park Houses, 
building, ready made, at surprising low cost. Bs Voting Booths, Store-Houses, etc. Let us take 
manent as long as you choose to have it so—portabl care of your housing problems. 

\sk for particulars of the buildings in which you are interested. 


32 Church St. KOLB PORTABLE BUILDING CO. New York, N. Y. 


Buildings For Every Purpose 


100% QUALITY 

















S. XevunT Rules M.00...4 
‘. ¢ 


NEwPuRT.KY,” - 


REG. U. S. PAT OFFICE 


The Square Trade-Mark Insures The Square Deal 


You don’t want to be fooled again by purchasing culverts that 
rust or crack in a very short time. Order culverts that are not 
affected by climate, water, soil or frost. Order 


“Genuine Open Hearth Iron” Culverts 


The U. S. Government tests prove them to be 99.875°7, pure iron. 
The presence of copper and the heavy coating of spelter make 
these culverts last indefinitely. Try them on your next job. 


OUR CULVERTS NEVER REQUIRE REPLACEMENT 
Write for detailed information. 


THE NEWPORT CULVERT CO., Inc. Newport, Ky. 














62 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 


ss 








Dec., 1916 


Street Sweepers for Municipal Use. 


rhe made by the Unive 

Road Company, of Kingston, N. \ 
is pictured and described in a 
gives a good general idea of 
some of the m« nspicuous 


Reliance 
Machinery 


sweeper, 


circular whi 
the machine ar 


vt cé improvements 


NEWS FROM ENGINEERS 


AND MANUFACTURERS 


Cleaning Streets by Motor 
Cleaner, Better Ke 
he Elgin Mot er; S 
lects at one Operatiot I 
in a pamphl 
specificati 
Sweeper 


=P = LLl]|p|E|] |= © — oe OO 


Methods, Materials and Appliances 


News from Engineers, Manufacturers and Supply Houses 

















NEW AMERICAN-LA FRANCE PUMPING ENGINE IN CRAWFORDSVILLE, IND., AND THI 
STREAM THAT IT THREW OVER THE COURT HOUSI 
Fire Pump Throws Water Here the water was sent at 2 pressure of 70. po 
Over Court House stream over the tower a 1%-inch nozzle was used 
The city pressure was sufficient to throw a stream of 


An interesting account of the demonstra- 
tion of the new American-LaFrance pumping 
engine of Crawfordsville, Ind., is contained in 


an article in the Crawfordsville Review. The 
following is an extract from that account: 
“The demonstration began at 2:30 P. M., when th 


wagon was pulled near the curb on the Court Suse 
corner, and the enormous pumping hose let into the 
cistern. The nozzle was placed at the alley back of 
the Court House on Washington Street, and when th« 
pump was going strong the stream went into the mid 
dle of Market Street. The pressure at this time was 
60 pounds. Later it was found that the pump was 
sucking some air in the cistern, and when this was 
eliminated the pressure was raised to 70 pounds and 
—_ ~~ was throwing out 761 gallons per minute. 
he hose was turned upward and the stream sent 
over the court house flag staff, but this did not 


souaty the crowd, and at the request of Mayor Mur- 
phy the 


stream was turned on the court house tower. 


water to the second story « f the court house before th« 


pump pressure was d. The pump was throwing 





862 gallons of water a minute when at its best; that is, 
112 gallons better than the specifications read 

“Following the demonstration at the rt house, 
the machine was taken to the Ben-Hur Building, t 
because of the elevator towers on top of the | ling, 
the stream was not turned on here Anothe lisplay 
was given of distance as well as of height of the 
stream. Later the truck s taker t to the end of 
Grant Avenue for another demonstratior 

“The mayor, the city yuncilmen, the fire chief, the 
visiting officials and the hundreds who saw the truck 
go ihru the demonstration yesterday after: were 
highly pleased. The trucks do not have to hurry any 
to live up to the contract, but the makers seen 
have taken pride in seeing how much better the 
could make it than necessary to fulfill their contract.” 


A view of this demonstration is reproduced 


above. 











THE AMERICAN CITY 


PREPAREDNESS 

















Prepare your mains to receive the 
filtered water. 


Don’t turn the clean water into the 
dirty mains. Prepare your mains by 
cleaning them, using 


THE 


Tn 


It is the quick and economical way. 
Streets are not torn up, traffic is not 
hindered and the pipe is not removed. 
Clean mains give better water pressure 
and reduce pumping expense. Don’t put 
life and property in the hands of chance. 
We guarantee our work. You have noth- 
ing to lose. 


Write for interesting booklet on water 
main cleaning it’s free. 


















The National Water Main Cleaning Co. 
HUDSON TERMINAL BUILDING, NEW YORK CITY 


























When writing to Advertisers please mention Tax Amezarcan Crryv. 


—— ee 














Dec., 1916 


Safety Fire Sign 


DON’T SMOKE 
Near the Gasoline Tank 


If Your Life Isn’t Valuable 
Gasoline Is! 








THE 8 F GOODRICH COMPANY 
Pac TOMe Aamo Coen 











buted by the B. F, Goodrich Company, of Akt 


Ohio 


A Fire Extinguisher with 
Distinctive Features 

The “Paragon” fire extinguisher shown on 
this page is manufactured by James Boyd & 
Bro., Inc. of Twenty-fifth and Wharton 
streets, Philadelphia. 

It is simple to charge and operate, and full 
directions are shown on the label at 
tached to the front of the cylinder. The bottl 
containing the sulphuric acid is suspended in 
a brass cylinder at the top of the cage, and 
when the cap is screwed on, both bottle and 
stopper are held in prop 
er adjustment by the 


brass 


guide at the top. When 
the machine is inverted 
the loose lead stopper 
drops from the bottl 
and this results in the 
mixing of the acid with 
the soda solution in the 


tank. This generates a 
large volume yf gas 
(carbonic acid), which 


forces the liquid thru the 
short tubeconnected with 
the extinguisher. Phe 
stream of chemical thus 
ejected brings with it 
the carbonic acid 
which smothers the fire. 
This combination of 
liquid and gas is many 
times as effective as 
water for fire extinction 
Simply turning the ma- 
chine back to its normal 
position stops the stream 
and the chemical action 

Among the distinctive 
features claimed for the 
“Paragon” extinguisher 
is the fact that the bottle 
cage is separate and dis- 
tinct from every other part. Also, neither 
hooks nor hinges are necessary to fasten it in 
place, for it rests securely on the rim in the 
collar. This is a convenience that will be much 
appreciated where troublesome fastenings hav« 
been found necessary in order to keep the ex 
tinguisher in place. 

In addition to the sanction of extensive use 
thruout the country, the Paragon machine has 


Ras, 











THE PARAGON 
FIRE 
EXTINGUISHER 


NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 741 


the approval, after examination, of the Asso 











lated Factory Mutual Fire In e ( pa 
nies, the Department of Commerce 
and the Steamboat Inspection Service 
+ + 
Pumps tor Fire-Fighting 
Municipalities will be interested to learn that 
the South Bend Motor Car Work f Sout 
Bend, Ind., has developed a new put t 
s the Hoosier pu r use espe 
re departments 
lt is a O5-hk rse] { ¢ \ 
ng a 155-1nch whee s tt s | 
neh section ¢ ‘ 1 essed stee 
The h body is 1 ( \ strengthened 
steel panels, a y I OO 
eet of standard 2 n re hos« The 
tus 1s equipped with 4o-gallon Cl 
H lloway type he tank, 200 Teet i 
l h se and 1 el vaske 
here are 4 lante | ne 20-1f t ext 
cle one 12-foot 1 f ladder, folding : 
f the trussed type ke pole, axes, tw 
gallon hand extinguishers, a 10-i l 
tive bell, a hand siren, two 10-inch elect 
ead lights, one s« h light mounted tl 
dash, and a tail light. The machine is equipps 
with a Leece-Neville electric starter and ger 
erator, two 24-volt Willard storage batteri 
gasoline tank of 25-gallon capacity at tl 
head of the body, a geared rot 
two 4'%-inch suction inlets, tw 2 
quickly-closing delivery gates, and two 9 
lengths of 4™%-inch hard sucti ipling hose 
with a strainer attachment 
Tests were made recently on the | ser 
pump which showed its high efficiency. Using 
200- foot lines : a h h S¢ W le 
tips of from 1 to 1'% inches, it ¢ 
nozzles varied from 63 to s, and 
the number of gallons per minute fr 405 t 
500 All of the tests were made t 1s 
1f one hour each The Hoosier pump has 
rated capacity of 350 gallons per minute 
On page 691 of this issue is reproduced 
view of a South Bend fire truck which is 1 
use by the Fire Department of Greenfield, Ind 
+ + 


Diaphragm Pumping Engines 

There has just come to our notice an ex- 
cellent instance of the wear and tear that one 
of the modern diaphragm pumping engines will 
stand. In July, 1913, the Harold L. Bond Com- 
pany, of Boston, sold one of its 3% by 3! 
Atlantic diaphragm pumping engines to the 
city of Skagway, Alaska, where the engine was 
to do very hard work. 

The company selling this machine has just 
received a letter from the City Clerk of Skag 
way, stating: “The pumping engine is on the 
job all the time and has never failed to give 


entire satisfaction, notwithstanding the fact 
that the work is in sand and gravel at all 
times.” 


Since the machine was shipped three years 
ago, this is certainly a fine tribute to Amer- 
ican-built machinery. It helps to explain why 
Atlantic pumping engines were being used in 





rHE AMERICAN CITY 


MUNICIPAL 
SIGNS 


OF EVERY CHARACTER 
FOR EVERY PURPOSE 


% GUARANTEED 


é 
BALI PORCELAIN 
ENAMELED 
IRON 


SIGNS 


‘“‘BALTO” Guaranteed Porcelain Enameled Iron Signs 
stand alone in their field—the one and only one absolutely 
dependable sign product. 

These signs are made of the finest grade of vitreous Porcelain Enamel 


fused on specially processed iron at a temperature of 1600 degrees Fah- 
renheit—each color separately fused. 


‘“‘BALTO” Signs, exclusively, are fitted with 
non-corrosive metal sleeve eyelets—this 


DA feature protects the enamel at this point 
GER and adds another distinctive element of 
finish to our signs. 
5000 vo LTS , - 
We produce every possible character of municipal 


\ signs—any size, shape, color combination or design. 
; Without obligation our Service Department will 


\ 
On 





































be pleased to submit sketches and quotations. 
Additionally, we will send FREE, at our expense, 
to any authorized purchasing official or body a 
useful and attractive sample of finished Porcelain 
Enameled Iron. Write Department C. 


The Baltimore Enamel & Novelty Co. 


BALTIMORE, MARYLAND 







| MMEESsaRy NOISES) 44, 


> 
_ a PROHIBITED | 


: ¢ 
oy z 
X Me 


When writing to Advertisers please mention THE AMERICAN City. 





64 




















Dec., 1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 43 


Russia, England, France, Germany, the Phi Tires for Municipal Motor Vehicles 


ippines and many other distant countries, un 
le \ highly interesting book on tires has 


til war conditions mace shipments impossi 
+’ + been issued by the Firestone Tire & Rubbe 

Company, of Akron, Ohi Beautifully ilh 
Horse-drawn Mowers for Golf trated and carefully printed, this is a publica 
| sits artist 


+4 > 1 . mine 1 T \ its art tic 
Courses and Large City Lawns tion well worth keeping, not only for its a 
“p ania Tein”? make-up but especially t e great amour 
The “Pennsylvania Trio” lawn mower, re fT tnkenention % contol sats 
O nio < l ntains a u i esse 
produced herewith, has many excellent fea ‘ a f si - ie teal 
- . 4 . accesso of a municipal Moto! ruck 
tures of construction which recommend it for seeped ene at Stn heek int 
: ne p 1K Mal pur] S¢ ie 1S > 
trial wherever horse-drawn lawn mowers are ; I ipl Thy ; ; 
1. Its blad ure self-sharpening and are the progress made in meth 
se uwadcdes «¢ > S$CiUr-SNe - 2 and a 
paver . ; : toward giving the most in tire service a 


ade of hardened anc “mpered crucible steel . 7 
made of hardened 1 tempered « c pwest posdible cost. However, it is 





thruout. The bottom knife is bolted solidly t of method and machinery that th L- tvente 
the side plates, thus reducing to the minimum sy ma a ae ee a ee ? 
: “4 i c Cu 

any possible tendency to become twisted ot nected the story of the remarkable grow! ‘ 
strained. Revolving cutter adjustments can be the Sinteianen ene iia re ioe minneiiana cated 
quickly made by two bolts. By automati oy to adested fa ta meatless wiedh ene 
regulation the cylinders are held down in )..4 of ‘ta emnloves. and the “forward visict 
proportion to the pull of the machine, thereby aoa ge age Ate. 5. f t ente 
preventing the machine from jumping when tained The book is replete with pictures 
cutting heavy grass. A new lifting device al Many of the processes involved in manufa 
lows the mower to leave 4 inches of grass “in turing tires are thus made clear. Other pic 
the rough.” When lifted above 4 inches, the tures show the plant at Akron. the branches 
revolving cutters are automatically thrown out the various grades of emploves, et 
It gear. 

lo prevent injury to the turf caused by the ils 
strain of turning the lawn mower, the single Concentrating Orders for 
mower is in the front, allowing an exceedingl\ ‘ . : 
short turning radius. This permits a turn witl Water-Works Supplies 
out a shift of weight to one side. Its semi Water-works officials and engineers eng 
floating axle and auto-type ball-bearing wheels n an urgent piece of work are oft . 
insure great strength and easy running. ably vexed by the delays incident to t 

This lawn mower is manufactured by the rival of material or equipment fro fferent 
Pennsylvania Lawn Mower Works, of Phila rms at different times. The lack of on 
delphia. tial accessory will over-balance the efforts of 














THE “PENNSYLVANIA TRIO”—THREE LAWN MOWERS IN ONE 








THE AMERICAN CITY 





MOTT LAMP POSTS 


STANDARDS OF MERIT 


Special Designs of Lighting Standards 
For Type C Lamps 


LAMP POSTS FOR ALL REQUIREMENTS 


FOUNTAINS 
Display and Drinking 
For PUBLIC SQUARES, PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS, Etc. 


ENTRANCE GATES, RAILINGS, SETEES 





CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION 


THE J.L.MOTT IRON WORKS 


Fifth Avenue and 17th Street, New York 


Right now! 


Too early to think about next year’s spraying: 
Not a bit of it? Right now is the time to in- 
vestigate and decide on the sprayer you will use- 











“Bean” Power Sprayer is made in six sizes, 
including the “Bean” Double Giant Park 
Sprayer which supplies 25 gallons per minute at 
400 pounds pressure. 


77 POWER 


SPRAYER 
The 10- point sprayer 














All “Bean” Power Sprayers have ten, 
big, vital features not obtainable in any 
other machine. We suggest that you get 
in touch with our sales representative in 
your city and become thoroughly posted 
on the “Bean” Power Sprayer and our 
complete line of hand and power sprayers 


Or write ear menvest factory for Catalog 
BEAN SPRAY PUMP CO. 


15 Hosmer St., Lansing, Mich. 
224 W. Julian St., San Jose, Calif. 


Originators of the First High Pressure 
Spray Pump. 


EstTasuisnep 1884. 
Sales Representatices in all Large Cities. 





When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amertcan Cry. 














Dec., 1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 745 





conscientious firms which have shipped their the individual. It has neglected this feature 
orders promptly. the past because it has been dealing more wit 
It is a program worthy of encouragement such equipment as slides, merry-go-rounds 
therefore, that in pursuance of a new policy ean waves, swings, seesaw outfits, gymnast 
the Modern Iron Works, of Quincy, IIL, “or ipparatus, gymnasium accessories, et t 
the Mississippi,” offers to supply water-works with f the individual play« W 
officials with anything they may require in th« f the new vear. however, tl 
way of materials or supplies, except cast-it augurate a new policy . 
pipe and water meters. The opportunity thus ng in evervthing manufacture 
afforded for the concentration of purchases urposes. It will be prepared to supply scl 
will eliminate the annoyance and the delays « ind plavgrounds with a complete line of a 
casioned by the sending out of orders to differ letic goods, such as baseballs. bats. basket 
ent firms, and will also result in decreased ills, gloves. etc.. alone with he P 
freight charges. The water-works supply de vhich may be required for a tea » 4 
partment of this firm will endeavor to keep in jndividual. All of 1 | 
stock for shipment on the day orders are re guarantee which will safeg 
ceived sufficient quantities of materials re from inferior e is ry Hill-Standard ( 
quired for emergency work Mig REE ge ta . ae 


+ + 
Sporting Goods for Schools in, addition to the. large. domestic busines 
and Playgrounds carried on yy this firm, its fic it : eon es 





panding to foreign climes. Recent large s 
Until recently, the Hill-Standard Manufa ments of “Fun-Ful” apparatus were labeled 
turing Company of Anderson, Ind., had beer Cana the Panama Canal Zone. Porto R 
making playground equipment of every kind, and other places, and inquiries have 
but it had not devoted much of its time to the the company from as far as Australia and New 
extension of its business in athletic goods for Zealand 





ae ETP ag 








KNOX TRACTOR USED WITH STREET FLUSHING TRAILER IN) SPRINGFIELD, MASS 


A Street Flushing Trailer the tractor-trailer method of iuling, L ving 


utilized it in his road construction work since 


Mr. F. H. Clark, Superintendent of Streets and 12. His experience has conclusively proved 
Engineering of Springfield, Mass., has recently to him that by the tractor-trailer method he car 
installed a street flushing trailer which is pro! haul loads of larger capacity than by other 
ably the largest motor-driven flusher of its methods and at the same time turn mucl 


kind yet put in operation. Superintendent shorter. A Knox Model 35 tractor was ther: 
Clark has had a great deal of experience with fore purchased from the Knox Motors Ass¢ 








THE 





Public Comfort Station, W. 42nd Street_and]Fifth 

Avenue, New York. One of the many New York 

Public Comfort Stations heated with Clow 
Gasteam Radiators. 


HEAT the 
Public Buildings 


WITH 


CLOW 
GASTEAM 
RADIATION 


Steam Heat 
Without Coal 
When and 
Where You 
Want it. 


CLEAN AND 
CONVENIENT 


Write for Catalogs 


JAMES B.CLOW&SONS 


Established 1876 
534-546 So. Franklin Street, CHICAGO 





Sales Offices 
New York Detroit St. Louis San Francisco 
Minneapolis Milwaukee Denver Los Angeles 
Works 





Chicago, Coshocton and Newcomerstown, Ohio 


AMERICAN CITY 














Are 
You 
Keen 
For 
Well 
Lighted 
Streets ? 





If so you will be greatly interested in 
our beautifully illustrated booklet 
dealing with Street, Park and Boule- 
vard Lighting. Send us your address 
at once and the book will be sent you 
free of charge. 








KING FOUNDRY CO. 


55 West Jackson Blvd. Chicago, Ill 





66 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American Curry. 

















Dec., 1916 


ciates, of Springfield, Mass., to be used in con- 
nection with a street flushing trailer. This 
tractor is of the detachable type. 

The pump, which is mounted on the tractor. 
and is driven by a special power take-off, is 
capable of « lischarging 350 gallons of water per 
minute at 35 pounds pressure. Both the pump 
and the power take-off are part of the equip- 
ment. The flusher nozzles are all placed on th« 
tractor, one in front of each wheel. The 
sprinkler heads are immediately in front of the 
front wheels, and are fed from the same line 
of pipe as the flusher nozzles. They are con 
trolled by a three-way cock, so as to permit the 
water to flow either to the sprinkler heads o1 
to the flusher heads, as may be desired 

Great economy can be shown by this meth 
of street flushing, as the increased capacity of 
the tank decreases the number of 
Owing to the short-turning 
tractor and trailer it may 
around in narrow streets, thus eliminating th: 
time that would otherwise be 
sumed in going to the end of the street for 
turning purposes. The bulk of the load is car 
ried on the steel-shod tires of the trailer 
wheels. Another advantage of this — of 
street flushing is that the tractor may be de- 
tached from the street flushing trailer in winter 
and used in connection with dump trailers for 
hauling garbage, etc. The tractor can thus be 
kept constantly busy earning money for the 
city. This installation has replaced five hors: 
drawn vehicles. 


stops 
radius of the 
readily be turned 


loss of con 


Fig. 1 Fig. 2 Fig. 3 


TOOLS FOR 


A Merger of Road Roller Companies 


\ merger of the businesses of the Buffalo 
Steam Roller Company and the Kelly-Spring- 


field Road Roller Company took place about 
November 6, and the new company will be 
known as the “Buffalo Springfield Roller Com 
pany.” Its main factory will be located at 
Springfield, Ohio, with the home offices. 


The consolidated company will constitut 


NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 


REMOVING OBSTRU¢ 


74; 


the largest concern in the world engaged ex- 

clusively in the manufacture and sale of r 

rollers. The lines of manufacture will ¢ 
all purposes, ar 


prise rollers of all types for 
in sizes varying from 2% tons to 20 t 
full line of Buffalo Pitts rollers, in 
T 
' 


wis i ‘ 
indem and macadam types, as well as the 





plete line of Kelly-Springfield steam and gas 
line rollers, in both the tandem and maca 
types, will be continued 

lhe entire sales organization of the Buff 
Steam Roller Company will be taken over 
the new company, and its present | 
othces, located at Boston, New York a 
delphia, Pittsburgh, Chicas d Pe 
Ore., will be continue 

+ + 

Tools for Sewer Emergencies 


Obstructions in sewer pipe are am 
accidents which 


handle. Sanitation 


nost troublesome 
partments 


Sscwewr 


requires that 






dequate equipment be in the possessiot 
department to keep littl ile in ser 
from becoming sersous 

Tools for sewer pipe emergencies are fut 


nished by The F. Bissell ( ompany, Of 220-228 
230 Huron street, Toledo, Ohio, in connectiot 
with the sewer rods which this company manu 
iactures. Figs. 3,4 and 5 show the sewer r 

lhey are designed to couple easily and 


l quickly 
nd to stand wear and strain without buckling 
or breaking. They are light, tho strong, the, 
ride easily in the duct. and everv precaut 


és 


Ti 


caer 
ba, 





Fig. 6 g 

riIONS IN SEWER PIP! 
been taken to keep the coupling f1 gett 
loose or coming off. They are made in st 
ard lengths. Fig. 2 is that of a gouge for 


wiped joints with cement projecting. Fig 


is that of a root cutter, an instrument that is 
ery efficient in removing roots quickly and 
thoroly. Fig shows a wire brush especially 
adapted for cleaning sewers subject to accumu 


lations of grease. Fig 
for pipes filled 


6 shows a screw, hand 
with paper, rags, et 





rH I AMERI 














The Bowser Way is the Safe Way 


Your Shield of Protection 





Did you ever stop to consider that 
when gasolene or naphtha vapor is 
mixed with the oxygen in the air it 


has even greater explosive power 
than dynamite? Nobody would 
think of handling dynamite care- 


lessly, but you have seen many in- 
stances of gasolene and naphtha being 
improperly handled. 


UNDERGROUND STORAGE SYSTEMS 


are so designed and constructed that vola 
tiles and inflammable liquids stored in them 


are absolutely safe under any condition. 
What a satisfaction to know that all 
hazardous liquids in your city are safely 


stored where they not only can’t cause a fire 
but 
otherwise, they could in no way add to the 


or explosion, in case of one starting 


loss of life or property 
There is no need of inviting danger—and 


here is an opportunity to avoid it 


S.F.BOWSER & COMPANY, inc. 
FORT WAYNE, INDIANA 


Sales Offices in All Centers and Repre- 
sentatives Everywhere 








When writing to Advertisers please 


CAR G 


Ss mg 


FOUNTAINS 


DISPLAY and DRINKING 
LAMP STANDARDS 
OVER ONE THOUSAND PATTERNS 


THE CASEY HEDGES CO. 
CHATTANOOGA, TENN. 


Cincinnati 


Chicago 


OVER 
ONE THOUSAND 
PATTERNS 


Write for free booklet 
illustrating an endless 
variety of artistic de- 
signs. 


LAMP 
STANDARDS 


FOUNTAINS 
Display and Drinking 


THE CASEY-HEDGES C0. 


Chattanooga, Tenn. 
Chicago Cincinnati 





mention THe American City. 


























Dec., 1916 


Fellowship Established for 
Asphaltic Research 

With the cOdperation of Harvard University 
and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
The Barber Asphalt Paving Company has es- 
tablished at these institutions a fellowship for 
research in asphaltic materials and their uses. 
The fellowship is to be known as “The Clif- 
ford Richardson Fellowship.” Mr. Richard- 
son is a distinguished alumnus of Harvard, 
and has made great contributions to asphaltic 
highway construction. This and his work in 
the chemistry of bitumens make the designa- 
tion of the fellowship particularly appropriate 
he appointment of the incumbent of the fel 
lowship and the choice of subjects for inves 
tigation, as well as the disposition to be mad: 
of the results of such investigations as may 
undertaken, are to decided the 
faculty of the Institute of Technology or by 
the joint committee of the University and the 
Institute having control of engineering work 


be be by 


+ + 

Sprinkling Wagons at the Border 

The accompanying photograph represents 
part of a shipment of 40 sprinkling wagons 
ordered by the United States 
government from The Aus- 
tin- Western Road Manufac- 
turing Company, of Chicago, 
lll. In this trainload the 
machines are of the Austin 
standard 600- gallon plat- 
form spring type with steel 
tanks, and they are waiting 
to be shipped to the border. 

It is much in favor of the 
construction of these ma- 
chines that they have been 
able to pass the severe tests 
of the army officials, who 
think them sufficiently ca- 
pable of standing rough use 
to order them in such large 
quantities. Altho the sprink 
ling wagons have been used 
in many places, they have 
never received as trying an 
experience as the work at the border de- 
mands. Yet no alteration or reinforcement 
of the Austin standard construction was found 
necessary. This gives assurance that if used 
in the easier service of street sprinkling in 
cities, long life may be expected of this kind 
Of equipment. 


A SHIPMEN’4 


+ + 


Mixing Pepper with Honey in a 
Pamphlet of Testimonials 
Manufacturers’ catalogs which contain the 
opinions expressed by the users of the prod 
ucts advertised usually consist of a collection 
of all the favorable statements made, and care 
fully omit any reference to possible defects in 
the products. This, tho not at all objectionable, 
because it acts as a confirmation of claims 
made by the company, is in a sense not as 
useful as a publication in which the seller 


NEWS FROM ENGINEERS 








AND MANUFACTURERS 749 
trankly brings to hght unfavorable criticis 
lhe latter shows that the manufacturer places 
suthcient confidence in iS goods t er tl 
the merits far outweigh the defi ies, a 
that he challenges 1! estigati lhis is 
poor business policy at ught t ing 
penalty, Tor any respons! siness mal 
knows that even the best article on the rk 
has its disgruntled or dissatistied clientel 
fact, he feels that it is requiring t Qe 
stretch of the faculty of credulity to ac 
i statement tlat all the users ‘ 
are perfect satished furthermore, unfav 
ble criticism of any product tends to descri 
it more clearly, and if it is a ¢ irtic 
knock here and there won't hurt it 

In a pamphlet entitled “What Users S 
\bout It,” the Amies Road ¢ t 
Drake Building, East Pa S CC ‘ 
typical collection of opinions from the users 
f its product “Amuesite Here e Car 
find letters which tell what the erits ar ( 
fects of Amiesite are But the comy 
nothing to fear from this policy, for the great 
majority of letters praise Amiesite in terms 
that make it evident to the fair-minded that the 
product is one of high merit, and that the few 
pinions to the contrary are the inevitable ex 





SPRINKLING 


WAGONS OR THI ORDER 
ceptions. Such a pamphlet is useful to the 
road official because he has there a list whicl 
will enable him to get a double-sided view of 
the question of using Amiesite. 

Phe pamphlet contains e inter g side 
lights on the reasons for dissatisfaction. It 
was found that the users had not laid the 
material properly in s ses had t 
supplied a good foundation, and that they had 
attributed te the product the defects whicl 
should have been attributed to other factors 
the work. It is therefore of interest to see 


further on in the pamphlet, letters of praise 


from the same officials, in which the reasons 
for the difficulties first experienced by them are 
explained 

Many of the letters deal with the econon 
effected by the use of Amiesite; others state 
that Amiesite paving laid years ago is still in 


good condition altho without repair, and that 
the pavement is popular among automobilists. 











ACarefully Classified Guide 


160 pages in size, has been published by THE 
AMERICAN CITY, covering the products of 
about 300 of the leading concerns furnishing 
machinery, supplies and professional services of 
all kinds to municipalities, counties, etc. This 


reference book is known as the 


MU NICTPAL 
BUTERS GUIDE 


It has attracted widespread attention and favorable comment 
from municipal and county officials all over the country on 


account of its convenience and value for those seeking information 





as to machinery and materials for all sorts of public improvement 
work. The coupon form below will secure you a copy with our 


compliments. 
THE AMERICAN CITY 
87 Nassau St., 


New York City: d 


Please forward a free copy of your Municipal Buyers’ Guide 


to the address below: 


Name........ 
Position........ 


P| eee 


68 








THE AMERICAN CITY 





; A fountain at 


Versailles. The 
Cast Iron Pipe 
which supply 
these fountains 
have given un 
interrupted ser 
vice for 250 


_ = years 


Supplementing the Test 
of Time 


At Marly, near Paris, on one of the arms of the River Seine there 





was built a remarkable pumping plant to supply the fountains sur- 
rounding the palace at Versailles. That was in the reign of Louis 
XIV. Today—after nearly 250 years the original cast iron pipe used 





= in this system is still giving service 


| U.S. St PIPE 


has also stood the test of time and just to make sure of its ability to 
uphold our good name, every piece is subjected to severe hydrostatic 
tests before shipment. You can feel sure of securing the best when you 
use U.S. Cast Iron Pipe. Bell & Spigot, Flanged or Flexible Joints 
Fittings, of all descriptions. , 


2 UNITED STATES ikcx PIPE roiXtay CO. 


= General Offices: Burlington, N. J. 








SALES OFFICES 


Philadelphia—1421 Chestnut Street 

New York—71 Broadway 
Pittsburgh—Henry W. Oliver Bldg. 
Chicago—122 S. Michigan Blvd. 

St. Louis—Security Bldg. 

Buffalo —East Ferry Street 
Birmingham—American Trust Bidg 

San Francisco- Monadnock Bldg. 
Portland, Ore.—Northwestern Bank Bldg. 


TT 1! } 
PUTTER SPELLED ee 


Test press for large pipe. 
Each length is water-pressure tested 
before shipment. 





When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City | 


For Index to Advertisers see Pages 29 and 31 














THE AMERICAN CITY 





The Big Studebaker Line of 
Municipalities 


For 64 years we have been puilding good 


The largest 
builders of 
vehicles in 
the world 





vehicles. The watchword of Studebaker 
has been ‘“‘Quality First.”’ As a result, 
Studebaker means Standard the world over. 
More than 100,000 vehicles a year are turned 
out of the gigantic Studebaker factories. 





Studebaker 


Studebaker 
Street Sprinklers 
The superiority and efficiency 
of Studebaker Street Sprink- 
lers has been demonstrated 


Studebaker 
Road Oilers 


The value of periodical oiling 
in the modern maintenance 
of roads is well understood 
and hundreds of Studebaker 


Street Sweeper 
A practical, economical and 
efficient vehicle for the 
sweeping of city streets and 
the proper equipment to use 





by many continuous years of 
service in scores of cities all 
over the country. 


both gravity and pressure 
feed types. 











ee 
Mail Coupon 


opposite 
for Data Books 


ee inn ne 


When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American City. 


prior to oiling of roads and 


Road Oilers are now contrib- highways. Thorough in its \ 
Made in uting their efficient service to cleaning because of its 
better road upkeep in every strength. Easy to operate, ‘ 
; 


corner of the country. secures best results. 


The Studebaker Municipal Utilities Co., is now the 
owner of the Ottofy and various other patents covering 
the modern art of street-flushing. Flushers manufactured 
under these patents will in the future be marketed 
through the Vehicle Division of the Studebaker 


organization. 











THE AMERICAN CITY 





BR The Studebaker ee 


auth Bend 


Special Service Vehicles for 
and Contractors 


Over 101 acres of ground-space at South Bend, 
Ind., are devoted to the vast Studebaker 
factories. But to you the most important 
factor is our experience in supplying vehicles 
for every public or private purpose. Let 
Studebaker experience serve you and your city. 





64 years’ 
continuous 
specialized 
experience 





Studebaker Studebaker Studebaker 





Street Flushers 
Street flushing is the modern 
method of street-cleaning. 
Studebaker Street » Flushers 
are made in both Uniform 
Pressure and 
types. Flushing is the most 


economical of all methods of 


street cleaning. 


STUDEBAKER 


SOUTH BEND, INDIANA, U.S.A. 


Street Sprinkler Sweet 
Largest Vehicle Manufacturers in the world—Established 1852 Street Flushers street Cleaners “art 
Road Oilers Dump Boxes & ‘ 
Dump Wagors School Busses 
s checker 
margin b 


Air Pressure 


Dump Wagons 
Ability to withstand hard 
knocks and keep down haul- 
ing costs wins preference for 
Studebaker Dump Wagons in 


every class of work. Superior 


designs, strongest materials 
and skilled workmanship en- 
sure enduring strength. 





‘ Harness for Vehicles 
Write name ar rese ir 


STUDEBAKER, South Bend, 


Mail catalogs and complete infc 
ow ing 


School Busses 


Many communities through- 


out the country are 


now 


operating these busses tocarry 


children toand from the con 


solidated schools. Studebake« 


School Busses meet the re- 


quirement 
having 


of every state 
ae vs on this subject 








When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 








I 


THE AMERICAN CITY 





n Tue American City 




















vm } 


’ THE AMERICAN CITY 





_ Look to the Left 


and notice carefully at what 
the Tridents are pointing 


Isn't it an Interesting Collection ? 


We feel that we have a right to be proud of this 
distinguished aggregation of successful instruments for 
the measurement of water under varying conditions of 
service. Here are their names: 


Trident Protectors Trident Split Case Trident Compound 
Trident Style 3 Disc Trident Victor Trident Crest 

Trident Crest for Stand- Style 4 Meter Trident Disc 

Pipes and Water Carts Trident Testing Meter 


Let us tell you about any one of them which interests you, 
or we will send the story of the whole family if you prefer. 
If the subject of water meters is now under consideration 
in your municipality you will find our series of booklets 
very useful and informing. We will gladly present you 
with a set of these booklets if you will send your address. 


NEPTUNE METER COMPANY 
50 EAST 42nd STREET, NEW YORK 


CHICAGO, BOSTON, SANFRANCISCO, 
ATLANTA LOSANGELES. PORTLAND, SEATTLE 
CINCINNATI 





When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American City. 7 

















I — | 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


WORTHINGTON PUMP AND 


A Self Contained Power Plant 


To economik ~y operate generators, hoists 
pressors, etc 


install a 


@GQRIAONX? 
WS aS a \y / 


= J -vN 
FE.NGI NE. 















, deep well pumps, com- 
o do away with auxilaries and cut down fuel « 





The Snow Oil Engine is a self-contained power plant. 
levelops great power on low fuel consumption; operates on 
lowest grades of cheap crude oil; starts ins stantly and picks up 
full load in 11 seconds; high compressio 


type, requiring no 
ignit tion appara 


“No smoke—no 
explosive shocks, 
no vibration 

Bulletin will be 
Sent on request 





GLENDORA 
Deep Well Pumps 


50% to 300% More Water 
with the Glendora 


The Glendora Pump gives approximately three times the 
volume of water that can be obtained with a single plunger, 
single-acting pump of the same size, and approximately 50% 
more than either the double-acting or the two-plunger type. 


The Glendora Pump is unexcelled for deep well pumping for 
municipal supply, irrigation, railroad tanks, factories, paper 
mills, breweries and ice-making plants. 





These cities use the Glendora for Municipal Supply 


(4) Redlands, Cal. (1) Alexandria, La. 
(2) Winnipeg, Manitoba (1) Trenton, Nova Scotia 
(2) Transcona, Manitoba (1) Rigby, Idaho. 








(2) Perry, Iowa. (1) Alamo Gordo, 
(2) Mauch Chunk, Pa N. M. ' 
} (1) Ralston, Neb. (2) Griffin, Ga. 
y (3) Newton, Kan. (2) Zeeland, Mich. 
Y (1) Aurora, Neb. (1) Alva, Oklahoma 
(1) Pasadena, Cal. (1) Freeland, Pa. 


Ask for Bulletin D 300-72 


WORTHINGTON 


PUMP AND MACHINERY CORPORATION 
115 Broadway, New York 





Avesta Hoasto putielo gctien be cinnati Cipestand - 
Paso ouston n —, —R. Orleans, 'h 
Pittsbu: Se. Louie Salt Lake Ciey Sen y * uladelg . 





When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American Cary. 





ee . 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


MACHINERY CORPORATION 
WORTHINGTON METERS 


Really Frost-Proof 
CONSTRUCTION 


All parts coming in”contact with th 
ol non-corrosive composition, of 
Bottom plate covered with rubber gasket 
Only one large tap-bolt to set up frost-bolts 
No other bolts are used on this n 


FROST-PROOF 
When the water is frozen, one or more of the 
breaking frost-bolts give way, relieving the 
pressure and protecting the meter 
damage 








water» 


rubber 


irom 


AFTER FREEZING 
Snap the new bolts into place. Cost of new 
parts, from 5 to 20 cents No tools 
quired. Not even a wrench 
Write for Bulletin W-205-72 





er 





INTERNATIONAL | \< 


Concrete Mixers 


Meet a Wide Range of Requirements 








A Size to meet Economical Conditions . 


Ji 


If you want to get your work done well, and at low 
cost, without irritating delays and costly breakdowns, : 
post yourself at once on the INTERNATIONAL With “Ingeco” Kerosene-Gasoline Engine 
MIXERS. Our catalog explains their construction . and Closed End Side Loader 
fully and shows why they give superior service. 
Measured by length of satisfactory performance, you 
will find the INTERNATIONAL the most econom- 
ical mixer you can own. 


4 


The New International Low Feed Tvpe is just what 

the contractors have been looking for, a thoroughly 
well made, reliable Mixer, with low charging hopper 
and a reliable, economical oil engine, selling at a 
moderate price. 


Write for catalog 65N and address of nearesi agent 


WORTHINGTON 


PUMP AN) MACAINE2RY CIRPO RATION 
115 Broadway, New York 


Atlanta Boston Buffalo Chicago Cincinnati! Cleveland Denver Detroit With Steam Engine 
El Paso Houston Joplin Kansas City Los Angeles New Orleans Philadelphia Open End Side 
Pittsburgh St.Louis Salt Lake City San Francisco Seattle St. Paul 








When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American Crrty. © 


























THE AMERICAN CITY 


STANDS OWEAR, 











Swing as High 
as You Like 


The children are safe on EVER- 
WEAR swings. They are built with 
an eye single to safety. 


An all-steel galvanized product 

throughout, specially designed for the 

wear tear and of outdoor use. All detail of bearings, connections, etc., have 
been worked out to the highest standard of perfection. 








COMBINATION OUTFIT, No. E-125. 8 ft. high, 20 ft. long. 


EVERWEAR outfits are equipped with malleable frame fittings and 
drop forged steel parts for bearings. Combinations of apparatus furnished 
to suit any locality or condition. Advise us of your ground space, water, 
shading, etc., and we will be pleased to furnish you plans and prices gratis. 
Our services are yours for the asking. 


A full line of the 
latest and approved 
playground apparatus 
shown in Catalog E-8 
which will be sent on 
request. 


THE 


EVERWEAR 
MFG. CO. 


Springfield, Ohio 











When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 




















THE AMERICAN CITY 




















RWEAR 


STANDS WEAR AND TEAR 






The Old Cellar 
Door Commercialized 


If there is any one piece of playground 
apparatus that the child likes more than 
another, that outfit is the slide chute. 
This is the most popular outfit of all in the 
minds of the children, and just keep your 
eye on the “grown-ups’’ for a slide on the 
sly. 


The bedways of Everwear Chutes are lined with 
either clear rock maple or heavy galvanized sheet 
metal—as you elect—the price being the same 
The all-steel step approach is equipped with 
malleable TREAD STEPS and all metal parts are 
galvanized throughout 


We furnish them in all lengths from the 5-foot 








Kindergarten length to the 30-foot length for 
public playgrounds. 


Catalog E-8 showing a full line of the latest and 
approved playground equipment will be sent on 
request. Send in coupon below. 





The Everwear Mfg. Co. 
SPRINGFIELD, OHIO 
GENTLEMEN: 

Please send me without cost, a copy of your New 
Catalog E-8, showing a full line of the latest and approved 
playground equipment 
Name.... 


Address 




















When writing to Advertisers please mention Toe American City, 11 

















and a little 


They cut bett 


THE 


VNSIILVAN fl 
LAWN MOWERS 


cost a great deal more to make 


really much cheaper because of 
the superior service they give. 


the cost is forgotten. 


AMERICAN CITY 





Quality 


more to buy, but are 


er, run easier and last so long 





Qre © 


brands: 





**Pennsylvania™’ “Shock Absor ber’ 
“Great American” *“Keystone"’ 
“Pennsylvania, Jr." _ “Continent _# 
“Braun Grass Catcher’ “Lawn Clea 
“Undercut Trimmer"’ “Trio” 
“Golf” 
Hors 












The “PENNSYLVANIA” 


pat st pallale 
line includes the following 


“PENNSYLVANIA” 
Mowers are self-sharpen- 
ing, too. 


Write for catalog 


_ 
| Right nWons 
NS mus 


incCORPOR 
JOHN BRAU 
FOUNDEL HILADELPHIA 

















When writing to Advertisers please mention Tut American City. 








ae se Rm ‘ 

















THE AMERICAN CITY 








The “PENNSYLVANIA 
TRIO” 


is the last word in horse-drawn 
mowers for golf courses and 
large estates. Cuts 86-inch swath 


Self-Sharpening Crucible 
Steel Blades 





throughout. Bottom knife bolted 
solidly to the side plates, eliminat- 
ing any tendency to become 
twisted or strained. Adjustments 
quickly made by two bolts. 


Can’t Jump When Cutting 
Heavy Grass 








Automatic regulation 
holds cylinders down in 
proportion to the pull of 
the machine. Af 





New Lifting Device 





allows mower to leave 
4 inches of grass ‘in 
the rough.” 








Short Turning Radius 





The single mower is in the front, 
allowing an exceedingly short 
turning radius without injury to 
the turf. 


Semi-Floating Axle 





and auto-type ball-bearing wheels 
insure great strength and 
easy running. 


Catalogs of all types of mowers 
on request 


—— 


aN 


JOHN BRAUN &_SONS 
2 77 


FOUNOE! PHILADELPHIA 


Illustration below shows auto- 
matic adjustment to uneven sur- 
faces. 





PENNSYLVANIATEAWN MOWER WORKS 














When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae American City 


13 





oe 

















THE AMERICAN CITY 




















| 








| 


| 





| 


yo 
iv 
wily 
e 
it 
AL 


| 
| 


| 














THE LARGEST USERS OF GUIDE BOARD SIGNS 
IN THE WORLD: Read what they say about 


INDESTRUCTIBLE SIGNS 


“The Sign That Outlives Father Time” 








THE B.F. GOODRICH COMPANY. 


Rupner £6% Goons 


Py. ber Se eer rEN 





TOURING BUREAU 
AKRON. OHIO 


Bov.5,1914. 


Indestructible sign Company, 
Coluawus ,Ohio. 

ATTENTION OF MR. C.4. DIVINE,PRESLDENT. 

Dear Sir: 

It might be of interest to you to know that we have 
given several of your signe a very severe labratory test to 
ascertain the rust resisting qualities.” One sign we subjected 
to sulphur fumes for seven days and another sign in the hot 


water bath for five days- Our labratory reports show that your 





sign will not rust as at preeent conetructeé and furnished us, 
and we believe the Goodrich Guide Post sign now being erected 
in all sections of the country will be a legible and lasting 


gign as long as a four inch post will stay in the ground. 

















THE 
INDESTRUCTIBLE SIGN 
COMPANY 


COLUMBUS - - OHIO 


14 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 




















THE AMERICAN CITY 











mat 


NY 











—__—— 


IT WILL PAY YOU to investigate our 
Complete Traffic Line of 


INDESTRUCTIBLE SIGNS 


‘* The Sign Studded With a Thousand Diamonds”’ 

















os Orn K 


i Ll © | 


HP 


a ~y om 
> 











INDESTRUCTIBLE SIGN 
COMPANY | PARKING § 
COLUMBUS - o OHIO E WITHIN 20 Ft. mag 


Sole Eastern Agents 
F. H. Conklin & W.G. Harrington 
Incorporated 


50 Church Street, N. Y. C. 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 














THE AMERICAN CITY 





The New 
~ Schenley High School, 
just completed in Pittsburgh, 
Pa., one of the finest public school 
buildings in the country, has a 


Westinghouse Switchboard 


built to architects specifications, which is in full harmony 
with the beauty and dignity of the building. It con- 
trols two 300 kw., 60 cycle, 6 phase, 250 volt, D.C. Rotary 
Converters, and various feeder circuits. 


Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Co. 


EAST PITTSBURGH, PA. 


Sales Offices in All 
Large American Cities 


~~ 


¢ ~~ 


<- vl Oo Witito te eg 

















we Ee | 


oe 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 




















THE AMERICAN CITY 








Cast Iron Pipe has given St. Louis 
two thousand miles of satisfaction 


To be exact there are just 1987 miles of Cast Iron 
Pipe Water and Gas in that city 

And because frequent examinations have shown 
even the earliest installations to be in practically 
perfect condition. 

St. Louis now reckons the life of Cast Iron Pipe 
at not less than 100 years. 

Is it not logical to select the pipe 
that is the standard of the world’s 
largest cities? Is it not good 
engineering to choose a pipe that/: 
has a record of 250 years of actual \y 
servicer Is it not economical to W\ 
install, a pipe that will not have to 
be replaced P 


The Cast Iron Pipe Publicity Bureau 


R. C. McWane, Secretary 





1 Broadway New York 





When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American Cirr. 








THE AMERICAN CITY 


FIRE HYDRANTS 


Frost-Proof 














Simple-Efficient 
All parts removable with- 
out digging up hydrant. 
Special device prevents 
street from being flooded 





Water, Steam 
Gas, Oil, Hydraulic 








or Electric Operated Send for Catalog No. 32 containing information 
All etyles, any cine, alll pressures of value on subjects of Sluice and Shear Gates, 
Gate Valves. In fact everything for Water and 

«= THE-- Sewerage Systems. 

Ludlow Valve Mfg. Co. 
na THE CHAPMAN VALVE MFG. CO. 
Branch Offices INDIAN ORCHARD MASS. 
“"Pailadgtotia Pittabure Branch Offices’in All Large Cities 











The Detector | | 5. LEADITE me 


able instrument for Registered U. S. Patent Office 
locating lost Gate - , 
a and Service For Jointing Cast lron Water Mains 
oxes. 
Hundreds NO_CAULKING required 
in Use Saves 50% to 65% 


If it does not prove as 
represented, can be 


returned. THE LEADITE COMPANY, inc. 


Write for our. catalogue. 
WATER WORKS EQUIPMENT CO. 66. cae Puadeiphta, Pa. 


5@ Church Street, New York 


Water Gates & Fire Hydrants 


BUILT FOR UTILITY AND DURABILITY 
Write for Booklet 


PRATT & CADY CO., INC. HARTFORD, CONN. 


Write for information and price 


























SLUICE GATES, CHECK VALVES, AIR VALVES, INDICATOR can ETC. 
ATE Fl 
VALVES EDDY HYDRANTS 


Hydraulically and Electrically Operated Vaives and Sluice Gates. Valves Designed For All Kinds of Service. 
EDDY VALVE eager ca WATERFORD, N. Y. 


New Tork Chicago San Francisco Philadelphia 


18 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American Crty. 
































THE AMERICAN CITY 














(a, 36.000 GALLONS | 
) Daily Waste 
From This 
Leak 


This particular leak had been wasting 36,000 gallons 
of water daily. It flowed from a blown joint beneath 
the surface of the street into a sewer, and no one knew it. 





The city water department, however, believing that 
water was being wasted somewhere brought 


% % y ry. g wry % 
THE PITOMETER 

—an instrument for detecting leaks in pipe, 
to the scene. A survey of the water mains discovered 
a large number of leaks—some large and some small. 

There may be leaks in your water pipe which you 
don’t know exist. Leaks, which amount up to hundreds 
perhaps thousands of dollars a year in water wasted. 
These can be stopped. Let the Pitometer find them 
out for you. 

Twenty-one cities have asked our advice during the past 
year. We are willing to assist you, too. Write for facts. 


The “‘Cole’’ Recorder 
recently developed is especially 
designed for station use 


Operates under a New Principle 


which guarantees its accuracy at 
low velocities as well as high 


Write for booklet. 


THE PITOMETER COMPANY 
55 Duane Street New York City 











-——-3 

















When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American Ciry¥. 











THE 


AMERICAN CITY 





Pittsburgh: Harris Pump & 
Buffalo: Root, Neal & Co. 


Chicago: Henion & Hubbell. 
New York: Ralph B. Carter Co. 








POWER PUMPS 


For Municipal Service 


The illustration represents the municipal pump 
house at Dickinson, N. D. A Deming Power 
Pump in this house, forces the water to an elevated 
tank, where it is constantly available for domestic 
needs and fire protection. 


In hundreds of municipalities throughout the 
country, may be found pump houses like this with 
a Deming Power Pump or Deep Well Head in- 
side. If your town is interested in pumping equip- 
ment, send for our 192-page Power Pump Cata- 
logue “J.” Municipal officials may have it on re- 
quest. 


THE DEMING COMPANY, Salem, Ohio 


HAND AND POWER PUMPS FOR ALL USES 


GENERAL DISTRIBUTING HOUSES : 


Boston: Chas. J. J San Francisco: Simonds Machinery Co. 
Supply Co. Richmond: Brdoor Pimp * Well Co. Charlotte, N. C.: Realty Building. 

Philadelphia: W. P. D: Houston, Tex.: H. A. Paine. 

Denver: Hendrie & Bolthott Mfg & Sup. Co. Agencies in all principal! cities. 





























geeiweeate| | APPROVAL 


Municipal Water 


Works, Sewers 


» and 


Hydro Electric Plants. H FR SEY p FTECTO ~ M ETER 


Made in 19 different types. 





Can be operated several 
miles away from Point 
Registered 
Write for Catalogue. The Herse /potector tater has 
een accepted for eleven years in x 
Hydro Manufacturing Co. 4: 6:8 10'and l2" sizes without any 
] 720 Bullitt Bldg. Philadelphia pestrictions or conditions 0 of aa a 








CAST IRON PIPE 
Water and Gas Pipe and Specials 


Service Boxes 


Roadway and Valve Boxes 


7 exer (Aeterna 
¢ Mutual oing Business 


e “Uni ed States, and by the 
water Dep artments and Water 
Poneniee in more than 500 Cities 
and Towns for use on over 3.000 
Fire Services protecting nearly 
$2,000,000,000 worth of Insured Property 


HERSEY MANUFACTURING COMPANY 


BOSTON COLUMBUS, O SAN FRANCISCO 


HAMMOND-BYRD IRON CO. NEWYORK — PHILADELPHIA LOS ANGELES 


1711-19 American Trust Bidg., irmningtbom, Ala. CHICAGO ATLANTA PORTLAND, ORE 
1216 Peoples Gas Bidg., Chicago, Il 











20 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 


























THE AMERICAN CITY 














Ford Meter Box 


Represents the best con- 
struction. Thoroughly 
efficient and in use every- 
where. 


Frost-Proof, Trouble-Proof 
and Tamper-Proof. 





Cut shows a style we 
| especially recommend for 
£ | new service lines. 





No Curb Box—No Curb Stop—No long keys necessary 


MORE INFORMATION ON REQUEST 


FORD METER BOX CO., WABASH, INDIANA 


























THE CLARK METER BOX 
Once Used—Always Used 


Because it fur- 
nishes thoro pro- 
tection and gives 
' entire satisfac- 

. 2 tion. Catalog N 
Pittsbursh Meter Co. | tells the complete 
East Pittsburgh, Pa‘ story—also tells 
ll AS Ch about the 
. CLARK METER 


“JERSEY” METER BOX | | 7©STER—Valve 



































Pra tical — Efficient— Indicator — and 
onomical. Ins sures 
soe fenien Per- many other 
mits quick Seatie and Water Works 
t Ce loc R , 
andy an Yale Appliances. Write for copy—also Meter Tes- 
easily against frost re- $ p 
any ter Bulletin R 6. 
No Bolts 
J " act 
No Threads H. W. CLARK CO. 
Write for particulars 
Manufacturers of Manwacturers of 
“Tdeal”’ Roadway Box Everything for th Water Works 
Cab Be 130 So. 17th Street, MATTOON, ILL. 








New York Salt Lake City 
San Francisco Chicago 








Adjustable (non-rattling) Manhole Tops. 
S. E. T. Valve and Hydrant Company 


50 “Church Street New York City 











When writing to Advertisers please mention Tus American City. 21 








HE AMERICAN CITY 








Holding Back the Atlantic Ocean With 
Atlantic Pumping Engines 


That is just what 





they are doing, and 
if you will write us 
we will be pleased to 
give you an interest- 
ing story of 8 Atlantic 
New 3-inch Atlantic Diaphragm Pumping outfits and 

oe what they are doing 


for one contractor. 


Write today. 


Telegraph or write for net prices and full description of complete Atlantic line 


HAROLD L. BOND COMPANY, “ststeitatss™ 


POR ener SERVICE ADDRESS NEAREST AGENT 


R. Dodge & Co., 33 W. 42nd St., New Yo Leon C. Warner Co., Minneapolis. 
=. T. Ward Co., 928 Commercial Trust Side. Philadelphia Cc. W. Hull Co., Omaha. 
The Henry H. Meyer Co., Baltimore H. C. Darnell & Co., Kansas City, Mo. 
Dales Machinery Co., “Sucbure. George B. Curd, Merchants’ Building, Cincinnati. 
. B. Trevor Co., 939 Elmwood Ave., Buffalo Cameron & Barkley Co., Tampa- Jacksonville. 
. “B. French, 410° Standard Theatre Bidg.. Cleveland Whitney Seoes Co., Ltd., New Orleans 
Mays & Talley Co., . Jackeon Bivd., Chicago A. L. Young achinery Co., San Francisco-Los Angeles. 








INSIDE THE ENGINE ROOM 
WITH BRUCE -MACBETH ENCINES 
Llustrates engine rooms in which Rrace- 
Macbeth Gas Engines are in use, and gives 


facts and figures regarding the results 











accomplished, Semi free. Our Glass Head Map Pins 

; Health Officers, School Superintendents, 

D1 uce- Macbeth Engineers, Commissioners, all use chart- 

Gas I ngines ° ‘ ing papers and map pins to advantage. 
LEVELAN ee FOUCATIONALG 
SR eeeeeeee eee es eee 6 6 . x HOON 4 

m ine Bruce-Macheth Engine Co ry Custom House St. Providence, R. I. 


2137 Center St.,N.W., ,Cleveland" 











WM. E. DEE COMPANY 














iT} SO N. La Salle Street Chicago, I11. 
MN FibaR eee ialll| We manufacture Manhole, Catch Basin and 
Id. i | Pe Sewerage Castings of all Kinds. We make anything 
in Gray Iron. Write for our prices. 











Bound Volumes of THE AMERICAN CITY 

A set of bound volumes of THE AMERICAN CITY makes a most valuable reference work 
for municipal offices, public libraries, etc., and we are in a position to supply all volumes from 
Volume I to Volume XII, inclusive. The prices of the volumes vary somewhat on account of the 
scarcity of some of the issues contained. We will be glad to quote terms on application 


THE AMERICAN CITY, 87 Nassau Street, NEW YORK CITY 





( 


22 When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American City. 























THE AMERICAN CITY 


BADGER 
COMPOUND METER 








as 

HIS is a combination , 

of the Badger Disc \ 
and ‘Turbine Meters. ' Fy 
The utility of this type WE 


of meter is being recog- 
nized more and more on 
account of its adapt- 
ability to accurately 
measure all small and 
large flows of water. 


THERE IS A BADGER METER FOR EVERY SERVICE 
Write for descriptive booklet—it’s free. 


BADGER METER MBG. CO., MILWAUKEE, WIS. 











MICHIGAN 


QUALITY 
SLUICE GATES 


EAR in and year out 
vice—since 1875—has proved 
the dependability of the sturdy, 
i well-constructed “ Michigan” 
i sluice gates. For filtration plants 


KING METER 


and sewage disposal they have 


«a $2 ot | ‘ — . ife: ver]: } ae 
< } proved their superiority in a host Long life and ¢ verlasting ac ? 
<t i of municipalities. They are made curacy are special features 
>| f either circular or rectangular - combined in the King 
al i any size up to 120 copaener an Meter— 

sila g’ x 11’ respectively. Fully and 

Ss savily bronze-mounted Solid Sas ' - 

~~ oon heavily bronze-mounte - - Initial expense and main- 


bronze adjustable wedges. Op- 


erated by hand, motor or hydraulic. tenance cost are both 


a ss nominal. 
Descriptive catalog gladly sent. 


FLOWER-STEPHENS MFG. CO. 
103 Parkinson Street, Detroit, Michigan UNION WATER METER CGO. 


WORCESTER, MASS. 
AA er 


When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American City. 23 


Obey that impulse and 
write for booklet nou 











a ae me 





THE AMERICAN CITY 








All Turbine Rod 
Couplings are made 
of Malleable Iron 
and will not break. 
All Wood stock is 
straight grain Oregon 
Fir. 
These Rods are 
Water-Proof and will 
SS float. 
This is the TURBINE that can be adjusted Turbine Rod 
; A . ouplings are abso- 
to clean all sizes of sewers from six to thirty lutely fool-proof as 
inches in diameter. Let us give you a dem- they can only be put 
onstration of what this machine will do. together one way. 


Write for full information. a 
SAVES LABOR AND MONEY. 


TURBINE SEWER MACHINE 
RENOVATING CO. 


197 Eleventh Street Milwaukee, Wis. 















Showing first method of coupling rods. 











PITTSBURGH FILTER 


LIQUID CHLORINE APPARATUS 


Pressure and Gravity Filters Purify Water for 
150 Cities and Towns 


PITTSBURGH FILTER MFG. CO. 
Kansas City, Mo. Pittsburgh, Pa. 




















Morris Machine Works 
BALDWINSVILLE, N. Y. 


Bullders of Diedges, Centrifugal Pumps and Pumping Engines 
Branch Offices in Principal Cities 











COLUMBIAN IRON WORKS 


: CHATTANOOGA, TENN. 
Manufacturers of Fire Hydrants, Valves, Valve Boxes, Sluice Gates, 


Meter Boxes and Water Works Supplies 
ESTIMATES PROMPTLY FURNISHED 








Water Purification for Municipal and 


Industrial Purposes 


Re-filtration Systems NORWOOD ENGINEERING COMPANY 
for Natatoriums FLORENCE, MASS. 











24 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 




















THE AMERICAN CITY 





The Health of Your Community Depends on 
A Pure Water Supply 


Sterilizing your water supply is the only way to make it abso- 
lutely safe. Liquid Chlorine is the most efficient and economical 
sterilizing agent, and when controlled through suitable apparatus 
will render your water supply absolutely safe for 
less than fifty cents per million gallons. 

Install WALLACE & TIERNAN Apparatus, 
applying Liquid Chlorine to your water supply 
and eliminate all possible danger of water borne 
typhoid fever or other diseases. 

This booklet contains information of vital 
interest to you. Write for it to-day. 

Our Technical Staff of Trained Engineers is 
at your service without charge, on all matters of 
» water sterilization. Write for Booklet 3-A to-day. 


WALLACE & TIERNAN COMPANY, Inc. 9 


137 Centre St., New York City 


DALLAS SAN FRANCISCO CHICAGO 














AMERICAN AND NEW NIAGARA 


WATER METERS 





Their Construction: Meter Literature: 
Dirt and Sand Proot Write for bulletins on 
Submerged Bearings the following subjects: 

“= . alt American and New 
Reinfor od Disc Niagara Water Meters 
Jewel Bearing Facts and "Figures About 
Intermediate Gears Meters in Servi-. 
Adjustment for Pressure Advantages of Using 
_-— Water Meters 
Only Seven Submerged motley 
king Part Model Water Meter 
¥ ig tu Specifications 
Self-Cleaning and Water Met -— 
Sater —— 
All Bronze Casings Water Meter Rates 
Part Bronze Casings, and Regulations 
or All Galv. Iron Casings arth 


BUFFALO METER CO. 


Established 1892 2917 Main St., Buffalo, N. Y. 














When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 25 


a ee 











THE AMERICAN CITY 





Gasoline Hoists and Pumps 








Diaphragm Pump Equipment No. 13 

3 in. Pump Capacity 3,500 gallons, Price $95.00 

4 in. Pump Capacity 6,000 gallons, Price $111.00 
Hose and Fittings $44.00 to $60.00 extra f.o.b. Factory 


THE FOOS GAS ENGINE CO. SPRINGFIELD, OHIO 








FOSTER PUMP GOVERNOR 


(Piston-actuated) 
For General Service. Controlled solely 
by the discharge pressure from pump. 
Has removable seats, easily renewed 
when worn. Governor is guaranteed 
to give close, continuous service. 


LET US SUPPLY YOUR PUMP 
GOVERNOR REQUIREMENTS 





Foster Engineering Co. 











SECURITY SEWER RODS 


Send for Flyer No. 20 They cannot buckle or ancou ple 
in the duct 
Security Rods are made from 


second growth hickory, with 
malleable iron couplings 
emetoet or shrunk down very 
» tightly on to the curved 
D at end of sticks. Se 
curity couplings cannot 
come off. 
Joint and unjoint easily 
qae een aa 
ong ruus y made. ° 
Vireo-fost Reds, GS conte cash ack but lend themeeives to 
Four-foot Reds, 75 cents each all practical bends. 














Newark, N. J. F. BISSELL COMPANY, 2*2%-22,1pense 
Chemicals * Lat thong now love who've pever loved bore 


for Water Purification 


We manufacture the highest grade of 


Sulphate of Alumina 


Chloride of Lime 


Liquid Chlorine 








PENNSYLVANIA 
SALT MFG, COMPANY 


115 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pa. 











All parts 
aie inter. 
changeable. 
Lasting Maintenance 
Accuracy. cost nominal. 


Their merits have made meter systems popular. 
A good article is always worth the price. 
All improvements which the tests of time 
and long service show to be requisite in a 
Perfect Water Meter are embodied in the 
Lambert. 
ONE MODEL ONLY 
Made in all sizes, 54” to 6”, of best bronze 
Composition throughout, fitted with Un- 
breakable reinforced disc-pistons. 
INustrated Price List on Appli-ation. Address Dept. C. 


THOMSON METER CO. 
100-110 BRIDGE ST., BROOKLYN, N.Y. 





26 " When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 

















THE AMERICAN CITY 





Proposal and For Sale Notices, Help Wanted 
and Situation Wanted Advertisements, Etc. 








MOTOR FIRE APPARATUS 


Tne Boroven or AtLtantic HIGHLANDs, 
Arztantic Higianps, N, 

Bids wanted for the following: 

Two Auto Hose Carts and one Auto 
Hook and Ladder Truck, 50 feet maxi 
mum ladders; all with or without chemi 
cal equipment. Also bid extra for pump 
outfit on one Hose Car. 

Each bidder to furnish complete 
specifications and all bids to be sub 
mitted by vag oy 9th, 1917. 

The right is reserved to reject any 
and all bids. 


C. K. Linson, 
Borough Clerk. 


VIADUCT AND CAUSEWAY 
M1aM1, Fioripa. 

Sealed bids will be received by the 
Board of County Commissioners, Dade 
County, Florida, at the office ‘of the 
Clerk of the Board of County Commis 
sioners, Miami, Florida, up to 10 A. 
M., December 14, 1916, and then pub- 
licly opened, for the construction of the 
Miami Causeway across Biscayne Bay 
connecting the city of Miami and the 
town of Miami Beach. 

Bids shall be plainly marked on the 
envelope “Proposal for Miami Cause 
way.” 

The structure will consist of approxi- 


mately 13,000 lineal feet of embank- 
ment and approximately 4,000 lineal 
feet of viaduct. 

The embankment portion will be 


composed of sand and will be protected 
and retained by either a creosoted tim- 
ber bulkhead or concrete wall on each 
side. Bids will be received on both 
types of construction and the type to 
be constructed will be selected after 
the bids are opened. This portion of 
the structure will be 105 feet wide. 

The viaduct portion will consist of 
a series of reinforced concrete girder 
spans providing for a roadway twenty 
feet wide, a sidewalk five feet wide 
and an electric railway track outside 
of the roadway. 

The principal quantities in the struc 
ture are approximately as follows: 


ea ae 23,000 
Structural steel, Ibs. ......... 660,000 
Rails and fastenings, _ ene 761,000 
Reinforcing steel, Ibs......... 900,000 
Asphalt pavement, sq. yds..... 8,000 
Broken stone pavement, sq. yds. 155,000 
all. Ee. eee 260,000 
Round piling, eee onpee 
Creosoted sheet piling, M.B.M. 725 


Bids will be considered covering the 
furnishing and delivery of steel string- 
ers, electric railway rails and connec- 
tions as one contract; for the construc- 
tion complete of the embankment por 
tion, including laying the electric rail- 
way track as one contract; for the erec- 
tion of the metal work and construction 
complete of the viaduct portion as one 
contract; or for any or all of the above 
three items as one contract. 

Plans and specifications may be ob- 
tained on and after November 20, by 
applying to the Engineers, and upon 
payment of twenty-five dollars ($25.00), 
of which amount twenty dollars 
($20.00) will be returned when the 
plans and specifications are returned in 
good condition, 

The contractor will be paid in cash 
on monthly estimates amounting to 90 
per cent of the work done. 


All proposals or bids must be accon 
panied by a certified check drawn on 
responsible bank or trust company and 
made payable to Z. T. Merritt, Clerk 
of the Board of County Commissioners, 
Dade County, Florida, for a sum no 
less than 10 per cent of the aggregate 
of the proposal 
The successful bidder wil be required 
to furnish a performance bond in the 
sum of 50 per cent of the contract 
price. 
The right is reserved to reject any 
or all bids and to waive informalities. 
Z. T. Merritt, 
Clerk of the Board of County Com 
missioners, Dade County, Florida 
Kriyce & Kack.ey, 
Civil and Consulting Engineers 
Real Estate Bldg., Miami, Florida 
November 11, 1916. 


ROAD IMPROVEMENTS 
Monroe, LA. 
Sealed bids will be received by the 
Board of Supervisors of District No 
Two, Parish of Ouachita, at the Court 
House, Monroe, Louisiana, until 12 
o’clock noon Monday, December 18, 
1916, for grading, draining and sur 
facing with gravel the following roads: 
DAOGNOR BBOD 2. cccccccses 4 9-10 miles 
Monroe-Farmerville ......15 3-10 miles 
Morehouse Parish --+- 28-10 miles 
Monroe-Bastrop .......... 15 2-10 miles 
Old Vicksburg Road 5 6-10 miles 
Each road to be a separate contract, 
except the Morehouse Parish Road 
Bids must be upon the proposals fur 
nished and must be accompanied by a 
certified check for 5 per cent of the 
amount of the bid 
Plans and specifications are on file 
and can be examined at the office of 
the Engineer, Monroe, La. Informa 
tion upon request. 
The right is reserved to reject any or 
all bids. C. W. Puitiipes, 
Pres. Police Jury 
T E Fiot RNOY, 
Pres. Board of Supervisors, 
W. BILiincstey, 
Consulting Engineer 
R. P. 30YD, 
Resident Engineer. 


LAYING WATER PIPE 


Crayton, N. 


ang 


Sealed proposals will be received by 
the Water and Light Department of the 
Town of Clayton, >. until 12 
o'clock noon December 15, 1916, for the 
laying of 650 feet of 6-inch and 2,000 
feet of 8-inch cast iron water pipe, with 
hydrants and valves 

Specifications will be furnished on re 
quest. 

No bids will be considered unless ac 
companied by a certified check for not 
less than 5 per cent of the bid, 

The right is reserved to reject any or 
all bids. Mitter WuHitt 


Superintendent 





SITUATION WANTED 


Secretary of State Chamber of Commerce 
desires change the first of the year. Has wide 
practical experience in all departments Has 
many and original ideas, proving very success- 
ful. Age 45, married. North West preferred 
Good credentials. Address ‘'Secretary,”” care 
of Tae American Crry 











FOR SALE 


STUDEBAKER 
Street Sprinkler 
600 Gallon Capacity 
Cost $365 


eg 


Merchants Association 
MARIETTA, O. 


Fine condition. 








FOR SALE—At $1,500 


A well-established Civil and 


Municipal Engineering Busi 


ness, paying well, in live, pro 
gressive town; 11,000 popula 
tion; South Eastern States; 
excellent field for service 


Personal assistance given pur 


chaser six months. References 
given and required. Address 
‘Municipal,’’ care of AMERICAN 


City, New York 








WANTED 
AN EFFICIENCY MAN 


along industrial lines, 
familiar with small manufacturing 
mpetent te geest bet- 
improved out- 


who is 


plants—c« 


terments, economy, 


put, etc.—to act as the city’s 
representative in untangling knots 
and assisting enterprises already 


located here—that others may 

ollow. Write giving qualifica- 
tions, experience and references, 
to Municipal Industrial Bureau, 
City Hall, Denver, Colorado 














MANAGER.—Civil Engineering graduate; 
Assoc. Mem. Amer. Soc. C. E.; 36; married; 15 
years experience as City Engineer, Supt. 
streets, sewers and waterworks; Manager of 
Heat, Light and Power Co. and large real 
estate development and construction opera- 
tions. At present general manager of com- 
pany operating and maintaining a large high 
class real estate development involving build- 
ing operations and residential park construc- 
tion on a large scale. Desires change for better. 
Would consider city managership if free from 
polities. Box 58, American Crrr. 








When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 27 


a rs 





ee 





THE AMERICAN CITY 





For Laying Out-Fall Sewers Under Water—Use 


National Lock Joint Cast Iron Pipe 


BECAUSE 





A Diver Can Socket and Then Lock This Pipe Immersed 
With Minimum Amount of Labor and Expense 


r = — 

















National Lock-Joint Pipes like Brother and Sister are inseparable. 


Lock-Joint cast iron pipe when installed with our Compressable Gasket is Water Tight. 


’ 
Use it without the gasket for Drainage Culverts and for Out-Fall Sewer Work where 
Absolute water tight unit is not required. 


Write for Catalogue and Prices. 





: AMERICAN CASTING CO. - 
: Birmingham, Ala. 

: Chicago Office: - Peoples Gas Bldg. 
3 New England Representative 


2 | GS & eee i ' Fred A. Haudlette & Son, Boston, 


Mass. 





4 St. Louis Representative: 
> H. P. Webb - - Wainwright Bldg. 
St. Paul Office: 
Contractor's Supply and Equipment 
Company. 








When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City, 


2 TRA NN a 








Advertisers whose 





announcements a 
indezed only in the numbers in which their 


INDEX TO ADVERTISEMENTS IN THIS ISSUE 


Advertising pages are numbered at the bottom. 


Prear in alternate issues or irregularly throughout the ear are 
advertisements are published. e 








Albright & Mebus 

Alvord, J. W., & C. B. Burdick | 
American Ass'n of Park Supts 
American 


American Casting Co 

American Cit 

American-LaFrance Fire Eng.Co.,. 

American Nursery 

American Playground Device Co. . 

Ana nemmmea & Telegraph 
., - 

sateen N urseries 


Co. 
Appleton & Co., D 
Arnold, Sheffield A 
Ashland Mfg. Co 
Associated Industrial Service... ... 
Atlantic Nursery Co., Inc... 
Atlantic Refinin 
sae Portland 


os. C 
Austin Western Road Mach’y Co.. 


Badger Meter Mfg. Co 
Baker Mfg. Co 

Ballard & Co., F. W 

Baltimore Enamel and ee Co.. 
Barber Asphalt Paving Co 
Barrett Co., T 

Bay State Nurseries... ° 

Bean Spray Pump Co 

Berckmans Co., P. 


Blickensderfer Mig. =: The 
Bobbink & Atkins 

Bond Co., Harold L..... si 
Bowser & Co. ti i eneens ac. ws 
Boyd & Bro., 

Bruce-Mac 

Buff & Buff Mfg. 

Buffalo } mee wl 


Cole, L. s.. 
Columbian Iron oateaveny Co.. 
Cravath, J. R 


Crosby, W. W. 
Cullen, Martin, i 
Cullen, Wm. E 


Danville Brick Co 

Davey Tree Expert Co......... 
Dayton Rubber Mfg. a pa 
Dee Co., Wm. E 

Deming ‘Co., The 

Ditchy, Jerome A 

Dixon Crucible Co., Joseph 
Donaldson Co., (Wiliadean Nurs.) . 
Donaldson Iron Co 

Dreer, Henry A 

Duluth Engineering Co 

Du Pont Powder Co 


Eddy Valve Co 

Educational Exhibition Co.... 
Electric Railway Equipment Co. 
Engineering Record 

Enterprise Iron Works 

Ertel Co., Geo 


F & F Nurseries 
Fabric Fire Hose Co 
Fibre Conduit Co 


Flower- bh Mfg. Co 

Foos Gas Engine Co 

Ford Meter Box Co 

Forest Nursery Co 

Foster Engineering Co 
Framingham Nursery Co 
eh ecw ot'cdeces cones 
Fuller, Geo. W 


Gamewell Fire Alarm T. Co...... 
General Electric Co 

General Motors Truck Co 

George, H 

Glamorgan Pipe & Foundry Co... 
Glen-Gery Shale Brick Co 

yes Or na Valve Spec’y Co. 
Goodrich Co., B. F 

Goodyear Tire * Rubber Co 
Gurley, W. & L. E 


ememnt Sud Iron Co. 
Hancock, W. R 

Hardest 

Hare & 

Hazen, Whipple & —— 
Headley Good Roads Co..... 
Health Merry-Go- ate) Co. 
Helder, Arthur H. 

Henderson & Co., Peter 
Hering & Gregory 

Hersey Manufacturing Co 
Higgins, J. Wallace 

Hill Nursery Co., Inc., D 
Hill-Standard Mfg. Co 
Hocking Valley Brick Co 
Holzbog & Bro., Geo. H 
Hooke Robert. 


Hopedale Nurseries. . 
Hopkins, Chas. C 
Horvath, M. R 

Howard, J. W . 
Hunt & Co., Robert W 
Hydro Manufacturing Co 


Indestructible Sign Co 


Jacobs, J. L.. 

Jaeger Machine Co.... 
Jennings, Lawrence & Lin dsey 
Johnson, Geo A....... ; 


Kelly-Springfield Motor Truck Co. . 
King & Co., Albert B 

King Foundry Co 

Kittredge, H.C... 

Knox Motors Associates. 

Knowles, Morris... .. as 
Kohankie & Son. Henry. 

Kolb Portable Building 

Koiesch & Co 


Leadite Co., The 

Leavitt, Chas. W 

Lehigh Portland Cement Co.. 
Lewis & Valentine... .. 
Loper Fire Alarm Co.. 
Ludlow, J. L 

Ludlow Valve Mfg. Co 
Luten, Daniel B. 

Lynchburg Foundry bs eas 


McClurg & Co., A: C 

McCrady Bros. & Cheves. 

McVey, J , 

Marchant Calculating Machine Co. 

Massillon Iron & Steel Co ‘ 

Maury, D. H 

Mazer Acoustile Co 

Medal Paving Brick Co.... 

Meehan Co., Thos. B 

Meehan, Thos., & Sons 

Mentor Nurseries 

Metropolitan Paving Brick Co., 
, easyer | 91-92 

Minnesota Engineering Co.. ; 

Mitchell, Hugh C... 

Morris Machine Works 

Morrison & Farrington 

Mott Iron Works, J. L... 


National Fire Extinguisher Co i 
National Paving Brick Mfrs. Ass'n. 
National Water Main Cleaning Co 
Neptune Meter Co ‘ 
Newport Culvert Co 

Norwood —— + Co. 

Nutter, Frank H.... Ba 


Ornamental nies | Pole Co... 
Osborn Mfg. Co 


Pacific Coast Pipe Co. adine+ 
Packard Motor Car Co... 46 
Pennsylvania Lawn Mower W forks 12-13 
Pennsylvania Salt Mfg. Co....,.. 26 


(Continued on page 31) 








MANUFACTURERS OF 


WRITE FOR CATALOGUE 


PACIFIC COAST PIPE CoO., Seattle, Wash. 
Machine Banded and Continuous Stave Pipe, Steam Casing and Wood Tanks 


Allow us to demonstrate that our wood pipe is the best and cheapest type of pipe for the water supply of growing communities 

















THE 





AMERICAN CITY 


sptee: fOr os abet & ay Se : 


* 
yw A Bae ere 
Pon 5 rm ret Lame e% 


KUHLMAN SEWER CLEANING 


MACHINERY 


Sand, gravel, cinders, rags, paper, tar, or practically any- 
thing can be taken out of sewer quickly and cheaply. It’s 
a great time and money saver, and cities and towns all 
over the U. S. are taking advantage of this wonderful 


machine. 


Are you among them? Act now. Let us 


send you photographs of machines in actual operation. 


No obligation. We 
sample. 


CHAMPION POTATO penteanasteonil co. 





338 Sheffield Ave., 





. “The Controlling Altitude Valves” 
maintain a uniform stage of water in 
standpipes, reservoirs or tanks. 

‘No Floats, No Fixtures’ 
No overflow in case of fire 


pressure. Valves closed by 
water or electricity. 


“*FLOAT VALVES” 
“REDUCING VALVES”’ 


AUTOMATIC VALVES 
For Steam and Water Service | 


GOLDEN - ANDERSON VALVE 
s TY Co. 
de, PITTEBURGR, Pa 

















also make sewer rods. Send for 


Hammond, Ind. 


A pea ener 
i PRS SPE 








High Pressare Fire 


Specialties, Portable 
alee Heads 


lating Valves con- 
trol p igh pressure on the 
ire Service Systems of 
New York 
Brooklyn 


Baltimore 
Jacksonville 
San Francisco 





Manufacturers of Water 
Works S and Feed 
Water ‘ters. 


ROSS VALVE MFG. CO., Troy, N.Y. 











Sluice, Head and Penstock Gates 
Flap and Shear Valves 


The kind that don’t wear out 


COLDWELL, WILCOX COMPANY 


Water Street Newburgh, N. Y. 








R.D.Wood & Co. 


PHILADELPHIA, U. S. A. 


ENGINEERS 
IRON FOUNDERS 
MACHINISTS 


Pipe Hydrants, Valves, 


Gas Prodacers, Pumps, 
Gas Work Materials 








30 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 








THE AMERICAN CITY 


Continued From Page 29 


Pew, Arthur — g Semet-Solvay Co.. ; 99 Turbine Sewer Machine Renovat 
Pioneer Asphalt Co...... 5 S.E. T. Valve & Hydrant Co 21 ing Co 
Pitometer Co Simplex Wire & Cable Co : 76 Twogood, I 
Pittsburgh Filter Mfg. Co Smith Co., W. & T vee ae E 
Pittsburgh Meter Co... .. : South Bend Motor Car Works 55 Union Metal Mfg. Co 
Pittsburgh Testing Laboratory... co = Southern Clay Mfg. Co é »2 Union Water Meter Co. 
Poates Publishing Co., L. L — 7 Spray Engineering Co...... ... 101 United Lead Co 
Pollock & Taber... ¢ Spring Hill Nurseries _.. 79 U.S. Cast Iroa Pipe & Foundry Co 
Potter, Alexander.. Stafford, James (>.. ‘ 9) United States Tire Co. ... 
Potts, Clyde cae Standard Cast [ron Pipe & Fdy. C 17 Universal Road Machinery Co 
Power Engineering Co........... § Steel Basket Co.... ioane ) oe 3 
Pratt & Cady Co.. Inc... Sterling Motor Truck Co........ 49 Wagner, Bernard M 4 
a - Wallace & Tiernan Co. Inc 
Pruden & Co., C. D Stevens, Harry..... foes ane 
> Warren Bros. Co : 
Stewart Iron Works Co. a. a 
aeseve & ler Cc Water Works E quipment Co 
Republic Creosoting Co St jebak roe VO he! Watson Wagon Co 
Republic Rubber Co.. 06 Ss = -~ ey ere ™ Westinghouse Elec. & Mfg. Co 
Research Lqberatories « of the General winehart Tire ubber Co White Co., Th 
Electric Company. . REECE ES : Wilcox 


. Frank | 
Rich, J. Harry Tarrant Mfg. Co ae : ‘ Wiley & Sons, John 
Rochester Can Co 8 ' F 


Taylor, Henry W.......... . » Witmer Co., J 
Ross Valve Mfg. Co Thomson Meter Co . on Wood & Co., R. D 
Rundle-Spence Mfg. Co Thorburn & Co., J. } Bes * 97 Worthington Pump and Machinery 
Russell Grader Mfg. Co Townsend Com Te ple ; Corporation 
Tracy, L. aha aly. abihe Wright Wire Co.. 
Sanitation Corporation } Trimble * mek ts...:..... 2 
Schramm & Sons, Chris. D 52 Trussed Concrete Steel Co ; Zieg, F 


Scott 


B. Mfg. Co 








Blick Featherweight Typewriter 
writes those reports in clear, legible print 


MUCH QUICKER THAN YOU CAN WRITE BY HAND 

on a portable Blick. 

Use it anywhere—no regular table or stand reqe ae And 
inexperienced users learn to write quickly on a Blick, without 
any instruction whatever 

It is simple—it has only about 25°% as many parte as the heavy 
machines. Costs half ag much, but built stronger and LASTS 
LONGER 

It is one of the fastest machines on the market today, and is 
capable of doing all classes of work of the highest grade. Not 

nly has all the latest features in the typewriter line, but mar 
advantages that can be obtained in no other typewriter. 





y 








TRY THE BLICK 


If you are not conveniently near one of our branches, we wi 
make arrangementa to let you try a Blick before you buy it 
Write for catalog No. 126 and details of trial offer 


A HANDSOME DURABLE BINDER for your Send for Catalog No. 126 


copies of The American City may be secured for one The BLICKENSDERFER MFG. CO., Stamford, Conn. 
dollar from the publishers at 87 Nassau St., New York. Agencies throughout the U.S. A. 














Club Rates for The American City 


In view of the fact that many municipalities, chambers of commerce and ic Organizatior i 
to subscribe for a number of copies of THE \MER Ic AN CITY for dis tributi on among their off 
committeemen, etc., the publishers of THE AMERICAN CITY have arranged a special schedu 
rates for clubs of subscriptions which will be quoted on application. These club rates are 
available for individuals who wish to arrange for a number of subscriptions for their [ri 











When writing to Advertisers please mention Tut American City. 





THE AMERICAN CITY 











Cities and Towns 
Counties and States 


in every part of the country are saving 
thousands of dollars for tax payers by 
means of little ads in the 


Proposal 
Advertising Columns 
of the 


ENGINEERING RECORD 


This paper, with its circulation of 21,500 
copies weekly, is read by practically all 
the important contractors and manufac- 
turers who want contracts and know how 
to figure close in order to land them. 


Get their prices on 
YOUR Contracts 


It means a big saving, reliable work and 
the best evidence that you believe in busi- 
ness methods in municipal government. 


To see how other towns 
save money 


write for a recent copy of the Engineer- 
ing Record and look through the Pro- 
posal Columns. 


$2.40 an inch is all it costs to ad- 
vertise for bids in the Engineering 
Record—no extra charge for filing 
plans and specifications in any or 
all Engineering Record offices. 


ENGINEERING RECORD 
239 West 39th St., New York 


PHILADELPHIA CLEVELAND 
Cuicaco San Francisco 











" ry 
yne » 
*. Zion -_* (Gravel or ©OF 
nty 
so, B-29—Baltimore Cow to 
No. ork noad from Vere 
ot gt miles 10 lem 
about oi} bound.) 


. a 
“ concrete F 


4 No. Wo-t 
rect No Te 


Cont Le 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae Amertcan City. 











Se 











NAL A 


M. V. Futzer, Associate Editor 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


Published Monthly by The Civic Press, 87 Nassau St., New York 
Epoar J. Burrennem, President Hersert K. Saxe, Secretary-Treasurer James H. Van Buren, Advertising Manager 
Branch : Chicago, 327 South LaSalle St +d: T 
Offices: } San Francisco, 320 Market St., W. A. Douglass, Pacific Coast Representative 
Entered at the Post Office at New York, N, Y., as second-class matter 


Harotp S. Burrensem, Editor 


Mg 


ll 


i a 





". Dix, Western Representative 





Vol. XV CONTENTS FOR DECEMBER, 1916 No. 6 


UWNYOMOUUAN St 


HANI 





ARTICLES APPEARING IN THE CITY EDITION ONLY 


Municipal Correction Farms 





623 Movement 645 
=| The Port-Terminal Factor of Municipal The Resurfacing of Old Brick Pavements 
= Planning 631 with Sheet Asphalt 646 
Proportional Representation as a Cure for Items of Municipal Law 649 
Misrepresentation in Municipal Govern- 


The Civic Work of Educational Institutions 650 
639 The New Kinds of Civics in the Public Schools 
642 Problems in the Teaching of Political Science. 





ment... aS 
How Paris Uses Its Parks 


Growth and Wealth of the Playground A Page of Questions for Classroom Use 654 


ML | 


ARTICLES APPEARING IN THE TOWN AND COUNTY EDITION ONLY 


What Good Roads Have Actually Accom- Accuracy in Industrial Surveys. . ... 643 
a rit sana <a 623 Welcome to Thomas County 644 

1€ att e Creek Campaign for Road . The Greater Gaston County Association.. O45 

Bonds - 626 j a a ee 
pT ni . ainage I 2c y » “astern 1s- 
rhe William Penn Highway 628 — ra pe eee 646 

cons 
Has a Farm Tenant Any Rights? 630 Garbage Collection and Incineration in a 
A Modern Sewage Treatment Plant 640 Pennsylvania Borough , 650 
Determining Supply and Storage Capacity A Playground that Works the Whole Year Tr. 
for a New Small-Town Water System 641 for Young and Old 653 
ARTICLES APPEARING IN BOTH EDITIONS S 
The Masque of the Nativity 655 Municipal Tmprovements in Cleveland = 
. . one a odperation and Potatoes. _ = 
A Birds’ Christmas Tree 657 Dedication ate anting Fe — ; = 
wage . aa Yle ing } Secure Against Floods : 
Mobilizing for Public Health... 658 ns aghagetgtaegae 
Formation of Ice in Water Mains and Its Recently Issued Printed Matter 

Jreventi 1 . 

Prevention te eeeee, 659 Types of Motor Apparatus in Use by Mu- 
Leakage from Pipe Joints. . . ... 660 nicipal Fire Departments 691 
Providing by Law for Mosquito Extermina- Motor Trucks on Various Departments of 
: oan pe sy 062 Municipal Service. ....... 692 
Pax Assessment by Scientific Methods 663 Department of Public Safety 694 

| Forward Steps Reported by Municipal hy CLE ITE ES 
| Officials and Heads of Departments. 667 


Junior Deputy Sanitary Inspectors. : 
Election Notice to Municipal Employes, Are Permanent Traffic Safeties Really Safe 
Motor Busses in Connection with a Municipal Safety from Fire in Motion Picture Theatres 
Railway System. A Winter Fire Hazard AER 
ing a Cleveland Seeking to Untangle Traffic 
For Safer Sidewalks ‘ 
A Fire Prevention Tour of the South. 
Convention of the Safety First Federation of 
America. 


Beautifying a Garbage Dump. 

A Card Index for Registering Voters 
Increasing the Efficiency of Fire Drills in Schools. 
An Unusual Street Lighting Contract. 

A Year of Commission-Manager Administration. 


A Motion Picture Law Upheld by New 


Selling City Planning to a City or a State.. 711 
York State 





seeees 679 — Items of Municipal and Civic Progress 715 
News and Ideas for Commercial and Civic Charter — in Ange lebratios 
ani $ ome 58 Pittsburgh’s Charter Centennial Celebration = 
Organizations xe fa tedgiede ; ‘ae O50 Commission-Manager Charter Wins. =I 
Chambers of Commerce in “America First” Municipal Government in Zanesville, Ohio 2 
z Campaign. “Open-Window Week.” = 
= | A School Savings Bank System. : é and Exhibitions 719 = 
eg Clubs for Unifying Membership. Conventions and Exhibition ie 
= The Morris Plan at Youngstown. oe ‘vie Publications 727 
= A Method of Securing Civic Volunteers. Munic ipal and Civic , an i 735 
= Im “ate Aare Facilities. About Machinery and Supplies 739 
A Mutually Helpful Alliance. . Rca. 739 
An Industrial Duaplay for School Children. Methods, Materials and Appliances iS 














ini he same = 
=a | Two editions of THE AMERICAN CITY are published each month, both containing t | i m= 
SUNN | number of pages. The distinction in contents is indicated above. The subscription price of either li 
—— edition is shoo. Por $1.00 additional per annum, any subscriber may receive both os eons Ai 
subscriber may have his name transferred from the mailing list of the City Séitios ° = ph. 4 
Town and County Edition, or vice versa, without extra charge. Canadian subscribers pay 
extra per year to cover postage; other foreign countries $1.00 per year extra. 








THE AMERICAN CITY 











ASPHALT PAVING PLANTS 





STATIONARY 
Semi-Portable 
Railroad 


and 


Portable Plants 











Write today for illustrated booklets 





WARREN BROTHERS COMPANY 


Executive Offices: BOSTON, MASS. 


DISTRICT OFFICES: 


NEW YORK, N. Y. ROCHESTER, N. Y. CHICAGO, ILL. 
LOS ANGELES, CAL. PORTLAND, ORE. PHOENIX, ARIZ. 
NASHVILLE, TENN. RICHMOND, VA. ST. LOUIS, MO. 
UTICA, N. Y. WINNIPEG, MAN. MONTREAL, P. Q. 
VANCOUVER, B. C. TORONTO, ONT. 





34 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae American City. 











THE 


AMERICAN 





FOR WHITE WAY LIGHTING 


i 


Sol-lux Senior Sol-lux Junior Octagonal Top 
Ornamental Ornamental with 16-in. Diffusing 
Top ‘op all and Ventilator 


Sol lux Ornamental Post Tops for Type ‘'C’’ Lamps 


GEO. CUTTER CO., sun"Sena. indians 











ORANGEBURG FIBRE CONDUIT 





These huge piles—two of many—won’'t stand long 
Get your order in NOW. Book D. 


THE FIBRE CONDUIT CO., Orangeburg, N.Y. 
New York Boston 


Chicago San Francisco 








Ornamental 
Lighting 
Poles 


are designed to add 
beauty to your streets, 
but they do far more. 
They help make your 
town prosperous by 
attracting business. 


This particular de- 
sign of pole is for the 
high efficiency Type 
“C” Mazda Lamp. 

Let us tell you more 
about this pole, or we 
will show you our 
other designs. 


ORNAMENTAL 
LIGHTING POLE CO, 
Poles for all Types of Lighting 
114 Liberty St., New York 














City 





Protect Lamps and 
Glassware p= 


The built up sec- 
tional steel shafts of 
these standards ab- 
sorb the shock and 
vibration thus lessen- 
ing breakage of lamps 


and glassware. 


Union 

METAL 
LAMP 

STANDARDS 


will insure your city a ||| 








lower cost of upkeep on | 
their lighting system. 


The 


of traffic and the frequent 


constant vibration 





jars received from vehi- || 


cles, etc, will be absorbed 
and deadened by Union 
Metal Lamp Standards. ||!|} HI 


Write for Catalog S-103. 




















Highest Award Panama-Pacific 
International Exposition. 


The Union Metal 


Manufacturing Co. 
CANTON, OHIO 





Design No. 1539 
with G. E. Form 
Novalux Head 





When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. Ld 








THE AMERICAN CITY 


AKAN (a 






HAL i 


I make your streets brighter 
your town prosperous 
your homes safe 
your living conditions better 


I make your city more attractive 
healthier 
busier 
cleaner 


Iam indispensable to a wholesome town 
a “‘live’’ town 
a happy town 
a good town 


I AM G-E LIGHT 


NEMA A 









There is a G-E Lighting Unit for 
every class of street lighting service. 
Write for complete information. 


General Electric Company 


| ===: General Office: @} Schenectady, N.Y. 
Sales Offices in Ali Large Cities 6396 





70 | When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 











THE AMERICAN CITY 











City 
Requirements 


Manufacturedby the 


Rochester Can Co. 
Rochester, N. Y. 


Iron Horse 
Brand 
All kinds of ash and 
garbage cans. 
Prompt delivery. 


| FROST-PROOF 


No matter how cold the 
weather, the water will not 
freeze. 



















, 
NM 


The pedal near the bottom of the 
fountain is self-closing. By press- 
ing it, the water bubbles up just 
high enough to drink in comfort 
and without touching the lips to 
the bubbling head. The second 
after the pedal is released by your 
foot, the water automatically 
stops flowing. 


ee 


NRA A 





The fountain is cast-iron with 
nickel plated bubbling head. It 
does not vccupy much space, but 
is a convenience your city should 
place in your parks, square and 
on your streets, 


Quality—like character—has a standard 


Look beyond the 
price-tag to 


results. 
Send for our catalogue 

showing our many de- 

signs of fountains, 


RUNDLE-SPENCE 
MFG. CO. 


Milwaukee, Wis. 


Send for Catalogue 
and Prices. 


Rochester 
Can Co. 


Rochester, N. Y. 























(a WN 


a 


at! 
fe, 





The Health Merry-Go-Round 





, furnishes Entertainment, Exercise and 


Health for the children. A STREET CAN 


Especially adapted to the needs of 





convenient for hurried City people. The 


Parks, Playgrounds, Schools and Hood cover hides the contents from passers- 
Kindergartens. by—the open ends allow papers, etc., to be 
easily and quickly deposited. 
: Guaranteed to be free from defects— This Can may be used with sacks hung in- 
Durable, Safe, Simple. side. Is made inset up or knock down shape 
, Write for Mustrated Catalogue For complete description, ask 
THE HEALTH MERRY-GO-ROUND CO. THE STEEL BASKET COMPANY 


Dept. K-14 QUINCY. ILL. 708 So. Third St., Cedar Rapids, lowa 

















When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 71 








THE AMERICAN CITY 











SANITATION 


While our “CANCO” garbage 
can in point of appearance and 
strength of construction is without 
a peer, yet our equipment—the 
most comprehensive in the country 
—is such that we can make any 
sort of garbage container at short 
notice. 








We shall be pleased to estimate 
on any city or park requirement. 





AMERICAN CAN COMPANY 


Chicago NEW YORK San Francisco 


WITH OFFICES IN ALL LARGE CITIES 





72 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 

















- = 


_ 


THE AMERICAN CITY 








We Have Everything for the Playground 


SEND FOR FREE CATALOG 


HILL-STANDARD MANUFACTURING CO., 216 Fun-Ful Avenue, ANDERSON, IND. 








Playground Equipment 


Give the children a chance to play right, 
on safe apparatus, especially devised and 
constructed for the purpose, away from 
danger. Equip your playground with 


“APEX” APPARATUS 


MANUFACTURED BY 


HOWARD GEORGE, Philadelphia, Pa. 


Estimates for large or small playgrounds 
cheerfully furnished. Send for catalogue. 








Playground Apparatus 


The American Playground Apparatus 
received First Prize with Gold Medal 
at California Exposition for best con- 
struction—best design and best material. 


We are the designers and manufacturers of 


the celebrated WAVE COASTER SLIDE 
Write for free catalogue 


American Playground Device Company 
ANDERSON, INDIANA 








All Steel Playground Apparatus 























Swings, Giant Strides, 
Flying and_ Traveling 
Rings, Teeter Boards and 
Ladders, Aluminum and 
Maple Slides, Park Settees 
and Lawn Swings, Merry- 
Go-Rounds, Horizontal 
Ladders and Combina- 
tions. 


Cat. No. 16 Full Outfits 
And Fittings Only 


| The Ashland Mig. Company 
) Dept. 14 Ashland, Ohio 








ay 


THE EUREKA STUDEBAKER PARK COMBINATION 


To so form the life of our youth that they seed never be reformed is indeed a great achievement 





ureka tility ede fficient iddies A lI-Stee! 
quipment Wnexcelled flectitude conomical #\ind pparatus 
When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American Crrty. 7 








ae EEE oe 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


Cyc/one 


Property Protectio 
Fence 7 


FOR CITY PARKS AND HOMES 
AND COUNTRY ESTATES 


Our method of construction makes this 
fence distinctive in style and quality. It can 
be erected on rolling land, steep grades, 
through ravines, etc., without affecting the 
stability or form of the fabric. 


‘ 
| 
i 
' 
' 
| 
: 
' 
\ 


Affords Permanent Protection Against 
Intrusion, and adds to the Value 
and Attractiveness of the Grounds. 


Built of heavily galvanized wire, closely 
spaced and strongly woven. Barb wire top 
PHOTOGRAPHIC VIEW overhanging either side or on both sides pre- 


of Cyclone Non-Climbable Property Protection Fence, vents climbing over. Built in all practical 
erected on country estate of Mr. H. Timken, President heights. 
of Timken Roller Bearing Co., Canton, Ohio. Jrite for free Illustrated Catalog giving 


designs and prices. Give description and 
CONSULTATION SERVICE FREE.—Our jneers will H 
help you solve your fencing problems without p ang We co- size of grounds to be enclosed. 


° with those in charge of private estates, parks, layerounds, 
ete. Engineer to superintend erection furnished ~y- nal cost. CYCLONE FENCE COMPANY 























Dept. 107 Waukegan, Ill. 
For the protection of metal work 
ATIAS WEED-KILLER rr ea 
Grass and Weed-Killing Chemical DIXON NS GRAPHITE Paint 
for beautifying cities and towns by perma- : > Na 
nently destroying weeds in Parks, Streets, has no equal. Made in FIRS1 
Paths, Gutters, Drives, etc. Quick and QUALITY only for over 50 
efficient—one application a season. 1 gallon, ‘ . 
diluted with 20 gallons of water, covers 600 years. . : 
sq. ft. Write for booklet No. 107-B 
Write on municipal letterhead for full 
particulars and prices. Made in JERSEY CITY, N.J., by the 
ATLAS PRESERVATIVE CO.,Inc. JOSEPH DIXON CRUCIBLE COMPANY 
95 Liberty Street, New York Established 1827 B-130 














An Outline of the Development and Functions of The American City 


By HENRY C. WRIGHT, 
First Deputy Commissioner, Department of Public Charities, New York City. 


To stimulate thought on the city as a social and governmental factor, this book sketches a broad 
outline of the functions properly termed municipal. The location and purpose of cities are first discussed, 
then the governments of five American cities are analyzed. Three chapters are devoted to municipal 
finance, he protection of property, life and health, and education. Public utilities are discussed, as is the 
problem of state regulation and public and private ownership. Under “Housing, Transit and Location of 
Factories” are considered congestion of population, rapid transit and the influence of the character of 
dwelling upon citizenship. The effect of the city upon its citizens is described in the last chapter, the 
author maintaining that city life to-day stifles the mind of the child, and that we should restrict factory 
locations so that there will be more opportunity for community social life. 198 Pages. Price, 50 cents. 











74 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City, 





ATER ER 














THE AMERICAN CITY 


. 


‘ 


A Fence 
that Beautifies 
and Prevents Vandalism 

This fence improves the appearance of public enclosures from 


the outside and inside as well. While permitting an unobstructed view, 
it keeps out prowlers and keeps thoughtless children from mischief and danger. 


Excelsior Iron Fence 


Appropriate for Parks, Cemeteries, Play Grounds, all private or public enclosures 


‘With posts set in concrete this fence stands for years as a handsome, serviceable protector 
and beautifier of property. Varied styles, special designs on request. 


We also make Excelsior Rust Proof and Chain Link Fences, Bed Guards, 
Tree Guards, Trellises and Trellis Arches. Write for Catalog G. 


WRIGHT WIRE COMPANY WORCESTER, MASS. 





























SAFEGUARD YOUR 
CITY’S TREES 


Growth is difficult for city trees. 
Countless conditions menace their wel- 
fare. Pavements and sidewalks choke 
and kill. ‘“‘ Die-back”’ saps their 
strength and destroys them. 

Guard against shade tree destruction 
by planting or rejuvenating wit! 


Red Cross Farm Powder 





Red Cross Farm Powder will break up the 
hard subsoil, provide for increased nourish- 
ment and moisture, make for healthier and 
better rootage and stimulate growtl 

It is simple, easy and co! - 
saves labor, and if instructions ar refully 
followed can be safely employed within a 
few feet of houses, watermal 


Write for full instruction 


w E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. 
SIX YEAR OLD MAPLE PLANTED WiTH Dynamirs WILMINGTON, DELAW ARE 














— — 








When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American Crry. 








THE AMERICAN CITY 











WIRED WITH SIMPLEX 











Stewart Products 


have been used and endorsed by 
American Municipalities for more 
| than thirty years. 


IRON FENCE AND ENTRANCE 





New Buildings Seemapuiee —-Seanatestee — Cokie 
Buildings, etc. 
of the Fences of all designs and for all 
purposes. 
| Massachusetts Institute of Technology A great variety of Settees—Foun- 


tains—Vases—Lamp Standards. 


Lawn Furniture of every descrip- 
tion. Get our prices before plac- 


SIMPLEX WIRE & CABLE ©@ | 4] Star service is Pre-eminent 


| 
| 
| MANUFACTURERS 
201 DEVONSHIRE ST. BOSTON THE STEWART IRON WORKS 
CHICAGO —s SAN FRANCISCO COMPANY 


1694 527 Stewart Block, Cincinnati, Ohio 
































Shade Trees for | 
City and Park Planting 


Miles upon miles of city streets throughout the United States are shaded by our trees. 
Our trees are known as “‘trees of quality,” and produce quick results. 


Trees with straight trunks, fibrous roots, and of uniform appearance. 


THOMAS B. MEEHAN CO., Wholesale Nurserymen, DRESHER, PENNA. 








ENTERPRISE IRON FENCES 


= Combine durability and handsome appearance. 
I | sth TRU yh They do not obstruct your fine views. 
. ll I PHA! HT | Let us blue-print your fence needs free. 
Ld Send for book containing reproductions of the worlds finest fences—its free 
THE ENTERPRISE [RON WORKS, 1123 East 24th Street, INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA 


an errartiianecie 
1} 











“SIGNS-OF-THE=-TIMES” 


POR PUBLIC HIGHWAYS—EVERYWHERE 
Metal letters, die cut and welded onto a heavy metal plate 
enameled and baked, making an indestructible sign. The most 
= legible, artistic and economical of all signs. Write for catalog. 


The R. Hardesty Mfg. Co., Denver, Scie! #222 














76 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 


7 ES aR a a 




















THE AMERICAN CITY 

















| 





<- 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
aa 
+ 
+ 
aa 
avs 
+ 
+ 
¢ 
+ 
os 
+ 
ba 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
oe 
ba 














’ 
a 


1916 Catalog 


x. 
SS Rs 








J 
) 
2 
F 
7 
gE 
s 
= 
= 
3 
H 
$ 


get the best Seeds. Every packet of 
> Henderson’s Seeds that is sold has behind 
(it the experience of 66 years of successful 
+ Seed Growing and Selling. The Initial Seed 


eer rrerT eee ee 


se ae he ee ae a le a ee ee 








A very large volume of Thorburn Seeds r : 

are furnished for parks and cemeteries. z Cost is the smallest part of your expense. 
, : d 3 Henderson’s are Tested Seeds. 

Write us for catalog and let us know your K 4 
requirements: and your letter will have our mG “ Catalogue Bree on Application.” 
prompt and careful attention. P { H nd & C 

J. M. Thorburn & Co. z cler Henderson 0. 
53 Barclay Street ° NEW YORK  % 35-37 CORTLANDT ST. NEW YORK 

by ME ee ee ee SS 

AAA AEA EE is is |S SSS SERRE ES Ee 





F-— Grow 


our forty years’ of extensive operation and intensive investigation. 


2 a A AS 


Ww. ATLEE BURPEE & CO. 








BURPEE’S SEEDS are grown not only to sell but to grow again. Each packet contains the result of 


It is brighter, better and bigger than ever before. 204 pages, it is mailed free. 
Parmertpsieie Bulldings, 


+++ es ee ee ee vaereres * ee dhdhihieihihi 










Write cole for BURPEE’S ANNUAL. )- 


PHILADELPHIA + 


Re aeeeeannnaannnnnens. 











Ke 
- 
‘ 
; 





NURSERYMEN + 
FLORISTS 
and SEEDSMEN 


Everything for Parks, 
Cemeteries and Private 
Places. Largest general 
assortment in America. 
Personal inspection in 
vited. Special prices on 













EEE ESF 





car load lots Switch & 
from New York Central + 
Ry. to our grounds. } 


1200 acres. Pieased to & 
quote on your want list. + 











When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amznicax Crrr. 


THE . 

STORRS & HARRISON % 
COMPANY; + 
Painesville, Ohio + 


17 















THE AMERICA 


N CITY 


































































YE BEE EEE EE EEE EEF $$ ttt 
: " 
WE ARE IT + AMERICAN NURSERY CO. ¢ 
* Singer Building, New York t 
> 
for choice young NURSERY prowe (etings of the » Six Hundred Acres “= aye mg x 
and evergreen. Also hefeing. choice shrube fer Ezine x Highest Quality, Trees, Shrubs Conifers + 
out or immediate effect, perennials, dahlias, 3 Evergreen Shrubs, Vines, etc. “Quality ~ 
4 EE us orice our want lies Our be- x Stock”’, & discriminating plantsmen. No x 
Fruit Stoc 
¥ 
- 
The Atlantic Nursery Co., Inc. + + BLOODGOOD NURSERIES F. and F. 
BERLIN, MARYLAND x Flushing, L. Springfield, N. J. 
: vaeaniadiakiamamesnsesed 
EE 
> ~ > - . 
+ Hardy, Northern Grown ¢ 3 Will 
* - E + + liilagean iNurseries 
t Shade Trees, Evergreens {¢ 7 ., a 
er a very ne oro rees, Shrubs 
+ Shrubs, Vines, Perennials | % .3g Omamental stock for all kinds of 
z Thrifty, Transplanted Stock, Particularly x x Landscape work. Send your want lists for 
a Adapted for Park and Street Planting * % estimate. Trade list on application. 
Ke Correspondence Solicited > 4 x THE N 
+ DONALDSO 
{ THE BAY STATE NURSERIES ¢ Be ONALDSON C0. 
zt 87 8 Adams Street, North Abington,Mass. + x . P 
SAAEARAREEEAEAE Rea ERE TERRE ttt 
Se HRS 
- YOU U WANT  ¢ ¥ 
t : + Dreer Specialties 
% BERCKMANS'’ NS’ TREES AND SHRUBS + x + 
> For Park, Street and Landscape Planting ) 4 * Decorative Plants, Roses,Hardy Perennials, 
t We offer a lange vasiety of ental ¥ x Hardy Shrubs, Hardy Climbers, Box Woods x 
3 trees, plants, shrubs, roses, etc. sei chee x » and Bay Trees, Hedge Plants, Aquatics,etc. + 
+ of broad-leaved evergreens in the Sou X% % Weare large producers of above and many ¥ 
+ accion % x other plants suitable for Park use. & 
FE P. J. BERCKMANS COMPANY, INC. = t ce ¥ 
+ ve > 
ae My, ce, £ HENRY A. DREER, Philadelphia, Pa. % 
7 i i i ii ti tll ltl he ee 
SEEEEEESET TTT T TTT TTT TTT Tt tt ttt . 4AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAFAAAAARAD AB 
TRAE TE TE ERE EPP Pht HE 
? ae 
t ‘Plant for Immediate Effect } 
z c 2 Not for Future Generations — = xy 
3 LM yteeny beget pay agp We do the long waiting—thus 5 
+ ¢ can be secured! It takes over me to secure trees and x 
+ twenty years to grow many of the | shrubs ieee teen - 
z Trees and Shrubs we offer. Price List ready. + 
z Cc —A x 
7 
4 Aiporra IURSERIES chestnut Hi, * t 
z ‘Wm Warner Harper Preprrecar Phila., Box A, Pa. bi D4 








TTT TT TTT TTT eee eee eee eee eee ere eee ee Tete eee eee eee eee 


ceous Plants, Roses and other stock of which we 


BOBBINK @ 


ATKINS 


World’s Choicest Nursery and Greenhouse Products 
We taniee eessestad gestion to sien Soe and inspect our Trees, Shrubs, Evergreens, Herba- 


ve more than 300 acres. 


OUR ILLUSTRATED GENERAL CATALOG No. 22 describes the high class Nursery material 
we grow. 


SPECIAL PRICES quoted on lists for Public Parks. 


Nurserymen, Florists and Planters, Rutherford, New Jersey 


ts 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amearcan Crrv. 





~wwwwwwewwwwewwwe we 
i i a a i a ae he he ae he he le he 











THE AMZRICAN CITY 
















Sac an ee 
t ~ 
+ 
F & F NURSERIES t : Ornamental Trees, Shrubs, 
OFFER ACOMPLETE LINEOF { #~ and Hardy Perennials 
Ornamental Trees, Shrubs t ft A complete stock. 
and Evergreens for Street, y z Quality unexcelled. 
Parkand Cemetery Planting { Ke for price list. 
Write for prices x z HENRY KOHANKIE _& SON 
% Painesville, Ohio 
SPRINGFIELD, NEW JERSEY x z 
3 SERRE SSEFEEE ETT tt ttt 
. 4 SEA AAA EE ye 





BIG TREE MOVING + 
; ‘ LEWIS & VALENTINE Co. 
[Framingham Nurseries Main Office, Roslyn, L. 1., N-Y., Tel- Roslyn, 256-257 


N. Y. Office, 150 Nassau St., Tel. Beekman 3514. B 
Nursery, East Rockaway, L ‘a Ae Mn Lynt rook, 751 
Ornamental trees, shrubs and Boston Office, 33 Station St. Brookline, Mass., Tel 


Brookline. Wilmington and Phila lel hi a Office, 722 Fre 

evergreens for street and park St., Wilmington, Del., Tel. 4153 W. Wi ilmingtor 
° We have tree moving apparatus permanently located 
planting. in Ohio, Washington, D. C., Massachusetts, Con- 
necticut, Delaware, Maryland and New York, ready 


a> ose 


to serve you. We maintain an organization of 100 
FRAMINGHAM — MASS. trained men Tor operating these machines. Write us 
—no obligation. 


SEEEEEEFFFAAASSFFFAF SEF FFT 


SR 


> 





i x 


_ 





Hill’s Evergreens S St k } 
For Park, Boulevard pecimen oc 
i om Choice Evergreens, Trees, Shrubs, 

Pertect cccngns a ares wel en eal Roses and Hardy Perennials 

Write for A magasire. Write for our Illustrated Catalog 

A aay bey Mentor Nurseries, Mentor, Ohio 

’ SEES 
































L 
+ e % 
te “ a4 . e . 
> 
+ Wild Perenneals, Ferns, Ete. + + Spring Hill Nurseries 
hg We collect these from many states and supply the ¥ Ke Established over 60 Years 
x best landscapists and heavest exporters with these. x 7 Ti Ci OHIO 
+ Some leaders ready to collect soon:—Trilliams, 3 « x ppecanoe City, - - - - 
t roe cage cwonrage ty bam Hy epee aprons x % Trees, Plants, Shrubs, Vines, and Ever- 
@ Sepetes, Comiza oe cn | greens for Public and Private use. 
3 inseason. SEND FOR our LIST of Perenneals. % = 
Ke . Highest Quality stock— moderate prices 
- g P 
> c 
z Hopedale Nurseries, Hopedale, Hil. t x SEND FOR CATALOG 
TAREEEAEAAEAAEEAEAAAAAEEAAAAAAH Th *: 
& J 2 4 + Be Me ie ¥ j + 
4 t 
> . + 
+ FOREST NURSERY COMPANY : 
> » 
oo ‘ 5 5 
Ke McMinnville, Tenn. % 
os . ° ‘ ° 5 
* Offers a large stock of California Privett Amoor River and Ibota ¥¢ 
t Privetts, Deutzias in varieties Forsythias, Calycanthus, Weigelias } 
% Yucca and other Shrubs; also Forest and Ornamental shade trees { 
% and vines. Let us figure on your wants. Trade list free. t 
SESERESSESESGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGBGGGFGFFGFFFFFFF9F$4 44999999 








When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amuznicax Crry. 79 








THE AMERICAN CITY 


W. & T. SMITH COMPANY 


NURSERY STOCK AT WHOLESALE 
‘Send tor Catalogue and Price List 


GENEVA NURSERY, Geneva, N. Y. 


i 





£43444 4 4 44 1 eS 


ary) 


A BOOK you OUGHT TO HAVE 
Shade Trees in Towns and Cities 
287 Pages — 251 Illustrations — Price $3.00 


The selection, planting and care of shade trees as applied to the art of street 
decoration; their diseases and remedies; their municipal control and supervision. 


eannnnannnnas: 


- 
+ THE CIVIC PRESS, 87 Nassau Street, NEW YORK CITY 
ME EEE LEEEEREEE EEE EERMEE EEEEEEEEEREEEERE EEE EE EE ue ee ee 








Bound Volumes of THE AMERICAN CITY 

A set of bound volumes of THE AMERICAN CITY makes a most valuable reference work 
for municipal offices, public libraries, etc., and we are in a position to supply all volumes from 
Volume I to Volume XII, inclusive. The prices of the volumes vary somewhat on account of the 
scarcity of some of the issues contained. We will be glad to quote terms on application. 


THE AMERICAN CITY, 87 Nassau Street, NEW YORK CITY 








BONDS _§| |TOWNSEND’S TRIPLEX 


ne . in th “ar The apy Soe Culter = Earth 
years’ experience in the manufactur 
of all kinds of bonds and certificates— uts a Swath 86 Inches Wide 





Drawn by one horse and operated by one man, the 














including Municipal Government, Public Utilities, TRIPLEX MOWER will mow more lawn in a day 
Industrial and Commercial—enables us to produce than the best motor mower ever made, cut it better 
such documents technically, as well as mechanically and at a fraction of the cost. 
ect. : Drawn by one horse and operated by one man, it 
It will be worth your while to consult us on your will mow more lawn in a day than any three other 
next issue. wn mowers with three horses and three men. 
a yo ting all t 
ite for ca e — 5 
ALBERT B. KING & CO INC eo See. oF tere 
204 BROADWAY S.P.T 21 Central Avenue 
ownsend & Co 
ESTAB. 1886 NEW YORK CITY = " GRANES, &. 








Books on Physical Training and Games 
Dicectoe of ab LAM 4 * public Schools of Philadelphia, Pa. 


The Theory and Practice of Educational Gymnastics 


8 vo., Cloth, (6 x 9 in.) 194 Pages, with 174 Illustrations. Net $1.50 


GAMES & DANCES 
selected collection of Games, Song-Games and Dances suitable for ain, Play- 
Seinen Groundn, Grmnactie Associations, Bore’ and Glvie,Clabs, ete 
A Guide to Track and Field Work, Contests and Kindred Activities 
48 Pages, Mustreted, Paper, Net 50 cents 
JOHN JOS. McVEY, PUBLISHER, 1229 ARCH STREET, PHILADELPHIA, PA. 











80 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tax Amezaican Crrv. 




















me 


THE AMERICAN CITY 





Spraying Economy 





FITZHENRY-GUPTILL CO., 
Power Sprayers and Equipment 
135 First Street E. Cambridge, Mass. 





“Prudential” Steel Buildings 


PORTABLE 














A PROTECTION TO EQUIPMENT 


When you stop to think of the value of 
your equipment, and the chances you take 
from fire etc. The absolute safety, with the 
fact that our buildings can be taken apart 
and reassembled without materiall oss, 
should warrant your immediate investiga 
tion for bunk, storage and tool houses. Send 
us the necessary information to quote you 
prices 


Ask for our catalog ‘‘7 


C. D. PRUDEN CO. BALTIMORE, MD. 











What to Read on City Problems 


The American City. By Henry C. Waricer 


Beginning with an examination of the purpose of the city 
and the reasons which govern its location, the author proceeds 
in this valuable handbook to the study of how it is governed 
and financed; how it takes care of the property, life, and 
health of its citizens, and provides for the education and in- 
struction of the children. Among other topics discussed are 
the problems of transit, housing, racial differences, etc., et: 
It is the hopes of the author that the book will stimulate 
thought on the city as a social and governmental factor 
Cloth 16 mo. 178 pages, $0.50. 


The Making of a Town 
By Frank L. McVer, President of the University of North Dakota 


It is the problems of the smaller town that are dealt with 
in this book. Town building and cooperation are first con- 
sidered, then follows a chapter on "The Planning of the 
Town,‘’ the importance of which is strongly emphasized 
The author then proceeds to a study of the fundamentals 
viz.; “Health,” ‘‘Schools,” ‘Morals, and ‘Business, 
all of which are carefully and thoroughly discussed 
Advertising the town is distinguished by a special chapter 
and the Value of Organizations such as Commercial Clubs, 
Civie Leagues, Associated Charities, etc., are shown. The 
idea of the book is to throw light on some of the more essential 
features of town growth and to urge the necessity of careful 
planning 12 mo. 221 pp. $1.00. 


Ravenel’s Road Primer. By Sauver W. Ravenen, CE 


The elementary principles and practices of road-making, the 
causes and effects of good roads, their location, grades, drain- 
age, maps, and profiles, construction and maintenance are 
set forth simply and plainly in this volume. Designed origi- 





nally as a primer for use in schools each chapter is followed 
by a series of questions and answers, the memorizing of which 
will give the reader a thorough working knowledge of what 
constitutes a good road and how to maintain it The book 


is an inspiration to the cause of good roads 
Illustrated. Cloth 12mo. 159 pp. $1.00. 


Human Welfare Work in Chicago 
Edited by Cou. H. C. Carsauan of the Civil Service Board of 
South Park Commissioners 
The desire to make known what Chicago is doing for the 


physical and mental welfare of her people, what she hopes to 


i I 
accomplish and what has already been accomplished is the 
reason for the publication of this volum It shows the other 
side of Chicago, the human side, how s eadeavors to min- 
ister to the needs of her vast cosmopolitan population 


The work contains much statistical information and is pro- 
fusely illustrated. Large 12mo. 250 pp. $1.50 





A. C. McCLURG & CO., Publishers, Chicago 








When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 81 











- AMERICAN CITY | 
Just Published 
MUNICIPAL ENGINEERING 


PRACTICE 


By A. PRESCOTT FOLWELL, Editor of Municipal Journal 











N this book the municipal engineer will find just the informa- 
tion which is needed in his work. It covers the various 
branches of the subject and contains practical information 

concerning street cleaning, constructing public comfort stations, 

and a score of other matters not readily obtainable in other books. 

Have this book sent to you today for free examination—no cash in advance. 

This book will also make an appropriate Christmas present for the engineer. 
SEE COUPON BELOW 


TABLE OF CONTENTS: Fundamental Data. The City Plan. Street 
Surface Details. Bridges and Waterways. City Surveying. Street 
Lights, Signs and Numbers. Street Cleaning and Sprinkling. Dis- 
posing of City Wastes. Markets, Comfort Stations and Baths. Parks, 
Cemeteries and Shade Trees. 


433 pages, 6x9, 118 figures. Cloth, $3.50 net. 








OTHER SUGGESTIONS 
The Planning of the Modern City. 


By Netson P. Lewis. 
439 pages, 6x9, illustrated. Cloth, $3.50 net. r 


Elements of Highway Engineering. 
By ArtTHUR H. BLANCHARD. 
526 pages, 6x9, 202 figures. Cloth, $3.00 net. 


A Manual for Health Officers. 
By J. Scotr MacNvtr. 
\ 660 pages, 544x8, 4 charts. Cloth, $3.00 net. 


the Clean Water and How To Get It. 
\ By ALLEN HAZEN. 
~*~ 208 pages, 514x734, illustrated. Cloth, $1.50 net. 
7h, en 
=. >» SPECIAL CHRISTMAS OFFER 


432 Fourth Ave., 4 . 

N. ¥. City. "x Your Name Stamped in Gold—FREE 
ae ey Rg wap of "ty We will stamp in gold on the cover of any of our books, pur- 
the following books Ng chased directly from us, the name of the purchaser or recipient. 
Pe Ate! EE ee ee ; 10 This offer is good until January 1, 1917. 

ERB IE ESR ie ee pas V Books that are stamped are not subject to the return 
As per your offer kindly stamp in 4) privilege. 
gold the following name: “ey Copies of our books will also be sent for 10 days 
vee tee free examination. 





SN ERR RE Ae 
eecreraraa - “. JOHN WILEY & SONS, Inc. 


indicate on the line below the National engineering society \ 432 Fourth Avenue, New York 
of which you are a member. This offer is also extended to sub- 

scribers to American City, and to those who supply a reference London: CHAPMAN & HALL, Ltd. 
a ee a oe - og » Montreal, Canad a: RENOUF 
Reference, or Position. .... > PUBLISHING COMPANY 


(Not required of Society Members, or subscribers to American City AC-12-16 a 





¢ 
com 
a 
gi: 
e 
Py 
= 
ge: 
€ 
g: 
B: 
B: 





82 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American Ciry. 





a celle a es a ate 








THE AMERICAN CITY 


APPLETONS’ 
nero. §~=6 MEW BOOKS 


Series. Edited by 
CLINTON ROGERS aire. 





Planning for Rural and Industrial Communities 2y Charles S. Bird, Jr. 


Full of suggestive and practical material for those who are responsible for planning new towns 
or improving old ones. 


The City Manager By Harry Aubrey Toulmin, Jr. 


A complete study of the new form of municipal government in charge of one city manager, 
which has been adopted in many cities of the South and West. 


Satellite Cities By Graham Romeyn Taylor. 


The history and discussion of various towns started by industrial establishments in the vicinity 
of large cities in England and America. 


Woman’s Work In Municipalities By Mary Ritter Beard. 


An able and comprehensive review of what the women of America are accomplishing in 
various departments of municipal activity and social betterment. 


Lower Living Costs In Cities By Clyde Lyndon King, Ph.D 


A timely volume on living costs, purchasing and distribution for the domestic as well as the 
municipal housekeeper. 


The Social Center By Edward J. Ward. 


A splendid work of practical value to every community, showing how the school house may 
become the social and civic center of the neighborhood. 


City Government by Commission Edited by Clinton Rogers Woodruff. 


A complete history of the Commission Government movement, showing the fruits of the latest 
experience and the most modern thought on the subject. 


The Initiative, Referendum and Recall Edited by William Bennet Munro. 


The history and the growth ofthese “new weapons of democracy” with valuable chapters by 
President Wilson, Colonel Roosevelt, Congressman McCall and others. 


The Regulation of Municipal Utilities Edited by Clyde Lyndon King. 


This volume covers the whole subject of municipal franchises and includes contributions by 
many authorities, 


The above volumes are uniformly bound, $1.50 net per volume. 


City Planning Edited by John Nolen. 


A discussion of the planning and rebuilding of cities for the benefit of all the citizens, with the 
help of the citizens in an efficient co-operative manner. Illustrated. $2.00 net. 


D. APPLETON & COMPANY 35 WEST 32"° STREET NEW YORK 


@ THEse ARE APPLETON BOOKS 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amuzarcaw Crry. as 








THE AMERICAN CITY 


BUILDING A FOUNDATION 


IN THE 


MIND OF A COMMUNITY 





A Chamber of Commerce is a mental structure. It has its foundations 
in the minds of the community’s leaders. If this foundation has not been 
well laid, the structure will be insecure. 

A Chamber of Commerce “‘campaign,’’ “‘reorganization ,”’ “‘expansion 
movement’’—-whichever you wish to call it—is simply an undertaking to lay 
a new mental foundation or strengthen an old one. 

A mental foundation that will last can be created only by thorough 
educational work—-by educating a membership to a clear conception of 
what a modern Chamber of Commerce can and should do. 

A “membership campaign” which is nothing more than a membership 
campaign is simply a number of names on slips of cardboard—and worth a 
little more than the value of the cardboard. 

Educational force is the predominating quality of the campaigns which 
The American City Bureau conducts to strengthen Chambers of Commerce. 


99 66 


1. Our staff members are all experienced men with strong records 
of success behind them. 

2. We spend a long period—three to eight weeks, as conditions 
demand—in educating prospective members to a thorough understanding 
of the purpose of a Chamber of Commerce. 

3. We spend a month after the campaign in educating the member- 
ship to a knowledge of Chamber of Commerce methods. 

4. Weco-operate by mail and by occasional visits after the campaign 
is over. 

5. Our Information Department is prepared to furnish full informa- 
tion on any subject in which the organization may be interested. 

6. Through our Summer School, we give the secretary the benefit 
of our experience—experience we have spent thousands of dollars to 
acquire. 


Why not ask us to put you in touch with some of the organizations 
that have engaged us—and check up these statements yourself ? 


Also, there is more to tell concerning each of them. 





THE AMERICAN CITY BUREAU 


87 Nassau Street New York City 


84 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amzaican City. 








THE AMERICAN CITY 


















i 


YOUR ADMINISTRATION 


Can be brought CLOSER TO THE PEOPLE by furnishing 
the citizens periodically with concise and intelligent 
Financial and Operating Statements. 





2 
= 
2 
= 
= 
= 
3 
= 
= 
= 
= 
— 
= 
= 
= 
= 
= 
= 
= 


Mn 





A NU 


We offer Specialized Service in Municipal Auditing, Budget 
Classification and Preparation, Efficiency Surveys, Special 


Investigations and in the installation of modern, practical 
Municipal Systems. 


INNA i 


\ 
i 


Write us for detailed information and let us tell you 
results we have accomplished in other cities. 


about 


J. D. CLOUD & CO., Certified Public Accountants 
CINCINNATI, OHIO 


AAA it 














alli 
| 








Finan 


UL 








Divides 876,594.50 by 7685 in 


12 seconds and gives an absolute proof. 


All other calculations made in 
proportionately the same time. 


Sent on free trial. Address Dep’t L-6. 


MARCHANT CALCULATING MACHINE CO. 


Oakland, California 








Branch offices in all large cities. 














The Handling of Waste Paper is a 
Vexing Question 


Until rt is changed from a problem into a good 
money maker by the use of the 


ERTEL _. 
Hand Power Baler 


Low cost—lasts for years. Will pay for itself in a few months. 
Send for illustrated printed matter 
GEO. ERTEL Co. 

500 Kentucky St., Quincy, Ill., U.S.A. 








When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae American Crry. 85 








THE 


AMERICAN 


i & eg 





Loyal to the Service 


They Uphold Each Other’s Hands 


The public must be served. This is the 
dominating thought of the entire Bell organ- 
ization from the president down. Every 
employe feels the sense of responsibility that 
this working principle implies. The public 
must be served—effciently, uninterruptedly. 

Inthe fulfilment of this policy, the manage- 
ment of the Bell System realizes that every 
individual employe must give undivided and 
undistracted effort and interest to his work. 

To assure this, every worker receives ade- 
quate remuneration, ample protection in case 
of illness and provision for oldage. A\llthese 
personal matters are cared for so that the em- 
ploye has the least possible worry regarding 


4 





his own welfare. His whole-hearted atten- 
tion can be devoted to serving the public. 


While each employe realizes that he is 
but a single factor, he understands that not 
only is supreme personal effort expected of 
him, but also a loyal support to every other 
telephone worker. 


There is something in the telephone organ- 
ization which imbues every employe with a 
spinit of loyalty tothe public. All feel a direct 
responsibility for each other because each 
recognizes that only by mutual endeavor can 
theyrenderthe high standard of service which 
isexpected of them. Theyuphold each other's 
hands so that the public may be served. 


AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY 


AND ASSOCIATED COMPANIES 
One System 


Universal Service 


86 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American Crrv. 











THE AMERICAN CITY 





The greater worth of 


“KOLESCH” Instruments 


is largely taken for granted 


They combine in their design and manufacture all the 
| latest improvements in Engineering Instruments, ard have 









established an enviable reputation for unvarying reliability. 
Special Test Offer to Municipal Engineers 
] We will gladly send you an instrument to try out for 


yourself absolutely without obligation to purchase Trans 
unless it proves to be ‘‘the instrument you want.’ 


Send for Bulletin No. 33 of Engineers’ Supplies. ree 


KOLESCH & CO., 138 Fulton St., New York 


Gurley 
Highway Transits BUF F 


Gurley Light Mountain 














No.26 is the most widely ENGINEERING 
used transit on highway INSTRUMENTS 
work, It has the long, are the strongest, most accurate . 
balanced telescope vial and longest-lived Instruments 
which makes leveling built. The close accuracy, high 
easy and accurate. grade materials and superior 
Send for catalogue. workmanship have made the Buff the recog 


nized standard. Write for catalog No. 4. 
BUFFP&BUFF MPG.CO.,JamaicaPlains, Boston, Mass. 


W. & L. E. Gurley 

















Troy N. Y. 221 Lamartine Street 
Western Branch: Seattle, Wash Monadnock Block, Chicago, III. 
The L. L. Poates Complete ABSOLUTELY FIREPROOF 
Atlas of the World HOTEL CHELSEA 
stands for West 23rd St. At Seventh Ave. 


ACCURACY—CONCISENESS x wncageemen yl 
RELIABILITY EUROPEAN PLAN 


500 Rooms 400 Baths 
Shows 193 pages of ; ‘oining bath. $1.0 
’ maps in 5 and 6 Room with adjoining bath, $1.00 
colors. and $1.50; suites, parlor bedroom and 
, = bath, $3.00 and upward. 
It 18 the happy Club breakfast, 25c. up; special 
medium between luncheon, 50c. up; table d’hote dinner, 
' the overbulky big 75c. up. Cafe attached. 
Atlas and those too 
small to show de- To Reach Hotel Chelsea: 
‘ tail clearlv From Pennsylvania’ Station, 7th Av. car 
ie south to 23d St. 
Only $1.50 in cloth, Grand Cen}ral, 4th Avenue car South to 
and $2.00 in leather 2d St. aidalal 
oe id Lackawanna, Erie, Reading, Baltimore 
postpaid to your and Ohio, Jersey Central and Lehigh Valley 





door. R. R. Stations, take 23d St. crosstown car 
East to Hotel Chelsea. 


St i Poates Publishing Co. ee Piers, foot West 23d 


.. take 23d St. crosstown car. 


22 North William Street, | New York, N. Y. Write for Colored Map of New York. 




















When writing to Advertisers please mention THe AMERICAN City. 87 





THE AMERICAN CITY 











CT 
pIRECTORY 


CONSULTING ENGINEERS £ 
CONTRACTORS | 
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTS 










Albright & Mebus 


CIVIL ENGINEERS 


and 
a, pares. yg od ge 
eewage 


908 LAND TITLE BUILDING 


SYRACUSE, N. Y. Dillaye Building 
MORRISON & FARRINGTON, Inc. 


C. A. BOWMAN, Eng. Mgr. 
H. C. HODGKINS, Con Eng. 


Members Am. Soc, C. 


Water Works, Sewers, Sewage Disposal 





LOUIS S$. COLE 
' Landscape Architect 
Consultations :: Reports = Plans :: Specifications 
1626 Lytton Buliding 


























PHILADELPHIA CHICAGO, ILL 
Kansas City, Mo. Interstate Bidg. 
John W; Alvord sedick || Burns & McDonnell|| J.B. CRAVATH 
comapaaaee ENGINEERS CD SPSENP 
Aeoectuie, Rete Seveitientions, 140 S. Dearborn St., Chicago 
Re porte, Racestigntinas. go Expert Testimony, Water Works, Street 
Wer Pedivetion, Wore Ceaen, Sewerage, Lighting. Public atlity rates and valuations. 
Sewerage, Sewage Disposal. Clinton S. Burns R. BE. McDonnell of operation of electric 
HARTPORD BLDG. CHICAGO 
PARK AND CIVIC DESIGN 
American Park Builders W. Ww. CROSBY 


Mrroz H. Wasr, Pres. 


GEORGE BURNAP 


WASHINGTON, D. C. 





Mem. Am. Society C. E. 
nemiaimeee ENGINEER 
































City Plans Civic Reports pone caer aod’ Testing ‘of Paving 
Marquette Bldg., Chicage PARKS: Their Design, Equipment and Use 1631 “Monsey Bivc.” Battmors, Mp. 
P. L. BUTTRICK 
SHEFFIELD A. ARNOLD el oat MARTIN J. CULLEN 
Expert osqu ermination 
Landscape Architect New BA] , on Landscape Architect 
Land Subdivisions pent & fenestey poobleme 
City Parks Institution Grounds ee 4590 Wyandot St. 
Private Estates Moguls etn Denver, Colorado 
50 Bromfield St. Boston, Mass. 
. WILLIAM E. CULLEN 
ASSOCIATED ee am Sy ad Landscape Architect = Designer 
INDUSTRIAL SERVICE CHEMIST and BACTERIOLOGIST 
‘Sineenanieill semen Ornamental Gardening, Beauti 
29 West 37th St., New York City 271 RIVER STREET TROY. N.Y. Homes, Rural Districts, 
: ° owns, Schools, Yards, Parke 
Industrial Surveys and Cemeteries. 


and Development Plans 


Water Analysis and Tests of 
Filter Plants 


BOULDER, COLORADO 











Thomas C. Atwood 
Mem .Am. Soc. C. E. 


Consulting Engineer 
Athletic fields and stadiums. Private 
estate layouts; water supply and sew- 
age disposal, roads, lakes and bridges. 

Plans, Supervision, Valuations. 


185 Church St. New Haven, Conn. 





Orlando T. Carpenter 
Civil and Landscape Engineer 
Specialist in all kinds of cemetery work— 


large and small. 
nished. 


Complete designs fur- 


Warre Prarns, New York. 





For Tree Sur, that is scientifically 
accurate mechanically perfect, 
come to headquarters— 


pewey Tree Surgery 
The Davey Trée Expert Co. 
285 Elm St. oe 7 
Operating the Davey Institute of Tree Surgery 
Accredited representatives available 
between Kansas City and Boston. 








A. H. BLANCHARD 
M. Am. Soc.C. EB. M. Can. Soc. C. E. 
CONSULTING HIGHWAY 
ENGINEER 


BROADWAY and 117th STREET 
NEW YORK CITY 





arena AND SANITARY 
GINEERS 
Water wert, 


Porno ea 


umon BANK BLDG. Pittsburgh 














JEROME A. DITGHY 
Landscape Designer 
ANN ARBOR, MICH. 





88 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 





























THE AMERICAN CITY 





The Duluth Engineering Co. 


W. B. Pa Mem. Am. Soc. C. E., Ea- 
City Duluth, Manages 


MUNICIPAL ENGINEERS 
Waterworks, Electric Lighting. 
Town 
Suite 612-616 Palladio Bullding 
DULUTH, MINN. 


HERING & GREGORY 


CONSULTING ENGINEERS AND 
SANITARY EXPERTS 


and Water Purification, 
Disposal and Refuse 


Rupoirs Heameo Joux H. Garcorr 
170 Broadway, New York City 


H. C. KITTREDGE 


Consulting, Hydraulic 
and Sanitary Engineer 


ROCHESTER, N. Y. 








Analyses Tests Inspections 
Consultations Reports Specifications 


WALTER H. FLOOD 


Chemical Engineer 
PAVING AND ENGINEPRING MATERIALS 
Municipal Work a Specialty 
326 River Street, CHICAGO 


| J. Wallace Higgins 


Assoc. M. Am. Sos. C. E. 
CIVIL AND LANDSCAPE ENCINEER 


Municipal Sewerage, Parks. 
Surveys, Title een na 
Supervision 


52 Vanderbilt Avenue, New York 


MORRIS KNOWLES 


Consulting, Sanitary and 
Hydraulic Engineer 


Municipal, Community 
and Civic Problems 


Pittsburgh, Penna. 








GEORGE W. FULLER 


Consulting Hydraulic Engineer and 
onsu i, Hy 4 


itary 
ater Supply and Purification, 
bm 7 Le mang and 
Works Vi Cona- 
stvuction 


170 BROADWAY, N. Y. CITY 


Charles C. Hopkins 
M. Am. Soc. C. E. 
Consulting Hydraulic and Sanitary Engineer 
349 Cutler Bidg., Rochester, N.Y. 
Water boat and purification. Sewerage. 

dis Municipal 
engineering. Plans, reports, estimates, super- 
vision. Expert testimony and appraisals. 


CHARLES W. LEAVITT 


CITY PLANNING 
and all branches of 


CIVIL and LANDSCAPE 
ENGINEERING 


220 Broadway NEW YORK 








FULLER - COULT CO. 


Consulting and Supervising Engineers 


Electric Light and Power Plants, H. 
Electric ments, Sanitary 
Systems. Water-Works Systems, Street 


Paving. 
Chemical Bldg. ST. LOUIS 


M. H. HORVATH 


Landscape Architect & 
Consulting Forester 


649 Leader-News Bldg. 


Cleveland, Ohio 





J. L. LUDLOW 
Winston-Salem, N.C. 
Consulting Municipal Engineer 
Sanitary and Civic Expert 

Water Supplies, Sewage Disposal, Reports, 
Plans, Valuations, Appraisals. Efficiency and 
Economy Studies, Physical and Financial Reports 
on Public Utilities in Southern Cities, Advice 
im Municipal Sanitation and Public Health. Inter- 
views by appointment in Eastern Cities. 











W.R. HANCOCK 


Landscape Designer and 
Ornamental Horticulturist 


WESTERN WORK ONLY 


J W. HOWARD, C.E. 
e Consulting Engineer 
Pavements and Roads 


Specifications, Fn many of Materials, 
Chemical Anal ene Tom, 


LUTEN, DANIEL B. 


DESIGNING AND 
CONSULTING ENGINEER 


Reinforced Concrete Bridges Exclusively 
Associate Engineers in each State. 











Inspection, &c. 2/ Years’ Experience. 
Billings, Montana | | 1 Broadway, ‘NEW YORK INDIANAPOLIS 
H 

Fellow ASL-A. Member ASL-A. Jennings, CIVIL itr ernie 
Sid. J. ae 8. Herbert 

HARE & HARE Lawrence & Limdsey | | Mosiciga Engineers Landscare 
ee Architects 7 CIVIL, AND ial ta Cemeteries, Playgrounds 

rr ag eee MUNICIPAL ENGINEERS | | McCrady Bros. & Cheves 


Peseta 
Municipal Improvements, Cemeteries 


Hartman Bidg., COLUMBUS, OHIO 





CHARLESTON, S.C. 








HAZEN, WHIPPLE & FULLER 


CONSULTING HYDRAULIC 
and SANITARY ENGINEERS 
WATER SUPPLY and SEWERAGE 


Allen Hasen G. C. 
W. E. Fuller F.F. 
C. M. Everett LN. 


30 East 424 St. NEW YORK CITY 











GEORGE A. JOHNSON 
M. Am. Soc. C.E. 
Consulting Hydraulic Engineer and Sanitary Bxpert 
150 Nassau 3St., New York. 
Water =~ and Suriiestien. 


DABNEY H. MAURY 
Consulting Engineer 


— ions, Re Designs and Superintend- 
— Works, Water Purification, Sewer- 
Land Drai Jongg Rlectric 


wage Disposal, 
fiiee Appraisal of Public U 
1137 Monadnock aie cial 




















Arthur H. Helder 


Landscape Architect 
418 Reliance Bidg., Kansas City, Mo. 








’ Im- 
nae Operation of Existing Plants. 
nv mn of emics 
Chicago, Ill. Monadnock Block 
J. L. JACOBS 
Consulting Management 
and Municipal Engineer 


Financial, Physical ont 

Examinations, Re aluations, 

Appraisals, Cost ~ ly Utilities, 
Public Services, Industries 


anization 














525 Third Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 


ACOUSTICAL ENGINEERS 
AND CONTRACTORS 
Spectfications Submitted without Obligation 








When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 89 














THE AMERICAN CITY 





THOMAS MEEHAN & SONS 


Practical Landscape Gardeners 
and Engineers 
Especially qualified for work involving use 
of hardy plants Loree estate develop- 
ments: country clubs. Plans executed 


“We know pianis™ 
6703 Chew Street, Germantown, Phila., Pa. 





Alexander Potter, C. E. 


Hydraulics, Sanitation, Con- 
crete Structures Designed 
Executed. 


50 Church Street, New York 
(Hadeom Terminal) Tel-, Cortlandt 5501 


Albany, N. Y 108 State St. 


HENRY W. TAYLOR 


HYDRAULIC AND SANITARY 
ENGINEER 
Water teeny Water —. Sewer- 


age, Sewage Reports, Plans, Su- 
pervision of Construction and Maintenance 














The Minnesota Engineering Co. 
W. S. MORRIS, Mgr. 
MUNICIPAL ENGINEERS 
Waterworks, Sewerage, Town- 
planning and Paving. 


Suite 408-409 Providence Bidg. 
DULUTH, MINN. 





Clyde Potts 
30 CHURCH S&T. NEW YORK 
Civil and Sanitary EBagiaser 








HUGH C. MITCHELL 
GEODETIC ENCINEER 


CONSULTANT ON CITY TRIANGULATION, 
PRECISE LEVELS, AND TOPOGRAPHIC 
SURVEYS. 
601 West 32d Street 
AUSTIN, TEXAS 


L. SCOTT TWOGOOD 
Civil and Sanitary Engineer 


1514-15 Bank of Commerce and Trust Bidg 
MEMPHIS, TENN. 
Water Supply, Water Purification, Sewerage 
Systems, Sewage Disposal, Reinforced Con- 
crete Structures, Municipal Improvements, 
Operation of Purification Plants, Laboratory 
for Analysis of Water and Sewage. 











POWER ENGINEERING CO. 


G. Herman Gamper CC. O. Daughaday 
Consulting Engineers: Mechanical, Electrical, Civil 
Power plants,electric light, heat and power. 
Water supply, hydraulic and sanitary. 
Preparation of contested rate cases for the 
presentation to PublicUtilityCommissions. 


421 New First National Bank Bldg., Columbus, Ohio 








TRACY, L. D. 


Assoc. Mem. Am. Sos. C. B. 
Civil and Sanitary Engineer 


Sees 


245 Fourth Ave. Pittsburgh, Pa. 





FRANK H. NUTTER 


Landscape Architect and Engineer 
710 SykesBlock, Minneapolis, Minn. 


Advice, Sketches, Designs or full Work- 
ing Plans for Parks, Cemeteries, Public 
or Home Grounds Surveys made if 
desired. Correspondence Solicited 


City Park Engineer from 1883to 1906 | 


J. HARRY RICH 


Landscape Designer and 
Consulting City Forester 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. 


Consultations, Reports, Plans and 
Specifications 








FRANK L. WILCOX 


CONSULTING HYDRAULIC 
and SANITARY ENGINEER 
WATER SUPPLY and SEWERAGE 


915 Olive Street ST. LOUIS 





ARTHUR PEW 


=. Am. SOc. Cc. £, 
™. InNeT, Cc. E. 


CONSULTING ENGINEER 
ATLANTA, GA. 


WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE, PAVING 


JAMES G. STAFFORD 


Consulting Tax Valuation Expert 
Efficiency Service for Solving Taxation 
and Realty Valuation Problems 
The Modern Analytic Method of 
Realty Valuation Employed for Tax 
Equalization. 
Correspondence Solicticd. 


1109 STORY BUILDING, LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA 











1,7. WITMER A. J. YEAGER 


em. Am. Soc. C. E 


J. F. WITMER CO. 


Hydraulic and Sanitary Engineers 
gegans sista Werth heteccne 
— and all other Municipal Pro- 


Sen. 64 
Dun Building BUFPALO, N. Y. 








POLLOCK AND TABER 
CONSULTING ENGINEERS 


Pavements, Highways, Water Supply; 
Drainage, Sewerage and Sewage Disposal 


Designs, Specifications and Supervision 


Crarence D. Pottock Members 
Georce A. Taser Am. Soc. C. E. 


Park Row Building, New York City 








HARRY STEVENS 
Consulting Engineer 


oe 
Work. 


Union Trust Bidg. Washington, D.C. 











BERNARD M.WAGNER 


Consulting Engineer for 
Municipal and Public Utility Works 


55 LIBERTY ST., NEW YORK CITY 








New York Philadelphia 


Pittsburgh Testing Laboratory, 
ROAD AND PAVING nf i = WORKS SUPPLIES 


INSPECTION, TESTS, SUPERiNTENDENCE, CONSULTATION 
BACTERIOLOGICAL CONTROL OF WA ER SUPPLY; COMPLETE LABORATORIES 


Birmingham 


Dallas 


“P. T. L. Building,” 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 


Chicago St. Louls 








Robert W. Hunt 





Jno. J. Cone 


ROBERT W. HUNT & CO 


ENGINEERS, INSPECTORS, CHEMISTS 


~t 


Inspection Steel and Cement for Buildings and Bridges, Pav’ 
Inspectors Permanently at Points of Ma 


Jas. C. Hallsted 


D. W. McNaugher 


GENERAL OFFICES: 
8§ 2200 Insurance Exchange, Chicago, III. 


Materials, Cast Iron Pipe. 
ture. 





90 When writing to Advertisers please mention THz American Crrty. 


























THE AMERICAN CITY 








WE ARE CONSULTING ENGINEERS FOR MUNICIPALITIES 


We Design, Build and Operate Municipal Light and Power Plants 
and Represent Cities in Negotiations With the Utility Corporations. 


SEND FOR OUR LITERATURE 
F. W. BALLARD & CO. - - Cleveland, Ohio 











PERFECT VWOOD-BLOCK PAVING 
Long wear and satisfactory service are only possible with wood-block paving when it has been 
creosoted with the right oil. The service record of Reilly Improved Creosote Oil as a paving 
block preservative has established its reputation with municipal engineers throughout the 
country. This known service efficiency has led conservative engineers to specify Reilly Improved 


Creosote Oil for this work. Write for the FREE handbook. 
Republic Creosoting Co., Indianapolis, Ind. Plants: Mobile, Indianapolis, Minneapolis 








Have you ever noticed how few repair gangs 
there are working on any of the many, many 
“Metropolitan” Shale Paving Block streets 


and roads? 


‘ Reat Paving Block Mace 





The Metropolitan Paving Brick Company 
CANTON, OHIO 


















Straight or Curved Bars 
Unit of Plate and Anchorage 
Substantial Steel Protection 
Rigid, Positive Anchorage 


KAHN] CURB wNo Splitting of Concrete 
BARS Easy toHandleand Install 
The scientific, practical, efficient and eoconmical protection for edges of 


concrete curbs, columns, walls, entrance posts, platforms. 
Write for Highway Pamphlet, describing Curb Bars and also Armor Plates. 


TRUSSED CONCRETE STEEL CO., C<s- Youngstown, Ohio 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 91 








Products 











THE AMERICAN CITY 








CLEARFIELD BRICK MANUFACTURING CO. 


Shale and Fire Clay Paving Block 
TWO PLANTS LARGE CAPACITY 


CLEARFIELD, PA. 








THE DANVILLE BRICK COMPANY 


Danville Recessed-Lug and Dunn’s Wire-Cut-Lug Blocks 











DANVILLE, ILL. 
GLEN-GERY SHALE — hy aver , 
BRICK CO. ee 
rick 
READING, PENNSYLVANIA Large Capacity 











Hocking Valley Brick Company 


Manufacturers of HOCKING REPRESSED BLOCK 
anD DUNN WIRE-CUT-LUG BLOCK 











29 Years’ THE MEDAL PAVING BRICK CO. 
. ormerly 
Service THE DECKMAN-DUTY BRICK CO. 
Reveals Repressed and Wire-Cut-Lug 
Superior ‘“‘Medal”’ Block 
li HILLSIDE BLOCK ALWAYS IN STOCK 
Quality CLEVELAND, OHIO 

















Metropolitan Paving Brick Co. 
‘Best Paving Block Made” 
CANTON ce aoe 














Annual Capacity : 
Thirty Million Paving Blocks 
Manafacturers of 


WIRE-CUT-LUG BLOCKS 
DUNN PATENT 


SOUTHERN CLAY 
MFG. CO. 


James Building 


CHATTANOOGA, TENN. 











GhAe Daily Capacity 

Trimble Paving Brick Co. =" 
800-801 U. B. Building Trimble, Ohio 
DAYTON, OHIO Glouster, Ohio 














92 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tax Amznican Crrv. 











THE AMERICAN CITY 





Headley Good Roads Co. 


30th and Spruce Streets 
PHILADELPHIA, PA. 


Asphalts and Oils | . 











Good Road Machinery | | 
for Good Roads 


We have a set for you! 
»pecifications |! th ( tructior Vitrific 


Brick Street Pavements and ( 
CRUSHERS SWEEPERS the Green Concrete Foundation Typs " th 
ELEVATORS BIN-SCREENS brick direct upon the green mortar) or Sand Cement 
een BEG. Sita car a ag eeamanta naehealae eum ain ae 
engineers and extensiv i They wi 


Write for interesting illustrated catalog 


engineers and others interested upon re 


Universal Road Machi NATIONAL PAVING BRICK 
Kingston, N. Y ch os Co. MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION 
gston, N.Y. Boston Harrisburg Will P. Blair, Secy. Engineers Bldg., Cleveland, O. 














Almost every municipality has spent money acquiring titl¢ 
u ge : to land for sludge disposal—but in sludge there is value— 
it can be sold at a profit when it is formed in certain ways. 


SANITATION R-W PROCESS 


The Sanitation R-W Process produces screen- ming action recovers most of the fat and grease 
ings, which are in condition, easily handled, for with the solids. 
value recovery treatment. R-W screenings have full manurial and grease 
Handles the sewage while it i ty ckim. Values and consequently high monetary value. 
€ ile it is fresh—by skim A R-W installation is relatively inexpensive. 
The various features of the Sanitation R-W Process are 
fully described in our large Bulletin G-3. Write for copy. 
THE SANITATION CORPORATION, - 50 Church St., New York City 
Apparatus, Equipment and Complete Plants for Sewage Disposal 





| 
| 





Club Rates for The American City 


In view of the fact that many municipalities, chambers of commerce and civic organizations desire 
tosubscribe for a number of copies of THE AMERICAN CITY for distribution among their officers, 
committeemen, etc., the publishers of THE AMERICAN CITY have arranged a special schedule of 
rates for clubs of subscriptions which will be quoted on application. These club rates are also 
available for individuals who wish to arrange for a number of subscriptions for their friends 


ATLANTIC @ 


Asphalt Products -s:cuse« 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 93 














THE AMERICAN CITY 








NEEDED 
BY 
EVERY 
CITY 





Its sturdy FIVE TON body, its powerful, quick turning and easily handled 
tractor part constitute a haulage equipment which has no equal. Goes anywhere. 
The adaptability of the TRACTOR is almost limitless. 

The bottom dump is just like that of the famous WATSON DUMPING 
WAGON. Find out why the 100% WATSON TRACTORTRUCK will give 
better service on heavy haulage work at lower cost. It reduces the cost per ton 
mile. 


EVERY CITY should have its fleet of WATSONS. Let us tell you why. 
WATSON WAGON CO., 30 W. Center St, CANASTOTA, N. Y. 











The Dust Nuisance Remedied 


The Austin Combination Sprinkler-Sweeper has 
solved the problem of sweeping dusty streets. 


The sprinkler spray discharges in 
front of the broom, precipitating dust 
that tends to rise and at the same time 
accumulating the sweepings in a suitable 
condition for easy removal. The spray 
can be regulated instantly by the opera- 
tor so as not to unduly wet the pave- 
ment or make the sweepings sticky. 

The two-speed broom on this ma- 
chine is a special feature. By increas- 
ing the speed of rotation the broom 
sweeps more vigorously where dirt is 
heavy, with better results and very 
slight increased pull on the horses. When the broom becomes worn, using the 
high gear remedies the loss of periphey speed in the smaller diameter of broom 
and equals the work of a new broom. 


THE AUSTIN-WESTERN ROAD MACHINERY C0., Chicago 


We manufacture a full line of road-making, earth-handling and rock-crushing machinery 











94 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 




















THE AMERICAN CITY 











Choose the Right Road Roller 


When you investigate and compare Case Road Rollers with other makes 
then only will you know why Case Rollers are considered by townships, con- 
tractors and road builders as the right rollers. 

Designed by road engineers, built carefully to Case standards of construction, | 
they are playing a very important part in good road construction, because in 
them are embodied the qualities that guarantee maximum service at minimum 
cost. 

Road builders, road or highway commissioners, or any one interested in 
better roads will find our Case Road Machinery Catalog filled with interesting 
information concerning good roads and good road equipment. It’s free for the 
asking. Send today for your copy. 


J. 1, CASE T. M. COMPANY, Inc. 


796 LIBERTY ST. RACINE, WIS. 


The sign of The sien 
Mechanical Mechar 

Excellence Excellence 
the world over ¢ wor 
































Specify and use 
‘“*PIONEER”’ Expan- 
LITY FIRST sion Joint Compound, 
a pure asphalt joint 
with or without a 
meshed fabric rein- 
forcement, easy and 
economical to handle 
and one hundred per- 
cent. efficient. 








‘“*“PIONEER” bitumi- 
nous products repre- 
sent quality, each one 
is a standard in its line. 


en you buy “PI- . $ Pe, 
ONEER™ youbuymore The Pioneer Asphalt Co. i 
] 


than the products, you 


buy “PIONEER” Qual- LAWRENCEVILLE, ILL. srs 


ity and Service. 











When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American Ciry. 95 








THE AMERICAN CITY 











The Power Ahead 
The Max Tractor 


FOR MUNICIPAL SERVICE 
Detachability — Reliability — Accessibility — 
Maximum hauling capacity for lowest original in- 
vestment. Fits any type of Trailer—Bottom 
Dumping—End Dumping—Low Hung—Flusher— 
Sprinkler—Fire Apparatus, etc. Our big illus- 
trated bulletin, ‘‘Hauling Costs Reduced,” pic- 
tures Knox Tractors with various forms of trailers. 








The Load Behind Write for your copy today. 








KNOX MOTORS ASSOCIATES Springfield, Mass. 
QOS}83 (0) [ON 


BROOMS and BRUSHES for 
MUNICIPALITIES 


Push Brooms— (Bamboo, Rattan, Bass, Wire and Mixtures); 
Gutter and Street Brooms; Snow, Switch and Frog Brooms; 





Won Gold Medal At The 


Grouting Brooms; Rotary Brooms—For Machine Sweeping; San Francisco Exposition 1915 
—_e ee | | a wom 
RADER MANUFACTUR . 
THE OseORN MANUFACTURING Co ween 


New York Chicago Detroit San Francisco Rapecmtatess Re 25 Pelasipsl Cities. 




















FOR 


sap BOSTON OBFICE THE DUSTOLINE FOR ROADS CO. 
Phone: 1769 Haymarket SUMMIT, i * Phone 33 


DUSTORs 











BUFFALO PITTS REVERSIBLE HAULING WAGONS 


CUT HAULING COSTS IN HALF 


In use by the 


Can be pulled or 
backed around 
right angle corners, 
all cars tracking 
perfectly. 


most progressive 
contractors, muni- 
cipalities and min- 


ing companies 





If you have material to move, let us send you records of actual accomplishments and full 
description of these wagons. 


BUFFALO SPRINGFIELD ROLLER COMPANY, Springfield, O. 








96 When writing to Advertisers please mention Toe American Crry. 




















THE AMERICAN CITY 


| 
eV 2 oe 
— = 2 $ 
— 7. ash <i See 








The Hooke Portable 
Asphalt Patcher 


This is Designed for Repairing 
SHEET ASPHALT and Other 
BITUMINOUS PAVEMENTS 


Full Directions for its Operation 
Furnished with Each Outfit. Write 
for Prices and Further Information. 


ROBT. HOOKE, Chattanooga, Tenn. 


The Power of 




















SANITARY CARTS 
For Garbage, Night Soil, Material from Sewers, Inlets, Etc. 
MADE FOR 1 OR 2 HORSES. Write for Catalogue 
GEO. H. HCLZB0G & BRO., Jeffersonville, Indiana 











60 cu. yds. a day 
if you need it 

On nine jobs out of ten’ 
you can't use more than 60 
cu. yds. of concrete a day. 
You will get all the mixing 
you need from one “ Big- 
an-Litle’” mixer. Capac- 
ity 6 cu. ft. loose materials. 
Output up to 60 cu. yds. 
of mixed concrete a day— 
i” mix a minute.” 

When you get a big “ob, handle it with several 
“ Big-an-Litles."" They never lie idle waiting for a 
job to fit them. 

It will pay you to investigate this well-made mixer. 

Write for catalog—now. 


JAEGER MACHINE COMPANY 
215 West Rich Street, Columbus, Ohio, U.S. A. 














Concrete 


I at 






‘ya 


Beneath rivers concrete 
tubes transport daily the 
countless thousands from 
their homes to the working 
place. Above the concrete 
docks great bridges span the 
channels, safely rooted on 
piers of concrete. Every- 
where the Power of Con- 
crete solves the problems 
of the modern cities’ growth. 


Lehigh Cement meets the 
most exacting requirements 
for every type of concrete 
construction. Twelve great 
mills located from coast to 
coast, having an annual ca- 
pacity of over 12,000,000 
barrels, afford aservice and 
a quality that have made 
Lehigh the National Cement. 


Ask your dealer for Lehigh Cement 


LEHIGH PORTLAND CEMENT COMPANY 
Chicago, Ill. Allentown, Pa. Spokane, Wn. 


LEHIGH 


CEMENT 


Member of Portland Cement Association 


Concrete for Permanence 





When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amenican City. o% 








| RANT SLE NESE AREO 


BITOSLAG 


Registered U. S. Patent Office 


THE 


AMERICAN CITY 








ENGINEERS 


in communities where 
slag abounds as Penn- 
sylvania, New Jersey, 
Western New York, 
Ohio, Northern Indi- 
ana, Southern Michi- 
gan, West Viginia 
and certain sections of 
Virginia and Alabama, 
should investigate the 
merits of BITO-SLAG 
PAVEMENTS. Can be 
seen in Philadelphia, 
Pa., and Allegheny 
County, Pa. 





An improved Asphaltic Concrete Pave- 
ment which has stood the test of 
time. 


Manufactured by a special process 
using crushed slag as the chief min- 
eral aggregate. 

Can be laid on concrete, macadam, 


slag or brick. 


Economical. 
Darable. 
Non-slippery. 


Especially desirable for resurfacing 
brick, macadam, or stone block. 


Also can be successfully laid on con- 
crete or complete slag foundation. 








Correspondence Invited 


THE BITOSLAG PAVING COMPANY 


90 West Street, New York 








When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 


DODEQERAOGGSEGUEQEGUOCEOUGSSGOSSCCCCSSSEOGSCORECECCEOGGRGUDEROGCEOCEEROGGERGERCCGERCLEQOGEOOQRGCEROGOCCGERCCGEGGESCGHEOOQCUCOEOGGOOOREODOROOREOREEGORy: 

















THE AMERICAN CITY 


CONCRETE 





FOR PERMANENCE 





Better roads at smaller cost 


The concrete road is as durable as tle rock of which 
itis made. The shock of Hérses’ hoofs, the suck of auto 
tires, the remorseless wear anid tear of traffic and weather 
affect it very little. ' 

The initial cost of concrete is only one-third more than 
macadam—its maintenance hardly one-twentieth of 
macadam. That is why concrete is by far the most 
economical road to build. 


Atlas Road Building Service 


Our Highway Department will gladly prepare plans, proposals 
and cost estimates, and will arrange for inspection if desirable. Send 
coupon for our free book, ““Concrete Highway Construction." 


The Atlas Portland Cement Co. 


30 Broad St., New York Corn Ex. Bank Bldg., Chicago Conerete Road built with 
Philadelphia Boston St. Louis Minneapolis Des Moines Dayton S22 tAcias Portland Cement 








The Atlas Portland Cement Co., 30 Broad St., New York, Send me your book—‘‘Concrete Highway Construction” 
or Corn Exch. Bank Bldg., Chicago 


: . . . Name ...... 
(Add data below if you desire approximate cost estimate) — 
Length of proposed road.............. TE WEEBsccccs nine Address ...... jcnseeaienes 
Sand Gravel Stone Unskille 
GO ci cencsccsecvetoséaccs RE cccwcccccscccecses Case cccccces Cost 




















Be acid i 
For Repair Jobs Dustless and Durable Roads 


ce 99 may be secured and maintained by the use of the ad binder 
Solvay Granulated Calcium Chloride \ 4} kly works 


lown into the road-bed, caus 








. ° ° resistance against wear and raveling. It provi : ven 
Combination Heating Kettle and rface, absolutely free from dust. ‘Ty » season are 
lly er h to keep a road in pertect iditi where average 





Pouring Pot 


traffic conditions prevail. 


Ieee * SOLVAY Granaated Calcium Chloride 


dorless, cleanly to handle, and does not injure rubber dires, or 
pe teatriane’ shoes sive apparatus r expert labor is 
sary to apply it—and there is no need he road, while 
I treated. Under most severe t 
elf a most practical and ¢ 
It s freedom from all 
lated Calcium Chloride speci 
highways, residen tial streets, parkway and 


THE TARRANT MEG. CO. Copy of the “Solvay Road Booklet” sent postpaid upon reques 


. Pi . . Splendid opportunity for local agents 
12 Maple Ave. Saratoga Springs, N. Y. SEMET-SOLVAY CO., 410 Milton Avenue, Solvay, N.Y. 


This combination can be used practically on any 
small job and is suitable for heating and pouring all 
kinds of bituminous road preparations. It takes less 
men, less time and less money to operate. 












Let us send you information about how it is buill 
Write now. 























When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City 99 








THE AMERICAN CITY 





The SURVIVAL of the FITTEST 


Centuries of sun have sizzled the homely Gila monster. The 
relentless rays of the southern sun beat down upon him bitterly 

but unheeded. The warty Gila thrives on the baking, 
barren sands; his tribe continues to increase. Nature has 
made him fit for a continuous hot time. 


Only that can survive which has been fitted to survive 
by Nature. Nature’s time-tested asphalt— 


DA\D)aspaatr 


has survived, like the Gila monster, because of its eminent 
fitness. 


Centuries of exposure to the elements have seasoned 
Trinidad. And its superiority to “manufactured bitumens”’ 
has been amply demonstrated by 35 years of service—35 
years of proof that Nature chooses infallibly. 


The durability of Nature’s asphalt is explained in “The 
Asphalt Primer.” Write for a copy. 


The Barber Asphalt Paving Company 
Philadelphia, Pa. 


100 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 
































THE AMERICAN CITY 

















SO-Nozzle Aerating ond 
Akron (Otto) Water Works 






Just One Branch 
of SPRAY Service! 


The beautiful aerating pond of the Akron 
Ohio) Water Works shown above is an 
example of how a highly specialized organiza 
tion can plan and equip a sprinkling, coolin 





or aerating system and obtain not 
desired engineering result but make of it 
‘ SPRACO” NOZZLI landscape feature. This one phase of tl 


SPRAY company Service 


is typical of the many ways in which we can serve you in the di 





equipment of aerating ponds, cooling ponds, sewage spraying syste! 
and cemetery sprinkling and fountain systems, odor cond 
kind of irrigation and spraying work. 
We can aid you on such problems as praying insec 
asphalt or heavy road binders and can ish sprinkl 
types for g parks, c 
tennis coul 
Books covering our different line f SPRAY 


SERVICE are yours for the asking. 
Send name and address at once for 
more of these bulletins you may be 


They are free and will go fast o act now! 


SPRAY ENGINEERING COMPANY 


Little Giant Travelling Sprinkle — 
ittle Giant Travelling Sprinkler 5 Federal Street, Boston, Mass. 




















Makes your track paving frost-proof 


AST ring | k t i ock that it maintains a perfect seal through 
* ollected 1 t ow er and winter When the blocks contract 
0d k \ ‘ i i 1 weather, the pitch simply sinks a little lower 
idjoinir t t thr t int it neve? lets go of the block 
Da : 
Le : : : , h in warm weather Barrett's Paving Pitch 
nas ony as ; : P k expansion troubles unknown Ever oint 
ad . sae Se nm ¢ , , int. There is never any pressure 
. a rails or the curb 
" 
ed pavement is quieter and k rever 
nt filler . t , . rant under the passing car It permits the re 
ral rl rat ' : . I il of the blocks at any time for track repair 
har \ t tt . | tion of the pavement, for the am 
tr ch 


ilways be put back in place 
On t engineers of the Special Service Depart 
Barrett Company has made a special 
Pavir I how t tudy of track paving problems. The results of 
I ly and experience are at your service 


The Gavel Company 


C nat Pittsburgh 
ty ttle Peoria 


Tue PaTerR I t Mont * W g, Va iver, St. John, N.B., Halifax, N.S., Sydney, N.S 





uf ‘ Cale 








ne t rtisers please mention THe American City. 














