ee 


| 
| 











September 
1916 











~ 


U 


iN 





pus Pertlend ‘Maine Water D 





istrict 


— —-- 


— — 


35 Cents 
$3.00 a Year 














— 


EEE 





THE AMERICAN CITY 











“Not the name of a thing, but the mark of a service” 


MAZDA Service—a system- 
atic research for making 
eood lamps better 


The Meaning of MAZDA 


MAZDA is the t k of ¢ rid-wide service to 
ertain lamp ma rere. Its purpose is to collect and 
ect cic practical information g 
n the rt of neandescent 

this information t 

s Service MAZDA 

ervice is centered the Research Laboratories ot the 
( eral Electric ¢ 
mark MAZDA car Meg n lamps which 

t standards of MAZDA Ser It is thus an as 
This trademark is the property of 





(en RESEARCH LABORATORIES OI} 


i 


ZO) GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY 











When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 





ws 











NEW YORK 
SEPTEMBER, 
NUMBER 3 1916 


VOLUME XV 



































A New Census Report of Municipal Statistics 


Hike Bureau of the Cens vith San renist te 
L.. Rogers as Director, has estab he pi ». 
lished a record of efficiency by the ! % : 
prompt publication of “Financial Statistics ro a 


of Cities” for the fiscal year 1915.7 Total 











lhe report just published presents statis t propert t 
tics of the financial transactions of the 204 The introduction cal ttent to th 
cities, each of which had a population ot liversity of organization and ace g 
over 30,000 at the middle of the fiscal yea \merican citi nd gives the thods of 
1915, and of the financial condition of thos harmonizing ed | t Ire 
cities at the close of the fiscal vear Ch the Census in these rt tlat pre 
principal subjects covered are sents definitions 
1. Total and per capita receipts f1 revi the classification of | cial data ith the 
ies. and from the principal classes thereof hope that the continued discus of these 
> | n - . vine} 1 : 
2 lotal ind per capita payments 1! ( important subirects 
( s reports of special interest to 1 uniformity in the s¢ r tecn { 
Financial Statistics of Cities ing terms and to a clearet er 
Stat s of Cities In reply ‘ 1 
rt \M can City as to the ate of publication f the administrative pt ( - 
<< wahects disinn secant ¥ Direc R cas 
: fi those charge | ith the ness administt 
Below Ss given i tatement concerning the 1 tion oft our la ¢ Refert ‘ th 
ort t tatistics of cities tor the eat 1909 A vs ] 1 | 
1911 and 1912, when the fiscal year reported was f intiquated an verse methods which st 
the period ending January 31, or the first ng “ter 1 } 
r thereto this statement also ers the f ch RCteT IZ . - : 
1915, the fiscal year having beer Ange to J port Savs 
r the first date prior theret The dates g 
resent 1) the date on whi ch report w \l 1 1 tne s LLieT I 
ted in the Bureau of the Census and transmitted to American ‘as ‘ t 
print for final print, and (2) the date eae al F 
report w actually ready for distributior F. S led eror ¢ . 
cates Financial Statistics of Cit ind G. S., introduced revenue expenst nts t 
General Statistics ft Cites easure the re white s ‘ nie ] 
“F. S., 1909, Dec. 16, 1912, Fe 191 ! ct S est 
be > 1910, Feb. 1, 1913, Ay » 191 ‘ 
“F. S., 1911, Nov. 15, 1913. Dec. 8, 191 nown im the she , 
“F. S.. 1912, Feb. 1, 1914, Tune 9, 1914 ints, 1 1 { | 
“F. S., 1915, Feb. 14, 1916, Aug. 7, 1916 emia Thae 
‘“G. S., 1909, July 23, 1913, Sept. 19, 1913 Si : 
G. S., 1915, Jan. 22, 1916, Apr. 18, 1916 reterence to revel 
“In regard to the 1915 report on financi tistics ments with reteren 
ft cities, which w is transmitte to the ter ft , ¥ the « sts t 
il print February 14, 191¢ 1 not received fr ary een eS 1 
the printing office until August 7, 1916, I : “th i 
t t as Congress was in sess ere \ ¢ nas een a it 
nt of work in tl which ] ir 
report was delaved on account " ) f 
; : expense 
tl report should have bee ready for tt t ; a 
in May, 1916.” receipt qd payinent th rete 
The report just published was prepare nate the nue and governt 
ipervision of Starke M. Grogan, chief statistician f 
e Cel Ss endeéa 
tates and cities, with the cooperation of Arthur | - : 1 
Hirsch, Lemuel A, Caruthers and Morris J. Hole which esult fro » nd 











> 
A, 























7 ” 
be 
y SI6I :000°08 UAAO 
40 NOILV1NdOd 
= \ : V ONIAVH SaILI9 
20 ROUT) Oak 
S 
\ AS ss SALVLS GALINA AHL 40 dv 
~~ ° 
vaid0l a? yNvISINOT 
~ e “- - < 
"8 ywvaviv 
ne ’ oe 
aaa om. om - 
™ VWOHWIXO 
’ ' > 
< (paynriouv9 HHO 


- AMONLLNG* 
ae HN et iMNOSSIN 
Siow - 


= 


0.2. \yNVION! 


“OIHO 
° le “ 
4 fe #3 ’ 
. - » “oe “e | 
ae ve 
noe v WYO | 
oa es } { Nisnoosim 
4 SP *. 


/ 


Ay 
os J 
, ie. 2 pf VLOS3NNIW 
» Some pe LL 
. ‘Le yf 
é VLOAVO HLYON 
om 
a 
—, 











WROUE) ON PPR E Owe) OP We eeD 











i; 











SeErTEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 45 


ts agents reclassify, from origi 
nal vouchers, the revenues and 
vovernmental costs, or receipts 
ind payments of cities. Such 


a reclassification, even tho made 


by skilled accountants with a 
large expenditure of clerical 
ibor and money, cannot be the 
basis of as comparable statistics 
is would result from the clas- 
sification by intelligent public 
officials at the time of the origi- 
nal audit. It overcomes some, 
hut not all, of the difficulties 
which now exist. These diffi 
ulties will diminish as fast as 
the cities here referred to can 
be brought to see the wisdom 
of adopting a common and 
scientific classification of all 
revenues and governmental 
costs, or of receipts and pay 
ments.” 


Many interesting and im 


GRouPrs OF CITIES WITH 
SPECIFIED POPULATION 


OVER 600000 
BOSTON, M4SS. 


BALTIMORE, MO 


PER CENT 


te) 20 40 60 80 100 
1916 y 


1910 
1900 
1890 
1880 
1876 
1860 
+850 
1840 
4830 
1820 
1810 
1800 
1790 4 UL Lt 4 “Y GU, UYU / Z 





WAIFA P€R CENT IN CITIES WITH $0,000 OR MORE POPULATION 
ZZ, PER CENT OUTSIDE SUCH CITIES 
PER CENT OF THE TOTAL POPULATION OF THE UNITED 


STATES IN CITIES OF OVER 30,000 INHABITANTS, AND 
OUTSIDE OF SUCH CITES, FOR SPECIFIED YEARS 
FROM 1790 TO 1915 
ver 30,000. That was New 
York, which at that time had 
33,131 inhabitants The two 


cities then ranking next were 





To §00000 
WASHINGTON, 0. C. 


NEW ORLEANS, LA, 


Philadelphia, with 28,522 in- 
habitants, and Boston, with 





#00000 TO 300000 
SPRINGFIELD, MASS. 


BIRMINGHAM ALA. 





18,320. In 1915 the total 
\ 


estimated population of th 


204 cities of over 30,000 In 





TO 100000 
ATLANTIC CITY, M. J. 


ALLENTOWN, Pa 





habitants was 31,168 150, or 


31 per cent of the entire 





30000 TO 60000 
NEWTON, MASS. 
NORRISTOWN. PA 


Beeey EDUCATION 
GRSSSS H ce wars 


PER CAPITA NET PAYMENTS I 
DEPARTMENTAL EXPENSES 


WITH SPECIFIED POPULATION: 1915 


portant facts are illustrated 
hy twenty-seven graphic dia- 
grams, three of which are 
here reproduced. What the 
report rightly characterizes 
as “one of the most striking 
social facts of the last cen- 
tury” is the greater increase 
in the population of cities 
than of smaller places or of 
farming communities. In 
1790, when its first census of 
population was taken, the 
United States had but one 
city with a population of 





GARRETD conseavarion oF neat 
FAZZ4O.'\CE OEPARTMENT & 





| 
| . ; 
| population of the United 
| States 


} ‘ 6 
lo show graphica ly the 


wide variation in depart 


IGENFRAL GOVERNMENT . 


FZ CHARITIES HOSPITALS. AND CORRECTIONS mental expenses per capita, 


GB ire cerantwent =) an ovner 


as reported by municipalities 


OR SPECIFIED GENERAI of approximately the same 
BY GROUPS OF CITIES - 4 : 
size, five pairs of cities have 





° 4 
10:6 LZAAZZZIZ7IE 
ee eR 







: Soe 

1908 VILIZITILTZ ES 
Rin Av bean 

1903 LLLALZZT RS 











EDUCATION PROTECTION TO PERSON AND PROPERTY 
TD GENERAL GOVERNMENT <3] HIGHWAYS 
GRE conservation oF HEALTH RBBB acc ornea 
CHARITIES, HOSPITALS, ANO CORRECTIONS 
TER CAPITA NET PAYMENTS FOR GENERAI DEPART 


MENTAL EXPENSES OF ALL CITIES OF OVER 30,0 
POPULATION 





























246 THE AMERICAN CITY Vo... XV, No. 3 















































quan - — 2 _ — — tas 
| | 
Table AXRVEE PROEECTION 70 Fe %ON ANI Santis | EDUCATION 
< y . Charities, 
| Conver | tion, Miscella- 
General hospi 
. - — —_———————|_ vation | promo | High- Reous 
YEAR. | Total. | govern- ; | tion of | ways. and tion? 
| ment, | Polce | Fee Alt | health, | clesnlb 1 goperal.t 
depart | depart | iis tions. | Schools!) vucs 
ment ment! 
1915 $18 45 $2.10 $2.08 u6 os 0 $1.46 | $2.06 1. ou Om pe na 
1915 72 20 2.00 157 0.32 0.35 1.40 1.6% Lu 46 02 on 0.71 
mi £ 1 62 | 238 212 1a on os iL“ 2.04 LW 5.08 on 0.65 os 
1 16 67 | 1% 20 1.57 on om 1m 171 1.10 aun 0.3% 055 oO“ 
io 15.95 1.86 1o is on on lw 1 1.05 4a O27 os 0” 
rans, 18s | 1 1.85 10 on O72 1.13 L@ oO 39 0.19 0.47 ou 
loos iw) 1.46 1.) 1» 023 02 on 1 0.86 36 0.19 oss O77 


pot ! Paymen et tor pensions ar incited ia column “ Miscellaneous and general” for 
lice, fire, sc! | departments 


191, 





1913, and 1915; for the years 1903 to 1909 they are included with expenses of the 


s Payments fos « pengenees of art galleries and museums are included in column “ Recreation” for 1911, 1913, and 1915; for the years 1903 to F909 they are included with the 





























expenses 
PER CAPITA NET PAYMENTS FOR DEPARTMENTAL EXPENSES 
been grouped in one of the diagrams. An- service enterprises”; nor does it include 
other diagram shows the average per capita “municipal outlays,” defined in the report 
payments for general departmental expenses as “the costs of properties, including land, 
of all cities of over 30,000 population for buildings and equipment, and public im- 
specified vears from 1903 to 1915. These fig- provements of a more or less permanent 
ures are given in detail in Table XXVIII of | character, which are acquired or con- 
the report, reproduced above. The term — structed by municipalities for use in the 
“department expenses” as used by the Cen- exercise of their municipal functions or in 
sus Bureau does not include the cost of connection with the business enterprises 
operating and maintaining such municipal undertaken by them.” 
undertakings as water-supply and gas sup- Another table here reproduced will be of 
ply systems, which are classed as “‘public special interest to the readers of Tue 
ch Commission 
po 4 STATE AND CITY c Departments 
ber 7 operative— 
ALABAMA 
| . 10, Finance ks; Publis justice. 
ie ee: ’ a ie eit Gas ane =! oor, where a ng ned lect marets ts, revenue, and finance, public buildings and institn- 
tions and (heir im: t, tire, lighting markets, parks and playgrounds; Health, justice, sani- 
tat SE: .— ~4—— teries, meat and milk, weights and measures: 
146 | Montgomery... ee Apr. 10,1911 | Public $s, Accounts ts and finance ; Police and fire; Streets and parks; Public prpperty and public improvements. 
CAMPORNLA. 
wae . July 1,1909 | Finance and revenoe; Public health and safety; Public works; Public 
% pa ha sence ee July 1, 1911 | Public affairs; Revenue and finance; Pui Public health and salety: ht oy 
too | Recremento...” lie ie Pulte aus Pubs funee, Pubic sey; Public wares, Ft 
none " u! 
4 el phiay 3, 1909 | Finance; Stor and gehen, Fire, sewers " pulldiags, ant clectrtolty; Streets; Water! 
COLORADO 
196 | Colorado Springs ~.--:| May 11,1909 | Waterworks; Finance; oper: Public works and property; Health and sanitation. 
Denver... ube vewsonseed June 1,1913 | Social welfare; Finance, ey 
118 | Pueblo....... <«eeeseee] Nov, 20,1911 | Mealth, sanitation, and supplies, and public safety; Highways and public works. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA | 
17 | Washington.................| Jume 11,1878 | Finsnce; Public safety; Public works 
ano 
203 | Boise... . . ‘tion | say 25,1912 | Police; Finance; Public safety; Streets; Parks and cemetery. 
TLLINOTS 
163 | Decatur... | M 1,1911 | Public affairs; Accounts and finance; Public health and safety; Streets and public improvements; Public propert: 
104 | Springfield ; Age. 17,1911 Public affairs, A coounts and finabce, Public health and safety: Streets and public improvements; Public ;. 
towa } 
173 | Cedar Rapids. . | Apr. 1,1908 | Public affairs; Accounts and finance; Public safety; Streets and public improvements; Parks ana public property. 
os Moines arull Ape. 1, 1908 | Public affairs; Accounts and finance; safety, Streets and public improvements, Parks and public property. 
111 | Sioux City | Apr. 4,1910 | Public a@airs, Accounts and finance; safety, Streets and public improvements, Parks and public property 
KANSAS | 
67 | Kansas Cit . _..| Apr. 8,1910 | Police and fire; Finance and revenue; Streets and public improvements; Parks and public buildings; Water and light. 
130 | Topeka. me . abe. §,1910 | Police and fire: Finance and revenve: Strests and public improwsments; Parks and public property  Femes and cess 
* Wichita vie Apr. 12,1909 fire, Finance and revenue; Streets and public improvements; Health, parks, and buildings; Water and light 
KENTUCKY 
108 Jan. 11,1014 Fabio saaiva: finance; Public safety; Public works; 
187 = jan. 1.1912 | Public affairs: 40 Puttic safet tity: Puc works, Pb property 
197 | Newport... onan Jan. 1,1912 Public affairs: Public finance; Public safety; Public works; Public property. 
LOUDSANA 
16 | New Orleans Dee. 2,1912 | Public finance; Pettis sntety; Pub ie weaaaias: Petite preps A 
0 | Shreveport. ... Nov. 14,1910 | Public Gmance; Public safety; Public utilities; Streets parks." 
MASSACHUSETTS. 
31 | Haverhill —oe J 4.1908 Accounts and finance Public safety; Streets and ; Public ; Health ond charities. 
€5 | Lawrence ; Jan. 7.1912 | Finance and public aifairs: Public Public salety; Property; Health and charities. 
50 | Lowell...... Jan. 41,1912) Pui Fimance, Streets and Water and fire protection; Public property and licenses. 
63 | Lynn... jan. 2.1911 Public slety Finan’ Strvets ant highwat. Water and waterwarus: Pubic propery, 
GIB secscaxvesvecocesonnnes 1,1913 Public safety; Finance: Public works, property; Public health. 
In addition tamnd the eager qnwetes gene over all 


2 Aten coction in Apel ith tbe agerial form of go 























—| 





eee. 


—E 
— ' 





1916 


SEPTEMBER, 


THE 





AMERICAN CITY 





24> 
24; 
_— —== = - = = = ——— a 
City Commission | 
pum STATE AND CITY fan | Depart ment 
bet operative— | : 
MICHIGAN | 
182 | Jackson. -»| Jan. , 1915 a 
112 | Saginaw. Jan ? lvl4 «| Meaty se afety; Finance blic works; Light, water, and sewers; Parks and cemeteries 
MINNESOTA | | 
71 | Dulgth Apr. 14,1913 | Public affairs; Finance; Public safety; Public works; Public utilities 
27 | Bt. Paul. June 1,1914 | Finance, l’ublic safety; 'ublic works; Public utilities; Parks, playgrounds, and public buildings; Education.* 
MISSOURI 
189 | Joplin. Apr. 20,1914 | Safety and public affairs; Revenue; Streets and public improvements; Public property and utilities; Health ang 
sanitation. 
NEBRASKA 
136 | Lincoln... ° May 13,1913 acouette and finance; Public safety; Streets and public improvements; Parks and public property * 
«2 | Omaha May 13,1912| Public aflairs 


NEW JERSEY 


Accounts and finance; Police, sanitation, and public safety; Fire protection and water; Public 
improvements, Street cleaning and maintenance, Parks ‘and public property 











113 | Atlantic City July 16.1912 | Public affairs; Revenue and finance; Public safety; Streets and public improvements; Parks and public property. 
% | Bayonne Apr. 21,1915 | Public affairs; Revenue and finance; Public safety; Streets and public improvements; Parks and public property. 
82 | Hoboken... Apr. 1,1915 | Public afairs; Revenue and finance, Public salety; Streets and public improvements, Parks and public property. 
2 | Jersey Cit June 17,1913 | Public affairs; Revenye and finance; Public safety; Streets and public improvements; Parks and public property. 
Ht | Orange... May 26,1914 | Public affairs; Revenue and finance; Public safety, Streets and public improvements; Parks and public property 
92 | Passaic Sept. 26,1911 | Public affairs; Revegue and finance; Public safety; Streets and public improvements; Parks and public propesty. 
5S | Trenton... Aug. 22,1911 | Public affairs; Revenue and finance; Public salety; Streets and public improvements, I’arks and public property. 
oulo. 
45 | Dayton... ..| Jan. 11,1914 ) 
122 | Springfield ---| Jam, 2,19t8} (4) 
OKLANMOMA. 

158 | Musk Apr. 11,1911 | Finance; Public safety; Public works and property; Water, light, and sewers.* 

73 | Oklahoma © ity: --| July 11,1914 | Public affairs; Finance and agcounting; !’ublic salety; Public works; Public property. 

OREGON. 
23 | Portland.... --«-+| July 1,1913 | Public safety; Finance; Public works; Public utilities; Public affairs. 
PENNSYLVANIA 

102 | Allentown. oo -.| Dec, 1,1913 | Public affairs; Accounts and nance; Publi¢ safety; Streets and public improvements; Parks and public property. 
108 | Altoona... --| Dec. 1,1913 | Public affairs; Accounts aad finance; Public sate treets and pub! lic improvements, Parks and publie propefty, 
149 | Chester ---| Dec, 1,1913 | Publiicaffairs; Accounts and finance; Public safety; Streets and public improvements; Parks and Laem sale oh 
SS | Erie. Dec. 1,1913 | Public affairs; Accounts and flaance; Public safety; Streets and public improvements; Parks and pub me pecoerty. 
90 | Harrisburg... Dec. 1,1913 











Publie affairs; Accounts and finance; Public safety; Streets and public improvements; Parks and public property, 





% | Johnstown..... -| Dee. 1,1913 | Public affairs; Accounts and finance; Public safety; Streets and public improvements; Parks and public property. 
135 | McKeesport... Dec. 1,1913 | Public affairs; Accounts and finance; Public s@tety; Streets and public improvements, Parks and publie property. 
14 | New Castle... Dec. 1,1913 | Public affairs; Accounts and finance; Public safety; Streets and public improvements; Parks and publie property. 
Sa ans... . Dec. 1,1913 | Publicaffairs; Accounts and finance; Public safety; Streets and public improvements; Parks — ceoes prceerty. 
53 | Wilkes- Dec. 1,1913 | Publicaffairs; Accounts and finance; Public safety; Streets and pub lic improvements, Fire an Solic property 
is6 | Williamsport ~--e-| Dee, 1,1913 fairs; Accounts and finance; Public safety; Streets and public improvements, oieen publie property. 
126 | York... «+-+++| Dee. 11,1913 | Public affairs; Accounts and finance; Public safety: Streets and public improvements; Parks and public property. 
| SOUTH CAROLINA 
184 | Columbia...... ‘ Mey 11,1910 | Police, finance, and he atin; Accounts, licenses, and fire; Streetsand public improvements; Parks, street lighting, etc.; 
Waterworks, schools, e' 
TENNESSEE 
107 | Chattanooga. | May 16,1911 | Fimance and public affairs; Fire and police; Streets and sewers; Public utilities, grounds, and buildings; Education 
and health 
162 | Knoxville Jan. 23,1912 | Finance and accounts; Public safety; Streets and public improvements; Parks and public property.* 
37 | Memphis. . : Jan. 1,1910 | Public affairs and health; Accounts, finance, and revenue; Fire and police; Streets, bridges, and sewers; Utilities, 
| grounds, and buildings 
48 Nashville. . | Oct. 14,1913 Public affairs, police andihealth; Finance, lights, and market house; Fire, sprirkling, and building inspection; Streets, 
| sewers, and sidewalks: Waterworks, street cleaning, and workhouse 
TEXAS 
185 | Austin. seeesl Apr. 19,1909 Public affairs; Disbursements and accounts; Police and public safety: Streets; Parks ant 7 alice property 
9 | Dallas June 1,1907 | Finance and revenue; Police and fire; Stteets and public property; W aterworks ks and se 
121 | El Paso ‘ Feb. 25,1907 | Tax and finance; Police and fire; Streets and ks; Water aad health 


@ | Fort Worth... 
151 | Galveston. . 
% | Houston. . 








Sept. 18,1901 | Finance and revenue; Police 


May 7,1907/ Finance; Fire and police; Streets and gable buildings; Water and sewers; L 


ights 
and fire; Streets and public property; Waterworks A sewerage 
July 1,1905 | Police; Taxes and land; Fire; Streets fa bri ter 


idges; Wal 
192 | Waco. Apr. 15,1909 Fimance; Police and fire; Streets and public improvements; Public health.* 
UTAH | 
| 
53 | Salt Lake City. Jan. 1,1912 | Public safety; Public affairs and Gnance; Streets and public iafprovements; Water supply and waterworks, Parks 
| and public property 
WASHINGTON | 
193 | Everett... | June 1,1912)| Fimance; Public safety; Public wor! 
39 | Spokane Mar. 14,1911 | Public utilities; Finance; Public saehy Pubiiec works; Public affairs 
57 | Tacoma. . May 2,1910 inapce ; Public safety; Public works; Light and d water.? 
WEST VIRGINIA | 
i41 | Huntington | June 1, 1900 | Protection; Finance; Streets; Health. 
WISCONSIN | 
179 | Ostkesh Apr. 15,1912 | Water; Streets; Building inspection 
138 | Saperior | Apr. 58,1912 | Public affairs, police, health, ete.; Finance and accounts; Streets and public Improvements 





' Commission-managet plan. Individual commissioners du not have charge of depart ments ~ 
4 Ln addition to the depurtments bere named the mayor exercises general supervision over al) depart ments. 


AMERICAN City. 
81 cities of over 30,000 population operat- 
ing under the commission form of govern- 
ment at the close of the fiscal year 1915, 
the rank of each city in population, the 
date on which the new form of government 
beeame effective, and the designations of 
the departments presided over by the sev- 
eral commissioners. In 56 of these cities 
each commissioner is elected as the head of 
a designated department, while in 21 of the 


This gives the names of 


others the assignments of commissioners to 
departments are made by the commissioners 
themselves. These 21 cities having the sys- 
tem last mentioned are: Sacramento, Cal.: 
Haverhill, Lawrence and Lowell, Mass.: 
Saginaw, Mich.; St. Paul, Minn.: Omaha, 
Neb.: Hoboken, Jersey City, Or- 
ange, Trenton, N. J.; Portland, 
Ore.; Allentown and Harrisburg, Pa.; Co- 
lumbia, S. C.; Austin, Tex.; Salt Lake City, 
Utah; Wash.; and Oshkosh, Wis. 


Bayonne, 
Passaic and 


lacoma, 


SR Ee 

















Planning Street Widths for Street Needs 
By Nelson P. Lewis 


Chief Engineer, Board of Estimate and Apportionment, New York City 


AVE not American cities in many in- 
stances gone too far in providing 
wide streets? or have they not, in- 

fluenced, perhaps, by the recent passion for 
standardizing everything, lost sight of the 
great difference in the needs of traffic and 
business streets and those which will be de- 
voted entirely to residences, in many of 
which the chief consideration is the pro- 
vision of decent and sanitary homes at a 
minimum of expense of land and improve- 
ments? The oldest cities, both in Europe 
and America, nearly always suffer from a 
lack of wide streets, and the cost of sup- 
plying them is so great as to be almost pro- 
hibitive. Yet too wide streets may prove 
to be a serious handicap in that they are 
likely to result in solidly built blocks of tall 
tenements, the rents in which are unduly 
high, owing to the fact that extravagant 
street improvements must be paid for by 
the property. Mr. Thomas Adams has ex- 
pressed the opinion that the system of block 
dwellings found in Germany and Sweden 
is as much the result of too wide streets 
as the need of wide streets is the result of 
compactly built tenements. Dr. Werner 
Hegeman, of Berlin, also says that “Ber- 
lin, with her 200,000 families in one-room 
dwellings, is suffering from too wide, too 
well-paved, and too highly organized roads, 
and from the extensive high tenement 
houses that seem necessarily to result from 
too expensive roads carried into purely 
dwelling-house districts.” 

The size of the individual building plot, 
and consequently the size of the blocks, 
which are simply groups of plots, will be 
determined by the distances between the 
streets, or it might be more accurate to say 
that in the final subdivision into streets the 
customary size of the plots and the manner 
in which they are combined in blocks de- 
termines the distance between streets and, 
to a certain degree, their location. 

What, then, is the reasonable and eco- 
nomic size of building plot units? This 
size is likely to be determined by an estab- 
lished policy, which is a habit rather than 
a result of a study of the possibilities of 


economic development or its effect upon so- 
cial conditions. In New York the standard 
plot is 20 or 25 feet wide by 100 feet in 
lepth. The width varies in the different 
parts of the city, but the depth of 100 feet 
s almost invariable. If an owner desires 
nore than one lot, he buys several of these 
units, but the buildings, with very few ex- 
ceptions, have frontages which are multi- 
ples of this standard lot width, and only 
in cases where they extend thru the block 
from street to street is their depth more 
than 100 feet, or such proportional part of 
that depth as the building laws permit to be 
occupied, 

This lot depth prevails alike in commer- 
cial, manufacturing and residential districts, 
whether the last named be devoted to costly 
detached houses, to compactly built tene- 
ments, or to small houses designed for 
workmen or small salaried clerks. In any 
case, the number of square feet to be ac- 
quired for each foot of frontage is the 
same, whether it is to be used by a great’ 
manufacturing or commercial concern, by a 
man of wealth for the erection of a fine 
mansion, or by the person of slender means 
who is obliged to borrow the money to pro- 
vide a home, and where the payment of 
interest on his mortgage taxes his resources 
to the utmost. The price per front foot 
will, of course, vary with the character of 
the neighborhood and with the width of 
the street and the cost of its improvement ; 
but with the street width, as well as the 
lot size, rigidly standardized, the workman 
who desires a cheap home suffers a serious 
and unfair handicap. And it matters not 
whether he tries to own his own home or, 
as in most cases, rents one; the burden 
runs right with the land, and if he does 
not pay in interest he pays in rent. 

The man of wealth can afford to pay for 
a large plot to accommodate his home. The 
poor man should have the opportunity to 
pay for as little land as will provide the 
homes he wishes, with an insurance of suf- 
ficient light and air about it to make the 
home decent and healthful. A cottage 25 
or 30 feet in depth does not need a lot 100 


" 














“ 



































—_ 
SEPTEMBER, 1916 Pili AMERICAN CITY 49 
feet deep to accommodate it Whi ther t ar re it , | | 
en sah a ga mee ~~ I r an acre In ‘ ay it. ror streets ha 2 

;, a cottage, widths of 60 and 8o feet, the standard road 

whether it he for occupancy or rent, be ab‘ Vays in the city under consi leration ire 34 
. to secure a lot of suitable size on which to feet and 44 fleet respectively, with sick 

piace it? lf the back 

vard abutting against a } J 

similar back yard on the i" a 
j next street were used as \Y") ] 
A a garden, the case n ight TT Tt TTT rrTTrttTt rTtttth 
: le different: but, even > . as hems 

where there is room for J > BRE TTT t T 

them, gardens are seldom 

made, and in most cases 

the reduction in the cost ¥ a 

of the site would more than offset the value 

of the rear garden, especially where ther¢ J rity TT 

is space for some planting in the front or ' —_ 

where public gardens or small parks are l] 

Fi provided in the neighborhood. With lots 
of less depth the street widths could also he = 
less, assuming always that the ordinances 

. are such as will prevent the intensive de 
velopment of shallow lots with compact! = 
built tenements four stories or more in IG. 1.—PLAN SHOWING A CONVENTIONAI 
height. METHOD OF SUBDIVIDING A TRIANGULAR 

. y ; AREA INTO BLOCKS 200 BY 700 FEET BY 
The accompanying illustrations show an STREETS 60 AND 80 FEET WIDI 

area approximately triangular in shape b _ Resulting in acute intersections with ‘ 

. . - . unding street, and providing building te 40 feer 
tween bounding streets Ico feet and 8o feet vide and 100 feet deep 
in width. Both are taken 
from a plan of one of the ete ‘Santee on 

. : 


eastern cities of the - sot] 
United States. The first hd a 
plan shows the system of : 
streets by which this area Fi 
| : is subdivided and the man- 

ner in which each block is 

cut into building plots, 

the standard width of which is . 
with a depth of 100 feet. These streets rs 


are simply a continuation of a rigid rec 















Call 


tangular system which covers the entire 

territory surrounding the particular area 

under consideration. The development con 

templated is evidently one of detached 

houses for one or two families. The sec 
q ond plan shows an alternative scheme of 
' development using streets 50 feet and 40 . 

feet in width with plots having frontages 7, S DIVIGDN yg pF, pe 
of 50 feet and depths of 60 feet. The en \REA BY STREETS 40 AND 50 FEET WIDE 


— 





Giving better junctions with t diagonal bounding 
eet, and providing building plots 50 feet wide and 
60 feet deep, and | 


24.93 acres. Under the first plan 24 per s small neighborhood park 


tire area between the bounding streets is «, 


cent of the area is devoted to streets and .- 

walk pavements 5 feet in width. In the 
7® per cent to lots; under the second plan — ajternative plan the streets 40 feet and 50 | 
20 per cent is given up to streets and 74 feet wide are assumed to have roadwavs of 
16 feet and 20 feet respectively, while all 
ever, is included a small park slightly over sidewalk pavements are 4 feet wide. In 


per cent to lots; in the second plan, how- 


























250 I 1] Ie 


the second plan the amount of curbing will 
be 58 per cent greater, of sidewalks 26 per 
cent greater, of sewers 97 per cent greater 
than under the first, but the area of pave 
ment will be 26 per cent less. 

The cost of the land is estimated to be 
$3,000 an acre and the tract to be so nearly 
level that the slight amount of grading re- 
quired is included in the cost of paving. 
The entire cost of development under the 
two methods of subdivision is indicated in 


the following table: 


AMERICAN CITY 





Vor. XV, No. 3 





Fig. 2 
Cost of land . $74,790 
CORE cdecacenes 4,625 
Asphalt pavement 26,653 
Cement walks ..... 10,480 
SOWCTE vweccveses 9,360 
Tee GO avianctwesnacs $122,060 $123,908 
Or if macadam is substituted 
for asphalt pavement ...... 108,985 113,528 
Total number of pldts....... 204 259 
\verage area of plots, sq. ft... 4,041 3,033 
Cost per plot with ashalt pave- 
SE nn ag nneceahebae ee eens $598.33 $478.41 
Cost per plot with macadam 
PRVEMCME occ cvccccecesons 533.75 438.33 


Eprror’s Note.—The foregoing paragraphs are re- 
irinted by permission from the author’s new book on 
“The Planning of the Modern City.” 





The Financing and Entertaining of Conventions* 
By Fred Clayton Butler 


Executive Secretary, Jamestown (N. Y.) Board of Commerce 


ONVENTIONS have a twofold value. 
First, there is the money they leave 
in a city to enter the channels of 

trade. The second is the advertising value 
to the city. There are conventions, how- 
ever, which have little or no commercial 
value, some which have no advertising 
value, and a few that are undesirable from 
both points of view. Conventions of old 
soldiers, for instance, must be entertained 
from a purely patriotic standpoint and not 
from any hope of financial return; for they 
do not, as a rule, patronize either our hotels 
or our business houses. From a monetary 
view they do not return what it costs to 
entertain them, 

Conventions which in my opinion are not 
worth while are those which lower the 
moral tone of a city. Among these are 
meetings of certain lodges which use their 
annual conventions as an opportunity of 
tearing loose and “painting a town red.” 
Personally I believe such conventions are 
an actual detriment, regardless of the 
amount they spend, 

But as to the value of serious conven- 
tions of business men and women, there 
ought to be no room for argument. A city 
may spend large sums of money for beauti- 
ful booklets and magazine advertising 
which will not bring a fraction of the value 
secured by bringing hundreds or thousands 
of people to that city and sending them 


*From a lecture delivered before the American 
City Bureau Summer School, July 28, 1916. 





away thoroly pleased with their reception 
If a convention be properly handled, its 
delegates will return to their homes in all 
parts of the state or nation singing the 
praises of town and people. This is adver- 
tising of the finest possible sort. 

Let us accept as a premise, therefore, the 
fact that conventions properly chosen are 


of great benefit to a city. The next ques-° 


tion is, What should a city, and especially 
its chamber of commerce, do for such 
gatherings? 

There are very many members of com- 
mercial organizations, in our smaller cities 
at least, who doubt or deny the value of 
conventions and who protest loudly against 
paying too much attention to securing and 
entertaining them. Such an objection is 
always raised where any class receives a 
direct and immediate aid or profit from 
the work of an organization. The secre- 
tary may do his best to show such members 
that the indirect benefits of conventions are 
felt by every business in the community ; 
hut it remains a fact, at least in my expe- 
rience, that those activities of the organi- 
zation which bring a direct profit to a class 
are unpopular with the majority of the 
members when financed from the general 
funds. For this reason the Jamestown 
Soard of Commerce endeavors to make 
such activities self-sustaining. This not 
only makes the member feel better who re- 
ceives no direct benefit, but it increases the 
funds of the organization and spreads the 











— me ~ 











AR EE 





SEPTEMBER, I916 THE AMER 


assessments upon those who benefit most 
directly from the bringing of conventions 
to the city. 

Many cities carry their activities no fur- 
ther than the securing of conventions, leav- 
ing the task of entertainment to the con- 
vention itself or to its local body. I feel 
that a chamber of commerce cannot consist- 
ently nor fairly take such a course. I do 
not think it is fair to the convention or to 
the members of our organization to bring 
a convention to a city and then leave it to 
sink or swim, survive or perish 

In the first place, the great value to a 
city is not in bringing the convention, but 
in having it properly cared for. A conven- 
tion poorly conducted is as much a detri- 
ment to a community as one excellently 
conducted is a benefit. In_ self-defense, 
therefore, if for no other reason, the cham- 
ber’s authority should continue until the 
convention has come and gone. 

In the second place, it is unfair to the 
membership of a chamber of commerce to 
turn uncontrolled and unaudited commit- 
tees loose upon them to solicit funds for 
the entertainment of a convention. The 
knowledge that their own chamber was in- 
strumental in bringing the convention 
makes the members more quick to con- 
tribute. They should be able to look to 
their chamber with complete faith that 
their contributions will be economically and 
efficiently administered. 

Nearly four years ago the writer ascer- 
tained from a number of cities their opin- 
ions and methods regarding convention 
practice, and out of the various plans sub- 
mitted devised the ‘“Kalantazoo plan.” 
This has since been adopted in a number of 
the principal cities of the country. Pre- 
vious to the introduction of this plan the 
Kalamazoo chamber (or Commercial Club) 
had assumed the duty of assisting in raising 
separate funds for the entertainment of 
each individual convention. This continual 
solicitation in the name of the club became 
very burdensome and obnoxious to many of 
the members. Those who were benefiting 
only indirectly from conventions became 
outspoken in their opposition to this feature 
of the club’s work. Finally, the directors 
took the position that in the future the 
efforts of the club should be limited to in- 
viting and securing conventions and that 
they must be financed by themselves. 





ICAN CITY 


\ meeting was called of thos« most in- 


terested in securing conventions, and the, 
were given the option of (a) dropping ac- 
tive convention work. (b) subjecting them- 
selves to solicitation by committees of the 
various conventions, or (c) agreeing to 
contribute a certain number of cents for 
each and ey ery delegate brought to the city 
in attendance upon any convention. The 
meeting voted unanimously in favor of the 


latter and the following plan was devised 


The Assessment Plan 

\ list of those who would benefit directly 
or indirectly from convention work was 
drawn up and arranged in classes by com- 
mittees, the highest class to pay seven cents 
per registered delegate and the lowest one 
cent. In the first class was the largest hotel 
of the city and in the smallest the smaller 
stores. The other hotels, the larger stores 
and the car lines were in the various inter- 
mediate classes. The apportionment was 
made as fairly as possible, taking into con- 
sideration the size of the business and 
whether its benefit would be direct or in- 
direct. 


\n agreement to this assessment was 
then drawn up and signed with the follow- 
ing understanding: The subscribers were to 


be immune from all other solicitation for 


convention purposes. Before any funds 
were granted to a convention, a committee 
from that convention must first solicit all 
who were not members of the convention 
bureau, and the bureau should then supply 
only the deficit. The bureau should choose 
from its subscribers an executive commit- 
tee to have charge of receipts and disburse- 
ments and of the invitation of conventions. 

In practice the plan worked well. The 
first two conventions were financed at the 
cost of one, due to a careful pruning of 
budgets on the part of the executive com- 
mittee. The committees of those conven- 
tions raised all but a few hundred dollars 
of the amount necessary for their enter- 
tainment from non-members of the bureau. 
The first bureau assessment, as a matter of 
fact, sufficed for the first five conventions. 
\t the close of each convention, however, 
receipted statement was mailed to each 
member marked “no assessment.” This 
made the bureau very strong with its mem- 
bers. The store that remained outside soon 
discovered that it was paying $5 where its 


a 








~ornpmeen -—- 


| 
! 














252 THE AMER 


next-door neighbor was getting off with an 
assessment of but $1.50, and that covering 
five conventions. 

Under this plan the bureau not only dis 
bursed its own funds, but also those raised 
by the convention committee. Honesty, 
efficiency and economy were thus insured. 
Funds were always on hand with which to 
campaign for conventions. The committee 
knew how much it could depend upon for 
each gathering and could regulate its 
budget accordingly. 
are those for halls, decorations, badges, 


Legitimate expenses 


programs, etc. Those which the writer at 
least, deems illegitimate are banquets, gifts 
of money, expenses of officials and those 
things which smack of bonuses and bribes. 

Such a convention bureau will be in a 
position to exert more or less influence 
upon the management of all conventions 





ICAN CITY Vor. XV, No. 3 


and work with the local committees to in- 
sure a successful and enjoyable meeting. 
lhru experience, methods will be devised 
for the handling of conventions that will 
add gre atly to the success of the gatherings, 
and give a city a reputation as a convention 
center. 

Finally, do not pay too much for con- 
ventions. Choose your conventions care- 
fully and work hardest for those that will 
bring the best return in money value on the 
amount invested. Be careful in choosing 
the personnel of your convention commit- 
tee. A committee composed of all hotel 
men would invite every convention which 
would fill beds regardless of its worth. 
\void bidding against other cities for con- 
ventions. This is merely playing into the 
hands of the convention and against the 
interest of those whom we represent. 





La Cité Reconstituée 


An Exposition on the Replanning and Reorganization of the Devastated 
Regions in France 


By Charles J. Storey 


N ancient times when a city was swept 
by fire and sword and nothing remained 
but razed walls and blackened ruins, 

the fleeing inhabitants seldom returned, but 
took up abode in other parts of the country. 
To-day in France the spirit of rehabilita- 
tion is already abroad, and, as a concrete 
expression of the voluminous discussion on 
the reconstruction and the reorganization 
of the invaded cities and departments after 
the war, a monster exhibition, La Cité Re- 
constituée, has been opened in Paris. Here 
are shown the aids which France will call 
forth to help build the cities and villages 
blasted by fire and explosive shell. No 
city planning show was ever so pathetic, 
none ever so inspiring. It is pathetic be- 
cause it stands for the almost impossible 
task of replacing marvelous ancient beauty. 
It is inspiring for the work it represents of 
reorganizing the municipal life in territory 
of which a good part is even to-day in the 
hands of the enemy. 


As the name of the exhibition indicates, 
the idea is not only of an exhibit of city 
planning, but of reorganization. Roughly, 
there are three divisions: city planning, the 
reconstruction of cities and villages, and 
the reorganization of their commercial ac- 
tivities. This latter exhibit is participated 
in by hundreds of firms and is highly sig- 
nificant of the tremendous commercial bat- 
tle to be waged after the war. It shows the 
native industrial resources which can be 
used to build up the devastated regions, and 
incidentally the changes necessary for a 
new industrial France. Yet not jealous of 
America and recognizing the great aid 
which our country can give after peace is 
signed, a large section of the exhibition is 
allotted to American commercial exhibits, 
such as farm and road machinery, building 
materials, both wood and iron, sanitary de- 
vices, ete. 

The exhibit of city planning is composed 
of plans and maps illustrating projected and 














a | EMREER 1IO1O 


accomplishe d work, | he 


H | AMERICAN CITY 





plans include cities not 
only in France, but in 
Spain, Australia, Brazil, 
and even Belgium. This 
is a valuable exhibit and 
extremely interesting, 
and it is a pity that it 
could not be seen in the 
United States. Here are 
the city plans of old 
cities, as Barcelona and 
Madri l, Spain, beside 
those of very modern 
ones, as Sydney, Aus- 
tralia. 

\ series of maps shows 
the growth of Paris for 
the last two or three 














hundred years. They 

exhibit the problems 

which confronted the city planner in the 
days of Louis XIV and Napoleon I—th« 
solution made easier, no doubt, by the al- 
most arbitrary power of the sovereigns 


Whe city of Dunkirk, swept by shell even 
to-day, exhibits several plans for “New 


Dunkirk,” drawn, it is true, before the war, 
vet still a hope. Beside this brave attempt 
ire the plans for the city of Nancy, situ- 
ited within ten miles of the trenches. The 
municipality of this last city show an elabo- 
rate series of maps illustrating the recon- 
struction of the city plan. In this ancient 
ind beautiful French city the cathedral is 
taken as the pivot around which is planned 
the civic center. Is there any thing left of 


PORTABLE POST OFFICI 


Ypres to plan on? One asks this as he sees 
the tiny exhibit of sketches of old houses 
as types of building design and the plan of 
the city “avant la guerre.” 

Numerous projected and _ finished 
provements of cities in France 


ited, showing how the old defense works 


1 , , 

W ch have become ol solete Cal ( ized 
as 9arks or boulevards Many ot th places 
where stood old city walls oO! ( S are 


now green-fringed boulevards or handson 
parks. We do not have this problem in 
\merican cities, as we have no fortifica 
tions, yet the exhibit illustrates how disused 
municipal or government land in cities 
may be profitably used. 


lhere is in addition to 











the question ot replan 
ning and reconstructing 
cities and villages in 
France also that of im 
mediate provision for 
those who have had 
their homes razed by the 
tide of battl The Ex 
position includes a vil 
lage of forty or fifty full 
size houses, a post office, 


a church an a school 
hey are all portable 
ar range Irom an 
abri” for two persons 
to communal dwellings 


large enough tor several 








PORTABLE COTTAGE 


families. Some are two 


stories and all can be 























rected in a short space of time—tron 
four hours to as mat lay if necessary 
They are mostly built of w vd, some ing 
] “anctricted f interc) oO bl] 141 
MOoOUSTV COMTISTTUCTCE ¢& Change ecanvik pa 
els bolted togethet lhe prices for them 
range from $175 to $2,000. One house de 
sigiic for relhet work in the ce vastated 


districts is made of twenty-foot units, each 
a complete room with the end open, and 


these can be set up adjoining to torm a 





sort of communal dwelling 
lor those interested in the technique ot 
city planning exhibits, several methods of 


VILLAGE FRANCAISE” 


installation in the Paris exposition may be 
noted. The “Village Francaise,” where the 
full size, portable houses are erected, at- 
tracts the most attention, as it is a concrete 
expression of an idea. Then the method 
of showing by consecutive maps the growth 
and changes in the city plan is one to be 
commended. Extremely valuable also are 
the ideas suggested by Professor Geddes’ 
scheme of an historical survey, graphically 
exhibiting step by step with models, 
sketches and reconstructed maps the rea- 
sons behind the evolution of a city plan. 





Telling the People About Their Water Supply 


NE of the features of the Baby Wel- 
fare Week Exhibition recently held 
in rie, Pa., was a talk by iF » 
Dunwoody, Chief Chemist of the Eric 
Water-Works, on the purifying of the city's 
water supply. If it is important that par 
ents should know what to avoid in food and 
drink for their babies, it is important also 
that thev should know what they can safely 
use The adoption by a city of modern 
methods of filtering and _ sterilizing its 
water-supply should be followed by popu- 


lar education as to the puritv of the water 


furnished \s Mr. Dunwoody well said 
“Medical care ! n intat 


the care given a mature ody Special foods 


t is different from 


have to be prepared in certain ways to the best 
interests of the child. With water there is no 
difference between what the child should r¢ 
ceive and what the parent should receive.” 

lhen followed a very clear explanation 
in non-technical language of the rapid sand 
filtration system used in Erie, and a refer- 
ence also to the emergency hypochlorite 
sterilizing equipment which is ready for use 
if for any unforeseen cause a filter bed 
should fail to do its work. 

[wo views of Erie’s water pumping and 
filtration system are here shown. These 


‘and other interesting pictures and data are 


to be found in the last annual report of 
the Commissioners of Water Works. 








Ee 


SEPTEMBER, I916 HI AMERICAN CI] 








NEW PUMP HOUSE OF THE ERIE WATER WORKS 





aa uscrseiia 








+f LI. 14) * 
oe 1 
og 
¢ 
GALLERY IN THE FILTER HOUSE, ERII PA 
- 


EF |S mn 





The Water Supply System of Portland, Maine 


By James W. Graham 


General Manager, Portland Water District 


Hi] fire ‘ { LOH ort stem. unti In ISSS, a 20,000,000-gallon 


Me.. which destroved a great part of | reservoit is built on Munjoy Hill. With 


the « ‘ ting th il he construction of this reservoir, it become 

y ntemplated ter possible to divide the city supply in high 

rk furnished a strong argument for nd low service. All that part of the cit 

] oe the orl t ce | IR67 the ng below an elevation of 90 feet above 
charte of the Portlat Water Compa tide water was fed from the two reservoirs, 
Ss ar ded. granting authority to go t vhich in turn were supplied directly fron 
Sebago Lake for water. but it was not til the lake by a new 24-inch main, leaving the 
, vear later that the citv government ce 20-inch main to supply all that part of the 
cided to contract with the compat citv lving above the elevation of 90 feet’ by 


lirect gravity from the lake Later, the 
The System and Its Growth services of these pipes were reversed. 


Four vears from the time of the great In 1901, in order to improve the hy 
fire. the water-works were complete vith draulic grade between the lake and the 
a 20-inch cement main from the lake to city, a 30-inch cast iron main was built 
Portland, a reservoir on Bramhal! Hill from the lower gate house by a better grad 
and distribution pipes thru the principal than that of the earlier pipes, to Ward's 
streets of the cit Various additions and Hall where it was connected to the old 
extensions were made to the distributing mains. These pipes made it possible to fur 





“si 
he 


re 














LANDSCAPE TREATMENT, MUNJOY RESERVOIR 





| 
| 






























nish a continuous supply to the city, in case 
of accident to one of the mains, but did not 
provide for the contingency of an accident 
to the conduit. The following year the 
company built a reservoir at the lower end 
of the conduit, of sufficient capacity for a 
day’s supply to the city. This acted both as 
a storage reservoir and as a settling basin 
for the deposit of any sediment that might 
come into the system thru the screens at 
the upper gate house, and the stored water 
was available to supply the city in case tem- 
porary repairs were needed in the conduit. 
In 1903 a stand-pipe of 500,000 gallons ca- 
pacity was constructed on Munjoy Hill and 
used in connection with the high-service 
system to accumulate a reserve to help out 
the supply from the lake at times of ex- 
treme draft. 

Ten years before this the Standish Water 
& Construction Company had been formed 
and by legislative authority had purchased 
a portion of the property of the Portland 
Water Company and had made important 
extensions of the mains. In 1907 the Port- 
land Water District was created, under the 
Private and Special Laws of Maine, for the 
purpose of taking over the properties of 
these two companies. The District is made 
up of the city of Portland (exclusive of the 
islands) and the city of South Portland. It 
hecame impossible for the Trustees of the 
Portland Water District to agree with the 
water companies as to the value of their 
properties, and the Trustees therefore filed 
a petition to take the property by eminent 
domain. The two companies had about 
one mile of conduit, nearly 200 miles of 
mains and distribution pipes, two reservoirs 
aml two stand-pipes. There were 12,059 
services in the combined system. After an 
exhaustive hearing the referees fixed the 
valuation of the entire properties at $3,850,- 
034.26, which, with the expense of the 
hearing, made the total cost of the Portland 
Water District as of January 1, 1908, $4,- 
005,678.14. 

Finding that the growth of the city had 
outstripped the capacity of the mains, the 
Trustees completed in 1912, at a cost of 
$862,844, a 42-inch cast iron main from 
Sebago Basin to the city. The South Port- 
land system was connected with this main 
thru a 16-inch pipe, and the high levels on 
Munjoy Hill were supplied thru a 20-inch 
main, increasing the pressure of the high- 
service mains about 30 pounds. Other ex- 


SEPTEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 257 


tensions and additions followed, until, on 
January 1, 1916, the total mileage of the 
main and distribution pipes in the entire 
system was 252 miles, and the plant, prop- 
erty and franchise account had reached a 
total of over $6,000,000, while the number 
of service had increased to 14,659. 


The Supply 

Lake Sebago, from which the supply 
comes, is located near the center of the 
Presumpscot River Basin, lving between 
the Saco and Androscoggin Rivers. The 
total area of its water shed is over 500 
square miles, and the discharge of water 
from Sebago Lake is more than 400,000,000 
gallons per day, or fifty times the amount 
required for the Water District. With its 
tributary lakes there are more than 100 
square miles of water surface. The eleva- 
tion of the lake is 267 feet above mean 
tide, and in places it is said to be 360 feet 
deep. The discharge of water from the 
lake in one week would supply the Portland 
Water District for one year. The District 
has purchased or condemned much of the 
neighboring land. 

Three years ago, at the lower gate house 
at Sebago Basin, a modern hypochlorite 
plant was constructed for the purification 
of the entire water supply. A laboratory 
was also installed, wherein daily bacterio- 
logical examinations are made of the water 
from all parts of the system. Last year, to 
protect the water from possible pollution 
thru the drainage from Sebago Lake Vil- 
lage, a hypochlorite plant was constructed 
over the brook which drains the entire vil- 
lage, so that its waters may be sterilized 
before entering the lake. During the sum- 
mer months the shores of the lake thru the 
Lower Bay are patrolled daily, while a 
rigid inspection of all cottages about the 
lake is maintained. Under the laws of 1913 
no building can be erected within 200 feet 
of the shore of the lake without the ap- 
proval of the sanitary inspector of the Dis- 
trict, as to drainage and sewerage. 

The lake water in its natural state is 
clear and unpolluted, and the control which 
the District has secured of the water-front, 
the precautions against chance pollution 
which are afforded by the two hypochlorite 
plants and the daily examination of the 
water from all parts of the system, insure 
a supply which is believed to be unsur- 
passed by any city in the country. 






























The Assessment of Benefits and Damages in 
Street Proceedings” 
By Herbert S. Swan 





OU> Principles Followed in Assessing ‘Benefits 
Property can be assessed only for th 
—_—r enefit derived from an improvement. The 
pe ee StATIC , : ssessment may not be for benefit that is 
‘ t ' . ot eculative and distant or dependent upor 
eater ( e and uncertain contingencies Vhe 
fit must be substantial, certain and ca 
. e ot being realized within a reasonabl 
‘ ] nonlicati ; ft " . 
. - cal os nd convenient time \ report will not be 
ne cos ne i firmed if in the opinion of the court the 
ent that ‘ t ' " 
mre easure 1s premature and will cost mors 
efit sSucn ( per } ] 
' in the proprietors of the adjacent lan 
. = ; - < ll be bene fited by the improvement.’ 
pr cing ne lo be assessed, property must be of sucl 
‘ ; , ; nature that its value is capable ot actual 
{ eneht conterred ] city , - . 
; , ; Z nhancement in consequence of! the in 
< 1 ‘ ( pat ort Cost vhere tn ’ . . 
aetecs 4 : rovement Unless this enhancement it 
cal be ae call +t to nav the whol : 
. , » ad : jue 1S susceptible ot reasonably accurat« 
a eouente. rigaallees s Pha tqeteates easurement, the property cannot be as 
riness salanniaeaieeeed ee ees ie sessed.” An assessment should represent 
. ; ; he difference between the value of the 
. ‘ ( mi <n roperty before and after the improve 
aoe ~gge = ent In levying an assessment the en 
[ies “ps peti. ciety ] eras 1anced value of property by reason of thi 
rh \ re local improvements Nave CC 1 ° : 
= n , ‘ mprovement may be taken into considera- 
ssessed since 160 street openings am ‘ . 
tion 
ide1 S SI 1792 d parks since 1807 
; : ss “a ay I Vork’ — \ssessments are estimated separately by 
eT t \ T ] if ,ew 1 T a. I letho : . 
: : . " lots and not by blocks, except in the cass 
nd procedure in assessing benefits and , : 
' 3 : of acreage, where they are levied according 
Dig ee to ownership. This practice is followed 
ther cities throughout the country ; 
; : soy oe ae he even though the land adjacent to an im 
r the past hundred vears the damages : : d 
Sam. ay provement is held in large tracts. The rea- 
e been estimati vy three commissioners F “ei : 
lby son for doing this is that lots frequently 
omted vy the Su e Court (One o . : 
change ownership during the progress of 
these co ssioners designated bh the +r . 
' ‘ an assessment. To estimate the benefits by 
( rt st (Commissioner of ssessment . 
: : , tracts instead of bv lots would not only 
has assessed th hbenents, Vhis procedure 1 r . . 
, inconvenience the owners in paying their 
’ proved so unsatistactory that : . . 
a mea : : ‘ assessments, but would also give the city 
To) ? Ne St session of the Levis ' : ° : : 
= difheulty in apportioning them 
r Commencing in 1917, all damages : j 
49 / . lhe benefits and damages must in each 
ad benehts S nd park proceedings | : 
case be assessed separately. It is not suf 
scertained by the Supreme Court at ie 
hcient to report the excess of one over the 
\ ) wr he - 
other. Originally the benefits were set off 
7 ‘ ‘ - 
te the writer f a York (¢ mitt Matter of Fourth Avenue, 3 Wend. 452 (1830); 
vP Matter of Albany Street. 11 Wend. 149 (1834); Mat 
Se Ne n FP. I P ng ‘the B for Cit ter of William and Anthony Streets, 19 Wend. 678 
. P Natior ( 1839 
( P 2Jn re Anthony Ave., 95 N. Y. Supp. 77 (1905) 
S for t r to g tnt i f the * Matter of City of New York (East 136th Street) 
eresting mat re ’ te wat the hiect ; on 1°7 Apr Div 472 (19008) 
ssessment 0 © t riter has cor lere f * Matter of Citv of New York (Thaver Street 142 
ere App. Div. 721 (1911). 








SEPTEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 





; st the dan ges b | < 
: ; ’ 
; provid dequate data for the orres t1 rm 
on of errors in the estimat: dl ent. WH 
ent his defect in the statute w 1 es, the 
ied more than seventy-five ‘ 
; t 1 ) 
The ‘Benefit Area se : 
Phe power to fix the benefit area was ecessarv to secur 
he hands of the commissioners until 190 60 feet. plus , 
? In that vear it was transferred t the ’ T excess . - that 
estimate and Apportionme lhe co Ro feet. Neithet 
ssioners had for a long time practiced <tended S 
out large benefit areas to avoid larg: therwis« ‘ 
ssessments for the excessive awards whicl more th the eq Q 
they so frequently granted By giving the In dete . © 
Board of Estimate the power to limit th th is considered / 
ssessment area, it was hoped that the con nlus the valu the 
ssioners would become more prudent n pressed in tet al 
their awards The amendment was also in of the same ” | 
tended to secure uniform treatment for dit llowance for dedicate: 
ferent proceedings. imption is that a shar 
When the commissioners fixed th ess equivalent to pav T etre Q 
ent area, it was nothing s or a de repres« t] i of 
rcel to be assessed for several street he percen ge of cost assess 
enings—in some instances as many as five therefore. 100 pe * fant 
SIX separate proceedings he districts 8X9 per cent for 70-foot stre “ae 
frequently included several blocks on each for 80-foot streets. 72 per cent 
side of the improvement. They also ex treets. 70 per cent fe 
tended a like distance longitudinally beyond pe cent for 120-foot streets, 57 | 
the improvement. To remedy this situatior 140-foot streets, 53 per cet 
the Board of Estimate and Apportionment treets, and 40 per c 
| under the authority of this charter amend- lhe secondarv area mav not sesset 
ment, immediately adopted a set of unitor t a proportio ate y ore 
rules to govern it in all proceedings ‘rimarv area | 6 
ment is 55 per cent the first | 
Distribution of Benefits Between Different  gy6 distance to the boundary of #] 
Areas rea, 80 per cent on the first | t] 
lhe benefits may be apportioned | et listance, and 93 pe he 
districts of special benefit, one or more bor fourths of the distances 
oughs, or parts of boroughs, and the city Subject to the bo 
i it large. Levies against one or more bot borough nor city benefit g 
: oughs or the city at large are in the natur less the street has width exceeding & 
; of flat rate assessments and collect with feet, except where 0 
. the annual real estate tax. This obviate is manifest. City benefit 
the necessity of preparing maps to show the nized unless the street is more tl 
relation of each parcel of property assesse¢ dd wick | xception to this rule 
to the improvement. be made in unusual cases. | Kpect 
. The rules controlling the benefit area and that where benefit to more tl ne 
the apportionment of assessments in street ough or where benefit to the cit re 
openings are most elaborate. Under these nized, at least 50 per cent of tl 
rules the assessment area is generally not assessed locally must 
deemed to include one-half the area _ be- borough in which the improve 
tween the street to be opened and the near cated. Several except 
est parallel street having the same or a been made to this 
greater width. Due consideration is given placed upon the city by the « 
to the availability of the street for use asa of assessment y reasol 
traffic artery. Except in unusual cases the buildings is deducted from the rel 





260 THE AMERICAN CITY 


forded the local area. Where the benefit 
area is the depth of a normal lot and the 
narrow dimension of the lot fronts upon 
the improvement, the assessment is a sim 
ple matter. Each lot, other things being 
equal, bears its proportionate part of the 
assessable cost subject to the limitations in 
posed by law. 

Where the greater dimension of the lot, 
however, frents upon the improvement, 
four strips are laid out on either side of 
the improvement, a depth ot 25 teet being 
allotted to each strip ach of these strips 
bears a diminishing per cent of the assess 
able cost, the exact per cent varying ac- 
cording to the circumstances in the par- 
ticular case. The minimum and usual per- 
centage assessed against the first strips is 
60 per cent ol the assessable cost, against 
the second 20 per cent, against the third 
12.5 per cent, and against the fourth 7.5 
per cent. The maximum percentage as- 
sessed against the first strips rarely exceeds 
So per cent of the assessable cost.’ 

Where the benefit area exceeds the depth 
of the normal lot, the assessable cost is 
prorated between a primary and a second- 
ary area of assessment, the primary area 
consisting of the first 100 feet abutting on 
the improvement and the secondary area 
of the land back of this 100 feet. rhe 
amount charged against the primary area 
is assessed as if the benefit did not exceed 
the depth of a normal lot, the land being 
subdivided into strips and each strip bear- 
ing a diminishing per cent of the cost as- 
sessed against the area. The amount 
charged against the secondary area is as- 
sessed, not by strips, but by lots. The 


1See Arthur S. Tuttle, Report showing results of 
in investigation of the practice followed in levying 
ussessments for street and park openfngs, October 19, 


1907 


Vor. XV, No. 3 


assessments in this area are made arbitrar- 
ily, the maximum assessment levied on the 
lot nearest the improvement being less than 
that charged against the fourth strip in the 
primary area, and the minimum assessment 
levied on the lot most remote from the im- 
provement being not less than $s. 

rhe borough assessment act enables the 
city to avoid an increase in its bonded in- 
debtedness by paying cash for its improve- 
ments. The increase in the city or borough 
tax rate resulting from this policy might, 
in the case of large assessments, be so great 
as to impose a very serious burden upon the 
individual taxpayer. This is despite the 
fact that the board may in its discretion 
make these assessments payable in five an- 
nual installments. Although this has not 
happened, yet an endeavor has been made 
to anticipate this situation by limiting the 
amount of charges that may be incurred in 
any one year. Borough assessments are 
levied against all property, no distinction 
being made between land, buildings or per- 
sonal property. 


The Half-Value Rule 


Prior to 1840 there was no statutory pro- 
vision limiting the amount of assessment 
that might be levied against a parcel. In 
that year, however, the commissioners were 
prohibited from imposing any assessment 
upon a plot in excess of one-half its taxed 
value. 

This provision saddled a large share of 
the cost of many improvements upon the 
city, especially in those instances where 
the property values were grossly under- 
assessed. Before real estate was assessed 
at its full value, as now, the effect of this 
restriction was to limit the actual assess- 
ments for benefit against property at a 


rYPICAL IMPROVEMENTS ACQUIRED UNDER BOROUGH ASSESSMENT ACT 


IMPROVEMENT Cost 


AMOUNT ASSESSED ON 


Widening and extending 7th Ave., Manhattan* $4,344,000 $1,954,800 $1,737,600 $173,800 $477,800 


Acquiring unnamed street near Brooklyn Bridge 


Manhattan 61,800 
Widening Canal Street, Manhattan 543,500 
Widening Roebling Street, Brooklyn 722,200 
Acquiring Church Avenue, Brooklyn 65,400 
Acquiring West Farms, Road, Bronx 1,290,800 
Acquiring Sedgwick Avenue, Bronx 115,300 
Acquiring Castle Hill Avenue, Bronx 715,500 
Acquirirg Westchester Avenue, Bronx 959,000 
Acquiring Van Dam Street, Queens 547 900 





Local Area Manhattan Bronx Brooklyn Queens City 
6,200 30,900 24,700 

203,800 163,000 40,800 oe 
21,700 144,400 375,600 $180,500 
49,100 a Te aes 
545,700 pan 745,100 
86,500 28,800 
560,200 71,700 83,600 
911,000 RES Ne Se ok ae 
272,500 54,800 iead 109,600 28,800 


*Cost of Seventh Avenue estimated on assessed valuation 





82,200) 


Cost of other improvements based on commissioners’ reports. 




















SEPTEMBER, I916 





THE 


figure below one-half of its true value. In 
the outlying sections it was formerly no un- 
common occurrence to find property 
sessed at a mere fraction of its real value. 
In such cases the assessments for benefit 
very did not exceed one-eighth or 
one-tenth of the full value. To bring the 
assessments legally within the scope of this 
limitation, a tendency developed among the 
commissioners to extend the benefits over 
very large areas. 


as- 


often 


To remedy this situation the charter was 
amended at the time of consolidation to pro- 
vide that the assessments should in no case 
exceed one-half the value placed upon the 
property by the commissioners. 
the commissioner of assessment per- 
formed this function. The manner in 
which the commissioner of assessment is to 
arrive at this value is unrestricted by law 
He is not required to take either the valu- 
ation of the commissioners of estimate or 
of the tax commissioners as his own. 


Since 1906 
has 


One-Third of Buildings Assessed Upon 


the City 
The discretion of assessing on the city 
any portion of the cost, not exceeding one- 


third, of the buildings taken in street pro- 
ceedings has been vested in the commis- 
sioners since 1803. This right, however, 
does not extend to any other improvements 
than buildings. 

In the earlier openings the commissioners 
were usually more ready to assess a portion 
of this cost upon the city in the case of 
longitudinal than in tthe case of cross 
The former, being the main traffic 
thoroughfares, were assumed to confer a 
greater general benefit upon the city than 
the latter, and consequently more properly 
chargeable in part against the public treas- 
ury. This policy has, however, not been 
followed for many years. 


streets. 


Buildings Within Projected Street Lines 


The city at present exercises no author- 
ity over the erection of improvements 
within projected street lines. The city 
plan was for many years effectively con- 
trolled through a statutory provision, pro- 
hibiting the payment of compensation for 


buildings constructed within proposed 
streets. Until thirty years ago the courts 
sustained the constitutionality of this 


AMERICAN 








CITY 26: 





clause.’ Now, however, such a provision is 
considered invalid on the theory that it im 
poses a restriction upon the use of property 
which encumbrance. The 
courts have held it unconstitutional on th 


amounts to an 


ground that it deprives an owner of the 


beneficial use and free 


enjoyment of his 
property, or that it at least imposes a re 
straint upon such use and enjoyment as ma 
terially to affect its value 
process or compensation.” 


without legal 
rhis principle has more recently been car 
ried so far by the courts that an owner who 
deliberately and intentionally places a build- 
ing within the lines of a projected street 
for the sole purpese of enhancing the dam- 
ages to be collected from the city does not 
thereby forfeit his right to compensation 
for the destruction or injury to his building. 
Nor does the fact that the particular build 
ing has been condemned and paid for in a 
previous the 
The commissioners 
may, however, in computing the damages 
in such a case, consider whether the build- 
ing can be moved further back on the lot. 


proceeding affect owner's 


right to compensation. 


The Block Rule 
The block rule is applied by both the first 
and second judicial department in assessing 
the damages incurred for land, but only by 
the first judicial department in assessing 
the damages incurred for buildings. The 
second judicial department prorates the 
cost of buildings upon each front foot of 
land included within the 
The expenses connected with the estimate 
and assessment are distributed according to 
the frontage in both departments. The ap- 
plication of the block rule to buildings in 
creases the portion paid by the city, in that 
the awards are more apt to exceed one-half 
the value of the property. The first depart- 
ment embraces the boroughs of Manhattan 
and the Bronx; the second, the boroughs of 
Brooklyn, Queens and Richmond. 
The cost of the land taken for each block 
of street is generally assessed upon the 
property fronting such block." 


assessment area. 


Unless it 





1 Matter of opening Furman 
(1836); Jackson v 
(1843); Sullivan v 
(1843). 


2 Matter of opening Rogers Avenue, 29 Abb. N. 
361 (1885); Forster v. Scott, 186 N. Y. 577 (1893) 

*In Matter of City of New York 
118 App. Div. 224 (1907) 


“In re Rogers Avenue, 22 N. Y. Supp. 27 (1885) 


Street, 17 Wend. 649 
Mayor of Brooklyn (not reported) 
Mayor of Brooklyn (not r 


ported) 


(Briggs Avenue), 











| rs 


—_ 





262 THE AMER 


ippears that one piece ol property is bene- 
fited more than another similarly situated, 
Where the ex- 
a street through a certain 


this rule must be applied. 
pense of opening 
block is very much greater than the expense 
ot opening it through the rest of its course, 
the commissioner of assessment is justified 
in imposing upon the property fronting 
) assessment for such sum 
as he deems the property benefited by the 
opening of the street. Nor is the block 
rule applicable where an extension of a 
benefits the 


upon such block at 


strect largely surrounding 
neighborhood as well as the property front- 
ing on it When it appears that part of 
the land benefited by a street is interior 
land to which there is no access, while the 
remaining property fronts on a_ paved 
street, cach parcel of land is assessed pro- 
portionately to the benefit sustained without 
regard to the block rule.* 


Principles Followed in Estimating Damages 
FOR BUILDINGS: 

Where buildings are suitable to the land, 
direct evidence of their structural value is 
admissible.” The structural value of the 
building, making allowance for deprecia- 
tion, and the value of the land may in such 
cases be shown separately; and the sum of 
these two, though not a conclusive test, is 
competent evidence of the market value.‘ 
lhe proper measure of damages where a 
portion of a building is taken is the differ- 
ence between the value of the building be- 
fore the improvement and the value of 
the remaining portion after the improve- 
nent.’ 

In 1910 the Board of Estimate and Ap- 
portionment adopted a resolution for the 
destruction of buildings encroaching upon 
streets in all cases where the awards 
claimed were, in the judgment of the Cor- 


' Matter of Grant Avenue, 76 App. Div. 87 (1902), 
A\ff'd 175 N. Y. 509 (1903). In re Townsend Avenue, 

» Mise. 65, 71 N. Y. Supp. 211 (1901); Matter of 
City of New York (E. 136th Street), 127 App. Div. 
672, 111 N. Y. Supp. 916 (1908) 

* Matter of City of New York (West 259th Street), 
S88 Misc. 600; 78 N. Y. Supp. 51 (1902). 

* Matter of City of New York (East 136th St.), 127 
App. Div. 672: 111 N. Y. Supp. 916 (1908), 

* Matter of City of New York (Spofford Ave.), 126 
App. Div. 740; 111 N. Y. Supp. 334 (1908), 

5 Matter of City of New York (Ave. A), 66 Misc. 
488, 122 N. Y. Supp. 321 (1910) 

* Matter of City of N. Y., 198 N. Y. 84 (1910), 
rev'g., 1383 App. Div. 896, 118 N. Y. Supp. 1145; 
Matter of City of N. Y. (Ave. A), 66 Misc, 488, 122 
N. Y. Supp. 821 (1910) 

7 Matter of Lexington Avenue, 44 St. Rep. 532, 17 
N. Y. Supp. 872 (1892) 





CAN CiTY Vor. XV, No. 3 


poration Counsel, greater than the actual 
expense of moving such buildings back 
from the street lines. In 1911 the Board 
suggested that such buildings be offered for 
sale at an upset price representing the dif- 
ference between the award and the actual 
cost of removal. 


FOR LAND: 

The value of land is usually estimated 
upon a square foot basis for the awards. 
lor land where a whole parcel is taken, the 
measure of damages is its fair market 
value; where a part of a parcel is taken, the 
measure of damages is the difference be- 
tween the value of the whole before the 
taking and the value of the residue after 
the taking, disregarding the benefit result- 
ing from the improvement.’ Whether the 
whole parcel or part of the parcel is taken, 
the compensation in either case must be the 
present value of the quantity acquired, and 
this value must be based, not on what the 
property would bring at a forced sale, but 
on its fair worth in the market.’ 

The fact that an appraisement is for less 
than the land cost the claimant is not of 
itself a ground for interfering with the 
award.’ The price paid upon a bona fide 
sale of the property about the time of vest- 
ing title in the city furnishes some, al- 
though not conclusive, evidence as to its 
value. In the absence, however, of evi- 
dence that it was sacrificed or its sale 
forced or that other circumstances exist 
which except the case from the general 
rule, such sale price is regarded as control- 
ling. Although the value of land taken 
cannot be established by showing what is 
paid for other parcels similarly situated,’ 
the awards may not be largely in excess of 
the amount paid for other property in the 
vicinity at bonafides sales.’ The value of 
lands, moreover, cannot be established by 
testimony of offers received for the prop- 


1 South Buffalo Railway Co. v. Kirkover, 176 N. Y 
301, 86 App. Div. 55, 83 N. Y. Supp. 613 (1903); 
Matter of Board of Public Improvement, 99 App. Div. 
576, 91 N. Y. Supp. 161 (1904); Matter of Riverside 
Ave., 83 Hun, 50, 64 St. Rep. 366, 31 N. Y. Supp. 
785 (1894). 

2 Matter of New Reservoir, 1 Buff. Super. Ct. (Shel 
don) 408. 

3In re Dept. of Public Works, 6 N. Y. Supp. 750 
(1889). 

4 Matter of City of N. Y. (Ave. A), 66 Misc. 488, 
122 N. Y. Supp. 321 (1910); Matter of City of N. Y 
(In re Hamilton St.), 67 Misc., 191, 122 N. Y. Supp., 
660 (1910). 

5 Matter of City of New York (Crotona Park), 142 
App. Div. 665, 127 N. Supp. 379 (1911). 


®In re Boston Road in New York City, 122 N. Y. 
Supp. 959. 


























SEPTEMBER, 1916 THE 
erty. Evidence of the profits of a busi- 
ness conducted on the land taken is in- 
competent as proof of the market value 
of the property.? But evidence as to the 
intended use of the land is admissible as a 
part of the res gestae to show the circum- 
stances under which it was taken, and its 
situation when appropriated.’ 

Damages are awarded on the basis of 
acreage value, and not on city lot values, 
when the land taken extends back hundreds 
of feet from the highway and no lots are 
destroyed. 

Plottage is a percentage added to the ag- 
gregate value of two or more contiguous 
lots when held in one ownership as repre- 
senting an increased value pertaining to a 
group of lots by reason of the fact that they 
admit ef more advantageous improvement 
than a single lot.° As a matter of law, a 
property owner is not entitled to plottage. 
Whether an award is made for it depends 
upon the circumstances in the case subject 
to the determination of the commissioners 
upon the evidence.’ Plottage, if allowed, 
can only attach to vacant lots or to lots 
valued irrespective of the improvements 
upon them. Parties to a proceeding, who 
own two or more adjoining lots, may pre- 
sent their claims for the value of their lots 
considered as one parcel or as separate par- 
cels. Where plottage is allowed, the full 
value of the buildings on the separate lots 
need not be awarded; where plottage is not 
allowed, the full value of each lot and its 
buildings must be awarded.’ 


FOR EXCESS LANDS: 

Excess condemnation, though not yet 
utilized, has been authorized in New York 
since 1915, provided the additional property 
taken is not more than sufficient to form 
suitable building lots abutting on the im- 


' Matter of City of New York (Crotona Park), 142 
App. Div. 665, 127 N. Y. Supp. 379 (1911) 

* Matter of Gilroy, 26 App. Div. 314, 49 N.Y. Supp 
798 (1898); Newton v. Armstrong, 19 N Y. Supp. 573, 
45 St. Rep. 18 (1892); Matter of Mavor (in re Rob 
bins -Avenue), 88 App. Div. 513, 82 N. Y. Supp., 417 
(1903), 

* Matter of Rondout & Oswego R. R. Co. v. 
5 Laws 298. 

* Matter of City of New York (Westchester Ave.), 
126 App. Div. 839, 111 N. Y. Supp. 351 (1908). 

S People ex. rel. -P. N. ¥Y. & L. I. BR. R. Co. v. 
O'Donnel, 130 App. Div. 734, 115 N. Y. Supp. 509 
(1909), 

* Matter of City of New York (15th and 18th Sts.), 
56 Misc. 306, 107 N. Y Supp. 567 (1907); in re Man- 
hattan Terminal, 120 N. Y. Supp. 465 (1909). 

7 Matter of Armory Board, 73 App. Div. 152, 76 N. 
Y. Supp. 766 (1902), rev’g 35 Misc. 548, 72 N. Y. 
Supp. 37 (1901). 


Deyo, 





AMERICAN C 


Pry 203 
prov ement.’ 
be acquired in the same proceeding 
required lands. 


Title to the excess lands must 
is the 
lhe compensation awarded 
by the commissioners for required and ex 
cess lands, respectively, must be stated in 
their report. In arriving at the damages 
paid for the required land, the same rule is 
applied as would govern the determination 
of damages if no excess lands were taken. 
The fact that some of the land is required 
and some is excess does not entitle an 
owner to greater compensation than if all 
of his parcel were taken as required land. 
Only the amount paid for the required land 
can be assessed in the way of benefits. The 
excess lands acquired by the city are sub- 
ject to assessment for benefit in the same 
manner as land not taken. 


FOR INTENDED REGULATION 


Damages for intended regulation of 
grade, which injured buildings not required 
for street were discontinued in 
IOT5. century 
lowance had been made for such damages, 
although they had not been suffered at the 
time of allowance. 
in the frequently sub- 
mitted and granted immediately before the 
physical grading of the street was contem- 
plated. In such cases compensation was 
paid for damages never inflicted. Where a 
change of ownership occurred before the 
intended regulation was effected, the result 
was often very embarrassing to the pur- 
chasers who actually suffered the damages 
but did not receive the awards, these hav- 
ing been pocketed by the original owners. 
The awards for changes in grade are now 
made when the street is graded. ‘The 
awards are, therefore, paid to those who 
own the buildings at the time they are 
damaged. 


purposes, 


For almost a generous al- 


Petitions for a change 


| ° 
legal grade were 


Cessions 
A discussion on assessments for benefits 
would not be complete without a reference 
to cessions. ‘The ceding of land within 
street lines has heen provided for by statute 
since 1880. This act has been amended 
from time to time so as to lessen the dif- 


1 Excess condemnation is native to New York, hav 
ing been adopted there in 1812. It was exercised ther: 
from time to time until the courts declared it uncon 
stitutional in 1834. The power lost then was not re 


gained by constitutional amendment until 1913. For 
an exhaustive discussion of this subject see the ‘‘Re- 
port on Excess Condemnation” prepared by the writer 
for the National Municipal League. 











a ae 
— 








204 THE AMERICAN CITY 


‘ 


ficultics and to increase the inducements 
offered property owners to cede their land 
to the city. 

At first no cession of less than an entire 
block could be made. This provision con- 
tinued in force until 1906. In that year it 
was relaxed so that owners of 200 feet of 
street front were allowed to cede. In 1Igto 
the law was again amended his time an 
owner of any quantity of land, no matter 
how small, was permitted to cede, provided 
only that his ownership extended to or be- 
vond the center of the street. The rules 
adopted by the Board of Estimate and Ap- 
portionment under the most recent charter 
amendment obtained in 1915 abandon even 
this restriction. Now an owner may cede 
his land even though his ownership does 
not extend to the center of the street. 

Originally an owner who ceded his land 
for street purposes Was assessed his propor- 
tionate share of the damages awarded to 
buildings taken as well as to buildings in- 
jured by the intended regulation of the 
street. The statute as finally construed by 
the courts exempted him from assessment 
for intended regulation. His right, how- 
ever, to damages inflicted on his building by 
the intended regulation of the street re 
mained unimpaired. The effect of this de 
cision was materially to increase the assess- 
ments on those owners who did not cede. 

Formerly an owner who ceded his prop- 
erty intermediate the authorization of the 
proceeding and the appointment of the com- 
missioners was relieved from the payment 
of his proportionate share of the accrued 
expenses. This immunity increased the 
proportion of expenses assessed on the re- 
maining owners. Sometimes the owners 
of two or three lots had to bear the ex- 
penses incurred for an entire block. In 
some instances this made it exceedingly 
dificult to keep the assessments down to 
within the statutory limitation of one-half 
the value of the property assessed. 

rhese provisions were so onerous that 
the mandatory conditions governing ces- 
sions were repealed in 1915. As amended, 
the law gives the Board of Estimate and 
\pportionment the power to prescribe the 


VoL. XV, No. 3 


terms subject to which lands within street 
lines will be accepted exempt from assess- 
ment. These rules were drafted with so 
much care that they might well serve as a 
model for other cities. 

Property conveyed to the city must be 
free from all encumbrances inconsistent 
with a fee title, except in so far as ease- 
ments for street purposes may exist. All 
conveyances must be accompanied with ab- 
stracts and searches of title or a guaranteed 
certificate of title from an approved title 
insurance company. If an owner does not 
wish to furnish this proof of his title, the 
city will relieve him of this task on the pay- 
ment of twenty-five cents per front foot of 
land ceded. The maximum charge for any 
parcel ceded is, regardless of the frontage 
length, fifty dollars. 

The extent to which any parcel is exempt 
from assessment is controlled by two con- 
siderations: (1) the proportion of assess- 
able frontage in that particular block, and 
(2) the proportion of unencumbered real 
estate in the conveyance to the total in 
that block. The application of this rule 
guarantees that the exemption obtained 
shall always be proportionate to the front- 
age and area ceded. 

The exemption from assessment obtained 
through cession applies only to the cost and 
expense incurred in the acquisition of land. 
Cession affords no relief from the assess- 
ments impesed on account of damages to 
buildings, change of grade, or intended 
regulation. The exemption, moreover, ap- 
plies only to the first proceeding brought 
to acquire land in the bleck in which the 
conveyed land might be situated. If an 
owner cedes his land after the institution 
of a proceeding, he is expected to pay his 
proportionate share of its cost up to the 
time his conveyance is accepted. No con- 
veyance is accepted by the city unless it 
cedes all the land and interest in land which 
the owner might pessess within the street 
up to the center lines of the intersecting 
streets which bound that particular block. 

1 Resolutions adopted by the Board of Estimate and 
Apportionment September 17, 1915, establishing rules 


governing acceptance of deeds conveying to the city 
real property within street lines. 


CULES 























Met achetiiir igs is 


205 


Housing in Massachusetts Towns 
By Gabriel Farrell 


HE Tenement House Act for Towns 
was presented to and passed by the 
Massachusetts Legislature of 1912. 

The bill was prepared by the housing com- 
mittee of the Massachusetts Civic League 
and thru its advocacy was made a law. 
lhe purpose of the law is to secure healthy 
and safe conditions of living for tenants in 
towns. This means that the rooms and 
halls shall be of fair size, well lighted and 
ventilated from the street or from the yard, 
or from courts of which the dimensions are 
rightly proportioned to the heights of the 
buildings; that a decent privacy shall be 
assured; that the sanitation shall be as per- 
fect as circumstances will permit; and, 
finally, that life shall be safeguarded 
against danger from fire. To secure this 
it is specified that no tenement house shall 
occupy more than 65 per cent of a corner 
lot, nor more than 50 per cent of any other 
lot; no tenement house shall exceed in 
height the width of the widest street upon 
which it stands; there shall be a rear yard 
at least 25 feet deep extending across the 
full width of the lot; every room shall have 
a window to the outer air and the area shall 
be at least one-seventh of the floor space; 
every apartment shall have within it a sink 
and water closet, both provided with run- 
ning water; no room in basement or cellar 
shall be occupied for living purposes; and 
every tenement house shall have two inde- 
pendent flights of stairs. Other provisions 
cover the maintenance of tenement houses, 
alterations in houses and the number of 
persons who may occupy a room. 

Upon passage by the legislature it be- 
comes possible for any town to adopt the 
act. Since then twenty-three communities 
have voted in town meeting to accept its 
provisions. All of these towns are in the 
eastern part of the state—in fact, within 
five counties: Suffolk, Middlesex, Essex, 
Norfolk and Plymouth. The compactness 
of these towns and their proximity to cities 
having adequate building codes make a 
considerable area about Boston protected 
by good housing legislation. The town law 
itself guarantees adequate light, ventilation, 
sanitation and fire protection to tenants 


within an area of 266.23 square miles which 
has a population of 145,051. Compared 
with the number of people in all of the 
towns of Massachusetts, this is not a very 
large percentage; but a fairer comparison is 
to be made on the basis of counties in which 
work has been done. In the five counties 
mentioned 458,515 people dwell in towns, 
and of these nearly one-third (145,051) 
live where the town act assures tenement 
houses of high grade. 

The outstanding consequence of the 
adoption of the act in every community has 
been that frame and second-class three- 
story houses have been absolutely debarred. 
There has been no evasion of this point. 
Whether or not the so-called “three-decker” 
is fundamentally objectionable is a question 
outside the province of this study. Cer- 
tainly from an esthetic point of view the 
towns are to be congratulated. 


Effects on Building 

That the prohibition of the erection of 
none-fireproof tenements has not worked 
hardship on legitimate builders is a point 
not to be disputed. This is so because most 
of the “three-deckers” are built by “jerry- 
builders” who enter a district, build a num- 
ber of houses, and then move to another 
section. When a town adopts the tenement 
house act these builders merely fill their 
tool chests, and, like the birds of passage 
that they are, move on to another town 
which has not yet put up the bars. And 
with plenty of open territory they have not 
stopped to complain. If the law were state- 
wide in its operation, this type of “jerry 
builder” would be put out of business. But 
so long as some towns continue serenely to 
ignore the regulating of building, these men 
will prosper and communities will pay the 
price in after effects. 

In the campaign for this act, as in all 
others for housing reform, the cry went up 
that the provisions are so drastic that build- 
ing would be for all time prohibitory. But 
it is a worn-out cry, for a study of the rec- 
ords shows that in only two towns were 
fewer houses and at a lower valuation built 
the vear after the act was adopted than in 














te 








-: 5 
anne . 
BoLLstcs AY aE» } 
a | ny 
| 
J 








BOR FOOw / 
Lpcat ur may \ 
4 j WALPOLE 
| 
| saance 
a | PRasELIS 
j 
rorscRovas 
































LBROOE % 
tua sePree 
StoucETCR (a aBlyOTOR RADCVER 
BROCETON 
welts PROP oe 
Bas308 
DCZBUN 
easton east 
Winceuarg 
ws 
BRIDGE WATES 7 
eaten Eiscstos 
wPrD320AT ER 
rimetoe 
ME DDLEDC ROUGE 


2asToN 7 naBBOLSS 









ro . - . y ~ y , "ay «af 
MG THE AMERICAN CITY Vor. XV, No. 3 
ROWLEY 
ip \ 1Psv1cH 
Trmosacacom 
D@Bstsaar | mace 
y, asDovER To?SPr sup gssax 
aa A Lom : suntes avovet 
Pi \ 
Wigng 
\ ths boRY r\ wc DOL TON WRAY . 
. » 
westpon> \ CRELIBPCRD MApORE STIR 
WORTE READING 
. Dasvens apueas 
5 
a | | an 
iS BILLET Ca Muasotos 
= MW scm ucvszxo wae 
LITtLetos CMRLISLE ¥ GHB erry ncurses aw 
Bo voc: LATS as. 
™ NY W\ GUIRING Tani 
ss on WN >. Stasns £0 36 CF 
Witinw \ WY BURLINGTON | PIREPROOP CCB- 
WY A \ aad ie] NT STRUCTICN 
BOR C OH actos \\\\\\\ AY c? ae atl. 
, \NY is) GQUIRING TER 
\ \\ u) DECKERS TO SE CP 
\ wares = SECCED CLASS CUR 
MAN \ PRUCTICN 
Tn ee \\ —— THE FINST B70 GRCYPS ARE Tut 
Boros a GGLY CEES RECCGEIEIEG THE Vacu 
\ 2 CP LEGHY, VEITELACICS 48D SanitaT 
\ a Ty aS WELL As cP FIRE PROtECrICE 
a, \ «a TEas YY ¢ %, EEE MAZARD OF WPRCTECTED TERRITCRY 23 
\ LY “ctre 
i 1 SUDBURY %, < | WINTHROP CRCUDED OUT OF crs PLACE 13 ACTIVE 
_—————7 ater / % WHERE THE PECPLE 
| \ ARAN ! | \ gRB YOU SATISPIED WITH TRE SEOTIBC ¢ 
aieoaial \\\ YCUR CCMUUITY® TME S597 cP TH 
cuss AY ¥ DO CCVER ALL DTELLITGS zou 
/ P \\ Pea 7 PLACES 
| a "tk xe as, “yuEse bur upzks wd cee 
Pt , rh | | ; Mal Do AS THEY PLEAE 
pen re posto es 
waticx = Dea 
J 
ASHLAND / \ QWiscy \\ \ 
pedeas \ \Y 
\ Comasset 
SRERBORS DOWER j Rn \ \\ \ \ \\\ : 
\\\\ \ \ 
5. | wEST¥CCD \N \° . 
? 1 te A \\\' \ sextvite | fs 


\ \\; \ x 








MAL’ SHOWING THE PROGRESS O] 


HOUSING 


AWS IN MASSACHUSETTS 






































SEPTEMBER, 1916 











THE 





the vear before. In some towns fewer 
houses were built, but the valuation of the 
new property increased, showing that the 
tendency under the law is to build better 
houses. This fact is illustrated by Belmont. 
During 1913, the year after the adoption of 
the tenement house act, the number of 
dwellings fell off 12, but the value of the 





AMERICAN CITY 267 





and in the valuation of these, a decided 
drop from the statistics of the year previous 
to the adoption. In 1913 there were 13 
houses erected at the valuation of $524,800, 
as compared with 148 houses valued at 
$684,650 in 1912. But in 1914 building re- 
covered and 189 houses were built at an 
expenditure of $745,650, and a further in 


new property increased $135,000. crease of 247 houses, valued at $1,275,259, 
Be.MONT 1911 1912 1913 1914 1915 
Single houses .... . . 27 40 3s 9 46 
Double houses . 4 47 52 ) i8 
Three-story houses . sation 16 15 
Total houses .. ~ : 97 102 90 89 124 
Valuation ...... hepa’ $425,000 $450,000 $585,000 $480,000 $74 
WATERTOWN 
Single houses ; 28 37 36 38 6 
Double houses il 1 92 105 154 
Three-story houses 5 19 
Total houses 74 100 128 141 180 
Valuation ... Sarat $196,720 $601,182 $750,000 $1,002,000 $1,337 
\RLINGTON 
Single houses ; 55 54 57 72 86 
Double houses .. ; 0 79 74 117 161 
Ihree-story houses ? 15 
Total houses ........ 116 148 131 189 247 
Valuation $684,650 $524,800 $745,650 $1, 
WINTHROP 
Single houses = ; 60 48 52 ‘ 
Double houses . 25 13 22 18 4 
Three-story houses . 10 1 6 
Total houses ..... 95 62 a0 ! ft 
Valuation ....... $437,825 $384 ) $ S4 
NUMBER AND VALUATION OF HOUSES BUILT SINCE ADOPTION OF THE ACT IN , 


In 1914 there was a further decrease of 
one house in the number erected, making 13 
less than in 1912, but the valuation of build- 
ing in 1914 was $480,000, as compared with 
$450,000 in 1912. Last year a considerable 
increase is reported, and there is also a 
more than proportionate rise in the valua- 
tion of the property. 

In Watertown the results were somewhat 
different, for upon the passage of the act 
the builders merely shifted from  three- 
story houses to the more desirable two- 
family houses. The act was passed in No- 
vember, 1912, and during that year 44 two- 
family houses were built. In the year fol- 
lowing the number jumped to 92: in 1914 
increased to 103; while in 1915 there were 
erected 154 such houses. And the valua- 
tion of building has also risen steadily from 
$496,720 in 1911, to $601,182 in 1912, to 
$750,000 in 1913, to $1,002,000 in 1914, and 
$1,368,807 in 1915. 

Arlington has had a different experience 
from either Belmont or Watertown. The 
act was adopted by the town in 1g12. But 
here the building public did not shift so eas- 
ily from one type of house to another, for 
we find both in number of houses erected 


is reported for IgI5. But it is of interest 
to note that the number of single houses 
until 1914 remained fairly constant—55, 54, 
57, then 7 
ever, was in the increase of two-family 


2 and &6. The great gain, how- 


houses. 

These three towns have been treated at 
length, partly because they were among the 
first to adopt the law and partly because 
their experience is typical of that in other 
towns. But another town must be con 
sidered in detail because it offers peculiar 
problems. 

Winthrop has suffered a loss both in 
valuation and in the number of houses 
erected, and some people hold the tenement 
house act responsible for much of this. (1 
do not wish to infer that citizens of Wi 
throp are complaining of the act, for they 
are not. Whatever the loss may be in less 
building, it is generally felt that there has 
been an offsetting gain in the control that 
the town now has over tenement houses 
that already exist. And in addition they 
will not get any more.) Winthrop was 
early invaded by the “three-decker” and the 
town has many bad ones. Several of the 


streets have a “Dorchestry’ appearance 




















Ii | LM i 
Pout ractica i of these houses ere 
built some time vo ()f the 108 tenement 
houses in the town, only 17 “three deckers 
were Dp ilt, as the statistics presente | here 
show during the thre ears rrevious 
the adoption of tl t é ent house ct 
That the decline of lj in Winthre 
i tribute o the tenement house 


RICAN. Ces Vo XV, No. 2 


their value. But dur 


ng this decline the number of single houses 


of buildings and i 


and two-family houses has remained prac 

tically constant. The causes for this de 

cline must, therefore, be sought elsewher 

han in the restriction of the tenement 
‘ 


I 
house act. 


There are, | think, two reasons for this 




















THE MASSACHUSETTS 


len ay artment h 
: act 1s a tact of which | am firmly con- 
vinced. A study of the statistics of build 


ing shown here reveals the fact that the 
decline set in before the act was adopted 
lor several years building in Winthrop has 
been undergoing a downward trend which 
(with the exception of a very low mark in 
I9it) is gradual in its drop in the number 








rYPE OF THREE-DECKER 


ses which the Tenement House Act fo 


state of affairs. First, the cost of land in 
Winthrop is high. This is brought about 
by the fact that it has a large ocean front 
age and is therefore subject to an inflated 
value for summer use, and also becaus 
most of the desirable land in Winthrop is 
used up. And, in addition, large areas ar« 
not available for housing purposes because 


ie 


y 
; 

















SEPTEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


held by the government for fortifications. 
The second reason is that the influx of 
tenement houses of a very low grade, and 
necessarily with them an undesirable class 
of people, has made Winthrop not a town 
in which one would feel safe in building a 
costly private residence. Large areas of 
Winthrop, especially the district called the 
beach section, are not especially desirable 
for high cost single residences, and it is 
not economically profitable to build any- 
thing but tenement houses of a fairly cheap 
grade in them. And of course the tene- 
ment house act excludes wooden or second 
class tenement houses. In a word, Win- 
throp is now paying the price of having 
ignored the housing problem too long. 

Another definite accomplishment of the 
tenement house act is that it has absolutely 
removed one of the most cankerous sources 
of objectionable tenements. The conver- 
sion of old mansion houses is a genuine 
evil in Massachusetts towns. With their 
large rooms divided into small and many 
times unlighted sections, with inadequate 
sanitary facilities, lack of privacy and gen- 
eral run-down condition, they make the 
worst tenements. In twenty-three towns in 
Massachusetts the tenement house act for- 
bids their conversion unless every section 
of the act is complied with; and, what is 
more, the act gives to towns the power to 
rectify conditions in such buildings as now 
exist. This is a definite and far-reaching 
accomplishment. 


Administration of the Law 


The tenement house act gives the towns 
which have adopted it the authority to in- 
sist upon good living conditions within all 
tenement houses. In reply to the question, 
“Have you caused changes in old houses?” 
six inspectors replied “Yes,” seven “No,” 
and nine made no report. In weighing 
these figures we must take into considera- 
tion the fact that at least eight, and pos- 
sibly ten, towns have no tenements. Thus 
just about one-half of the towns which 
need the maintenance clauses have already 
enforced them. The changes are as fol- 
lows: additional means of egress, lights in 
hallways, fire escapes, cellar ceilings plas- 


tered, more window space, connection with 
sewers, and prevention of room over- 
crowding. Wakefield has gone a step fur- 
ther than any other town by vacating two 





209 
tenement houses and causing one to be 
torn down. The most energetic town, how- 
ever, in the administration of the act is 
Winthrop. Here the health officer has 
busied himself in bringing Winthrop tene- 
ments up to the standards of the law. He 
does considerable night work, as is neces- 
sary for the two points he has been most 
strenuously pushing—lights in halls and 
overcrowding of bedrooms. Winthrop has 
been very successful with hall lighting, and 
at the present time practically every tene- 
ment house has, or owners have promised 
to have, electric lights in the halls. 

While officials in several towns are mak- 
ing considerable effort to enforce the pro- 
visions of the law, those in other towns are 
lax in fulfilling the responsibilities placed 
upon them by the vote of their citizens ac- 
cepting the act and thereby expressing a 
desire for conditions up to its standards. 
Most officials limit their efforts to “within 
office” work. That is, they issue such per- 
mits for new houses and alterations as are 
requested of them, but seldom go out to in- 
spect houses to see that they meet the re- 
quirements of the law. There is, however, 
a definite reason for this. The offices of 
the building inspectors are generally under- 
manned and underpaid, if at all paid. Only 
one of these twenty-three towns employs 
all of the time of its building inspector, 
four have none at all, and the others elect 
to the office a man who gives anywhere 
from one-half time to no time and receives 
from $400 to nothing in compensation. 

The same situation exists in the health 
departments, which are called upon to ad- 
minister the maintenance clauses. To in 
spect and enforce these provisions takes 
time. And, with the exception of Win- 
throp, I do not know of a town among 
these twenty-three which has a sufficient 
force or appropriates enough money to 
carry out the provisions of the law. Citi- 
zens of towns must be aroused to the fact 
that if health departments are to maintain 
health, they must have the means to cop« 
with disease-producing problems and the 
time to deal in preventive measures. 


Effects on Rent 
Perhaps the most vital point in connec- 
tion with a strict enforcement of the law 
lies in its relation to rents. As one man 
very pointedly said, “These improvements 














27 rH \MERI¢ 
are well ough, but can we afford thems 
We in the last analysis mea ot course 
the rent-payet So the question taces us, 
Have rents increased towns which have 
adopted the tenement house act?”  Statts- 
tics on this point have been dithcult to se« 
cure Onl e man, the Arlington n 
pector, a real estate man, could give hg 
res to bacl » his statement that rents 
had increas 1. He claims that a person 
hiring a house now has to pay on an aver- 
we $2 a month more than before the act 
vas passed. This he bases on the fact that 
the average rents tor houses now permitted 

\rlington are $25 to $27, whereas the 
iverage rents in three- and six-family 
houses are $22 to $25 per month But,” 
the mspector add l, in the three storys 
house the tenant gets five or Six rooms 
vhile in the single or double house he gets 
ix or seven rooms.” 

The point of contention in this problem 
seems to be whether or not rents are less 


than in 
authority on 


n three- and six-family houses 


houses \ 
Massachusetts 


other leading 


housing in towns writes as 


“Experience has proved that rents 
than in 
dwellings.” A Bel- 
keen 


rents in 


follows 


in these structures are not cheape r 


some other types of 


mont real estate man, who is a stu- 


claims that 


dent of good housing, 


new three-family houses correspond to 


those of two-family houses. “But,” he con- 
inues, “three-family houses depreciate more 
rapidly and when run down the rents are 
In his town, he states, the average 


three-family 


lower 


rents for new houses are $28 


to $30, while single and double houses rent 
tor trom $25 to $35. \t the end of five 


vears, however, the rent in “three-deckers” 
1s ihbout $20. 
the effect of the act 


on rent must necessarily be 


My conclusions on 
from observa- 
tion rather than from figures. In the towns 


which have adopted the act 


to prevent un- 


desirable tenants (having at the present 


rents are not at all affected. 
In towns within the fare limit of 
Arlington, Watertown, 
Winthrop, parts of Milton and possibly also 
f North 


ther 


time none), 
five-cent 


Boston Belmont, 


near the 
will probably he, in 


the portion « \ndover 
Lawrence lin 
the lor a slight increase in the aver- 
‘o the fact that 


these towns and sections of the cities and 


iw run, 


age of rents Vhis is duc 


towns nearby contain many tenement 





cn Gtae Vol 


XV, No. 3 


houses such as are prohibited by the tence 
ment house act. In these 
the “three-decker” is the prev ailing type ol 


districts where 
house, the land is rated at a three-story 
and it is therefore difficult for single 
and double houses to compete with the old 
tenements. And as 
houses, such as are permitted under the 


law, cost 


1 
Value, 


firesafe tenement 


more than houses of second or 
third class, they too are handicapped. \ 
return on property built under the new law 
will eventually require slightly higher rents 
in order to produce a profit comparable to 
that from houses built under the old law 
lhis fact, however, should not frighten off 
prospective builders, for they may capital 
ize on “new law tenements” as builders in 
New York and in New Jersey cities have 


done, 


Shutting Out the “‘Three-Decker”’ 

One of the encouraging facts of this 
study, from the point of better 
housing, is that nine of these towns ac 
strictly 


view of 


the act as a 
measure. They have no tenement 
and do not want which will 
the safety and well-being of their communi- 
Towns are waking up to the fact that 
it is more profitable to regulate buildings 
before houses are built than it is to remedy 
them after inroads have been made. 

Upon objection to the “three~lecker” 
hinges most of the sentiment calling forth 
the adoption of the act. Many towns hay 
not seized the situation in time and 
find themselves bearing the burdens which 
follow in the train of cheap houses. Prac- 
tically all towns, other than the nine men- 
tioned, adopted the act to check inroads al- 
ready begun of cheap “three-deckers.” 


cepted preventive 
hous S 
any menace 


ties. 


now 


The Act vs. a Housing Law 

most real fault with the tenement 
house act as it stands now is that 
not extend far enough. With the exception 
of a few of the sections in the chapter or 
improvements which the 
have enforced, practically the only section 
which has played any part whatever is Sec- 
This that 
house shall hereafter be erected exceeding 
two and one-half stories in height, nor shall 
by more than two fami- 


rhe 
it does 


some of towns 


tion 39. States “no tenement 


it be occupied 6 


lies unless it be a fireproof tenement house.” 
This one section has stopped the construc- 




















pla tet. 











SEPTEMBER, I916 THE 


tion of non-fireproof tenements; and as no 
fireproof houses have yet been erected, all 
of the rest of the law is so much dead 
weight. Indeed, it is curious to read th 
many sections dealing with tenement houses 
of less than three families which are mean 
ingless because carly in the act a tenement 
house is defined as “a house occupied 
families.” his 
seeming inconsistency is explained by the 
fact that in the original bill as it entered 
the legislature the definition read “two or 


by more than two 





ie 





AMERICAN CITY 











DOUBLE BRICK COTTAGI 

Five rooms anc 
more families” rather than ‘more than 
two.” While passing through committee 


the word “more” was juggled from one 
side of “two” to the other. Thus a great 
portion of the scope of the act was wiped 
out. As a preventer of “three-deckers,” 
however, the act has served an excellent 
purpose, but to gain the full benefits for 
which its drafters worked diligently the 
original definition of tenement house should 
be restored. 

Whether or not it will be possible to ac- 
complish this is uncertain. In reply to the 
question, “Do you think that your town 
would favor applying the act to all houses 
used for dwelling purposes?” four inspec- 
tors answeed “Yes,” two “Yes, if modified,” 


| 


271 
while five said “No. Certainly 1 
with a vision for adequate housing contt 
can see the necessity of this. But perh 
our citizens as a whole have not 
reached this Stage. Lawrence Veillet 
his last book, states that housi: gy retort 
passes thru three stages lirst, 
adopts a building code; secondly, a ter 
ment house act: and, finally, a housing law 


which covers all houses used for dwe 
With only 


in the second stage, it may lb 


purposes. twenty three 





BEING ERECTED IN SALEM 
bath for each family 
hope for any to enter the third. But it must 


come! 

In some towns the run of two-famil 
houses will force citizens to protect them 
from cheap 


selves by adequate legislation 


construction. The tenement house act will 
provide this by the mere changing of the 
lefinition of a house And 

town can change that of its own accord 
Here is 


tenement 


an opportunity for some progres 
sive community to place itself in the lead of 
all Massachusetts towns so far as housing 
is concerned. And -proper housing carries 
with it better health and better citizens 
The “shack” problem is the 


many of our communities. The tenement 


distre ss of 


house act as it now stands does not 


touch 











h been adopte | Ma l 
| d cen bn i] l sect ms espe 
i ( ped St cts n h wave 
se ot be i desiral 
} a) dl late h é eterTriot!r t¢ 
* 
‘ he mtrusion « ene t hous 
desit bl chat ictel hat trie res 
‘ yf a “three-decket reduces the value 


cent property is a substantial fact 
own which has adopted the t 
ouse act this danget is elin 


erefore such towns as have adopted the 





pte tl 
‘ ct 1 have not already been marre wi 
( e more and more chosen as sites for cost 
the homes. Belmont has proven this 
tl } But the tenement house act has contril 
ited nothing of a positive nature towards 
d «¢ t tl the solution of the problem of better houses 
‘ I the a re isonable cost. This is not due to 
he act has been negativs unything fundamentally wrong with th 
cte Hart | It is equally true of all housing leg 
husett ( has t t slation in the United States What ‘ 
times faster thar eed now, especially in towns where thi 
lwenty-thre« tenement house act prohibits the erectio 
| east st of cheap and unsafe houses, is a great “so 
en som ( promoter” who will place on the mar 
| have I ket a safe and sanitary type of hous« 
| zx <¢ ne reasol il le cost. How this is to be acco! 
vet mn Builders have not plished, whether thru a reform in ou 
ered, propert s have be t system, by copartnership housing, or 
‘ P : ° 
ect of profit nd it what not, is beyond the province of this 
that as vet ret irticle But necessity will force this invei 
used vet e it at al tion in the course of tim In the meat 
me positive conti t las been mad while Massachusetts towns will do well t 
i | ers s plat tect themselves from objectionable tens 
( ( { Sici¢ cost ments by adopting the tenement house ct 
‘ t vhere It will get the bad houses.’ 
. 
. bate . ° 
Compelling the Payment of Water Bills 
A 1 new metho t those owing $1, the service has been con 
the lelinquent water user pay tinued by the payment of $1.05 to the en 
the service which the ¢ S love sent out to turn off the water. It 
: gn Previous t ily 18, chr c cost the city ten cents carfare for the en 
( quents were able to secure the cor plove and the loss of time.” 
— , at y UK ere | (he new ruling which went into effect 
fiy per “ent ne le te ¢t mnolo\ . . 
: -_ , the « ye i8, is as follows oa 
ent to turn | +] er. Under this sys ; 
tel t was tound t t it cost Cincinnati “In all cases where the rules of the Water 
- wen Department relative to the payment of a bill 
m SI0.00 th § nnuallv to collect - ; “ 
—— : ' ive been violated and the proper notice of 
nquent water rentals delinquency given and ignored and the supply 
nany instances,” states Service Di rdered cut off, offer by the debtor of pay- 
ect erge he collections were ment of the account plus the five per cent 
‘ tesal | ‘ 1 . * penalty shall not be accepted by the empl ve : 
2 a actu ss the city Mat y ] j 
‘1 p : se irrying out the order and the supply discon 
1e offenders live ving districts tinued unless the debtor pays an additional 
! th bil > re the cases ot payment f one dollar.” 
. 

















“J 


ow 


5G SREREEEE SESE SE EEEREEREE EP ERERES SEECERSE SEE 

















- Editorial Comment j 
U i 
[L nisnnseeUSESEEEOEDSOnenSEnEnEeEsEnneenneees asayaaaae a 


The Ethics of Professional Advertising 

Some weeks ago THE AMERICAN CITY 
received from a prominent landscape archi- 
tect a letter requesting the withdrawal of 
his advertising card from the pages of this 
magazine. In explanation, the writer of 
the letter said: 

“There has been a great deal of discussion 
recently in the American Society of Landscape 
Architects, and also in the Boston Chapter of 
the same organization, with regard to publicity, 
and the propriety of professional cards. The 
opinion of a majority seems to be clearly 
against such advertising, so I have decided to 
ask you to discontinue my card in THE AMER! 
cAN City. In doing so, I want to make per- 
fectly clear that this action represents no 
change whatever in my attitude towards Tue 
AMERICAN City, which is doing a public work 
of steadily increasing value. I hope it may be 
possible for us to get the national organiza- 
tion or some of the local chapters to advertise 
their entire membership.” 

More recently THe American City has 
received communications from other mem- 
bers of the American Society of Landscape 
Architects relating to this subject of pro- 
fessional advertising. It seems that the 
question has been discussed at meetings of 
the Society held both in New York and 
Boston, and that, while a wide range of 
opinion was shown, there was considerable 
sentiment against individual professional 
cards inserted for advertising purposes in 
the magazines. The Society, however, has 
taken no definite action in the matter, but 
has appointed a committee to report recom- 
mendations at the annual meeting in Janu- 
ary next. The Chairman of this Committee 
on Publicity writes: 

“I should be glad to receive for the use of 
the committee any ideas which you as an edi- 
tor may have upon this subject. Professional 
cards in magazines are not generally consid- 
ered a success, while at the same time a land- 
scape architect has a lot of material that has 
‘news’ value.” 

Any argument as to the profitableness of 
space in the advertising pages of THE 
AMERICAN City would be out of place in 
the editorial columns; but the propriety of 


the use of advertising Space 18 a subject o1 
which we may rightfully express editorial 
views. Before doing so, however, a “de- 
cent respect for the opinions of mankind” 
required that definite information be s 
cured as to the attitude now taken on the 
advertising subject by the leading organi- 
zations of professional men doing business 
with municipalities. Accordingly, letters 
were written to the secretaries of five so 
cieties, with the following results 


The American Association of Publ \ 
countants reports that it “has not taken a def 
inite stand on the question of advertising. The 
preponderance of opinion is against profes 
sional advertisement, but the Association has 





not gone on record officially 

The American Institute of Consulting En 
neers states thru its Secretary that “‘t 
fession of civil engineering has always felt 
that it was undignified and unethical to resort 


to advertising its prefessional services [in dis 
play space]. The general feeling has been that 
a mere card in the daily press, especially in the 
financial sheet, and in the technical press, is all 
that could be considered good f« rm.’ 


The American Institute of Electrical Engi 
neers has issued a “code of principles of pro 
fessional conduct,” but i 
no mention is made of the question of adver 
tising. 


t 
f 


The American Society of Civil Engineers 
has in force a code which decrees that t shall 


be considered unprofessional and inconsistent 
with honorable and dignified bearing for any 
member .... to advertise 


i 
in self-laudatory language or in a manner de 
rogatory to the dignity of the profession.” 


The American Institute of Architects issues 
a “Circular of Advice Relative to Principles 
of Professional Practice,” of which paragraph 
12 reads: “Advertising tends to lower the dig 
nity of the profession and is, therefore, con 


demned.” 

It is interesting to note that the last- 
mentioned is the only organization of the 
five which is definitely committed against 
all forms of advertising. 

+ + 

In attempting to determine the propriety 
of any action, we must consider motive and 
method. The end and the means must both 














a 


be worthy. Now, advertising in a magazine 
has on the part ot the advertiser the object 
of increasing his business—a laudable aim, 


surely, assuming the ability and integrity of 


the advertiser \dvertising in the form of 
professional cards may le carried by th« 
publisher at less than display rates, for the 


purpose of furnishing a directory of names 
and ac lresses for the convenience of the 
magazine’s readers when needing profes 
sional services We confess that our edi 
torial mind cannot find an ethical distinc- 
tion between the appearance of an archi- 


rt 
tect’s “card” in such a directory and the 


appearance of his address in the classified 
telephone book or in the membership list 
of the Institute. It is for the convenience 
of his friends and clients that his name 
should appear in these reference publica- 
tions—and if, perchance, he gains more 
business thereby, wherein is the disgrace ? 

In weighing the ethics of advertising, its 
effect on one’s associates deserves careful 
consideration. An important phase of this 
subject has, we believe, been overlooked by 
many leaders in the architectural profes- 
sion. These men whose reputation is es- 
tablished may not feel the need of adver- 
tising; but is it quite fair that the younger 
and less widely known members of the 
Institute should be prevented by a Code 
of Ethics from having their names and ad- 
dresses appear in a professional directory ? 
And do our conservative friends among the 
architects consider that the foremost civil 
engineers who make a specialty of water 
supply and sewage disposal, for example, 
have lost caste because their cards are to 
be found in the columns of this and other 
journals alongside of similar advertise- 
ments of younger members of the civil en- 
gineering profession ? 

There remains, of course, another kind 
of magazine advertising—used by most 
manufacturers and by a few professional 
men—the “display” advertising which aims 
to attract the reader's attention, whether he 
happens to be seeking the advertiser’s ad- 
dress or not. Here we are on more de- 
batable ground for the architect or engi- 
neer. We agree heartily with the Ameri- 
can Society of Civil Engineers that to ad- 
vertise in self-laudatory language is not 
consistent with the proper dignity of a 
high-grade profession. But self-laudation 
is by no means essential to an attention- 


a7 THE AMERICAN CITY 


Vor. XV, No. 3 


getting advertisement. Even the “soulless 
corporations” are gradually discarding the 
“best on earth” type of publicity, and are 
substituting for it real descriptions of prod- 
ucts and records of achievement. But 
while improving the tone of their publicity, 
the manufacturers realize that their pro- 
spective customers must be appealed to as 
human beings, and they believe that pro- 
priety is not inconsistent with a handsome 
illustration or well-displayed headline to 
attract attention. 

We assume that it would not be unethical 
for an architect to furnish to a prospective 
client, in a neatly typewritten letter, a list 
of buildings designed by him. Why should 
the conveying of similar information by the 
architect thru a neatly printed announce- 
ment in a high-class journal be condemned ? 

For evidence that our professional friends 
see nothing unethical in display advertising 
per se—if some one else pays for it—we 
have but to turn to the advertisements of 
manufacturers which help to meet the cost 
of publishing so dignified a magazine as thé 
official Journal of the American Institute 
of Architects. Nor is it, we believe, con- 
sidered improper for members of the Insti- 
tute to purchase for distribution among 
prospective clients reprints of magazine 
articles written by themselves or descrip- 
tive of their work. Consistency, thou art 
not an advertisement ! 

[In conclusion, here is our opinion, as re- 
quested by the Committee on Publicity of 
the American Society of Landscape Archi- 
tects: 

1. The Society would conserve the best 
interests of the profession and the conve- 
nience of its clients by specifically recog- 
nizing the ethics of directory advertising in 
the professional columns of high-class 
magazines and technical journals. 

2. Self-laudatory and bombastic adver- 
tising should be discouraged as undignified 
and contrary to the best interests of the in- 
dividual and his profession. 

3. Display advertising of a dignified 
character should be permitted, but not 
necessarily encouraged. Its use should be 
regarded as a matter of individual taste, 
and it should be considered no more un- 
ethical than the writing of a letter or the 
mailing of a reprint to a prospective client. 

4. The suggestion that the Society adver- 
tise its entire membership list is an admir- 














—_— — 

















ea 


SeErTEMBER, 1916 


able one, but should be undertaken only if 
approved by a substantially unanimous vote. 
\ mere majority should not spend the So- 
ciety’s money to force publicity on a large 
and unwilling minority. 


The services of architects and engineers 
and landscape architects are among the 
fundamental activities on which the prog- 
ress of the world rests. The public welfare 
demands such services, and it demands, too, 
a knowledge of where to obtain them. The 


THE AMERICAN CITY 





to 
“I 
ws 


daily correspondence of THe AMERICAN 
City indicates a widespread lack of appre 
ciation of the great importance of expert 
aid in city building, and insufficient knowl- 
edge of where to find men competent to 
render such aid when its need is realized. 
Readers in steadily increasing numbers are 
turning to this magazine for information 
on the whole field of municipal and civic 
progress. Why should not its advertising 
s speak openly of the need and _ the 
sources of expert assistance ? 


yy 
page 





For an Hour More of Daylight 
By Roland B. Woodward 


Secretary, Rochester Chamber of Commerce, Rochester, N. Y. 


ENTIMENT in the United States is 
growing in favor of advancing the 
hands of the nation’s clocks an hour 

during the summer months of each year, so 
that the country may utilize the additional 
hours of daylight of the longer summer 
days. The clocks of Cleveland and Detroit 
have been an hour ahead of their standard 
time zone for a year or two. It is under- 
stood that the change is working out satis- 
factorily and advantageously. For eco- 
nomic reasons the clocks have been ad- 
vanced in England, France, Germany, Italy, 
Denmark, Sweden and Norway. Commer- 
cial organizations of large cities of this 
country, notable among which is the Bos- 
ton Chamber of Commerce, are investigat- 
ing the movement. The Merchants’ Asso- 
ciation of New York has gone on record in 
favor of a national change “as distin- 
guished from local action.” Some time ago 
the officers of the Rochester Chamber of 
Commerce, upon recommendation of its 
Manufacturers’ Council, approved of a na- 
tional change and voted to advocate its 
effectuation. 

The results of Rochester's investigation 
were numerous, varied, entertaining, amus- 
ing, enlightening and instructive. In the 
first place it was found that the idea was not 
new to this world by at least one hundred 
years. The national magazines of 1908 told 
of efforts being made in that year to enact 
a law in the London Parliament to set the 
clocks of the British Isles ahead. But back 


in the eighteenth century Ben Franklin re- 
corded the following astute observation in 
his autobiography : 

“In walking through the Strand and Fleet 
Street one morning at 7 o'clock, I observed 
there was not one shop open, though it had 
been daylight and the sun up above three 
hours; the inhabitants of London choosing 
voluntarily to live much by candle-light, and 
sleep by sunshine; and yet often complain, a 
little absurdly, of the duty on candles and the 
high price of tallow.” 

It is said that Franklin further put him- 
self on record in favor of advancing the 
hands of the clocks when no one was look- 
ing or when every one was asleep. Evi- 
dently he foresaw the controversial possi- 
bilities in a movement to set the clocks 
ahead by public agitation. 

The agitation of the movement in Roch- 
ester by this Chamber certainly brought out 
a decided difference of opinion. It was 
good copy for the newspapers, and re- 
porters were assigned to obtain views of 
representative citizens. Opportunities to 
unload alleged humor on the unprotected 
public were in this way afforded some pro- 
fessional and amateur comedians, who 
either were suffering from acute humor or 
were struggling to uphold reputations 
painstakingly acquired. The serious minds 
of the community, however, were in favor 
of a change if it could be made national, 
but foresaw in a purely local adoption of 
the movement confusion that would result 
in serious inconvenience and_ trouble. 

















276 THE AMERICAN CITY 


Evervone agreed that it would be a fine 
thing to utilize additional hours of daylight 
for recreation and darkness for sleep, but 
many were unwilling to establish in Roch- 
ester a time that could be an hour ahead of 
railroad, financial, city, state and national 
time, and the time in other communities 
with which Rochester did business. 

Naturally the transportation officials were 
against the local adoption from the stand- 
point of what would be best for their own 
business. The same is true of the express 
companies. The steam railroads could not 
be expected to go to the expense and 
trouble necessary to conform with the “im- 
proved” (as it was called) time in Roch- 
ester, providing it were purely local. 

The banks were unwilling to be guided 
by a time which would be an hour ahead 
of that used in New York financial circles. 
If they did, their offices would be opening 
and closing just sixty minutes in advance 
of those in New York's financial districts 
On the other hand, the “improved” time, 
whether in Rochester or New York, would 
be more nearly in accord with that in Lon- 
don and the commercial centers of other 
European countries 


Possible Legal Obstacles 

The Chamber was advised by the city’s 
law department that the time in the city’s 
offices and municipal courts could not be 
changed without state legislative enact- 
ment. A city ordinance could not accom- 
plish the purpose. In the face of the same 
situation, however, the City of Cleveland 
officially made the change. W. S. Fitz- 
gerald, director of law of Cleveland, in- 
formed the Chamber in June: 

“There has never been any attempt to recon- 
cile the conflict in these two laws (Cleveland 
ordinance and Ohio statute) by additional leg- 
islation. Central time is still the legal time 
in Cleveland so far as operation and enforce- 
ment of state laws are concerned. Our county 
courts still maintain Central time in conduct- 
ing their business. There have been no prac- 
tical difficulties encountered because of the 
existence of the state laws.” 

The foregoing was in reply to our in- 
quiry about the possible conflict between 
Cleveland's “improved” time and the ad- 
ministration of the Ohio labor laws. Sec- 
tion 77 of New York’s labor laws prohibits 
the employment in factories of children un- 
der the age of sixteen years before eight 
o'clock in the morning or after five o'clock 


Vor. XV, No. 3 


in the afternoon. James M. Lynch, one of 
the New York State Industrial Commission, 
however, ruled: “It is my impression that 
for the purposes of the enforcement of the 
law we must accept time used thruout the 
state—that is, standard time.” The Cham- 
ber’s request for an opinion as to the legal 
status of the “improved” time, if it were 
adopted in Rochester, was addressed orig- 
inally to the Attorney General of the state. 
He referred it to the Industrial Commission 
and the foregoing letter resulted. 

County time also could not be changed 
without state legislative enactment. This 
meant that the courts of Monroe County 
would be operating on a time schedule an 
heur behind the “improved” time if it were 
put into effect. Cleveland and Detroit 
faced the same discrepancy, apparently 
without embarrassment or serious incon- 
venience. 

“This fact apparently does not cause any 
confusion to the people who do business 
with them,” reads a letter from the Cleve- 
land Chamber of Commerce. This organi- 
zation further wrote: “We doubt very much 
if any person, outside of those who are di- 
rectly connected with the railroads, could 
be found in Cleveland who is not an enthu- 
siastic supporter of eastern time. We 
think the change was one of the best things 
that ever happened to our city.” 

Hon. Newton D. Baker, ex-Mayor of 
Cleveland and now Secretary of War, said 
when he was at the head of the “Sixth 
City’s” administration : 

“We made the change without the least dif- 
ficulty. It has met with universal favor and 
I think nobody in Cleveland would now be 
—s to change back to Central Standard 

ime 


Objections from Transportation Companies 

Detroit's answer to the objection that the 
purely local adoption would be confusing to 
the visitor to the city and traveling men 
is in a letter to this Chamber from Walter 
Brooks. Mr. Brooks is secretary of the 
More Daylight Club of Detroit, which was 
instrumental on behalf of the Detroit Board 
of Commerce in effecting the change to 
Eastern Standard Time. Mr. Brooks wrote 
recently : 


“Tlowever, even some of the leading trans- 
portation men admit that personally they like 
it, but for their own business they have op- 
posed it. The rest of us feel, however, that 
the seven or eight hundred thousand people 





Fart I egy 














SEPTEMBER, I916 THE 


living in Detroit should not consider being 
deprived of this extra hour of daylight simply 
because it might occasionally cause a little con 
fusion with a small number of people from 
the outside.” 

One Rochester manufacturer, whose em- 
ployes had voted for the adoption of the 
movement as soon as possible, said, when 
asked for his opinion as to how the move- 
ment might affect the traveling public 

“This is a movement for the best interests 
of the people of the community as a whole 


Undoubtedly a few would be inconvenienced 
by its adoption in Rochester. But should the 


purely selfish interests of the comparative 
few be considered over and above the best 
terests of the 75,000 employes of Rochester? 
I am in favor of the movement and hope 
may be adopted at once.” 


Benefits Which the Change Would ring 


Without going further into the draw- 
backs, the adoption of the movement, lo- 
cally or nationally, would benefit Rochester 
in this way: Between March 28 and Sep- 
tember 24 the sun rises on or before 6 
o'clock Eastern Standard Time, according 
to government figures. In the summer 
sunrise 1s preceded by about an hour and a 
half of actual light. The period of light 
before sunrise in the winter is measured 
by approximately fifty minutes. It is safe 
to state, then, that before sunrise of each 
day in the period bounded by March 28 and 
September 24 there is an hour of actual 
light, so that it would be possible to ad- 
vance the hands of the clocks one hour and 
still get up in the daylight. This is based 
upon the assumption, of course, that the 
average hour of arising in Rochester is 
6 o'clock in the morning. 

In other words, Rochesterians would get 
up, start and quit work an hour earlier by 
Greenwich time, but by clock time there 
would be no change because of the fact 
that the hands had been set ahead. The 
fact that the change would work no per- 
ceptible difference in the relations between 
cur activities and clock time is not gen- 
erally understood. The change would mean 
merely that we observe the same hours by 
clock time, but would have gained one hour 
by Greenwich time. As a result the peopl 
of Rochester would have an additional hour 
each afternoon for outdoor sports and all 
other forms of recreation And, as the 
period is 181 days long, they might have a 
corresponding total of additional hours 


AMERICAN CITY 277 


or nearly 23 or linarv work davs of warm 


healthgiving, afternoon sunlight to them- 
selves, instead of spending them in the 


shops, stores and offices. 
The following, with the exception of the 


figures, which are Rochester's, was ex 
tracted from the reports of Clevel 
Phy sicians I 1g Te¢ t s ealt 

improves in proportion t ;s added activities 
n the sunlight Che adopt 
ment means 181 additional ligt 
for all 

“The change e wil t 
tion The recreation of the f t 
itizens is taken during the after ns and 
early evenings. This part of their lives is one 
f the most important and is essential to the 
success of their more serious efforts Ad 
vaneing the hands of the clocks would give 


ISI additional hours for utd r recreat! 








“Better conditions f sleep. Sleep during 
the early morning hours of the greatest part 
f the year 15S ften disturbed by early day 
light \t me s§ f ens re 
necessarily awake nad pursuing thei daily 
duties and also disturbing the oritvy wl 
ire sleeping The 1 Vel nt would t elimi 
nate both of these disturl g Tf tor ut it 
would provide 181 additional hours 1 
ness yearly for sounder sleep, which woul 
tend to minimize the effectiven f the lat- 
ter cause of e 

‘Saving in I 
By going t ] r earl ‘ 

mes dark foll 

me of the hange. this ite | 

e conside ‘ TT} S ] 
hange will effect f Engl 
has been est ed S $1 
000,000. 


There are many other favorable argu 
ments, including those that the utilization 


{ 


f more daylight means less impairment of 


vision due to the elimination of work fre 


quently done under failing light at the clos 
of the day, and the decrease of tubercu 
losis because of the fact that sunlight is 
the most powerful foe of this malignant 


lisease. 
There are those in Rochester. } vever 
who are “agin” even a national ing’ 


They believe in utilizing daylight, but cor 


tend that it can be accomplished ithout 
changing the clocks They concur with 
those learned scientists and other t pro 
found knowledge who said, when the mat 
ter was being agitated in England in 1908 
It is a great mistake to tamper with tims 
“The thing to do,” these R 
Say, is to leave your « ck one get 
p, start and quit work ir earlier 








278 THE AMERICAN CITY 


The answer to this lies in the following 
from the More Daylight Club of Detroit: 

“We get up in the morning— 

“We go to bed at night— 

“We go to work and quit— 

“And we eat—when the clock says TO. 

We are creatures of the clock. Our hab- 
its are governed by it to an even larger 
degree than we suspect. If the clocks 
were not set ahead an hour, everyone might 
rise an hour earlier, but would not retire an 
hour earlier. 

Sleep probably is the most abused benefit 
with which the human race is endowed, as 
is illustrated by the following extract from 
a naive letter written on the movement by 
an executive of a large Rochester plant: 

“Personally, I am opposed to either early 
retiring or early rising. I have had an argu- 
ment with myself for the last thirty years, and 
have not decided which I most hated to do.” 

Sut, briefly, this is a movement, not for 
the executive and proprietor, but for the 
workers at the benches, behind the counters 


Vo... XV, No. 3 


and in the hot offices. The remarkable 
thing about the Rochester agitation is the 
alacrity with which factory employes have 
taken to the idea. Approximately 2,000 
workers in seven large Rochester factories 
have petitioned the Chamber to effect the 
adoption of the movement “immediately, if 
possible.” Candidly, it would benefit us all. 
No one would be guilty of depriving him- 
self of additional hours of afternoon day- 
light at his disposal for outdoor sports and 
other forms of recreation, no matter 
whether he were a bank president, modest 
department head or the humblest of la- 
horers. Whether or not it may be done by 
federal legislative enactment remains to be 
seen. However the change is made, it 
should be national, uniform, legal and care- 
fully pre-arranged. It cannot but add to 
the national happiness, health and pros- 
perity, because it would permit additional 
hours of warm, healthgiving sunlight for 
pleasure, and darkness for sleep. 





Higher Interest Rates on City Deposits 


Chamberlain Milo R. Maltbie, of New 
York City, recently appointed by Mayor 
Mitchel to succeed Mr. Henry Bruére, has 
worked out a new scheme for dealing with 
the $50,000,000 of city money which his 
office has on deposit with various banks. 

The plan presented by the Chamberlain 
and approved by the Banking Commission 
is briefly summarized as follows: 


“Instead of having all of the money belong- 
ing to the City of New York on deposit with 
banks and trust companies in a single class, 
a considerable sum, somewhere between $10,- 
000,000 and $20,000,000, will be separated from 
the remainder of the money, and for the sake 
of convenience will be called ‘Class A,” in- 
active deposits. The amount of money set 
aside as inactive deposits for the coming quar- 
ter will be fixed at a sum considerably below 
the lowest amount which the city has had on 
deposit with banks and trust companies for 
many years. A study of this phase of the 
matter has been made, and it has been found 
that only once in several years has the city 
had on deposit less than $20,000,000, and usu- 
ally considerably more. For the coming quar- 
ter the total inactive deposits will not be al- 
lowed to exceed $12,000,000 or $15,000,000, in 
order that one may be reasonably certain that 
none of the Class A deposits will be called 
upon. Of course, no guarantee can be or will 





he given to this effect, as under the charter all 
city deposits must be considered subject to 
call. But Class A deposits will not be called 
during the coming quarter unless and until 
the demands for city money have exhausted 
other deposits and a part of Class A deposits 
is needed. 

“It follows that Class A deposits will not be 
fluctuating accounts, and if one may judge 
from the experience of past years, there will 
be no withdrawal of any of the deposits dur- 
ing the coming quarter, but, of course, no 
pledge can be made to this effect. 

“Inasmuch as Class A deposits will be even 
more desirable than city deposits have been, 
I wish to be advised what rate of interest you 
will agree to pay on Class A deposits placed 
in your institution during the three months 
ending October 31, 1916, and what rate you 
will pay on Class B deposits. In your reply 
will you please specify whether you wish a 
Class A or a Class B deposit, or both Class A 
and Class B deposits?” 

Following the sending of the preceding 
statement to the city banks and trust com- 
panies, replies were received showing that 
they believed the new form of deposit 
would be especially valuable to them. Of 
the 100 institutions asked to bid on city de- 
posits, 37 agree to pay 3 per cent or more, 
as compared with 12 institutions which of- 
fered to pay only 3 per cent on May 1. 














pwns 


. 
























































’ 
| 7 
Reported to The American City 
- 
y ™ ~ 
BY MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS AND DEPARTMENT HEADS 
a 
| s — 7 
* 
For this department e é é y 
. unty officials and heads rty s, ons 
ther engaged in malar wor rat y 
si accompany ti , “ é ra 
. —__~ — . I 
| Sr fo ec 
és eee ae ee 
ghway ( | 
| ere l i 
eR a ee I e dete ‘ ( I ‘ 
; : 
“Sere | P 
An Ordinance on Street Ripping "3°" 
Jounstown, Pa.—Hitherto, contractors oe oS | = oO ON ‘ 
r and private citizens who found it necessary €S, Cor 
to dig trenches in paved streets repaired from stone 1 de te Soin 
the paving as they saw fit, and, while the [porey tamped;s above this point the k f I be 
city could compel the streets to be placed — tamped or flushed with 
. . °,° . e City Engi: r Ir 
in presentable condition, there was no uni- City of Tohnstown. Stones exceeding te wlth 
formity about the manner in which repairs ‘ther ! nape limensior not ed f k 
were made y at least twelve s ‘ \ es exces 
An ordinance recently passed in Johns-  fehnoved fror Sooner een ee 
town provides a formula for the repairs on the excavation has been made as the back 
. : ; : fill for section permitted has been completed. Back 
all paved streets, while there is an addi- filling shall be prosecuted a vork progr 
¢ 4 ’ e und shall be ept cor lete t I t e 2 ex 
tional formula which must be followed for eee ee eer ae lit 
repairs on all unimproved highways. A __ gested districts the length of open. dit oo 
. person securing a permit for opening a f the f J 
street must deposit a bond with the city ¢ Ge mene ences 
authorities, covering the cost of restoring te lt 
Pies a 
the street to normal condition. eaeian : 
The new ordinance provides a concrete lave reached within tv 
a . ° ee Ss eting oF 2 
base for repaving under certain conditions, expose I 
: . ly filled and ta 
and in every case has stringent regulation ag renga ' : 
to insure a uniform level surface on all cing le is t 
thorofares after repaving. The text fol- es in eleva above ed 
r t les } le » the 
fi lows: S fer - — . 
i AN ORDINANCI nd fill shall be re , 
L nd el - r e whe 
REGULATING THE Dicoinc Into or Teartnc Up or back fill: ss cae Sot, Beggar ay tet : Pp I; 
Streets AND Pusitic Hicguways 1N THE City oF si os hes : ae ; 
ToHNsSTOWN BY INDIVIDUALS, FIRMS nr Corpora ' “2 : pad 
“ - Sere »N I é re¢ 
4 rions, Provintnc How tHe Distursep Parts of Bees svi teat Spe am Peo OER moiagee tier 
‘ Sucn Streets or Pustic Hicuways SHALL BF : maa souk hice egg Mae Ng ~~ geen 
REPLACED, AND Provipinc A PENALTY FOR VIOLA . rR a ie Sheet the 80 tee ~ 
TION OF THE SAME. 
rtace of su paving ’ 
Section 1—Be it enacted and ordained by the ng material and base shall be remov fr ‘ 
Council of the City of Johnstown, Pennsvyivania, and le ot the exc 1 ted sectior ne to 
is hereby enacted and ordained by the mthority of leptl ot tweive ne € rm N the ny ed a . 
t same nd sar t be replaced wit nerete 
That from and after the passage of this ordinance, mposed of one part cement, thre 
ny person, firm or corporation desiring to disturb hve parts Slag or grave ley ted t t 
r tear up any part of a street or public highway in tion to a dept tf not less than six 
the City of Johnstown, for the purpose of laying any excavated section be more thar thirty 
water, gas or sewer pipes, conduits, or for any other the concrete ! ‘ 
purpose whatever, shall obtain a permit from the expanded met r other improve 1 type 
Superintendent of Streets and Public pr I reint ‘ ! i ‘ 
for so doing, but before such permit is t x t 

















280 THE AMERICAN CITY 








iving s he n y skilled Th ' 
lar type of paving to be re | 
5 x ¢ ! bye give it r 
t “rT , ire t for t re re 
1 f the al 1 k shall rema n 
i tw eat afte is been « n 
onditioned that said work w hold up for sar 
of time 
Sec 3 \ny erson, firn r corporation v 
ating any of the provisions tt s ordinance ail, 
tl t fined not less than fve 
upon conviction thereot, be ied 61 ! an f 
($5) nor more than one hundred ($100) dollars, wit 
costs of suit to be recovered before the Mayor or a 
\lderman ft the Cit the n le fines, ftorteit 
1 
and = penaltie are recoverable | law, f violatior f 
(ity ordinances 
‘ s All ordinance parts of ordinances 
cor herewith e and the ne are hereby repealed 


“LOUIS FRANKE, 


+ + 


A Mayor’s Advisory Committee 

Mitwavukee, Wis.—One of the most se- 
rious difficulties which a city executive 
faces, once he is elected to office, is to keep 
himself informed concerning the attitude of 
the various elements in the body politic, 
and to keep the public informed as to the 
problems and the difficulties he meets in his 
attempts to administer his duties. Because 
his work requires that he spend much of 
his time in his office, a mayor is pretty likely 
to lose that first-hand contact with the peo- 
ple which he had, for example, during the 
campaign that preceded his election. Out- 
side of the fact that a socialist mayor 
knows the program and is in direct touch 
with a well-organized workmen's political 
body, he gets his messages from the outside 
world either thru his more loyal supporters 
or thru the malcontents. Neither source af- 
fords a safe guide as to what the public as 
a whole is thinking. 

On the other hand, the public is in an 
equally unsatisfactory position as regards 
the mayor. Unacquainted with the intrica- 
cies of American city charters, some of 
which are better calculated to prevent 
things being done than to get things done, 
and unfamiliar with the limitations placed 
on the office of mayor, the public is natu- 
rally impatient at delays and inaction, and 
is disposed to blame the mayor, who is the 
show-piece of the administration, for every- 
thing that is done or is not done. Its in- 
former is the public press, which, in mat- 
ters political, is not usually a safer inter- 
preter to the people than the mayor's per- 
sonal friends and the kickers are to him. 

It was this situation which led me to call 
together representatives of the civic organi- 





Vor. XV, No. 3 


zations of the city to form a sort of ad- 
visory committee or a mayor's cabinet. It 
was not proposed that this committee should 
advise courses in conflict with the plat- 
form upon which the Mayor was elected. 
Milwaukee has an unusually large number 
of civic societies which together represent 
all sections of the community. In therm 
are citizens of all political beliefs who are 
earnestly desirous of serving the city, but 
who are handicapped by lack of the fullest 
opportunity to be of service. Thru a letter 
to these societies asking their codperation 
in the interest of Milwaukee as a whole, a 
body of about thirty citizens has been called 
into being. Each one of these was elected 
by and represents some civic organization. 
The purpose of the committee is to consult 
and advise with the Mayor at least once a 
month concerning the larger affairs of the 
city. 

The advisory committee has been limited 
strictly to representatives of organizations 
of a civic nature and of a few societies like 
the Engineers’ and Architects’ Societies of 
Milwaukee, which, because of their peculiar 
qualifications, are in a position to give the 
Mayor invaluable advice on public matters 
of a technical nature. The Engineers’ So- 
ciety, for example, has just undertaken a 
survey of the Milwaukee River to deter- 
mine the possibilities of parking and beau- 
tifving it. Trade organizations have been 
excluded, both because their admission 
would make the advisory committee un- 
wieldy in size, and because of their more 
purely commercial character. 

The constitution and by-laws of the com- 
mittee give the Mayor full power to desig- 
nate what organizations shall be admitted 
to membership. Sectional questions are not 
to be discussed by the committee ; only mat- 
ters of first importance and city-wide scope. 
An executive committee of five, in consul- 
tation with the Mayor, suggests the prob- 
lems to be taken up, with the idea that only 
one question shall be considered at a meet- 
ing. Any member of the general commit- 
tee, however, may suggest topics for dis- 
cussion, and in case the executive commit- 
tee disregards his suggestions, he may ap- 
peal to the whole committee. 

Three meetings of the advisory commit- 
tee have been held so far. The first meet- 
ing Was given to organization; the second 
to a discussion of the municipal street light- 





oe 


SepTEMBER, 1916 THE AMEI 


ing system, which Milwaukee is now pre- 
paring to install, and which has met the 
bitter hostility of certain local interests; 
and the third to the general question of city 
planning, and the possibilities of a survey 
to determine the city’s planning needs 

It is too early as yet to determine what 
the results of this plan of civic codperation 
will be. Members of the advisory commit- 
tee, however, are enthusiastic for it and are 
entering into their new responsib ilities with 
a will. If the enthusiasm continues, as it 
promises to do, it may well be hoped that 
in this idea has been discovered the needed 
link between the public and its chief exec- 
utive, a link that shall bind the community 
and its municipal administration into one 
coordinating and codperating whole, for 
the greater efficiency of both, and for the 
betterment of the community life of Mil- 
waukee. One thing is sure to happen—the 
public will get a fair and impartial report 
of the merits of measures advocated by the 
Mayor. 


DANIEL W. HOAN, 
Mayor 





rom 
CITY MANAGERS 


A Small Town Garbage Collection 
System 

Ounto.—tThe village of 
Westerville has for several years been de- 
sirous of finding some device or system 
whereby the collection of garbage could be 
handled and paid for with fairness to those 
interested. 





WESTERVILLE, 


For some years private contractors col- 
lected garbage and disposed of it 
in any way they saw fit. Com- 
plaint after complaint came from 
those who were located in out- 
lying districts that their garbage 
was not being taken up, and also 
from others that garbage was bhe- 
ing deposited in such places as to 
cause a stench. When questioned 
by health authorities, the garbage ~ 





R I 





GARBAGE COLLECTION TICKET | 
Good for the disposal of the contents of a © 


IN SUMMER - MONDAYS 
IN WINTER -- MONDATS ONLY ‘AND PRIDATS IF REOUIRED 


Rn These tickets 10 cents each cr 12 tor One Dollar 





Can CITY 281 
ating plant was built and an appropriation 
was made to have the garbage collected by 


contract This not only turned out to be 


unjust to those who had no garbag« 


to dis 
pose of in suburban districts, but it was 
found there was no check upon the contrac 
tor, and the work was being more or less 
slighted. 
Shortly after Westerville changed ts 
form of government and put in a city man 
ager, it was concluded that some way must 


and fairer 
system of garbage collection. The free 
collection was at once discarded and _ the 
contract annulled. Che work was done in 
stead by the city 
were made by them. Ten cents was charged 
for emptying each can. 


I 


be devised to secure a better 


force 1d collectio1 
rorces ane co1ections 


The collectors had a good deal of trouble 
Much time was 
spent in arguing whether or not the 


was full enough to be emptied 


with the people at first. 


can 
Sometimes 
the housewife would not have the money 
ready, and a general mixup in small ac- 
counts ensued 

Finally we evolved a new system. In- 
stead of collecting ten cents at the time the 
can was — or at some other time 
when the housewife happened to have the 
money, I gave notice in the papers that we 
would sell twelve garbage coupons for $1, 
each coupon to be good for the emptying 
of one ten-gallon can. This coupon was to 
be tied to the can or presented to the col- 
The plan seems to be working ad- 
mirably. The tickets are sold at the City 
Manager’s office and we get our money in 
advance. It eliminates all arguments be- 
tween the collector and the housekeeper, 
because the presence of the ticket attached 


lector. 


10 GALLON CAN on 
this tieket to can or present to collector = : 
COLLECTION DAYS ed 


WEDNESDAYS cr FRIDAYS 











collectors would reply that the 

price they were getting for emptying cans 
did not pay them to gather in streets not 
closely populated, and that if the city would 
build an incinerating plant they would burn 
the garbage. Later a municipal inciner- 


to the can is prima facie evidence that the 
can is to be emptied. The coupon is can- 


celled and made void simply by pulling it 


from the string, which pulls out ie eyelet 
This ticket cannot be used again, as the 











s teal t vhe the « Ipon 1s letache 
\S sor S a perso! Sa set of ticke 
coupons his I il iddres i i 
ce put on the g ge list a t 
I te care 
for a tin we had a contract vitl 
farmer, near the city, to furnish this gar- 
ge to feed to hog t so many thrifty 
eople let their garbage accumulate tor 

re than one week that the feed wouk 
et stal and cause sick SS wMo0d)8ng the 
hog \s a result the farmer gave up tak 

I off our hands We re oblige m 

to rn the garbag« our cinerating 

pl 
No city should the disposal of ga 
bage by hog feeding unless some provisio1 
ide to have bits of glass and sharp par 
tick I oved i keep separate the 

‘ ( pe g irl ore 
ne ¢ le here e¢ to be satishie vith 

this ind | S in very well pieast 
h the working of it It has el te 
goo ol nnovance ind it puts the 

cost upon those who use the service Phe 
collection does not quite pay the cost of the 
service at present, but indications are that 
it will in a short time. In getting starts 

there was delay in memorizing the routes 


lhe appropriation for the collection of 
garbage, which was allowed in the last 
lget, will show very little used at the 
end of the vear. For a small city like ours, 
of 3,000 population, we think we have hit 
upon the best plan possible 


RAY S. BLINN, 
City Manager 


a From CITY 





ENGINEERS 


Curves on Street Corners 


loriet, I1t.—That sharp corners are a 





hindrance to slow traffic and a menace to 
fast vehicles is becoming recognized by 
those dealing with street transportation. 
For that reason curves are being substi- 
tuted for corners in many cities. 

In the city of Joliet, Ill, all contemplated 
street improvements provide a long-radius 
curve tor street intersections, and in the 
business district curves of small radius are 
being cut off so that larger curves may be 
put in their places. 

rhe plan followed is to make a radius as 


2 THE AMERICAN CITY 


VoL... XV, No. 3 


lot Y as possible, the length depending on 
the space between the curb line and the 
property line. As most of our business 
streets have 12-foot sidewalks, the radii for 
the intersections in business districts have 
cen 12 feet, but in residential sections they 


erage 15 feet. 














THE SQUARE CORNER—AN OLD TYP! 














THE ROUNDED CORNER—A NEW TYPE 


lo get away from long gutters at the 
corners, we are providing summit intersec- 
tions—that is, the paving around the long- 
radius curve is the same length as the curb. 
(he gutter waters are taken care of by an 
inlet at both ends of the curve. 


Cc. D. O'CALLAHAN, 
City Engineer 


ee 





ATI ne 


Ni, pls 


SEPTEMBER, I916 THE AMERICAN CITY 





com HIGHWAY | 
|_DEPARTMENTS | 





Giving Notice of Street 
Improvements 
St. Louts, Mo.—The charter of the city 
of St. Louis, adopted in 1914, contains, 
among other things, that all proceedings to 
be taken by the Board of Public Service on 
public work are to be paid for by special 
tax bills issued against property in the dis 
trict. The following is a copy of the ref 


erence « 


d the Board of Public Service shall ther: 

n designate a day on which it will nsider 
he projected work or improvement, and shall 
sive two weeks’ public notice in the paper 
vapers doing city publishing, if the time pla ‘ 


ind matter to be considered, and of the esti- 
nated cost of the work or improvement. which 


W 
estimate may cover several classes of mat 




















STREET IMPROVEMENT NOTICE, 


tively lew propert S 
vertisements of this 1 ‘ 
pers ind to ¢ <S 
owners interested are y | | 
vork conten plate . not . i 
each block, stating the 
it which the mee or ( he ; 
t the streets will be considered by the 
Board. Chese al post 
laces; they have the effect i tting the 
Board in closer toucl 
owners and have very rg 
ittendance at the public he 
sults are very satisfact 
will undoubtedly be « 
Dit 
+ + 
A Convertible Electric Sprink- 
ling Truck 
Lynn, Mass.—Our esire to get th 
maximum servic it of r equipment 
led to the constructio1 ot two ele 
sprinkling trucks that are convert 
use in ash and garbage collect g 
winter tl I 
these Iwo t 
sho 
| ich cart 
gallon tant ( g 
13 feet 1 ( ng 
‘ 4 feet ( S 
d eter \ 2 
feet long at é d of 
th i ishes 
con ess h 
which a street & eet 
wide can 
being made of t 
Z Phe 
] es were ‘ 
our ister ecl 
(seorgs | r 
and + ’ ‘ } 
pervision 1 
shops W he 
rubbish — the 
proximate 
~ 1] 
S ¢ the | 
will hol { 
W he rpage 
collects the 
rubbish é 
the street to tl 
LOUIS and from the shelf 





aky THE 


AMERICAN 


Cite 














ELECTRIC SPRINKLING AND FLUSHING TRUCKS USED IN LYNN, MASS 


Converted int 


the body. 

The mileage cost of the garbage collec 
tion is heavier than that of the street 
sprinkling because ot the nece SSIty of Sto] 
\t the rate of 4% cents 
per kilowatt, the averag 
a truck traveling an 


ping so frequently. 


e cost per mile of 
average of 17 miles 


daily was $.o8s9 during the month of 
June, 1916. 
JOHN R. GRAHAM, 


Commissioner of Streets and Highways 





From WATER | 





DEPARTMENTS | 





Eliminating the Smoke Evil 

YouNGsSToWN, On10.—From time to time 
there has been more or less agitation here 
on the subject of eliminating the smoke 
nuisance Tho an ordinance was passed 
to regulate this nuisance several years ago, 
no effective results have been obtained by it. 

When working out our plans for the 
erection of our new pumping station, the 
thought occurred to me that the city would 
be in a better position to dictate to others 
We began 
to investigate the problem of smoke elimi- 


nation and we finally decided upon a plan 


if it practiced what it preached. 


that has been highly successful. 

here are at least three things to be 
taken into consideration in dealing with the 
burning of coal: the draft, the grate sur- 
face and the stoking. With these condi- 
tions right, almost perfect combustion can 
be obtained, which means the elimination 





l¢ 





cti 





ng trucks 


winter 
of waste. For that reason, rather than use 
any of the numerous eliminating devices on 
the market we are using what we think is 
a properly proportioned plant for the burn- 
ing of coal with the least waste. Altho our 
big boilers are under fire night and day, a 
person on the outside of the building would 
hardly suspect that there was more than a 
small wood fire inside. 

Our process is simple. When the plant 
was built, a system of automatic stokers 
was installed, so that instead of a fireman 
feeding the fire a certain quantity of coal 
at regular intervals, a steady supply of coal 
is fed to the fire all the time. The stokers, 
which are in the form of an endless chain, 
move at the rate of six feet every hour, 
carrying coal into the firebox at that speed. 
By the time the coal has reached the rear 
of the furnace, it has been completely con- 
sumed and almost every calory of heat 
value taken from it. The stoker then car- 
ries it to the ash pit for removal. 

The result is that instead of the large 
volume of smoke which marked the old 
system, only a small amount is created un- 
der the new. At the same time it is saving 
the city a good deal of money. 

JOHN S. LEWIS, 


Superintendent, Water-Works Department, 
Youngstown, Ohio. 


+ ¢ 


Landscape Treatment of Water- 
Works 

Syracuse, N. Y.—That the various mu- 

nicipal buildings should be a distinct con- 

tribution to city beautification is a principle 





* 














SEPTEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY S85 

















VIEW OF SYRACUSE RESERVOIR FROM STOLI AVI I 
° NORTH ENTRANCI 
widely recognized. In this connecti fe Imirabl landscay t 
iely recognized. n this connection, tew 1dmurabiy to landscape t 
lepartments, if any, have greater possibili Che accompanying ph 
ties aS assets to good appearance than a the landscape efttects 
water-works department. Che various res- voir at Syracuse, N. ¥ } 
ervoirs and gate houses lend themselves these pictures, “View from Stol 








“ 
© 8 lh gig ia 





VIEW OF SYRACUSE RESERVOIR FROM FIRST RISE LOOKING EAST TOWARD 
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY 





R¢ H | M R 
in l N e. ire sl 
the vat ho ( ces | lit t the 
time the pre l terT-WoOrTrks 
) he R he la ‘ ‘ 
I | has bee thi 
é ‘ eseeding of the s 
ting | Ss, evergreens l S 
owt he ft ng is a list th 
} et 2 blue spruce 14 
orn Ss, 22 ge evergreens, 700 ower 
| 130 Vine 2 I 
S Hb S-( geln il i I 
vita, 50 peonies, 150 phlox, 750 a1 
‘ iu 
I thie ne vir i seen a be ( 
the ering sh each side of th 
te eading from Stolp Avenue to the 
‘ e, and at the rear of this gate 


is another bed of the same shrubs. 


the other view is shown a macadam 
driveway with cobblestone gutters leading 
from Stolp Avenue to the hill on which is 
located the standpip: This view also 
shows a number of the large evergreens 
ted on each side of the driveway and 

on the terraces surrounding the reserv 

CHARLES A. WINDHOLZ, 

Superintendent, Bureau of Wat 
° . 











~~ From FIRE 
‘DEPARTMENTS | 





New Ideas for a Fire Depart- 
ment Switchboard 
St. Paut, Minn.—The usual type of 
switchboard used in fire = 
alarm headquarters is in 
adequate to meet the high 
cle PTeC of effici ncy re- 
| in fire emergencies 
lor instance, when re 
ceiving a “still alarm,” the 
operator 1S compelled to 
call each engine company 
individually and to order 
out the apparatus in the 
same way. Then he is re- 
quired to call the remain- 
ing companies and tell 
them what apparatus has 
been ordered out. These 
a number of other 


j 
and 


routine details cause the 








Vor. XV, No. 3 


and energy and are a serious handicap 


o lessen such drawbacks, I have de- 


signed a new type of switchboard which 


has recently been installed in our fire alarm 
headquarters. It is a combined telephone 
nd fire alarm switchboard and is espe- 


cially adapted to meet the severe conditions 


of fire service in a large and growing city. 
lt has several distinctive features which 
id in securing greater efficiency in the 
handling of fire conditions. 

he switchboard consists of a large two- 
position, desk-type cabinet, and is pro- 
vided with the standard lamp signals and 
regular telephone communication. lwo 
operators can be employed at one time, and 
the terminations of all lines are so arranged 
as to make it possible for either operator to 
handle all calls. In addition to this neces- 
sary equipment for telephone and _ tele- 
graphic communication, there are several 
new features. One of these is the group- 
ing arrangement. By this feature twenty- 
three engine houses, the fire insurance pa- 
trol, the police department, and the fire 
chiefs’ offices and residences can all be 
called at one time, and the operators’ in- 
structions given without delay. Further- 
more, various other groupings to suit the 
needs of each case can be made, for the 
switchboard allows any particular group 
or individual to be cut out of the circuit. 
Inasmuch as these groupings impose sever« 
conditions on the electrical mechanism, spe- 
cial devices were provided to keep the 
transmission efficiency up to a _ certain 
standard. 

\nother feature used in connection with 


aan a ieee Th 





loss of valuable’ time FIRE DEPARTMENT SWITCHBOARD, ST. PAUL 


1 tr 














SEPTEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 87 








this switchboard and operated from it is a tom of the cat hi ere 
large map of the city, 6 by 8 feet, upon obtained. 
which are located the engine houses, with Faun of 
their apparatus indicated by means of col- hw =. \ 
, ored bulbs. These, when lit, show that the a 4 : 
apparatus is in use, and consequently the 80.4 
fire chief can know at any time what equip- S1 
ment is or is not available. A number of 8 
> other things are indicated on the map, all 
of which help to reveal the fire situation at ee 
’ i glance. s 
JOSEPH MACAULAY, 80.4 
Superintendent of the Police and Fire Alar: R 
Bureau, St. Paul, Mint 
Grom HEALTH 0 . 
DEPARTMENTS ar 
by . Averag g 
Ascertaining Milk Temperature __ ' ‘om — a = ego 
‘ Without Opening Cans es Ee 
Cuicaco, Irr.—A milk ordinance re- “1, It is possible to ascertai1 Y 
cently adopted by the city of Chicago re- ature of bulk milk in cans ( 
quires that a temperature of 55° or less accuracy for practical purposes ing 
shall be maintained for bulk milk while in the temperature of the outsick 
transit. To investigate the practicability “2. The variation between the 
of ascertaining the temperature of such ture of the milk in the center 
milk without the risk of contamination by and the temperature of the outside wall 
opening the cans, a committee was ap ranges from none to five degrees é 
pointed by the Commissioner of Health. heit for the combination of ( é 
his committee, consisting of Frederick O. used, representing summer ¢ S 
fonney, Director Municipal Laboratories, and about Chicago 
i and John L. White, Bacteriologist, has sub- “3. In an atmosphere havir empera 
mitted the following report: ture greater than that of th contents, 
“An eight-gallon can of milk, containing the temperature of the outside of the can 
between seven and eight gallons, was used’ is always higher than the temperature of 
in the temperature experiments. Varia- the milk in the center of the can, and, 
tions in temperature over a wide range’ therefore, a temperature of 55° F. on the 
were secured by the application of heat to outside of the can in summer weather i: 
the can and by use of ice within the can. evidence that the milk contents | 
\fter each change in temperature, the con- perature of less than 55 
’ tents were stirred thoroly and allowed to “4. If the temperature of th 
stand for ten minutes before the temper- ing air is greater than 70° F., a tempera- 
i atures were taken. The thermometers used ture of 57° F. or less on the of the 
were certified to be correct by the Bureau can is evidence that the milk contents has 
. of Standards of the United States Govern- a temperature of 55° or less. 
ment. Three sets of temperatures were “In conclusion, it is the sense of this cot 
taken simultaneously for each temperature mittee that for practical purposes in the 


I I 


change: (1) the temperature of the room, enforcement of the section of the Chica 
(2) the temperature of the milk in the Milk Ordinance rélating to the temperature 
center of the can, and (3) the temperature of milk in transit, evidence that the 

of the outside of the can, obtained by plac- perature of the outside of the car 57 
ing the bulb of the thermometer in contact or less may be safely accepted by th 
with the outer wall of the can at a point Health Department as proof that the milk 


about midway between the top and the bot- contents has a temperature of 55° or less.” 








288 


Recent Progress in Moral Training and Instruc- 
tion in Public High Schools 


By Jesse B. Davis, A. M. 


Grand Rapids, Mich. 


UBLIK sch ls are often blamed for 
unmoral or evil social conditions 
among boys and girls without proper 

consideration of the facts as to what con- 
ditions actually do exist or of the real 
source of responsibility in the problem. 
Whatever the situation may be, a thorough 
investigation will usually show that the 
social life of high-school pupils is deter- 


by the social standards 


mined very largely 
of the community from which the pupils 

me. It will also show that the moral 
standards among the pupils will average 
much higher than the standards of those of 
equal age but who are not in school, and 
that when evil conditions do exist among 
pupils the source of difficulty is outside of 
the school rather than within. 

While religion is not and should not be 
taught in our public schools, they are truly 
moral in their teaching and influence. The 
failure of the church to reach the masses 
and to give effective moral training through 
the Sunday School has thrown the burden 
of the problem over onto the public school. 
lhe average home has too little of time and 
of true family association to assume the task 
of either moral or religious instruction of 
the children. It is, therefore, of interest to 
know to what extent the public schools are 
assuming this added responsibility. 

In 1911 this problem was presented by a 
special committee of the Religious Educa- 
tion Association at a meeting held in New 
York City. The result of the investigation 
at that time was voiced in the definite 
propositions recommended by this commit 
tee. Five years have elapsed since this re- 
port was made and the present survey is an 
attempt to show how these suggestions are 
being carried out. 


Personal Contact and Influence of 
Teachers 
The first resolution recommended that 
“teachers be impressed with their respon- 
sibility for a much greater use of their per- 
sonal influence with pupils through personal 
contact and sympathy than is now cus- 


tomary” ; and, second, that “the teachers’ op- 
portunity for personal contact and influence 
with the children be enlarged.” From the 
responses which I have received, there is 
evidence that greater care is being taken 
upon the part of superintendents and prin- 
cipals in the selection of teachers from this 
standpoint ; one principal makes the follow- 
ing statement: 

“In the first place, for several years past we 
have selected our teachers in a discerning way 
in order that no one would get into the faculty 
whose relations to the students would not 
mean a moral uplift. The men who direct our 
athletics are men of the highest character; our 
dean of girls means, of course, a special agent 
for moral instruction for the girls, etc.” 

The doing away of the secret-society sys- 
tem and the substitution of plans of super 
vised social activity among high-school stu- 
dents have brought about a closer personal 
contact with the pupils upon the part of 
high-school teachers. It is through these 
intimate relations that the teacher of char- 
acter can make his influence most effective. 
While it is impossible to give exact data in 
regard to these changes, it is known that 
laws have been passed in many states and 
by many boards of education with the ob- 
ject of doing away with secret societies. 
While not in every instance, yet it is quite 
generally the case that in these localities 
some very definite steps have been taken for 
direct supervision of the students’ social 
life. 

Educational Guidance 

One other note of progress can be dis- 
cerned in the more sympathetic attitude of 
the school authority toward the individual 
pupil. The old hard-and-fast curriculum 
with its prescribed courses of study, to 
which pupils must conform regardless of 
mental or physical fitness or of vocational 
and social outlook, has given way to the 
broader course of study with a wider choice 
of election for the purpose of adapting the 
curriculum to the needs of the individual 
pupil. This development necessitates a 
more sympathetic attitude toward the needs 











SEPTEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


Ro 
of the individual child, and in the place of Business Ethics 
the rigid administration of the school rules My attention has been call 
and regulations has come the social and vo- ject of Salesmans} $ ae 
cational counselor, who gets as close to the the hich s , ; ' ; 
rs t ~ I < 
heart and thought of the child as possible courses during the oe) ae : hi 
in order that advice may be given with  ctudy of the sandals 
sdom, cle nce s ‘hools eK 1118 
education will reveal that 9 
| . ~ . 1 1 
Vocational and Moral Guidance Thru the content of the subject is 
. we ee © character Mian fant thes 
English Composition nent of charac the ta 
‘ ; men through their organizations f 
lhe third recommendation request | “that . , ; . 
: in enenht in their every-day relations are 
an increased effort be made to secure the j ae 
2 “Or wg veloping codes of ethics has its direct 
moral values of the content of all subjects eee ; 
. Huence upon the teaching of pt 
in the curriculum, so that moral instruction ae ‘ Toe “Regie : 
: ; mercial branches in the high sch Lhe 
may be enlivened, appreciation awakened, “oll : : rie ie 
“ae : mi tollowing code adopted by the Inter 
ind personalities enriched.” The movemen, \ , 
. ; . . Ssocia 1 ¢ Lota! ubds Me 
for vocational guidance has produced a plan - 
: 2 - ; , ,  ¢isco in 1915 affords a spl 
of educational direction which is called 
; ; of this point 
Vocational and Moral Guidance through 
English Composition. This combination of THE ROTARY CODE | 
vocational and moral aim, in being applied First: To consider any ( 
to English Composition from the seventh 4! 1 as affording me distinct 
grade through the high school, has the ad sing ipo 
vantage of reaching all of the pupils Second [fo improve myself 
“nal ficiency and enlarge my service 
throughout the entire six years. A sum EIS GUS COATES may OH 
mary of the general topics for the course Third: To realize that | 
: : : man and ambit sc ¢ sticceed ¢ 
will give a general view of its moral cor — oe Swe : “ 
rst, an etn 1 I VISI s 
tent. s not found t ghe 4 
} morality 
Seventh grade, Ambition or Desire to Di Kis 
Something and to Be Something Worth Fourtl To hold that the ex g 
While in the World goods, my service, and my ideas 
. an , . gitimate and ethical, provided that al rties 
Eighth grade, The Value of an Education, or | t] 7 | aayerag rier 
. ¢ r il xchange are bene d thet 
Preparation for the Next Step, whether it sai fitted — 
be the securing of proper employment or rift! To use my best endea s to elevate 
the choosing of a course of study in the the standards of th ition in w 
high school. engaged, and s t conduct al 1 
ars as a . , . others in my v iti d W1S¢ 
Ninth grade, The Elements of Character Oe ete “ae on 
which Make for Success in Life, studied eeceail 
° ° » € ampte 
through the biographies of truly success- PY 
ful men and women Sixth To conduct 
: = . or er manner that I may give a perfect serv equal 
Tenth grade, The Call of the World for Ser- * rie : “ +] ; OE 
T + . - ° ' oO even better nal my ( etitor ( 
vice, or The Study of Vocations. Also esianw in deat ; $704 
‘ - en in doubt to give added 
in this connection occurs the study of ,,; tere to] 
:_ : : coe the strict measure of debt r gati 
one’s own character and ability for the 
purpose of determining the field of en- Seventh lo understand tl 
deavor in which one’s own opportunity for greatest assets of a professional 
service seems to be most promising ness man 1s his friends, and tl 
| 
7 ‘ ig gained Ss ¢ 
Eleventh grade, The Preparation for One’s 1, ; th; , me 
, : . « | 
Vocation in Mental, Moral and Physical ; 
raining. Fightl lr ( 
: : thine f one | 
Twelfth grade, Opportunities for Social and f th nfid 1 
gg 2 : ; a the ¢ ihdences t triendshi 
Civic Service through one’s Chosen Voca- , 
tion ppg te © spirit of Hotary. a 
. 1 Code | ‘ 
According to the returns which I have Ninth ri der 
been able to obtain, parts or all of this out- <<“8'™m™mate or wenn 1S CCCUN 
: 2 ; : ; ‘ ing untair advantage f certai pportunities 
line are now being used in at least sixty of «*, “pete ge piney elgg aes 
, : . the s¢ al order that are ; ~ Lite lene 
the Jarger high schools in the country thers, nor will I take advantage 





2y0 THE AMER 


tunities to achieve material success that others 
will not take because of the questionable mor- 
ality involved 


Tenth To be not more obligated to a 
Brother Rotarian than I am to every other man 
in human society 

Eleventh Finally, believing in the uni- 





versality of the Golden Rule, All things what- 
soever ye would that men should do unto you, 
d even so unto them, we contend that 
Society best holds together when equal oppor 
tunity 1s accorded all men in the natural re- 
sources of this planet 

When business men adopt such a code of 
ethics as this, it shows that there is a posi- 
tive force for moral uplift at work in the 
hearts of men, and that, whether this comes 
as a result of teaching in the school or the 
church, it is bound to have its influence in 
the future teaching of both 


A Course in Character and Salesmanship 
One high school reports a course in Char- 
acter and Salesmanship offered to students 


in the senior year with the following out- 
line: 
PART III 


Ihe Process of Self-Development 
Knowledge of Ourselves 
rhought and Expressior 
Attention and Cl 
Self-Development a Grad 
Thought and Character 
Action and Character 
rhe Physiologica] Side or Habit Fort 
Habit and Character 
The Conscious Formation of Habit 

Great Habits 
Right Thinking 
\ Standard of Thinki: 
The Prophecy of Thoug 
Truth and Freedon 
Thought and Expres 
Thought Culture 
Control of Thought 

Positive Attitude 


Fundamental Habits 


iracter 


It is a most noticeable fact that the con- 
tent of the entire secondary curriculum is 
at the present time undergoing a great 
change. All that is obsolete and much that 
is purely theoretical is bound to disappear. 
In its place will be substituted not merely 
that which is immediately practical from the 
material standpoint, but with it must come 
much that is truly cultural and moral in its 
content. The transformation that has taken 
place in the teaching of science is evidence 
of this statement. The promotion of the 
teaching of sex hygiene has been brought 
about most effectively through the subject 
of biology. Other subjects, such as history, 
civics, economics, and commercial law, are 


ICAN CITY 


Voi. XV, No. 3 


more and more adapting themselves to this 
present-day demand. 


Direct Moral Instruction 

lhe recommendation that “direct moral 
instruction” be introduced has not met with 
very wide adoption. Many educators do not 
approve of a systematic course of instruc- 
tion in morals, but hold that the indirect 
method is to be preferred. However, some 
very definite movements have taken place 
since 1911 along this line. The course pre- 
pared by Prof. Sharp of the University of 
Wisconsin has been adopted in a number 
of high schools in the Middle West, and 
many other schools have adapted the prin- 
ciples involved in various forms of instruc- 
tion. Part I deals with the conditions of 
success under the following headings: The 
Management of the Mind, The Physical 
Basis of the Mental Life, and Certain Fun- 
damental Moral Qualities. Part II deals 
with the nature of success with these very 
suggestive topics: Some Popular Miscon- 
ceptions of Happiness, The Glow of Health, 
Work, Reading, Friendship, Service, and 
Character. 

The work of Mr. Milton Fairchilds, who 
is Director of Instruction for the National 
Institution for Moral Instruction, has pro- 
moted a scheme that he terms “Visual Les- 
sons in Morals.”” In a recent letter from Mr. 
Fairchilds, he states that these lessons are 
used more extensively in the high schools 
than in the elementary schools. It is his 
hope that his plan may be developed through 
the appointment of supervisors or special 
ists who will give their time and attention 
to developing a thorough and effective pro- 
gram of character instruction, character 
thinking, and character training. He has 
devised a system of charts to show the char- 
acter of the child or individual at the be- 
ginning of such a course and at the close, 
to showthe growth resulting from the teach- 
ing. His plan to prepare State Morality 
Codes with the impetus of a $5,000 prize 
will do much to arouse an added interest in 
the subject. 

The use of the Bible in the public schools 
is a much discussed question, but this is 
rapidly being answered by various plans of 
recognition by the school authority for work 
done outside of the school. The Dakota 
plan, the Gary plan, and other schemes of 
granting this credit are being adapted to 
many localities in all parts of the country. 





en se ela 











SEPTEMBER, I916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


What ihe moral effect upon the pupil will be | for tl 


i { 
remains to be seen. However, the plan has eh schools 
P given an impetus to better teaching in the in each ¢ ‘ 
Sunday school. nner Circle ( 
’ who met oO 
Character Building Thru Supervised onference regarding 
Social Life confront them in 
T..11 . , 1 l belie ve that it S 
‘ Following the last recommendation of th erga? an 
nittee of 1911, stating that there should i sieiecnnit 
e more extensive use of the school - sbich ese dP cit cic ection 
tivities, such as plays, games, festivals oe 
ganizations, social intercourse, social set — : 
ce. cic... is possible that more has been si Al cor re : i : 
accomplished during the last five years than WOrk, he wm iS th 
through any other means. Many high eS pe see 
school principals have reported that they ‘"°SUVely tar 
believed that the best character building is cous _ ™ ' 
being done through the supervised social cf _— és _ 
fe of their students rice ge och uate: a 
While it is true that not more than a “TS, Poy Scout 
ecade ago school authorities held that th Vee See Saag 
’ social life of the student was outside of the high sch it whl 
their domain and refused to accept the re CHECtIVe COOperating agencies when 
sponsibility, it can be stated with some de nea witn ; 
gree of certainty that in about 90 per cent schoo 
of the high schools of to-day student ac Che intr rine el 
tivities of all forms are under some pr recreation througn g1 
scribed rules and regulations and with ®* cial ane OveMeE: H r larger citi 
faculty advisers. About 25 per ent I aS is com] niger 
these schools are experimenting with som« ts e adequate y est 
f student self-government, giving the that ) ‘ ts 
f tudents some degree of responsibility for winter and summer eing « 
the conduct of their own social life leach trained workers and that th 
¢ ers do not enjoy acting as policemen not the high school ar: ¢ 
ing themselves in positions of authority tunities to serve their 
to govern the conduct of students outside ssisting as coaches and dire 
{the class room. In many of our larger in torms of games 
stitutions these duties have been assumed power for good I gy 
v the student body yr its re presentatives xperienced ts \' 
haring in the making of the rules and regu strong organization as the P 
lations to be observed and also in the « Recreation Ass¢ 
forcement of these rules. Wherever such a __ 1ts elfective 
% ré sponsil ility has been shared with the st t V¢ h ive Te 
dents, it has proved to work more or less I ral reflex 
successfully, and when successful, with a ecent 
lecided moral development upon the part of the school pl 
f the leaders among the students tricts has beer 
In this connection, very important wor the lines of m 
is now being carried on by the Young Men's ; and g 
Christian Association through what ar ind teachers 
known as “High-Y” clubs. There are now Parent-Teacher | 


121 high schools in which these clubs have ciations 
been formed. Under the leadership of thi me much « 

Y. M. C. A. secretaries and many high ill of those concerned with cl 
school teachers, these organizations have know more about tl hildren tl 


been formed for the purpose of Bible study to know more about how and wher 




































292 THE AMERICAN CITY 


spend their leisure time and to provide 
proper supervision and means for their use 
of the time out of school and away from 
home. Such conditions cannot help but 
make for better boys and girls. 


Credits for Work Outside the School 


One more movement in educational 
circles is worthy of mention because of 
its moral intent. This is the plan to con- 
nect up the home and the community with 
the school by a system of credits toward 
graduation for work outside the schools. 
In this era of prosperity and easy money 
our high-school children know little of 
industry or thrift, little of self-denial and 
sacrifice. Coming to school in automobiles, 
dressing in silks and satins or the latest 
fads, spending leisure hours at expen- 
sive clubs, to which their parents’ mem- 
bership admits them, in fact possessing and 
enjoying all of life that money and social 
position can give, many of our gilded youth 
are doomed to lives of failure. These con- 
ditions in our larger cities are presenting 
serious ethical problems. Every plan of 
moral instruction and influence will have 
to be brought to bear upon these social 
conditions for which parents and the com- 








Vor. XV, No. 3 





munity are responsible. If, therefore, by 
means of the plan for school credit for 
work done at home or in employment the 
school can be brought into closer contact 


with the home and the employer, it is pos- 


_ Sible that teachers may influence parents 


and employers as well as students to re- 
spect the dignity of labor, to have greater 
regard for social democracy. 

This fragmentary recital of the several 
agencies which are at work within the high 
school of to-day will indicate that every 
possible effort is now being made to bring 
moral influences to bear upon the lives of 
the boys and girls. Methods of indirect 
and direct instruction are rapidly being 
developed and adapted to public school ‘con- 
ditions in a practical and effective manner. 
Greater opportunities are given to pupils 
to form moral judgments, to assume moral 
responsibilities, under the modern adminis- 
tration of school activities. While it must 
be admitted that the evil influences and 
temptations of youth have kept pace with 
the progress of time, it is equally evident 
that during the last few years the trend 
of educational advancement has been to- 
ward a more effective teaching and train- 
ing in moral conduct. 





A School of Nursing and Health in a Municipal University 


The University of Cincinnati has taken 
over the School of Nursing and Health of 
the Cincinnati General Hospital and has 
put it under the immediate direction of the 
dean and faculty of its College of Medi- 
cine. The University has already been 
given control of the laboratories of the hos- 
pital, and, thru its medical faculty, of doing 
all the medical, surgical and research work 
at the hospital. Appreciating the service 
rendered to the people of Cincinnati by the 
medical faculty, the city authorities re- 
quested the University to undertake the 
direction of the School of Nursing and 
Health also. The University will thus be 
responsible for all of the educational and 
scientific work of the entire hospital and its 
various branches. 

The School of Nursing and Health is to 
be made a high-grade institution not only 
for training nurses, but for preparing 
women to do sanitary and social work in 
both town and country. It will have three 
kinds of courses and students. 


1. A three-year course for nurses, including 
systematic instruction and codperative work 
in the hospital. This course will lead to a 
diploma in nursing. 

2. A five-year course leading to a degree, in- 
cluding two years of study in the fundamental 
sciences in the University. This is planned to 
train a higher class of institutional officers, 
teachers and sanitarians. 

3. Special courses for graduate nurses from 
other hospitals and schools. 

The usual preparation demanded of all 
incoming students will be required for ad- 
mission to the first two courses. A cer- 
tificate from a recognized hospital or school 
will admit to the special courses. 

Fourteen instructors constitute the pres- 
ent faculty of the school, not including the 
members of the medical and other Univer- 
sity faculties, who give the instruction in 
chemistry, biology, anatomy, physiology, 
economics, sociology, and general subjects. 
A noteworthy feature is the appointment of 
a trained psychologist to give instruction in 
a subject recognized more and more as 
invaluable to physician and nurse. 













a ee) 


zane 








05 9%e oe Wa aoe we Wa la we we Hla wa ola we wa awe wa na wa we wa wTa wa na Wa we we sta ae we Vanesa sane ne ane n%e Ye 





Civic Organizations ‘ 


% t % 
RAL AL ALLL 


; ‘ 
3| News and Ideas for Commercial and | 














Novel Arrangement for Explaining and City Manager Waite, who 


a City’s Points of Interest of arrangements here, de 

Dayton, Onto.—In connection with the \t_ every tC oF mt 

isit of the International Rotary Clubs to route thru the Gem City ther 
Dayton in July, on the occasion of their tioned one volunteer 
recent convention at Cincinnati, there was were furnished with packs t 
ntroduced a novelty, for both explaining a size to fit easily and « 
to visitors one’s city, and, in turn, provid worn on the visitor's breast ach car 
ing them with permanent souvenirs. gave a photograph of the specific point « 

hose who came to the convention, o1 nterest at which these donors halted the 
quitting the train, were met by welcomer stream of autos. Just below the pi 
who supplied each with a neat, inexpensive a very few lines—that he who rode might 


paper bag, done in tan, and with a bright read—there was tabulated ex 


yellow ribbon attached. The ribbon was _ tion as to the particular point. One coul 
thrown over head and shoulders imme read it all, even as the motor tarri ther 
liately, giving the wearer the festive air slip the card into the bag, securs 

such occasions demand. Automobiles wer edge ot having picture and all nee 

in waiting to convey the guests over the formation as to the place, at har het 
city proper and thru Riverdale, on the desired. 

far side of the Miami. Instead, however, Succeeding the motor ride came « e1 
of relying on well-meaning but often mis in the social hall of one of th eat cash 


informed chauffeurs to point out places of register factories. At this the card 
interest on this ride, Mr. John H. Patterson again in vogue. Following that came 











\ VISITING RO’ 


CITY MANAGER WAITE, JOHN H. PATTERSON AND 











































ce hh TC eC ot TTT 





294 THE AMERICAN CITY 


tour of the factory, and again the cards at 
every point of interest. Later there came 
tours to the famous pleasure-park at Hills 
and Dales, and here, too, cards at each 
and every interesting nook. 

Finally departure, with the last card giv- 
ing a summary; the whole, then, filling 
one’s bag neatly and compactly and provid- 
ing reading matter for the journey home 
ami souvenirs for time to come. 


+ ¢+ 


Branch Bureau of Foreign and 
Domestic Commerce 

Dayton, Ounto.—The Greater Dayton 
Association has just completed arrange- 
ments for the establishment of a codpera- 
tive branch of the Government Bureau of 
Foreign and Domestic Commerce in Day- 
ton. That is made possible by the opening 
of a permanent exposition in this city called 
the Dayton Manufacturers’ Exhibit. Day- 
ton is the seventh city to have such a 
branch, the others being Cleveland, Cin- 
cinnati, Philadelphia, Detroit, Los Angeles 
and Portland. Mr. J. M. Bechtold, who for 
some years has been identified with the 
Government Bureau, will be the foreign 
trade expert of the Greater Dayton Asso- 
ciation and will also have charge of the 
Manufacturers’ Exhibit. 

J. M. GUILD, 


Executive Secretary, The Greater Dayton 


Association. 
+ + 


A Community Picnic 

BrarnerD, Minn.—Brainerd’s largest as- 
set, the farm, has until recently failed to 
receive its just recognition, largely because 
of the greater interest manifested in the 
enormous wealth of timber and ore lands 
in Crow Wing County. With the timber 
now gone, however, or practically so in this 
immediate vicinity, and the ore lands well 
under development, the farmer is gradually 
coming into his own and receiving the sup- 
port to which he is entitled and for which 
he has waited patiently so long. The for- 
mation of a Federation of Farmers’ Clubs, 
the appointment of a County Agricultural 
Agent and the development of the “get- 
together” idea have done much to solve the 
farmers’ problems. 

Unusual progress has been made within 
the last year in bringing about a closer re- 
lationship between the farmers and the 





Vor. XV, No. 3 


townspeople, and in establishing markets 
and channels of trade whereby the farmers’ 
product could be marketed at a profit. The 
community spirit has been fostered by the 
holding of community picnics. The first 
such picnic was held in the summer of 1915 
and was so successful that a similar one 
was arranged in July of this year. The 
entire expense of the 1916 picnic was borne 
by the Chamber of Commerce and the Au- 
tomobile Association of Brainerd. It was 
held at Lum Park, in Brainerd, on one of 
the days that the Grand Army of the Re- 
public veterans were encamped there, and 
was participated in by the veterans. The 
entertainment features included a parade, a 
band concert and a game of baseball. 
Tables were provided for basket lunches 
and coffee was served free. 

After ex-Governor Van Sent had made 
an address, there was a presentation of 
twenty-five split-log drags to farmers of the 
different sections of the county, to be used 
in the maintenance and repair of roads 
near them, and then to be passed on to their 
neighbors for use on their share of the 
highways. Assurance was given that the 
drags would be put to use immediately. 
Thru the spirit of fellowship created on 
these occasions, the farmers are made to 
feel that their interests are being carefully 
considered by the townspeople, and petty 
jealousies and animosities are therefore be- 
ing eliminated. 

C. E. HANSING, 
Secretary, Brainerd Chamber of Commerce. 


+ + 
Toledo’s Summer Camp 


ToLtepo, Oxnto.—The Toledo Commerce 
Club provided two weeks of solid rest and 
recreation for many of the tired mothers 
and their families of Toledo at a summer 
camp during July. When the program of 
activities for the year was being outlined 
some months ago, President Carl Spitzer 
stated that he felt that the organization 
should perform at least one piece of un- 
selfish work for the less fortunate members 
of the community, and the plan for a sum- 
mer camp resulted. 

The object of the camp was to make it 
possible for the workworn mothers to get 
entirely away from their household cares, 
taking their children with them, and to 
store up sufficient health and happiness 
thru the facilities which would be pro- 














SEPTEMBER, 1916 THE 


AMERICAN 








e 








SUMMER CAMP OF THI 


their 
duties refreshed and in the best of physical 


vided, to enable them to return to 


condition. —Two thousand dollars was raised 


for the purpose. The families to whom this 
- 
ly 


Nurses 


numbered 


outing was to be given were careft 
lected with the aid of the 
\ssociation. The guests 
and included a few crippled children, 
well 


Se- 
District 
150, 

as 
as some very pale mothers with wee 
children, one being only six weeks old. 

lhe stretch 
particularly fine beach on Lake Erie, 


of 
which 
he 


sleeping 


camp was erected on a 
was well adapted for the purpos« 
camp equipment comprised forty 

enough to accommodat« 


tents, each large 


five people and having a good board floor; 
one dining tent, which was screened; 

lounging tent, and a kitchen and adminis- 
tent. 
ting and every convenience were furnished. 
The tents were strung along the lake front 
about twelve back from the 
edge to give the campers the utmost benefit 
of the cool lake breezes. A grove of forty 
acres behind the tents made an 
place for the children to romp. 


one 


tration Bedding, cots, mosquito net- 


teet waters 


excellent 


owing 


rs 
~ 











rOLEDO COMMERCE CI 
and games were provide: 


playground 


Upon their arrival in camp th 
were given a careful medical inspectiot 
a physician from the | Heal 
ment, assisted by one of the distr ' 
Immediately after the inspectio 
pleted the children sc imp red fo } h 


| 
them spent 


where many of 


ging in the sand, swimming on 
the docks W hich were ct . ( 
cially for the summer camp. A 
and a district nurs¢ re 
each day. The supervisiot the « 
was in charge of the Chief 
the Toledo Boy Scouts lhe « 
of the campers was looked afte 
tron, who supplied the mothers vw 
and magazines, the children with to 
lress, and had stock of games 
with which to keep both the moth 
little folks interested he matter of pr 
viding the food was in the hands of thre 
competent chefs, who served no hing 
wholesome meals. 

A regular program was observed each 








Hi | 
5 
i 
; 
) 
; 
- 
: 
a 





—~ 













which divided the time as follows: 


6.30-——-First Call 

6.35 —Reveille 

7.100 —Breakfast 

8.00——Sick Call, at which time each day any com 
plaints or reports of sickness were carefully 
investigated 

9.30—Camp Inspection 


10.00—Lecture Period, at which time talks were given 
on domestic science and other subjects of 
interest to the mothers 

10.30-—Recreation 

Pr. M,. 

12.15—Dinner 


1.15-—Recreation 
1.15-—Swimming 


4.00 Recreation 
6.00—Supper 
7.30—Campfire, at which time an entertainment of 


some sort was provided around the fire 
9.15—Tattoo 
9.30—Taps 
In explaining the program, the chairman 
of the Summer Camp Committee said that 
it was necessary in a camp of that size that 
there should be a certain amount of dis- 
cipline, but that nothing would be done to 
detract from the object in mind when form- 
ing the camp, namely, the full enjoyment 
by the campers of rest and recreation. 
W. A. PHELPS, 


Seceretary Publicity and Convention Department, 
Toledo Commerce Club. 


Rules Governing the Return of 
Merchandise 

Boston, Mass.—Because of the abuse 
of the return goods privilege accorded to 
customers by merchants generally, which is 
reflected in increased prices to the custom- 
ers, the Retail Trade Board of the Boston 
Chamber of Commerce was induced to make 
a careful study of the subject. As a result 
of its investigations, it has drawn up a set 
of rules to govern the return of merchan- 
dise. After a number of conferences, the 
principal merchants of the city were per- 
suaded to adopt the rules. They went into 
effect on July 1. A five-week advertising 
compaign to inform the Boston purchasing 
public of the change and the reasons for it 
came to a close at the same time. Slips 
containing the rules and regulations and 
explaining them were sent to the custom- 
ers whose names appeared on the books of 
the merchants. It is hoped that the public 
will see the wisdom of real coéperation in 
complying with them, for it will in the end 
profit most by the agreement. 

The following is a copy of the ship that 
is being sent out: 


REGULATIONS REGARDING RETURNED Goops 


RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE BOSTON CHAMBER OF 
COM MERCE 


The following regulations regarding the re- 


THE AMERICAN CITY 





Vor. XV, No. 3 


turning of merchandise have been approved 
by the principal retail merchants, who are 
members of the Boston Chamber of Com- 
merce. Your cooperation is earnestly re- 
quested in putting these recommendations 
into effect. 

RETURNABLE ARTICLES 

Any article of merchandise which for some good 
reason is to be returned to a store must be returned 
within a reasonable time—six business days. 

No articles will be accepted for return unless they 
are substantially in their original condition; neithe: 
will merchandise of any kind which has been used 
or worn be accepted for return unless defective or not 
as represented 

The sales check must accompany all returned mer- 
chandise. 

Gifts of all kinds (Christmas, wedding, birthday, 
etc.) if returned will be accepted only in exchange 
for other merchandise. 

All goods cut from the piece at the request of the 
customer, that would have remnant value only, are 
returnable at one-third off purchase price. 

Uniform tags will be used on articles bought with 
the privilege of returning. If these tags have been 
removed from the article it will not be accepted for 


return 
NON-RETURNABLE ARTICLES 

The following articles, for legal, sanitary or other 
reasons, cannot be exchanged or returned: 

Redding and mattresses. 

Garments that have been altered for the purchaser 
and which are not salable. 

Shoes which have been altered, buttons reset, worn 
or damaged. 

Combs, hairbrushes and toothbrushes. 

Rubber toilet articles. 

Women's hats which have been made or trimmed 
specially to the customer's order. 

All merchandise which has been made to order o1 
specially ordered and which is not regularly carried in 
stock. 

Veilings. Books. Neckwear. 

EXCEPTIONS 


Under the following conditions the above or any 
goods may be exchanged or returned: 

Any error on the part of the store, such as wrong 
size or color or defective workmanship. 

Merchandise defective when sold or not of depend- 
able quality. 


These recommendations will take effect the 
first day of July, 1916. 

Please coéperate with the merchants in a 
reform which will be a benefit in every way to 
every one in the community. 

Boston CHAMBER OF COMMERCE. 


+ ¢ 


Bravery to be Recognized 

GranpD Raprips, Micu.—The Grand Rap- 
ids Association of Commerce recently cre- 
ated a Hero Commission which is empow- 
ered to make public recognition of all the 
acts of bravery performed under unusual 
circumstances in Grand Rapids that are 
brought to its attention. The authority is 
vested in a so-called Senior Council, com- 
posed of former presidents of the Associa- 
tion, the retiring president automatically 
becoming the chairman of the Senior Coun- 
cil. It is the intention to make the award 
in as public a manner as is considered ap- 
propriate, subject in each case to the ap- 
proval of the person who performed the 
act or the next of kin. A thoro inves- 
tigation is made by the Senior Council 














SEPTEMNER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


when the Association is invited to pass 
upon a case. 

An engraved certificate, a reproduction 
of which is shown herewith, will be used 


Je recognition of a fherou Act per fermrd by 


- 7 
a . ote o 


thas hash romecneerd 24 vamreareod 


The howe ¢ cancel of the Grad Beyfed, Anservatrr of bemurce cated ty 


in recognizing heroic acts, and the follow- 
ing rules and regulations will govern the 
awards: 


1. Acts will be recognized in which conclusive evi 
dence may be obtained showing that the person per- 
forming the act voluntarily risked his own life in sav- 
ing, or attempting to save, the life of a fellow-being, 
or who voluntarily sacrificed himself in a heroic man- 
ner for the benefit of others. 

2. Such acts must have been performed by persons 
whose regular vocations do not require them to 
form such acts. 

‘3. Such acts must have been performed within the 
corporate limits of Grand Rapids or its environs. 

4. Such acts must have been performed on or 
after June 1, 1916, and brought to the attention of 
the Commission within thirty days of the date of 
the act. 

5. A suitable certificate adopted by the Commission 
is to be presented to the person performing the act, 
or, in case of death, to the widow or next of kin. 

6. The Senior Council of the Grand Rapids Asso- 
ciation of Commerce shall constitute the Hero Com 
mission for said Association, and shall be authorized 
to amend the above or to adopt such other rules and 
regulations as may deem desirable to carry out the 
general plan. 


The first award will in all probability be 
made to Mr. Charles Dalga, who operated 
his elevator in the burning Ashton build- 
ing, and at the risk of his own life saved 
the lives of a number of the tenants. The 
elevator was run continuously until the 


operating mechanism was severed by the 
fire. 


per 


W. K. PLUMB, 


Secretary, Grand Rapids Association of Commerce 


+ + 


Health Survey by U. S. Govern- 
ment 

Youncstown, Ounto.—A six weeks’ sur- 
vey of health and sanitary conditions in 
Youngstown has just been completed by 
the United States Public Health Service. 
The Government was induced to make this 
special study by the Youngstown Chamber 
of Commerce, whose Public Health Com- 





mittee has outlined a broad program of 
work based on the report. 


ROBERT WADSWORTH 
Secretary, The Youngstown Chamber of Commer 


+ + 
Million-Dollar Housing Company 
for Bridgeport 

BRIDGEPORT, Conn.—On August 9 in- 
corporation papers were filed of the Bridge- 
port Housing Company, crganized to erect 
a thousand new dwellings for working men. 
The company plans to spend a million dol- 
lars in building these homes between now 
and the first of January. The organization 
of the company is due directly to the work 
of the Bridgeport Chamber of Commerce. 
In fact, the incorporators are H. H. De- 
Loss, DeVer H. Warner, Charles G. San- 
ford, Walter B. Lasher and David S. Day, 
who, with President George FE. Crawford 
of the Chamber of Commerce, are the mem- 
bers of the Chamber’s Housing Committee 
which conducted the survey. 

The investigations of the Housing Com- 
mittee consumed several months and were 
very exhaustive. These, and the study of 
Dr. John Nolen, the city planner, have 
shown that approximately 2,250 employes in 
the Bridgeport factories are to-day without 
adequate housing facilities. Dr. Nolen 
stated in his report that the most conserva- 
tive estimate of the increase in the number 
of factory employes in the city during the 
past two years places the figure at 22,000, 
and that the estimate of increase in the im- 
mediate future is at least 14,000, making a 
total of 36,000. To supply this demand for 
housing accommodations, he stated, only 
4,000 family units have been added during 
the last two years. 

Realizing that if industry is to thrive in 
Bridgeport, this unquestioned demand must 
be met in some way, Dr. Nolen recom- 
mended that a housing company be formed 
at once with a capitalization sufficient to 
insure the erection of a thousand new 
dwellings, which will partially meet the 
need for at least 3,000 homes; that the com- 
pany build for rent, mainly in the already 
partly built up sections of the city, houses 
and apartments containing four rooms afid 
bath, the rentals to range from $13 to $25 
a month. He also recommended that the 
company build single family houses to be 
sold on easy terms, located preferably in 
the suburban districts where land can be 

















2h rH AMERICAN CITY Vor. XV, No. 3 
obtained at reasonable prices. It will be 5. Providing for community buildings 
the policy of the compat v to avoid reducing and playgrounds, thereby promoting the so- 
rents below the normal values, or to be in cial life of the neighborhood. 
nv Wav antagonistic to other building 1 6. Eliminating excessive profits, the earn- 
ts ou the city ince their continued ings over Six per cent to be used for the 
efforts are as necessary as the efforts of benefit and development of the property. 
this company to the proper development ot >, Distributing the payments for the 
the city. home over a period of years, thereby bring- 


Dr. Nolen also recommended that the 
company cooperate with the families that 
have acquired titles to building lots upon 
] 


1 
i ing 


which they have not yet built, by provi 
them with suitable house plans and definite 
information as to the cost of building, the 
tter to be obtaine | trom local contractors. 
lie further recommended that the company 
make readily available more money for 
home building thru cooperation with build- 
ing and loan associations as well as with the 
nd that the company should facili- 


hanks, 
tate, so far as it can, the broad city plan 
ling improvements already recommended 
for Bridgeport, especially those relating to 
the main thorofares, parks and the redis- 
tricting of the city 

The Bridgeport Housing Company is be- 
ing organized, not as a philanthropy ora 
charity. It is simply a business-like effort 
to solve the housing problem in Bridgeport 


on sound 


economic principles. The people 
who will buy or rent from this company 
will pay for everything they get, but for 
nothing else The rents or sale price will 
he fixed to pay interest, sinking fund, taxes, 
upkeep and management. It is proposed 
before offering the stock to the public to 
organize with a board of directors which 
will be thoroly representative of the differ- 
ent interests of the city—industrial, com- 
mercial, financial and civic—and which will 
insure the efficient and careful manage- 
ment of the company. 

lhe methods which the company will em- 
ploy in its operations are the following: 

1. Scientific planning along advanced 
lines, determining the character and ar- 
rangement of roads and houses, thereby 
securing the best and cheapest results. 

2. Wholesale operations and _ efficient 
management, thereby effecting economies 
in construction. 

3. The use of durable materials, thereby 
saving the serious depreciation of cheap 
frame dwellings. 

4. Limiting the number of houses per 
acre, thereby avoiding the evils of over- 
crowding. 


ing it within the reach of all who desire to 
improve their home conditions. 

8. Assisting the workingman to own his 
home by providing a financial scheme of 
small regular payments within the limits 
of his wages. 

GEORGE GOVE, 
Secretary, Bridgeport Chamber of Commerce. 


+ + 
The Number on the Hoof 


PirtspurGH, Pa.—Pittsburgh owns six 
hundred horses. A year ago the city was 
asked to provide $103,166 for their food 
and bedding. The price seemed high, and 
an expert suggested by the Pittsburgh 
Voters’ League was employed to investi- 
gate the matter. He set about to find the 
unit cost—that is, the average cost of feed- 
ing one ordinary draught horse. He dis- 
covered that the United States Army, near- 
ly every department store and many local 
business houses had such unit costs, and 
they supplied the data freely. 

The cost per horse was practically the 
same in all cases, and this figure, multiplied 
by the number of horses, revealed the fact 
that Pittsburgh was losing $27,988 annually 
on horse feed and bedding. The next step 
was to find the leakage’ and apply the rem- 
edy. Investigations developed that the feed 
was purchased economically; that it was 
not stolen or lost, but was fed to the horses, 
with the result that many died or were in- 
capacitated by colic from  overfeeding. 
Thereupon a permanent cost system for 
horses was established by the Bureau of 
Costs and every horse was put on a standard 
diet. If he did not thrive, the amount was 
increased or decreased under the supervi- 
sion of a veterinary. When the correct 
ration was found, it was placed on a card 
which bore the horse’s number. The num- 
ber was burned into the hoof of the right 
front foot. 

A similar study was made for shoeing 
and a saving of $5,243 effected. Data re- 
garding shoeing, with other useful infor- 
mation relative to the individual horse, 
were also placed on the card. The original 








SEPTEMBER, 1916 THE 


card goes with the horse and is on file 
ever he is quartered. 
is kept by the superintendent of horses. Th 
plan is an insurance 
ignorant or 
lhe number on the Pittsburgh horse's hoof 


wher- 
A duplicate record 


] 


against waste and 


abuse by careless stablemen. 


is therefore a mystic symbol of efficiency 

and of a workable cost system 

TENSARD DE WOLF 
\ rs’ Le 


Pittsburg t 


~ecretary, r 


+ + 


A Road Opening 
BISMARCK, Itit.—The Men’s 
Club of Bismarck, a little sown of 400 souls, 


Business 
conducted a road opening celebration in 
July for the Board of Supervisors of Ver- 
milion County at which 5,000 people were 
very pleasantly entertained. A bond 
of $1,500,000 had been secured with which 
to build hard roads in 
the celebration of the 
completion of the first section—three miles 
of the 168 miles of roads 
under construction. 

The program began in the morning with 
an automobile parade over the new road 
to Alvin, enlivened by the music of three 
bands. The parade terminated at Young's 
grove, where the celebration was held \ 
large refreshment tent had been erected in 
this merry-go-round, and 
there were other features which reminded 
one of a Fourth-of-July celebration. Af- 
ter the dinner had been partaken of, ther 
was speech-making followed by the dedica- 
tion Among the prominent 
Governor Dunne, of Illinois, 
and Hon. James P. Wilson, and Hon. A. D 
Gash, members of the State Highway Com- 
mission. 


issu¢ 


Vermilion County, 


and event was in 


of concrete road— 


grove, also a 


ceremony. 


guests were 


The event was notable in that it mark« 
the opening of the first “bond issue” road 
in the state of Illinois. 

IRVIN E. STARR 


Secretary, Business Men's ( 


+ + 


Premiums Offered for Member- 
ship Getting 

Aprtan, Micu.—In an open letter which 
President Barrett, of the Adrian Chamber 
of Commerce, addressed to the 464 mem- 
bers last month, offers are made which it 
is hoped will not only stimulate the recruit 
ing of new members to the Chamber's 
ranks, but will the thus 
aroused. To every member now in the or- 


sustain interest 





A\MERI<( 


CN fae 299 
ganization who will secur 
member before the expiration of the 
ent year, a dinner will be given during th 
month of January, I9I7 he 
member who obtains the largest umber 
of memberships during the ir is 
ised a loving cup. 

hese otters will 
to the organizatiot 
which will hold regular dinners 
eons, with attractive programs 
speeches and entertainment Ay 1 bet 
of the Chamber will be eligible to m« 
ship in this “inner” club by ol g 
new membership. To ret his m«¢ 
ship in the club, he will be oblige 
tend at least half of the meetings 
tain at least one new member each veat 

R. M. McCLURI 
Secretary-M . Ads ( salted ( 
+ + 


Illustrated Talks on the Comznis- 
sion-Manager Form of Government 
Last i i 


illustrated tall 


spring, KS were ot 
in several cities on the Commissi I 
ager Form of Government, by |]. M. Sw 
zer, a member of the City Commissi 
Dayton, Ohio. These talks were illustrate 
by a large number of stereopticon slides 
showing just what Dayton has cco! 
plished under the commission-manage 
form, as well as something of the expe 
rience of other cities. he talks I t 
well received, and inquit es are bei gy 1 ick 
by commercial organizations, rotar ibs 
etc., as to the possibility of arranging for 


similar talks during the fall months 
Under the commission-manager plan tl 

commissioners are required to ver 

little time to the citv’s work. It 


therefore, for Mr. Switzer to devote cor 


siderable time to lecturing in other cities. 
and he has asked THe AMERICAN City t 
make known his willingness to codperat: 
with any responsible organizati 

city, in this matter. No charge is 
except to cover Mr. Switzer’s persot 1 ts 
eling and hotel expenses he ane 
companies him, with a special ster 
arranged to show the slides in pairs, to get 
“before and after” effect, but the exp 

is limited as iust stated Wher 

cities in a section of the count 

range to have this talk on successive ¢ 
ings, the expense to each becomes vet 


small indeed. 











304 rH! AMERICAN CITY 


The American City Bureau 


Summer School 

The hamber of Commerce field is ce 
manding men—men with broad vision and 
high ideals, with an understanding of other 
men, with a knowledge of the technique ot 
successful Chamber of Commerce admit 
istration. The requirements are severe, for 
the public’—whom in the iast analysis the 
secretary must satisfy—is an exacting em- 
ploye r. 

lor the purpose of helping men with lat- 
ent ability for commercial organization 
work to direct their energies more efficient 
lv, the American City Bureau conducted a 
School at Ithaca, N. Y., during the two 
weeks between July 24 and August 5 in- 
clusive In these two weeks the Bureau 
presented briefly and forcefully the expe 
rience that its twelve staff members have 
gained in developing over thirty-five Cham- 
hers of Commerce during the past thre 
vears. The Bureau men were assisted by 
outside lecturers, selected for ability as 
commercial organiz ition secretaries, or be- 
‘ause of their special knowl dge of certain 
phases of community development The 
course included a thoro analysis of Cham- 
her of Commerce organization—developing 
programs of work, maintaining active com 
mittees, holding the support of the member 
ship, organizing efficient office systems, the 
functions of the Board of Directors, indus 
trial development, city planning, traffic bu- 
reaus, credit Bureaus, farm bureaus, muni- 
cipal research conventions, and other spe 
cial fields of work 

The final enrollment totaled fifty-seven. 
rhe ages of the students ranged from twen- 
tv-one to fifty, with the average around 
thirty-five. Most of the men were already 
identified with Chamber of Commerce work 
as secretary or assistant secretary. The en- 
rollment included also Y. M. C. A. secre- 
taries, teachers, and a variety of different 
types of business men. One man was from 
Texas, another from Oklahoma, another 
from Florida. New York, New Jersey, 
Pennsylvania, and practically all the middle 
eastern states were represented also. 

lhis is the second year of the School. It 
will be continued, for the enthusiasm with 
which it has been received and the results 
secured have shown that an unmistakable 
demand exists for the services the School 
can render. 


VoL. YT. No. 3 


New Bulletins 
Fremont, Micu.—Bulletin of the Fremont 
Board of Trade. 
NorFotK, Va.—Chamber of Commerce 
Vagazine, issued monthly by the Publicity De 
of the Norfolk Chamber of Com 





+ + 


Recently Issued Printed Matter 

Cuicaco, Inn.—A booklet entitled “Indus- 
rial Art at Home and Abroad,” in which is 
presented an address on that subject delivered 
by Dr. James Parton Haney, Director of Art 
in the High Schools of New York City, before 
the Chicago Association of Commerce. 

CINCINNATI, Onto.—Sixty-Seventh Annual 
Report of the Cincinnati Chamber of Com- 
merce and Merchants Exchange for the year 
ending December 31, 1915. ; 

Houston, Tex.—“City Book of Houston— 
1916,” illustrated and containing the Mayor's 
annual message, with reports of all the city 
departments, also an analysis of the city by the 
Houston Chamber of Commerce 

Lockport, N. Y.—The first semi-annual re 
port of the Lockport Board of Commerce, en- 
titled “What the Lockport Board of Commerce 
Has Done or Has Under Way.” 

Maptson, Wis.—A tabulated statement en 
titled “Administration Expenses of Commer- 
cial Organizations, being the result of a ques- 
tionnaire on the subject sent out hy the Madi- 
son Board of Commerce. The figures cover 
the following items: Organization Income, 
Salary of Secretary, Salary of Assistant Sec- 
retary, Salary of Traffic Manager, and Addi- 
tional Help. The figures under each item in- 
clude the total amount, the average, the high- 
est and the lowest. The tabulation covers the 
administration expenses of commercial organi- 
rations in fifty cities ranging in population 
from 18,000 to 60,000, according to the 1910 
ensus 

New York City.—The annual report of the 
Central Mercantile Association. in which ref- 
erence is made to an industrial survey, city 
planning features, efficiency awards to munici- 
pal employes, street cleaning improvements, 
better illumination, increased transportation 
facilities and building development in the so- 
called central mercantile district of New York 
City. 

NortH Pratre, Nes.—Report of the Pro- 
ceedings of the Fourteenth Annual Meeting 
of the Nebraska State Association of Com- 
mercial Clubs, held at Omaha, Neb., May 21- 
2s, 1916. The secretary of the Association is 
W. D. Fisher, North Platte, Neb 

The Medern Hospital for August, 1916. In 
this issue, called the Industrial Welfare num- 
ber, the subject of the conservation of the 
health of industrial workers is treated ex- 
haustively. The present scope of welfare 
work in certain industries is discussed; also 
the relation between welfare and efficiency, as 
well as the inevitability of health insurance 
The magazine is published by the Modern 
Hospital Publishing Company, St. Louis, Mo. 


— ccnainanscciecseatat 2 MESS, ae! 





nese 
- 








20! 


Some Distinctive Features of Milwaukee’s New 
Street Lighting System 


By F. A. Vaughn 


Engineer of Street Lighting Survey, City of Milwaukee; of Vaughn, Meyer & Sweet, 
Consulting Engineers 


O those who have made a close study 
of street lighting methods and equip- 
ment during the last few years, it has 

been apparent that by scientifically design- 
ing public lighting systems advantage could 
be taken of the improved efficiency of light- 
ing units now available, and thus provide 
with little or no increase in annual cost 
much more light, and light better adapted to 
the various needs of street illumination than 
has been the general practice. 

For many years the street lighting sys- 
tem of Milwaukee has been inadequate. 
Lamps have been insufficient in number 
and of obsolete and inefficient types. This 
condition has brought about a call for im- 
proved lighting. Action was deferred for 
some time, however, on account of uncer- 
tainty resulting from agitation for a munici- 
pal electric light plant, which was advocated 
by a considerable percentage of the citi- 
zens. As the need for improved lighting 
became more urgent, a comprehensive street 
lighting survey was ordered, the objects of 
which were to study the conditions prevail- 
ing, and to suggest means for betterment 
or for complete rebuilding of the system. 
Exactly one year was consumed in making 
the studies and in preparing the report on 
the survey, which is believed to be the most 
thoro ever undertaken on the subject of 
street lighting. An exhaustive analysis of 
the scientific principles of street lighting 
was made, which included consideration of 
the best methods for meeting its many re- 
quirements. This showed that the sysiem 
in use could not be rehabilitated to advan- 
tage, and that a new municipally owned 
system, designed for furnishing effective, 
pleasing and economical street illumination, 
was indicated. A design for such a system, 
to cover the entire city, was submitted. 

Impressed with the possibilities of the 
new system, the City Council last Septein- 
ber ordered an initial section or demonstra- 
tion installation of it made, for which 
$34,000 was appropriated. This installa- 


tion was completed in February. It covers 
about eight miles of streets, of varied chat 
acter, for which different types of lamp 
mountings were specified (Figs. 1, 2); 176 
units with 192 lamps were installed. The 
artistic factors in the design of these fix 
tures and lamp posts were the product of 
the combined efforts of artists, architects 
and engineers, recognition being given to 
the rapidly growing attitude of the citi 
zenry of this country toward a greater 
preciation of simple and practical art in 
connection with civic matters. To this end, 
the assistance of a committee consisting of 
architects and art experts, appointed by the 
local chapter of the American Institute of 
Architects, was obtained, and their hearty 
cooperation in selecting and designing 
types of units was utilized in this work 
The favorable impression created by this 
installation was shown by the approval at 
the April municipal election of a bond issue 
for $750,000 to pay for over half of the 
work of extending the system throughout 
the city. 


Height and Spacing of Lamps 

lhe new system possesses a number of 
distinctive features. It is designed to fur- 
nish practically uniform illumination of 
the street and sidewalk surface, which is 
much more satisfactory than the alternat« 
bright and dark areas usually encountered.* 
To secure this desirable result required a 
careful selection of height and spacing of 


* Eprtor’s Notre.—Our readers will understand, of 











course, that a statement such as this in a gned 
article does not necessarily imply that THe American 
City endorses the principles advocated by author 
Illuminating engineers are by no means agreed that 
uniform illumination of a street surface lesirable, 
unless such illumination be of an fntensity practicable 
only on the most important business streets of a « 
On secondary business streets and on residential 
suburban roads, critics of the Milwau 

vocate a less uniform distribution of light " 
preserve the silhouette effect b whicl bie 
highway are most readily discerned The ir 

of minimizing glare by proper attention to the 

at which the lamp is hung, and by the use f 


fractors or diffusing globes, is, of course, recognized 
by engineers, altho too seldom followed as yet 
actual practice. 








302 rH! AMERICAN CITY VoL. XV, No. 3 


» 





————— nits, and a design of ventilated fixture 
ith specially designed prismatic refract 
globe (Fig. 3) which changes the ; 
light distribution of the bare lamp, 
reasing the light directly below the lamp 
1 increasing it in the zones between 
lamps, resulting in substantially uniform il 
ition along the street. \ltho each 
treet has a close approximation to unifort 
lumination, the actual intensity is not th 
saine on all streets, but depends chiefly 
the amount of traffic. On the principal 
streets this intensity is about sixteen times 
that of the brightest moonlight. 
To minimize the blinding effect and glar« 
of the lamps they are hung as high as prac- 
ticable. On forested streets, the limit is 
set by the density and character of the 
trees. On such streets the permissible 
maximum height is 15 feet to the center of r 
the lamp. On streets in a transitory stage 
from residence to business purposes, as well 
1s on secondary business streets, the mount- 
ing height is 22% feet. On the principal 
business streets the height is 30 feet, and in 
few squares it is 45 feet. Altho these 
latter heights are unusual, no difficulty is 











FIG, 1 \ FOOT, DOUBLE-BRACKET experienced. I xcept for the 45-foot posts, 
ONCR OS : é 
: be cgnaer tla lamps are mounted without lowering gear 
sed on mait and are to be reached by means of exten- 
ther streets t 1 


sible tower wagons. ° 








a en! 














FIG. 2.—TYPE OF 22%-FOOT SUSPENSION LIGHT UNIT FOR RESIDENCE DISTRICTS 
This type of lamp support is used in conjunction with a harp-type post, in lighting residence districts 


rhe suspension support is used at street intersections, while the harp type is employed between intersections 
: on long blocks 








SEPTEMRER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


The spacing distance between «nits ‘s_ sition streets and are supported g 

[ determined by the mounting height and by tubular steel poles placed it diag 

the character of light distribution attainahblk posite corners. 
from the units used. In order to obtain the 
uniformity of illumination desired, it was A Unique Type of Fixture 
found that the ratio of spacing distance t An ornamental type of fixture was 
mounting height should be specially designed for the 
eight or less. On less fre- Milwaukee systen Si 
quented streets quite satis- Fig. 3.) It provides 
factory uniformity may be able housing for th 
obtained when this ratio is socket and indes« 
twelve. The spacing dis- lamp or gas burner and 
tance for any height of post verted mantle, and support 
can readily be obtained for the refracting glob 
when the above ratios are eight translucent glass 
decided upon, as_ 15-foot els that are used for 
inits spaced on a ratio of tic effect. The lamp socket 


eight would be 120 feet is adjustable so as to secur 


' apart, or 30-foot units 


spaced on a ratio of six 


the light distribution d 
sired. he refractor 
would be 180 feet apart, made up of two prismatic 


etc. 


Posts and Brackets 


slobes that fit within eacl 
other and have retractin 


prisms on their unexposed 


Nearly three-fourths of surfaces; these are sealed 
the lamps are mounted on and protected from dust 


posts of simple ornamental having the exposed s 


design. These posts are of faces smooth. An entir: 
tubular form and made of new design, shape and ( 
reinforced concrete by a of Holophane prismat 
newly developed machine- fractor was produ 


Milwaukee by the 
turer, through 

tion with the city 
neer, and the 1O¢ 


molding process, involving 
centrifugal action to secure 
a very strong but light- 
weight post. On the 15- 
foot post the lamp is sup- 
ported by an ornamental 


company The fixt 


well ventilated and easily 


iron harp. On the higher cleaned. Several features 
posts the lamps are sup- of it are being patented for 
+ ported from one, two or the city. The same stand 


four brackets. 
The post units are placed 


ard design of fixture 
used throughout the systen 





directly opposite each other FIG. 3—SPECIALLY DE regardless of the character 
“e on wide streets or boule- SIGNED LIGHTING FIXTURE of the mounting, size of 
1 vards. On the less impor- FOR 15-FOOT CONCRETE lamp used, and whether it 
tant forested residence POST is gas or electric: in fact, it 
streets the posts are placed Showing also a special design of js almost impossible to tell 
‘ Ss 2 prismatic reflector; used for gas or 
on one side only in the in- electricity from external appearances 
terior of the block, and at whether a gas or an ele 
the street intersections there are suspen- tric lamp is used. 
sion units placed 22% feet over the center The electric lamps used are the new 
of the crossing. These units, being without and very efficient gas-filled tungsten inca 
lowering gear, are quite inconspicuous and descent lamps, and they range in size fror 
unobjectionable compared to the mast arms, 100 to 1,000 candle-power. Gas lamps of 
wood poles and cable suspensions with an improved inverted mantle type wer: 
loose, dangling wires formerly used. (See specially developed for the Milwaukee in- 
; Fig. 2.) They are also used on some tran-  stallation. The gas units are used only on 





" THE 





AMERICAN CITY Vor. XV, No. 3 



































‘ IGHT ILLUMINAT FROM 15-FOOT CONCRETE POSTS ON GRAND 
AVI EVAR MILWAUKEE 
harp pos ested str of the 59 circuit areas in the city, current 
( ( s that ( being purchased from the electric utility 
ed at stree ectio f company on a kilowatt-hour basis. Gas 
one set ight sources will be purchased on a 1,000 cubic feet 
the ent darkne \ basis | 
ps als ins of reducing ig. 4 is a night view of a Milwaukee 
the tial stalla t Ith stre showing the illumination effect from 
Lintenance d ¢ g hi the low-mounted units on one of the boul 
t totc es} aing lectric vards. 
\ttention is called at this point to the 
Underground Circuits great possibilities inherent in the adequat« 
All but 12 per cent of the 8,82 ts it llumination of the interurban and national 
he new system will be fe ron i highways in this country which link to 
ground circuits or mains 
he ( ove rhe i ( emnaes aan . 
( s \ be the > ( 
tre where ) . 
} hee estal she ( 
ement 15S ; 
c No conduit is é 
t undergroun¢ cil 
which are « 
sed I —_ co 
duc heavily ins t 
nd echanically pr | 
tects hy steel ar . 
Vhis cable s | ed 
preferably the park ‘ 
( nder the pa\ 
ment close to the curb 
he imps are connected 
to this cable through 
transtormers, which pro ; 
tect them from high volt 
ize and maintain the se 
ries circuit unbroken if 
a lamp filament breaks 
lhe circuit is well pro 
tected and of simple de 
sigi It is fed fro FIG. 5.—INSTALLATION OF A 22%-FOOT SINGLE BRACKET ON 
near the center of each A MILWAUKEE COUNTY HIGHWAY WEST OF WAWATOSA, WIS 








SEPTEMBER, I916 THE AMERICAN CITY 





gether the various cities, large and small completed new syst ill have &S 
The great commercial and social advar or 9,344 lamps 
tages to the cities connected by these high ot 3,409,550 
ways, if it could be made possible to driv the new = systen 
p on the roads during the night hours with times as much total ¢ 
safety and comfort, can easily be imagined sessing the othe intages re 
\s an example of such highway illumina- With all these rovements 
tion, Fig. 5 is given, showing the method nual cost of street lighting 
of illuminating a Milwaukee County asphalt only about 42 per cent. This 
paved highway just outside the suburbs. estimated at $326,846, or $ 
rom the foregoing condensed descrij which is below the averuge ($o.84 
tion it is evident that the aim was to dk thirteen cities in this ¢ | 
sign a system that shall be permanent and population between 3¢ 
which will provide illumination of a scie1 which class Milwaukee belongs \t 
tific and pleasing character, with greatest present time Milwaukee has practically tl 
efficiency and minimum expense, and with lowest annual cost of all the cit 
all justifiable consideration of the factors class (he total installation l tl 
of civic beauty and civic publicity. The new system is estimated to be $ . 





Autumn Leaves One of Nature’s Most Valuable Fertilizers 


HAT more than a million pounds of much valuable stable manur 
excellent fertilizer is destroyed an should be composted where tha 
nually in New York State by the or used as a mulch around flowering pet 
burning of autumn leaves from forest and _ nials, roses and often large trees 
shade trees is the conclusion of Prof. H. R ting the leaves thoroughly and ther 
Francis, of the State College of Forestry ing them down by sticl I 1, the 
at Syracuse, who has been making a study be a splendid winter protection, and th 
of the manurial value of the leaves of trees weight and moisture of the winter's snow 
and shrubs. Ina preliminary report which will bring about rapid incorporation of th 
} Professor Francis has just made to the mulch with the soil. Wher t 
College, he states that the utilization of are to be used as a mulch about f1 
. forest leaves for manure is one of the very young shade trees, some care 1 t be 
phases of conservation which has hardly — exercised in not putting the mulch too 
been considered by the people of the state. to the stems, as ther s danget f the 
(houghtless destruction of millions of mulch harboring mice, which, during 
pounds of fertilizer which would come winter, might girdle the young trees 
from the decaying leaves annually in this During the fall days great quantities of 
country should be checked at once, as their autumn leaves from tre¢ nd shi ( 
careful use would give far-reaching results, blown over lawns and are piled 
not only in improving the fertility of agri in the lee of buildings and in th 
* cultural lands, but in the protection and fences, and, while th 
improvement of trees and shrubs them sightly until the snow comes 
‘ selves and of the lawns which surround our much better for the vegetation not to rak« 
homes. Nature has established in every these leaves into piles and destroy then 
. bit of forest, from the wood lot up to the Is it not good common sense and thrift to 
great forests of the Adirondacks, a well use the fertilizer which nature has place 
organized factory for the production of the at almost everyone's door? In villages and 
organic material which is known in the’ in the country where horses are kept 
forest as duff and which the farmer knows _ the leaves can be secured easily, th 
as the rich loam which covers his fields. splendid bedding and on the manut ( 
Where a few shade or forest trees are soon decay and add the necessary minet 
throwing their foliage about the home _ salts to the manure as it is spread over th 
grounds, they should by no means be raked garden or over agricultural land 


up and burned, because it is like burning so spring. 








|MEALTH & SANITATION | 


| FIRE PROTECTION 


PUBLIC 


‘TRAFFIC REGULATION 





—=|ASSIDENT PREVENTION) 


——— ——d 


Editor’s Note From President Kingsley 


Safety First Federation of America, 





NW TERI ! gu St lfish purpose to serve, finds 
nger of be ing classed with other 
s ” ts that are entirely admirable but 
P yy) ked. The Federation needs a 
‘ 
fy ¥! i lint thru which ad redacii 
+ ¢ { f f 
seieata j irtily approve of the arrangement b 
tily pro € arrangemeni ‘ 
ig He AMERICAN City Magazine wi 
h " vw dema ep the Federation's flag flying, and th 
) pects ederation in turn will help Tue AmMeERI- 
" 1N City to make this Department the re- 
i j 7 ° y 
sponsible vowe of all who labor to promote 
‘5 } 
: : Public Safety. 
Ica 0) ( i ) . - 
i ) > ) ™ c : 
“ee ene hort preparat Darwin P. KINGSLEY, . | 
regquiar monthly department Py President, Safety First Federation of f 
Safet The first installment appears America. 
pages. 6 East Thirty-ninth Sireet, New York. 
~~ 
Uniform Traffic Regulations for Municipalities 
OR safety 1 t trathe there are portation and street railway companies. In 
hree essential 1 irements the its work the Committee had the hearty co- 
unl r! operation of the authorities having under 
a , + * . . . - 
lations; (2) the education of the public, as their jurisdiction the regulation of street 
I 5 -«@ 
well as the drivers and operators of all traffic in sixty-five cities in the United } 
vehicles to the cess rf ¢ ng States and Canada. 
thereto; and (3) the proper enforcement of \mong the important features of the 
uch regulations by the local authorities Standard Code are the following: 
. 
io cooperate with municipal icials i1 ) , : . 
© Cogperan pal otncia Pr iting the use of the muffler cut-out 
meeting the first of these requirements, th ; . 
’rohibit ng exce . iO of s ( - ) 
Setetr First Federation of Auerien han ie Py iting excessive Omission of smoke or 
x cs 
sued a Proposed standart Code of Traffic bil x : 
Regulations for General Adoption by Mu Prohibiting the unnecessary use of warning 
‘ . r - : Sig iis 
nicipalities (he compilation of this code 
; ' ‘ re iding : > ‘es §s 2 3 ig s 
is the result of more than a year of study Providing that all vehicles shall carry light 


sei . from one hour after sunset to one hour before 
by the Federation’s Street Traffic Commit 


sunrise 
tee, composed of state nd cit theials and . ; 
( I A A CY OMCIaIS and \pproval of the near-side stop regulation 
hey ' : 
representatives Of automobile clubs, trans ior street cars. 











SEPTEMBER, 1916 rH) \M1 





Providing car stop safet 
vetting on r off street cars 
Providing tor protecting t 
nes from encroachment by ve 
ng or standing 
Requirine th ill vehick s 
I] St ke St ve teet < 
whe st 1g r which s st 
( é scharee passenger 
Requiring pedestrians to cross the st1 
the regular crossing, to cross wit 
omply with the signals of ft 
Requiring the locking ratte 
vehicles t prevent their ré¢ | 
d persons 
Requiring properly illuminated 
n automobiles, and favoring the 
bile manufacturers of a unifort 
rently illuminated license tag holder 
Requiring in the event of cd 
he driver must stop and render all 
ssistance to persons injured, giving 1 
lress to any persons concerned 
sons requesting same, and, in the 
lice officer, that the driver s] | 
ident to pe lice headquarters 
Recommending the licensing of 


vehicle drivers or operators, subject t 


sion or revocation by the issuing aut 


is mtended that the adoptior f this 
on will result in a material redu 
highway accidents The hiet 


1e license shall 
mental and moral qualifications 


The details of granting the licenses 
sarily rest with the several state legi 


and would include such matters as aff 
the license card a photograph of 
for the purpose of affording a means 


tification and adding to the practi 


Che regulation for controlli: o he 
glare, as approved by the Societ 
mobile Engineers and endorsed 


Street Traffic Committee of th 


First Federation of America, is now 
in Massachusetts and has been adopt 
ordinance in the cities of New Orleai 
Louis, Cleveland, Indianapolis and 


his regulation is as foll 


mington. 


“Wherever there is not sufficient lig 
the limits of the highway Io le 
reveal all persons, vehicles or stat 





jects within said limits for a distan 
least 150 feet, the headlights f 


vehicles in motion shall give sufficient 
reveal any person, vehicle r substanti 
n the road straight ah dl I | 
hicle for a distance of t least 150 feet 


headlights shall be so arranged that 
of the beam of reflected light, whe 
75 teet or more ahead of the 1 

ibove 42 inches from t 
which the vehicle stands S 


Sivé 
fo fs 
i 
1 
et 
t] 
I 
cus¢ 
T; 
i 
L oc 
t] Dp 
( i 
York, 
irs 
eel 
tee 
" 
\ y 
e! 
4 
¢ 
‘ | 
end 
1 
| 
iif ‘ 
ed 
< 
1 
he 
t¢ 


C | \ 
) 
+} 
rece 
r ¢ 
‘ 
Ny, 
, 1 1 
i¢ 
w to sc 
tions vil 
TX Té Si 
S Ove 
XD ( 
' 
ic I 
cTr *? 
S ré i¢ 
the St 
11 ie 
1 
large ( 
one city t 
or violating 
uded in the 
Ss 1 iccidel 
lice Depart: 
ipon the s 
Ni ciety N 
ipproved 
f the S 
for ‘ 
da uni f 
' +} 
a i 
t th 
— 
( hick 
Pisces ; 
rs r 
( 5 
M 


h he 
| 

' 

es 
for 











loore, Captain of Police, Port , Ore 
l W. Newman, Commissioner of Pul Safe 
.) La 
Newtot1 Director of Public Safety, Toled 
oO 
\ W Nicholso ( f Pul q 
I S & mos 
W. Pullman, Superint a 
\ LD. ¢ ¢ 
| Reid, ( < rr < New 5 
] Ss . < ef of Police, New H ( \ 
S Director of I c Safe ( 
Stevens, New Jersey S$ | 
( N ] 
( M lalbe Dire St S 
I \ l Highw Sa fe League, | 
1. W C f i P Pr Ss | ( 
: W. Zimmerschied, Societ Aut bile |} 
D M 
( g A. Walter Secretary De P ‘ 
h \f 
I P.G or ting Engi New Y | 
{ 
] X. Butler, Statistician, New York ( 
| 
| 
7 . . x 
Wanted-Suggestions for Standard Forms for Traffic Census 
ce on City Pla Sls d it appears to me that the time is now 
has appointed committee o1 ripe for the establishing of a standard method , 
Decadiaed Th : Reads Ciadaeain f making and tabulating such a census 
he : Traffic censuses are advisable, if not neces 
consisung Of ' , Valbert, Dire r ol ary, for three distinct purposes: first, and 
~ is St. Louis; EF. P. Good probably the most important, for traffic regu i 
\ssociate Director Bureau « luni lation: second, in connection with the vari 
“oo* Vorl a: ae eee paving surfaces: third, for city planning 7 
; MI “Of course, there are different facts to be 
} lit cc . 
8m ‘ she determined for each of these purposes, but it 
ppointment of the committee is the result ippears that with a little effort a general forn 
1 suggestion made by Mr. Talbert at the uld be determined upon which would render 
ecent eveland meeting of the City Plan trafft ensuses not only interchangeable f 
2 the different purposes wanted, but would mak: 
\ | ence cussing at that time - 
te S them comparable between the different cities 
Une ANIC standard method of “To this end it is recommended that this 
king d t ¢ census counts, Mr conference take steps to coOperate with other 
bodies interested in the work outlined, for th 
that the purpose of establishing uniform methods of ‘ 
1 na ; ount and methods of tabulation.” 
ile resolve themselves into tw It is expected that committees will be ap- 
pointed by the Safety First Federation of 
ve Bet Tage wag \merica and the American Society of Mu ¢ 
¢ thorofares the nicipal Improvements, and perhaps by other 
ter of ement that will attract drivers national organizations, for the purpose of 
nnect e together conferring on this subject of standard 
forms for traffic census, both for the actual 
Si 1] | , nil level ew count and for the presentation of the re 
sults obtained. Mr. Talbert’s committec 
Hue t ex will welcome any suggestions or forms 
ecessit Tor 1 \\ ie b , 
ree thea which readers of THE AMERICAN CITY may 
t be placed upon ‘ : qa 
a. sce die mae be willing to submit as an aid in its work 
nk In r ce 5 








2 
: 
: 


The Need of a National Fire Prevention Day 
and Some Suggestions for Its Observance 
By William Guerin 


Deputy Chief, New York Fire Department, and Chief of Bureau of Fire Prevention (retired); 
Chairman, Fire Prevention Committee, Safety First Federation of America 


HENEVER a duty or an obliga- 
tion becomes nation-wide, we set 
aside some day of the year and 

dedicate it to the instruction of our people 

as a whole in the lessons to be learned and 
the best methods by which the people can 
put in practice what they have been taught 

Thus it is the duty or obligation of all 
citizens to love their country, to serve it, 
and if necessary to give their lives#n its 
defense. This duty or obligation has dedi- 
cated to it July 4 of each year, when the 
day is celebrated by demonstrations of va- 
rious kinds whose whole aim is to stimu- 
late patriotism and love of country, and to 
be a reminder that each citizen owes the 
same kinds of sacrifices made by our an- 
cestors, if required by his country 

So also is it a national duty or obligation 
to give reverence and appreciation to the 
great leaders that brought our nation thru 
its trials of birth and regeneration. This 
is done by the dedication of February 22 
of each year to the memory of George 
Washington, and February 12 to the mem- 
ory of Abraham Lincoln. 

We, as a nation, boast of our freedom 
from the domination of foreign powers, 
and our War of the Revolution, which ac- 
complished this, was brought about by “tax- 
ation without representation.” Yet we are 
slaves to national habits of carelessness 
that are a shame and disgrace to a people 
of our intelligence, and which carry a pen- 
alty of a tax amounting each year to nearly 
$500,000,000—and this a tax that is im- 
posed on all of us by the carelessness of a 
minority. This is the tax of the fire waste 
of the United States. It has been estimated 
that for years the amount of actual prop- 
erty destroyed each year by fire in this 
country amounted to about $250,000,000, 
and about another $250,000,000 was spent 
annually in the upkeep of fire departments, 
water-works, insurance premiums, etc., to 
prevent still greater losses. 

The pity of it all is that, while 90 per 
cent of the fire loss is easily preventable, 


no systematic nation-wide effort has beet 
made to that end. 

In one vea 
placed on lot t 
hoth sides I i N \ 
York to ¢ 12 \ il 
his street f ce ] eve 
thousand feet a ‘ ; ; 
yerTson was taken \t ¢ thr 

osatl ee , | | f 
i mile tl r e W r r 
harred remains of ] n ‘ | 
een pu ed t cle th Page < LIA 
Department of Interior, | >. Ge LS 
vey 

Fire Prevention is not a mytl n ick 
that cannot be materialized It is possil 
of accomplishment, as has been demot 
strated by New York ( ity, Philadelphia 
Chicago, St. Louis, Cincinnati, Milwaukee 


Grand Rapids and other cities that | 


undertaken this work in a scientific manne 
resulting in some cases in reducing their 
fire losses from 530 to 70 per cent her« 
is a science to fire preventiot1 ly st as 
much as to preventive medical practice, and 
it has modifications for individual ses 
even as the practice of medicine h 

The economic drain on our resources ha 
not been readily noted, because of the indi 
rect way it has been brought about | 
means of insurance, which in a measuré 
coups the loss to the insured, but which 
divides the loss upon the whole nation that 
pays insurance premiums 

The time has come when the trumpet cal 
must be sounded, arousing the nation to thi 
peril which is sapping our economic life | 
this enormous fire tax, large enough in it 
self to build yearly a Panama Canal and 
have a little left over In the ist this 
work was largely in the hands of insurance: 
men, fire chiefs and others whose time was 
mostly eecupied by their principal duties 
The work of bringing a nation to its sens« 
in the matter of the fire waste w givel 
great impetus as a result of sever 
disasters from fire resulting in 
of life, and particularly the fir 


tory of the Triangle Shirtwaist 
in New York, resulting in 1 {6 deat ly 





3 REVENTION WILL STOP WASTE OF OUR RESOURCES 
60 pe Bae all CARELESSNESS 2.000 LIVES ARE LOST Each Yea BOGDPEESIS 


INJURED IN Fires We Speno “415 A Mews 


« Fom Fume Waste WencnCosr Tas Co aren SULICDE 





For October 9 as National Fire Prevention i. 


IECES ¢ FIRE APP \ . ) SPECIAL SIGNS IN NEW YORK’S 
ED ' E, OCTOBER 9, 1915 


o hort ta t Pens nia, Michigan, Virginia, Connec 
ilized vorld New Yo! ticut, Nevada, Arizona, Wyoming, 
fit f rado, North Carolina, South Carolina, Ore 
ngton, Montana, Minnesota and 


Prior to October 9 the Fedet 


de distribution to a Fire Pre 
circular, containins i letter 
Day m Governor Whitman of New York, a 
t1 rel re Prevention Dot ts,” and a re- 
article from THE AMERICAN 

es fi t on “Safety First Fire Drills in 


recent meeting of the 


Committee of the Safety 


( l ; ede ration, it was resolved that the 
revent ittee recommend the appointment by 
] é | Kingsley, of the Federation, of 
I the to wait upon President Wilson, 
Lk ‘ 
( 


rpose Wa | SMOKERS BURN MORE THAN THEIR "SMoxE 


poveerneget ye WHEN THEY ARE CARELESS: THE 


i ch BE ENJOYABLE, BUT LOOK OUT FORTHE "BUTT" 





“i Se 


HUGE CIGARETTE CARRIED IN PARADE TO IMPRESS 


ew Yor} CARELESS SMOKERS 











SEPTEMRER, I9Q16 we L\MERICAN | \ 


requesting President Wilson to issue a 
roclamation designating October 9 as Na 
tional lire Prevention Day, and ut tl 


iuthorities in all cities, towns 

is well as the individuals of the nation to 
join in exercises and observances that 
bring vividly to the mind the existe: 

this national sin, and the means te 
repetition in the future. 


CARELESS 
ABUSE OF 
MATCHES 


his committee has been appointed 
President Kingsley. It consists of th 


lowing members: Hon. Robert Adams 


Fire Commissioner ot the City of et CAUSED 
Y ork, Seige hale ce mes n, gli 1245 FIRES 
LAST YEAR 


\ hie f lire 
Chief of Bureau Fire Prevention 


tired) ; ( aptain C. Albert Gasser, Ih spector 











a ES _ J 


FLOAT SHOWING CHILDREN PLAYING WITH 
MATCHES 


of Combustibles and Fire Risks, Newark 
N. J.; Hon. Frank Hague, Commissioner 
of Public Safety, Jersey City, N. J.; Mr. 
Frank Stevens, Trustee of the Safety First 
Federation of New Jersey President 
Kingsley is ex-officio a member of this 
committee, and will wait upon the Presi 
dent with it 


Suggestions for Observance 
The committee recommends that for the 


week preceding October 9 the widest pu 


licity be given by the press to all prepara 
tions for the observance of the day, and 


eee 


that the schools devote a short period of 
time each day of that week to instruction MANY 


‘> | 





FIRI 





[OT ASHES IN WOODEN BOXES 








312 THE AMER: 


, S elessness inc 
ent to the fire w te imi ot the tata ics 
‘ therefro | talk shor s 
the mpl ethods ot guarding 
ivailst hire | T th hor 
vhere e tl O ent of our hres 
ccur where seld Ss any means 
wie | its extinguisi ent 
here should be irades of Fire Depart 
ent ith placar ind banners, cal 
te to the fire wast its attendant 
talitue local Satet rirst Societies 
hould hold mass meetings, where the peo 
le hody could re e the simple 
struct necessary to protect them fron 
fire | ire lepartments, Boards of 
| h Police Departments should 
h ‘ ee ompelli the re 





CAN CITY Vor. XV, No. 3 


val of rubbish from cellars, garrets and 


other hiding places. Factories and schools 
should have fire drills, and all fire appli 
ances in factories, public buildings and 
homes should be tested to see if they are in , 


good working order. Public bodies, such as 
of Men's 


and civic organizations of all kinds 


Chambers Commerce, Business 

Clubs, 

should cooperate in this very laudable work , 

by organizing separate meetings or joining 

together in 
hus will the spirit of the nation be 


move 


one large public gathering 


and the scales fall away from its 


eyes, so that it can see and appreciate the 


enormity of its past transgressions in per- 


mitting unnecessary fire waste, and give 


to the future for the avoidance of 


hostages 


this 


cit 





Autos Parked in 


that 


Street 


shown even in 


Mich., 
the 


has 
tramc 


i small city problem of 


regulation merits intelligent consideration 
than ten mu 


of Cadillac 


tor lot 


> 


ver 


itos stopping 


business section 


1 the 
r parked in the center of the street. 


ites 


is marked out and autos are 


the 


he street 
way they are 
ig and 


making t easy to 
south 


na slant Tacing 
resulting 
the 


the 


S backing 


iVil 


and join 


oving ca g 9 on 


Center of Street 


west side and north on the east side. 
Having the curb free is very convenient 
in many ways, besides giving a neat appear 
to street. 
rhe fire department has found this ar 
rangement satisfactory, because a mix-up 
Pedestrians 


ance 


is much less likely to occur. 
like the plan, because it is easier to keep 
of starting cars and their direction 
than it is when they are crowded along the ‘ 


track 


curb 

















ARTI 


PARKED 


IN CADILLAC 








iY 


the best paving should be pri 


Infantile Paralysis and Cleanable Streets 
By R. H. Bishop, Jr., M.D. 


Health Commissioner 


administration continuall 


ANTTARY 
forces upon public officers the ques 
n ricl 


tion of square dealing as betwe 


poor. It is impossible for a health of 


I 
1 


‘ial to go thru such 
reed 


nic 


a cCriSiS a 


upon American cities 
f 


npelle 


infantile paralysis 


( 
| to consider what ! 


any citizen has a 
gyovernment. 
hat, 
ntitled to clean streets. | 


that he 
that 


1 
cll 


m convineed t 


course, is entitled to 


are capable 


ents 


oven 
‘ né 


lL here appears to be no yust 


ro\ 


of the well-to-do, 
should the m: 
rom street cleaning departments 
he from 


would be 


treets or 


eets receive 1jO! 


otten tf case. a Sal 


much better 


on the other side, 
at all 
rhe poorer portions of any 


ite if there 


liscrimination 


} 
I 


crowded. There is little or nothing i 
ature of doorvards, so the street is the 
place where children play and older ps ( 
congregate in their spare time. Congestiot 
ncreases the normal refuse that may be ex 
pected in a populated region. It is in such 
localities that we find the cobbled, cracked 
| rutted pavements, which defy the bes 


irk 


efforts of the street cleaner and 


often, perhaps thru discouragement 


oO 


V hich 


eT 


results, the street cleaner so ne arly neglects 


9T 


Infantile paralysis has been a peculia 


distressing scourge in cities where it 
obtained a foothold. The mortality 
been high, and cases where recovery t 
place there is probability of lifelong pl 


ical defects 
known definitely 
entrance to the 
tory organs or thru the stomach, or 


ai 


whether 
the 


It is not 
system thru res} 


suspected of 


W al 


Insects are reasonably 
infection in many 


mitting cases. 
means 


such a 


possible 


germ 
breeding 


against 
of every 
channel of access 


Lace 


I 


lhe germ has defied isolatio1 


of Cleveland, Ohio 


Che | 
satishie vhe ' 
Teg _ 
, 
‘ T ‘ 
Oo K ive 
( ] ilt ike 
f ; idl 
t} ' : ; 
wash « 
in 1 i 
ithout inter: 
he vorkingt I 
n of congestec 
é that the 
he first thing tl 
e the holesale 
T ¢ rv batter . I 
te The obiec 
ement W | 
ents. thereby c 
r ) 1i¢ 
id because our 
treets Tr 
ecame eff 
ivements h 
< r Vv strec tl 
iSIS Tor ul lic 
that mat \me 
themselves what the 
idyv taught the 
Even if the s ( 
the narrow stand t 
Sst the dang S ¢ t g ‘ 
breed in any port itv « 
be seen To the S t 
trict may seem isolate t 
ous citizen, before he 
become indifferent s { 
his washing, his delive 


function 


own household 


ersons who may « 

fected localities; that his 

womel if the t ent 
brushes igainst pe ons 
elevators a street cars 

his is the selfish aspect 

ré fet to if l gument 
streets on a different b th 
; nm amt o table ; 
home fronts on an all 








The Importance of Teaching School Children 
to Swim 


By Samuel K. Mason 


Director, Municipal Gymnasium and Bath, Brookline, Mass. 


OWNI S ym horrors would not have reaped such 
1. large harvest of victims if the hundreds 
vho went down to death had been able to 
take care of themselves in the water—not 
only to take care of themselves, but to ren- 
der service to their fellow-beings. In each 
f these disasters one person who knew 


HkES| ire the types of headlines how to swim was able to save several lives 
hich meet our gaze as we open ou! besides his own. 

rs on Monday morning. [ron The greatest good which seems to have 

‘ SIN rsons é es in Gre ‘ come out of the disaster at ( hicago has 

ch Sunday of the warmet een the rule adopted by numerous cities 


mths vhere there is opportunity, that diplomas 
t tablisl fact I iall not be given to high school graduates 


sixteen yea inless they qualify as swimmers. Some are 
ge. \Ve do not stop to consider this grave even going farther than that, and say they 
itte til some great horror, such as tl must pass a test in life-saving. 
‘ I x¢ 1 team 5 But what about the large army of boys 
New York harbor, or the sinking of tl nd girls who are forced to leave school 
istland in Chicago, awakens us out of our before they can graduate from, or even 
apparent indifference Then for a litt enter, the high school? Fortune has de- 
while we are stirre¢ vant to do a manded that they shall help support them- 
sorts of things t event repetition of selves or the family, and so this rule does 
these « strophes t reach them. There are laws in each 
But the great fundamental prevention is state which compel children to attend 
teaching people to swit The Eastland a chool up to a certain age, and it should 




















rHE MUNICIPAL NATATORIUM AND THE MUNICIPAL GYMNASIUM, BROOKLINE, MASS. 





: 


yp Re 











~ 
ANNE iim 





SEPTEMBER, 1916 THI AMERICAN CITY 





THE MUNICIPAL SWIMMIN(¢ 


be a rule that every child that is physically 
able should be taught to swim before leav 
ing school. No permit to engag in 
occupation until they have passed a test 
in swimming should be issued. Then and 
only then shall we make any great headw 
in lessening the great loss of life from this 


cause, 


The Brookline Method of Cooperation 


1 


In Brookline, Mass., which has the dis 
tinction of having the first municipal sw 
ming pool in this country, there is no 1 
in the schools regarding swimming, yet 
the schools above the fifth grade the per 
centage of children who cannot swim is 
small. A recent canvass of the schools 
shows that of an enrollment of 505 above 
that grade there are only 73 who cannot 
swim. This condition has been reached 
by close codperation between the Bath D¢ 
partment and the School Department. 

The Bath Department sets aside certain 
hours each week for free swimming les- 
sons for the different schools, and the prin- 
cipals and teachers of the schools urge th 
pupils to avail themselves of this privilege. 
\ class for teachers of the schools is con- 


ducted once a week, at which free instruc- 


tion is given. 


A man and a woman instructor look after 


the boys and girls respectively 


In early 








POO! 
spring d « he 
made to ce tl ( é e thes 
free less Ss, aS the « ne 
cut do the 1 ‘ 
Ch rector or th struc 
ming makes a tour of the sch S 
to the childre: \fter this the S ) 
partment furnishes tl Bath D ent 
vith a list of non-s ( [ 
nts’ addresses erst il lette nt 
the parents urging the ( I 
dren atten hese ¢ ¢ ‘ 
closed each letter show Oo I 
school ind grad 0 he chil " 
ticket is retained the 
passes the test and receives his certificat 
as the lessons ars fviven in pa I Is 
the pool. 
The pupils from | 
gether, the boys nd the girls sé ratel 


The arrangement of hours is 
the schools situated near th 
an earlier hour in the afternoon thai 


As the schools have only on 


it a distance. 


session, time is allowed for the children t 
have their lunch before coming to the pool 
The attendance of the pupils t th 
classes is recorded, and t th em f 
weeks a list is sent to each principal of 
those who have entered the swimmi 
classes and have not kept up the 
ince. When l child lrops ul { gvethet 

















316 THE AMERICAN CITY 


a letter is sent to the parents, urging upon 
them the importance of their child contin- 
uing these lessons. 

The elementary test consists of swim- 
ming one length of the pool, which is 8o 
feet long, free style, and one width of the 
pool, which is 26 feet wide, on the back; 
head-foremost dive from diving board; 
and picking up a spoon or some other 
object from the bottom of the pool. The 
child who passes this test is awarded a 
certificate, signed by the Director and the 
swimming instructors. The certificates are 
not given direct to the pupil, but are sent to 
the principal of the school which the pupil 
attends. In most of the schools this is the 
occasion of some formal ceremony. The 
pupils who have already received their 
certificates arise and welcome the new re- 
cruits into their brotherhood. 

Classes in life-saving are also conducted, 
and the successful pupils are given cer- 
tificates which are signed by members of 
the Gymnasium and Bath Commission, the 
Director and the instructor. These cer- 


Vor. XV, No. 3 


tificates are highly prized and much sought 
after. The test consists of approaching the 
drowning person, towing the body 40 feet, 
recovery of body from bottom of pool, re- 
suscitation and carrying the person after 
he has been resuscitated. 

That the codperation between the two 
departments is bearing results is shown 
from the fact that of the 5,365 free lessons 
given in the pool for the year 1915, 3,418 
were given to school children, and out of 
the 1,973 private lessons given, 917 were 
given to school children. During the school 
year just closed 1,155 certificates were 
given out. 

The hearty codperation of the School 
Department is not always obtainable, but 
if the interest of the teachers and _princi- 
pals is secured, the success of such a plan 
as is carried on in Brookline is assured. 

The teachers’ class is for teachers alone. 
It is not good judgment to admit school 
pupils to this class, and many teachers will 
not join it if pupils are allowed in the pool 
at the same time. 





Safety Don’ts 


The following list of Don’ts has been 
adopted by the Department of Public 
Safety of the city of Syracuse and is avail- 
able for general distribution in leaflet form: 


DON’T keep matches in anything but closed 
metal receptacles. 

DON’T allow young children to turn on or 
off the gas range or gas heater. 

DON’T dry-clean in the house. 

DON’T touch electric light or cord with wet 
hands. 

DON’T lock up the children alone in the 
house. 

DON’T allow your children to play with 
matches. 

DON’T allow the children to play with or 
build bonfires. 

DON’T leave broken glass, crockery or tin 
scattered around. 

DON’T allow children to coast down in- 
clines into the street. ; 

DON’T allow children to hold onto moving 
vehicles to catch a ride. 

DON’T allow children to skate or play ball 
or other games in the street. 

DON’T allow children to jump on moving 
cars, 

DON’T allow children to put pencils, money 
or pins in mouth. 

DON’T use go-carts without springs and 
back supports. 


for Mothers 


DON’T use a thermos bottle for the baby’s 
milk. 

DON’T rely on others to observe traffic 
rules; use your judgment. 

DON’T value your time more than your life 
at crossings. 

DON’T get off a car backwards. 

DON’T forget to label all medicines. 

DON’T forget to keep poison out of the 
children’s reach. 

DON’T store rubbish under the stairways or 
in the attic. 

DON’T patronize unsanitary soda fountains. 

DON’T fail to watch all traffic signs. 

DON’T cross the street unless there is a 
regular crossing. 

DON’T patronize crowded and poorly ven- 
tilated places of amusement. 

DON’T have lace curtains in the vicinity of 
gas jets. 

DON’T set kitchen stove close to wood- 
work; put a metal sheet behind the stove. 

DON’T throw away lighted matches. 

DON’T put ashes in wooden boxes or 
barrels. 

DON’T use kerosene to quicken a slow fire. 
It may result in death. 

DON’T leave anything to the landlord. In- 
spect his house or your own home. 

DON’T fail to learn the nearest fire alarm 
box to your home. 








ne cl 











SEPTEMBER, 1916 TH E AM ERICAN FY a he 











317 
DON’T fail to have at least one fire exti DON’T tolerate 
guisher in your house. unples left at y 
DON'T use telephone during severe el DON 
rical storms remises 
DON'T allow employes or the’ fathily 1 DON’T 
search for gas leaks with lamp or matches ease. 
DON’T let electric irons stand with power DON’T tolerate 
I home Eliminate ther 
a DON’T employ carpet-bag electricians DON’T fail 1 
DON’T ignore quarantine notices when passing tl . 
. DON’T enter quarantined houses ; 7 
DON’T tolerate flies, but “swat” ther THE Moral is—BE CARI 
. . 
The Transformation of a Grade Crossing 
By Frank V. Stump 
South Pasadena, a suburb of Los Angeles, aid of the Chamber of Commer h 
California, had a civic problem to solve for Women’s Improvement Associatior hi 
one of its richest residential districts. The land, five acres in all, was purchase 
¥ tracks of two transcontinental railroads, municipality and was transformed into a 
using the same right-of-way, run through _ beautiful public park, with spacious vns, 
the city. Just before entering a deep cut fountains, flower pots and gracefully wind 
P in a desirable residence section, the tracks ing walks. Over this pretty little park wa 
intersect the union of three streets, causing built a concrete viaduct (as shown in the 
in unusual grade crossing hazard. Besides, accompanying photograph), thus doing 
the railroads had reduced the value of away withthe grade crossing. ‘This secti 
building lots in that immediate vicinity. of the city is now one of the most attractive 
To transform an unsightly and dangerous _ residence sections of the city. The cost of 
spot into one of safety and beauty was the the improvement was small compared with 
problem undertaken by the city with the the increase in value of nearby propert 
. 
| 
’ 














A VIADUCT WHICH REPLACED A DANGEROUS GRADE CROSSING 








————————————————— Lh lhl lO TT! 


























\MERICAN-LA FRANCE PUMPER AT BUFFALO, N. Y., EQUIPPED WITH SEWELL CUSHION 





WHEELS AND GOODYEAR TIRES 
_ os . ay i 
| | 
- , 








KELLY 


TRUCK WITH EQUIPMENT FOR CLEANING SEWERS 











( SEPpTEMRER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 














. 
' 
| = | 
. ay eee aat 
Courtesy of the Thos. B. Jeffery Ce 
MOTOR TRUCKS MAY BE HELPFlI IN SNO REMOVAL, AS INDICATED IN THIS 
4 
' 
’ 
Courtesy of Lighting Journal 
ADAPTATION OF MOTOR TRUCKS FOR CARE OF STREET LAMPS AT PRO Ni‘ I | 
| 
we | 
j | 





MOTOR TRUCK USED IN CONNECTIO H ROAD ORK, BY THE Col 


HIGHWAY COMMISSION, LOS ANGELES, CA 














320 


Salaries of Mayors, City Engineers and City 
Clerks in Small Cities and Towns 


In the June issue of THe AMERICAN CITY 
there appeared a list of salaries of munici- 


pal officials in cities having a population of 


Crry or Town Mayor(') 


over 30,000 


In response to a wide demand 


for information concerning the salaries of 


officials in the smaller cities, towns and vil- 


lages, the following list has been compiled. 


It is based on postcard reports submitted to 


iS by mayors and other officials of some of 


the smaller municipalities, and is believed 


to lhe 
\ MERICAN 
for the 


correct 
ITY cannot, 


for the cities listed. 


however, 


accuracy of each item, and 


HE 


vouch 


wo 


he glad to know of any errors made, 


correction in a succeeding issue. 


ures cover annual salary 


indicated by footnotes 


Phe 


unless otherwise 


uld 


for 


fig- 


City City 
Crty or Town Mayor CLERK ENGINEER 
COLORADO 
Golden No salary No salary $1,200 
Longmont $200 $10@) 1.200 
Loveland 100 &(*) 900 
Rocky Ford 60 300 
Salida 600 { 1,500 
Telluride 180 60 900 
CONNECTICUT 
Norwich 1,000 ) 7 
FLORIDA 
Bartow 200 (4) S50 
Jasper (*) 1st 
Palatka 200 2.100 1.200 
(,BORGIA 
Lawrenceville 200 600 600 
Monroe 500 (6) 1.200 
Rockmart 1) 10(°) 360 
Talbotton 150 (*) 180 
Thomaston 250 1.200 500 
ILLINOIS 
Bloomington 2,500 1,440 1,380 
Cairo 200 1,500 1,200 
Fairbury 100 900 300 
Galva 150 780 150 
(Geneseo 250 6(*) 300 
(Georgetown 1s (#) 100 
Harrisburg 600 1.200 600(") 
Harvey (4) 1,500 
Lansing 150 ) 200 
Maywood 1.50 (4) 150 
Paris ooo 780 
Rock Island 2.500 1,200 2,000 
Waukegan 2,000 1,800 1,400 
INDIANA 
Angela oo 3.75(*) MO 
Covington ww 5(*) 300 
Crown Point 5 6(°) 250 
Elkhart 1,200 1.200 1,200 
Frankfort S00 960 1,000 
Hartford City 720 4(*) 700 
Jefferson ville 1,200 1,000 1,200 
Kokomo 1500 1,500 1,700 
LaFayette 1,800 1,800 1,800 
Ligonier 100 5(?) 400 
Logansport > 000 1,500 1,000 
Noblesville 0) 650 650 
North Vernon 300 4(?) 336 


Iowa 
Bedford $100 
Burlington 2,500 
Cedar Falls 500 
Creston 600 
Eagle Grove 150 
Forest City No salary 
Fort Madison 300 
Hawarden 100(*) 
Jewell Mw 
Keokuk 2,100 
Madrid 25 
Mapleton (7) 
Missouri Valley 500 
Newton 40004) 
Northwood 250 
Osage 100 
Ottumwa 2,100 
Shenandoah 200 
KANSAS 
Beloit . 1 
Council Grove 300 
Harper No salary 
Holton 300 
Independence 1,200 
Marion 300 
Newton 1,000 
Parsons 1,200 
Pratt 300 
Russell nO 
Salina 1 
KENTUCKY 
Barbourville 75 
Earlington 50 
Paris 1,200 
Pineville 24 
LOUTSIANA 
Jackson 60 
MAINE 
Eden nO 
Calais 200 
MARYLAND 
Westminster 100 
MASSACHUSETTS 
Beverly 1,500 
Brookline 2,500 
Chicopee 1,000 
Framingham 1,200 
Newburyport 1,200 
Norwood 3,000(2) 
Houghton 2 
MICHIGAN 
Adrian 600 
Alpena 300(24) 
Chesaning No salary 
Coleman No salary 
Gladstone... 5 
Ionia 30 
Mount Pleasant 50 
Norway ‘ 5O 
Sault Ste. Marie 750 


MINNESOTA 
Albert Lea 


Austin 100 
Chaska 4 
Littlefield <<Sae 
Meridian 3,000 
South St. Paul 100 
Tracy No salary 
Wabasha No salary 
White Ben 10 
MISSISSIPPI 

Ellisville 360 
Greenwood 2,000 
Iuka 


No salary 


Crry 
CLERK 


City 
ENGINEER 


~ecaee 
$1,500 
2,000(22) 

34° (4)() 
1,000 


1,500 


4(*) 
,320 
1,200 

ee 
60('%) 


_ 


. (*) 
6(*) 


.() 


1,500 
3,000 
500 
a 
+++ (9) 
1,200 
- () (8) 


300 
2,500(*1) 
1,200 

2.25(*) 
5(*) 


"300 
1,350 


1,380 
1,500 
1, 100("*) 
1,800 
1,800 


(*) 
..@%) 
4 


$100 
1,300 
500 
300 
720 
100 
600 
900 
50 
1,800 
60 
100 
960 
260 
100 
325 
1,500 
900 


1,200 
240 
600 
900 

1,440 
600 

1,200 

1,080 
960 
900 
900 


66 
120 
600 


125 


600 


1,500 


1,200 
1,500 

240 

SOU) 

1,140 
1,200 
1,000 
1,200 
1,800 


1,560 
900 
360 
960 
800 
,000 
480 
150 
600 


—— 


150 
1,500(%) 
60 











YE 


« 
mm 











SEPTEMBER, I 


Crty or Town 


Missouri 
Aurora 
Bevier 
Butler ; 
Chillicothe 
Carrollton 
De Soto 
Greenfield 
Hannibal 
Neosho 
Nevada 
Savannah 
Tarkio 


MONTANA 
Dillon. . 
Philipsburg 


NEBRASKA 
Chadron 
Plattsmouth 
Ponca 


New HaAMpPsuHire 
Portsmouth 


New Jersey 
Burlington 
Collingswood 
Haledon... 
Phillipsburg. . 
eee 
Pompton Lakes.. 
Princeton. . 

Red Bank. 
Roselle Park. 
6 ee 
Washington 
Westfield. 
Woodbury. . 
Wood Ridge 


New Yor 
Albion 
Batavia.... 
Clinton... 
OO ae 
Haverstraw 
Peekskill. 
Union... 
Warwick 
Waterloo 
Westfield — 
Williamsville. . 


NortTH CAROLINA 
Concord........ 
Elizabeth City. . 
La Grange. , 
Nortn DAKOTA 
Harvey. 
Mandan.... 
Valley City 
Williston... . 
Ouro 
Bellefontaine 
Belleville....... 
Bluffton 
Bradford 
Celina. . 3 
Circleville. 
Columbiana 
Dover 
Greenville 
Hubbard. 
Leipsic 
Lorain wet 
Miamisburg . 
McConnelsville.* 
Middletown , 
Piqua... wea” 
Pleasant Hill... ° 
Portsmouth 
Rockford. 
Rocky River 
St. Clairesville.. 
Washington... . 


Westerville. 


g16 


Mayor(') 


$300 
25 


1 
300 
100 
200 
25() 
1,000 
1,440 
600 
50 
100 


No salary 
5) 


500 


500 
No salary 
No salary 

1,500(*) 
nie 
No salary 

500 
No salary 
No salary 
No salary 

350 

Pn 


100 
No salary 


No salary 


No salary 
No salary 


No salary 
No salary 
No salary 
No salary 


600 
100 
100 


5 
480 
600 
480 


1,000 
50 
200 
100 
300 
800 


THE 


City 
ENGINEER 


$5.(°) 

No salary 
1,080 
900 


oe\* 
. (4) 
1,200(2%) 
. (4) 
1,500 
1,800 
(*) 
(4) 
1,500 
or 
2.400 


a oe 
No salary 


(*) 


1,800 


No salary 


$600 
300 


\ 
480 
100(4) 


a7) 300 
28) 100 


200 
1,800 
720 


( 
00 


ty 
= 


150 


No salary 


HOO (3) 


= 
> 


= 


City or Town 


OKLAHOMA 
Anadarko 
Boley 
Broken Arrow 
Comanche 
Eufaula 
Hartshorne 
Hugo 
Miami 


OREGON 
Forest Grove 
Heppner 
Hood River 
Marshfield 
North Bend 


PENNSYLVANIA 
Apollo 
Bristol 
Butler 
Carnegie. . 
Clearfield 
Coraopolis 
Ellwood 
Farrell 
Forest City 
Franklin 
Freeland 
Hanover 
Lebanon 
Munhail 


Soutu CAROLINA 


Walhalla... 
Westminster 


Souta DaKoTa 
Deadwood 
Lemmon 
Salem. . 
Scotland 
Sisseton 
Tyndall. 


Wessington Spgs 


Woonsocket 


‘TENNESSEE 
Clinton 
Dyer 
Lebanon 
Lenoir City 
McKenzie 
Paris... 
Tullahoma 


TEXAS 
Greenville 
Henrietta 
Italy ; 
Jacksonville 
Mercedes 
Nocona 
Port Lavaca 
Rogers. 
Seymour 
Snyder 
Sweet Water 


UTan 
Fairview 
Ogden 


VERMONT 
Burlington 
Proctor 


VIRGINIA 
Charlottesville 
Crewe.... 
Harrisonburg 
Newport News 
Pulaski 
South Boston 


WASHINGTON 
Aberdeen 
Charleston 
Ellensburg 
Elmer 
Hoquiam 


AMERICAN CITY 


Mayor 


$600 
1 


12 
100 
120 

1.200 
100 


No salary 


No salary 


No salary 


No salary 


100 
No salary 
1,000 
No salary 
500 
$50 
oO 


100 
500 
tS0 
4100 
1,200 


200 
180 


100 
200 
25 
50 
100 
5 
50 
aO 


a0 
No salary 
150 


100 
5O 


No salary 


2,004 
48(*') 

100 

300 

1 

60 

60 

180 
100! 
No salary 

600 


50 
4,200 


500 
No salary 


600 
100 
600(4) 
1,200 
600 
600 


500 
No salary 


No salary 


No salary 
2,000 


CITy CiTy 
ENGINEER CLERK 
$S40 

No salary 240 
7S0 

$900 120 
tin 

tin) ‘nw 
1,800 O00 
120 

6 120) 
1,200 1.200 
1s00 1,500 
1,800 1.200 
125 

No salary 100 
LS0OO 900 
No salary 500 
6.4 100 
1.200 

oon 1000 
6 vo 
1) 
1,000 OO 
900 100 
1,500 600 
1,800 1,200 
600 OO 
i) 

LSO 

ist) 

200 

4 125 
100 

200 
1.500 120C: 
120 

100 

75 
204 

O00 
loo 

» 3 c 

0) 

1,500 650 
1,800 1,500 
180 

40 

6 75 

l 1 

1S0 

60 S16 
150 

540 300 
2.400 1,500 
1.000 
No salary No salary 
tin 

No salary a0) 
1,200 x00 
2,000 1,200 
1,800 {) 
1,200 1,000 
2 400 1800 
10(°) 600 
1,200 1,500 
5(*?) 4,00 
1,500 1,500 

















a 


THE AMERICAN CITY 





Bracket 10347 and 
G.E. Novalux Unit Form 4 





Bracket 10338 and 
G. E. Novalux Unit Form 9 











THE ONLY WAY 


To Obtain an Ornamental Lighting 
System and Retain Overhead Wires 


ELREGO 


COMBINATION POLES 


serve the double purpose of Ornamental 
Lighting Standards and Trolley Wire 


Supports. 


Handsome brackets for 
supporting very latest Nova- 
lux Lighting Units or the 
Ornamental Luminous Lamps 
improve the appearance of 
the plain Trolley Poles. 


You can string your wires 
along the top of the poles, 
where they are practically 
unnoticeable and out of the 
way of traffic. 


You save the cost of addi- 
tional lamp standards and 
underground construction, 
and avoid further obstruction 
of the curb line. 


Catalog E describes this 
money-saving plan and full 
details—free. 


Electric Railway 
Equipment Co. 


New York Office : 30 Church Street 


CINCINNATI, OHIO 








ContiGnation Pole 


an 
Ornamental G.E. 
Luminous Arc 











49 When rriting to Advertisers please mention Taz American Crry. 








SEPTEMBER, 1916 


THE 





Controller 
- City CITy *) Serves also as Record 
Crty or Town Mayor(') CLERK ENGINEER office 
Serves also as Clerk \ 
ion for this salary 
North Vakima $2,500 $2,000 $1,500 Legal salary S00 
Puyallup l rl Serves also a D t 
. Repulhli No salary 100 and Water Works for th 
Sedro Woolley No salary sO) Includes inspectio 
Vancouver No salary 1,200 1,200 In charge of electri t 
$50 per year allowed | 
WEST VIRGINIA Plus $4 per day wher 
Bluefield 300 1,020 1,500 Plus $2 per meeting ( 
Keyser 500 350 1,200 Highway Surveyor 1 
P New Martinsville 200 600 City Elects in 
Romney 40) 25 At pumping statior 
Sisterville 300 5 1) Salary of City Manag 
Weston 4100 5 to) $12 per day when in fi 
Receives also $3 per m 
WISCONSIN $100 per month tempor 
Green Bay 3,500 1,800 1,680 Serves also as Assessor 
Kewaunee 250 200 75 Serves also as a Commi 
Sheboygan 500 1,500 1,000 Street Commissior rece 
Tomah 1(*) 900 220 Serves also as ) 
Wauwatosa 500 1,500 1,500 without additional salary 
West Allis 1,000 1,800 1,500 *) Plus $1.50 per council 
Superintendent of Wat 
) In municipalities having no official with the title of receives $1,200 
Mayor, the salary is that of the presiding officer of the Salary is that of Recorder 
local government, known in some municipalities as Serves also as Police J 
Burgess, Chairmen of Selectmen or Commission, or cases; these costs approximate 2 
‘ President of City Council Plus $450 for curb and gutt 
*) Per day when employed ‘) Plus $1,400 as Account 
) Receives commission of fees based on work done Water Works 
') Plus fees Office combined with that 
$100 per month, or $6 per day, optionally Service 
*) This municipality has no official with this title ®) Serves also as Cit 
\s Per meeting of council 


AMERICAN 


Cine 


Plus $1,200 a 


No City Cler 





A Municipal Garden of Wild Flowers 











S| 











PART OF THE 


Containing almost every variety of plant 


flower lovers and 





MUNICIPAL GARDEN 


OF 5 


AC 


RES, AT 


ANGELES, CAI 


LOS 
life in 
is now 


the 


a 


State I 
permanent 


t w 


EXPOSITION 








—————— 

















- TU UTUMTOVTUITTT TOUT CT! 





THE AMERICAN CITY 











[- 
i 


























TOO THTTTHTHVOTTTTTIITIITUTD OI WVUTTROHATTTTO ITNT Tt TT eT DO TT HITT ITT TTT TTL 


fr 


STUVTEPUULHEEUEAL DLE RAE PRET EDEMUPEE PET A ETA EOE PRUE AUP PAL AEN 


50 





————$$_$___——— 












































Emergencies! In the business 
of war Packard chainless trucks 


have made good 


Down—down below the 
border, in a hostile, roadless 
country, dust-proof Packards 
have doubled the hitting power 
of Pershing’s army. 

Unfailing desert freighters 
they have been—keeping the 
long lines open—the scat- 
tered camps supplied. 

And after Carrizal, they 
took on a real fighting job. 
Then Pershing concentrated 
his forces and held hundreds 


_ of trucks ready to rush regi- 


ments to any threatened post. 

For the first time, Ameri- 
can infantry could travel far- 
ther and faster than cavalry 
ina pinch, 125 miles a day. 


Ask the man 








under every test 


The twenty-four-hour 
chainless Packards helped to 
keep the peace in Mexico by 
surely extending Pershing’s 
fighting range. 


That’s the reason the gov- 
ernment has multiplied its 
first order twenty-six times— 
from 27 to716 chainless Pack- 
adrs—in about three months. 

This same tested speed, 
stamina, flexibility and econ- 
omy —this ability to stand up 
under staggering conditions 
—will handle your emergen- 
cies—cut hauling costs— 
expand sales—increase the 
range of your business and its 
hitting power. Write Detroit. 


who owns one 





When wr:ting to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 





MINUTE NT COLO 









— - = — — — - 2) 
TYTN Lo ccc, GLUCK CLL CULL UA a ce LO kee Ae LD 


| 


NUMAN ENNHN EET ETN ge 



















TTUTTUVITITUVVIDNITNTILATUOUOOUON TTQTUTNTO DOOD LOD OT OD TDD TU EDOLQOL NOD DODO OD ODD CQOOODQOQQOTQQAOOOOOOOIOOOLOODOOT COOSCDOTTOO TO OOOTOOOOO ETOCS TT DOOTULOUOT OVI NADYV RTT) OOO CT ET TT 


AD LOCOCO CE CR 0 











INCE the outbreak of infantile paral- 
ysis in New York and vicinity the 
motion picture exhibitors have been 

hard hit by children being prohibited from 

visiting their theaters. The New York 

City Department of Health cannot com- 

plain of lack of codperation from the ex 

hibitors, who, whatever their feelings on 
the subject, have almost to a body displayed 





slides suggesting preventive measures 
against the disease. 

The producers have been no less alert. 
Practically all the animated newspapers 
have contained views of the principal 
causes that contribute to the spreading of 
the epidemic. 

The Universal Com- 


Tne “Fighting Infantile Paralysis” Film 


By Ernest A. Dench 


Author ot ‘‘Making the Movies” 


Other important features included 
highly instructive picture were the pre« 
tions taken by the Bureau of Infect 
Diseases, the Quarantine officials and 
United States Public Health Servic 
Nor must mention be overlooked of the 


two maps—one depicting the plague spots 
of New York City and a larger one show 
ing other affected parts of the count 

lhe snappy sub-titles, presented in English 
Italian and Jewish, of the “Dont’s” kind 
were composed by Dr. O. M. Leiser, of 


the New York Department of Health. 
Fifteen prints were struck off from th 

negative, so that it could be shown in Ne 

York’s eight hundred motion picture the 





pany went further. At 
an expense of $4,700 they 
produced, in cooperation 
with the Health Depart- 
ment, a one-reel picture, 
“Fighting Infantile Paral- 
ysis. Some of the scenes 
were filmed under the su- 
pervision of an expert at 
the Rockefeller Institute. 
For other material the 
camera man worked with 
two health inspectors as 
far apart as South Brook- 











lyn and the Bronx. The 
Willard Parker, Kingston 
Avenue, Seabreeze and 
Neurological Hospitals 
were also visited. 

In the affected territories scenes were 
filmed of uncovered garbage cans, near 
which children and cats play; fruit covered 
with fly specks and touched by many hands 
hefore being finally eaten; dirty and 
crowded narrow streets lined with unsani- 
tary pushearts, and how the street depart- 
ment takes care of the garbage and flushes 
the streets. 

Pictures were taken at the Neurological 
Institute for the purpose of showing the 
methods adopted by Dr. Kaplan in handling 
the disease—douching the ears and nose, 
and boracic acid gargle, to name by two 
incidents. 


FIGHTING INFANTILE PARALYSIS IN NEW YORK 


Lecturer from 


partment of Health explaining the moving | 


shown on truck 


aters. Thirty-five prints are also going the 
rounds of the several thousand theaters 
from Maine to California. 

But the cooperation of a powerful ever 
ing newspaper made it possible to reach a1 
even larger audience. Several two-ton 
motor trucks were equipped for motion pic- 
ture exhibitions. The translucent screen, 
five feet wide by four feet deep, was 
placed at the rear end. The current for th 
projection machine, provided with a short 
focus lens, was supplied by two calcium 
tanks. Each motor truck contained a lec- 
turer from the Department of Health, who 
discoursed while the picture was being 
shown to spectators. 

















THI AMERICAN CITY 





Municipal Motor Equipment 


N every progressive city the heads of the various departments 
are vitally interested in the economies which modern motor 
equipment would effect in the work of their departments. 


In every department of municipal work in which modern motor 
equipment decreases costs and increases efficiency, Sterling Trucks 
are pre-eminent. Their strength and durability, their economy and 
simplicity of operation, their adaptability to a wide range of work, 
make them the most profitable investment for municipal installations. 


Sterling Trucks include— Oil Distributors (Sterling-Allen Sys- 


Automatic Dumping Trucks for Road 
and Street Construction and Main- 
tenance. 


Combination Chemical and Hose 
Wagons. 


Hook and Ladder Trucks. 
Pressure Flushers and Sprinklers. 


tem). 


General Utility Motor Wagons for 
Lighting and Power Plant Supplies. 


Patrol and Ambulance Wagons. 


Sterling-Kindling Motor Squeegee 
Street Washers. 


Write for specifications of the kind of motor equipment you are 
interested in and for interesting data showing economies effected. 


Sterling Motor Truck 
Company~ 


Builders of Motor Trucks Exclusively for Nine Years 


830 Rogers Street, Milwaukee, Wis. 







51 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 




















The Courts and Excess Condemnation 
By Charles Reitell 


Instructor in Economics, Wharton School of Finance and Commerce, University of Pennsylvania 


defined as the right of a city to take 

more land than is actually needed for 
the construction of a public improvement. 
This additional land may be taken with a 
view to the city selling the excess at such 
an increase in value as the improvement has 
given it. Or the extra land may be taken 
solely for the purpose of preventing rem- 
nant pieces of property from having un- 
sightly and inappropriate buildings placed 
upon them. In the former case the city 
reaps the “unearned increment” and obtains 
as well the building restrictions it cares to 
embody in the new deed; while in the latter 
case it acquires simply the esthetic better- 
ment of the remnant. 

In either instance there is a checkmating 
element. Whatever the purposes or desires 
of excess condemnation, a stone wall of ob- 
jection must be expected on the part of the 
courts to any taking of extra land. In plain 
language, and in no uncertain terms, the 
constitutional limitations of eminent domain 
declare that “no land may be appropriated 
save for public use, and in the interpreta- 
tion of what constitutes public use the 
courts are as firm and fixed as the pole star. 

It is therefore of great import that those 
of us interested in city-planning should see, 
and see clearly, the padlocks that the courts 
place upon any attempt to break the estab- 
lished meaning of the term public use. 
Otherwise prospective statutes on excess 
condemnation must expect to suffer the 
same fate as the Pennsylvania act of 1907." 


The Interpretation of Public Use 

What interpretation, then, may we ex- 
pect the courts to give to the term “public 
use?” A survey of the more important 
rulings may serve as a barometer of what 
future decisions are likely to be. 

Mr. Lewis, in defining public use, says: 

“The use of a thing is strictly and properly 
the employment of the thing in some manner. 
Public use means the same as use by the pub- 
lic, and this, it seems to us, is the construction 


the words should receive in constitutional pro- 
visions,” 


Faetn condemnation has been well 





1 Declared unconstitutional 1918 in Penn Mutual 
Life Insurance Company vs. Philadelphia. 
* Lewis—Eminent main (3rd Ed. par. 257). 


Another important ruling is that of Judge 
Cooley—a ruling that emphasizes actual 
usance by the public. Quoting Judge Coo- 
ley: 

“The public use implies a possession, occu- 
pation and enjoyment of the land by the public 
at large or by the public agencies. It may be 
for the public benefit that all the wild lands of 
the state be improved and cultivated, all un- 
sightly places beautified, but the common law 
has never sanctioned an appropriation of prop- 
erty based on these considerations alone.” 

The real rigidity of the court is em- 
phasized in a ruling case—Amsperger vs. 
Crawford. The court in this case held: 

“There will be found two different views of 
the meaning of these words (public use), one 
that there must be a use, or right to use, by 
the public; the other, that the public use is 
equivalent to public utility or advantage. If 
the former is the correct view the courts have 
a definite, fixed guide for their action; if the 
latter view is to prevail, the judges, reflecting 
various temperaments, are left free to indulge 
their own views of public utility or advantage 
We cannot hestitate to range this court with 
those that hold the former to be the true 
view.” 

In other ruling cases and decisions on the 
subject,” one finds the same general view 
expressed, namely, that public use connotes 
actual public operation and public enjoy- 
ment, and that any attempt to take more 
land or property than is to be actually op- 
erated and employed by the city is outside 
the scope of public use. 

The only test case on excess condemna- 
tion is Penn Mutual Life Insurance Com- 
pany 7's. Philadelphia, decided in 1913. The 
facts and rulings are both so pertinent to 
our problem that it might be well to give 
their principal features. 

The state of Pennsylvania by act of June 
8th, 1907, authorized cities to acquire land 
for parks and parkways, and to appropriate 
private property within two hundred feet 
of the boundary line of such property so 
taken, this excess to be resold under such 
restrictions in the deeds as would protect 
the parks and parkways, all appropriations 
8 Cooley's Constitutional Limitations (7th Ed. 766) 

#101 Md. 247. 

5 Bloodgood vs. Mohawk and Hudson R. R. Co. (18 


Wend. 965); Justice Story Wilkinson vs. Leland (27 
U. S. 658; Mills—“Public Use” 
































THE AMERICAN CITY 


231 KELLY TRUCKS 
FOR OUR ARMY 
ON THE BORDER 


Line 
up " 
at Mi} of Keit 
itary Head, Trucks 
gales, Agu ters 


seve panies 


in COME 
will operate in every © 


on and 
uring the 
“too hot to 


two trucks to 
to the other. 
are literally 


y running 
op of one 
until they 


“We get 4 little shade here — > 
stretching 4 tarpaulin from the t 
sui heat the tools 


@ Over th 
> “ 
me rugged roads “some 
ere in the big S ' hehe 
these K ig Southwest,” — 
we elly-made, Kell . 
nned bullies will * : 
Bo) - measure 
@ Stren; 
‘ gth, sturdiness < 
ol rdiness and sin ity < 
2 Eo Teas Saevuie teak coviers iplicity are the most notable 
a) . rts; ry of : ere pe ata ) 
: ee Seren pane e98e one easily accessible for a eatures of Kelly construc 
strains of traff . ate for any effort | ¢ for any adjust , 4 
ftraffiic Excey : — Unugual flexibility peter seed a 
Satie ans -xceptionally | “ $ua!l Nexibilit t se: 
on raha S Wansleh Geaith mele). y to meet ¢ 1] 
ght to be brakes two se gettin S375 2. 
o sets on ther ii 
he rear wheels 
eels, where 


THI zr " 
: ELLY-SPRING ) 
St iFIELI T 7 
ELD MoTorR TRUCK Co., SPRIN 
PRINGFIELD O 
-V, HIO 





\ n 1 ver rs ase mer! t iat 
en writin to / 
& A isers picas¢ I ICAN iTy 
h t ¢ A 
\ d E MER L 











tas Ot a. 


ae 











SEPTEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY : 


so made to come under the power of emi- 
nent domain to declare private lands for 
public use. 

In pursuance of the act, ordinances’ wer« 
drawn authorizing the city to take certain 
properties owned by the Penn Mutual Life 
Insurance Company, and further authoriz- 
ing the Mayor to enter into an agreement 
with the Bell Telephone Company for the 
purchase by it of the condemned land. The 
deed contained stringent restrictions tend- 
ing to enhance the beauty of the parkway. 
The insurance company enjoined the city 
from taking the land and asked that the act 
of 1907 be declared unconstitutional. 

he act was so declared! And note the 
firmness and rigidity of the court rulings 
against any legislative procedure which en- 
ables the public to take land from one and 
sell it to another private party. The fol- 
lowing are some of the more important rul- 
ings: 

“The constitutional provision permitting the 
appropriation of private property for public use 
contemplates an active use by the public; the 
fact that the public may derive benefit, utility 
or advantage from the taking of the land will 
not constitute public use within the meaning of 
the constitution where it is not intended that 
the public shall use and enjoy the land appro- 
priated.” 

Again the court held that: 

“the effect of the 1907 act authorizing the ap- 
propriation of property for such purposes is to 
permit by the exercise of eminent domain the 
taking of property of one citizen without his 
consent and vesting the title thereto in another. 

‘ . Such an interpretation of eminent 
domain empowers a city at the pleasure of its 
officials to transfer property on which is a 
business plant owned by one individual or cor- 
poration to another engaged in the same or 
another business.” 

The court went so far in its reaction as to 
rule that, under the provisions of the 1907 
act, “one may be readily deprived of his 
home for the benefit of another,” and again, 
that “it is idle to hold that the statute fur- 
nishes no opportunity to produce such re- 
sults so as to promote some private interest 
at the expense of another.” 

What do the above views, rulings and at- 
titudes seem to tell us? Simply this: that 
the American courts may be counted upon 
to absolutely forbid all and any excess tak- 
ing which is tinted with the idea of selling 
it back into private hands. And more: that 

* Ordinance City Councils of Philadelphia, Tulv 3, 


1912. Ordinance City Councils of Philadelphia, July 
16, 1912 








any attempt to extend the meaning of pul 
lic use so as to cover excess land not i 
tually occupied and operated by the publi 
will be met with opposition by the courts, 
and statutes attempting to give a broadened 
meaning are likely to be declared unconsti 
tutional whenever trouble occurs. 

If the writer’s conclusions are correct 
does it mean that excess condemnation is 
but an ideal attainable only after we have a 
new generation of courts with new rulings? 
Not at all. But it does reduce the method 
of obtaining excess land of two definite and 
concrete plans, both of which, happily, side 
step the publu use issue, 

The frst and preferable method is th 
adopting of a constitutional amendment, 
such amendment empowering the legislaturs 
to authorize the taking, by the commot 
wealth or by a county or municipality, ot 
more land than is actually needed, the 
amount of the excess being limited to m 
more than is necessary for suitable build- 
ings on the lots abutting on the park, high 
way or other improvement which is being 
made. lour states—Massachusetts, Ohio, 
Wisconsin and New York—have adopted 
such amendments to their constitutions. 
The following Masachusetts amendment 
covers the essential features embodied in 
those of the other three states: 


\MENDMENT TO CONSTITUTION O} MAS 
SACHUSETTS, ADOPTED 1911 

“Article X, Part 1. The Legislature may 
by special acts for the purpose of laying out, 
widening or relocating highways streets, au 
thorize the taking in fee by the Common 
wealth, or by a county, city or town, of more 
land and property than are needed for the a 
tual construction of such highway or street; 
provided, however, that the land and prop 
erty authorized to be taken are specified in 
the act, and no more in extent than would be 
sufficient for suitable building lots on both 
sides of such highway or street, and after s 
much of the land or property has been appro 
priated for such highway or street as is needed 
therefor, may authorize the sale of the 1 
mainder for value with or without suitable re 
strictions.” 

The second method of appropriating ex- 
cess land without judicial obstacles, and 
where a constitutional amendment does not 
yet exist, is for the legislature to pass a so 
called remnant act. By such an act the 
first stake is driven in opening the way for 


complete excess-taking. The legislation 
7 Constitutional Amendments were passed in Ma 
chusetts in 1911; Ohio, 1912; Wisconsin, 1912, and 


New York in 1913 

































| 





THE AMERICAN CITY 






CENERAL morTors COMPANY 


TRUCKS _ 








Builders of Good Roads 


In road building, city paving, and all kinds 
of municipal hauling GMC Trucks are demonstrating 
unusual efficiency. 















oe | Wherever greatest pulling power is needed 
f wherever quick and reliable transportation is required 
GMC Trucks are more than ‘‘making good.”’ 








No matter what use you may be consider- 
ing for motor trucks, you will find at “Truck Headquarters”’ 
a machine suited to your requirements. Chassis from 
%, to 5 tons. 


Consult the nearest GMC dealer or write 
direct to the GMC factory as you prefer. 





















GENERAL MOTORS TRUCK COMPANY 
One of the Units of General Motors Company 


PONTIAC, MICHIGAN 


Direct Factory Branches: New York Boston Chicago 
Philadelphia St.Louis Kansas City (102) 















When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amenican Crrv. 





eet 6 














SEPTEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


must be confined to remnant and unshapely 
plots—plots rendered by city improvement 
entirely impossible for adequate building 
purposes. On a plot containing, let us say, 
less than 225 square feet, the possibility of 
building an appropriate and sightly struc- 
ture is very doubtful. Again, where odd- 
shaped pieces of land exist—those long, 
drawn-out, narrow remnants—the hope of 
erecting an adequate building must be 
altogether dismissed. Such land must be 
turned over as a part of the exact amount 
necessary for the improvement simply 
because it is impossible of any kind of ade- 
quate use, so long as it remains in private 
hands. As the public becomes more and 
more enlightened on the subject larger rem- 
nants may be taken, and the city, in beauti- 
fying the small remnants, will be the best 
educator for a greater excess-taking. Per- 
haps such a procedure will constitute the 
opening wedge that will bring the constitu- 
tional amendment, so necessary for com- 
plete excess-taking. 

The following sections may suggest a type 
of statute which eliminates the “public use” 
problem, and which at the same time pro- 
vides for remnant-taking: 

AN ACT AUTHORIZING THE TAKING OF 
REMNANT PIECES OF LAND BY CITIES. 
Section 1. Be it enacted, etc., that the cities 

in the Commonwealth may take in fee by right 

of eminent domain the whole of any estate, 
part of which is actually required for the lay- 
ing out, alteration or location by it of any 
streets, highways, public parks, parkways, boule- 
vards, playgrounds and public works; if the 


remnant piece of land left after tak 
part would from its size or shay 
able and inappropriate for building pur 

Section II. By ordinance enacted the 
may appoint an appropriate commissi 
board, who shall have full power to enter, 
spect and condemn such premises covered 
the meaning of this act, and shall have p 
to declare all remnants containing less than 225 
square feet, or whose shape is such tl 
breadth of plot at any point is less tl 
feet, as unsuitable and inappropriate for 
ing purposes. 





Let us not infer that the legalists are 
molasses-minded when it comes to this prob- 
lem of excess condemnation. They are not. 
Just so long as the universal constitutional 
limitations forbid taking more land than is 
actually necessary for public use, then just 
so long must we expect the courts to see to 
it that the true and established meaning of 
public use is preserved. They see the grave 
political dangers that come from a loose and 
easy interpretation of a subject so vital to 
problems of public and private property, 
and they intend putting brakes on all legis 
lation which tends in that direction. 

Careful critics, instead of comdemning 
the court, are beginning to see that the line 
of procedure is not toward a broader inter- 
pretation of public use. Rather, the goal 
of all endeavor is to secure a constitutional 
amendment. And if there is to be immedi 
ate action pending the adoption of such an 
amendment, this should take the form of ap 
propriating and beautifying those ugly and 
unsightly remnants that now deface our 
public highways. 





Legal Decisions Affecting Municipalities’ 
Compiled by A. L. H. Street 


A Decision Affecting Public 
Water Supply 


The highest court of the land recently 
handed down a decision which has a favor- 
able bearing on the power of cities and 
water companies to condemn land for addi- 
tional water supply purposes. The direct 


* Eprror’s Nort It should be borne in mind that 
it is not always possible for a municipality to make 
application of the legal principles set forth in the 
items here presented, without consideration of the 
existing state laws and the local ordinances. Each 
ease is individual, but the legal decisions reported in 
Tue American City from time to time may have in- 
fluence in the presentation of cases based on similar 
conditions. 


effect of the decision is to permit the city 
of Hartford, Conn., to condemn 


] 


land for 
use as a compensating reservoir 

The city petitioned the Connecticut legis 
lature for permission to appropriate th 
waters of two streams to provide necessary 
additional water-supply, but the petition 
was denied on objection by the owners of 
water-power rights on the Farmingtor 


River, to which the two streams are tribu 
| 


tary, because those rights woukl be in 
paired under the city’s plans. This objec 
tion was obviated later by the adoption of 


a plan for the construction and maintenancs 








THE AMERICAN CITY 








54 


/ 


BIG TONNAGE—BIG SAVINGS 


The Knox tractor hauls all forms of heavy tonnage at a big saving over 
or motor trucks 
limitations practically disappear because of the endless variety of 
be used in connection with the Knox tractor. The accom- 
ons show a 2-way, 2-compartment, side dumping trailer of a 
Each compartment has a cubical capacity of 4 yards. The 
ig eliminates all devices such as hand hoists, hydrauli 


Write for “Hauling Costs Reduced”’ 


dur big new illustrated bull ‘Hauling Costs Reduced,’ pictures 
Knox tractors with various forms of trailers in the actual service’ of enthu 
ners Write for your copy today 


KNOX MOTORS ASSOCIATES 
Springfield, Mass, U.S. A. 





When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American City 

















utile nn 2 

















SEPTEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


of a compensating reservoir on another 
tributary of the Farmington River, with the 
function of holding water impounded in 
time of excess flow and discharging it at 
low stages of the river in sufficient quanti- 
ties to make up the deficiency caused by the 
city’s appropriation of wzeter for additional 
water-supply. 

But when proceedings were brought to 
condemn certain land for use as part of the 
compensating reservoir site, the owner re- 
sisted them on the ground that there was 
no such intended public use of the reser- 
voir as would support condemnation—that 
the plan for the reservoir was an invalid 
attempt to trade impounded water to the 
owner of power rights along the Farming- 
ton River in lieu of money damages for im- 
pairment of those rights. This question 
was sharply contested thru the courts of 
Connecticut and went from the Supreme 
Court of Errors to the United States Su- 
preme Court, which affirmed a decree in the 
city’s favor in a decision announced April 
17, 1916. (See Manchester v. Board of 
Water Commissioners of the City of Hart- 
ford, Conn.) 

Finding that the city’s plan involved 
“public use” within the legal authority for 
condemning private property for public use, 
the Supreme Court of Errors said: “A 
separate storage reservoir to impound 
freshet water and return it to the stream 
in times of low water may, therefore, be a 
logical and consistent engineering factor in 
a plan for improving a municipal water- 
supply as well as an instrumentality for 
conserving the flow of the stream.” 


+ + 


Discretion Concerning Improvements 
In sustaining the validity of an ordinance 
of Webb City, Mo., ordering construction 
of sidewalks along certain streets, altho 
most of the land on one or both sides of 
the streets was vacant, the Missouri Court 
of Appeals recognizes, in the case of Maret 
vs. Hough, 185 Southwestern Reporter, 544, 
that city councils have broad discretionary 
powers in the matter of ordering local im- 
provements. The court held that an ordi- 
nance for an improvement may be declared 
by the courts to be void when shown to he 
oppressive or unreasonable, as when there 
is no substantial benefit to the property 
owners or the community at large. “But,” 
proceeds the decision, “within the charter 


powers a large discretion must be given the 
city authorities as to the usefulness 
propriety of making the improvements dl 
unless it appears that the ordinances pr 
viding the same are an abuse of this dis 


cretion amounting to arbitrary actior 
the part of the city and operating | 
sively to the property owners and a frat 
on their rights, the validity of th 

nances will be upheld. . . . The 
the benefit to the public or 


within which the property is situated 
be taken into account along with the benefit 


ques 
| 


t1 

pe 

to a particular property owner. We als 
think that courts will look with mor 
on this ground of relief when 
before the improvements are made than 
first presented, as here, in resistin 
ment after the contractor has expen 
money in constructing the same.” 


+ + 
Validity of Safety Regulations 


\n ordinance having a legitimate t 


ency to promote the public health, 


or general welfare, will be upheld, in the 
absence of an affirmative showi1 g¢ that it 
is unreasonable or oppressiv Phe 


sion of the New York Code of Ord 
forbidding issuance of permits for 
nance of garages where four or mot 


hicles are ke pt, unless an oil sey 


or other similar apparatus is installed, to 
prevent volatile oils from fle g o the 
sewer, is valid (New York Suprem 
Court, Appellate Divisior Stubbe § 
\damason; 159 New York Supplement 
751.) 
+ + 

Assessment of Property for 
Improvements 

The power of a city to improve its street 
at the expense of abutting property is not 
exhausted by a single exercise of such 


power; but is a continuing power which 
may be exercised as often as necessit 
quires. (Indiana Supreme Court, Bett 
brock vs Mille r, 112 Northeastert R 
porter, 77I.) 


+ + 
Delay in Constructing Municipal 
Works 
\ citv is not entitled to clan dam 
is for delay in the completion of installa 
tion of a refuse destructor, under a claus 


for such damages in the construction cot 








THE AMERICAN CITY 


THE FIRST BOOK 


to deal with the engineering 
features of park construction 


Parks and Park Engineering 


By WuwiAM Lyte, Profess f Municipal Engineering, 


Lafayette C oliege. 





City engineers, landscape architects, and superintendents of 
parks, who have problems of park construction to deal with, will find 
this book a useful guide 

karth excavation, masonry, water-works and sewerage constru 
tion, road building and lighting, and other engineering subjects with 


1 


which the park engineer should be familiar, are treated in this box 
in their specific relation to park construction 
City officials will be especially interested in the chapter on Labor 


and _ontracts. 


Have this book sent for free examination—no cash in advance. 


138 pages, 6 x 9, 38 full-page plates. Cloth, $1.25 net 











How To Lay Out Suburban Home Grounds 


By HERBER ee Ae 1y, Landscape Archite 
is book will be found many useful hints regarding the ae out and planting of 
lawns and gardens, the kind of trees, shrubs, and herbaceous plants to choose, etc. 
ins many new features, four new chapters having been adde 
44 ed Ci S2 ne 
Landscape Gardening as Applied to Home Decoration 
By SAMut MAyNarp, f f the Massachusetts Agricultural College 
\ practic: ndensed ie overing trees—their planting and care; country roa 
de improvements; parks, public squares, school yards; walks and drives, et 


| USE THIS COUPO} “= Free Examination of These Books 


JOHN WILEY & SONS, Inc. 
432 Fourth Ave., N. Y. C. 





Without sending cash in advance, copies of thes« 
ks will be sent for ten days’ examination. Sign 
e coupon and mail to-day. You can return any 


ok that is not suited to your needs 


JOHN WILEY & SONS 


INCORPORATED 
432 Fourth Avenue, New York City. 
London: CHAPMAN & HALL, Ltd 


Montreal, Canada: RENOUF PUB. CO 
A ( 9-16 





55 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 











1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


ct, if the plant was place in operat 
t t 1] the ree 
( oO ed all refuse de ‘ 
iltho alterations were thereattet requ 
de to bring the plant up to the vy ¢ 
nder which it was constructe \ ‘ 
ited States District Court, Norther: pe al fitti 
istrict Court, Norther District of pipes above gr 
rgia: Destructor Company vs. Cit requiring all 
\tlanta, 232 Federal Reporte r, 740 bath cocks 





* @ cks, etc., to be 
Validity of Plumbing Regulations preme Court, KI 


‘ | <= Pacif 


der charter authority to “prescrilx 57 i 





Cleveland’s Three-Cent Lighting Plant 


ECAUSE of the criticisms of e 











Cleveland Municipal Lighting PI 
which have recently appeared in cet 
; I iwazines and newspapers, special i ‘ 
terest attaches to an article in 7/ ul § ke : 
gazine for July, by Frederick W. Bal ee 
d, Consulting Engineer for Mun eae 
es, of Cleveland, Ohio. Mr. Ballard, w1 a 
designed the Cleveland plant and operated : 
from its inception to January I, 1916, has simple as 
ecently been elected President of th h ret I 
Cleveland Engineering Society With the ; — 
rticle is published a letter under date of d an iI 
13, 1916, from Secretary of War New ercial and 1 
nm D. Baker to Morris | Cooke, Acti y 
Director of The Utilities Bureau, in which = 'TO"! sane < 
leveland’s former Mayor says: eee oe ae 
I was familiar with the building of th king 
Cleveland municipal light plant from the turt tact ; 
g of the first dirt for its foundation | I 
he growth and operation of the plant up t The author 
e first day of January, 1916. I know the : eae 
lant to be an ideal piece of construction. | remands naae : 
efhciency is high, its operating cost low, and S possibie De ee 
the apital invested is, of course n tl | customers 
f actual expenditure. The maximum rate ° customer 
three cents per kilowatt per hour 1s unique isi oe ot ther 
municipal achievement. On January 1, 1916, ©” etnnadirnin 
the plant, altho not yet fully loaded, was pay load curve ext 
ng its own interest and depreciation charges, ight, the load fact 
fully meeting all operating expenses al d ear nd 70 per cent hicl 
: ing asurplus. The plant was and is a success vith this class of 
Che total number of customers of the Mr. Ballard adds 
Cleveland plant on May 1, 1916, was 16,487. i a 
For the first three months of 1916 the reve hay ' 
nue was $188,044; total operation and main Y 1 ré 
tenance expenses were $71,919; leaving net to secure a ¢ 
receipts of $116,125. In other words, the {He Won 
plant is showing a net revenue from opera ea ae 
tion of nearly $500,000 per year—an amount S 


ne arly twice the total fixed cost, as follows 











a | The”Panama line”, 


THE AMERICAN CITY 





=r i oe 





> The 
: F.B. Zieg 


: Line” catalog as offered in 
> Tue American Crrr. 





The Widest Possible Range of Uses 
The Easiest to Operate 
Longer Service with Lower Upkeep Expense 
Low First Cost, Quality Considered 
Grader and Scarifier in One Machine 
Roller Bearing Wheels 


THESE ARE A FEW FEATURES OF THE 
“PANAMA” GIANT WITH SCARIFIER 





This machine is the leader of a most highly perfected line of road machinery, includ- 
ing various sizes and types, one of which is adapted for every requirement. 













» The “ Panama Line”’ also includes a complete assortment of drags, scrapers culvert 
vy, ipe, ete., so that road contractors and officials can choose anything required 

m pi] ything req 
from this complete line. 


= Mig. Co. But best of all, they can have absolute assurance of obtaining the greatest 
i seater ~~ agai possible value in doing so, as each and every number has been devel- 
? Gentlemen — oped by continuous experimenting to a point near to perfection. 


Send your “Paname a But you will want to judge for yourself so send for the Panama 


Catalog and 


ce ee ee Investigate the ‘‘Panama Line’’ 






+14 -. 3 east 


THE FE B.ZIEG MFG. COMPANY 


Fredericktown, Ohio 


56 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae American City. 








7 














——— 








Conventions and Exhibitions 





ON THE CALENDAR 
SEPTEMBER 6-8.—St. PAuL, MINN. 
Northwestern Road Congress. Secre- 
tary, Joe L. Long, Moline, Ill. 
SEPTEMBER 6-9.—Newark, N. J. 
League of American Municipalities. 
Annual Convention. Secretary, Robert E 


Lee, Secretary to the Mayor, Baltimore 
Md. 
SEPTEMBER 12-13.—QUEBEC, QUE. 


The Canadian Association for the 
Prevention of Tuberculosis. Annual 
Convention. Secretary, George D. Porter, 


M. B., Toronto, Ont. 


SEPTEMBER 12-14.—DuBUQUE, IOWA 


League of Iowa Municipalities. An- 
nual Convention. Secretary, Frank G 
Pierce, Marshalltown, Iowa. 


SEPTEMBER 13-14.—QUEBEC, QUE. 

Canadian Public Health Association. 
Acting Secretary, Dr. Duncan Anderson, 
Toronto. 

SEPTEMBER 13-15 


—MOoNTREAL, QUE 


American Association of Port Au- 
thorities. Annual Convention Secre 
tary, William Joshua Barney, Room 1200 


29 Broadway, 


New York City. 

SEPTEMBER 13-15.—PORTLAND, ME. 
_ New England Water Works Associa- 
tion. Annual Convention. Secretary, Wil- 


lard Kent, 715 Tremont 
Mass 


SEPTEMBER 14-15.—Perorta, ILL. 

Illinois State Association of Highway 
Commissioners and Town Clerks. Con- 
vention. Secretary, L. E. Skaggs, Dan 
vers, Ill. 

SEPTEMBER 18-20.—PHILADELPHIA, PA 

Illuminating Engineering Society. 
Convention. Secretary, C. A. Littlefield 
Irving Place and Fifteenth Street, New 
York City. 

SEPTEMBER 19-21.—New York Ciry. 

American Association of Public Ac- 
countants. Annual Meeting. Secretary, 
\. P. Richardson, 55 Liberty Street, New 
York City. 

SEPTEMBER 25-27.—CLEVELAND, OHIO. 

National Association of Commercial 
Organization Secretaries. Annual Meet- 
ing. Secretary, Howard Strong, Civic 
and Commerce Association, Minneapolis, 
Minn. 


SEPTEMBER 26-28.—CLIFTON Force, VA. 
League of Virginia Municipalities. 
Annual Meeting. Secretary, Luther C. 
Brinson, Portsmouth, Va. 


Temple, Boston, 


SEPTEMBER 20-20 » 
Smoke Saiaeeniiine ‘Association 
nual Convention Secretary, Frank 
Chambers, Resorts ent of Smoke Insp 
tion, Chicago, Ill. 
(JCTOBER 2-6.—GRAND RAPIDS M { 
Playground and Recreation Associa- 
tion of America. Recreation Congress 
Secretary, H. S. Braucher, 1 Madis 


OCTOBER 9Q-II.- 


Avenue, New York City 
Provipence, R. | 
National Housing Association. An 


nual Conference. Secretary, | 
Veiller, 105 East ['wenty-second Street 
New York City. 
TOBER Q-13.—NeEwark, N. J 

American Society of Municipal Im- 
provements. Annual Conventio1 ecre- 
tary, Charles Carroll Brown, 702 Wulsin 


Building, Indianapolis, Ind 


CTOBER 10-11.—DAVENPORT, IA., AND MOLINI 


CTOBER II 


T 


ISLAND 
Joint Meeting of Iowa and Illinois 
Sections of The onoreomnger Water Works 


AND Rock 


Association. Secretary <« va S 
tion, Jack J. Hinman, Jr., Stat t 
of Iowa, Iowa City, la 


New ORLEAD I 
The American Secieilaiiine 


Superintendents. 
terill, Seattle, Wash 


TOBER I0-I2 


of Park 


Secretar iN 


TOBER 10-15.—VISALIA, C 


California Conference on City Plan i 


ning. Annual Conferenc« S 
Charles H Cheney, Crocker 
San Francisco, Cal 

CTOBER I0-15.—VISALIA, | 


League of California Municipalities. 
Annual Meeting. Secretary, H. A. Mas 
care Board of Supervisors, San Franc 
VERNON, B. ( 

Union of British Columbia Munici 
palities. Annual Conventio1 Si 
Ex-Reeve H 


Bose, Surrey Center, B. ( 


TOBER 11-12.—CINCINNATI, OHIO 

National Alliance of Legal Aid So 
cieties. Biennial Convention. P 
W. M. Acheson, Jr., Oliver Building 
Pittsburgh, Pa. Secretary of the Ci 
nati Legal Aid Society, Rober 
man. 


Gold 


TOBER II-13.—INDEPENDENCE, KAN. 
League of Kansas Municipalities. 
nual Convention. Secretary, C. H. Talb 

University of Kansas, Lawrence, Ka 








THE AMERICAN CITY 




















EXPANSION 


JOINT 


The original and only Elastite Joint 


With a hundred per cent. satisfaction ! 


Some time ago we asked several hundred contractors, who had used 
large quantities of ELASTITE, to write us their frank opinions as to its value 
as compared with the poured expansion joint. 

Three hundred of these men answered our letter. Two hundred and ninety 
nine of them were enthusiastic in their praise of the new product. They said 
it was most economical, most sauistactory, most convenient, most serviceable, 

nd the best insurance they ever had for their maintenance bonds. 

lhe other one man replied by sending us his order for fifteen thousand feet 
oO be -ushed to a iob he had to comple te before cold weather, and on which 


1 


t 
he could not pour the joints because of the amount of rainfall. 





y Pp y 
If you are interested write for samples, 
letters fron users and SPee fications 


THE PHILIP CAREY CO., .%2eisenss; Hatin 


nema 














67 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American Crry. 








v= Stee 








SEPTEMBER, 1916 THE AMER 


Ocroper 12-14.—Everett, WAsH 
League of Washington Municipalities. 
Annual Convention. Secretary, Dr. Her- 
man A. Brauer, University of Washing 
ton, Seattle, Wash. 


OctToBeR 13-14.—NeEW York City 
Society for Street Cleaning and Re- 
fuse Disposal of United States and 
Canada. Annual Convention. Secretary, 
J. R. Buchanan, Department of Street 
Cleaning, Municipal Building, New York 
City 


OctoneR 16-17—AMHERST, MAss. 
Massachusetts Conference on Rural 
Organization. Address EF. L. Morg 
Massachusetts Agricultural College, A1 
herst, Mass 


ul 


Octoser 17-20.—Detroit, Micu 
National Safety Council. Annual Con- 
gress Secretary, W H. Cameron, 208 
South La Salle Street, Chicago, III 


Rep WING, MINN 

League of Minnesota Municipalities. 
\nnual Convention. Secretary, Richard 
R. Price, University of Minnesota, Minn: 
ipolis, Minn 


OcTOBER 24-27.—CINCINNATI, OHIO 
American Public Health Association. 
Secretary, Selskar M. Gunn, 755 Boylston 
Street, Boston, Mass. 


OCTOBER 18-19 


October 26-28.—HILLsporo, TEX 
League of Texas Municipalities. A1 
nual Convention. Secretary, Prof 
H. G. James, University of Texas, Aust 
Texas. 


NOVEMBER 15.—UrBANA, ILI 


Illinois Municipal League. Annua 
Meeting. Secretary, John A. Fairlie, U1 
versity of Illinois, Urbana, Ill. 

NOVEMBER 15-I¢ PHILADELPHIA, PA 

Conference on Universities and Pub- 
lic Service. Annual Conference, to be 
held under the auspices of the Society for 
the Promotion of Training for Public Ser- 
vice Secretary, Edward A. Fl itzpatrick, 


P. O. Box 380, Madison, Wis. 


NovVEMBER 20-22.—LewistowN, Mon 
Montana a "League. \nnual 
Meeting. Address, E. S. Judd, City Clerk. 
Billings, Mont. 
NOVEMBER 21-23.—SPRINGFIELD, MAss 
City Managers’ Association. Annual 
Convention. Secretary, O. E. Carr, City 
Manager, Niagara Falls, N. Y 
NOVEMBER 23-24.—SPRINGFIELD, MAss 
Massachusetts Federation of Plan- 
ning Boards. Annual Convention. Sec 


retary, Arthur C. Comey, Cambridge: 
Mass 


NOVEMBER 23-25.—SPRINGFIFLD, MAss 
National Municipal League. Annual 
Convention. Secretary, Clinton Rogers 
Woodruff, North American Building, 
Philadelphia, Pa. 


CAN CITY 


Commercial Organization 
Che second annual convent 


tional Association of Comm« 








zation Secretaries will be held he Hotel 
Statler, Cleveland, September 25-27 tl 
the following program 
FIRST DAY SEPTEMBER 
Nl ~ 
| Hiar Lo 3 ( 
Raly hn ‘ I ( 
{ n ‘ 

\ ress y I Siac W Lit 5 
‘ y Mer M 
Milwauke W 

f ( 
) ] I S ( 
Ka , M 
ef ( $ 
( merce, K | k 

Iie Sex ( ( 

l € St f A 

R 

( I ee 5 { t 
f < e, Rockt 

i?) <= os ‘ > 
( ‘ ( r ! 

j Commu cs 

( | I M ( | 
(ys 

1) ] ] B M 
Bur 1) \I 

( rma Ww. ¢ ( S ( 

( ner . © ) 
s Wa W hitt 5 { 
( merce, Linc Ne 
: ( ois 
( ur ( W \\ 
erat ( P ( 
nd, O 
disc uSSsiIor \ ~ S Ss 
r ? { \K { 
\ ON S 
‘ ral a ( ’ ( 

Bruce Kenne Secreta ( ! ( 
Montgomery, A 

Lise © H..B 5 
Club, Belle 

s ft oy 

1 M.G Secre ( 1) 

Dayton, Ohio. 

Discussix Wn G. 1 Ex t 
Clevel lL, oO kk ( (Ne ( 
Secreta C} ( | \ 

SECOND DAY-—SEPTEMBER 2¢ 
MORNING SF¥sS S 10 
’ ’ E ficier , ( 

From the Standpoint of the Colles P \ 
Leslie Smit \n fuck School of ¢ 
Dartmouth College 

From the S$ point f S i 
I Sect iT I ~ 
Ma 

R N Dat ! | 
, wral Prom , 
( 1 Bruce K n ( 
er t ( I M , 
on: J. H. Hud ~ ( 
1erce, Bloon t I 

lustrial Development Wor 

Chairman: Walter Parker, Ger M ‘ 
sociation of ¢ T ce Ne Orlear I 

Lise on: Willi ins, Secretar ( 
Commerce, Pe 

to Stwmulate Directors and ( nn 
Chairman: Robert Manle Secretar 


Commerce, Omaha, Nel 
Discussion: Wm. ¢ Rad 
of Commerce, Birmingh 








Secretaries 
ion ot the Na 
rcia (Jrga 








THE AMERICAN CITY 



























} 
f 
HE old sweeper swe pt the 
dirt into the gutters. 
“White Wings’ worked it into 
piles. Then wind and vehicle 
spread it evenly over the CLEAN,AND RAISES 
pavement ready to be swept 
all over again. ; 
ine for the sweeper crew, but 
tough on the taxpayers! 
The Baker Sweeper pi ks up the 
litter, after first moistening it with system enables us to guarantee a dust 
its needle-spray sprinkler system, less job. Litter box holds ten cubic 
ind carries it away. Construction feet— good for about six blocks. 
s all enclosed. This  spri fa ; 
is all enc Ahi prinkles Broom is nearly 7 feet wide and 
sweeps within 4 or 5 inches of the 
gutter. 
: 
Sweeps 8,000 square yards an hour. _a 
There isn’t the slightest doubt 
that old ways of sweeping streets 
are being rapidly eliminated by sheer 
Dustless Pick-Up force of public opinion. Heed the ’ 
9 ‘handwriting on the wall’’! Instead 
of waiting, take the initiative. 
Write for Catalog Full of Cost Figures 
THE BAKER MFG. CO., 503 Stanford Avenue, SPRINGFIELD, ILL. 
New York: Baker-Barron, Inc., 221 West Broadway ; 














When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amxaican City. 


) 
E 








wi 
2 
4 
‘ 


erento 





seghsanmnPer 


net 


ne 








THE 


SEPTEMBER, IQIO 


rctors in Retail Merchants Promotion 
Chairman: C. O. Hanes, Secretary, Retail Mer 
1ants Association, Columbia, M: 

ion: Wm. H. Howard, Secretary, B 


Indianapolis, Ind. 





AFTERNOON SEssION—2 O'CLOCK 








ndustrial Development of the Small Town 
Wn S Millener, Secretary-Manager I rd_ of 
ade, Williamsport, Pa 
C. R. Greer, Secretary, Chamber of 
mmerce, Hamilton, Ohi 
\ nal Bureau f Org tion S 
Colvin B. Brown, Director, Bureau of Org i 
Service, Chamber of Commer, « t t United 
States of America 
Discussion: S. C. Mead, Secretary, Merchants’ As 


ition, New York City 


TUESDAY EVENING—SEPTEMBER 26, 1916 


] er f Stunts.”’ in charge of the committee 
consisting of: 

I M. Clendening, Chairman, Secretary, Chamber 

f Commerce, Kansas City, M 

Carl J Baer, Secretary, Chamber f Commerce, 
Little Rock, Ark 

A. V Snell, Secretary, Chamber of Commerce, 
Charleston, S. C, 

Robert Wadsworth, Secretary, Chamber f Com 
merce, Youngstown, Ohio 

W ( Culkins, General Secretary, Chamber of 
Commerce, Cincinnati, Ohio 

THIRD DAY—SEPTEMBER 27, 1916 
MorninG SEsst1on—10 o’CLOCK 
Business sess including amendment of by-laws 
nd elect of directors 


+ + 


International Recreation Congress 
“Preparedness—for Peace Thru Play” is 
the theme of the ‘International Recreation 
to be held at Grand Rapids, 
Mich., October 2 to 6. 
“ “Military Training,’ 


‘Preparedness, ” 


( onegress,”’ 


‘Americanism,’ 
says the announcement, 
find their strength largely in the general 
conviction that 

be strengthened. 


\merican citizenship must 

These American out- 
reachings toward a more vigorous national 
life have been stimulated, but confused, by 
the influence of the European war 
surging, confused 


These 
American impulses, if 
clarified, can bring about an American 
Renaissance. To help in this is the purpose 
of the Recreation Congress.” 

“Making Men for America” is one of the 
subjects proposed for discussion at the 
Recreation Congress. 
clude: 
dure ?”, 


Other subjects in- 
“Can an Indoor Nation Long En- 
“Conservation of Childhood, — of 
Citizenship, of Civilization thru Conserva- 
“Physical Vitality a Na- 
tional Asset,’ “Leisure Hours—America’s 
Greatest Unworked Mine of Social Power,” 
“Building a Civilization thru Play,” “Bet- 
ter Farming, Better Marketing, Better Peo- 
ple thru Better Use of Rural Leisure.” 
\mong the 20,000 Americans who are 
being personally invited to attend the Rec- 


reation Congress, there are 7,507 profes- 


tion of Leisure,” 


AMERICAN CITY 3 


sional play leaders, employed on 3,294 play 
grounds, in 432 American cities. Educators 
are also invited, especially those interested 
in “Such Physical Education as is also 
Education of Character and Spirit.” Lead- 
ers in neighborhood center work are ex- 
pected, especially those responsible for the 
612 school buildings now used 


Ss evening 


recreation centers in 136 cities. Business 


men and women, leaders in community- 
} 


b 


building, social educators, an 


workers, 
political leaders are also invited to attend 
the Recreation Congress 

Further information can be secured from 
the Playground and Recreation Association 
of America, 1 Madison Avenue, New York 
City. 


+ + 


League of American Municipalities 
The program of the annual convention of 
the League of American Municipalities, 
to be held at Newark, N. ie September 6 to 
9, includes the following addresses 
Municipal Ownership and Its Advantages By 
James B. Balch, Mayor, Kalamazoo, Mict 
Municipal Government from a Businessman’s St 
nt By Wendell D. Rockw 1, Mayor, Cam! 
Mass 





Law Enforcement By T. L. Kirkpatrick, M r, 
( rlotte, N. C. 
Progress of Sanitation. By Ezra B. Whitman, En 
neer, Baltimore, Md 
Census Statistics in Relation to Municipal Prob! 
By Rogers, Director of the Census, Wa 
\ ince By James J ( r M 
Bos 
I pal Reg ition of the He ! I k d 
Use lings I Lawson Purd P sident De 
rtment of Taxes and Assessments, New York City 
Building Zone Plan By Robert H. Whitten, Sec 
retary, Commission on Building Districts and Restric 
tions, New York City. 


The Placing of Responsibility 
ernment By Delos F. Wilcox, 
and Public Utility Expert, New Yo 

The Adaptation of the City Scl to vic 
tions 3y P. P. Claxton, Commissioner of Educat 
Washington, D. C. 

Prison Reform By Thomas Mott Osborne, War 
den, Sing Sing Prison, Ossining, N. Y 





Information for Public Officials. By C. C. William 
son, Librarian, Municipal Reference Library, New 
York City. 


r 


Health First. By George R. Lunn, Mayor, Schene: 
N. Y 


Coéperation Between City Officials and a Bureau of 
Municipal Research By C. E. Rightor, Director, Bu 
reau of Municipal Research, Dayton, Ohio 


Commission Government. $y John MacVicar, 
May r, Des Moines, Iowa 

What the City of New York is Doing » Check 
the Spread of Infantile Paralysis By Dr. Haven 


Emerson, Health Commissioner, New York City 

The Commission Manager Form of Municipal Gov 

ment. By Richard S. Childs, Secretary-Treasurer, 
National Short Ballot Organization 

It is also expected that addresses on sub- 
jects of interest to the convention will be 
delivered by James H. Preston, Mayor, Bal- 
timore, Md.; James F. Thrift, Comptroller, 
Baltimore, Md.; and Samuel A 
Mayor, Jamestown, N. Y. 


Carlson, 





THE AMERICAN CITY 











THE 100% WATSON 


— 





Announcement 


“The New 100% WATSON” Tractor and Trailer, built 
especially for contractors’ use, represents a remarkable achieve- 
ment in the transportation field—a field which this Company has 
studied for the last twenty-seven years. 


It is a Bottom Dump and Turns in its 
Own Length 


“The 100%, WATSON” Tractor and Trailer contains many 
other entirely original and unique features which are bound to 
make it the “standard”’ in the motor equipment field just as the 
famous Watson Dumping wagon is now the “standard’”’ for horse- 
drawn equipment. 

Our new catalog describing “THE 100% WATSON”’ Tractor 
and Trailer, and the many ways in which it will reduce your haulage 
costs, is about ready. 


Send today for Catalog “ K.” 


WATSON WAGON CO. 


CANASTOTA, N. Y. Ww. 




















When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 














j 
. 
; 





SEPTEMBER, I916 THE 
New England Water-Works 
Association 

The thirty-fifth annual convention of the 
New England Water Works Association 
will be held in Portland, Me., September 13 
to 15. The principal papers at the general 
sessions will be: 

e Water Supply of Portland 


Portl 


1, Me 








oO oag t 
\mounts at Springfield, M I Flt I 
| Ixtet n of the Water District | M 
Harvey D. Eaton, aterville, M 
Suggestion that the Ass ition A t ( 
tte t Prepare Standard Specif for W 
B Robert J. Th as, Supe 
Vater-Work Lowell, Mass 
s Problen f New H 1 W S 
S I ( LD. Howard, ( . 


f Healt f New Hampshire 
The Work of the Public Utilit ( 
l é By William B. Skeltor r 


(he program of the Superintendents’ 
Session on September 14 includes 


The Materials and Methods Used in M t Ss 
Connectior By William S. Johnson, ( 
Committe 
Leakage from Pipe Joints. By Frank A 
( rman of the Committee. 
Grading Cities and Towns for Insurar 4 


By I A. McInnes, Chairman of the ( 


Breaks in Main Pipes By S. E. } S 
tendent, Pipe Lines and Rese Ml 
Water-Works, Boston, Mass 

Emerge frucks and Repa G { t 
Hl. Finnerar General Foremar W Ss l 

, Mas 

Topical Discussion, Protection of Ex ‘ M 

Freezing 


On September 15 there will be a Water 
Registrars’ Session, at which the following 
papers will be presented: 


rhe Advantages of a Classified ( Book B \ 
L. Sawyer, Water Registrar, Have 1 M 
The Customers’ Ledger R \ W | | 
Water Registrar and Superint ent, | 


Water-Works Accounting 
\ ntant, Boston, Mass 


AMERICAN 


CITY 


A Demonstration of Brick 
Pavement Construction 





Che National Pa il g bt ck M 
turers’ Association has arranged the det 
necessary for a study mi conteret 


brick pavement constructiot 


Friday, October 6, at Paris, 


Hea iquarters ol the Ci S1on vill 
Deming Hotel, Terre Haut 
vhich place those participating w 
Interurban Railway to Paris, I] n | 


ile whe re the constructio1 le Ons 


11 . 
ll take place 


I 
Che demonstra co 
steps showing the ec ( 
details in building ick em 
yr the brick in gree yirta \ 
tant purpose of the effort will be to sl 
how such a paveme 
struction can be built with tl 
cos an 
orth. 
All persons 
iciall or thos 
oads of this cot will 
t this co! f rence \l S 
( Society ot! M 
their way to th nual meeting 
society can spel 1 Oct ber 6 il tl 


Monday 

All those expecting to tak ' f 
this opportunity are requested t 
secretary of the Association, Will 
Cleveland, Ohio, in order 
fully informed of the program, art 1 and ; 


, . ° 
epartur oft trains, etc 





A Contrast in 


HE usual wooden fence around a 
back yard hides from view the lower 
part of the house as well as the sur- 

Because of this, the 

artistry expressed in a home garden or 


rounding grounds. 


lawn becomes a purely personal asset, and 
does not add as much as it might to the 
beauty of the general landscape. The typ¢ 
of fence thus detracts from the beauty of 
the city. 

Moreover, such a fence may actually hid 
serious insanitary conditions. Heaps of 
garbage or a large amount of litter may be 
secreted against the lower part of a fence, 
without making it apparent to anyone who 


Back Yards | 


s not curious enough to climb the fenc¢ 
In the backyards of slum distri 
dangerous condition is constantly revealed | 
by a little inspection. A striking t 
tion is shown in the accompanying photo 
graph. It suggests rubbish and filth that 
offer peace and prosperity to the micr 


organisms, and which « 
menace to the life and health of human 


beings. 








The transparent fence is for this 
better adapted to cit homes, gard 
ick yards. If a transparent fences 


it serves the double purpose of di 


achieved / 


f 





THE AMERICAN CITY 











Time Has Little Effect on 
“GENUINE OPEN HEARTH IRON” 


— 
~~ 


The presence of copper resists the destroying effects 
of the soil, water and climate. 


These Culverts last indefinitely. Try them on your 
next road job. 
Write for booklet in the meantime 


THE NEWPORT CULVERT CO., Inc. 
NEWPORT, KY. 




















OUR CULVERTS 
NEVER REQUIRE 
REPLACEMENT 




















ee 








Rollers Increased 

Tandem and Capacity, 

Macadam Convenience, 

Heating Economy 

Kettles G 
Surf Write for 

secured Special 
Heaters. Bulletin : 














The Barber Asphalt Paving Company 


Iroquois Works Buffalo, New York 











60 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 


| 


SEPTEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 345 









































’ 
’ 
\-> 
a 
> IDEAL BREEDING PLACES FOR DISEASE GERMS 
at the same time revealing any hideous o1 Yards thus bounded are not closed cages, 
insanitary aspects of other open spaces but attractive playgrounds. 
“* 
4 
_ 
£ 
SF ME SD SS ee 
s . 
j Courtesy of the Cyclone Fence Company 
SOME BACK YARDS IN EVANSTON, ILL. 








ao 


THE AMERICAN CITY i 


‘ rs a 
PORCELAIN 
stand alone in their field—the one and only one absolutely 


OF EVERY CHARACTER 
ENAMELED 
dependable sign product. 











FOR EVERY PURPOSE 
64 
sIGNSsS  !RON 


" GUARANTEED 
‘“‘BALTO” Guaranteed Porcelain Enameled Iron Signs 


These signs are made of the finest grade of vitreous Porcelain Enamel 
fused on specially processed iron at a temperature of 1600 degrees Fah- 
renheit—each color separately fused. 

‘*‘BALTO”’ Signs, exclusively, are fitted with 
non-corrosive metal sleeve eyelets—this N 
0 feature protects the enamel at this point yn OT ic 

ANGER and adds another distinctive element of Kr ADM, E 

5 finish to our signs. EEp ANCE 
000 volts Q 


Ure 
We produce every possible character of municipal . 
signs—any size, shape, color combination or design. M 


















X 
Pr Without obligation our Service Department will 
4 be pleased to submit sketches and quotations. 

Additionally, we will send FREE, at our expense, 

J to any authorized purchasing official or body a 

useful and attractive sample of finished Pesceiaia 


Enameled Iron. Write Department C. 


The Baltimore Enamel & Novelty Co. 


BALTIMORE, MARYLAND 


(UNNECESSARY NOISES! 47; 
| PROHIBITED (° 7 :ma6 


TM 


61 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Ameznican Crtv. 


a 











tat nore 


ih a 





347 





0%e oe e%e wTa na nla 0%e Ze 


— and Civic Publications : 


% 

% i 
y = Cof es” ; be orton J f " "7 an ’ , Xe 
4 : sé ” ca is ce . ’ , : , 

% 


% 
PAL ALALALALALALALALALALALALALALALAL ALL ARS 








LLARGER, WILSON G.. f E., First \ssistant ’ K ot 
Engineer, New York State Department pe 
of Highways, and k 
York S No ( 
BonNEY, EpMUND A., Supervising Engines s : k Ne S 
New York State Department of Hig N York ¢ 
ways 
Handbook for Highway Engineers. \ 
Second Edition. 1916. Pocket size. © ' 
pp. Charts, diagrams and tables Report on the Pension Funds of the 
Leather, $3.00 City of New York. ‘ 
arial Inves WZ the M 
lhis k gives nformation linarily : 
the esie and ructior PerTvice xper é < ‘ 
" xpen ire of t $30,! | n Lene ye I M i] l 
lesigned for the f both experienced i loves Includi nore 
perienced road men Recent rogress 8 sae aS . ’ ; , , P = 
necessary the new edition whi brings the mater Family ISU y and a Valua 
n top courses up to date and ir les « leral Assets and Liabiliti ) 422 
t n tests, designs, costs, maintenance nd spe (Apply to the ( mt Ssior Municipal 
tions—in all about 100 pages of new mate have kt \ , : . 
en added. The book is divided into two parts wit Building, New York ( 
ter numbering ceabee in all, as follows: Part I, The tu , ¢ 
grades and alignment; sections; drainage; toundations a ee f > \ 
for broken stone roads; top courses and their mait . me srew ‘ pate oe { 
tenance: minor points (guard a retaining va the funds ¢ . ne 
irbs); materials; Part II, the survey fice pract ganizati , , 
st data and estimates; notes on constructor " a 
specifications Among those tables whi st pe al trainis 
of especial usefulness to engineers are thos e © . 
giving the weights of cast iron pipe, radi of etermine e« 
i f vertical curves, volumes f 50-foot cross s it was 
sections, and tangents and externals of a ot legre ns e the 
irve The appendix contains the traffic rules he new fund = 
States of Ohio and New York from the ‘ 3 


Civit. Service CHRONICLE. intair » fur nst 
Government: New York City, New ee ae Se greats a teas 3 
York State and Federal. 1916. 44 pI pagan er tps i 


VI n the extent of the ne 
Paper, 50 cents f any ne 
the eve f r 
Minor Clerical Examination Instruc- great value in th cos 
tion. By Solomon Hecht, Associate Ed ata necessary | 2 
tor, Civil Service Chronicle. Second , ‘ 
edition. 1916. 90 pp. 75 cents 


| lones, F. Rorertson, Compiler 

ele na | gg Sera serpy ote Digest of Workmen’s Compensation 
cy oon ia age ce ier ee Laws in the United States and Terri- 
ciate Editor, Civil Service Chronic! 


Third edition. 1916. 109 pp $1.00 tories, with Annotations. | 


ms . . A 1 sed to Decembe Ors 1QI% on 
Middle Grade Clerical Examination ” tes a mae gr Pla ig 
Instruction. By Solomon Hecht, Asso- PI = bar Rae, 5. vlad 











} . . \ - 
ciate Editor, Civil Service Chronicl ible Leather, $3.00; Morocco, $5.00. 
Third edition. 1916. 133 pp. $1.00 he Workmen's Compensation Publicity 1 
Federal First Grade Ceesceh Wiwnenine- ern ced) comsmationn thie nenieain ute 
tion Instruction. By Dr. Samuel Rosen- n the subject nov force wit Us Foret 
berg. Second edition. 1916. 97 pp. $1.50 he yarious enactments, while “ 
Senior Grade Clerical Examination In- at pone Rape © ae : 
struction. By Dr. Samuel Rosenberg same end, and therefore have many features i 
Second edition. 1916. say pp. $1.50 mon. The law of ea tate is analyzed er 45 
eadings, which cover the essential feature ee 
The first book contains a clear analysis of 


entire range of compensatior laws it 
functions of the various departments of the 





govert feature of it ligest is the lle ion neg 
ments of New York City and the essenti ial fact nd Canadian, as well t e of the 1 Sta 
of importance in county, state and federal gover cited at appropriate point The ‘ ‘ 
ment. Examination instruction for the positior f t opens up a new and extensive fie - 
minor clerical and sub-clerical examinations genera in the United States, and the cases here p le 
for all services are included in the second volum« fford a judicial determination of ma ! t nts 
The four remaining volumes contain instruction for The digest also gives the names 
candidates for postal clerk, letter carrier, railway resses of members of Workmen’s Cor 
mail clerk, rural carrier, inspector and fourth clerical missions, Industrial A ent Boards, 
postmaster; instruction for the federal second grad having power to supervise or enfor e 
test and corresponding grades in the New York City, the laws 

































THE AMERICAN CITY 


STANDS WEAR AND TEAR 








-g Swing as High 
as You Like 


The children are safe on 
EVERWEAR swings. They 
are built with an eye single 
to safety. 


An all-steel galvanized product throughout, specially designed 
for the wear and tear of outdoor use. All detail of bearings, con- 


nections, etc., have been worked out to the highest standard of 
perfection. 


Take an X-ray look at the roller bearings by which these 
swings are mounted. We give you an “inside’’ view. As the 
swing sets this in motion, you notice what happens to the clamp? 
The bearings ROLL—they obviate friction—they increase the 
enjoyment of the device and prolong the life of EVERWEAR 
apparatus. This is just one of the so-called “little things” to 
which we have given careful attention like all the rest. 


EVERWEAR swings are equipped with malleable frame 
fittings and drop forged steel parts for bearings. Built in standard 
sets of 6, 9, or 12 swings to the Outfit. Special designs built to 
order. 

A full line of the 
latest and approved 
playgroundapparatus 
shown in Catalog E-8 
which will be sent on 
request. 


THE 


EVERWEAR 
MFG. CO. 


Springfield, Ohio 

















When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 














SEPTEMBER, IQ16 I 





























(= ; : 
\a James, HerMaAn G., Director of the Bu > 
of Municipal Research and Referen sa ast 
University of Texas, Edit 
{ City Planning Number of “Texas Mu- 
; nicipalities.” (Vol. III, No. 3; Publica KES 
| @ tions of - League of Texas Muni lex 
ties, N« , July, 191 jO pp. 15 cent: Public Service Rates in Texas Cities 
| ssue of Teses Mur ns t f Bullet f the 
ing papers: Saving Money f Texas T August ire 
O. C. Ahlers, M. D.; The Well-P Cit a ee 
: G. B. Dealey; Solving the Vacant Lot | r noe — 
Irs. J, L. Young; Methods of Conducting Cit the Bu 
tion Campaigns, by A. W. Grant Leg 
stacles to Effective Towr nd (C1 Plant g and 
How to Solve Them, by W. M. H nd; Att ‘ 1 
Buildings, by Ed. H. Met Cars 
( t Kessler City Plat dallas N. N 
N s fr the Cities 
{ERICAN ACADEMY OF POLITICAL AND Soc! 
SCIENCE, Meyer Bloom eld ‘ ] sep! 
H. Willits, Editors in Charge of Volume 
Personnel and Employment Problems’ s 
in Industrial Management. (Tlie Anna a 
Vol LXV., whole No. 154, May, 10 = 
) if h: arts P , 
Steadying Unemployment. (Supplement a 
o The Innals, May, 1916 104 py Games and Dances. S 
Charts and diagrams $1.00 saree ies, 
‘ The , f Th inna si “i 
g p1.50 
{ inte est c 
5. 1 Z 
" 
Willits g 
] Cooke, 
\ VW Q 
Pamphlets of Municipal ivi 
amphlets of Municipal and Civic Interest 
A rial go Traffic Regulations Code. A Study on Food. 
roposed Standard Code of Traffic Regulat for With S 
General Adoption by Municipalities, Ps ef € iet ( 
Street Traffic Committee, Safety First Fe riur I 
f America. Approved by the Board of Dir L. R \ 
December 14, Sard Amended April 1916 l June f 
pp. (Apply to Safety First Federation of America, Healt! \ 
. 6 East Thirty ninth Street, New Y City.) ) S l 
§ ents to readers of Tue American Cry Centre S Ne 
Controlling the Development. of Private New York’s Community Workers’ Train- 
Property. ing School. 
How New York City Now Controls the Deve General Ant . ‘ c, 
q ment of Private Property By Gtorge B. For The New \ I S 
Consultant to the Commissi m Building Dis Workers Get S 
tricts and Restrictions 1916 Six typewritte 1916. 1 
pages. (Apply to the Commission on Bu Edu \ 
: Districts and Restrictions, Municipal Bui R City.) 
‘ New York City.) AM fr h M 
- . ° 9 essage trom the snahse 
/ American Road Builders’ Association. The M : 
Proceedings of the Thirteenth Annual ( ent pared in re t 
of the American Road Builders’ Association, P S l 
burgh, Pa., February 28-March 3, 1 togethe I s f t 
} with Reports of the Executive Committee, Secre Issue the ( - 
: tary and Treasurer, Presented at the Annual Meet Dinner the ) | 
: ing, February 4, 1916, List of Members, et: 64 Sever 32 
pp. Group photograph (Apply to the Asso A. Smyth, Se 8 
tion, 150 Nassau Street, New York City.) $2.00 City.) 
3 
4 








THE AMERICAN CITry 





adjustment. 


@re® 
The “PENNSYLVANIA 


line includes: 








“Pennsylvania” “Keystone” 
“Great American” "Shock Absorber"’ 
* Continental”’ “Golf” 
**Pennsylvania, Jr." “Pony” 

““Horse”’ 

‘Power’ 

and others 

















Pe aN 
PewsrvAiithe Monrewors 


‘ NDE 


Ne 








“LAWN MOWERS 


are making many wew friends this summer 
among caretakers of public parks, golf 
courses and large estates for the same reasons 
they hold the old ones. 


“PENNSYLVANIA” mowers do_ better 


work, run easier, and stay sharp and in 


A// the blades are of crucible 
tool steel, hardened in oil and 
given a cold-chisel temper. 


Write for catalog 


JOHN BRAUN & SONS 


PHILADELPHIA 





\ 63 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tux Amexaican Crry. 














SEPTEMBER, 1916 rHE 


Infantile Paralysis. 
Infantile Paralysis Number f Pu H 
News, monthly publicatior f the Departme 
Health of the State of N fer Ire 
N. J. (Vol. I. No. 12: July, 1916 


the Director of Health, Tr 

















i, ° . 
High Spots in New York Schools. 
By William H. Allen and L. P. Benezet, He 
Purcell, Claude N. Hitchcock. (Prepared { 
I \. Week, July, 191¢ 128 Phot 
< rts, tables 40 cent 
Berkeley, Cal., Districting Ordinance. 
Districting Ordinance of the City ft Berk 
County of Alameda, State f Cahfornia 19l¢ 
Ordinance No. 452 N. S.) 6 py \ 
Civic Art Commission, City H , Berkeley, ( 
Public Health in East Chicago, Ind. 
\ Study of Life Ww stage fron P 
Disease and a Plea n Adequate bese ir ‘ 
of Public Healtl Surves and Report by A. W 
Hedrich June, 1916 i2 Photographs 
charts, tables (Apply t Aut , Department 
f Public Health, East Chicago, I: 
| Richmond, Va., Health Department Ragort. 
Annual Report of the Health Depart 
City of Richmond, Va., for the Year En neg 
December 31, 1915. 1916. 158 pp. Photographs 
Health Department, Richmot \ 
° 
English Courts and Procedure. 
Certain Features of the Englis ( ( rts 
their ocedure which Less« Delay a Tend 
to Secure the n f e Merits 
Actions at Law 1 E. Higgins, Profes 
sor of Pleading and Practice in School of Law 
f the University of Kansas (Bulleti XI 
American Judicature Society.) 1916 113 py 
(Apply to Herbert Harley, Secretary of the S 
iety, Room 1732 First National Bank B ling 
Chicago, Ill.) 
Civic Club of Alleghany County. 
['wentieth Annual Report tor Ye Fer re 
November 1, 1915 37 py Apel: to the lub, 
608 Keenan Building, Pitts reh, Pa 


- Cincinnati University Department of Hy- 
giene and Physical Education. 


The Department of Hygiene I : 1 Edu 
cation in the University of Cincinnat Re 
printed from the Lancet-Clis f t University 
of Cincinnati.) 1916 47 py Apply t tl 


University, Cincinnati, Ohio 
National Organization for Public 

Nursing Convention. 
Report of Fourth Annual Convention of the Na 
tional Organization for Public Health Nursing 


New Orleans, La., April 27 to May 38, 1916 


Health 


"so (Bulletin of the National Organization for Public 
Health Nursing, July, 1916 No. 8.) 651 py 
Apply to the above organization, 600 Lexingt 
Avenue, New York City.) 
' University of Illinois Auditorium Acoustics. 
| Correction of Echoes and Reverberation in the Au 
ditorium, University of Illinois. By F. R. Watsor 
ind James M. White. (University of Illinois Bul 
letin, Vol. XIII; No. 39, May 29, 1916; Engineer 
ing Experiment Station Bulletin No. 87.) 20 py 
Photographs and diagrams (Apply to the Uni 
versity, Urbana, Ill.) 15 cents 
Buffalo, N. Y., Children’s Court. 
Fourth Annual Report of the Children’s Court, 
Buffalo, N. Y., 1915. (Including Report of Ct 
Probate’ Officer.) 1916 81 py Photographs 
and statistical tables (Apply to the Children’ 
Court, Buffalo, N. Y.) 
‘ 


AMERICAN 


OE By Mig 351 





Copper Sulphate Treatment of St. Paul, 
Minn., Water eeeniy. 
I Prof. N. | I 
[ ersity f Minnes 
( ett O. H Ca S 
re f Wate St. I \ 
\ 
the . 
— Town poner. Institute 
Ilo V ert \ 
rre I 1 Pl 2 
er. F.K.1 \ M 
r g of e Institute, A { 
ssior ¢ ) I 
Plat g Ins e, \ i = \ 
to the Ir 4s - 
\ { 
Motor Vehicle _ of New Laan 
P. i 1906 g 
tory there f s t ‘ 
f e legis ve sess ( i 
t Commis M \ Put 
é by Secre St M , 
\] S 
~~ o 
Municipal Statistics of St. Louis 
( piled | A I I { 
Reference I S | t 
(I lished as ‘‘M Ref 
the \y y T rar . 4 
Ne Series, \ 14, N | { 
Chart stat S \ Mi | 
is | 6. ( | St | 
e easily and quickly gras I t 
s com] tion \ 
blished a ll 


Report on New York City Street Cleaning 
Department. 


Report n Examination of Personnel, Me I 
Work and Expe ents of the De tment of Street 
Cleaning, New York City, with Special Referenc 
to the Installation of a Model District in the 
I gh of M t é ( s 

Toh Tr. Fether Rick I I ece 
ber, 191 45 I g I ts \ 
ply to Departr Str ( Ne \ 
City.) 


Concrete Sidewalk Construction. 
By R. W. Crum, Assoc. Prof. Experimental F1 


gineerin iP t I S e ( 
lege r Me \ \ XTV 
No 1916; Bulle 1, Engines g 
Extens .” Techs S 13 
pp 6 \ T ersit 
\mes 





lan 
Annual Report of Garden ( I 
Planning Association, 1915 191¢ \ 
y to the As G t P : | 
lon, W. C.) 


Baby Week Manual, 2986. 


Issued by the. ¢ ‘ f Meetings and 
Demonstrations, Iva ss + ile, M. D., ¢ 

for use in the Scl ls Connectior th New 
York City Baby Week 4 1 to the 
Division of Child Hygiene, New York City Roar 
f Health or to the Department of ( H 
ing, Russell Sage Foundation, 13 k 


second Street, New York ( 





ooo 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


— i — 
72 ae ee te i 
IIOVEGDZ 2B 2 
Z : 













The Quality First Standards 








This standard is adaptable for series of 


GZ | 
multiple circuits, with or without compensa- ZA 


tor, and is very moderate in price. AA 
Write for our cluster and monolite bulletins Z 


GZ | 
KING FOUNDRY COMPANY | 
aargest Exclusive Manufacturers of Ornamental Lighting Posts 

i ST. pores inneeanaee oa A 

CHICAGO OFFICE -~ - 927 MONADNOCK BLOCK ZA 










ese SPECIFICATIONS 


should be on your desk 


_ 


( 


jj 
CITIES 
COULD 


More brick streets and roads will be built 
during 1917 than ever before. 


“PAVE WITH BRICK” 


is becoming the slogan of the public. 


















Specifications for monolithic construction either the 
GREEN CONCRETE FOUNDATION TYPE 
Laying the brick direct upon the green mortar) 
or 


SAND CEMENT FOUNDATION TYPE 


(Laying the brick on dry mixture of sand and cement) 














Sent to engineers, contractors and others interested 
i” TALK upon request. 
-* 
National Paving Brick Manufacturers Association 
Will P. Blair, Secretary 
Engineers Write 
ype D Building, or . 
—_ Type F Cleveland your 
: . ' copy ; 
“1 am a growing City,” she said, to a neighboring small town, Rediey 
settling herself comfortably in the huge armchair of Progressivencss, 
nd mv prospects for becoming beautiful are developing rapidly. | 
am anxious, therefore, to fill every opportunity. 
“My Parks are a credit to me and to my generous parents, the 
Population. My Municipal and Commercial Buildings are sites well 
worth attention and comment. My streets are paved and in good 
condition. My Parents, I know are anxious and ambitious to present 
me with all modern and up-to-date conditions, and eponelly, when 
they tend to lend to my beauty. Therefore, I feel at liberty to make 
a modest suggestion: Some time they will consider lighting standards 
for my Streets and Parks, and when they d 
GET IN TOUCH WITH 
THE CHICAGO CONCRETE POST COMPANY 
608 South Dearborn Street, Chicago, Il. 
iif 64 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tax American Cry. 
it 


ee 











Se eo eee eee TTT UMLMUAL UUM URI OL MMTMMTAMM MU LTTT 


About Machinery and Supplies 


Printed Matter Available Free to Readers of THE AMERICAN CITY 


Advertisers are invited to submit catalo 





= 


ALN Et 0 NE 


Scientific Shoveling. 


This is the title of a booklet published by The 
Wyoming Shovel Works, of Wyoming, Pa., which 
contains an excerpt from “‘The Principles of Scien 
tific Management,” by Frederick Winslow Taylor, 
the father of scientific management. Mr. Taylor’s 
article is published, we are informed, because the 
shovels used in the course of his experiments wer« 
Wyoming shovels. 


Road Construction and Maintenance. 

Under this title the E. I. du Pont de Nemours & 
Company, Wilmington, Del., has issued a 127-page 
booklet with carefully prepared photographs and 
text telling how to blast rocks and tree stumps 
from road sites and arrange for proper drainage 
by breaking up the hard subsoil and by excavating 
ditches 


A Dry, Powder Fire Extinguisher. 


The Keystone dry powder fire tube is a tin 
tube with a removable top, 21 inches long and 
2% inches in diameter, which contains about 
three pounds of a chemical fire extinguishing 
powder. This extinguisher is devised for use 
where water or a chemical fluid might cause 
damage, as among delicate electrical instruments, 
etc. Descriptive literature may be obtained fron 
James Boyd & Bro., Inc., 25th and Whartor 
Streets, Philadelphia, Pa. 


For the Preservation of Park and Street 
Trees. 


\ pump for spraying trees, vines and plants, 
which may be easily carried and manipulated by 
one man, as well as pumps for emergency fire 
protection, are described in a folder recently 
issued by the Acorn Brass Manufacturing Com 
pany, 1158 Acorn Building, Chicago, Il 


Traffic Investigation Determines Road 
Values. 
A recent issue of Traffic News, published by the 
Federal Motor Truck Company, Detroit, Mich., 
tells of the 238.25-mile night and day run of a 
2-ton Federal truck over a route composed of 
three kinds of road. The rate of speed at 
tained over concrete was 16.41 miles per hour; 
over gravel, 9.84 miles per hour, and over dirt, 
4.36 miles per hour—in other words, making over 
the dirt road would reduce the time required by 
376 per cent., would reduce operating costs and 
would better the market value of farm products 


A Roadbuilders’ Catalogue. 

The Dyar Supply Company, 66 Broadway, Cam 
bridge, Mass., has just printed a “Roadbuilders’ 
Catalog” especially designed for use by highway 
officials and highway contractors. It contains illus- 
trations and explanations of most of the great 
number of instruments and machines which this 
firm has been manufacturing to fit the many 
phases of road building. 


A Water-Works Catalog. 
Catalog D-1, compiled expressly for water-works, 
presents in compact form the many kinds of 
water-works’ goods manufactured by the United 
trass Mfg. Co., of Cleveland, Ohio. It is re- 
plete with interesting technical tables and with 
illustrations such as corporation cocks, goose necks, 
meter couplings, valves, bibbs, etc. The system 
of classification and the orderly arrangement of 
the material make it easy to find any listed object 


gues or circulars suitable for mention in these columns 
Tue American City should always be mentioned when writing for this material. Officials who 
check over these items each month and write for such printed matter as interests them will find 
this @ convenient way of keeping their information files up to date. 





WAR 


Purification of Municipal Water Suppli 
Public officials wishing to avoid ¥ 
danger of water-borne epidemics will 
in publication No. 1-A, distributed fre f charge 
by Wallace & Tiernan Company, Inc., 137 Centre 
Street, New York This booklet explains the 
liquid chlorine system for water 
which successful inst 


es. 


i 
be interested 
c 


purification, 
lations have been made 
all parts of the United States, Canada, Engl 
etc. 





Building Sewers with Segment Blocks. 


The varying conditions in sewer const t 

best handled by experience. To 

are in charge of the building of sew 

Dickey vitrified salt-glazed segment | ks, t 
W. S. Dickey Clay Mfg. Co., of Kansas City, M 
has issued a pamphlet explaining, in the orde 
actual operation, the important points to be noted 
Photographs accompany ea point 


Automatic Dump Trucks. 
Two large-size folders of the Sterling Motor 
Truck Company, of Milwaukee, Wis., tl 
Ton Chain Drive Automatic Dump T 








the “5-Ton Worm Drive Automatic Dum, ick, 

describe, with specifications, two motor vehicles 
that will interest public officials, contracto and 
other users of heavy-duty dump trucks where dirt, 
dust, alkaline materials, etc., play hav vith mo- 


tor mechanisms. 


Fundamentals of Street Lighting. 
4 pamphlet on this subject has been issued by the 
Holophane Glass Company, Inc., of 340 Madisor 
Avenue, New York City It contains valuable ir 
formation, as well as attractive photogr 


refractors, light distribution, technical serv« et 


Rubber Tires for Trucks and Tractors. 


Three types of solid tires especially adapted for 
heavy trucking and hauling are illustrated in a 
folder recently issued by the Firestone Tire and 
Rubber Company, Lima, Ohio, which informs truck 
users how they can widen their business horizon 
by the exercise of foresight in choosing tires 


Drinking Fountains. 


Catalog “K” of the Mott drinking f¢ 
handsome pamphlet published by The |] 
Iron Works, whose show rooms and main offices 
are at Fifth Avenue and Seventeenth Street, New 
York City. The catalog describes the highly 
artistic, as well as the plain, drinking 
this company manufactures, and a great variety 
of illustrations make the pamphlet valuable for 
reference use. 





D 


Boston Finance Commission Paving Report. 
“Absence of Intelligent Consideration in Evident 
Effort to Injure Vested Boston Business Interests 
and Make a Political Football of the Important 
Paving Situation; the Report Affords Text for 
Serious Consideration,” is the sub-title of a vig- 





orously written pamphlet entitled the “Boston 
Finance Commission Paving Report,” issued by 
the Warren Brothers’ Company, of Boston, Mass 


Portable Fire Hydrant Head. 
A device of this nature, used in Bal 
high-pressure fire service, is described in 
of the Ross Valve Mfg. Co., Troy, N. Y 





a leaflet 





THE AMERICAN CITY 





MOTT LAMP POSTS 


STANDARDS OF MERIT 





Special Designs of Lighting Standards 
For Type C Lamps 


LAMP POSTS FOR ALL REQUIREMENTS 


FOUNTAINS 
Display and Drinking 
For PUBLIC SQUARES, PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS, Etc. 








ENTRANCE GATES, RAILINGS, SETEES 





a CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION 


THE J.L. MOTT IRON WORKS 


Fifth Avenue and 17th Street, New York 








FOREST NURSERY COMPANY 


McMinnville, Tenn. 


Offers a large stock of California Privett Amoor River and Ibota 
Privetts, Deutzias in varieties Forsythias, Calycanthus, Weigelias 
Yucca and other Shrubs; also Forest and Ornamental shade trees 
and vines. Let us figure on your wants. Trade list free. 











An Outline of the Development and Functions of The American City 
By HENRY C. WRIGHT, 


First Deputy Commissioner, Department of Public Charities, New York City. 


lo stimulate thought on the city as a social and governmental factor, this book sketches a broad 
outline of the functions properly termed municipal. The location and purpose of cities are first discussed, 
then the governments of five American cities are analyzed. Three chapters are devoted to municipal 
finance, the protection of property, life and health, and education. Public utilities are discussed, as is the 
problem of state regulation and public and private ownership. Under “Housing, Transit and Location of 
Factories” are considered congestion of population, rapid transit and the influence of the character of 
dwelling upon citizenship. The effect of the city upon its citizens is described in the last chapter, the 
author maintaining that city life to-day stifles the mind of the child, and that we should restrict factory 
locations so that there will be more opportunity for community social life. 198 Pages. Price, 50 cents. 








65 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American Crryv. 















































Serr, 1916 ABOUT MACHINERY AND SUPPLIES acc 
How to Judge Fire Hose. Ornamental Street Lighting. 
A discussion of the factors which tend t st Some ksse 5 U 
fire hose or make it unfit for use, and a é s the title ‘ 
f the Bi-Lateral fire hose, are in a pa ilet is I ! 
issued by the Bi-Lateral Fire Hose ( pany 6 oor hg g s 
West Madison Street, Chicago, III Ballard & eng ~ N 
. Cleveland, 
5 s. gal = sabes 
Gas and Water Work Facts for Fire Chiefs. 
Mathews’ patent fire hydrants “Vest Pocket Facts of | 
valve), and its different form ‘ telling about G 
boats, etc.; directions for 1 s solid tires a t \ S 
, gate valves of many sorts " ecent bee s l \ 
steam; reservoir and pum I Rubber (¢ k ( 
and a price list of “reduced” ip a 
descriptive pamphlet to be obt D Wel ~ 
Wood & Co., 400 Chestnut et, Philad i, = wwe 
Pa pamphlet 
Avenue, St. P M 
. . - —— terial about the 
The Tightening Wedge Filler for Jointing well screens k 
Water Pipes. grip - 
toms I 
Water-works superintendents and city engineers 
will be inte rested in a new f int con Out-Door Lighting Fixtures. 
sisting principally of a string of cast wedges, 
each tapered at the ends This is described and In a f er Ss the He i t 5 \ 
illustrated in a pamphlet issued by the American lamp Company, of 40 N I S t 
Cast Iron Pipe Company, Birming , Ala Chicago, many types g ‘ 
; ' Nitrogen Holder, one 
California Garden City Homes mprovements, occupies 
An attractive book of stock plans f mes has solder. 
been issued by the Garden City Company of Cal Safe or "y a ._ . 
fornia, The Exchange Building, Los Angeles, Cal., . St age of Explosive Liquids. 
hich is composed of two certifi architects Municiy it s t 
architectural and civil engineer, and a landscape the ter 
architect. The company presents these plans t t exy V : Ss wi 
the public with the belief that they are efficient them in the Bowser | 
in arrangement, sincere in expression and « B wser & Co., I , of Fort W 
nomical of material. ulletins 
of tank 
° . tructed 
Watertight Sewer Joint Compounds. 
he necessity of making jo te cE 2 Concrete Highway Construction. 
the properties of the compounds 1 tor the title f ; 
this purpose by the Pacific Flush Tank ( pany ng 
f 108 South La Salle Street, Chicago, and the shows < 
Singer Building, New York), are described " y f 
pamphlet issued by the above firn In addition, t tr 0 
ere are suggestions and methods of se t i he se f 
report of tests made and results a 1 ¢ ( 
\ York 
; Road Scarifiers. Books on Municipal Topics. 
Iwo pamphlets, “The Pneumat R | \ cire rt t t } 
Scarifier,” and ‘“‘The Road Scarifier,” League S s 
ied by the Austin n ( pa ecured f D. A @ ¢ 
Chicago, describe in detail, with the aid of illus New York ( 
trations, the uses and the specifications of sucl 
machinery The pamphlets contain materia ft Fir >) " x a 
Sr an aie Gace Eek uae ceneic week : I epartment Apparatus and Supplies. 
r italog f the And ( 
. : 5 ly ¢ f Kar ( 
Motorized Fire Departments. ' ; 
he August issue of the American La France Bul- pe dey armen ; 
letin is an artistic pamphlet presenting interesting atti 
discussion on fire prevention, and ntaining at — . . wee 
“4 tractive illustrations. It is to be obtained { Specialized Service in Municipal Auditing 
the American La France Fire Engine Company, Printed matter " fos , 
Inc., of Elmira, N. Y. t f 
ire | ng tributed | | ( ( 
Standards for Public Comfort Stations. tified Public Accountants, ( 
‘Standards for Public Comfort Stations, Ay > s . - 
; proved by the Public Comfort Station Bureau of Engineering Instruments. 
the National Committee of Confederated Supy City engineers, count 
Associations,” and other printed matter on the sers of engineering 
same subject, can be secured from J, |. Cosgrove, ! f 
director of the committee, at 261 Broadway, New by Buff Buff M f 
York City Plains, Boston, M 
Auditorium Acoustics. Weed Killer. 
“Demosthenes Spoke to 30,000 Persons s the Che eliminatior f é 
title of an illustrated folder by the Maz 1 ind gutters fte “eS 
tile Company, of Fulton Building, Pittsb P problen Pr ( 
In this is discussed the method of elimir ur Ame st 
desirable noises and echoes large rooms, at trib i ) t 
the successes of this company in their acoustic ¢ 1 n wh 
improvements of public halls, churches, eté veed € 








THE AMERICAN CITY 









Kae 
. 


ss 
= 
iTS 
meh 
satsttehytetrin ts cue 
= lana 
ae y 
_ ae 
i} 
- 
— 


) 
\ 







) y 
nt 
tT 





I make your streets brighter 
your town prosperous 


—— 


your homes safe 
your living conditions better 


I make your city more attractive 
healthier 
busier 
cleaner 

I am indispensable toa wholesome town 
a “‘live’’ town 
a happy town 
a good town 


I AM G-E LIGHT 





AXXSNNANNS AN 


\\\ 


N 


There is a G-E Lighting Unit for 
every class of street lighting service. 
Write for complete information. 


rue ea 






General Electric Company 


General Office: & Schenectady, N.Y. 
Sales Offices in All Large Cities 6396 


AAV ALAM 





aa its 


66 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amenican Crrv. 














- 





SSeS © SB SO OS 


Methods, Materials and Appliances 


News from Engineers, Manufacturers and Supply Houses 





Sab |S =anam=2] |S] eooXi0 qa 
—— ne : 


A New Truck Tire This combi atio yr post al d tra Sign 





: : makes for both safety and beauty post 
\ worthy addition to the truck tire field is «.° “o> ~epegealincriatgy Bee 
= ‘ is one oF the any eatures ot ' istrat 
the new hand attachable cushion tire just ; 1 . + at 
; 44... Pamphlet issued by this company on “Lighting 
troduced by the Goodyear Tire & Rubber: Post G r | ice Sow Ste 
rf 7 , ‘ JSS, 3a» i cA i » i i nN 
Company, Akron, Ohio. The new tire is de , iva ' 
yy ' Boulevards ine ¢ inva nu 
signed for use on motor trucks and fire appa- “eer ' 
drinking fountains and marble swit« 


ratus, and is said to be a decided improvement 
over the cushion demountable type for this 
kind of service. As its name indicates, it ca! 
be applied by hand, a particularly desirabl 
feature in fire equipment. 


s 


ind gauge slal 








a: KEEP TO THE RIGHT 


HAND ATTACHABLE TRUCK TIRE 


Che tread design of the new tire is non-skid. 
and is the same as that of the cushion de- 
mountable, but the pockets or indentations in 
the sides of the tire that provide accommoda- 
tion for the displaced rubber as the tire re- 
volves along the street, are changed from rec- 
tangular to oval shape. The new tire is 
tougher, more resilient, and resists road pun 
ishment better than the type which it super 
sedes. Having been put thru the most se- 
vere and exacting tests, it is being introduced 
with all the confidence that has accompanied 
the introduction of preceding types of Good 
year tires. Although the cushion demountable 
has long been recognized as very efficient, 
Goodyear officials anticipate that the new hand 
attachable tire will become even more popular 


+ + 


Beauty and Safety in Traffic Signs 


The accompanying picture is that of an 
ornamental lighting post bearing a traffic sign 
It is the first prize design of the firm of James 
B. Clow & Sons, Chicago. Its height to the 
bottom of the light is 6 feet 4 inches. The 
column tapers from 9 to 7 inches, and has a a 
13-inch octagon base. It weighs 230 pounds. CLOW TRAFFIC SIGN AND LAMI 





ND 









THE 


pam pia) a> 


¥ 
» Bin b, OP» 


AME 





RICAN CITY 

















No. 868 
Salt Lake City Standard 
with 
3 G-E Luminous Arc Lamps 


UNion METAL 
LAMP 
STANDARDS 


For 
Salt Lake City 


THE LARGEST AND HANDSOMEST 
STANDARDS EVER MANUFACTURED 


We are now supplying the city of Salt Lake« 
through The Utah Power and Light Company 
several carloads of standards as shown in the 
accompanying photograph. 


This is the largest and most ornamental standard 
ever built It weighs approximately fourteen 
hundred pounds and stands thirty feet high. Each 
standard carries three General Electric Ornamental 
Luminous Arc Lamps 


The placing of the order for these large standards 
with our Company clearly reflects the confidence 
that purchasers have in our ability to produce the 
most difficult designs 


Our patented pressed metal construction is the 


only one that could be applied to the manufacture 
of standards of this design and size 


If our construction is desirable in these large 
handsome high priced standards it is just as 
important that you insist upon it in smaller 
standards for street, residential, park and boule 
vard work—we are the Leaders in the ornamental 
street lighting field 


Let us send to you 


Catalog S-103 Street, Park and Residential 
Standards. 


Catalog S-102 Entrance Standards, Wall 
Brackets, and Exterior Newels 


The Union Metal Mfg. Co. 
CANTON, OHIO 


Largest Manufacturers of Lighting Standards in the World 

















When writing to Advertisers please mention Tux Amearcan City. 














Sepr.,1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS 








iV" \ 
) } 


oy 
Ld 














T'WENTY-INCH CAST IRON PIPE JOINTED 
WITH “LEADITI 


Cast-Iron Pipe Joints 


This picture shows a 20-inch cast-iron pip¢ 


. ' 
line laid by the Water Department of Camden 
N. J lhe joints were made with “Leadite 

special product for this purpos« Its par 
ticular advantage is that it requires n aulk- 
ng. It is simply melted and poured into the 


joint after it is yarned, resulting in a joint that 
is eficient and economical 

his material is manufactured by the Lead 
ite Company, Inc., 100 S. Broad Street, Phila 


lelphia, Pa. + + 
Road Signs That Will Last 


Those who are interested in the economical 
road signs described in the August issue of 
[He AMERICAN City in the department of 
“Forward Steps Reported by Municipal 
ials and Heads of Departments,” can secure 
fuller information from the makers of thes« 
signs, the R. Hardesty Manufacturing Com- 
pany, Market street, Eighteenth to Nine 
teenth, Denver, Col. 

This type of sign is all metal, the letters 
being welded on the plate. These letters aré 
18-gauge and the plate 14-gauge. When the 
holes are punched the sign is galvanized, and 
then receives two coats f t 
Each coat of enamel is baked at a temperatu 
of 460 degrees for three hours. This insures 


Om 





AND MANUFACTURERS 


ng life to the g, which wv 
ff for many years. If, howe 

of service, the coating s 

sign is still protected witl 

it can be repainted by unskille 

difficulty, because the tters are 
The ease wit whic thie 

in the ground ] é id « 

County Engineer W. A. Schyw 

County, Washing 


+ + 
Partnership of Consulting 
Engineers Formed 


Under the name Pollock & 
ilmalgamat S 
ing eng eers is ( Te¢ 
thees of Mr. ¢ ¢ » |} 
Row Build New \ ( 

he latte ] 
ot aries ictl t 

| irge of 1 f | 
New York, > \ 1 l 
a, and has ¢ 1! ‘ 
tion and drainage 

Georg \ Taber has 
water supply engineering 
having been in charge of the designir 
tenance and construction worl 
ment of water supply of N« . 
has had extensive expel 
with the developn t of wat 
tection, street eaning a 
and in the iluation 
nies for municipal and 

+ + 

A Frozen Meter 

Phe ac ! I v pn 
from J. A. Keils, Superinter 


Works, Mt. Clemens, Mi 
ington water meter, model D, 
passed thru quite an experi 


Mr. Keils states that during 


i 
| 


taken from th treet 

straightened out it fteen mit 

stalled. He reports that since 
ing as good service wher 























THE AMERICAN CITY 


APPLETONS’ 
erwin’ -s WEW BOOKS 


Series. Edited by 
cunton rocers woop; Mi 


Planning for Rural and Industrial Communities By Charles S. Bird, Jr. 


Full of suggestive and practical material for those wl re responsible for planning new tow! 


The City Manager By Harry Aubrey Toulmin, Jr. 


\ complete stud e new form of 1 ipal government in charge of one cit) 


ind West 


Satellite Cities By Graham Romeyn Taylor 
The history and d n of various towns started by industrial establishments in the vicini 


f large cities in England and Amer 


Woman’s Work In Mun‘cipalities By Mary Ritter Beard. 


An able and comprehensive review of what t women of America are accomplishing in 
i i nicipal activity and social betterment 


Lower Living Costs In Cities By Clyde Lyndon King, Ph.D 


A timely volume on living ts, purcl ng and distribution for the domestic as well as t 


ene 


The Social Center By Edward J. Ward. 
splendid work of practical value to every community, showing how the school house may 


become the social and ci\ enter of the neighborhood. 


City Government by Commission lited by Clinton Rogers Woodruff. 
f the Commission Government movement, showing the fruits of the latest 
> and the most modern thought on the subject. 
The Initiative, Referendum and Recall Edited by William Bennet Munro. 
The history and the growth of these “new weapons of democracy” with valuable chapters by 
President Wilson, Colonel Roosevelt, Congressman McCall and others. 
The Regulation of Municipal Utilities ‘dited by Clyde Lyndon King. 
+} 


This volume covers 
authorities. 


e whole subject of municipal franchises and includes contributions by 


The above es are unif bound, $1.50 net per volume. 


City Planning Edited by John Nolen. 


\ discussion of the planning iilding ities for the benefit of all the citizens, with the 
f the citizens in an efficient co-operative manner. Illustrated. $2.00 net. 


@) THEse ARE APPLETON BOOKS 


D. APPLETON & COMPANY 535 WEST 52"° STREET NEW YORK 





When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 








_— 


























Sert.,.1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 361 





The Boyd-Turbine Valve Seat 


The Boyd-Turbine valve seat is being 
with good results in many city water-works 
thruout the country. 

In this valve seat the ribs are inclined to th: 
plane of the seat, thereby throwing the wat 
against the rubber valve at an acute a1 
all ing it to pass freely from under the valve 
and at the same time fotating the rubber ] 


| 


used 





RUBBER VALVE USED 41 DAYS ON COMMON 
STRAIGHT PORT SEAT—MUCH WORN 





RUBBER VALVE USED 136 DAYS ON BOYD 
rFURBINE VALVE SEAT—STILL GOO! 


slightly with each stroke of the pump. This 
not only greatly increases the life of the rub- 
ber valve, but makes possible a higher piston 
speed. In addition, its use reduces slippage 
and valve and water hammer. An increase in 
foot-pound-duty and a saving in steam are thus 
effected. 

Among the large city water-works using the 
Boyd-Turbine valve seat are New York, Chi- 
cago, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Reading and 
Camden. .At Reading a vertical triple pump- 
ing engine of 12,000,000 gallons capacity was 
completely equipped with the Boyd-Turbine 
valve seat, over 1,100 being used. The pump 
slippage was reduced from 4.21 per cent to 1.56 
per cent, the duty increased from 108,997,2! 
to 125,448,635 foot-pounds per 1,000 pounds of 
dry steam, an increase of 15.09 per cent; while 









the water rate was reduced fro 8.17 to 15.78 
sounds per water horse-pewer \ test on a 
lt le W thing g engine 
ré ] f 
ent oT en 


+ ¢ 
Calculating Machines for Municipal 
Departments 





ihe ethic 1 el . has | 
t the discar« g t ] t S 
ethods \ is | a I Ss Ww 
were ntricate wiht I er] ¢ } 
edicus brain w r S le 
the use of “hu r isms I scit 
tist who had to ‘ 
of his rate k S ! 
lat s W re S ‘ 
plishes n i fe W sec ‘ 

re 4 1€ efore 

earest pp ic t ust r me 
I ind 1 the macl ¢ 

\ realizat i ev 
make : d t terest the M 
hant calculating s, conta g 
dvances n for ¢ \ ] T 
tfactured by the Ma t ( il 1 re Mac 
Company, w é hices are Oakla 
( al The aims ¢ f « is ¢ : panv it ‘ - iki 
of their machines, as outlined in their ex- 
planatory pamphlet, are the ones an efficien 
engineer would select They are ix) F 
build a machine that mbines the following 
feature (a) Accura b) automatic proc 
(c) speed, (d) simpl é r ictness 
(2) to make a machine that will stand wear 
and tear and not get out of order 3) to as 
sume responsibility for the condition of every 
machine sold and t stand back of every 
guarantee 

Of particular interest to readers of Tn 
AMERICAN City is the use that this machir 
has been put to in municipal departments. It 


has been found almost indispensable in th 
offices of city and county auditors, assessors, 
engineers, street superintendents, surveyors, 
water companies 
of trade Copies or the p mphlet referred t 
are available upon application to the manu- 
facturers 


: ° 
ll engineers ant 





+ + 
Cushion Wheels for Motor Trucks 


It is a well-known fact that a truck will wear 
longer if protected against excessive vibra 


tion when in motior Pneumatic tires tend to 
allay this vibration, but tire trouble may make 
things highly uncomfortable The problem 
was to get away from tire trouble, and still 


to protect the apparatus against excessive vi 
bration. This has been solved by t 
tion of a new kind of wheel—the 
wheel made by the Sewell Cushion 
Company of Detroit 
The first set of Sewel 





wheels were made by 


hand in 1908 in a small blacksmith shop located 
at No. 20 Jay street in Detroit, Mr. Sewell giv 

ing his personal supervision to the curit g of the 
hickory spokes and felloes and the selection of 
rubber cushions. The first year of business 

















THE AMERICAN CITY 














THE BUFF 
“PRECISE” 
TRANSIT 








A Big Engineer says—‘‘My reputation for 
accuracy is due 90% to the instrument I use.”’ 


The old phrase “best by test” is no ex- 
aggeration when applied to “Buff Transits.”’ 
They have stood every test that hard usage, 
trying weather conditions and difficult en- 
gineering jobs could offer. 


The absolute surety of the “Buff” will pay 
you over and over again. 


Drop us a line today for new 1916 catalog, beautifully illustrated 





BUFF & BUFF MFG. CO. 


Jamaica Plains, Boston, Mass. 








NEW YORK OFFICE: CHICAGO: 
50 Church Street 1742 Monadnock Building 


mo wo TON Oe oo Nee ST 





69 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 




















+ acre 


i 
* 
, 
| 
: 
§ 








Serr.,1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 363 


tivity was rather discouraging, as “Sewell hased, orders came thick and f 
Equipment” meant an additional outlay of section, proving that the mor eels tl 
money and orders were few and far between are in service the more readily sales a 

\ll inventions must pass thru an experi- lo-day more than 100 cities are ng S 
mental stage, and Sewell wheels were no ex- wheels on one or more pieces 
ception to the rule. It was generally conceded + + 


} 


ha ‘ he | desig ed O aDs “b he jars and ~ re 
ee ae he ne eho 2° ~=6 Death of Edward P. King 


shocks, and protect the motor mechanism and 


other vital parts of a car, should prove a good Edward P. King : 

investment, but the city departments seemed eral manager of the U1 Water Met ( 

to work upon the theory that “It is better to pany of Worcest lass, died at 

he safe than sorry,” and it was difficult to in that city last Sat 

fluence some cities to give them a trial King was connected with the \ 
It is human nature to be guided more or Meter Company. In the past few 

less by what others are doing, and whet it has acted as advisory director Mr. K 

after city began putting Sewell wheels on mo is the designer of the well-] wn K D 
1r apparatus already in service and specifying \leter, and was widely | 
‘Sewell Equipment” on new trucks put ut the water-works fiel 





SS SS 


For Contractors and Boards of Public Works 





A Machine Grouter Capron Manufacturing Cor pany lesigne 





perfected a machine especially constructed 
Before the perfection of the Marsh-Capron this class of wo he accompat y phot 
grouting mixer, the grouting of brick pave- graph in this issue shows the Mar Capt 
ment had been done by hand. Hand grouting  grouter in operation on state 
at the best was a slow and expensive process and the usual method of filling v the gt 
\t the solicitation of leading highway com mixture, 
missioners and paving contractors, the Marsh- As to the success of this macl 





\ MACHINE GROUTER ON STATE HIGHWAY WORK 














THE AMERICAN CITY 


Q©OOOOOQOOO fo} QOOOOOOOO 


CLOW’S CASTINGS 


WE HAVE THE 
LARGEST AS- 
SORTMENT OF 
PATTERNS. 





A-1827 


SOME PAT- 
TERNS ARE 
MADE IN AS 
MANY AS 12 
DIFFERENT 
SIZES. . 
A-1710 
THESE FEW 
DESIGNS ARE 
MERELY,SUG- 
GESTIVE. 
A-1655 
THEY GIVE AN 
IDEA OF THE 
VARIETY. 


A-1815 
WE HAVE 
MANY PAT- 
TERNS AND 
SIZES OF 
SEWER IN- 
LETS. 


A-1855—Adjustable Sewer Inlet 














SEND 
FOR 
CATALOG 





A-1860—Catch Basin Curb 


JAMES B.CLOW&SONS 


Established 1876 
534-546 So. Franklin Street, CHICAGO 


Sales Offices 
New York Detroit St. Louis San Francisco 
Minneapolis Milwaukee Denver Loe Angeles 
Works 


Chicago, Coshocton and Newcomerstown, Ohio 


© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
: 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 


$ 


QOHQHOQHOHHOHOHOQOOOHOOHOOOOOOOOOLO“OOHOHOOOOHOHOOQOOHEGOOOHOOODOOS OOOOOOHOOHOOOHOOQOHOOOQOOOOO 


©O0©O0OQOOOOOOCOOOOOOOOOOOOO) 


70 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 





Playground Apparatus 


The American Playground Apparatus 
received First Prize with Gold Medal 
at California Exposition for best con- 
struction—best design and best material. 
We are the designers and manufacturers of 
the celebrated WAVE COASTER SLIDE 


Write for free catalogue 


American Playground Device Company 
ANDERSON, INDIANA 











Globe *Wernicke 


Sectional Filing | quipment 







Runs the World’s 
Business 


TH world over WeS™ 

Globe- Wernicke i 
Filing Equipment has 
received the endorsement 
every kind of business. 

The largest or the smallest 
office can find in the Globe- 
Wernicke Line of Filing Equip- 
ment just the size and style of filing device 
that is best suited to its needs, and at the 
right price. 

Practically all designs are made in both 
wood and steel—and all Built-To-Endure. 


Send for catalogue 
dhe Globe“Wernicke Co, Cincinnati 
- TOP 


CARD 
INDEXES 


of 























FOLDED 
DOCUMENTS 


FLAT DOCUMENTS 
—— AND 


CORRESPONDENCE 


mm — BASE 


HIGH QUALITY-LOW PRICES 




















wih 








Sept.,1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 


practical point of saving, the following is a 
record of a Marsh-Capron grouter used by a 
green crew of men: 

Mixed 100 one-bag batches of thin grout in one 
hour, covering 415 square yards of pavement, using 
51 batches of thick grouting for the second coat. Total 
time required for the two coats, about two hours, at a 
cost of $4.40, or 1'4 cent per square yar: d, for the two 
coats. This, compared with hand work on the same 
job one afternoon, of 160 square yards, costing for 
labor $8.80 for 4 hours’ time, or 5'4 cents per square 
yard, meant a saving of about 4% cents per square 
yard, effected with a Marsh-Capron grouter, over hand 
roUuLInN, 


+ + 


The Importance of Machinery 
in Road Building 


The immense appropriations for the build- 
ing and maintenance of good roads and high- 
ways for the seasons of 1916 and 1917 has 
come about because communities are recogniz- 
ing the value of good roads as a business ne- 














CASE ROAD ROLLER 


cessity. Coincident with this development has 
come new and better machinery by which labor 
and time costs have been materially decreased. 
One of the representatives of the J. I. Case 
T. M. Co., of Racine, Wis., builders of road 


machinery, said recently: 


“The good road development which has become so 
marked in late years has turned the attention of me 
chanical engineers and practical road builders to the 
machinery with which this work is done. Engineers, 
for instance, have worked in conjunction with prac 
tical road builders with very remarkable results. The 
more reliable manufacturers have gone a step further. 
Realizing the fact that true value is based on de- 
pendability and length of efficient service, they have 
used materials in the construction of their machines 
which insure long and continuous service.’ 


In the accompanying photograph is shown 
one of the modern road rollers, manufactured 
by the J. I. Case T. M. Company. 


365 


The Austin Scarifier—a Correction 


In the August issue of Toe American City 
there appeared an item on the Austin road 
scarifier, which was accompanied by an in- 
correct illustration. The descriptive matter 
applied to the standard road scarifier manu 
factured by this company, but the illustration 
showed one of their preumatic scarifiers, which 
is an entirely different machine. 

The Austin pneumatic scarifier has been de 
signed to use the weight and power of the 
roller skilfully to scarify the road surface in 
the most approved manner. It consists of a 
cylinder attached to the rear end of the roller 
frame, to which pressure is applied from air- 
storage tanks mounted on either side of the 
cylinder. The cylinder is connected to the 
scarifier by a connecting rod pinned at each 
end, which prevents any straining or twist- 
ing of the scarifier attachment transferring un- 
desirable vibration or strain to the cylinder it- 
self. By a simple reversing cock the teeth can 
be raised out of work [he air pressure is 
maimtained in the tanks by a small compres- 
sor mounted on the top of the engine cylinder 
and operated by the engine from the crank 
shaft. A few minutes’ running of the com- 
pressor is sufficient to raise the air pressure in 
the tank up to 120 pounds per square inch, and 
a safety valve blows off at that pressure. 


+ + 


A Motor Truck Equipped for Clean- 
ing Sewer Catch Basins 


On page 318 is shown a sewer cleaner on a 
motor truck. This invention of George W. 
Otterson, of Seattle, Wash., for the cleaning 
of sewer-catch basins was given a hard test 
recently in Ludlow Avenue, Springfield, Ohio, 
in the presence of the city manager; the chief 
engineer of the city, and the president of the 
Kelly-Springfield Motor Truck Company, of 

1308 Burt Street, Springfield, Ohio. 

The machine is operated by the power of an 
auto truck, to which it is attached. Under an 
agreement with the above company, the ma 
chine is to be used exclusively on Kelly trucks 
It consists of a tank and receptacle over- 
head with compartments. The tank holds 
1,200 gallons of water, which is used in flush- 
ing and forcing debris in the manholes 
up into the receptacle. The pump is lowered 
into the basin, where it is started, the water be- 
ing forced down with a pressure of 50 pounds 
to the square inch. This in turn forces the 
material up thru a pipe into the tank of the 
auto truck, where the solids drop to the bot- 
tom and the water and lighter material flow 
thru the holes in the partitions to the different 
compartments. 

As soon as the tank is filled with debris the 
machine is run to the dump, where a lever is 
touched, the end gate flies out and the bed 
slowly tilts, allowing all the material taken 
from the manhole to be dropped on the dump. 
The water in the tank cleans out the bed 
thoroly. 

















THE AMERICAN CITY 


During the past year the men of Bridgeport, Butler, Durham, Evansville, Flint, 
Ithaca, Jacksonville, Joliet, Lockport,j Manistee, Memphis, New Castle, Oakland, 
Oklahoma City, Orlando, Riverside, and Sharon have grasped the tremendous 
power of organized co-operation. 

With it they are achieving results. 

There is power of the same sort within the grasp of your community. 

This power has been brought to these communities through the services of The 
American City Bureau by the organization of vigorous Chambers of Commerce. The 
same services have been rendered in previous years to more than a score of other 
cities. They would be equally effective in yours. 

Why not ask us to prove it? 


THE AMERICAN CITY BUREAU, 87 Nassau Street, NEW YORK 





When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 











ee 


ewes 6 ee + 








Sepr.,1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 


Rose Gardens for Public Parks 

An attractive booklet by Robert Pyle entitled 
“How to Grow Roses” has just been issued 
its 12th edition by The Conrad & Jones Com- 
pany, W est Grove, Pa.. and ded ited to the 
flower-loving people of America. Rose grow 
from the initial preparation, involving cor 
iderations of soils, drainage, fertilizers, et 
hru proper methods of planting to the prob 
lem of protection from insect enemies and 
frost, and the proper methods of pruning, i 
considered in detail, and numerous valuabl 
hints are given the grower to help him or het 





» obtain the best results rhe appropriate 
uses to which the various kinds of roses may 
put are given in one list, and in another the 
158 choice roses selected by the company are 


enumerated. In another section of the book 
the opinions of representative amateur and 
professional growers are given as to the roses 
best adapted for cultivation in the different 
sections of the country. Some important 
bibliographical information is contained in 


short list of good books on rose growing: 


ther tables include analysis of species, 
ranged in classes and synonymous roses. Of 


particular interest to readers of THE AMER 





1N Crty is the section on “Municipal Rose- 


Gardens,” where some account of the move 

ent for such gardens in America is give 
Hartford, Conn., was the pioneer city in es 
tablishing a garden wholly devoted to roses 
but recently other cities have joined in the 
ovement. Among these are Portland, Ore 
Cleveland, Ohio; Syracuse, N. Y., and 
neapolis, Minn. The book contains a large 


number of illustrations, many in color 




































— 





Lighting Standard Installation 
\t la. Iowa. the ne 


Clarind 


the t V\ ~ 
l . & 
ind it there saw 
rking in the 
( been y] uced ele 
n standards 
Foundry Comp ~ 


posts are 


Ss equipped wi 
1 

















MINNEAPOLIS ROSE GARDENS 























THE AMERICAN CITY 





HiI-PRESSURE 


AUTOMATIC CHEMICAL SPRINKLERS 
AND HANDHOSE STATIONS 


FOAMITE 


FOR OIL, PAINT, GREASE, VARNISH, 
COAL TAR AND ALL FIRES! Station- 
ary Systems and portable apparatus. 
3-Gallon “Foamite’’ Hand Extinguishers 
and 60-Gallon 2-Wheel ‘“ Foamite”’ 
Chemical Engines. 


NATIONAL FIRE EXTINGUISHER CO. 
Widener Building, Philadelphia, Pa. 





MORE THAN 100 GITIES | 
ARE USING 


Sewell Cushion Wheels 


On their Public Utility Trucks 
and Motor Driven Fire Apparatus 


Many have re-ordered from one to seven 
teen sets, which is proof that Sewell wheels 
are giving good satisfaction. Full informa- 
tion and list of cities having endorsed Sewell 
equipment furnished upon request. 


SEWELL CUSHION WHEEL CO. 
Main Office and Factory: DETROIT, MICH. 











The Best Material for CALKING 


Joints in Cast Iron Pipes is 


Ulco Lead Wool 


Write for particulars to 


UNITED LEAD COMPANY 
111 BROADWAY, N. Y. CITY 





FOR THE RESERVOIR, SEWER 
AND PUBLIC BATH 


CHLORIDE OF LIME 
IN DRUMS 


HOOKER ELECTROCHEMICAL CO. 
40 WALL ST., NEW YORK CITY 























Back Numbers 
WANTED 


We desire to secure copies of 
the following back numbers of 
The American City. 


1909—Sept., Oct., Nov. 
1910—All except November 
1911—February, April, May, July, 
August, November 
1912 —Jan., Feb., June, Sept. 


1913—Jan., April, June, July, 
December 


25 cents each will be paid for 
copies in good condition, deliv- 
ered at our office. 


87 NASSAU STREET 
NEW YORK CITY 








A HANDSOME DURABLE BINDER for your 
copies of The American City may be secured for one 
dollar from the publishers at 87 Nassau St., New York. 











— 


72 When writing to Advertisers 





please mention Taz American City. 











