





. 4 
ee 


a a 
ru fall i ss , 





The upper picture shows some of the unsightly surroundings 
of the State Capitol, Des Moines, lowa, which are being removed 
in carrying out the plan reproduced below. 


FEBRUARY, 1916 





35 Cents $3.00 Yearly 





Publication Office, 
87 Nassau Street, - New York 



































THE AMERICAN CITY 


Making Rain for the 


Famous Boston Common 


* If you are interested in or responsible for the condition of 4 
% the parks, gardens, or cemeteries in your town or city, you 
. will also be interested in the manner in which old Boston 
ih Common is watered during the summer months. The turf 
& is kept green and fresh at minimum expense by the aid of the 


Boston Giant Park Sprinkler 


This sprinkler, the huskiest, most powerful of our line, 
distributes in a well-broken spray the supply obtained from 
a fire hose. A circular area of from 80 to 150 feet in di- 
ameter is covered at one time. On thirty pounds pressure 
the soil can be soaked 6 inches deep in 
forty minutes. 

Now is the time to look up this matter, so 
that you will know what to buy when you need 
a sprinkler. 

Our booklet, ‘‘The Boston Giant 
Park Sprinkler” is sent free on re- 
quest. We also have pamphiet 


showing smaller sprinklers for lawns, 
gardens, and smaller areas. 


SPRAY ENGINEERING CO., Div. 8 


93 Federal Street, Boston, Mass. 749 








a 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City 


























VOLUME XIV 


NUMBER 2 














NEW YORK 
FEBRUARY, | 
1916 























Three Ideals for an Annual Report 


(1) It Must be Issued Promptly 


\ncient history has its proper place in 


public education ; but that place is elsewhere 


than in the current documents of a munici- 
pality. To be really worth the expenditure 
of city funds, an annual report must be is 
sued for the benefit of citizens now living, 
rather than as a mine of dusty details for 
archeologists yet unborn. 

lhe news of world activities is made 
available by the daily press within a few 
hours after the events have occurred; but 
the news of city activities up to December 
31 is too often unobtainable by the public 
within even a few months thereafter. The 
‘eport of an important municipal depart 
ment for 1914 which was sent to THE 
\MERICAN City and other periodicals with 
i release date of Decembe r 6, I915, 1S all 
too typical of the historical school of city 
reporting. We do not favor rushing into 
print January 1 with an ill-digested report 
for the preceding year, but we do believe 
that proper forethought would make pos 
sible the publication during the month of 
February of the great majority of annual 
city documents. 


(2) It Must be Worth Reading 


lo anyone about to compile « municipal 
report, we recommend five minutes of con 
templation before a_ well-stocked news 
stand; five hours of study of the best ex 
amples of municipal reports from other 
cities; and five days of hard work in pre 
paring the form and phraseology of the 
document, 

The news-stand contemplation will reveal 


some of the competition which the forth 


coming report must overcome in getting 
itself read; the study of a few conspict 
ously Food reports will supply \ i] 1abl 
suggestions as to contents and style: and 


the work of editing, if properly done, will 
give life to what might otherwise be a mers 
mass of dry facts. 

In every municipal dep 
cumulate during the year multitude 
records having permanent value for refer 
ence purposes. Such data should be cari 
fully preserved and proper! 
dexed. Of these facts and figures, how 
ever, but a small percentage has genet 
public interest. To winnow the live grains 
from the chaff of irrelevant 
present the product to the people 
which shall be both palatable and digestibl 
is a task well worth the effort it costs 


(3) It Must be Widely Read 


\ report may be issued prompt 
be worth reading: but if it isn’t actu 
read, of what availeth it? 


Proper attention must be given to sucl 
details as convenient size; quality of pape 
and presswork; an abundar f interesting 
illustrations: and the effective e of dis 
play type for heads and sub-heads. “H 
man interest” touches should be added 
wherever possible. Charts for the zraphi 
presentation of facts car ften be used 


most effectiv ely. 


But there still remains the problen 
distribution. If funds are not available for 
utting a copy into the hand 
oter, distribution should at least e i 
to all of the libraries and readi: 9 
in the city, and to the officials of con 














PERICAN £tT xz VoL. XIV, No 


116 

cial and civic organizations, clubs, lodges, gle issue of the newspaper, divide it up int 
ete The proper prese on of the report two or more installments and release then 
through the daily press is most important for publication on consecutive days. The 
of al It must be remembered that the public distribution of the report may follow 
ewspaper editor wants news. Give him immediately after the last release date, and 
an advance proof of the report with a re an important step forward will have been 


lease date on it; or, better vet, if the report taken in public enlightenment as to city 


tor adequ te attention ina sin affairs. 





A Graphic Method of Showing a City’s Annual Expenditures, 
Grouped by Functions 











PREPARED 8Y . 
ys 





DONALD © BALDWIN & | ee DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS 
WHARTON SCNOGL, URIVERSITY OF PEMA = —_— CITY OF PHILADELPHIA 
CHART SHOWING 
FUNCTIONAL PROPORTIONS OF CITVS ANNUAL EXPENDITURES 
In submitting this chart, the Director of Public Works of Philadelphia suggests that 


ary ilar charts were available tor other cities with which to compare, it would materially 
add to the value I this one ; 





American Cities and the Prevention of 
Unemployment 
By John B. Andrews 


Secretary, American Association for Labor Legislation 


MERICAN cities have to-day an un 






























l crease ( { S 
usual opportunity before them to tablishments and ey Vy ¢ 
push forward a constructive pro cerns into bankr ies We 

gram for the prevention of unemployment often oblig to share tl e teneme 

usiness conditions are comparatively pros and property-owners s the 1 

perous and the number of unemployed has _ sulting loss in rentals irked increas« 

fallen from the abnormal heights reached in petty crime, reported the police d 

in the winter of 1914-1915 to approximately partments of ( irg ties, is 

the ordinary level. A period like the pres doubted! xe lu he effects of the 

nt, when the cities are not overwhelmed depression. Charles Chute, secretary « 

vith emergency demands, is the ideal time the New York St Commis 
, , 
a. 
RS p 
EM INN./ te 4 
( onse/ Oe) % 
} ~ : oF >a 
é Nes. \ ‘OWA .* Ai dos 
: Ye ft 
\ CAL * \ "eee 
= 
* 
(_] STATE LAW 
| MM NO STATE LAW 
@ STATE §CHANGE 
| @ MUNICIPAL EXCHANGE 
Ro sinning — 
MAP INDICATING EXISTENCE OF STATI 
EMPLOYMENT BUREAUS 
e United St 1, 191¢ ‘ 
to put into force measures which will per sion, wrote the A1 i for 
manently reduce unemployment. Labor Legislation that 
Cities which fail to adopt such a policy ——— 
must inevitably pay the penalty in the re ‘ 1 conside ; 
currence of the heavy social wastes which ulation oO! é e le 
marked the winter of 1914-1915. Perhaps '"& Cause for t] me 
the most obvious loss consequent to unem esthet aaa, ; eieghaeeias 
ployment and the one nearest to people's \ decided increas¢ the expenditures of 
minds is the wage loss. At the most con charitable societies so noted. Dut 
servative estimate, 2,000,000 wage-earners ing the winte I912 t ‘ | 
were unemployed last winter in the United lic and private orga . thirty-six 

States. Assuming that their average daily cities spent $868,000 for terial relief 

wage was as low as $1, the wage loss to the ilone This by 1914-1915 had grown to 

country in a single day amounted to $2,000,- $1,497,000, creas 73 per cent in 

000. This loss in buying-power caused an two years! Nor does this take account of 








. THE AMERICAN CITY Vor. XIV, N 




















WOMEN’S DEPARTMENT OF THE NEW YORK CITY PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT BUREAL 
S ‘ antile and industrial, and ») domestic, hote 
s on help 
the expenditures of hundreds of temporary of the working force “through the degen 


wmuzations which the emergency called 


nt ( y 

Spit f the increase of charitable ef 
forts, the crisis caused actual physical suf 
f¢ ¢ in innumerable families from a lack 
of the necessities of life The New York 
College Settlement, long familiar with life 
in an industrial ne 


ighborhood, stated that 


lhe standard of living in our neighbor 


hood was p rceptibly lowered.’ It is prob 

le that the privations of the winter have 
vermanently injured many of their victims, 
for, as the Toronto Health Bulletin said in 


January, 1915, “Unemployment undermines 
the health and character of th pe ple.” 
rherefore, even if social and humanitar 
ian considerations did not dictate that the 
cities should not allow such wastes to occur 
again, a sound business policy would re 
quire that they be prevented. Unemploy 
ment is a burden to the employer of labor 
as well as to charities and police, property 
owners and merchants and to the sufferers 
themselves. Joseph H. Willits, in a recent 
study of the unemployed in Philadelphia, 
quotes employers to show that periods of 


unemployment demoralize the organization 


of the working force, are a main cause of 
the rapid shift of employes from shop to 
shop, and permanently impair the efficiency 


eration of the workers in spirit, energy and 
ambition.” The prevention of unemploy 
ment is to the interests of all classes in the 
community. : 

The experience of more than a hundred 


American cities during the depression of 
1914-1915, as reported to the American As 





sociation for Labor Legislation, emphasizes 
the hopelessness of preventing unemploy 

ment when action is deferred until a crisis 
is at hand. It also indicates the necessary 
steps in a preventive program. The latter 
includes: (1) separation of unemployables 
from the unemployed and arrangements 
for their constructive care; (2) public em 
ployment bureaus to provide a central meet 
ing-place for those in search of work and 
workers; (3) systematic plans for the ex 
pansion of public work in dull years and 
seasons; (4) attention to methods of re 
ducing the present irregularity of private 
employment, among which public unem 
ployment insurance probably comes first. 


(1) 

Many cities found that their varied ef 
forts in behalf of the unemployed were 
handicapped from the beginning by the 
intermingling of unemployables, unfit or 
unwilling to work with the genuine job 








FEBRUARY, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 








seekers, Lhe presence ot these can | i] 
works” and “won't-works” often hindered  employal ” ( 
the operation of public employment bu 
eaus and endangered the success of public (2) 
vorks. Still more serious was the fals¢ The crisis brought home to many cities 
x idea given the public of the whole problem the need of providing a ventral clearing 
2 of unemployment and the consequent in house for the buyers and sellers of labor, 
. creased difficulty in gaining support for and resulted in the opening of several new 
preventive measures. Fred R. Johnson, public employment bureaus and the bring 
secretary of the Associated Charities of ing of others to a higher standard of et 
Boston, goes so far as to state that satis ficiency. Of late years certain progressive 
factory progress in solving problems of cities have developed their public employ 
unemployment is impossible until better ment offices to a high degree of usefulness. 
provision is made for the unemployable. In Cleveland, for instance, city, state and 
Even when efforts were made to sift out federal authorities all codperate in the op 
unemployables, provisions for training for eration of a large central bureau, which 
the inefficient or compulsory labor for even under the poor business conditions of 
shirks and vagrants had seldom been made. the winter of 1914-1915 filled nearly 15,000 
his need has not passed with the com positions during the six months ending 
ing of better times. A few cities are mak \pril 1, 1915. But many cities still lack 
ing promising efforts to take care of these public employment offices altogether, and 
abnormal classes. Thus in New York and _ others still conduct them like the one in a 
Chicago the inmates of the municipal lodg mid-western city which is described as “ru 
ing houses are examined by trained social by a cheap politician from behind a roll-top 
investigators and treated in accordance desk.” 
with their needs. The hope is expressed An efficient office cannot be maintained 
that the institutions may become “great without adequate appropriations and trained 
human repair-shops.” But such efforts are workers. And it should not be overlooked 
few and scattered. that a public bureau has a wider field of 

















SEWER BUILDING BY THE UNEMPLOYED 


Duluth, Minn., has done sewer build ng tor two winters at no greater st t 








=? 





acts 


i 


: 
1 





Kaen ee 
—— 





120 THE AMERICAN CITY VoL. XIV, No. 2 


usefulness under normal conditions than 
when opportunities for work are relatively 
few. It is needed continuously as a mat- 
ter of business organization to prevent the 
waste and duplication inherent in the 
present methodless method of hunting for 
jobs. The buyers and sellers of every im- 
portant commodity except labor have their 
central exchanges. But in too many places 
the labor market is still disorganized and 
lacking in any similar centralization. Pub- 
lic employment bureaus cannot, it is true, 
“make work,” but they can alone make 
possible the filling to the best advantage of 
such jobs as exist. 

Has your city an active, efficient public 
employment bureau? 


(3) 

Many cities successfully increased the 
amount of work available last winter by 
providing special public work. The Ameri- 
can Association for Labor Legislation has 
a record of ninety-nine cities in twenty-nine 
different states which carried on some such 
undertakings. Fifty-six municipalities re- 
ported an expenditure of over $3,600,000 
for this purpose, and fifty-one cities em- 
ployed over 30,000 persons for longer or 
shorter periods in this work. Yet there 
was hardly a city in which public work was 
proposed in which numerous difficulties did 
not arise before the work could be started. 
Conservation, political objections, unfa- 
vorable weather, laws limiting the cities to 
contract work, and lack of money all ham- 
pered their efforts. In the opinion of com- 
petent observers these difficulties all go 
back to one root cause—failure to act in 
advance of the emergency. The California 
Commission of Immigration and Housing 
said of the public work in that state during 
the winter: 


“In fact, the general failure to plan ahead 
and the refusal to face the problem until the 
need is pressing is the most pertinent criti- 
cism. .. . Instead of delaying until another 
crisis comes, immediate steps should be taken 
to formulate a program for immediate action. 

. Suitable work should be outlined, funds 
provided and definite plans formulated. 
Such steps will obviate many of the difficul- 
ties encountered during the past season.” 


Spurred on by their winter's experience, 
here and there cities are following Euro- 
pean example and making definite arrange- 
ments for an increase in public work in the 
dull periods of private industry. Thus the 


park department of Grand Rapids, Mich., 
is reserving “a number of unimproved 
parks which will be worked on during times 
of depression.” Alameda, Cal., has even 
passed an ordinance levying a special ta» 
of 1 cent on each $100 of taxable property 
to be used when necessary for public work. 
In view of the possibilities of public work 
in reducing unemployment and of the 
proven difficulties of emergency action, 
such a policy should be widely extended. 

Is your city developing a systematic pro 
gram for the expansion of public work in 
dull seasons? 


(4) 

But with the present limited range of 
municipal activities, public work can by no 
means take care of all those out of work. 
Much unemployment will persist until the 
irregularity of private industry is reduced. 
One prominent and responsible employer 
writes: 

“T think it is almost beyond argument that 
the greatest chance for regularizing factory 
employment rests in the hands of the em- 
ployer. It is, of course, a hard question, but 
not a bit harder than a thousand questions of 
machinery, of material or of merchandising 
that have been faced and solved by employers 
in the past.” 

During the winter's crisis, unemptoyment 
committees and charitable societies widely 
urged business men to start new work, 
use men in cleaning and making repairs or 
at least to hold their forces together by 
giving part-time employment instead of re- 
ducing numbers. But these appeals had a 
disappointingly small influence. The com- 
mon “do it now” campaigns were too gen- 
eral to be suggestive. Other more specific 
suggestions came too late to be put into 
effect. Of greater promise in making for 
the regularization of industry was the for- 
mation of employment managers’ associa- 
tions in New York and Philadelphia, be- 
sides the pioneer society in Boston. The 
secretary of the New York society describes 
his organization as “the codperation of 
business men to alleviate unemployment.” 

Another important impetus toward the 
regularization of industry was found in the 
Illinois and Pennsylvania laws of 1915 on 
public employment offices. The represent- 
ative advisory committees created for these 
offices were directed to take steps toward 
the regularization of employment in private 
industry. 





THE AMERI 


lf EBRUARY, I9QIO 


Not the least of the influences making 
for regularization is the propaganda for 
public unemployment insurance. Just as 
the safety movement became vitalized only 
nder the financial pressure of workmen's 
compensation, so it is urged that the large 
scale regularization of industry awaits the 
ntroduction of unemployment insurance. 
But all these more effective steps toward 
ereater regularity of employment are de 
pendent on careful planning far in advance 
of any emergency. 

What is being done in your city to stimu 
late the regularization of employment and 

make known the possibilities of unem 
ployment insurance? 

Professor Henry R. Seager, of Columbia 
University, for many years a student of 
unemployment problems, told the 1915 Na 
tional Conference of Charities and Correc 


CAN CITY 121 


tions in regard to unet 

“As a people we are prone to wait until the 
emergency arises, then t act hastil ind 
prudently to meet the emerg ind t 
promptly forget it when it is er witl 
again making proper provision against its 
urrence 

The winter's comparative egiect otf un 


employment problems comes fart 
to bearing out Professor Seager’s state 

ment. Shall we go on in this vicious circle 
of neglect of unemployment except when a 
depression forces it on our attention? Or 
shall we break precedent and by prepared 
ness against unemployment make for pre 
vention? The steps taken by progressive 
\merican cities within the next few months 
will largely determine whether last winter’s 
hard experience will bear fruit in measures 
for the permanent reduction of unemploy 


ment. 





The Labor Department 


lhe annual report to Congress of Sec 
retary of Labor William B. Wilson pre 
sents important suggestions. The Depart 
ment has established a system of labor ex 
changes, by means of which it has found 
men for all vacant positions of which it 
was notified. The trouble was that for 
every job to be filled there were about three 
ipplicants. The Secretary wisely con 
cludes that “it will not be enough to hunt 
manless jobs for jobless men. Any efficient 
public employment service of a national 
character must go beyond that.” So he 
draws the attention of Congress to the 
possibilities of opening jobs to the unem 
ployed on the unused lands. He suggests 
that the Government retain title for this 
purpose to the public lands it still holds. 
He further suggests that the Government 
gradually acquire the extensive areas of 
unused, privately owned farming lands in 
ost or all of the states. He would allow 


and the Unemployed 


use of these lands on terms to assure to 
the worker all that his labor produces, but 
adjust his tenure so “as to prevent inflation 
of land values.” The Secretary shows the 
necessity of this precaution He Says 
“Wherever inflation of land values might 
enter in, the proposed method of promoting 
labor distribution would be obstructed.” 
Secretary Wilson would not simply rest 


with placing laborers on the land He 
would have the Departments of Agricul 
ture and the Interior codperate with the 
Department of Labor to instruct settlers in 
farming and marketing, and to make pos 
sible establishment of a “rotary fund” from 
which loans could be made. 

This plan the Secretary holds “would d 
velop in country and city an economically 
independent and socially progressive popu 
lation.” His conclusion seems reasonable 
The plan should, moreover, be seconded 
by action of the states to prevent land spec 


ulation and to force unused lands into us 





ly-December, 





THE SEMI-ANNUAL INDEX 
OF 


THe AMERICAN City 























Building a Capitol Park for the Future 
By O. R. Geyer 


ITHIN the next half-dozen years 
W the state of lowa will have com- 
pleted one of the most ambitious 
capitol extension improvements ever un- 
dertaken in the United States. For more 
than a year actual work on the project, 
which will cost about $2,000,000 before it 
is completed, has been carried on in a sys- 
tematic, business-like manner, and before 
long the stately capitol which stands on one 
of the highest elevations in the city of Des 
Moines will have a setting more fitting and 
more in keeping with the natural advan- 
tages nature has offered for one of the 
finest capitol parks in the country. The 
contrasting pictures on the cover of this 
issue fittingly present the scope of this un- 
dertaking. 


Securing and Transforming the Property 

The capitol park will consist of seventy- 
seven acres, all lying within a few blocks 
of the business district. Twenty-five acres 
of this ground was donated by the city in 
the form of streets which were vacated and 
closed, while the original capitol grounds 
consisted of about eighteen acres. The ad- 
ditional grounds purchased by the state will 
be used in locating three proposed buildings 
soon to be added to the state’s property, 
and for the system of driveways, walks, 
promenades, terraces, bridges, malls and 
avenues which will form an important part 
of the scheme to give the capitol a beauti- 
ful surrounding. 

For a year a large force of wreckers has 
been engaged in razing and removing the 
buildings of all sorts which were located 
on the property taken over by the state. 
When this work is completed—by early 
spring—the state will have disposed of 105 
houses, churches, schools and other build- 
ings, razing 75 of them and moving 30 of 
the better homes to a large plot of ground 
lying near the extension property owned by 
the state. At the present time the exten- 
sion property looks more like a war zone, 
but by spring the grounds will be entirely 
cleared and ready for the beginning of the 
scheme of improvements prepared by archi- 
tect FE. L. Masqueray, of New York City. 

Agents for the state purchased 247 lots 

[122] 


for approximately $1,125,000, which is $75, 
000 less than the original estimate of the 
cost of the property to be taken over by the 
state. Deals had to be made with 190 own 
ers of real estate in the district, but the 
purchasing agents did their work so well 
that all but eight of the pieces of property 
were secured without resorting to con 
demnation proceedings. So far, the state 
has received about $80,000 in rents and for 
salvage from wrecked property. This sum 
will be increased to $100,000 before the 
work is completed. Sometime in May the 
state will sell at auction the thirty houses 
moved from the extension zone and placed 
on the property known as Governor's 
Square. This sale is expected to bring in 
about $125,000, which will reduce the cost 
of the extension property considerably. 

Early in the winter two steam shovels 
and a large gang of men were put at work 
digging out the circular driveway which 
will be built at the base of the terrace on 
the southern half of the property. The 
western approach to the capitol (from the 
city proper) will be widened to rvo feet 
from curb to curb for a distance of several 
blocks, which will offer a connecting link 
for the civic center on the river front seven 
blocks away. A second approach from the 
business district will be widened to 90 feet, 
opening up a splendid vista of the park 
from almost any part of the business dis- 
trict. 


The Buildings and Monuments 

Perhaps the most important work to be 
done this year in connection with the 
scheme of improvements adopted in 1913 
will be the completion of the Allison me- 
morial, one of the most ambitious projects 
of its kind ever attempted by the state, and 
one which contributed in a great measure to 
the realization of the present stage of the 
capitol improvements. This $50,000 monu- 
ment will be located directly south of the 
capitol, in the center of a wide esplanade 
which will be built over the circular drive- 
way. The soldiers’ and sailors’ monument, 
which stands a few feet distant from the 
pedestal of the Allison monument, will be 
moved to a more advantageous location to 








FEBRUARY, I910 THE AMERICAN CITY 123 








the east of the capitol, where it will be 
given an unobstructed view for 1,000 feet 
n all directions. It is probable that the 
\llison monument will be dedicated in the 


& | 

: The improvement of the capitol grounds 

: had for many years been urged biennially 
in the messages of the governors. rhe 

; first concrete work on the project was dom | 


in Ig09, when the Allison Memorial Com 
mission was appointed to locate the monu 
ment planned in honor of the distinguished 
lowa statesman. Before the work of the 
commission had gone far it had outlined 
a comprehensive scheme for the improve 
ment of the capitol grounds, and this plan 
was adopted in 1913 when the thirty-fifth 
General Assembly passed the act levying a 
special tax for the purchase of the ground. 

The historical building and the capitol 
form the nucleus of. the group of buildings 
which will be erected on the property with 





in the next ten years or more. Probably 











the first of the proposed new buildings to 














receive serious attention at the hands of rHE CAPITOL AT DES MOINES AS A BACK 
the General Assembly will be an office and GROUND Ft : ECTION ¢ 
storage room building, which is_ badly ee 
needed to relieve the present congestion in sa a: ones Peng} 
the capitol. Then will follow a judiciary emorial a 
building to house the Supreme Court and , os 
the law library. In time an executive man for the erecti the ents a 
sion will be built upon some proper el structures which may be felt necessar 
vation on the newly acquired property. from time to time, so that there will never 
The judiciary and office buildings will be be any occasion for the cramping of build 
built directly east of the capitol, with the ings or of giving them poor locations. A 
soldiers’ and sailors’ monument standing future improvements will be made i 
between them. Provision has been mad cordance with the plan adopted by the 
stat order that 
= complete harmony may 
hroughout. 
he ipitol exter 
1 ement S 
Ix i rla secre 
the Allison Me 
( Ssiot . 
the t comp t< 
ee yportunit 
thi ! blic law, a 
\ me commo 
‘ { has ecent 
I his instane 
oO oO! tor tn 
STEAM SHOVEL AT WORK DIGGING OUT FOUNDATION Fi future holds eg 


CIRCULAR DRIVEWAY IN CAPITOL PARK, DES MOINI 


























New Uniform Rules for Street Traffic 


By Frederick H. Elliott 


Executive Secretary, Safety First Federation of America 


HE growing sentiment throughout the 
iy country for uniformity in the regu- 
lation of street traffic, which shall 
be reasonable as well as enforceable, has 
finally been crystallized through the com- 
pilation of a standard code of traffic regu- 
lations by the Street Traffic Committee of 
the Safety First Federation of America. 
The code will be issued in loose leaf form, 
and will be ready for distribution in Feb- 
ruary. 
Among the important 
code are the following: 


features of the 


Prohibiting the use of the muffler cut-out. 

Prohibiting excessive emission of smoke or 
gases. 

Prohibiting the unnecessary use of warning 
signals. 

Providing that all vehicles shall carry lights 
from one hour after sunset to one hour before 
sunrise 

Approval of the near-side stop regulation 
for street cars. 

Providing car-stop safety zones for persons 
getting on or off street cars. 

Providing for protecting the car-stop safety 
zones from encroachment by vehicles, either 
moving or standing. 

Requiring that all vehicles must come to a 
full stop at least five feet behind a street car 
when stopping, or which has stopped, to re- 
ceive or discharge passengers. 

Requiring pedestrians to cross the street at 
the regular crossing, to cross with the traffic, 
and comply with the signals of traffic officers. 

Requiring the locking of unattended motor 
vehicles to prevent their removal by unauthor- 
ized persons. 

Requiring properly illuminated license tags 
on automobiles, and favoring the adoption by 
automobile manufacturers of a uniform trans- 
parently illuminated license tag holder. 

Requiring in the event of an accident that 
the driver must stop and render all possible 
assistance to persons injured, giving name and 
address to any persons concerned or any per- 
son requesting same, and that, in the absence 
of a police officer, the driver shall report the 
accident to police headquarters 

Recommending the licensing of all motor 
vehicle drivers or operators, subject to sus- 
pension or revocation by the issuing authority. 
It is contended that the adoption of this regu- 
lation by the various state legislatures will re- 
sult in a material reduction of highway acci- 
dents. The chief requisite for securing the 
license shall be proper physical, mental and 
moral qualifications. 

The details of granting the licenses 


(124) 


neces- 


sarily rest with the several state legislatures 
and would include such matters as affixing to 
the license card a _photograph of the licensee, 
for the purpose o- affording a means of iden- 
tification and adding to the’ practicability of 
enforcement. 

Approval of the following 
moving headlight glare: 


regulation for re- 


Wherever there is not sufficient light within the 
limits of the highway location clearly to reveal all 
persons, vehicles or substantial objects within said 
limits for a distance of at least 150 feet, the head 
lights of all motor vehicles in motion shall give suf 
ficient light to reveal any person, vehicle or substan 
tial object on the road straight ahead of such motor 
vehicle for a distance of at least 150 feet. The head 
lights shall be so arranged that no portion of the beam 
ot reflected light, when measured 75 feet or more 

head of the lamps, shall rise above 42 inches from the 
level surface on which the vehicle stands. Such head- 
hights shall also give sufficient side illumination to in- 
dicate any person, vehicle or substantial object 10 
feet to the side of said motor vehicle at a point 10 
feet ahead of the lamps. 

The term “beam of reflected light” as used in the 
above provision shall be construed as meaning the ap- 
proximately parallel focalized rays gathered and pro 
jected by a reflector, lens or other device. 


It is proposed to further eliminate the 
possibility of street accidents by standard- 
izing signs and signals, and the street traf- 
fic committee has approved of the methan 
ical traffic semaphore that has been in suc- 
cessful operation on Fifth Avenue, New 
York, and adopted in Detroit, Baltimore, 
Washington, St. Louis, Boston, New Or- 
leans and other cities. 

It is intended to standardize methods of 
dealing with traffic at congested corners, so 
that when pedestrians are crossing the 
street they will not be endangered by ap- 
proaching vehicles. This will necessitate 
the conferring of authority upon police de- 
partments to regulate pedestrian travel as 
well as vehicular traffic. 

Standardization of accident report blanks 
and a method of compiling statistics for the 
intelligent study and investigation of the 
most common form of accidents, is also to 
be undertaken. 

The adoption of the standard code with 
the view to securing uniformity in traffic 
regulations will be of much help to the au- 
thorities in many cities who have been slow 
to recognize the importance of the safety 
first movement, and will bring to them the 
experience of the more progressive munici- 
palities. 








Charities and Promoting Normal Family Life 
By Shelby M. Harrison 


Director, The Springfield Survey 


a; NE chief aim, then, in modern 
charity work is to eliminate ab 
normal cenditions of family life 

and to promote normal conditions, whether 


t 


the conditions relate only to the particular 
This 
obviously implies the belief that conditions 
can be changed and improved. The 


family or are of a general character. 


idea 
of any class of people being predestined 
and hopelessly chained to poverty and mis 
ery is repudiated once and for all. When 
family life is abnormal there must be some 
reason or reasons for it—reasons for the 
most part that are ascertainable and which 
past experience has proved in some meas 
ure to be removable.” 

That is the point of view from which 
Mr. Francis H. McLean, general secretary 
of the American Association for Organiz 
ing Charity, whose report on “The Chari 
ties of Springfield, Illinois,” has just been 
issued, made his investigations of the 
charities situation in 
60,000 people. His 


volume in a 


that city of roughly 
report 1s the 
series of the ten 


seventh 
which will 
present the complete findings of the Spring 
field survey. 

The value of this Springfield charities 
report is believed to be more than local. 
lo the laymen it is an interesting study of 
a far-reaching phase of the civic and social 
betterment problems found in a medium 
sized city. But to the average public 
spirited citizen it should prove more than 
merely interesting. Mr. McLean has pre 
sented his local facts and problems in such 
a way as to interweave and illustrate the 
principles upon which modern preventive 
charity is founded. Subject to the limita 
tions of reporting on a local situation, his 
survey volume becomes a popularized state 
ment of why and how charity work is “or 
ganized” and how it thereby may be made 
more efficient not only in this typical Amer 
ican city, but elsewhere. 

The scope of the charities survey is indi 
cated in an introductory statement of pur 
pose. The ends aimed at, as put by Mr. 
McLean, are: 

“(a) To discover as definitely as possible 
the size and character of the charity problems 
of the city, and determine what portions of 
the field of charitable work are being covered 


and what, because t ‘ s \ eed { 
community action ; 

(b) J » Suggest, in rder t | these gaps 
both new methods of work and v¥ work 1 
individual charitable organiza 

(c) lo suggest a possible new Visiol 
work among the organiza S, | nd pt 
vate, and their better ccOperation, in so f 

s such Suyxgestions seen t ¢ ted 
their present pr edure 

“(d) To indicate such lines of action by 
ganizations and the community as a it 
removal, or improvement at least t the 
ditions which disorganize family hfe 


he method of the surv« 
the field into parts 
Springfield institutions 
made by Miss Florence | 


\ was to divide 
four first, children in 


(this study being 


Lattimore ) ; sec 


ond, the care of the indigent sick; third, 
disabilities which lead to the disorganiza 
tion of family life, and their treatment; 
and fourth, the philanthropic and_ social 


agencies dealing with families. 

An analysis was made of family disabili 
ties, so far as they were recorded; that is, 
of the important factors, to use Mr. Mc 
Lean’s phrasing, in family conditions which 
signify subnormal conditions, either tempo 
rary or permanent. It 
disabilities 


was found that the 
affected the largest 
groups of families were sickness other than 
tuberculosis, 


which 


tuberculosis, widowhood, ir 


regular school attendance, desertion 


intem 
perance, unemployment and non support. 
Mental deficiency, crippled condition and 
also factors of 


then 


blindness were importance. 

Mr. McLean studied the treat 
ment provided in each of the different dis 
ability groups, drawing general conclusions 
and formulating general recommendations. 

In addition to the study of the general 
situation regarding the treatment of needy 
families, the specific services provided by 
both private and public agencies were scru 
tinized in detail as a 
specific 
into the 


basis for the more 
recommendations which are put 


report These include 
the local associated charities, the tubercu 


losis 


agencies 
association, the humane society, a 
local mission, the day nursery, two old peo 
ple’s homes, the county poor farm, the 
township overseer of the poor, the juvenile 
court, school attendance bureau, and others. 
The developments recommended, together 
with those growing out of the examination 


[125] 








as 


126 THE 


AMERICAN CITY 





Von. XIV, No. 2 





of the children’s imstitu 
tions and the institutions 
providing charitable aid 
outside their homes for 
the indigent sick, are 
summed up under two 


1914-15 


large groupings—those 
applying to the individ 
ual societies and those 
requiring united codp- 
erative action. Impor- 
tant among the duties 
laid upon the Associated 
Charities in special de 
gree in the recommenda 
tions, and upon other so 
cial agencies in some de 
gree also, is the respon- 
sibility for leadership in 
developing preventive 
and community meas 
ures for improvement of 
living conditions—lead 
ership in eliminating ab 
normal conditions of 
family life and promot 
ing normal conditions 
throughout the commun 
ity. 

There are 190 or more 
cities in the United 





SPRINGFIELD, ILtinois **! 
THe SPRINGFIELD SURVEY 












States ranging in popu- 
lation between 30,000 
and 150,000. In some 
regards the social and 
civic problems of com- 
munities within these 
population limits have 
much in common. In attacking their own 
charities problem through the effective 
method of fact-gathering first, then anal- 
ysis, then interpretation before recom- 


family. 
located.) 


SOMETHING OF THE SIZE AND EXTENT OF THE CHARITIES 
PROBLEM IN SPRINGFIELD, ILL. 
In 1918, 1,764 Springfield families received some kind of charitable 


service from public or private organizations. og 
f (Because of faulty addresses not all of the families could be 


Each spot represents a 


mending remedies, the citizens of Spring- 
field who make up the Survey Committee 
may be fairly credited with rendering a 
service to many other cities than their own. 





A National Housing Competition 


Under the auspices of the National Ameri- 
canization Committee, 20 West 34th Street, 
New York City, plans have been made for a 
National Housing Competition, which will be 
the first piece of work under the Roosevelt 
America First Fund. Prizes of $1,000, $500, 
and three of $100 each are offered in the first 
group, which covers plans for a single family 
house, a combined family and lodging house, 
and for a boarding house or community dwell- 
ing. The idea is the housing for a new com- 
munity produced by a new industry, many of 
the large number of employes to be needed 


permanently, the rest from two to five years 
only. 

The two most important considerations in 
the contest are the welfare of the tenant and 
the cost. The wages of the employes for 
whom the houses are designed are understood 
to be from $2 a day to $30 a week. The prices 
are to be based on the Chicago market. 

In the second group, prizes of $200 and 
$100 are offered for a satisfactory substitute 
for the derailed freight and cattle cars now 
used to house construction gangs on rail- 
ways. 








ie, a GON 


ieee 














VATER TOWER IN EDEN PARK, CINCINNATI, 


| 


SED AS A 


A Topographic Survey of a Large City 
By Hugh C. Mitchell, C. E. 


Geodetic Engineer, Washington, D. C. 


Ths Importance of a Topographic Map 
we segregate the mathematics of de 
sign from the engineering of to-day and 
consider what remains—and much will 
remain—we shall find engineering an in 
tensely human profession. As the law en 
acts, amends and repeals to reenact the 
better; as the physician postulate s and the 
orizes and in the light of faulty theories 
diagnoses the truth; so the engineer builds, 
then plans and builds again, and each 
monument marks a fraction in the under- 
standing of Nature’s gifts—more in the 
understanding of man’s needs and his limi 
tations. 
adjusted to the 
failure to do this often de 


Che city plan must b 
topography ; 
mands a heavy tribute. In a recent report 
from the office of the City | ngineer of San 
lrancisco it was stated that failure to ad 
just the plan of that city to the topography 
had produced evil results th [ 
which would cost the city more than $26, 


correction of! 


Imagine 
great as 20 per cent; 


000,000. streets with grades as 
yet that is what San 
Francisco has to endure as a result of 
And San Fran 
Pittsburgh, Cin 
cinnati, Richmond and many others of our 


building without a plan. 


cisco is not alone in this: 


larger cities can show unfortunate exam 
ples of streets which are streets in name 
only, of narrow thoroughfares carrying an 
overload of the city’s traffic, while broad 
avenues start and end—nowhere. 


It is much to be regretted that our muni 


cipal engineer 


on 


plans on basic data characteri 
flimsiness 


So called econ 


be 


new const 


SO! 


ruction, ¢ 


farther fror 


etimes 


economy the carrying out 


insufficient or 


cities 


slopin 


rare 


have not 


g in the wrong 


gineer in one 


o! 


oul 


cities when he said th 


$75,000 trving to mak« 


municipal engi 


\W hen we considet 


Map 


we 


( 


if he is 


are able 


t 


neer p 


rortu 


under 


specie reports on cit 


graphic map 


ot 


gineer who is ] 


] 


all city planning. 


condition that was 


a complete Sewer syste 


map 


1s 


fairly sure 


is an absolute 


undertaking 


of the 
\\ 


acce ptal i€ plan 


thout 


or / 


topographic map the s 


obtain correc 


of 


water 


' 


Streets and r 


values for run-off coeft 


storm, as well 


the designing 


ing 


matter 


tT 


V 


she ds, 


ot 


of 


1 


a 


| 


Ca 


as tor 


the S¢ 


rue ssw 


] 


Maas, and, 


} 


‘ 


necessit 





128 THE AMERICAN CITY 


The present practice in the city of Cin 
cinnati, where there is a topographic map 
of which further description will be given 
later on, is to assemble the topographic 
sheets of the given area, also the sheets 
showing existing sewers and such other 
underground structures as water and gas 
mains, electric conduits, etc., and from this 
material prepare sewer plans without hav- 
ing sent a single party into the field. 

On the topographic map the highway 
engineer can plat a system of streets and 
roads which will develop the territory un- 
der consideration with the least possible 


id x 
As A 
\ 
\. 
yt — 
j \ 's 
ra 
vA, 
. \) nM 
\ 
\\ . 
, 
vo, Pp 
(pia 
Oa 
=~ ~~ {* 
SS _ 
SS : \ 
WY 
SN 
~~ 
‘ SS 
s, NS 
WN eX 
Xe 


Vor. XIV, No. 2 





waste of ground and will keep all street 
grades close to a possible minimum. No- 
where in municipal engineering is the one 
best plan more worthy of achievement than 
in street planning. Minimum grades and 
well-proportioned thoroughfares tend to 
reduce the cost of a city’s traffic. Further- 
more, it costs less to build a street on an 
easy grade than on a steep one, and the 
street with the easy grade has the greater 
building capacity per linear unit. 

The bridge engineer uses the topographic 
map in studying the location of his work, 
in planning the approaches, and as a base 



































A SECTION OF CINCINNATI’S TOPOGRAPHIC MAP 


Particular attention is called to the portion of this section bounded by McMillan Street (unmarked, at 
top) and Auburn, Dorchester and Highland Avenues. Note especially Earnshaw Avenue. The entire 
section is built up with attractive homes, but when it is viewed on paper it becomes a “horrible example,” 
and constitutes a strong argument for the physical city plan 














git A 


FEBRUARY, 1916 rH] 


\MERI¢ 


se Se 129 

















A VIEW OF MOUNT AUBURN 


Showing the region between McMillan Street 


ap for pier and abutment data. The park 
engineer must plan roads, drainage sys 
tems, landscape effects; to him the topo 
graphic map is indispensable. In St. Louis, 
wherever ground has been filled in since the 
map of that city was made, it is used as an 
easy means to determine the depth of the 
new ground. With regard to this map, 





which has been in use about twenty years, 
the Sewer Commissioner of St. Louis says: 


“Tt is absolutely impossible to design a 
sewer system, especially for storm water, 
quickly and accurately unless one knows the 
drainage shed, which is only given in det 
from a contour map 


] 
all 


Making Cincinnati's Topographic Map 


Few men have come into office facing 


greater needs for radical reforms in muni 
cipal engineering than those which con 
fronted Mr. Henry M. Waite, when in 1912 
he became City Engineer of the city of 
Cincinnati—the appointee of a reform ad 
ministration. How well he met the situ: 
tion may be known from the promotion 
that his work brought him—the city man 
agership of Dayton, Ohio. 

Among the problems confronting City 
Engineer Waite was a big one of sewer 
planning, a problem necessitating the build 
ing of relief sewers, of interceptors, of dis 
posal works, of creek improvements. With 
characteristic energy and foresight, Mr. 
Waite began at the beginning—where so 
few begin—and said, “Let ys have data on 
which to base our plans,” and forthwith the 
Division of Sewerage Investigations was 





organized. An integral part of that D 
sion was the Topographic Surv: 

In preparing specifications for the Topo 
graphic Survey of 1912 of the city of ( 
cinnati, not onl were the needs of the 

ver d 31 consi tl 
needs of the othe rancl he ( 
Engineer’s office. The map is built o1 
framework of primary triangulation and 
precise levels, supporting the finer meshes 
of primary traverse and wye levels, th 
final filling in of the detail being done witl 
plane table and alidad The control w 


1 


lar 


done with the highest degree of precisiot 
the stan ls of accuracy adopted bei 
those of the ( oast and Geodetic Surve' 
While primarily intended to control th 
mapping, the triangulation and _precis 
levels were also intended t ibserve othe 


engineering interests 


The triangulatior being connected ad 
rectly with the great system of triangul 


tion which spans the United States in every 


direction, puts Cincinnati in its proper pl 
on the map. All lengths of the triangula 
tion being known with an accuracy close t 
I part in 50,000, this triangulation will son 
day (it is to be hoped serve as a base f 
a cadastral survey This is one of Cin 
nati’s most pressing net In that cit 
there is a coterie of e1 yineers de 
themselves exclusively t lot surve 
This work 5 re! nerative because 

of the old landmarks ars one, and witne 
marks. secret 11 | iracte! ire often know! 
to but a few engineers. Such a conditi 








SS 


H \MERICAN CITY VoL. XIV, No 

















; st step—the level bench-marks. These usually consisted 
‘ tior readv exists look of bronze discs set in stone and concret 
ne to the remed structures, or bronze caps on iron pipes 
erving as a primary base which were set in concrete. In setting the 
¢ the relief of the topography, the bench-marks, the novel idea was adopted 
recise-level net also determined with pre 
( on a datum to which all grades of streets 
ewers wp st be t ferred, and an ordi 
é r te n C cal sea-level 
det ‘ the precis le el bench marks, 
the leg tum tor the city s engineering 
iT ( e of | 9 n sea-level 
the official dat of the city’s engineer 
ent must be patent to all. It is 
he datum. In the case of Cin 
il the ea-level latun was preceded 
different data, one of them being 
000 | t i the iT ibe ve the city Ss refer 
nee irk It is an interesting fact that in 
‘reat New York a _ syste ot precise 
levels \ th mean sea le vel oOo! the reterence \ PRECISE LEVEI 
datum has only recently been completed, One of the instruments used in making 
thus tying together the data which in the aa ee ee 





together, in order that all work might be 
easily based on two marks, thus insuring 
against using a mark which had changed. 

The topographic mapping was done with 
plane tables and alidade, and showed all 
relief with 5 foot contours. All roads, 
streets, alleys, rivers, lakes, creeks and 
canals were shown. There were also 
shown public and prominent buildings, rail 
ways of all kinds, bridges, etc. The accu 
racy of the map is such that a profile can 
be taken from it, at any point and in any 
direction, which will have the same accu 
racy as that attained by a field party using 
ordinary methods. 

In all, 48 sheets were used to cover the 
102 square miles of territory mapped. 





~ 
The finished maps were engraved on cop 
per, and were printed from stone in four 
colors: black for culture and all names: 
burnt sienna for relief; blue for drainage 
and water; flat green for parks. Among 
the ever-present problems which are en 
rRIANGULATION STATION OBSERVATORY countered in such work was the one of 
{ IN THE GROUNDS OF THE CINCINNATI paper. In the matter of original sheets for 
y OBSERVATORY use in the field on the drawing boards, a 
double mounted paper was used Two 
past have been used by various divisions sheets of super-super paper were mounted 
of the greater city he data thus sup with grains at right angles and muslin in 
planted by the one ultimate datum are some between. After some months’ seasoning, 
twelve in number this paper was fairly satisfactory. For the 
Permanent monument ere set to mark printed sheets a standard map bond of un 
ll triangulation stations and all precise usual thickness was found satisfactory 
4 





cme s |e 





Making Idle Land Work 


The Successful Experience of Local Organizations in Promoting the 


Cultivation of 


Vacant City Land 


In Philadelphia 


The original 
tion for the cultivation of 


organiza 
land is 


and permanent 


idle 


city 


the Philadelphia Vacant Lots Cultivation 
\ssociation. Its method is to prepare, by 
plowing, harrowing, etc., the idle land 
which is loaned to it, and then to divide 


the land into gardens about one-sixth of an 
icre in size, and assign them to the families 
whose applications have been received. 
Fertilizer and sufficient good seed to insure 
a successful start are furnished to the gar 
deners, and improved methods of garden 
ing are taught. 
the cultivate 
these gardens, as the use of otherwise idle 
land is the 
The plowing, fertilizer, seeds, etc., 
furnished to the families cost the 


\ssociation about $5 


The families are charged 


nothing for opportunity to 


loaned to \ssociation without 
cost. 
which are 
per garden; for these 
the Association charges $1 the first season, 
and $1 additional 


son, so that families that continue 


for each successive sea 
to culti 
vate the gardens for five seasons pay, the 
fifth season, the full cost of what the Asso 
ciation furnishes them. 
rhe families spread the fertilizer, plant 
the seeds, cultivate the growing crops and 


gather the matured produce. After supply 


f 
f 


ing their tamuly , 
Whil acquiring health and hap 


crops. 

piness and receiving valuable training 
experience, the el yvomel il d ch ld ( 
join in increasing thei iterial supplies 
\s their own work produes the results 
they are not pauperize t are encour 
aged to be more industrious and _ self-d 
pendent and to acquire greater ability an 
self-respect. During the season of 1915 
670 families were assigned gardens d 


rectly under the charg ot the Associatio1 
] y 


and other gar 


many lens vere Starte 

through its direct influencs 
If we will but listen to the message 

this work, we can reduce the death rate 
eliminate many of the evi fects of und 
served poverty, and ushet 1! an efra oO! 
prosperity. I would suggest that every 
city Start at once to secure the use of every 
piece of idle land suitable for cultivation, 1 
order that at the pproa h ¢ spring evel 
family that feels the need of additiona 
opportunity may be assigned a plot for 


which they can work during th 


garden 
coming season 

My further suggestion, when understood 
more simple 


1S even 


Change 


our 





~ 
, 
ae! 











IN THE EARLY 


SPRING I 
IN PHII 


GROUPS 


\RGI 
ADELPHIA TO Bt 


GATHER ON 


THE VARIOUS \ 


THEIR GARDENS 


ASSIGNED 














7 Splanapnen« 

















GAR Ns HILADELPHIA FURNISH A JOB IN WHICH O 


» FOLKS 
CAN MAKE GOOD 
f necessary, from our present cumbersome I have been the owner of both idle and 
ind uns« ific one to a simple scientific improved land. I have a very vivid recol 
mlar 


lection of our system of taxation 6n both 

















WHEN THE OLD FOLKS ARE BUSY THE LITTLE ONES HELP GATHER THE HARVEST 





et Sp 3 he pan ian ali a a 


a 


EBRUARY, I916 THE AMERICAN CITY 122 


occasions. I was continually fined or taxed 
for all my industry and for all improve 

ments made. I was “let off easy” in other 
cases, aS are all who neglect to use land in 
their charge and who let it lie idle, making 
no improvements thereon and employing no 
labor. Tax the value of vour land: the 
valuable land, which is valuable because it 
is needed the most, tax high; the less valu 
able land, not needed so much, tax low. In 
this w ay no needed land could be profitably 
held out of use. Quickly will labor be em 
ployed thereon and industry and im rove 
ment appear in the thou 


pried 8) \ NK «a SCs 
best lhe gathers Iro hist < 
ketch of the ove el e ci 
itv there was a g » of fa s that were 
ilw ivs needi Vv SSIstance help the 
help themselves, the Charity Organizat 
Society obtained the use t ct of | ( 
nd had this lowed ane itted Kacl 
family was give SOmM¢ nd aos i 
garden plo ind ta ght to 1 Ss vegetables 
So successful was this venture that during 





sands of acres held idle 
even within our city 
limits... . There will be 
work for all at higher 
wages, enabling them to 
procure more and better 
things than now. Better 
housing, better food, bet- 
ter clothing, more recre 
ation, will be within the 
grasp of even the most 
humble. .. . The charity 
organizations will lose 
their jobs entirely, and 
every man can do his 
duty to himself, his 














family and his com 


: INDIANAPOLIS 
munity. 
TAMES H. DIX 
Secretary and Superintendent *hiladely , 


Vacant Lots Cultivation Ass 


In Indianapolis 

The Vacant Lot Cultivation and Home 
Gardening Committee in Indianapolis 
claims a unique position for its undertak 
ing in that it combines charitable and civic 
nterests and is successful in furthering 
both. This work, which was organized 
sixteen years ago, has spread to all parts 
of the city, has been established in most of 
the schools and is being backed by leading 
commercial and civic organizations. 

During the summer of 1915, 223 vacant 
lots, 1,500 kitchen gardens or back yards, 
and 400 flower gardens were cultivated. 
lhree bushels of beans, one and one-half 
bushels of peas, six bushels of onion sets 
one thousand tomato plants and seventeen 
thousand packages of miscellaneous seeds 
were distributed for planting And the 
total cost of the work, including plowing 


the ground, providing seed, providing fet 





CHILDREN A WORK IN A SCHOOL GARD 
the next few vears fan es were encour 
aged and assisted in making gardens i1 

| , 
their back vards. hey vere iso encour 


iged to plant flowers in their front \ irds 
ind to repair and whitewash fences Chis 


gave to many a new idea of life and showed 





them that squalid homes « d be made 
beautiful. The gardens a sted much 
| 7 
Keeping down iving expenses 

The next sten VAS the encourage 
school gardening (Owners t vacant lot 
were asked to donate their use, al d, vitk 


the assistance of the school authorities. th 


pupils undertook t 


7 ins 
other rubbish from the lots and make f 
them beautiful gardens. Vacant lots wert 
also obtained for the use of poor people 
all parts of the « ind inv are the ole 
and crippled, unable to do steady work, that 
re self-supporting I heir ga 
dening The school gard | prea 
intil now t S a part ri ho \ 
ind in Sot Instances scn 

being used for this 








ee SNe et 





34 rHE AMERICAN CITY Vor. XIV, No 


| 
Lhe hool work is supervised partly by 
the school authorities and partly by the 
haritv Organization Society The other 
, s exclusively under the direction ot 
this soci except that the funds are raised 
vy a special committee, to which plans are 
submitted. Government seeds are used al 
most exclusively The supervision by the 
harit (Organization ociet lakes pos 
sible the assignment of lots to those really 
CEE them Phe people needing assist 
¢ the winter months are encour 

ized to maintain gardens in the summer 
rh vork has received recognition from 


the park board and other city boards, has 


been endorsed by the Juvenile Court and 


the Chamber of Commerce 


C. SS. GROUT 


Uy 


cs Secretary, ( irity Organizat Society 


| In 


In Pittsburgh 

lhe Pittsburgh Vacant Lot Garden As- 
sociation began its work in May, I9I5. 
Some of the lots generously offered by pub 
lic-spirited citizens could not be used, as 
the expense necessary to prepare them 
would have been prohibitive. After a thor- 
nigh investigation, the following lots were 
selected for demonstration purposes: one 
it the East End, which supplied seventeen 
families; one at the South Side, which sup 
plied four families; two at the North Side, 
each of which supplied five families; one 
at the West | nd, which was worked by the 
Home for Friendless Men: and another on 
Fifty-sixth Street, cultivated by one family. 

Thirty-one varieties of vegetables were 
grown, some of the gardens producing two 
crops Potatoes weighing from 18 to 22 
ounces each and beans measuring from 10 
to I! inches in length were grown. Some 
of the families raised more vegetables than 
they could consume, and gave some to their 
neighbors, as well as selling others. The 
various families reported that the vege 
tables were the finest-flavored that they 
had ever eaten and that they were in great 
demand by the neighbors : 

\mong th families which cultivated 
gardens was one the father of which was 
unable to work: the mother took in wash 


ing; three of the children were simple 


minded. The father admitted that the gar 
den was their salvation, keeping them from 
Starving \nother family numbered six 
ind were living in two rooms, at the point 
of starvation lhe father had been an in 


valid for years. He was discouraged, as 

first he was unable to work more thar 
half an hour at a time, but he finally gained 
strength enough to work two gardens. Aj 
ter providing for his family, he sold th 
surplus vegetables. He not only regained 
health, but, being ambitious, he did odd 





whan nico & 








Se es 











_ 


THE SECOND CROP IN A PITTSBURGH 
VACANT-LOT GARDEN 


jobs for neighbors. He is now anxious to 
have a large tract of land, feeling confident 
that he can thus make sufficient money to 
support his family in comfort. One man 
who was very successful with the work 
wanted a garden to keep him away from 
saloons. In some cases the neighbors 
scoffed at the plan when work was started, 
but after watching the progress they ad 
mitted that they had never seen such fine 
products, and asked for some samples to 
show their associates in the mills 


First Vice-President, Vacant Lot G 
ciation, Pittsburgh, Pa 








The Prairie Spirit in Landscape Gardening 
By Wilhelm Miller 


i Division of !.2ndscape Extension, Department of Horticulture, University of Illinois 
66 HE Prairie Spirit in Landscape It is difficult for a or ( S 
Gardening” * is the title of a 36 to design and plant am ( ce 
page circular recently issued by cause no two places ha e co 
4 the Department of Horticulture of the Uni tions, and therefore no tw s sl 
i versity of Illinois. Its aim is to show “what be planted in exactly the sa i\ \ 
E the people of Illinois have done and can _ ever, general principles are here laid 
4 do toward designing and planting public and nearly every chapter is summarize 
y and private grounds for efficiency and the form of one or more practica ica 
beauty.” On the following pages are re tions headed by the phrase, “I will” or “W 
»produced some of the illustrations. will.” The former is a motto of Chicag 
' While “The Prairie Spirit’ was prepared — the latter has been suggested as a new, i 
: srimarily for the people of Illinois, its prin formal motto for Illinois I mprovene 
ciples are applicable throughout the Middle organizations that are always inquiring 
\Vest. Indeed, conservation and restora “What shall we do?” will find thirty-t 
, tion are applicable everywhere. This cir answers from which they may select 
cular, therefore, may be of national inter The materials used in the prairie st 
2 
“Short Ballot” for Illinois is Citizens 
i Let each family unite on some of s and record , ‘ : ¢ 
j accomplish during the coming year 
WE WILL 
C) Keep our home grounds clean, and screen unsightly objects [-] Plant shr nst the founda 
j — by planting — Plant rmar 
| C) Save old trees and plant long-lived species LJ] pages 24 
e Have an informal shrubbery border for year-round beauty ro Vesien \ | 
LJ stead of a trimmed hedge LJ we can i 
} HOW THE poorentetg COMERS KEPT THEIR PROMISES 
| Me Sete Seater teen Late Race eae r 
Toe Tes Ge ae a ee * 
est, especially in new communities where are classed in a new w: Class I consists 
people still despise or neglect the local flora. of stratified materials or sy Ils of the 
| It may even have some educational value in prairie, while Class II consists of non 
q regions where none of the Middle-Western _ stratified materials, which may be remind 
species will grow, by setting people to think ers of Illinois. The stratified materials in 
ing in new and constructive ways about clude 34 perennials, 22 shrubs, 12 small 
their environment. trees, 17 tall and medium-high trees and 2 
The prairie style is defined as “an Ameri evergreens—a total of 87 species that have 
can mode of design based upon the prac- horizontal branches, flower clusters, or 
3 tical needs of the Middle-Western people both. The non-stratified materials number 
; and characterized by preservation of typi 112, making a total of nearly 200 permanent 


cal Western scenery, by restoration of local ornamental plants native to Illinois. Thess 





color, and by repetition of the horizontal are all in cultivation and may be secured 
line of land or sky, which is the strongest from the fourteen nurserymen named i 
feature of prairie scenery.” This repeti the pamphlet or may be transplanted fror 
tion is accomplished by means of “stratified the wild, if necessary or desirable. 
plants,” which have strong horizontal Certain kinds are suitable for such co 
branches or flower clusters like certain mon needs as foundation planting, porch 
hawthorns or thorn apples. decoration, wall covering, framing th 
, ie r the hous 1 planti hardy bo 
This pamphlet. known as Circular 184 of the Illi view of the house, and pla > HArUY oO! 
% nois Agricultural Experiment Station, is published for ders Others are suitable onl for parks 
z free distribution to anyone in Illinois who will gi PP ae 
mise to do some permanent ornamental planting and large estates, or for s] al problen 
vithin a year. To others the price is 25 cents pet , , , | , | 
py The text and illustrations of the circular ar such as arbors, banks ird gardens, blutt 
4 pyrighted by the Department of Horticultu f the 
. University of Illinois, and the half-tones published ot cut flowers, street trees 
e following pages are reproduced in Tu 





~ . N war ns ' sly SO} 
ity by special permission eardens, and peculiar s« 








What a Difference it Makes in the Appearance of a Street if the 
Houses have Foundation Planting! 





S] rel e the bareness and make a hous 
like a S times neighbors coéperate and tie a whole street 
gi ! in the parking, as in the next pictur: 





toundat planting gives a park-like appearance, especially whet 


one \round these foundations are many Illi: 





\RY, 1916 rH L\MERICAN ( r \ 








Is your Community ‘Butchering its Trees, or is it Saving them as 
Urbana Does? 
The elms shown below and all other street trees Uy 1 
heing saved by a public-spirited citizen, who serves as é 
without pay. No one can cut down, prune or plant a tree w 
permission. Cannot your community | city forester 
tree commission ? 
t 





/ 
¢ 
; 
: 
; (Fr 7 Prairie Spirit in 1 "an g 

















“I Defy Anyone to Sell These Houses at a Profit” 


k of ‘stickers’ is the despair of every real estate dealer 
hrub. Telepl poles in the parking instead of in the 
t t to sell a bare property without serious 


LA vards ] Anni 
nnem eal tate dealer, Urbana 





“All Houses on This Street are Readily Salable”’ 


I have sold these four 


People at ‘ to live under these elms. 
t total of thirteen times. Each sale was at an increased 
ermanent trees and shrubs according to a well- 
M. Vanneman, real estate dealer, Urbana. 


pe Gardening Se page 





nite 
WA 


{NUNLANAUNNAGIOON UO AOUURLAU NAL 


FACTORS IN THE SUCCESS OR 


FAILURE OF STREET PAVEMENTS 


asl ili 





HULALAULRULULDNARU UU AUVLAUNLOULVOUNUASLLOAARLLODADODLUULSUULIOASUOUA LAGS UU A 
Epitor’s Note—The following is the sixth of the series of articles under th z 
heading published in THE AMERICAN City, as announced in the tssue of July, 1915. The five 
wticles which have already appeared are 
Sueet AspHAtt PAveMENTS—Daniel T. Pierce, Executive Assistant, The Barber Asphalt 
Paving Company. 
AspHALT BLocK PAVEMENTS—Edwin J. Morrison, President, The Hastings Pavement 
Company. 
Bituminous MacapAM PAveMENTS—Philip P. Sharples, Barrett Manufacturing Company. 
Virririep Brick PAVEMENTs—Will P. Blair, Secretary, National Paving Brick Manu- 
facturers’ Association. 
ConcrEeTE PAVEMENTS—W. A. Mclntyre, Association of American Portland Cement 
Manufacturers. 
The remaining article in the series will be 
Woop Brocks—H. S. Loud, Chief Engineer, United States Wood Preserving Cor pany 
The articles are published in alphabetical order, as listed above ls the manufacture 
f the various types of pavement are vitally interested in the proper construction and mainte 
nance of their products, and have necessarily made a very careful study of subye he 
are able to offer thoroughly practical advice regarding factors to be considered and mistakes 
to be avoided. It is not the intention of this series of articles to advecate the merits of an 
particular kind or brand of pavement. The assumption is in each case that a city has decided 
to lay a pavement of the type under discussion; the object of each article being t fer sug- 
gestions as to how the longest life may be obtained for such a pavement at the least possibl 
expenditure to the municipality. 
This series will be followed by one on various types of patented pavements 
Improved Granite Block P t 
By Zenas W. Carter 
Field Secretary, Granite Paving Block Manufacturers’ Association of the U. S. 
66 HE success or failure of street what is known as the “Improved Granit 
pavements” must naturally be Block’; especially as it is a fact that no 
used as a relative term when ap-_ citizen should permit the laying and no 


plied to granite block pavements, as granite 
paving blocks are made from natural gran- 
ite exclusively, quarried in a majority of 
states of the Union, and there never was 
a failure of granite block paving such as 
might be possible with certain manufac 
tured or mixed paving materials. 

On the other hand, there are such a va 
riety of methods used in the handling of 
the quarried granite blocks that what one 
citizen or engineer may term a good or suc- 
cessful granite block pavement might be 
termed a failure by his neighbor or fellow 
engineer. 

In order to make our statements clear, 
therefore, we shall largely confine them to 


engineer should specify or accept a pave 
fails 


ment, of granite block which to re 
sult in an even surface in every way ac 
ceptable for both horse and automobilk 
traffic. 

The street pavements so often errone 
ously called “Cobble Ston« and “Belgian 


Block,” and which have given the averag: 
citizen his to granit¢ 
block pavements are well illustrated in the 
the back 


ground is the improved granite block even 


idea of antagonism 


foreground of Fig. 1, while in 
surface pavement of Lafayette Street, New 
York City. 

The difference between 
of pavement, aside from the fact 


the se two types 
that the 


[139] 








{ HI LME!I 
i Wort it 4 
) et Street the 
. ‘ p } 
‘ r t ‘ Succe iv< ( 
St ( nis ) ( Ssurtace sO 
tact hat sswalks o 
‘ ré ( ded—tt S 
eK na he « equire and the 
v ecitly ( wit rranite 
block | gy no projects on the surtac 
exceed ng x inch trot an even plan and 
that the blocks be laid in the street on a 
roperly drained sub-foundation, a sub 
stantial concrete foundatior and with 
clos even joints, and that thes joints be 


[CAN Giz? Vor. XIV, No 


grout to set properly, the cement grout fillet 
should be used and will give better result 
usually than the bituminous filles 

\s the question of the great importancs 
ot proper drainage and an ample concret« 
foundation has already been fully treated in 
previous articles of this series, it seems 
only necessary to state here that these fac 
tors are jusc as much a feature in the lay 
ing of a successful improved granite block 
pavement as they are in the laying of any 
other type of successful pavement; al 
though it is true, of course, that many 
small towns and some cities have made a 


success of granite block pavements with 




















VIEW AT CORNER OF LAFAYETTE AND WORTH STREETS, NEW YORK 


Old style ger te block in fore : 
hiled with a bituminous filler of asphalt or 
pitch, or grouted with a cement grout con 
sisting of one part cement and one part 
sand. 


Bituminous vs. Cement Fillers 

Che use ot the two different types of fillers 
is largely a question of the likelihood of fu 
ture openings being made in the.pavement. 
lf frequent openings are apt to be neces 
sary, the bituminous filler is more conve 
nient, and where traffic conditions demand 
quick repair it is preferable. Where open 
ings are not apt to be frequent or where 
rafhe conditions would allow blocking off 


* reasonable period for the cement 


ground; improved granite block on Lafayette Street 


cement grouted joints, laid without a con 
crete foundation. This method would not 
be practical, however, in a city like New 
York, Chicago, Philadelphia or Boston. 
To secure the best results with the bitu 
minous filler, it is essential that specifica 
tions distinctly demand, and that inspection 
be so rigid, that a city will secure a block 
of reasonable hardness, toughness, and one 
that shows a proper resistance to abrasion. 
At the present time, there are so many 
methods being used and such a varied lot 
of tests being made that the selection of 
granite from some quarry which already 
has made a record for quality through ser 
vice given in specific streets in different 


ae ee PN 








FEBRUARY, 1916 rHE AMER 


1 ¢ 


noe GEES 























FIG. 2.—GROUTED GRANITE PAVEMENT 


This pavement, laid 15 years ago, is in remarkably fine condition to-da 
munt of wear 


expense on acc 


cities and under different traffic conditions, 
is undoubtedly the safest course for the 
engineer, unless he has satisfactory facili 
for making suitable that he 
knows will provide the proper granite to 
meet his requirements. 

When the blocks are delivered, 
should be used in the inspection to see that 
blocks meet the specifications as to size. 
Blocks with uneven heads, having depres 
sions of more than 34-inch depth as a maxi 
mum, should be rhe 


ties tests 


care 


rejected. average 


ON MAIN STREET, WORCESTER, 


, and has 


MASS 


ncurred 1 maintenance 


ind tea 


citizen to-day demands, and is entitled to, 
an even surface pavement. Large bunches 
or undue depressions in the blocks make 
an uneven surface 
just cause for complaint regarding noise 
from traffic. 


pavement which gives 


That it is possible to secure 
a granite block pavement that is commer 
cially free from noise—for noise is almost 
entirely absent with an even surface gran 


ite pavement—is clearly shown in Fig. 2 


and Fig. 3. 


Granite paving blocks should never be 

















FIG. 3.—VIEW ON WYTHE 
Slocks laid and rammed, ready for filler 


eguiar 


Note even surface, close, 


AVENUE, BROOKLYN, N. \ 


well-broken joint 1 eve! 


courses 























142 MERICAN CITY Voit. XI No. 2 
sis ; \ een one hy ome Alwavs block and thoroughly bond the blocks int 
adh ae » wagon. Thousands a monolith form. q 
” cks are sp for good paving Granite blocks vary in size in different ; 
, thy ugh careless hat fine locations, and no specific $size Can be PiVell : 
preference; but it is important to see that 
Size of Blocks and Joints all blocks in any single course across the 
ext teature of importance is to Street or area being paved are of th Sani 
nd secure blocks which permit width; as the use of a 42-inch block in 
even. close joints: joints for bi the course with a 34-inch block will leave Pr 
ler pavements not to exceed % a chance for the narrow block to become 
for cement grout filler pavements «loosened, and this gives a chance for the ‘ 
to exceed inch. When blocks are next and next blocks to move. As a re | 
FIG. 4—COUNTY PAVING WORK ON BLOOMFIELD AVENUE BOULEVARD, NEWARK TO 
MONTCLAIR, N. J. 
granite t t for seven miles, showing excellent condition afte ve ye ‘ é 
vith 1 yintenance expense 
laid with wider joints than 3¢-inch for sult, an opening in the joint develops and 
nous filler work, the blocks will be water seeps through to the concrete and 
gin t turtle” or round on all the edges shifts the cushion below or upheaves the 
within a few years, on account of the steel blocks in the area through freezing in the | 


; 


shoes of horses tending to chip and break winter. Of course, with the gr 


~ 


ut fiiler 
oft small pieces every time the calk slips the danger is not so great, but it exists. 
nto the joint. With the close, even joint, Granite blocks should not vary more than 
properly filled, the horses can secure good %-inch in depth in any case. Much of 
footholds when handling heavy loads, and the old-time unevenness of surface came 
the edges are so close together that both about through carelessness on this point. 
blocks on the sides of the joint are forced Variations in length are not important, 
to take the strain and blow, and neither ‘with the exception that blocks over 12 
block is broken or chipped inches in length should not be used, and the 
variation in lengths should be sufficient to 
always allow for breaking the joints at 
least 3 inches se that ruts cannot develop 


\ shghtly wider joint may be used for 
cement grout filler work, as the filler must 


penetrate well down to the bottom of the 








FEBRUARY, 1910 rH AMERICAN CITY 


from two end joints being continuous. face of the pavement is both even and firm 
It is best to specify one 


Laying the Blocks two 


When laying blocks, great care must be 


! 


rammersman t 
pavers to insure that every block is 


rammed to a firm bed. The 


main trouble 
used to see that the sand cushion or mortar f 


from poor ramming is that the _ poorly 
cushion over the bed of the concrete is not bedded blocks will go down under traffic 
deeper than necessary. A cushion of 34- and the surface of the pavement will soon 
nch to I inch is ample, and the frequent be very uneven; while, on the other hand, 
practice of using a cushion of 142 inches _ properly laid granite block | 


pavements have 
to 2 inches should be abandoned. Before 


given service for periods of twenty years 
the specifications for improved granite and more without a single block showit 


blocks developed there was some excuse 





appreciable wear, or any unevenness of 
for this practice, as the blocks frequently surface developing. 
varied I inch or more in depth; but engi Bituminous fillers should be half-and 


neers now know that this extra depth of 


halt pitch and sand, or asphalt 
block and sand cushion were the cause of 


Cement grout fillers should be one part 
cement to one part clean sand. No pea 
stone or gravel should be put 


joints when grout fillers are 
shows it is possible to secure it. little 


and sand 


much unevenness of surface. The auto 
mobile enthusiast demands evenness of 


into the 
surface and should have it; Fig. 4 clearly 


used, and very 
with the bituminous fillers, and this 


re 
% 
4 


pt 

















+ 

t 

} 
§ FIG. 5.-TYPICAL FRACTURE DUE TO EXPANSION OF GROUT 

a0 IN JOINT ALMOST FILLED WITH SAND OR PEA-STONI 

=i (sr it penetrated only from 2 4 1 es 

es 

Inspectors having charge of granite should be hot. Ali fillers should be poured 

a block paving work need also to insist that and repoured into the joints, until all joints 
& 


pavers refrain from the common practice are filled flush with the surface of the 

j of padding out the joints to secure yardage, blocks. 
especially with bituminous filler work. 
lhe contractor or city engineer, if the job 
be city work, should remember that al 
though filler is less expensive than granite 
blocks, granite blocks are sold by the 
close joints and save in the quantity of 


Bituminous fillers should never be put 


into the joints when blocks are wet or dur 


Na ad 


‘- 
veh 


ing cold weather, and care must be used t 
see that the pitch or asphalt used is not 
burned and yet is hot enough 


to penetrate 
to the bottom of the block 


Z square yard laid. It is thus cheaper to lay Cement grout fillers onght to be mixed 

i“ filler; the price for granite being the same in a machine mixer, as it is very important 

> whether large or small joints are used. that the sand and cement be thoroughly 

\fter the blocks are laid in proper mixed and that the grout be kept agi 

courses, they must be thoroughly rammed. tated until it is poured. When box or tub 

4 \ll low blocks should be lifted and _ re hand mixers are used, the grout must be 
3 bedded and retamped until the entire sur- stirred constantly up to th 


moment of 


































a Suit eS 





144 THE AMERICAN CiTyY Vor. XIV, No. 2 


dumping and spreading; otherwise the sand 
and cement will separate, causing the un- 
cightly appearance of even surface patches 
mixed with open joint patches occasionally 
seen where careless workmen have been 
allowed to dump grout and spread it with- 
out proper mixing. 


Penetration of the Grout 

In the investigation work done this sum- 
mer for the Granite Paving Block Manu- 
facturers’ Association, our consulting en- 
gineer, Clarence D. Pollock, of New York 
City, and the writer found also that it is 
absolutely essential that the grout penetrate 
and bond the blocks to a depth of at least 
3 inches or more to secure a perfect mono- 
lith which will withstand both the expan- 
sion (slight as it is) of the cement grout 
in the joint and the abrasion of traffic with- 
out spawling the blocks. 

Out of a large number of cases investi- 
gated where the conditions were identical 
with those shown in Fig. 5, we did not find 
a single fracture where the grout had 
formed a bond to a depth of 3 inches or 
more, while every case did show expansion 
fracture where the grout had penetrated 
only to a depth of 1 inch or a little more. 
Furthermore, every one of the fracture 
cases showed that either pea stone, gravel 
or sand had been allowed to fill up the joint 
sufficiently to prevent the grout penetrating 
3 inches below the surface of the block. 
All joints should, therefore, be cleaned 
before filling, if careless workmen have 
spilled sand or pea stone on the blocks after 
they are laid. 

\fter cement grout fillers are poured for 
the last time and all joints are full, the sur- 
plus grout should be removed from the top 
of the blocks with a squeegee or large brush. 
Unless this is done, the pavement will be 
dusty from the cement breaking from the 


top of the blocks, as well as unsightly for 
several years. 

With the cement grout filler in the joints, 
it is absolutely a requirement for suc- 
cess that traffic be kept entirely off the 
pavement for at least seven to ten days, the 
longer the better, in order to give the grout 
ample opportunity to thoroughly set or 
cure. If the weather is hot, the pavement 
should be sprinkled frequently, or covered 
with sand and the sand kept wet—the latter 
being the better method. Many contractors 
and engineers have wondered why the 
grout came out of the joints in flakes when 
they knew the mixture and workmanship 
were all that could be desired, but did not 
know that the weather had baked the grout 
before it had time to properly mature. Bi- 
tuminous fillers do not require more than 
a few hours of time before traffic may be 
turned on to them, and frequently they cool 
within an hour. 

In laying granite block pavements it is 
never necessary to use expansion joints, 
although an expansion joint has been laid 
next to the curb in a few instances to break 
the monolith bond between the pavement 
and sidewalk and buildings on the street. 

Unlike the old style rough granite block 
pavement, the improved block properly laid 
makes an even surface pavement which 
eliminates most of the noise of vehicles and 
provides an excellent surface for horse- 
drawn traffic under all weather conditions, 
while at the same time meeting the de- 
mands of fastidious autoists. Furthermore, 
a granite block pavement will stand all the 
weight and abuse which the heaviest of 
modern auto trucks and loads may put upon 
it and last indefinitely. To secure such re- 
sults, the extra care in laying as suggested 
in this article and the slight extra cost for 
granite are amply repaid. 















Typical Cross-Sections for Roads and Streets 
Suburban and Country Roads 


(From the last annual report of the Bureau of Highways, City of Philadelphia) 


WATERBOUND MACADAM 


























~ St 















22fBdum: 
Old Macacam 









ON OLD MACADAM 





CEMENT CONCRETE / 


CONCRETE SLOPE Ao vainiaie 

















ON CONCRETE 


RUBBLE — ag 
SP S14 46 DAS ren 
BROKEN STONE BASE 



































THE AMERICAN CITY Vor. XIV, No. 2 


BITUMINOUS CONCRETE 











Q FBdeminous Top” 
\ 4.Concrete 
Telford 


ON CONCRETE~ TELFORD BASE 





Q 


ty Streets > 


te 
Nn 

















SHEET ASPHALT 











GRANITE BLOCK 















GCONcetTE 


WOOD BLOCK 









= 6 COncerre 
ee dak 


VITRIFIED BLOCK 























DOUBLE TRACK CONSTRUCTION 











—— THE AMERICAN CITY 147 
TYPICAL CROSS SECTIONS 
PAVING — 2URFACITIG RESURFACING 


Cement Grout of Bitum neous F Wer « 













2'Asphelt Weer 
‘Ser fece "t 








‘i; ‘=a? ~y+E 
' Bander C 1 Send Cushion? 


8 as Come Perse 

4° Grave\ Foundotion 

ASPHALT VITRIFIED BLOCK GRANITE BLOCK WOOD BLOCK 
SECTIONS SHOWING VARIOUS TYPES OF CONSTRUCTION FORCITY STREETS 








Sand Fille Above Res! 








WoOoD BLOCK ASPHALT 


SECTIONS SHOWING CONSTRUCTION ON DOUBLE TRACK STREETS 











cK GRANITE BLOCK 
pos SHOWING CONSTRUCTION ON SINGLE TRACK STREETS 








4° Concrete Dose 


<concrehe Bm oa 5 ADAM, ON TELFORD BASE MACADAM BITUMINOUS ON CONCRETE 
SECTIONS SHOWING COUNTRY ROAD SURFACING 








@'Cone Header Cure 
“Hinimum 







4 Minemum 






PS) Eortt Gutter 


“> 





< : ; 
Sie 





my ATA cwcuvens 
Seosedadess Saedpases 


TR’ foto" 











Cor Shoulder 





Lortk Shovider 


BITUMINOUS ROADWAY 





cj 
Steal Bone OLD TELFORD BASE OLD MACADAM BASE 





SECTIONS SHOWING COUNTRY ROAD RESURFACING 








CONCRETE ROADWAY 





NOUS 


WIDTH PAVEMENT 
ocK The values indicated in this 


= 
sedehe are aonlirelte in atuc. 
cures! c CIlbiclblclb chedule ire applicable in situa 
7 3 tions where both curbs are of 
} +A%l41 equal elevation. The ordinates 
Tl + have reference to a base line 
aad 


equal in elevation to the stan- 
° 10 1+5 54 : ' 


dard curb heights, which is 5 

inches above the surface eleva- 
+ tion of the gutter. 

C#Dist abv er below curb in inches of che 


7 ve. . 7 - “ % pr 


oy? bin inches 
b= -5 WeWidtk front infect (Issued, 1915, by the Bureau of Highways, 


On streats with car tracks allow, of slope from City of Philadelphia.) 
between rail and . 


c 



























- REAL ESTATE SUBDIVISIONS | 
I ssciieratenneiieeneienemnnesianiiiianeaiaincgitiiiiineas : ase BsEse) 


Eprtor’s Nore.—IWith the National Conference on City Planning giving careful study 
to the best methods of land subdivisions, and with the National Association of Real Estate 
Exchanges devoting special attention to the subject cf city planning, there ts increasingly rapid 
progress throughout the United States in the laying out of real estate developments along 
modern lines, This cooperation of the city planner, the landscape architect and the real 
estate owner means much for the rational development of the unoccupied areas and suburbs 
of American cities and towns. With a view to furnishing practical aid in this movement, 
ue American Crry will publish frequent articles in future under this new department head 
of “Real Estate Subdivisions.” 


St. Joseph Manor, Elkhart, Indiana 


By Edward H. Bennett 
Consulting Architect, Chicago 


bend of the Saint Joseph River in run by motor. 

Elkhart, Ind. It has fine views up The grading and sewerage are already 
and down the river; in the latter direction done, and the other work will proceed at 
the center of Elkhart is seen. It is con- once. 
nected directly with the city center by One of the owners of the property, Mr. 
Jackson Street, and, although apparently Joseph S. Kies, is authority for the state- 


Sven Joseph Manor is situated at a well out of town, is within fifteen minutes’ 





GENERAL PLAN 
SAINT JOSEPH MANOR 
ELKHART INDIANA 
SHOWING “LICHTING AND PLANTING 
a 


CRBSENWETT ARCHITECT 
SEPTEMBER an cmicaco 































PeprUary, 1916 


ment that the lots are bringing double the 
price originally. anticipated; this he at 
tributes to the added value given to real 
estate by proper planning and restrictions. 

There will be two entrances East 
Jackson Street. The one at the west, being 
nearer the city, will be the important en- 
trance, and will be marked with an im 
posing gateway, built of brick and stone. 
From this point the road will be cut through 
the grove (of oaks), forming an unusually 
attractive approach, which will be imme 
diately effective. Both approaches will lead 
to a park lying at about the center of the 
tract, of approximately 120 x feet, 
around which the houses are to be grouped. 

\ll the lots in the subdivision, even those 
not fronting on the 
glimpses of the water. 


from 


200 


will have 
lhe park will be 
for the advantage and enjoyment of the 
community, and under the control of the 
residents, being improved and maintained 
at the expense of St. Joseph Manor. Be- 
tween lots 10 and 11 there will be a 
right of way to give access to a boathouse 
and landing for general use of the com 
munity. This will be 8 feet wide at the 
end near the street, and 20 feet wide near 
the river, affording space for a walk, with 
shrubbery on each side to form a screen 
from the adjoining houses. 


riv er, 


Lot No. 1 is intended to contain a garage, 
storeroom and other services for the gen 
eral use of the Manor. The other lots will 
be restricted to residential purposes. 


Building Limits 

For the lots facing the park a general 
building line 50 feet from the street line is 
established. For the lots backing on East 
Jackson Street there is to be a building line 
of 40 feet from the street line. For lots 
Nos. 17, 18 and 20 a setback of 30, 18 and 
12 feet respectively from the street is es- 
tablished. In order to maintain an effect 
of open lawn along the river side, and to 
prevent the erection of any house which 
would obstruct the view of the river from 
other houses, a building line along the 
river, and at a distance from it varying 
from 45 to 110 feet, is established. As 
there is 75 feet between the front and rear 
building lines, there will be ample build- 
ing space provided for dwellings. 

A setback of at least 10 feet from the 
side lines of the lots will be required. 


THE AMERICAN 


City 149 


Garages and ‘Boathouses 
lor the lots fronting on the river it is 
proposed, for the purpose ot general con 
venience and 


avoiding of obstruction of 


view on the river side, that all garages 
shall be on the street line, with a setback, 
however, of 30 feet. As shown on the 


plans, the garages are to be in pairs, having 
a common entrance drive from the street 
and screened from view by shrubbery. 
rhe height of garages irom the grade to 
the eaves shall not exceed g feet, aud from 
the grade to the top ot the roof 13 feet. 
lhe lots 10 and 
either side of the approach to the river, will 
be subject to special restriction as to design 
and material. 
In order to preserve 


garages of 11, being on 


as tar as possible 
the sightliness of the river banks, the con 
struction of will be 
to the positiors indicated. 


boathouses shall be 


boathouses restricted 
No part of the 
higher than elevation 
110, in order to cause the least possible 
obstruction of view. 


Trees and Fences 

\s many as possible of the existing trees 
should be retained. New trees are to be 
set out by the Manor in the park and along 
the streets, as shown in the plan. Indica 
tion of new trees recommended for plant 
ing within the lots and spaces for planting 
of shrubbery also appear in the plan. 

It is recommended that there be no 
fences except where residents may so de- 
sire between the houses, and except along 
East Jackson Street. Near the streets and 
near the river there should be no fences, 
in order to obtain a wide expanse of lawn. 


Service Yards 
The location 


houses 


and arrangement of the 
indicated on the planting plan 
should be suggestive. At 
tention is called especially to the arrange 
ment whereby the service or kitchen yards 
of adjacent lots are grouped together, near 
the garages. The garages may be provided 
with doors on the rear as well as on the 
front, so that automobiles may be driven 
through the garage to the service yard for 
washing. 


considered as 


Deliveries of coal, etc., may be made in 
this manner. 


$y pairing off the service 
yards and garages the undesirable condi 
tion of the best rooms of any house look 











150 THE 
ing into the neighbor's back vard is com 
pletely avoided 
Pipes and Conduits 
Sanitary sewers, water and gas mains, 


and conduits for tele phone and electric ser 
vice are to be laid within the space between 
the curb and sidewalk to the 


intertere trees. 


close latter, 
Chis 


pipes without 


sO as not to with the 


will permit of access to the 


tearing up the roadway, and will allow con- 
nections with any house without crossing 
the roadway \long lots where the road 
passes through the grove it May be neces 


sarv to lay the , etc., under the road 


injuring the 


sewers 
Vay to avoid 

It is 
phone and 


existing trees. 
that 


wires be carried 


esp cially recommended tele 


electric service 


n conduits, in ordet 


that unsightly poles 
may be avoided 


Whe 


on the plan 


position of street lights is indicated 


two special lights 


Besides the 


AMERICAN CITY 





Vor. XIV, No. 2 


at the main entrance, there are 
teen street lights. 


in all seven 


Maintenance 

should be made for mainte 
nance of the park and parkways. Fre 
quently such parks are deeded over to th 
municipal park authorities as a permanent 
public park to be maintained. Otherwis« 
a local improvement association may be 
formed for the purpose of properly main 
taining the park ard parkways, the cost to 
be met by annual or quarterly payments, to 
be pro-rated among the residents of St 
Joseph Manor. 


Provision 


In this way the direct con 
trol of the park would be in the hands of 
the residents. In fact, the organization re 
quired to maintain the park might also be 
employed to take care of the trees, shrubs 
and lawns of the private property to the 
mutual saving in expense and general ap 
pearance of surroundings. 





Morgan Park—A New Type of Industrial 
Community 


By George D. McCarthy 


Assistant Secretary, Commercial Club of Duluth, Minn. 


NEW steel plant began operations in 


Duluth in December. It has been 


erected at a cost of about $20,0¢ 10,000 


by the Minnesota Steel Company, a sub- 
sidiary organization of the United States 


Steel Corporation. 
Squalor and steel plants have long been 


associated together in the public mind, For 


this, fiction writers are partially responsible, 
but to the bald facts can usually be charged 
the remainder of the responsibility. There 
is, and will be, no such association in Du 
luth. In this instance, the United States 
Steel Corporation has interested itself in 
its employes, not only during their hours of 


labor, but during their hours of rest. It has 














A PANORAMIC 


VIEW 














Perruary, 1916 


THE AMERICAN CITY SI 








been interested in the questions of how the 
employes live; how they obtain their recre 
ation; how they spend their money, and how 
their children are educated—yet has never 
departed from the path laid out by sound 
business principles. Labor efficiency is not 
determined merely by the hours spent in 
factory or mine. It is a product of many 
factors, among them good housing condi 
tions, proper food, wholesome recreation, a 
contented mind and regular habits of life. 
Bad social conditions produce inefficient 











workmen, yet few employers realize that 
the best way to eliminate inefficiency is to 
provide the things that produce its opposité 

The Minnesota Steel Company’s plant oc 
cupies 1,600 acres on a plateau on the banks 
of the St. Louis River within the city limits 
of Duluth. Part of the 
by the steel mills. 
within a city—Morgan Park, named after 
the famous financier 


ground is occupied 


Che remainder is a city 


his model city is a unique and interest 
ing experiment. In August, 1913, the land o1 














OF MORGAN PARK, DULUTH 








152 THE AMERICAN CITY Vor. XIV, No, 





water and the other fo 
general use, are con 

pleted. rhe pipes are laid 
in the alleys, so that the 
pavements will never he 
disturbed. 

There is no crowding 
Each building is thirty 
feet from the street line 
and there is a thirty-foot 
space between the build 
ings. A garden space is 
allotted to each apart 
ment. The apartments 
each have four or five 
rooms. The detached 
houses have six, seven or 
eight rooms. 


























\UPLEX HOUSE, iLAVING TWO 5-ROOM APARTMENTS For the present the 

rents are at the rate oft 

which it stands was overgrown with brush. $3.75 per room for apartments and $4 pet 

lhe first earth was turned in that month. room for detached houses. A five-room flat 
In August of this year the first unit of the in a duplex, four or six-apartment house, 
village” was complete. Four streets and therefore, will rent for $18.75 per month, 5 
four avenues, paved with concrete, traversed and a six-room detached house at $24 per q 
the acres given over to the town site. Near month. These rents are somewhat lower - 
ly 200 buildings, containing 350 apartments, than the rents for similar houses in the ; 
were ready for occupancy. Some, in fact, same section of the country. 4 
were occupied much earlier. Alleys there The company is now considering all the ’ 
were also, but not the alleys ordinarily con- late developments in industrial housing, so 3 
demned by city planners, for the fences will as to expand the community in line with the 4 
be of sightly wire construction, and not best thought on the subject. a 
ugly board affairs. The alleys are paved Four club rooming houses for single men, £ 
with concrete and the setting is one in accommodating ten, twenty, thirty and 2 
which cleanliness must be always main forty, respectively, have been erected. 3 

tained. The streets were lined with tiny Chere have also been constructed a general 

trees taking root; the space between and in office building for the company and a hos 

front f the houses 
showed new grass and 


shrubbery, and back of 
the houses that were 
ompleted were the be- 





ginnings of the vege ~ 
table gardens that are en . ° 
couraged in Morgan Park « 

Every house is built of 3 
concrete blocks, air-spaced * 
and of approved construc d | 
tion. Each apartment has | 


a separate basement, a 


. 


hot air heating system, 
electric light, gas, fire- 
place and birch finish 
throughout. Storm and 
sanitary sewers are in 








stalled, and two water 


systems, one for drinking FOUR 5-ROOM APARTMENTS IN THIS BUILDING 

















Teaver 





FEBRUARY, 1916 THE 


AMERICAN CITY 


st 
7) 














2 Tt? 74 at 
4 > i. 2 7 pan j- 
Pe eee oe 








SIX 4-ROOM APARTMENTS IN THIS BUILDIN¢ 


pital. A school of the same architecture 
will be provided by the city of Duluth and 
will be part of the regular school system; 
but it will be an innovation, in that the 
Gary system, which came to the world of 
education out of that other steel center in 
Indiana, will be installed in the Morgan 
Park school. 

On six acres in the midst of Morgan Park 
will be located the central playground and 
community center. A clubhouse will be 
erected and maintained, and the grounds 
will be laid out with tennis courts, basket 
ball courts and other facilities for outdoor 
life. Directly across the street is the large 
tract which the company offered to the 
city of Duluth as the site for the school. 
The community activities will center around 
the club and the school, and while definite 
plans have not been made, it is expected that 
the best ideas which have been devised for 
the development of community life and 


community spirit will be applied at Morga 
Park. 

In addition to the club eTOUl ds and school 
grounds, which will be developed at once, 
there are plans in the formative stage fot 


the appropriation of another section of th 
tract as an athletic field The ground re 
served for the purpose forms a natural am 
phitheatre, and will be suitable not only for 
sports and contests, but for festivals and 
pageants. 

Morgan Park as it stands is merely a b 
ginning, the ground having been laid out 
for a community twice the size of the pres 
ent one. Within its limits the company will 
provide for as many employes as possibl 
Under certain restrictions the company will 


provide buildings for business enterprises 
but will not control their operations. No 
saloons are allowed in Morgan Park, and 
the lure of the saloon is at present at a con 
siderable distance from the workers living 
in the company community 











Teaching Civics by Giving Pupils Civic 
Work to Do 


By William H. Allen 


Director, Institute for Public Service 


DUCATIONAL ideas have changed 
E, greatly since we used to read in 
school about Dotheboys Hall. We 
used to laugh at the idea that the way to 
teach a boy how to spell window was to 
send him out to wash the winder. But we 
are getting back to that idea. Teachers 
have been working on this subject of teach- 
ing civics and have come to the same con- 
clusion that they are reaching with regard 
to the teaching of cooking or carpentry or 
German. The way to study German is to 
begin to talk and read German, not to talk 
and read English about German. The way 
to teach domestic science is to have our 
girls do work that needs to be done. 
So the way to teach civics, we are now 
told, is to give boys and girls “chores” or 
tasks that compel them to feel for civic 
ideals—i.e., to discharge and not merely 
read about civic duties. 

Visit the grades in New Rochelle and you 
will find classes organized into civic clubs. 
Nuisances observed are reported: changes 
making for civic beauty or civic health are 
reported in class; pupils are interested be- 
cause they talk about things they have 
themselves seen and wanted and disliked, 
have gotten changed, have done. 

Go to Wadleigh High School, New York 
City, and you will find girls in charge of 
the civics class again organized as a club 
reporting the principal events of public im- 
portance which are found in the daily pa- 
pers. They take turns in presiding. The 
leader must have read carefully enough to 
know whether important points are being 
omitted, and class members are keen to 
point out such omissions as each one in turn 
contributes. 

Go to the high school assembly in Day- 
ton, Ohio, and you will find delegates from 
various classes reporting for their classes 
on perhaps a budget exhibit or the city’s 
welfare work or some helpful hint for Day- 
ton gleaned from reading newspapers or 
The Independent or The Survey. 


These last two magazines are making. 


special effort to report facts that can be 
used in the teaching of civics. The Lite- 
rary Digest advertises that its facts are 


[154] 


needed by children studying civics. Is Tue 
AMERICAN City being used in this way by 
the school or college classes in your city? 
If not, why should it not be, with all its 
statements of fact with which your pupils 
and students can compare what is being 
done in your city with what is done else- 
where? 

Go to Jeanette, Pa., and you will find 
work left there by Superintendent Theo- 
dore B. Shank. There the junior civic 
leagues begin with the third grade, regu- 
larly organized with officers. They meet 
fifteen minutes once a week and discuss 
matters pertaining to the schools, as well 
as the betterment of sanitary conditions in 
the town and any other phase of community 
life. Last vear members of these leagues 
planted one. thousand trees where people 
agreed to take care of them; they co- 
operated with the Pennsylvania Railroad in 
beautifying a half-mile of track, the rail- 
road supplying fifty workmen. Superin- 
tendent Shank is now organizing similar 
leagues at Idaho Falls. Why can’t, this be 
done in every school? 

I have just received two letters from 
schoolmen which suggest two ways of 
teaching civics that are apt to be over- 
looked. One asks for literature about 
teaching thrift in schools. The other asks 
how thieving can be stopped in high school. 
Both emphasize the need for teaching via 
doing, rather than teaching via precept. 

It may be that the high school where this 
thieving is going on has already adopted 
some form of student government. I shall 
be surprised if this is the case. The best 
way to stop thieving is to have pupils or- 
ganized to insure majority rule, to have 
pupils learn to do while at school what 
their communities are compelled to do to 
make stealing difficult, not only by taking 
away the desire for it, but by making de- 
tection easier. Of course, stealing itself 
must be made hard. It will always be dif- 
ficult to stop thieving wherever pupils use 
common closets without individual lockers, 
or at least without separate hangers that 
make misunderstanding inexcusable. 

How futile it is to teach thrift by talking 





FEBRUARY, I910 THE 
ibout it or by having penny savings banks, 
if the school board or the teachers or the 
pupils themselves are allowed to be waste 
ful of school supplies, destroy school fur 
niture, fritter away school time! In other 
words, just as teachers teach the way they 
were taught rather than the way they were 
told to teach, so pupils in school will be 
nfluenced by what they do when not study 
ing civics more than by what they are told 
to do or even what they do when studying 
The very first step is to or 
eanize our schools so that pupils shall do 
day in and day out what the law-abiding 
efficient citizen is supposed to do after he 
has left school—be punctual, be neat, obe 
dient, faithful, observant, carry the load, be 
efficient, etc. 

Those wishing to 


civics. best 


know the most ad 
vanced steps thus far taken in teaching 
civics will do well to send to the United 
States Bureau of Education for Bulletins 
No. 23, Whole No. 650, the “Teaching of 
Community and No. 17, Whole 
No. 642, “Civic Education in Elementary 
Schools as Illustrated in Indianapolis.” 
The first gives the results of studies by a 
national committee. Your school teacher 
will be glad to have her attention called to 
them. They would make a splendid sub 
ject for a discussion by some meeting of a 
chamber of commerce or women’s club. 
They ought certainly to be in your public 
library. 


Civics," 


Will You Not Answer These Questions ? 

If you really want to help, as all readers 
of THe American City do, may I suggest 
something better than telling you how some 
other town is teaching civics? The editor 
tells me that he will be glad to give atten 
tion to any letters which come to him in 
answer to the following suggestions and to 
print for you later a summary of sugges- 
tions or facts received. I suggest that you 
yourselves, preferably with the help of 
your school superintendent, send to THE 
AMERICAN City, 87 Nassau Street, New 
York, answers to the following questions: 

1. What, if any, self-government plans are 
used in your schools? 

2. Are they required by the superintendent, 


or optional with the principal, or optional with 

the teacher ? 

_ 3. What is the first grade in which the sub 

ject of civics or civil government is taught? 
4. What, if any, text-books on civics are 

being used? 


AMERICAN 


cis: 


5. In what ways, if 
taught civics by way 
for the city or for the school 
that is related to civic lessons? 
6. Is civics an extra, or is it 
graduation like other subjects? 
7. What part does the 
in the school assembly? 
8. As taught, do pupils lik 
9. What is taught about 
your own public schools? 
10. Has your school superint 
bulletins above mentioned 
tins in your public library? 


subie 


pupils or students do things that need to be 
done should not be limited to public schools 
or high schools. Of first 


The teaching of government by having 


importance 1s it 
to get the right kind of teaching civics via 
doing civic work in all the normal schools 
and in all classes for the training of teach 
The best scheme in the 
amount to little if the 
not care 


ers. world will 
teacher herself does 
feel for, understand, be 
cause of her own previous work, the things 


which text-books say children should do 


about, 


in studying civics 
No one ought to he 
from 


allowed to graduate 
even to attend 
without doing field work in civics. Train 
ing for peace is infinitely more important 
than training for war. 


college or colleg: 5 


No one is trained 
for peace who has not himself had a hand 
in civic work that needs to be done. 

The could be 
greatly reduced, the time in going through 
college could be shortened, if students were 
helped to find themselves and to prove their 
worth by doing different kinds of public 
work under proper supervision. 

This is too big a 
article. Any 
CITy 
matter 


cost of college training 


subject for a 
reader of THE 
interested in 
further than by answering the 
above questions, may feel free to send to 
the Institute for Public Service, 51 Cham 
bers Street, New York, either some impor 
tant 


short 
\ MERICAN 


who is following this 


fact or a criticism or suggestion or 
question bearing upon the subject of prac 
tical methods of training for citizenship. 

Any reader wishing further knowledg: 
about the country’s experiments in pupil 
self-government may secure information by 
writing to Hon. Richard Welling, 2 Wall 
Street, New York, who is pre sident of the 
Student Government Committee, a national 
organization for promoting the study of 
community relations via discharging com 
munity obligations. 





Children in City 


O other movement for civic better 
N ment has made better use of the 
ability and energy of children than 

has the clean-up campaign. Children have 
special facility in inspection matters; they 
enjoy the distinction of passing judgment 
on conditions—a welcome change from al 
ways being passed upon themselves—and 
their reports are usually keen and direct. 
It is to their credit also that their inspec 
tions are usually courteously made, and that 


Clean-Up Work 


A sketch entitled “Civic Friends and 
Foes,” by Miss Erma B. Perham, was is 
sued last year by the Bureau * for presen 
tation by school children. It is bright and 
clever in its personifying of such foes as 
Fly, Waste Paper (who “blows in” and 
boasts of his intimate friend, Fire, who usu 
ally follows him), Soot and Dirt (hand in 
hand), and Microbe, with Sickness, Death, 
Sorrow and Poverty in the -background 
lhe City’s friends—Swatter, Refuse Can 

















Members are urged to assist in this effort to promote civic pride, 
healthfulness and fire prevention. 


THE BRUSH 








\ POSTER THAT PROVED 














CLEAN-UP CAMPAIGN 


EFFECTIVE IN THE 1915 
IN READING, PA. 




















when the authority to make requests for 
action in cleaning up is given them, they 
approach offenders with dignity and polite- 
ness. 

Children took an important part in some 
5,000 local “Clean Up and Paint Up” cam- 
paigns last year under the auspices of the 
National Bureau. The Bureau laid much 
emphasis on the possibilities of children’s 
cooperation, and its suggestions were va- 
riously adopted everywhere. Civic leaders 
in these campaigns one and all vouch for 
the wonderful educational value of the 
effort. 


[156] 


(in whose presence Waste Paper crumples 
up), Paint, Scrub Brush, Flowers, Water 
and Soap—come at the call of Cleanliness, 
and the foes slink away. 

Glimpses of the children as they did their 
share in the cleaning of various cities last 
spring make one look forward eagerly to 
the campaigns of 1916. The following ac- 
counts are based upon reports received 
from civic workers in the places repre- 
sented, 

*The address of the National “Clean Up and 
Paint Up” Campaign Bureau is Kinloch Building, St 


Louis, Mo. Miss Perham’s address is 1378 Montclair 
Avenue, St. Louis, Mo. 












FemRUARY, 1916 rHI AMERICAN CITY 157 
Boston, Mass. hers had reported as improved, or which 
During the 1915 Clean-Up Week in Bos Were in a state beyond their power to in 


ton the Junior Municipal Leagues proved 
themselves the little army of reservists they 
really are for assistance in public work. 
One group distributed circulars for the 
campaign, another group assisted the West 
End Improvement Society, and another 
helped in carrying away cast off boilers 
from a district in the West End. Th- city 
will not collect these boilers, and they are 
left in the gutters to disfigure the streets. 
forty were carried to one dump. The 
ommittee on Vacant Lots of the Women’s 
Municipal League turned a_ section in 
Longwood over to a group of boys, who 
went out under leadership, and, with a per 
mit from the police, made a fire, cleared up 
ind burned up the rubbish. Many boys 
made their own sticks with spikes, and little 
trucks for carrying away rubbish. 

\ parade was organized and about 1,000 
children of the Junior Leagues, headed by 
the Newsboys’ Band, carrying banners with 
suitable inscriptions upon them, marched 
through the West End. This parade inter 
ested the parents of the children and many 
people in that section of the city. 

Expeditions with the children, under the 
supervision of the group leaders, were af- 
terwards made to different homes and 
yards, streets and alleys, which the mem 


MEMBERS OF BOSTON JUNIOR 


he reported to the 


prove, and needed 
regular League Inspectors. The inspectors 
of the Market, Housing and Streets and 
Alleys Departments have all received and 
ised reports given by the children 

In May, a camera was presented to the 
Junior Leagues, and with this pictures 
were taken before and after a vard had 


been cleaned, a fire esca de cleared or a 5 


val 
den made, or when some other noticeabl 
improvement was brought to the attention 
ot the Director. Man ot these pictures 
have been made into slides and are used in 
public talks, and have als 


I 


for the Traveling Exhibit 


Hartford, Conn. 


In Hartford, Conn., the Boy Scouts took 


eS 
en enlarged 


a prominent part in the spring clean up 
campaign of I915 

lwo hundred and seventy-seven Scouts 
went out one Saturday and inspected the 
front and back yards of 10,085 houses, dis 
tributing literature issued by the Fire and 
Health Departments at the same time. In 
this way 60,000 sheets of printed mattet 
were distributed on the same day. More 
than 3,000 undesirable conditions were re 
ported. lhe reports wert filled out on a 
printed form which was mailed directly to 
the Scout Office. 





MUNICIPAL LEAGUES AT WORK 





\MER 


r<k | 


ICANN CaTty 








VoL. 





—_ Ye | ‘ 


«st 
. 





HE BOY SCOUTS OF HARTI 

\s to their being keen and interested 
there can | no question In many cases 
VeTy bad cond tions were reported to the 
Scout Othce im person, and many Scouts 
wrote letters or notes on the report blanks 


viving in detail the conditions. As no com 
plaints were received over this large terri 
torv, it 1s assumed that the Scouts were 
ourteous and_ business-like The above 


figures show whether they were efficient. 


One interesting phase of this work was 
effect on the 


the moral householders. 


‘Phone calls came into the Scout Office 
from all over the city asking that certain 
vards be inspected and reported. When 


the Scouts were seen in the poor section of 


the city a strenuous cleaning commenced 
it once, Don’t report this yard,” one man 


said. “Can't you see I’m cleaning?” Simi 
lar incidents occurred in 


Vhe Hartford 


many places. 


Chamber of Commerce 


was so impressed with the work of the 
Scouts that they asked that a similar in 
spection be made each spring and _ fall. 
wl ich will be done. 

The accompanying photograph shows 
part of the Scout section of the clean-up 
parade \bout 300 Scouts marched 

Malden, Mass. 

In the 1915 clean up campaign in Malden, 
Mass., the Boy scouts helped i great deal, 
and received the highest praise for their 





ORD IN THE CLEAN-UP PARADI 
work. They delivered all the circulars to 
the schools, were furnished with regular 


printed inspection slips by the Board of 
Health, divided into squads and given cet 
tain sections of the city to inspect. They 
reported on their findings to the Inspector 
of the Board of Health, who personally 
attended to all reports on unsanitary con 
ditions. The unsightly conditions received 
the attention of another official in the 
Health Department. The Boy Scouts also 
acted as escort to the Mayor and his party 
on the evening of the parade. 

The children in the public schools were 
required to memorize the Revised Athen 
ian Oath, and promised to clean up their 
own premises. A clean-up brigade 
also organized. A squad oi ten boys from 
each of the nine grammar schools reported 
at the High School and received sticks and 
bags with which to commence work, also 
buttons as badges of membership. Each 
squad chose a leader and was given its own 


was 


school district in which to clean up vacant 
lots and yards. The leaders reported to the 
Civic Committee about the middle of the 
week and received further orders if neces 
after inspection by the Committee. 
class in manual training made the 


sary 
Che 
ninety 


sticks with nails in the ends for the 
boys in the brigade, also the poles and 
braces for the placards used in the parade. 
placards 


These bore catchy clean-up 








we i Kiet 


the Bas 


on 


aetna an 





j 
2 
eu 
& 
‘ 
2 
: 





ARY, I9QI1O I LMERICA? 
ses and were carried by the Boy ers phot 
| ich school squad had i] card to the cl 
earing the name of the school 
ped next vear to do even better work, as hev di 
he plan is to start Junior Civic Leagues their far 
ctly in the schools Some 
7 l ‘ Was 
El Reno, Okl 
El Reno, Okla., from torty to hity p 
ldren participated in cleaning up the city “S : 
st spring, and the contestants were ente1 : thi , 
ned at the “movies” by The Democrat in 1 ; 
nor of their achievements. During the “Set 
paign 1600 wagon loads of trash were ss t 














rIN CANS THAT EL RENO, OKI SPENS 
removed. One of the resulting piles is I 
shown in the accompanying picture. All rape 
organizations shared in the campaign and ere 
helped to make it successful. Eight prizes Every | 

re awarded to as many clean-up squads : 

W atertown, Conn. 

[In Watertown, Conn., blank certificates 
were distributed to the children. When a 
certificate was signed by the parent, show 
ing that the child had spent three hours in _ 
cleaning up on premises or street, the child e ti 
was entitled to receive a clean-up button. “Ww rk 


"he promise to have all these button-wear- 











160 THE AMERICAN CITY 


warden there Result—blistered hands and a beautiful 
x arder : 

Painted woodshed and veranda chairs; mowed and 
chaned up lawn.” 

‘Cleaned my own room thoroughly; washed all the 
windows; cleaned the front yard and the ditch Dug 
the weeds from under the hedge and carried several 
haskets of leaves away.” 


Kirksville, Mo. 

The children of Kirksville, Mo., were 
trained early in the city clean-up work, 
The movement was started in the schools 
several years ago by giving each child a 
card reading as follows 


Kirksville Future Citizens—the School Children 
This is to certify that my yard has been thoroughly 
cleaned, all ashes, trash and rubbish removed, and 
that I am doing all I can to make Kirksville a cleaner 
and more beautiful city. 
Signed 
street 


The card, returned and signed, entitled 
the child to free flower seed to plant. Seven 
dollars’ worth of seed, bought in bulk and 
put up in envelopes, 


Vor. XIV, No. 2 


Club, the Knights of Columbus, the Busi 
ness Woman's Club, the College Club, the 
Civic Club, the Moose and Elks Clubs, the 
Salt Lake Woman’s Club, and others. The 
first grand prize, won by the Forest School, 
was a bronze casting representing an ath 
lete vaulting a hurdle, and was given by the 
Commercial Club, The second grand prize, 
won by the Poplar Grove School, was a 
silver loving cup given by the Salt Lake 
Real Estate Association. The trophies 
awarded to the different school districts 
were duplicates of a piece of statuary three 
feet high, the work of Mr. Avaard Fair 
banks, a local sculptor. In a monogram 
accompanying each of these trophies ap- 
pears the name of the captain of the clean- 
up squad, who, in the opinion of the Par- 
ent-Teachers’ Association, did the most 
work and maintained the cleanest block in 





will supply over 1,200 
children, and will con 
vert many an ash heap 
into a beautiful flower 





INSPECTION REPORT 


KIRKSVILLE, MISSOURI CIVIC CONDITION 
—BY 








bed Camp Fire Girls and Boy Scouts, May, 1915 
Boy Scouts and Premises Located ot No. = See 
( ‘amp Fire girls were Condition of Front Yard Gondition of Back Yard 
of great service in the | eS Se ee ee 3 
1915 clean-up inspec- | ““"? Wel . sidleiaponpasibeis 
es 5 -_ . ee “ae ieee: “ 
tion in Kirksville. peasentl ae 





There were 119 inspec- 





tors altogether. An in- | wan 





spector would go down | Pat - 





the street and notice | ™ 








the condition of the ss : 


Fences - - a 

Alley a > a - 
Banya? - -  _ ss as 
Fiy-breeding Places = _ —_—- ———» 
General Remarks 





front yards, then go 


down the alley and in- | ee eee 

















spect the back yards. 
Conditions were noted on the report card 
reproduced herewith, the other side of 
which is arranged to be addressed and 
stamped, and then the card was mailed to 
the address inspected, so that the property- 
holder could see himself as others saw him. 
The results were salutary for everybody 
concerned. 


Salt Lake City, Utah 

In Salt Lake City the Sanitation Com- 
mittee of the Salt Lake Commercial Club 
awarded prizes to schools for efficiency in 
the 1915 clean-up campaign. In this con- 
test twenty-five schools won trophies, which 
were given by such organizations as the 
Salt Lake County Medical Society, the 
Manufacturers’ Association of Utah, the 
Utah State Nurses’ Association, the Rotary 


his district. The monograms were paid for 
by the Authors’ Club. That the children 
took a great interest in the work is indi- 
cated by the following letter: 


Forest Scnoot, Sart Lake Crry, 
May 18, 1915. 
Mr. Flynn, 
City Board of Health. 
Dear Sir: 

We have the pleasure of announcing the work com- 
pleted during the clean-up campaign. There were 
thirty-one alleys, fourteen yards, thirty-two vacant lots 
and one baseball ground cleaned up by the pupils. 
One hundred and seventy-six people were notibed to 
clean up their own yards. arley’s Creek between 
Eleventh East and Fifth East, and railroad track be- 
tween Eleventh East and Fifth East, were cleaned and 
refuse burned. The pupils also helped clean the ditch 
in the Country Club, and the rubbish was burned 
and five wagon loads of garbage taken from a fiat. 
There was an increase of eight loads Thursday, May 6, 
and ten loads of garbage extra on May 13. 

Respectfully, 
Marya Antuony, President. 
Mapetyn Stewart, Vice-President. 

P. S.—Besides the above, each child in the district 
cleaned his own yard. In all six wagons loads were 
cleaned from the country. 








RUARY, 1916 THeE-AMERICAN CITY 161 














SOME OF THE ENTHUSIASTIC WORKERS IN PROVIDEN( 


Through the public school org ration of Providence 

mpaign The work interfered with the ren’s studies to s 
, 

l 


nwise to follow the same plat the ear The above 








4 
rest and energy in the work 











“WHEN THE CLEAN-UP KIDS OF ABERDEEN, S. DAK., WERE GUESTS AT A 
MOTION-PICTURE SHOW” 


The American, of Aberdeen, called upon everybody to hely 
and met with no more enthusiastic response than that whicl ame fr 
Directed by their teachers, the children did such good work 
dirt shining with cleanliness As an evidence of appreciation, the news] 
who had helped in the undertaking to attend ar nusuall 


theatre, The photograph shows what a happy occasion it was 











YOUTHFUL ENTHUSIASTS 








FOR A CLEAN YARMOUTH 


The Parade that Inaugurated a Village 
Clean-Up Campaign 
By Mrs. George E. Bird 


HI vork of Clean-l P Week in Yar 
nouth, Maine, last spring was in 
augurated by a children’s parade 


composed of children ‘from all the schools 


of the town with their teachers, the super 


intendent and the school board. As Presi 
dent of the Village Improvement Society, | 
went into every school during the preced 


ing week and made an appeal to the chil 
dren for their help, trying to make them 
feel their importance in the work of. clean 
ing up the town, also putting before them 


some reasons for asking their help. In the 
High School there was at first some scep 
ticism and reluctance to join in the pro 


cession, but in the lower 


grades the chil 
dren were one and all enthusiastic, not so 
much for the cause as for the fun that Such 
an undertaking And here. I 
would that some of the High School 
pupils who not only 


promised. 
Say 


were unwilling but 
flatly refused to march, fell into line before 


the parade ended, so compelling was the 


spirit of the whole undertaking. 

Flyers were distributed at all the houses 
in the village on Saturday, May 1, and the 
fcllowing notice was read in the five 


[162] 


. . . 
churches of the town on Sunday, May 2: 


The Village Improvement Society and the 
Board of Trade urge the citizens of Yarmouth 
to observe the coming week, from May 3 to 
May &, inclusive, as Clean-Up Week. 

This appeal is made in endorsement of the 
Proclamation of His Excellency Governor 
Oakley C. Curtis and of the New England 
Clean Up and Paint Up Committee, which is 
composed of the governors and prominent men 
of the New England States 

Our town civic organizations beg that Yar- 
mouth will put itself into line with other wide 
awake and progressive towns by carrying out 
a plan of work which would naturally suggest 
itself for Clean-Up Week, and that men, 
women and children will heartily and cheer 
fully co6perate in this movement which bids 
fair to be nation-wide. 


More than 600 school children and citi- 
zens participated in the parade on Wednes- 
day afternoon, May 5. The day was a fine 
one, and a large number of townspeople 
were out to witness the demonstration, 
which was pronounced a wonderfully in- 
teresting spectacle. The line was headed 
by the High School Cadets, followed by the 
fife and drum corps. Next in the order of 
procession were the escorts, the President 





FPERRUARY, 1916 THE 


Socie ty, and 
the 


banners 


Village Improvement 
H. Bennett, 
lrade. Phen 


f the 
Mr. David President of 
the 


society 


Board of came 


of the Village Improvement and 
the Board of 
dren, followed by the members of the Board 
of Health dressed in white, the superinten 
dent of the 
hoard, the principals of the Yarmouth High 
School and the North Yarmouth Academy, 
ind representatives of the press in unique 
Next in 
order were the High School students, each 
class wearing its color. After them came 
\cademy students, among whom were 


lrade, carried by two, chil 


schools, members of school 


costume and bearing standards. 


the 
the Camp Fire girls, conspicuous in thet 


A\MERI 


CAN 


arious 

“Rake U 
ict Busy! 

fluttered 


Lio 


nants 


rosettes 


| 
dren were charmi il uy th 


il tl 
the c¢ 


science (iris ¢ 


were 
The Do 


School 


ot various colors ichers 


also decorated ro! 
mestic 
were dressed in theit 
uunters 
impersonated by the young 
the the pri 
of the Village Improve 


uniform, and 


end oT 


cession 


carriage in which 


were un to walk. 
] 
' 








“DIRT HAS RECEIVED A HARD 


attractive Indian dress. lour young men 
followed, carrying a banner with the in 
scription, “Dirt Has Received a Hard Blow 
and Has Passed Away.” Two 

nurses were attendants. Then 
representations of two widely 

cleansing powders. Another amusing fea 
ture was five women shrouded in veils and 
protected by the 
aloft a banner with the inscription, “Pre 

serve Natural Beauties.” 

The most interesting part of the parade, 
however, and one of which the town was 
proud, was the long line of school children 
of the grammar and primary grades, in 
charge of their teachers, all with their 
faces aglow with excitement, and bearing 


Red Cross 
followed 
advertised 


shawls, leader bearing 


BLOW 





AND HAS PASSE] 


decorated their buildings along li of 


march, and the and 


rine 
ring 


academy bells indicated a1 


lhe parade formed on the grammar school 


ind marched down Main Street to 
Hose 2, then countermarched 


old town house, 


where 


grounds 
the house of 
to the site of the 
then the greet 
bandment took place and 
Wass thanked all who 
operated with the n 


returning 
the dis 


where Si 


illage 
peril 


tendent had co 


ovement vm irching 
in the procession. 
Seeds 


dren in the primary and gr 


were also distributed to the chil 


alia! schools. 
On Saturday afternoon, as a return favor 
to the 
given 


s 


fancy dress was 


the 


children, a 
to all below 


party 
High School erace S 





= nati te 


wabiae: 


eee eo 


eee = 


te 





164 THE 


which served to fix in their minds the ac- 
tivities, endeavors and accomplishment of 
Clean-Up Week, 1915. 

The children and the town have certainly 
profited by this spectacular means of in- 
culcating the clean-up spirit, and the pa- 
rade is only one of our means of impress- 


AMERICAN CITY 


Vor. XIV, No. 2 


ing the community. Many mothers have 
offered testimony as to its good effect in 
inspiring children to be more orderly and 
cleanly at home. Our town is small, hav- 
ing a population of only 2,500, but we have 
done more in five years than any similar 
organization in the state. 





How to Americanize a City 


The Assimilation of the Immigrant is a Problem in which Every Civic Agency is 
Directly or Indirectly Concerned 


By Frances A. Kellor 
Of the National Americanization Committee 


O our cities need Americanization? 
D Take our important industrial cities, 
large and small. We think of them 
as perhaps the most American thing we 
have—the places in which the currents of 
American life run most swiftly, and in 
which the spirit of American progress is 
really evolved. 

It is true that the brains of America, the 
driving force of ambitious energy, in com- 
bination with the brawn and muscle and 
endurance drafted from all the nations of 
the earth, have produced a wonderful thing 
—an industry all American, unique in its 
characteristics, stupendous in its products. 

Sut the Americanization of industry has 
not been accompanied by a corresponding 
Americanization of our population. Our 
municipalities typify the melting pot of na- 
tions, but there has been very little melting 
in proportion to the enormous supply of 
raw material which our cities possess from 
the many countries of the world. In our 
five largest cities—Boston, Chicago, New 
York, Philadelphia and St. Louis—with a 
population of about 10,000,000, II per cent 
of the foreign born are illiterate, and over 
720,000 have never learned to speak the 
language of the land. 

The conclusion is simple: our greatest 
industrial asset, our host of foreign-born 
workmen, is at present a liability in our 
social organization. The only American 
sign and possession of many hundreds of 
thousands of our residents is the American 
pay envelope. Until our language and 
American citizenship accompany the pay 


envelope, our cities will not be American 
cities—nor the United States a_ united 
nation. 

The number of foreign-born men living 
and working in our cities, but not sharing 
in their civic life, aliens still, though old 
enough to be naturalized, is far greater 
than is commonly supposed. There are 
50,000 in Boston, 150,000 in Chicago, 450,- 
000 in New York, 50,000 in Cleveland, 70,- 
000 in Philadelphia, 30,000 in San Fran- 
cisco, 20,000 in Buffalo, 25,000 in Newark. 
East or West, the situation is generally the 
same, 

A city with a million and a half males of 
voting age, 30 per cent of whom are un- 
naturalized and therefore disqualified (as 
in New York City), cannot be an Ameri- 
can city. A ¢ity with dozens of factories 
where the sign language is used wholly or 
in part is not an American city—nor are 
the factories up to American standards of 
efficiency or of “Safety First.” A city with 
separate villages where the shops are for- 
eign shops, the churches foreign churches, 
the newspapers foreign newspapers (run- 
ning perhaps one column on the “Doings 
of the Americans”), the homes Southern 
European homes, quite outside the health 
code of the municipality—is not an Ameri- 
can city. American standards of living 
cannot be enforced where they are not 
known. 

It is not a slow “campaign of education” 
to which American cities are now invited 
to give a languid support. The challenge 
is more urgent, the need of action practical 


FEBRUARY, 1916 THE 


iid immediate. Seventy-two per cent of 


our 13,000,000 foreign born reside in our 


ities. Their Americanization is squarely 
up to the American municipality. Upon the 
line the cities take now depend our ind,s- 
trial efficiency, our social solidarity, our na- 
tional unity. 

This, then, is the city’s problem: to put 
English-speaking workmen in its factories, 
men able to understand orders and guard 
igainst accident; men able to grasp Ameri- 
can industrial ideals, open to American in- 
fluences and not subject only to strike agi- 
tators or foreign propagandists; to turn in- 
different ignorant residents into under- 
standing voters, participants in the laws 
under which they reside; to make immi- 
grant homes American homes and to carry 
\merican standards of living to the far- 
thest corner of the community; to unite 
foreign-born and native alike in enthusias- 
tic loyalty to our national ideals of liberty 
and justice. 

\nd how? How can a city be American- 
ized? Not ina day, certainly. In its full 
implication, Americanization is a subtle and 
jut there can be little 
doubt about the first steps: the English lan 
guage, the key to American 
\merican citizenship: a 
\merican social standards. 
definite things. And the 
them are likewise definite. 

Any city in the country could be an all 
Fnglish-speaking city within a year—if it 
set out to be. Two cities have this fall 
made significant strides toward this goal— 
Detroit and Syracuse. Few cities have a 
greater Americanization problem than has 
Detroit. In five years Detroit's population 
has increased by 300,000. And five years 
ago 74 per cent of its population was for 
eign-born or of foreign-born parentage, 
and 20 per cent of these could not speak 
English. If this was true in 1910, what 
must it be in 1915, with 300,000 more, called 
in by industry, with whom to reckon ? 

Detroit has taken the obvious first step 
toward Americanization. Through its 
Beard of Commerce and Board of Educa- 
tion it waged an energetic night school 
campaign under the auspices of the Na- 
tional Americanization Committee. It had 
the codperation of every agency in the city. 
Industries made attendance at riight school 
compulsory for their non-English speaking 


complex process. 


contacts: 
knowledge of 
These are 


Ways to secure 


AMERICAN 


employes; or they offered a bonus—in one 
case an increase of two cents an hour—for 
night school attendance; or they adopted 
a preferential policy for English-speaking 
men. They were quick to see that “Eng 
lish First” among their workmen 
Safety First in their plants—and 
meant America First in their city 
agency of the community, including city 
departments, courts, churches, settlements, 


meant 
that it 
Every 


Soy Scouts, women’s clubs, and libraries, 
took an active part in the campaign by 
distributing posters and hand bills, by mak 
ing personal visits to the homes of the im 
migrants, and by making 
at public The foreign 
American papers waged a_ regular 
paign in their columns, following daily the 
progress made. 

The result was twofold—an 


announcements 
meetings. and 


cam 


increase of 
153 per cent in the night school attendance, 
and the awakening of Detroit to the civic 
importance of Americanizing the city The 
results in Syracuse were similar. 

When a city recognizes that immigration 
has changed the course of its history, and 
while expanding its industry and increasing 
its prestige, has overtaxed its institutions 
outgrown its schools and its educational 
policy, overtaxed its housing capacities, its 
educational facilities, its 
battle of 


Few 


and recreation 
water-supply and what not—the 
\mericanization is half cities 
in America have made this recognition. At 


won 


this moment “war boom” cities are spring 
ing up—and over the 
country. Provincial villages are being 
turned into thriving towns. Many thou 
sands in a few weeks are being added to 


out—at intervals 


the population of towns equipped only for 
hundreds. The spectacle merely illustrates 
what has been going on in American cities 
for years on a somewhat slower and less 
spectacular Expanded industries 
unassimilated populations—these describe 
hundreds of American municipalities to 
day. 

Up to the present year Cleveland is the 
only city that has officially recognized the 
fact that special adjustments of city insti 
tutions, and special facilities, are necessary 


scale. 


for the successful assimilation of large and 
sudden increases of foreign-born and for 
eign-speaking men and women in the popu 
Cleveland has for 
maintained a Municipal Immigration Bu 


lation. several years 








ee GN ey 


Seen F" 








166 THE 


reau charged with the business of Ameri- 
canizing the immigrant population, or at 
least with putting it in touch with the 
Americanizing institutions and facilities of 
the city. The Bureau aids and directs the 
immigrant from the moment of his arrival at 
the Cleveland station, helps him to find em- 
ployment through legitimate agencies, pro- 
motes the teaching of English and citizen- 
ship in codperation with the Board of Edu- 
cation, establishes citizenship classes, con- 
ducts citizenship receptions, and especially 
brings about a direct connection between 
preparation for citizenship in the public 
night schools and the work of the naturali 
zation courts. In other words, Cleveland 
recognizes that the assimilation of the im- 
migrant is a civic matter, in which every 
civic agency is concerned. 

\t no time in the history of our country 
has the American municipality been called 


AMERICAN CITY 


VoL. XIV, No. 2 


upon to render a more direct service to the 
nation—-and to itself. We need an internal 
“defense” program, and it must be formu- 
lated by our cities. Industries and public 
school systems must cooperate to make the 
English language prevail, as the only com 
mon currency of the country, the only real 
approach to American contacts. Courts 
and schools, every civic agency, the gen 
eral public, must codperate to secure a uni 
form definition of American citizenship 
throughout the community, to provide the 
facilities for acquiring it, to invest the cere- 
mony with the dignity and solemnity it de- 
serves, to reinforce the meaning of the oath 
of allegiance, and to interpret the rights 
and privileges as well as the obligations of 
\merican citizenship to those who have 
heretofore not known them. The national 
Americanization movement is in the hands 
of the cities. 





Public Utility and Franchise Policy in a Model City Charter 


l a recent meeting of the Committee 
on Municipal Program of the Na- 
tional Municipal League, the fol- 

lowing conclusions were adopted and will 
he embodied in appropriate sections for 
insertion in the League's forthcoming 
Model City Charter: 


The public utility and franchise policy em- 
bodied in a model city charter should be so 
formulated as to conserve and further the 
following purposes : 

1. To secure to the people of the city the 
best public utility service that is practicable. 

2. To secure and preserve to the city as a 
municipal corporation the fullest possible con- 
trol of the streets and of their special uses. 

3. To remove as far as practicable the ob- 
stacles in the way of the extension of the 
practice of municipal ownership and opera- 
tion of public utilities, and to render prac- 
ticable the success of such ownership and 
operation when undertaken. 

4. To secure for the people of the city pub- 
lic utility rates as low as practicable consist- 
ent with the realization of the three purposes 
above set forth. 

It should be no part of such policy to se- 
cure compensation for franchises or special 
revenues for general city purposes by an in- 
direct tax upon the consumers of public utility 
services 

In formulating a policy to carry out the four 
purposes above stated as desirable, the follow- 
ing principles should be recognized: 

1. Each utility serving an urban community 


should be treated as far as practicable as a 
monopoly with the obligations of a monopoly; 
and its operation within the city should be 
based as far as practicable upon a single com- 
prehensive ordinance or franchise grant uni- 
form in its application to all parts of the city 
and to all extensions of plant and service, as 
well as to the existing plant and service. 

2. Every franchise should be revocable by 
the city upon just compensation being paid to 
its owners, when the city is prepared to un- 
dertake public ownership. 

3. The control of the location and character 
of public utility fixtures, the character and 
amount of service rendered and the rates 
charged therefor should be reserved to the 
city, subject to reasonable review by the courts 
or a state utilities commission where one 
exists. 

4. The granting and enforcement of fran- 
chises and the regulation of utilities operat- 
ing thereunder should be subject to adequate 
public scrutiny and discussion, and should re- 
ceive full consideration by an expert bureau 
of the city government established and main- 
tained for that purpose, or, in case the main- 
tenance of such bureau is impracticable, by an 
officer or committee designated for the pur- 
pose. 

5. Private investments in public utilities 
should be treated as investments in aid of 
public credit and subject to public control, and 
should be safeguarded in every possible way, 
and the rate of return allowed thereon should 
be reduced to the minimum return necessary 
in the case of safe investments with a fixed 
and substantially assured fair earning power 

















MODEL OF THI 


PHILADELPHIA MI 


The Proposed Philadelphia Art Museum 


HE Philadelphia Museum of Art is to 

stand feet 
plaza which 
will terminate the new Parkway now being 
cle veloped 


upon an 


eminence 50 
above the 


expansive 
from City Hall to the Spring 
sarden Street entrance to Fairmount Park. 
This magnificent site offers unusual oppor 
tunities. 

The main approach to the Museum proper 
is by means of the grand stairway, more 
than 100 which leads to the 
court on the main plateau, around which 


feet wide, 


the galleries of the Museum are grouped. 


his main court is 200 feet deep and 290 
feet 


wide. The grandeur of the approach 
is enhanced by the massive pillars which 
flank the generous stairway and in turn 
support the formal gardens which crown 
the rocky cliff overlooking the plaza. 

In the main court, on the axis of the 
end pavilion, are small circular fountains 
flanked by small gardens. One may enter 
these fountain gardens from a wide land- 
ing half-way up the main stairway, and, 
after resting in its cooling shade, may pass 
on to the upper level of the main court. 
Easy winding roadways lead up from the 
park below and enter the main court on 
hoth sides of the grand stairway. These 
roadways afford easy access for vehicles 
and also an informal approach to the main 
plateau for pedestrians. 

The museum is entered through a mas 
sive portico with Corinthian columns 6 feet 
in diameter and more than 60 feet high, and 
with a pediment rising 120 feet above the 
level of the fitting entrance to 
Philadelphia's great Museum of Art. 

The site itself is strikingly similar te 
\cropolis. 


court—a 


the 
rhe main plateau is elliptical 


n form and is about 680 
feet long. The 


completed 


for future extensions which 
greater part of this plateau 
The building will have 
seum floors and a high b 
floor. Phe ground floor 
administration, recei\ 
prov de f 
Here 
lecture 
seum floor is side-light« 


rooms and 
building. will als 


rooms and 


room 


of room sizes and form 


to exhibit all art obj 
type of lighting is desirabl 
or main floor, 
great Stairway of Hono 


ualiy be the 


museum 


central feat 


com 
pleted group, or by ele) 


conveniently 
placed adjacent to the 


nce ve stibul 
Most of the 


galleries of t floor 
lighted and are of various 
such as 

paintings 


aré top 
es and forms 
are suitable fo exhibition of 


tapestries and 
With the exception of the entt 


bule and the Stairway of mor, the 


collections 
ince vest 
rior is to be ut 
the object being to e 
to the greatest advantage 
\ model of the Muss 
roundings, complete i1 
been placed in the pavil 
yard of the Philadelph 
will be exhibited inde 
plans and elevations 
displayed on the 
pavilios Ch 
the directio1 
ence Zantzing 


the archite cts 











ay trees 


— 





on ee 








The Cost of Water for Fire Protection 


By Delos F. Wilcox 
Deputy Commissioner of Water Supply, Gas and Electricity, New York City 


N the city of New York we have a great 
many governmental tangles which are 
the outgrowth of cloudy municipal 

ideas and unscientific legislation. One of 
these relates to the supply of water for fire 
protection. The municipal water-works 
now serves about 4,650,000 of the total 
5,047,221 inhabitants of the city, as shown 
by the 1915 state census. The remaining 
400,000 are served by seven or eight private 
water companies, of which five are quite 
important. The most considerable areas 
supplied exclusively by the private com- 
panies are the Twenty-ninth Ward (Flat- 
bush) of the borough of Brooklyn, and the 
Second Ward (Newtown), the Fourth 
Ward (Jamaica) and the Fifth Ward (the 
Rockaways) of the borough of Queens. 
These together constitute a territory of 
about 85 square miles, or more than one- 
fourth of the entire area of the city. 


Fire Protection Furnished by Water De- 

partment Without Charge 

In the territory served by the municipal 
plant the fire hydrants are constructed and 
maintained and water for fire protection is 
furnished by the Department of Water 
Supply, Gas and Electricity without any 
account being taken of the cost or any ap- 
propriation or credit given for the service. 
The water department has even constructed 
and now maintains on the same terms the 
separate high-pressure systems of lower 
Manhattan and business Brooklyn, equipped 
with four great pumping stations operated 
by electricity, and used exclusively for fire 
protection. 

In short, the municipal water-works 
treats the furnishing of water for fire pro- 
tection, with all the enormous costs inci- 
dental to it, as a public service to be con- 
tributed by the consumers of water for 
domestic and business purposes as a con- 
sideration for the privilege of themselves 
being served. Perhaps it would be going 
too far to describe this as the philosophy 
of the policy that is actually pursued. The 
city does not philosophize on the matter. 
It simply goes ahead in the ancient grooves 
that it has worn for itself. Water is fur- 
nished free for other public uses, too, such 


[168] 


as street sprinkling, sewer flushing, public 
building consumption, etc. Even private 
charitable and educational institutions to 
the number of thousands get an unlimited 
water supply free. 


Hydrant Rental Contracts 

On the other hand, in the territory sup 
plied by the private water companies the 
city has been in the habit of paying for 
water for fire protection and other public 
uses on a hydrant rental basis, except in the 
Flatbush district, where the company has 
been paid a lump sum per annum for its 
public service. 

The private water companies started in 
business before the areas which they serve 
became a part of Greater New York, and 
in most cases the companies had already 
entered into hydrant rental contracts with 
the towns and villages in which their mains 
were laid prior to 1898, the date of con- 
solidation. The annual hydrant rental rate 
ranged from $15 to $25, and the city in 
1898 attempted to fix $20 as the standard. 
Some of the inherited hydrant rental con- 
tracts were renewed as they expired and 
some were not. At the present time no 
such contracts are in existence, but the city 
continues to pay for the most part at the 
old rates. With one of the companies the 
price was in dispute for a number of years, 
but prior to 1915 no effort was made to 
treat hydrant rentals other than as a matter 
of bargaining and contract between the city 
and the companies. The Public Service 
Commissions of New York State have 
never been given jurisdiction over water 
companies, and where a city has failed to 
agree with a company as to the value of 
the service rendered, the company has been 
compelled to seek its remedy in the courts, 
where it could sue for just and reasonable 
compensation. 


Commissioner’s ‘Regulatory Powers 
The Greater New York charter, however, 
confers upon the Commissioner of Water 
Supply, Gas and -Electricity general super- 
visory powers over the private water com- 
panies, including control of their rates and 
practices and the quality and adequacy of 








eeRUARY, 1916 THE 


their service. These have been 


rather scantily exercised, and prior to 1915 


pow ers 


no effort had been made by any Commis 
sioner to fix the rates payable by the city 
for fire protection in connection with the 
establishment of just and reasonable rates 
to domestic consumers. 

The Commissioner has occupied a dif- 
ficult and technically embarrassing posi 
tion. As the constructor and operator of 
the municipal water-works, he has enjoyed 
a franchise to extend the city mains into 
the territories occupied by the companies, 
with a single exception where one company 
has an exclusive franchise. Accordingly, 
he has been a potential competitor. In the 
second place, as the administrative official 
primarily responsible for the supply of 
water for fire protection in all parts of the 
city, it has fallen to his lot to determine 
the extent of the service to be taken from 
the private water companies, to initiate 
contracts for this service, to secure the 
appropriations to pay for it and to voucher 
the companies’ bills. 
latory capacity he has had a semi-judicial 
function, like a public service commission, 
in which he was bound to forget his powers 
as a possible competitor and his functions 
as a hard bargainer for the city, and to 
seek to mete out even-handed justice in the 
establishment of rates. As a rate-fixer he 
must not coerce the companies with the 
club of his own potential competition, and 
as the fixer of domestic rates he must not 
saddle upon private consumers more than 
their share of the cost of maintaining the 
Water service, because of his interest in 
keeping down the city’s budget. Under the 
law the companies are better protected than 
-the private consumers, for if they object 
to the Commissioner's decisions as to rates 
they may transfer the matter to the courts 
to be decided on the merits, while if the 
consumers lose by his decisions they appear 
to have no statutory remedy. 


The Queens County Rate Case 


On June 1, 1915, the Commissioner for 
the first time in the history of the water 
department exercised his full powers un- 
der the Greater New York charter by fix- 
ing the rates of the Queens County Water 
Company, which operates in the Rockaway 
district of the borough of Queens, both for 
domestic service and for fire protection. 


AMERICAN 


Finally, in his regu- - 


City 169 


Vhere had been no hydrant rental contract 
between this company and the city for some 
thirteen years, as the parties had been un 
able to agree on a price. In fact, only two 
vears prior to the issuance of the rate order 
the department had negotiated a contract 
under which the Was to spend 
some $200,000 in the immediate reinforce 


company 


ment of its distribution system, mainly for 
fire protection purposes, and was to have 
its hydrant rental rate increased from $20, 
which the city had paying, to $25 
lhis proposed contract, when referred to 
the Board of Estimate and Apportionment, 
was not approved, as_ th 


been 


budgetary au 
thorities of the city were unwilling to bind 
the city to pay the higher rate. 

The labored 
under the disadvantage of knowing that the 
financial authorities of the city had already 
refused to raise the hydrant rental rate, 
even where the increase was to have been 


Commissioner, therefore, 


postulated on an improvement 
of the other hand, al 
though this company had always made a 


expensive 
service. On the 


good deal of the “perils of competition,” its 
isolated position on the Rockaway penin 
sula gave it a practical monopoly, and re 
lieved the Commissioner from any serious 
temptation to invade its territory with the 
city mains, either by the submarine route 
across Jamaica Bay or by the roundabout 
route through Na 
pany’s domestic rates were the subject of 
loud complaints. They were very high as 
compared with the city meter rate, although 
the company’s average revenue per tap was 
not greatly in excess of the city’s revenue 
per tap in the portions of the borough of 
Queens supplied by the city. 


ssau County lhe com 


Of the com 
pany’s total revenues, less than 7 per cent 
was derived from the city for fire protec 
tion and hydrant rentals. 

In view of these difficult conditions and 
the official temptations above referred to, 
the action taken by the Commissioner is at 
least interesting. As this discussion relates 
entirely to the cost of supplying water for 
fire protection, the other features of the 
Queens County case may be dismissed with 
the statement that the Commissioner found 
the company earning about 7'2 per cent on 
its useful and necessary investment, and 
reduced its total earnings t 
basis. 


4 9 > “ent 
a7 per cen 


In distributing the cost between domestic 








age 


a) ie 


6 a ae 





170 THE AMERICAN CITY 


service and fire protection, the following 
method was pursued and the following re- 
sults obtained: 


Fallacies Disposed Of 

We began by rejecting the obvious fal- 
lacy that the amount of water actually used 
for putting out fires in the course of a year 
is important. We regarded it as so unim- 
portant that we made no allowance what- 
ever for it in the final figures of cost. 

We also rejected the fallacy, which seems 
sufficiently obvious after a little reflection, 
that the cost of fire protection can be meas- 
ured by an annual hydrant rental at a fixed 
rate per hydrant. The hydrant is only the 
spigot out of which the fire-destroying fluid 
flows. The conduits that convey the water, 
the pumps that drive it, the wells that fur- 
nish it, are substantially the same whether 
there are 500 hydrants or 1,000, Clearly, 
if the entire cost of fire protection 1s appor- 
tioned to 500 hydrants on the basis of an 
annual rental per hydrant, when the num- 
ber of hydrants is doubled the payment for 
fire protection will be greatly in excess of 
cost. The reverse would be true if the 
number of hydrants were reduced. 

We also rejected the fallacy that the cost 
of fire protection can be fixed as a lump 
sum payable annually without change over 
a series of years; for if the number of 
hydrants is increased the company will get 
nothing for the additional investment and 
will rightly feel that every new hydrant 
ordered represents a dead loss to it, a 
sheer contribution to the expenses of gov- 
ernment, a forced levy, so to speak. 


Fundamental Assumptions as to Basis of 
Fire Protection Service 

We also rejected the contention, which 
in the absence of franchise or statutory 
provisions supporting it can hardly be dig- 
nified with the name theory, that a private 
water company is under obligation to serve 
the public organized as a city for nothing 
or for less than cost. It is clear under the 
laws of New York that a water-works cor- 
poration is under obligation, within the lim- 
its of its ability, to furnish public fire pro- 
tection as well as individual domestic ser- 
vice, but in the Queens County case there 
was nothing in law, charter, franchise or 
contract tending to establish the company’s 
obligation to contribute such service with- 


out charge. 





Vor. XIV, No. 2 


Finally, we rejected the opposite theory, 
upon which the water rate decisions of the 
Wisconsin Railroad Commission are based, 
namely, that a water company in supplying 
the two services—fire protection and do 
mestic service—is entitled to have the cost 
of these services estimated on the same 
commercial basis. Although recognizing 
the plausibility of this theory, we felt war 
ranted in the Queens County case in adopt- 
ing a somewhat different theory, and one 
more nearly in line with Eastern practice 
and more conservative of the city’s inter- 
ests. We assumed that the company was 
organized primarily for the sale of water 
to private consumers for profit, and the city 
was entitled to get fire protection at its 
actual cost as an incidental or surplus ser- 
vice. 


Surplus Investment Chargeable to Fire 
Protection 

After putting a valuation upon the prop- 
erty used and useful in the water business, 
we were compelled to distribute it between 
domestic service and fire protection accord- 
ing to the theory adopted. Accordingly, we 
estimated the cost of a substitute plant fully 
adequate for domestic service, but without 
the reserve necessary to meet the fire haz- 
ard and without any of the equipment de- 
signed exclusively for fire protection. This 
estimated cost we set up as the investment 
on the basis of reproduction cost new prop- 
erly chargeable to domestic service. The 
difference between this investment and the 
cost of the company’s plant as actually con- 
structed and in use was treated as the sur- 
plus investment properly chargeable to fire 
protection. Of course, in arriving at the 
actual amount of the present investment, 
accrued depreciation was deducted. 

On this basis we found that 23.2 per cent 
of the entire investment was attributable to 
fire protection. This percentage varied 
with the different classes of property. Of 
the value of the mains it was about 22 per 
cent; of pumping station buildings, 25.7 
per cent; of water lands, wells and suction 
lines, 33 per cent; of pumping machinery 
and standpipes, 50 per cent; of hydrants, 
100 per cent; of filters, meters, tools, office 
building and land, miscellaneous equipment 
and going value, no per cent. 

In determining whether the company’s 
wells and pumping equipment were ade- 
quate or over-developed, we used the stand- 





eet Vege 


FERRUARY, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY ™ 


ards of the National Board of Fire Under 
writers in estimating the amount of water 
that should be immediately available in case 
of conflagration at the point of greatest 
hazard, and checked this up with the peak 
demand for domestic consumption as shown 
by the company’s actual experience. In 
this case, we did not find it necessary to 
throw out any of the property other than 
land on account of over-development, nor 
to eliminate any portion of some one class 
of property because of its being rendered 
useless through lack of codrdinate develop 
ment in other classes. 

As the first element in the cost of fire 
protection, we charged up the fair return, 
7 per cent, on the 23.2 per cent of the in 
vestment regarded as surplus over what 
would have been necessary for domestic 
service. We also charged depreciation 
against this portion of the investment, the 
rate of depreciation having been figured 
out separately for each class of property. 
We then undertook to assign a proper por 
tion of operating expenses and taxes to fire 
protection, and after a detailed analysis of 
the various classes of expenses we arrived 
at the conclusion that 15 per cent should 
he charged to fire protection. Putting the 
figures all together we found that the com- 
pany should receive from the city for fire 
protection and other hydrant uses about 
21 per cent of its gross revenues. This 
was a little more than three times the per- 
centage it had been receiving. 

In order to fix the fire protection charge 
on a scientific basis, we isolated the invest- 
ment in the hydrants, and found that the 
actual cost per hydrant for interest on cap- 
ital, depreciation, maintenance and taxes 


was $8.70 per annum for 4-inch hydrants 
the type in use by this company. We thet 
multiplied this amount by the number ot 
hydrants now in use and subtracted th 
product from the total annual cost of fire 
protection as already determined, leaving 
an amount to be paid as a lump sum on 
account of the company’s general invest 
ment and readiness to serve. 


How Rates Were Fixed 


[he Commissioner's order established a 
lump sum payment plus an individual hy 
drant rental payment, the two together 
making an increase of nearly 200 per cent 
in the city’s payments for fire protection, 
which was accompanied by a decrease of 
about 18’ per cent in domestic rates. In 
figures, the company’s gross earnings with 
in the city limits were cut down about 
$6,000: $30,000 being taken off the domesti 
rates and $24,000 being added to the city’s 
obligations. The company accepted the 
order and put it into effect at once. The 
Board of Estimate and Apportionment, in 
this year of severe retrenchment, looked 
askance at the budgetary increase and 
made an appropriation at the old rate. The 
Comptroller, however, is paying the bills at 
the new rates lawfully fixed by the Com 
missioner acting in a capacity where he 
found it necessary to do justice, even 
though it increased the cost of fire protec 
tion to a city in very straitened circum 
stances. 

We believe that the method pursued in 
this case was sound and conservative, and 
that the first essential in an effective rad 
ical policy in dealing with a public service 
corporation is municipal honesty towards it. 





A Decrease of Fifty Millions in Fire Losses 


The losses by fire in the United States 
and Canada during 1915, as shown by the 
records of The Journal of Commerce and 
Commercial Bulletin, aggregated $182,836,- 
200, a reduction of $52,755,100 from the 
figures of the previous year. This is the 
lowest fire loss since 1905, when the total 
was $175,193,800, and presents the first 
hopeful sign that all the efforts being put 
forth to reduce the appalling fire waste of 
the nation are beginning to bear fruit. 
There were some 28 fires, each of which 


resulted in an estimated property damage 
of $500,000 or more, but there were no con 
flagrations in the larger cities. In some 
states legislative bills have been introduced 
designed to put a direct liability on prop 
erty owners in whose premises fires origi 
nate, for the damage to the property ot 
others due to the spread of such fires. Po 
litical organizations are realizing that they 
can best reduce the cost of protection 
against fire loss by reducing the burning 
ratio. 








er 


SO eee 





ee Alena as 


hn ete rene 























News and Ideas for Commercial and 
Civic Organizations 











+ TT 


DEL AL LAL AL ALA LAL LAL aL Lal ah SOL OL LL LLL LULL] 


A Sign Ordinance No sign except those electrically illuminate 





O Fe wines ; extend beyond the building line more 
° S 12 inches, nor be less than 9 feet above 
Tice nu streets and oidewaiks t sidewalk; and between 9 and 29 feet abov: 
omumnittes t] s Chamber ot sidewalk no sign shall project more tha 
erce } ect strumental in ha feet 6 inches beyond the building line; a1 
me a met e 29 feet above the sidewalk no sign shal 
‘ - ' ect more than 9 feet beyond the building 
- PE a ‘ ' _ If electrical signs ars mstructed n 
reets of Colun s and ot making ther ges permitting them to be swung again 
fer for perso valking along th he the face of the building, such signs above 
owledge that the ordinance would go into eight of 29 feet above the sidewalk may p1 
the " a” eae ere ject not more than 14 feet beyond the building 
to change the char \ll such signs must be of metal and incan 
cter of their ens long before being descent light bulbs. Every such sign must hav: 
obliged to do s Many of the signs wer two visible lamps of 4 candle-power for each 
ig AER RS a iain! Sa square foot on each side of the sign surface; 
: ee — a eee oe oe sign being allowed which has a total of less 
ch a way as to obstruct each other, their than twenty lamps of 4 candle-power eacl 
efulness therefore being neutralized, and f lamps of less candle-power are used, th: 
anv of thet ere not securely hung and “umber of lamps are required to be propor 
vere unsafe. tionately increased. . 
Both sides of these signs must be equally 


[he improved appearance of High Street, — jjJuminated until 10 o'clock each night for not 
the busiest thoroughfare in Columbus, is less than six nights a week and shall be kept 
shown in the two contrasting views her in repair at all times, according to the pro 
vision of the ordinance. All such signs con 
structed on hinges are required to be swung 
back and securely fastened against the face of 


with presented. he provisions of the new 


ordinance afe, in brief, as follows 























THE IMPROVEMENT OF A COLUMBUS STREET BY THE REMOVAL OF SIGNS 
{172} 











Po 
a a 


ee es 


a aan 





the buildings to which the same are attached, 
continually from 7 o’clock A. M. until sunset 
No sign is permitted to obstruct or be at- 
tached to any fire escape where such sign is 
hung or attached near fire escapes, nor may 
they be constructed so that they do not permit 
being swung away from fire escapes. 

Signs that are constructed on top or above 
the level of roofs not less than 37 feet above 
the ground may extend not more than 14 feet 
beyond the building line, without being hinged, 
and may be illuminated on one side only 

No electrically illuminated sign may be 
erected without a permit issued by the Build- 
ing Inspector of the city; permits for such 
signs being granted only upon the basis of 
representations made by drawings and speci- 
fications in ink, indicating the location, quality 
of material and workmanship, full dimensions 
in figures, manner of fastening the sign to the 
structure and the number and candle-power 
of lights, and their location on the sign. 

The violation of this sign ordinance, upon 
‘onviction, provides for a fine of not less than 
$10 and not more than $200, and that each day 
such person continues any violation of the 
ordinance may be considered a separate of- 
fense. 

DONALD K. MARTIN, 

Publicity Manager, The Columbus Chamber of 

Commerce. 


+ + 


Public Appreciation of Public 
Service 

CLEVELAND, Ounto.—The City Club of 
Cleveland believes that faithfulness and 
honesty in office should be given the recog- 
nition which are their due. The Club has 
therefore inaugurated the custom of ten- 
dering banquets and appreciation meetings 
to retiring public officials. 

Such a banquet was held on January 15 
at midday in recognition of the distin- 
guished career of Newton D. Baker, the 
retiring mayor of Cleveland. The ban- 
quet room of the Hollenden Hotel was early 
filled to overflowing, and more than 150 
persons had to be cared for in adjoining 
rooms. After the simple meal, the entire 
throng crowded into the assembly room to 
hear complimentary speeches by prominent 
men of the city, none of whom was iden 
tified with the political party of Mr. Baker. 
The speakers included the president of the 
Chamber of Commerce, the president of the 
Cleveland Trust Company, the head of the 
Political Science Department of Western 
Reserve University, one or two prominent 
lawyers and a popular Rabbi. After these 
men had spoken briefly, Mr. Baker re 
sponded in what was thought by many to 
be the ablest utterance of his public career. 


FEBRUARY, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 173 










lle reviewed the changes which had bee: 
wrought in Cleveland in the last fourteen 
years—the passing of dark-lantern political 
methods, the awakening of a civic con 
science, and the larger part taken by the 
people in their government. 

The object of these occasions is to show 
that democracy has a sense of appreciation 
for public service well performed, and that 
partisan lines will not deter men from 
meeting to say, “Well done, faithful ser 
vant,” to one whose sincerity, honesty and 
ability have been proved, whatever his po 
litical affiliations. 

+ + 


** Civic Cooperators ” 

Cuicaco, ILt.—Every man and woman in 
Chicago who is interested in the vital sub 
jects of health, sanitation, fire prevention 
and police protection to the extent of being 
willing to codperate with the city officials 
in securing the observance of the ordi 
nances relating to those matters is invited 
to become a “civic cooperator,” through a 
plan which has been projected by the In 
dustrial Club of Chicago. 

The plan received the approval of Mayor 
William Hale Thompson, who placed upon 
the Industrial Club the responsibility of se 
lecting the chairmen of the district workers 
in the several police sanitary districts of the 
city, also of bringing about the appointment 
of the civic coéperators through local im 
provement associations, business organiza 
tions and other such sources. By direction 
of the Mayor, the General Superintendent 
of Police, the Commissioner of Health and 
the Commissioner of Public Works coordi 
nated their forces in order to make their 
work fit in with the “civic codperator” 
movement. It was agreed that the Police 
Department should undertake to bring 
about the enforcement of the ordinances 
relating to health, sanitation, fire preven 
tion, ete., and a summary of these ordi 
nances has been made a part of the equip 
ment of every policeman. The Commis 
sioner of Health has placed a health in 
spector in each police station, and a close 
working relationship has been established 
among the three departments in these police 
sanitary districts—of- which there are 45— 
to bring about the desired results. 

Each coéperator is furnished with a card 
f credentials signed by the Mayor, Com 
missioner of Health and the chairman of 




















THE 


174 


the Civic Coédperation Committee of the 
Industrial Club. The card bears a serial 
number which, with the name and address 
of the codperator, is entered at the police 
headquarters in the district. It is also en- 
tered in the record of the district chairman 
of the codperating forces and in the office 
of the general chairman representing the 
Industrial Club. The credential cards are 
issued only to those persons who have 
signed one of the civic coéperator applica- 
tion blanks, and the application must be en 
dorsed by two friends or neighbors. The 
appointment is an honorary one, and the 
cooperators neither receive compensation 
nor pay dues. 

Citizens volunteering as civic coOpera- 
tors are asked, by example and suggestion 
to others, to endeavor to bring about effec- 
tive community effort in their respective 
localities for clean and sanitary conditions 
in streets, alleys and private premises. Re- 
ports of conditions which constitute viola- 
tions of ordinances may be made to any 
policeman or by telephone or mail to the 
health inspector in the district in which 
the occurrence is noted. If no remedy is 
secured, report should be made to the chair- 
man of the codperative forces within the 
district calling for further action. 

The privileges of the coéperator must be 
exercised in all cases with care and con- 
servatism, having in mind the fact that con 
ditions may necessarily exist in one loca- 
tion which could not be tolerated in others. 
For example, the method of handling per- 
ishable food in some locations, under pres- 
ent conditions, requires the use of sidewalk 
space which could not be tolerated outside 
of certain market districts. In other situa- 
tions the local community needs are best 
served by push-cart venders occupying 
street and sidewalk space which could not 
be allowed elsewhere. While the condi- 
tions surrounding these and similar prac- 
tices may be improved, the practices them- 
selves could not be arbitrarily stopped 
without unnecessary hardship. 

Although the movement is only a little 
over two months old, and only about 1,000 
credential cards have been issued, reports 
from many places indicate that the plan is 
working as anticipated. The city authori- 
ties are cooperating heartily. The Indus- 
trial Club is endeavoring, through the co- 
operation of improvement associations, 





AMERICAN CITY 


Vor. XIV, No. 2 


business men’s clubs, the churches, chari- 
table and welfare organizations of all 
classes, and of large employers and other 
agencies, to extend the privilege of enroll- 
ment to all interested citizens. 


ANGUS S. HIBBARD, 
Chairman, Committee on Civic Codperation, The 
Industrial Club of Chicago. 


+ + 


An Industrial Exposition 

Dayton, On1o.—The Industrial Exposi- 
tion which was held in Dayton January 14 
to 22, under the auspices of the Greater 
Dayton Association, furnished abundant 
evidence that Dayton has risen triumphant 
from the ruins into which the flood of 1913 
plunged the city. To convince the world 
of that fact was one of the purposes of the 
undertaking. There was felt to be a need, 
also, for an exhibition that would bring into 
one composite whole all the diversified in- 
dustries and products of the city in order 
to satisfy the captains of industry of the 
stability and diversity of Dayton’s institu- 
tions. The undertaking was born of a zeal 
for advancement. 

Through the courtesy of the Dayton En- 
gineering Laboratories Company, the hand- 
some new Delco building was furnished to 
the Greater Dayton Association free of 
rent for the occasion. Space was therefore 
leased at low rates, which, however, cov- 
ered the cost of booths, decorations, pub- 
licity and entertainment. 

To insure the success of the exposition 
and make it truly representative of Day- 
ton’s resources, $25,000 was expended be- 
fore the exposition was opened. Of this 
amount, $6,000 was used for publicity, 
which included paid advertising in 70 news- 
papers, 500 posters, a million poster stamps 
and the advertising literature. The re- 
mainder of the $25,000 was spent in the 
interior of the building—for booths, deco- 
rations, ete. A different color and decora- 
tive scheme was designed for each floor. 
There were fountains of running water in 
the midst of waving palms and ferns, and 
beauty and harmony prevailed throughout. 

The exhibits occupied seven floors of the 
Delco Building, the floor space aggregating 
five acres. They ranged from the mag- 
nificent mansion and lawn, presented in 
miniature, the automobile and more cum- 
bersome of the farming implements, down 
to the smallest products of the finer arts. 
The exposition was made up of ten sepa- 











om 4 








llama 








EBRUARY, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


rate exhibitions, viz., the Automobile Show, 
Pure Food Show, Mercantile Style Show, 
susiness Appliance Show, Flower Show, 
Electrical Show, Municipal Exhibit, the 
\dvertising Exhibit and Machinery Hall. 

The value of the exhibits exceeded three- 
quarters of a million dollars. 

For the comfort of the visitors a day 
nursery was provided for young children; 
there were rest rooms and a hospital, check 
rooms, and a committee on safety and com- 
fort. Light refreshments were sold at 
standard prices. 

The admission price to the exhibition 
was ten cents. The project was not a 
money-making one, and nothing on the 
premises was sold except for future de- 
livery. 


M. L. BEARD, 
The Dayton Daily News 


t+ + 
For Efficient Office Workers 


CINCINNATI, Onto.—The Cincinnati 
Chamber of Commerce expects soon to un- 
dertake a survey which it is hoped will help 
in solving for employers the problem of 
how to obtain efficient office workers. It 
was found that notwithstanding the fact 
that the schools aim to give a general or 
specialized business education to their pu- 
pils, employers experience much difficulty 
in finding satisfactory assistants. 

The study will be made by the Survey 
Committee of the Civic and Industrial De- 
partment of the Chamber. This depart- 
ment made surveys of the printing and 
sewing trades in Cincinnati not long ago 
that resulted in the establishment during 
the past year of special schools for those 
industries as a part of the regular public 
school system. The Chamber feels that the 
results of those surveys augur well for the 
success of the one under discussion. 

The Committee plans to undertake the 
survey somewhat along the following lines. 
First, an attempt will be made to discover 
in what ways the commercial education in 
the public schools and commercial colleges 
fails to meet the requirements of business 
houses. An effort will then be made to fix 
upon a certain standard of ability by which 
the employer will be able to determine 
within, say, an hour whether or not the 
applicant for a position can do the work 
expected of him. After the preliminary 
study has been completed, recommendations 


175 
will be made to the commercial schools of 
ways to overcome the inability of their 
pupils to fulfill the needs of present-day 
business establishments. 

It is felt that there should be a definite 
meeting point between the systems of 
business schools and those of business 
houses, and the solution of the problem 
seems to lie in coordinating the instruc 
tion more closely with the business 
itself. Employers usually desire office 
workers who have had sufficient funda 
mental training to enable them within a 
short time to execute their new work with- 
out too much supervision. Replies to a 
letter of inquiry sent out to employers by 
the Civic and Industrial Department of the 
Chamber disclosed the fact that only a 
small number of business houses have 
definite requirements by which to measure 
applicants for office employment. The es 
tablishments that have such standards have 
found, too, that even though the essentials 
are few, the young people find it difficult to 
attain the degree of efficiency demanded. 
In most instances, office workers are em- 
ployed solely upon their personal appear- 
ance, no attempt being made to discover 
beforehand what they are capable of doing. 

It is hoped that this study will help to 
establish reasonable standards of ability for 
prospective employes of business houses, 
such standards to be the ultimate aim of 
the business schools. 

THOMAS QUINLAN, 

Manager, Convention and Publicity Department, 

Cincinnati Chamber of Commerce 


+ + 


= 
The Minneapolis Program 

MINNEAPOLIS, Mtnn.—The Minneapolis 
Civic and Commerce Association recently 
submitted to its members in the form of a 
questionnaire sixty-three subjects demand 
ing the attention of the Association in the 
near future and asked them to select the 
ten most important ones. The following 
subjects were chosen and are listed in the 
order of preference by the members: 

1. Development of efficient methods in mu- 
nicipal administration 

2. Continued effort to secure Union Station 

3. Development and improvement of high- 
way system in Hennepin County 

4. Development of existing factories and 
securing of new factories 

5. Effort to secure laws preventing slums, 


and improvement of present unsanitary dwell 
ings 





A 








LMERICAN City VoL. XIV, No. 2 ] 
: 
Mit BELIEVE in.her ability to. become in the FUTURE a 
city of even greater influence and power,---a city destined to 
become the abode of one hundred thousand le, where the : 
poor shall be less unhappy, the rich less self-satished, for the one 
shall have a mere intelligent understanding of the other; where’ 
jails shall be empty of prisoners, streets clear of beggars and 
neither shall the aged in want be cast upon the chanty of strangers, ; 
a city where friends shall be true friends; neighbors real neigh- .. 
bors; a city where the strong shall really sympathize with the 
weak; where there shall be even more respect for those who 
have traveled the longer road; and even more hopeful confidence 
in the promise of glowing youth; a city where progress shall be a 
the result of retaining the good of the old and accepting the 
will _ tned of the new, where co-operative competition shall be the 
— ideal in trade, live and let live the slogan of business, serve others 
it well to successfully serve self the policy of industry and com- 
ied ~~ merce; and finally, where each and every -citizen shall be a 
leino community builder in fact, as now’ in name. 
ND | PLEDGE TO MY CITY a more complete under- 
standing of her problems, a mere liberal conception of her 
limitations, a more hopeful attitude toward her possibilities, a 
more generous contribution to her needs, and a more active par- 
ticipation in the broader functions of her citize: in order that 
my city may become a greater credit to herself, to Wisconsin, to 
Amenica and to God because of my having lived in Madison,--- 
"The Four Lake City." 


Among the public meetings held by th 
Board of Commerce, the most important 
A Creed and a Feed recent one was addressed by Harry A L 
Manpison, Wis.—The annual review nun Wheeler, formerly president of the Chan 
ber of The IV sin State J ral, pul ber of Commerce of the United States 
lished January 2, 1916, besides contair ing The address was preceded by a banquet, at 
one of the inside pages a review of the which the plan of seating as shown by the 
‘ work of the Madison Board of Commeres iccompanying illustration was adopted. 
E. M. McMAHON 


c f tured \t the “ant ¢ re th ~4 
OTS, tea 1 on the front ‘S me Secretary, Madison Board of Commerce 














-r creed that has hee dopted by the com + & 
; merce board After stating the reasons . 
for believine in the past and present of Salesmanship 

. Madison. the creed is concluded with the Detroit, Micu.—The Salesmanship Clul 
i reference to the futur and a of Detroit, a department of the Detroit 
| ledge to the citv: Board of Commerce, has called a World's 
i 




















rik SIGNS SHOW THE GROUPING OF THE VARIOUS COMMITTEES AT THI 
MADISON BOARD OF COMMERCE BANQUET 














es ce 








FEBRUARY, 1916 rHE 


Salesmanship Congress, to be held in De 
troit during July, 1916. The 
which the members of the Salesmanship 
Club have evinced in the work the club 
is trying to do brought a realization of the 
advisability of bringing togéther in a world 


enthusiasm 


conference all the salesmen, business exec 
utives and others interested in salesman 
ship. At present over 75 salesmanship 
clubs have been formed, or are 
of formation, 


process 
throughout the country. It 
is believed that by the time the congress 
convenes, at least 200 such clubs will have 
been organized and be able to send dele 
gates. 

lhe lectures which have been held so far 
this season under the auspices of the Edu 
cational Division of the 
of Detroit are available 


lhe price of 


Salesmanship Club 

in printed form. 
each is 25 cents while they 
ast. They are as follows: 


1 


‘The Science of Psychology as Applied to 
Salesmanship.” Address by Warren Hilton, 
President of the Society of Applied Psychol 

Washington, D. C 

Discussion of Warren Hilton’s address, led 
by Professor Henry L. Adams, of the Psy- 
chology Department of the University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich. 

Is There a Science of Salesmanship?” Ad 
dress by Edward A. Woods, President of the 
National Association of Life Underwriters, 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 

Discussion of the address delivered by Ed- 
ward A. Woods, led by L. D. Robertson, Gen- 
eral Sales Manager, Michigan Branch of the 
Packard Motor Car Company, Detroit, Mich 

“50-50—Both Sides of a Sale.” Address by 
Frank Goewey Jones, of Detroit, Mich 

Discussion of the address delivered by 
Frank Goewey Jones, led by C. H. DeAcres, 
Superintendent of Crowley-Milner & Co., De- 
troit, Mich. 

WALTER C. COLE, 


General Secretary, The Salesmanship Club of 


Detroit. 
+ + 


A Fuel Economy Course 

Fort Dopce, Iowa.—A_ successful fuel 
economy course was recently conducted i 
Fort Dodge under the auspices of the Fort 
Dodge Commercial Club and the Board of 
Education. The instruction was given by 
the Extension Department of Iowa State 
Agricultural College. The janitors of all 


the public schools were enrolled in the 


classes, their tuition being paid by the 
Board of Education. 
held in the evening. 


"he course was planned with the object 


\MER 


The sessions were 


CAN CPT a) 
f making available to the janitors infor 
mation in the matt f heating, fuel sa 
ing, ventilation ar ne prevention ot 
smoke, 
FLOYD DOUGLAS 
Secretary, Fort Dodge Commer ( 
+ + 


A Civic Survey at Small Cost 
WasuHincton, Pa.—The civic survey 
ikaihienons 
soard of Trade through the Boy Sc 
that city 


made not long ago by the 
mutts ol 
resulted in securing more than 
3,000 detailed reports on the Sanitary con 
dition throughout the city. 

\ Boy Scout captain was assigned to 
each city ward. The captains divided the 
wards into sections and placed four boys 
in each section, with 
charge of them. 


a squad lead r in 
Che offer of circus tickets 
to the boys in each squad who returned th 
most complete and accurate reports formed 
some incentive to them to de good work. 


‘ n f } 
given to the 


\ civic service medal was 
ward captain who conducted the most sys 
tematic survey in the city. 

Prior to the day of inspection consider 
able publicity was given to the fact that 
such a survey would be made. Unsanitary 
and unhealthful conditions were in each 
case reported to the Board of Health, but 
there was much cleaning up the day 


1 P 
pe Tore 


The Getter and Brighter Borough Survey 
BOY SCOUTS INSPECTION BLANK 
Make check mark after what is needed 
Name of owner or occupant 
Street and No 
House needs paint 
Out Buildings need paint 
Fences need paint or whitewash 
Fence needs repair 
Sidewalk needs repair 
Yard needs cleaning 
Street or alley need cleaning 
Vacant lot needs cleaning 
Police Number 


Captain 


Ward Number 


Leader 


because of the fear of being reporte d. Phe 
total cost of the survey to the Board of 
Trade was $10, and 
satisfactory. 

The form of inspection blank used is 
shown herewith. 


its results were most 


CHARLES M. KI rCHUM, 


Secretary, Washington (Pa.) Board of Track 








Commerce is invaluable. 


ox © 


nates valuable space on the 





; the publication of the daily 
4 Chamber of Commerce let 





ter. On numerous occa 

sions special write-ups have 

been given. The newspaper 

works hand-in-hand with 

a” the Chamber and acts as its 
ip mouthpiece, so to speak. 

The Chamber's record of 

accomplishments during 

; December, IQts, appeared 

on the front page of the is 

January 4, 1916. 

lhe material is reproduced 


herewith. 
D. S. HOLLENGA, 
Secretary, Fulton Chamber of 
Commerce 


+ + 


sue for 


A Sales and Adver-* 


tising Course 

MarSHALLTOWN, Iowa.— 

Instead of the entertain 

ment course which the Mar- 

shalltown Club usually con 

ducts during the winter 

months, a series of talks on 

sales and advertising is be- 

ing given this season. The 

| talks are for the special 
benefit of the one hundred 
or so younger business men 
of the city who are enrolled 
with the Marshalltown Club 
under a 
ployes’ 


so-called “‘em- 
membership” plan. 
Young men in the employ 

of Club members and their 

friends are also invited to 
hear the lectures. The ob- 
ject of the course is to dis- 
cuss and attempt to solve, 
i theoretically, some of the 
problems which confront 

| #F the average business man 
nearly every day. 


discussions follow the lectures. 
The third talk of the series was given by 


178 THE 


Newspaper Publicity 
Furron, N. Y.—The publicity which The 
” Fulton Evening Times is giving to the aims 


and activities of the Fulton Chamber of 


front page every day for 


AMERICAN 


spt ke on 


new spaper, 


which is called “a her ald of progr ress,” do- Ben R. 


Civ VoL. 


“The 
lle analyzed the art of salesmanship and 
explained in detail some principles of store 
management, 

Three other talks are being given by 
Vardaman, 





CHAMBER OF COMMERCE 


Futton First, Last and All the Tome 


Accomplishments of the Chamber of 
Commerce during the month 
of December, 1915 


Ker eranend oor re ertung pen by deecgnem, 


St Aer emma te the range arom’ 
ay ot Faten (© pera epee, oe favere! « Pub 
~~ Marte tor boteer 

cee 
\ Crema’ peteces (eer of « Potbe Mate 
so ters ay ot buattn teaumeng ome ty QOD mgmatores 
ee 
© Seats delegation to the (ny of Albany te appear 
cofors he Camel Rear! in leew te Random of cer 
am canal tants to be ceed for the crete of a Pablic 
Meter 
eee 
—~S Was veprenented at the meeting of Commemal 
P mews nek Uica where apertant maniers Common 
to all coe the See of New Yor were ducusmd and 
premereed an cevitatran 0 hold the sext eameteng on the City 
MP em 


vee 
6 Medd the Get mremters meeteng ce December Ath 
nthe Coty Het 
ee 
7 Yoowed the farmers = and ercund Patton to do 
chee trading oe the Cory and to compere eth the Consens 
© mater: of compan faterest and te ese the Chamber of 
serene Kew con pipe on Foto 
ee 
& Peed « reshdier @ fever of the bt HR 
130° tonducnd we the House of Represemtatwes by Mr 
eevee: of New Hogpadture to prevent ducrmunatde 
mee at fo prewnde for pabliciry of prices to @aters and 
ne palin ard borwarded caper of thee reentetiun to the 
Povedem of the Uneed Seams the Senators the members 
he Home of Reprmentaprers and the semiters of the 
leters! Trade (cmmesan 
see 
© Conterved end correspended ob cecreegs per 
Soe te Propen Gee artic Inland Pulp @ Paper Mol with the 
cree that thes oil was snk end ell be reapened 
ereeering the mel) trem temng ead for parts 
“*. 
10 PRaced etachers om the checks aned by the Cie 
com Natoma! Ramh om favor of auember of the 
Od requesting theme te queed the memey fe the City of 
Few 
oe. 
1) Inlormed interesed partes io the Cay of Polton 
hem are) a oned them ageing ap sdverteng «heme now 
eine presentet om the Sease of New York 


he peer etree & the City et deterred 16 Chrtemes 
Rees 
owe 
1S \eweed afi Ge farmer: around Fulton jo wines 
(he Ohretemes Tree cxtebrance 
eee 
14 Appeared trtore the Board of Seperesors m the 
OS ee 


s Uren he Means th Cy ow hs 
ere oll May January te. 


is maser. 
atime * ee 
1a Reed of Dewees atnge—2 
” See re 
. 


2 Mailed from the affice 2215 eter lwrng the 
mama 0 December 


se 
2h Wrote daly Chamber of Comnetag letters ot the 
Evening Tomes . 
eee 
22 Adve Howe Trading ant How Adverts 
™ 





Informal 


ee 
FULTON, FIRST, LAST AND ALL THE TIME 








round-table 


XIV, No. 2 


Economics of Business.” 


associate editor of 
the Merchants’ Trade Jour 
nal. The first of these is 
on “Personality,” the sec 
ond on “Human Nature,” 
and the third on the prac 
tical application of the first 
two talks to present-day 
business affairs, with par 
ticular reference to sales 
manship and business ad 
vertising. The Director of 
the Business Extension De- 
partment of the State Uni 
versity of Iowa has also 
been engaged, among 
others, to address the Club’s 
members on these subjects. 

The attendance and in- 
terest at the first three 
meetings proved the wis- 
dom of conducting such 
course. There were two 
hundred young men pres- 
ent at the opening of the’ 
series. 


J. SIDNEY JOHNSON, 
Secretary, Marshalltown Ctub. 


2 + ¢ 


Retail Merchants 


Convention 

Paterson, N. J.—En- 
couraged by the successful 
silk convention held in Pat- 
erson several months ago, 
the Paterson merchants, 
through their Chamber of 
Commerce, have called a 
convention of retail mer- 
chants in all lines and from 
every part of the state of 
New Jersey, to meet in Pat- 
erson on February 24. 

The State Chamber of 
Commerce of New Jersey 
is cooperating with the 
Chamber of Commerce of 


Paterson in promoting the convention. The 











C. F. Kurtz, of the State University, who 





arrangements are in charge of Frank H. 
Young, Manager of the Bureau of Retail 
Affairs of the Paterson Chamber, and 








sm te 











FEBRUARY, 1916 THE 


Howard Heyden, Socretary of the State 
Chamber. 

Phe subjects which will be discussed and 
the high quality of the men who will pre 
sent them, as indicated by the preliminary 
program, assure in advance a large attend 
ince at the sessions of the convention. 
john T. Kirby, of the National Retail Dry 
Goods Association of New York, has 
agreed to be one of the speakers. He will 
talk upon “The Abusezof the Returned 
(soods Privilege.” 

JOHN J. FITZGERALD, 


Secretary, Chamber of Commerce of Patersor 


+ + 


State Chamber of Commerce a 
Legislative Bureau 

Jersey Crry, N. J.—The New Jersey 
State Chamber of Commerce has adopted 
the policy of seeking first the welfare of 
the community as a whole rather than that 
of its individual members, knowing that the 
members’ separate interests are best sub 
served in that way. 

The life of a commonwealth is deeply af 
fected through the numerous laws that 
yearly find their way onto the statute books 
of the states. The still more numerous 
bills, the sources of these laws, should be 
premised on sound principles and should 
interpret the best interests of the people. 
When they fail in this, the bills are worth 
less and even vicious. It is realized, how 
ever, that it is impossible for a legislator 
to familiarize himself with the vital details 
of every measure he is called upon to con 
sider. The New Jersey Chamber of Com 
merce believes that the state should main 
tain its own bureau for the thorough and 
impartial investigation of every matter that 
comes up for legislative action. In lieu of 
such a bureau, the New Jersey State Cham- 
ber undertakes to perform that work for 
New Jersey. 

A legislative index is compiled from in 
formation collected. This is published 
weekly by the State Chamber during the 
time the Legislature is in session. By 
means of it the people in the state are kept 
informed continuously about the subject 
matter of every bill introduced into either 
branch of the Legislature, and learn exactly 
what treatment the proposed measure is 
receiving at the hands of the law-makers. 
\fter a thorough investigation of a bill, to 
determine whether the matter is either of 


AMERICAN CITY 179 
potential value to the state as a whole or 
detrimental to its interests, it will throw 


the entire weight of its influence for « 
against the measure, as the case mav be. 


yt 


The State Chamber is also attempting to 
bring about reforms in the method em 
ployed in New Jersey of making up the 
State budget. \ recent issue of New Jers: 
the regular monthly publication of the 
State Chamber, contained comparative 
statement showing the difference between 
the effective procedure followed in New 
York City in making up its budget and the 
more confusing method used by the 


of New Jersey. 


Stat 
lhe plan of so large a 
municipality as New York City has been 
considered adaptable to state budgetary 
matters. With the Republican and Demo 
cratic legislators struggling at the state 
capitol over the respective merits of the 
budget bills introduced by them, it is ap 
parent that their work will be much sim 
plified by the study of a clean-cut analysis, 
such as the one referred to, of the right and 
wrong ways for a government to provide 
for its financial needs. 
GEORGE A. VIEHMANN, 


President, New Jerse State ( amber 
of Commerce 


+ + 


Civic Window Exhibits 

PitrrspurGH, Pa.—The window exhibit 
shown in the accompanying illustration is 
the municipal Christmas tree exhibit of the 
Civic Club of Allegheny County. This was 
on view during the recent Christmas sea 
son. The rooms of the Civic Club are in 
one of the large office buildings in Pitts 
burgh, and a show window opening on the 
hall near the elevator is used for the dis 
play of exhibits on timely civic subjects. 

In the Christmas tree exhibit, articles 
made to represent gifts were labeled with 
the different items in the list of improve 
ments which the Civic Club felt that Pitts 
burgh should have to make its Christmas a 
thoroughly happy one. These were sus 
pended from the branches of the tree or 
arranged on the floor near its base. Som« 
of the “gifts” were hung high up on the 
tree, beyond reach. Pittsburgh must be 
taller and older before she can acquire 
them. Scattered about on the floor, within 
easy reach, were such trifles as a Lake 
Erie canal, a subway and similar trinkets 





hee te een E eset 


a 





CAN City Vor. XIV, No 


Recently Issued Printed Matter 
\Kkron, Onto.—Year Book of the Akt 
amber of Commerce 

\SHTABULA, OHIO The Ashtabula Plan of 
Municipal Government,” a pamphlet giving th« 
text { the novel features f the Ashtabula 
mmission-manager charter and an accou 
f the first election, November 2, 1915. Pul 
lished by the Ashtabula Chamber of Cor 
erce 

Boston, Mass.—“The American Mert 
Marine—What It Has Been, What It Is, 
What It Ought To Be.” Report of the Sy 
ial Committee on Merchant Marine f 
Boston Chamber of Commerce 

Boston, MAss.—At 
nual Report of the Ma 








een te 


a 





eS 








sachusetts Civic Leaguc 
CHARLESTON, S. ( 
Annual departmental re- 
ports of the Charlest 
Chamber of Commerce 


Des Mornes, IA \ 
Dividend Statement 
showing what has beet 


accomplished under th 
ten planks in the plat- 
form of the Greater Des 
Moines Committee 

HAMILTON, ON? 
Summarized Report 
the Activities a1 
Achievements of th« 
Hamilton Board of Trade 
in 1915 

JACKSONVILLE, FLra.—A 
booklet giving general in- 
formation about Jack 
sonville, illustrated Is- 
sued by the Jacksonvil! 
Chamber of Commerce 

JouHNstown, PA \ 
statement issued by the 
Johnstown Chamber of 
Commerce in the form of 
a ledger account, show 
ing the achievements 
of the Johnstown Cham- 
ber to date of issue. Th 
account is made out in 
the name of the Chamber 
of Commerce “To Prog- 














asion the civic window ex 
n honor of the Civic Club’s twen 
| irthday cake with can 














ress, Dr., Success Build- 
THE CIVIC CLUB ing, Prosperity Square.” 
Terms, “Codperation, and 
Pienty of It.” “Goods 
delivered at Home.” On 
the left-hand side of the page are the eleven 
items in the program of the Chamber as laid 
down in June, 1914, and on the right-hand side 
the work that has been done under each item. 
Che account is marked, “Paid, December 31, 
IQI5 
La Fayette, Inp—Annual report of th 
La Fayette Chamber of Commerce to October, 
1QTS. 
Maptson, Wis.—A pamphlet containing the 
iddress of Harry A, Wheeler, formerly presi- 








oom 


Le eee 








ee 





ERRUARY, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 181 


lent of the Chamber of Commerce of the 
United States, delivered at the Open Forum 
meeting of the Madison Board of Commerce 
in November. 

New York City, N. Y.—‘Improving Social 
mnditions in New York City.” Annual re- 
ort of the Charity Organization Society 
PORTLAND, OrE.—*‘Principles and Rules Gov 
erning the Endorsement of Charities,” issued 
by the Portland Chamber of Commerce 

ProvipeNce, R. I.—Annual report of the 
Providence Chamber of Commerc« 

Rocuester, N. Y.—‘Industrial Medical Su- 
pervision.” The address of Dr. Guy L. Howe 
at a meeting of the Manufacturers’ Council of 
the Rochester Chamber of Commerce, Novem- 
ber 22, 1915. 

Str. Louis, Mo.—Year Book of the St. Louis 
Civic League 

Tampa, Fta.—‘Tampa To-day and To-mor- 
row.” <A booklet giving general information 
about Tampa, illustrated. Issued by the Tam 
pa Board of Trade. 


lurteck, Cat.—A booklet on the Turlock 





Irrigation District, illustrated \ 


i LIS 
cipal song, “Way Down in Turlock \W 
Watermelons Grow Both issued 
lock Board of Trade 
+ + 
New Bulletins 

GREAT FALLS. Moni Watch Our Sm 
Published monthly by the Great lls ( 
mercial Club. 

KNOXVILLE, TENN lhe Junior (¢ é 
Published monthly by the Junior Board of 
Commerce of Knoxville. 

MARYVILLE, Mo.—Commercial ub Bulletu 
Issued at irregular intervals by the Maryvill 
Commercial Club 

RACINE, Wis.—I/ndustry. Published 


ly by the Racine Commercial Club 
Rep Oak, lowa.—The Commercial Clu 
Journal. Published by the Red Oak Commer 


cial Club. 


TOLEDO OHIO Commerce ( Zé 
Published weekly by the edo Cor eres 
Club. 





The New Interpretation 


Rapid evolution in thought and practice 
is taking place in the matter of vocational 
guidance, according to Dr. W. T. Bawden, 
specialist in industrial education of the 
United States Bureau of Education. 

Only a few months ago vocational guid 
ance was conceived of chiefly as a matter 
of giving to boys and girls advice in the 
choice of a life work and assisting in the 
securing of positions. The ambitious at 
tempts made in these directions caused ex 
travagant expectations to be raised in the 
popular mind that have not been realized. 

This conception is rapidly passing, and 
among the leaders of the vocational guid- 
ance movement the chief function of their 
work is now regarded as the study of vo 
cational conditions and opportunities, and 
the making of the resulting information 
available to boys and girls. 

Dr. Bowden states that the most impor 
tant service that can be rendered the indi 
vidual youth, under the name of vocational 
guidance, is to set him to thinking, at the 
proper time, about the problem of choosing 
a life work as one to be seriously faced and 
prepared for—to make him fully conscious 
of its existence as a problem to be solved, 
and aware of the sources of data hav 


of Vocational Guidance 


ing any possible bearing on its solution 
Vocational guidance in its application to 
college and university students has been re 


ceiving special attention, according to Dr 
Bawden. He calls attention to the fact 
that sooner or later a closer correlation will 
have to be worked out between the college 
course and the life of the community for 
which students are educated. 

He asserts that the most serious obstacle 
to progress in vocational guidance is the 
aloofness of the school teacher, under or 
dinary conditions, from much of the world’s 
work, and the practical difficulties in the 
way of his knowing much about certain 
vastly important phases of it through act 
ual participation, or close contact. 

Important developments in the proper di 
rection during the past year include th 
offering of a college course for vocational 
counsellors by Boston University in co 
operation with the Vocation Bureau of Bos 
ton, and the announcement by the Tuck 
School of Finance and Business Adminis 
tration at Dartmouth of a new course for 
employment managers, to consider the 
problems arising in connection with the ex 
amination, employment and training of a 


— - o 
staff ot employes. 











Originality in Street Lighting 


By Albert Marple 


























FIGURE 2 





also to the material of which the posts are 
made and the positions in which they are 
placed. The posts erected during the last 





year or so have been of cement or iron or 
a combination of the two, but recently there 
has been a general leaning toward cement 
and its ally, concrete. This has been on 
account of the natural durability of these 
materials as well as because of their attrac 
tiveness. 





As is the case in other sections of the 
country, the municipalities of Southern 
California have their nicknames; for in 
stance, Los Angeles is the “Angel City,” 
Pasadena is the “Crown City,” Glendale is ( 
the “Jewel City,” and so on, and it is quite 
evident that in the designing of the differ 
ent electroliers the nicknames of the cities 
have had influence. The idea that we in 
tend to convey is illustrated in Fig. 1. 
Riverside, the “Arrow City,” has designed 
and constructed an electrolier which is in 1 
FIGURE 1 tended to suggest the shape of an arrow. 























FEBRUARY, 1916 rH I L\MER 
This city’s nickname came from the fact 
that years ago several important India 
battles were fought on the site now occu 


pied by the municipality. The at the 


cross 











top and the bell shaped white glass shades 
ire commemorative of the old Spanish Mis 


for which Southern California is 


Ss1ons, 


famous. This standard is entirely of 
cement, 

\nother city whose lighting standards 
suggest its nickname is Alhambra. 


his 
is known as the “Crescent City,” and in its 
standards the crescent been 


has incorpor 


ated. The upper portion of this standard is 
metal, while the post is of cement Ch 
officials of this place have turned one of 


their lights to an unusually good purpose, 
indicated in Fig. 2. 
the 


Up to the point where 
standard is located, the boulevard runs 
long wide, unbroken thoroughfare. 
\t this point, however, it is divided, the 


as a 


right half continuing as an improved road, 


while the left half is taken up by the 
private right-of-way of an electric rail 
way company. On the street side of 
this electrolier the regular white globe 


has been placed, while on the left side, 


PCa Cy 183 
where the right-of-way trave 
a red globe has I t ow ¢ 
ger. Vehicle ct eT th 
point for a block or more up tl e thor 
oughfare, either night 
warned of the dividing of 

\n effort has el 

to make the electri 

poses as possil le rie 


t 


along this line is sh 


the street name n white 

of glass is held by a frame bet 

of the large globe, this 

street names visible during 

night. In some cases the | 

placed just above the street nam 
latest thing along this line is s} 

4. Here is the corner standat 

the street name, ane ist 

number in even figures—that | 
and so on it bears the 

home upon the corner lot 

standing. hese 

every hundred Teet il ¢ 

those which happen to be 

corners bear the numbers of the hom« 
fore which they are standit 

possible fot the ehicle drivet find ar 
given number without alighting ik 























THI 


AMERI‘ 


AN 


Cite 





Vol ALY, No 2 





rtions 








FIGURI 


are made to represent r« i] 


»wheads as nearly as possible. 


is 


lain but attractive single-light stand 


shown in Fig. 6. It was selected 


ally on account of its simplicity of 














FIGURE 





6 














eager ba sae os 
’ 


~~ av 


eee ee ee 











FEBRUARY, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 18: 


design, and has proved satisfactory. The 
standard is entirely of cement Fig. 7 
shows another way in which cement may 
be used in street lighting work. In the 
instances where steel or iron standards are 
selected, they are not sunken in the earth, 
but are placed upon cement foundations. 
rhese foundations are generally about two 


feet square and are buried for a depth « 
from twelve to eighteen inches. Thev ar 
solid, and are placed just inside the cur! 

These origiaal standards suggest what 
may be done in the way of making a city’s 
lighting system “different. Lighting fix 
tures need not be unusually expensive to be 
attractive. 





Statistics of Water Filtration Plants 


N the January number of THe AMERICAN 
City were published certain statistics 
of municipally-owned filtration plants, 

‘he figures being quoted correctly from 
data furnished by the U. S. Bureau of the 
Census. The following correspondence, 
which has resulted from the publication of 
these statistics, is of interest: 


lo the Editor of THe AMERICAN City 

Referring to your January, 1916, issue (page 
85), wherein you give a digest of certain 
water-works data from “General Statistics of 
Cities, 1915, to be issued in the near future by 
the U. S. Bureau of the Census,” I note that 
the figures you report apparently refer to 155 
cities, each of which in 1915 had a population 
of 30,000 or more. Further on, however, and 
presumably quoting from this document, you 
state that now there are 527 sand filters which 
treat 598,700,000 gallons per day, and 427 me- 
chanical filters with an output of 468,200,000 
gallons daily. Also you refer to Columbus, 
Ohio, as having the highest cost for water 
purification, namely, $17.46 per million gallons, 
stating that “both mechanical filtration and 
chemical sterilization are employed.” 

Statistical compilation has always been 
somewhat of a hobby of mine, and I have been 
mightily impressed by the fact that certain 
forms of compilation are first-class mischief 
breeders. Now, in this case, it is obvious that 
the census given of water filtration plants of 
the slow sand and rapid sand types is not a 
complete census, nor would it seem to be even 
an accurate statement of facts 

In the United States, to-day, there are less 
than forty slow sand filter plants in operation, 
and practically all of the large ones have, in 
some important respect, been remodeled since 
they were first built, and now make use of 
certain inherent ideas upon which the rapid 
sand process of water filtration is based 

As to rapid sand filters, at this writing there 
are, indeed, “427 mechanical filters, with an 
output of 468,200,000 gallons per day.” At 
the beginning of the year 1914 there were 444 
such plants, having a total filtering capacity 
of 1.775,000,000 gallons daily, and to-day the 
number has been increased to quite 480 plants 
with a total daily fliiczing capacity of 2,000, 
000,000 gallons. 


Referring to the cost of operation of th 


{ f tl 
Columbus plant, I desire to point out that th 
operating charge stated, of $17.46 per milliot 
gallons, is largely occasioned by the use 
large quantities of softening chemicals It is 
quite necessary to call the attention of yout 
readers to the fact that not only is the water 
filtered and sterilized at Colu is, but it is 
also subjected to the expensive process I 
softening. 

GEORGE A. JOHNSON 

Consulting Engineer 

New York, Jan. 21, 1916 


DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCI 
BUREAU OF THE CENSUS 
lo the Editor of THe American City 


I wish to thank you for your letter of Janu 
ary 22, inclosing a copy of a letter iddre sed 


to you by Mr. George A. Johnson, under dat 
of January 21, relative to certain advance data 
on water-supply systems recently sent out by 
the Bureau of the Census 

rhe data to be presented in the report refet 
to the 155 cities having over 30,000 inhabitants, 
which operated water-supply systems Mr 
Johnson states that there are less than forty 
slow sand filtration plants in operation Che 
report will show that seventeen of these plants 
are operated in connection with municipally 


owned water-supply systems in the 155 cities 
referred to. The 527 slow sand filters reported 
were filter units of the seventeen plants \ 
footnote on the table calls attention to the fact 
that of the 306 such units reported for Phila 


delphia, 188 were slow sand or mechanical 
ters, which were reported in the lumn f 
slow sand filters because their capacity an¢ 


daily output were included with such data for 
filters of the latter class 
In regard to the data for mechanical filters 
also, Mr. Johnson writes in terms of “plants” 
while in the report it is in terms of “filters.” 
In referring to the excessive cost of purifica 
tion reported for Columbus, Ohio, the text de 
scribing the general table states that about 72 
per cent of the total charged to purification 
and softening was for the purchase of heav 
chemicals 
STaRKE M. GROGAN, 
Chief Statistici 
Washington, D. C., Jan. 24, 1916 





wane 





roars 











heen ane 








The All-Day, All-Night National Flag 


By Glenn Marston 


) eet) y the \ 
; } 
y-Te 
is ‘ ~ 
to | ghted g 
1 
I the 
ric xperimni 
) ‘ ‘ t ‘ 
lh S . ‘ 
hed by leading el 
‘ t the c t 
} th ove 
ul 
L ete ce 
; ‘ 
t I 


are il work 





d those in other factories, seldom see th: 


i which floats over the City Hall, the 


rt House, and the Post Office during 
he day. While those flags are flying they 
Electricity, however, has 
de it possible to have a night flag as well 
is a day flag. The thought came to m« 


hat | could do no better than to erect an 


electric flag which will flash forth its mes 
sage in the early morning, and send my 


home with a patriotic glow at the end 
their day's work.” 
In preparing for the demand for electric 


Ss, a committee of electrical men com 

















1 \ ‘ i 
da a 
+ flae o 
} e wish 
£ ot 
ovement 
} é 
nd boards « ELECTRIK 
, enthusiastic s 
} CCN LIVE loledo, where the 
rst trial of the plan was made, there is a 
ee electrically lighted flag on the main 
tico of the Court House, and one on the 


lub, both of these flags being 


inated all night 


It is the law in every state, | believe,” 

d Mr. Frant recently, “that the flag 
hould flo it over every school building. 
lhere is no question of the value of such a 
display of the flag. In my new factory | 
want o teach \ 0 employes to be 
lieve in this <« try Many of them are 
foreign-born. Manv have not been in this 
< ntry a g s have most school chil 
dren It is therefore r duty to teach 
them patriotism, just as it is our duty to 
teach our children patriotism. My men, 


f1sa) 


FLAG ON THE TOLEDO COURT HOUSE 


piled a standard specification which has 
been accepted by seventeen sign manufac 
turers, the idea being to provide a flag 
which would be large enough to be effec 
tive and still be small enough to keep the 
cost within the reach of every one desiring 
to purchase one. Flags of special design 
are also widely used, of course. The com 
mittee expresses itself very strongly against 
the use of any advertising matter in rela 
tion to the flag, and there has so far been 
no violation of the committee’s wishes in 
this respect. 

Toledo naturally heads the list of cities 
want to teach my 1,000 employes to be 
The Willys-Overland management was 
quick to see the advantages of teaching the 
lesson of patriotism, and has installed 22 





+ tae tein ee 



























































{ EBRUARY, 1916 ‘hm AMERICAN CITY . 
4 
R 
' 
! 
THE NEWSBOYS’ BUILDING, TOLEDO, WITH ITS ALL-NIGHT \ 
lags. one in each principal department ot cities having flags includ 
Hag h pr pal depart t 
the works, with a large one on top of the ron, Sandusky and Youngst 
huildings. There have been ordered ovet lentown and Newcastle, 
260 flags in Toledo during the first sixty Conn.; Galveston, Denver 
days after the movement started. Other others. 
t 
L 4+ 
3 > ~ . 
eee “ 
,2m 
. 
| 
’ 
or ol ees 
— - =e 
ss - t 5 — i — 
‘ jet | t E 7 es. 
: ul a : 
ONE OF THE 22 ELECTRIC FLAGS IN THE WILLYS-OVERLAND 








| Various Uses of Motor Trucks in Municipal | 
, and County Work 

















MULTNOMAH COUNTY. OREGON 





aes 
“eames 
= 


‘ 
‘ 


gare i: 
iH] 


ef 


i f t . sf ry bd 
iii TT 


-—— A. evi stpnissieetee, 














y PLOW ATTACHMENT, USED BY DETROIT PUBLIC WORKS 
PARTMENT 














Ot... 


oe 7 ee 


FEBRUARY, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 189 














MOTOR TRUCK USED BY THE CITY OF MANCHESTER IN LAYING A NEW PENSTOCK 




















\ FIVE-TON TRUCK AND TRAILER USED BY THE STREET DEPARTMENT 
NEW BEDFORD, MASS 

















( rtes f Firestone Tire and Ru 


FIVE-TON TRUCKS, USED BY THE CITY OF CHICAGO FOR STREET FLUSHING 








oN Hoe tc 



































hos 


rt 


S( 


K 
»N 


IUNIOR 


PUMP 
WITH 


BUILT 
HE REC 


“Booster” 


MP IN USE ON A COMBINATION CHEMICAI 








FOR THE CITY OF EVANSVILLE, IND., IN COM 
;ULAR CHEMICAL COMBINATION 











pump at the left 








<< @ ---~-~ 








A Memorial Gift of Trees 


By Mrs. Mary D. Bradford 


Superintendent, Public Schools, Kenosha, Wis 


OR a number of years, systematic tree the tree was made at each school by the 
planting has been ‘carried on in principal or janitor. It was teresting 
Kenosha, Wis. On Arbor Day, 1912, | sight to see the children pouring out of th 

Mr. H. E. Barden, a local merchant, gave schools in the afternoon of Arbor Da 
to every child in the town a small catalpa each with a tree, the roots carefull) 
tree. Through the schools 3,000 trees were wrapped in paper. It was “he first’ that 
distributed, together with instruction about afternoon for all. 

their planting and care. The next year as It is of touching interest to know that 
many soft maples were given, and in 1914 the first gift of trees to the children of 
elm trees. In I914 the superintendent of Kenosha was made by Mr. Barden a few 
schools had a careful canvass and report weeks after the sudden death from scarlet 
made upon the success of the tree planting fever of his youngest sor le said he 
of the two previous years. The returns wanted this gift to Emil’s schoolmates and 
gave evidence that at least 934 of the catal to the boys and girls of other districts to 
pas and 854 of the soft maples were living. be a memorial to his so In this beautiful 
his was probably not an accurate count, way the father has caused ai fluence to 
as many pupils who had planted trees had extend in his son’s name to thousands ot 
left school or passed on to the high school. homes, so that there has resulted not only 

In 1915, every child carried home a fine, an added attractiveness to lawn and garde 

healthy little apple tree. This was re- and street, but an immeasurable educational 
garded as the greatest gift of all. A car« benefit to the young owners and caretakers 


ful demonstration of the right way to plant of these “Barden Trees.” 





The Value of the Linden as a Street Tree 


By Ernest H. Bennett 


Secretary, Shade Tree Commission, East Orange, N. J. 


HE Shade Tree Commission of East and has found the different irieties 
Orange has used practically all va lindens both suitable and satisfactory 
rieties of trees for street planting, We have planted in all some 670 linden 

















LINDEN TREES ON KENWOOD PLACE, EAST ORANG! 


L191] 








: 


| 











1Q2 rHE AMERICAN CITY Vor. XIV, No. 2 
trees, consisting of Tilia Americana, Tilia much exposed to the wind, as it is not yet 
Europea, Tilia Argentea and Tilia Dasytyla built up. Here, in the fall of 1911, we 


(hese were set out on several widely scat planted about 75 Tilia Dasytyla. This is a 
favorite linden, as it has a moderately quick 


growth, a fairly large leaf and bright, green 


tered streets in the city, and under quite 
different soil conditions, which has given 


. 
opportunity to make a fair test of their foliage which holds its color late in the fall. 
' - 
value as street trees. We have been greatly We have not lost one of these trees, and the 
pleased with the results \ll the lindens photograph will convey an idea of their 
are thriving equally well in the different growth since they were planted. e 


locations and seem to be well adapted for 


hoth narrow streets and wide avenues 
Pheir uniform and symmetrical tops make 
them very attractive, and they give good 
shade They make sturdy and stocky 
growth, and are not easily damaged or 
broken by wind storms 


One of our most successful and attractive 


tacked by insect pests or diseases 
able qualification in a 


hus far our lindens have not been at- 
a desir- 
street tree. As 
further evidence of our opinion of the lin- 
den for street planting, it might be added 
that our planting last spring included 45 of 


these trees, and we have arranged to use a 


proportionate number for our next season’s 





plantings is on Kenwood Place, which 1s _ planting. \, 
The History and Economics of Guaranties of Pavement on State 
and Municipal Highways 
N elaborate and valuable compilation ing on the legality of long time guaranties 
of data under the above title was in cases where the city charter provides 4 


presented by George C,. Warren, ot 
Boston, in an address delivered in New 
The meeting was 
held in the auditorium of the Automobile 
Club of America, the audience comprising 


York on January 24 


the Graduate Class in Highway Engineer 
ing of Columbia University. 

lhe subject was treated by Mr. Warren 
from four points of view—" Historical,” 
“Legal,” “Practical” and “Specifications.” 
\s to the proper period of paving guaran 
ties, the author expressed his opinion as 


follows: 


Guaranties should only be required for a 
sufficient length of time to enable competent 
officials to know that proper materials had 
been used and the work executed in the 
proper manner; and, as it is known that no 
character of street construction can be ex- 
pected to last indefinitely, all cities should be 
thoroughly equipped with plants of sufficient 
capacity for the proper maintenance and re- 
pair of streets as soon as they commence to 
deteriorate. In this way almost every char- 
acter-of improvement could be made to last 
very much longer than if the repairs are neg- 
lected. Thus equipped on the theory of “a 
stitch in time,” etc., cities can secure mainte- 
nance far more economically than through 
guaranty or maintenance bonds.” 


Reference was made by Mr. Warren to 
several court decisions having special bear- 


that a portion or the whole of the cost of 
the pavement shall be assessed on the abut 
ting property. The following paragraphs 
summarize the author’s conclusions on this 
phase of the subject: 


“In many complicated and apparently con- 
flicting decisions ... the courts have gener- 
ally decided that on assessment work—i. e., 
cases where the whole or any part of the cost 
of pavements is assessed on the abutters—it is 
not legal to require a guaranty for a period 
onger than the reasonable life of the pave- 
ment without repairs. In other words, if the 
guaranty carries with it an obligation of main- 
tenance, an assessment on the abutters is ille- 
gal because it charges them with cost of main- 
tenance, which maintenance the laws generally 
provide shall be paid for out of the general 
funds of the city. 

“In many cases the courts have held that a 
guaranty for a term of five years is reason- 
able, as not carrying with it a contract for 
maintenance, provided that the wording of the 
guaranty or warranty is in itself such as to in- 
clude maintenance. Of course the longer the 
term of guaranty specified, the greater the 
danger of illegality. Some courts have denied 
the right of requiring any guaranty or assess- 
ment work, Others have prohibited more than 
one or two years. Terms greater than five 
years have been quite generally declared il- 
legal.” 

The entire paper may be secured without 
charge on application to Warren Brothers 
Company, Boston, Mass. 





ee 














ee 








eas ~ 








TT ee Te TT eT eee eee = 


Items of Municipal and Civic Progress 


CMT 


A Town Planning Adviser 
for Indian Cities 

Since the Government of India in 1908 
og began aiding the local governments with 
special assignments of funds for the pro- 
motion of sanitation (large portions of 
which were devoted to town improvement 
schemes), there has been a general awak- 
ening of the country to the advantages to 
be obtained through better housing and the 
careful planning of municipal develop 
ments. 


In the Madras Presidency the interest 
thus initiated was stimulated by the visit 

f Professor Patrick Geddes, of Edinburgh, 
Scotland. Professor Geddes, whose repu 
tation as a writer and as a student of city 
planning is well known, delivered a series 
of lectures accompanied by exhibitions and 
demonstrations which exerted a powerful 
influence upon the minds of the educated 
classes. 

These forces bore fruit last year when 
the Revised Financial Statement came up 
for discussion. A_ resolution was intro 
duced at this time to make provision for 
the entertainment of a town-planning of 
ficer to advise municipalities and local 
hoards on questions of town planning. A 
few months later, according to The Local 
Self-Government Gazette, His Excellency 
the Governor in Council, in view of “the 
imperative need for insuring the proper 
expenditure of the large grants which have 
heen sanctioned to local bodies for the re 
lief of town-congestion and the formation 
of new suburbs,” decided upon the appoint 
ment of Mr. H. V. Lanchester, for six 
months, as Town-Planning Adviser to the 
Madras Presidency. 

Mr. Lanchester is one of the vice-presi 
dents of the Royal Institute of British 
Architects, and Honorary Secretary of the 
Town-Planning Committee of that Insti- 
tute. He has already shown great interest 
in the planning of Indian cities, having pre 
pared improvement schemes for the cities 
of Lashkar, Ujjain and Indore. His pres- 


ent duties will be to examine schemes for 
city or suburban development submitted to 
the government or to local bodies and to 
advise as to their practicability. He will 
also help in solving the problems of work 


- 
7 
- 
ingmen’s homes and codperative hous« 
building, and will make a comprehensive 
study of the requirements « f the 1 re il 
portant towns and formulate plans for their 
future development. 
+ + 
Landscape Architecture at 
Ohio State University 
The Ohio State University at | . 
is offering this year for the first time 
highly specialized four-year professiona 
course in  Landscap Architectut e, with 
P. H. Elwood, Jr., formerly of Massachu 
setts, in direct charge of the department 
and A. D lavlor, of Cl eland is non 
resident professor his course has beet 
established to meet a demand in the Middl 


West for better trained landscape irch 
tects. he students are ke pt 1 
practical methods through Mr. Taylor's 
Cleveland office. \ dozen stud 

ing the work this year 


> 


ind a limit in th 


number of students who may be enrolled 
will soon be established. It is the ambitio1 
of those in charge not to turn out mam 
graduates, but a few men well fitted to di 


creditable work in landscape architecture i1 
the Middle \W est. 
+ + 


Lectures on City Planning Law 

The University of Michigan has just ay 
pointed Mr. Frank B. Williams, of the Ne 
York Bar, as non-resident lecturer on cit) 
planning law in its department of Land 


scape Design, which includes city plannit 


He will give a course of lectures at Am 
\rbor in March on the city planning law 
of the United States, with some val 
sons with the law on this subject in oth 


countries. 

That accomplishment in city planning has 
not been more rapid in the United States 
is believed to be due mainly to the fact that 
too little effort is made to determine th 


concrete measures necessary in each cast 
in order to secure definite results. This is 
the first time that a university has made an 
attempt to treat the legal aspects of the 
subject comprehensively. It is with the d 


sire to make the facts pertaining to city 


planning law more generally known that 
these lectures have been undertaken 











104 THE AMEI 


Essay Contest on Clean Streets 

A prize essay contest on “Keeping the 
Highways Clean,” open to pupils of either 
sex in the high schools throughout the 
United States, has been announced by the 
National Municipal League. The subject 
of the essay was chosen to direct the atten 
tion of the contestants to the actual admin 
istration of this important municipal fun 
tion and to elicit an expression of opimion 
is to the way that function is at present 
discharged, or should be discharged. 

Prizes of $30 and $20 respectively are 
offered for the first and second best essays. 
The compositions must not exceed 2,500 
words in length They must be securely 
fastened together and must be typewritten 
in duplicate; both copies to be mailed or 
delivered to an express company not later 
than April 15, 1916, addressed to Clinton 
Rogers Woodruff, Secretary of the Na 
tional Municipal League, North American 
Building, Philadelphia, Pa., and marked 
‘For the High School Prize.” ¢ ompetitors 
will mark each paper with a nom de plume 
and enclose in a sealed envelope the full 
name, address, class and high school cor 
responding to such nom de plume. These 
envelopes will not be opened until the 
award of the judges has been made 

The following outline of different phases 
of the clean highways problem has been 
suggested to give the contestants some idea 
of the points to be investigated and con 
sidered: 


I. Clean highways an element of civic pride 


y 1s vine 
y Tt tes 
‘ tizens themselve 
(d t strangers 
‘ r ective residents 
f) butting | erty, including 
f t ‘ furniture, cary 





(gz) Effect on public health 


Il. Cause of unclean highways: 

(a) Character and upkeep of pavement or 
road surfacing 

(b) Wear and tear of road or street due t 
traffic 

(c) Horse manure newspapers, posters, bil! 
boards, cigar stumps and matches, fruit 
skins, rubbish of all kinds 


Ill. Ordinances to enforce clean highways 
and police control: 


(a) Laws and ordinances in this country and 
their enforcement 

(b) How far they e in the way of correc 
tion; penalties 

(c) Ordinances n your own city which 


achieve the ends in view 
(d) General negligence in American cities 
(e) Legislation in Furopean cities, especially 
German and French, and penalties for 
violation ; 


LtCADN £32 = 


Vor. XIV, No. 2 


1\ Remedies 


(a) Sweeping (either by hand or machine) 

(b) Washing (either by hand or machine) 
Under this head should be brought out 
the character of the pavement as re 
gards choice of material, good con 
struction and proper maintenance 

(c) Receptacles for sweepings 

(d) Rubbish cans or boxes for paper, etc 


V Disposal of refuse, or street-cleanings 


+ + 


City Manager Form Urged for 
Philadelphia 


An interesting article entitled “What is 
a City?” has been contributed to a recent 
number of The Independent by ex-Mayor 
Blankenburg, of Philadelphia. In it he 
views Philadelphia as a corporation, owned 
hy nearly 2,000,000 shareholders, with 
definite assets and liabilities and having for 
its aim “the production of domestic safety, 
health, comfort and trade opportunities, to 
be supplied to its citizen shareholders at a 
minimum reasonable cost.” After some 
discussion of the political history of the 
city, the article recommends that Philadel- 
phia put into effect the principle of the 
short ballot by electing only a few men to 
office and that this number should include a 
city manager hired at an attractive salary. 
This form of government, in ex-Mayor 
Blankenburg’s opinion, “would produce best 
results in a city as large as Philadelphia.” 


+ + 


Free Water for Fire Protection 

Early in January the City Commissioners 
of Raleigh, N. C., made the announcement 
that they would guarantee free fire protec 
tion for manufacturers who desire to locate 
in Raleigh. 

Under the new plan any manufacturer 
who will install hydrants and a sprinkler 
system will be given free use of water with 
which to operate them. No rent will be 
charged for water that is kept available. 
The same concession has been granted to 
merchants in the fire district. If they will 
install sprinkler systems, the Commission 
ers agree not to charge them rent for water 
used in putting out fires or for water kept 
at their disposal for cases of emergency. 
This action of the Commissioners, which 
has been taken at the solicitation of the 
State Insurance Department, will have a 
tendency to reduce the fire hazard and will 
at the same time save each establishment 
from $100 to $150 per year. 





nem = MP heme tmr 





ete sn 











Conventions and Exhibitions 





ON THE CALENDAR 
leBRUARY 8-9.—NeEw York City. 

American Institute of Electrical En- 
gineers. Mid-winter convention. - Secre- 
tary, F. L. Hutchinson, 29 West Thirty- 
ninth Street, New York City. 

FEBRUARY 8-10.—WasutNcTON, D. C. 

Chamber of Commerce of the United 


States. General Secretary, Elliot H. Good- 
win, Riggs Building, Washington, D. C. 


IEBRUARY 9-10.—KEARNEY, NEB. 


_ League of Nebraska Municipalities. 
Secretary, Roscoe C. Ozman, Lincoln, Neb 


I*EBRUARY 10-11.—New York City. 
Illuminating Engineering Society. 
Mid-winter convention. Secretary, C. A 
Littlefield, Irving Place and Fifteenth 
Street, New York City. 
IEBRUARY 10-12,—REDDING, CAL. 
California Associaton of Commercial 
Secretaries. Annual convention 


FEBRUARY 12-19.—CHICAGO, ILL. 


Chicago Cement Show. Given under 
the auspices of the Cement Products Ex- 
hibition Company. Secretary, Robert F. 
Hall, 208 South La Salle Street, Chicago, 
Ill. 

FEBRUARY 15.—Mapison, Wis. 

Wisconsin Association of Commercial 
Executives. Annual meeting. Secretary, 
Robert L. Frost, Merchants’ and Manufac 
turers’ Association, Milwaukee, Wis. 


“Fepruary 15-18.—Cuicaco, I 
National Conference on Concrete 
Road Building. Secretary, J. P. Beck 
208 S. LaSalle Street, Chicago, IIL 


FEBRUARY, 16-18.—EpMONTON, ALBERTA, 
Alberta Association of Local Improve- 
ment Districts and Rural Municipalities. 
Annual convention. Secretary, James 
McNicol, Blackfalds, Alberta. 


FEBRUARY 17.—ATLANTIC City, N. J. 

New Jersey State Association for 
Mosquito Extermination. Convention 
Address: Dr. William Edgar Darnall, 
Atlantic City, N. J. 

FepruARY 17-18.—CuHicaco, ILL. 

American Concrete Pipe Association. 
Secretary, E. S. Hanson, 538 South Clark 
Street, Chicago, III. 


I'EBRUARY 21-22.—CLEVELAND, OHIO. 

National Paving Brick Manufacturers’ 
Association. Meeting of the Board of 
Directors. Secretary, Will P. Blair, En- 
gineers’ Building, Cleveland, Ohio. 


FEBRUARY 21-20.—Detroit, Mica 
School Garden Association of America. 
Secretary, J. L. Randall, Bureau of Edu 
cation, Washington, |). ¢ 


lEBRUARY 28-MaArcH 2.—CHICAGO, ILI 


Religious Education Association. An 

nual meeting. Secretary, Henry F, Cope 

D. D., 332 South Michigan Avenue, Chi 

cago, Ill. 

FEBRUARY 28-MARCH 3.—PitTtspurGH, PA 

American Road Builders’ Association. 

Annual convention and exhibit of road 

building machinery Secretary, E. I 

Powers, 150 Nassau Street, New York City 


) 


MARCH 3-4.—ALTOONA, PA 
Pennsylvania Commercial Secretaries’ 
Association. Annual meeting. 
Marcu 3-4.—Srt. Louis, Mo 
Mayors’ Conference on National De- 
fense. Called at the suggestion of Mayor 
Kiel, of St. Louis, and Mayor Mitchell, of 
New York 
Marcu 6-10.—MONTREAI 
Canadian and _ International Good 
Roads Congress. Held under the auspices 
of the Dominicn Good Roads Association 


C)UEBEC. 


Secretary, George A. McNamee, New 
Birks Building, Montreal, Quebec 
MARCH 9-10.—READING, PA 
Pennsylvania Housing and Town 


Planning Association. Annual meeting 
Secretary, Sherrard Ewing, Chamber of 
Commerce, Reading, Pa. 

Marcu 27-30—New Or-eans, | 


Southern Sociclogical Congress. Gen- 
eral Secretary, J. E. McCulloch, 323 Sixth 
Avenue, Nashville, Tenn 

MarcH 28-31.—New Orveans, La 
National Association of Real Estate 


Exchanges. Secretary, H. R. Ennis, Kan 
sas City, Mo 
APRIL 4-90.—NASHVILLE, TENN 


National Congress of Mothers’ and 
Parent Teachers’ Associations. Annual 
child welfare conference. Secretary, Mrs. 


Arthur A. Birney, 910 Loan and Trust 
Building, Washington, D. C 
Apri, 18-21.—New Or-eANns, La, 

Southern Conference for Education 


\. P. Bourland, 
Washington, 


and Industry. Chairman, 
508 MacLachlen Building 


D.C. 
APRIL 26-May 2.—New OrLEANS, LA 
National Organization for Public 
Health Nursing. Annual meeting. Ex- 
ecutive Secretary, Ella Phillips Crandall, 
R. N., 25 West Forty-Fifth Street, New 
York City. 

















ete ee ee 


eee + 


THE AMERICAN 

















a Re 
pie 34) ue it 
%, ft oS v4 


| 


The Right Truck for 
Every Municipal Use 


It is just as important today to choose the right truck for 
municipal work as it is to select the economical vehicle 
for commercial service. 


The comprehensive GMC line of gasoline and electric 
chassis has proved its efficient adaptability to street 
flushing, garbage removal, police patrols, hospital am- 
bulances, supply department work, public lighting service 
and maintenance, fire fighting apparatus and many other 
uses where quick and reliable transportation is needed. 


Our technical department will be pleased to answer 
questions regarding special equipment or send you a copy 
of Municipal Progress. 


_ GENERAL Motors TRUCK COMPANY 


One of the Units of General Motors Company 


PONTIAC - MICHIGAN 


Direct Factory Branches: 
New York, Boston, Chicago, Philadelphia, St. Louis, Kansas City 


When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American City. 






























td 
{ 
‘ 


% 





Wy oTanTanTanTanTanTanTasTasTasTasvasva va va ve sve ne we wa wa wa ne we wa we ne ne Be ne ne na wa na Bw. We wa na na nae Ye 
y 7 . . . Xe 
5 Municipal and Civic Books N 
% % 
y Copies may be ordered of Tue American City, with the exception of Government publications and % 
g those indicated as free, which should be ordered direct from the offices publishing them . 
| : 
A LU La LAL LULL LAL LAL AL AL AL AL ALAL ALA LLIN RRR IR ERR ERED ER EER 


BLANCHARD, ArTHUR H., C. E., A. M., Profes- 


: sor in charge of ae Graduate Course in 

, Highway Engineering, Columbia Uni- 
versity. 

Elements of Highway Engineering. 

| xii + 514 pp. Photographs, charts and 

diagrams. $3.00 


Undertaken primarily in response to a demand for 
a didactic text on the principles of highw engit 


1915. 


ing suitable for half-yearly courses, this book et 
bodies the essential elements of the subject sit 
forcibly presented. The first of the twenty-one « 
ters deals with the followi ng aspects: history, « 





nomics, administration, legislation, organization, pre- 

. liminary investigations, surveying, maj z ling, 
drainage, and foundations. bet are 

: devoted to the different kinds of roads anc ts 
earth and sand-clay roads; gravel roads; e 


roads; bituminous pavements; bituminous macadam 
pavements; sheet and_ rock ] 
t pavements; wood block pavements 





concrete 


ement 








. ‘ 1 " tT 
brick pavements, and stone block paver ts. Othe 
chapters discuss more special questions, as dust pre 
vention; street cleaning and snow removal t 
son of roads and pavements; sidewalks, curbs and gut 
ters, and highway structures, such s bridge 
ilverts Appendix I contains a glossary of terms ar 
the remaining sections give tests for | 
bituminous materials 
NATIONAL HoustNnG ASSOCIATION 
Housing Problems in per meee Pro 
ceedings of the Fourth National Confer- 
ence on Housing, + llsense = October 
‘ ee 
6-8, 1915. vili + 222 pp $1.50 
: IV of the National Housing Ass t 
; ons comprises the Proceedings of the | 
ising Conference, held t Minne 
6, 7 and 8, 1915. The papers 
, occasion were as follows H sing 
wers,” by Arnold BR. H I iS 
Its Effect [ Housing ] 
s of Bad H g.”” by | r S. 1 s 
1 Housing,’ y John J. Mur | 
sing by ¢ B illet The | 
k 1 Health Departme by G 
he Alley Problem,” by Charles B. | 
1d Vaults—Why The S I 
ily Wayland Dinw 
Point of View D 
lerick Law O ‘ 
j Cost House \ 
: 





CHartes E. 

The Community Survey in Relation to 
Church Efficiency: A Guide for Workers 
in the City, Town and Country Chu 
With an Introduction by Bishop Francis ] 


CARROLL, 


NO 


’ McConnell. (In the Constructive Church 
i Series.) 1015. xvi 128 py Photo- 
graphs and charts. $1.00 

After discussing t genera 


and church responsibility, the 
*rformed by various churches is 
felng placed upon the value of the 
obtained = for increasing I 
making of a community survey 
how to organize and plan a sur 
nd interpretation of statistics 
nformation obtained. Three 
table material, and a bibliograp! 


standard authorities on the ~ je 


\f 


Ropinson, CHAt 


City Planning, with Special Reference to 
the Planning « of Streets and Lots. 
Numerous illu S 


44 
"Seas 
Chis book 
tormer vork \ 
Streets deals 
bs ee T 1 
ethod of 1 
le x r 
tie rhe S 
i € t € € 
eale € € s 
sistence the S 
ses of « R t 
itting of stre Ss he . 
serves his 
€ siste Ss 7 
stree latting 1 -— % 
1 + | 
ul A third sc ( | 
s necess ed he ‘ 
Se t € € nt » 
Te ( 
é s 


Problems of Community Life: An Out 


line of Applied Sociology i 
180 pp $1.07 
( ] S 
| S \s 
eisure 1 
( ! 
r 
\ 
’ Tr} 


Surppy, J. C 


Telephone Appraisal Practice . 
pp. Forms $4.00 
tele ‘he ‘ 





























THE AMERICAN CITY 4 
| , 
i 5 
| RS ay 
| Ford Hauls with Kelly Trucks 
ie Ford roit—pioneers in the standardization of units— 
, tand Fiaeri ili Drapes sg with KELLY TRUCKS. The 
| tr tr a they also use Kellys of 3 16-ton 4 ' 
Investigate the KELLY TRUCK 
is the Ford Motor Company did. 
; Study it in detail. Compare its . 
t working capacity, strength, power, : 
flexibility, durability, with any : 
q ‘ther truck. Note its distinctive : 
tility -increasing features — the . 
cial excellence and  com- ' 
a ' of the KELLY organ- ' 
| T ¢ ver ? 1 non Tt? t 7 
‘Like Kelly Does’’—FREE 
f f this valuable monthly publication 
I f useful information for all truck users. 
The Kelly-Sprinefield Motor Truck Company 
1302 Burt Street, Springfield, Ohio 
J 
mplete Line | 
1-4-5 and 6 Ton : j 





view or FOR 


45 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 











Lewis, Necson P., Mem. Am. Soc. C. E., Chief 
Engineer, Board of Estimate and Ap- 
portionment, New York City. 

City Planning. A paper prepared for the 
International Engineering Congress. Re- 
printed for THe AMERICAN City, 1915. 8&2 
pp. Photographs, maps and diagrams 

50 cents 

This treatise presents a compact explanation of what 

city planning is and how its principles may be practi 
cally applied through the medium of ac aretully drawn 
city plan. Mr. Lewis emphasizes particularly the im 
portance of transportation and street systems, park and 
recreation facilities, and the location of public build 
ings, and maintains that upon the skill aa foresight 
exercised in providing for these elements will depend 
to a large degree the orderliness of the city growth 
and the facility with which individual and corporate 
ictivities can be carried on. 


THE SOUTHERN SOcIoLoGICAL CONGRESS. 
The New Chivalry—Health. Southern 
Sociological Congress, Houston, Tex., May 
8-11, 1915. Edited by James E. McCulloch. 
553 pp. Portraits. $2.20 
rhe cover of this volume informs us that the Hous 
ton meeting of the Southern Sociological Congress 
took as its present theme “The Conservation of 
He alth,”” and named the record of their proceedings 
‘he New Chivalry—Health.” The Congress, the 
slogan of which is “The Solid South for a Better 
Nation,” decided upon the inauguration of a health 
crusade which will comprise health surveys, analysis 
of conditions and “a campaign of obligation and op 
portunity.” In the present volume seventy experts 
contribute papers on the following subjects: The Cost 
of Preventable Disease, Some Causes of IIl-Health, 
The Health of Mothers, The Health of Children, Men 
tal Hygiene, The Health of Criminals, Means of Pro- 
moting Health, The Health of Negroes, and The 
Church and the Conservation of Health 


StecHerR, Witt1am A., B.S.G., _ Director, 
Physical Education, Public Schools, 
Philadelphia, Pa. 

The Theory and Practice of Educational 
Gymnastics, Embracing Free Exercises, 
Rhythmic Steps, Track and Field Work, 
Games, Apparatus Work. i915. 188 pp. 
Photographs. $1.60 
Physical education tends to promote the health of 
pupils, insure normal growth, and to develop and dis- 
cipline motor control—it is health-producing and habit 
producing. To insure the realization of these two 
objects the work should be carefully graded and 
studied. This book illustrates and describes a large 
number of graded exercises, some to be performed 
with apparatus and some without. In addition to the 
physical culture program a number of dancing steps 

and rhythms are considered An appendix gives a 

useful list of exercises for correcting round shoulders 

and spinal curvature. 


Factory INVESTIGATING COMMISSION, STATE OF 
New York. 
Fourth Report of the Factory Investi- 
gating Commission, 1915. Transmitted 
to the Legislature February 15, 1915. 5 
volumes. 2922 pp. (Apply to the Commis- 
sion, Albany, N. Y.) 


After a brief review of the work of the Commission 
before 1914, the report outlines the program for that 
vear and then details the investigations and studies in 
Wages and Wage Legislation, Recodification of the 
Labor Law, and Consolidation ‘of Departments having 
Jurisdiction over Buildings in New York City. Three 
appendices follow, giving the bills recommended by th 
Commission, the briefs submitted, and information as 
to various memoranda, questionnaires and symposiums 
Volume II deals more completely with general wage 
conditions and tells the result of investigations of mer- 
cantile establishments, the shirt, paper box, confec 
tionery and button industries, the millinery trade, and 
public utilities service. Volume III is devoted to a 
eee tabulation of the results of the investiga 
tions. Volume IV contains three appendices on voca- 


lEBRUARY, 1916 THE AMER 


CAN. Cry 


tiona. training (in de} tment stores 
paper box industries); cost of vil ' 
State for single men and women and f 
family; and “*Minim l 
lasia.” The last volur 
posal to consolidate 
and on wages and wa 
tions of the Commissior 
that the Labor Law ified 
Commission be appointed t lecide 
the question of an ade ‘ 





s inet 
single department of buildings reate 
the inspection work now dist ted ar 
departments and officials in N York ( 


\MERICAN ASSOCIATION FoR LABor I 
John B. Andrews, Secretary 
Vaempleyment Survey, 1914-1915. 


(American Labor Legislation Rewew, Vi 


V, No. 3, Publication 30, November, 1915.) 
164 pp. Photographs, maps and diagrams 





$1.00 
his report, taking as its theme es 

the winter of 1914-1915, atte ts s 
principal American cities thought their 
problem was, what they tried to t 
far as it is possible to do so in stu f this k 
attempt is made here to indicate 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF CHARITIES AND Cor- 


RECTION, 

Proceedings of the National Conference 
of Charities and Correction at the Forty- 
Second Annual Session, Held in Balti- 
more, Maryland, May 12-19, 1915. xiii 
+ 665 pp. Frontispiece portrait of Mrs 
John M. Glenn, President of the Confer 





ence. $2.20 

Opening with the able presidentia ess of Mrs 
lohn M. Glenn, the Proceedings of the Forty-second 
Annual Session of the Conference laces before 
reader interested in social welfare questions a 
number of interesting papers in which expert s i} 
workers treat of the various problems « r pr 
fession. The body of the work is separated under the 
following headings: The Family and the Community 
Children, Health, S« rcial Hygiene, State Care f the 
Insane, Feeble Minded and Epilept Corrections, 
Public and Private Charities, Social Legislat nd 
Education for Social Work Among the long list of 
contributors the following may be enumerated Mary 


I Richmond, Amelia Sears, Lee F. Hanmer, Mary 
C. Goodwillie, C. C. Carstens, Julia C. Lathrop, Philip 


Van Ingen, Richard ¢ Cabot, Martha P. Falconer, 
\braham age agg Henry R. Seager, Charles B 
Starnes, Tohn B idrews, Felix Frankfurter, Edward 
lr. Devine, Frank " Goodnow, Porter R. Lee, ete 
In the latter part f the volume e included the 
minutes of business meeti ngs, rules of procedure, or 
ganization of conferences and dex 


MAYNARD, SAMUEL T., aeaihe Professor of 
Jotany and Horticulture at the Massa- 
chusetts Agricultural College. 

Landscape Gardening as Applied to 
Home Decoration. Second Edition; r« 





written and enlarged. 1915. xx + 300 pp 
Photographs and diagrams $1.50 
The second edition of this book was e necessat 

by the great progress in the last fifteer ears 
decoration and rural gardening The thor has 
vised and rewritten much of the text, replaced many 
of the old illustrations and added 1 y new ones 
Explaining the relationship of home ornamentation or 
decoration to the larger field of landscape gardening, 


the book shows the | 
and its grounds as an 
describing the differer 


functior f the home 


nit in the mmunity, 





und rendered of more se througl epar 
tion of land, layout ind = drive 1 
irrangement of trees 1 flows The hing 
ing questions of county roads and roadside improve- 
ments, parks, public squares, school grounds, etc., are 
considered in proper sequence, and it is shown what 
effect such improvements may have pon the con 
munity. Separate chapters are devote t uquati¢ 
plants, insects injurious to tree and plant lif the 


home fruit garden 

















ie 





THE AMERICAN CITY 


IS Years Of Truck Success 







AMERICAN 
* CONSTRUCTION 60. \ BH GRAMM 


Or 








Gramm-Bernstein Trucks on the job. In 15 years of manufacture, B. A 
Gramm has worked out the right truck construction for every heavy duty. Put 
your transportation problem up to him. He will answer you personally. One thing 
is sure You are losing money if you employ horses where these trucks can be used 
Actual records show one 5-6 ton Gramm-Bernstein does the work of four to five teams 


CRAMM- 
HEAVY DUTY TRUCKS 


i for All Contractors’ Work and Engineering Projects 


' : Prices (chassis painted to order) 5-6 ton, $4,300; 314-ton, $3,400; 214-ton, $2,600. We 
: ilso make lighter duty trucks, 1!4-ton, $1,800; 1-ton, $1,500. Bodies built as ordered 


: Y% insure yourself the utmost Efficiency —Dependability—Profit when you put 











Write for illustrated catalog with full description of Gramm 
Bernstein features Trouble-proof transmission guaranteed the 
tie of tne truck gears alu avs 

i in mesh—cannot be strip ped hy 

' a most careles driving —worm 
arive lrengin nad pi er for 
r y d mi ble nir 


Ask for Book No 9 


Gramm-Bernstein Tracks are 


manufactured exclusively by 












Gramm-Bernstein hydrauli Circulating medium is oil, forced into 


and get H cylinder by gear pump operated from 
re = - at The Gramm-BernsteinCo. transmission. Note the absence of chains, 























du ng ir to 20 nd sprockets or complicated parts. Gear box 
Material Y i ; . . ean also be used for driving winches, water 
any thickr beit Lima, Ohio, U.S. A. pumps, flushers, ete 
i —_ 
> 
—— 
iG \hen writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City 





— 


od a yy 














"epee etieaeeee 


Pamphlets of Municipal and Civic Interest 


Copies should be ordered direct as ind 


ted 


}, picase ent i | \M 





— 


a 


- 
a © 





CT TLL eee Tee ee a 


Reorganization for Efficiency in Govern- 
ment. 
By LeRoy Hodges, Counselor. (Bulletin N 
The Southern Commercial Congress, Bu u 
Economics and Public Efficiency, Tune 15, 191 
4 pp. Charts. (Order from the Congress, Sout! 
ern Building, Washington, D. C.) 


Reorganization of County Government in 


Virginia. 
By LeRoy Hodges, Counselor (Bulletin No. 2 
The Southern Commercial Congress, Bureau of 


Economics and Efficiency, July 1, 1915.) 4 pp 
Charts. (Order from the Congress, Souther 
Building, Washington, D. C.) 


Reorganization of Municipal Government in 


Virginia. 
By LeRoy Hodges, Counselor (Bulletin No. 3, 
The Southern Commercial Congress, Bureau of 
Economics and Public Eficien y, July 15, 1915.) 


4 pp. Charts. (Order from the Congress, South 
ern Building, Washington, D &) 


League of Washington Municipalities. 


Proceedings of the Fifth Annual Convention of 
the League of Washington Municipalities, Otym- 
pia, January 25-27, 1915. (Compiled and edited 


by Dr. Herman G. A. Brauer, Director of the Bu 
reau of eet Research, University of Wash- 
ington.) 65 pp. (Apply to Dr. Brauer, as above, 
at Seattle, Washington.) 


Ohio Municipal League. 


Proceedings of the Fifth Anm al Meeting of the 
Ohio Municipal League, Dayto November 17, 
1915 (in lieu of 1916 meeting). 1915. 36 pp 
(Apply to the Secretary, 200 University Hall, 
Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio.) 


State Highway Mileage and Expenditures to 
January 1, 1915. 

Circular No. 62 of the United States Department 

of Agriculture, prepared by the Division of Road 

Economics, office of Public Roads and Engineet 

ing. Issued October 13, 1915. 6 pp [Ras 

(Apply to the office of Public Roads, Washington, 





D. C) 2 
Municipal Water Supply in the United 
States. 


Recent Progress and Tendencies in Municipal 
Water Supply in the United States. By John W 
Alvord, Mem. Am, Soc. ( E. (Advance copy of 
paper presented before the International Engineer 
ing Congress, San Francisco, Cal., September 
20-25, 1915.) 29 pp. Bibliography (Apply t 
author, Hartford Building, Chicago, IIL.) 


Collection and Disposal of City Refuse. 


By M. I. Evinger and D. C. Faber. (Bulletit 
No. 15, Engineering Extension Department, Tech 
nical Service, of lowa State College of zricul 


Ag 
ture and Mechanic Arts, Vol. XIV, No. 17, Ne 
vember 1, 1915.) Photographs, charts and d 
grams. 36 pp. (Apply to the College, Ames, Ia.) 


Operation and Care of Sewage Disposal 
lants. 


By D. C, Faber, Industrial Engineer Publica 
tions of Iowa State College of Agriculture and 
Mechanic Arts, Vol. XIV, No. 21, December 10, 
1915 Bulletin 16, Engineering Extension De 
partment, Technical Service.) 23 pp. Phot 
eraphs and diagrams. (Apply to the College, 
\mes, Lowa.) 


Co-operative Centralized Purchasing 


in 
New York. 
Results of a Year’s P 
chasing in the Mayor's 
by the Mayor’s Central Purchasing ( mittee 
Henry Bruere, cl irn ! ’ tat 
tical tables and charts Apply t 
Municipal Building, New York ¢ 


The Gary School System. 
\ series of articles by W. ] 
Minneapolis Tribune staff P 
1915.) 46 pp. (Apply to 7 I ’ 


Minneapolis, Minn.) 
Baby-Week Campaigns. 
Suggestions for Comn tic f 
(United States Depart: t of | 
Bureau, Publication N ! Mis t ‘ 
5 15. “ PI \ t ( lren’s Bu 


lest t Ce il | 





Effective Illumination of Streets. 
$y Preston S. Mill: (Advance printir 
paper presented at the hirty-second Annual 
vention of the American Institute f 
Engineers, joint session with Illu 
Engineering Society, Deer Park, Md 
1915.) Pages 13 1398. Tables, photogr 
and charts. Apply to author, East End 
and Eightieth Street, New York Cit 


Street Lighting Schedules for 1916, 











Issued by the Electri ’ eve 
year. (By means x s tl 
times of lighting inguis g la . i 
ticed under t three plans prevailing cities 
the United States.) Large sheet, 15 x 18 i s 
(Apply to / trical World 9 West 7 ty 
ninth Street, New York Cit | 
Progress in Vocational Education. 
By William T. Bawden, Specialist in | . 
Education, United States Bureau of | tio 
(Reprinted by the United States Bure f Edu 
cation from the report of the ( ne 
Education for the y led J 14, ¢ 
ter XI, Vol. 1, pp » 289 19 Apply t 
the Bureau, Washing D. ¢ 
Industrial Education, 
New Legis! ation in Pennsylvania and Wisconsin 
Report of the.Committee on Industrial Educatior 
i = Miles, chair1 in), t the went \r 
al vention of tl National Ass 1 of 
M: a t New York City, May », 191 
(Reprinted for distribution by Bure f Educa 
tion, Washington, D. ¢ \ to the Asso 
ciation, office of the Secretary, ( rch Stree 


New York City.) 


Publications Concerning Vocational In- 


struction. 
A List of Helpful Publications ( erning \ 
cational Instructior Prepare Lewis A 
Wilson, Specialist in Indust S Is Bul 
letin of the Universit f the State f New 
York, Division of Agricultural and Industrial | 
cation. No 600, Oct ber 1, 1915 \ 


ply to the University, Albany, Ne y 


A Bibliography of ~ — sdoeegly-5 





The Social parweg ( led 
by Zenas L. Potter it 1 \ in of the Russell Sag 
Foundation jp woned No. 14. December, 1915.) 1 
pp. (Apply to the Russell Sage Four lation Li- 
brary, 130 East Twenty-s¢ Nesest Wow Vert 


City.) 





ae 


ee ae 








THE AMERICAN CITY 





ie 








THE ONLY WAY 


To Obtain an Ornamental Lighting 
System and Retain Overhead Wires 





_ _ Bracket 10347 and 
G.E. Novalux Unit Form 4 





Bracket 10338 and 
G E Novalux Unit Form 9 


ELREGO 


COMBINATION POLES 


serve the double purpose of Ornamental 
Lighting Standards and ‘Trolley Wire 


Supports. 


Handsome brackets for 
supporting very latest Nova- 
lux Lighting Units or the 
Ornamental Luminous Lamps 
improve the appearance of 
the plain Trolley Poles. 


You can string your wires 
along the top of the poles, 
where they are practically 
unnoticeable and out of the 
way of traffic. 


You save the cost of addi- 
tional lamp standards and 
underground construction, 
and avoid further obstruction 
of the curb line. 


Catalog E describes this 
money-saving plan and full 
details—free. 


Electric Railway 
Equipment Co. 


New York Office : 30 Church Street 


CINCINNATI, OHIO 


SPAR 
wiht 





Comttnation Pole 


an 
Ornamental G.E. 
Luminous Arc 

















47 


When writing to 


Advertisers please mention Tue American Crrty. 





















4 





He 





{ANN | ve willl 


For the Year 1916. 


The American-La France Fire Engine Company 
Inc., of Elmira, N. Y., is sending out a large an 
very attractive calendar, giving on one sheet the 
twelve months of 1916, and displaying in colors a 
view of this company’s motor fire apparatus ex- 
hibit at the Panama-Pacific International Exposi 
tion, which won the highest award. Pictures of 
the plants and offices of the company are also re 
produced. 


A Mount McKinley Calendar. 


A striking picture of Mount McKinley, reproduced 
from a painting by Sydney Lawrence, adorns the 
1916 calendar issued by Howell's Microcosm, 612 
Seventeenth Street, N. W., Washington, D. Se 
makers of relief maps and topographic models 


Spray Nozzles for Street Construction. 


The Spray Engineering Company, 93 Federal 
Street, Boston, has issued a four-page leaflet de- 
scribing and illustrating the use of special noz- 
zles in spraying asphalt in road construction. 


Road Building Machinery. 


The Reliance stone-crushing plant for munici 
palities, counties and townships is illustrated and 
described in the catalogue of the Universal Road 
Machinery Company, Kingston, N. Y. This 
catalogue also describes the varied line of road- 
building equipment manufactured by this com- 
pany. 


Ash and Garbage Wagons. 


A list of over one hundred cities, both large and 
small, that are using Watson Wagons for the 
collection of ashes and garbage will be sent on 
request by the Watson Wagon Company, Cana 
stota, N. Y., together with illustrated printed 
matter describing these wagons in detail. 


Seeds and Bulbs for Parks and Cemeteries. 


The catalogue of J. M. Thorburn & Company, 33 
Barclay Street, New York, is a very complete 
buyers’ guide for public officials, as well as pri 
vate citizens having to do with the purchase of 
seeds, bulbs and plants. 


Inspection and Test of Materials. 


Information will be promptly sent to any munici 
pality desirin it, by the Pittsburgh Testing 
Laboratory, ‘ pT . L.” Building, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
relative to its service along the lines of testing 
materials for road and wig work, water-works 
construction, etc. Complete laboratories are main 
tained for consultation work in connection 
the subject of bacteriological control of 

supply. 


Asphalt for Every Purpose. 


The catalogue of the Pioneer Asphalt Company, 
Lawrenceville, Ill., not only gives information 
relative to its asphalt for paving and road build- 
ing work, but also covers such subjects as Asphalt 
Fillers for Brick Pavement, Asphalt for Pipe Coat- 
ing, etc. 


Chemicals for Water Purification. 

Water departments facing the question of purifi- 
cation of their water supply will find it worth 
while to communicate with the Pennsylvania Salt 
Manufacturing Company, 115 Chestnut Street, 
Philadelphia, ba, relative to liquid chlorine, also 
sulphate of alumina and chloride of lime, for 
water-purification work. 


with 
water 


UH \0NUNMIIALUSUUNULUUAAA NNN 


’ 
Manufacturers 
Available Free of Charge for Readers of THE AMERICAN CITY 


Advertisers are invited to submit catalogues or circulars suitable for mention in these columns. 
Tue American City should always be mentioned when writing for this material. 


AHNADULUNOULAQOLLUULL4UD LEONA 


dial it | \ " 


Neiewntiace 





{VMOU AUNLOUGN LULU 


HAUT AAMUAUU LATE ALNUDLUEROSTUMUAOAALLGA LURE 


Mi 
Street Cleaning and Gutter Brooms. 


The complete catalogue published by the Osborn 
Manufacturing Company, 5401 Hamilton Avenue, 





Cleveland, Ohio, not only describes the se ot 
brooms, but also brooms for grouting pa ts, 
rotary brooms for machine-s veep ng, asphalt 


scrapers, etc. 


The Use of Creosote Oil for Wood Block 
Paving. 
A free handbook on this subject, 
reputation of this preservative 
gineers througho 
the Republic ( 
Ind. 


Lamp Standards and Street Sign Posts. 
Union Metal 


explaining the 
with municipal et 
ut the country, is distributed by 
reosoting Company, Indianapolis, 


The catalogue of the 
Company, Canton, Ohio, illust: 
sign and high type of 

Standards for street signs 


Manufacturing 
ates the artistic de 
onstruction of Union 
ind street lamps 


Steam Gongs for Fire Alarm Use. 
The gongs made by the Union Water Meter Com 


pany, Worcester, Mass., and described in its illus 
trated printed matter, are very different from 
an ordinary steam whistle, and it is claimed that 
they can be heard for a distance of twenty miles 


Street Cleaning and Park Equipment. 


Circulars distributed by W. M. Toy & Company, 
Sidney, Ohio, describe this company’s park 
benches, snow plows and other equipment for 
park and street use 
Cast Iron Pipe for Water Supply and Cul- 
vert use. 


Municipal officials intending to culvert 
pipe for culverts or water-supply will find it worth 


purchase 


while to send for the catalogue of the United 
States Cast Iron Pipe & Foundry Company, Bur- 
lington, N. J., describing its various types of cast 


iron pipe in sizes from 2 inches to 84 inches 


Lamps for Park and Boulevard Lighting. 
The booklet issued by the Coleman Lamp Com 
pany, Wichita, Kan., describes the Coleman boule 
vard lamp, which pri duces its own gas from either 


gasoline or kerosene. The Coleman Company 
also has a very inexpensive ae lighting sys 
tem for small municipalities, illustrations of 


which will be sent on request 


Municipal Auto Equipment. 
The South Bend Motor Car Works, South Bend, 
Ind., is distributing illustrations of fire apparatus, 
police patrois, ambulances and other automobile 
trucks especially designed for municipal use 


Water Works Specialties. 


The catalogue of the Water Works Equipment 
Company, 50 Church Street, N. Y., contains illus- 
trations and descriptions of a m imber of unique 
water-works specialties designed to effect larg 
savings to municipal or private water -works plants 


The Merits of Refined Asphalt Roads. 


A 16-page pamphlet on this subject, by Leroy M 
Law, Chief Chemist of The United States Asphalt 
Refining Company, of New York and Baltimore, 


by whom the pamphlet is = lished The subject 
is discussed in the light of actual accomplishment 
of road building with petroleum asphalts 


[203] 








OO MTN or * 





THE AMERICAN CITY 











S. E. T. Specialties 


Contribute to Public Convenience, 
Safety and Economy 





S. E. T. Adjustable Manhole 
Tops for Sewer and Water 
Works Brick and Concrete 
Manholes. 


So constructed as to permit 
of raising or lowering to grade 
without expense and incon- 
venience of tearing up the 
street. 


Adjustable Manhole Top 


Ideal Roadway Box 


meets the demand for a substantial housing 


large enough to keep the valve free and clear 
for inspection, operation and 





repairs. 


“Perfect” Curb Boxes— 
‘*Perfect” Gate Boxes 


afford real protection to the service cock or valve 


permitting operation surely and quickly. 


S. E.T. VALVE & HYDRANT CO. 


50 CHURCH STREET, NEW YORK CITY 








4s When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American Curry. 


— 











ee 


o Methods, Materials and Appliances q 
i News from Engineers, Manufacturers and Supply Houses i 


_ 


, A Meter Testing sen, 
Outfit : 




















iecion , 
The two illustrations "Saeaas 
published herewith show t 
a complete meter-testing a 
utfhit manufactured by the aes race t= ay 
H. W. Clarke Company, a oe ‘ 
of Mattoon, Ill. A com- >- = 
bination is made up of the ss = 
j No, 5, which tests all sizes a >] 
up to 2-inch, and the large oy 
machine which tests me- 
ters of 3-inch to 20-inch. Py any a 
It is quite practical, with I} | ae 
this combination, to use j j 
one tank and scale, plac- / \ a 
ing the No. 5 machine on PY smsntcate. 
the left and the large ma- ‘“ hee Brace Rrowase 3+ # 
chine on the right. Aut Onin OnE Re T= Kes - Seg - ee 
: The big machine elimi THE CLARK NO. 5 METER TESTER 
; nates the necessity of 
\4 overhead trolleys, as it is entirely supported however, to take care of varying lengths of 
j on the floor. The drawing shows a gen- meters as it may be desired (on account of 
\ eral layout, quite flexible in detail as to economy) to eliminate the “lever adjustment.” 
size of tank and scale, size of inlet and out- The elevating truck is of 2-ton capacity, and 
let pipes. It is also flexible as to the ad- is made extremely flexible in its operation 
justment features, as follows: extreme ad- horizontally through the swivel-wheel cor 
justments are had through the “column struction, so that a meter riding on the truck 
adjustment” by means of bevel and rack- can be easily placed in its proper position 
and-pinion gears, actuated by a convenient for connecting up Ready adjustment 
hand wheel; the “lever adjustment” com vertically is obtained by means of the hand 
prises an expansion joint of special con wheel operating on a series of bevel gears 
j struction, permitting the pipe to be moved which provide for the varying heights of 
} inwardly and outwardly by means of the meters. Two of these hand wheels are sup- 
: lever shown. On the left of the meter there plied, for convenience of operation. Meters 
: is a short section of pipe with flange on brought into the shop are unloaded from the 
i either end; in use of the outfit as illustrated wagon onto a platform of the proper height 
; with the two adjustments—viz., “column ad- to receive them and to permit their being eas 
justment” and “lever adjustment’—the pipe ily loaded onto the smooth iron platform of 
| always stays intact. It is made removable, the adjustment truck 
bien Omens 





a > 
siemeth|| | I on 
Pr R — g Ga 
> Iii. i= ee 
= i = IB Ls 
2et=5 eel @ — — 
| SSS 7) " - t 
| | HG a Pa peace e, : —1> F 
f) Srecrm Semen @ ia ” “ “ * } 
| Wire Pemcan nest b = : 
my md ri <a ap *) td ¥ — “yi 





tvaruee Teves 





THE BIG METER TESTING MACHINI 





























THE AMERICAN CITY 








SANITATION 


While our ““CANCO” garbage 
can in point of appearance and 
strength of construction is without 
a peer, yet our equipment—the 
most comprehensive in the country 
—is such that we can make any 
sort of garbage container at short 
notice. 








We shall be pleased to estimate 
on any city or park requirement. 


AMERICAN CAN COMPANY 


Chicago NEW YORK San Francisco 


WITH OFFICES IN ALL LARGE CITIES 














When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American City. 




















Rt eo He 8 





Fes. 1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 207 


Adapters” are fur- 
nished to fit all meters. 
\ll flange connections 
comprise slotted hole con- 
structions so that bolts may 
be readily slipped in and 
out. Adapters are pro- 
vided with eyelets, so that 
by the aid of a small port- 
’ able lifting crane (fur- 

nished as a separate part 
of the equipment) this is 
a strictly one-man ma- 
chine. 

Che No. 3 machine made 
by this company is the 
same as the No. 5, except 
that it has one adjusting 

i table and is of shorter 
; construction, accommodat- 














ng one-half the number of 
meters in multiple as does 
the No. 5, but suited to - - — 
the same sizes as the lat- THE CALIFORNIA BENCH 
ter. 
The Clark meter testers 
are guaranteed to meet the approval of every rounded. The manufacturers are the Art Con- 
public utility commission in the United States crete Works, of Pasadena, Cal., 1 the 
+ + benches are thoroughly covered by United 
P P states patents They have already 
The California Bench shipped across the continent for use on privat 
The bench here pictured is an attractive ac- estates in the exclusive suburbs of Pittsburgh, 
cessory of outdoor life. It is made with con-  Pa., as well as to Lenox, Mass., Newport, 
crete ends and redwood seat and back, and the R. I., Colorado Springs, etc., and are in exten 
white of the concrete and the shade of green sive public use at Pasadena, San Diego, Cor 
with which the woodwork is painted harmonize nado Beach, and other famous California 
with the landscape. The concrete ends are sorts 
machine-molded, and thus maximum strength + + 


has been given to minimum weight, so that 
the complete bench, with the wooden parts, The Work of a Garden Expert 





may be easily assembled, but, when placed, Among the features which probably appealed 
cannot be moved about at random by unau most strongly to every one of the nearly 19 
thorized persons. The bench is suitable for 000,000 vistors to the Panama-Pacific Interna 
use on private home grounds, in parks, near tional Exposition were the beautiful landscape 
tennis courts and golf links, in roof gardens, and floral effects created by Mr. John M 
small nooks, etc. The standard length is 6 feet Laren, for many years the superintendent of 
inside measure, comfortably seating four per- Golden Gate Park, San Francis 

sons. The seat is fashioned with a slight curve October 10 was set apart at the Exposition in 
to fit the body, and all edges and corners of honor of Mr. McLaren and his son, who was 
both the concrete and wooden parts are neatly his assistant At the east entrance to the 





fo anc 














: SPRAYING TREES IN GOLDEN GATE PARK, SAN FRANCISCO 











ne ers 





THE AMERICAN CITY 























Why Pay a Push Broom Crewr 


A sweeper that must be followed by a gang to bunch and sweep gutters «is 
a heavy expense. The Baker Dustless Pick-up Sweeper more than eliminates 
this cost. It first dampens the litter—then picks it up in containers, reaching 
the gutters well—and dumps it in moist piles 500 feet apart. That means only 
10 pick-ups per mile instead of about 170. 





DUSTLESS PICK-UP SWEEPER 
Saves Taxpayers a Bunch of Money 


City of Alton, Ills., say they now clean for less than half and cover more territory Waxahachie, Texas, say 
“best we ever used,"’ and so on from all points of the compass. The 1916 model is a ‘hummer’! Has Hyatt 
Roller Bearings—a new frictionless device for sweeping on curves—new pressure and speed adjustments, etc 
Send for catalog showing cost figures 


See us at Chicago Cement Show, Feb. 12-19 


THE BAKER MANUFACTURING COMPANY 


503 Stanford Avenue, Springfield, Illinois 








50 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American Crry. 














an emt on som 











NEWS FROM 


EB., 1916 


Horticulture, and facir the 


wned Southern Gardens, which they 


AaCcé I 
world-ren 





created, the elder McLaren was presented by 
Mayor Rolph with a silver loving | 
gold plaque Donald MeLars receive 
nze plaque. In behalf of the school chi 
f San Francisco, one f the students als 


rated Mr. McLaren with a floral wre 
Throughout the many | 
been superintendent there a 


‘ McLaren has 
trouble due to tree pests in the 1,00 


een little 





acres comprising Golden Gate Park. | i 

owever, some pests put in the ippearanc 

nd Mr. McLaren employed an ent og 
and purchased from the Bean Spray Pump 
; Company, of San José, Cal nd Lansing, 


Mich., one of the latest type “Double Giant 
park sprayers, with which it is possible to reach 
the tops of trees 65 feet high by 


' the ground, and to maintain a working pres 
; Sure otf 400 pounds, delivering 25 gall i 
inute In very few cases is it found neces 

sary to climb the trees or use ladd | 


les + + 
The Care of Home Garbage 


lhe Majestic underground garbage receive: 
nanufactured by The Majestic Company, of 


Huntington, Ind., is designed to further home 
three sections iro! 


sanitation. It 
receptacle, can and covet The can fits into ; 
heet-iron receptacle that is placed undet 
ground, the only part that shows above ground 
being a hood with a door which can be opened 
or closed with the foot, as illustrated. The car 
s easily removed for emptying when the iron 
p is taken off. This | 





consists of 


receiver is handy an 





THE MAJESTIC UNDERGROUND GARBAGE 
RECEIVER 


ENGINEERS 





AND MANUFACTURERS 209 


‘ the 
kitche a 1 Sig ly way 
It is water-tig give I | 
To. aors 4 2 Ss, tues 
c. Wit 5 
t is descr l i imphle 
ished ¢ 


+ + 
A Lock Box for Water Meters 
n 2 Wletin tit WW at Meter 


itt a quart 

















an exposed positio1 Che box may also be 
used by contractors as a substantial protect 
for meters on tempor services 
The box is halves that It secure ibout 
the meter, with the ts on the inside f the 
box. The key wrench which is used to unlock 
it also fits the inside bolts he door opens ot 
hinged joint 1 the hole box presents 
neat appearance 
+ + 
Watering Wisely 
An interesting i repared 
the Spray Engineering Company f Boston 
m “Moisture in Cultivation t is written f 
those who love gardening, and tells f 
cinating fashion, how pkants feed v water 
behaves in the soil, how tillage serves 
moisture, and how advantageous it is to mat 
tain uniform moisture ndit s through the 
ipplication of water by artificial mear Ch 
ion of | und lens is shown t 
e! t effect shed | he use 
f a spraying de which will ly the 








<A AN a nan | 


it ce eae 


ee 


4 
- 
om 
i= 
4 
- 
. 
i= 
4 
- 
: 





THE AMERICAN CITY 


“Everwear Stands Wear and Tear” 





“EVERWEAR” Roller Bearing Clamps are for mounting swings, 
flying and traveling rings—built to clamp on 2”, 214”, 3”, 4”, 5”, and 6” 
pipe. Simple but clever—correct in design and construction. 

We give you an “inside’’ view. As the load sets this in motion and 
it swings back and forth, you notice what happens to the clamp? The 
bearings ROLL—they obviate friction—they increase the enjoyment of the 


device and prolong the life of “Everwear’’ apparatus. ‘This is 
just one of our so-called “little jf things’’ to which we have given 
careful attention like all the ff others. Prices if you ask for them. 





“Sliding Down Our Cellar Door’’ 


SLIDE CHUTES 


The old cellar door is here commercialized and brought up to date. Children will 


climb and slide somewhere, somehow, and we here offer a device that is complete in 
detail and consistent with safety. 


Stairs are equipped with perforated steel treads, and handrails run the full length 


of stairs. Oceans of fun, and action is continuous. Fully described in Catalog C-3 
which will be sent on application. 


The Everwear Manufacturing Company 
Springfield, Ohio 


51 Advertisers please mention THe American Crry. 


When writing te 














ee 


— 

















Fes., 1916 


water in a mist fine enough not to wash. out 
the tiny seeds. This chapter is illustrated with 
views of the “Young Fountain” sprinkler 
manufactured by this company. “Cultural In- 
structions for Various Crops” follow, giving 
in brief form practical directions for the 
planting and cultivation of different vege- 
tables. The pamphlet closes with pictures of 
_— a-dozen types of sprinklers recommer ded 
by this company for different kinds of service 
+ + 

Thawing Frozen Pipes 

The thawing machine manufactured by The 
Burbank Thawing Machine Company, of Bos- 
ton, has been invented by a practical plumber 
for the purpose of thawing service pipes, 
hydrants and sewers. The apparatus con- 
sists of a force pump with air ch: umber, a coil 
heater, inside of which is placed < 1 powerful 
gasoline burner, and a reel on which the 
necessary amount of block tin coil is wound. 
Inside the wheel is placed a tank for supply- 
ing fuel to the burner, holding enough to fast 


NEWS FROM ENGINEERS 


AND MANUFACTURERS 211 


Rubber Company that the city of Akron. 
Ohio, included the whole G y 
annexation ordinance that has t been 
passed, and Goodyear Heights I 1 part 
of the city. 
The plan was started three y 
President F. A. Seiber 
of the 10,000 Gor 





become home owners, but wer: rred by th 
‘down payments” necessary in tl 
estate deal. Cheret n 100 acres of land wer 
purchased close to yd Goodvear plant 
ground was allotted, streets laid ov 
sewered, etc., water, gas and els 
vided for, and | 1 ind 
workmen on the basis of rent, no “down 
ment” being necessary 

Most of the comn nplace feature f allot 
ment development have been eliminated. T1 
are no rows of houses all alike Each 
real home, with architectural individuality 
brick and stucco prey gor is to material 


A small lake partly within the propert 
} 











nade it POSSIDIE to il 
range a fine pleasure groun 
with tennis courts, foot 
ball and baseball fields 
swimming and _ skatir fa 
cilities and 


“Goodyear Heights lrea 


f 


places of the ity, and its 
fame has spread so that 
manufacturers from many 
parts of the country have 
made detailed inquiries, 
with a vit w to the possibil 








THE BURBANK THAWING MACHINE 1 


five hours, all being mounted on a suitable 
base. In operation, the coil boiler and flexible 
pipe on the reel are filled with water, as the 
burner will generate steam very quickly unless 
a circulation of water is kept up in the boiler, 
which is done by operating the lever of the 
force pump until water runs out of the end of 
the flexible pipe in a steady stream. The burner 
is now lighted, and, when the blue flame ap- 
pears, the flexible pipe is inserted into the 
frozen pipe until the ice is reached. The hot 
water is forced against the ice, melting it as 
fast as one can pass the flexible pipe along 
The apparatus is made in two sizes, the smaller 
for services and similar work, the larger for 
mains, sewers, catch-basins and_ hydrants. 
Sewers as large as 8 inches have been satis 
factorily thawed with this machine, which will 
be sent on trial to any water company or city 
agreeing to give it a fair test. The company 
issues a 4-page leaflet regarding the apparatus. 
+ + 
Goodyear Heights Now a 
Part of Akron 


So successful has been the home-building 
plan for employes of The Goodyear Tire & 


ity of adopting, in whole or 

part, similar housing plans 
+ + 

Cities Buying Motor 

Fire Apparatus 


Among the recent shipments made by the 
American-La France Fire Engine Company, 
Inc., of Elmira, N. Y., are the following: a 
Type 31 tractor-drawn, 65-foot aerial truck to 
Annapolis, Md.; to Ocean Grove, N. J., a Type 
75 combination chemical engine and hose car; 
the Type 40 combination to Middletown, N. Y., 
Chatham, N. J., and Cambridge, Md.; the 
Type B Brockway combination to Lords burg, 
Cal., and Hermosa Beach, Cal., and the Type 
D Brockway combination to Kittanning, Pa 
the Type 12 combination to Knoxville, Tenn., 
and Hagerstown, Md.; the Type 10 combina 
tion to Oxford, N. C.; and the Type 20 com- 
bination to Gilroy, Cal 

Tests of a new American-La France fire 
truck recently delivered to the city of Clarks- 
ville, Miss., have exceeded all the contract de- 
mands. One of the tests was made with 250 
feet of hose and 134- and 1%-inch nozzles 
With the pump pressure at 120 pounds, 900 
gallons were delivered in mint ute—1090 gal- 
lons more than the contract called for 








THE AMERICAN CITY 


MUNICIPAL 
SIGNS 


OF EVERY CHARACTER 
FOR EVERY PURPOSE 


% GUARANTEED 


AIT PORCELAIN 
ENAMELED 
IRON 


SIGNS 


‘“‘BALTO” Guaranteed Porcelain Enameled Iron Signs 
stand alone in their field—the one and only one absolutely 
dependable sign product. 




















These signs are made of the finest grade of vitreous Porcelain Enamel 
fused on specially processed iron at a temperature of 1600 degrees Fah- 
renheit—each color separately fused. 


‘“*BALTO”’ Signs, exclusively, are fitted with 
non-corrosive metal sleeve eyelets—this 


0) feature protects the enamel at this point »NQ Wars 

GER and adds another distinctive element of Bs AMT y lire 
finish to our signs. EEp P ons 

r 2 

























We produce every possible character of municipal 
signs—any size, shape, color combination or design. 
W age obligation our Service Department will 

leased to submit sketches and quotations. 
ha itionally, we will send FREE, at our expense, 
} to any authorized purchasing official or body a 
useful and attractive sample of finished Herniaia 
Enameled Iron. Write Department C. 


The Baltimore Enamel & Novelty Co. 


BALTIMORE, MARYLAND 













UNNECESSARY noises 
_ PROHIBITED Px F 


When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American Crry. 











Fes, 1916 NEWS FROM 
Purchasing Coal by 
Analysis 


For many 


years coal has 
een purchased from-.a given 
locality or a well-known vein 
on its reputation as a_heat- 


producer or for its quality for 
certain purposes. Scientific 
nanagement has at last, how 
ever, opened the eyes of many 
engineers in charge of 
power plants to such an ex 
tent that coal for these plants 
is no longer bought on its 
reputation but upon its merit 
alone. It is obliged to produce 
ust so many heat units per dol 
lar of cost, and if it fails to do 
so a rebate from the producer 
is demanded and obtained 

There need be no more 
guesswork by the well-informed 
in buying coal than in the pur 
hase of iron and steel The 
Government has for many 
years practiced this method of 
uuying on a B. t. u. basis for 
its various departments and in 
stitutions, as have also many 
public service corporations, 
municipalities and private en 
terprises using coal in quantity 
rhey have found it to be a 
good investment. 

The process of sampling in the past has 
been tedious, costly, inaccurate and not alto 
gether satisfactory; in fact, many concerns 
have failed to adopt it for these very reasons, 
but now there is a machine which crushes 
the coal at the rate of 3,000 pounds per hout 
ind at the same time automatically extracts 
an accurate sample varying as desired from 
5 to 15 per cent of the total amount passed 
through it, delivering the product inch 
and finer, ready for the chemist to analyz 
Thus all hand labor has been eliminated 
with the exception of collecting the samples 
It is now only necessary to gather fait 
samples of a shipment, pass them throug! 
the automatic crusher and sampler, and the 
result, a small, accurate sample of the whol: 
is delivered in perfect condition for analysis 
The result of such analysis determines the 
value and therefore the purchase price of a 
the coal in that shipment. 

This simple little machine is shown in th: 
accompanying illustration, and further par 
ticulars may be obtained from its manufac 
turers, The Sturtevant Mill Company, 
corner Park and Clayton streets, Boston, 
Mass 


large 


+ ¢ 


New Fire Apparatus at Warren, Pa. 


James Boyd & Brother, Inc., of Philadel 
phia, recently delivered to the city of Warren 
Pa., a combination chemical and hose truck, 
type “CD.” The truck was placed in service 
after a severe test in a blinding snow storn 


ENGINEERS 





LOM 


\TI¢ 





AND 


MANUFACTURERS 213 


COAL CRUSHER AND SAMPLE! 
With eighteen passenget 
Eastern Borough Line 

30 miles an hour throu 


a 
Glade Hill Was limbed 





and the Carver Street | 
by residents to be O per cent grade, was 
climbed without difficulty Chis piece of fire 
apparatus is the nly which is ever 
climbed to the summit « the Carver Street 
Hill. 

Fire Chief Gordon was gre the 
test. He was accompanied by members of the 


fire company and members of the Fire ( 


mission. H. H. Welker, the delivery engineer 
from the factory, was also present. The ma 
chine was sold by James FE. Chalfant, the Boyd 
representative in York, Pa lhe truck has 
been placed in service and | been admired 

many visiting chiefs Ice irriva 
Warren. 

Other deliveries james Boyd & Brother 
nelude one tractor and one city service truck 
to Pittsburgh; three tractors, mbinatior 
ar, a city service truck and an aerial truck 


o Philadelphia; a city service truck and 
pumping engine t ! 


+ + 
For Quick and Effective Fire-Fighting 


On page 190 of this issue is shown a picture 


1 the “Booster” pump odel K-11 made 
by The Ahrens-Fox Fire Engine Company, of 
Cincinnati, in action \ regulation fire hose 
is stretched from hydrant to fire, and streams 








oe gern eerncane etn + 


cb a mS A em 











THE AMERICAN CITY 











EXPANSION 
JIOINT 


Keeps the work all ahead of the gang } 


When your concreting is finished your work is done—no spacing strips 
to dig out, no kettle to heat, no melted pitch to pour. Devote all your 


attention to the work that lies ahead without a thought to what lies 
behind. 





Figure what a saving this means on every job. Think of the saving in 
time—when time determines profit or loss. And think of the security 


you feel when you know that your pavement will never buckle and that y 

the joints between pavement and curb as well as between the unit blocks j 

will never leak 

Keep an accurate cost account on your next poured joints. We can : 

prove that Elastite will save you money—and lots of it. t 
For sample and literature address | 


THE PHILIP CAREY COMPANY | 


8 Wayne Avenue, Lockland, CINCINNATI, OHIO 











53 When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American Crry. 




















Fer., 1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS PTS 


from the t-inch chemical hose become in- 
stantly available when the motor starts the 
pump. ‘The initial supply is taken from a 60 
gallon storage tank housed in the body of 
the car. The fluid may be simply water, or 
fire-retarding chemicals may be added in so- 
lution. Shut-off nozzles afford control, and 
small jets of any desired intensity can readily 
be maintained. Meanwhile, the large hose, al- 
ready laid from a hydrant, can be connected 
with the “Booster” pump, and, long before the 
tank is exhausted, the supply is augmented, 
thereby permitting the work to be carried on 


uninterruptedly The “Booster” | 

fitted with a 2%-inch discharge gat d whe 

the situation demands a greater olume cat 
be produced [his provision affords means 
for hitting the fire with a stronger das 

in no way does this procedure interfere with 
the service of the smaller jets. | 

sence of hydrants good work can be 

plished by simply feeding water into the 
“Booster” from pails Che company issues an 
interesting six-page folder setting forth the 
advantages of this “combination skirmish 


unit.” 





























TROY ASPHALT WAGON USED ON 


In the Track of the Truck 


The new “Trailer Booklet No. 3,” pub- 
lished by The Troy Wagon Works Com 
pany, of Troy, Ohio, shows in an interesting 
and clear manner the well-known advan 
tages of “pull instead of carry.” A motor 
truck trailer is more than a vehicle; it is a 
specially designed piece of machinery, lack 
ing only one thing that a motor truck has— 
self-contained power. Among its mechanical 
features are the following: a draw-bar con 
struction with a spring that works on both 
pull and push, thus preventing any shock to 
the motor from sudden starts and stops; an 
absolutely automatic steering mechanism, 
obliging the trailer to follow exactly in the 
track of the truck around any corner and 
into any opening; the reversible or double- 
end type, which can be backed into any 
place; the pull through the frame and 
springs—not on the axles and wheels, thus 
making the load start to move before the 
wheels do. Troy trailers are absolutely 
different from wagons in design and con- 
struction; they do not contain a _ single 


ROAD WORK IN HAMILTON, OHIO 


wagon part. They are built entirely f 
bronze and steel, with wood only in the 
wheels. The tires are steel or rubber—the 
latter always for city use. There is a Troy 
for every size of truck. 

The illustration on this page shows. the 
Troy asphalt wagon in use by The Andrews 
Asphalt Paving Company, of Hamilton 
Ohio, which reports as follows 


“We do not hesitate to say that our experier 
with your wagons, covering a period of eleve c 
has been very satisfactory We think the Tr 
wagon is as good a wagon as there is 

+ + 
A Portable Asphalt Plant 
An attractive quarto 28-page booklet ha 





3oston, entitled “Warren’s Portable 
Plant.” This plant is not a small edition 
another plant, but is a full-sized plant of its 


been issued by Warren Brothers Company, of 
t 


type. It is manufactured under patents al 
ready granted to Horace W. Ash, and under 
others still pending Asphalt topping and 
binder, the so-called open mixture, and the 


I 








THE AMERICAN CITY 








2WhensthésBigGunssRoar _ 


vad 





. ’ . . 
nearby concrete construction is called upon to stand junusual concussion and strain 
The stone, sand and cement must be of unquestioned quality. 


In building the fortifications at Egmont and Mullet’s Keys, Forts Hancock, Wadsworth, Slocum 
Monroe, Strong, Mott, Totten and Schuyler and in nee concrete improvements at the Brooklyn 
Portsmouth, Boston ota Chari ston and League Island Navy Yards, at West Point, Annapoli 
ind elsewhere, the Unite 1 States{Government has used{hundreds of thousands of barrels of 


ALPHA'="° CEMENT 


Cement is the sinew of concrete construction. You can’t have the sinews too good when you a: 

building for permanence ALPHA CEMENT is manufactured under the strict supervision of chemists 
and chemical engineers, tests being made hourly to insure exact proportioning, thorough burning and 
fine grinding. Every bag of ALPHA is guaranteed to more than meet U. S. Government and all othe: 
standard requirements 








Let us send you Art Envelope No. 2, showing views of distinctive concrete bridges, buildings, roads 
dams, etc., and a copy of “ALPHA CEMENT—HOW TO USE IT.” 


ALPHA PORTLAND CEMENT CO., comes EASTON, PA. 


Sales Offices: New York Philadelphia Boston Pittsburgh Baltimore Savannah 














54 When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American City. 





eee a 


a mene a 


lopeka specification mixture can be mixed with 
it with equal facility, and in shifting from one 
mixture to the other no change in the plant 
itself is necessary. It is also adapted to heat 

ing and reworking old sheet asphalt wearing 
surface for use in making repairs to existing 
pavements, without injuring the asphaltic cx 

ment in the old pavement Under ordinary 
onditions the plant has an hourly capacity of 
from 100 to 150 square yards of wearing sur 

face two inches thick after compression, using 
sand containing 5 per cent moisture. Some 
contractors prefer to work two of these plants 
together rather than one of the types of twice 
the capacity, so that when the larger contract 
is completed they have two complete plants to 
take care of two other contracts in different 
cities at the same time, with a smaller outlay 
than if their whole investment were in one 
plant which could attend to only one contract 
at a time. Its simplicity of construction and 
operation make few expert attendants neces- 
sary. The unusual uniformity obtained in the 
product is due to the size of the batch used 
The plant is self-contained and mounted on 
one truck, with the exception of the heating 
kettles. The shipping weight of the plant com 
plete is about 39,500 pounds. Various views of 
the plant are given in this booklet, with pi 

tures of its parts, and full descriptions of its 
construction and operation 


+ + 


Paving a Plaza 


A picture of Kansas City’s new Union Sta 
tion, shown as surrounded with many thousand 
square yards of creosoted wood block pave- 
ments, adorns the front cover of a pamphlet 
published by The Creosoted Wood Paving 
Block Bureau of Chicago. The purpose of 
the pamphlet is stated to be to tell, in regard 
to creosoted wood block pavements, “What 
they are, where they are, how they look, how 
they please.” Many other views are given of 
streets in various cities paved with this ma- 














WELDING PIPE WITH OXY-ACETY NE 
APPARATUS 


terial. Business conditions make it important 
that paving material should be put down with 
little delay and obstruction to traffic, and that 


it may be readily repaired when cuts are made 
for underground work. It is claimed that cre 
osoted wood blocks comply with both tnes¢ 
requirements; no special machinery or equip 
ment is needed for making repairs, all that is 
necessary for this purpose being a day laborer, 
a hatchet, a tamper and a little dry sand. The 
surface is easily flushed and scrubbed, and 
does not absorb impurities, because there ar« 
no interstices between the blocks. Horses do 
not ruin the pavement nor the pavement the 
horses. Its smoothness recommends it for use 
on pleasure boulevards, while its noiselessness 





u 


SEERLS + 








—_————) 








NEW UNION STATION, KANSAS CITY, MO 
































THE AMERICAN CITY 













































ae 
Everything You Want In 
BROOMS 


Push Brooms, (Bamboo Rat- 
tan, Bass Wire and Mixtures); 
Gutter and Street Brooms; 
Grouting Brooms; Rotary 
Brooms for machine- 
sweeping, and fillers for 
same; Asphalt Scra- 
pers; Snow and Switch 
Brooms: Warehouse 
& Factory Brooms 
Frog Brooms, 
etc., etc. 
Push Brooms, U p- 
right Broom or 
Machine Broom 
—we make it, 
make it right 


and guar- 
antee it, 


As 
Broom 
Specialists 


Consult us on your 
broom requirements, of 
whatever nature. We have 
had many years of specialized 
,experience in broom making 
“nd hundreds of municipalities 
are among our customers. Any 
broom bearing the Osborn trade- 
mark represents maximum value, 
economy and efficiency to the buyer. 


Complete catalog on request We 
believe we can demonstrate an advantage 
to you in giving us an opportunity to 














quote. 


THE OSBORN MFe. Co. 


5401 Hamilton Avenue, Cleveland 


New York Detroit Chicago San Francisco 














BUY CAST IRON PIPE 
NOW 


DON’T WAIT— 


until you want to install 
your system—there may 
be a shortage then. 


WE HAVE IN 
STOCK NOW 


CAST IRON THREAD- 

ED FLANGED and HUB 

and SPIGOT PIPE and 
FITTINGS 


Make sure of your pipe and 
save your city money. Send 
your order to us now and we 
guarantee prompt shipment. 


Fittings for filtration plants, 
sewage disposal and water 
works are our specialty. 


Send us your inquires 


JAMES B.CLOW &SONS 


Established 1876 
534-546 So. Franklin Street, CHICAGO 


Sales Offices 
New York Milwaukee St. Louis Kansas City 
Minneapolis Los Angeles San Francisco Denver 








When writing to Advertisers please mention THe AMERICAN Ciry. 

















Fes. 19916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS 


makes it especially suitable for the busy truck 
ing streets of a city. The blocks are treated 
with creosote oil, which will not evaporate at 


the temperatures to which it is subjected in the 
street, and which is so heavy that it will not 


leach out of the blocks, thus insuring the 
vention of decay. 


+ + 


Two Interesting Letters 


City Engineer K. C. Kastberg, of Boon 
shows his approval of the power flusher pur- 
chased by the City Council of Boone, Ia., from 
the Studebaker Company, of South Bend, Ind., 
na recent letter to Mayor Sanden, of | 


I 


la., 


mmets- 
























burg, of that state. He says: 
I am enclosing herewit € 

he City ( cil, and beg 

ave found the machine fu t y 
espect We have had n es what 
ever with the motor or any { t. 
and find that it is very effi stree 
flr ig, as we are enab! st 
even water pressure thr the ¢ ‘ S 
the machine over the st: N n our 
report, we added a fire hose ct etweer 
I » and the spray tip pipe, by means of which we 
: abled to use the machine as a power pur 
k g a high pressure « stre f wate ¢ 
the water mains are not ¢ eniently located. Ir 
fact, we frequently run the machine t on sewer 
cleaning work in preference to laying le of 
lred feet of fire hose.’”’ 

The following statement of the cost of street 
flushing in Boone for the summer of 1915 is 


appended: 





A STUDEBAKER POWER FLUSHER 





AND MANUFACTURERS 











219 
S s , 
\ s _ 
\\ ‘ + 
lepre 35 
Lost t H 
Tota S { 
Mr. Kastber 1 letter s g 
rt to the M ind City | ( é 
\ te is foll Vs 
Ow the SE 
beer <r 
‘ hs 
sand yards 
¢ c ill the ye I 
h s 
+ + 
Sand Versus Mortar Cushions 
Clyd . 
Ct 
S n \ 
Just enough water to insure a { r setting 
of the cement, was specified in the ! 
dation. Where vibration is likel 
bituminous iting of one or two t es 


spread upon the st 
oughly dry concrete base, may be substituted 
for the m 





rtar bed 


Mr 


Cherrington also reported to the A 





ciation the results of a circular P 
ing information as to wood bl 

number of cities The majority f t ” 
cities which replied favored a_ bitu 
filler, with pitch having slig 1g 
over asphalt. Sand and 1 I sv 
about equally in favo 1 |} sote 
was the pre ferred preservative ] Most t 
the cities reported that the blocks were | 

in slight contact or with at least ™ } ace 
between the ends of the individual bl ; \ 
large majority advocated laying tl locl 
right angles to the curb line Lug ks 
creosoted lath strip or beveled bloc! wel 
used to retard slipperiness roe 1 bl 
pavement. Most of the stated that tl 





used a I-inch expansion joint 
jacent to the curb, the joints being filled wit! 
asphalt, pitch, fil : 


er or sz 

















THE AMERICAN CITY 















FOR CITIES, VILLAGES, LOUNTIES, TOWNSHIPS 
& PUBLIC HIGHWAYS EVERYWHERE. 


















YESTERDAY 
TODAY AND 


Forever! 






The metal letters used on the 

Signs of the Times”’ are die cut; are 
of the block type, and are 3 inches 
high. Letters for abbreviations are 
135 inches high. The letters are 
welded onto a heavy 14 gauge metal 
plate and become a part of the plate 
as much as if they had been cast 
there, making one solid piece of iron 





















it 


The background of the sign is 
| coated with black bicycle enamel, and 
| baked at a temperature of 460 de- 
grees for three hours. The letters are 
coated with aluminum which is bright, 
weather-resisting and non-tarnishing. 
The aluminum letters are easily read 
even under a night light. 


























ECONOMICAL, ARTISTIC 
THOROUGHLY LEGIBLE & PENT 2 OF All SES 
WRITE FOR DESCRIPTIVE CATALOG 











uw HAKDESTY MEG.@ ote! 








56 


e American Crry. 





a Oo 




















