





March, 1916 


35 Cents $3.00 a Year 





























net 


THE AMERICAN CITY 








Structural 


Engineer ing 


lighway 


Engineering 





Nine Ready-Reference Booklets 
Write for yours! 


Each of these booklets gives engineers and contractors ready 
reference to information which shows how to handle novel, unusual or 
difficult problems in their work—a comprehensive summary of the 
latest and best practice in various fields 


They index hundreds of articles which have appeared in the 


Engineering Record 


during the past year or so, showing how the Engineering Record 
helps its readers in many ways and tells how to 


Save $6.90 by Subscribing Now 


Rate Now... . . $3 per year 
New Subscription Rate $5 per year 





Subscriptions and renewals accepted now for 1, 2 or 3 years at the 
low rate. 


Get acquainted with the Engineering 
Record at once so that you can have it 
at the lowrate. The booklets will show 
you exactly what this paper can do for 
you 


COUPON 
Engineering Record, 
239 W. 39th St., New York 


Sample Copy | 

Highway Engineering | 

Structural Engineering 

Hydroelectric and Irriga | 
tion Engineering 


Use the Coupon 
to get your booklet 


Check those which cover your work 
and mail coupon today 


Sewerage nd Sewage! 
Treatment 

Concrete and Cement 

Railroad Civil Engineering 

Engineering Service To the 
Contractor 

Water Supply and Purifica 
tion 


| Engineering Record 


e | 239 W. 39th St. New York 


rasan 


Concret 
and (Leme 
Nir. 






\ ‘ AT Try 


tla 








When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 




















VOLUME. XIV 
NUMBER 3 














NEW YORK 


March, 1916 























Should a Man Do as He Pleases with His 
Own Property? 


Excerpts from a Forcible Plea for the Protection of Residential Districts, 
Published as an Editorial Under the Above Heading in a Recent Issue of 


“*Baltimore,”’ 


value to 
fact of the 
is what mul 


HE community itself 
property. The very 
community’s existence 

tiplies the demands for land. 


gives 


That is why 
land is expensive in cities < 
country. 


and cheap in the 

That is why land in big, 
more 
sluggish cities. 

If, then, it be true that it is not the ownet 
himself who gives value to this land, how 
far should this very important fact modify 
the owner’s freedom of use? 
the fact that all property, in the midst of a 
community, assumes a value in harmony 
with the nature of that community, isn’t the 
community itself entitled to consid 
eration? If a corner lot, in a given local 
ity, is valuable because of the very natur« 
of that locality—should the whole locality 
itself be sacrificed to gratify the wish, whim 
or selfish profit of some individual owner? 

Very true, a man has rights. He 
to have rights. But isn’t a community 
entitled to some rights? As a matter of 
fact, should not the rights of a community 
be superior to the rights of a single unit in 
that community ? 

There are certain commercial 
which property is daily 
the uses are important. In many cases they 
are a necessity. But that doesn’t alter the 
fact that the nature of these uses may be 
such as to make them ruinous to residential 
values if placed in such neighborhoods. 
Should this be permitted without let or hin- 
drance? Is every valuable spot in the city 


erowing 


cities is valuable than land in small, 


In view of 


some 


ought 


also 


uses to 


being put. All 


to be subjected to the continuous possibility 


Issued by the Municipality ot Baltimore, Md. 


»f commercial assassination? Is every 
1azard of be 
unrestrained 


lot-holder ? 
e hope 


1an’s home to run the 


ing robbed of its value by the 
ictions of some inconsiderate 


Are residential values to be made th 


less and unprotected victims of commercial 
ereed? 

As a matter of fact, every man who in 
vests in urban property, invests his money 
in “the effects’ of community influence; 
not solely in the naked land itself. The 
land would be valueless without the com 
munity effects. That is why it is correct to 
make the statement that the whole property 
question pivots on community influence. 
Why, then, should the community not have 
some positive, defendable rights? Why 


and regulations be 


American 


should restrictions 


howled down as un in their na 


ture when such restrictions and regulations 
are for the sole purpose of giving peace, 
comfort and gener il protection to the “com 
munity” at large? 

The multiplication of commercial facili 
ties in a city is indispensable Nobody de 
nies that. But is it necessary to permit 


mercantile and industrial extension to pro 
ceed along ruthless, haphazard, inconsider 
te lines? Nobody denies the 
making business expansion easy 
city’s limits. But is the 
expansion the 
Isn’t the home life of 
ing of just a little 

A city without wise restrictions and regu 
lations is an enemy to its own residential 
investment. 


propriety of 
within a 
matter of business 


item of sole importance? 


a community deserv 


encouragement ? 















































ORIENTAL SYCAMORES ON VANDERBILT AVENUE, STATEN ISLAND 


These trees have been planted at 





it twenty years. They require very little attention either in the 


natter of pruning or of attacks by the serious pests that prey on many shade trees. Aside from the well 
distributed foliage displayed during the summer months, which makes the trees desirable for shade pur- 


poses, there is the striking appearance presented by 
pendulous, ball-shaped fruit 


the tree during the winter, with its white bark and 


What a Municipal Bureau of Tree Culture. 
Might Accomplish 


By H. R. Francis 


Assistant Professor of Landscape Extension, The New York State College of Forestry 


REES planted in city streets are sur- 
T rounded by very unnatural condi- 
tions, and the struggle for existence 
is therefore intense. Very many of the 
trees in the streets of large cities are in 
such a dilapidated condition that it will soon 
be necessary to remove them. Too often 
trees are planted without regard to uni- 
formity, or of varieties not adapted to local 
conditions. Many of them also are of short- 
lived varieties, bringing about conditions 
altogether unsatisfactory and unnecessarily 
expensive to maintain. Furthermore, with- 
out proper control, the complete denudation 
of large areas not infrequently results, the 
trees being removed continually and none 
planted in replacement. 
About all that New York and many an- 
other city can boast of now is the posses- 
sion of thousands of trees unsightly in ap- 


pearance, some of which are dangerous to 
the public on account of their weakened 
condition and an expensive instead of a 
valuable asset. Had there been established 
a bureau to control tree planting and pres- 
ervation, the work would have been done 
systematically, scientifically and, above all, 
economically. Such cities to-day would 
possess an asset the value of which it is 
impossible to estimate, as it is an ever in- 
creasing one. The beauty and sanitary 
value of the trees rightly planted would 
have been universally noticeable, and the 
present expensive care of the trees would 
have been eliminated. The economy of a 
bureau for the control of tree culture is 
one of the greatest reasons for its existence. 

While the following recommendations 
are made with special reference to condi- 
tions in New York City, the plan is one that 























































ae 








— 





may readily be adapted to other cities where 
shade trees are not already under prope 
control. 
A Bureau of Tree Culture should be es 
tablished ander the Department of Parks; 
he bureau to consist of a forester for each 
orough. The supervision and direction of 
features connected with tree and plant 
ilture of each borough should be under 
the control of the forester for that borough, 
who should work under the direction and 
approval of the park commissioner. The 
work of each forester should be indepen- 
lent of the work of the other foresters, ex- 
cept in such matters as stated hereinafter 
[he yearly salary of the foresters should 
be $1,800 minimum and $4,000 maximum 
This is merely suggestive, the point to be 
borne in mind being that a man of special 
training and experience should be in charge 
of this sort of work, and a salary sufficient 
to command this service should be allowed 
It would be well to begin at a definite salary 
with a definite yearly increase. In case the 
$1,800 minimum salary is adopted, an in 
crease of $150 per year would warrant the 
keeping of the same man, which is an in 
portant feature in this work. The position 
should be filled by civil service examina 


RCH, 1916 THE AMER 











PEA: CITY — 





tions of the applicants. Each forester 
should be a man of scientific training along 
lines of tree culture, including forestry, 
horticulture, dendrology, plant pathology, 
entomology and landscape gardening. He 
should have had at least three years of 
practical experience in city forestry 


Duties of a Forester 

It may be important in this connection to 
specify some of the different things that a 
forester should and would do. He should 
begin the collection of data for a tree cen- 
sus. This would be important, as it would 
be. a complete inventory of the state of 
work regarding the trees and the oppor- 
tunities for future work 
work is done upon trees or plants, the same 
should be noted on the census. In other 
words, the tree census would be a con- 
densed statement of all the information 
regarding the trees. 

He should specify the material for a mu 
nicipal nursery. This is very important, 
since the training and experience of the 
forester would enable him to specify the 
varieties of trees that would be best adapted 
for the future work which he has in mind 
lhe selection of trees adapted to city con 


As soon as any 

















A STREET FLANTED WITH TREES OF 


UNIFORM IN SIZE, IN DISTANCE OI 


UNDESIRABLE VARIETIES WHICH ARE NO 


SPACING AND IN HABITS OF GROWTH 


This is the result of individual effort in street tree planting, where each property owner plants a treé 
without due consideration as to the value of a tree as a unit in the planting scheme of the street as a whole. 





























224 THI 


AMI 














rREE IN ADVERSE SOIL 
CONDITIONS 

\\ ted 
envit 
we ¢ wt 
t of 
ditions is a very important qué since 
the expense ol future caré¢ ‘ s to a 
great extent on this 

lhe forest | 1 also outline general 
culture methods for trees already estab- 


would t< 
a permanent development 
manner at a minimum 
count of his direct 


lished—methods whi nd toward 
| systematic 

On 
ontact with the details 
would know the phy sical 
condition of the trees and would, therefore, 
be the one to pass judgment on all trees as 
to their health, safety and variety. He 
should be in touch with the workings of the 
engineering department in so far as the 
matter of future streets is concerned; he 
should consult with this department so that 


expense ac- 


of his work, he 














RICAN CITY Vor. XIV, No. 2 
provisions will be made at the outset for the 
lanting and future development of trees 
lhe forester should be the person to se 
t equipment and materials for his depart 
ent. On account of his experience he 
vould know the equipment of tools with 
which his men could work to the best ad 
vantage and which would be the most eco 
nomical for the city. 





The matter of mate 
rials is a very important one, and his supe 
rior judgment should be brought to bear 
their selection 


' 
Oo 
tl 


The questions of insecti 
ide, fungicide, etc., would be handled in a 


s itisfactory way. 
Phe 


ipacity in 


forester should act 


regard 


in an advisory 


to damages to trees 











* 
cece il Dee Oa tat ARNE ae BF 














AN ORIENTAL SYCAMORE ADAPTING ITSELI , 
rO SEVERE CONDITIONS : 

No grass space has been provided between the curl 
and the sidewalk. This tree is able to withstand many ; 
adverse soil conditions, and will make a good growth I 


where some other varieties would fail. 











, 
AIR IR 2 emma 











MarcH, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 22 


One of the agents in killing trees is escap 
ing gas. The forester should pass judg- 
ment on this question as well as the many 
others connected with the damage to trees. 
In the case of trees cared for by private or- 
ganizations or associations, the forester 
should have full control of the supervision 
of such work. In other words, the man 
who handles the work for the organization 
or associations should be directed by the 
torester, 

In the matter of issuing permits, the for- 
ester’s office would be the proper source for 
these, also for the handling of complaints as 
to the conditions of trees, methods of work, 
etc When trees are planted by contract, 
the forester should act in a professional 
capacity; that is, he should handle the 
specifications and keep in close touch with 
the details of the work being done by con 
tract, signing all certificates for such work 
In brief, the duties of a forester should be 
advisory as well as those of general super- 
vision over the city’s vegetation. 


Relation to Superintendent of Parks and 
Landscape Architect 


Che Superintendent of Parks should hire 
the workmen that do the actual work in the 
forestry department. By keeping in close 
touch with the Superintendent of Parks, the 
forester could lay out his work in advance 
and arrange with the Superintendent for 
the required number of men. This is rather 
important, since the political phases that 
enter into all city work would be removed 
from the forester. 

The forester should execute the details 
of the landscape architect’s designs. That 
is, he should see that the proper soil for the 
trees specified by the landscape architect is 
furnished and that all conditions are made 
most satisfactory for the development of 
the trees and plants specified by the land 
scape architect for the formation of his 
composition. The forester should also be 
able to prepare planting plan details to sup- 
plement the landscape architect's plan. 
That is, he should be able to work up the 
details that harmonize with the general 
scheme of the design. 


Personnel of the Forester’s Department 


The office force should be as limited as 
possible, so that the money appropriated 
shall go into actual care and maintenance of 

















THE BASE OI! AN AMERICA ELM TREI 
BADLY DAMAGED BY TRAFFI( 
rhe root s} s eral 
ea im edi 
idist € si 





trees and not the creation of office positions 
In the field there should be working undet 
the forester’s direction a sufficient number 


of arboriculturists to handle the different 


branches of the work of this department 
Under the arboriculturist would be the 
foreman and the workmet It is a general 
custom to differentiate the work of the la 
borers; for instance, those who do prun 
ing, which requires a considerable amount 
of climbing, and those who carry on spray 
ing, which requires some knowledge of 


spray materials and mixit 


Educational 
All literature, such as reports and bulle 
tins, should be edited by the forester. The 


forester should also be able to give effec- 
tively instructional lectures re ng the 
work. One very important feature in con 
nection with tree work in our cities is the 
education of the people, not only as to the 


JQ 




























a 





226 THE AMERICAN CITY 


beauty, but as to the benefits from the plant- 
ing of trees. 


Expenses and How to be Borne 

The initial cost of planting trees on a city 
street should be borne by the owners of 
property along that street, which is the 
same method used for other street improve- 
ments. The care and maintenance of trees 
should be borne by the general tax. Trees 
planted after the Bureau of Tree Culture 
has been formed should be guaranteed for 
life as long as the street remains in condi- 
tion to warrant the growth of trees. Trees 
other than those planted after the bureau 
has been established, if in a condition neces- 
sitating removal, should be taken out at the 


Vor. XIV, No. 3 


expense of the property owner. Property 
owners should be responsible for injuries 
due to falling of trees, etc. When trees are 
removed for other reasons than their dan- 
gerous condition—for instance, killing of 
trees by gas—the tree being in a firm and 
safe condition for several years thereafter, 
a permit should be granted for the removal 
of the same upon the deposit of a sum suf- 
ficient to plant a new tree at or near the 
old location. This would mean that the gas 
company, for instance, would be responsible 
for the replacement of a new live tree. 
Avutuor’s Nore.—The foregoing recommendations 
are made as the result of a coOperative study between 
the Tree Planting Association of New York City and 


The New York State College of Forestry at Syracuse 
University. The photographs are by Prof. Francis. 





Track Construction in Paved Streets* 


By R. Keith Compton 
Chairman and Consulting Engineer, Paving Commission, Baltimore, Md. 


N the year 1914 a law was passed by the 
| State Legislature of Maryland putting 
the character of foundation under the 
ties of the several street railway companies 
and steam railroads under the jurisdiction 
of the Paving Commission, with power to 
decide whether such foundation should be 
of plain ballast or concrete. The commis- 
sion decided that in heavy traffic downtown 
streets, concrete construction, 6 inches 
thick, under and around the ties, was neces- 
sary, but that in the outlying suburban sec- 
tion where the traffic was light and street 
development more or less of an uncertainty, 
rock ballast could be used. 

The traction officials were informed that 
they could install the ties immediately on 
top of the concrete or install a cushion be- 
tween the top of the concrete and the bot- 
tom of the ties. They chose the former. 

In the downtown business section of Bal- 
timore the streets are exceedingly narrow, 
not over 40 feet in width between curbs, 
and there is no room for a temporary third 
track. Furthermore, the gauge is of odd 
dimension, namely 5 feet 4% inches, so that 
the track area takes up more space than in 
most cities. It was also impossible, owing 
to congestion, to divert the cars to other 





*From a paper presented at the American Good 
Roads’ Congress, Pittsburgh, Pa., February 29, 1916. 





streets. It became necessary, therefore, to 
install the concrete without interruption to 
car traffic. It was at first thought that this 
could be done by blocking up the tracks an 
inch or so above the exact grade, installing 
the concrete, allowing it to set, and lower- 
ing the tracks to grade. The conclusion 
was reached, however, that this would 
not only be very expensive, but hardly feas- 
ible, so that it was then determined to pur- 
sue the penetration method. This was done 
by bringing the tracks to the exact grade 
and ballasting with crushed stone from 1% 
to 2% inches in size, free of dust and small 
particles, care being taken to thoroughly 
tamp the ballast and make the same carry 
the strain of passing cars, then applying a 
thin cement grout. 

In improving streets containing railway 
tracks, the forces of the railway company 
and that of the paving contractor have to 
work in conjunction. The railway area is 
first graded out to the subgrade of the pav- 
ing by the paving contractor. The railway 
company then takes charge and grades out 
to a point 6 inches below the bottom of the 
ties. New rails and ties are then installed 
where necessary, together with any new 
special work. The ballast, of the size and 
depth previously noted, is then placed and 
thoroughly tamped under the ties and up 

















MarcH, 1916 


to a point 2 inches above the bottom of the 
ties, the rails brought to the proper grade 
and line, and when the entire construction 
is “tight” the penetration begins. 

The grouting mixture is composed of | 
part cement to 2 parts sand, and is of about 
the consistency of thin cream. The opera- 
tion is readily done without interruption to 
car traffic by the use of a small continuous 
mixer (known as the Coltrin mixer) placed 
just outside of and parallel with the railway 
tracks, with a chute to convey the grout 
from the mixer to the ballast. Starting on 
the down-grade end and working up-grade, 
the thin grout is penetrated into the stone 
ballast, which, as previously noted, has al- 
ready been securely tamped and made to 
carry the strain of the passing cars. The 
chute is flexible and in two sections. When 
a car comes along, the first section is 
thrown out of service and the second sec- 
tion is lowered to the ballast at about the 
ends of the ties and the mixer kept in ser- 
vice. After the car passes, the first section 
is thrown back in service. 

It is true that during this operation some 
movement occasionally occurs in the tracks, 
but there is a city inspector on the work at 
all times who hunts for and locates loose 
ties, and they are immediately tamped up 
with green concrete. 

The natural supposition is that sufficient 
movement of the ties and track would occur 
to injure the concrete while setting, but this 
is not true if the work is carefully handled 
and executed. On one street in Baltimore 
this work was successfully handled with 
five different lines of cars passing up and 
down the street with but 20 seconds head- 
way at times during the day, while on an- 
other piece of work it was successfully in- 
stalled with eleven different lines of cars 
passing over the special work with less than 
20 seconds headway at short intervals dur- 
ing the day. The resultant mixture is about 
1 of cement, 2 of sand and 5% of stone, 
with the concrete very dense, as the ballast 
has been thoroughly tamped and voids re- 
duced to a minimum. 

This ends the work of the railway com- 
pany, as after this section of concrete is 
installed, the paving contractor again takes 
charge, installing the concrete base for the 
pavement immediately on top of the rail- 
way base, and then the paving. 

As a rule, there is no bond between the 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


t 
US) 
NI 


paving slab installed by the railway com- 
pany and the paving base installed by the 
paving contractor, because generally the 
former is several blocks ahead of the latter, 
and in the meantime the co1 
set. 


icrete slab has 


One of the principal points 
form of construction is that it shows up 
very clearly every weak place during the 
progress of the work. All loose or poorly 
tamped ties are made apparent by the bub 


gained by this 


bling or oozing up of the grout as a car 
passes over. Failures in finished pavement 
are avoided by immediately tamping such 
ties, which in many cases would otherwise 
have been overlooked. It has been found 
by careful cuts made in the finished work 
that this grout when properly applied pene- 
trates the ballast to the subgrade, forming 
excellent concrete, and insures solid track 
construction, free from vibration, upon 
which the life of any pavement in the rail- 
way area depends. 

From records kept by the Paving Com- 
mission, it has been found that the total ex- 
tra cost of this construction over plain bal- 
last, including labor and material, is about 
52 cents per linear foot of single track. 

In the last two years about 10 miles (sin- 
gle track) of such construction have been 
installed in the city of Baltimore by this pro- 
cess, in the busiest streets of the city, and 
car traffic interfered with to such a limited 
extent that no complaint is heard from the 
traveling public during the course of the 
work. Included in the 10 miles of single 
track will be found all classes of paving 
within the railway area—sheet asphalt, 
wood block, granite block, vitrified block 
and scoria block. 


Conclusions 


Under the old system of earth foundation 
or ballast, failures and troubles were nu 
merous. Under the new system of concrete 
under the ties, installed as has been de- 
scribed, the percentage of trouble is in- 
finitesimal, the principal defects being at 
crossings and around special work. It 
proves conclusively that for strictly up-to- 
date permanent construction, both for the 
street railway system and the pavement, the 
ties should be laid on a concrete base, from 
6 to 8 inches in thickness, and completely 
enveloped in the same. 











































a 


Openings in Street Pavements* 
By N. S. Sprague, M. Am. Soc. C. E. 


Chief Engineer, Bureau of Engineering, City of Pittsburgh 


HE reasons which may be assigned 
cy for opening paved streets are as 
follows: 

(a) For the laying of distribution and 
supply mains, conduits, sewers, etc. 

(b) For making service connections. 

(c) For repairs to services or mains. 

The problem of reducing the number of 
street openings to a minimum (for it will 
never be prevented entirely ) will require 
much time and the process will be gradual. 
There three practicable 
methods which suggest themselves to the 
writer as being worthy of consideration: 

1. That in addition to the usual charge 
for making the opening an extra charge 
according to the condition of the 
pavement and extent of the proposed work, 
sufficient to compensate the city for the 
damage done to the entire pavement struc- 
ture as affecting its future life and appear- 
ance, and also requiring a guarantee on the 
restoration of the pavement for such period 
as will adequately protect the city against 
repairs. 

2. By providing adequate width of side- 
walks on all new streets and requiring all 
subsurface structures to be located therein 
with duplicate construction on the two sides 
of the street. 

3. The building of pipe subways in the 
business and congested districts of the 
larger cities in connection with extensive 
construction or reconstruction. 

In addition to the foregoing suggested 
methods of relief for the abatement of the 
street opening evil, is the policy of endeav- 
oring to absolutely prohibit by legislative 
action any and all openings in newly laid 
pavements for a specified term of years. In 
the opinion of the writer, however, the pre- 
vention of street openings in new pave- 
ments for a limited period is impossible of 
enforcement, against good public policy and 
of doubtful legality. Experience has dem- 
onstrated, in a number of cities where such 
a method has been tried, its utter futility. 


* Excerpts from a paper presented at the American 
Good Roads Congress, Pittsburgh, Pa. February 29, 
20916. 


appear to be 


be made, 


In connection with the attempt at pre- 
vention of street openings the serving of 
notices prior to making street improve- 
ments, announcing the intention of such 
action by the municipality, serves a useful 
purpose and accomplishes much good; but 
the inherent weakness in any policy of con- 
trol lies in the fact that no municipality 
can dictate to the owner of abutting prop- 
erty how or when he shall develop, change 
or alter same. Immediately following ex- 
tensive changes in grade and street recon- 
struction in the heart of the business sec- 
tion of this city, there occurred as a direct 
result of such improvement the erection of 
many large buildings at a cost of many 
millions, thereby materially increasing the 
taxable valuation of the city and producing 
an increased revenue. 


The Work of Restoration 


The work of making the cuts and restora- 
tion of the pavements was done formerly 
by the companies owning the utility with- 
out much supervision by the municipal au- 
thorities, and only a nominal charge was 
made for the privilege. Wherever possible 
the pavements were restored by the un- 
skilled labor employed upon the work. 
With the great increase in the number of 
cuts and the use of modern pavement sur- 
faces, more stringent and scientific control 
was essential to prevent the great loss inci- 
dent to the rapid destruction of the pave- 
ments and to generally improve traffic 
conditions. 

An investigation shows that many of the 
larger cities have in an endeavor to gain 
better control adopted the policy of taking 
over from the companies or individuals the 
restoration of the pavements over the 
trenches. This work is done in accordance 
with carefully prepared legislation provid- 
ing for the payment of the cost of the work 
so done, and in some cases the charge made 
for doing work is adequate to cover the 
cost of inspection, damage and future main- 
tenance. 

In the city of Cleveland, permits for 























Marcu, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 220 
making openings are issued upon applica- der special conditions should not be per- 
tion accompanied by a deposit of $3 and an mitted. 


amount according to schedule covering the 
cost of repairing and repaving, including 
the inspection by the city of the entire 
work. The pavements are replaced by the 
city, except those under guarantee, which 
are replaced by the original contractor at 
prices stipulated for repairs in the original 
contract. Thus by this method controver- 
sies between the city and the contractor due 
to tearing up pavements which are under 
guarantee are avoided and the validity of 
the guarantees is preserved. 

The franchise grants to public service 
corporations in the city of Buffalo provide 
that all trenches opened in paved streets 
shall be maintained for a period varying 
from two to five years, and in the case of 
opening a pavement under guarantee the 
party making the openings assumes the 
guarantee on the portion of pavement re- 
moved, for the remainder of its life. 

These requirements are good and amply 
protect the city, but should be extended so 
as to include all openings. 

A change in control of street openings 
was made in this city about two years ago, 
when a division of public utilities was cre- 
ated in the Bureau of Engineering and all 
matters relating to the opening of streets 
were transferred from the Bureau of High- 
ways and Sewers. Following the creation 
of this division a new ordinance was passed 
by Council in March, 1915, regulating the 
opening of streets and 
method of payment. 

Under this ordinance the city requires 
each applicant for a permit to make an 
opening to file a bond amounting to $500 
for a single opening and $2,000 for a num- 
ber of openings. An initial charge is made 
according to schedule, covering the cost of 
restoration. The pavements are replaced 
by the city at the expense of the party mak- 
ing the cut. Formerly all cuts in asphalt 
pavements were restored by contractors 
owning plants, which caused much delay 
and was a source of many complaints. 


prescribing the 


Requirements of Good Practice 


Special attention should be given to ade- 
quate bracing and shoring, especially in 
yielding soils, to prevent settlement of the 
adjacent pavement. Tunneling except un- 


The backfilling, which is the most impor 
tant part of the work, 
neglected. The method of consolidation 
should depend upon the character of the 
soil, but whatever means is used for its con 
solidation 
ough, 


is generally sadly 


it should be effectual and thor- 
Che most difficult problem in back- 
filling is encountered in clay excavations, 
such as obtain in Pittsburgh. Whenever it 


is possible, even at the expense of! 


tempo- 
rary pavements, it is desirable to permit 
complete subsidence. 

lhe author is of the opinion that one of 
the contributing causes for subseque nt set- 
tlement of trenches is an inadequate use of 
concrete for the pavement foundation over 
the trenches. Che best practice would dic- 


tate removing the old concrete base suf- 
ficiently back from the sides of the excava- 
tion to secure 


break joints. 


a rood foundation and to 
The thickness of the 
crete should be not less than 8 inches, 
ample time allowed for setting. 


con- 


with 


The opening of streets in the winter sea- 
son for the laying of pipes or making con- 
nections, from December 1 to April 1, 
should not be permitted except in case of 
emergency, as it is impossible to properly 
refill the trenches. A strict adherence to 
such a rule will do much toward preventing 
dangerous settlement of the trenches and 
consequent repaving. 


Structures Under Sidewalks 

In the laying out of new streets, the mu- 
nicipal authorities should rigidly insist upon 
proper planning, including ample sidewalk 
widths. In the past it would appear that 
property owners reluctant to 
dedicate sufficient property, or the cities un- 
willing to condemn sufficient 
ample street width. 
ments have clearly indicated the error of 
such a_ short-sighted policy, wide 
streets would have enhanced the value of 
the property and made it possible to provide 
space for the substructures. 
residence districts, however, liberal 
width of streets prevails, and the sidewalks 
have been used for the location of many of 
the underground structures. The openings 
in the sidewalks for connections or laying 
mains is not a serious matter, as the side- 
walk pavement supports only pedestrian 


have been 


to provide 
Subsequent develop- 


since 


In the newer 
more 

















230 THE AMERICAN CITY 


traffic. It may also be found possible where 
conditions permit to widen the sidewalks 
in connection with repaving or reconstruc- 
tion and thus provide adequate space for 
the installation of additional substructures. 
In general it would seem advisable, where 
possible, to locate all water pipes, gas pipes, 
sewers, telephone and other conduits in the 
sidewalk and require duplication of these 
lines on the opposite side of the street. In 
the case of large supply mains or sewers 
such works could be laid in the roadways, 
as service connections are not generally per- 
mitted. 

Questions of expense will arise in the 
discussion of these matters; but when the 
additional first cost for duplicate lines is 
weighed against the cost of maintenance 
and the saving in the advantage of short 
connections, the author believes that the 
ultimate benefit to be derived by the dupli- 
cation of lines warrants and justifies any 
additional expense. It should also be borne 
in mind that there is a very great indirect 
loss to business and the public by the con- 
stant tearing up of streets, and this, taken 
together with the danger of accidents, con- 
stitutes an element which must be con- 
sidered. 

The cities of New York, Philadelphia, 
and possibly others, maintain an engineer- 
ing force to keep a record of the location 
and depth of all subsurface construction in 
the city streets. These records are kept up 
to date and assignments of location for 
new structures to be placed underground 
are readily obtained. This system also 
avoids unnecessary excavations in the 
streets. 

Pipe Galleries or Subways 

The construction of pipe galleries or sub- 
ways would appear to afford the only solu- 
tion of the difficulty in the congested dis- 
tricts. They could be built either by the 
municipality, in which case rentals would be 
paid by the companies using the tunnels, 
or they could be built by the companies 
themselves as a joint project. Such sys- 
tems are in use in the cities of London, 
Paris and Berlin, but they were built in 
conjunction with the extensive reconstruc- 
tion of the streets wherein they are located 
and therefore the most favorable conditions 
prevailed for the inauguration of the tun- 
nel system. Under less favorable circum- 
stances it is doubtful if these tunnels would 
ever have been built. 


Vor. XIV, No. 3 


American cities have not adopted the 
tunnel or subway system, except in a very 
limited way and by force of necessity, due 
to the building of transportation subways, 
which required practically all the space in 
the streets. There are at least two very 
important questions which must be consid- 
ered in connection with the relocation of 
subsurface structures and placing them in 
pipe tunnels. The first question relates to 
the expense of the project, and the second 
to the necessity of an agreement between 
the utility companies themselves and jointly 
with the municipality. It is beyond the 
limits of reason to expect, and it would im- 
pose too great financial burden upon the 
companies to require, the general abandon- 
ment of the present underground construc- 
tion and the building of pipe galleries with 
all utilities located therein. It is possible, 
however, provided the companies agree and 
where extensive rearrangement of the sub- 
surface construction is made necessary by 
other improvements, to place the structures 
together in a pipe tunnel. Under these fa- 
vorable conditions for the adoption of pipe 
subways many years will ensue even in the 
most congested parts of the cities before 
the practice can become general. 

While it is admitted that pipe subways _ 
are expensive, yet the cost of the total num- 
ber of street openings made in a single year 
in the average American city would repre- 
sent the interest upon a very considerable 
capital investment for pipe subways. The 
total expense connected with making these 
openings is distributed among so many 
companies that no individual company is 
impressed with the economy of pipe tun- 
nels. Codéperation is, therefore, one of the 
essential elements in connection with the 
general use of pipe subways. With the 
development of the public utilities and the 
creation of new ones will no doubt come 
the need for placing these structures in pipe 
subways, but it seems to the author that the 
time has not yet arrived, except to a limited 
degree, for the adoption of this system. 

Reviewing the whole subject of street 
openings rather briefly, it is apparent that 
the subject has been given careful and in- 
telligent study, but the solution of the prob- 
lem, in so far as prevention is concerned, 
remains to be found. In the last analysis 
the whole question at the present time re- 
solves itself into one of efficient and effect- 
ual regulation and control. 























NO 
a} 


The Municipal Water-Works Plant in 
Billings, Montana 


By C. A. Smith 


Chiet Engineer, Burns & McDonnell, Kansas City, Mo. 


HE original water-works plant in Bill 
ings, Mont., was built in 1886-87, at 

a time when the city had approxi 
mately one thousand population. A iter th 
expiration of the franchise, the citizens of 
Billings made various efforts to secure a 
municipally owned plant and thus be a 





to meet the needs of the future growth of 


the municipality. For the guidance and in 
formation of the City Council the city, in 
1912, employed the firm of Burns & Mc 
Kansas 


Lity, Mo., to report on the following points 


Donnell, consulting engineers, of 


an estimate of cost of a complete new 
water-works plant; inventory and valuation 
of the existing water-works system; esti 
mate of proposed improvements needed in 
the existing plant in case the city should 
purchase it. 

\ bond issue was ultimately voted for 
the building of a complete new plant, but 


negotiated for the 


later the city yurchast 
of the existing plant, and at 


L « 


I 
1 additior al bond 
tor the installation of the 
new filtration plant, settling | nd 


ssue was voted 


| VaSINS ana €X 
tensions to the ains. lhe total invest 
ment for the water-works plant under the 


bond issue was $450,000, 

Che plans prepared by the en; 
approved by the De partment ol Health I 
Montana called for 
taken from the 


a supply of water to be 
Yellowstone Rivet 
Che contract for the distributing 
was awarded to the Gordon & Taylor Con 
struction Company of Denver, Color 


lorado 
The general construction of the 


See .] ee G4 
basins, clear water reservoir, filter hous« 


and pumping machinery, was 
Hanlon & Okes, municipal contractors, of 
Minneapolis. The filters and the filter 
equipment were installed by the Pittsburg] 
Filter Manufacturing 


Company, of Pitts 














OPERATING FLOOR, BILLINGS 


FILTER PLANT 





+ © att 
- —~< — 
5 nena SSS 


Sere 


To 
—5-> 











to 
a 
to 


burgh, Pa., which also furnished the liquid 
chlorine equipment. 

The construction work began in April, 
1915, under the Engineering Department of 
the city of Billings, through City Engineer 
FE. M. Sneckenberger and his assistants. 
The management of the water plant is en 
tirely in the hands of a non-partisan water 
board, which has effected many economies 
in operation, and has made such a satisfac 
tory financial showing that a reduction in 
rates has been given. 


Preliminary Treatment of the Water 


The most essential point in the considera- 
tion of a water-works plant is the purity of 
the water-supply, and from careful inves 
tigation made by the Montana State De 
partment of Health and the consulting en 
gineers employed by the city, it was found 
that the Yellowstone River water, like 
many other river supplies, received pollu 
tion from cities and towns along the river 
and had become contaminated to such an 
extent as to demand a complete modern 
purification plant before the water could 
be safely used for domestic purposes. 

The raw river water flows by gravity to 
the concrete lined and roofed settling ba 
sins, where, through the aid of a chemical 
coagulant, approximately 90 per cent of the 
sediment and impurities is precipitated to 
the bottom of the basins. This preliminary 
treatment is very necessary with. turbid 
waters before admitting the water to the 
filters, as the settling of the large amount 
of sediment avoids the clogging of the fil- 
ters and saves frequent washing of the 
filtering material. 


The Filtering Process 

After the preliminary treatment the 
water flows to the top of the sand filter 
beds, which are arranged in six one-million- 
gallon units, each one operating indepen- 
dently of the others. The water passes 
through a filter medium consisting of 34 
inches of sand which has been especially 
selected and tested for its size and uni- 
formity of grain. Beneath the filtering 
sand are layers of gravel graduated’in size, 
and beneath the gravel are the brass strain- 
ers which are screwed into a system of 
cast-iron collecting pipes through which the 
filtered water flows to the clear water res- 
ervoir. 


THE AMERICAN CITY 





Vor. XIV, No. 3 


In the filter house, above the filter oper- 
ating floor, are concrete tanks for dissolv- 
ing and storing the chemical solution used 
in the process of filtration. Ample space 
has also been provided on this floor for the 
storage of chemicals in car-load lots. The 
lime and alum tanks are so arranged as to 
give automatically a uniform flow of coag 
ulant to the water-supply lines. From the 
filtered water reservoir the water is then 
pumped into the distribution mains and to 
the reserve storage reservoir north of the 
city. 

The filtering equipment is designed and 
arranged with a view to the highest econ- 
omy in operation and to accessibility for 
cleaning the filters. To aid in this cleaning 
process, air blowers and a separate system 
of perforated brass air piping are used for 
agitating the sand at the time when the 
wash water is being forced into the gravel 
beneath the sand. The use of air in con- 
junction with the water effects a material 
saving in the amount of wash water re- 
quired. Each filter unit is equipped with 
gauges recording loss of head, instruments 
for regulating the rate of filtration, and 
hydraulically operated valves, thereby sav- 
ing much of the filter operator's time. The 
filter effluent controllers are of an improved , 
type which will automatically start and stop 
the filters in accordance with the demands 
of water consumption. The chemical feed 
controllers also automatically apply the co- 
agulant in exact proportion to the amount 
of water filtered. 

One of the most modern features of the 
plant is the liquid chlorine equipment. It 
acts as a safeguard, protecting the water- 
supply from dangerous bacteria should any 
accident happen to any portion of the puri- 
fication plant. Liquid chlorine equipment 
has demonstrated its ability to eliminate 
dangerous bacteria from water, and its suc- 
cessful use in river and lake supplies has 
greatly lessened the typhoid death rate. It 
is not intended, however, to take the place 
of filters, as it plays no part in the removal 
of sediment or turbidity from the water, but 
any municipality equipped with modern 
liquid chlorine apparatus properly operated 
can assure the water users of a safe water 
for domestic purposes. 


General Features of the Plant 
The water flows by gravity through a 24- 











Marca, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 233 


inch cast-iron intake line from the river t It is not anticipated that the esent im 
the settling basins, and thence by gravit provements will be adequate to take cart 
through the filters into the clear water res f all future needs of the city r any 
ervoir. From this point the water is dis growing municipality must cont to ex 
tributed by four Worthington electrically tend, enlarge and improve its water-works 
operated turbine centrifugal pumps The plant. Many parts of the | ion 
pumps are each of two-million gallons ca mains will need replacement lL at the 
pacity, making a total capacity of eight present time an increased capa of the 
million gallons per day, and they are opet storage reservoir is desired, as it is antici 
ated by 100-horse-power motors. ‘The dis pated that there will be an increasing de 
tribution system consists of approximately mand pure filtered water he Billings 
37% miles of mains, with a total of 205 plant is the largest modern automatically 
fire hydrants, 30 of these in the business controlled and operated filter plant instal 
district having steamer connections ition west of the Mississ Rive 





Thawing Out Frozen Water Pipes by Electricity 


By Garrett O. House 


General Superintendent, Water-Works, St. Paul, Minn. 


HE Water Department of St. Paul has cranked and brought up to speed as an auto 
adopted a modern method of thaw mobile is operated, until the proper voltage 
ing out pipes that does not require ind amperage were indicated on the switch 

excavations to be made and is a great time board meters The main switch was then 
saver. By means of a gas engine, an elec thrown in and curr “ough the 
tric motor and the necessary length of circuit formed Within 





copper cable, the de part- 
ment can now thaw out 
a frozen pipe that it 
sometimes took days to 
put in order under the 
old method of digging a 
trench and melting the 
ice in the pipes with fire 
or steam. 





One of the demonstra- 
tions of the machine re- 
cently made was in thaw- 
ing out 25 feet of frozen 
underground service pipe 
between two houses 
lhe outfit, mounted on a 
Troy trailer, was placed 
in front of the house 
that was in trouble. Two 
big copper cables wer 
unrolled from a_ large 
spool in the rear of ? 
the truck and connected with the ter five minutes the ice was melted, and water 
minal of the generator; the end of on flowed from the taps in the house where the 
was attached to the water pipe in the morning coffee had been made with melted 
cellar, and the end of the other was fas- snow. 
tened to the pipe in the basement of the There are three or four machines in the 
house next door. The gas engine was country similar to the one which is proving 


S 














THE ELECTRIC GENERATOR SET 








THE 


successful in St. Paul. This one was built 
under the General Superintendent’s super- 
vision, and includes an ordinary four-cylin- 
der automobile engine manufactured by the 
Capital Engine Works, of this city, an 
electric generator furnished by the Roth 
Brothers Company, of Chicago, a rheostat 
and a switchboard. The electricity is sup- 
plied by the generator direct connected to a 
gasoline engine. The rheostat and the 
switchboard control the amperage. One 
cable is attached to the generator’s positive 
pole, and the other to the negative pole. 
The copper cable carries the electric cur- 
rent without much resistance, but when the 
current from the positive cable reaches the 
lead or iron water pipe on its way to the 
negative pole, it meets with resistance, the 
electric energy is transformed into heat en- 
ergy, and the lead or iron pipe becomes hot. 

Every test of the machine has been suc- 
cessful; in all cases service pipes under va- 
rious conditions were thawed out in less 
than fifteen minutes after the terminals of 


AMERICAN CITY 





Vor. XIV, No. 3 


the cables were connected. The machine 
cost the city about $2,000, exclusive of the 
trailer on which it is mounted. The trailer 
will be used for other purposes in the sum- 
mer months. The machine is primarily for 
the city’s use, but service will be afforded 
plumbers and householders, who will be re- 
quired to pay only for the time occupied by 
the men and a rental to cover the wear and 
tear on the machine and the interest on the 
investment. In operation the voltage is not 
high enough to injure anyone seriously, but 
is suitable for the use of 40-volt electric 
lamps for night work if necessary. 

We are planning another device, which 
will be tested next summer, to do away with 
the shutting off of water service at the 
main when repairs are to be made on a ser- 
vice pipe. With two refrigeration tanks 
connected by coils, I believe we can freeze 
the water in a pipe on either side of a break, 
thus permitting repairs to be made without 
unearthing the connection of the service 
pipe at the main to shut off the water. 





Selling Municipal Bonds in 1916 


By Sanders Shanks, Jr. 
Editor, ‘‘The Bond Buyer,’’ New York City 


URING the present year the counties, 
cities, villages and other sub-divi- 


sions of the several states will prob- 
ably raise in the neighborhood of a half- 
billion dollars through the issuance of 
bonds. The magnitude of the amount of 
money involved makes it important that the 
best terms be obtained in the bond market 
by these cities and. villages when their 
securities are sold to investment bankers. 

It will be remembered that, in the fall of 
1914 and during the early part of 1915, 
bankers in general were agreed that the 
outlook for a faverable money market for 
borrowers was not promising. Municipali- 
ties, along with other Kinds of borrowers, 
were cautioned to curtail to the minimum 
expenditures entailing the issuance of bonds. 
But in the last three or four months of 
1915 it was found that this earlier advice 
from the bankers had not been justified by 
actual conditions, since an extraordinary 
demand for bonds developed and borrowers 
were offered exceedingly low rates of in- 
terest for new issues. 





At the start of the current year we find 
every evidence of a period of easy money, 
such as we have not known for several 
years. As a result, cities are now offered 
an opportunity to finance public improve- 
ments with bonds at a minimum cost for 
the money. The most spectacular illus- 
tration of this favorable condition in re- 
cent weeks was the negotiation of the sale 
of $25,000,000 New York State 4 per cent 
bonds on January 27. Although less than 
a year ago New York State sold its bonds 
on a 4.21 per cent basis, it now receives 
a price that brings the net cost of the 
money down to 3.85 per cent. And similar 
conditions are found with all other varie- 
ties of public borrowers. The bonds of the 
larger cities, such as are a legal investment 
for New York State savings banks, are sell- 
ing to-day to yield the purchaser less than 
4 per cent, putting them back on the price 
level on which they sold in 1911—and there 
are many indications that prices are still to 
advance. 

In the immediate future municipalities all 





—_ ieee > 











MarcH, 1916 


over the United States will be considering 
bonding propositions. In many places the 
authority of the voters will be asked to issue 
bonds and in others the governing bodies 
will consider borrowing operations. With 
this in view, it is well that the condition of 
the bond market be emphasized, in order 
that these counties, cities and villages may 
thoroughly appreciate the opportunity now 
offered. Considering the welfare of the 
taxpayer, it seems fair to point out that the 
present generation has begun, and probably 
will continue, to take advantage of the 
profits of a remarkable era of business 
prosperity in the United States that has ap- 
parently just commenced. It, therefore, 
follows that the taxpayer of this favorable 
period will be willing to bear at least the 
initial cost of many needed municipal im- 
provements. 


Features of a Bond that Attracts Investors 


Assuming that the volume of municipal 
financing will this year be large, it might 
be well to point out a few of the more im- 
portant elements that make for the most 
satisfactory disposal by a municipality of 
an issue of bonds. In the first place the 
investor is learning to discriminate between 
the sensible bond issue and one not eco- 
nomically correct. Bond buyers are, with- 
out question, favoring a bond issue for 
which provision has been made for serial 
payments of principal, as against the old- 
fashioned long-term bond with a sinking 
fund. Another important consideration is 
that a municipal bond be offered at public 
sale, giving all interested dealers an oppor- 
tunity to submit a proposal. This prac- 
tically insures receipt by the city of the 
very biggest premium, since the bonds will 
naturally be sold to the bond buyer who 
is most desirous of buying that particular 
issue and is willing to pay more for it than 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


to 
*) 
un 


any one of a hundred other possible buyers. 
Among other features that attract investors 
the following may be mentioned: 


(a) Bonds should be payable, principal and 
interest, in New York or Chicago, preferably 
in New York. 

(b) Interest should be payable semi-annu- 
ally, not annually. 

(c) The favorable opinion of a recognized 
bond attorney as to the legality of the issue 
should accompany the bonds when sold to the 
purchaser, and the existence of such opinion 
should be mentioned in the advertisement for 
bids for the bonds 

(d) In soliciting proposals, municipal of- 
ficials should be careful to supply prospective 
bidders with the most complete and official 
data describing the bonds to te sold and a 
statement in detail of the municipality's finan- 
cial condition, 

(e) Whenever possible, it should be pro- 
vided that the denomination of the bonds sold 
be in the amount of $500, $1,000 or multiples 
thereof. 

(f) To-day the buyers of bonds are dis 
criminating against certain debt obligations 
that are economically unsound. As an illus- 
tration, the thirty-year bond for street pave- 
ments or road construction may be mentioned 
While a few years ago any kind of a bond 
could be sold, so long as it pledged the credit 
of a municipality, this-is not so to-day, and the 
governing body of a city or town would do 
well by its constituents by offering to the in 
vestment market only those bond issues which 
are justified by the public need and which 
conform to the most modern idea of “safe 
and sane” financing. 

In this connection, it cannot be too strongly 
urged that the very best market results will 
be obtained in selling “serial” bonds. While 
this is not always possible under the statutes 
of some states, an effort should be made to 
adopt this form of security when debts are 
created for any improvement that is not self- 
supporting. 


Below is a list of counties, cities and 
smaller municipalities located in various 
parts of the United States, showing the net 
interest basis upon which they have sold 
bonds since the first of the year: 


Per Per SMALLER CITIES Per 
COUNTIES Cent CITIES Cent AND TOWNS Cent 
Westchester Co., N. Y........ 3.85 Philadelphia, Pa. .......- ... 3.87 Fort Dodge, Ia. ...... en 
Adee Co, Ind. Se Se ae 4.06 Detroit, Mich. ....-.+---++-+- 3.91 Ashland, Kan. .............. 4.49 
Atlantic Co., NJ... cccccces 4.08 Rochester, N. Y. .....-- .... 3.98 Sioux Falls, S. D. . ran 4.58 
Se ee 4.11 St. Paul, Minn. ............- 4.03 East Palestine, O. ..... .. 4.61 
DT. 2 Mevscececcces 4.318 Cleveland, O. ....ccccccccces 4.04 Chehalis, Wash. .. 4.74 
Chippewa Co., Mich.........- 4.23 Dayton, O. .....-.-+-00- . 4.05 Bristol, Tenn ‘ 4 
OSS 4.90 Hoboken, N. J. ...c.ccccesss 4.06 Laramie, Wyo. .... ; 4.94 
pd ag eee 4.39 Cincinnati, O. ..... 4.08 Lancaster, Tex. .. pei 
DEE ig ih oes ce scecccccs 4.50 Paterson, N. J. .....-.------- 4.09 Norfolk, Neb. ... SOT, 
Baker Co.. Ore., Sch. Dist.... 4.65 Chicago, Ill., Park Dist.....-.. 4.11 Eustis, Fla. .... : . 5.48 
Alameda Co., Cal., Sch. Dist.. 4.69 Omaha, EE cc anuskawend’ -- 4.16 Helena, Mont 5.55 
Blount Co., Tenn...........-- 4.86 Toledo, O. .....6-.-. ay 4.17 Bandon, Ore. .. 5.77 

Minneapolis, Minn. .....- 4.24 

Houston, Tex. ........-+> see eae 

San Antonio, Tex. .....---- 4.46 

Memphis, Tenn. .......--+--- 4.47 



















































236 


The Topeka Public Health Nurses’ Association 


An Organization with Modern Ideals 


By Grace Overmyer 


has lately been established a Public 
Health Nurses’ Association which, for 
progressive organization and modern ideals, 
would do credit to a much larger place. 


¥ Topeka, Kan., a cit) of 49,000, there 


The new association, while supported pri 
vately, is not to be looked upon as a chari 
table institution. The field of the public 
nurse is enlarged so as to include many 
persons outside the zone of charity. A nom- 
inal fee—much less than is charged by pri 
vate trained nurses—is asked of persons 
who can afford to pay, but those who can 
not will receive the service free, and no 
body will know who pays and who doesn't. 

The association is the outgrowth of all 
the institutions looking particularly to the 
prevention and cure of sickness that have 
ever existed in the town, and combines un- 
der one head the Topeka Anti-Tuberculosis 
Society, the visiting nurse department of 
the city Provident Association, and the free 
dental dispensary, which is maintained en- 
tirely by the Shawnee County Dental As 
sociation. It has the codperation of all the 
physicians, hospitals, churches and philan- 
thropic societies in the city. Represented 
on its board of directors of twelve women 
and six men are the state board of health 
and the city physician’s office, all the prin- 
cipal religious denominations in town, 
and the public school teachers. Any per- 
son may become a member upon the pay- 
ment of the annual fee of $2 for active 
membership or $5 for sustaining member 
ship. One-year members are admitted. 
The officers are Mrs. Chester Woodward, 
president; Mrs. Fred Freeman and Mrs. 
William Curtis, vice-presidents; Mrs. Kate 
Pierson, secretary, and David Gossett, 
treasurer. Dr. S. J. Crumbine is chairman 
of the advisory board, and Mrs. Charles B. 
Thomas is chairman of the nurses’ com- 
mittee and acting supervisor of nurses. 

The association began work with a clerk, 
who is in charge of the office in the city 
building, and three trained nurses—a baby 
nurse, a general nurse and a special tuber- 
culosis nurse. Reports of sickness or of 


iny condition which affects the health of 
the community, if telephoned to the clerk, 
receive the attention of the proper authori- 
ties or of the nurse under whose depart- 
ment the case comes. 

Miss Marguerite Bullene and Miss Helen 
M. Houston, baby specialists, carried on 
the work among young infants and their 
mothers in Topeka during the first two 
summers. The aim of the baby nurse, 
here as elsewhere, is not only to make 
the sick babies well, but also to instruct 
the mothers and improve home conditions 
so as to keep the well ones from getting 
sick. Especial attention to new-born in- 
fants and their mothers, and also pre- 
natal work, come under this department. 
The work of caring for the mother be- 
fore the child is born is conducted here 
much as it has been in Eastern cities and 
large industrial centers. It is mainly in- 
structional, although in some cases where 
the nurse finds a mother working too hard 
or too long before the baby is born, it is’ 
necessary to appeal to employers, or even 
sometimes to pay the woman the equivalent 
of the wages she could earn in industry, in 
order that she may quit work. The entire 
expense of maintaining the baby department 
is borne by the U. and I. Club of Topeka. 

Miss Maud Bolt, who for a number of 
years conducted the health camp for tuber- 
cular patients in North Topeka, and who, 
since the closing of the camp a year ago, 
has been employed as visiting nurse by the 
Anti-Tubercular Society, continues as spe- 
cial tuberculosis nurse under the new order. 
The first aim of the tuberculosis depart- 
ment is prevention, and the first labor of 
prevention is to keep incipient cases from 
developing into advanced ones. When Miss 
Bolt takes a case she frequently finds the 
patient sleeping with another member of his 
family. He must be at once isolated, put in 
a tent or on a sleeping porch by himself, the 
house must be fumigated and the rest of 
the family examined. Children, who are 
more susceptible to infection than grown 
people, are watched for a year or sometimes 























Marcn, 1916 THI AMERICAN C 





longer after a case is discovered in a fan 
ily. The patient and the family must be 
taught that a clean consumptive is not 
dangerous to live with, but that unless 
the greatest sanitary precautions are ol 


served, the entire family, and any num 


bor of other people, may be endan 
gered. Some patients receive a call every 
day, no matter what the weather. Others 
require attention only every other day or 
once or twice a week. The nurse’s salary 
is paid by Shawnee County. Other ex- 
penses of the department—for tents and 
sleeping porches and for the particular ar 
ticles of diet which the tubercular patient 








must have—are borne by the society. Sp 





tum cups and disinfectants are furnished SHELSER FOR TUBERCULOSIS ‘PATIENTS 
by the state board of health 

Most of the cases which do not come ut chronic 1S ré re dif care 
der the jurisdiction of Miss Bolt or Mis tor, as, stance, one cancer patient 
Bullene are handled by Miss Mabel Neis who has required the nurse’s dai itten 
wanger, formerly the visiting nurse of th tion for year and a half. Still other dif 
Provident Association. The general nurse’s _ ficult cases are those of persons recovering 
list presents many different kinds of affli om serious operations hose wounds 
tions. In the summer there is always a cet must be dressed with surgical skill. In 
tain amount of typhoid fever, and in win treating such cases there is quite as great 
ter pneumonia and kindred diseases. Chil necessity Sanitary precautions as in 
dren with all kinds of ailments, persons caring for erculosis patients, and the 
suffering from the afflictions peculiar to old need for instructing the other members of 
age, chronic invalids and convalescents the family is ss grea 
must receive attention the year around ( lhe public health nurse, no matter what 
most of the old people and chronic i her special field, is first of all a teacher. 
valids Miss Neiswanger pays a visit twic: We must treat the individual for his par- 
a week, bathes the patient and makes him ticular malady,” says one of the nurses of 
comfortable, and, above all, “cheers him the Topeka force, “yet must use the circum- 
up.” Such people look forward eagerly stance as a text to preach the lesson of 
the nurse’s visits, from her one dep how to keep well,’ so that the rest of the 
ture to her next arrival Some of th the neighborhood may not come 





ANOTHER TYPE OF TENT FOR TUBERCULOSIS PATI 


Erected by Topeka Public He Nurses’ Association 


to the same { Phe 
public healtl I rse reaches 
people who ne r read 


anything. She knows that 


education ective 
must be 1 ind in 
dividua It repeated 
and cons er 
vised.” 

Three nurses tI course 


are not enough to carry 
out so broad a campaign 
for better health as the 
association has | lanned 
As soon as the \\ rk be 
stablished, 
more nurses must. be 
added. Miss Lillian Davis 


is now employed not only 


11 


comes well 





| 


RAE ARECACEAE 


Rr - 





238 THE AMERICAN CITY 


as supervisor of nurses but to watch the 
field constantly and find where help is 
most needed. Wherever any considerable 
number of girls is employed, the supervisor 
will operate, inspecting the surroundings, 
giving brief talks and individual advice. 

The salary of the public nurse is much 
less than that paid to private trained nurses, 
her hours are longer, and her work much 
more arduous. “Undoubtedly,” says one of 
the leading members of the nurses’ asso- 
ciation, “nothing but a love of humanity can 
actuate such unselfish service as these 
women give.” The Topeka association 
hopes in time to be able to pay its nurses 
salaries more nearly commensurate with 
their earnings. It hopes also to bring about 
the establishment of a permanent tubercu- 
losis sanitorium in Topeka. 

An important outcome of the first year 
of this work is a training school in Topeka 
for public health nurses, operating under 
the direction of the State Board of Health 
affiliated with the Topeka Nurses’ Associa- 
tion. The school is the only one of its kind 


Vor. XIV, No. 3 


west of Chicago and was established for the 
purpose of supplying with Kansas nurses 
the demands which have been made by 
many Kansas towns for public health 
nurses since the success of the Topeka as- 
sociation was assured. Miss Edith Lacy, a 
graduate of the New York City Hospital, 
is acting as director of the school. The 
course, which is entirely free, and open to 
any graduate nurse, consists of lectures 
by leading Kansas physicians and social 
workers, and six months of field work in 
all the departments of the Topeka associa- 
tion. Completion of the course entitles the 
student to a diploma accredited by the Kan- 
sas State University. 


Eprror’s Note.—The National Association for the 
Study and Prevention of Tuberculosis has published a 
reprint from the Journal of the Outdoor Life for 
March, 1915, which is of interest in this connection. 
It is a small-sized 8-page pamphlet under the title of 
“The Social Service Nurse.” The article is written by 
James Alexander Miller, M. D., Director of the Belle- 
vue Hospital Tuberculosis Clinic. ‘Scope of the Nurse 
in Public Health Work” is the title of an article by 
Ella Phillips Crandall, Executive Secretary, National 
Organization for Public Health Nursing, published in 
the American Journal of Public Health (Boston), for 
July, 1915. 





The Cost of School Buildings 


How much should school buildings cost? 
A helpful answer to this question is given 
in the Cleveland Foundation Survey Report 
on “School Buildings and Equipment.” In- 
creasing population is making cities spend 
more regularly each year for school build- 
ings than for any other permanent improve- 
ments. Yet, it is stated, until this report no 
standard has existed for deciding how 
much it ought to cost to house any given 
number of new pupils. 

The Cleveland Survey * establishes an 
important measuring scale by compiling the 
costs of all the fireproof school buildings 
of the last few years in Boston, Cleveland, 
Detroit, Newark and St. Louis. These 
cities pay per pupil for new schools $210, 
$175, $125, $156 and $209, respectively. The 
number of pupils housed is based on 18 
square feet of class room space per pupil. 

The report points out that the cost per 
pupil based on class room space fails to tell 
the whole story. For schools of to-day fur- 
nish, or should furnish, much educational 
equipment other than regular class rooms. 


*See page 544, Tue American City, December, 


1915, for an account of the Survey and a list of the 
sectional reports which it covers. 


Gymnasiums, libraries, kitchens, shops, au- 
ditoriums, dispensaries and swimming pools 
are among these modern requirements. So 
in figuring what a city gets for its school 
building money the amount of these special 
rooms should be considered. 

Figures are given to show how much spe- 
cial equipment each city provides, and then 
how much school buildings cost, giving due 
consideration to the “extras.” 


4 ~ 
fap 878 OE 
ae ogo os 
as BSE 
ee oa 5} 
Heo “a5 <A, 

MSNOe .acacveenss « (63 $6.012 $0.256 
Cleveland ........ - 18.5 4.678 0.171 
DOE nccvdssioess 7.4 3.629 0.156 
_nonnn Sane epee eee 4.7 5.232 0.196 
We Ne x eckans 7.0 6.584 0.193 


A source of high or low cost is shown in 
the per cent of total cost paid for plans, 
specifications and supervision for building. 
Taking all factors into account the five 
cities compared rank as follows in economy 
in school buildings: Detroit first, Cleveland 
second, Newark third, St. Louis fourth, 
and Boston fifth. 


ce tennt& 


& 


—— 
> 
ne 


Lp NN lI 

















229 


Motor Trucks for Refuse Collection 


By Samuel A. Greeley 
Consulting Engineer, Chicago, III. 


HE increased use of motor trucks for 
municipal refuse collection opens up 
new possibilities in the organization 

and operation of that service. In particu- 
lar, isolated sites for disposal are brought 
within the range of consideration, so that 
the number of available methods of disposal 
for any one locality may be increased. 

Although their use in this service is of 
comparatively recent date, there are at 
present no less than sixteen cities and 
towns in this country where motor trucks 
are now regularly used for refuse collec- 
tion. As this use is growing and promises 
to develop, further improvements in the 
trucks may be expected. 


Collection Service 

Refuse collection service includes two 
parts; (1) the house-to-house collection and 
(2) the transportation of the collected ma- 
terial from the point of last collection to 
the place of final disposal. The first part 
constitutes a so-called start-and-stop ser- 
vice, the second a straight run. The first 
corresponds somewhat to ice delivery ser- 


vice, or package delivery from a depart- 
ment store; the second is more like coal 
delivery. A thorough study of the appli 
cation of motor trucks to this service re- 
quires the consideration of many factors 
and local considerations not within the 
scope of this article. 


Present Use 
However, a brief summary of the us 
made of motor trucks in a number of cities 
indicates a considerable range of applica- 
bility. The populations noted are from the 
United States census for I9gI0. 


Boston (670,585) The city operates two 
5-ton rear dump electric trucks for lecting 
rubbish and street sweepings. The trucks 


make house-to-house collections and deliver 
the material to dumps. (Fig. 1.) 


Atlanta (154,839) The street cleaning de 
partment operates several gasoline trucks for 
collecting mixed refuse from houses and haul 
ing it to the city refuse incinerator. (Fig. 2.) 

Springheld, Ohi (46,921).—The _ street 
cleaning department operates 2-ton rear-dump 
gasoline trucks for collecting garbage and 
hauling it to the reduction plant. (Fig. 3.) 

















FIG. 1—BOSTON, MASS. 











240 THE AMERICAN eh k's Vi 





























| 
} 
t 
| 
| | 
| : 














FIG. 3 SPRINGFIELD, OHIO 














MAP 


Marcu, 1916 


pigs BY 


AMERICAN 


ITY 














( 

eT 
servi 
truck 


big 


ot 
ec, 


ry (43,704) his 


electric trucks, cov 


ers, each having a capacity 


\ rds 


irts 


[The garbage is d 
to transter stations 


the trailers. A rope netwi 


the inside of the trailer 


ire picked up by the tru 


Che Sanitary Departm 
with an extra battery 
1.) This truck is use 





rawn 
ind d S 


rk is laid 
body. TI 


K at cert 




















FIG. 5.—JOLIET 


ILI 

















4 
- 
q 
i 
i 
4 
~ 
: 
i 
; 
= | 





iS) 
+ 
to 


THE AMERICAN CITY Vor. XIV, No. 


> 
4 

















FIG. 6.--MIAMI, FLA 

















FIG. 7.—HOMESTEAD, PA 

















MarcH, 1916 THE 

3.5-ton gasoline truck equipped with an 

matic rear-dump body. It is used for house 

to-hguse collection of garbage. (Fig. 5.) 
Miami, Fla. (5,471).- 

2-ton electric truck 

tion of garbage. 


iit 
AULO 


Che city operates a 
for house-to-house colle 

(Fig. 6.) The truck carries 
two flat decks, each with room for 
garbage. 


SO cans 
It starts out in the morning with a 
load of fifty clean cans, and leaves one at each 
house where a full can is taken The truck 
cost $3,300, and the cost of operation, exclu 
sive of fixed charges, amounts to about $0 per 
day. This figure, however, includes the wages 
f two helpers for loading the truck 


Types, Sizes and Cost 

\ variety of makes, types and sizes of 
trucks are in use. The majority have ca 
pacities of from three to five tons. Both 
gasoline and electric motive power are used. 
rhe bodies are built to unload by dumping 
at the rear or with a rope network, as at 
Calgary. With a tractor, the trailers can be 
lhe service is 
and a straight run 
from a transfer station to a disposal plant. 

The first with the kind of 
body, the general finish, the appurtenances 


built for bottom dumping. 


both house-to-house 


cost varies 


and other items. A very general figure 
for the cost of different sized trucks is 
given in Table 1: 
TABLE I 
FIRST COST OF M f RUCKS RE Ss < I 
Rated Capacity Cost of Truck 
Tons Complete 

awe $2,600 

Be 8.400 

8 4.200 

4. 4,800 

Bes 5,400 

Gersesess 6,000 

ess ihiuenn ehye cee 6,500 


The cost of operating motor trucks is, of 
course, of particular importance. Inter- 
ruptions in the service due to serious breaks 
or recurring minor breaks should be in- 
cluded in this item, although they do not 
generally appear in cost estimates. 

The operating costs vary considerably 
from one locality to another. Some gen- 
eral data, however, are available. Table 2 
gives a manufacturer's estimate of the daily 
cost of operation. 


TABLE 2 
COST OF OPERATING GASOLINE TRUCKS AY { 
MILES TRAVEL 
Rated Capacity Cost Per Cost Per 
Tons Day Ton Mile 
a, $7.40 $0.25 
Becces ose es 7.60 1.13 
Be cocve eevee 9.40 0.11 
Gecccccvoces 10 0.09 
Disensust« 11.00 0.07 
Mi stdecuwi¢ies'ne ce%e 11.75 0.06 
ere 12.50 0.06 


AMERICAN 


CITY 243 


- 


These figures are approximate only. 
Chey include all charges, both fixed and op 
erating. The costs per ton mile are figur« 


on a travel of 30 miles per d iy. 


Ac 
The Chicago Civil Service Commissiotr 


after an extended study, found the operat 


ing cost of a 3-ton gasoline truck to be $0.13 


5 
per ton mile and of a 3-ton electric truck to 
be $o.11 mile. The current cost 
however, was only 0.6 cents pet kilowatt 


per ton 


hour, which is a very low figure. 

lhe Department of Public Works in Chi 
cago uses a 5-ton and a 2-ton gasoline truck 
for delivering materials between city yards 
and construction jobs. The average cost of 
operating the 5-ton truck was 13 cents per 
ton mile. The cost of operating the 2-ton 
truck varied from 
mile. The 


was 20.9 cents per ton 


14 to 32 cents per ton 


cost by teams under contract 


mile hese 


costs 
were from actual service records during the 


last six months of 


1914 and include fixed 
charges and all other costs. 

These figures are for truck operation 
only and do not include the wages of 
helpers for loading, in collection service. 

\ study of the cost of operation indi- 
cates that the fixed charges amount to about 
58 per cent of the total cost. The power 
cost is generally less than Io per cent of th 
total. Consequently the choice betwee 
gasoline and electric trucks does not depend 
wholly upon the 


upon special local conditions. 


} + 


power item, but rather 


Summary 
Both and trucks ar 
used in a variety of ways in refuse collec- 
tion service. 


gasoline electric 
They are used for house-to- 
house collection, 
from a 


as well as for a straight 
transfer station. The 
used have proved to be reliable, but no 
standard type has developed. 

As compared with horse-drawn wagons, 
the difference in cost is often slightly in 
favor of the truck, especially when the 
truck is operated more than one shift per 
day. However, the difference in 


run trucks 


cost of 
operation does not control, and special local 
considerations must be studied and weighed 


for each case. In considering cost data 
based on commercial service, the cost of 
gathering the refuse should be added. 

} r’s Note.—For g aphs sed im t artici¢ 
redit is due the following manufacturers: General 
M rs Truck Company. of Pontiac, Mict t Kells 
Springfield Motor Truck Compar f §S g 
Ohi nd the Packard Motor Car ( : f De 





: 
| 








Municipal Flags 


Why and How They Have Been Adopted—Some Distinctive Features— 
How the Flags are Used 


HE gradual adoption of municipal 
flags by American cities is one of 
the expressions of a growing civic 
spirit. The municipal flag has sprung into 
use through the need for appropriate an 
uniform decorations of streets and build 
ings on public ceremonial occasions. It 
has usually been adopted at that period in 
the city’s history when municipal life has 
assumed something of a triumphal aspect. 
New and dormant energies, as well as new 
ambitions, are stimulated at such a time 
into active forces. 

Between 30 and 40 American cities of 
over 30,000 population are listed as pos 
sessing municipal flags. The usual method 
of obtaining a suitable design for a flag 
has been by open competition. The judg 
ment of the Municipal Art Commission is 
frequently sought before the 
finally accepted. 


design is 
Chicago recently com 
pleted a study of the subject of municipal 
flags, preliminary to the adoption of a flag 
for that city. The findings are contained in 
Municipal Reference Bulletin No. 6 of the 
Chicago Municipal Library. 
The booklet is entitled “Municipal Flags,” 
and was prepared at the request of Alder 
man James A. Kearns, Chairman of the 


Reference 


Chicago Municipal Flag Commission, by 
Frederick Rex, Municipal Reference Li 
brarian. The information contained in the 
present article is based upon that report 
rhe illustrations are from reproductions of 
the flags, furnished to THe AMERICAN CIT) 
by the cities represented, or loaned by thx 
author of the report. 

\ public competitive contest for a suit- 
able design for Chicago’s municipal flag 
will be opened this spring. Reproductions 
of the municipal flags of other cities and 
the designs submitted to the Chicago Muni- 
cipal Flag Commission for a flag for Chi- 
cago will be exhibited in the Art Institute. 
lhe Commission hopes, in conjunction with 
the Municipal Art Commission, to be able 
soon thereafter to make its selection of a 
suitable design. 

The occasion for the adoption of a mu 
nicipal flag by the city of Wilkes-Barre 
was the celebration of the centennial an- 





niversary of the incorporation of the city 
as a borough in 1806. The adoption of a 
municipal flag in Kansas City was an out 
ward manifestation of civic pride after the 
building of its new Union Station. In Bal 
timore, Mayor Preston signed the ordi 
nance adopting a municipal flag in order 
that the city might have some emblem rep 
resentative of its power and achievement 
on the occasion of the centennial celebra 
tion of the composition of the “Star 
Spangled Banner,” which was held in Bal 
timore in 1914. The municipal flag of New 
York City was dedicated on June 24, 1915, 
at a public celebration in commemoration 
of the 250th anniversary of the establish 
ment of municipal government under the 
Mayor and Board of Aldermen of the City 
of New York as successors in office of the 
Burgomasters and Schepens of the city of 
New Amsterdam. 


Some Distinctive Features 

The ordinance establishing a city flag for’ 
Baltimore provides that it shall be of the 
black and gold colors of Lord Baltimore, 
the founder of Maryland. These colors 
“were brought ashore with much solemni- 
tie” by the first settlers of Maryland upon 
their landing 280 years ago and were con- 
tinuously used in the Province of Maryland 
until the Revolutionary War. Upon these 
colors of the flag is superimposed a shield 
showing Battle Monument, erected in mem- 
ory of the defenders of the city of Balti- 
more against the British during the War 
of 1812. 

The rapid growth of Cleveland during 
the last fifteen years is symbolized by its 
municipal flag. The city was founded by 
Moses Cleveland 115 years ago. The word 
“Cleveland” occupies the center of the flag. 
lhe anvil, hammer and wheel represent the 
city’s manufacturing interests, while the 
anchor, windlass and oars represent its 
naritime interests. A laurel wreath sur- 


rounds the figures 1796 in honor of the 
vear of the founding of the city. 

In the inner circle of the municipal flag 
of Lancaster, Pa., appears the heraldic red 

















Marcu, 1916 THE 
rose of the House of Lancaster, the dynasty 
which occupied the throne of England dut 
ing the fifteenth century, the name of the 
city being taken from the town of Lan- 
caster, England. The legend in the center 
of the flag is representative of Lancaster 
in ancient times and the present. Lancaster 
takes its name from “Lan-Castra,”’ meaning 
a camp at Lan, the place selected as a per- 
manent camp by the Romans during their 
occupation of Britain over 2,000 years ago. 

Che colors in the official flag of New 
York City—orange, white and blue—were 
the colors in the Dutch flag when Henry 
Hudson discovered the river afterwards 
named for him, and they first floated over 
the island of Manhattan when in 1626 New 
Amsterdam was settled by the Dutch. 

rhe flag of the city of Reading contains 
the black shield and the gold colors of the 
old German Empire, whence came the ma 
jority of its people. The arms of the Penn 
family are inscribed in the center of the 
shield in honor of the Penns, who were the 
proprietors of Reading and laid out the 
The beehive upon the flag indicates 
the busy industrial center which the city 
has become. The salamander in the midst 
of the flame shows the city’s prosperity is 
largely dependent upon furnaces of every 
description; while the figures of Thor and 
Vulcan, supporting the shield, are emble 
inatic of labor and were selected because 
of their association with fire and metals, 
the source of the city’s prosperity. 

The ordinance providing for the adoption 
of a municipal flag by the city of Richmond 
was accompanied by a letter from the 
Board of Administration which gives the 
following reason for the inclusion of the 
legend of the Great Seal of the Confed- 
eracy, as well as the national colors and the 
battle flag of the Confederate States, in 
the design of Richmond’s municipal flag: 


city. 


“If anyone should hesitate to embody the 
Confederate colors in the civic flag for this 
city, we would suggest that our historic con- 
nection with the Confederate cause is a part 
of the history of the world from which we 
cannot be separated. It is inevitable that our 
enemies will endeavor to fix our connection 
with this history upon us as a stigma from 
which we could not escape, but we prefer, and 
recommend to your honorable body, that we 
now accept and proclaim to the world the brief 
period of the war and the gallant part in it 
of our proud city as the crowning glory and 
highest excellence of our past. This shield is 
not a Confederate flag, nor any flag, but sim- 


AMERICAN 





Git y 245 
KANSAS CITY, MO 

\ dark blue field, with design and lettering in white 
ply a device conveying a historic fact in the 
history of our city.’* . It is to be hoped 
that this emblem, adopted and displayed, will 
teach the children of this city to love and rey 
erence its history and to make noble sacrifices 
for its prosperity, advancement and honor.” 


lhe design which was adopted as the of 
ficial flag of San Francisco is in two colors, 
black and gold, symbolic of the motto “Gold 








YORK, PA 
Three vertical stripes, two of buff, 
lark blue. The white rose it the Hou 
the center 


in Peace, Iron in War” inscribed upon the 
flag. The flag was adopted in January, 
1900, during our hostilities with Spain. 


* The italics are ours 





SCHENECTADY, N. ¥ 


[wo horizontal stripes, the upper one purple, with 
the city seal, the lower one orange 





THE 











AMERICAN CITY Vor. XIV, No. 3 








: 
i 
' 
' 
j 
: 
' ATLANTIC CITY N T 
A flag of blue and white—the city lors, blue for . —_" . 
he a , ~ ign sesf rt Pigs ar SAN FRANCISCO, CAL 
ne s P e against a w e backgroun In black and gold, with the motto (in Spanist 
and on the Atlantic City. Ne Terse Incor Gold in Peace, Iron in War”; the city’s crest sh 
porated 1854.” The seal, or escutcheon, was designed the pheenix, rising from the ashes of the old Mur 
by Dr. James Nort f Atlantic City pal Consolidation Act to renewed power under 
: new charter 
: 
“ 
d ~ “~ 
. + in 
{ = ; 
" ~ 
! ~ 
ies 796 y 
» 
: . , . . ° 
NEW YORK, N. Y 
Blue. white and orange stripes, the rs of th CLEVELAND, OHIO 
Dutch West | 1 Company, of the United Provinces Stripes of red, white and blue, the middle stri 
; f the Netherlands, and of New Amsterdam in 162¢ bearing the word “Cleveland” in blue across the cent 
4 The city seal blue is superimposed upon the middl and the date 1796 in red at its base, encircled by 
white | The flag s formally adopted o green laurel wreath. The outline of the lower half 
Tune 24, 1915, and raised on the flag-pole of the City of the shield is in red, and the upper in blue. The 
} Hall, with an elaborate program The Consul-Gener invil, hammer and wheel, and the anchor, windlass 
f the Netherlands presented an official city flag t and oars, in the upper part of the shield, are in bl! 
. New York City as a gift from the city of Amsterda 
Holland 











} JACKSONVILLE, FLA 
ii In red and green on a white ground; re 
- Jacksonville as the gateway to Florida I 
i (Poinsettia) is the city’s winter flower In 
left-hand corner eproduction of the city 





BALTIMORE, MD. 
In black and gold, the colors of Lord Baltimore; a 


presenting 


e flower shield sable, charged with a picture of the Battle 
the lower Monument, in memory of the defenders of Baltimore 
seal in 1812-14 











2 net RE 


pe tet 





eeeimigh 


rd 


eee ee 


— 


— 


Sates sehen 

















Marcu, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 247 











RICHMOND, VA 
READING, PA Blue, wit! white fringe 2 Normat ld in the 
Three vertical stripes, red, white and blue; the center of the blue field; on the obverse shield the 
figures of Thor and Vulcan supporting a shield, sur ancient seal of the city of Richmor n the reverse 
mounted by a mural crown from which issues Mer- shield, the Confederate battle g above a white bar 
iry’s staft and a red bar 
HARRISBURG, PA. 
A dark blue field with a gold or yellow border. In 
the center a large white keystone, on which is out- 
lined in blue the dome of the State Capitol rising from : 
clouds. Above and below the dome the gold or yellow \ green diam the 
lisk, fleur-de-lis and crescents diamond a golk g about 
ROCHESTER, N. Y. RAN 
. , GRAND RAPIDS, MICI 
Chree vertical stripes: blue for the city’s water and E e a Sie : y 
electric power; white for its cleanliness; and gold for I'wo bars : ¢, sym es the loyaity of t et 
its financial strength and industrial prosperity The divisions of the city, and the white the Grand Rive 
crest is that of the Rochester family, the founders of initing the tw This flag was adopted July 26, 1915 


the city und the device was accepted as the city arms 





248 THE AMERICAN CITY Vor. XIV, No. 3 


Mayor Phelan, when recommending the 
adoption of the flag, made the following 
Statement: 


“It is singularly appropriate by reason of the 
fact that California is the golden state and 
San Francisco has become the point of debark 
ation for our troops, whose heroic work in the 
Pacific has been the principal event of these 
losing years, and because our own Calitornia 
boys, mustered in in San Francisco, were the 
rst to the front. Gold is emblematic of the 
abundance of nature, and iron of the fortitude 
and courage of men; but when the war ceases 
let us hope that the productive industries, ot 
which iron is also emblematic, may permit us 
to read the inscription, ‘Gold and Iron 
Peace.’” 

The municipal flag of the city of York, 
Pa., like the design of the flag of Lancaster, 














CAMDEN, N. J 

A diagonal bar of white, with corners of light blue; 
a shield containing the coat-of-arms of Lord Camden 
The figure of a man at the right represents the in 
dustries, and the figure of a woman on the left repre 
sents learning and intelligence The whole is sur 
mounted by Lord Camden’s coronet, and a pine tree 
emblematic of Pyne Poynt, the first-named portion of 
Camden 


keeps alive the history of the rival roses 
of the old English houses of York and Lan 
caster; that of the former, the white, and 
the latter, red, for each city flag bears a 
rose on the coat of arms, which is imposed 
upon the center of the flag. 


Seals on Municipal Flags 
The cities possessing municipal flags in 
most instances have their respective city 
seals or coats of arms emblazoned upon the 











EASTON, PA. 


\ dark blue field, with blue and white stripes and 
white stars 


colors. Philadelphia requires that the city 
arms which appear upon the city seal shall 
be placed upon the civic flag or standard, 
and that they shall also appear upon the 
city ensign, the city pennant and the city 
streamer. 

he seal upon Camden’s city flag con 
tains the coat of arms of Lord Camden. 

The Harrisburg city flag bears upon its 
center a white keystone, the state emblem 
of Pennsylvania, the keystone having upon 
it the dome of the new state capitol rising 
from the clouds. 

The seal of New York City appears upon 
the flag of that city. 

The city seal appears also on the flags 
of Boston, New Rochelle, Richmond, Pitts 
burgh, Kansas City, Schenectady, Atlantic 





ALTOONA, PA. 
A field of dark blue, with a narrow border of gold 
a keystone in the center, of dark blue outlined i 
white, and bearing the official seal of the city against 
a background of pale green, outlined in gold; on toy 
of the keystone the coat-of-arms of Pennsylvania, in 
gold, black, pale green and pale blue 





. 








dtetee ein loots 


oe 


Ng ete 


ie score 


ecu City 249 





city govel | AS 
Pittsburgh is used on nearly all public ox 
casions when the city is officia i partici 
pant. It is often used in cor ction with 
the national flag in the decorat f build 
ings for public events 
In Providence the flag is t rried it 
municipal parades when the 1 t nal flag is 
carried, as well as bei yy disp] ve por the 
city hall upon such occasions as the ivol 
COLORADO SPRINGS, COLO may direct In Altoor it is displaved o1 
e white field represents the cleanliness and health public buildings merca le | ses ind 
city, and the blue border the skies; the shield seatdien Ther ] ! 
on the mountain stands for Pikes | esidences, there are small municipa 
, ] — ~ ; ~ ; ] 
1 on it gold ing y lags tor the use of school cl ( nA 
tries green | } t shie 
s the stem s t oo! Phe Buff 110 1¢ ig S used 
n cl stationery Balti esides 
| see flan f. = the 
: = . eine Ow 0 ( 1i¢ ¢ 1¢ Nay 
tv, Reading, San Francisco, Toledo, Eri 
; 4 : . : is reproduced o bli im ind pat 
Buffalo, Springfield, Mass., Providence 
5 phlets intended t prot t +} ‘OoOmmercial 
; 4 a niet | ended to pri ote ne « mercial, 
ork, Pa., and New Haven. d . 
dustrial and materia terests I the city 
In he 1! osed OS ] r j re 


How the _ are Used 
he New York ( ordinance prt 


1r the adoption m~ a iss aoe i makes 





the official flag of each of the several city 


lepartments. Each department, however, 
may place its own name upon the municipal 
flag intended for its use. In New Roche 

the flag is displayed in front of the city hall 
on all legal holidays, on election days and 
during all official and civic parades and 
celebrations. In Philadelphia it is dis 
played upon public buildings during meet 


ings of the City Council, and on other su 
.] 





le occasions. In Richmond the ordinan 


tipulated that neither the standard not 
the flag, nor reproductions of them, shall be 
used for any commerci il purpose ind that 
no advertising device is to be used upon or 
in connection with thet The 


leveland 
and Baltimore ordinances contain similat 
provisions. Official flag days have been de 
lared in these three cities 
The booklet referred to contains the or 
dinances providing for municipal flags for 
Baltimore, Chicago, Cleveland, New York 
1 
I 








TOLEDO, OHIO 








Two tthe Stripes, with a white one in the midd City, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, Richmond 
1 the white stripe is a blue circle, within which is ind Wilkes-Barre 
lesign in red, of a block house, emblematic of the : = 
pioneer Fort Industry, erected in 1800 on the site of Eprror’s Not: \ wolume cntitied “@ und Flag 
the present city. The flag is intended to symbolize the € the City of New York. 1665-1915.” has been oub- 
ivic spirit of the city—unity, purity, eternity, « hed t e authority f the May cs Anniver 
leteness, labor, constancy, courage and brotherhood ~ C tee ur d ymmemorate he 50th anni- 
ersary e establishment. on June 24. 1666, 
municipal governme ler the Ma Board of 
t : . Aldermen of the City of New York nenuaaee 
provides for the use of the flag in the fice to the Burgomaster 1 So} ens of the city 
- c , , , MM 
schools as well in other departments of the Ne Am ~~ a. 











ma PC 





ee ee 





AMERICAN CITY Vor. XIV, No. 














TORI? | /EPARTMENT OF PUERLO. COLO 





BOYD COMBINATION CHEMICAL AND HOSE TRUCK IN PHILADELPHIA 

















ROBINSON TWO-WHEEL, FRONT-DRIVE TRACTOR, BOSTON FIRE DEPARTMENT 


4 


1 la i a Ran 











Le) 
sn 
= 


Philadelphia’s Training School for Fire Service’ 


HE dangers which a fireman faces 
every day and night in the perform- 
ance of his duty are great. The 

risks which he must take are many. He is 
supplied with the best possible tools and 
equipment. But tools and equipment are 
not enough; he must know how to use them 
so as to conquer the fire in the shortest pos- 
sible time and with the greatest safety to 
himself. It seeras only fair play, then, to 
give a fireman any training or information 
which may make him better fitted for his 
task, 

Ihe great increase in the size of build- 
ings during the last few years and the 
complicated manner in which they are now 
arranged have also made special training 
not only desirable but necessary. Courage 
and self-sacrifice are no longer sufficient 
qualifications. 

The superior officer of the present day 
must think as a trained engineer. At some 
fires even a_ slight knowledge of the 
strength of materials or the chemistry of 
explosives often proves to be the means of 
preserving lives. 

The Training School was established, 
then, to accomplish these results: first, to 
give the younger men a chance to profit by 
the experience of men of long service, and 
second, to give the older men an oppor- 
tunity to exchange experiences and to dis- 
cuss new methods of checking the common 
enemy—Fire. 


Kind of Instruction 

All new men report to the Training 
School soon after appointment. Although 
they are assigned to companies and stations 
immediately after entering the service, they 
attend the Training School from 9 A. M. to 
12 noon, and from 1 P. M. to 4 P. M., for 
thirty-five consecutive days (Saturdays and 
Sundays excepted). 

The course of training comprises, in ad- 
dition to fire-fighting, discussions and ex- 
planations of the following: 


1. Regulations and customs of the Bureau, 
general orders, special orders, etc. 


*From “Information for Fire Fighters,” a hand- 
book of the Philadelphia Bureau of Fire, recently pub- 
lished by the Department of Public Safety, of that 
city; compiled by William H. Murphy, Chief of the 
Bureau of Fire; George W. Moody, in charge of the 
Fire School; and Martin H. Ray, Fire Protection 
Engineer affiliated with the Independence Inspection 
Bureau of Philadelphia and Chicago. 


2. Discipline privileges of 


rank, 


duties and each 


3. The duties of members in stations and on 
fire grounds. The conservation of 
both private and public. 

4. The duties of the man-on-watch at a sta 
t10n, 


property, 


5. The fire alarm signal service 
6. The high-pressure system 

7. The use of life nets. 
8. Methods of 


entering, leaving and venti 
lating smoke-charged buildings. 
g. Sprinkler and standpipe systems, opera- 


tion of valves, etc. 

10. First aid to the injured; making splints, 
applying tourniquet, etc. 

11. Methods of resuscitation 
Sylvester methods). 

12. The removal of invalids from upper 
stories by the use of ladders, boards, shutters, 
etc, 


Schaefer and 


13. The removal of persons from buildings 
by carrying on shoulders and by the use of 
ropes and slings. 


14. The purpose of military and physical ex 
ercises. 


Instruction in the Use of Apparatus 


Each man who attends the Training 
School is instructed in the different methods 
of handling and in the care of every class 
and type of fire apparatus used in the Bu- 
reau. The reason for this is that, although 
a man may at the present time be assigned 
to an engine company and be classed as a 
hoseman, it is to his own interest and to 
the interest of the service that he know 
something of the work of other kinds of 
companies. On the fire grounds, in emer 
gencies, it may be necessary to detail a lad 
derman to assist in the operation of a chem 
ical engine or a water tower, and much 
valuable time would be lost if it were neces 
sary to stop to give explanation and de 
tailed instructions. Furthermore, when a 
man comes up for examination or promo 
tion, if he has spent all of his time in an 
engine company, or in a truck company, he 
is at a great disadvantage. His knowledge 
of other apparatus is only such as he is 
able to pick up in his own time. All men 
attending the school visit and have ex 
plained to them the working of the high- 
pressure stations, the fire boats, and the 
central signal station, water tower stations, 
and all special types of apparatus. It is 
clear that general knowledge of this kind 





— ee 


























252 THE AMERICAN CIF® Vor. XIV, No. 3 
a 
* 
, 
i 
7 
a 
: 
i 
1 , 
RAISING A OOT LADDER 
concerning the working of all units pro 2. Combination wagon; the care and opera 
; motes codperation and results in better set tion of chemical tanks; the placing of hose in 
: ea the wagon and the use of the equipment. : 
t vice. 
4 _ ~ ° » P , . " 
} [he following is a list of the apparatus 3. Trucks, the types; operating main and 
: in the use of which the men at the school ¢Xtemsion ladders; removing and replacing 
j . portable ladders and equipment 
are trained: “ 
: 4. Pipe line cars; their use and equipment. ; 
1. Steam fire engine; the types, suction con 
. nection to hydrant; suction connections for 5s. Water towers, the types; making connec- ] 
} lifting water from a pool, etc. tions, operation ; equipment and stations. : 
4 











. 


RS re 





MarCH, I916 


THE AMERICAN 


CITY 








| 

| 

| 
ONE METHOD OF REMOVING N NCONSCI 
6. Mounted nozzle wagons; making conne 


mS, Operation, equipment and stations 
7. Chemical engines. 
8. Fire boat demonstrating with mounted 
zie and hose lines; special tools, et 
Hose Line Exercise 
Men at the school are given practical 
struction in the use and handling of hose 


he 


which they are required to 


£1] 
O11 


owing 


become proficient in 


n 


»€ 


Stre 


nes up 


he S¢ 


1 


tchit 

ladders 
roll 
POMC 


on the stre 





the 


to 


xercises 








oat pends 5 









254 THE AMERICAN CITY 


from various points in a line which has been 
stretched up and over a building. 

3. The use of Siamese lines and deluge sets. 

4. The handling and use of 34-inch chemical 
hose. 

5. The handling and use of 3%-inch high- 
pressure hose and the various types of mechan- 
ical pipe holders. 

6. Operation of high- and low-pressure hy- 
drants. Stretching in with 3%-inch hose lines 
from high-pressure hydrants and the use of 
holders for the same. 

7. Placing 3-way on hydrant and stretching 
in with 2%-inch hose lines from the outlets. 
Placing same in holders for deluging. Placing 
3-way on end of 3%-inch hose line. 

8. Stretching in 2'%-inch hose lines from 
3-way for deluge and mobile lines and opera- 
tion of stop valves. 

9. The raising and lowering of hose lines 
by means of ropes and chains. 

10. Taking up hose, rolling it, and the plac- 
ing of it in hose wagons. 

11. The drying of hose, including stretching 
of it in hose towers. 


Portable Ladder Exercises 


The exercises in portable ladders include 
the following: 


1. Removing ladders from trucks and plac- 
ing them in position for raising in various 
conditions met with on the fire grounds. 


2. Raising ladders under various circum- 
stances when a minimum number of men are 
available, and the same exercises using a larger 
number of men. 


3. Carrying ladders vertically from one posi- 
tion to another by a minimum and an in- 
creased number of men. 


4. Training in climbing and working on 
ladders so as to protect oneself from injury 
and at the same time have arms free to work, 


5. Hoisting and lowering ladders to roofs, 
using ropes and hose rollers. 


6. Bridging areas between buildings by the 
use of ladders; bridging from an extension 
ladder to a building by means of a portable 
ladder. 


7. Ascending and descending walls by means 
of hook ladders. 


8. Lashing hose pipe to ladder and using the 
same as an improvised cellar pipe. 


Tools and Their Uses 

It is quite important that all members 
of the Bureau use the same names for tools 
and equipment. A single name has been 
adopted for each tool and piece of equip- 
ment. Men at the school are instructed to 
use only these names. It is also important 
that the higher officers be careful to pre- 
vent confusion and misunderstanding on 





Vor. XIV, No. 3 


the fire grounds, by referring to tools by 
the names in which the men have been in- 
structed. 

[The official names of most of the tools 
used in the service are given in the hand- 
book.] 

In addition to knowing the tools and 
equipment by name, each man should have 
some knowledge of their construction and 
use. For instance, fire extinguishers are 
discharged and charged on the school 
grounds for instruction purposes. Each 
man is permitted to use a smoke helmet 
and respirator, and is requested to ask any 
questions concerning those and any other 
articles used in fire-fighting work. 

Men are instructed in the making and 
use of chimney mops. 

The tying of knots and the use and value 
of each kind of knot is important knowl- 
edge. Every man in the Bureau must be 
thoroughly trained in the tying of the fol- 
lowing knots, under various conditions: 
(1) half hitch, (2) bowline, (3) rolling 
hitch, (4) safety hitch, (5) flat knot. 


General Instruction 

In addition to the above, much general 
information is given at the school. For in- 
stance, a fire alarm box has been installed, 
and each man is instructed in its operation’ 
The school building is also provided with 
hydrants of various types, and an explana- 
tion of the operation of each is given. 
There is a hydrant from which half of the 
outer shell has been removed so as to show 
clearly the mechanism and operation of the 
valves. Photographs, charts and _black- 
board drawings are used to make the whole 
work interesting. 

On the completion of the course, each 
member is given a practical examination 
and rated on the following subjects: gen- 
eral knowledge, proficiency as hoseman, 
proficiency as ladder man, proficiency in 
rescue exercises, tools and their uses, tying 
of approved knots and hitches, proficiency 
in high-pressure service, discipline, alac- 
rity and aptitude for the service. If a 
man’s deficiency is due to inattention or 
carelessness, he may be brought before the 
Court of Trial and punished as they con- 
sider fit. Probationary men who show in- 
aptitude for service may be dropped from 
the Bureau at any time during their pro- 
bationary period. 

In addition to the training outlined above, 











Dnt AURA AAD I a I Niele al leet 


¥- aaa sacar 


Vai titacaiies ates 





\MarcH, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


the commanding officer of each company, 
being responsible for its efficiency, is re 
quired to conduct such drills and to give 
such instructions as to keep his company 
and each of its members thoroughly famil 
iar with their duties. [Suggestions as to 
these exercises are given in another sec 
tion of the handbook. ] 

It is the intention of the officials of the 


to 
uw 


department that the Training School b« 
used as a place where men of the Bureau 
may meet in an official way, and discuss, 
develop and invent new equipment and ma 
terials. It should be clearly 
that all men of all ranks, whether they hav 

had instruction at the school or not, are 
welcome to visit and use the school grounds 
at all times for such purposes 


understood 





A Progressive Fire Department 
By W. W. McAllister, 


Chief, Fire Department, Boulder, Colo. 


HE Fire Department of the city of 
Boulder, Colo., is now entirely 
equipped with motor apparatus. The 

accompanying photograph shows this equip- 
ment in front of Station Number 3. It con- 
sists of two combination hose and chemical 
auto trucks, one light chemical auto, and 


section during the year, and serve notices 
of required improvements when necessary. 
Conditions are found to be better than in 
previous years. These inspections are car- 
ried on not only for the purpose of prevent- 
ing fires from the accumulation of rubbish, 
but to give the firemen a better knowledge 





MOTOR APPARATUS AND FIRI 


one motor cycle not shown in the picture 
he Department also has several pieces of 
horse-drawn apparatus in reserve. The last 
official report states that the cost of main- 
taining the Department under the new sys 
tem is less than under the old system, and 
that all calls have been answered promptly. 
The work of the chemical apparatus in 
handling fires has proven very efficient. 
Members of the Department make several 
inspections of buildings in the business 


STATION NO. 3, BOULDER, COLO 


of the locations of exits, stairways, etc 
Electrical inspections have been made for 
the Department by men from the Uni- 
versity of Colorado, which is located in 
Boulder. 

Extra work is often done by the firemen 
they have assisted the Women’s Club by 
burning weeds and rubbish on vacant lots, 
have helped the Street Department during 
the high waters in early spring, and have 
given aid to the Police Department. 











Pa BRR ISAS Ayan AAS aS SESE BHR EER EESE Asda —« 
i Types of City Streets and Pavements % 


Sas Daas AS ASS CSRS Se Se Se Se se ce. DUS URS ESR SESE WHR se 


ru 




















NORTH BROA STREET, ELIZABETH, N, J 
Sheet asphalt epressed blocks. Widt f ed r 4 41 feet; width between property lines, 68 f 
sidewalks, 4 and 5 teet wide; parking strips, 5 and 7% feet wide 


























A PORTION OF EAST EIGHTY-NINTH STREET, CLEVELAND, OHIO 
Paved wit it Bessemer block W idt etween property lines, 60 feet; width of paved roadway, 
feet; sidewalks, 6 feet wide; lawn space, 15 feet wide between sidewalk and curb. The curbing is 
nch Berea stone The gutter is 6 ir es 





i 








: 





\iARCH, 1916 THE LMeRICAN City 257 




















WEST SIXTH STREET, CHATTANOOGA, TENN 
Paved with “Southern” vitrified brick. Width between property lines, 46 feet; w 


feet; curbs 6 inches wide; parking strips 18 wide lewalks 8 








a +o co Sh Ob Oh bhi DS > ke 

















+ 
z 

: 

: 

- 

: FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK, BETWEEN TWENTY-FIFTH AND THIRTY 

4 Paved with Aztec asphalt. The roadway width is 55 feet; the sidewalks are 2 fee 

: : ; P 


curbs are 8 inches wide, and the depth of the gutters varies fron to & 











——— = ~3— 































































| | iil i 





BEFORE REPLOTTING 
Courtesy of Der Stadtebau 







REPLOTTING IN FRANKFORT 





Excess Condemnation in Street Improvements* 
By Herbert S. Swan 


rests primarily upon two considera- 

tions—the replotting of remnants 
and the control of land adjacent to im- 
provements, 


i io case of excessive condemnation 


The Replotting of Remnants 

The importance of this power as a means 
to obtaining a convenient and well-consid- 
ered plan, especially in the older and built- 
up sections of a city, can hardly be over- 
estimated. The wisdom of a. street im- 
provement often hinges upon the exertise 
of excess condemnation. Thesfand agja- 
cent to a street is generally divided init 
plots, the shape and sizeof which are 
adapted, as well.as mightbe, to the street’s 
present use and condition. Widening % 
street, or laying out a new one fifa" built-up 
quarter, disturbs this equilibrium. — 


only are the existing builtin destroyethy 
but the abutting lots, after cher cdm= 


pletion, are frequently left sosdistorted i 
shape and so diminutive in sizeas scrigdlh 
to impair, if not utterly to’ destroy, the 
proper use and development of the thor- 
oughfare. For such a street to attain its 
natural importance it is necessary that the 
land fronting upon it should be wholly re- 
arranged and replotted. 
~* This article is a summary of a report prepared by 
the writer for the National Munici League on the 
subject of Condemnation. rt has been 
rinted by the Committee on Taxation of the City of 
ew York, and may be secured on application to 


Laurence Arnold Tanzer, Executive Secretary of the 
Committee, Municipal Building, New York. 


At present street improvements frequent- 
ly work the most disastrous results to ad- 
jacent property—splitting it up into infini- 
tesimal triangles, narrow gores, and shall- 
low remnants with diagonal fronts of vary- 
ing widths. In many instances the angles 
are not right angles, and the opposite sides 
of the same lot are neither equal nor par- 
allel. 

When Delancey Street in New York was* 
widened to provide for the bridge approach, 
a tapering strip with an area of some 90.8 
square feet was left extending along the 
street for more than @ hundred feet, with 
an average width of ten and thirteen-six- 
teenths inches. “Several other strips less 
than ten feet in width were left fronting 
along the wideriéd thoroughfare for an 
equal distance. TheSe strips robbed the 


“lots adjoining them in the rear of. their 


natural frontage on Delancey Street. 

The following are a few examples of 
plots left by improvements actually made in 
New York: at the corner of Elizabeth and 
Delan $s a triangular segment 
9.10 x 1.51 feet in dimension, or 6.87 square 
feet in area; between Mulberry Street and 
Cleveland Place on Delancey Street, a seg- 
ment 1.47 x 8.98, or 6.59 square feet in 
area; between Barclay and Vesey Streets 
on West Broadway, a segment 2.6 x 13.5, or 
17.27 square feet in area; on Prince Street 
and Flatbush Avenue, one 4.3 x 10.3 or 
21.96 square feet in area; on Lafayette 
Street and Flatbush Avenue, one 1.7 x 6.4, 











Marcu, 1916 


or 5.28 square feet in area; and on Lafay- 
ette and Pearl Streets, one 4.8 x 9.2, or 
21.63 square feet in area. 

It is self-evident that the utility for com- 
mercial purposes of the lots fronting on 
these street extensions and widenings is 


greatly impaired. Lots which, if united 
under single ownership, would afford sites 
for substantial business blocks commensu- 
rate with the importance of the street, and 
which would bring in large rents, are now 
on or very near the margin of no-rent land. 
They are so small and irregular in size as 
to be totally unfit for improvement. “There 
are streets in New York to-day,” says Mr. 
Lawson Purdy, “which have been widened 
for ten years, but still look as though they 
had been devastated by an earthquake. 
The reason is that when the map is in- 
spected it is found that there are all sorts 
of small bits of land in separate owner- 
ships, just as they were when the street 
was widened.” 

Since each parcel, by the mere fact of 
its adjacence, commands the values of the 
neighboring plots, every owner becomes, as 
it were, a monopolist. Knowing the strate- 
gic position of his own remnant and that 
its union with its neighbor would immedi- 
ately, without any effort on his own part, 
result in a greater value than the sum of 
the two separately, each proprietor over- 
estimates the true importance of his own 
plot and shrewdly bargains to get not only 
the proportion that his own parcel con- 
tributes to this increased value, but also 
as much more as he is able to wring from 
the purchaser. Not succeeding in his de- 
signs by legitimate means, the owner, if he 
be unscrupulous, sometimes erects so ob- 
jectionable a building on his land or puts 
the land to such a use as practically to 
coerce the adjoining owner into either pur- 
chasing it at an exorbitant price or selling 
his own at a great sacrifice. A limited 
power of eminent domain often serves to 
make the ultimate development of the city 
dependent upon petty jugglery. - 

In some instances, remnants owned by 
estates may be so tied up as to make it im- 
possible to sell or develop them. 

Until a concentration of ownership takes 
place, the ripening of the unearned incre- 
ment is held in abeyance: if the separate 
parcels are never united, it is completely 
stopped. Sometimes the increment which 





THE AMERICAN CITY 





259 


would naturally be expected is never en- 
joyed by anyone to its full extent, and the 
city, which creates the benefit, reaps none 
at all. Even though the property owners 
are deterred from realizing upon the un- 
earned increment, they are, nevertheless, 
to pay the special assessments 
levied to pay the cost of the improvement. 
Excess condemnation not only relieves the 
land owners from this burden, but acceler- 
ates the city’s growth and prosperity by in 
suring the quick and sure development of 
its thoroughfares. 


obliged 


Control of the Character and Use of 
Buildings 

The advantage of control over the char- 
acter and use of the buildings fronting on 
an improvement also justifies excess con- 
demnation. By placing suitable restrictions 
when reselling the surplus land, the city 
will secure harmony in the architectural 
treatment of streets. 

The question is largely one of municipal 
esthetics. The effect of an improvement is 
to a very considerable extent dependent 
upon the beauty of its surroundings. To 
secure the greatest harmony it is necessary 
that each building be designed with regard 
to the general final result. 

Leaving shallow and misshapen rem 
nants in the possession of private owners 
hampers the city’s economic advancement. 
As much can be said of its esthetic develop- 
ment. Frontages which, if connected with 
adjacent land, would furnish sites for sub- 
stantial and ornamental structures, are now 
oecupied by ugly shanties or billboards. 

If our cities are ever to be consistently 
beautified, it is certain that the state will 
have to take a hand in the matter. Leaving 
the unrestricted choice of structural mate- 
rial, height and use of building, and de- 
sign of facade to the owner means anarchy 
in architectural treatment. Were it not for 
the failure of our courts in most instances 
to, recognize esthetic considerations as a 
ground for exercising control over prop- 
erty, stich statutory regulation would be far 
preferable to the indirect and cumbersome 
procedure of excess condemnation. It is 
not likely, however, that such regulation 
can be made available in this country in the 
near future, nor is it to be expected that 
architectural control will ever, except on 
the rarest occasions, be the primary motive 














260 THE AMERICAN City Vor. XIV, No. 3 


= 
ELM ST. 
we =" ? f We j 
is a : a Is 
8, 1B oy Mh G i? 
j ly" & " te 
| be a | P st 
» Sit Waals 
FP @ 
an a © a Y 
E re ] 
CENTRE ST 


SMALL, IRREGULAR PLOTS LEFT BY IM 
PROVEMENTS ON LAFAYETTE AND PEARI 
STREETS, NEW YORK CITY 


for exercising excess condemnation 
\mericans have so little appreciation for 
the esthetic city. 


Recoupment 
Recoupment through excess condemna 
tion and the subsequent sale of excess lands 
at an enhanced value is justified on essen 
tially the same grounds as the tax on un 


earned increment. The increased value be 

ing a growth exclusively due to the enter 

prise and initiative of the community, it is 
entirely proper and just that the city, and 
not the property owners abutting on the 
improvement, should obtain the benefit. By 
practicing recoupment, the city appropriates 
only the added value resulting from th 
improvements made by it. Instead of mak 
ing a present of this increment to the land 
owners, the city appropriates it and applies 
it on the cost of the work, reducing the 
amount to be collected from the adjacent 
property owners or from the taxpayers. 

\ lot often has what may be called an 
integral or unit value, and, so far as cost is 
concerned, it matters little, if at all, to the 
city whether the whole or only a part is 
taken. This is especially true of improved 
land. Where part of a structure has to b 
taken, the city is invariably obliged to pay 
for the whole. In such cases the city might 
utilize recoupment to exceedingly good ad 
vantage. As the initial cost of the im- 
provement would not be augmented by such 
extra takings, the sums realized by their 
sale would be clear profit. 

















WEST SIDE OF LAFAYETTE STREET, 


BETWEEN READE AND PEARL STREETS, 


NEW YORK CITY 


This view, taken { 


the ninth floor of the Municipal Building, shows the irregular remnants left by the 
street-widening improvements of thirteen years ago 








om lant Rome Stowe 


ae 


ot 





Marcu, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 261 


Recoupment in London 

In the period between 1889 and 1913 the 
London County Council exercised the 
power of excess condemnation in ‘forty-five 
street proceedings. The aggregate gross 
cost of these improvements was $44,246, 
125. Of this amount $23,511,740 was re 
couped through the sale of surplus lands, 
reducing the total net cost to $20,734,385. 
In other words, the moneys received from 
recoupment amounted to 53 per cent of the 
total gross cost. 

rhe percentage of recoupment obtained 
s proof that the power of excess taking 
has in the majority of improvements been 
exercised only incidentally for pecuniary 
profit. In thirty-one of the forty-five im 
provements effected with excess condem 
nation between 1889 and 1913, the recoup 
ment realized was less than Io per cent of 




















Wey. 


‘ST FA ND) 


THE IMPROVEMENT OF KINGSWAY, 


the gross cost; in four between II and 20 
per cent; in two between 21 and 20 per 


cent; in four between 31 and 40 per cent; 
in two between 41 and 50 per cent; and 
in two over 50 per cent. 

The small percentage obtained in most of 
the recoupment proceedings in London is 
indicative not so much of the financial suc 
cess or failure of excess condemnation as 
of the comparatively small quantity of ad 
ditional lands taken over the absolute mini 
mum required for improvements 

In one improvement, Northumberland 
\venue, completed in 1876, the recoupment 
exceeded the gross cost. This street was 
cut through a central area, the ground of 
which was not built upon and which at the 
time did not have a business value. The 
operation, therefore, did not involve any 
compensation for disturbed trade interests. 
T ross cost of this undertaking was 
557,455. The recoupment obtained was 

5 


095, or a net profit of 16 per cent. 

The most notable instance of recoupment 
in recent years is the Holborn-Strand or 
Kingsway improvement. It was consid 
ered for many years by the Council, but 
was not undertaken until 1899. The total 
area of the property dealt with was 28 
acres, of which 12'4 were dedicated to the 
public in the form of new streets, leaving 
1534 acres available for building sites. The 
length of the street is 1,100 yards; the 
width 100 feet. The total gross cost of 
the improvement was about $24,330,000. 
Through a recoupment of $20,459,000 the 
net cost has been reduced to $3,871,000 
The recoupment is, therefore, 84 per cent 
of the total gross cost. 

In figuring the amount of recoupment, the 
London County Council does not seem to 
take into account charges for interest on 
outlay for surplus lands helding pending the 
maturing of the unearned increment. To 
arrive at this sum it would be necessary to 
know what would have been 
the cost of the improvements 
had not excess takings of 
land been made. Charges of 
this nature, in order to ob 
tain the net recoupment, can 
only be figured on the dif 
ference in the gross cost of 
improvement by excess con 
demnation and that of mini 


LONDON mum necessary taking, since 


Ss 











ey 
= = 


ae 


pe : 





_ © — 


262 THE AMERICAN CITY 





Be on mere 





the interest on the least possible cost 
of a work cannot properly be subtracted 
from the gross recoupment, as it is iden 
tically the same whether or not excess 
lands be acquired. If this difference be 
large and if the period of the maturity of 
the unearned increment be long and the 
gross recoupment small, the compound in- 
terest might, of course, entirely wipe out 
the gross recoupment, and even more, 
changing what might have been an appar- 
ent profit into a deficit. But in conditions 
the reverse of these the unearned incre- 
ment as it accrues will more than offset 
these charges. Thus, in the Holborn- 
Strand improvement it is estimated that 
the ultimate net cost of the work was more 
than $5,000,000 less than would have been 
the case if the Council had merely acquired 
the properties cut up by the new street. 
Obviously, the realization of the unearned 
increment in this case could have been held 
in abeyance a long time without wiping out 
this large saving. Allegations, therefore, 
to the effect that interest charges eat up 
the reimbursements obtained by the sale of 
surplus land should be accepted with con- 
siderable reserve, since those making them 
do not appear to consider the difference 
in the two costs as the basis of their reck- 
oning. 

The percentage of recoupment obtained 
in making improvements will vary with the 
amount of land taken in excess of that re- 
quired, the general shape and size of the 
parcels, the character of the neighborhood 
through which the thoroughfare is cut and 
the honesty and good judgment with which 
the scheme is carried out. By facilitating 
the movement of traffic, street improve- 
ments increase the community’s general 
capacity for production. These benefits 
proportionately swell the site values and 
the taxable values of the city. But it by 
no means follows that these increased 
values always concentrate on the land im- 
mediately abutting the improvement. Al- 
though they usually tend to focus upon the 
adjacent property, and more especially upon 
that fronting the improvement, they might 
be diffused over a much larger area, per- 
haps the entire city. It is this factor that 


determines to what degree excess condem- 
nation is likely to be successful financially. 
If the increased values are “bunched” in 
a narrow zone surrounding the improve- 
ment, then recoupment will be most satis- 
factory in its financial results; but, on the 


Vor. XIV, No. 3 


other hand, if these are greatly scattered, 
little financial advantage is to be expected 
by its application. Realization upon these 
diffused values had better be left to general 
taxation. 


Excess Condemnation in the United States 

Four states—Massachusetts, New York, 
Ohio and Wisconsin—have amended their 
constitutions so as to allow excess condem- 
nation. The amendments of Massachusetts 
and New York are restricted in their scope. 
That of Massachusetts limits its applica- 
tion to streets; that of New York to streets 
and parks. The constitutional provisions of 
Ohio and Wisconsin are more comprehen- 
sive. In Ohio the exercise of excess con- 
demnation is not restricted to any enumer- 
ated list of public improvements. It may 
be utilized in all improvements for which 
private property may be taken for public 
use. In Wisconsin the list of improve- 
ments enumerated by the amendment is 
very inclusive. 

The amendments of both Massachusetts 
and New York, moreover, specify that the 
excess land taken may not be more than 
is necessary to form suitable building lots 
abutting on the improvement. Neither the 
Ohio nor the Wisconsin amendment con- 
tains such restrictions. In these states 
there is no direct limitation upon the area 
that may be expropriated, though in Ohio 
there is an indirect limitation which on oc- 
casion may greatly restrict excess takings. 
This limitation prohibits the bonds issued 
to pay for such land from being made a 
municipal liability or from being included 
in the limitation on the municipal bonded 
indebtedness. Bonds issued for this pur- 
pose are a lien only against the property so 
acquired. The constitutional amendment 
of Massachusetts makes it difficult to exer- 
cise excess condemnation, by requiring a 
special legislative act for each proceeding. 
Only such lands as are specified in this act 
may be taken. 

At present seven states, including the 
above four and Connecticut, Oregon and 
Virginia, have legislation on the subject of 
excess condemnation. Two states, Penn- 
sylvania and Maryland, have had the power 
of excess condemnation taken away from 
them by the courts. These acts and consti- 
tutional amendments have all been adopted 
during the last decade. As yet, however, 
no practical application has been made of 
them. 











267 


v 


00 EAA A 





SAAN A 


FACTORS IN THE SUCCESS OR 
FAILURE OF STREET PAVEMENTS 


Elli UMMTAUNHU ULLAL AA UA AU 





{ULLAL 








AUN NNNLa 


WesdAidMASUUUL ai SiUDA0MA AUD LAAE DALAL UALS LLG Abid UAUUULLULSLUNLAOL (AULUUULLUUALUUULE 





Epitor’s Note—The following is the seventh of the series of articles under t 
heading published in THe AmeRicAN City, as announced in the issue of July, 1915. 
articles which have already appeared are: 


lé ab Ve 
The six 
SHeet ASPHALT PAVEMENTS—Daniel T. Pierce, Executive Assistant, The Barber Asphalt 
Paving Company. 
AsPHALT BLtock PavEMENTS—Edwin J. Morrison, President, The Hastings Pavement 
Company. 


Biruminous MAcapAM PaveMENTS.—Philip P. Sharples, Barrett Manufacturing Com- 
pany. 


Vireiriep Brick PAveMENts—Will P. Blair, Secretary, National Paving Brick Manu- 
facturers Association. 


Concrete Pavements—W. A. MclIntyre, 


Association of American Portland Cement 
Manufacturers. 


ImproveD GRANITE Block PaveMENTs—Zenas W. Carter, Field Secretary, Granite Paving 
Block Manufacturers’ Association of the United States. 

The articles have been published in alphabetical order, as listed above. As the manufac- 
turers of the various types of pavement are vitally interested in the proper construction and 
maintenance of their products, and have necessarily made a very careful study of this subject, 
they are able to offer thoroughly practical advice regarding factors to be considered and 
mistakes to be avoided. It is not the intention of this series of articles to advocate the merits 
of any particular kind or brand of pavement. The assumption is in each case that a city has 
decided to lay a pavement of the type under discussion; the object of each article being to 
offer suggestions as to how the longest life may be obtained for such a pavement at the least 
possible expenditure to the municipality. 


This series will be followed by one on various types of patented pavements. 


Wood Block Pavements 
By Henry S. Loud 


Chief Engineer, United States Wood Preserving Company 


Tes is nothing difficult about the of wood block at heart. As contracts are 


construction of a wood block pave- usually let, however, the bidder putting in 
ment, but certain simple rules must the lowest price gets the work, even though 
be conscientiously followed to secure satis- he has had no experience in laying wood 
factory results. If these rules be ignored, block. Such a contractor naturally desires 
defects will surely develop which will de- to make all the profit he can from his con 
tract from the appearance and will greatly tract. 
shorten the otherwise long life of the pave- 


It is, therefore, essential that the work to 
ment. 


be performed be very clearly set forth in 
The first cost of wood block is generally the specifications and that competent in- 


higher than that of other pavements, and spectors be on the job during its execu- 
can be justified only by securing the advan- tion. The specifications should be intelli- 
tages claimed for it, namely: noiselessness, gently drawn and should eliminate all ques- 
ease of maintenance and cleaning, low trac- _ tionable 
tion resistance, favorableness to travel of 
all kinds, sanitary quality and, above all, 
durability. 

The construction work should preferably 
be done by a firm having the best interests 


methods of construction which, 
even though known to give good results 
when honestly and carefully carried out, 
would give inferior results if carelessly or 
dishonestly performed. 

The essential requirements of a satisfac 








=< 
$-eonninnpes avila 








aed 








264 THE AMERICAN CITY 


tory wood block street are a smooth con- 
crete foundation, strong enough to support 
the traffic, and well-creosoted wood blocks 
of sufficient depth to withstand the wear. 
The joints between the blocks should be 
filled with paving pitch or asphalt, and 
there should be a single expansion joint 
along each curb. This sounds simple, but 
in practice methods and materials are ofte: 
used which, while they give good results in 
some instances, may under a variety of 
conditions prove most undesirable. 


Foundation 

The ordinary precautions as to compact- 
ing the subsoil, examination for leaks, pro- 
viding drainage, etc., should be taken. All 
service boxes, manholes, etc., should be 
brought up to grade and substantially set, 
so that they will not be depressed by the 
trafic later on. This work should be very 
accurately done and finished well in ad- 
vance of the laying of the concrete foun- 
dation which, where once started, should 
proceed without unnecessary interruption. 

The concrete should be laid with a per- 
fectly smooth upper surface exactly par- 
allel to the finished surface of the street, 
but below same equal to the depth of the 
blocks. In other words, a finished concrete 
pavement should be laid first, on which a 
wearing surface of wood blocks is placed 
without any cushion at all. 

This is not usual practice in America, 
where we have permitted contractors to lay 
concrete with almost any kind of a top sur- 
face and cover up its defects with a bed or 
cushion of either sand or moistened sand 
and cement drawn to a smooth surface by 
a straight edge or a templet. This is slip- 
shod construction and encourages an un- 
even concrete surface, which means a vary 
ing depth of cushion and eventual depres- 
sions in the pavement. 

There are good streets with sand beds, 
but sand holds water, is liable to shift if 
anything goes wrong, and may even be 
sucked out by motor car tires. Loose street 
railway tracks permit water to get under 
the blocks and wash away the sand. A 
burst water main may do the same. 

A cement mortar bed is much better than 
a sand cushion, for it does not hold water 
and does not shift. If the mortar bed be 
fairly uniform in thickness and density, 
and if it has been given enough water to 


Vor. XIV, No. 3 


set the cement properly, and if the blocks 
are rolled before the cement starts to set, 
then a mortar bed should be satisfactory 
In practice it is rarely uniform in thickness 
and density, does not get enough water, 
and the cement has started to set before the 
steam roller gets on the job. It rarely adds 
any strength to the foundation, although it 
is rich in cement, which is practically 
wasted. 

The use of a cushion of any kind neces- 
sitates the use of a steam roller, which is 
supposed to set each block firmly in the bed. 
The roller cannot do this. It creates a 
smooth surface and does jam a large pro- 
portion of the blocks “home,” but unless 
the bed and blocks are each of quite uni- 
form thickness a large number of blocks 
do not get the full effect of the roller. This 
is particularly true of blocks adjacent to 
car tracks. After a period of watchful 
waiting the wagon wheels will find most of 
these blocks and cause ruts and depressions. 

In repairing street openings or in replac- 
ing disturbed blocks, the surface where a 
mortar bed has been used is not satisfac- 
tory. 

There is no valid reason why a per- 
fectly smooth concrete surface, thoroughly 
set, should not be used. Its cost will not 
exceed the usual haphazard construction, 
for there is a saving in excavation equal 
to the thickness of the discarded bed, and 
the cost of the steam rolling is eliminated. 
The city engineer may see for himself the 
contour and condition of the foundation 
before the blocks are laid, and he need have 
no apprehension that depressions and ruts 
will develop later. 


Blocks 

Blocks manufactured in accordance with 
the specifications of the American Society 
of Municipal Improvements will give good 
satisfaction. The essential qualities of 
good blocks are: 

1. Good, sound wood 

2. A strong wood 

3. Protection from decay by a thorough 
penetration and diffusion with an antiseptic 
and waterproofing mixture. From 16 to 18 
pounds per cubic foot is quite sufficient. The 
mixture should contain at least 75 per cent of 
creosote made from coal tar 

4. Accurate manufacture 

5. Depth and width of block different, to 
avoid improper laying 





ed ae 


cae | 


ee 


ee) 





MARCH, 1916 THE AMER 


» Enough moisture content to 


inkage of blocks before laying 


prevent 


Long leaf pine and Southern black gun 


~ 


have given good results on heavily tray 
eled streets, while short leaf pine, Norway 
pine, tamarack and Douglas fir are all good 


i medium-travel streets. 

Bleeding is caused by the heat of the 
sun s rays softening the preservative oil and 
1using entrained air and moisture to ex 
and and push some oil out of the blocks. 
It may be lessened by giving the wood a 
before in 


reliminary vacuum treatment 


jecting the oil, thus keeping a certain per- 


centage of air out of the interior of the 
blocks. 


Improper treatment at the works 


hae Cis Y 
Dry cell walls mean shrunk 
cell walls 1 

desirable that the bloc 
they are full s 
this they should be laid as 
after receipt from the 
should be thorough 
With the smooth concret 


vocated, it 1S easy 
after paving, but before th 


with pitch. 


Laying 
Blocks should 


| ] ] . ] ‘ 
( 11d hand rt 


not jammed closely togethet Chere seem 


to be no difference n the wear to ind 

















WOOD BLOCK PAVEMENT, VAN BUREN 
TEN YI 


whereby some of the blocks get more oil 
than others aggravates bleeding in th 
street. 

here used to be a clause in specifications 
stating that treated blocks should be as 
heavy as water, coupled with a stipulation 
that wood should be thoroughly dried be- 
fore the injection of the oil. 
with the above resulted in an average in 


Compliance 


jection of 24 pounds of oil per cubic foot 
and consequent excessive bleeding of the 
blocks on Market Street, Philadelphia. 
Creosoting does not entirely waterproof 
The cells may be full of oil while 
the cell’s walls absorb almost none, but they 
will readily absorb water or give it up. 


wood. 


STREET, 
ARS AGO 


BROOKLYN, N. Y., LAI N 


any preterence as to the angel | 
courses of the blocks make with th 
but there is less waste if the 
right angles to it. 

\n expansion joint about nches 
filled with pitch should b 


curb, and it is well to have the 
of block adjacent to the cu 
to it. 
The joints between the oc} I 
filled with a pitch or asphaltic { 


ren Brothers Company, of Bosto 
a pouring device which does the 
ing much better than can be dor 
It consists of a fair-sized rec« 

the hot pitch, is mounted on tw 


























~~ 
ee 


— 
ht Sage 


mr . r wo 
a ee 


—¢- 
amp 








ete 
































266 THE AMERICAN CITY 


has a “go-cart” handle, a bottom pouring 
outlet controlled by the workman, and has a 
squeegee apron attached to it which touches 
the pavement in a semicircle the center of 
which is the pouring outlet. Where the 
pitch runs out it makes a little puddle of 
appreciable thickness. The squeegee at- 
tached to the machine causes this puddle 
to move along as the apparatus is drawn 
over the blocks. As there is quite a quan- 
tity of hot pitch in the puddle, the joints 
are better filled than in the ordinary method, 
where the pitch chills too quickly. 

This filling of the joints must be most 
carefully done. It has a twofold purpose, 
namely, sealing the pavement to keep water 
from getting under the blocks, and provid- 
ing a semi-elastic filler which takes care of 
the swelling and shrinkage of individual 
blocks. This last is very important, for 
there is considerable shrinkage during con- 
tinued dry weather. This widens all the 
joints and allows the filler to sink accord- 
ingly. When the blocks absorb water after 
such a drying out, they swell, and the pitch 
is pressed back again to the top of the 
joints. If the joints were sand- or grout- 
filled, the filler would sink when the blocks 
dried out, but when the blocks swelled the 
filler would not compress, and in time such 
pavement is sure to bulge and buckle. 

On grades, blocks should be laid with 
wide joints made by inserting creosoted lath 
between the courses, creating a groove 
about %-inch wide to furnish foothold for 
horses. 

Wood block streets need very little crown 
—say I in too—but they should be well 
drained. When there are street car tracks 
it is absolutely necessary that the rails and 
joints be kept rigid. If they get loose, they 
should be repaired at once; otherwise they 
will destroy the pavement. 

In general, streets paved as outlined in 
the foregoing will give no trouble and 
should last for many years. The photo- 
graph shows a street that has been down 
over ten years and shows no sign of wear. 


Causes of Failure 

The failures may be thus summarized: 

Depressions in the shoulders and ruts 
alongside rails are due generally to uneven 
thickness of bed when constructed. Ruts 
along the rails are caused and aggravated 
by loose rails jarring the blocks loose and 
permitting water to get under the blocks, 








Vor. XIV, No. 3 


and where a sand cushion is used this water 
washes the sand away. Loose rails also 
permit water to get under the blocks in the 
shoulders and cause swelling. 

Swelling is generally caused by the lack 
of expansion joints along the curb and by 
the use of sand and grout filler instead of 
pitch or asphalt between the blocks. Swell- 
ing causes the wood to leave its foundation. 
If very bad it makes the blocks buckle, but 
in many cases it is hardly perceptible, though 
just as serious, for when the blocks are off 
the foundation heavy traffic hammers them 
down and causes very rapid wear. The 
blocks get mashed and depressions develop. 
Also when the pavement is off its founda- 
tion the action of horses’ hoofs causes a 
rapid wear in the joints, which results in 
cobbled blocks and an unsightly street and 
a short-lived pavement. 

Blocks laid on their side cause undue 
wear. These do not occur very often, and 
by making the depth and width different 
should not occur at all. 

Street openings have been responsible for 
much poor surface and buckling, as water 
gets in under the blocks. 

There have been a few failures in this 
country due to an insufficient quantity of 
oil having been used. In Paris, France, 
there have been a great many from this* 
cause, for the blocks there have hardly been 
treated at all—say four or five pounds per 
cubic foot. 

There have been failures due to poor 
treatment at the creosoting works in cases 
where too green wood has been used and 
the sapwood has contained so much water 
that it got practically no injection of oil. 

There have been failures of black gum 
streets due to treating the wood after it 
had commenced to decay. Gum wood 
should be treated as soon after felling as 
possible and it should be artificially sea- 
soned. 

From the above it will be seen that the 
most serious troubles have been due to the 
swelling of the blocks. These can all be 
practically prevented by pitch or asphalt 
joints and the elimination of sand cushions. 
The successful factors are the converse of 
what I have pointed out as the failures. 
1 would call attention particularly to the 
remarkable success of wood block in Min- 
neapolis, where they lay about 150,000 
yards annually and where the city engineer 
does the laying, with city employes. 








Peer Bae aeaes eee as aS aes AAAS SAHA AAS SEE EET 
J 


| REAL ESTATE SUBDIVISIONS | 


A 
l in 
D5 as ana Ss a a aS SaaS aa SRR AS ASL asa 


— 


A Little Model Town Within a City 


By Felix J. Koch 


HE Model Homes Community, for 
Z colored people, is located on Walnut 
Hills, Cincinnati, one of the pret 

tiest residential suburbs crowning the hill- 
tops that enclose the city proper. Passing 
down a quiet little residential street, one 
turns into a broad cement drive and finds 
the neat two-story brick coéperative stor« 
on a busy corner. This store is the prop 
erty of the Model Homes Community, and 


kept clean, and fountains and children at 
the community sandpile. The houses have 
been built square, to save expense. There 
are four flats in each of these, two on each 
floor, each flat with a door and a window 
at the middle of the building front, and 
three windows on the side of the house. 
The upper flats have front porches, 
plants on the railings 

Turning off to the right, one enters a 


with 

















is operated on a very small margin of curving street paved with concrete and 
THE COMMON 
profit. Each purchaser receives a dated lined with more model tenements. A sup- 


slip showing the amount of each purchase, 
and at the end of the year every cent of 
profit is to be divided among the purchasers 
in proportion to the amount they have 
spent at the store. Outsiders too can buy 
here, but they will not share in the division 
of profits. 

Leaving this corner, one comes almost 
immediately into a quadrangle, flanked 
with other new two-story brick buildings— 
the model flats. There are cement walks, 


porting wall on the right is the base for a 
gallery, as in Italy, that leads before the 
doors of the townsfolk. Each such door is 
of wood, with glass pane and house num 
ber. Within, as evening settles, lights 
burn, and these are of gas. 

Farther on is the Town Hall—the audi 
torium, rented to the tenants at a very low 
rate per night. At the end of this street 
is the park—the village grass plot, with its 
low surrounding wall of brick and two 








— 





sm pana: seg 

















AME 





RICAN 





Cine Vor. XIV, No. 2 : 
ereat orf ; 
stand the | ses Tac { 

id with tl hoicest vista 
, ry the 1 “4 
da of eac ‘ homes 
i d-rov e¢ h 
one's thre } ave 
irrounde tan-bark b 
nity ad root 
ers he « e 10 ¢ 
11s ot ch l | I 
, » pe aida 
( here e€ 98 its nh he 
r ed. and ther ] € 21 re 
ithi shor kach of 
has thre¢ ( oms and 
thi rool | t é tor trot > 
< veek the others ring tro 
D3 25, «Al re ng t locatio1 
ist deposit $ n taking the 
avs tor tw eks idvanee 
s returned t | when he 
| se, 1f the rent is not in arreat 
house is in fair conditi Wher 
on 18 made tor a no written reterens \T THE TOWN “PUMP” 
is required, but the former residence must 
be stated, and the amount of the present tenant 1S to join. Upon these clubs 
wages must be certified On! Tar placed the responsibility of caring for th« 
earners are accepted. Each of the rooms community. Cases of reputed immorality 
in the mode ts is 11 by 12 fee \r or of arrest are investigated, and if a te: 











THI 


rangements for heating, cooking and light 


ing by gas are provided, the expense for 
1 


which should not exceed $1.30 per month 
] 


Community clubs have been organized 


one of men and one of women, which every 





COMPOUND 


ant is found guilty, he is asked to vacate 
his apartment. The tenants have shown 
appreciation of the efforts which have 
been made to give them social, civic and 
economic opportunity. 











— | 


aia ee ae 


ee 

















News and Ideas for Commercial and 
Civic Organizations 











o%e nena ne ne sVanve sve sve 


gS HAA MOOGOMZS MMII OOOO MIMD 


The Longmont Municipal 
Auditorium 


LONGMONT, CoLto.—A demand had arisen 


for a first-class community building in 
Longmont, and one has been provided 
through the joint efforts of the city officials, 
the Playground Association, and the Long- 
mont Commercial Association. There were 
three ideas at work in the creation of this 
auditorium. First, Longmont is one of a 
circuit of “Chautauqua towns,” and each 
summer the sessions have been held in an 
open-air, uncomfortable tent. The Chau- 
tauquans had said they must have a suitable 
building for those events. Second, ther: 
was within the town limits a driving-park 
which had gone into disuse and become an 
eyesore; the people were demanding that 
something be done with it Third, there 
was a growing desire among the citizens 
for a place in which to conduct a county 
fair. 

lhe Commercial Association suggested a 





coordination of th 
a special commiuttec 
lhe committee reco! 
organized a county 
capital stock of $ 


offered at $25 a shar 


ing-park was to be 


and it was recom 


lair association I! 


Lommission in res 


plans for using 


Commission, being out 


able to improve 
driving-park, and 
part of the county 


for that purpos« 


was a beautiful central 


ing which would 


Chautauqua assemb 


ity festivals, and 
exhibition buildin 


season. It was also 


entire area upon 


scape lines. 





=f 
h« 


k il 
¢ | tr he ‘ bye 
' 
Sx ‘ | 
+} 
n Sto ( ‘ 
r 1ecré ( \ 
th | , 
I iTK 
| 
the ss ons 
) 
al 
f < 1 : 
r¢ é I ne 
inne I il est 
association § Capita 
Included in tl agli 
nciuded rn chen 
ssdletarzaett Theos tet 
itl ‘ tl 
) il la 
} 
‘ is a 
the il 
ned irk the 














MUNICIPAL AUDITORIUM, LONGMONT, COLO 








pe ac PN a 





exrie. meme 














Seales Si ee ee ee 






270 THE 


The committee’s plan met with instant 
acceptance. The county fair association 
was organized and the capital stock soon 
issued and disposed of. Contracts were 
entered into with the Park Commission, the 
Chautauqua Association and the Play- 
ground Association. A certain sum was 
given to the Park Commission with which 
to build the auditorium and improve the 
driving-park, that site having been decided 
upon. The Commission in turn agreed to 
spend at least half the annual revenue from 
its park levy in improving and keeping the 
grounds in good condition. The rental from 
the auditorium and the fair grounds is to be 
used for the construction of additional 
buildings, when they are needed, and for 
the completion of the landscape plan. 

The auditorium has a seating capacity of 
1,200. This may be increased 50 per cent 
by the construction of galleries, for which 
provision was made. The acoustic proper- 
ties are exceptionally good. The building 
is easily accessible from all parts of the 
town, is beautiful in architecture and 
staunchly built. It epitomizes the spirit of 
the town and is a monument to the com- 
munity idea. 

D. W. THOMAS, 

Secretary, The Longmont Commercial Association. 


+ + 
Weeding Out the Tramps 


GLENWOOD Sprincs, CoLo.—Glenwood 
Springs had for some time been a mecca 
for tramps, particularly during the summer 
months. The town being located on 
branches of transcontinental railways, and 
being half-way between Salt Lake City and 
Denver, it was a convenient stopping-off 
place for hundreds of men out of work. 
The problem of handling the nuisance was 
studied from all sides. Since it was dif- 
ficult to determine which men were worthy 
and which were not, the housewives fed all 
of them, sometimes from fifteen to twenty 
a day. It was felt by the members of the 
Board of Aldermen and the Business Men’s 
League that if the “sheep” could be sepa- 
rated from the “goats” the solution of the 
problem would be found. 

It was decided to try the plan of giving 
every tramp either a meal costing twenty- 
five cents at a local restaurant or a night's 
lodging in exchange for each two hours of 
labor he would give to the city, the work 
to be done on the streets. That the tramps 


AMERICAN 


Cie Vor. XIV, No. 3 


might know of the plan upon reaching the 
city, large notices containing the above in- 
formation were posted at the coal chutes, 
water tanks and other places where the 
tramps collected. The housewives had in 
the meantime been asked to refrain from 
giving food to them. Notices were placed 
at the rear of all the residences in the city 
likely to be visited by the tramps, inform- 
ing those unwelcome visitors that the fam- 
ilies within were forbidden by the city au- 
thorities to give food to them, stating the 
terms upon which they could secure food or 
lodging, and asking them to report to the 
Chief of Police or to the City Clerk, either 
of whom would direct them to the work. 
In less than two weeks after the plan had 
been started, the action of the Glenwood 
Springs residents was generally known 
among the tramps of the Pacific Coast 
states as well as the Middle states. The 
man who was unwilling to work for a meal 
or a night’s lodging passed on through 
Glenwood Springs to greener fields. The 
men who really wanted work took advan- 
tage of the opportunity, and these were en- 
thusiastic in their praise of the expedient. 
Many of the men who performed the re- 
quired service were helped to find more 
or less permanent employment, and scat- 
tered among the ranches and elsewhere are 
a considerable number who were aided 
through the Glenwood Springs plan. 
There was a remarkable falling off in the 
number of tramp visitors, but the worthy 
never hesitated to stop in Glenwood Springs 
and always gave full value received in 
labor. An interesting case was reported by 
the City Clerk. A strong, husky fellow ap- 
peared with his order for a meal, having 
worked the specified two hours. He asked 
for permanent employment and was told 
where he could find such. To reach the 
place, which was off of the railroad, he 
would be obliged to make a forty-mile jour- 
ney overland. He said he was going, and 
left. It was later learned that he carried 
his meal to a fellow tramp who was phys- 
ically unable to do any work, and went on 
unfed. Had the story of this incident 
reached the authorities in time, he would 
not have been permitted to go away hungry. 
After nine months of trial, the plan has 
proved successful and will be followed in- 
definitely, or until some better plan is found. 


CHARLES C. CANADAY, 
Secretary, Business Men’s League. 





\IarcH, 1916 THE 


Chamber of Commerce Furthers 
“Preparedness” 

PorTLAND, Mer.—The matter of safe- 
guarding the nation as well as the state of 
Maine against possible invasion is receiv- 
ing much attention by the Portland Cham- 
her of Commerce. When the subject of 
“preparedness” first began to make a uni- 
versal appeal, the Chamber appointed a 
committee to codperate with the state Na- 
tional Guard in its efforts to promote in- 
terest in citizen soldiery, to stimulate en- 
listment, and to remove the handicaps 
which usually surround employes when 
they manifest a desire to identify them- 
selves with the militia. This codperative 
work resulted in securing signed statements 
from a large number of employers through- 
out western Maine, in which they agreed 
not to discriminate against employes who 
join the National Guard, agreeing also to 
pay them while absent on the annual tour 
of duty and not to deduct the time thus con- 
sumed from their regular vacation allow- 
ance. 

The Chamber further coéperated in this 
movement by encouraging the formation of 
a business and professional men’s military 
class. 


This class is drilled once a week by 
the National Guard officers, and is made up 
of many of the leading members of the 


Chamber. The activities of the class have 
materially increased the interest in “pre- 
paredness,” and it will undoubtedly form 
a feeder to the National Guard. More re- 
cently the Chamber has coéperated in stim- 
ulating enlistment by approving a series of 
posters on the subject which are to be 
placed in factories, stores and show win- 
dows. 

The most important step in the program 
which the Chamber of Commerce has yet 
taken, however, is in relation to the pro- 
posed establishment on the Maine coast of 
the first aeronautical coast patrol station in 
the United States. Rear Admiral Robert F. 
Peary, it will be remembered, suggested the 
establishment of an aerial coast patrol sys- 
tem on the Atlantic coast from Eastport, 
Me., to Brownsville, Texas, and on the Pa- 
cific coast from San Diego to Puget Sound. 
1Te suggested that stations be located at 
convenient intervals along the coast line 
and that aviators should patrol the sections 
along the shore between stations. Such a 


AMERICAN 


Cee 271 
system would bring about the creation of 
a wide zone along the coast into which no 
hostile ship would be likely to enter with- 
out detection. 

Realizing the exposed position of Maine 
on the Atlantic coast, the Chamber of Com- 
merce at once took up the matter of estab- 
lishing a patrol station in the vicinity of 
Portland. The project was launched at an 
enthusiastic dinner held last November. In 
view of the many calls upon the national 
treasury, it was decided to present such a 
station, fully equipped, to the federal gov- 
ernment, in case the government should 
not be willing to construct one. But en- 
couragement of federal support was given 
at the dinner in telegrams which were read 
from President Wilson, Secretary of War 
Garrrison, and Secretary of the Navy Dan- 
iels. Some of the world’s greatest experts 
in aviation were present at the dinner— 
among them Henry A. Wise Wood, of the 
Aero Club of America—who expressed 
their hearty approval of the plan. 

During January a campaign was con- 
ducted in Portland and throughout the state 
to raise the necessary funds, which resulted 
in the entire sum being guaranteed before 
February 1. The amount needed had been 
set at $10,000, The Aero Club of America 
agreed to add 10 per cent to any amount 
that might be raised by the Portland Cham- 
ber. 

The officers and directors of the Maine 
Aeronautical Coast Patrol Association, as 
the organization will be called, will codper- 
ate with the federal or state government in 
the selection of a site and in making ar- 
rangements for the maintenance of the sta- 
tion. Rear Admiral Peary, who is a resi- 
dent of Eagle Island, in Casco Bay, and a 
member of the Portland Chamber of Com- 
merce, has offered Flag Island, also in 
Casco Bay, to the Association for use as 
the site on which to erect the station, if that 
location is deemed a desirable one. 

Should it happen that the federal govern- 
ment is unable to take over the station, it 
is expected that the state will do so, and 
tentative arrangements have been made for 
the organization of an aeronautic section 
of the naval militia. 


LEONARD WITHINGTON, 


Publicity Secretary, The Portland Chamber of 
Commerce. 























4 — ease 








272 THE AMERICAN CITY 


A Profitable Farming Campaign 

Mempuis, TeENN.—The farmers of the 
South for years have been depending upon 
a single crop, usually cotton, for the means 
of financing the family living expenses. 
And the cotton was not generally converted 
into cash, but, when the crop matured, was 
bartered at the stores in exchange for the 
necessaries of life; that is, it was applied 
on accounts previously incurred for those 
articles. The farmers have, therefore, 
handled almost no cash. They have now 
learned, however, through the profitable 
farming campaign that has been carried on 
among them, how tq raise on their farms 
food for themselves and feed for their 
stock and how to make cotton a cash crop. 

The task of changing the one-crop sys- 
tem in western Tennessee to a diversified 
one was undertaken by the Agricultural 
Extension Department of the International 
Harvester Company in codperation with 
the Memphis Business Men’s Club. It was 
known by the business men and farmers in 
that region that the International Har- 
vester Company had conducted successful 
campaigns of education in Arkansas and 
Alabama under the direction of Professor 
P. G. Holden. The need for such a cam- 
paign in the Memphis district prompted 
the Business Men’s Club to send a commit- 
tee to call upon Professor Holden in Chi- 
cago to confer with him on the subject. 
The committee convinced the Agricultural 
Extension Department that the club was 
prepared to conduct a thorough campaign, 
and in August the club organized a Farm 
Development Bureau for the purpose of 
pushing the work. 

At the suggestion of Professor Holden, 
all the organizations and individuals inter- 
ested in the agricultural development of the 
Memphis district were invited to assist in 
the movement. The Harvester Company 
agreed to furnish experienced men to help 
organize the campaign, and thirty trained 
agricultural lecturers equipped with lec- 
ture charts and demonstration material, 
also to print a million pieces of literature 
for free distribution, in the form of book- 
lets on diversified farming, cattle tick, hog 
cholera, live stock, poultry, gardens, can- 
ning, home economics, sanitation and other 
subjects bearing on the problems of the 
cotton belt states. 





Vor. XIV, No. 3 


Leading business men and bankers from 
Memphis to the number of 150 were sent 
out to visit their neighbors in the eighty 
counties in western Tennessee. They ap- 
proached the business men in the smaller 
towns by saying: “We are not here to sell 
you merchandise, but to get you to join us 
in making an analysis of the real business 
problems in your county and to find out 
what becomes of the money realized on the 
cotton crop.” 

The Farm Development Bureau soon 
found in its survey that the money realized 
from the sale of cotton was being sent away 
by the local merchants to buy food and fod- 
der which could as well be grown at home; 
that the one-crop system was impoverishing 
the soil and curtailing the crops, and that 
injurious insects and plant diseases were 
doing untold damage; that money was— 
scarce and interest rates were high; that, 
as referred to above, the credit system of 
farming was practiced; that tenantry was 
on the increase; that there were poor 
schools, poorly equipped farms, bad roads, 
poorly paid teachers and preachers, and 
that the people themselves were poor. 

After three weeks of preparation, the 
Profitable Farming Campaign was launched 
in Shelby County, Tenn. There were in 
all sixty speakers engaged in the work, the 
greater number being practical farmers 
from every section of the United States. 
The speakers were divided into three crews, 
with twenty men in each crew. Three 
counties a day were covered, each crew 
holding from 30 to 50 meetings each day. 

Several railroads in the South responded 
to the call for codperation; also the agri- 
cultural and mechanical colleges, the agri- 
cultural high schools, the West Tennessee 
Normal School, the Cumberland Telephone 
Company, Western Newspaper Union, The 
Progressive Farmer, Memphis Commercial 
Appeal, besides the various commercial or- 
ganizations throughout the territory. 

The campaign lasted twenty-eight days, 
and was carried through western Tennes- 
see, eastern Arkansas and northern and 
central Mississippi, closing in Mississippi 
on December 11. More than 2,100 meet- 
ings were held on the farms, in country 
schools and churches and in the towns. The 
local business men in each county provided 
conveyances in which to carry the speakers 
to the country meeting places, so that the 























I 











MarcH, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 273 
farmers were not inconvenienced by having poses. To quote from the report at this 
to go to town to hear the speakers. point : 


This unusual campaign has given the 
business men of Memphis a real vision of 
their responsibilities and opportunities, and 
they have gotten a truer understanding of 
the basic principles of economic develop 
ment, 

JOHN M. TUTHER, 


Secretary, Memphis Business Men's ( 


+ + 


A Study of the Working Condi- 
tions of Women in Depart- 
ment Stores 
During the year of I914 an extensive 
study was made by the Consumers’ League 
of Eastern Pennsylvania of the condition 
of women in Philadelphia’s mercantile es- 
tablishments. The report of this study was 
published by the Pennsylvania Department 
of Labor and Industry and contains payroll 
statements of the wages of 8,000 depart- 
ment store women, as well as detailed data 
on the cost of living, among these women. 
The figures show that 70 per cent of the 
women in Philadelphia's best stores receive 
a wage insufficient to maintain them in 

health and efficiency. 

Other points covered in the survey were 
hours and conditions of work, seasonal em 
ployment, and educational or welfare work. 
The investigation included seventeen de 
partment stores, eighteen women’s specialty 
stores employing not less than ten sales- 
women each, and twenty five-and-ten-cent 
stores. In these fifty-five stores, 9,981 
women were employed, excluding those in 
workroom service and private office work. 

Reference is made to the opportunity 
afforded in the retail selling occupation to 
avoid both the continuous standing and 
sitting which is so prejudicial to the health 
of women, and to the need of providing 
seats and training the girls to use them. 
The conserved energy would obviously re- 
sult in greater efficiency. 

The subject of basement selling and the 
ventilation of the basements is given con- 
siderable attention in the report, and it is 
strongly felt that where, on account of 
structural conditions, a good system of ven- 
tilation cannot be provided, the basement 
should not be used for retail selling pur 


“The employes and tie public have a right 
to demand equally as hygienic conditions in 
the basement as in other parts of the store. 
It is almost impossible to realize the depress- 
ing effect of spending the whole of one’s work- 
ing day in vitiated air and artificial light—an 
effect intensified at times by the incessant noise 
of the pianola. Knowing such conditions, it 
is easy to credit the remark once made by a 
basement seller, “The sudden change from ar- 
tificial to natural air in the evening seems to 
distract me.’ ” 


The concluding pages of the report con- 
tain a summary of the more important ele 
ments of the study, from which the follow 
ing paragraphs are quoted: 


“It has been found that in order to maintain 
a normal existence, an average weekly expen- 
diture of $4.40 for food and shelter, $1.71 for 
clothing, $0.60 for car fare, $0.17 for recrea- 
tion and $1.65 for laundry, health, insurance 
and all incidentals—a total of $8.53—is neces- 
sary. The wage tables reveal that in the down 
town department stores, 69.2 per cent of the 
women earn less than this amount and 50.9 
per cent earn less than $8. In neighborhood 
department stores, two-thirds of the women 
earn under $8 and practically all those in the 
smaller neighborhood stores receive still less 
In the five-and-ten-cent stores 69 per cent of 
the women earn under $6 and 91 per cent 
under $7. 

“The vital question facing these women is 
how to provide for other necessaries of mind 
and body after food and shelter have been 
paid for. The strain attendant upon this con- 
tinual struggle must in the end tell on health 
and business ability. 

“This is without question a serious situation. 
There is no doubt, however, that it could be 
met in great part by an extension of the pol- 
icy of training and education which has al- 
ready been established in two stores with re- 
sultant higher wages. The present codpera- 
tion of several of the stores with a girls’ high 
school in which a course in salesmanship has 
been established as a part of the curriculum, 
opens a channel for the further extension of 
such training. Just as the present loss to the 
management occasioned by the irresponsible 
work of untrained employes is in part offset 
by low wages, so the increased cost of efficient 
work would be offset by correspondingly re- 
duced expenses 

“Along with increased education § and 
training should come a greater incentive to 
girls for doing good work. This will be pos 
sible only as more of the higher positions are 
open to women as well as to men in depart 
ment store organization, and thus only can 
the stores hope to attract that intelligent ele- 
ment of women workers whom they are so 
desirous of securing.” 


MARY M« 
Acting Secretary, Consumers’ Leag 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa 


CONNELL. 
e of Eastern 














274 THE AMERICAN CITY 


Rat Extermination 


Boston, Mass.—The Women’s Municipal 
League of Boston is training its guns upon 
the highly offending rat in a manner cal- 
culated to at least lessen the injury that 
little animal is capable of causing, if not 
entirely to exterminate the species. During 
the “clean-up” campaign conducted in Bos- 
ton during May, 1915, effective work in rat 
extermination was done by the League. 
The League is making use of a large pos- 
ter concerning rat-killing, to be displayed 
in stables, warehouses and other suitable 
places. Copies may be procured by address- 
ing the Women’s Municipal League. 

The following general instructions are 
given to those who wish to be rid of rats: 


Starve them—keep the cover on the garbage 
can. 

Deprive them of nesting places—clean up 
rubbish piles. 

Trap them—use several cleaned, scented, 
concealed traps. 

Poison them—if you do not fear the risk. 

Stop up their holes—use a mixture of ce- 
ment, sand and broken glass, first sprinkling 
chloride of lime in the holes. 

Leave no opening unguarded—fill up holes 
around pipes and wires, and cover ventilators, 
skylights and cellar windows with half-inch 
wire netting. 

Make your building rat-proof—use concrete, 
sheet metal, or wire netting, or raise the build- 
ing at least two feet above the ground, leaving 
the space beneath open. 

Codperate with all who try to exterminate 
rats. 


REMEMBER 


That rats can swim half a mile, burrow 
nearly three feet, or jump nearly two feet; 

That they climb by means of rope, tree or 
vine; 

That they multiply rapidly; 

That they cause fires by chewing matches, 
by eating into gas pipes and by gnawing the 
insulation from electric wires; 

That they carry disease. 

If there are rats on your premises, they are 
there because either you or your neighbors 
feed and protect them. 

If you wish to poison rats: 

1. Don’t get the poison on your hands. 

2. Don’t put poisoned pieces of bread in the 
open—they may be taken by children or do- 
mestic animals. 

3. Don’t leave food about—the rat will not 
take the poison if other food is obtainable. 

4. Don’t allow dishes used for the mixing or 
containing of poison to be used for anything 
ona MRS. ROBERT S. BRADLEY, 


Chairman, Committee on Rats and Flies, The 
Women’s Municipal League of Boston. 





Vor. XIV, No. 3 


Fire Insurance Rates Reduced 

Granp Rapips, Micu.—A considerable 
reduction in the basic fire insurance rate in 
Grand Rapids has been effected through 
the efforts of the city government and the 
Grand Rapids Association of Commerce. 
Three years ago an investigation of the 
situation was instituted in an attempt to de- 
termine the causes of the high rates pre- 
vailing in the city. The reason given by 
the Michigan Inspection Bureau for re- 
garding Grand Rapids as an unusually high 
insurance risk was the faulty fire alarm 
system in use in the city. It was said to be 
not at all unusual for the fire department 
to respond in the north end of the city when 
an alarm had been sent in from the south 
end. 

The matter was placed before the Grand 
Rapids Association of Commerce, which 
secured the appointment of a committee 
charged with the task of inspecting the fire 
alarm system. The committee was com- 
posed of representatives of the city, the 
National Board of Fire Underwriters Asso- 
ciation and the Association of Commerce. 
An expert in installing fire alarm systems 
who happened to be in the city at the time 
volunteered his services to the Association 
of Commerce, and he was appointed the 
Association’s representative on the com- 
mittee. 

The committee reported that at a cost of 
between $500 and $550 the fire alarm system 
could be put in acceptable condition and the 
city’s rating reduced from class 3 to class 
2¥,. It was estimated that this would mean 
a saving of 8 per cent annually to the citi- 
zens. It was felt, however, that Grand 
Rapids should be placed in class 2, and the 
matter was taken up again. An actual sur- 
vey was then instituted in an effort to de- 
termine what steps should be taken to make 
Grand Rapids a reasonably safe fire risk. 
It was finally recommended that the size of 
certain water mains be increased; that part 
of the horse-drawn apparatus be changed to 
motor-driven apparatus; that more men be 
placed at some of the engine houses; that 
the flat system of collecting the water rates 
be replaced with a meter system; and that 
changes be made at the pumping station. 
It was estimated that it would cost approxi- 
mately $126,000 to carry out these plans. 
The Council authorized the expenditure, 
and the Michigan Inspection Bureau began 











ne en Can 


” 
see © Hin 2 


. 


—— 


Be 






Marcu, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 275 


its work of rerating Grand Rapids upon the 
class 2 basis as soon as the city had made 
the suggested changes. 

When it developed that the new basic 
rate was not intended to apply to residential 
risks, further negotiations with the Na 
tional Board of Fire Underwriters resulted 
in a new schedule being drawn up applying 
to residences and granting a considerable 
reduction in the rate for those risks. A con- 
servative estimate of the amount which wil! 
be saved annually to the holders of fire 
insurance in Grand Rapids places the sum 
if $85,000. 


+ + 


A Fire Prevention Float 
SALEM, Mass.—Many activities have 
been set in motion in Salem to prevent a 
recurrence of the disaster which befell 
the city in the summer of 1914. One of the 
most recent of these was the merchants’ 
parade projected last fall. The float illus- 








standard pattern of galvanized iron. The 
wooden ash barrel had in it a smudge 
which fumed up and made the smoke that 
appeared through the holes at the side. 
(he rubbish under the stairs speaks for 
itself. It will be noted that a man is sitting 
on the stairs, smoking a cigarette. At his 
foot is a wooden tub in which there was an 
arrangement which blazed up when he ap- 
parently threw his cigarette into the tub 
from time to time. In reality he turned an 
electric current on a spark plug which ig- 
nited a little black powder that he threw in 
the tub instead of the cigarette. The result 
was a flare-up that was observed by the 
spectators if they were looking in that di- 
rection. 

The Fire Prevention Committee focussed 
public attention upon this float by adver- 
tising that prizes would be awarded for the 
best photographs taken of the float while 
it was passing. 












CARLOS P. FAUNCE, 


The Salem Chamber of Commerce and Civics 





Os F 

a eum | D0NT CARE > mH LIKE 
TO wate tHpow = unote YOUR rr 
Beye) MY CIGARETTE CELLAR STAIRS =u 
‘ WHICH ASH BARREL 


IS YOURS ? 








WONGLE ROOFS MADE 
15.000 SALEM PEOPLE 
HOMELESS IN OME DAY 








FIRE PREVENTION FLOAT 


trated herewith attracted special attention. 
The idea conveyed by the float originated 
with Chief Caulfield, of the Salem Fire De 
partment, and was prepared at his sugges 
tion under the direction of the Fire Pre 
vention Committee of the Salem Chamber 
of Commerce and Civics. The float occu 
pied a position in the parade directly pre 
ceding the Fire Department section. 

The forward ash barrel shown in the pic 


ture is of wood, and the rear one is of the 


City Lot Farming 

Los ANGELES, Cat.—The Los Angeles 
Chamber of Commerce has launched a cam- 
paign to interest the citizens in the possi- 
bilities contained within the city lot for 
reducing the high cost of living. A series 
of illustrated lectures on city lot farming 
is being given daily at the noon hour, free 
of cost, mainly for the benefit of office em- 
ployes and mechanics, who are encouraged 
to utilize the grounds at the rear of their 








THE 


premises to their profit. Carefully worked 
out plans showing how to plant areas from 
the size of an ordinary back yard to an 
acre are given in these practical talks. 
Charts are distributed free containing de- 
tailed information on what to plant and in 
what quantity for a family of five. School 
children are especially invited to be present 
at the Saturday talks. 

Aside from the impetus being given to 
the movement by the Chamber of Com- 
merce, cooperation is being extended by 
the agricultural department of the Los An- 
geles Board of Education, numerous civic 
societies, and a recently appointed City Lot 
Improvement Committee, whose function 
is to promote vacant lot gardening. 

An extensive home garden campaign was 
conducted during 1915 under the auspices 
of the’ Board of Education and a large civic 
committee, which recorded some unusual 
results. In one instance a family realized 
a profit of $450 during one year on a 50- 
foot lot from fruit, vegetables, poultry and 
a cow. It is admitted that this was excep- 
tional, but the claim is made that in Los 
Angeles, where the growing season con- 
tinues through the entire year, a family of 
five may supply its own table from the 
products of a 50-foot lot with labor aver- 
aging two hours a day. Since the proper 
climate and soil are provided, it is neces- 
sary only to furnish the instruction and 
arouse an interest in the subject to secure 
results. The Chamber hopes to be effective 
in these ways. The plan has already proven 
so successful that one of the leading news- 
papers of Los Angeles devotes a full page 
to the subject each week. 

MORRIS M. RATHBUN, 
Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce. 


+ ¢ 


The Industrial Development of 
Parkersburg 

ParKersBurG, W. Va.—The Parkersburg 
Board of Commerce is devoting a great 
deal of energy to the industrial expansion 
of its city. An industrial company, which 
is closely affiliated with the Board of Com- 
merce, owns and controls about six hundred 
acres of land adjacent to the city that has 
proved to be especially well situated for the 
location of factories and workingmen’s 
homes. 

Several important manufacturing estab- 
lishments are now located in this district, 





AMERICAN CITY 


Vor. XIV, No. 3 


and four new ones have signified their in- 
tention of coming. The Board of Com- 
merce, at its own expense, ran an eight- 
inch water pipe through the center of the 
tract. The streets of the little community 
are paved, railroad connections have been 
made, and excellent switching facilities 
have been provided, the switching being 
done by an electric locomotive. “Some fifty 
new houses have been erected upon the 
site and many more are under construction. 
Natural gas is used for fuel in both the 
factories and the residences, and cheap 
electricity furnishes power for the plants. 


HENRY H. ARCHER, 
Secretary, The Parkersburg Board of Commerce. 


*¢ ¢ 


A Young Women’s Commercial 
Club 


Cepar Rapips, lowa.—The Commercial 
Club of the Young Women’s Christian As- 
sociation of Cedar Rapids, although very 
young, is rapidly becoming a factor in the 
business life of the city. The club has for 
its object the promotion of friendship, ser- 
vice and efficiency among the young women 
of the city engaged in commercial work. 

Membership in the club is open to the 
members of the Young Women’s Christian 
Association and to any young woman sten- 
ographer or bookkeeper in the city who is 
recommended by the executive committee 
of the parent organization, all being finally 
passed upon for election by the club. The 
organization of the Commercial Club took 
place in April, 1915, and the membership is 
at present 150. 

The following committees are actively at 
work: Visiting, Membership, Social, Press, 
Savings and Loan, Educational, and Em- 
ployment. The Savings and Loan Com- 
mittee has been arranging for a miniature 
Panama Exposition, the proceeds to form 
the nucleus of a fund to be drawn upon for 
the benefit of any sick or unemployed mem- 
ber at a very low rate of interest. This 
entertainment will be the most important 
one of the season. 

The Employment Committee directs its 
efforts along the line of securing positions 
for the unemployed members of the club. 
The publicity given to the work of this de- 
partment among the leading business houses 
of the city made it possible to assist many 
young women to get permanent positions, 
and during the summer months many were 











Marcu, 1916 


given temporary employment. No charge 
is made either to the employer or to the 
employe for this service. 

The Educational Committee has formed 
large classes in domestic science, Bible 
study, current events and business English. 
Efficient instructors have been provided, 
and the classes meet once a week. 

The club is composed of enthusiastic, 
wide-awake young people who have pledged 
themselves, first of all, to look out for the 
best interests of the unemployed among 
their number and to follow out a program 
of general helpfulness. 


HARRIET HUGHES, 
Secretary, The Commercial Club of the Cedar 
Rapids Young Women’s Christian Association. 


+ ¢+ 


A County Planning Commission 


WuiteE Pratins, N. Y.—One of the most 
important achievements of the Westchester 
County Chamber of Commerce in IgI5 is 
its work in securing the appointment of the 
Westchester County Planning Commission. 
For several years the Parks Committee of 
the Chamber has realized the need of of- 
ficial supervision over the physical develop- 
ment of Westchester County. ~The Cham- 
ber of Commerce committee, therefore, in 
cooperation with the county board of super- 
visors, prepared a bill to be presented to the 
Legislature, creating and prescribing the 
powers and duties of a county planning 
commission for Westchester County and 
authorizing an appropriation for its use. 
The bill was passed and received the sig- 
nature of the Governor without any oppo- 
sition. 

Section 2 of the act indicates in general 
the scope of the plan for Westchester 
County. It reads as follows: 

“The plan to be prepared by the commission 
created by this act shall embrace the entire 
county and shall show the existing highways, 
park areas and other public land, together 
with proposed changes in width or route of 
such highways, the location of desirable new 
trunk line highways and additional public lands 
for park or playground purposes. Such plan 
shall also show, so far as practicable, the sub- 
division of the county into drainage areas, an 
adequate water-supply system and other mat- 
ters which would tend to improve the sanitary 
conditions of the county.” 

One of the first steps to be taken by the 
Commission will be to secure the appoint- 
ment of city and village planning commis- 
sions in all the municipalities of the county 





THE AMERICAN 


CITY 277 
under chapter 699 of the Laws of 1913. 
The Commission realizes that if it were to 
prepare a plan which would include the de- 
tailed improvement of the various local 
municipalities, it would meet with much op- 
position and incur expense for which it 
was not prepared. With the appoiniment 
of local commissions which would have 
more authority and power in their own com- 
munities than has the County Planning 
Commission, it is believed that better re- 
sults will be secured for the community, 
and that these local plans, having the sanc- 
tion of the local authorities, will be satis- 
factory to every one concerned. ‘The prin- 
cipal function of the County Planning Com- 
mission will be to coordinate the local plans 
and see that they conform to the general 
plan, at the same time taking care of the 
unincorporated part of the county, which 
represents a large proportion of its area. 
Local planning commissions have already 
been appointed in Bronxville, Briarclitf 
Manor, Scarsdale, Elmsford and Mount 
Vernon, and several other commissions will 
be appointed soon. 

The Westchester County Chamber of 
Commerce has made the January issue of 
its bulletin, the Westchester County Quar- 
terly, a special planning number, in which 
the subjects of county and town planning 
are given special prominence. On the front 
cover are pictured examples of wise plan- 
ning so far done in Westchester County. 
The bulletin contains an article about the 
Westchester County Planning Commission, 
quoting in full the bill above referred to, 
and covering a few important phases of the 
work which the Commission will undertake 
in the county. Another article is entitled 
“The Practical Problems of City Planning 
for the Small City,” written by Mayor 
Fiske, of Mount Vernon, N. Y., in West- 
chester County. 


HERBERT E. ANGELL, 


Secretary, Westchester County Chamber of 
Commerce. 
+ 


A “Go-to-Church’”’ Movement 


San Bernarpino, Cat.—The San Ber- 
nardino Chamber of Commerce feels that 
the churches in a municipality should be 
supported as enthusiastically as any other 
civic enterprise and that the citizens of San 
Bernardino should have a keener realiza- 
tion of their responsibilities in this connec- 
tion. In order to stimulate interest in 

















278 THE 
church-going, the Chamber launched a 
“eo-to-church” movement in San Bernar- 
dino, culminating on Sunday, January 9, 
which was designated as “Go-to-Church” 
Sunday. The pastors heartily concurred in 
the idea when it was presented to them. 
The subject was kept alive through the 
daily newspapers. During the last week of 
the campaign the Chamber carried quarter- 
page advertisements in three of the papers, 
changing the copy with each issue. Several 
thousand post cards of invitation to the ser- 
vices were mailed throughout the city. 

The topic which the ministers presented 
on January 9 was “The Present-Day Need 
of Christ.” Special musical programs were 
provided. A committee was appointed in 
each church to welcome everyone at the 
door on arrival. The results were very 
gratifying and the churches were crowded 
to their utmost capacity at both the morn- 
ing and evening services. 

H. S. KNEEDLER, 

Secretary, San Bernardino Chamber of Commerce 


+ + 


New Bulletins 

CLEVELAND, Oun10.—The City. Published 
now and then by the City Club of Cleveland. 

Des Moines, lowa.—Des Moines. Pub- 
lished monthly by the Des Moines Chamber 
of Commerce. 

Kartamazoo, Micu.—Bulletin of the 
Chamber of Commerce. Published monthly 
by the Chamber of Commerce of Kalama- 
z00. 

+ + 


Recently Issued Printed Matter 

AtLanta, Ga.—Annual report of the At- 
lanta Convention Bureau. 

BatimorE, Mp.—Booklet entitled “Bal- 
timore—Port and Terminal Advantages.” 
Published by the Municipal Factory Site 
Commission, Baltimore, Md. 

Canton, Ounto.—Annual report of the 
Canton Chamber of Commerce. 

Detroit, Micu.—Address entitled “Sci- 
entific Selection of Salesmen,” delivered by 
Dr. Walter Dill Scott (Professor of Psy- 
chology, Northwestern University, Evans- 
ton, Ill.), January 27, 1916. 

Report of the general discussion of Dr. 
Walter Dill Scott’s address held on Febru- 
ary 11. Both lectures held under the aus- 
pices of the Salesmanship Club of Detroit, 


AMERICAN CITY 


Vor. XIV, No. 3 


affiliated with the Detroit Board of Com- 
merce. Price of each lecture, 25 cents. 

Leaflet entitled “Build the Maintenance 
into the Road,” published by the Detroit 
Board of Commerce. 

HANNIBAL, Mo.—Year book of the Han- 
nibal Commercial Club. 

HartTForD, Conn.—Chamber of Com- 
merce roster. This contains also informa- 
tion about Hartford. 


Honotutu, H. lL—Annual report of the 
Chamber of Commerce of Honolulu. 

MINNEAPOLIS, Minn.—Visitors’ Handy 
Guide to Minneapolis, published by the 
Minneapolis Civic and Commerce Associa- 
tion. 

Annual report of the Minneapolis Civic 
and Commerce Association. 

New York City.—A leaflet entitled “The 
Work of the Citizens’ Union,” containing a 
record of a few of the accomplishments in 
1915. Published by the Citizens’ Union, 
being a union of citizens, without regard to 
party, formed for the purpose of securing 
the honest and efficient government of the 
city of New York. 

Omauna, Nes.—Reference book of Omaha 
and Nebraska, containing views. 

Booklet of Panoramic Views of Omaha. 

Pamphlet containing information in re- 
gard to “Where to Go, What to See, and 
How to Get There.” 

Pamphlet containing tabulated statements 
showing that Omaha's business developed 
15 per cent in 1915. 

All published by the Omaha Commercial 
Club. 

Reapinc, Pa.—“A Study of the Street 
Car Service.” By John P. Fox. Published 
by the Reading Chamber of Commerce. 

Rocuester, N. Y.—“Some Activities of 
the Rochester Chamber of Commerce dur- 
ing 1915.” Published by the Rochester 
Chamber of Commerce. 

Scuenectapy, N. Y.—Annual report of 
the Schenectady Board of Trade. 

Tampa, Fira—“Tampa Truisms,” con- 
taining a record of the accomplishments of 
the Tampa Board of Trade. Published an- 
nually by the Tampa Board of Trade. 

Torepo, Oxnto.—Annual report of the 
Toledo Commerce Club. 


Winona, Minn.—Annual report of the 
Winona Association of Commerce. 























279 


A State-Wide Civic Campaign 


By Florence C. Floore 


Chairman of Civics, Texas Federation of Women’s Clubs, Cleburne, Tex. 


EXAS is a leader in many things 
other than its size, and when it 
doesn't lead it follows close upon the 

heels of the leaders in every good-move- 
ment. Along civic improvement lines it is 
especially wide awake, as is evidenced by 
recent state and local legislation and by the 
activities of commercial organizations, 
women’s clubs, parent-teacher associations 
und other local societies for the sanitation 
and beautification of their towns, some of 
them very small. 

he women of the state, loyal citizens all 
of them, are responsible for not a little of 
the civic spirit manifested throughout the 
commonwealth. When the women of Texas 
undertake to do a thing, they want to do 
that thing in the best possible way, with the 
least expenditure of money and largest re- 
turns. Their motto is, “The greatest good 


to the greatest number at the least cost.” 
Our women have accomplished splendid 
things in local and state educational work. 
(hey are getting better results just now 
than ever before, but not being satisfied 
with anything short of the best results, they 
instituted last spring a state-wide cam- 
paign. 


Improving Fire Station Grounds‘ 


One of the first things attempted was the 
improvement of the appearance and condi- 
tion of all fire stations. Every fire hall in 
lexas has been asked to compete for a 
handsome solid silver loving cup. This cup 
was presented to the Civic Committee of 
the Texas Federation of Women’s Clubs by 
Robert L. Costan, of Fort Worth, Texas. 
It is a perpetual trophy to be awarded each 
year to the fire hall which has the best kept 

















GROUNDS OF CORSICANA FIRE HALL NO 


2, THE WINNER OF THE COSTAN CUP IN 1915 














































280 THE 
grounds. This is determined by photo- 
graphs and by inspections, made by ap- 
pointees of this state Civic Committee. In 
the rating of the grounds three merits are 
considered of leading value: 

1. Plan on which the ground is laid out 

2. The harmony of its features as to form 
and color. 

3. The general upkeep of the walks, beds, 
turf, buildings and enclosures. 





Many fire halls are now trying for the 
cup and are becoming examples of civic 
attractiveness which it is expected will 
yearly increase. 





Aid from an Experienced Civic Worker 


The Civic Committee of the State Fed- 
eration of Women’s Clubs, however, realiz- 
ing that to get the best possible results they 
must have the assistance of an experienced 
civic worker, secured the services of Miss 
Maud van Buren, an organizer of the 
American Civic Association, with head- 
quarters at Washington, D. C. Miss van 
Buren spent all of April and May and early 
June in the state, staying from two to four 
days in each of the sixteen towns and cities. 
To use the words of Mrs. Lingle, Chairman 
of the Civics Committee of the North Caro- 
lina Federation of Women’s Clubs, in 
whose state Miss van Buren conducted a 
two months’ campaign: 

“Her civic tour was a triumphal march from 
beginning to end. She found us in all states 
of civic development; she took things as she 
found them in each place she visited and never 
failed to find a key to the situation. Under 
her inspiration workers volunteered when 
there seemed to be none at all. New organi- 
zations have been made, more junior leagues 
formed, and civic improvements planned and 
begun wherever she has spoken. A _ general 


civic awakening has followed her visit to the 
state.” 


Miss van Buren has the courage of her 
convictions in suggesting needs, in pointing 
out missteps, and giving remedies; yet so 
tactfully did she handle the situation that 
never was offense given nor antagonism 
aroused, 

Besides a public address, with stereopti- 
con, in each city, our visitor met all the 
school children, white and colored, from the 
first grade up. With her illustrated black- 
board story of “A Boy I Knew and His 
Town,” the children were charmed, and 
hundreds responded by going home and put- 


AMERICAN CITY 


Vor. XIV, No. 3 


ting into practice the things that William 
Bennett, the hero of the story, did. Spe- 
cial meetings of women were called for an 
address on “Women and Practical Civics.” 
The need of a knowledge of local condi- 
tions, and—most crying needs—of the or- 
dinances and the local budget were empha- 
sized. Working “tools” such as THE 
AMERICAN City, the publications of the 
American Civic Association and kindred 
organizations, were put before the Texas 
women and the need of actual study urged 
before undertaking any improvement work. 

In every town visited Miss van Buren 
made an appeal for sanity in all effort, de- 
mocracy in organization, publicity work for 
the education of the masses, and a “pull 
together” policy of organizations having 
common aims. 

The results of this educational tour must 
grow with ever increasing volume as time 
goes on. Already, however, has the Civic 
Committee of the Texas Federation of 
Women’s Clubs felt more than repaid for 
the effort required to get Miss van Buren 
and arrange her itinerary. 

We were made to realize that in our de- 
sire for better citizenship and government 
we must begin with our children. Many 
junior leagues have been formed. Our 
plans for civic betterment have had a ready 
response from the colored people, and es- 
pecially from the colored children, and, in 
the western part of the state, from the Mex- 
ican children. Cleaner back lots and alleys 
often followed closely upon Miss van 
Buren’s public address before she left town. 

Much inspiration has been given and 
many civic organizations formed. In truth, 
as was said by one of our newspapers, “Miss 
van Buren’s coming marked a new era in 
the history of many Texas towns.” 

In November last we were able to induce 
Miss van Buren to visit Texas again. She 
spoke at the annual convention of the Texas 
Federation of Women’s Clubs, and held a 
civic session during this meeting. Six 
towns during her month’s stay were helped 
toward better citizenship. As yet other 
towns are asking for her, we hope to again 
secure the services of this capable woman. 

Mr. Arthur A. Everts, of Dallas, has 
offered a handsome silver cup to be given 
annually—a perpetual trophy—to encour- 
age sanitation in Texas court houses and 
beautification of their grounds. 

















\larcu, 1916 T 


281 





Progress in Cleburne 


4 \ concrete example of 

the “new era” in Texas 

‘ towns is to be found in 
; Cleburne. 

Since the visit of Miss 

i van Buren, in this little 

4 city of 15,000 inhabitants, 


before her coming said to 
have “civic pellagra,” the 


; following are some of the 
things done: Two live 
‘ivic leagues have been 


formed of white and col- 

















d adults, each having 

a Junior League, and over 
1,000 papers of flower 
seeds were last spring 
planted by these children. 

: Fountains for man and THE OLD WEST WARD SCHOOL, CLEBURNE, TEXAS 

; beast, costing $500, are 
being erected by the County Commissioners, and children; the registry shows an aver- 
the City Councilmen and the Civic League age of 300 visitors monthly. A complete 
on the Market Square. The town has its sewer system, reaching every part of the 
first park—small, but well-kept. In the city, has been built; up-to-date fire ap- 
Court House is a rest room for rural _ paratus is being installed; three handsome 
women, well furnished with stationery, brick ward school buildings, costing $130,- 
magazines and books, and a capable ma- 000, have been erected. An incinerator 
tron to welcome and care for the women’ more parks, etc., are planned. 

4 

’ 














THE NEW WEST WARD SCHOOL 





OF THE 





IN CLEBURNE, 


OLD 


ERECTED SUMMER ON TI 


BUILDING 


LAST 








ut Dl NTO: LE AOL 





| 
) 


| 
| 
| 





to 
& 


Activated Sludge as a Fertilizer’ 


By Edward Bartow, Director, and W. D. Hatfield, Assistant Chemist, Illinois State Water Survey 


LYHOUGH chemical tests and nitri- 
A fication tests with soils indicate that 
activated sludge has a high fertil- 

izer value, the final test must be its effect 
on plant growth. Pot cultures, using wheat, 
were started in March, 1915, at the experi- 
mental plant of the University of Illinois, 
under the general direction of Prof. C. G. 
Hopkins and with the assistance of Mr. 
J. C. Anderson. The contents of the pots 


gen per acre added in the form of dried 
blood. Pots 3 and 4 contained an equiva- 
lent of 120 pounds of nitrogen in the form 
of dried activated sludge (one ton of 
sludge) per acre. Following is an analysis 
of the sludge used: 


Per cent 
Sein od bon 69.0040e nee 6.30 
Phosphorus (P,Q;) eee ihe Re Eee 2.69 
Ether soluble (three hours’ extraction)...... 4.00 


Ether soluble (sixteen hours’ extraction).... 11.80 
Thirty wheat seeds were planted, two 























FIGURE IL—WHEAT 23 


DAYS AFTER PLANTING 


Each - contains pure white sand, to which the same grannies of plant foods, except nitrogen, have 


been adde« 


. No. 3 contains 20 grams of activated sludge. 


o. 4 contains the same amount extracted with 


ligroin, No. 2 contains an equivalent of nitrogen from dried blood, and No. 1 contains no nitrogen 
& 1 ’ z 


in which the wheat was planted were as 
follows: 


Pot Number 1 2 3 4 

Grams Grams Grams Grams 
1, White sand........ 19,820 19,820 19,820 19,820 
eer 69 60 60 60 
3. Bone meal ........ 6 6 6 6 
4. Potassium sulphate. 3 3 3 3 
5. Activated sludge... 0 0 20 0 
6. Extracted sludge. . . 0 0 0 20 
7. Dried blood....... 0 8.61 0 0 


Each pot contained an equivalent of 5 
tons per acre of dolomite, %-ton per acre 
of bone meal, and 500 pounds per acre of 
potassium sulphate. 

Pot 1, the check pot, contained only 60 
milligrams of nitrogen, which were added 
in the bone meal. This small amount was 
without significance, since the same amount 
was added to the other pots. Pot 2 con- 
tained an equivalent of 120 pounds of nitro- 


*From a paper read at the last meeting of the 
Iowa Section of the American Water-Works Associa- 
thon. 








seeds in each of fifteen holes, in each pot. 
In four days the plants were up in each 
pot and in ten days were five inches high. 
At the end of eighteen days the plants 
were thinned to fifteen of the best in each 
pot, in most cases leaving one plant to each 
hole. In twenty days from date of planting 
there was a marked showing in favor of the 
plants in pots 3 and 4. In twenty-three days 
the plants in pots 3 and 4 (see Fig. 1) were 
growing far ahead of 1 and 2. 

The plants in pot 2, fertilized with the 
same amount of nitrogen, grew much 
slower than those in pots 3 and 4. The rea- 
son for the poor showing of the plants in 
pot 2 is not known. 

In thirty days a slight brown mold ap- 
peared on the larger plants, which may 
have been due to the dark, damp weather. 
Powdered sulphur was used to fight it. 

During the fifth and sixth weeks the 














ee ee 


oe 











\IARCH, 1916 THE 


AMERICAN 


Gis u 8 


7*) 























FIGURE 2.—WHEAT 63 DAYS AFTER PLANTING 


Each pot contains pure white sand, to which the same quantities of plant f: s, except ge ‘ 
‘ idded No. 3 contains 20 grams of dried activated sludge. No. 4 contains the same ar 
ith ligs No. 2 contains an equivalent of nitrogen from dried blood, and N 1 contains 1 8 


plants in the pots fertilized with the sludge, 
which had grown fully three times as large 
in height and in amount of foliage as those 
in the pot fertilized with dried blood, began 
to yellow. About half of the foliage died, 
leaving two healthy stalks to each plant. 
Possibly the plants grew so fast at first that 
all the foliage which had started could not 
develop. The remaining stalks immediately 
grew stronger and of a deeper blue-green 
color. After nine weeks the plants were 
strong and healthy. (See Fig. 2.) 

In fourteen weeks the plants in pots 3 and 


4 began to head, and in fifteen weeks there 
were about twenty good heads in each. 
lhe plants in pot I were very weak, while 
those in pot 2 were just beginning to de- 
velop heads. 

When it was first noticed that the plants 
fertilized with sludge were growing much 
better than those fertilized with dried blood, 
in order to confirm the results a second 
In this 
series the sludge was compared with dried 


series of pot cultures was started. 


blood, nitrate of soda, ammonium sulphate 
and gluten meal. This series contained 




















FIGURE 3.—WHEAT, SECOND SERI 


ES, 35 DAYS AFTER PLANTING 


Each pot contains pure white said, to which the same quantities of plant foods, except nitrogen, have 
been added. No. 3 contains 20 grams of dried activated sludge 5 contains 20 grams of dried activated 
sludge, from which ether soluble matter has been removed. No. 7 contains the nitrogen equivalent from 
sodium nitrate. No. 9 contains the nitrogen equivalent fro n im sulphate N 11 ntains the 


nitrogen equivalent from gluten meal. No. 13 contains 





the ivalent from dried bl 














fourteen pots, two check pots, six contain- 
ing nitrogen equivalent equal to an ap- 
plication of 20 grams of sludge, and six 
containing nitrogen equivalent to 30 grams 
of sludge. The plants in this series 
grew faster than those in the first because 
of better weather. They showed exactly 
the same characteristics that the plants in 
the other series showed. The plants fer- 
tilized with sludge were the best. The re- 
sults confirmed the results obtained in the 
first series. At the end of five weeks strik- 
ing differences were noticeable. (See Fig. 


284 THE AMERICAN CITY 


Vor. XIV, No. 3 


rhe surprisingly rapid growth of the 
wheat fertilized by the sludge must be due 
for the most part to nitrogen present in 
a very available form. It may be due in 
part to the phosphorus (2.69 per cent) 
which is present in the sludge. At the time 
of making the pot cultures we did not con- 
sider the phosphorus, since it was present 
in such a small quantity. The growth may 
be due in part to the organic matter present 
in the sludge, since the sand used contains 
no organic matter. The cause of the 
molding of the leaves has not yet been de- 
termined. It was quite 











noticeable that the mold 
appeared chiefly on the 
leaves of rapid-growing 
plants. In the first series 
it attacked only plants fer- 
tilized with sludge. In 
the second series it also 
attacked the plants fer- 
tilized with gluten meal. 
The rapid-growing leaves 
are naturally more tender 
than those which grow 
slowly, and consequently 
are more easily attacked 
by mold spores. The mold 
evidently does not come 


the extracted sludge sure- 
ly would be sterile, and 








with sludge; six heads unfertilized 


3.) The pots containing the equivalent of 
30 grams of sludge gave no better results 
than those with an equivalent of 20 grams. 
When the wheat matured, it was care- 
fully harvested and calculations made to 
determine the yield per acre. The results 
are shown in a table: 


Amounts oF Waeat ann Srraw Opstainep IN THE 
First Series 


Pot Number 1 2 8 4 
No. of heads.. 14 15 22 23 
No. of seeds.. 85 189 491 518 


Wt. of seeds.. 2.38 g. 5.29g. 13.748 g. 14.504. 
Bu. per acre.. 6.20 13.60 35.900 37.700 
(calculated) 


__ ere 19.40 in. 23.00 in, 35.400 in. 36.100 in. 
Wt. of straw. 2.25g. 825g. 26.750 g. 26.210 g. 
Tons per acre 0.18 0.68 2.230 2.180 

(calculated) 


The control series gave results corre- 
sponding to those of the first series. 





Radishes: from left to right, six radishes fertilized with extracted sludge; : > 
six radishes fertilized with sludge; six radishes unfertilized. Lettuce: from ten meal also had the 
left to right, six heads fertilized with extracted sludge; six heads fertilized mold. 


plants fertilized with it 


FIGURE 4.—GARDENING EXPERIMENTS 38 DAYS AFTER showed the same mold. 
PLANTING 


Plants fertilized with glu- 


The sludge causes such 
a rapid growth of wheat that it should be 
valuable to truck gardeners, to rush spring 
crops. To test its value to the market gar- 
dener, three plots, each 2 feet by 3 feet, 
were laid out in a field. One plot was not 
fertilized, one was fertilized with an equiva- 
lent of 126 pounds of nitrogen, I ton of 
sludge per acre, and the third with an equiv- 
alent of the extracted sludge. On April 24, 
1915, two rows of radishes and lettuce were 
planted in each of the three plots. The 
plants in the plot where the extracted sludge 
was used came up first, a little ahead of 
those in the plot where the unextracted 
sludge was used. At the end of two weeks 
the lettuce and radishes of the treated plots 
appeared to be twice the size of those in 
the untreated plot. At the end of four 


from the sludge, because ° 











— ee 








- 
Marcu, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 285 
weeks the plants were thinned. The roots is 40 per cent in the lettuce, and 150 per 











of the radishes from the treated plots were cent in the radishes. The radishes 
4 
already red and quite rounded near the the sludge pots when cut open and eater 
; tops, while those from the untreated plots were found to be very crisp and solid and 
Had not yet started to swell and had not to have a good flavor 
become red. The lettuce plants from the These pot cultures and gardening ex 
treated plots were nearly twice as large as__ periments show that th itrog cti 
7 those from the untreated plots. vated sludge” is in a very available form 
On June I, thirty-eight days after plant- and that activated sludge is \ ble as a 
ing, the six best plants of lettuce and rad fertilizer 
ishes were taken from each plot. See Fig 
4.) The differences in size were very Se a by W 
—_ < sulting civil and sewage S g t N 
marked. Vuk Ci on “Seesee 0 \ te 
CoMPARISON OF THE Lettuce anp Ra From Sludge Process,” ed I AN ( 
UNFERTILIZED AND Fer 12 P January, 1916. I Id be rea 
Wt. of W Prof. Bartow’s as it gives , 
‘ Plot Treatment Lettuce Radishes method by wl fertilizer ( 
: 1 None 15¢ 342 man of the sect Wate Sewag Ss 
Sludge 6.3 g 63.0 g f the American Chen Society, I 
Extracted sludge 68¢ 68.0 ¢ irranging a symposium orf tivat 
or ° ° ° ‘ meeting f the Societ e «f TY 
Phe increase in weight, due to the sludge, Urbana. Til. April 18-21 
; 
* * 
| Hydraulic Ram and Beaver Dam 
} ’ 7 , , ' ' , , . 
/ N the New York Zoological Park, in the cover. During the dry period of the sum 
: sronx, there is a beaver dam where’ mer this pond becomes stagnant; not only 
these wonderful little animals may be _ is it extremely unpleasant to visit in hot 
seen at work by the visitor who knows how weather, but it is not what the little furry 
to approach without frightening them to inhabitants are accustomed to in their na 
: 
3 
% 
: 
j 
| 
. 

















BEAVER DAM, BRONX PARK, NEW YORK 





ee Ser 


meen pt 


286 THE AMERICAN CITY 


tive haunts. As the funds in the hands of 
the management are rather limited, they 
could not afford to purchase water from 
the city, therefore some means had to be 
devised for keeping the pond fresh. 

This was found in the natural advantages 
of the park itself. The Bronx River, which 
becomes a very light-flowing stream in the 
summer time, circles one side of the park, 
and at an old mill site a dam was built, 
utilizing the mill foundations and forming 
a lake for the water-fowl. By this means 
a fall of eight feet was secured, and, the 
beaver pond being only 25 feet above this 
site, although some 3,000 feet away, ideal 
conditions existed for the installation of 
a 12-inch Foster high-duty ram, which has 
for the past ten years pumped a steady 
stream of water back into the beaver pond. 
Thus was created a condition like that of 
nature, where springs supply the necessary 
flow. The nuisance has been entirely elimi- 
nated and the beavers are made happy at 
a merely nominal cost per annum for up- 
keep. 


Vor. XIV, No. 3 


The management found it necessary to 
curtail the cost, even to the extent of in- 
stalling a smaller pipe than they desired 
to carry the water to the pond. As a re- 
sult, about one-half the power of the pump- 
ing machinery is lost in forcing the water 
through this pipe, and it is evident that at 
a future date, when money for a larger pipe 
shall become available, double the quantity 
of water can be supplied with the present 
machinery and the desirable object can be 
attained of delivering water into the sea 
lions’ pool. 

The accompanying picture gives an in- 
teresting view of the pond. The untiring 
industry of the beavers is apparent when it 
is realized that each day an attendant has 
quite a task in unbuilding the dam, shown 
in the picture, which has been built over 
night by the beavers. In spite of these 
frequent catastrophes they never seem to 
be discouraged, but keep right on trying to 
beat the man by building the dam faster 
than he can pull it down. 





A School Garden on a Canal Bank 


By Felix J. Koch 


When the clever idea came to Miss 
Bertha Franken, assistant principal of the 
Raschig Public School in Cincinnati, of 
hiding the unsightly banks of the almost un- 
used canal nearby with flowers, through the 
volunteer work and contributions of the 
boys and girls, she soon found that she had 
almost more workers than she could em- 
ploy. The largest part of these children are 
emigrants—boys and girls from the farms 
of Germany, Austria, England, Italy—and 
after two or three years in the sordid tene- 
ments of the cities they are eager indeed 
for a chance to play with the soil as they did 
in the homeland. 

Last year all of the long canal to South- 
ern Ohio was an eye-sore, except here, 
where the children had taken matters in 
hand, and near their school its banks 
bloomed indeed like a garden. A little for- 
est of castor plants hid the scarred walls of 
the canal embankment from view, and gave 
background to the lovely flowers near the 
water's edge, The work was begun in the 


winter and the early spring, when beds of 
bulbs were started—tulips and hyacinths and 
narcissus—for setting out later on. For 
these bulbs the children contributed pennies 
—there were some five hundred of them 
giving in all—this in order that they should 
feel a proprietary interest in the beds and 
protect them against any vandals in their 
midst. The beds were covered in the win- 
ter, and with spring the uncovering had to 
be done. Then the more interesting stages 
succeeded. About nine beds of bulbs were 
set out at proportionate intervals, each bed 
5 x 16 feet, as near as feasible to the edge 
of the canal, in order that the effect of 
water and flowers might be combined. With 
the sluggish old canal, and the little foreign 
children working among the lovely hya- 
cinths, the picture was such as one might 
find in the bulb country of the Netherlands. 

After the earlier bulbs had bloomed other 
flowers supplanted them, until, with the re- 
opening of the school in the fall, brilliant 
cannas flared in triumph along the canal. 








| 


\IarcH, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY R> 








ee ee ee 

















: 
‘ 
rHE BANK OF THE CANAL IN CINCINNATI BEFORE IT WAS PLANTED Y Tl CH REN 
[his year, by way of variety, dwarf sun- what his family consumed he sold a dollar 
flowers will be set out, and in subsequent and a half’s worth. Another boy set out 
ears there will be other flowers turnips and netted almost as muc Ofte 
Nor was it only the ornamental plants in the yards of the tenements where they 

that were encouraged; children who de- live, the children, whose ages range from 
sired it were helped to undertake truck nine to fourteen years ire itting into 
gardening also. One boy, for example, further practic: what has beet earned 
went into raising beans; and over and above here. 

i 

: 

: 

4 

1 

; 

: 

oa 
‘ 
. 

















THE CHILDREN’S GARDEN ALONG THE CANAL 
































288 





The Fire Protection of Electric Light Plants* 


By H. L. Gannett 


Inspector of Safety and Fire Prevention, Commonwealth Edison Company, Chicago, III. 


O other commercial interest is more 
N alive to the necessity of continuity 
of service than is the central station 
industry. The widespread effect of a stop- 
page of supply of current due to fire has 
led central stations to take elaborate pre- 
ventive measures, so that such occurrence 
is now rare. 

It is recognized that the fire hazards of 
the electrical industry have been greatly 
reduced in the last two decades. Old 
methods of construction wherein more or 
less wood and other combustibles entered 
into the structure of buildings, switchboards 
and other electrical devices have fallen by 
the wayside in the marvelous advancement 
of electrical development. Along with this 
advancement has come a higher degree of 
efficient housekeeping. “A place for every- 
thing and everything in its place” is the 
slogan of an “up-to-the-minute” station op- 
erator. 

The mere installation of fire protection 
appliances does not furnish an assurance of 
safety. The appliances must be regularly 
inspected and cared for. The persons em- 
ployed where they are placed should be in- 
structed in their use, and, where circum- 
stances warrant, fire companies should be 
organized. The officers should be picked 
from among those who are ordinarily in 
authority and who have mechanical know]l- 
edge, and whose duties insure their pres- 
ence on the property. Each member of the 
fire company should be carefully instructed 
in the handling of the entire fire-fighting 
equipment. 

It is needless to say that cool-headed men 
should be chosen for fire service. Drills 
should be held at regular intervals and at 
other times to test the punctuality of the 
service. Attention should be given to fire 
service at night. 

It should be the duty of every superior 
at once to instruct each new employe in the 
method of operation of such apparatus as is 
provided for use in case of fire. Where 
water and hose line are provided, special 
attention should be given to the care of the 
hose. Unlined linen hose should never be 





* From a paper read at the recent annual conven- 
tion of the Illinois Firemen’s Association. 


wet except in case of necessity. Rubber 
hose should be used at least three times a 
year and be thoroughly dried before re- 
placing on the reel. Hose should not be 
allowed to remain connected with leaking 
valves, as it will rot if water is allowed to 
remain in it. 

If the property be located where it is 
under public fire protection, all those, from 
the highest in authority to the lowest in the 
organization, liable to be brought into con- 
tact with the question should be informed 
as to their own rights of operating the pri- 
vate apparatus and also as to the rights of 
the public fire departments to enter prem- 
ises in time of fire. It would seem advis- 
able to invite the authorities of public fire 
departments to become acquainted with the 
property and apparatus, both electrical and 
fire-fighting, and especially so in small 
towns, for reasons obvious to all. 

The maintenance of fire protection natu- 
rally includes the removing of conditions 
conducive to the occurrence of fire. This 
phase of the subject is of infinite variety.* 
Neatness and order, coupled with the 
prompt removal of cast-off combustible ma- 
terial, can be put down as a rule of great 
value and one which should be strictly 
adhered to. The removal of conditions 
which cause fire or which would cause its 
ready spread after having started is greatly 
to be desired. With a knowledge of the 
embarrassment of the electric light and 
power companies when an interruption of 
service occurs, one can readily see that 
every precaution should be taken to render 
generating stations, sub-stations, switch 
houses, etc., as fireproof as possible. No 
more combustible material should be used 
in construction than is absolutely necessary. 
All outside walls, division walls and parti- 
tions should be of fireproof construction. 
All windows should be of wire glass in 
standard metal frames; all doors should be 
of metal, or of wood metal-clad. Doors 
between sections should be standard fire 
doors. Small enclosed closets and other 
concealed spaces should be dispensed with 
as far as possible, so that there can be no 
accumulation of rubbish or unnecessary ar- 
ticles in any part of the station. Dust 








Marcu, 1916 THE 
should not be allowed to accumulate, and 
especially does this apply in boiler rooms 
and coal quarters. Storage battery rooms 
should be properly ventilated, and care 
should be taken in wiring for lights and 
ventilating motors to avoid possibility of 
sparks or flashes. 

Stock contained in buildings should be 
stored compactly, neatly and in an orderly 
manner, and so as to render it as slow- 
burning as possible and least liable to com- 
municate fire from shelf to shelf and room 
to room. Hay and excelsior should be re- 
moved from packing cases wherever prac- 
ticable, or, failing in this, they should be 
isolated and rendered as safe as possible. 
Gasoline, benzine, benzol, naphtha, collo- 
dion and like inflammable products should 
be isolated and handled with care. Where 
a large quantity of gasoline is kept on hand 
it should be apart from buildings and stored 
in a buried tank with an approved pump. 
Such small quantities as are for daily use 
should be drawn into and used from an ap- 
proved safety can only. Paints, etc., should 
be housed in a separate building or in metal 
containers. Where painters have been at 
work, special attention should be given to 
the removal of oily rags. 

Walls and ceilings of heating-furnace 
rooms should be carefully protected against 
accidental ignition from stray sparks or 
live coals. Metal receptacles should be 
provided for the removal of ashes. Where 
a stove is used for heating purposes, means 
suitable to the situation should be provided 
for protecting the floor and surroundings 
from accidental ignition. Special care 
should be taken to properly isolate stove 
pipe from contact with woodwork, and the 
pipe should be riveted. Kindling and coal 
should be cared for in a safe manner. 
Heating appliances used on benches, etc., 
should have metal or other fire-resistives 
beneath them. Wiring, including switches, 
should be installed in a safe manner, with 
due regard to surroundings. 

Openings in floors and walls should be 
confined to such as are absolutely necessary 
to the conduct of business. Smoking should 
be prohibited in storerooms, paint rooms 
and other places where conditions warrant 
the prohibition, and signs to that effect 
should be prominently posted and the warn- 
ings rigidly enforced. Wooden lockers and 
cupboards should be discouraged, as they 
furnish a hazard proportionate to the num- 
ber of persons using them. Extension cords 


AMERICAN 


CITY 289 
should also be discouraged except where 
absolutely necessary. Lighted lamps should 
never be placed on or near combustible or 
inflammable material. Self-closing cans 
should be provided for sweepings, rubbish, 
oily rags, waste, etc. These cans should 
have metal legs to saise them slightly above 
the floor. 

Where fire escapes are provided, signs 
directing to their location should be promi- 
nently posted. Such escapes should be kept 
free of access. Obstructions should not be 
allowed to remain in passages and hallways. 

In the extinguishing of electrical fires 
there is large opportunity for the display 
of good judgment and prompt action. The 
element of time is exceedingly important. 
The operator should observe whether con- 
ditions warrant the cutting off of current 
from the affected part before the fire is 
attacked. His knowledge of the apparatus 
under his charge should be such as to guide 
him properly. 

Sand and powdered bicarbonate of soda 
have been found to have some merit as ex- 
tinguishing agents in certain kinds of elec- 
trical fires, but their use is limited. Where 
sand is provided for fire-extinguishing pur- 
poses it should be carefully sifted through a 
sieve of window screen of fourteen mesh 
to remove the larger particles—especially 
scraps of metal. It should be kept in a 
clean and dry condition and should not be 
used where there is a liability of its getting 
into the bearings of moving parts. Tests 
recently made in extinguishing oil fires with 
wet sawdust impregnated with sal amoniac 
have been found to have considerable 
merit. 

Carbon tetra chloride has shown up well 
aS an extinguishing fluid and has the ad- 
vantage of being a non-conductor to a high 
degree. In modern plants the liability of 
structural fires is vastly less than the lia- 
bility of the occurrence of fire in apparatus, 
and much of this apparatus is so con- 
structed that in case of fire occurring in the 
interior it i$ difficult or impossible to use 
an extinguishing agent with success. Then 
again, many fires on apparatus and con- 
ductors flash and quickly burn out, afford- 
ing no time or necessity for action. 

One of the main features of the fire pro- 
tection equipment of our main generating 
stations is the installation of a system of 
private water mains leading to fire hydrants 
strategically placed on the station grounds, 
and to wall stations conveniently located, 

















4 
BY 
| 
4 
| 
‘se 
ie a) 
| Be 
t 
a4 
ine 
ie 
’ 
| 
ieee 
iy 
| 
| BF 
iy 
t) 
4 
| oi 
A 
a 


ie a tL ON 






290 rHI 


as well as to numerous direct-connected 
reels on the several roofs. \bout 150 
pounds’ pressure is delivered at the nozzle 
from these outlets. Outlets for 1'%4-inch 
hose are provided at turbines to supply 
water for quenching fire, should it occur 
on their interior windings. 

It is impossible within the scope of this 
brief treatment of the subject to cover- the 
entire field of operations; the operator must 
be depended upon to exercise his good 
judgment, which in practically all cases 
should be sufficient to master the situation. 
The following rules are presented as cov- 
ering one situation, and they are largely 
applicable to others that may arise. 


Rules for Fighting Fires in Oil-Cooled 


Transformers 
If an oil-cooled transformer or regulator catches 
fire or is observed to smoke, proceed as follows 


1. Immediately disconnect the unit from all sources 
of electrical potential 
», If the unit is equipped with water coils for cool 


ing, open the water valves to provide for maximum 
flow through the water coils of the unit affected, and 
if possible close top openings of the transformer case 

3. Extinguish flames of burning oil and insulation 
by use of Pyrene or Babcock extinguishers, or by 
blanketing the fire with wet tarpaulin 

4. If unable to extinguish the flames at once by 
these methods, immediately report the fact to the load 
despatcher and to the general inspector or his assist 
ant, or, in their absence, to any other member of the 


sub-station supervision staff. 


AMERICAN CITY 





Vor. XIV, No. 3 


\s soon as the flames are extinguished, do neces 
sary emergency operating to restore service, and re 
wort to the load despatcher and to the supervision 
taff, but take no further action with respect to the 


transformer affected until instructions are received 
from some one in authority. 
6. Do not open any top openings on the transformer 


case during or soon after an oil fire has occurred, as 
) do so is dangerous, 

7. Do not smoke, strike matches, or expose any 
spark or flame in the vicinity of a unit on which 


an 
| fire has occurred, 


8. Do not open valves discharging transformer 
the sewer or sump. 

Sand or dust tubes are of little use in extinguis 
ng oil fires, and in general should not be used for 

t urpose. 

l Pyrene and Babcock extinguishers are very ef 
fective for extinguishing oi] fires, but when Pyrene is 
ised the resulting fumes should be removed from the 
station as rapidly as possible by opening windows and 
loors and by the operation of ventilating fans 


Conditions which favor the loss of prop- 
erty by fire should be eliminated. The pos- 
sibility of fire should always be borne in 
mind. The fact that a fire has or has not 
occurred is not to be taken as a criterion 
in judging a hazardous condition, nor 
should we wait for a fire to prove that a 
particular situation is dangerous. We 
should avoid conditions that favor the 
starting of fires, observe precautions that 
would prevent their spread, have at hand 
proper facilities for their extinguishment 
and understand their use. 

It should be the ambition of every em- 
ploye to protect the company’s property 
from loss or damage by fire. 





Surgeon-General Gorgas on the Relation of 
Wages to Public Health* 


HE eradication of yellow fever and 
the control of certain other diseases 
at Havana and Panama was un 

doubtedly due to the special sanitary meas- 
ures taken against these diseases. But 
these special measures could have no effect 
on the general health conditions. For the 
last fifteen years I have given a great deal 
of thought to this matter. What did we do 
to cause the great general improvement in 
health conditions which took place shortly 
after our arrival at both places, and which 
has since continued? 

At Panama, shortly after our arrival, we 
increased the wages of the common laborer 
from II cents an hour to 20 cents an hour. 


*From an address on “Tropical Sanitation in Its 
Relation to General Sanitation,” delivered by W. C. 
Gorgas, M. D., Surgeon-General United States Army, 
at the Fifteenth Annual Conference of Health Of 
ficers of New York State, and issued in pamphlet form 
by the American Medical Association, Chicago, as a 
reprint from its Journal for Dec. 25, 1915 


This was nearly four times the wages of 
the laborer in the surrounding countries. 
He knew that every fourth man would die 
each year of diseases prevalent on the isth- 
mus, and it took strong inducements to get 
him to come at all. 

If we paid the citizen of a foreign coun- 
try four times the wages he got at home, 
we naturally had to increase largely the 
pay of American citizens whom we wished 
to get to come to the isthmus. This caused 
a steady increase in wages all along the 
line. During 1904 and 1905 this increase 
of wages was going on all the time. Every 
time a prominent official died of yellow 
fever it would cause a stampede in the 
force. We would have to offer inducements 
to get the old men to come back and to get 
new men to come in the places of those 
who would not come back for any induce- 
ments. If yellow fever had continued, we 
would still be raising wages on the isthmus. 





ee ed 

















Marcu, 1916 THE 
This large increase in wages caused a great 
condi 
live in, food 
am satisfied that to 


improvement in all living 
tions room to 
and better clothing. | 
this 
caused by our high wages, we owe prin 
cipally our extraordinary 
general health conditions. 


~ 


gene ral 
more better 


improvement in_ social conditions, 


improvement in 


It is a health officer's duty to urge for 


ward those measures in his community 


which will control individual diseases; but 
that it 
s still more his duty to take that broader 


mv long experience has taught me 


ew of life which goes to the root of bad 


hygiene, and do what he can to elevate 
the general social conditions of his 
This, my has taught 
me, can best be accomplished by increasing 
Such the 
alleviate the misery and 
which the 


poorest classes everywhere in modern com 


com 
munity, experience 


measures tend at same 


wages. 
time to poverty, 
suffering are occurring among 
unities. At Panama we increased wages 
by edict of the government. But our gov 
ernment got this money by taxing the peo 
the United States. It 


been of little benefit to our laborers if we 


ple of would have 
had increased their wages by 10 
hour and then taxed them by Io 
hour in order to raise this money. 

Such would be the result in the United 


States if we attempted to increase wages 


cents an 


cents an 


here by edict of the government as we did 
in Panama. Such increase would be of no 
benefit to the laborer. 

Natural, just and proper wages are just 
what each man produces, not a cent more 
or a cent less. We can look back in the 
history of our own country and see that 
this condition of affairs was approximated 
in the early settlement of the country. A 
man coming to this country would take up 
land for which he paid nothing, and his 
wages were all he produced on that land. 
\fter a while all the land is taken up and 
the next man who comes has to work for 
some one else. Later a great many more 
men come, and these men bid against each 
other for work, and thus force down wages. 
This has gone on in the United States, and 
in all other civilized countries, till at the 
present time all producers get much less 


than natural wages—that is, what they 
produce. 
Can this unfortunate and undesirable 


condition of wages be rectified ? 
Suppose an area of land as great in ex 


\MERI(¢ 


AN CITY 291 
tent, and as fertile in production as _ the 
present Mississippi Valley, should to-mor 
row rise from the bottom of the Atlantic 
Ocean off the coast of | ong Island Sup 
pose the United States sho vn this 
island and offer it to its citizens under our 
present homestead laws Thousands of the 
citizens of New York would flock there and 
take up this land hese wages would be 
natural wages. Each in would get all 
that he produced this would ery much 
in excess of the wages now ¢ New 
York. All the poverty, sickness and degra 
dation caused at present wes 
would be rapidly ameliorat he man 
who was so fortunate as to be appointed 
health officer for this isla 1 
few years be able to publish the most as 
tounding health reports 

It is entirely possible tor s to raise fron 
the bottom of the sea just such an island as 
[ have described. In every ind 
county in New York a large part of th 
lands are unused or only pa llv used. If 
this large body of unused land could be 
brought into use, the effect on the health 
conditions of New York would be exactly 
the same as would be produced bv 1 sing 
the island I have described. 

Can these unused lands be brought into 


use? If these unused lands were taxed to 
such an extent that the owners would have 
them to the fullest order 


that they might pay the taxes, is there any 


to use extent in 


doubt as to what the result would be? All 
unused lands would soon be utilized to their 
fullest extent. The only way of making 


any profit from them would be to so use 


them. It would be a very losing venture 


not to use them to their fullest extent 
I have been fortunate enough to labor 
as health officer in a field in which very 


great health results have been produced; 
but they would be small as compared with 
the health 
by securing for mankind natural wages. It 
stirs my enthusiasm to think of what glor 
ious opportunities are before the young 
health officer just commencing life. I have 
spent my sanitary life killing tropical mos 
quitoes, and I hope have thereby benefited 


results which will be produced 


fellowman. I would give 
to spend another sanitary life in 


of the coming generation of health officers 


my a good deal 
t 


he ranks 


doing my share in the fight that is on us, 
the fight for the j 
measures, natural wages 


greatest ot! Sanitary 














| 





es 


SSeS Te 











Le Te ee ee eT ee TT eT er a 


Items of Municipal and Civic Progress 


s ee es eee ee ee eee 


The ‘‘Moonlight’’ Schools 
in Tennessee 


Illiteracy in Knox County, Tennessee, is 
disappearing by degrees as a result of the 
svstem of so-c l onligt S( S 
which was established in the county a ye 

nd a half ago. his commendable work 
was undertaken at the suggestion of Pri 


fessor W. M. Wilson, 


dent of Education in Knox County 


County Superintet 


The night schools were planned primar 
ily for the benefit of the hard-v 
and women in the back country of 


orking met 
that sec 
tion, many of whom can neither read nor 
was learned, however, that a 
children who ought to 


, : 
lable to attend, many 


write It 
great number of the 
| school are ut 

of them being obliged to stay at home and 
keep their you ger 
brothers and while their 
earn the family living in the nearby mill. 
Not a few of these children lack even the 


ve in day 


house or care for 


sisters parents 


thrown 


o'clock during three evenings 





(A 


udiments of an education and are in grie\ 
is need of instruction. When the first 
oonlight school in Knox 
open, therefore, 
eded the work, young or old, was wel 


County 


every one 


comed to the sessions. 


The classes are held from 7.30 to 9 


in the week 


he average attendance is 200. Opening 


exercises are held each night, and old-tim« 


songs are sung. It is said that the eagerness 


1 


th which the adult pupils study the sp: 


ing book, the primary chart and the prac 


tical system of writing taught would put to 


shame some of the more fortunate young 


people who attend the regular schools. Thx 


teachers in these night schools serve with 
ut compensation other than the satisfac 
tion they derive from being able to have a 
part in the movement. 

[he popularity of the first 
school in Knox County led to the establish 


moonlight 














BEGINNERS’ CLASS IN A KNOX COUNTY MOONLIGHT SCHOOL 





a er at 











| 
. 
| 


At alt hn 








ment of other such schools in the county, 
and later in other counties throughout the 
state. A moonlight school for negroes was 
organized at Weisgarber School, a few 
miles west of Knoxville. More than a 
score of negroes attend, few of whom could 
at first read or write. Their punctuality 
and interest are evidence of their serious 
ness. | 

[he interest of the teachers throughout 
the county, in both the city and rural 
schools, has been aroused in this campaign 
igainst illiteracy. The teachers hunt out 
ill persons in their respective communities 
who need instruction in the “three R’s,” 
and persuade them to come to their school 
buildings after school hours for such teach 
ing. It is the expectation that before many 
more months have elapsed the present large 
percentage of illiteracy in Knox County 
(10.7) will have been completely blotted 
out. 

+ + 


Against Military Training 
in the Schools 

The Board of Regents, of the University 
of the State of New York, at a meeting 
held in Albany on February 24, adopted the 
following resolution in opposition to a bill 
introduced into the State Legislature for 
military instruction in the high schools by 
officers of the National Guard: 

“Voted, that in the judgment of the Board 
of Regents, of the University of the State, it 
is inadvisable that there shall be, at present, 
specific legislation providing for military edu- 
cation and training in the public schools, and 
the Regents recommend that the fundamental 
question as to the desirability and usefulness 
of such education and training in the public 
schools should be committed to the careful 
study and consideration of a commission ap- 
pointed for this purpose.” 


+ + 


Temperance During Working Hours 


Mayor Smith of Philadelphia is con- 
vinced that rum and efficient public service 
are an impossible combination. He has re- 
cently taken a firm stand in the matter so 
far as Philadelphia’s city employes are con- 
cerned, and has stated that the use of liquor 
by the employes in any department or bu- 
reau under his administration while they 
are on duty will not be tolerated. He has 
given instructions to every director and 
bureau chief to issue a general order 


Marcu, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


203 

against indulging it ntoxicating 
during working hours. His order to 
heads of city dey irtments 15 t suspend 
once, without pay, any employe who uses 
liquor while on duty or is found to be un 
der its influence, however s ightly and 
“suspension” will be equ valent t lismissal 
when the facts warrant such 

It is not intended to convey the impres 
sion, in issuing this order, that drinking 
while on duty is customary among the city's 
servants. The main object is, if possible, 
to prevent men who weakly indulge in i1 
toxicating liquors from acquiring the habit. 

+ + 


A Community Dramatic Celebration 
St. Louis will observe the tercentenary 

of the death of William Shake speare by 

community celebration in the form of 

outdoor presentation « f Shak 

edy “As You Like It.” TI 


promoting the event is the Pageant Drama 


organization 


Association, under whose direction the 


pageant and masque is given in St. Louis 


two years ago. The performance will be 
presented with a professional cast, Miss 
Margaret Anglin to act the part of Rosa 
lind. 

Miss Anglin is to have managerial charg 
of the production, and will supply the prop 
erties and costumes not only for her ow1 
troupe, but also for an auxiliary force of 


about 200 who are to be recruited in St 
Louis to act as courtiers, foresters, hunters, 
etc. She has requested that no trees in the 
park be cut down, even if they prove to 
obstruct any part of the view upon the 
stage. Thus Orlando will have real trees 
upon which to carve his poems. 

One striking feature that has been de 
cided upon is a processional of persons ar 
rayed in Elizabethan costume, who will 
march in before the play starts and seat 
themselves in the semi-circle of seats near 
est the stage. The aim is to preserve the 
continuity of effect between actors and 
audience, and also to give an idea of the 
sort of spectators for whom Shakespeare 
wrote his plays. 

The choruses will be sung by fifty or 
sixty male voices from the Pageant Choral 
Society, an affiliation of the Pageant Drama 
Association, and will be accompanied by an 
orchestra or band of fifty pieces. Either at 
the beginning or at the end of the play 
there will be an exhibition of the sprightly 











294 THE 
and romantic old English folk dances as 
they existed in the Elizabethan days. 

The Pageant Drama Society obtained 
the permission of the Board of Aldermen 
to use the park for this purpose. The So- 
ciety is guaranteeing the expenses of the 
production, which it is estimated will 


AMERICAN 


ee ye Vor. XIV, No. 3 
amount to about $25,000. Part of this will 
be realized from the sale of seats for the 
performances, the prices of these ranging 
from $1.50 down, with one section of free 
seats, if this proves feasible. The present 
arrangement is for seven night perform- 
ances and one matinée. 





Letters to 


Accustom School Children to the 
Sight of Smoke 


To the Editor of Tut American City: 

The great loss of life in school building 
fires might be avoided or at least materially 
lessened were fire drills in schools properly 
managed. 

For the most part fire drills are well done 
as far as they go. The big trouble is that 
they do not go far enough. An alarm 
is sounded, the pupils form in line and in 
an orderly manner march from the build- 
ing. But they know it is a drill. They 
think it a great lark. Real danger is far- 
thest from their thoughts. If at the bottom 
of the stairs they see smoke rolling up 
through the floors, suddenly they realize 
that this is not play. Here is real danger. 
And instead of marching out of the big 
front door as they have been taught, they 
stampede for a small rear entrance because 
it is nearer. The lines break. Some run 
way and some another. Grown-ups 
stampede in a theater when some one cries 
fire or when they see the smoke or flames. 
Can we expect more of children? 

The remedy in my mind is simple. Every 
now and then when we have a fire drill in 
a school we should build a smudge, filling 
the hallways more or less with smoke. Of 
course, we should warn the children that 
we shall do this every now and then. But 
we should not tell them on just what days 
it is to be done. Some days the drill 
would be without smoke, at other times the 
smoke would be there. They would become 
used to it. When they found smoke in the 
hallways they would not stampede. And 
then some day if a real alarm were sounded 
and smoke should choke the rooms, the 
children would not know but that it was 


one 


the Editor 


another drill. 
frightened. 

Danger from the fire itself, if the chil- 
dren keep their heads, is very slight. Any 
school building can be emptied in a few 
seconds if order is maintained. The chil- 
dren must not run, not even hurry; just 
walk at a natural quick step. They should 
not be permitted to stoop over and pick up 
a pencil or anything they have dropped 
during the drill. Everything should go 
smoothly. A moment’s hesitation caused by 
one child might mean disaster. 


A. W. SMALLEY, 
Chief of Fire Department, Muskogee, Okla. 


+ + 
Municipal Statistics in Chart Form 


To the Editor of Tue American City: 

In the February issue of your magazine 
I notice the chart showing the expenditures 
by functions as designed by the Director of 
Public Works of Philadelphia. I have not 
studied the classifications to see how they 
adapt themselves to our expenditures, but 
at any rate it is very interesting and I have 
written the Director of Public Works of 
Philadelphia to the effect that a chart 
which could be adopted by all large cities 
would be of considerable educational value 
to interested parties. 

I am sending under separate cover a copy 
of one of our biennial charts showing the 
distribution of each dollar in taxes. This 
chart is in great demand among taxpayers 
and we rarely have enough copies to meet 
the demand. It may be of some interest to 
your readers, 


They would not become 


H. Artuur Stuart, 
City Statistician. 
Minneapolis, Minn., Feb. 19, 1916. 








— Pri shams 














larcu, 1916 rH AMERICAN CITY Qs 


DISTRIBUTION OF EACH DOLLAR IN TAXES 


BASED ON LEVY OF 1915 PAYABLE IN 1916 
MINNEAPOLIS, MINN. 


Y + 
Coe ck 
ANN , “A $99 
} > | | : 
AN aa oS a 5 
, aN = : ie 
—— tie. ; ws 
ae é 
4 “i “es 
t ™~ \ 
4 2 ‘ ‘. 
= « 
j . 
| : \ - \9 
a < o\h2 XN 
x >: \ eV, 
ay - oa $y \ oN \ 
~ r \ 
. X \ 
+ lee 4 \ A \ 
> > moat 
F vs 
¢ oN Y © \ 
€ m \ \ 


t 
4 1 ‘ wey APwOPWA Ke) 
Vv 


t \ 
Rreneeanbeyenty bode 





From this table it is easy to ascertain how much one pays for any specific purpose by multiply 
the amount designated on the chart for said purpose by the number of dollars paid in taxes 


For example, suppose you desire to know how much you are paying the City for colle 
burning your garbage during the year on the basis of your taxes amounting to, say $55.00. The cl 
shows 1 cent, which multiplied by 55 equals 55 cents. 


For Police Protection you would pay 37/1 times 55 or $2.03. 
For Public School Service.to all of your children, 27 1/10 times 55 or $14.90 
For Interest on Bonded Debt, 122/10 times 55 or $6.71. 


Over one-quarter of our taxes is expended by the Board of Education. 
One-sixth of our taxes is expended for Current Expense—City Departments. 
One-eighth of our taxes is expended for Interest on Bonded Debt. 
One-eleventh of our taxes goes to the County of Hennepin. 

One-thirteenth of our taxes goes to the State of Minnesota. 


H. ARTHUR STUART, Statistician. DAN C. BROWN, City Comptroller 











06 


Combination Lighting Standards and Street Signs in_the Happy 
Hollow District of Omaha, Nebraska 


The attractiv¢ be 
vard lighting syste 
shown herewith consists 


of Union metal 





















| 
spaced 100 feet apart 
the average, and equip] 
with 100-watt nitroge: 


filled series lamps 


large opal globe Ss. J 
each corner post are fitt 
brackets so as to | 


glass plates for th 

names on four sides of th« 
globe. rhe light shines 
through the glass, mak 
ing the letters stand out 


boldly against a_ bright 








background by night a1 
a by day. 
Bb 
: 
Bi 
: 
i 

















Company 




















297 


Conventions and Exhibitions 


ON THE CALENDAR 
Marcu 16,—Newakrk, N, J. 

New Jersey State Chamber of Com- 
merce. Annual Meeting. Acting Secre- 
tary, Howard R. Heydon, 15 Exchange 
Place, Jersey City, N. J. 

Marcu 17-18.—Rocuester, N. Y. 

New York State Association of Com- 
mercial Executives. Conference. Address 
Roland B. Woodward, Secretary, Chamber 
of Commerce, Rochester, N. Y. 


MARCH 27-31.—New ORLEANS, La. 
National Association of Real Estate 


Exchanges. Secretary, Thomas S. Inger- 
soll, St. Paul, Minn, 
APRIL 4-9.—NASHVILLE, TENN. 

National Congress of Mothers’ and 
Parent Teachers’ Associations, Annual 
child welfare conference. Secretary, Mrs. 
Arthur A. Birney, 910 Loan and Trust 
Building, Washington, D. C. 


APRIL 12-16.—NeEw OrLEANS, La, 
Southern Sociological Congress. Gen- 


eral Secretary, J. E. McCulloch, 323 Sixth 
Avenue, Nashville, Tenn. 


Aprit 16-20.—New OrLEANS, La. 
Southern Conference for Education 


and Industry. Chairman, A. P. Bourland, 
508 McLachlen Building, Washington, D. C. 
Aprit 27-May 3.—New Or-eAns, La, 

National Organization for Public 
Health Nursing. Annual meeting. Ex- 
ecutive Secretary, Ella Phillips Crandall, 
R. N., 25 West Forty-Fifth Street, New 
York City. 

May 1-2,—Cuicaoo, ILL. 

National Federation of Day Nurseries. 
Biennial Conference. Corresponding Sec- 
retary, Miss Elsie Swift, 91 Orchard 
Street, New Bedford, Mass. 

May 4.—New York Ciry. 

Chamber of Commerce of the State of 

New York. Annual Meeting. Secretary, 


Charles T. Gwynne, 65 Liberty Street, 
New York City. 
May 5-6—Omana, Nes. 

Nebraska State Association of Com- 
mercial Clubs. Annual Meeting. Secre- 
tary, W. D. Fisher, Commercial Club, Al- 
liance, Neb. 

May 7-9.—BurFao, N. Y. 

Open Forum Council. Annual gather- 
ing. Held under the auspices of Calvary 
Forum of Buffalo. Address George W. 


Coleman, Director, Ford Hall Foundation, 
354 Congress Street, Boston, Mass. 


May &-10.—Waco, Tex. 


Southwestern Water Works Associa- 


tion. Annual Convention. Secretary, 
E. L. Fulkerson, Waco, Tex. 
May 9-10.—INDIANAPOLIS, IND. 


National Probation Association. 
retary, Charles L. Chute, 58 North Pearl 
Street, Albany, N. Y. 

May 9-11.—Cuicaoo, IL. 
; National Fire Protection Association. 
Secretary, Franklin H. Wentworth, 87 
Milk Street, Boston 


MAY 10-17.—INDIANAPOLIS, IND 


National Conference of Charities and 
Correction. General Secretary, William 
r. Cross, 315 Plymouth Court, Chicago, III 


Sec- 


MAy 11-12.—Wasuincton, D. C. 

National Association for the Study 
and Prevention of Tuberculosis. Annual 
Meeting. Secretary, Dr. Henry Barton 
Jacobs, 11 Mt. Vernon Place, West, Balti- 
more, Md. 


MAy 22-27.—CuHiIcaco, ILL. 

National Electric Light Association. 
Annual Convention. Secretary, T. Com- 
merford Martin, 29 West Thirty-ninth 
Street, New York City. 

May 31-JUNE 2—Syracuse, N. Y 

Conference of Mayors and Other City 
Officials of the State of New York. An- 


nual Conference. Secretary, W. P. Capes, 
25 Washington Avenue, Albany, N. Y 
+ + 
New Officials of the National 


Chamber 


At the fourth annual convention of the 
Chamber of Commerce of the United 
States, held in Washington, D. C., February 
8-10, 1916, the terms of direc- 
tors expired. The following were elected 
by the delegates to fill the vacancies: Ed- 
ward A. Filene, of Boston; James R. Mac- 
Coll, of Providence, R. I.; W. L. Clause, of 
Pittsburgh, Pa.; E. W. McCormick, of New 
Brunswick, N. J.; Granger A. Hollister, of 
Rochester, N. Y.; R. A. O. McCormick, of 
Baltimore, Md.; Homer L. Ferguson, of 
Newport News, Va.; Leon C. Simon, of 
New Orleans, La.; S. B. Anderson, of 
Memphis, Tenn.; Charles Nagel, of St. 
Louis, Mo.; William Butterworth, of Mo- 
line, Ill.; F. A. Seiberling, of Akron, Ohio; 
.. S. Gillette, of Minneapolis, Minn. 


thirteen 

















THE AMERICAN CITY 



































i 80 -Nozzle Aerating Pond 
Akron (Ohio) Water Works 


Just One Branch 


of SPRAY Service ! 


The beautiful aerating pond of the Akron 
(Ohio) Water Works shown above is an ex- 
ample of how a highly specialized organiza- 
tion can plan and equip a sprinkling, cooling, 
or aerating system and obtain not only the 
desired engineering result but make of it a 
landscape feature. This one phase of the 





**SPRACO"’ NOZZLE 
ENGINEERING ° 
COMPANY WCrvice 
is typical of the many ways in which we can serve you in the design and 
equipment of aerating ponds, cooling ponds, sewage spraying systems, park 
and cemetery sprinkling and fountain systems, odor condensers, and every 
kind of irrigation and spraying work. 

We can aid you on such problems as 
spraying insecticides, applying asphalt or 
heavy road binders and can furnish sprinklers 
of various types for golf links, 
parks, cemeteries, and tennis courts. 


We have bulletins on many phases 
of such work. 








Write for the one covering the 
«wy. problem in which you are interested. 


SPRAY ENGINEERING COMPANY 


93 Federal Street, Boston, Mass. 


Little Gient Travelling Sprinkler (DIVISION 8) 
or Parks and Lawns 74-6 




















When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae American City. 

























: 













i 
; 





MAarcH, 1916 THE 

At a meeting of the Board of Directors 
held during the course of the annual meet- 
ing, James Couzens, of Detroit, was elecved 
to fill the unexpired term of Director Joy, 
who resigned. The new board, in accord- 
ance with the by-laws of the Chamber, 
chose the President to succeed Mr. John 
H. Fahey, who had been at the head of the 
National Chamber since 1914. Their vote 
elected Mr. R. G. Rhett, president of the 
People’s National Bank, of Charieston, 
Uy 

Mr. John H. Fahey, the retiring presi- 
dent, was elected to the position of honor- 
ary vice-president. 


+ + 


Open Forum Council 


The third annual gatherfng of the Open 
Forum Council will convene at Buffalo, 
N. Y., Sunday, May 7, to Tuesday the 9th, 
under the auspices of Calvary Forum of 
that city. Monday will be given up to con- 
ference, ending with a banquet in the even- 
ing. Tuesday forenoon may be needed for 
additional business. It is hoped that every 
Forum in the country will plan to send a 
representative to this gathering, and every 
community or individual interested in the 
Open Forum idea is invited to send a rep- 
resentative or to be present in person. 
Those who plan to attend the conference 
will receive a copy of the program by noti- 
fying in advance George W. Coleman, Di- 
rector Ford Hall Foundation, 354 Congress 
Street, Boston, Mass. 


+ ¢ 


The New Jersey Sewage Works 
Association 


An association, the scope of which is 
state-wide, and the ideas of which should 
be nation-wide, was formed last month in 
Trenton, N. J. 

Early in January, Mr. Clyde Potts, C. E., 
member of the New Jersey State Depart- 
ment of Health, sent communications to 
various municipalities and utility companies 
throughout the state, that had in operation, 
or were about to construct, modern disposal 
plants, suggesting that representatives from 
the municipalities meet in Trenton on a 
fixed day for the purpose of forming an 
association for the promotion of greater 
efficiency and economy in the operation of 


AMERICAN 


GIT Y 299 
sewerage systems and disposal plants. It 
was pointed out that an interchange of 
ideas by men in daily touch with sewerage 
systems would be of great benefit and would 
enable all parties to codperate intelligently 
in an endeavor to bring the sanitary stand- 
ard to the highest point of efficiency. 

The response to Mr. Potts’ suggestion 
was most gratifying, and an attendance 
representative of all sections of the state 
met in the Senate Committee room at the 
State House on January 28, and, in a ses- 
sion lasting most of the day, formed The 
New Jersey Sewage Works Association. 

The object of the Association is the ad- 
vancement of the knowledge of construc- 
tion, operation, design and management of 
sewage works. Its membership includes 
officers of municipal or private sewage 
works, civil, hydraulic and sanitary engi- 
neers, chemists and bacteriologists, and its 
constitution provides for the admission to 
membership of any board, commission, de- 
partment, municipal or private corporation, 
any person engaged in the design, construc- 
tion, operation or supervision of sewage 
works, or any person engaged in the manu- 
facture or sale of sewage works equipment. 
Annual meetings are to be held at Trenton, 
and several additional meetings each vear 
are to be held at various disposal plants 
throughout the state. 

The officers elected for the year IgI6 are: 


President—John R. Downes, Plainfield 
Vice-Presidents—Paul Molitor, Chatham; I. Z. Col 
lings, Collingswood. 
Secretary-Treasurer—I 
City. 


‘rederick T. Parker, Atlantic 
+ + 
Sewage Disposal Litigation 


A company owning patents on the septic 
process of sewage disposal has recently 
served notice on certain municipalities, 
claiming royalties on the disposal plants 
now installed. 

Many requests having been filed with the 
League of Iowa Municipalities to call a 
meeting of all those interested in this ques- 
tion, such a meeting has been called at the 
Savery Hotel, Des Moines, Iowa, at 10 
o'clock A. M. Tuesday, March 14, 1916. 

All interested are invited to have repre- 
sentatives present at the meeting, or, if un- 
able to be represented, are invited to write 
Frank G. Pierce, acting secretary, Mar- 
shalltown, Iowa, giving the facts in regard 
to their local situation. 








ogee mi ae 


a ag 















THE AMERICAN CITY 





Quality 


LAWN MOWERS 


OLF clubs, public parks, cemeteries and large estates |} 
everywhere have been for the last 35 years large users of | ¥ 


“PENNSYLVANIA” Quality Lawn Mowers. 
















“PENNSYLVANIAS” cut like sharp shears because . 7 
. : ook for the “PENNSYL 
their revolving blades as well as the straight knife are of VANIA™ trade mark on the handle 
oil-hardened, water-tempered, crucible tool steel. me = aes 
And being self-sharpening, they keep cutting clean and Bow Le Pony 
true without annual grinding expense. ae tae’ Seen 
A light-running “ PENNSYLVANIA” works easier 











and outwears a half-dozen cheap mowers. 










“The Pennsylvania People’’ 


Slppkee fiddle Hardware (ompany 


PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA 


Wit 








Writetoda y for our free book 
“Scientific Lawn Making’’ and 

catalog of ‘‘PENNSY LVANIA”* 

Quality Lawn Mowers 


ir 


44 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae American Cry. 









Munro, WiLt1AM Bennett, Professor of Mu- 
nicipal Government, Harvard University. 


Principles and Methods of Municipal 


Administration. + 491 pp. 
Tables and charts. $2.00 


Intended as a supplement to the author’s book on 
“The Government of American Cities,” this work deals 
with the actual management of municipal business— 
with functions rather than with framework—and aims 
“to show how various city departments are organized, 
what they have to do, A | what problems they usually 
encounter in getting things done.” Professor Munro 
does not attempt to touch upon every phase of city 
administration; he has chosen rather to discuss cer- 
tain of the more inclusive questions, such as city 
planning, streets, water supply, waste disposal, light- 
ing, fire prevention, police and school administration, 
and municipal finance. An adequate number of foot- 
notes accompany the text, to which a compact index 
of thirteen pages is appended. 


1916. Xi 


Frecp, Jessie, Formerly Superintendent of 


Schools, Page County, la., and 
NEARING, Scott, Professor of Social Science, 
Toledo University. 
Community Civics. 1916. xii + 270 pp. 
Illustrated. 7o cents 


Our public schools should train our children for 
good citizenship so that when they become citizens 
they may be willing and able to take part intelligently 
in the affairs of the community. With this ideal in 
mind, “Community Civics’ aims to teach this im- 
portant subject to country children “in the terms of 
their own lives.” The study of civics must be made 
real to them—it ‘‘must connect with the affairs with 
which they are familiar in their own town or neigh- 
borhood.” Thus we find chapters devoted to the 
country home, the country school, and to the country 
neighborhood, and the relation of these to such prob- 
lems as increasing production, codperation, good 
roads, good health, etc. Each chapter, written in 
simple and interesting English, closes with a list of 
study and review questions and exercises for investiga 
tion and discussion. 


Hitt, Hippert WIiNsLow, M.B., M. D., D. P. H., 
Director, Institute of Public Health; 
M. O. H. of London, Canada; Professor 
of Public Health, Western University. 


The New Public Health. 10916. 206 pp. 


$1.35 


The new public health teaches us that it is not so 
much to “general surroundings” as to the individual 
himself that we must look for the source of infectious 
diseases. The basic fallacy which claims that good 
perce health is a sufficient barrier against infection 

as been disproved, and it is now known that the only 

true protection against germs is to keep them out of 
the body and to have within the body the special 
antidote for each particular germ. The book thus 
clearly Spee between the new and old prin- 
ciples and tells us what to do as individuals and as 
units in the community. The more technical ques- 
tions and methods of community defense, such as the 
public health engineer, the public health laboratory, 
and the public health statistician—their functions and 
the administration of their work—are discussed in 
the proper place. After some reference to tubercu- 
losis and the work in connection with it and other 
specific diseases, the book closes with two appendices 
containing condensed data on infectious diseases and a 
syllabus of public health teaching. 


gg egemmmmmalaaaraat 


Municipal and Civic Books 


Copies may be ordered of Tue American City, with the exception of Government 
those indicated as free, which should be ordered direct from the offices publishing them 


publications and 


Miter, Lina D. 


The New York Charities Directory: A 
Reference Book of Social Service in or 
Available for Greater New York. Twenty- 
fifth edition. 1916. xliv + 434 pp. $1.00 
The new edition of the New York Charities Direc 
tory comes to hand in a more attractive style of 
typography, which has reduced the volume some 200 
pages. This book furnishes a veritable encyclopedia 
of social service in Greater New York. It describes 
1,252 different organizations controlling over 3,000 in 
Stitutions; lists 1,449 churches of all denominations 
and gives the names of 5,000 persons connected with 
the various agencies. A feature of value is the in 
sertion of page numbers in the topical index 





Anonymous. (Henry F. Ring.) 

The Problem of the Unemployed. Sec- 

ond edition. 1915. 282 pp. $1.09 
_ The author of this book approaches his subject 
from the standpoint of the economist and devotes 
considerable space to the consideration of present-day 
conceptions of Wealth, Land, Capital, Labor, the Na 
ture of Interest and the Nature of Rent. Pointing 
out that improvements in labor-saving processes have 
not tended to increase wages, and that the growing 
scarcity of land will eventually depress them still 
more, the author suggests the nationalization of land, 
with compensation to land owners, to be brought about 


gradually “by dropping one after the other taxes 
levied on industry and the products of industry, and 
concentrating all taxation on the rental value of 


land.”” An appendix contains an appropriate extract 
from Herbert Spencer entitled “The Right to the 
Use of the Earth.” 


JoHNsEN, Jutia E., Compiler. 


Selected Articles on Unemployment. 
( Debaters’ Handbook Series.) 1915. xl + 
242 pp. $1.00 
This volume, after giving outlines of the arguments 
pro and con, and a thorough body of periodical and 
book references, presents a series of articles on the 
various phases of the subject arranged in general, 
positive and negative sections. Among the students 
of unemployment contributing articles are the fol- 
lowing: John B. Andrews, William M. _ Leiserson, 
John A. Kingsbury, Katharine Coman, Frances 
Kellor, Edward T. Devine, Sidney Webb, Victor Mur- 
dock, Ida Tarbell, Edith Sellers and Sir Oliver Lodge 
The compiler furnishes a short but well-written intro- 
duction. 


Dewey, JOHN. 


The School and Society. Revised edition 
I9I5. xvi + 164 pp. Photographs and 
diagrams. $1.07 
This edition of “The School and Society” includes 
some slight verbal revisions of the three lectures 
which constitute the first part of the book and five new 
chapters containing material borrowed, with some 
changes, from articles which originally appeared in 
the Elementary School Record. The school is con- 
sidered in its social aspects (the necessary readjust 
ments to render it effective to-day): with respect to 
the growth of individual children; and as an institu- 
tion in itself, in relation both to society and to its 
own members—the children. In the new sections at- 
tention is given to the psychological aspect as in- 
stanced in elementary education, the activities or 
“occupations” of children, and in the development of 
attention. Two special chapters discuss “Froebel’s 


Educational Principles” and “The Aim of History in 
Elementary Education.” 








—— 


— 


ened 


a ee teal 














AMERICAN CITY 








THE ONLY WAY 


To Obtain an Ornamental Lighting 
System and Retain Overhead Wires 





Bracket 10347 and 
G.E. Novalux Unit Form 4 





Bracket 10338 and 
G. E. Novalux Unit Form 9 


ELREGO 


COMBINATION POLES 


serve the double purpose of Ornamental 
Lighting Standards and ‘Trolley Wire 


Supports. 


Handsome brackets for 
supporting very latest Nova- 
lux Lighting Units or the 
Ornamental Luminous Lamps 
improve the appearance of 
the plain Trolley Poles. 


You can string your wires 
along the top of the poles, 
where they are _ practically 
unnoticeable and out of the 
way of traffic. 


You save the cost of addi- 
tional lamp standards and 
underground construction, 
and avoid further obstruction 
of the curb line. 


Catalog E describes this 
money-saving plan and full 
details—free. 


Electric Railway 
Equipment Co. 


New York Office : 30 Church Street 


CINCINNATI, OHIO 





Combination Pole 


and 
Ornamental G.E. 
Luminous Arc 








45 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae American City. 


a i 


















/ 
: 
| 
: 


— 














SCHNEIDER, HERMAN, Sc. 








D., Dean of the Col- 
lege of Engineering, University of Cin- 
cinnati. 

Education for Industrial Workers: A 
Constructive Study Applied to New 
York City. (School Efficiency Series, 
Edited by Paul H. Hanus.) 1915. x + 98 

pp. go cents 

Ihe study covered by this volume was made by Dean 
Schneider for the Committee on School Inquiry of the 


Board of Estimate and Apportionment. In it the need 
for industrial education is discussed and the scope 


and size of the problem in New York are outlined. 


Separating the types of employment into those which 
are energizing and those which are enervating, the 
book points out that at present the latter type of work 
has become so widespread that the problem of _ the 
“Blind Alley” job is one that demands immediate 
attention. In the latter part of the book, devoted to 
the solution of the problem, it is shown,,. first, that a 
future program should strive for efficient education 
prior to gainful employment both in general and 
specific training for employment. Secondly, it is 
urged that education continue after work is com- 
menced, by means of the codperative or the con- 
tinuation system of education. The volume closes 
with appendices containing statistical tables and a 
short description of the New York Parental School. 


NEARING, Scott, Ph. D., Wharton School 
Finance, University of Pennsylvania. 
The New Education: A Review of Pro- 
gressive. Educational Movements of the 


Day. 1915. 264 pp. $1.25 
Professor Nearing’s book—which he refers to as an 
attempt at “constructive educational writing’’—is a 


compact and interesting description of the practices 
prevalent in a large number of thoroughly modern 
schools. In simple, readable style, after a_ brief 
reference to “the old education,” he tells of the new 
basis and describes how it aims to fit the schools to 
the children’s needs by teaching them practical things 
and aiding them in the choice of a vocation. The 
kindergarten, primary grades and high school are 
considered successively and emphasis is placed upon 
the attempts to bridge the gaps between them. Special 
attention is given to rural education and to such 
experiments as corn-growing contests and canning 
clubs. Insisting that the schools were made for the 








Marcu, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 303 






children rather than the children for the s« 
Professor Nearing, l tes: * e spir t 
the new educatior fs e, the s 

of fair dealing, the for vi " 





and of advancement 


Lapp, Joun A., Member of the National Com- 
mission on Vocational Education, and 

More, Cart H. 
Learning to Earn: A Plea and a Plan 
for Vocational Education. With Intro- 
duction by Hon. William C. Redfield, Sec- 
retary of Commerce. I9I15. xiv + 421 pp. 
$1.50 


In the belief that the present educational system has 


failed to meet the actual needs of living men and 
women, this book formulates a definite plan of an 
education for all the people which shall be adjusted 
to existing needs and conditions, qualifying people for 
their life work and making possible a more complete 
expression of their personalities \ scheme for uni 
versal education should consider such questions as 


health, earning a living, caring for the home, rearing 
children, the duties of the citizen and the enjoyment 
of leisure. In fecognizing these factors, this book 
shows how they may be furthered through more ef 
ficient production, exchange and consumption in_ the 
various fields of labor The book closes with a bibl 
ography and a list of organizations interested in voca 
tional training. 


Pine, Joun B., L. H. D., Editor 
Seal and Flag of the City of New York. 
Illustrated. 111 pp. $1.08 


The original seal, granted to New Amsterdam by 
the directors of the Dutch West India Company and 


brought from Holland in 1654 by the good ship Pear 

tree, was superseded by an English seal when the Brit 
s an ‘ 

ish captured the city. This seal was “richer and more 





elaborate than the old Dutch city seal; but preserved 
the beaver, with the addition of a flour barrel and the 
arms of a windmill, signifying the prevailing con 
merce and industry.” The seal recommended in this 


book is based upon the later form The new flag, 
recommended by the Committee of the New York 
\rt Commission, embodies “the historical colors of 
the Netherlands arranged in a distinctive way,” and 
upon this background is superimposed the new seal, 


thus combining the Dutch and English traditions it 
the city’s history. See page 244 of this issue 





Pamphlets of Municipal and Civic Interest 


Copies should be ordered direct as indicated. 


Safety First Federation of America. 


Report of Proceedings, First Annual Convention 
of the Safety First Federation of America (In- 
corporated), Detroit, Mich., October 19-20, 1915 
1915. 134 PP. Group photograph. (Apply to the 
Federation, 6 East Thirty-ninth street, New York 
City.) 


Hare System Election Provisions. 


Simplified and improved by C. G. Hoag, General 
Secretary of the American Proportional Repre- 
sentation League, after the first Hare election in 
America at Ashtabula, Ohio, November 2, 1915. 
(Published by the League as Leaflet No. 2, De- 
cember, 1915.) 4 pp. (Copies may be had for 
two cents from the League, Haverford, Pa.) 


Highway Engineering Course. 


Proceedings of the Short Course in Highway En- 
gineering, held at the University of Michigan, 
February 15 to 20, 1915. (University Bulletin, 
New Series, Vol. XVII, No. 5, September, 1915.) 
221 pp. Charts. (Apply to the University, Ann 
Arbor, Mich.) Free. 


In so doing, please mention THe American City 


Titustown: A Community of Negro Homes. 


By William Anthony Aery. (Reprinted from Thi 
Southern Workman, Hampton, Va., by the Hamp 
ton Normal and Agricultural Institute, 1915.) 12 
pp. Photographs. (Copies may be obtained from 
the Institute, Hampton, Va.) 


Conference of Massachusetts City Planning 
Boards. 


Proceedings of the Third Annual City and Town 
Planning Conference of Massachusetts Planning 


Boards, Friday, November 12, 1915 In Con 
junction with an Ejight-Day City and Town Plan 
ning and Housing Exhibition in Charge of a 
Metropolitan Council of Fifty. (Bulletin No. 4, 
December, 1915, of the Massachusetts Homestead 
Commission.) 40 pp. (Apply to the Commission, 


Boston, Mass.) 


Review of Labor Legislation of rg15. 
Compiled by the. American Association oor, Labor 





Legislation, John B. Andrews, Secretary Amer 

ican Labor *gislation Review, Vol. V, No 4. 
Publication 31, December,- 1915.) 180 =opp 
(Apply to the Association, 131 East 23d Street 


New York City.) $1.00, 





THE AMERICAN CITY 





eaesen, =" 





a 





THE CITY OF DETROIT 


Does Most of its Hauling With 
Pacxarp Chainless Motor Trucks 


HE Parks and Boulevards Department carries pas- 
sengers; the Public Works Department hauls paving 
materials and garbage; the Lighting Department 
erects street lamps and power and light lines; the Water 
Department delivers pipe and other materials—all with 
Packard Trucks. The city operates Packard vehicles 
because they do more work for less money. Their speed, 
stamina and low up-keep cost are apparent in every line 
of municipal hauling. Seven sizes: 1—14 to 6—6% 
tons’ capacity. A wide range of dumping, demountable 
and stationary bodies for every kind of load. Write 
department L for catalog. 





PACKARD MOTOR CAR COMPANY, DETROIT 











Ask the man who owns one 


4) 


SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS SH SSE SSEM SEE EeSeEeeeeseseTe 





When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 































Marcu, 1916 


Standardization of Public Employments. 


In the issue for November, 1915, of Municipal 
Research (No. 67), monthly publication of the 
Bureau of Municipal Research, 261 Broadway, 
New York City. 117 pp. (Order from the 
Bureau as above.) $1.00. 


City Beautification in Europe. 


The Problem of City Beautification as Observed 
in Europe. 3 George T. Hammond, LL.B., 
M. A. Soc. C. (Reprinted from the Twentieth 
Annual Report of the American Scenic and His- 
toric Preservation Society.) 1915. 42 pp. Pho- 
tographs. (Apply to author, 215 Montague Street, 
trooklyn, N, Y) 


Seattle Juvenile Court. 


The Seattle Juvenile Court Reports for the Year 
1915, and Washington Na pe Court and 
Mothers’ Pension Laws. By Hon. King Dyke- 
man, Judge, Dr. Lilburn Merrill and J. A, 
Sigurdsson. Issued January 1, 1916. 47 pp. 
Illustrated. (Apply to Seattle Juvenile Court, 
200 Broadway, Seattle, Wash.) 


Billboard Advertising in Springfield, Mass. 

A Report on Billboard Advertising in Springfield, 
Mass. By the Springfield City Planning Com- 
mission. 48 pp. 30 full-page photographs. (Ap- 
ply to the Commission, Springfield, Mass.) 


Building Code. 


Prepared by the Industrial Commission of Wiscon- 
sin in accordance with Sections 2, 394-41 to 2,394- 
71, Chapter 588, of the laws of 1913, where it is 
stated that it shall be the duty of the Industrial 
Commission “to ascertain, fix and order such 
reasonable standards, rules or regulations for the 
construction, repair and maintenance of places of 
employment and public buildings as shall render 
them safe.” (In effect October 15, 1915.) 104 
pp. (Apply to the Commission, Madison, Wis.) 
“ree. 


Social and Economic Survey of a Minnesota 
Community. 


Social and Economic Survey of a Community in 
Northeastern Minnesota. By Gustav P. Warber, 
M. A., Sometime Assistant in Agricultural Eco- 
nomics in the rig of Minnesota. (Uni- 
versity of Minnesota Publications. Series: Cur- 
rent Problems, No. 5. Bulletin of the University 
for March, 1915.) 115 pp. Maps, photographs, 
diagrams and charts. (Apply to the University, 
Minneapolis, Minn.) 


Model Act for a Metropolitan District 
Court. 


Second Draft of a Model Act to 
Court for a Metropolitan District. (Bulletin 
1V-B—Bulletin IV revised—American  Judica- 
ture Society, January, 1916.) 94 pp. (Apply to 
the Society, 1732 First National Bank Building, 
Chicago, Ill.) 


Establish a 


Market System for New York City. 


Reports on Market System for New York City 
and on Open Markets Established in Manhattan. 

Marcus M. Marks, President of the Borough 
a Manhattan and Chairman, Committee on Mar- 
kets, Board of Estimate and Apportionment. Also 
reports by Hon. C. J. McCormack, Ogden L. 
Mills, William Bondy, S. Walter Kaufman and 
J. W. Sullivan. 1915. 121 pp. Photographs and 
map showing distribution of markets. {Apply to 
Committee on Markets, Municipal Building, New 
York City.) 


The Community Trust or Foundation. 


Its Origin, Methods and Possible Development. 
By J. Lionberger Davis, Director, St. Louis Union 
Trust Company. (Reprinted from Trust Com- 
panies Magazine. New York City, November, 
1915.) 4 pp. Illustrated. (Apply ‘to Mr. Davis, 
care of the above company, St. Louis, Mo.) 


THE AMERICAN 


Cir? 395 
Legal Rights of Civil Servants in New York 

City. 
‘n the issue for October, 1915, of Municipal Re- 


seorch (No. 66), monthly publication of the Bu- 
reau of Municipal Research, 261 Broadway, New 


York City. 262 pp. (Order from the Bureau as 
above.) $1.00. 
Vocational Education Survey of Rich- 


mond, Va. 


Survey made by the National Society for the Pro- 
motion of Industrial Education by arrangement 
with the Richmond Board of Education and pub- 
lished as Bulletin Whole No. 162 (Miscellaneous 
Series No. 7), of the United States Bureau of 
Labor Statistics, for August, 1915. 1916. 333 
RP: Statistical tables. (Apply to the Bureau, 
Vashington, D. C.) 


The Charities of Springfield, Ill. 

A Survey Under the Direction of the American 
Association of Societies for Organizing Charity. 
By Francis H. McLean. (Russell Sage Founda- 
tion: The Springfield Survey, Charities Section 
Publication No. SE 11, December, 1915.) X + 
185 pp. Photographs. (Order from the Founda- 
tion, 105 East Twenty-second Street, New York 
City. Price, 25 cents.) 


Preliminary Plan of Detroit. 


By Edward H. Bennett, Architect. Together with 
sketch plans for a new bridge to Belle Isle, by 
Cass Gilbert, Architect; Barclay, Parsons & Klapp, 
Engineers. 32 pp. 1915. Illustrated with nu- 
merous plates. (Apply to City Plan and Improve- 
ment Commission, Detroit, Mich.) 


Municipal Sewage and Its Care. 


By Leverett Dale Bristol, Professor of Bacte- 
riology and Director of the State Public Health 
Laboratories, University of North Dakota. (Pages 
215 to 228, The, Quarterly Journal of the Uni- 
versity of North Dakota, Vol. V, No. 3, April, 
1915.) Statistical tables. (Apply to the Uni- 
versity, Grand Forks, North Dakota.) 


Standard Specifications. 


Issued by the American Society of Municipal Im- 
provements. Sheet Asphalt, Brick, Cement Con- 
crete and Stone Block Paving, Broken Stone and 
Gravel Roads, and Sewer Construction. Adopted 
October 8, 1914. Creosoted Wood Block and Bi- 
tuminous Paving. Not adopted—printed for fur- 
ther discussion. 1915. 189 pp. (Order from the 
Society, 702 Wulsin Building, Indianapolis, Ind.) 


Publications on Infant Welfare. 


Selected list of books and other material, com- 
iled by Elva L. Bascom, with the assistance of 
Dorothy Reed Mendenhall, M. D., (Johns Hop- 
kins). (Published as the January (1916) num- 
ber of the Wisconsin Library Bulletin.) 7 pp. 
(Apply to the office of above publication, Madi- 
son, Wisconsin.) 


Plan of Inspection for Child-Caring Institu- 
tions. 


Child-Caring Institutions: A 
—QQuestions, Suggestions 
vared by Hon. William 7 
Sernstein, Ph.D., R 
direction of Hon. 


Plan of Inspection 
and Standards. Pre- 
Doherty, Ludwig B. 
. R. Reeder, Ph.D., under the 
John A. Kingsbury, Commis- 
sioner. New York City Department of Public 
Charities, 1915. - 32 pp. (Apply to the above de- 
partment, Municipal Building, New York City.) 


Guide to the Study of the Town, City, State 
and Nation. 


Containing outlines, sources of information and 
illustrative charts. Prepared by Orren Chalmer 
Hormell, Professor of History and Government at 
Bowdoin College, for the State (Maine), Educa- 
tional Department, 1915. 76 pp. (Apply to State 
Educational Department, Augusta, Maine.) 























a. ee Dae 





SN ERs A eine OT ENT Pe At Sl phe. 





—— 
hl ee 








THE AMERICAN CITY 




















HE successful motorizing of transportation equip- 
ment in city departments depends absolutely in 
choosing the right truck for the work to be done. 


The G M C line of gasoline and electric chassis is 
so comprehensive that it has already proved its efficient 
adaptability to street flushing, garbage removal, police 
patrols, hospital ambulances, supply department work, 
public lighting service and maintenance, fire fighting 
apparatus and many other uses where quick and 
reliable transportation is needed. 


Our technical department will be pleased to answer 
questions regarding special equipment or send you a 
copy of “Municipal Progress.” 


GENERAL MOTORS TRUCK COMPANY 
One of the Units of General Motors Company 


PONTIAC - MICHIGAN 


Direct Factory Branches: 
New York, Boston, Chicago, Philadelphia, St. Louis, Kansas City 








CENERAL morors COMPANY 


Leathe 3 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 



























































Marcu, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 307 


Activities of Municipal Health Depart- 
ments. 

A Survey of the Activities of Municipal Health 
Departments in the United States. By Franz 
Schneider, Jr., Sanitarian. (Publication No. 
SE 21, January, 1916, Department of Surveys and 
Exhibits, Russell Sage Foundation.) 22 pp. Map 
and tables. (Order of the Foundation, 105 East 
Twenty-second Street, New York City. Price, 10 
cents.) 


Public Health Organization in the United 
States. 

The Present Condition of Public Health Organi- 
zation in the United States. Compiled by Prof 
Selskar M. Gunn, Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology. (A report of the Central Committee 
on Public Health Organization based on a Vol- 
untary Survey of Organizations Interested in Pub- 
lic Health, and published by the Council on Health 
and Public Instruction of the American Medical 
Association.) 48 pp. (Order from American 
Medical Association, 535 North Dearborn Street, 
Chicago, Ill.) 


Social Aspects of School Hygiene. 

An article by Donald B. Armstrong, M. D., di 
rector of Social Welfare of the New York Asso- 
ciation for Improving the Condition of the Poor, 
reprinted from American Journal of Public 
Health, Vol. 5, No. 12. Pages 1195 to 1203. 
(Apply to author, 105 East Twenty-second Street, 
New York City.) 


Co.inmunity Centers. 
sy Raymond V. Phelan, Ph.D. (Bulletin of the 
University of Minnesota, General Extension Di 
vision, General Series, No. 25, January, 1915.) 
14 pp. Photographs. (Apply to the above di 
vision of the University, Minneapolis, Minn.) 


Wider Use of School Buildings. 

The Extension of Public Education: A Study in 
the Wider Use of School Buildings. By Clarence 
Arthur Perry, Russell Sage Foundation. (United 
States Bureau of Education, Bulletin, 1915, No 
28, whole No. 655.) 70 pp. Photographs and 
charts. 20 — (Apply to the Bureau, Wash- 
ington, D. C.) 


Wider Use of the School Plant. 

Recent Progress in Wider Use of the School 
Plant. By Clarence Arthur Perry, Associate Di- 
rector, Department of Recreation, Russell Sage 
Foundation. (Reprinted from the report of the 
Commissioner of Education for the year ended 
June 30, 1914. Chapter XXI, Vol. I. United 
States Department of the Interior, Bureau of 
Education, 1915.) 16 pp. (Apply to the Bureau, 
Washington, D. C.) 


Social Center, Welfare and Community 
Work. 

The Social Center, Welfare and Community Work 

of the ue Cities La Salle-Peru-Oglesby, Illinois. 

1915. pp. Illustrated. ( Apply to the La 

Salle- Peru  Sownalie High School, La Salle, Il.) 


The American City Pamphlets. (The 
complete list to date.) Address the Civic 
Press, 87 Nassau Street, New York City. 


Water Consumption of Cities. The Effect of Meters 
on Water Consumption. (Tables.) No. 98. 10 cents. 

Some Fundamentals of Housing Reform. By Dr. 
James Ford, Harvard University. No. 99. 15 cents. 

How to Attack the Sewage and Garbage Problems. 
By Rudolph Hering, Consulting Engineer, New York 
City. No. 100. 10 cents. 

The Esthetic Treatment of City Bridges. By Henry 
Grattan Tyrrell, C. E., Consulting Engineer, Evans- 
ton, Ill, No. 101. 15 cents. 

How to Organize a City a: Campaign. By 
Frederick Law Olmsted. No. 102. 15 cents. 

Public Laundries in an ty "By Donald B. Arm 
strong, M. D., Superintendent Bureau of Public Health 
and ygiene. New York Society for Improving the 
Condition of the Poor. No. 102a. 10 cents. 

Refuse Disposal in Small Cities and Towns. By 
Samuel A. Greeley. No, 103. 10 cents. 


The Duty of Municipal Food Inspection. By Will- 


iam P. Capes. No. 104. 10 cents. 


Fighting Fires Before They are Lit. By Martin H 
Ray. No. 105 10 cents 

How to Promote the Planting and Care of Shade 
Trees. By J. J. Levison. No. 106. 10 cents 

The Efficient Utilization of Water Storage Reser 
voirs. By George W. Fuller. No, 107 10 cents 

The City’s Need, the University’s Opportunity. By 
Herman G, James, J. D., Ph. D.” No. 108. 10 cents 

A Notable Development in Ornamental Street Light 
ing. By Walter C. Allen. No. 109. 10 cents 





How to Determine Relative Values in Sanitation 
By George C. Whipple. No. 110. 15 cen 

Co-partnership in Housing in Great Britain, By 
Henry Vivian, f. P. No, 111 15 cents 

Relation of the Motor Bus to Urban Development 


By F. Van Z. Lane. No. 112. 15 cents 
, Sat Your City These Maps? By William P. Capes 
No. 113. 10 cents. 


Water Supplies and the Part They Play in City and 
County Planning. By Charles W. Leavitt, | N 
114. 15 cents. 

Chambers of Commerce and Cit Planning By 
George B. Ford. No. 115. 10 cents 

The Modern Park Cemetery By Hare & Hare, 
Landscape Architects, Kansas City, M N 116 
15 cents 

Public Comfort Stations; Their Economy and Sar 
tation. By Donald B. Armstrong, M. D. No. 117 
15 cents. 

Rose Valley—A Garden Suburb (near Philadelphia) 


No. 118. 10 cents 
Public Health ie 2 k in Rural Communities. B 


Samuel A. Greeley, €. E. No. 119. 15 cents 
Public Bath adc and Swimming Pools. By Dr 
William Paul Gerhard, C. E No. 120 1) cents 
By U nification of a Small City By Frank Koes 
Consulting Civic Engineer No, 121 15 cents 


"A Model Wet-Wash Laundry. By Philip S. Platt, 
M. A. No. 122. 10 cents 


\ Combination of Municipal and Privately Ownes 
Utilities. By G. B. Baskerville, Ir N 123. 1 
cents. 


A List of City-Planning Reports. No. 124 15 
cents. 


Handicaps to Legal Bond Issues. By Robert R 
Reed. No. 125. 10 cents 
Water-Supply, Sewage and Refuse Disposal for 


Small Towns and Villages. By Rudolph Hering, D. Sc. 
No. 126 15 cents 

City Planning and Real Estate. By George B 
Ford. No, 127. 10 cents 

Coniferous Evergreens and Evergreen Shrubs for 
Parks and Public Grounds. By H. E. Holder No 
128. 15 cents. 

Points of Difference in Water Works Franchises. 
By Philip Burgess. No. 129. 10 cents 

Engineering Coéperation—A Plan for Municipal 
Economy in Small Communities. By Frederick Bass 
No. 130. 10 cents. 

A Step Towards Solving the Industrial Housing 
Problem. By Warren H. Manning. No. 131 10 
cents. 

The Jitney Bus. By Clyde Lyndon King, Ph. D 
No. 132. 15 cents. 

Sheet Asphalt Pavements. By Daniel T. Pierce 
No. 133. 15 cents. 

How to Avoid Root Growth in House Sewers B 
William Robert Marshall. No. 134. 10 cents 

Organizing Rochester’s School Boys fo Accident 
Prevention. By Roland B. Woodward. No. 135. 10 
cents. 

Municipal Clinics for School Children. By Edward 
F. Brown. No. 136. 10 cents 

How a Small Municipality is Profiting by a City 
Plan. No. 137. 15 cents 

Precautions to be Used in Securing Successful Bi 
tuminous Macadam Pavements. By Philip P. Shar 
ples. No, 138. 15 cents. 

Needed in Every City—Adequate Power and Com 
mon Sense in Fire Prevention. By Clement J. Dris 
coll. No, 139. 10 cents 

Sewage Disposal by the Activated Sludge Process 
By William B. Fuller. No, 149. 10 cents 

Concrete Pavements. By W. A. MelIntyre No 
141. 15 cents. 

Preparing to Abolish the Mosquito. By P. L. But 
trick. No. 142. 15 cents. 

Improved Granite Block Pavements By Zenas W 
Carter. No. 143. 15 cents. 

The Cost of Water for Fire Protection. By Delos 
F. Wilcox. No. 144. 10 cents. 

American Cities and the Prevention of Unemploy- 
ment. By John B. Andrews. No. 145. 10 cents 















mee 





IAAI tir Ad 





THE 






















































This 314-ton Kelly Truck owned by 
Escambia County Florida, operates 
against other makes of trucks and has 
shown the lowest cost of operation. 

The Kelly is also used for the draw- 
ing of road roller, road scraper, etc. 








AMERICAN CITY 


Kelly Adjectives 
are Kelly Facts 


What we tell you about Kelly Trucks 
is built into them. Advertising hasn’t 
“‘made”’ Kelly Trucks—Kelly Trucks 
are what make our advertising. 

Powerful—The motor is 4-cylinder, longstroke, 


specially built for heavy duty. Has a power reserve 
for all secondary operations 

Strong—The bumper is heavy oak, the frames of chan- 
nel section pressed steel. 


Durable—All vital parts are protected from damage 
in collision or accident. 


Fiexible—Kelly Trucks have no rigid cross members 
in frame back of seat. 

Simple—The fewest parts and all accessible; easy to 
operate hardest to misuse. 


Economical—In gasoline, oil, tires and repair charges, 
Kelly Trucks have made low records. Depreciation 
percentage is exceptionally light 

Real Service—Kelly users are taken care of wherever 
they are—at all times. Who buys a Kelly buys the 
best: most efficient and complete service organization 
in the country. 


The Complete Line—1}4, 24, 344. 4, 5 and 6 Tons. 
‘Like Kelly Does’’—FREE 
We want to put your name on the free list of this 


valuable monthly publication devoted to truck 
taansportation. 


THE KELLY-SPRINGFIELD 
MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY 


1303 Burt St.,Springfield,Ohio 








48 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amsgaican Cry. 





A 


\ 


\ 


AK 





AIK 


AK 


\\ 


\ 


AN EEF2WdW 


AM 


Ww 


AK 


AW 


A 


A 


NNN 


\ 


W 


NY 








wv 







































































































AAMT TT 





Wu HI nT] Hl Ae Hk ll! WLdl 








HUAN iM 






The Monolithic Construction of Brick 
Pavements. 


A paper on the above subject, by Maurice B. 
Greenough, Instructor in Highway Engineering, 
Case School of Applied Science, Cleveland, Ohio, 
presented before the Ohio Engineering Society, 
February 10, 1916, has been reprinted in a 12- 
page pamphlet. Copies may be secured from the 
National Paving Brick Manufacturers Associa- 
tion, Locomotive Engineers’ Building, Cleveland, 
Ohio. 


The Road Builder’s Guide. 


is the title of an 80-page catalogue just issued by 
the Austin-Western Road Machinery Company, 
Chicago, covering complete outfits lee grading, 
rock crushing and road surfacing work. Illus- 
trated descriptions are given of jaw and gyratory 
rock crushers, elevators, screens and bins, water 
and oil sprinklers, street sweepers and horse rol- 
lers, dump cars, dump and stone-spreading wagons, 
wheel and drag scrapers, road plows and drags, 
single and double cylinder motor road rollers, 
horse and tractor road graders, elevating graders 
and ditching machines, tandem and motor rollers, 
road scarifiers and motor lawn mowers. 


The —— Oil for Treating Creosoted 
Wood Paving Block. 


is the title of a paper read at the convention of 
the American Society of Municipal Improvements 
by P. C, Reilly, which has been republished in 
booklet form, with illustrations by the Republic 
Creosoting Company, Indianapolis, which will fur- 
nish copies free on request. 


Concrete Highway Construction. 


is the title of a book of special interest to anyone 
having to do with street and road construction, 
as it shows costs, itemized proposals, and photo- 
graphs of concrete highways in various parts of 
the country. On request a copy of this book will 
be sent to you free of charge by The Atlas Port- 
nef Cement Company, 30 Broad Street, New 
ork. 


Power Lawn Mowers. 

Every public official or private citizen having to 
do with the care of a lawn of considerable size 
will be interested in the catalogue distributed by 
the Ideal Power Lawn Mower Company, 400 Kala- 
mazoo Street, Lansing, Mich. This mower is de 
scribed as “the lawn mower that pushes itself,” 
and takes the place of a whole squad of hand- 
propelled grass-cutting machines. 


Road and Street Machinery. 
The catalogue distributed by the Good Roads Ma- 
chinery Company, Kennett Square, Pa., not only 
covers the latest types of street machinery for 
municipal use, but also road-building machinery 
for small town and county work. 


Engineering Instruments. 
City engineers, county surveyors and all other 
users of engineering instruments will be particu- 
larly interested in the latest catalogue published 
by Buff & Buff Manufacturing Company, Ja- 
maica Plains, Boston, Mass. 


Do You Buy Coal by Analysis? 


The coal crusher and sampler made by the Stur- 
tevant Mill Company, 25 Clayton Street, Boston, 
enables a municipality or a private corporation to 
buy coal without paying for useless impurities. If 
you are interest in economical coal purchasing, 
the printed matter distributed by this company 
should prove of value to you. 


’ ’ 
Manufacturers 
Available Free of Charge for Readers of THE AMERICAN CITY 


Advertisers are invited to submit catalogues or circulars 
Tue American City should always be mentioned when writing for this 


Literature 


suitable for mention in these columns. 


material. 


Portable Compressors for Laying Water 
Pipe. 

This small machine, invented for water-department 

use, will tear up rock or concrete pavement, drill 
rock, test pipe, rivet steel and do a number of 
other things satisfactorily An illustrated b 
regarding its various uses will be sent on req 
by Chris. D. Schramm & Son, 304 N. Fourth 
Street, Philadelphia, Pa. 


Tar ana Asphalt Heaters. 


The Connery furnace for heating asphalt and road 
tar is described in a circular which will be sent 
free on request by Connery & Company, 4000 
North Second Street, Philadelphia. 


An Automatic Fire Extinguishing System. 


The literature of the National Fire Extinguishe: 
Company, Widener Building, Philadelphia, Pa., 
describes the Hi-Pressure chemical fire ex 
tinguisher for use in protecting public buildings, 
warehouses and manufacturing plants. Every 
public official and private citizen concerned in re 
ducing the fire loss will be interested in the 
effective fire control provided by the Hi-Pressure 
apparatus. 


Lawn Mowers and Lawn Sweepers. 


An instructive book, written by a prominent au 
thority, entitled “Scientific Lawn Making,” will be 
sent free on request by the Supplee-Biddle Hard 
ware Company, Philadelphia, Pa. 


Sprinklers for Parks. 


The booklet, ““The Boston Giant Park Sprinkler,” 
published by the Spray Engineering Company, 
Division 8, 93 Federal Street, Boston, Mass., 1s 
sent free on request lurf may be kept green 
and fresh at minimum expense \ circular area 
up to 150 feet in diameter may be covered at one 
time by this sprinkler. 


Wires and Cables for Police and Fire Alarm 
Systems. 


A booklet published by the Simplex Wire & 
Cable Company, 201 Devonshire Street, Boston, 
Mass., describes the special types of Simplex steel- 
taped wires and cables suitable for municipal ser- 
vice. The same company will also send informa- 
tion on request relative to underground cables 
for use in connection with ornamental street light- 
ing. 


Calcium Chloride for Dustless Streets. 


The illustrated road booklet published by the 
Semet-Solvay Company, 410 Milton Avenue, Sol- 
vay, N. Y., describes the use of Solvay Granv- 
lated Calcium Chloride as the most effective and 
economical method for solving the dust problem. 


Concrete Culverts for Street and Road 
Work. 


The literature relative to the Hall interlocking 
concrete culvert, distributed by Schulz & Hodg- 
son, 19 South La Salle Street, Chicago, will in- 
terest every municipal and county official who ap- 
preciates the importance of permanent culvert 
construction. 





Street and Road Signs. 


A descriptive catalogue of legible and permanent 
signs for cities, villages, counties and townships 
is being distributed by the R. Hardesty Manufac 
turing Company, Denver, Colo. 













THE AMERICAN CITY 

















THE TRACTOR 


SAVES MUNICIPAL MONEY 


The illustration above shows a typical instance of money-saving 
municipal haulage. The paying load is 13 tons of hot asphalt— 
8 tons in the Watson trailer and 21% tons each in the two Troy 
trailers. The load was hauled 7 miles in less than an hour and was still 
hot when dumped. 





Here are four reasons why the Knox tractor is a paying invest- 
ment: 

(1) It hauls anything that a motor truck can carry. 

(2) It hauls many things that cannot be carried in motor trucks. 

(3) Any size, shape or capacity trailer can be used with a Knox tractor. 

(4) Hauling from 60% to 75% of the paying load on steel tires is vastly 
cheaper than carrying 100°% on expensive rubber tires. 


Our complete Catalog gives 8 more Big Money-Saving Points. Write 
for a copy today. 


Knox Motors Associates, Springfield, Mass., U.S.A. 











49 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 












































Mar., 1916 


The “Fun-Ful Line” of Playground Equip- 
ment. 


A large catalogue is being distributed by the Hill 
Standard Manufacturing Company, 216 Fun-Ful 
Avenue, Anderson, Ind., relative to its line of 
coaster slides, merry-go-rounds, horses, bucks, 
see-saws, swings, etc. This company also manu- 
factures large outdoor gymnasium combinations, 
horizontal ladders, basket-ball outfits, as well as 
home gymnasium equipment. 


Concrete Lighting Posts. 


The booklet relative to Star Lamp Posts pub- 
lished by the Chicago Concrete Post Company, 
608 Dearborn Street, Chicago, explains the con- 
struction of Star concrete lamp posts for street 
and park use. 


NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 






Sewage Purification and Disposal. 


Interesting inform 
distributed by t t I 1 

pany, 1530 Chestnut Street, | lelphia, in 
nection with an exy 
system, whicl 
municipalit 











Playground Apparatus. 


Park and playground officials r 
cerned in the recreation { € 

in the booklet describing the 
Giant playground 

Giant Manufact 
Street, Council Bluffs, I 





=pSEP=S] =h_nn»EamE SS & EE SHHH_UB_E_ECO— 


fo Methods, Materials and Appliances q 


8 
0) News from Engineers, Manufacturers and Supply Houses a 











SLT SSS! SS] _joa_»i°uoqqys 


A Street Squeegee 

The motor squeegee street washer manufac- 
tured by the Sterling Motor Truck Company, 
of West Allis, Milwaukee, Wis., cleans a street 
as a rubber squeegee cleans a window. Its 
structure and operation are described in a 
quarto pamphlet issued by the company. The 
machine consists of a special Sterling worm- 
driven chassis, upon which is mounted a 1,c00- 
gallon steel tank. In front of the fenders of 
the chassis are two flusher nozzles, controlled 
by the driver through the use of a lever. By 
sprinkling the surface of the street, the flusher 
nozzles prevent the agitation of dust and also 
dampen the attached matter so that the 
squeegee roller can easily force it loose from 
the pavement and wash the surface clean. A 


pair of heavy pavement-sweeping brooms, 
fitted immediately behind the front nozzles, 
force aside the large refuse so that it will 
become suspended in the water, leaving the 
squeegee to wash up the tightly adhered ma- 
terial by friction. Near the center of the chas- 
sis frame and underneath it is a spiral-shaped 
roller, 19 inches in diameter and 8 feet long 
This squeegee attachment is flexibly mounted 
and counter-balanced in such a way that when 
adjusted to a certain pressure it is 
for the roller to work loose and the pressure 
against the street is uniform. The rubber strips 
are 6 inches deep and afford large wearing sur- 
face. The driver controls the engagement of 
the squeegee with the street. The tank is fitted 
with a water-meter, which serves not only as 


possible 

















THE STERLING MOTOR SQUEEGEE STREET WASHER 








THE AMERICAN CITY 





CLOW CASTINGS 


for 


FILTRATION PLANTS 


and 


WATER WORKS 


We are equipped to give you 
the best of service on all 
specials made of cast iron 


Quick Shipment of 
CAST IRON PIPE 


can be insured by placing 
your orders now with 


JAMES B.CLOW &SONS 


Established 1876 
534-546 So. Franklin Street, CHICAGO 


Sales Offices 
New York Milwaukee St. Louis Kansas City 
Minneapolis Los Angeles San Francisco Denver 








50 When writing to Advertisers 


a : 
[Pree ct ¥ 


< S 
wef Motor Truckiss 


An Established Fact 
Not An Experiment 





HE tendency of business 

men today is to buy for 
quality and service — not for 
price alone. 


Increasing application of 
big business methods to 
government has made this a 
particularly vital principle in 
the city and the state. 

It is important to YOUR city 
and to YOUR state. rs 

The Lippard-Stewart Motor 
Truck for any civic use, is a quality 
purchase. 

Whether used for fire, police, 
public service or any other pur- 
pose, the Lippard-Stewart gives to 
the taxpayer the same dollar-for 
dollar value in service that is 
demanded and received by the 
successful business house. 

To have established this repu- 
tation is proof positive that the 
Lippard-Stewart is built right. 

Competitive tests, made by cities, 
by states, and by the National 
Government, establishes this proof 
beyond question. 

Let us send you the figures. 


1b: e 
President 


Lippard-Stewart Motor Car Co. 
228 W. Utica St., Buffalo, N. Y. 


Motor Trucks Exclusively — 12-ton, 
34-ton, 1-ton, 1'4-ton, 2-ton 





please mention Tue American Ciry. 
































Mar.,1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 


a guard against the operator’s idling, but gives 
data for calculating the water consumption per 
square yard for different kinds of pavements 
under different conditions, etc. The chassis of 
the machine can be used to carry any type of 
body for general utility hauling. 

On the last page of the pamphlet referred t 
is shown a view of the combination chemical 
and hose wagon manufactured by this company. 

+ 


Equipping Playgrounds for 1916 
Orders for playground apparatus have re- 
cently been received by Howard George, of 
Philadelphia, from the cities of Wilmington 
ind Goldsboro, N. C., Columbia, S. C., and 
Meriden, Conn. The Board of Education of 
Philadelphia has awarded its entire contract 
for playground apparatus for 1916 to this 


nanufacturer. 
+ + 


Fire Protection Through Steel Sash 
The accompanying photograph shows the 
ght against the roaring fire which destroyed 

the Graves Building in Cleveland last October. 

Across an 8-foot alleyway stood the Sincere 

Building, a wall of which, facing the fire, con- 

sisted principally of large windows of United 

Steel sash with wire glass. The intense heat 

could make no headway against these win- 

dows; the wire glass of course was cracked 
and shivered, but the panes were all left intact 
and no flames could break through the win- 
dows. Realizing the vantage point presented 
by the Sincere Building, the firemen dragged 





FIGHTING. A GREAT FIRE 











313 
their hose up its stairways, broke holes through 
the wire glass, directed streams of water into 
the blazing Graves Building, and were thus 
enabled to work effectively in brit g tl re 
under control. Only the walls of the Graves 
Building remained standing, the loss being 
more than $100,000. The Sincere Building was 
practically undamaged except for the nominal 
loss due to the broken window panes and water 
damage. The United Steel sash uss n this 
building were furnished by the Trussed C 
crete Steel Company, of Youngstow1 

+ + 

Philadelphia’s New Motor Apparatus 

On page 250 of this issue given a phot 
graph of the Type CD combinat 
and hose truck recently delivered to the fir 
department of Philadelphia by Ja joyd & 
Brother of that city Chis is the 1y's 
new worm-drive type of motor fir pparatus 
One more of these trucks is being It f 
Philadelphia, as well as five tractors, six aerials 


ty service trucks of the sa make 
+ + 
A Change of Name 


It is announced that the American Coal 
Products Company and the Barrett Manufac- 
turing Company have decided to unite the good 
will and high reputation of both concerns 
under the name of The Barrett Company 

The American Coal Products Company is 
well known in connection with the sale of sul- 
phate of ammonia, and heretofore owned the 
stock of the Barrett Manufacturing C any 
Che fact that all the coal-tar chemicals. dis- 


} 
nd two ci 


infectants, roofing, waterproofing, road-makin 


g 
and wood preserving materials have been made 
and widely advertised in the name of the Bar 
rett Manufacturing Company has added im- 
mensely to the good will attached to the B 

rett name. This increase, however, has not 


been connected in the minds of the general 


public with the securities of the American Coal 
Products Company. The new company will 
have the same amount of stock as the ri 
can Coal Products Company, and the change it 





name will be accomplished by exchang 

outstanding certificates share for share 
Some of the widely advertised trade-n 

of the Barrett Manufacturing Compar 





be recognized in Barrett Specification R 
Tarvia for roads and Congoleu } 
ering—the latter being manufactured and dis- 
tributed by The Congoleum Company depart- 
ment of The Barrett Company 

The products of the chemical department of 
The Barrett Company are receiving particular 
attention at this time, on account of the 
pean situation, and it is expected that this brancl 
of the business will be of larger importance 
hereafter, as the advantage of an Amer 
source of supply will doubtless appeal to users 
of these products in this country. The Barrett 


Company in this department has produced for 
many years pure (natural) carbol 
cresylic acid, refined naphthaline (in various 
forms), benzol, toluol, etc., in iditi 
which it also now manufactures 
quantities of synthetic carbolic acid (phenol) 








THE AMERICAN CITY 
































































GOES YOUR 
STREET-GLEANING GOST! 


Just the minute you put on the Baker Pick-up Sweeper and do 
away with your push broom crew, your street-cleaning cost will 
take a quick and decided drop. Here is a sweeper that, after 
moistening the litter, picks it up—without filling the country 
with dust—and deposits it in moist piles 500 feet apart. 


With the 


DUSTLESS PICK-UP SWEEPER 


you need no push broom crew—and your pick-up wagon makes only 10 
stops to the mile. This sweeper cuts great holes in what your taxpayers 
kick about. 





The new model is even better than ever—Hyatt Roller Bearings—new 
pressure and speed adjustments—friction-eliminating improvements, etc. 
Send for catalog. We also make a powerful motor-driven sweeper. 


THE BAKER MANUFACTURING CO. 
503 Stanford Ave., Springfield, Ills. 
BAKER-BARRON, Inc., 22! West Broadway. N.Y. C. 


§1 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 




















FROM 


MAR., 1916 NEWS 


THE STUDEBAKER SCHOOL BUS 


For Transporting Children to School 


The school bus, manufactured by Studebaker, 
South Bend, Ind., is built to meet the require- 
ments of state and government laws. It is a 
comfortable vehicle for the children and offers 
the widest margin of safety and stability. It is 
built close to the ground for safety. The 
driver sits with the children in an enclosed 
vestibule in front with doors on each side, so 
that he can get out quickly on either side 
There is ample seating capacity for 20 to 24 
children, and the driver has an _ individual 
folding seat of his own. When desired, a 
heater can be installed in the vehicle. The 
cushions are removable and easily cleaned, and 
the bus is so constructed that it can always be 
kept in a sanitary condition. 

The glass-side wagon has special ventilators 


ENGINEERS 





AND MANUFACTURERS 315 


in the front and rear 
center sashes on the sid 
they open like transon 
wagon has a one-piece ct 
rod in the bottom, which assures its always 
being smooth at d fitting snugly to the body 
At the front end of the curtain is a wind-proof 
shield, which, when lowered, makes the vehicle 
practically storm-proof and wind-proof 

The manfacturers are glad to furnish infor- 
mation to school boards either by letter or by 
representative. 





+ ¢ 


Reports on City Landscape Work 


Rich & Putnam, of Syracuse, N. Y., a firm 
doing landscape and city forestry work, have 
just completed a “Tree Census and Park Re 
port” for Liberty, N. Y. 

This census and report gives in detail condi- 
tions of the trees and parks with recommenda 
tions for treatment. The proper species of 
trees to be planted as well as the numbe 
needed, and their location with regard to the 
curbs and walks are also specified. Recom- 
mendations are made for the embellishment of 
nunicipal and private property and the devel- 

pment of a public park. 

[his firm has recently made similar reports 
for Perry and Cortland, N. Y. 


+ + 
The White Way in a Louisiana City 


The scene shown in the accompanying pic 
ture is the Court-House Square at Shreveport, 
La., a city of about 40,000 people. Mr. Kahn, the 
Commissioner of Public Utilities, is an untiring 
worker, and his personality and rseverance 
are accomplishing excellent results. One of 
his recent tasks has been the securing of a 
modern White Way. In addition to those on 
the Court-House Square, eight poles have been 
installed on the block of the Kansas City 
Southern depot Further appropriations are 
being sought for the extension of Shr ireveport’s 
White Way through the entire business dis- 
trict. The standards selected are King De 
Lux No. 105, manufactured by the King 
Foundry Company, at St. Joseph, M 





THE LIGHTING ON COURT-HOUSE SQUARE, SHREVEPORT, LA 





















THE AMERICAN CITY 


Pentel 


STAN 











~" Swing as High 
as You Like 


The children are safe on 
EVERWEAR swings. They 
are built with an eye single 
to safety. 


An all-steel galvanized product throughout, specially designed 
for the wear and tear of outdoor use. All detail of bearings, con- 


nections, etc., have been worked out to the highest standard of 
perfection. 


Take an X-ray look at the roller bearings by which these 
swings are mounted. We give you an “inside” view. As the 
swing sets this in motion, you notice what happens to the clamp? 
The bearings ROLL—they obviate friction—they increase the 
enjoyment of the device and prolong the life of EVERWEAR 
apparatus. This is just one of the so-called “little things”’ to 
which we have given careful attention like all the rest. 


EVERWEAR swings are equipped with malleable frame 
fittings and drop forged steel parts for bearings. Built in standard 


sets of 6, 9, or 12 swings to the Outfit. Special designs built to 
order. 


A full line of the latest 
and approved playground 
apparatus shown in Catalog 
C-3 which will be sent on 
request. 


The EVERWEAR 
MFG. CO. 


Springfield, Ohio 











62 








When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae Amesrican City. 























Mar., 1916 


NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 317 














THE TREE, THE 


How the Community Christmas Tree 
Came to San Francisco 

When San Francisco’s municipal Christmas 
tree took its long journey from the snowclad 
Hetch Hetchy valley, where it was cut, to the 
metropolis, a GMC motor truck and a Troy 


trailer were used to bring the 65-foot tree 
lown from the mountains. The tree was set 
up in the rotunda of the new City Hall 
Francis McMullin, a reporter for the San 


Francisco Bulletin, who accompanied the tree 
from Groveland, where the truck met the team 
which brought the tree from Hetch Hetchy, 
had only words of praise for the performance 
of the truck and its driver, H. S. Dee, of the 
Don Lee agency in San Francisco. Dee did 
ill the driving through the rain and sleet and 
biting winds. At times the mud was up to the 
hubs of the truck, at others the 

frozen, and at still other places the steep 
grades were almost impassable on account of 
tl conditions. It took than 


roads were 


he weather more 
half a day to transfer the great tree from the 
wagon to the truck. A big tripod was erected 





TRUCK AND THE TRAILER 


over the wagon, and then th W ced 
up and swung over the truck and tr r and 
lowered onto them. 


+ + 
For the Children’s Recreation 


The portable slides made by the Giant Man 
ufacturing Company, of Council Bluffs, Iowa, 





are well adapted for playground or school 
use where frequent moving is advisable Phe 
change of position in yard or building is 
easily accomplished: the braces near the 


ground unhook from the supports, which al 


lows the stairway and braces to fold up un 
der the slide: when folds d, the sli 1 nd the 
stairway are automatically detached, and then 


one person can easily move the slice Red 
enamel is used for painting thes« 
Rock maple is used for the sides, and special 
galvanized steel is used for the bottoms. The 





edges are veneered with rock maple 1 fin 
ished to an oval. These and other products 
of the company are described and illustrated 


in its Catalog No. 14 

















FUN ON THE 


GIANT 


PORTABLE SLIDES 








THE AMERICAN CITY 


MUNICIPAL 
SIGNS 


OF EVERY CHARACTER 
FOR EVERY PURPOSE 


% GUARANTEED 


: PORCELAIN 
ENAMELED 
IRON 


SIGNS 


‘‘BALTO” Guaranteed Porcelain Enameled Iron Signs 
stand alone in their field—the one and only one absolutely 
dependable sign product. 


These signs are made of the finest grade of vitreous Porcelain Enamel 
fused on specially processed iron at a temperature of 1600 degrees Fah- 
renheit—each color separately fused. 


‘*‘BALTO”’ Signs, exclusively, are fitted with 
non-corrosive metal sleeve eyelets—this 
feature protects the enamel at this point 
and adds another: distinctive element of 
finish to our signs. 







































We produce every possible character of municipal 
signs—any size, shape, color combination or design. 
—— obligation our Service Department will 

leased to submit sketches and quotations. 
Ee itionally, we will send FREE, at our expense, 
to any authorized purchasing official or bod 
useful and attractive sample of finished Fovesiala 
Enameled Iron. Write Department C. 


The Baltimore Enamel & Novelty Co. 


BALTIMORE, MARYLAND | Fines, ee 


_Q 28. Ri 


OK? 
wh y. — ok, NOISES) YZ 















PROHIBITED © (7 <M 


~ 


Me 


53 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tas American Crry. 


























« 


ply & 9 




















THE TARRANT OIL DISTRIBUTOR AT WORK 


A New Oil Distributor 


The new pressure distributing machine, 
which has recently been put on the market by 
the Tarrant Manufacturing Company, of Sara- 
toga Springs, N. Y., is shown in the accom- 
panying photograph. This machine has an oil 
capacity of 200 gallons, and is fitted with a 
two-cylinder steam compres- 
sor. After exhaustive tests, 


thin in pouring this small quantity of oil, there 
are no breaks, and the distribution could not be 
more even. -. 


Smoothing Roads 


The road plane made by Angus McCallum, 
of Pontiac, Mich., herewith illustrated, is 





maintained all last summer, 
it has proved itself of first 
excellence as a small-capa- 
city machine for construc- 
tion work. The photograph 
shows the machine applying 
a squeegee coat of one-half 
gallon to the yard. It will 
be noticed that the alternate 
distributing nozzles are 
plugged off. The results 
obtained by applying this 
light top coat are satisfac- 
tory; every inch of the 8 
feet covered by the dis- 
tributor is being thoroughly 
coated, as each spray over- 
laps the next. While the 

















spray is of necessity very 


THE McCALLUM ROAD PLANE IN USE 








THE AMERICAN CITY 











The Margin of Safety 


Wherever there is an expansion joint in this magnificent 
concrete viaduct at Cincinnati, there is 


CARE-Y 






EXPANSION 


JOINT 


Not merely a crack full of poured asphalt, but a firm, 
substantial slab of asphalt compound compressed between 
two layers of asphalt felt, making a perfect bond between the 
units of the construction, and expanding or contracting in 
complete synchronism with the changes in the concrete. 


ELASTITE absolutely prevents opening of cracks, or 
buckling of slabs or paving blocks, insures a better job, a 
saving of time and of money, and freedom from come-backs 
under the provisions of the maintenance bond. 


Write for sample and literature to 


THE PHILIP CAREY COMPANY 


8 Wayne Avenue, Lockland, CINCINNATI, OHIO 





54 





When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae American City. 























Mar.,1916 NEWS 


USING BLAW CURB AND GUTTER 
adapted for the care and maintenance of 
gravel and earth roads. It can be adjusted 


by a lever which deflects the rear blade and 
controls the depth of the cutting blade in the 
center, thus eliminating road-waves, chuck 
holes and ruts, and leaving a smooth surface 
to shed water. The plane works automatically. 
It is 10 feet long, 5 feet wide, weighs 400 
pounds, and is drawn by two horses. The 
plane shown in the picture is a double one, sold 
to Henry Ford, of Detroit. It has a reverse 
cutting blade in the center, which works the 
loosened material toward the middle of the 
road. It is drawn by a tractor, and will go 15 
or 20 miles in a day, planing 11 feet in width 
at one operation. 


¢ + 


Cement Association Moves to Chicago 


A news item of particular interest to high- 
way officials, engineers and others concerned in 
the betterment of public highways is to the 
effect that Mr. A. N. Johnson, recently with the 
Bureau of Municipal Research, New York 
City, has accepted the position of consulting 
highway engineer for the Association of 
American Portland Cement Manufacturers. 
The headquarters of the Association have been 
removed from Philadelphia to Chicago, where 
offices have been established at 111 West 
Washington Street. 


FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 





FORMS IN MORGANTOWN, W. VA 


Steel Forms for Roads and Curbs 


The photograph on this page shows curved 
and straight curb-and-gutte I 
Morgantown, W. Va., where 
were satisfactorily used. 


r construction in 
Blaw steel forms 
This is one of the 


illustrations in Bulletin 69 published by the 
Blaw Steel Construction Company, of Pitts- 
burgh, Pa., which presents much interesting in- 
formation and some telling testimonials as to 
the effective use of this company’s forms for 
road, curb, curb-and-gutter and sidewalk c 
struction. Some of the distinctive features are 
as follows: the Blaw universal side rail (the 
same rail for every purpose) ; the quick-acting 
patented slip-joint connection; curb « 


ynstruc- 
tion of any height by bolting rails one on top of 
the other; flexible and radius rails for curves 


+ + 


Improvement in Diaphragm Pumps 


For many years contractors and others have 
been compelled to use the ordinary diaphragm 
pump, which, operated by hand labor, and with 
its loose connections and quickly wearing’ parts, 
was expensive and inefficient. With the 
adaption of the diaphragm pump to use with 
a gasoline engine it became necessary to 
strengthen and otherwise improve the- pump in 
order that it might give service in step with 








THE AMERICAN CITY 








MOTT LAMP POSTS 


STANDARDS OF MERIT 





Special Designs of Lighting Standards 
For Type C Lamps 


LAMP POSTS FOR ALL REQUIREMENTS 


FOUNTAINS 
Display and Drinking 
For PUBLIC SQUARES, PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS, Etc. 


ENTRANCE GATES, RAILINGS, SETEES 





CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION 


THE J.L.MOTT IRON WORKS 


Fifth Avenue and 17th Street, New York 











Light Your Streets , 
Wit, This lasing ula PROTECT YOUR 


Lamp for 30 Days | POLICE 
SIGNAL SYSTEM 





‘Mayor— 
Aldermen—Merchants! 


This is an absolutely Free offer—with no strings 
tied to it. We will ship one of the famous Acorn 
Boulevard Arc Street Lamps (2000 candle Power) 
to your town for 30 Days’ Free Trial 

These lamps are in use in hundreds of towns. 
Giving greatest satisfaction everywhere. Actually 
give better light than gas, naphtha, acetylene or 
electricity 

Get one. Try it 30 days without any obliga- 
tion tous. Check its actual lighting cost. Prove 
to yourself that it always gives satisfactory light 
even in worst wind, hail, rain and snow storms 
Note how its self-extinguishing device always works 
at correct hour. 














USE 
SIMPLEX 
STEEL TAPED 
WIRES AND CABLES 





Let us prove its superiority atourrisk. Remem- 
ber,you pay nothing to us for the Thirty Days’ Free 
lrial. Send today for full description and Special 

Introductory Offer 
ACORN BRASS MFG, CO, 
1141 Acorn Bidg., 
Chicago 


Free Booklet 


SIMPLEX Wine «CABLE @ 










y~Xale) ae 





MANUFACTURERS 
steltlich scl ue mes at 201 DEVONSHIRE ST. BOSTON 
. a i CHICAGO SAN FRANCISCO \i 
Street Lamp 161 








55 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American Crry. 








aten eI: 


- fae 








Mar.,1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 323 


, 


—————— > 


esas aye 






A E74 valve 


‘Doree sri 
Neo. ¢ OPEN DIAPARAGH) Pil/ TP 
Were 2177 Perret veve Tree 


the engine. Wear and tear was excessive: the 
pump splashed badly, and the combination 
caused more or less trouble at critical times. 

The manufacturers of the Atlantic pumping 
engine gave early heed to the demand for an 
improvement, and determined to produce a 
pump that should compare favorably with the 
Atlantic engine in durability, efficiency and 
economy. The result was a new top head, 
shown in the illustration, which eliminates the 
objections to an engine-driven diaphragm 
pump, and gives a decided increase in the ca- 
pacity of the pump. The advantages which 
users of diaphragm pumps will appreciate may 
be listed as follows: 

Capacity ot pump increased more than one-half 

Annoyance of splashing water eliminated 

Positive piston stroke to diaphragm, prolonging life 
of diaphragm materially and giving full and regular 
length of stroke 

Rigid fulcrum on pump, avoiding breakage of bolt 
connection 

Improved waterway, increasing flow of water to 
pump, reducing friction and insuring a perfect valve 
seat 

A full descriptive catalogue may be obtained 
by addressing the manufacturers, the Harold 
L. Bond Company, 383 West Atlantic Avenue, 
Boston, Mass. 


———— ee oe 


a 


2872 No.4 Diaphragm 





SUCTION VALVE 


7 A Step Toward Lower Tire 
’zx Prices for Municipal 
“=~ Motor Trucks 


“Truck operators everywhere, we 
feel, can exert a marked influence to- 
ward the ultimate end of reduced 
solid tire prices,” declares S. V. Nor- 
ton, manager of truck tire sales for 
the B. F. Goodrich Company, Akron 
Ohio, “by supporting the movement 
for a reduction in the number of 

standard S. \ | wheel 


2850 a diameter sizes. Instead of 


six different wheel diam 
eters—32 inches, = oe) ches. 
20 inches, 40 inches and 
inches—these to be had in 
seven different widths, mak- 
ing forty-two different sizes, 
half this number is amply 
sufficient to answer the ser- 
vice demands of any form 
or make of commercial motor vehicles. With 
only three standard diameters—34 inches, 36 
inches and 40 inches—to be provided, manufac- 
turing and selling costs will be reduced, and the 
net result will prove greatly to the advantage 
of the ultimate consumer.” 

The Society of Automobile Engineers has 
already revised its original standards of IgI1 
to provide for only these diameters. A vigor- 
ous campaign is now on to influence all truck 
manufacturers to put into practice this recom- 
mendation for fewer diameters. Probably oo 
per cent of the tires applied to newly-manufac 
tured trucks are of 36-inch and 40-inch diam- 
eters, while the 34-inch size is included to take 
care of trucks whose design requires a smaller 
wheel. 

“By simplified manufacturing processes.” 
says Mr. Norton, “tire costs are bound to de- 
crease in proportion as fewer molds and less 
special tire-building machinery is required 
Moreover, it is far more economical, in point 
of capital invested, for the manufacturer to 
stock only twelve or fourteen sizes, and de- 
cidedly more convenient than to continue as at 
present keeping on hand from thirty to — 
different sizes in all distributing centers. Wi 
fewer wheel sizes, it is easy to chang: com 


sre rre 


an unsatisfactory make to one that promise: 


100 per cent efficiencv.” 








A selected a of Games, So 


of. 








Books on Physical Training and Games 
ILLIAM A. STECHER, B S. G. 
Director of Physical Education Public Schools of Philadelphia, Pa. 


The Theory and Practice of Educational Gymnastics 


8 vo., Cloth, (6 x 9 in.) 194 Pages, with 174 Illustrations. Net $1.50 


GAMES & DANCES 


ng-Games and Dances suitable for Schools, Play- 


ds, Gy hasstiathene. Boys’ and Girls’ Clubs, etc. 
 Syo cloth. Price, net, $1.25; by mail, $1.37 


AC Guide to Track and Field Work, Contests and Kindred Activities 


8vo. 48 Pages, Mustrated, Paper, Net 50 cents 


JOHN JOS. McVEY, PuBLISHER, 1229 ARCH STREET, PHILADELPHIA, PA. 





























THE AMERICAN CITY 





1916 Iroquois Portable Asphalt Plant 





Rollers Increased 
Tandem and Capacity, 
Macadam Convenience, 
Heating Economy 
Kettles 

Write for 
Surfaces Special 
Heaters. Bulletin 














The Barber Asphalt Paving Company 
Iroquois Works Buffalo, New York 

















Municipal electric light and water- 
works installations driven by oil 
engines, producer gas or natural 
gas up to 400 H.P. 


Trench pumps, hoisting outfits, 
engines for mechanical ventilation, 
small electric light plants for school 


buildings, etc., 14 to 12 H.P. 


“THE FOOS GAS & 
rate ¥ ae, pe 


56 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 


Re 


