November, 1916 
: Year 











CITY HALL TOWER, PHILADELPHIA; ILLUMINATED BY 
FLOOD LIGHTING PROJECTORS 














THE 





ey 





*‘Not the name of a thing, 





From the incoming host 
of new ideas on light- 
ing, MAZDA Service se- 
lect ts for the makers of 
MAZDA Lamps, only 
those developments in 
design, materials and 
methods that will im- 
provethe light you enjoy 





MAZDA is the trademark of a world-wide service to certain lamp 
manufacturers. Its purpose is to collect and select scientific and 
practical information concerning progress and developme 
the art of incandescent lamp manufacturing and to distribute this 
Gaformation to the companies entitled to receive this Service 


‘ats im 


AMERIC 


AN CITY 


LDA | 





The Meaning of MAZDA 





but the mark of a service’ 








MAZDA Service is centered in the Research Laboratories of the 
General Electric Company at Schenectady, New York. The 
mark MAZDA can appear only on lamps whichmeet the standards 
of MAZDA Service. It is thus an assurance of quality. This 
trademark is the property of the General Electric Company. 





6B RESEARCH LABORATORIES OF GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY 





4641 


When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American Cry. 














VOLUME XV 


NUMBER 5 














NEW YORK 
NOVEMBER, 
1916 























The Municipal University 


Its Origin and Its Growth—Its Theory and Its Purpose—Its Actual Workings 


By Carl Holliday 


Professor of English, University of Montana, Missoula 


1.—Its Origin and Its Growth 

66 HE municipal university—the one 

thing needed to complete our 

American system of higher edu- 
cation.” So declares President Charles W. 
Dabney, of the University of Cincinnati, 
the leading city university of the world. 
His words are approved by many of the 
most prominent educators of America. Dr. 
J. McKeen Cattell, the Columbia scientist 
and editor of Science, and of School and 
Society, and several other educational jour- 
nals, expresses the belief that this “will 
probably be the most important movement 
of higher education in the next generation” ; 
while the U. S. Commissioner of Education, 
P. P. Claxton, looking into the near future, 
prophesies: “Probably within a quarter of 
a century most cities of 200,000 or over, 
and some even smaller, will have such in- 
stitutions at the head of their system of 
education, organizing all other agencies, 
directing their energies, and inspiring the 
people to strive for higher and better 
things.” 

Perhaps the first intimation, even to 
many educators of rank, of the genuine im- 
portance of this new effort in popular edu- 
cation came with the announcement in No 
vember, 1914, that a meeting of presidents 
of city colleges and universities had been 
held at Washington, and an Association of 
Urban Universities formed. Then for the 
first time many a college professor began 
really to understand what it means to 


vitalize education. For the municipal uni- 
versity is destined to become the social and 
economic dynamo of vast concentrated 
masses of our population. It has been rec- 
ognized for a long time that the city is in 
need of scientific construction and recon 
struction, and that this requires intelligent 
responsible, skillful leadership, but this 
open recognition of the university's duty to 
the general city public is a thing of the last 
three decades. Probably originating in the 
university extension work of some daring 
institutions, it resolved itself into the 
theory that if the people cannot come to the 
college the college must come to the people. 
To-day it is being realized that this princi- 
ple can be most thoroly followed in the 
relationships between the city and its mu- 
nicipally owned university. 

The city is the logical site for a great 
school. Colleges in villages and towns are 
not generally prospering. The old-fash- 
ioned theory of keeping boys away from 
“the temptations of the great city’ has 
proved fallacious; for, as some wiseacre 
has said, “God made the country, and man 
made the city, but the devil made the small 
town.” The city is in itself largely a uni 
versity. It uffords libraries, museums, hos- 
pitals, asylums, art galleries, great indus- 
tries, experts in every field, and such va- 
ried types of society that it is in itself a 
vast experimental social laboratory. Here 
is opportunity to learn all things, save pos- 
sibly agriculture, through actual observa- 














AMERICAN CITY 


VoL. XV, No 5 














) experi t natur t 

1 lit yin to Set t 
( lity ae 5s ow ( 

{ { 

\\ thi the des (Gi 

ities ey ( < the eed I 
oC 1K Cl eves, vhe ess 
theory and mor technical training 

ght be resente l the great st 
sche ul yubtles the r | not 
( er ( shi 0 lay ne 9 

wut these ’ epartures 

German higher edu ‘ ( 
ment of the ¢ ersity has be r 

1 le i ip. 1 (reat Brita 
Tineke seems evident that the mtinicy al 
niversity idea is likely to develop into 
Vor e movement (Jriginating the 
United States as early as 1837 with thi 
founding of the Coll o of Charlest 
the | niversity of | isville. it practically 
lav dormant until withn the last hitee1 
vears, when it suddenly began—pr 
thru the example of the University of 
Cincinnati—to devel surprising momet! 
tum. It is true that several municipal col 
leges opened between 1837 and 1900 uch 


1 


as the College 


1847, the University of 


New 
Cincinnati 


Poledo in 1884; but it 


it 


York in 


in 1870, 


of the City of 
and the University of 


was not until the beginning of the present 
true function and the high 
this 


dawned upon the municipal mind. 


century that the 


importance of new type of coll oe 


Only two institutions in America were 


; 


founded as 


municipal 
Colle ge ol 
the University 


originally genuine 
universities—the 


New \Y ork, and 


college s and 


the City of 





of Louisville; but others established on pri- 
ate endowments have been taken over by 
cities until all 


sides the 


mentioned, be 
\kron, established 
Hunter College, New York 
City, are bona fide municipal; while the fol 


those just 
University of 
in IO13, and 
lowing institutions, controlled and financed 


vy the municipality because of their city 


U. S. 


college 


normal work, are recognized by the 
Education as of 
Normal School; 
College, St. Louis; 


Holton, Kan 


Department of 


rank ( hicago Harris 


l¢ ache rs’ 


1 4 
I 


and Camp- 


Lollege, 


Evidently the idea is contagious, fot 
within the last five years a number of the 
larger universities of America have as- 


sumed a semi-municipal character that bids 
to transtorm them into mu 
nicipally owned institutions 
lately 
- ! louse i held 
municipal employes, and held 
Municipal Building. Nearly 
workmen are enrolled in such im- 


fair ultimately 
For instance, 
New York University inaugurated 
SSCS ror 
sl 4} 
hem in He 
x 0 city 
mediately applicable courses as accounting, 
} 


1cIn7) 
HDUSTTICSS 


New 


English, and the government of 
York City. Another effort in 
c pal cooperation is 


muni- 
found in the highly 
valuable investigations in city affairs now 
being conducted by graduate students, and 
in the graduate seminar held in the Muni- 
cipal Building, where city records are al- 
near at hand. Again, in 1914 the 
established the so-called 
House, an institution where 

with voters and political 
come into direct touch with 
political efforts of a non-partisan nature 
each week the director of the House 


Ways 
University Gov- 
ernment stu- 
mingle 


and 


dents 


workers 


(nee 








kai 


ee 


ad 


ea 










































NOVEMBER, I916 THE AMER] 


holds a seminar dealing with some phas« 
of city administration, and on some other 
night in the week each student takes charg« 
of a club meeting somewhere in the city 
and directs the discussions of young vote1 
and prospective citizens 
Likewise, the University of Pittsburg 

while not a municipal institution, certainly 
approaches the type in its cooperativ 
work. It has indeed received money from 
the city for special purposes, and has aided 
in numerous civic movements Phi 


iepartment spe 


dents in the engineering 
one term of eleven weeks of each school 
year in Pittsburgh factories; the students 
of sanitary engineering work with the city 
health department the school of mines re v 


larly sends instructors to neighboring 


mining towns to conduct classes: the ce 
irtment f economics reaches over 60 
daily thru its extension courses in busi 


ness law, insurance, real estate 


counting: and the directors of the obser 


tory otter lectures free t the public evet 
ight during much of the year. Pro 
the most practical work of all is that don 


the Mellon Institute of Industrial R« 
search, associated with the Univers 
institute which by means of its fellows! 


rovided by Pittsburgh industries, investi 


It is apparent that the munici 
sity movement is no mere passil 
has come Oo Stay sumerous larg 
re inquiring into the possibilities o 
state codes are undergoing exan 


} - 
see Now tar a city may go th 




















ENGINEERING BUILDING OF THI SIVERS ( 1 i 











<a name, mac 


498 THE AMERICAN CITY 


nicipal revenue of the city of Cincinnati, 
for example, is about $4,552,000; the Uni- 
versity, receiving only 4.85 cents on each 
dollar of this, flourishes and does mag- 
nificent work. 

Independent of the caprices of million- 
aires, free from the domination of ignorant 
and prejudiced state legislators, gaining the 
enthusiastic good will of a compact body 
of people thru its unceasing service to 
them, the city university is the most truly 
democratic form of advanced education 
known to man. Appealing to the interest 
and pride of the average working citizen, it 
rises with the rise of that citizen’s intelli 
gence, and its every effort to better his 
condition returns material rewards to itself. 
It is enriched thru its own giving; the ex- 
penditure of its own vigor but adds to its 
vitality. 


Il.—Its Theory and Its Purpose 

lhe object of any education is to render 
the truth serviceable to mankind, “In or- 
der, then,” says Dean Schneider, of the 
University of Cincinnati, “to render the 
truths of philosophy, of history, of eco 
nomics, of science surely and _ directly 
available in the day’s work, it is necessary 
to teach them to men who are also well 
trained in practice. Obviously the training 
in theory and the training in practice 
should be organized into one well-balanced, 
coordinated, centrally directed plan.” 

What, in reality, is a municipal univer 
sity, and how does it differ from any other 
college? Let us first see what it is not 
It is not a city normal school, altho it 
may have a teachers’ coliege as one depart- 
ment. It is not a municipal textile 
school such as may be found in various 
New England towns. It is different from a 
privately endowed or state university which 
may happen to be located in a city. It is, 
in the words of President Kolbe, of the 
Municipal University of Akron, an institu- 
tion of higher learning, supported mainly 
by municipal taxation, requiring gradua- 
tion from a first-grade high school for en 
trance, and maintaining a four-year course 
in arts and letters, around which a greater 
or less number of other schools or depart- 
ments may be grouped. Its work, more- 
over, is very definitely laid out for it: (1) 
to develop intelligent and efficient citizens; 
and (2) to grant the city expert advice, 
service and cooperation. 


Vor. XV, No. 5 


To the numerous cities now contem- 
plating this educational move it will be of 
genuine profit to note the possibilities and 
actual workings of this new type of insti- 
tution. Every city has a soul, a distinctive 
personality, or else it is not a city, but a 
mere collection of people. Nothing else 
can equal the municipal college in develop- 
ing this civic mind and soul. It can stimu- 
late the intellectual, artistic and social life 
of a municipality as no other agency can. 
It tempts the citizen to use his leisure hours 
in a sane, healthy, profitable manner. In 
many cities the average laborer works but 
8 hours daily for 5% days, a total of 44 
hours out of 168 hours of the week. Grant- 
ing the citizen 56 hours for sleep, what 
does he do with the remaining 68? Here 
is where the municipal university gets in 
some effective work with its extension de- 
partment, its club meetings, its concerts 
and recitals. With its clientele a compact 
unit, it can attend to such activities far 
more efficiently and regularly than can the 
state university with its extensive territory, 
high traveling expenses and varying types 
of population. 

It is an established fact that the more 
schooling a city offers, the longer its chil- 
dren are inclined to go to school. If a 
school system has only elementary grades, 
many children quit before completing even 
these; if a high school goal be added, a far 
larger percentage complete the elementary 
grades; while if a city college be added, a 
surprising increase of high school grad- 
uates results. It is but the normal attrac- 
tion of the goal ahead. Again, it is com- 
monly believed to-day that higher education 
should be within the reach of all; but the 
state university, even with its free tuition 
and the payment of railway fare, is still an 
impossibility for the son of the average 
\merican laborer. Thus, an accurate cen- 
sus of students in the University of Cincin- 
nati has proved that of the 2,200 enrolled 
1,500 were actual residents of the city, and 
of these more than 1,000 could not possibly 
have gone away to school. Indeed, the 
parents of these students are so limited in 
finances that 40 per cent cannot own a 
home, and 45 per cent make less than $1,500 
annually. Over 85 per cent of the entire 
student body worked for a living before 
entering college, and 75 per cent are still 
earning their expenses while attending, 














er 


wie! 


* 


toes 


¢ 


ne 


NOVEMBER, 1916 


their total wages amounting to over $100,- 
ooo yearly. It is no marvel that in 1914 
only 255 students left Cincinnati to go else- 
where for a college education. 

The municipal university not only can 
| in creating the civic mind and soul, but 
an largely regulate the quality of that 
mind and soul. As Dean Burris, of the 
Colle ; 


Cincinnati, says, “The municipal university 


ge for Teachers in the University of 


is the only type of higher institution which 
can have adequate facilities for the scien- 
tific study of many of our most important 
school questions.” If, for example, an edu 
cational survey is needed, the local city 
‘ollege can do it far more intelligently, 
quickly and cheaply than can any imported 
agency. In elevating the tone of the city 
schools, the effect of the municipal uni- 
versity is surprising; the fact that Cincin- 
nati now has the highest standard of public 
schools in America is freely acknowledged 
by its citizens as due to the influence of the 
ity university. 

But perhaps the city politician or the 
manufacturer may ask, how does it help 
the city financially? Here we come to the 
most surprising departure from the con 
ventional ever seen in either the educa- 
tional or the civic field. At present the 
most important study in any university 
seems to be the problem of economics and 
sociology, and particularly is this true of 
the municipal college; for as President 
Dabney has said, “The university mind is 
becoming the city mind, and the city itself 
is becoming a university for training its 
own servants.” Therefore, the municipal 
college has taken upon itself the duty of 
analyzing the city’s needs and discovering 
ways and means of answering such needs. 
The old-fashioned college cast its theoreti 
cal bread upon the waters, hoping that it 
would finally land somewhere; the munici- 
pal university sends both its theoretical and 
practical bread in just the proper form and 
texture to the precise spot where it is im- 
mediately needed. It can save the city 
money by performing free much of the 
work now done by paid employes. 

All this seems highly and pleasingly the- 
oretical; but at the various municipal col- 
leges it is actually being done, as we shall 
now see. And all this means a new type 
of college professor. The cloister scholar 
has no place in the municipal university. 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


499 
Che new instructor must rub elbows with 
the sweaty multitude. He not only must 
have visions, but must be willing to put his 
isions into actual practice 
r . 
Ill.—Its Actual Workings 
We have noted the origin and frowth otf 
the municipal university ; we e Ss its 
raison a’. tre, its a ivantages, and its 
pose ; let us examine the actual results now 


eing obtained by three typical institutions 
of this character—the University of )- 
ledo, the University of Akron, and the U 
versity of Cincinnati 

In these institutions, as -in all the othe 
\merican municipal schools, the tendene 
toward an ever-increasing codperation be- 
tween the college and the city is most no 
ticeable. Every department of municipal 


administration becomes more and 1 


1oTe a 
university laboratory where students may 
1 


stuc 


vy the actual workings of a vast enter 
prise Che students of the U ; 
loledo, Akron and Cincinnati use daily the 
public schools as their workshops where 
their theories may be put into practice, and 
here they learn to teach by observing ex- 
perts in the act, or by taking charge of 
classes in the presence of these experts 
Che activities of the health board, police 


court, water and sewera 


ge departments, 
hospitals, asylums and city treasury become 


in the student’s eyes a part of the university 
life. In return, these cities are coming 
more and more to expect expert advice and 
actual municipal service from the college 
faculty and student body. In arranging its 
financial and educational policy the Board 
of Education feels free to call upon the ad 
ministrative experts of the university, and 
in Cincinnati the College of Education and 
in Akron the professor of Education have 
considerable part in examining and pro 
moting city school teachers, thus not only 
saving money for the city but obviating the 
old-time opportunity of gaining the job 
thru personal or political pull. In all thre« 
cities the university library becomes affili 
ated with the city library; what is of the 
city is of the university and vice versa 
while gradually the extension work spreads 
over the municipality and encourages every 
citizen to continue his education even into 
mature life 

Che University of Toledo, recognizing 
that many students cannot 


go to c 


| 


——————— 


—————— 


——————— 








on 


en tec 


500 THE AMERICAN CITY 


steadily for four years, has wisely divided 
its institutions into a junior college and a 
senior college. The first, granting the de- 
gree of Apprentice in Arts, familiarizes the 
student with his urban environment, and 
introduces to him the larger, more general 
fields of human thought. Thus, the work 
of the first two years leads him toward 
something and lands him somewhere 
which is more than the work of the liberal 
arts college generally does. The senior col- 
lege, leading to the bachelor’s degree, re- 
quires a more intensive study of problems 
of civic or scientific import, and therefore 
demands that the student select a major 
subject and one minor related to it. In ad- 
dition, he must accomplish some piece of 
investigation for the city, or perform some 
task in which many citizens will be inter- 
ested. Is not this, after all, the very idea 
of service, the very vitalizing of education, 
the very training toward citizenship that 
educators have theorized about for so 
long? 

There is not much trouble, of course, in 
the University of Toledo, or any other mu- 
nicipal college, in determining the best 
course for the student. It is largely pre- 
determined. Those studies applying most 
directly to the student's citizenship must be 
at the core of all. Thus, we find the Toledo 
faculty insisting upon the following sub- 
jects: Principles of Human Behavior, 3 
Modern Social Problems, 4 hours: Modern 
Economic and Political Problems, 4 hours: 
Historical Study of Modern European and 
American Social, Industrial and Economic 
Problems, 6 hours: Rhetoric. 5 hours; 
Modern English and American Literature, 4 


hours; University Education, 2 - hours; 


hours; Sciences, 6 hours; Physical Train- 
ing, 4 hours; Electives, 22 hours. In the 
course on Human Behavior the student dis 
cusses how he behaves and why, and his 
influence over the conduct of others. In 
University Education he discovers what 
the universities of the past and present 
have done and are endeavoring to do. In 
Modern English and American Literature 
he investigates the effect of literature on 
the individual and on society. Each of the 
required subjects is viewed from its rela- 
tionship to man as a social being and 
citizen. 


Akron pays, thru a tax levy, about 
$64,000 annually for its municipal univer- 


Vor. XV, No. 5 


sity, and gets heavy returns from the in- 
vestment; for, besides having a most excel- 
lent college at hand for training its own 
citizens, the community receives material 
aid in several fields. The city justly de- 
mands that only those students whose 
parents live in the city, or who can prove 
one year’s continuous residence at Akron, 
shall be relieved of all tuition fees. The 
child of a non-resident owning property in 
the city may receive credit toward his fees 
to the extent of the taxes actually paid in 
\kron by the non-resident during the year ; 
but otherwise the outsider pays his share of 
the expense of his education. 

The University of Akron, opened Jan- 
uary I, 1914, was formerly Buchtel Col- 
lege, under the control of the Universalists. 
In April, 1913, it was proposed to turn over 
the plant and endowment to the city to be 
used as a municipal school; in December 
the transfer was accomplished, and the uni- 
versity has flourished since as never before. 
t consists of a College of Liberal Arts, a 
College of Engineering, managed on the 
Cincinnati cooperative plan, explained 
later; a School of Home Economics; a De- 
partment of Civic Codperation, in which 
is the Bureau of City Tests, and the so- 
called combination courses with the state 
university and other institutions in agricul- ° 
ture, law and medicine. Evidently the in- 
stitution fills a real need, for 75 per cent 
of the Akron high school graduates who go 
to college at all attend the local college. 

The Department of Civic Cooperation is 
a genuine boon to the pocketbook of the 
city, for thru the Bureau of Tests the uni- 
versity attends to all chemical and physi- 
cal testing of city purchases, and all bac- 
teriological investigations for the board of 
health; thru the Bureau of Municipal 
Research, civic officials and the gen- 
eral public are supplied with information 
of civic value; and thru the Bureau of 
Industrial Chemical Research, investiga- 
tions of chemical problems for both the city 
and private industries are carried on. The 
Department of Political Science and So- 
ciology coéperates with the Bureau of Mu- 
nicipal Research, the board of health and 
the director of city charities, and the stu- 
dents of this department and the engi- 
neering school have made such accurate 
surveys of housing conditions and paving 
needs in Akron that the information is in 





















. 
’ 
4 
} 
: 
@ 
i 
a 
rs 
‘ 


ey 


ome 





NOVEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 





constant use by city officials \ lections, the ' 
stiidents organize and direct the recre schools ‘ na 
clubs of the city schools, and the muni e! intellect tivit yt 1 a | 
playgrounds are under the supervisi f rt ot ‘ 
the protessor ol physical education, wl \ 
is proposed that the inspection of ri cost of ever 
taurants, bakeries, etc., be assisted by tl nnati of each 
Wepartment ot Domestic Science ~ ised it S74 ~ 
losely related is the college work with th 935 eT ear, 1 SS S19 
city work that the student's f rth eal t little Ns 
is SO planned that he may spend ne-halt It iS at 11S 
l in college and one-half da 1 son erative 
city department; while the fifth or ¢ ate t 
vear may be spent largely in the Bur nati il ¢ 
Municipal Research. oI 9 
By far the greatest municipal ersity the tour years theor 




















in the world is that of Cincinnati \s years cooperative course, the tte 
stated earlier, it receives less than 5 pet y far the more aluable iF ) 
cent of the city revenues, and yet it is a weeks tf class work alternate vith ¢t 
genuine university with Graduate School weeks of actual shop work 

College of Liberal Arts, College of | out eleven months of the yea é 
gineering, Teachers’ College, Medical Col years More than eight g 
lege, College of Commerce, School of firms of the city codperate it 

Nursing and Health, School of Household ind the student graduates wit! é 
\rts, Kindergarten Training School, O so practical that he m ( 
servatory, Municipal Reference Bureau, to an industrial plant. He recei 
Bureau of City Tests, and affiliations with mly wages, but college credit for his rk 
numerous other schools, hospitals, libraries in a factory or mill: for a pervisor 
and public institutions of the city. Con known as a shop coordinat 

nected with its own library are the incal- graduate with thoro experience, spends 
culably valuable collections of the Ameri his mornings with classes at the univ: 

can Association for the Advancement of and his afternoons with students in the 
Science, and of the Historical and Philoso shop, watches closely the efficienc 
phical Society of Ohio. Its relations with speed of producti 


1 Of @a 1 college Worker 


according to the ability shown 
> ° 


the various schools of music, the public art credits him 








502 
and later explains the functions and pur- 
poses of the article produced by the scholar- 
apprentice. It has been called the most 
signiicant movement in all educational his- 
tory, for it fulfills every item in the theory 
of “learning by doing.” It has spread to 
numerous other schools of engineering and 
scientific study, and will in time be the 
only recognized way of gaining technical 
knowledge. 

And what else is this educational dynamo 
doing for the industrial and civic life of 
Cincinnati? Its various medical depart- 
ments serve free nearly 80,000 patients per 
year. Its orthopedic dispensary annually 
examines, treats and supplies with me- 
chanical helps many hundred cripples. Its 
psychological clinic investigates the causes 
of retardation in the city’s defective stu- 
dents, prescribes the proper studies and 
methods, and has led to the creation of a 
special public school for retarded children. 
Its teachers’ college has trained nearly 800 
of the 1,100 teachers in the city schools, 
examines applicants for positions in the 
system, recommends instructors for promo- 
tion, offers to city teachers certain courses 
which automatically lead to an increase in 
salary, and with the codperation of other 
university departments doubled the munici- 
pal school appropriation in two years, and 
raised the standard of the teachers above 
that of any other city corps of instructors 
in America. The department of Political 
Science maintains in the City Hall a most 
effective reference bureau. The depart- 
ment of Social Science codperates with the 
Juvenile Court in furnishing volunteer of- 
ficers, with the city department of Chari- 
ties and Corrections in obtaining means of 
relief, with the House of Refuge in making 
vice investigations, with the Associated 
Charities in searching out genuine needs 
and frauds, with the Anti-Tuberculosis 
League in making health surveys, with the 
Union Bethel and the Jewish settlement in 
club work and collecting statistics, with the 
Juvenile Protective Association in surveys 
of the needs and dangers of the young of 
the city, with the Council of Social Agen- 
cies in surveys of social conditions, with 
the Social Workers’ Club, the Consumers’ 
League, and a host of other organizations. 
The University performs all chemical and 
microscopic work for the city hospital; the 
students of engineering serve as acsistants 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


Vor. XV, No. 5 


in the city Engineering Department; the 
engineering instructors serve as consulting 
experts in problems of the water works, 
street car system and telephone system. 
The School of Household Arts cooperates 
with the General Hospital. The directors 
of the observatory provide declinations and 
geographical codrdinates to city surveyors 
and engineers, and offer free lectures on 
astronomy many nights in the year. The 
College of Commerce aids the Chamber of 
Commerce in making industrial surveys 
and estimates and in gathering statistics. 
The Children’s Clinic maintains several 
milk stations and sends nurses thruout the 
city to train mothers in the care of their 
babes. The department of Biology has 
charge of the city Bird Reserve and the 
School Garden and codperates with the fa- 
mous Zoological Garden. The Colleges of 
Liberal Arts and Commerce conduct night- 
classes of college rank five nights in the 
week, enroll each year over 600 students in 
such courses, and offer annually more than 
200 lectures, which are attended by thou- 
sands of citizens. At times extra-mural 
classes are also conducted in school build- 
ings and public libraries thruout the city. 

The Bureau of City Tests analyzes and 
estimates the value of all material to be 
purchased by the city, such as antiseptics, 
asphalt, cement, burlap, oils, coal, paints, 
rubber, roofing and soaps, and the firm that 
attempts to flim-flam the city of Cincinnati 
is liable to be fooled. For among the 
frauds discovered by the bureau, to the 
profit of hundreds of thousands of dollars 
to the city, are the following: paint with 
22 per cent benzine instead of turpentine ; 
carbon black paint almost entirely mineral 
graphite; bad cement; coal with 44 per cent 
ash; cylinder oil that was worthless in cold 
weather; sand of low grade; and rubber 
pump valves made entirely of vegetable 
fiber. 

Thus have we departed in these latter 
days from the academic theories of the 
Harvard and Yale that Cotton Mather and 
Jonathan Edwards knew. No more do our 
students argue the metaphysical question 
as to how many angels can dance on the 
point of a needle; they (the students) are 
busy discovering how many germs are 
dancing on the citizen’s bread and butter. 
Our colleges, in short, have turned from a 
study of heaven to an investigation of how 









ree 








ancacse hes" 








NOVEMBER, I916 





THE AMERICAN CITY 503 
long we can delay our journey there. And luable | lets 
this is well—for most of us. For the mu- ' e work 
nicipal university, with its overwhelming ok i Tees 
zeal for service, bids fair to make our cities , ~ 
beautiful, healthful and attractive enough Urban Us ver 
to tempt all earthly citizens to remain $ connected. wi h 
earthly as long as possible. It is the climax + ig hel 
of civic training in this land of cities: as - nage 
President Dabney says, “the one thing and Colles the 
needed to complete our American system — vard University, chairman of the National M 
of higher education.” 2 eS ae e 





How Kenosha is Solving Its Housing Problem 
By Alfred F. Muller 


Manager, Kenosha Homes Company 


GREAT movement for the advance- 

ment of Kenosha, Wis., and the de- 

velopment of its industries, has been 
undertaken by the Kenosha Homes Com- 
pany. Four hundred new houses are to be 
built in this city during the next year, and 
hundreds of people who have been working 
in factories without a suitable place in 
which to live, are going to be provided 
with attractive homes, which they can af- 
ford to own. 

For the last five years Kenosha has faced 
a house famine. During the year ending 
May I, 1916, the total increase in employes 
was 2,918, while the number of new houses 
built in the same period was only 245. Even 
before this increase in population there 
were not enough dwellings to properly 
house the people of the city. The increase 
has, therefore, gone where conditions were 
bad, thus making them worse. As a result, 
Kenosha has an undeniable housing prob- 
lem, and within the last few months it has 
become impossible for the average work- 
man to rent a home except at an exorbitant 
figure. Such conditions can only result in 
inefficient employes. 

Last May the Manufacturers’ Association 
determined to take the initiative in meeting 
the issue, and retained Dr. John Nolen to 
study the situation and to suggest a plan of 
action. A questionnaire was prepared and 
sent to all the local manufacturers, inquir- 
ing as to the number of workmen in need 
of better housing; the classes to be pro- 


vided for; the number of skilled and w 
skilled workers; the average rate of w 
the value of land available for buildi 
small houses; the prevailing methods of 
lending money for home building; the most 
desirable houses in demand in Kenosh 


a, 
The answers to these questions were 


etc, 


summarized and gave a clear-cut estimate 
as to the housing situation in Kenosha. 
The customary local methods of providing 
houses for sale and the financing of build 
ing operations were investigated. Definite 
information was obtained with regard to 
the open areas suitable for low cost hous- 
ing, with notes as to their character, sur- 
roundings and value, the water, gas and 
sewer connections and the transportation 
facilities. These results were shown on 
diagrammatic maps. 

The prevailing standards of workmen’s 
houses were investigated, lot and _ block 
dimensions were ascertained. Street widths, 
designs and other related questions were 
studied; maps were prepared showing the 
extent of the public utilities, their cost and 
method of assessment; state and city laws 
relating to housing were combed from the 
voluminous records of the City Clerk and 
the City Attorney, and many other details 
relating to the housing problem of Kenosha 
were isolated. Dr. Nolen’s report treated 
of the survey of conditions and made 
definite recommendations which have re- 
sulted in a remarkable undertaking. 


A round million of dollars was made 





504 THE 


available to be spent n the building oO! 
houses which were to be sold to workmen 
at reasonable prices Bids were received 


trom large outside contracting firms and 


AMER:CAN CITY 


VoL. XV, No. 5 
has been decided upon to beautify them. 

lhe method of financing these houses is 
as follows: The local banks are to supply 
5 per cent of the capital needed and to take 


/ 
{ 

















\ STREET OF NEW 


the whole problem was thoroly discussed 
with these companies. The contract for the 
building of four hundred houses was just 


about to be let to a larg 


western firm when 
the local contractors were suddenly heard 
ler-bid the 


panies by a considerable amount, and thi 


from They un outside com 


contract was, therefore, gladly given to 
local initiative. 

Land was secured at a reasonable dis- 
tance from one of the factory centers, plans 
for houses were accepted and a layout ot 
the land adopted. Each house is to be 
located on a full-size city lot, with room in 
plenty for lawn and garden, and even for a 
garage at the rear of the lot The houses 
are of the single-family detached type of 
modern frame construction and honestly 
built They 
heating systems, water, sewer, gas, and 


~ 


are equipped with modern 


bath rooms, and electric wires and fixtures 
are installed. The average cost of house 
and lot with all improvements is fixed at 
$2,500, the lot being 50x 100 in size, while 
the house accommodations are six rooms 
and bath. 
tecture were accepted, and it is planned to 
make variations in the different types so 
that every house will be essentially different 
from all the others All sorts of building 
materials, too, are to be used in the con- 
struction of the houses, and the policy of 
a liberal planting of shrubs 


About a dozen types of archi- 


trees and 


IOUSES IN KENOSHA 


. first mortgage: the Kenosha Homes Com- 
pany to supply the balance of the building 
money, 35 per cent, and to secure a second 
mortgage. The local contractors, known as 
Building Company, build the 
houses for cost plus 10 per cent 


the House 


One entire subdivision of 188 lots was se- 
cured, as well as several smaller pieces of 
property. Houses are to be placed on all 
these lots, while Kenosha men and women 
who own lots in other locations can also 
secure the building of houses on their 
property. The method of procedure in the 
latter case is simple. Application is made 
to the company, the selection of the type of 
building is made, and upon the payment of 
$i00 the house is promptly erected, to be 
paid for on easy terms, at a cost consider- 
ably less than it would be if built under 
a contract for a single house. A _ builder 
from a neighboring town has made the 
statement that these houses could not be 
duplicated in his town for less than $3,500. 

The real estate purchased by the Kenosha 
Homes Company is sold to the ultimate 
purchaser of the houses at exactly the 
price paid for it, plus the actual cost of 
installation of sewers, walks, grading of 
streets, etc. The only profit earned will be 
by the company contracting for the houses 
and by the men representing the various 
building trades who will be employed in the 
actual work. Large numbers of houses are 





ee 











t NOVEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 505 


| heing built on streets where sewers are al omes an expert ( 
ready laid, while work on new sewers is carpentry Therein . cien¢ 
progressing rapidly. There will, therefore labor situation is o1 solute De 
be no delay in giving the purchasers real shop basis, which ag esults 
: homes. ot a saving. 
Space does not permit a detailed explana \ctual work was begun « \ugus 
> tion of the organization back of the entiré ind there are now in the stage of construc 
; work. Briefly, it is the adaptation to the tion over eighty houses, of which 
ae building of houses of the Same principle 5 score are already occul ied \bo wis r 
that guide our large manufactories in thei: re employed in the constructi est 
manufacture of the raw material into the houses. Here are to be fo en exca 
finished product. In other words, Kenosha’ vating for the foundations, near! thet 
is not building houses, it is manufacturing men building the foundations, othe is 
houses. Lumber and other materials of all ng the buildings, still others shingling, 
4 kinds are bought in large quantities, there- et Labor-saving devicés, such as ditch 
z by getting wholesale prices. There are liggers, concrete mixers, etc., ar¢ course 
: several large temporary warehouses built utilized. It is the ambition of th ers 
on the job, in which there are to be found to begin a new house every day, or, in other 
hundreds of doors, windows, etc. The econ vords, shortly to turn over one house a day 
omy of wholesale construction is therel for occupancy. 
effected Phe carrying out o! this plan | r 
4 Even in the details the value of organi a busy summer and fall, and will continu 
ation is to be found. The superintendents to mean the busiest season ever known it 
of construction have completed an unusual — the building trades in Kenosha. The 
organization of carpenters, which accounts tive of the Kenosha Homes | 
in a great degree for the extremely low building four hundred houses has given ti 
cost of the dwellings. The carpenters are the builders of Kenosha just the « or 
not allowed to work first on one part of ment that was needed \s a result, 
the building, then on another, but each man houses are to-day being built by other c 
is kept at one special detail of construction panies to every one put up by the Home 
‘ \ number, for instance, do nothing but Company lhe result is tl he ( 
raise the structure, others shingle roofs vork for every man connected | ( 
and others hang doors. When these met building trades in Kenosha for th 
1 
| ) 
| | 
| | 
‘ 
: 
j | 
3 
: 
4 
§ 








\ NEARER VIEW OF SOME OF THE HOUSES 


have completed a job in one house, without year at least, but the bigger result will b 
further instruction they move on to the next that homes will be provided on easy terms 
house, and do the same work. In this way for every Kenosha workman who h 
there is no lost motion and every man be- proved worthy. 

















oo 


Tc acS initia 








506 


Playgrounds in Parks from the Designer’s 
Standpoint* 
By Frederick Law Olmsted 


NY question about playgrounds in 
parks from the standpoint of the 
designer has just as many differ- 

ent answers as there are different kinds of 
parks and playgrounds. In one sense any 
land devoted to public recreation may be 
called a park, even if it is all playground 
like a baseball park; and in another con- 
nection most richly decorated public gar- 
dens or the most charming reservations of 
natural scenery, appealing to the highest 
esthetic sensibilities, may be called the 
“people's playgrounds.” 

But | suppose the question to be dis- 
cussed has to do, on the one hand, with 
those playgrounds which are adapted to 
active athletic play by many persons con- 
centrated upon a limited area and charac- 
terized by a good deal of bare ground and 
other features not generally desired as parts 
of a beautiful landscape; and, on the other 
hand, with parks which are valuable chiefly 
for their beauty, whether of natural land- 
scape or of formal gardening or otherwise. 
Even with these limitations, no hard and 
fast rules can be laid down, such as the 
American Association of Park Superinten- 
dents might adopt to express its opinion 
that certain things ought always to be done 
and certain other things ought never to be 
done Individual circumstances are so 
variant that rules are certain to be mislead- 
ing, and we must fall back upon the much 
more troublesome method of trying to get 
at the principles lying back of any such 
rules 

I want to call attention first to two im- 
portant principles much broader in their 
application than the entire subject of public 
recreation facilities. Both are sound, but 
either is apt to be misleading if the other is 
forgotten, because they are complementary 
to each other. The first principle is sug- 
gested by the familiar saying about killing 
two birds with one stone. 


Intensive Use of Public Property 


If a given piece of public property can be 


* Written for the meeting of the American Asso- 
ciation of Park Superintendents, at New Orleans, 
October, 1916. 


used effectively for two or more purposes, 
it ought to be so used rather than to with- 
draw a second piece of property from other 
use or forego the accomplishment of one of 
the purposes. Thus it is better that school- 
houses should be used in the evening for 
various worthy purposes to which they are 
adapted than that these purposes should go 
unserved or that separate buildings should 
he erected and maintained at needless ex- 
pense to serve them while the schoolhouses 
stand idle in the evenings. Of course the 
use of the schoolhouses in the evening is 
not all clear gain. There is increased wear 
and tear, there are serious complications of 
janitor service, and there are other draw- 
backs which the school administration 
would be glad to avoid. But if these draw- 
backs mean only a somewhat increased ex- 
penditure of money and intelligent effort 
and do not in any essential way impair the 
quality or quantity of educational work 
done by the schools, the argument for the 
double use of the schoolhouses is apt to be 
unshakable. 

And, similarly, a park meadow may in 
many cases be largely used for baseball and 
other games with so little reduction of its 
effectiveness in the landscape (even tho the 
turf does become a good deal worn in 
spots) and so little reduction in the effec- 
tiveness of the baseball playing as com- 
pared with what it might be if played on 
a costly separate playground equipped ex- 
clusively for baseball, that the combination 
of playground and park becomes in these 
cases a thoroly wise one. 

Kill two birds with one stone if you can, 
but don’t take too much chance of missing 
both in the attempt. For there is to be 
borne in mind the complementary principle 
which is reflected in the saying that you 
can’t eat your cake and have it too. 

Let me illustrate by referring to the com- 
bined use of certain lands for park and 
water-supply purposes. Where water-supply 
is the prime purpose to be served in acquir- 
ing and developing a piece of land, it is 
very often possible to secure incidentally 
important means of public recreation of 














NoveMBER, 1916 


certain kinds at a very slight additional cost 
and with no impairment of the water-supply 
function whatever, thereby reducing the 
extent and cost of park facilities that need 
to be independently provided. Not infre- 
quently land acquired and policed primarily 
for park purposes may serve incidentally to 
protect the purity of a water-supply, or may 
afford rights of way for water-works or 
sites for reservoirs, with no impairment of 
its park value or even with actual increase 
of park value, thus killing two birds with 
On the other hand, there 
are some combinations of park and water- 
works functions to attempt which would 
be like trying to have your cake and eat it. 
For the park department to establish a pub- 
lic swimming beach in the distributing res- 
ervoir of the city water-supply would be 
such a case. No matter how much the peo- 
ple needed the swimming beach, and no mat- 
ter what the cost of providing it elsewhere, 
this particular combination could never be 
justified. It might be possible and expe- 
dient in a given case to give up the use of a 
reservoir for water-works purposes and 
convert it into a park lake containing a 
swimming beach; or it might be found ex- 
pedient in another case to give up a long- 
established custom of using a certain nat- 
ural park lake for swimming and boating 
and convert it into a reservoir. Either of 
these courses would be a deliberate transfer 
of a piece of property from the service of 
one function to the service of another. The 
city authorities would make up their minds 
whether it was best to eat the cake or to 
have it; whether to drink the water or swim 
in it; because it is obviously a case where 
an attempt to kill two birds with one stone 
would be foolish. 

Now the application of all this to the 
question of playgrounds in parks is: first, 
that any combination of playground and 
park functions which, under given local 
conditions, can be worked out in practice 
without hurting the park scenery and with- 
out sacrificing the quality of the playground 
is desirable on the principle of killing two 
birds with one stone; and second, that 
where the sort of playground facilities de- 
sired are incompatible with the kind of 
landscape beauty desired for park purposes, 
as is very frequently the case, there should 
not be a mere compromise, an attempt to 
eat the cake and have it. There ought 


one stone again. 


THE AMERICAN CITY 507 


rather to be a deliberate decision as to 
whether it will pay to exclude certain land 
from the park landscape and use it pri- 
marily for playground purposes. 

As a rule | think it is fair to say that 
playgrounds are more efficient in proportion 
to cost when they are scattered in numer- 
ous small recreation grounds near the peo- 
ple they are to serve, rather than when 
they are associated with the larger parks; 
but there are good arguments in favor of 
providing playground facilities in connec- 
tion with large landscape parks. Wherever 
this is done, I believe it to be a wise policy 
to so design the layout that it will be per- 
fectly evident to any intelligent observer 
that there are two distinct tracts of land, 
a playground and an adjacent landscape 
park, not a utilitarian and relatively un- 
lovely playground in a landscape park. 

Never put anything im a park primarily 
devoted to beauty of scenery which does 
not upon the whole contribute, directly or 
indirectly, to the public enjoyment of that 
particular kind of scenery. If for reasons 
which are clearly convincing, some such 
thing, incongruous with the scenery, must 
be placed on land which has been a part of 
such a park, there should be a definite de- 
cision to withdraw either a portion or the 
whole of the park from service as primar- 
ily a place of scenic beauty, and to devote 
the land so withdrawn primarily to certain 
utilitarian purposes, retaining only such 
beauty of scenery as is compatible with the 
efhcient accomplishment of those utilitarian 
ends. 


Is Beauty or Utility the Object? 
As I have said elsewhere,* in most of the 
objects with which we are concerned beauty 
is, and ought to be, an absolutely incidental 


factor. We want as much beauty in them 
as possible, but only that sort and degree 
of beauty which is compatible with a high 
degree of utilitarian efficiency. This is 
clearly the case with playgrounds, just as it 
is with reservoirs or pumping stations or 
chairs and tables. Some things, however, 
are of value wholly or primarily for their 
beauty, and if they have any direct utili- 
tarian value it is secondary and incidental. 
This is the case with a painted landscape 
and with a landscape park or an ornamen- 
tal garden. The extraordinary difficulty of 


* Landscape Architecture for January, 1914 











508 THE 
balancing artistic gain and loss against 
utilitarian gain and loss detail, and the 
anitest veighting 0 the scales in favor 
of the utilitarian side whenever this proces 
is followed, make it mportant to segregate 
harply from the vast majority of things 
those which belong to this latter class Che 
first question in regard to any one of thes 
things, valuable primarily for their nor 
utilitarian beauty, is—can we afford it? If 


not, we give it up; if it is portable we sell 


afford it: if it is real 


park, W¢ 


it to some one who can 


estate, like landscape either sel 


it or use it for something else in which the 


hbeautv-value is secondary to the use-value 


If we can afford it, we direct our efforts 
toward conserving and making available its 
beauty, and steadfastly refuse to use it for 


t beauty. We 


anything that will impair its be 
lon't cut a hole in a beautiful painting i 
order to let stove-pipe thru, merely be 


cause it is convenient to use the painting 


point where we 
We keep the 
can't aftord both 


wall covering at the 


as a 


want to put the stove 


pipe. 
painting intact, and if we 


buy Some wal 


we sell th painting and 
paper 

The importance of sticking firmly and 
even obstinately to this principle, that in 
certain lands set apart primarily for 


park 


enjovment of their beauty not/ 


AMERICAN 


PE ip Wh Vor. XV, No. § 
g must be done which impairs that en- 

depends on the fact that where 
in alteration is proposed in any beautiful 


landscape it is much easier to see and to 


state any utilitarian advantages of the 
change than it is to see and to state con- 
vincingly the artistic disadvantages. If an 


injury to the scenery is to be justified on 
the ground that it is “only a little one,” and 


that it permits the attainment of some 
iluable practical end, the same argument 
pplies to a thousand other propositions 


effect of which on the scen- 


he cumulative 
ery would be ruinous. 
lo sum up, | would say: 
First, make 
shape and orderly and as attractive in ap- 


they are 


your playgrounds as_ ship- 


pearance aS you can—wherever 
; 
placed. 


Second, 


| them as far as prac- 
facilities for other kinds of 
primarily dependent on the 
but still make that 
you without 


ine 


com 


cable with 
recreation not 
quality of the scenery; 


scenery as pleasant as can 
vaste or loss of practical efficiency. 

Third, when dealing with any piece of 
park land the prime purpose of which is to 
ve enjoyment by its beauty, do not on 
thrust into it 


so-calle 1 


account a playground 


any other “improvement” 


vhich 


will impair its beauty. 














Winter Sports in the Borough of Brooklyn 


By Raymond \V. Ingersoll 


Commissioner of Parks, Brooklyn, N. Y. 


HE winter climate of New York is too 
uncertain to permit of the most in- 
tensive use of park properties dur- 


ld season, 


ing the co Much, however, has 
been done to bring out the possibilities in 
this direction Places for coasting 
been laid out in Highland, Fort 


Prospect, Sunset, and other parks. 


have 
Greene, 
It was 
allow sleds to he 
Park. 
has been to welcome them by tens of thou- 
This followed by 
serious accidents or by any appreciable in- 


once the custom not to 


brought into Prospect Our policy 


sands. has not been 


jury to lawns or plantations. 
The principal sliding place in Prospect 


Park is about a fifth of a mile long and 


thirty feet wide. Snow is banked up along 
the edges as a provision for safety. This 
makes an ideal sliding place for children 
and it has been used considerably by adults 
in the evening. As many as six thousand 
sleds an hour have gone down this one slide. 

\ number of new neighborhood skating 
The largest 
at Highland Park, will accommodate 
thousand. the smaller 
ones are on the children’s playgrounds. At 
Dyker Beach Park a successful experiment 
was made by shutting the salt water out 
of the marsh in the fall and allowing rain 
water melted accumulate. 


places have been constructed. 
one, 


several Some of 


and snow to 


lhis has made possible a much better body 























| NOVEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 509 
4 
* 
4 
| 
COASTING PROSPECT PARK, BROOKLYN 

of ice than could be secured with the salt can be used year after year and set ith 
water. In our neighborhood skating places ery little expens n twenty-fe 

' the water is shallow and the average num time. By increasing the ( ct 
ber of days of skating during the season is vindows and by subdividing the ( 
about four times as great as on the larg: of the checks according to the s Set 
lake at Prospect Park tions of the buil g, we have be ‘ 

Prior to last winter, it had been the cus give much better service than her: 

tom to erect each year a temporary skate and to handle the crowds much bett 
house in Prospect Park, at an annual ex- nore comfortabl 
pense of from $2,500 to $3,000. The build he ten skating rinks built in tl 
ing of a new rustic house has made it pos parks and playgrounds of Brook é 
sible to avoid much of this expens« B used to capacity last winter whenever thi 
using the rustic boat house as a shelter, ice was thick enough to hold the sk 
check house and refreshment room, \ lhe depth of these ice skati @ Tint ing 

{ were enabled to use the regular boat hous« from four inches to twelve inches, accord 
for the accommodation of the rest of the ing to the grade of the surface he shal 
crowd of skaters by building a small check low water in these rinks permits skating 
house adjoining it. This check house is’ with absolutely no danger of s ( 
portable, made in interchangeable units, and dents, and affords this sport on ma lavs 

| 
*. 
L 


THD Tithe HH 
i, THLE 
- ¢ HAL: 








THE ARTIFICIAL SKATING RINK IN RED HOOK PLAYGROUND, BROOKLYN Y 








510 THE AMERICAN CITY Vor. XV, No. 5 


when it is not possible to open the lakes i the lake in one day. Occasional festivals 
Prospect Park, because of the depth of have been held at which hundreds of Chi- 
water and the scores of thousands who nese lanterns were lighted around the 
come there in one da In good skating shores of the lake, thus making a charming 


weather aS many 1( 00 persons come to hit of scenery 
i a | 








The Potosa Fountain at Dubuque, Iowa 


Hi Park Board of Dubuque, I In order to appreciate the pose of the 
was recently presented with an 1 figure and its sculptural background, one 
usual fountain for the adornment must know something of the wonderful 

of its Tackson Park he park is a wood landscape setting of the city of Dubuque. 
square located in the best residential Potosa is shown as an Indian girl in native 
trict of the city, and is an appropriate set costume standing on the shore of the Mis- 
ting for a sculpture so important t] sissippi at the foot of a beautiful ledge such 
fount s make up the background of the city. 

he central feature of the fountai the She is holding high a shell into which is 











; eae | 
— = —_ .  } ae | 


E POTOSA FOUNTAIN IN JACKSON PARK, DUBUQUE 


life-sized figure of Potosa, daughter of the falling the trickle from a spring rising 
Indian Chief Peosta and wife of the fou higher in the rocks, and from the shell 
der of the city, Julien Dubuque. The figure the water falls again into the basin at her 
is of bronze in relief set with its background _ fteet. 

into a heavy granite slab. At the foot of While possessing in the heart of town a 


1 


the slab is a basin surrounded by a high fountain so symbolical of her history and 

sranite curb, at the two ends of which are environment, Dubuque is just as apprecia- 

bubbling drinking fountains, of granite also. tive of her surrounding landscape, as is 

lhe background is a heavy mass of ever shown in her creation of a park of many 
i 


green and shrubbery. acres consisting of the sides and upper level 














> saci bee 


| 


| 
iy 





iw = 


NovEMBER, 1916 


of one of the great river bluffs to the north. 

The fountain was presented to the city by 
the family of the late Judge B. W. Lacy, in 
his memory. The general conception was 
that of the landscape architect, Phelps Wy- 


THE AMERICAN CiTY 511 


man, of Minneapolis; the bronze relief was 
by Leonard Crunelle, sculptor, of Chicago, 
and the architectural background was the 
design of A. R. Van Dyck, architect, of 
Minneapolis. 





Gifts of Land for 


N excellent way of establishing a 

public memorial is to donate to a 

city a tract of land to be used as a 

park or playground. It has frequently 

been called to the attention of THe AMertI- 

can City that such giving is becoming 

more and more customary. Within the last 

few months a number of such gifts have 
been reported. 

Garden City, Kans., recently received a 
ceift of 160 acres of land, including the 
present fair grounds and buildings, from 
George W. Finnup, a wealthy resident, in 
memory of his father, Frederick Finnup. 
The land was donated on the condition that 
it be used as a public park and playground 
and that it be supported by an annual ap- 
propriation from the city. It can be made 
fit for use as a park with but little expense. 
In donating the land to Garden City, Mr. 
Finnup was actuated by a desire to return 
some of the benefits that the community 
had conferred upon him, in helping him to 
make a considerable amount of wealth 
there. 

A similar instance of a gift of land for 
public use as a place of recreation occurred 
in Dayton, Ohio, last spring. This land is 
about two acres in extent, and was donated 
so that “tired men and women may rest 
and enjoy the outdoors.” It was given by 
Jane Edgar Heaton and Isabel Rodgers 
Heaton in memory of their father, John F. 
Edgar, after whom it is to be named. In- 
asmuch as Dayton, like many other large 
industrial cities, is without adequate park 
space, the gift was highly appreciated by 
the municipality. 

Selma, Cal., has also been fortunate in 
receiving a playground as a gift. An at- 
tractive piece of property has been pre- 
sented by Clarence J. Berry, a wealthy and 
loyal Californian, who formerly resided at 
Selma. The ready coéperation of citizens, 
as well as of the Women’s Improvement 
Club, will result in equipping the. ground 


Public Purposes 


with apparatus for the use of the children. 

Lawrence, Mass., has received a large 
tract of land for a playground from Ed- 
ward F. Searles, whose name has long been 
associated with generous gifts to the town 
of Methuen. 

Columbus, Ind., has been singularly 
lucky. Following close on the 20-acre do- 
nation for a park by William H. Donner, 
came the announcement that the Reliance 
Manufacturing Company, of Columbus, will 
give the city the free use of a large tract 
of land for a public playground, and will 
remove old buildings on other lands to give 
the company a park for its employes. This 
company will spend $1,000 to improve the 
park so that its 400 women employes can 
enjoy their mid~lay meal in the open. 

One of the most notable of recent gifts 
of this kind is the playground donated to 
the city of Scranton, Pa., by Charles S. 
Weston as a memorial to his father. The 
plot contains seven acres and is regarded as 
the most desirable spot in the city for a 
neighborhood center. It is valued at $50,- 
000. The sum of $25,000, available from a 
bond issue, made it possible to prepare the 
gift for public use without delay. The plans 
for the development of this ground were 
described in the October issue of THe 
\MERICAN City. 

Still another gift comprises thirteen 
acres located in Somersworth, N. H. This 
land, which is to be used as a park and 
playground, has been presented by the 
Noble family to the people of the city. It 
is located on Prospect Hill at the edge of 
the city, and commands a most magnificent 
view to the west and north, extending even 
to Mount Washington, 80 miles away. The 
city has made an appropriation for mainte- 
nance. A local corporation has made a con- 
tribution, and former residents are adding 
to the sum to be devoted to development. A 
landscape architect has prepared plans for 
both park and playground. 








st 
ty 


A Page of Questions for Classroom Use 


(The page numbers mentioned refer to the November issue) 


Civic Education 

Municipal University. Trace the origin and 
development of the movement for municipal 
universities here and abroad. Name some of 
the principal municipal colleges and universi- 
ties. What is the importance of this type of 
institution to the cause of popular civic educa- 
tion? To the efficiency of the public service? 
To the methods and quality of university in- 
struction? What types of municipal work can 
the faculty and students perform? Give an 
account of the municipal activities carried on 
at the University of Cincinnati. How do these 
activities benefit the city financially? What 
limitations does such cooperation naturally 
have? (pp. 495-503.) 

How can the newspaper and the library 
cooperate in the cause of civic education? 
Give a concrete example of such codperation. 
(pp. 551-552.) (583.) 

Discuss, in detail, the work of the Riverside, 
Cal., library. (571-572.) 


Municipal Departments— Their Work 

Fire Departments. Which of the various 
types of fire engines is used most in extinguish- 
ing small fires? Why is the use of a chemical 
preferable to the use of water in putting out 
a fire? What are the disadvantages of using 
horse-drawn fire apparatus in a small town? 

Suggest some good ways of reducing the 
additional expense of upkeep incurred in mo- 
torizing a fire department in a small town. 
Describe the organization of a typical volun- 
teer fire department. Contrast the advantages 
and disadvantages of having many men on the 
fire organization roll. (pp. 538-540.) 


Health Departments. Give five examples 
of the kind of work the visiting nurse can do 
in connection with the schools. What is the 
importance of follow-up work in such cases? 
What factors of infant mortality and tubercu- 
losis give the visiting nurse especial oppor- 
tunity to do good work in this field? What 
place should health education have in the ac- 
tivities of a health department? Show con- 
cretely why the visiting nurse is the one to 
spread this health education most effectively. 
(pp. 548-549.) 


Highway Departments. What objects were 
sought by the Highway Department of Phila- 
delphia in installing its system of planning 
boards? Describe this system and show how 
this makes for departmental efficiency. (pp. 
519-520.) 

Why does the durability of a road or street 
deptnd on the kind of traffic that uses it? 
What is the effect on paving of the size of 
vehicles? Of their speed? Of the load they 
carry? How has heavy steel-tired traffic af- 
fected paving in New York City? What fac- 
tors of the traffic problem should a regulative 


ordinance take into account? Outline the main 
provisions of some of the regulative ordi- 
nances now in use in this country and in Eng- 
land. What should be the maximum width for 
motor vehicles? (pp. 515-518.) 


Parks and Playgrounds. What are the two 
main purposes which land used for public rec- 
reation may serve? To what extent are these 
two purposes irreconcilable in any one piece of 
land? What restrictions and limitations should 
guide the use of part of a park as a play- 
ground? Compare the advantages of having 
playgrounds scattered all over the city with 
that of having most of them grouped in some 
park located in one section of the city. (pp. 
506-508.) Give some suggestions for making 
a city park useful as a playground in snowy 
weather. (pp. 508-510.) 


Water Departments. What are the chief 
causes of breaks in water mains? How can 
inspection aid in reducing these breaks? (pp. 
530-531.) What are some of the conditions 
that have contributed to increase the number 
ot frozen water mains during recent years - 
What are some of the methods formerly used 
to thaw frozen water mains? Describe the 
method of thawing frozen water mains by 
electricity. (pp. 563-564.) 


Public Safety 


What are the advantages and disadvantages 
of having one-way regulations on streets 
where traffic is congested? Suggest a good 
plan for the protection of people at street in- 
tersections or when getting on and off street 
cars. Describe the plan and the mechanical 
signals used in directing traffic in Detroit. 
Why is the left-hand turn usually attended 
with more danger? (PP._ 542-545.) Suggest 
some good “Don'ts for Drivers.” (p. 553.) 
Of what importance is the adoption of a sys- 
tem of drivers’ signals? (p. 543.) Criticise 
the system of hand signals suggested for street 
traffic by the Department of Public Safety of 
Syracuse. (p. 541.) To what extent can the 
education of the public in these matters reduce 
accidents? Describe the work done by the 
Bureau of Complaints in Minneapolis.  (p. 
545.) (pp. 552-553.) 


Housing 


Of what significance to the city planning 
movement are the various large home-building 
projects? Outline the organization and sell- 
ing methods of the Shawnee Place develop- 
ment. (pp. 533-535.) What social factors of 
the municipality should be taken into consid- 
eration in inaugurating a housing plan? What 
economic and industrial factors? What other 
information should a housing survey contain ? 
Outline the method of organization of the 
Kenosha Homes Company. What are the ad- 
vantages of large-scale house building? (pp. 
503-505. ) 














<2 A 


Ci enyie te 


Railroad Bridges in Philadelphia 


Some of the Designs Carried out in the Elimination of Grade Crossings, and Ap 
proved by the Art Jury, by Whose Courtesy the Photographs Are Used 




















OVER FIFTY IFTH STREET 














OVER BELFII 


D AVENUE 

















ON LINE OF G STREET, OVER CONNECTING RAILWAY 


























514 


“La Maison a Gradins” 


An Experiment in Daylight Housing 


By Charles J. Storey 


FIRM of Paris architects h 


as com 

pleted a seven-story apart 
which, Tantastic as it may seem, 
embodies all the advantages of hillsice 
dwelling—light, air and a good view even 
on a comparatively narrow street. Stu 


dents of housing will find on the Rue 
Vavin this “maison a gradins”; that is, a 
house in which each floor is set back some 
feet from the one below, thereby giving th: 
front of the apartment a decided slope. This 
plan has already been suggested for office 
light 


and air are at a premium; here it is seen as 


buildings in our crowded cities, where 


a successful reality. Paris, in spite of its 


many wide streets and its splendid system of 


s and frequent squares and parks, 
has a large number of ancient, narrow 
streets, and it is in these that the architects 
expect their scheme of building to be of 
great use 

Kach floor above the third is set back 
some eight feet, and the space thus left 
open is converted into a balcony or terrace. 
By means of an ingenious arrangement of 
the overhang, the privacy of the occupant 
below is secured, for, although an unob 
structed view of the street is given, the ter- 


below cannot be seen. In the finished 


race 
house the terrace has a row of plants along 
the edge, and the green, viewed from the 


street, has a most pleasing effect. An orna- 

















A MODERN CLIFF-DWELLING IN PARIS 





i a 




















: 
; NoveMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 515 ) 
7 
i mental iron railing protects the edge of the mon to Paris—on ‘ eplace in ea 
terrace and provides an open-air play room—and the architects cl substat 
f ground. saving from this one item 
rhis style of building, if constructed on lhe facade of the building is | h 
’ both sides of a street, will give almost as vhite glazed brick with a sin pleas- . 
much light to the lower stories as to the top ing decorative motive in bright-blue bricks 
, ones. Actually, the apartment on the Rue which well set off the green wer gardens ' 
Vavin gains an hour more of sunlight a da n the terraces The rooms ar inted 1 i 
> than do houses of ordinary construction quiet colors, and, unlike many French i 
situated on the same side of the same street houses, are devoid of plaster de atiol 
h \ltho the building covers more ground having only a picture moulding his, of 
i than an ordinary one, the increased cost of course, has redu 1e COS tl 1MidiInye 
land is made up by the increased height to s has also the simple exterior treatment 
which the building can be raised without in \nother point of interest is th S 
terfering with the light of the lower floors f the building. ‘The house has been con 
yr of those across the street. This is espe structed by a company formed of persons 
cially advantageous in Paris, where the who were willing to live together, and each 
building code does not permit a building shareholder owns his own apartment This 
on a street, say 27 feet wide, to be more cooperative plan insures each member ot 
than 50 feet high on the building line. Above the c deg n the full or partial owner ) 
this height it must recede. By the plan of ship of his home, according to the unt 
Sauvage and Sarazin, the architects of this i"vé me For example, if a mat . has sub- 
innovation, ten stories may be built con- scribed $10,000 he will have a re map: Oe 
i forming to the spirit and the letter of the his rent oS, 87; Tye See. He ¥ ae 
4 law where only six main and two inferior ‘°*" have his apartment ee eee 
“iy receive a dividend on his investment if the 
; floors could be constructed under the usual <7 : 
4 ; enture proves as prohtabie as S antic 
f “eo ; pated. By having an owner-tenant for every 
' All rooms in the model apartment have apartment, the yearly income is greatly in 
3 direct light either from the’street or from creased. as the architects calculate that the ' 
; the court at the rear. Central heat does  Joce through empty apartments in ordinary 
away with the innumerable chimneys com houses reaches 20 per cent 
7 . . . 
Necessity for PE the Loads, Speeds and 
. 7 
Size of Vehicles* 
{ 
: By Eugene W. Stern 
Chief Engineer in Charge of Highways, Borough of Manhattan, City of New York 
URING the past year a great deal of are becoming congested. Unless some limi | 
damage has been caused to some of tation is placed upon the siz hicles 
the best pavements in the Borough this condition will continue to becom H 
of Manhattan by heavily loaded steel-tired worse. 
; trailers hauled by motor vehicles. The de- As the weight and size of the vehick 





struction has been so rapid that it has crease, the question of limiting the speed 


brought to the attention of the authorities also must be considered, 


for it becomes « vi- 
the necessity for limiting the loads on dent that what would be 


: 
vehicles to be hauled over the city streets. for an ordinary-size vehicle of 1 erat 
In recent years there has also developed weight would be.detrimental to the public | 
a greatly increased use of the motor vehi- interests in larger and heavier ones | 
cle, with increase in size, so that many of | 
: the streets in business sections of the city Damage Caused by Vehicles to es Streets 
: The most damas ge seems to be used by i 
* From a paper read at the annual convention of the steel-tired vehicles hauled by n otor trucks 
American Society of Municipal Improvements, Ne * me - , i 
ark, N. J., October 11, 1916. or trailers, as they are called ij 
. 


j 
| 
1 
1 











316 


“HE 


he case in point is here given: A con- 


tractor’s outfit hauling rock from the sul 
way excavation on Broadway is made up 
of a tractor and trailet1 lhe latter carries 


buckets, 
Its wheels are 4! 


six large weighing about 15 tons 
nches in diameter with 
84-inch wide steel tires 


width of 


lhe load per inch 
tire is about 1,400 pounds. The 
springs on the front axle are spiral and on 
the rear flat this 


fact has unquestionably contributed towards 


rhey are very stiff, and 


the destructive effect of the wheel loads of 
the trailer. lhe jarring ettect of the load 
vehicle is such that people along the rout: 
traveled complain about excessive vibration 
in their buildings. 


lhe route traversed has been along West 


AMERIC 





AN CITY Vor. XV, No. 5 


The 


mischief has all been done in a very short 


is have the streets above mentioned. 


space of time (about nine months), and has 
amounted to 5,400 yards of repairs on gran- 
te (equal to 32 per cent of the total area), 
costing $6,000, and 1,900 yards of repairs 
on sheet asphalt (equal to 30 per cent of the 
total area), costing $1,900; whereas, prior 
to this time, the average cost per year of 
maintenance on the granite was $150, and 
on the sheet asphalt $70. 

[he accompanying photographs show the 
kind of damage that has been done. On 
granite pavements the granite blocks have 
literally crushed and ground into 
powder. In many the blocks were 
plit. The granite used has given splendid 


been 


cases 

















rYPE OF 
WHICH 


HEAVY 
HAS ¢ 


TRAILER, CARRYING 
AUSED EXCESSIVE 


Forty-second Street from Eighth to Tenth 
Avenues; north on Tenth Avenue to Fif- 
tieth Street; west on Fiftieth Street to the 
dump dock on the North River. 
ments are of sheet asphalt or 


The pave- 
improved 
granite on concrete foundation, and are all 
substantially about four years old. They 
are considered among our best pavements, 
and have been laid in conformity with the 
latest specifications. Up to the time when 
the damage began to be done by the trailers, 
no appreciable amount of wear had been 
noticed beyond what ordinarily might be 


expected on thorofares with as much traffic 


FROM 15 
DAMAGE TO 


ro) 18 


NEW 


rONS OF BROKEN ROCK, 
YORK CITY PAVEMENTS 


The 
Forty-second Street, between 
Ninth and Tenth Avenues, was quarried at 
North Jay, Me., and has a crushing strength 
of about 20,000 pounds per square inch. 
(he granite used on Tenth Avenue, from 
Forty-second to Fiftieth Streets, was quar- 
ried at Rockport, Mass., and has a crushing 
strength of 25,000 pounds per square inch. 
lhe granite used on Fiftieth Street was 
quarried at Salisbury, N. C., and has a 
crushing strength of 40,000 pounds per 
equare inch. 

On the sheet asphalt the destructive ef- 


ervice on other streets of the city. 
eranite on 





























NOVEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 517 
fect has been equally startling In some ehicles which good construction demands, 
places it has been ground to small bits; in seem all together to be the saving fea 
other places the wearing surface has bee tures in protecting the pavements against 
completely broken and cracked. It shows indue wear, even under heavy loads 
: many depressions, waves and ruts and Che trailer, however, comes in an entire] 
shoves. different class. Not being rigidly con 
In many cases the 6-inch concrete bas« nected with the vehicle having the engine 
i has been shattered; however, in many other and the more or less delicate mechanism, it 
i cases where the wearing surface has beet need not have the rubber tires nor the easy 
7 damaged, the foundation remains intact springs to prevent damage to the tractor 
lhe speed of these vehicles was about 6 hence builders of these, who form a dis 
miles per hour in the daytime, and at night tinct class from the motor vehicles 
it was considerably higher—1i2 and 14 miles _ facturers, have allowed their faney no re 
per hour, and even 16 at times strictions in the designs of the tractors 
rheir principal object has been to provide a 
W hat Are the Remedies? ehicle having the greatest tonnage « ipac 


he effect of rubber-tired traffic has been itv at the least cost, without consideri @ the 





oe ° ele GIA 8 


atyehtm Paks + 














DEEP DEPRESSIONS MADE IN GRANITE BLOCK PAVEMENTS BY 
HEAVY TRAILERS 


carefully investigated, and practically no destructive effect on the pavement caused 


damage has been caused by motor vehicles by the excessive loads, narrow steel tires, 
in which all the wheels are covered with small diameter of wheels, and inadequate 


* ‘ 
ee 


rubber, beyond what is reasonable, altho — springs. 

there are some types of heavily loaded It becomes evident, therefore, that im- 
rubber-tired trucks in use in the city. Our mediate action must be taken to protect not 
first-class pavements show practically no only the pavements of the cities and the 


re scan 


additional expense for maintenance beyond municipalities immediately surrounding the 
a reasonable amount cities, but also the country highways which 
The manufacturers of motor vehicles are liable to be exposed to such kinds of 


have found by experience that about 75 trafic. Otherwise the taxpayers will be 
pounds per inch width of tire is about all called upon to make very heavy payments to 
the load the rubber tire will stand, and this maintain their streets and highways, altho 
load, and also the resiliency of the rub these may have been constructed in a 


ber and the adequate springs on motor’ thoroly first-class manner and in atcord- 








518 


ance with the latest ideas. 

It goes without saying that a vehicle that 
would break down the best kinds of city 
pavements in a short space of a few months, 
will cause much greater damage even to a 
first class country highway and much more 
rapidly. 

It appears to the writer that regulations 
properly framed to protect the pavements 
against the destructive effects of excessive 
loading in vehicles should take into account 
the following factors: 

1. That the 


wheel 


wearing or damaging effect of 
loads on pavements is a function of 
(a) the load; (b) the diameter of the wheel; 
(c) the width of tire; (d) whether or not the 
tire is of a resilient material, such as rubber, 
or of steel; (e) the kind of springs. 
That speed has considerable to do 

the damaging effect of heavy loads 

\n investigation of the laws and ordi- 
nances governing the weights and loads of 
vehicles, etc., adopted by 8 states and 49 
cities in the United States and Europe, goes 
to show that only a few laws have 
drafted in accordance with modern condi- 
tions. It is surprising that even to-day in 
this country certain communities require 
that the width of the tire should depend on 
the diameter of the axle, regardless of the 
loading: others make no distinction in the 
regulations between a wheel large or small 
in diameter, while still others treat rubber- 
and steel-tired wheels the same. 


Some Effective Regulating Ordinances 
\mong the most up-to-date ordinances 
are the following: 


Chicago, Ill. 
Maximum weight of vehicles, 15 tons. 
Maximum load on any one axle, 12 tons. 
Maximum load on the wheel, 6 tons. 
Maximum load per inch width of tire, 
Maximum length, 40 feet 
Maximum width 8 fect 6 inches. 
Speed.—Compatible with safety, but not to exceed 9 
miles per hour; not to exceed 4 miles per hour when 
truck has defective tire which would cause injury to 
pavement. 
Motor trucks must have rubber tires. 
Trailers may have steel tires 
New York State 
Maximum weight of vehicle, 14 tons. 
Maximum load on any one axle, 9 tons. 
Maximum load per inch width, 800 pounds. 
Maximum width, 8 feet 4 inches, except traction 
engines, which may have a width of 9 feet 2 inches. 
Speed.—Over 4 tons, 15 miles per hour; over 6 
tons, 6 miles per hour with steel tires; 12 miles per 
hour with rubber tires. 
State of New Jersey 
Maximum weight of vehicle, 12% tons. 
Maximum load per inch width of tire, 800 pounds 
Speed.—4 tons, 12 miles per hour (iron tires); 6 
tons, 8 miles per hour (iron tires), 10 miles per hour 


with 


been 


1,000 pounds. 


(rubber tires). 

State of Pennsylvania 
Maximum weight of vehicle, 12 tons. 
Maximum load on any one axle, 9 tons. 
Maxjmum load per inch width of tire, 750 pounds. 


THE AMERICAN CITY Vor 





XV, No. 5 


Maximum width, 7 feet 6 inches; 
cities, 8 feet 4 inches, 


for busses in large 


State of Massachusetts 
Maximum weight of vehicle, 14 tons. 
Maximum load per inch width of tire, 
(except for hard pavements). 
Speed.—4 tons, 15 miles per hour; 
per hour (iron or steel tires), 12 
(rubber or similar tires). 
Oakland, Cal 
Maximum weight of vehicle, 14 tons. 
Maximum load per inch width of tire, 
(except for hard pavements). 
Speed.—4 tons, 6 mes per hour (iron or 
tires), 12 miles per hour (rubber tires). 


The English have much the most com- 
plete and scientific ordinances of any that 


the writer has examined. 
England 

Maximum weight of vehicle, 12 tons. 

Maximum load on any one axle, 8 tons (for trailers, 
4 tons 

Maximum weight of vehicle without load, 5 tons. 

Combined weight of motor car and trailer, 6% tons 

am on axle to be proportioned to diameter of 
wheel 

The load per inch width of tire (steel) shall be 840 
pounds for wheels 3 feet in diameter; and an addi- 
tional allowance of 91/3 pounds for every additional 
increase in diameter beyond 3 feet; and for wheels 
less than 3 feet in diameter, a deduction of 18 2/3 
pounds per inch width of tire for every inch less in 
diameter than 3 feet. 


800 pounds 


6 tons, 6 miles 
miles per hour 


800 pounds 


steel 


Vehicles for military service limited as follows: 
Weight of car unladen, 6 tons; weight of car with 
trailer, 8 tons; unit of registered axle weight with 


tires shod with cross bars, 560 pounds. 


Maximum width, 90 inches for 3 tons, 90 inches for 


trailer. 
Speed.—Dependent on axle weight for iron-tired 
vehicles. Six tons, 12 miles per hour for rubber tires: 


over 6 tons, 8 miles per hour for rubber tires. Should 
car unladen weigh more than 3 tons, speed is lim 
ited to & miles per hour. If motor draws trailer, 


maximum speed is 5 miles per hour. 


Width of Vehicles 


Unless some limitation is placed upon the 
size of vehicles, the tendency will be to 
make them larger and larger, until they will 
become a nuisance and congest the high- 
ways. This is now becoming evident in the 
city of New York, as well as in other cities. 

In order to provide reasonable standing 
room on each side of a street, and at the 
same time to allow traffic to proceed in both 
directions, we are forced to limit the width 
which vehicles take up. 

Many of our streets have roadways only 
30 feet between curbs. It thus becomes 
clear that vehicles over 7 feet in width do 
not allow for two to pass, even using the 
utmost care. While it is becoming neces- 
sary to widen roadways in this borough, it 
is very difficult to add more than 2 feet to 
each side; a 30-foot roadway is thus con- 
verted into a 34-foot roadway. In this case 
a 7%-foot width for a vehicle would be the 
limit. 

In conclusion, the writer submits that this 
subject is one of paramount interest to all 
cities, and that the time has now arrived 
when the issues must be squarely faced. 

















sd 


Reinet eee A NERS MRTITA a 


Control of Highway Work by Means of Planning 
Boards and Current Status Visible Records 


By William H. Connell 


Chief, Bureau of Highways, Philadelphia, Pa. 


N a large highway department, efficient 
administration demands a more inti- 
mate knowledge of the status of opera- 

tions than even that afforded thru up-to- 
date records and definite procedures for 
each operation. In the Philadelphia Bu- 
reau of Highways a system is in operation 
whereby these records and procedures are 
supplemented with planning boards, con- 
taining a graphic representation of the 
status of the operations in such a manner 
that the work can be more readily con- 
trolled than is otherwise possible. This 
scheme for controlling the work of a de- 
partment enables the executive and division 
heads to obtain at any time a picture of the 
status of the operations coming under their 
respective jurisdiction. While planning 
boards have been used with success in cer- 
tain industrial establishments, the applica- 
tion of this system to a large highway de- 
partment is new. After a thoro trial in the 
Philadelphia Bureau of Highways this sys- 
tem has proved to be one of the most prac- 
tical means yet developed for simplifying 
the management of such a department 


Objects 


The principal objects sought in installing 
the system of planning boards in the Phila- 
delphia Bureau of Highways may be sum- 
marized as follows: 


(a) The establishment of a means of pro 
viding the chief engineer, the division engi 
neers and the several district assistant engi 
neers and their subordinates with a continuous 
and complete, concise and easily accessible 
graphic record of all authorized prospective 
construction and maintenance work, and of the 
current status of all work under contract or 
in course of prosecution under their respective 
supervision, in order that they should be en- 
abled to plan and administer the work in a 
more systematic, economical and efficient man- 
ner. 

(b) To eliminate as far as possible the 
necessity for the engineers to make daily or 
perhaps constant reference to, and studies of, 
the regular filed office records to form a men- 
tal picture of the status of the work under 
their jurisdiction. 

(c) The institution of a practical means of 


‘ontrolling or equa izing the quantity ‘ 

to be performed in different localities 
determining the sequence in which the w 
‘ould be prosecuted to the best advantage, and 
to assist in the subsequent assignment or dis 
tribution of the engineering, inspection and 


working forces 

(d) To facilitate the prompt determination 
of any general information rélating to the « 
struction and maintenance work that may be 
sought by the public, and that otherwise would 
not be available except after more or less de 
tailed investigation with a resulting nsump 
tion of time. 


Equipment 
The equipment which has been provided 
in connection with the planning board sys 
tem includes the following: 


(a) Planning Boards—Which have been in 
stalled in the offices of the chief engineer, the 
two division engineers and the seven district 
issistant engineers in charge of general high 
way work, and the division engineer in charg 
1f bridge and sewer maintenance. 

(b) Legends—Which, while standard in all 
possible details, necessarily vary more or less 
in order to adequately provide for the specil 
data indicated on the four general modifi 
tions of the planning board in use. 


(c) Indicators—Pins and thumb tacks of 
various sizes, shapes and colors suitable to in 
dicate the designations shown on the legends 

(d) Current Status Visible Records —One 


form for contract work, one form for muni 
ipal force work, one form for extensive spe 
ial construction work for the information of 
the chief engineer, and one form in three parts 
for the use of district assistant engineers 
Upon these several forms are indicated th« 
pertinent details and the current status of all 


work authorized, under contract and in course 
of prosecution. 
(e) Current Status Record Files—Which 





‘onsist of a visible card filing device for the 
chief engineer’s office and clip filing boards in 
the offices of the district assistant engineers 
(f) Daily Progress Reports—Which indi 
cate daily both graphically and analytically the 
nature and quantity of work performed <cnd 


other pertinent data for each job 
Construction 
In general, the planning boards consist 


of a map enclosed in an ornamentally fin- 
ished wood frame, of either the entire city 


or the portion included in the district or 











520 THE 





PLANNING POARD. O] 


division under the 
jurisdiction. 


sufficiently 


respective engineer s 

lhe scale of the map is mad 
large to permit the 
details to be 


necessary 
shown with ample facility 
The maps on the planning boards in the 
offices of the chief engineer and the divi 
sion engineers are drawn to a scale of 
1,000 feet to the inch, while those in the 
offices of the district assistant engineers 
vary between 200 feet to the inch in the con- 


1 aay : ‘-< r 


l 


AMERICAN 





1¢ 





CITY 


Vor. XV, No. 


eS 
aeaes 


ip 


mi 
ll 


i 
: 
! 
’ 


“a lag? 


: B® | ty =< ae 
5) He vor t f 
- 7 


sf 


E OF CHIEF ENGINEER 
ing B ne of the accompanying legend, 
we 526 


gested central districts to 500 feet to the 
inch in the outlying districts. The enlarge- 
ment of the scales of the several district 
planning board maps provides for greater 


pace in which to record the more refined 
details needed by the district assistant en- 


s 


vineers, but which do not require consider- 
ition in such detail by either the chief en- 
gineer or the division engineers. 

The maps contain, for the territory cov- 











— 


wise «wail 


—tneGaniens 

















VEMBER 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


ered, a Com] lete at 

accurate record of 
the highways phys 
ically opened and 
also of those not 
physically opened, 
but on the city plan 
On all physically 
opened highways the 
characters of the ex- 
isting roadway pave- 
ments are indicated 
by colors. Where a 


highwav contains 





wo or more vary- 
ing types Of pave- 
nents—that is, the 
gutter or track pave- 
ent differing from 
that of the shoul- 
ders—the actual ex- 
isting pavement con- 
litions are indicated 


on the 


I 


istrict assist- 





ant engineers’ maps 














by prope rly coloring . 
the relative portions 
of the highway. The fact of a pavement osed on the character 
being under maintenance guarantee is indi ng, and which is et 
cated by wide penciled hatching superin tion of the fuarantes 
| 
é 
aT 
. 
he I 
ert ‘ 
CURRENT STATUS VISIBLE RECORD IN OFFICES OF DIVISIO? . 
GINEERS OF HIGHWAY CONSTRU«¢ ) ND M NTI N( 
rangement ar r 








the frame enclosing the [ ein 
map The planning _ 
board is fastened se- ‘aenccal -”~ 
curely to the office wall sneoued 

and in such a positiot aun @ ous 
that it may, if possible, waromacs stares 


} 


be adequately illuminated onus © om 


/ 
daylight, and that | smasesau 


shadows will not inter | aromas peuenes 

fere with its ope ration 

Where artificial illumi- 8 ons 
nation is required, this is | ome eta To rencen 
supplied by means of a 7 


special trough mirrot 

BURLAD OF mGreETS 
reflector DEPARTMENT OF PUB’ WORE 
CY OF PH aor Pama 


containing a 


number of switch-c 
trolled tubular tungste L - 
lamps and concealed in CURRI S 
the canopy at the top of WORK 
the planning boar 
Irame 
Legends 

In devising the legends, an eftort as 

made to have them mnemonic—that is, to 


indicators ot 


assign 


such shapes, sizes and 


color as would by their 


appearance readily 
identify the 
work or condition they were intended t 


All data or 


fixed or semi-permanent 


associate themselves with or 


represent. nformation 


Ta 


nature is indicated 


by properly colored and specifically sym 
bolled circular flat-headed thumb tacks 
which are inserted flush with the surface 


of the map. In order to facilitate reference 
to information in greater detail, these in- 
dicators also each contain an identifying 


AMERICAN 





























eh @ 3 Vor. XV, No. 5 
oe i} 
wearimas 
om ‘ae staeres worn STARTED 
ovIsON sri 
WOW Ay WORE PHOGRTSS MECORD 
UMICPAL FORCL WORK 
S ISIBLE RECORD FOR MUNICIPAL FORCI 
FILED IN OFFICE OF CHIEF ENGINEER 
1) 6 4 inches 


serial number which refers to lists annexed 
to the planning board which indicate full 
information relative to 
names of ownerships, etc. All data or 
of or variable na- 
ture is indicated by means of colored glass- 
headed pins 

] 


used, 


definite locations, 
in- 
formation a temporary 
Three sizes of glass heads are 
but all of the pins have short stems 
which permit the glass head being inserted 
to the 
two 


close surface. In instances 
three conditions need 
be indicated by a single pin, this is accom- 


plished by using 


map 


where or even 


ins whose heads contain 


two or three properly colored concentric 


rel 
circies, 


— Operation 



































- = = The responsibility for 

| CLASSH ication Sum ACE oorrers TRACES ua 
| | the prompt and accurate 
| co mans soma ou posting of the planning 
oa cory pus worurrsts : sw | | board and current status 
| LEGALLY OPENED +s ees erCOvED utes | file is centralized in one 
or tax wn ‘ine era ware | person in € ach office. 
| mctenry sen wont onoinee us | This posting is done 
| owes avananut fee | unem | early each morning from 
feta aprtowen | em | the reports received of 
| <a nas nowecr the operations, transac- 
= worct ve veacar temo wan stan tions and changes in con- 
= one |simer ditions occurring since 
the time of posting on 
1k ome com rms wee | the previous day. The 
= posting is done by the in- 
| een , a sertion or removal of 
CURRENT STATUS VISIBLE RECORD FOR CONTRACT WORK, pins of the proper shape, 

FILED IN OFFICE OF CHIEF ENGINEER size and color. 


In 


offices 


the district 






























































































































































NOVEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 523 
FROAT To 
SURFACE GUTTERS TRACKS GASE 
CLASS/FICATION CONTRACTOR CONTRACT 
NUMBER 
GRADING | SEWER \LATEFRALS| GAS WATER | L/GHTING 
CORB/ING 

NOTICES | NOTICES | FORM 24 | 48-HOUR | OROER TO| FORM K COMPLETE 

SERVED | EXPIRE SENT MOTICE \CONTRACTOR| SENT a. 

LENGTH NOTICE TO WORK 

(NW FEET PROCEED STARTEO 

PERCENTAGE FINISHED Se: A 
° 7o 2o 0630 ao Jo 60° 7Oo 8°o° 9° 100) 
SV8-GRAOING { I I some I I I I ee l J 
EEE 
GASE-COUARSE | c T T T T T T T T . a ee 
GUTTERS Cc T rT T I I I T I I — 
BINDER CUSHION COURSE ( = _ I T T r T I ee 
SURFACE COURSE { T I I I I T I I T } 
PERCENTAGE CONSUMED wilooe 

TIME ALLOWED = me 2 “I L I I I I | ame 

FORMS USED IN CONNECTION WITH CURRENT STATUS VISIBLE RECORDS IN OFFICES 

OF DISTRICT ASSISTANT ENGINEERS 


Originals 6 inches wide 


the record of the need for any character of 
repair work is posted as soon as the neces- 
sity becomes apparent from any source, such 
as being reported by a patrol inspector; re- 
sulting from observation by the district as- 
sistant engineer or any of his subordinates ; 
notice from the main highway office or any 
other municipal department, from the police 
or from the public. Where two or more dif- 
ferent characters of pavement exist upon a 
highway, the indicator pin is placed upon 


that portion of the highway which indicates 
the character of pavement requiring the 
repairs, which may be the track, the shoul- 
der or a gutter. A trouble marker is used 
to indicate any retarding condition relating 
either an administrative detail or the 
physical work, such as legal obstacles pre- 
venting authorized work being placed under 
contract, and delays, interruptions, or sus- 
pensions of work in progress, etc. 

Of course, all indicator pins are removed 


to 














THE 


immediately after the indicated conditions 
are found no longer to exist. When the 
finished work is that of original pavement 
ot such other work as results in a change in 
the character of an existing pavement, the 
map is posted by being properly recolored 
to indicate the new type of pavement sur- 


tace. 


Routing the Repair Work 
In the several district highway offices and 
in the division of bridge and sewer main- 
the daily 
the work to be performed by each municipal 


tenance, route sheets indicating 


repair gang are prepared by direct refer- 
ence to the planning board, where every 


AMERICAN CITY 





Vor. XV, No. 5 


condition such as general repairs to a street 
or even an isolated defect in a pavement is 
specifically indicated and in the order of 
its importance. The routing of the re- 
pair gangs is one of the most important 
functions of the planning board. The pins 
indicating work in progress by the munici- 
pal contain a serial number 
which identifies the name of the gang fore- 
man in charge of the work. 


forces also 


Current Status Records 


In addition to the data regularly carried 
on the planning boards, there are also cer- 
tain other data of a more detailed and ex- 
tensive nature relative to the current status 





BURERU OF HIGHWAYS 
UEPRQRIMENT OF PUBL WORKS 
CITV OF PHILADELPHIA 


CURRENT STATUS OF SPECIAL CONSTRUCTION WORK 


OFFICE OF CHIEF ENG/NEER 











Contract Name umber Days alhonec 
Contractor: Notice toproceed Work ‘started 

0 0 2 ¥ W@ $0 62 % 80 3) Md 
Percentage of entire conttact finshed todate (a Ta Ta Toa Ta Ta TT 
Fercentage of time alloned consumed to gate (TI oe Se ee ee 


DETAILED STATUS 























Character of work Quantity 


Estithoted 






































| 
t 
L 
( 
| 
[ 








= 








CURRENT STATUS 


SUCH AS 


VISIBLE RECORD 
BOULEVARD 


Original form 10% x 29 inches 


OF 


SPECTAL 
CONSTRUCTION, 


Zercentage tinished to dore 
0 Fuad JI @ $0 60 > 90 00 
































Me UMD Br EO aT } 
ee Ow OS aS OT RT 
8 HR SPH EE 8 eS OW Oks oe OT 
TS EE BAPE eA ee res a 
2 a es Se Pe we } 
Oo 7 





| 














EXTENSIVE CONSTRUCTION WORK, 


PARK DEVELOPMENT, ETC. 


Mounted on wall cabinet leaves in office of chief engineer 











NoveEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 





















































































































































525 
Ml 
BUREAU OF HIGHWAYS INSPECTOR'S DAILY R' jicetemni 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS 
CITY OF PHILADELPHIA 
CONSTRUCTION Wi 
; CONTRACT oe. 
HIGHWAY FROM To 
| a = ad — 
CLASSIFICATION OF WORK CONTRACTOR 
WORK PERFORMED ON THIS DATE 
CHARACTER FROM To QUANTITY 
GRADING cv. vos. 
SUBGRADING Las cu oF rr. cu. oF so. Tos. 
“ = 2. . re , eS .S. 7 ae = a] 
BASE COURSE rr. cu oF rT. cu or so. vos. 
i. - —___—_—_ ——$_$__—_—____ —__—— —__——— — 
GUTTERS rT. cu oF rr. cu oF so. Yos. 
BINDER COURSE 
CUSHION COURSE rT. cu oF rr cu oF so. YOSs. 
SURFACE COURBE as cu oF rr. cu oF so. Yos 
rT. cu or rT. cucoF so. Yos. 
, FORCE EMPLOYED ON THIS DATE 
LABOR eenial wan EQUIPMENT Seiad tana EQUIPMENT cnmmte | weuee 
FOREMEN =— = SINGLE TEAMS ROAD ROLLERS 
’ ROLLER ENGINEERS DOUBLE TEAMS SPRINKLERS 
PAVERS . MOTOR TRUCKS CONCRETE MIXERS 
RAMMERS CONCRETE CARTS 
RAKERS TON ROLLERS 
LABORERS = TON ROLLERS 
ORivEeRs MEATER WAGONS 
MELPERS STEAM SHOVELS 
' 3 = on ——a 
WATCHMEN SCARIFIERS 
ROAD SCRAPERS 
' WEATHER CONDITIONS TEMPERATURE MINIMUM MAKIMUM 
WORK IN PROGRESS ON THIS DATE STARTED STOPPED TOTAL HOURS 
* DELAYS REABON AND DURATION 
STRUCTURAL WORK IN PROGRESS BY OTHER THAN CONTRACTOR NATURE. 
- BEGUN FINISHED 
‘ REMARKS a ee. =? = al a Co a er 
‘ 4 CONSECUTIVE SERIAL DATE OF THIS REPORT SUBMITTED BY APPROVED 
NUMBER OF THIS REPORT 
INSPECTOR ASSISTANT ENGINEER 
COMPLETE HISTORICAL REPORT, SUBMITTED DAILY FOR EACH JOB Y THE INSPECTOR 


B 

IN CHARGE, TO THE DISTRICT ASSISTANT ENGINEER 

Original 8% x 11 inches. On completion of the work these reports are filed with the contract papers for 
permanent future reference 





















































































































































526 THE AMERICAN CITY Vor. XV, No. s 
| FROM 7O 
WNTITIES OF 
WORK PERCENTAGE FINIGHEO TOOATE nay Amato 
° 40 2Oo Jo 4o 50 €o 7o oo 90 00). 24 THIS OTe 
SVE -GAAOING ee — I I I I I I I —— $ ¥ 
@ASE COURSE c I I I I ate I I I I ) cy. 
GUTTEAS ee I I I I — I I I =] Sy 
SINOER CUSHION COURSE T Ir T I I I I I LT T SY 
SUMFACE COURSES Cc I x ade I I = T I | Yy 
Bars DArs 
MLoweD eaamuane CONTRACTOR OATE j 
foRCE Foret |romel geviement |oreORel — weuirmMeENT |soel once 
ee 
POEM EN SINGLE TEAMS STEAM SHOVELS » 
STEAM ENGINEERS DOVELE TEAMS SCARIFIERS 
PAVERS MOTOR TRUCKS OAD SCRAPERS 
BPAMMERS CONCRETE MUMERS ROAD RPOLLERS 
RAKERS CONCRETE CARTS SPRINKLERS 
LABORERS -7JON FPOLLERS 
OAIVERS “TON POLLERS WEATHER 
HELPERS MEATER WAGONS TEMPERATURE: MAX. AtIN. . 
OAILY PROGAE SS AND FORCE REPORT| TOTAL HOURS OF INSPECTOR 
ON CONSTRUCTION WORK WORK IN PROGRESS 
INSPECTOR’S DAILY REPORT TO DIVISION ENGINEER f 
Original 5 x inches. The most recent report for ea¢ is filed in the Visible Current Status file 
rhis report supplements the larger, formal report which is submitted daily by the inspector to the 
Distr \ssis Enginee 
of the legal, contractual, structural and ress reports, either daily or weekly, as may 


other governing conditions, which should be 
readily accessible but which, on account of 
their multiplicity, it would not be practicable 
to indicate on the planning board. This in- 
formation is, however, recorded in a very 
accessible manner by means of individual 
card records properly filed in visible filing 
devices which are located adjacent to the 
planning boards. Two forms of current 
status card records are provided, one form 
being for municipal force work and one 
form for contract work, both of which ar« 
rhese 
records are so designed as to permit the 


used in the chief engineer's offices. 


indication in a concise manner and in logi- 
cal sequence of all the pertinent informa- 
tion relative to current conditions. The de- 
sign of the current status record form used 
in connection with the district planning 
hoards is such as to make it possible to post 
graphically from the inspectors’ daily prog- 





be desirable, the percentage of each portion 
of the work finished and the percentage 
consumed of the total time allowed for the 
con pletion of the work. 


Inspectors’ Daily Reports 
Kach inspector having of 
construction 


supervision 
maintenance work is re- 
quired to submit daily reports in such de- 
tail that, in addition to their other purposes 
of record, they furnish the data necessary 
to the prompt current posting of both the 
planning boards and current status records. 
The daily progress report on each job, as 
submitted to the division engineer by the 
inspector, is printed on a postal card, and 
the most recent one of the reports for each 
job is daily inserted on a visible filing 
board, thus constituting an economically 
operated current status record. 


or 


SVR D 
































THAaeA | | 























ron L comvectine | | 
“T ann nnn nen oe AE Pe | 
> 











> 





# 


49F0LS| | NOSM/AAL 


=I 


pniLa: AND NER 


{ WOSMPL 


| [ eas a wis 
| | 
ee (| _ J 


[ Tas 


[ 2759S | [ 
oi 


__B s 
aa ____3 


] (27s 








(La7as 














ENGINEER 


BOARD, IN OFFICE OF CHIEF 


z 


PLANNIN( 


SECTION OF 












































PLANNING BORRD BUREAU OF HIGHWWAVS AND STREET CLEANING 
QYICE OF CHIEF EMGINEFR DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS 
Z EGEND CITY OF P¥IL ADELPHIA 
GENERAL : CHERACTER OF AUTHORIZFO CONSTRUCTION WORK 
(M MAIN HIGHWAY OFFICE. GRADING. 
OTE :/n the following indications the rumerica DIVEMENT : 
CResignratiors Of gstricks we WICIICT Oy 1) 7 
> BITUMINIOUS. 
(] DISTRICT HIGHWAY OFFICE. 
— meee CEMENT CONCRETE. 
2 SERVICE DISTRICT, Street Cleaning and Ash 
Rubbish and Garbage Collection SWEET ASPHALT. 
IIOTE: 1a the following iw>Mhearrcr1$, Phe Ser | 
jdentitication numerals refer to correspondingly STONE BLOCK. 
PUVIDET OD FEMWNES NITIES O79 11SFE CPNICKOCD POCTOW ITIP 
@ STORE YARD VITRIFIED BLOCK. 
/) OUMB, Ash, Rubbish or Street Dirk WATERBOUNO MACADAI. 
C, GARBAGE DISPOSAL PLANT. . WOAD BLOCK. 
INDICATION OF LIWOUTS OF WORK: 
Rf RUBBISH DISPOSAL PLANT: — 
/F HIGHWAY 18 NOT COLORED. 
y, STABLE, Service Contractor's. 
IF HIGHWAY /§ COLORED. 
VWIRACTORS ASPHALT PLANT 
@ eneeaniiaead a ; IF NECESSARY IN CONJUNCTION VWITH THE PREW/CUS /NO/- 
TIONS TOSHOW LIMITS OF CONTIEUOUS AUTHORIZATIONS. 
@ MUNICIPAL ASPHALT PLANT. SS eT 
IE WORK 1S THAT OF SURFACE TREATMENT. 
T RAMLRORD SIDING , For Material Delivery. 
IU SCELLANEOUS : 
__- O/STRICT BCUNDARY LIME. 
@ URGENT NECESSITY FOR PRODIPT PERFORIMANCE OF WORK. 
‘STING PAVEITENTS : | 
£f G é MATERIALS ORDERED. | 
- @ ASPHALT BLOCK. 
aD S/TUPTINOUS. ® DIATERIALS DELIVERED. 
GE EWEN CONCRETE. © ORDIVANCE PENDING TO AUTHORIZE WORK. : 
Co 8 <O8BLE OR RUBBLE. OUTSTANDING TICKLER, Indicating the existonce of 
Per 1elaHve COM CSPNTHNEE. 
GR SW/FF 7 ASPHALT 
- CURRENT STATUS RECORD: 
(= SLAE BLOCK. Ful! detailed intormeonon relative to the current 
GU SOV BLOCK. Status of the legal, contract, struc tura/and other 
sme governing corditiens pertaining to ol/ work posted 
| OV/MPROVED, Grovel, dirt, cinder, ek. on *his planning beard i$ indicated on the 
TRIFIE: “* tidividwal card records tor each specific 
— w Pee cuthcrizanen 12 the Cvrrert? Status Record pile. 
Cll WATERBOWND SYACAOA. 
BS9 000 BLOCK 
CO) 30 (OV CTV ALAN BUT NOT PHISICALLY OPENED TO TRAFFIC. , 
TECHVWICAL CLASSIFICATION AND STATUE OF WORK 
Wowk CONTRACT WORK IN AUTHORIZED BUT UNDER CONTOULT WORK STARTED 
AUTHORIZED EXECUTED OR =PROGRESS Cel BE PLACED BAT PORK CAN- BUT 1S NOW 
ar WV COURSE OF ar VADER CON TRACT NOT BE START~ SUSPENDED 
CONTOICT WORK: COWVCILS ~~ EXECUTION ~CONTRACTOR FOR CAUSE ED FOR CAUSE FOR CAUSE 
GRADING. . ‘e @ 3 @ 
PING © © © 
REPAVING. e ‘) @ 
SURFACING. 0 (Q) © ° oO .*)) 
RESURFROING. 9 (®) © (2) 
SPECIAL CONSTRUCTION WORR, o ® @ @ 
ASPHALT PATCHING. + 
PORT AY THORITED ORK iN 
y CMPEF ERS /NE ER ar 
POUNICIPARL FORCE WORK: PPMICT RL, FORCES 
EXTENSIVE SURFACING, RESURFACING AND REPAVING. ° 
DUST LAVER TREATMENT 3 
BITUOTINOUS SURFACE TREATMENT. ° 
ASPHALT PATCHING. 











PLANNING BOARD LEGEND, IN OFFICE OF CHIEF ENGINEER 











Replacement of Cuts in Pavements” 


By Horace Andrews 
Consulting Engineer, Albany, N. Y. 


HEN a cutting into a pavement is 
W made, the repair usually involves 
making a foundation for the pave- 
ment by careful back-filling that shall be 
capable of holding up the pavement to the 
same level as before removal, or by bridg- 
ing with reinforced or extra thick concrete 
the place that has been disturbed, thus de- 
pending entirely upon the sustaining power 
of the adjoining foundation. In this latter 
met the back-filling of trenches acts 
me as a species of bracing to prevent 
the$Rljacent soil from being undermined and 
disturbed, and as a centering to give sup- 
port to the concrete, a support that will soon 
vanish with the slightest settlement of the 
back-filling. This bridging of trenches is 
comparatively a new method. Dependence 
upon the supporting power of back-filling at 
the present time is more customary than the 
bridging. 

To obtain light upon the questions in- 
volved, your committee prepared a series 
of questions, and your secretary caused 
these questions to be submitted to a large 
number of cities thruout the United States 
and Canada. A brief extract of the an- 
swers from those who have replied is ap- 
pended to our report, while the full replies 
are available thru our secretary. 

The persons who received the questions 
were first asked whether their repairs were 
satisfactory to themselves. A good many 
did not reply to this question, but implied 
in most cases that they were unsatisfactory, 
while fully a third of those answering 
stated candidly that their repairs were not 
satisfactory. 

Considering first the matter of back- 
filling, it had seemed to the committee that 
the very laborious task of replacing the 
back-filling might be lightened by proper 
power ramming, and an effort was made to 
get statistics relative to this matter. It 
appears that power ramming is very little 
used by the city authorities, tho the public 


*From a paper presented at the annual conven- 
tion of the American Society of Municipal Improve- 
ments, Newark, N. J., October, 1916, the author being 
Chairman of the Society’s Committee on Street Pav- 
ing. For the replies to the questionnaire, application 
should be made to Charles C. Brown, Secretary, 
American Society of Municipal Improvements, 702 
Wulsin Building, Indianapolis, Ind. 


utility companies make more use of power 
ramming, apparently. 

As to flushing the back-filling in order to 
obtain better consolidation, the replies are 
worthy of careful consideration. The gen- 
eral opinion is decidedly in favor of this 
procedure when the soil is sufficiently per- 
vious to enable the water to drain away 
quickly; otherwise the flushing is very in- 
jurious and settling may continue for a 
year or even for many years before the 
surplus water will have passed entirely out 
from the back-filled material. Regarding 
laboratory experiments as to the drainage 
power of various soils, interesting informa- 
tion is given by John R. Haswell, Drainage 
Engineer, U. S. Department of Agriculture, 
in Engineering News for August 3, 1916, 
p. 213. 

Of course, if power tamping is to be at- 
tempted, water flushing cannot be used, but 
only a slight moistening may be permissible. 
Most of the power tamping seems to be in 
such work as filling under railroad ties and 
around pipes. 

Attention may be called to the replies 
from Pasadena, Cal., where the use of a 
15-ton roller is referred to, for consolidat- 
ing the material in the back-fill. This is 
the only place reporting this method of 
consolidation. In very many places the 
crossing of the trench by pipes, water, gas 
and sewer, which would be much in jeop- 
ardy from the use of a heavy roller, would 
make that means of packing trenches in- 
advisable. 

It is the consensus of opinion from those 
furnishing replies that all of the repair 
work should be done by the municipality 
thru its own trained workmen, but in some 
cities exception has been made in favor of 
those public utilities which are so much 
in the habit of making cuttings that they 
may keep a force of trained men for this 
purpose, but even then it is urged that strict 
city supervision should not be dispensed 
with. Much of the trouble found with re- 
pairs is attributed to the class of workmen 
who make the cuttings, back-fill and repairs 
to concrete and pavement. Skilled men 
paid by the day by the municipality and 











e442 
525 


employed exclusively on repair work are 
preferable to all others for insuring uni- 
formity of excellence in cutting repairs. 

It is the practice in every case reporting 
not to keep any 
order or 


account of the original 
arrangement of stone block or 
bricks, but they are replaced in accordance 
with the judgment of the paver. 

In replacing stone block pavement the 
personal observation of the committee has 
shown that frequently the blocks are put 
back with joints wider than those originally 
existing. Many stones for which no place 
can again be found are therefore removed. 

Most of the cities replying state that 
joints in block pavements are filled with 
cement grout, but in where 
traffic is heavy a bituminous grouting that 


some cases 
will enable traffic to pass over the pavement 
very soon has taken the place of the slow- 
setting cement grout at repaired places. 

The matter of withholding traffic from 
recently repaired work seems to be a fruit- 
ful source of trouble. It is evident 
the replies from some cities that the orig- 
inal care in getting a thoro set to both the 
concrete base and the cement grouting, by 
allowing a period of some ten days to elapse 
before turning on the traffic, is not taken 
with their repaired work. In some in- 
stances it is thought that by covering the 
newly-made repair with earth to the depth 
of a few inches, traffic may safely be per- 
mitted, and that setting of concrete and 
grout will then go on unimpaired. It is 
very doubtful whether a shorter time of set- 
ting than seven to ten days will enable any 
repair to approach the original pavement 
in its solidity and general excellence. 

Many cities now seem to have concrete 
foundations for their pavements and it is 
well known that thoroly set concrete foun- 
dation will support a large area of pave- 
ment even where the earth base is weak 
in spots. This strength of the concrete 
foundation has led some engineers to fol- 


from 


low the practice of bridging any soft place, 
such as that made by digging a trench, with 
concrete that will carry the load to the ad- 
jacent firm soil. Such concrete is either 
-made of unusual thickness or, more gener- 
ally, is reinforced with steel. 

Judging from the answers received, the 
reinforced concrete bridging gives very 
satisfactory results and enables the surface 
of the replaced pavement to be brought to 
the same plane as that of the adjacent pave- 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


Vor. XV, No. 5 


ment without “mounding up,” as is so fre- 
quently done in the case where the support 
of the concrete base is either non-existent 
or has been destroyed. 

In Buffalo, N. Y., brick or stone pave- 
ment is left a little higher to allow for 
compression of the cushion, but such com- 
pression is not more than one-fourth to one- 
half inch and is a usual allowance in all 
new work that is to be consolidated by roll- 
ing or ramming. A possible disadvantage 
of the concrete bridging is referred to in 
the reply from Toledo, Ohio, where men- 
tion is made of “the roar that is apt to 
result from rapidly moving steel-tired ve- 
hicles passing over the hollowed space be- 
neath the paving.” 

With pavements made entirely . 
crete it may be found true that a air 
can be made, both as to base and surface, 
by comparatively unskilled labor, that will 
compare favorably with repairs where 
skilled labor is needed in block-paved 
streets. Delay must be occasioned to traffic 
owing to the necessity of proper setting of 
the concrete, but the time of blocking of 
traffic would be somewhat lessened in the 
concrete paved street from that required 
where cement grout must also have time to 
set. 

With bituminous pavements, as is well 
known, excellent repairs can be made where 
a concrete foundation is used and the usual 
precautions are taken to insure its proper 
setting, but a reinforcement of the con- 
crete would seem very advisable in the case 
of recently filled trenches, even where all 
possible precaution has been taken with the 
back-filling. 

It seems to your committee that, with 
ordinary methods of ramming the back-fill- 
ing, it is doubtful whether a pavement can 
be laid over any recently opened trench as 
well or as economically as is possible with 
a strong reinforced foundation. Of course, 
an opportunity must be afforded this rein- 
forced foundation for as thoro setting as in 
the case of new pavement. 

Power ramming does not yet seem to 
have been thoroly developed and made as 
economically possible as it may reasonably 
be expected to become when more inventive 
effort is directed to its need. Certainly the 


heavy labor of tamping back-filling may 
well be supplemented by proper use of 
power as in so many other branches of 
industry. 











4-088 in 


~ 


7 
? 
r 





A Contrast in Bridges 


The Beauty of the New Structure, Aside from Its Value as a Public Utility, is a 
‘Good Investment for the Community 




















THE OLD BRIDGE ON BURLINGTON STREET, IN IOWA CITY, IOWA 

















Photographs by courtesy of lowa State Highway Commission 


WHAT THE OLD BRIDGE WAS DISCARDED FOR 











530 


Breaks in Cast Iron Pipe Lines* 


By R. DeL. French 


Lecturer in Municipal Engineering, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec 


HERE is scarcely any community of 

 t size on this continent which has not, 

at some time or other, had failures 

in the mains of its water distribution sys- 

tem, which were, or seemed to be, inex- 
plicable. 

It is apparent that the prevention of such 
breaks is an important matter, and a study 
of the incidents leading to these disasters 
will help us to understand the reasons for 
them. Knowing these, the search for rem- 
edies may begin. 

Sometimes a pipe line seems to be af- 
flicted with an epidemic of failures. These 
are generally confined to large pipes, usu- 
ally supply mains. In such cases it would 
seem natural to suspect that the character 
of the pipe was at fault. Isolated breaks 
may, of course, be due to defective pipe, but 
they are more likely to be caused by defec- 
tive workmanship in laying, or by local in- 
fluences, such as settlement or excessive 
loading. 

To the credit of the pipe founders it must 
be said that there is now seldom any fault 
to be found with the quality of the mate- 
rial of which their pipe is made. Between 
the foundry and the job there is an oppor- 
ity for pipe to become damaged in trans- 
portation. Care in packing for shipment, 
and inspection at the destination while un- 
loading, will prevent transportation cracks, 
or detect them if they occur. 

Once the pipe is delivered alongside the 
trench, the responsibility for a first-class 
piece of work rests with the engineer. Of 
course, it is a prime requisite that the pipe 
shall be of proper thickness for the pressure 
and loads to which it will be subjected. 
There is not much room for choice on this 
point, as practically all pipe is now made 
to conform to one of the standard specifica- 
tions, which provide proper thicknesses for 
different pressures. After this, it is a mat- 
ter of care in laying. 

All pipe should be well bedded and have 
holes dug for the bells, so that they will be 


* From a paper presented at the annual convention 
of the American Society of Municipal Improvements, 
Newark, N. J., October, 1916. 


evenly supported thruout their entire length. 
There should be a space of a quarter-inch 
or so between the ends of the spigots and 
the bottoms of the bells, to allow for ex- 
pansion. Failure to observe this precaution 
is thought to have been partly responsible 
for the very serious break in Cincinnati in 
1913. The pipe should be securely an- 
chored at changes of direction. The back- 
filling should be carefully and_ thoroly 
rammed around the pipe to a point well 
above its top, for a pipe that is well sup- 
ported by the earth at its sides will carry 
a much greater external load than will one 
in which such support is lacking. The loca- 
tion of the trench itself should be so chosen 
that the pipe will not be subjected to heavy 
loads from traffic or from other sources. 
The Cincinnati pipe line was located in 
ground which had been subject to land slips, 
as shown by the broken and folded strata 
thru which the trench passed. It is pos- 
sible that a fresh disturbance of the ground 
had something to do with this failure. 

Water hammer is frequently blamed for 
pipe failures. This action is present in 
some degree and at some time in prac- 
tically all systems, and may be due to faulty 
design or to faulty operation. A certain 
minimum amount is probably inevitable. In 
small direct-pumping systems the fluctua- 
tions in pressure are often very marked. 
Hydraulic elevators drawing from a small 
system will also produce similar fluctua- 
tions. 

If water hammer alone were responsible 
for breakage to any great extent, one would 
expect to find such breaks in the small pipes 
near the source of the pressure fluctuations, 
and also that the breaks would be recurrent, 
unless the cause of the water hammer were 
removed in the meantime. As a matter of 
fact, failures in series have been most com- 
mon in large supply mains and under cir- 
cumstances which preclude the possibility 
of water hammer being responsible for 
them. Moreover, the accepted formulas for 
the thickness of cast iron pipes all make a 
liberal allowance for the effect of water 
hammer, so that, altho the final touch may 








etl 





a 





NOVEMBER, IQI6 


be given by it to a pipe which is already 
cracked, it is not likely that it is solely 
responsible for many failures of well-laid 
pipe of good quality. 

To sum up, it is the writer’s opinion that 
the answer to the question, “How shall 
breaks in cast iron pipe lines be prevented ?” 
is to be found in inspection 


Such inspec- 
tion should cover: 


1. The manufacture of the pipe, including 
the control of the mixture of the irons by 
analysis, the molds, the usual hydraulic tests, 
and particularly the drawing of the pipe from 
the molds and the subsequent cooling. Just 
what rate of cooling is permissible is a matter 
which should be within the knowledge of the 
foundryman. The best man for a_ position 
such as required by this inspection would be 
ne who had served his time at pipe founding. 
The analyses should, of course, be made by a 
ompetent chemist. Such inspection is now 


required by some of the larger cities 
> 


2. The inspection of the loading of the pipe 


into cars or vessel, to be sure that it is as well 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


531 


packed for shipment as is practicable. On ar- 
rival at its destination the pipe should be given 
1 hammer test on unloading, and, if the work 
is of importance and the pipe is large, another 
inspection at the trench side would be quite in 

3. Inspection of laying, which should be 
preferably in the hands of an engineer, 
those of a 


or 
“practical” man under the imme- 
diate control of the engineer. 

\ complete system of inspection, as ad- 
vocated above, will cost more than is now 
commonly thought allowable, but it appeals 
to the writer as being the only way in 
which it is possible to guard against in- 
ferior pipe and inferior workmanship. <A 
city’s water-supply is one of its best assets, 
and interruptions to it, even tho they be un- 
accompanied by actual monetary damage 
or loss of life, expose the health of the 
citizens to grave dangers and their property 
to a greatly increased fire hazard, as well as 
contributing to an indirect financial loss 
thru the stoppage or curtailment of in- 
dustry. 





The Ethics of Professional Advertising 


Comments from Members of the American Society of Landscape Architects on the 
Editorial in the September Number of THE AMERICAN CITY 


From Charles Mulford Robinson, 
Rochester, N. Y. 

[ have read, with a great deal of interest, 
your editorial comment on “The Ethics of 
Professional Advertising.” I think your dis- 
cussion is very temperate and fair-minded 
And yet, when all is said and done, the pro 
fessional code as to advertising persists, 1 
spite of all its inconsistencies, because there 
is something in the heart of the professional 
man which responds to it and approves of it 

I do not pretend to be able to analyze that 
sentiment with accuracy. Perhaps a little of 
it is due to a delicacy of feeling which would 
prefer to err, if err it must, on the side of 
modesty. Perhaps something is due to the 
consciousness that one is a member of a pro- 
fessional or art brotherhood, to which the 
thought of profiting one’s self at another's 
cost is repugnant. But most, no doubt, is 
due to the circumstance that the things which 
we have to sell, and the only things, are per 
sonal qualities. It isn’t quite the same as if 
we were selling nails. Moreover, it is un 
doubtedly true that a man who advertises him 
self gets from his advertising less satisfactory 
returns than does the man who advertises a 
commodity. 


lo a practical business man, our position 
may seem absurd, but there have to be a few 
foolish dreamers in the world, who see things 


1 
t 


that aren’t so, and strive for visionary goals 


From Stephen Child, 
San Francisco, Cal. 

Your editorial in THe American City for 
September on “The Ethics of Professional 
Advertising” is an excellent statement of facts 
As to your conclusions, I agree with the first 
that the American Society of Landscape 
Architects” would conserve the best interests 
of the profession and the convenience of its 
clients by specifically recognizing the ethics of 
directory advertising in the professional col 
umns of high-class magazines and technical 
journals.” 

I agree with your condemnation of “self- 
laudatory and bombastic advertising.” 

I do not believe in “display advertising,” 
even of “a dignified character,” because—for 
one reason at least—I do not know of any 
means of determining what is “dignified,” to 
the satisfaction of all. 

If the Society would, with substantial unan- 
imity, agree to advertise its membership list, 
I believe it would be a good thing for all con- 





























THE 


yt 
w 
to 


‘erned. It would give a reasonable degree of 
publicity even to the beginner, his name ap- 
pearing with the older itself a 
guarantee of his standing that should be worth 
much to him. It would emphasize the fact that 
we are “an art brotherhood,” with high ideals, 
standards and attainments. A telling phrase 
or paragraph, changed from time to time or 
to suit the magazine employed, interpreting 
these ideals and standards—a quotation pet 
haps from Repton, Whateley and other mas 
ters, perhaps a “half-tone” of good work (the 
designer's name not appearing) showing at 
tainment—might head the list 

If this is not done by the Society as a whole 
it might certainly be by the Chapters 

The churches here in San Francisco have 
lately done this very thing in a very dignified 
manner and with good results. Every Satur 
day there appears a quarter or half page with 
the he iding 


“GO TO 


members—in 


CHURCH TO-MORROW,” 


followed by a brief, telling statement or quota 
tion, and below this a list of all the churches, 
all in the same sort of type—none better than 
inother. If the churches can do this, why not 
the American Society of Landscape Archi 
tects? I for one am in favor of it. 


From Philip H. Elwood, Jr., 
Columbus Ohio 


As was brought out at the June meeting of 
the American Society of Landscape Architects, 
I believe the best form of advertising is good 
work, executed in a finished and efficient man 
ner. However, that is no reason why all other 
means of dignified and legitimate advertising 
should be discarded. Many excellent profes- 
sional men are merely existing because they 
refuse to lower the ethical standards of the 
profession. How are the younger men to 
establish themselves? Must we rely on the 
pink tea, the ball room and the family tree as 
our sole means of reaching prospective clients ? 
Heaven forbid. We have passed—or many 
have passed—that stage of development, and 
most architects, engineers and landscape de- 
signers are too busy to afford time for such 
things. 

Our architects and engineers are listed in 
the city directories all over the country. What 
for? For the convenience of clients, both 
present and prospective. 

I believe in fair play. No man of honor is 
going to resort to low forms of advertising 
merely to take the business from his col- 
leagues. But it is only fair to prospective 
clients that they be given a chance to choose 
their professional guide. Men with world- 
wide reputations, of course, do not even need 
a card in the technical journals. But how 
about the other nine-tenths of the profession? 
Many a man has starved because he tried to 
live on professional ethics. All honor to their 


memories, but let us profit by their mistakes— 
not by lowering the standards or dignity of our 


AMERICAN CITY 


Vor. XV, No. 5 


professions, but by looking facts squarely in 
the face, and go out and get business, which 
is the only way for the large majority 

Let me make a suggestion to THE AMERICAN 
City. Would it not be wise to separate the 
engineers from the architects and the land- 
scape architects? Also, if you have several 
from one city or state, why not put them to- 
gether, so that a man near Philadc'phia, let 
us say, might at once know whom he might 
consult near at hand? The time is fast pass- 
ing when work on the Pacific coast, for ex- 
ample, will be done by New York and Boston 
ir hitects. 


From Charles P. Punchard, Jr., 
Denver, Colo. 


During my experience I have found that 
advertising is a very poor method for a land- 
scape architect to obtain business. By this I 
mean that I have spent and seen spent, more 
money for professional advertising than was 
ever returned in professional fees as a result 
of the insertion. 

This, I think, is due to the fact that a card 
means but little to the average reader. If the 
ad could be written in such a way that it was 
full of originality and “pep,” as some com- 
mercial advertisements are, I have no doubt 
but that it would be effective; but this, of 
course, is contrary to the ethics of the pro- 
fession 

My chief objection to advertising is this: 
Some magazines use no discrimination what- 
ever in accepting advertisements. Personally 
[ know of several who advertise as expert 
landscape architects, and who are in reality 
nothing more than nurserymen or graduate 
“wheelbarrow artists” with no technical or 
artistic training whatever. This statement is 
not to be taken to mean that to be good a 
man must be a member of the A. S. L. A., for 
it is not true, and I am personally acquainted 
with many thruout the country who are not. 
I think it hardly fair to others, however, to 
accept copy without some investigation as to 
the ability and fitness of prospective adver- 
tisers. 

I have no desire to advertise myself in com- 
petition with these men. This is not a selfish 
attitude, but a protective one, for should a 
prospect engage the services of one of these 
men, picking his name from the list, taking it 
for granted that the cards displayed were of 
the same nature, and then be utterly disap- 
pointed in the results obtained, I think it would 
reflect upon the entire list, and the magazine 
also; for people under such circumstances do 
not criticise individually, but collectively. 

Finally, I might say that I have no objection 
to professional advertising, provided it is done 
in competition with men who TI feel are ex- 
actly as they advertise themselves, and who 
work along the same lines as I do. I also 
think that the effective ad should be full of 
material to arouse the interest and curiosity 
of the prospect, and this is quite impossible 
with a card. 














Developing a Restricted Hom 
By Francis H. Bulot 


Engineer for the Wildwood Companies 


HE Shawnee Place development in the center of which was a frog pond 


city of Fort Wayne, Ind., is an ex- drainage of the pond was obtained by 


ample of a real estate project in quate sewera 


which the operator has succeeded in pro- storm water concentrating ther¢ 


ducing a residential community supplied The subdiy 
with attractive homes, municipal improve- 
ments, and community comforts at a reason- in depth, fro1 


able cost. It represents the result of the ap- 50 feet to 8of 


plication of those principles of modern city fare is an 8o0-foot street with two 18 


planning which deal with platting, housing, 


landscaping and recreation. In the outset center. The building setback is 20 
this development was designed to embody producing a free space of 120 feet bet 
these principles in order to create a dis- residences. 


tinctive charm and individuality for the In order to 
community, but not to the degree of ex- 


travagance at the expense of profit. ject to a set 


The original tract of land contained 8.5 the deed. Among these are restrictiot?s 


acres, bowl-shaped in topography, at the iting the use 


lots averaging 40 feet in width and 140 


drives bounding a 20-foot parkway n 


dential district, the property was s 


















e Community 





ge, which now removes 
ision of the land produce 


t 


iting on 


StreetS varyllt 


feet in width. The mai 


give permanence to this 
of restrictions incorporate 


of the property, the location 




















VIEW OF SHAWNEE PIACE, FORT WAYNE, IND 


Showing general arrangement of trees and shrubs, namental lighting 


uniformity of the roof line 


and other improvements Note the 








534 THE 


AMERICAN 


ot be 4 Vor. XV, No. 5 

















ARCHITECTURAI 
The arch covers an across 


of the buildings relative to the front and 
side streets, and the number of residences 
per lot. In general, those things which 
make for a well-contented community and 
protect the many against the whims of the 
few are to be found in these restrictions. 
The improvements in Shawnee Place 
consist of asphalt pavements, concrete curbs 
and gutters, cement walks, concrete orna- 
mental lamp standards, 
shrubs. 


shade trees and 
The cost of these improvements, 
along with sewerage, water and gas, did not 
exceed $1,500 per acre or $300 per lot. The 
effect of the improvements is shown in the 
accompanying photographs 

The architectural treatment is free from 


; 
I 


repetitions of designs or preponderance « 


style so often found in “Builder's Row.” 
Careful study of building sizes, heights, 
grades, sky line, harmony of color and tex- 
ture of building materials has 


charm to the surroundings, has developed 


given a 


an air of comfort, and created a community 


spirit. Yet the sale prices of these dwell- 


TYPES AND HOMELIKE SURROUNDINGS IN SHAWNEE PLACE, 
FORT WAYNE, IND 


pedestrian conveniencc 


ings range from $3,000 to $5,000, placing 
them within reach of people of average 
means. 

The success of real estate operations of 
this class does not consist solely of the sale 
of residences, but depends more upon the 
contentment and interest of the purchaser 
in the home after the sale has been closed 
His interest must be aroused to a point at 
which he will not sacrifice his home for the 
monetary profit which naturally comes 
with the enhancement of realty values. 

For the purpose of creating interest, the 
Wildwood Company, by which this property 
was developed, has instituted among other 
things a neighborhood association, to look 
after the interests of the community and to 
inaugurate and manage such activities as 
garden and yard contests and community 
celebrations. 

In carrying out the landscaping plans, the 
various trees and shrubs in the plantations 
were marked so that the residents might 
become familiar with the species, and might 














ie 


<2 





ann seers teehee POULT 





NovVEMBER, 1916 


plant around their homes those by which 
they were most attracted. Growing things 
do more to arouse interest and apprecia- 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


nm 


3 


ws 


tion of the home and the community than 
a much more expensive or elaborate outlay 
of building material could ever create. 





The Wheelway Automobile Drive 
By W. Harold Manning 


T the time when the automobile com- 
menced to replace the horse and 
carriage as a pleasure vehicle, a 

need was felt for a more substantial en- 
trance drive for private grounds. Mac- 
adam was the first substitute for hard dirt 
roads. This, however, lacked durability, 
and the well-known concrete drive was 
adopted in many sections of the country. 
The concrete gave an excellent wearing 
surface and was very durable when prop- 
erly laid. 

On such a road, however, the central 
section is untouched by automobile wheels, 
and therefore represents a considerable 
amount of useless labor and expense. This 
was one reason for the omission of the 
central section in the new wheelway type 
of drive. Another reason was that the 8- 
or 9-foot concrete road usually occasioned 
a break in the lawn surface that was un- 
desirable both from a landscape and an eco- 
nomic point of view. The two paths or 
wheelways were less objectionable and 
were also considerably cheaper to con- 
struct; hence the adoption of the wheelway 
drive in many sections. 


Materials 


Although concrete is now the principal 
material used in wheelway drives, cinders, 
crushed stone and stone slabs are also used 
to some extent. Concrete is, of course, the 
most durable type and requires less care 
than the others. It is also unique in that 
it retains a uniformly neat appearance 
throughout the year, regardless of rains or 
other weather conditions. It is, however, 
considerably more expensive than any of 
the other types. The results of a recent 
investigation in a suburb of Cleveland, 
Ohio, showed that nearly 60 per cent of 
the wheelway drives observed were of con- 
crete construction. 

The crushed stone wheelways, unless laid 


on a good macadam foundation and kept 
well rolled, are liable to wash and rut 
in wet weather. Even when well macadam- 
ized they are subject to the-usual wear of 
this type of road construction. Cinders 
when laid deep, in a thick layer, and well 
drained and rolled, make a very good wheel- 
way. If, however, only a thin layer of cin- 
ders is laid over undrained soil, the wheel- 
way is practically no better than it would 
be if no cinders at all were used, and it 
will rut deeply in wet weather. Stone slab 
wheelways have been constructed occasion- 
ally. It is likely that other materials will 
be used in the near future. 


Dimensions 

As yet, there seems to have been no 
standard as to dimensions for wheelway 
construction. It seems apparent, however, 
that the distance between the center lines 
of the wheelways should be equal to that 
between the center lines of the wheels of 
the machine that is to use them. This dis- 
tance is not standard throughout the coun- 
try, but averages about 57 inches. In the 
observations made at Cleveland, the dis- 
tance varied from 50 to 59 inches. The 
width of each wheelway also varies consid- 
erably. The Cleveland measurements gave 
a minimum of 10 inches and a,maximum 
of 29 inches for this dimension. The aver- 
age was about 20 inches. The assumption 
is that each wheelway should be wide 
enough to enable the driver to keep the 
wheels of the machine on the paths with- 
out difficulty. In reality, however, the 
width beyond a certain point seems to make 
very little difference. The Cleveland ob- 
servations showed that just as many wheels 
had run off 24-inch wheelways as had 
jumped the 12-inch paths. A good many 
instances were noticeable where wheels 
had been allowed to run off the edge of 
a 7- or 8-foot solid concrete road, while, 
on the other hand, some of the 12-inch 














536 THE AMERICAN CITY 


wheelways, although giving evidence of 
being used, showed no signs whatever of 
the wheels having run off the edges. 

It is evident, therefore, that adherence 
to the center of the wheelway depends upon 
the skill of the driver. A 20-inch wheelway 
should, in the writer’s opinion, be ample 
Space on a straight road and would accom- 
modate the wheels of a car on any reason- 
able curvature, so long as the car is in the 
hands of a careful driver. It is customary 
to construct a full-width road for about 6 
or & feet from the highway when the drive 
leaves the latter at right angles. This is 
a very advisable feature, as it is at such 
sharp turns that the wheels are most liable 
to run off the wheelway. It seems, from 


‘ 
- 





Voit. XV, No. 5 
































eee Fe SS 
A TYPICAL WHEELWAY DRIVE, LEADING 
FROM A RESIDENCE STREET TO A 
SMALL BACK-YARD GARAGE 














A WHEELWAY DRIVE LEADING IN BETWEEN 
TWO APARTMENT HOUSES TO GARAGES 
IN THE REAR 


Each wheelway is used as the back walk to the nearest 
apartment 





A WHEELWAY WITH CURBS ALONG THE 
OUTSIDE EDGES 


These help to keep the automobile wheels on the 
wheelway 


observations made and deductions there- 
from, that the logical distance between the 
centers of the two wheelways of a drive 
should be 57 inches, and that the width of 
each wheelway should be approximately 20 
inches. 


Foundation 

The foundation is the all-important item 
in the construction of any type of wheel- 
way drive. This should reach deep enough 
so as not to be materially affected by freez- 
ing and thawing. Well-tamped cinders, 
rubble or crushed stone are the materials 
usually used for concrete drives, and if the 
work is well done these prove satisfactory 
for wheelways. A loosely laid or improp- 
erly tamped foundation is liable to be the 
cause for the occurrence of cracks in the 
cement work. Cinder wheelways will wear 
very well if the cinders are laid 8, Io or 
even 12 inches in depth—the thicker the 
better—and well tamped as they are put in 
place. The regular macadam foundation is 
the best for a loose crushed stone surface. 
Where stone slabs are used, the foundation 
should be similar to that used for concrete. 
\ good foundation is essential for the suc- 
cess of any wheelway drive. 


Advantages and Disadvantages 

The advantages of the wheelway drive 
are fourfold. The cost of construction is 
substantially one-half that of a similar type 
of full-width road. It does away with the 
necessity for broad, unsightly expanses of 
concrete or earth that are so often notice- 
able when full-width roads are used. It 








i eel 


wd ees 





NOVEMBER, 1916 tee AMERICAN CITY <¥, 








to impair the comfort of a drive over then 
A pair of wheelways of such construction 
could be tinted so as to make them prac 
tically invisible in a well-kept lawn, and 
would require but little attention for main 
tenance. This is but one step forward 
Others are: the use of a double pair 
wheelways on long or much-traveled drives 
one pair for vehicles going in each direc 
tion, and dishing (i. e., making the sur 
face slightly concave) on turns. 














A CINDER WHEELWAY WITH NO FOUNDA. 
TION BUT A CLAY SOIL 


Showing how such wheelways are likely to rut deeply 


has not so great a tendency to form a bar- 
rier between two sections of a broad lawn. 
The central section of turf makes it far 
easier to screen than any other type of 
drive. In short, it is more satisfactory 
from an economic and landscape point of 
view than any other type of driveway. 

There are, nevertheless, some disadvan- 
tages to this type of driveway; it is more 
difficult to keep the wheels of an automo- 
bile on the drive while rounding curves 
than it is to keep them on the full-width 
type. There are four edges to clip grass 
along instead of two. Where cinders or 
crushed stone are used, these materials are 
given four instead of two lines along which 
they may be washed into the grass. The 
cinder or crushed stone wheelways (the 
concrete to a lesser degree) are slightly 
disadvantageous from the gardener’s point 
of view, and must be either well-dished, 
banked or broadened on sharp turns to give 
satisfaction at these points. 

The wheelway drive was first the experi- 
ment of men who could not afford a full- 
width drive. It was later adopted to some 
extent by more well-to-do people, both on 
account of its economy and its appearance. 
It is now being used in many places wholly 
because of its advantages in the design of 
landscape. 


New Developments 

At present other types of wheelway roads 
are being developed and studied. One re- 
cent development, for example, is a wheel- 
way constructed of perforated concrete 
blocks set on a solid foundation and having 
perforations large enough to permit grass 
to grow through them, yet not so large as 








\ TYPICAL CINDER WHEELWAY DRIVE 

















A NARROWER CINDER WHEELWAY DRIVE 
In spite of the narrow width—about 8 incl 
here are no signs that the aut 


are ; ymobile wheels ve 
off the cinder paths 



























































J 


|ACCIDENT PREVENTION 


— aa 








In the preparation of this department, as announced in the September 
number, THE AMERICAN City has the codperation of the Safety First Fed- 


eration of America, 6 East 30th Street, 


\ ew Yor k 


Motorizing a Small Town Fire Department® 
By George T. Mohrbacher 


Chairman, Legislative Committee, Kansas State Firemen’s Association 


T is clearly recognized that horse-drawn 
apparatus in fire departments is fast 
becoming a thing of the past. This is 

being proved by the motorization of fire 
departments not only in the larger cities, 
but in the smaller cities as well. 


Reports From Various Towns 

A few weeks ago I received a copy of a 
newspaper from Grand Island, Neb., con- 
taining the fire chief's report for the past 
year. It stated that 78 alarms had been an- 
swered, and that in 65 of these cases the 
fire had been extinguished by the use of the 
chemical engine, and the total cost of up- 
keep for that year, including repairs, lubri- 
cating oil and gasoline, had been $31.68. 
Their motor truck has been in use for three 
years. 

Neodesha, Kan., I believe, has the first 
combination auto-truck shipped into the 
state for fire department purposes. This 
car has been operated by a volunteer de- 
partment very successfully for the nine 
years since its installation. There are no 
paid men, and no one stays at the station. 
Six or seven of the twenty-seven paid men 
in the department are able to handle the 
car, and in the nine years they have had 
the truck there has been only one instance 
in which they failed to reach the fire with 
it, this failure being due to a broken shaft. 
Neodesha now has about six miles of pav- 


* From an address delivered at the annual meeting 
of the Kansas State Firemen’s Association at Topeka, 
Kan., September 15, 1916. 





ing, but when the truck was purchased it 
had none. Chief Pingree, of this city, 
told me: 

“A real piece of fire apparatus will travel on 
any street that can be used for traffic, no mat- 
ter how muddy it is. I can cite instances 
where horse-drawn apparatus has been stuck 
in the mud, while a motor truck went right 
thru and then came back to hitch on ahead of 
the horse-drawn apparatus in order to pull it 
out.” 


Fredonia is another town that has been 
using auto-trucks with a volunteer fire de- 
partment, and it has been doing it for three 
years. The reason why I am quoting vol- 
unteer departments is that the topic “Mo- 
torizing a Small Town Fire Department” 
seems to imply a department in a place 
where paid men could not be maintained, 
either because of the expense of upkeep or 
of the infrequency of the alarms. Chief 
Wolever, of the Fredonia Department, says, 
“We certainly think an auto truck the only 
thing.” Two men are detailed to look after 
the fire station and apparatus for a period 
of two weeks at a time. Each team of 
two men is notified by card when its du- 
ties are to begin, and responsibility is 
placed upon the men for keeping the 
apparatus in complete readiness for an 
alarm. This does not necessitate their stay- 
ing at the station, and takes very little of 
their time. Every member of the depart- 
ment feels that a certain amount of respon- 
sibility falls upon him—a condition that is 
lacking in some fire-fighting organizations. 


‘As a result, a great amount of efficiency is 














2 nergy eaters 





—_—_——_ 
a Peay ain eT gS rd 








PO 


ETM oe 





NovEMBER, 1916 


secured, and I am very favorably impressed 
with the system. 

There are a number of towns in Kansas 
that are falling in line. Liberal, for in- 
stance, way out in the short grass country, 
has installed a truck in the last few months. 
Hiawatha is doing the same thing. Seneca 
is contemplating the installation of a triple 
combination truck, and expects to render 
service in the surrounding country, when- 
ever desirable. The same idea of service 
in the country has been successfully carried 
out for several years by a small town in 
lowa—lIowa Center is the name, I| believe. 


The Advantages of Motor Apparatus 


To sum up the advantages of a motor 
truck: they are, first, speed in reaching the 
fire; second, the condition of the men on 
arriving at the fire. I would rather have 
two men who had ridden to a fire than ten 
men who had arrived winded and exhausted 
from having pulled hand-drawn apparatus 
from the fire station. Third, there is a 
greater amount of equipment carried: 
fourth, there is no waiting for the hook and 
ladder trucks or hose cart to arrive, as 
everything that is necessary is carried on 
the one truck. The chemical engine is 
worthy of special comment. The chiefs 
who are getting along with hand-drawn ap- 
paratus and no chemical engine should 
think how often a small fire might have 
been put out if they had had the chemical. 
Perhaps a few gallons of chemical would 
have put out the fire, but, not having the 
engine, the chief is compelled to use his 
fire hose, and the least he can do is to throw 
a hundred gallons of water, which will do 
ten times the damage that a chemical would 
have done. Think of the difference in dam- 
age that these two methods cause in a pri- 
vate residence, in a stock of dry goods or 
clothing, or, for instance, in a drug store. 

Considerable discussion is going on over 
the country as to the kind of apparatus to 
buy. The question asked is, Should you 
buy standard apparatus? By this I mean 
the apparatus turned out by the factories 
specializing along that line. Or should you 
buy a chassis of any good, heavy car and 
have it equipped and fitted out at home? I 
do not feel that I am fitted to pass judgment 
on this proposition, to recommend one and 
condemn the other, but from my experience 
in other lines of business I have found that 


THE AMERICAN CITY 539 


it always pays to buy from the man who 
specializes, for it is reasonable to believe 
that he who makes a study of any problem 
or proposition will come nearer to reaching 
the desired result than he whose knowledge 
is incomplete or indefinite. 

The principal feature of motorized fire 
apparatus should be the high-power car, not 
so much for speed on the race track street, 
but for ample power to apply when it is 
needed. A maximum speed of, say, 30 
miles an hour is all that is necessary. <A 
faster rate of travel endangers the lives 
of the firemen as well as of the citizens on 
the street, and leads to the damaging of the 
apparatus. Some towns have bought the 
chassis of a good, heavy car and mounted 
the equipment at home very successfully, 
and it is not for me to say that this is not 
good judgment. Also, in some cases the 
funds for the purchase of standard equip- 
ment have not been available and a cheaper 
device had to be used. 


How to Meet the Expense 

I have had the privilege of discussing 
this subject with people interested, and in 
a number of cases the principal objection to 
motorization was the expense of maintain- 
ing a paid man or two for the handling of 
the apparatus. In this connection a num- 
ber of ideas have suggested themselves. 
When a town is a trifle skeptical about the 
way some departments are handling the 
proposition, and does not feel confident that 
it can follow out the plan in use at Neo- 
desha or Fredonia, there is a way of get- 
ting around the problem of a paid man with 
little expense. In the average town of from 
1,500 to 4,000 people, the duties of the city 
clerk take up but a small portion of his 
time, and consequently these positions are 
often given to an elderly man or to some 
one incapacitated for other work. His sal- 
ary, ranging from $150 to $300 a year, is 
paid out of the general fund of the city 
In such towns, when motor equipment is 
installed in the fire department, a man 
should be appointed who is qualified to do 
the work of the city clerk and who can also 
look after the motor truck. Of course, a 
man of this kind will have to be paid more 
money, but if about $40 per month is added 
to the $25 per month previously given to 
the city clerk, there will be plenty of men 
who will apply for the position. Then the 
same old complaint will bob up again, “We 











540 THE AMERICAN CITY 


can't afford to pay that much. Our general 
fund won't stand it.” But that’s what the 
maintenance fund is for. 

You are probably thinking about how 
that city clerk will take care of these duties 
at night. I should not expect him to do it. 
Nearly all towns have a night marshal, and 
he should be given charge of it. Better 
still, in a town of the size I have mentioned, 
where there is a volunteer department, you 
will find from four to ten members any one 
of whom would be only too glad to sleep at 
headquarters if a room were furnished free, 
and that is, of course, practicable, since 
most headquarters are ample for this. 

In regard to the expense of the upkeep 
of the car, it might be mentioned that most 
of us are carrying too many men on our 
fire organization roll, and that consequently 
we are losing an amount of money by the 
exemption of these men from poll taxes 
[ venture to say that if a department is al- 
lowed 35 or 40 men, it is probably carrying 
the full number on its list, tho all are ex- 
empt from poll taxes. The chances are that 
out of these 35 or 40 men there are only 
15 or 20 that can always be counted on 
when an alarm is sounded. By cutting down 
the department to Io or 15 men, therefore, 
the amount of extra poll tax going into the 
city treasury will more than pay the ex- 





Vor. XV, No. 5 


pense of the upkeep of the car. 


The Care of the Car 


Another thing to take into consideration 
is the care of the truck in winter. Some 
will say that a steam-heated building is 
necessary to house it. It would be better to 
have such a building, I admit, and it does 
not cost a fortune to have it. As most 
cities have adequate buildings, the principal 
cost would be the installing of the heating 
system. After that, the amount of coal 
burnt would be little more than that used in 
stoves, especially where two and even three 
stoves are used. But where there is no 
steam-heated building, it is quite often pos- 
sible to keep the truck at a convenient gar- 
age, where heat is already installed and 
where drivers are handy, day and night, in 
case they are needed. But if this is im- 
possible, a small electric heater can be used 
under the hood of the car, or “anti-freeze” 
can be used in the radiator (three quarts 
of wood alcohol and one quart of commer- 
cial glycerine is a very good one). 

In conclusion, there is no reasonable ex- 
cuse for the fire departments in the smaller 
towns not to have motor equipment. It 
makes for economy and efficiency and lower 
insurance rates, and its advantages far out- 
weigh any other considerations. 





The Nation-Wide Observance of Fire 
Prevention Day 


ROM all over the country come reports 

of the observance of October 9 as 

Fire Prevention Day. On October 8, 

in response to an invitation of the Safety 

First Federation, President Wilson gave to 

the movement added significance by the is- 

suance of a proclamation to the people of 
the United States, in which he said: 


“Let the people observe Fire Prevention Day 
by a general cleaning up and removal of all 
débris, rubbish and inflammable material; also 
let all chimneys be carefully gone over and 
placed in proper condition for winter use. 

“Let all public and private institutions, 
hotels, asylums, factories and theatres be care- 
fully looked over on that day, and, when neces- 
sary, let changes be made that will further 
promote the safety of occupants. 

“Let local authorities give attention to the 


matter of better building regulations, fire pro- 
tection and prevention, as well as added appa- 
ratus for fire-fighting. 

“Let fire drills be set on that day in insti- 
tutions and practiced in public, private and 
parochial schools, and let teachers in the public 
schools instruct their pupils, thru short talks 
and proper programs, on the danger of fire 
and the simpler means of fire prevention. 

“Let a campaign of education along the lines 
of fire prevention be instituted in every fac- 
tory, public building, theatre or place where 
people live or congregate. 

“Let publicity thru the state and national 
press associations by timely news articles per- 
taining to fire prevention and fire protection 
be spread broadcast thruout the country.” 


This year, as last, the governors of a ma- 
jority of the states issued state proclama- 
tions calling upon the mayors of the cities, 





’ 


Le REP Dem 


ee en 








Loh te nit 


fm lat 


NOVEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY S 


and state and municipal officials generally, 
to observe the day with proper exercises. 
Exercises in the schools, civic celebrations, 
fire prevention parades, fire drills, and gen- 
eral newspaper and magazine publicity 
were among the methods of calling to the 
attention of the nation the frightful toll of 
life and property resulting from our care- 
lessness. rhe Safety First Federation of 
(America, the National Fire Protection As- 
sociation and the National Safety Council, 
each distributed thousands of circulars to 
their members and to the public. As illus- 
trating the extent to which the public atten- 
tion was directed to the occasion, may be 
cited the publication of 250,000 circulars 
by the Fire Department of New York City 
and the publication of 120,000 circulars and 
posters by the Safety First Federation of 
New Jersey, a unit of one of the larger or- 
ganizations. In Boston, John A. O'Keefe, 
the Fire Prevention Commissioner, reports, 
a member of the Fire Department inspected 
each schoolhouse and addressed the chil- 
dren on the subject of fire prevention 
These talks were followed in each case by 
fire drills and the demonstration of a 2™%- 
gallon extinguisher. In the theatres, films 
and slides brought home to the audiences 
the necessity for proper precautions. In 
factories and large department stores and 
thru the press, efforts were made to reach 
the public, with the result that of the 
twenty-six cities and towns in the metro- 
politan district, fifteen had no alarms on 


October 9, six had but one alarm ich, 
three had two alarms each, Cambrid 


and Boston only fourteen, which. as Harr 


E. Lake, Secretary of the Department 
states, “may be taken as an indication that 
the matter of fire prevention was really b 
fore the public at large 

Reports are reaching the office of the 
Safety First Federation daily in regard to 
local observance of the day ror tl I 


ports thus far received, it is evident that 
mayors, fire department officia nd school 


authorities have taken a keen interest 


driving home the lesson of the 


Krom numerous sources come reports of 
chamber of commerce activities on this dav 
some coope rated with local fir lepart- 


ments in staging fire prevention parades. 


Others printed circulars containing helpful 
suggestions for the avoidance of hazardous 
conditions, and some pointed “Don'ts” for 
careless smokers and users of matches 

lhe movement for the national obsery 
ance of Fire Prevention Day would havé 
lacked the vitality which, characterized it 
if it had not been for the splendid support 
and cooperation of the daily papers. In 
all parts of the country the newspapers an 
nounced programs urging the people to rid 
their premises of hazardous conditions and 


recounting the events of the day It is 
fitting that in an educational movement of 
this kind acknowledgment should be made 
of the tremendous impetus given to it by 


such codperation on the part of the pr 





A System of Hand 


Since publishing the folder on “Safety 
Don'ts for Mothers,” quoted last month, 
the Department of Public Safety of the 
City of Syracuse has had printed for gen- 
eral distribution a pamphlet on “Safety 
Don'ts for Motor Drivers.” 

Many of the suggestions are those that 
have stood the test and are universally ac- 
cepted. Some, however, are new and well 
worth reprinting for the sake of the dis- 
cussion they may stimulate. 

The leaflet says: 

“There should be some uniform system of 
hand and arm signals, indicating what a driver 
is about to do. 

“1. The extended arm held stationary at a 


right angle to the direction of travel of car 


will indicate a turn in the direction toward 


Signals Suggested 


which the extended arm is pointed 


> 


“2. A similar extended arm, with ] 


ing slowly in a circular direction, will indicat 
an opposite turn from the directi ( 
which the extended arm is pointed 

“3. An extended arm with the 
pointing plainly in an upward dire n will 


indicate an intention to stof 

Neither the Editor nor the officials of 
the Safety First Federation are prepared t 
endorse these suggestions at this time, f 
the reason that the whole subject of 


form code of signals will be presented to 


1 uni- 


the second annual convention of the Feder- 
ation in Baltimore this December. They 
are presented here solely for the purpose 
of stimulating thought on this important 
phase of traffic regulation. 




















eo 








Street Traffic Zones and Signals 


By John Gillespie 
Ex-Commissioner of Police, Detroit, Mich. 


NE hundred million dollars is wasted 

O every month in the United States 

thru loss of time, because of inade- 

quate facilities for the handling of street 

traffic. These delays occur generally in the 

transportation of supplies, for which the 
consumer must pay the extra cost. 

Traffic proceeding one way on all streets 
is a plan that offers a fair amount of relief 
from danger and congestion. 

With traffic going east and west on alter- 
nate streets, and a similar arrangement for 
trafie going north and south, transporta- 
tion of all kinds will be facilitated and the 
cost of supplies for every individual mate- 
rially reduced. 

The track for vehicles is from curb to 
curb. When they all proceed in the same 
direction along each street the danger will 
be tremendously decreased even though the 
speed is considerably increased. Passing 
each other from opposite directions in nar- 
row streets adds needlessly to the present 
large list of preventable accidents. The 
pedestrian is also afforded greater security 
in crossing one-way traffic streets, where 
he looks one way only instead of guarding 
against traffic coming from two directions. 

As the average city has about ten blocks 
to a mile this would provide five streets to 
the mile running in each direction of the 
compass. This makes driveways in any one 
direction not more than one thousand feet 
apart, which is practically no inconvenience 
worth considering as compared with the in- 
creased advantages which are gained by 
traveling with other vehicles proceeding in 
the same direction. 

The scheme of using white paint bands 
in streets to indicate safety zones for the 
use of persons getting on and off street cars, 
and also to indicate cross-walks at street 
intersections and elsewhere, and for desig- 
nating locations where the standing of auto- 
mobiles is prohibited, such as near fire 
hydrants, etc., was adopted in Detroit about 
three years ago. 

Their use has met with general favor by 
citizens. Detroit now has upward of one 


thousand of these safety zones indicated by 
white bands. They are located at every 
intersection where street car lines cross one 
another, these being used extensively as 
transfer points. Detroit has the near-side 
car stop, and these safety zones extend the 
full length of a street car with a trailer 
and are 6 feet out from the running board 
of the car, which makes them 7% feet from 
the car track. 

A safety zone is of little use unless it is 
properly protected from encroachment by 
vehicles for parking. We, therefore, pro- 
hibit the standing or parking of vehicles 
within a distance of about 100 feet from 
the street intersection, on the side of the 
street where cars stop. Until recently many 
of these zones have been designated also 
by the use of stands surmounted with a red 
target with black letters, reading: “Safety 
Zone.” Recently those have been removed 
from the streets and replaced by a mush- 
room-shaped iron base weighing 50 pounds, 
secured in the pavements by means of a 
spike protruding from the bottom. The bot- 
tom of the base rests on the pavements. In 
these bases are cast the words “Safety 
Zone,’ and they are corrugated, so as to 
prevent horses slipping on them. They are 
4% inches high and do not interfere with 
anything passing over them, including the 
street cleaning apparatus. The standards 
previously used were the cause of numer- 
ous accidents, because they could not be 
seen at night, but the present iron mushroom 
remains in the street all the time, and there 
is no danger of doing any damage. 

More protection must be provided for 
people getting on and off street cars, and 
a properly raised safety zone that is not 
a dangerous obstruction is necessary. We 
will soon be experimenting with raised 
safety zones graded at the edges to avoid 
damage to vehicles that may hit them by 
accident. 

Cross-walks for the use of pedestrians at 
street intersections are usually marked off 
in Detroit about 15 feet wide, and these are 
kept clear of automobiles. Drivers of auto- 
mobiles are not allowed to have the front 





i ell 












NOVEMBER, I916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


wheels across a white line 





when intersecting traffic 
is moving. This affords 
protection for pedestrians. 
When cross-walks were 
first designated in this 
manner in Detroit it be- 
came necessary for the 
Police Department to haul 
away a considerable num- 
ber of automobiles whose 
drivers insisted on stand- 
ing them on the cross- 
walks. As soon as the 
walks were kept clear of 
vehicles the public used 














them with great unanim- SAFETY ZONE 


ity. The lines are made 
by means of a lawn ten- 
nis court marking ma- 
chine, a paint brush about 3 inches wide 
being inserted in the distributor. The paint 
is put on the pavement in liberal quantities 
and will usually last about ten days. This 
system has materially facilitated traffic 
operations. 

Mechanical signals are used at street in- 
tersections by traffic officers, which indicate 
when traffic is to proceed and stop. The 
bases of these signals weigh 50 pounds and 
support an iron pipe to the top of which is 
attached an oil lantern of the railroad 
switch signal type, the green light indicat- 
ing moving traffic and the red light to stop. 
Targets are used, those with the red back- 
ground reading “Stop,” and those with the 
green reading “Go.” The signal is operated 
by a handle attached to the iron pipe, a 
quarter turn changing the signals. 

Mechanical signals on motor vehicles vis- 
ible from the front and rear also will con- 
tribute much in making street traffic safer. 
A signal that will indicate to a traffic officer 








ed red 





iL24 * 
o 525s ee P72 
rz 
A Lt 
tenn A 
o 
IPL I IIL 
A 


Letarl of Safety Zone Marker 
Diam /Bin Spthe is driven in street jave- 
ment. Marker not removed for street clean 
ing or snow ae Made of cast tren, paint 


in advance the intention of the driver is of 
valuable assistance in enabling him to direct 
the course of vehicles Its particular value 
is on closed cars as a means of warning fol- 
lowing drivers. It is desirable on all motor 
vehicles. 

It is the left-hand turn which causes 
much confusion in thickly congested traffic, 
and many accidents are caused through th« 
driver’s neglect to indicate that he is about 
to cross in front of other traffic. The right- 
hand turn is usually attended with little or 
no danger, as it is made near the curb. 

More importance should be give n to sig 
nals, so that even children will be impressed 
with the fact that by watching the drivers 
signals they can generally avoid danger be- 
fore it is upon them. 

Speaking of safeguarding the lives of 
children, it is well to advocate more plav 
grounds in the cities. Playgrounds will help 
greatly to reduce the appalling list of such 
fatalities. But children will run in the 








Weight so¢bs 


























———— 


<44 THE 


streets after a ball and hitch on ice-wagons 


or sleighs, even if there are playgrounds 


within a block; so that all other possible 
means of protecting them should be pro- 
ided 

Having in mind that the most danger 


alwavsis at street intersections, there is 
need for something that will properly co 
ol vehicles at intersections. It is well to 


consider the operation of the Eno rotary 


system where it can be made practical 
Detroit has one rotary traffic place that 1s 
proving a success. It is a point where five 


streets meet, and there is one-way trathe on 


two ol them, while 


traime goes both direc 
other three. In spite of the 


fact that it is a very small space in which 


tions on the 
to operate a rotary system, it has success 
which re- 
uncertain cot! 


fully overcome the difficulties 


sulted from drivers being 


cerning thi proper direction to proceed. 
rhis is now simplified by all being required 
to circle to the right 


tracks on any of these streets. 


here are no car 
Of course, 
it must be remembered that the rotary sys 
tem does not make any special provision for 
the safety The need of 
the present day certainly is to give more 


of pedestrians. 


protection to pedestrians, for they are the 





AMERICAN 


Be ab VoL. XV, No. Q 
ones who are suffering most from the oper- 
ation of motor vehicles. 

While considering city planning it is 
well to discuss city regulation of vehicle 
drivers and to discuss the extent of their 
responsibilities to pedestrians. 

Motor vehicles should come to a com- 
plete stop back of street cars that have 
st pped for pasengers getting on or off. A 
strict this regulation will 
drive motorists off streets having car lines, 
which is highly desirable until such time 
as adequate safety stations can be provided 
for street car patrons. 


observance of 


Che driver is responsible for practically 
all preventable accidents. He controls the 
His responsibility is 
proportionate to the extra hazard created 
by the operation of his motor. His rights 
are equal to, but not greater than, those of 
his fellow-citizen who walks. 

He should practice the Golden Rule and 
show proper consideration for all citizens 
using the streets, either walking or riding, 
and for children playing. If he does not do 
so he should be punished. His demonstra- 
tion of his unfitness to run a vehicle whose 
misuse can be attended by fatal conse- 
quences should be treated seriously. It is 


element of danger. 

















THE MECHANICAL 














TRAFFIC SIGNAL 























NovEMBER, 1916 THE 
an occasion for something more than a 
judicial reprimand. It should be regarded 
as an opportunity to save some one’s life 
in the future by depriving such a driver of 
his license to operate a vehicle in the public 
streets. 

This brings us to the licensing of driv- 
ers. Let us have laws that will compel the 
licensing of all who drive motor vehicles. 
It should be one that can be suspended and 
revoked. Its enforcement will eliminate 
the reckless driver. 

In the controlling of traffic the police of- 
ficers must have the respect of the public. 
Penalties attached to laws of different kinds 
make them enforceable. The law that fails 
to provide a penalty for its violation is a 
dead law. A police officer without power 
to summarily arrest and imprison a danger- 
ous or reckless driver is an officer whose 
authority the motorists will respect but lit- 
tle. 

Most traffic law violations should be dealt 
with by the officer, just as he deals with a 
disturbance or breach of the peace, for the 
purpose of stopping it at the earliest possi- 
ble moment. The officer’s plan should be to 
remedy the objectionable conditions in- 
stantly on the very spot where they occur. 
When a car is found standing in the pedes- 
trians’ safety zone or on a cross-walk it 
should be hauled away by the police, because 
its presence in such safety zone or cross- 


AMERICAN 


CITY 


mn 
+ 
a) 


walk is a menace to the public. 

At almost every public meeeting where 
traffic conditions are discussed it is unani- 
mously agreed that one of the most impor- 
tant things is the education of the public 
along Safety First lines, and also to arouse 
the spirit of codperation with the city’s 
public safety department. Many attempts 
have been made at educating the public by 
civic organizations, but it is evident that as 
yet no noteworthy success has been attained 
along this line. The task is usually given 
up as too tough a job and too full of dis- 
couraging experiences. It still remains for 
some one to work out an educational plan. 
Lack of coéperation from the public re- 
tards traffic improvements greatly. At the 
present time it seems necessary to allow 
many conditions to become excedingly bad 
—so bad, in fact, that citizens demand that 
they be remedied—before the public will 
sustain the official who tries to make such 
improvements. This interferes with mak- 
ing adequate plans for the future and 
makes it impossible to anticipate and pre- 
vent bad conditions from developing. 

Every one will agree that it is poor busi- 
ness management to continue to use streets 
in a manner that is fatal to life, destructive 
of property and wasteful of time. Such a 
condition is a drain not only on the pocket- 
book of every citizen, but also on the very 
lives of the people. 





Safe Roads for 


zx of the most interesting reports 


recently published on the question 

of road-building comes from the 
Massachusetts Highway Commission and 
deals with the maintenance of safe surfaces 
for horses as well as motor vehicles. The 
Commission was authorized by an act of the 
State Legislature adopted last spring to 
construct experimental sections of the state 
highway system in Massachusetts to deter- 
mine what type of road was best adapted 
to both motor and horse-drawn traffic. 

In the course of the inquiry replies were 
received from fifty-seven state highway 
commissioners or engineers, county or city 
engineers, and superintendents of streets, 
from all over the country. Twenty-two 
replies were received from engineers in 





Horse and Auto 


Great Britain and several additional replies 
from the office of Public Roads in Wash- 
ington and the Road Board in London. 

The inquiry was directed primarily to 
ascertain if the road surfaces as now con- 
structed in Massachusetts were dangerous 
for horse-drawn traffic, and whether the 
plan of double roadways was practicable. 
The final conclusions of the 
are worth reprinting: 

“The commissioners and the engineers 
whose opinions were sought were practically 
unanimously of the opinion 

“1, That some bituminous binder, either tar, 
asphaltic oil or asphalt, must be used on any 
highways that have much motor vehicle traffic, 
to lay the dust and prevent the road from 
being destroyed, unless a pavement is used; 

“2. That some form of bituminous or con- 
crete roadway is the best surface to use on 


commission 





as 


346 THE AMERICAN CITY 





ay 


SS et ee 


— epee 





main roads where the traffic is not heavy 
enough to make a stone, wood block, sheet 
asphalt, or brick pavement on a concrete base 
necessary, or where the money cannot be ob- 
tained to construct such a pavement; 

“3. That horses become accustomed to such 
surfaces and can be much helped by proper 
shoeing ; 

“4. That separate roadways for motor ve- 
hicles and horse-drawn vehicles cannot be built 
within most of the present highway locations, 
and that the expense of constructing such 
roadways is absolutely prohibitive. That such 
separate roadways are only practical in park- 
ways and possibly in a few cases in or near 
large cities. 


What Should be Done to Improve Conditions 

“The Commission believes, however, that 
everything possible should be done to make 
our highways as safe as possible for horses as 
well as for motor vehicles. 

“The roads built in former years, when the 
traffic was light, had a crown of three-quarters 
of an inch to one inch to the foot. This was 
perhaps advisable when the road was used by 
so few vehicles that there was little passing. 
To-day such a crown is excessive, and the 
Commission is building its roads as flat as it is 
possible to build them and*still have the water 
drain to the side of the road. This flatter road 
is much less slippery, especially for horses. 
Many of the older roads have too much crown, 


Vor. XV, No. 5 


and a very large number of the complaints are 
because of this excessive crown. 

“The Commission is reconstructing these 
roads just as rapidly as the money is made 
available. It is also widening and building 
up the shoulders, thereby diminishing the 
crown and preventing the slipperiness on as 
many miles of road each year as possible. . . 

“The Commission has tried during the last 
two years to develop some form of construc- 
tion that would be as little slippery as possible 
on grades, and for this purpose has been keep- 
ing the larger stone on top and filling the 
voids with tar and sand. This seems, up to the 
present time, to be working well. It has also 
tried spreading a coarse sand or gravel on the 
worst places on certain roads. This does good 
temporarily, but if there are many motors the 
material is swept off the road in a day or 
two, and we receive complaints of the dust. 
It has tried and is trying to make this sand stay 
on the road by the use of a small quantity of 
some of the lighter bitumens, but it is too soon 
to determine how well this treatment will suc- 
ceed. 

“There is not nearly money enough to use 
any of these temporary expedients everywhere 
or no money would be left to repair and im- 
prove the roads; consequently they can be 
used in only a few of the most slippery places, 
on grades, etc. Already a great improvement 
has been made in many places and on many 
miles of road.” 





Emphasizing Safety First in Massillon, Ohio 


N interesting letter from Edwin B. 
A Lord, Secretary of the Chamber of 
Commerce in Massillon, Ohio, brings 
the news that Massillon’s big Industrial Ex- 
position and Efficiency Show, recently con- 
ducted by the Chamber of Commerce, was 
successful in bringing home to the people 
of that city a new conception of Safety 
First work along public safety and indus- 
trial lines. Mr. Lord writes: 

“Previous to this exposition there was a de- 
cided apathy in regard to Safety First methods. 
In fact, there seemed to be well-defined oppo- 
sition to anything along this line except on the 
part of a few corporations. As a result of this 
exposition and the Safety First work done un- 
der the direction of Dr. J. A. Carnes, Chair- 
man of the Massillon Committee on Safety 
First Exhibits, and Mr. Victor T. Noonan, 
Director of Safety in the Industrial Commis- 
sion of Ohio, Safety First has been so firmly 
implanted in this city that all the powers of 
Satan cannot prevent good results.” 

On Saturday, the last day of the exposi- 
tion, Mr. Noonan addressed an outdoor 
gathering of four or five thousand persons. 


It is estimated that more than sixty thou- 
sand persons viewed the hundred or more 
exhibits. One of these was the B. & O. car 
of the Safety First train which has been 
touring the country in codperation with the 
Federal Government for the purpose of 
carrying safety methods and instruction to 
all parts of the country. A report from 
Mr. W. I. Swanton, engineer in charge of 
the train, in September, indicated that at 
that time over five thousand miles had been 
covered and the exhibits viewed by over 
half a million people. 

While many of the devices on view re- 
lated primarily to industrial matters, public 
safety was also well represented and the 
subject of the safety of the traveling pub- 
lic was adequately cared for. 

Motion pictures of the principal views of 
the exposition have been taken by the 
Pathé Weekly and are probably being 
shown on the screens to many audiences 
thruout the country. 











@ Mere 








¢~Tntetis> 








1 WA eGR 








Pittsburgh Cures Cold Feet 


ITTSBURGH is one of the first 
Pp American cities to give attention to 
the real suffering that traffic police- 
men undergo during our severe winters. 
We ought to give our public helpers some 
of the comfort we insist on in our offices 
It seems obvious that the less one is con- 
cerned with physical hardships, the better 
attention will be given the work he is called 
upon to perform. During the last winter 
this city solved the problem of policemen 
who in the past have suffered from frozen 
toes. The City Council, with the Industrial 
Development Commission, took up the sub- 
ject of installing a device that would secure 
some comfort to those whose duties kept 
them at fixed posts, such as street intersec- 
tions, sometimes for as long as nine or ten 
hours at a stretch. 

The first idea discussed was a stationary 
heater, but this would have made it neces- 
sary for the policeman to leave his post, 
and would have been, on cold days, a con- 
stant temptation to neglect duty. Another 
proposal was that the heater be fixed in 
the paving, but the cost of installation 
would have been prohibitive for experi- 
mental purposes. Finally a practical foot- 
warmer was devised, which consists of an 
iron plate, 18% inches square and 1% 
inches thick. It is connected with an elec- 
tric plug and switch on a pole at the curb. 
The intermediate connection is a flexible 
armored conduit. The officer, when he 
leaves his post, or when the weather is 


mild, carries his heater to the curb and dis- 
connects it. Che heat is controlled by a 
switch which permits four temperatures, 
the highest of which cannot burn the soles 
of the shoes. The current used is less than 














THE PITTSBURGH “TOOTSIETHERM” 


that required for two ordinary 40-watt 
bulbs. 

Many other cities, as well as corporations 
who have employes at fixed stations out-of- 
doors, are preparing for the coming winter 
now, and are sending inquiries to the Pitts- 
burgh Council about their foot-warmer, 
which has been dubbed the ‘“Tootsietherm.” 





Safety First Federation 


Plans for the second annual convention 
of the Safety First Federation on Decem- 
ber 7, 8 and 9, are being completed by the 
Safety First Society of Baltimore, which 
is to act as host to the Convention. The 
Executive Committee of the Baltimore So- 
ciety, thru its Secretary, Mr. G. Murray 
Seal, is preparing to issue invitations to city 
officials, chambers of commerce, automobile 
clubs, motor boat and yacht clubs, and other 
bodies interested in public safety. THE 
AMERICAN City has been asked to extend 
a cordial invitation to all its readers, as 


to Convene in Baltimore 


the invitation list may not yet be complete 

The tentative program includes reports 
and discussions on various phases of 
traffic work, on “The Trespass Evil,” fire 
prevention, health and sanitation, and on 
miscellaneous subjects in connection with 
the safety movement 

For further information regarding the 
Convention, address G. Murray Seal, Mary- 
land Casualty Company, Baltimore, Md., or 
Wayne D. Heydecker, Executive Secretary, 
Safety First Federation, 6 East Thirty- 
ninth Street, New York City. 

















548 


The Value of the Visiting Nurse in Public 
Health Work 


By John N. Ryan, M. D. 


Health Officer, Passaic, N. J. 


HILE health officials have made 

W considerable advance along the 

lines of sanitation, it is only re- 

cently that they have begun to emphasize 

the importance of directing our attention to 

the human body as the source and center of 
disease. 

We know that pathogenic germs are 
spread from one individual to another by 
different vehicles of disease, such as pol- 
luted water, contaminated milk, or insects. 
Filthy conditions of homes and manner of 
living are the greatest predisposing source 
of all diseases, but in reality it is the human 
body which is the original and worst source 
of all infection. Direct contact plays a 
most important part in all contagious dis- 
eases. 

One of the greatest factors in remedying 
this evil is the teaching of personal hygiene, 
and the visiting nurse is the one best fitted 
for this task. 


Three Fields of Activity 


We owe our real recognition of the im- 
portance of personal hygiene chiefly to the 
campaign against tuberculosis. Sanitary 
shops and living quarters, sanitary care of 
sputum, and, above all, healthy habits of 
the individual are essential, and these points 
can be emphasized best by the nurse, visit- 
ing at the home or shop and teaching the 
individual to observe these requirements. 
In the movement for the reduction of infant 
mortality, attempts were originally made, 
chiefly to improve an ineffectual artificial 
milk supply, while the main factors, the 
child and the mother, were neglected. Here 
again the importance of the teaching of 
personal hygiene becomes paramount. It 
has been proved that education of the indi- 
vidual is the keynote for the conservation 
of health and the prevention of the spread 
of disease, and this is why, in my judgment, 
the visiting nurse is essential in both the 
home and the factory. 

The three fields of the nurse’s activity lie 
in school inspection, in the campaign 


against tuberculosis, and in the reduction 
of infant mortality. 


SCHOOL INSPECTION 

While the school nurse does not legally 
come under the supervision of boards of 
health (except in the case of private 
schools), she is nevertheless a factor in the 
public health movement. Her main value 
is to detect cases of acute illness in school, 
which upon examination may prove contag- 
ious, and, by eliminating such cases from 
the school, to prevent the spread of the 
disease. Where cases of physical defects 
are found by the medical inspector and ex- 
cluded, she can, in her “follow-up” work, 
recommend these cases to a family physi- 
cian or to a clinic or a hospital. Where 
these cases are treated in the homes she can 
again emphasize personal hygiene. In 
many cases, particularly among the tene- 
ment population, the loss of school time has 
been enormous, and the nurse, by having 
these cases referred to the proper officials, 
is often able to have the children returned 
to school at an earlier date than would 
otherwise be possible. By awakening the 
parents to a sense of responsibility in this 
direction, she arouses a desire to learn 
ways and methods for the prevention of 
such conditions in future. The teachings 
of the nurse and the demonstrations in 
hygiene given in the schools have resulted 
in a higher standard of cleanliness among 
the children. The teachings of the school 
nurse are thus made the link between school 
and home, for the child educates the mother 
by repeating the instruction received in 
school. 

THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST TUBERCULOSIS 

The first step in the prevention of tuber- 
culosis, as in all other communicable dis- 
eases, is the notification and reporting of 
cases, which should be supplemented by 
home visitations, or what is generally called 
“follow-up work.” Here the nurse plays a 
most essential part. In her visits she at- 
tempts to prevent the infection of others in 




















NovEMBER, 1916 


the family, especially among the children. 
She instructs the patient as to the impor- 
tance of hygiene, fresh air and sunlight, 
proper foods and the proper disposal of 
sputum. If the patient cannot be attended 
at home and is likely to become a menace 
by infecting others, she sees that the pa- 
tient is removed to a hospital or a sana- 
torium. Outside of her follow-up work the 
visiting nurse in her general house visita- 
tions brings to light cases of tuberculosis 
that have not been reported. In this re- 
spect she has demonstrated conclusively her 
value to the public. As Mary FE. Lent says 
of the tuberculosis nurse: 

“She can put the facts so strongly before 
the public that the state will finally be obliged 
to take measures to accomplish what she her- 
self has been unable to do. She is able to un- 
earth and expose to the public, conditions 
whose existence no one else could suspect. 
Her opportunities in this line are unlimited. 
She cannot stamp out tuberculosis by teaching 
her patients, but she can do an enormously 
important work toward the same end by en- 
lightening the general public in regard to the 
facts of the case and by interpreting for them 
the conditions that render futile the present 
efforts to eliminate the disease.” 

THE REDUCTION OF INFANT MORTALITY 

The third important field for the visiting 
nurse is the reduction of infant mortality. 
The factors which play a very important 
part in the production of a high death rate 
among children under one year of age are 
the following: ignorance and neglect, im- 
proper foods and over-feeding, atmospheric 
conditions, improper care of mother before 
birth, industrial conditions, bad housing. If 
I were asked which of these factors had 
most to do with the high death rate, I 
should say ignorance and neglect. This 
being the case, the instruction of the indi- 
vidual mother both before and after birth 
is the first step toward the reduction of the 
death rate. Here the nurse again is needed 
to teach the mother hygienic and physio- 
logical facts which have a bearing upon the 
child before birth. A large percentage of 
mothers among the foreign population are 
engaged in industrial pursuits and thru 
want of proper instruction bring about a 


THE AMERICAN CITY 





549 


high percentage of premature births. The 
nurse in the factory is able to cope with this 
situation, for by her teachings the women 
are enabled to prevent these premature 
births. Artificial feeding has played a very 
important part in infant mortality, because 
mothers have not been instructed as to the 


importance of breast feeding. Here the 


nurse, by proper prenatal teaching, can 
again display her value. 
Other ways in which she can be of pub- 


lic service are by following up the registra- 
tion of births and that the regis- 
tration law is complied with. 


seeing 
The nurse is 
the one who enters into the home life of 
the people and teaches them the importance 
of keeping windows opened. 
mothers the methods of 
children, and how to prepare proper foods. 
She can point out the importance of clean- 
liness by demonstrating the method in 
which a child should be properly bathed 
and she can perform a hundred other ser- 
vices which together will mean the differ- 
ence between life and death. 


She can show 


proper clothing 


The visiting nurse’s opportunities are un- 
limited if she is qualified to avail herself of 
them. She may play an important part in 
the general movement for better municipal 
sanitation and in the broad scientific and 
investigations which underlie 
the campaign for public health. Outside of 
her home limitations, she can be of value to 
people employed in the factories by inspect- 
ing them with regard to physical environ- 
ment, atmospheric conditions, lighting, sani- 
tary conveniences, their general cleanliness 


sociological 


and the protection of the worker against 
industrial The value of the 


nurse in this field has been proved by the 


poisoning. 


fact that a number of mills have engaged 
one or more nurses who in cases of acci- 
dents give first aid to injured, who make 
home visits to inquire for the sick, and in 
cases of poverty do the necessary nursing. 

In all these ways the visiting nurse has 
proved herself an indispensable part of our 
modern life and a person to whom the peo- 
ple owe a lasting debt of gratitude. 





The Care 


The twelfth report of the Henry Phipps 
Institute, University of Pennsylvania, con- 
tains a study by Janice S. Reed Lit, Re- 
search Assistant in Sociology, of “Storage, 
Handling and Sale of Food in Philadel- 
phia,” and an analysis of the “Food In- 


of Food 


spection Service in Philadelphia,” pre- 
pared by the Bureau of Municipal Re- 
search of that city. (Applications for 
copies should be made to the Institute, 
Seventh and Lombard Streets, Philadel- 
phia. Pa.) 















550 








News and Ideas for Commercial and 
Civic Organizations 








Og MAOOZS MAS MAS MOOS MOUS MOUS MOMS 


The Louisville Industrial Foun- 
dation 

LouIsvILLE, Ky.—The raising of $1,000,- 
ooo for the organization of a company 
which will undertake the industrial develop- 
ment of Louisville has recently been com- 
rrade 
The campaign was conducted with the aid 
of four hundred of the members, who de- 
voted most of their time to the project for 
ten days in July. 


pleted by the Louisville Board of 


The articles of incorporation of the 
Louisville Industrial 
called, state: 


Foundation, as it is 


“The nature of its business shall be to ad- 
vance and develop the city of Louisville and 
vicinity industrially, and to accomplish this 
purpose the Foundation shall have full power 
and authority to subscribe for, own, hold or 
transfer stocks, bonds, or other securities in 
any manufacturing corporation now or here- 
after established in Louisville or vicinity; to 
advertise the advantage of said city and 
county; to empower one or more of its stock- 
holders to act as director or directors for and 
on its behalf in any corporation in which. the 
Foundation may be a stockholder; and to per- 
form and do all other acts which may be 
deemed necessary to carry into effect the pur- 
poses for which the foundation is.organized.” 

Stock in the Foundation sold for 
$100 a share, payment for which could be 
spread over five years, if desired, and made 
in ten equal installments. The Foundation 
will first conduct an industrial survey to as- 
certain what cannot be 
manufactured in Louisville on a sound eco- 
nomic basis. Most careful scrutiny will be 
given to every proposition seeming to de- 
serve the support of the Foundation, and 
only legitimate enterprises will be secured. 
The Foundation may subscribe to no more 
than one-third of the total bona fide cash 
paid in capitalization of any concern, thus 
insuring that private interests are repre- 
sented for $2 to every $1 paid in by the 
Foundation. It may not invest more than 
10 per cent of its capital in any one con- 
cern, 


was 


articles can or 


(ol 
% 





lhe 


Board of Directors will consist of 
fifteen members, of whom the president of 
the Louisville Board of Trade will be one. 
One-half of the remaining directors are to 
be selected by the Board of Trade from the 
list of Foundation stockholders. 

The tax situation is receiving careful 
consideration. The State Legislature at its 
last appointed a commission to 
frame a new law and report at the next 
session. There is every indication that a 
modern, equitable system of state taxation 
will be obtained. All new industries com- 
ing to Louisville are exempt from city 
taxes for five years. 

The Foundation does not promise to 
pay dividends on its stock, altho, with the 
care and safeguards provided, it is consid- 
ered not unreasonable to expect dividends 
when the Foundation is in full operation. 
rhe primary object of the movement is to 
build up the city and secure the indirect 
benefits. 


session 


HARRY J. THORNTON, 


Publicity Division, Louisville Board of Trade. 
+ + 
Road Reports to Effect Better 
Highways 


ALLIANCE, Nes.—The Alliance Commer- 
cial Club has recently inaugurated a system 
which will result in that body’s possessing 
a comprehensive and detailed report of the 
conditions of all the highways entering the 
city. So-called “road reports” have been 
printed in postal card size and are being 
distributed among the road users of the 
community. Whenever a bad place in a 
road is observed, or a section is found 
where road improvements are much needed, 
the users of the roads are asked to fill out 
the card and send it to the secretary of the 
Commercial Club, to whom it is addressed. 
The card calls for the following informa- 
tion: Date, Location of Bad Road, Dif- 
ficulty, Suggested Remedy, and Signature. 

The secretary will file these cards and at 
certain times make a report of the condi- 


























oe 





— 








NoveMRBER, 1916 


tions they reveal to the proper authorities 
for remedy. 

The advantages of the plan are: first, that 
it effects a continuous system and is always 
up-to-date; second, that the reports have a 
touch of personal protest to the city or 
county authorities; third, that they show 
which roads are perpetually bad and indi- 
cate on which ones the club should concen- 
trate its efforts; and, finally, the plan serves 
as a check upon the authorities whose duty 
it is to keep the roads repaired, because 
unless the road is repaired after being re 
ported, the cards will continue to come in, 
calling attention to that place. 

H. M. BUSHNELL, JR., 


Secretary, Alliance Commercial Clu 


+ + 
Cooperation aud Prosperity 
Inseparable 


Irnaca, N. Y.—The Ithaca Board of 
Commerce demonstrated its coOperation on 
Labor Day this year by introducing a float 
in the parade given by the Labor Unions in 
Ithaca. The slogan “Co6éperation and Pros- 
perity go Hand in Hand” was painted on a 
large sign decorating the float. The idea 
was further carried out in the pretty picture 
of a boy and girl seated together in the 
body of the wagon holding hands. 

Appreciation of this action on the part of 
the Ithaca Board of Commerce has been 
manifested by the Labor Unions, who have 
taken action looking to their appearance in 
a parade to be featured by the Board of 
Commerce during Fair and Carnival Week 
later this fall. Further evidence of co- 
operation is found in the fact that several 
labor unions hold memberships in the 


Ithaca Board of Commerce. 
Cc. ALONZO SIMMONS, 
Secretary, Ithaca Board of Commerce 


+ + 


“Little Journeys in Our Town” 

CLEVELAND, On10.—In order that the 
public may be informed in regard to the 
progress which is being made in civic af- 
fairs in Cleveland, the City Club is publish- 
ing a series of articles in its bulletin, The 
City, in which it will take its readers on 
“Little Journeys in Our Town.” The first 
of the series appeared in the issue of July 
17. This describes the plan of grouping 
Cleveland’s public buildings, formulated 
thirteen years ago, the work on which is 
approximately one-half completed. The 
street railway situation is also defined, and 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


ral 
a) 
~ 


interesting data are presented on the scale 
of rates of fare, operating expenses and 
service. When the new union depot and 
subway are completed, The City will take 
“little journeys” of inspection to those im- 
provements. 

+ + 


“To the Boy of the Twentieth 
Century” 

BLUEFIELD, W. Va.—The Bluefield Cham 
ber of Commerce has had printed an at- 
tractive card containing David Starr Jor- 
dan’s advice “To the Boy of the Twentieth 
Century,” which is being distributed to the 
members to be given to their sons or fa- 
vorite nephews or boy friends. It is repro- 
duced herewith 


rO THE BOY OF THE TWENTIETH 


CENTURY 
So live that your afterselfi—the man you 
ought to be—may in his time be possible and 


actual. For, away in the twenties, the thirties 
of the twentieth century, he is awaiting his 
turn. His body, his brain, his soul are in your 
boyish hands. He cannot help himself 

What will you leave for him? Will it be a 
brain unspoiled by lust or dissipation, a mind 
trained to think and act, a nervous system 
true as a dial in its response to the truth about 
you 
Will you, boy of the twentieth century, let 
him come as a man among men in his time, 
or will you throw away his inheritance before 
he has had the chance to touch it? 

Will you let him come, taking your place, 
gaining thru your experience, hallowed thru 
your joys, building on them his own, or will 
you fling his hope away, decreeing, wanton- 
like, that the man you might have been shall 
never be? 

Davin STARR JORDAN 


Compliments of the Bluefield Chamber of 
Commerce to Sons of Members 


W. L. SHAFER, 
Secretary, Bluefield Chamber of Commerce 


+ + 
Stimulating the Taxpayer 

Cuicaco, Irt.—The Chicago Association 
of Commerce has found that the best way 
to interest the people in municipal affairs, 
or to convince them that certain improve- 
ments are needed and to secure the funds 
for carrying them thru is to discuss the 
problems freely in the daily papers, and 
thus work with the public. Articles of 
three or four columns in length are pub- 
lished by the Association in the Chicago 
Examiner each Monday morning on some 
civic topic. 

In the issue for September 4 is an article 
on the increasing cost of city government 














yn 
a 


2 THE 


thruout the United States. The following 
are a few of the thoughts presented in that 
article, 


including the .reasons for the in 


crease and explaining that the benefits de- 
rived justify the great expense incurred in 
running large city governments 


The cost of city government in 146 Ameri 
the Census Bureau as 
basis for comparison, has increased 40 per 

in twelve years. . . . The 
ing much more of city government now Vs 
and they are getting it. The standards 

ing for all classes are advancing very 1 


can cities, selected by 


people are det 


in this country, especially in the cities ry 
is true both of the home and of the 

ity... . Our cities to-day must supply a mul 
titude of things our 


grandfathers 
Che little village does not hav 
o concern itself with parks 
s there for the children to play in. But 
ity must set aside and maintain large str 
of valuable land for the most importa 
pose of providing a place for th 
and their elders for th 

“Citic ist provide libraries ; 
and jails and poorhouses and other public i 
stitutions on a scale out of all proportion t 
the requirements of the small town. It must 
meet the many problems 
tion. It must provide lights and drainage and 
water supply 


dreamed of.’ 


¢ 
t matter, to romp 


s must ind schools 


1f congested popula 


“But with all the rising costs of running 
complex affairs of a big city, the average 
son is quite convinced that it is ‘worth thi 
price.’ ; 

“One may discover a certain advantage in 


a costly form of government, and that is 
the average citizen is likely to take 
deal more interest in an institution for whic 
he has to pay a good price than in one whi 
he regards as inexpensive 

“Nothing is more needed in municipal af 
fairs in this country than a larget 
personal attention directed upon | 
and public administration by the 
whole ; 

“Public indifference is still 


a great 


share of 
uublic issues 
people as a 


ll a most trouble 
some problem, but the indifference of to-day 
is as the keenest interest when compared with 


the sluggish disregard of dis reditable muni 
cipal conditions of a score of years ago. 

“Especially is it true that business men art 
giving more time, attention and personal effort 
to the public business of the community \s 
disinterested service of this sort comes into 
municipal affairs, graft and indifference go 
out.” 

( ity Paving was the subject of the article 
on September 11, the essential 
which are summarized by the 
as follows: 


points in 
A ssc ciation 


“Tf all Chicago’s streets were repaved within 
the next ten years, the city’s paving problem 
would not be solved 

“Modern traffic 


conditions, the increasing 


use of motor vehicles, both pleasure and com- 
pavements of the best con 


mercial, demand 


AMERICAN C 


i wm Vor. XV, No. 5 
Recognized paving standards of a 
are no longer regarded as suit 


able for heavy traffic streets. By a system of 


saving inspection the Association of Com- 
merce cooperates with the city authorities in 
‘taining a high standard of paving construc 


nitial low-cost pavements are no economy 
ult in increased future expenditures. 
laxpayers in their own interest should insist 
receiving the best pavements suitable to 
| requirements. Good streets mean better 
improved conditions and higher prop- 
ty values.” H. F. MILLER, 


Business Manager, The Association of 


{ mmerce 


siness, 


Chicago 
+ + 
Accident Prevention 

MinNEApotts, Minn.—Minneapolis has a 
unique complaint bureau maintained by the 
Civic and Commerce Association. 

Last year there were quite a number 
of accidents, fatal and otherwise, in Min- 
and the Committee on Public 

this Association that 
very definite action was necessary to 
reduce the number of those casualties. A 
of the general Safety First move- 
ment showed that 75 per cent of the acci- 
dents were caused by carelessness, and it 


neapolis, 
Safety of decided 
SOME 


jaa 
study 


was estimated that an even greater propor- 
of accidents could be avoided in the 
realm of traffic. Consequently, the com- 
mittee decided to establish a Bureau of 
Complaints where citizens could record, 
either by letter or by telephone, violations 
of the traffic laws. They were to give the 
number of the automobile or a description 
horse-drawn vehicle, violation, date, 
time and place of accident, and, if possible, 
the name of the informant. This informa- 
tion is kept strictly confidential. So far, 
the committee about 750 re- 
ports. On receiving a report a letter is sent 
to the owner of the car, whose cooperation 
in the interest of the city is solicited. 

Many people have questioned this method. 
believing that it would be much better if 
the Association prosecuted such offenders, 
but the that it is not a 
punitive campaign that is necessary, but one 
of education in safety, because these acci- 
dents are the result and 
better results can be secured by this method. 
lhe records are kept on file, and if there 
is a second report, a stronger letter is sent; 
if this does no good, prosecution follows. 
Fortunately the campaign in Minneapolis 
has been very successful, and so far there 
has been no occasion to go into court. 


tion 


of a 


has received 


committee feels 


of carelessness, 














NovEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 





























553 
Che committee has received a large nut BETTER BE SAFE THAN SORRY 
ber of letters in response to its appeal, and ) cl eet sections high 
it is surprising how quickly the public has eed 
responded to the suggestions of the co Ps ; s* ‘ , 
mittee. It has printed a copy of the traffi on’t resent the traf ene 
1 ordinances and a card of “Don'ts for is doing his best to prevent accidents 
Drivers.” These have been distributed Vont overlook the rights of the pedestr 
throughout the city, and one is enclosed Se rae 28 } 
ake things 
each letter sent out by the Association thn comhenceniial 
y The committee has also inaugurated a cam Don’t e1 gel 
paign for safety education in schools, th inity by disreg 
7 t hh; S¢ + "f < < 
purpose of which is to reach the pedestri — 
. * + ’ (;! Ss) 
It is the opinion that better results in this eT I , \ 
field can be obtained through the children CLINTON ROGERS WOODR 
. Secret National Mun ‘ 
than by newspaper stories, although thes« + + 
are valuable and are much used in the cam 
paign. The secret of the success of this Mitigating the Late Christmas 
work has been the recognition of the fact Shopping Evil 
that the best way of grappling with the he Christmas season is again upon us 
problem is through education, and that and in order that a semblance of its true 
there must be corfstant hammering away on 
the motto “Safety First.” 
The following letter is sent out on the 
~ 
ene Jaint : 
first complaint a 
“Dear Sir: As a result of numerous reports fr 9 
gina is Neder Sapece Saat | A MERRY CHRISTMAS 
tureau with a view to making ser Ss attempt t . 
prevent the recurrence of the la numl f acci 
dents, fatal and otherwise, whic! - Baws dia In planning a merry Christmas for *your 
tressing feature in Minneapolis during the past friends, dd not let it mean a miserable 
months Christmas to those less fortunate than you 
com] t received at t ‘ ‘ ° 
nstant is to the effect that car N 3 , : 
ccording to the official state y ’ y ‘ d 
fringed the traffic yrdina ¢ t t t ’ . 
at P. M., on ‘ Street, by d the I girl } 
left side of a street car [or however the 
rid to have occurred] . 
“This Association, of course, cannot \ , far the 
reliability or accuracy of this report We re e that eg 
you are j as keenly interested in pul safety as ncle 
’ we are, and that this has only to be br tht to r { 
attention to secure your careful consideratior The — . . 
committee on Public Safety will appreciate it if te ae apes nach ; 
ll cos securing the safety of the citizer Ad ve greatly lighte i 
lant ag allan eta les ™ , ing people. Merely do your Christmas shopping 
‘ “a “Very truly yours early—early in the month, and early in the day. 
J , so doing, you will not y relieve the . ’ , 
“Secretary, Committee on Public Safety.” . oat I ee noes “y i 
The following are the “Don'ts for much 8 finde promge section on th : ‘ 
bs v . at . s , a . . 
Drivers” which are sent out: many people lees fortunate thas 
Wt you are a f ( f e 
. Don’t fail to give signal with hand when the patient workers in the shops. It may help yor 
touring or shopping. (City Ordinance) 7 
Don’t pass open street car gates (Citv Or “Inasmuch as ye have done it upto one of the least 
4 dinance) . of these my brethren, ye have done it unto Me 
> Don’t overtake and pass street car on left = A ; 
(City Ordinance) 
Don't drive on the left side of street. (( 
Ordinance) CTR¢ AR STR rl 
Don’t cut corners. (City Ordinance) SUMERS’ LEA 
Don’t have your muffler cut out when driv ; 
ing. (City Ordinance) significance may be preserved, tl readers 
Don’t allow inexperienced people to drive of THe American City are urged to ¢ 
your car. (City Ordinance) operate with the Consumers’ L: ox 
Don’t overload your car. (City Ordinance) , liol he | ° 
’ ° ¥ . . trorts to hentet t . ur ns ¢ r YY 
Don't take blind curves at high speed. (City © "0" aliens n a ee Sure 
Ordinance) of bundle wrappers, cash clerks and delivy- 
‘ 
: 











554 THE AMERICAN CITY 


erymen, as well as of the salespeople behind 
the counter. 

Many changes have been brought about 
in the last ten years in holiday shopping 
methods, and there is a tendency toward an 
earlier and more thoughtful choosing of 
gifts. Merchants consequently plan to get 
their holiday goods on the shelves in No- 
vember to make it convenient for their cus- 
tomers to shop early in the day and early 
in the season. They also aim to close their 
stores in the evening. But, unfortunately, 
this is only a tendency. Christmas still 
finds thousands of clerks, bookkeepers and 
deliverymen exhausted by the unnecessary 
strain of the overwork which is caused by 
the negligence and thoughtlessness of a 
procrastinating public. 

Every gift bought in Christmas week en- 
tails hardship upon those who sell and de- 
liver the purchase. The public is asked to 
make a special effort this year to complete 
its Christmas shopping before December 15. 

The circular reproduced herewith is be- 
ing distributed broadcast by the Consumers’ 


League this season. NELLE SWARTZ, 


Executive Secretary, The Consumers’ League of 
the City of New York 
+ + 
Columbus to Have an Exposition 
Building 


Co_umsus, Onto.—A large exposition 
building for this city is assured by sub- 
scriptions 
amounting to 
$350,000 which 
have been re- 
ceived for the 
project. The 
company has 
been incorporated 
for that sum. 
The Columbus 
Chamber of Com- 
merce is largely 
responsible for 
the movement 
and for the suc- 
cessful outcome 
of the money- 
raising campaign. 

The exposition 
building will have a floor space of 75,- 
000 square feet, a seating capacity of 
10,000, and every facility for handling con- 
ventions, concerts, grand opera, tourna- 
ments, athletic contests and public gath- 


INTERIOR OF PROPOSED 


EXPOSITION BUILDING 


VoL. XV, No. 5 


erings of all kinds. There will also be 
a banquet hall capable of accommodating 
800 people, with a complete culinary depart- 
ment conveniently near. The main hall will 
be 70 feet high and will contain a large re- 
movable stage at the south end. Above the 
main floor will be a halcony 48 feet wide 
extending around three sides, and above 
this will be a second balcony 30 feet wide. 

lhese balconies will be supplemented by 
a tier of disappearing boxes. For exposi- 
tion purposes the building will be equipped 
for 180 portable booths. 

By an arrangement with the Columbus 
Depot Company, an affiliation of the Scioto 
Valley Traction Company, the exposition 
building company has secured a lease on 
the site for 99 years, rent and tax free 
This concession alone is worth approxi- 
mately $100,000, 

DONALD K. MARTIN, 

Publicity Manager, The Columbus Chamber of 

_ommerce. 
re + + 
Unifying a County by Social 
Contact 

KINGSVILLE, TExAs.—Kleberg County’s 
remarkable growth from a population of 
less than 100 in Ig04 to its present popula- 
tion of some 10,000 is partially the result 
of emphasizing the importance of diver- 
sified farming. 

rhru the work of the County Commercial 








AT COLUMBUS, OHIO 


Club which the Kingsville Commercial Club 
organized some years ago, the barrier that 
usually exists between the farmer business 
man and the town business man has been 
practically eliminated. Our farmers are 





—_— 














— 





we 


— 











NovEMBER, 1916 


placed on the committees of the Club and 
are thus given an opportunity to do their 
share of community betterment work. The 
farmer, if given a chance, will help to 
build better roads, produce better schools, 
and do as much to improve rural conditions 
and develop good citizenship as any other 
man in the community. 

As president and a director of the Kings- 
ville Commercial Club, the writer had a 
part in the organization of the County 
Commercial Club. He thus came in close 
contact with the members, and found later 
that although practically every. man in the 
county was a member of the Club, there 
still existed a strained relationship between 
the town business man and the farmer. 

He finally hit upon the present plan 
of holding monthly meetings over the 
county for the purpose of bringing the 
townspeople and country people together 
in social contact. There is noticeable from 
this commingling a much greater freedom 
of speech and action, and consequently a 
spirit of helpfulness so essential in any 
town or country district. 

CHARLES H. FLATO, JR., 
President, Kingsville Commercial Club. 


+ + 
A Revolving Paving Fund Plan 


Ext Paso, Texas.—Prior to the Lea ad- 
ministration the paving work in El Paso 
was done under a so-called “revolving pav- 
ing fund” plan, created during the adminis- 
tration of Mayor Sweeney. The plan was 
established to avoid plunging the munici- 
pality into enormous financial obligations 
which would fall heavily upon the tax- 
payers of the existing and succeeding gen- 
erations, the inevitable result of excessive 
bond issues. It operated as follows: When 
two-thirds of the property owners on any 
street petitioned the City Council to have 
their street paved, the City Council would 
instruct the City Engineer to prepare an 
estimate of the cost of the work and award 
the contract to a paving company, the city 
advancing the money from the aforemen- 
tioned fund. The money was returned to 
this fund by making assessments against 
each abutting property owner in a sum 
equal to the proportion of the paving in 
front of his property, the owners thereby 
becoming liable to the city for such 
amounts. An arrangement was made 
whereby the money could be paid to the city 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


vA) 
im" 
ws 


either upon the completion of the paving 
work, or in five installments, one install- 
ment to be paid when the work was ac- 
cepted by the city, and the others in four 
years, at 8 per cent interest, as the property 
owner might elect. In this way the money 
advanced by the city was continually being 
returned to the fund from which it was ad- 
vanced, and a permanent revolving fund 
was created which was applied to the pav- 
ing of other streets. The city was obliged 
to bear the expense of paving the street 
intersections, which depleted the fund some- 
what, but this was compensated for by the 
interest received on the unpaid balances. 

The plan worked very successfully for 
several years and until the city, during the 
Kelly administration, began using the fund 
to pay for paving in front of the city prop- 
erty, such as schools, parks, etc., in addition 
to the street intersections. This, with the 
failure to enforce collections, crippled the 
fund, so that the city could not grant peti- 
tions for paving work as they came in, and 
therefore ali work was delayed. Mayor 
Lea stated to the paving companies that the 
city would be glad to see the work proceed, 
provided the contractor would carry the 
property owners, allowing them the same 
terms as under the revolving fund plan 
This was agreed to and all work now being 
done by the city is paid to the contractor 
direct by the property owners The City 
Engineer prepares all estimates for the 
work, as before, and his figures are final 
and must be accepted. He also has charge 
of all construction work, and with the ap 
proval of the City Council, gives the final 
acceptance. The city assumes no responsi- 
bility except for the intersections, which it 
pays for, using the revolving fund for the 
purpose. The time payments are, as for 
merly, allowed. 

MALCOLM A. FRASER, 


Secretary, El Paso Chamber of Commerce 
+ + 
A Means of Attracting Rural 
Trade 


GREENFIELD, INp.—Within a radius of 
from five to eight miles of Greenfield ars 
several small towns and villages, Greenfield 
itself being a city of five thousand inhabit- 


ants. An excellent farming tommunity 
surrounds the city on all sides. A plan has 
been inaugurated by the Business Men's 
Association that brings many of the coun 
try folk to Greenfield to do their shopping. 




















Karly in the spring the Association pub- 
lished in the daily papers an article stating 
that the Association would welcome invita- 
tions from country churches to attend the 
ice cream socials, chicken suppers and fes- 
tivals to be held in those towns, assuring 
them of the attendance of one hundred or 
more people. 

The invitations received in response to 
this advertisement were so numerous that 
each Thursday night Greenfield citizens to 
the number of from 100 to 175 have jour- 
neyed in automobiles to one of the rural 
districts to attend certain of these events 
The patronage has no doubt pleased the 
women who have gotten up the affairs be- 
cause a considerable sum of money is left 
each time for what has been bought. Then, 
too, it is possible for the merchants and 
professional men not only to meet, but to 
become acquainted with the farmers, their 
wives and children. Consequently, the 
next time the farmer or any member of 
his family wishes to make purchases, it is 
but natural for them to come to Greenfield 
and buy from some one whom they know. 

RUSSELL H. STRICKLAND, 


Secretary, Greenfield Business Men's Association 


+ + 


A Home-Coming Jubilee 
Lurkin, Tex.—On September 7, 8 and 9 
Lufkin kept “open house” to all former 
residents of Lufkin and 


THE AMERICAN CITY 





VoL. XV, No. 5 


Che card reproduced herewith was sent 
to all the former residents of the com- 
munity with whom it was possible to get in 
touch, inviting them to the home-coming 
jubilee. 

G. T. CROSS, 
General Secretary, Home-Coming Jubilee. 


+ + 


Free Education in ‘‘Motherhood” 


Los ANGELES, CAL.—A school for mothers 
and prospective mothers is the latest addi- 
tion to the educational system in Los An- 
geles, altho for the present the organization 
is being financed by prominent club women 
of the city. The Chamber of Commerce 
has provided free an exhibit and lecture 
hall where the examination of babies and 
talks to mothers take place twice each 
week. The general plan of the organiza- 
tion is to provide a complete course of sci- 
entific instruction free of charge to women 
with infants to rear. It is hoped to make 
the work so effective that the city and 
county will provide funds for permanent 
maintenance. Within the first week of the 
school, hundreds of babies were registered. 

The first division of the study course in- 
cludes eugenics, prenatal care, sanitation of 
the home, diet, bathing, exercise and sleep. 
The second division deals with motherhood 
in general; the third division, the care of 
the child thru its first year; and the fourth 





Angelina County, who 
were asked to lay aside 
their business and _ so- 
cial cares and be the 
city’s guests on those ah diiiiedad 
days. The occasion 
presented an opportun- 
ity of renewing old ac- 
quaintances, meeting Remarks 
relatives and old r 
friends, and to observe 
bow the city had grown 
since they moved away. 
Some of the most 





PLEASE FILL OUT THIS CARD AND RETURN AT ONCE TO 
Secretary Home-Coming Jubilee. Lufkin, Texas 


How long did you live here’? 


May we expect you on Septemver 7th, 8th and 9th? 


When dry and thirsty, what do you prefer to drink’? Ice water, soda water, buttermilk. 
sassafras tea, or clabber’ 


(If your favorite beverage is not enumerated, please specify in space above.) 


How many of your family may we expect’ 


A Letter From You 
Will Be Appreciated 


When dia you teave’ 


Signed 


Address — 








prominent men in 
Texas were there to 
address them, others 
told of the early history of Angelina 
County, and bands entertained them. In 
fact, such warm hospitality was extended to 
the visitors as to make them want to return 
and spend their remaining days in Lufkin. 


CARD OF INVITATION TO THE LUFKIN HOME-COMING 


JUBILEE 


division, its care from the first to the sixth 
year. The extension course of the state 
university is included in the curriculum. 


MORRIS M. RATHBUN, 
Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce. 
































NoveMBER, 1916 


Philadelphia Leaflets 
PHILADELPHIA, Pa.—The Philadelphia 
Chamber of Commerce has issued four 
numbers of “Philadelphia Facts” leaflets, 
the object of which is to acquaint the gen- 
eral public with the advantages to be de- 
rived from locating their homes or busines’ 
enterprises in Philadelphia. Leaflet No. 
gives general information about the city, 
leaflet No. 2 is a brief article on “The Sci- 
entific Location of Manufacturing Plants, 
leaflet No. 3 is entitled “Labor Advantages 
which Philadelphia Offers to Manufacture,” 
and leaflet No. 4 is on the “Automobile In- 
dustry.” The “Philadelphia Facts” pamph- 
lets are developed as conditions indicate 
that they are very much needed. 
F. W. LAWRENCE, 


Secretary, Industrial Bureau, Philadelphia Cham 
ber of Commerce. 


+ + 


New Bulletins 

LAKEwoop, Oxnio.—Chamber of Commerce 
News, issued monthly by the Lakewood Cham- 
ber of Commerce. 

Muskecon, Micu.—The Greater Muskegon, 
published semi-monthly by the Muskegon 
Chamber of Commerce. 

Newark, Ou1o.—The Newark Buckeye, pub- 
lished periodically by the Chamber of Com- 
merce in the interests of Newark and Licking 
County. 


+ + 
Recently Issued Printed Matter 


ALLIANCE, Oun10.—First annual report of the 
Alliance Chamber of Commerce, covering the 
Chamber’s work from September I, I915, to 
September 1, 1916. 

Asnevitte, N. C.—A _ booklet entitled 
“Asheville, Land of the Sky,” and three leaf- 
lets issued in the interest of Asheville, by the 
Asheville Board of Trade. 

BLUEFIELD, W. Va.—A compilation of the 
answers to a questionnaire sent by the Blue- 
field Chamber of Commerce to superintendents 
of schools in several important cities in the 
United States, inquiring as to their practice 
in the matter of providing free medical atten- 
tion for poor school children. 

CHAMPAIGN, Itt.—The following pamphlets, 
published by the Chamber of Commerce of 
Champaign: “Fraternity and Other House 
Building,” showing the chamber’s method of 
cooperation with the University of Illinois, lo- 
cated at Champaign; “Classified Membership 
and Buyers’ Guide,” with a printed letter 
which is sent with the buyers’ guide to new 
residents. 

A pamphlet published by the Champaign 
County Highway Improvement Association, 
entitled “Public Roads in Champaign County.” 





THE AMERICAN CITY 


Cuicaco, ILtn.—Bulletin of rhe Department 
of Public Welfare, City of Chi “ago The bul- 
letin will be issued monthly, beginning with 
the August issue. 


A booklet entitled “Municipal Convention 
Hall,” issued by the North-West Side Com 
mercial Association of Chicago, being an argu 
ment in favor of the city’s building a munici 
pal auditorium. 

DANVILLE, ILL.—A booklet entitled “In, Dan- 
ville, Illinois,” profusely illustrated Pub- 
lished by the Danville Chamber of Commerce 


DurHAM, N. C—A collection of different 
colored cards issued by the Durham Chamber 
of Commerce for mailing to its members, con 
taining statements calculated to stimulate them 
to more active work for the Chamber and for 
the town. Also a leaflet contaming facts about 
Durham, published by the Chamber. 


Emporia, Irt.—The year book of the Kan- 
sas_ Retailers’ Association, containing the 
official directory, secretaries’ roster, constitu- 
tion and by-laws, and report of the seventh 
annual convention of the Association. Secre- 
tary, A. L. Oliger, located at Emporia. 





GALVESTON, TEx.—The annual report of the 
Galveston Commercial Association for the 
fiscal year ending August 31, 1916, published 
in The Treasure Island Log, the monthly bul- 
letin of that association. 


GREAT Fatits, Mont.—An illustrated booklet 
issued by the Great Falls Commercial Club 
containing “comprehensive and concise facts 
and figures descriptive of the development, ad 
vancement and growth of Great Falls, Cascade 
County and Northern Montana.” 

HopokeNn, N. J.—A card used by the Indus 
trial Bureau of the Hoboken Board of Trade 
in its recent survey of Hoboken’s industrial 
features. 

INDIANAPOLIS, INpD.—‘“The Yard Beautiful,” 
a booklet issued by the Yard Improvement 
Committee of the Indianapolis Chamber of 
Commerce. 

Kokomo, INp.—Souvenir of the Travelers’ 
Protective Association, issued in the interest 
of Kokomo, profusely illustrated, and con- 
taining several contributions by the Kokomo 
Chamber of Commerce. 

MANISTEE, Micu.—A_ booklet entitled 
“Manistee: Its Industrial, Agricultural and 
Summer Resort Advantages.” Published by 
the Manistee Board of Commerce. 

MINNEAPOLIS, MinN.—Brief Compiled for 
Presentation to the Federal Farm Loan Board, 
containing the evidence in favor of establish 
ing under the recently passed Rural Credits 
Act a Northwestern Land Bank District t 
embrace the states of Minnesota, North Da- 
kota, South Dakota, Montana and Wisconsin, 
with Minneapolis as its center, and urging the 
location of a Federal Farm Land Bank in that 
city. The brief is a paper-bound volume of 
160 pages, and was prepared by the Committee 
on Federal Land Bank of the Minneapolis 
Civic and Commerce Association. 




















558 THE AMERICAN CITY 


A booklet issued by the Minneapolis Civic 
and Commerce Association containing a sum- 
mary of the Association’s accomplishments 
from October, 1915, to October, 1916. 

Monite, ALA.—“Mobile, a Southern Port,” 
a booklet published by the Mobile Chamber of 
Commerce, describing the facilities which Mo- 
bile, as a free port, is able to offer to manu- 
facturing interests. 

MontcomMery, ALA.—A folder issued by the 
Chamber of Commerce of Montgomery, de- 
scribing and illustrating the city’s attractions 
as a winter resort 

Muskecon, Micu.—A booklet descriptive of 
Muskegon as an industrial center and “as the 
summer home of thousands of Middle West 
residents.” With maps and illustrations. Pub- 
lished by the Muskegon Chamber of Com- 
merce. 

New York Ciry.—‘Accomplishments—Some 
Things Done for the Borough of Queens, New 
York City.” <A brief review of the activities 
of the Chamber of Commerce of the Borough 
of Queens for the last five years. Among the 
more important accomplishments mentioned 
are the securing of improved rapid transit 
facilities, better highways and water-front im- 
provements. 

The year book of the Merchants’ Associa- 
tion of New York City for 1916, covering the 
activities of the Association from May 1, 1915, 
to \pril 30, 1910. 

A booklet published in the interest of the 
nation-wide Dress-up campaign held from Sep- 
tember 30 to October 14, 1916. Published by 
the Dress-up Bureau, Inc., 822 Broadway, 
New York City. 

A report stating the action taken by the 
Merchants’ Association of New York with 
reference to the prevention of railroad strikes, 
to which is appended a paper by Mr. Henry 
R. Towne entitled “Railroad Strikes: Their 
Menace and Their Lesson.” 

Paterson, N. J.—Two leaflets published by 
the Paterson Chamber of Commerce, one giv- 
ing a list of the organized activities of the 
Chamber, and the other a list of the “big 
things” achieved by the Chamber. 

PHILADELPHIA, Pa.—A_ booklet entitled 
“Philadelphia, The World’s Greatest Work- 
shop and Historic Convention City,” issued by 
the Convention Bureau of the Philadelphia 
Chamber of Commerce. 


Prova, Onio.—A _ booklet containing the 
roster of the Piqua Chamber of Commerce, 
by groups and bureaus, its constitution and 
by-laws and the regulations governing the 
membership council; also a Buyers’ Guide, 
both issued by the Piqua Chamber of Com- 
merce. 

READING, Pa—A booklet entitled “List of 
Manufacturers and Index of Commodities,” 
issued by the Reading Chamber of Commerce 

Sr. Louts, Mo.—A booklet entitled “A City 
Worth Seeing,” issued by the St. Louis Busi- 
ness Men’s League. 


Sautt Ste. Marie, Micu.—“Soo Power,” a 


Vor. XV, No. § 


booklet descriptive and illustrative of Sault 
Ste. Marie, with especial reference to the im- 
mense water power which has been developed 
from the Soo Rapids. 


SPRINGFIELD, ILL.—“Industrial Conditions in 
Springfield, Illinois,” a report of the survey 
made by the Committee on Women’s Work 
and the Department of Surveys and Exhibits 
of the Russell Sage Foundation, New York 
City. The report should be of educational 
value in other places by providing facts for a 
more intelligent public opinion on industrial 
questions. 


SPRINGFIELD, Mass.— “Springfield, Massa- 
chusetts,” an illustrated booklet describing 
Springfield’s advantages, published by the 
Springfield Board of Trade. 


Tacoma, Wasu.—A booklet entitled “Ta- 
coma, The Park City,” illustrated and contain- 
ing information about Tacoma issued by the 
Board of Park Commissioners of Tacoma. 


Micuican.—A booklet entitled “Michigan,” 
issued by Augustus C. Carton, Commissioner 
of Immigration, at Lansing, and containing 
many facts of interest to the citizens of Michi- 
gan as well as to the home-seeker. 


“The Efficient Secretary’”’ 


Commercial secretaries in the smaller towns 
should be able to gain many important hints 
in regard to the technique of their profession 
from reading “The Efficient Secretary,” by 
Ellen Lane Spencer, recently published ($1.07 
postpaid). Starting with an indication of the 
cash value of the secretary to the business 
world as shown in his immediate work and in 
his relation to his employer’s business, the 
book takes up such questions as vocational 
aptitude, the importance of proper dress and 
food, possibilities of ideas, secretarial respon- 
sibilities, taking dictation, transcribing and 
typing, essential points, filing and listing, econ- 
omy, and writing a good business letter. The 
final chapters deal with “getting a position,” 
obstacles to success and loyalty to one’s em- 
ployer. 


For Commercial Organization Secretaries 


The proceedings of the second annual meet- 
ing of the National Association of Commer- 
cial Organization Secretaries which was held 
in Cleveland, Ohio, September 25-27, 1916. It 
contains the eight papers that were read at 
this meeting, and the discussions under each 
topic presented in those papers. The complete 
program was published in the September num- 
ber of THe AMERICAN City, and a synopsis of 
seven of the papers appeared in the October 
issue. The report also contains the names of 
the members of the Association, of which there 
are 290, and the names of the new officers and 
directors for the year beginning September, 
1916. James A. McKibben, Secretary of the 
Boston Chamber of Commerce, was elected 
President, and J. M. Guild, Secretary of the 
Greater Dayton Association, was elected Sec- 
retary-Treasurer. 








ee 


a 























FORWARD STEDS 


Reported to The American City 
BY MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS AND DEPARTMENT HEADS | 








For this department the editors wili welcome short articles from city, town and 
county officials and heads of departments, on subjects of interest and practical value to 
others engaged in similar work. Photographs, plans or other illustrative material 
should accompany the articles whenever available. 





From 
MAYORS 


Municipal Utilities Board* 

New Orveans, La.—In a large city, the 
problem of handling the various public 
utilities is one requiring the services of 
men who are specialists in this field. This 
is recognized by many municipalities, some 
of which call in these specialists only when 
an important matter comes up. New Or- 
leans has gone a step further than the lat- 
ter by securing thru legislative act a per- 
manent Board of Public Utilities. We 
have given this board powers so extensive 
that it will be the fault of the men, and not 
of the act, if a decided improvement in the 
handling and regulation of public utilities 
does not result. 

Briefly, the purposes of the act, as em- 
bodied in its preamble, are 








“To create and establish a Board of Pub- 
lic Utilities and empowering said Board to 
adopt and enact any and all just, reasonable 
and adequate rules and regulations of the ser- 
vice of public service utilities within said city; 
to establish standards of service commodity, 
charges and measurements therefor; to au- 
thorize the delegation of certain powers to the 
Commissioner of the Department of Public 
Utilities; and to impose penalties for failure 
to observe any of the said rules, regulations 
or ordinances of the said Council in relation 
thereto; and vesting in the Commission Coun- 
cil of the City of New Orleans power and au- 
thority to pass ordinances in aid of the pro- 


* Eprror’s Notre.—In connection with the creation 
of this municipal utilities board it may be of interest 
to call attention to the appointment, on May 1 of this 
year, of Dr. Milo R: Maltbie, formerly a member of 
the Public Service Commission, First District, New 
York, as City Chamberlain of New York City, at a 
salary of $12,000 per year, to act as expert and ad- 
visor for the city in public matters. This action ot 
Mayor Mitchel’s was a radical and novel one. The 
appointment was made on the theory that it is a duty 
of the municipality itself to see that the public ser 
vice companies operating within its borders give good 
service at rates which are fair. 


visions of this act; and to provide penalties; 
and to repeal all laws or parts of laws in con 
flict herewith.” 

Section I of the act amplifies these 
powers and makes specific reference to 
rate-making, discrimination, prices, false 
weights, etc. An important part of this 
section is that which empowers the Board 
to require safety appliances and to make 
sanitary regulations for the street cars and 
other transportation systems. Another 
part of the same section defines the powers 
that the public utilities have reserved to 
them. 

The composition of the Board, as cov- 
ered in the act, makes the Commissioner 
of Public Utilities of New Orleans the ex- 
officio chairman. There are four members, 
all of whom are appointed for a term of 
four years by the Governor of the state. 
The act provides that 

“The term of first members appointed by the 
Governor shall be one, two, three and four 
years respectively, as designated by the Gov- 
ernor at the time of their appointment.” 

This secures continuity of policy, which 
is essential to proper relationship with the 
various public utilities. The commissioners 
receive no salary. The term of office began 
on August 15, 1916. 

We expect nothing but good to come 


from the creation of this Board. 


MARTIN BEHRMAN, 
Mayor. 





CSrom 


LCITY MANAGERS 





A Municipal Machine-Shop Service 


San Dieco, Car.—Among other proper- 
ties, San Diego possesses some three acres, 
centrally situated, on which are located mu- 
nicipal shops, a storeroom, stables and cor- 














560 THE 


AMERICAN 


tb Y VoL. XV, No. 5 

















STORAGI AND STREET 


SHED 


SAN 


he machine shop handles all ordi- 
city, 


rals. 
nary machine work required by the 
with the exception of that of the Fire De- 
partment, which cares for its work. 
In addition to its lathes, trip-hammers, 
forges and other necessary equipment, this 


own 


building includes shops for carpentry and 
making, 
horseshoeing An 


carriage painting, broom making 


and average of 150 
horses are shod each month. Tools are made 
and sharpened. All automobiles are over- 
hauled, painted. Push 
made and broom cores for the 
filled. All this is done at a 
saving to the city of from 33 to 50 per cent 

The machine shop is self-supporting. It 
charges the other departments of the city 
for any work done for them, striving for no 
profit, but charging, in addition to material 


standardized and 
brooms are 


rotaries are 


used, for labor in accordance with salaries 
paid and time spent, and adding thereto 
a charge of 20 per cent for overhead office 
expense. 75 
cents per hour for machinists, there is con- 
trasted the work done in this shop at an 
average of 40 cents. In addition to this 
saving on labor alone of 35 cents per hour, 
further reduction in cost is made thru the 
buying of material in wholesale lots. A 


\gainst the outside charge of 


DEPARTMENT 


BARNS, MUNICIPAL SHOPS AND YARDS, 


DIEGO, CAL, 


still further saving in time is made by hav- 
ing this work done in our own shop instead 
of having to await the convenience of some 
over-full outside shop. 

It has also been possible, thru having this 
shop, to make many improvements in the 
equipment used by the different depart- 
ments. For instance, a cement meter box 
has been perfected here with which we are 
replacing the old wooden boxes as fast as 
These cement boxes 
are made at a cost of 43 cents, as against 
86 cents for the old wooden ones with iron 
and aside from the item of econ- 
omy, the cement boxes are practically ever- 
lasting. A push cart is also made here 
that, in point of capacity, balance, and ease 
in handling, is acknowledged to be superior 
to the market article. The latest attempt in 
mechanical invention is the construction, at 
a nominal expense to the city, of a motor 
sweeper, which, while yet on trial, bids fair 
to be a practical success. 

\ meter shop also is located here, in 
which all meters are tested and repaired. 
The testing is done by a Mueller testing 
machine, and a testing bench capable of 
holding five 54-inch meters is used. Two 
men are employed in repairing meters. An 


they become useless. 


covers; 




















NOVEMBER, 1916 THE 
average of 100 meters, varying in size from 
3g-inch to 10 inches, are repaired by them 
each month, the cost for labor and material 
being slightly in excess of $2 each 

A storeroom i3 maintained here by the 
purchasing department, carrying a_ stock 
valued at approximately $70,000, to which 
there are constantly. being added purchases 
made in quantities and at wholesale prices. 
This stock includes practically all standard 
supplies used by the city, from office neces- 
sities to heavy equipment, and is accessible 
at all times of the day and night. An office 
has been fitted up with desk room for the 
different foremen, and a man is on duty at 
all times to provide for emergency. 

Two night emergency crews are housed 
in a two-story building in one corner of 
the yard, and a call bell is connected with 
the office. One of these crews works every 
night, while the other is subject to call, 
working during the day when not on duty 


at night. F. M. LOCKWOOD, 


Secretary to Manager 


From PARK 
| DEPARTMENTS | 


Building a Ninety-Acre Park 

EvaANSVILLE, INp.—If public parks are to 
be judged by their combined beauty and 
usefulness to the entire community, Gar- 
vin Park in Evansville is worthy of favor- 
able mention. 

Work 








was started on this woodland of 


AMERICAN 





Cree <61 


go acres about a year and a half ago, an 


already it is serving the city as only a park 


can when it has been so badly need 


} } +t 


so long atime. This need will be better 


derstood when the statement is made tl 
it is the first park of its 
this city of nearly 100,000 inhabitants 


lhe park 


equipped with all the faci 


ind to be built 
includes definite play areas 
lities tor the 


joyment of their patrons, as well as larger 


areas devoted entirely to the handiwork of 
Nature It also includes a concrete stadium 
with a seating capacity of 8,000, desi 


to accommodate all the activities of high 


school athletics 


Y 


as well as profession il and 
amateur baseball. These public recreational 
facilities, including swimming and wading 
pools, tennis and croquet courts and the 
athletic grounds, are located near the en 
trance of the _ park, 
greater amount of 


ment of the 


thus permitting a 


lop 


freedom in the deve 


larger portion according to 


Nature’s suggestions 


This larger part is laid out with ( 
ways and walks, which extend thr d 
lating “woodsy” land and skirt a small lake 
of exceptionally interesting shore-lin« he 
lake was formed by throwing a dat cross 
the mouth of natural ravine, making a 
body of water varying in depth from a few 
feet to 25 feet. Fish and water fowl have 
been introduced, rustic bridges have been 


S 


constructed over the minor ravines that 


empty into the main body of water, and the 
shores have been planted so that each 
reneral i} 


shows its improvement in the 

















THE STADIUM IN 


GARVIN 


PARK, EVANSVILLE, IND 





62 THE AMERICAN CITY Vor. XV, No. 5 rn 




















CONSTRI rIN¢ THE DAM IN GARVIN PARK, EVANSVILLE 

















GARVIN PARK AFTER ONE YEAR’S WORK 














NOVEMBER, IQI6 


pearance and a corresponding increase in 
the appreciation of the public. 

One of the most interesting features of 
the work was the construction of the dan 
over which is built a 6-foot walk and 


foot drive. 


a 22 
The overflow is accomplished 
by a spillway which extends but partially 
thru the dam and discharges into a large 
manhole. This manhole extends down to 
the bottom of the earthen fill, where a 14- 
inch cast iron pipe leads off to the creek 
on the other side of the dam. A _ 12-inch 
pipe also leads into the manhole from the 
bottom of the lake and is equipped with a 
gate-valve, providing for the drainage of 
the lake \ll 
is securely anchored by a wall extending 
from the solid clay 
of the embankment. 
thickness 


in case it is ever necessary. 


foundation to the top 

The wall 
feet at the 
foot at the top, and is composed of worn 


varies in 


from 5 bottom to I 


out street brick, made available by street 
improvement in the neighborhood. 

An attempt has been made to interfere 
with Nature as little as possible, but to 
direct her activities as convenience de- 
mands. Walks have been constructed so as 
to be the least conspicuous, to lead to the 
choicest spots and to care for the traffic 
touring thru the park. Native plants, al- 
most exclusively, are being set out each 
spring and fall, and, except for a for- 
mal feature placed at the fork of the 
entrance driveway to close up the vista 
between parallel rows of native catalpa 


trees, no attempt at mere 
show has been attempted. 


THE AMERICAN 


CIty 








From WATER | 
DEPARTMENTS | 


Thawing Frozen Water Services 
SPOKANE, Wasu.—In the early days of 
the working of our water system, it vw 


l Was 








considered sufficient protection from free 


ing under temperature conditions in Sp 
kane to place the pipe 3 feet below the 
surface. Until recent vears, with one ot 


two exceptions, this was found satisfactory 
but extensive street grading has all but 
covered many services, leaving them 


within reach of frost 


easi 


Another element contributing to the 


creased number of frozen services has beet 


close inspection for leaks, which has shut 


off continuous flow in pipes previously not 
frozen. The great increase in the instal 
lation of meters has also cut down the flow 


of water in many cases. 


We have foun 
that many patrons, after meters have beet 
installed, have stopped the practice of al- 
lowing water to run continuously to 1 


revent 
\ prey 


fre ezing 


Until recently, frozen services weré¢ 


lowed to remain so until thawed out 
warm weather. About six years ago th 
discomfort caused the consumer because 
of this trouble began to be realized. 
attempts at relief were made by means « 


small rubber tube inserted in the open 


of the service pipe and supplied with ste 





The beauty of the natu- 
ralistic scenery of this 
park wins many adherents 
among devotees of exotic 
and “colorful” bits of gar- 
dening, and provides a 
new ideal in gardening. 
The purchase and de- 
velopment of this tract of 
land have been of value in 


setting a standard for 
other parks. Seeing the 
great service which this 
place is rendering, the 


people are daily becoming 
more obtain- 
ing and developing more 


parks of this type. 


desirous of 











WILLIAM A. 


Superintendent of 


GARDNER, 


Parks. PIPE 


THAWING Ol 


TFIT USED IN SPOKANE, WASH 














564 THE AMERICAN CITY 


from small portable boilers. This method 
was slow and costly, and arrangements 
were therefore made for thawing the pipes 
by an electric current from portable trans- 
formers, which took their power from the 
lines of the local power company. While 
this method was far superior to the old 
steam plan, it was also too slow and costly 
and could not be used in cases where power 
wires were not strung. 

\fter our experience during the winter 
of 1914-15, a portable gasoline engine-gen- 
erator set was devised and built, complete 
with switchboard and rheostat and mounted 
on a cast iron base so as to be easily trans- 
ported from place to place in a wagon or an 
auto-truck. The outfit consists of a four- 
cylinder Continental automobile engine, di- 
rect-connected to a 60-volt, 300-ampere 
Peerless generator. The switchboard was 
fastened firmly to the cast iron base, and 
on it were mounted a voltmeter, an am- 
meter, a rheostat, switches and fuses. The 
cost of the complete outfit was $1,175. The 
flexible copper cable used for making con- 
nections with the water pipe to be thawed 
cost $0. 

The cost of operating for the winter of 
1915-16, including all labor, gasoline, oil 
and repairs, was $933.20. During that sea- 
son, 455 services were thawed. Omitting 
interest and depreciation, the average cost 
per service was $2.05. This cost is higher 
than one might expect for an average win- 
ter and was due to the bad condition of the 
streets in some sections of the city and to 
the unusual amount of continued snowfall, 
both of which retarded the movement of 
the machine from place to place. The snow 
made it extremely difficult to locate the ser- 
vice boxes. 

In thawing services by electricity, the 
cut-off box was first located; one terminal 
of the generator was attached by means of 
a flexible copper cable to the sillcock or 
other house fixture; the other terminal was 
attached to a fire hydrant, a valve or other 
convenient place on the water main system, 
thus completing an electric current through 
the pipe to be thawed. The generating set 
was then started and a current of 300 am- 
peres and a voltage of from 10 to 20 volts 
was used. We found that a standard %- 
inch service 100 feet long required about 
ten minutes to thaw. A 2-inch pipe 100 
feet long required the current for about 
twenty minutes. 





Vor. XV, No. 5 


All new water pipes are being placed at 
a depth of 4% feet, and all which have 
frozen more than once have been lowered 
to this depth. But most of the services so 
lowered in the street are in private property 
and still within reach of frost, and no doubt 
trouble will be experienced with these 
should we have another severe winter sea- 
son. 


A. LINDSAY, 
Superintendent of Water. 





JSrom FIRE 
DEPARTMENTS 


Drilling Firemen 

suTTE, Mont.—To take a number of 
green men and bring them to a state of ef- 
ficiency in a fire department requires tact, 
firmness and consideration on the part of 
the man in charge: tact, that the man be- 
ing trained may be developed along the 
line best suited to his disposition; firmness, 
that he may be made to understand that the 
chiefs, or captains are the ones whose word 
is final; and consideration, that the best 
that is in the novice may be brought out and 
he be made to develop himself to his high- 
est capacity. 

One of the best means to bring a man to 
his highest efficiency in the service, in my 
opinion, is drill on the tower with pompier 
ladders. This is best done by teams com- 
posed of both skilled and green men, tak- 
ing care, however, not to set a pace at first 
that will be too fast for the less experienced 
members of the team. 

To one who has never had any expe- 
rience in drilling men for fire service, it 
would be a revelation to learn how few men 
naturally have no fear of height—that is, 
how few are able to climb to a considerable 
distance from the ground without becoming 
afraid or dizzy. The overcoming of this 
natural fear is the first and most important 
thing in drilling men for the service. 

In Butte we have a tower built to repre- 
sent a building six stories in height. I find 
that our best results are gained by taking 
a crew composed of experienced men and, 
with the skilled men in the lead and the 
green men sandwiched in with the men who 
are already well-drilled, have them scale 
the tower until they can all handle the pom- 
pier ladders with ease. This is not done 








ene 





ott 








NOVEMBER, 1916 


THE AMERICAN CITY 

















SWINGING LADDER FROM AERIAL TRUCK 
rO DRILL TOWER 


all at once, but is developed gradually. The 
captain in charge of the crew instructs the 
new men in the best way to raise the lad- 
ders. 

Then I have the team, including the 
green men, climb to the second story and 
afterwards descend to the ground. This is 
done until all the men in the team can do 
the work without bungling. Another story 
is then taken, and so on until the novices 
are gradually taught the better ways of 
handling the ladders and have also over- 
come the fear which climbing to a height 
naturally excites in every man not accus- 
tomed to that kind of work. 

By working with the experienced men 
the novices learn the better ways of hand- 
ling the ladders and of managing them- 
selves. They are also put on their mettle, 
for a man will naturally shrink from show- 
ing any fear when he is with others, 
whereas if left to himself he would be 
thinking of a possible fall and would not 
so soon overcome his inherent fear. 

The pompier ladders are better, in my 

















COMPLETION OF DRILL WITH POMPIER 


LADDERS ON DRILLING TOWER 
judgment, than the others, for the swit 
which they have after they are hooked over 
the sill of the window brings out all ther: 
is in a man, and if he is “yellow” he will 
show it at a time when he can be remove 
from the service. This is wiser than to let 
him become a regular member of the force 
and fail when the crucial time comes 
There are other drills that are necessary 


to make up an efficient fire-fighting force, 


such as team work in connecting hose an 
laying long lengths of hose to a fire, 
well as the use of the aerial truck a 
erecting ladders 


it] 


But these are secondary, 


in my judgment, to the work I have out- 


lined for the drill with the pompier laddet 

lwo of the requisites of a 
are nerve and quickness. These are brought 
out to a great degree in the drill with the 
pompier ladders on the tower and in slid 
ing down a rope from the different wit 


good fireman 


dows of the tower to the landing net after 


the men have scaled the tower 
FRED MARTIN, 
Fire ( 



































— se te 

a 
@ ume i» a 

Ver | peers tT eee Th 

tomes toma cme 


ss! feed fanes 











FREE PUBLIC LIBRARY, ELIZABETH, N., J. 


C. Godfrey Poggi, Architect 





ee a 





NOVEMBER, 


1916 


Loo 


(M1 


R I 

















POST 


OFFIC! 


Kt 


V1 


x T 


BEVERLY, 
\rcl 





MASS 











Snap-Shot Suggestions 
By Felix J. Koch 


MONG. snap-shot 
taken by travel 
ers in England 

are occasionally found 
suggestions worth our 
municipal adoption. For 
example, a civic ordi 
nance looking to the ces 
Sation of unnecessafry 
noises, and at the same 
time to facilitating busi 
ness for the former 
noise-makers, is sug 


gested by a provision for 


the London new sboy s 
Over there, when there 
is occasion tor an CX- 
tra,’ or when a paper 


has something special to 





advertise, the newsboys $$ ——_—————_—_ 
irnished, by the 
paper, with a “broad 


are f 


THE NEWSBOYS’ SILENT CRY 


side” printed in letters so large that he who unsightly buildings which circumstances 
runs may read, and telling the occasion ot prevent from being removed, by inducing 
the latest extra more successfully and et owners to permit the planting of some 
ticingly than any newsboy’s cry could hoy quick- and close-growing ivy at each of the 
to do. corners. The building is soon covered, and 

\gain, a city beautiful association might its emerald hangings eliminate an eyesore. 
urge the beautifving of otherwise staid ot Sometimes streets must be cut down to 


lower levels, and then, 
here and there; a well- 
meaning municipality 
will set up a flight of 
stairs from street to 
new-level walk. In sec- 
tions of London there is 
an improvement on this, 
without favoritism to 
those nearest the steps. 
The embankment side is 
terraced with steps, flag- 
stone stairs are set in 
place, and, as a result, 
what was the inconven- 
ience of being left high 
above the street becomes 
an advantage—giving a 
degree of quiet and pri- 
vacy one could not other- 
wise obtain. 





\N IVIED STRUCTURE Cities located on 























NOVEMBER, I916 THE AMERI( 


STEPS FROM STREET TO 


water-fronts might copy— 
even in less pretentious style 

the bridge-to-wharf ar- 
rangement that prevails in 
Liverpool. Instead of the 
passengers being crowded at 
deck-end to await their turns 
while the ship makes fast and 
the gangways are run out— 
perhaps to be reset on ac- 
count of the tossing of the 
ship—there are, at Liverpool, 
staunch, stationary bridges 


Seemeenaliaiaetl 


THE SHIP-TO-SHORE BRIDGE 





















built on the levels « 
usual heights of ship decl 


Inside the Se accol 


themselves to the | 
tides, art maller pa 
which are run oul 

, 1 
grooves Trot Dridyge¢ to sp 


When a ship is nearly 
dock the signal is given, 
inner bridges go out, and 
passengers Walk safely 
tected tron the Ve 
from ship to shore, with 
delay. 
\gain, where municip 
ties would look to safety 
railroad crossings, the 
ish add an element of 



































ACROSS 


rRACK 


caution which we could 


at little cost W here 
streets cross the I uilre 
we often swing gates 


ing the road to c1 
when trains are due. Bu 
do not always take int 
count the fallibility of h 
elements—the chanc: 

man asleep or day-dre 


or distracted from duty 





England, however, the ¢ 
at railroad crossings do not ' 
lift on high, but swing on the 


ground level. When the gate 


~ 
: 














rH I \M 1 R I ¢ \N { ia Vo.t. XV, No 5 


rt ing the street it is crossing the 1 large percentage of crossing mishaps. A 
track and showing the engineer that ther gate of that sort costs little, if any, more 
is something wrong, for it wears a hug than our own, and, measured in the value 
red | s eve; and then, though he may of lives saved or of unawarded damages for 
have right-of-way, it is for him to slow up ehicles smashed and the like, the difference 
and stop as soon as he can, thus averting s as nothing. 





A Private Home Now a Public Library 
By Maude Ware Bush 


UARDED on all sides by high ivy Not very long ago this commodious resi- 
- grown walls, there is a veritable bit dence was given by Mr. Scripps as a wed 
of fairyland set in the midst of the ling present to one of his daughters, whose 
business world of Detroit, Mich. home it was for some time. In 1908, after 




















THE JAMES I SCRIPPS BRANCH LIBRARY, DETROIT, MICH 








MIDGET LAKE, WITH RUSTIC BRIDGE, NEAR THE LIBRARY 


Situated in the center of this garden spot, the death of Mr. Scripps, the house was re- 
which comprises more than an acre, is the modeled by the heirs to suit the require- 
James E. Scripps Branch Library, formerly ments of a library, at a cost of more than 
a private home. $27,000, and was presented to the city as a 























NOVEMBER, 1916 THE 
memorial to the man whose name it now 
bears. 

The building is of stone, with brick and 
sandstone trimming, and the rear is a repro- 
duction of the front, shown in the accom 
panying picture. The reading room of 30 
by 72 feet, the children’s room, 30 by 60 
feet, and the librarian’s office, 8 by 12 feet, 
are onthe main floor. The auditorium, with 
a capacity for 200, the club rooms and staff 
room are on the second floor; while the 
third floor consists of storeroom and mend- 
ing room, 

Passing through the wrought-iron gate- 
way, one comes upon a beautiful stretch of 
landscape gardening, with here and there a 
miniature sheet of water reflecting the bor- 
dering masses of flowers and shrubbery. 
Rustic bridges cross these midget lakes, and 
in one secluded nook a tiny cascade splashes 
merrily down its narrow course in rocks 
cunningly laid to imitate nature. 


AMERICAN 


Criry 571 
A quaint sun dial is found in the wall at 


the side of this garden-park. Its stile points 
out the slow hours as the sun’s rays fall on 
At the base 


of the dial plane is cut this message 


its calm face of white marble. 


“Hours fly; flowers die 
New days, new ways 


Pass by. Love stay ~ 


Underneath the dial is a 
which one may rest to ponder over the sig- 


stone seat on 
nificance of the poet’s words. 

A little further on one reaches the far end 
of the garden, where stretches a cool, invit- 
ing pergola, lending the last touch to the 
picturesqueness. Its columns and delicate 
lattice, intertwined with ivy, traverse the 
entire length of the wall. Along this vine- 
clad arbor, runs a low, stone seat, adding its 
silent invitation to the restful 
shade, and, unable to resist the temptation, 
one tarries here a while before going out 
into the noisy streets at its gates. 


linger in 





The Civic Work of a Public Library 


By Joseph F. Daniels 
Librarian, Public Library, Riverside, Cal. 


HE Public Library at Riverside, Cal., 
has a board of directors who believe 
in making the library a real force in 

the community. Its librarian is encour- 
aged to give a great deal of his time to 
city affairs without establishing any direct 
political connections. In an eclectic, semi- 
official manner, therefore, he contributes of 
his time and energy to the local Chamber of 
Commerce, of which he is a director, and 
to the club work of both men and women in 
the vicinity. In other words, he is thrust 
forward to do his work in the community 
so that the community in turn will give 
added support to the library. 

The lines of work taken up by the River- 
side Public Library fall into three general 
classes: first, the rendering of transient, 
temporary and current service; second, 
making available information on local his- 
tory; and third, issuing publications useful 
to city officials and city leaders. 

In the first class, under transient service, 
is included the rendering of the instantane- 
ous information which the library is con- 
stantly being called upon to furnish. The 
people in Riverside have a habit of picking 
up the telephone and asking the library 
anything they want to know, and in meet- 


ing such demands the library has become 
almost indispensable. In the same class of 
service is the maintenance of an expensive 
reference book collection of information 
about governmental affairs, economic trade 
conditions, club directories, etc. Another 
form of service under this class is the send- 
ing of post cards to the promoters of de- 
bates, lectures and similar whose 
programs or announcements have come to 
the library’s attention, notifying them that 
they are welcome to come and look over 
the material that has been gathered relating 
to their particular activities. sub- 
jects usually range through market condi- 
tions, city building, local industries, fine 
arts, better babies, censorship, public amuse- 
ments, etc. The responses to the library's 
offers are very gratifying and bring un- 
usual returns. 

In the second class, which may be called 
the local history phase of the service, the 
library maintains a history of Riverside 
divided into the various interests, such as 
social, intellectual, educational, political, 
fraternal, religious, etc. Collections are 
made of photographs and original docu- 
ments in order to make the historical data 
as complete as possible. People go to this 


events, 


These 














572 THE 


AMERICAN CITY 





VoL. AY. No. 5 





\\r 





+ 





AT 








THE PUBLIC LIBRARY, 


library for information about things that 
have happened in the long-ago as they go 
to the Court House or the City Hall for 
legal records. 

The work under the third class—publica- 
tions—covers a wide variety of subjects. 
lhe library does not publish an annual re- 
port, nor a monthly bulletin, but issues bul- 
letins of information on any subject at the 
time needed. 


Many of.these bulletins are in the form of 


when the information is 
bibliographies of particular subjects, such 
as city planning; the Panama Canal; county 
free libraries; dry farming; alfalfa; soils; 
home festivals; books for Christmas for the 
children; February celebrations; patriotism 
(Memorial Day, Flag Day, and Fourth of 
July); books and information for home 
builders; books of interest to printers ; be- 
sides the lists of recently added books that 
are frequently The bulletins are 
always about something specific and are not 
perfunctory, as a monthly bulletin is apt 
to be 

Riverside being the birthplace of the 
navel orange industry in the United States, 
the collection of material on citrus horti- 


issued. 


RIVERSIDE, 


CALIFORNIA 


culture is the most prominent one in the 
library. 

rhe Riverside Public Library has become 
also the county library, under a contract 
with the county, and is now serving about 
sixty branches and stations over a county 
about the size of Massachusetts. 

Short library science and 
economy are conducted each year. Two of 
these are known as the summer school and 
the winter school. Another short course is 
on the high school library, in which it is 
the aim to present the practical side of high 
school library work and to tell the prospec- 
tive high school librarian what to do first. 
A long course is also given, lasting the en- 
tire year. The Board of Directors has un- 
der consideration an extension of this li- 
brary school to include training in filing 
and office system for clerks and stenog- 
raphers. The summer school this year in- 
cluded a course in civic art, in which mu- 
seum and gallery collections were studied, 
in order that women’s clubs might be fur- 
nished with programs, and to promote a 
closer study of city beautification, civic cen- 
ters, tree planting and allied topics. 


courses in 











Motor 





Trucks for Municipal Service 




















SCHACHT TRUCK USED BY CITY INFIRMARY, CINCINNA 


























GENERAL MOTORS TRUCK OPERATED BY THE SOUTH PARK COMMISSION, CHI 


Used by the lighting department; the t 














574 


Various 














Types of Motor Apparatus for 
Municipal Fire Protection 











\R AERIAT TRUCK STABILITY TEST, DECATUR, ILI 





























SERVICII 


BOYD CITY 




















ct 


AMERICAN-LA FRANCE 














Housing and Disease 


N a paper on “Housing Conditions as 
Factors in the Production of Disease,” 
which was read at the National Hous- 

ing Conference in Providence on October 
10, Prof. James Ford, of the Department of 
Social Ethics of Harvard University, shows 
the many ways in which the house may 
deleteriously affect health. 

Injuries caused by housing conditions in- 

clude almost all forms of superficial 
_wounds, due to defectively built or out-of- 
“repair structures. Such injuries are in- 
creasingly prevented thru building laws, 
housing laws and fire prevention laws. 
Specific legislation can prevent diseases 
caused by chemical poisoning, from de- 
fective flues and gas fixtures. Malaria, 
which is transmitted from man to man thru 
the medium of the mosquito, may be re- 
duced if rooms are well-screened. The 
hookworm disease may be largely pre- 
vented by the universal requirement of 
sanitary privies or of modern toilets. 

Since it is possible by housing legislation 
to control somewhat the factor of ventila- 
tion, it is possible at least to hasten the 
desiccation of the bacteria of diseases of 
the respiratory tract. The control of dust 
and dirt, the prevention of room over- 
crowding, and provision for the natural 
lighting of halls and apartments should aid 
in the prevention of these bacterial diseases. 
The requirement in health and housing laws 
that garbage pails and manure piles shall be 
covered and that all organic wastes shall 
be removed from premises will materially 
reduce the numbers of insect carriers of 
diseases transmitted thru contaminated food 
and drink. The tendency of modern hous- 
ing legislation to require a toilet for each 
family is largely justified on the ground of 
prevention of the venereal diseases, which 
is also aided by the elimination of the com- 
mon towel. The rat-proofing of houses, 
which is possible thru inexpensive struc- 
tural devices which might be required in 
the building law, would serve as an essen- 
tial means of preventing bubonic plague. 

It is probable that the conditions of the 
home materially affect the nervous tone of 
the occupant. Over-crowding and _ the 
lodger evil certainly affect the moral tone. 
All provisions tending to encourage the 
construction of cottage homes would tend 


to reduce these evils as well as the dangers 
from bacterial diseases. Prof. Ford says: 

“Housing legislation is most effective in 
the prevention of diszase, in all probability, 
not because it provides means of reducing 
contact or destroying germs, but because of 
the part which it may play in the building 
up of resistance. Human beings vary ap- 
parently quite considerably in their relative 
constitutional immunity to specific diseases, 
but a given individual's susceptibility to 
many diseases, as, for example, tuberculosis, 
may be considerably affected by his mode 
of living. Resistance may be reduced by 
over-work, under-nourishment, abuse of 
alcohol, or certain other poisons, appar- 
ently also by inadequate exercise. Resist- 
ance may apparently be increased by living 
in fresh air. It is probable also that sun- 
shine plays a quite important part in in- 
creasing human resistance. The quality of 
the blood and the number of phagocytes, 
or white blood corpuscles, which are among 
the most important of the body’s defensive 
agents ayainst disease, may be increased 
rapidly by exposure of the body to the sun- 
shine. In so far as housing legislation 
tends, therefore, to increase the amount of 
fresh air and of sunshine in the homes of 
all classes, it presumably tends to increase 
resistance to disease. This, if true, offers 
the most cogent argument of all for hous- 
ing legislation. 

“It should be understood that housing 
conditions are seldom the sole cause of dis- 
ease. There must be a constitutional pre- 
disposition, hereditary or acquired. In the 
case of infectious diseases, the germ must 
be present and ingested in infective quanti- 
ties. Doctors disagree also as to the mode 
of infection or acquirement of many dis- 
eases. Nevertheless, the burden of proof 
lies with the person who criticises the gen- 
eral view of the pathologists and quarrels 
with the experience of health departments 
and investigators. Bad housing conditions 
of various sorts may be real factors in the 
reduction of health and in the production 
of a variety of diseases. Improvement of 
housing conditions will serve to reduce the 
volume of preventable diseases and acci- 
dents and may help to render the lives of 
persons of small income not only tolerable, 
but efficient and joyous. 








~  — 














———— 


ot 


Items of Municipal Law 


Filter Patent Suit 

The United States Circuit Court of Ap- 
peals has just handed down a decifion deny- 
ing the right of Ira H. Jewell, of Chicago, 
to recover damages against the city of Min- 
neapolis as for infringement of patents cov- 
ering filtration devices. The litigation grew 
out of the equipment installed in the muni- 
cipal filtration plant constructed by the 
Minnesota city a few years ago. The 
United States District Court decided in 
favor of Jewell on his claims of infringe- 
ment as to the use of a central controlling 
system for water gates, and a screen for 
retaining gravel. But in reversing this de- 
cision the Circuit Court of Appeals holds 
that Jewell had no such valid patent claims 
as rendered the use of any of the devices in 
the Minneapolis plant an infringement. In- 
asmuch as the same patents are involved in 
similar claims made against other munici- 
palities, the decision of the higher court is 
of widespread importance. 

+ + 

Termination of Municipal Contracts 

The right of a city to exercise a reserved 
privilege of terminating a garbage removal 
contract is not affected by the fact that the 
charter provision for making such contracts 
may not have specifically provided for res- 
ervation of such right. “It would be intol- 
erable if the Legislature were required to 
authorize specifically every provision and 
specification of every municipal contract. 
. . « The fact that a provision which is in- 
tended to protect the rights of the city by 
securing prompt and exact performance on 
the part of the contractor adds to the power 
of the municipality is far from being 
against public policy; it is quite in accord- 
ance therewith.” (New Jersey Supreme 
Court, Moriarty vs. Board of Commission- 
ers of City of Orange, 98 Atlantic Reporter, 
465.) 

+ + 


An Invalid Building Regulation 


The Maryland Court of Appeals has de- 
clared to be void a statute declaring that no 
dwelling house shall be erected in a certain 
district of Baltimore, unless the same be 
constructed as a separate and unattached 
building; “and if such dwellings are of 
frame construction they shall be at least 


twenty feet apart, and if of stone or brick 
construction they shall be at least ten feet 
apart “4 (yr i¢ vVS&. Marvland Realty Co 

g8 Atlantic Reporter, 547.) 

lhe court holds that “the act does not ré 

late to the police power, and its enforce- 
ment would deprive the appellee of prop 

erty rights guaranteed by the Constitution, 
which cannot be invaded for purely esthetic 
purposes under the guise of police power.” 
lhe opinion approves the declaration made 
by the Illinois Supreme Court, that all uses 
of property which are injurious to the pub- 
lic health, comfort, safety and welfare may 
be prohibited under the police power, even 
tho it may result in inconvenience and 
loss to individuals; but that the owner of 
property has an absolute right to make any 
use of it that he desires, so long as he does 
not thereby endanger the public safety, 
health, comfort or welfare. 


+ + 


Municipal Power Concerning 
Franchises 

Power given a city to eontrol the use of 
streets by public service corporations does 
not include unlimited authority to impose 
conditions on such companies—e. g., a con 
dition requiring a lighting company to 
manufacture its own electricity. But if a 
company accepts a franchise containing 
such a condition, it will not be permitted to 
evade compliance with it. An ordinance 
authorizing a company to manufacture and 
to sell to the city and its residents elec- 
tricity for lighting and power purposes did 
not impliedly require the company to pro- 
duce its own current. (Texas Court of 
Civil Appeals, City of Terrell vs. Terrell 
Electric Light Co., 187 Southwestern Re- 
porter, 966. ) 

+ + 


Validity of Signboard Ordinance 

The New York ordinance which forbids 
maintenance of roof sign structures to a 
greater height than 31 feet if solid, or 
greater than 75 feet if open, will not be 
held to be void for unreasonableness merely 
because it may be that signs of greater 
height could be made approximately safe 
(New York Court of Appeals, People vs 
Ludwig, 113 Northeastern Reporter, 532.) 














Progress in Adoption of Standard Units for 
Paving and Sewerage 


HE Committee on Standard Forms of 
iy the American Society of Munict- 
pal Improvements, in conformity 
with the intention expressed in its report 
last year, has devoted its energies since then 
to giving publicity to the paving and sewer- 
age units already adopted and endeavored 
to secure a more or less general use of them 
by cities thruout the country. Scores of 
letters have been received—most of them 
from city engineers—commending the work. 
In all but two or three cases these engineers 
reported their intention to adopt the units 
for use in their cities. 


A. S. M. lI. STANDARD UNITS 
FOR 
STREET PAVING 


If these units are used, a statement to that effect in a 
report or description, without further explanation, give 
certainty of meaning to tne figures. 


PAVEMENT: The wearing surface down to the 
base, if any. Includes cushion or binder course, but 
not concrete, macadam, or other base. Jf base is 


included, describe as “‘pavement and........ inch 
concrete ‘ 
macedam base. In the case of macadam or con- 


crete pavement, the term includes all down to the 
earth foundation. Unit, the square yard, giving mate- 
rial and thickness. Ex.: 1524 sq. yds. of 3 in. 
asphalt pavement. 


BASE: The concrete, macadam or other material 
placed under the pavement to distribute the load on 
the subgrade. Unit, the square yard, naming thickness 
— material. Ex.: 1524 sq. yds. of 6 in. concrete 

se. 


EXCAVATION ; EMBANKMENT: Al! materia! 
removed before laying base, curb or sidewalk; or all 
material added, up to base, curb or sidewalk. Unit, 
the cubic yard, naming material. Ex.: 600 cu. yds. 
of earth excavation. 


CURB: Complete construction of new curb, except 
excavation or embankment, RESETTING CURB: 
Same, except furnishing of curb stone. Unit, lineal 
foot, stating (in inches) depth and mean width of 
curb, and material. Ex.: 952 ft. of 7 x 18 granite 
curb reset; 750 ft. of 6 x 16 concrete curb. 


GUTTER: Same ascurb. Unit, ee foot, stat- 
ing thickness and material. Ex.: 1428 sq. ft. of 6 in. 
concrete gutter. 


SIDEWALK: The artificial wearing surface, not 
including excavation or embankment, nor base of 
cinders or other material, if any. Unit, the square 
foot (or square yard, if preferred) giving average 
thicknessand material. Ex.: 1720 sq. ft. of 6 in. 
concrete sidewalk. 


SIDEWALK BASE: Cinders or other materia! 
placed under sidewalk. Unit, the cubic yard, naming 
material. Ex.: 122 cu. yds. of gravel sidewalk base. 





lhe units have also been officially adopted 
by the Granite Paving Block Manufac- 
turers’ Association, and the secretaries of 
the National Paving Brick Manufacturers’ 
\ssociation and the Southern Paving Brick 
Manufacturers’ Association are heartily in 
accord with the movement. In addition to 
this, several of the largest paving concerns 
in the country have agreed to do what they 
can to further the use of the units. 

Cards describing these units have been 
widely distributed. They were reproduced 
in the July, 1916, issue of THE AMERICAN 
Ciry, and are here repeated. 


A. S. M. I. STANDARD UNITS 
FOR 
SEWER CONSTRUCTION 


If these units ave used, a statement to that effect in a 
eport or description, without further explanation, gives 
“ertainty of meaning to the figures. 


CONSTRUCTING SEWER: Excavating trench 
(except rock and street pavernent), furnishing mate- 
rial for and constructing or laying the sewer barrel 
(not including branches. manholes or other appur- 
tenances. special foundations, etc.) and backfilling 
(not including relaying pavement ) Excavation of 
rock, sheathing left in trench, and removal and re- 
placing of pavement paid for éxtra. Depth of ex- 
cavation is measured from street surface to invert of 
sewer, and classified by two-foot intervals. Unit, 
the lineal foot (measured along the entire length of 
the sewer, including manholes and specials), naming 
size of bore and material of sewer, and depth. Ex.: 
10 in. vitrified sewer, 950 ft. 8 to 10 ft. deep: 630 
ft. 10 to 12 ft. deep. 


BRANCHES: Y or T branches inserted in the 
sewer ; the price paid to be additional to that paid for 
the sewer in which the branch is inserted. 


MANHOLE: The total structure, including bottom 
and top casting, steps, etc., additional excavation and 
backfilling. Standard to be taken as 6 feet deep. and 
depths exceeding this to be given in additional feet 
depth. Price is in addition to that paid for sewer 
(measurement for which includes manholes. as stated 
above.) Unit, manhole of standard depth, giving 
bottom diameters in feet: and feet of additional 
depth. Ex.: 7 manholes 3 x 4%, and 22 ft. additional 
depth. (This means that the sum of the depths was 
64 * . and the average depth was 9 1/7 ft.) 


REPLACING PAVEMENT: Grading top of 
trench back-fill, putting in pavement foundation (if 
any), and laying wearing surface (replacing any mate- 
rial damaged in removing same.+ Unit, square yard, 
naming kind of pavement. Ex.: removing and re- 
vlacing 726 sq. yds. of brick pavement. 

















—a 

















NovEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


\t the annual convention of the Ameri- 
can Society of Improvements, held in New- 
ark, N. Tis October 9-10, Mr. A. Prescott 
Folwell, Chairman of the Committee on 
Standard Forms, presented a report show- 
ing at some length what progress had been 
made in securing the adoption of these units 
and stating suggestions that had been made. 
lo the report were appended amplified def- 
initions of the units, as advocated this year. 
These definitions follow: 


STREET IMPROVEMENT UNITS 

Pavement is defined as “the wearing surface 
down to the base, if any.” In an asphalt pave- 
ment this includes wearing and binder course; 
in a brick, stone or wood block pavement, the 
brick or block and sand or mortar cushion; in 
pavements like concrete or macadam, which 
have no base, the entire pavement to sub-grade 
is included. 

\ number of cities include the base with the 
top and may not wish to change, in which case 
this may be described as “pavement and base,” 
but not as “pavement.” The reason for sepa- 
rating the two was that an increasing number 
of pavements on concrete base are being re 
surfaced on the old base, and this separation 
permits a comparison of cost of this repaving 
with the paving proper on a new base, and 
avoids confusion and uncertainty as to whether 
what is reported as “paving” does or does not 
include a new base. Also the thickness of 
base varies between cities and between dif 
ferent streets of the same city, and no true 
comparison can be made unless the thickness 
of base is known and allowed for, and 'this 
can be done most readily by considering the 
base separately. 

Where the pavement is of a material, such 
as asphalt, concrete, macadam, etc., which may 
be of different thicknesses, the thickness 
should be stated. Where there is a standard 
thickness, as a brick, wood block or stone 
block, this is not necessary. 

Base.—Naming the material and amount of 
the base would seem to define this, especiall 
if the proportioning of the concrete be given. 
Thus “6-inch 1:3:6 concrete base” could 
hardly be made more definite without a long 
explanation. Some have preferred giving the 
cubic yards of concrete rather than the area 
and thickness, but there are two arguments in 
favor of the latter. To a certain extent the 
cost per cubic yard varies with the area cov- 
ered, since this determines the frequency of 
moving the mixer or the distance the concrete 
is wheeled from the mixer, and also the area 
of surface to be smoothed off. Given area in 
square yards and thickness, and a minute’s 
calculation enables an engineer to reduce this 
to cubic yards.. But (and this is the second 
argument) the figures are for the informa- 
tion of city officials and taxpayers, and if the 
cost per square yard of base is given, these 
can obtain the total cost by simple addition to 
the cost of pavement, while few would find it 


579 
simple matter to btain such res 
qu red to reduce cost per ub ird wl I 
means little to them) t st per square yard 
Excavation is the most iriable 
ccurring in most ginal paving work t 
may vary from nothing to several feet, and 
should always be separate d trom pavement 
ind base construction. Comparison of exca 
vation costs is desirable, but is of less impor 
tance than the absolute elimination of their 
effect upon the cost of pavement at d base 
Sidewalk That curb, gutter and sidewalk 


should not be included in work designated 
“pavement” would seem to need littl 


ment. The standard unit for sidewalk paving 
is used similarly to that for roadway paving 
The square foot (or square yard, if preferred 
the price will indicate which is used, even 
if it is nét stated) is the unit to be used, giv 
ing average thickness and material. The unit 
does not include the base nor any excavation 
or embankment. The reasons are the same as 
for the roadway Including excavation or e1 
bankment would introduce such variables t 
make any cost figure of no practical value, 
even fi r comparing paving in d fferent on 
tracts in the same cits Where there is 
standard construction as to base in given 
ity, comparisons for that city of costs includ 


ing base would be serviceable so long as the 


standard method was not changed. But such 
standard may be changed at any time, and as 


it varies in different ities, comparisons be 
tween cities would be of little value unless the 
base be eliminated If a city insists n lu 
ing the two in one item, however, it should 
refer to this as “sidewalk and base’: exam 
ple: 1,720 square feet of 6-inch concrete side 
walk on &-inch cinder base The thickness 
of the sidewalk given is the average, if it 1s 
not uniform thruout It would perhaps be 
well to specify whether the concrete is laid 
in one or two courses, and the proportioning 


of the ingredients, as this can be stated briefls 
and it adds to the definiteness of the statement, 
is “1,720 square feet of 6-inch two-course, 
1: 2-'%4:5 concrete sidewalk.” But this is not 
onsidered : s an essential to the standard unit 
Gutters For gutters also the standard unit 


is the square foot of stated thickness, naming 
the material Present practice, where the 
roadway is paved with any material on a con 
crete or other base, is to continue the same 
wearing surface across the gutter to the 


curb, in which case the gutter 1s included as 


part of the pavement. Gutters as separate 


items are therefore to a large extent confined 
to macadam, gravel and dirt streets. They 
are generally of concrete, flat stone, or cobble, 
the constructions of which are so different that 
the only practicable method of comparison 
appears to be to see the whole construc 


tion under one item, which includes any base 
used, as well as the top surface, but does not 
include excavation or fill 

Curbs may be of concrete, without special 
backing or base; or of stone, preferably 
bedded in broken stone or concrete and with 
the same as backing. As in the case of gutters, 














rH I AMERICAN CITY 


ty ELGIN” 
MOTOR SWEEPER 








ELGIN MOTOR SWEEPER 


The large economies effected and the satis- 
faction derived from cleaning paved streets 
with the Elgin Motor Sweeper has brought 
repeat orders for this machine from many 
cities where it has been in operation from 
one to three seasons. 


“Ask the man who owns one” is a good 
motto for the Elgin Motor Sweeper. Would 
it not be a good thing for your city to own 
one ? 

ELGIN STREET SWEEPER CO. 


Factory and Home Office: ELGIN, ILLS. 


61 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City 


a a 











— 





NoveMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


therefore, it seems impracticable to consider 
the curb separate from the base and backing, 
and the whole is included as one item, with the 
lineal foot, giving dimensions of curb, as the 
unit; this not to include excavation, or drain 
tile, if any is used. Combined curb and gutter 
is given in lineal feet, adding the width of 
gutter, thus: 1,220 feet of combined concrete 
6 x 12 curb and 8 x 18 gutter. 
SEWERAGE UNITS 

The standard units for sewer construction 
at present advocated are but four in number 
and do not attempt to include all of the items 
of work encountered in such construction, but 
only the more important ones found in prac- 
tically every sewer job. The units are “con- 
structing sewer,” “branches,” “manholes,” “re- 
placing pavement.” 

The first includes excavating the trench (ex- 
cept that rock is to be paid for extra under an 
additional item, and that removing the street 
pavement is included under “replacing pave- 
ment”); furnishing pipe, brick or concrete, 
mortar and all other materials entering into 
the construction of the sewer barrel (that is 
the main line of the sewer, not including 
branches, manholes, special foundation: or 
other occasional features); constructing such 
sewer barrel, and backfilling the trench (not 
including relaying the pavement). This would 
include practically, if not quite, all the work 
except manholes required on a long outfall line 
thru fields or a dirt road, where there were 
no branches to be inserted for house or storm 
water connections, no street pavement to be 
taken up and replaced, and no foundations to 
place, sheeting to be left in place, rock to be 
removed or anything but straight-away dig- 
ging, pipe laying and backfilling. 

The furnishing and the laying of materials 
are directly comparable, one street with an- 
other, and one city with another, if allowance 
be made for local costs of pipe and other ma- 
terials; except possibly for minor variation in 
cost due to depth of trench and distance ma- 
terials have to be teamed from yard or rail- 
road siding. The depth of trench, however, 
may vary from 5 feet to 25 or even 50, and 
here is one of the chief variables in sewer con- 
struction and prices. Eight-inch sewer pipe 
costs about 15 cents a foot; the excavating and 
backfilling for laying it may cost from 25 
cents to $2 or more a foot. To allow for this 
variation, the plan recommended (and the one 
followed by a very considerable number of 
engineers) is to classify the work by the depth 
of the trench, giving a separate classification 
for each 2 feet of depth. Example: 10-inch 
vitrified sewer, 950 feet 8 to 10 feet deep; 630 
feet 10 to 12 feet deep; 720 feet 12 to 14 feet 
deep, etc. In the first class would come the 
total length of trenches whose depth was more 
than 8 feet and less than 10 feet; in the second 
classification the total of all trenches between 
10 feet and 12 feet depth, etc. To allow for 
contingencies, it is customary to make the first 
class “all less than 6 feet,”” or whatever depth 
appears from the profile to be the nearest num- 
ber to the minimum depth. 


The depth is customarily measured fron 
ground surface to the lowest point 
inner surface—the “invert” or “flow line 
the sewer, and this is the definition pr 
for the standard unit. Some have said 
the logical depth would be to the lowest 
of the outside of the sewer, since this m« 
the excavation; but this might give 
questions and disputes or require elaborate 
planations, as when extra excavation is 
quired for cradles and foundations, sub-d : 
or bell holes These extra features are paid 
for in addition to the “constructing sewer’ 
price and the additional price can include the 
additional excavation required. The invert, 
however, is a fixed line determined exactly by 
level and shown on the profile; for the latter 
reason it is the line to which contractors can 
most readily scale in taking depth from the 
profiles in preparing bids, and which the engi 
neers can most readily use in making esti 
mates. For pipe sewers the additional in 
would hardly be considered. For concrete or 
brick sewers it is simple to add the constant ' 
thickness to the standard invert 

Again, there would seem to be some reason 
for measuring from the under side of the 
pavement rather than the surface, since pave 
ment excavation is paid for additional. But 
the surface profiles are always given of the 
surface of the road, and it would be trouble 
some and give rise to disputes to have to allow 
for the thickness of the pavement, which 
would vary with each kind of pavement and 
especially with macadam and telford which 
had worn down by varying amounts. The pay 
ment made for pavement excavation under the 
head “replacing pavement,” therefore, is un 
derstood to be in addition to that for excava 
tion included under the head of “constructi 
sewer.” 

The length of sewer included in the meas 
urement paid for is the total overall distance. 
measured along the invert, from the center of 
the manhole where a given size of sewer 
starts to the center of the manhole where it 
ends, or to the end of the sewer itself if it 
does not end in a manhole. Where one size 








6: | 
changes to another by a reducer, each size is i 
assumed to extend to the middle of the re 
ducer, and an additional sum is paid for the } 
reducing special, except that where a more or } 
less elaborate reducing chamber is constructed 
to join large sewers and is paid for as a spe 
cial construction, the measurements stop at the 
ends of such special construction. This prac 
tice might be criticised, in that part of this : 
measurement includes Y and T branches and ; 
the manholes, and a payment is made for them : 
as straight pipe, and an additional payment as | 
special construction. In defense it may be said 
that it has been the standard practice of many 
(the majority, we believe) of engineers for 
at least twenty-five years; that it is generally | 


understood by contractors and leads to no con 
fusion when it is specified that this will be the 
practice; that it avoids disputes as to the 
lengths to be deducted for each branch and 
manhole, and makes the calculations simpler 
and less liable to mistakes. The length should 

















THE AMERICAN CITY 





THE ONLY WAY 


To Obtain an Ornamental Lighting 
System and Retain Overhead Wires 


ELRECGO 
COMBINATION POLES 


serve the double purpose of Ornamental 
Lighting Standards and Trolley Wire 
Supports. 





Handsome brackets for 
supporting very latest Nova- 
lux Lighting Units or the ara 
Ornamental Luminous Lamps 
improve the appearance of 
the plain Trolley Poles. 


You can string your wires 
along the top of the poles, 
where they are practically 
unnoticeable and out of the 
way of traffic. 





Bracket 10347 and 
G.E. Novalux Unit Form 4 





You save the cost of addi- 
tional lamp standards and 
underground construction, 
and avoid further obstruction 
of the curb line. 





Catalog E describes this 
money-saving plan and full 
details—free. . 


Electric Railway 
Equipment Co. 


New York Office : 30 Church Street 
Combination Pole 














Bracket 10338 and C I N C IN N AT I, O H I O ne G. E. 
G. E. Novalux Unit Form 9 Luminous Arc 
When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 














NOVEMBER, 1916 THE 


be the true length between the points men 
tioned, and not the horizontal distance, altho 
the difference between the two is not consid 
erable, amounting to about I inch in 100 feet 
for a 4 per cent grade. 

\s just stated, branches are paid for under 
two items, once as so much straight sewer, and 
again as “branches.” <A branch 2 feet 
costs two and one-fourth times as much as 2 
feet of straight pipe of the same size. ‘The 
contractor, therefore, can simply charge fot 
each branch one and one-fourth times the cost 
of 2 feet, or two and one-half times the cost 
of 1 foot of straight pipe of that size, plus an 
additional sum for capping the branch when 
this is done, which latter would probably be 
figured extra, whatever the method of measut 
ing and paying. 

Manholes are generally built with a special 
bottom provided with a channel or channels, 
walls of standard thickness, and a head 
and cover of iron; also with steps at stated 
vertical intervals. The depth has no effect 
upon the cost of the bottom and top, but 
that of the side walls varies with the depth 
Where a manhole is less than 6 feet total 
depth (measured from ground surface to in 
vert) the construction is more difficult, and 
this fact would probably make a 4-foot or 5- 
foot manhole cost as much as a 6-foot one 
Ihe A. S. M. I. unit, therefore, takes the cost 
of a 6-foot manhole as a standard, receiving 
a bid on this entire, including bottom, top 


long 


> 


1 
i 


side 


‘0000 0) 000 A RR RR RR 


Items of Municipal and Civic Progress 


= 00000 


Cooperation in Charter Revision 

An excellent example of codperation be- 
tween a librarian and a daily newspaper in 
a public movement is to be found in the 
publication by the Tacoma Daily News of 
articles on charter 
written by Mr. John B. Kaiser, City Li- 
brarian in charge of the Public 
Library. 

Charter revision is a subject that has 
aroused great interest in Tacoma. Realiz- 
ing that an important part of the program 
of a charter revision movement is that of 
educating the people to the point where 
they understand the fundamental problems 
to be encountered in making the changes, 
Mr. Kaiser devoted his articles to a resume 
of principles of government with which all 
should be familiar. The article was pub- 
lished in three installments. Among the 
subheads of the first installment are “The 
Approach to Charter Revision,” “Necessary 


a series of revision, 


Tacoma 


AMERICAN CITY <8 


casting, side walls and steps; and an additional 
sum per vertical foot for additional depth 
manhole, this consisting onl i the w 
the steps therein Thus a 9-foot 

vould be recorded and bid upon as one st 
ard depth manhole plus 3 additional feet. This 
would seem to be much more rational 
fairer to the contractor than t sk him te 
so much per manhole, regardless of the dept! 
requiring him to figure, estimate or guess what 
the average depth of manholes on any pat 
ticular job will be 

“Replacement pavement” includes all the 
work of both removing and restoring all pave 
ment over the trench which is additional t 
that which would be necessary in case fa 
dirt road, including the replacing with new 
ones of any blocks or other material dam 
iged in removing them. The unit of measure 
ment is the square yard The specifications 
sometimes specify what width of pavement 


strip will be paid for, in which case length of 
pavement replaced would be sufficiently def 
inite for a given contract and 
sewer. But the width will increase as_ the 
size of sewer increases above 15 or 18 1n hes, 
and the latter plan would therefore require a 
different bid per foot for each size of sewer 
greater than 15 or 18 inches, and would render 
it difficult to compare the prices on different 
pieces of work: therefore area seems the pref 
erable unit The kind of pavement is, of 


course, specified 


given size ot 


(0) 


Procedure,” “Some Errors Committed” at 
“Tool, Not Cure-All.” In the 


stallment the author discusses “Recent 


second in- 
len- 
dencies in Charter Revision,” “The Election 
Question,” “The City Manager,” and other 
municipal affairs of present interest. 

The most valuable feature of the article 
is, however, the excellent reference list on 
charter revision, commission government 
and allied topics contained in the third in- 
stallment. This list was drawn up by Miss 
Jacqueline Noel, of the library's reference 
department, and, together with the frequent 
references scattered thruout the rest of the 
article, will be an adequate guide for the 
dilletante and the specialist alike rhe ref- 
erences apply not to standard books alone, 
but to a large number of pamphlets and 
similar matter not usually known to the 
average worker in this field. 

Such codperation is a great aid to the 
encouragement of enlightened citizenship. 

















THE AMERICAN CITY 





Sterling’ Trucks—Masters of the Road 


Like trunk line compound locomotives, Sterling Trucks are built 
for strength, pulling power and stamina. They are scientifically 
engineered, massively built, properly proportioned, with strength 
where strength is needed and without excess weight. 


Sterling Trucks are more profitable to operate because they will stand rougher usage— 
take more knocks and bumps and require less attention. They’re built for the ordinary 
driver to handle—as simple as a truck can be, with all complicated mechanism eliminated. 


Sizes 2'4, 3%, 5 and 7 tons. 






WRITE FOR CATALOG AND FIGURES SHOWING 
ECONOMIES OF MOTOR TRUCK OPERATION 


Sterling Motor Truck Co. 


Builders of Motor Trucks Exclusively for Nine Years 
830 ROGERS STREET MILWAUKEE, WIS. 


TRUCKS 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 























NOVEMBER, I916 FRE 
No citizen of Tacoma who is inclined to do 
a little reading on municipal government 
can now complain of lack of direction. 
Published at a time when public interest in 
municipal affairs in general is growing, 
such articles are substantial helps to civic 
enlightenment. 
+ + 


A Health Exhibit 

The New York Social Hygiene Society, 
of 105 West Fortieth Street, New York 
City, formerly known as the Society of 
Sanitary and Moral Prophylaxis, main- 
tained an exhibit at Coney Island last sum- 
mer in connection with its campaign of edu- 
cation for the prevention of venereal dis- 
eases. This was especially designed to com- 
bat the evil influence of the “medical mu- 
seums” and of the quack “specialists” to 
whom so many have fallen prey. A medical 
advisory service was conducted in connec- 
tion with the educational exhibit and in co- 
operation with the New York City Health 
Department and the Brooklyn Hospital Dis- 
pensary, and thru it straightforward medi- 
cal knowledge and honest advice was se- 
cured by many who needed it. No less than 
19,390 people visited the exhibit between 
July 21 and September 20, and the Society 
is convinced that it proved to be a means of 
educating men of all grades and conditions 
of life. 

+ + 

A Smoke Abatement Week 


An entire week—the week of October 23 
to 28 just passed—was devoted to the 
subject of smoke abatement in Pittsburgh. 
The week was arranged for by the Smoke 
and Dust Abatement League, which is com- 
posed of twelve of Pittsburgh’s most rep- 
resentative commercial, educational and 
civic organizations. This is believed to be 
the first instance in the United States of the 
holding of a smoke abatement week. 

The definite objects at which the com- 
mittee in charge aimed were: 





1. To show that it is both possible and feas- 
ible to burn bituminous coal without smoke 

2. To demonstrate to industrialists that the 
introduction of methods to bring this about 
means greater efficiency in their boiler rooms, 
heating and metallurgical plants. 

3. To bring to the attention of the citizens 
the remarkable work which has been accom- 
plished during the past five years towards 
cleaning Pittsburgh’s sky line. 

4. In general, to urge all citizens to perse- 


AMERIC 


we: aa el ee eat 585 
vere in demanding that Pittsburg : cle 
clean, sunny and efficient city in which to live 


and work 

Smoke abatement was the principal topic 
at the majority of the luncheon and even 
ing meetings held during the week \ nun 


ber of men prominently interested in the 
subject thruout the country gave talks 
among whom was Mr. Osborn Monnett, for- 
merly smoke inspector of Chicago and a dis 
tinguished combustion engineer. He gave 


an address before the Engineers’ Society of 
Western Pennsylvania, also at a noon-day 
luncheon of the 
Picture subject 
at a number of meetings, 
down-town business houses had appropriate 
their \ltho 
much time was given to reviewing the work 


Chamber of 
shows on the 


{Commerce 


were given 


and many of the 
exhibits in store windows. 
and resultant progress already made in les 
sening the smoke nuisance in Pittsburgh, 
the possibility of even better conditions was 
emphasized, and every effort was made to 
make the week count mightily in achieving 
the ultimate object of relieving the cit) 
entirely of its old title of “the smoky city.’ 
It will be remembered that 
contest 


Pittsburgh en 
with other 


1916 to lose this title. 


tered a cities early in 
The other competing 
cities were Cincinnati, Chicago and St 
Louis. 

The committee in charge of the week's 
activities was made up of O. P. Hood, chief 
mechanical engineer of the U. S. Bureau 
of Mines: Miss H. Marie Dermitt, secretary 
of the Civic Club of Allegheny County ; and 
J. W. 
of Smoke Regulation 

The Smoke and Dust 


is endeavoring to bring about 


Henderson, chief of the city Bureau 


| eague 


\batement 
more exten 
gislation 
for the abatement of smcke and dust in the 
city of Pittsburgh and its metropolitan dis 


trict. Dr. A. A. 


sive cooperation, education and lk 


Hamerschlag is its 


presi 
dent. 
+ + 
A New Basis for Gas Bills 
\ new standard of value for gas has been 


created by a recent order of the Public Set 
vice Commission for the 
New York State Heat 
substituted for candle-power as the stan 


second district of 


units have been 


1 


ard, and all the companies in the state mak 
ing more than 20,000,000 cubic feet of coal 


gas, water gas, or mixed coal and water 


gas a year will be obliged to adopt it before 





























OLE 






























OETA ECEEI CCT OST AED PTET CPT OTT OMA OT TAT TUL LTO CY OLR LL CLT 


| ey) 


54 





THE 





OO MN IT ITT 


5 


AMERICAN CITY 





Matched! 


Packard Twin-sixes and 


Packard silent chainless trucks are but 
two expressions of one high ideal 


One—in their sure and 
ample power—and its fault- 
less application to the work 
ahead. 

Identical —in their origin 

-created by the largest 
staff of motor engineers in 
America—produced by the 
same unhurried organization 

built to satisfy the same 
exacting standards. 

Alike—in quality—in 
economy—in_ efficiency — 
in their perfect balance be- 
tween cost and service. 


Ask the man 


hot 





PY UT 


Just as there is a Twin- 
six model adapted to every 
travel possibility of town 
and country — . 

So you'll find a Packard 
chainless truck designed for 
every business need. Seven 
sturdy models—1 ton to 6'2 
tons—the only complete 
line of worm-drive trucks 
in America. 

Give a Packard traffic 
expert leave to help you 
solve your hauling prob- 
lem. Write Detroit today. 


who owns one 





TRUCKS 


TO UO MCP CAL CPL 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae AMERICAN Ciry. 












































NOVEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


January 1. The smaller companies need 
not do so unless they choose. 

The product must average 585 British 
thermal units per cubic foot instead of 16, 
18 or 20 candle-power as before. A British 
thermal unit is the scientific term for the 
amount of heat required to raise one pound 
of water one degree of temperature. The 
tendency toward a demand for a heating 
power standard by the consumer has made 
it more and more difficult for the companies 
to maintain gas at the old lighting power 
standard. The gas had to be enriched by 
oils now high-priced and scarce on account 
of their increasing use for gasoline and 
allied products for motors and other such 
purposes. It was also found that in trans- 
mitting gas over long distances the enriched 
element was lost, making long-~listance 
transmission both difficult and expensive, 
and uniform distribution impossible. 

The consumer will be benefited thru hav- 
ing a more uniform gas supply furnished to 
him and in having the life of his mantles 
and burners prolonged because they will be 
less subject to deposits of carbon and other 
foreign matter. The Commission also found 
that the methods of measuring heat units 
are more practicable than those of meas- 
uring candle-power. 


+ + 


A Modern Electric Franchise for a 
Small Commission-Governed City 

Lexington, Ky., has recently adopted a 
new electric light franchise embodied in an 
ordinance passed by unanimous vote of the 
Board of City Commissioners. This little 
southern city, with an estimated population 
of less than 40,000, has the distinction of 
having an electricity rate for its citizens 
less than prevails in many large cities. The 
maximum rate in the new franchise, for 
residences, as compared with the previous 
maximum, represents a 40 per cent reduc- 
tion. With a plant generating 5,000 kilo- 
watts, Lexington will enjoy a rate as low or 
lower than Boston, with 100,000 kilowatts, 
or Philadelphia, with a 75,000-kilowatt 
plant. 

The passage of the ordinance concluded 
the negotiations on the franchise proposi- 
tion which were begun three months or 
more prior to its passage, when the Com 
missioners approved an ordinance provid- 
ing for the employment of the Utilities Bu- 
reau to look after the interests of the city 


xn 
e4 
™N 


and to prepare a franchise that would be 
fair alike to the city and to the utilities 
company. Dr. Milo R. Maltbie, of New 
York, took charge of the case for the Utili- 
ties Bureau, and represented the city thru- 
out, with the assistance of Dr. Clyde L. 
King, of Philadelphia. Corporation Coun- 
sel Denny passed on the legal points for the 
city, and Mayor Rogers and other members 
of the Commission Council took an active 
interest in the conferences. James M 
Boyle, of Sanderson & Porter, of New 
York, acted for the Lexington Utilities 
Company, with the advice and counsel of 
F W. Bacon, Vice-President, and other 
officials of the company. 

The new franchise is for a term of 
twenty years. Under its provisions the 
maximum rate for residence lighting will 
be 9 cents. This, with a 10 per cent dis- 
count, makes the rate 8.1 cents, or a reduc 
tion of 40 per cent from the old rate. The 
new rates went into effect November 1 
The commercial lighting and _ incidental 
power maximum is 8% cents, or 7.65 with 
the discount. Che power rate is 8 cents, 
or 7.2 with the discount. These are the 
maximum rates, and form the basis of such 
graduated scale as the company may work 
out to meet the needs of large consumers. 
The minimum charge for residences is $1 
per month. 

Power is vested in the Commissioners to 
prescribe a method of keeping accounts and 
a form of annual report. They are also 
given absolute rate-making power at four- 
year periods, but the rates may not be made 
higher than the maximum in the franchise. 
The company is protected by the right of 
appeal to the court if it believes rates 
adopted are unreasonable and unjust. None 
of the rights or privileges granted by this 
franchise is an exclusive right or privilege, 
and the Board expressly reserves the right 
to grant like franchises, rights and privi- 
leges to other persons or corporations. 

The only question left to be settled is the 
street lighting matter. This is being 
worked out now. Dr. Maltbie has recom- 
mended a change in the lighting system 
employed in Lexington, and favors the 
elimination of all arcs and the substitution 
of the new nitrogen-filled tungsten. 

Thruout the whole period of negotiation 
there was good feeling and a determination 
not only to serve the interests of the city, 
but to deal fairly and justly with the com- 














THE AMERICAN CITY 


y y ELLY GOODWILL is our most valuable asset 
kK and we carefully preserve its integrity. We 

consider it a matter of vital importance to us 

that the performance of your Kelly should enhance the 

Kelly reputation. The Kelly incorporates what has 


. 
} been proved to be the best in truck design, material 
1) 4 4 and construction, and back of each and every truck 
stands a service organization that is as prompt, com- 
| - 
Za plete and efficient as any user could demand. 
| LAWALL A The Complete Line 
} ti 1} Worm drive—1'4 and 2'% tons 
A ete Chain drive—1 ‘9, 244, 3, 4, 5 and 6 tons 
gr => { { ‘‘Like Kelly Does’’ Free 
| 
ii4 , A very useful monthly publication for all who 
a ee, Pi: operate trucks or are interested in the question 
aie © | 3 
| Paes > if : ° 
j is 4950 i | The Kelly-Springlield Motor Truck Company 
ig “Ga . . 
“eg 1311 Burt Street Springfield, Ohio 
é , te 
“ i 
+ 
3 ~ 
Sa 






The Titan of Commerce 


‘> 










eu 
; 
7 OAD KOLLER (0, 


~ 





When writing to Advertisers please mention Tuk AMERICAN City. 














NovEMBER, 1916 THE 
pany. As the city, as well as the utilities 
company, had the benefit of expert advice, 
the case was not a one-sided affair, and the 
public was given full opportunity to have 
its Say. 


+ ¢ 


The Plow in Snow Removal Work 

The experience of New York City last 
winter proved beyond all doubt the value 
of the motor-driven plow in snow removal 
work. Commissioner Fetherston says the 
employment of ninety-six 5-ton commer- 
cial motor trucks, equipped with plows sup- 
plied by the Department of Street Clean- 
ing, contributed greatly to the success of 
the season’s work. No serious complaints 
were made during the winter regarding the 
speed of snow removal because of quick 
action in opening main arteries with plows, 
emergency laborers and the use of sewers. 
The cost of plowing and piling for removal 
was $0.102 per cubic yard. 

Yo the late August F. Gunther, General 
Superintendent of the New York Depart- 
ment of Street Cleaning at the time of his 
death, about a year ago, is due the credit 
for the adoption of the motor-driven snow 
plow. It was the child of a fertile brain, 
which was ever active, seeking improved 
methods of performing the tasks of the 
Department of Street 
twenty years of service. 

The front cover of THe American City 
for October presented a picture of one of 
the plows attached to a commercial truck, 
at work on Broadway, New York. 


+ + 


Cleaning, during 


Defendi 


the Prisoner in a 
Municip 


Court 


A recent report of Mr. Cecil J. Randall, 
the Public Defender, of Columbus, Ohio, 
demonstrates the many opportunities for so- 
cial service which such a position affords. 
This office was created by the municipality 
in recognition of the great injustice done to 
those who are too poor to hire a lawyer to 
defend them when they are brought to trial 
for criminal offenses. In many cities where 
such an official is lacking, the work of se- 
curing careful investigation is often carried 
on by philanthropic societies or not done 
at all. The following 


paragraphs 
extracts from the report: 


are 


AMERICAN 


CITY 589 


During the first three months of the exist 
ence of the office, the Public 
handled in court 100 cases, and has kept i 
faithful record of these as required in the ordi 
nance Advice has given, and services 
such as telephoning to friends, have been 
dered in a much larger number of cases 

“By virtue of the law every agency in and 
around the prison is in a sense adverse to the 
prisoner. | do not that 


Detender has 


been 


ren 


hese 


mean to say 


agencies are harsh and unjust, but that they 
occupy a distinct field in apprehending and 
prosecuting those who are confined to the 


prison. It is perfectly natural for prisoners to 
assume, then, that these agencies are hostile t 
them. For those who are able to emplo 
counsel this difficulty is obviated; but if it 
were not for the Public Defender a great many 
unfortunates would have no one to look int 
their cases 

“In my opinion, many persons have been 
embittered, and have been influenced toward 
the life of a criminal by the fact that they hav: 
been brought into court with their side of the 
case in the dark. 

“Since the establishment of this office the 
Defender has sought to remedy this condition 
by listening to the stories of the prisoners and 
making investigations of their truth The 
judge has in many cases accepted this opini 
in court, and has been able to deal much more 
intelligently with such defendants 

“Aside from the actual work accomplished 
by the Public Defender, the mere fact that the 
office is in existence has had a moral effect on 
the police in causing greater care in making 
arrests, and particularly so in vagrancy cases, 
where there has been a great opportunity to 
make a mistake thru carelessness.” 


Delving a little into statistics, Mr 
dall shows that in comparison 


Ran- 
with the 
figures of the same three-month period in 
Ig15, there were 113 fewer vagrancy cases 
brought into the Municipal Court in 1916. 
“It has had a moral effect in preventing the 
arrest of unfortunates who may be without 
employment and on the streets,’ says the 
Public Defender. “I regard this as one of 
the most significant things which I have to 
report up to this time.” 

The rest of the report shows what oppor 
tunities for social work the office has af- 
forded. Mr. Randall illustrates with a few 
typical cases of positions kept open for 
prisoners by their employers thru the 
efforts of his office; of stretching the law in 
favor of leniency where such leniency was 
by far the best policy; of suspended sen- 
terices where imprisonment would bring 
starvation to a family; and_of codperation 
with charitable societies in aid of those who 
had suffered from the harsh hand of the 
law, whether innocently or not. 














“aerije 


7 = 
‘ab 4} 





rH I AMERICAN CITY 


CENEmAL 





Cities and Towns Everywhere find 
GMC Trucks Unexcelled 


Because of their sturdy, substantial, common-sense construction, 
GMC Trucks are especially adapted for use in the highway depart- 
ment for all classes of construction work. 


When the load is heavy and the going bad, you can depend upon 
GMC Trucks—not only will they pull out of holes and over roads 
considered impossible for motor trucks, but month in and month out 
under all road and load conditions, they will render dependable, satis- 
factory service, operate at lower cost and cost less to maintain. 


If you are considering the matter of equipment for any branch of city 
service—fire apparatus, police patrols, ambulances—we urge you to see 
the nearest GMC dealer or communicate with TRUCK HEAD- 
QUARTERS direct. 


Let the records of the performance of GMC Trucks in the service 
of cities and towns throughout the country act as a dependable guide 
to the satisfactory, profitable solution of your motor truck problem. 


GENERAL MOTORS TRUCK COMPANY 
One of the Units of General Motors Company 


PONTIAC, MICHIGAN 


Direct Factory Branches: New York Boston Chic 
Philadelphia St. Louis Kansas City 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae American City. 


COMPANY 


TRUCKS 





oe 


——— 



































Novemper 15.—Ureana, Ici. 

Illinois Municipal League Annual Meeting 
Secretary, John A. Fairlie, University of Illinois, 
Upbana, III. 

NovemMBpeg 15-16—Joriin, Mo. 

Leagte of Missouri Municipalities Annual 

Meeting.” Secretary, M V. Carroll, Sedalia, Mo 
NoveMBER 15-16.—PHILADELPHIA, Pa.— 

Society for the Promotion of Training for Pub- 
lic Service. Conference on Universities and Pub 
lic Service, including a Conference on Commer 
cial Education. Director of the Society and Se« 
retary of the Conference, Edward A. Fitzpatrick, 
P. O. Box 380, Madison, Wis. 

NoveMBER 15-17. ‘New York City. 

Association of Urban Universities. Conference 
to be held at the College of The City of New 
York. Secretary, Frederick B. Robinson, Col- 
lege of The City of New York, New York City 

NoveMBER 20-21.—St. Louis, Mo. 

American Social Hygiene Association Annual 
Meeting and Conference. Secretary, Donald R. 
Hooker, 105 West Fortieth Street, New York 


City. 
NovEMBER 20-22,—LewistowNn, Mont. 
Montana tay og League. Annual Meeting 
Address, Judd, City Clerk, Billings, Mont 








NovEMBER 20-25.—(MunicipaL WEEK) SPRINGFIELD 


ASS. 

National Municipal League. Annual Conven 
tion, November 23-25. Secretary, Clinton Rogers 
Woodruff, North American Buil ling, Philadelphia, 
Pa. 


Civic Secretaries’ Committee of the National 
Municipal League. Annual Conference, to be held 
simultaneously with the meeting of the National 
Municipal League. Secretary, Hornell Hart, City 
Club, Milwaukee, Wis. 

Intercollegiate Division of the National Munic 
pal League. Special Sessions, November 22-23 
Secretary, Arthur Evans Wood, North American 
Building, Philadelphia, Pa. 

City Managers’ Association, Annual Conven 
tion, November 20-23. Secretary, O. E. Carr, City 
Manager, Niagara Falls, N. Y. 

Massachusetts Federation of Planning Boards 
Annual Convention and City Planning Exhibition, 
peveuier 23-24. Secretary, Arthur C. Comey 

Cambridge, Mass. 

Massachusetts Civic League. Civic Conference 
and Annual Meeting, November 21. Secretary, 
Edward A. Hartman, 3 Joy Street, Boston, Mass 

Massachusetts Single Tax League Special 
Meeting, November 20. President, Alex. Mac 
Kendrick, 120 Boylston Street, Boston, Mass 

Conference on Municipal Researcl First An 
nual Meeting of Directors, Staff and Trus 
November 22-23. Chairman, Lent D. Upson, 
Griswold Street, Detroit, Mich. 

Training School for Public Service Special 
Sessions, November 22-23. Supervisor of the 
Training School, Prof. Charles A. Beard, 261 
Broadway, New York City. 

Western New England Chamber of Commerce 
Annual Mesting and Banquet, November 22 
Secretary, James P. Taylor, Burlington, Vt. 


NoveMBer 21-23.—Branpon, MANITOBA. 





Union of Manitoba Municipalities. Annual 
Convention. Secretary, Robert Forke, Pipestone, 
Manitoba. 


Decemper 5.,—New Haven, Conn. 
National Civil Service Reform League. Annual 
Meeting. Secretary, George T. Keyes, 79 Wall 
Street, New York City. 


Decemeper 5-7.—Sr. Lovuts, Mo. 

American Association of State Highway Of- 
ficials. Annual Meeting. Secretary, Joseph 
Hyde Pratt, Chapel Hill, N. C. 

Decemper 5-8.—New York City. 

American Society of Mechanical Engineers. 
Annual Convention. Secretary, Calvin W. Rice, 
29 West Thirty-ninth Street, New York City. 





RPREREREN ES CREREN CR ERED F5 ENE ES PE ESS PRED ENED ES CRED PR ER ENTS OR PS ED ES SES CREN ERED DES FS PEERED 
Conventions and Exhibitions 








DecemMper 6-8 MINNEAPOLIS, MINN 
inierican Institute f Architects. Annual Cor 
vention Secretary, Burt L. Fenner, The Octagon, 
Washington, D. C. 
DeceEMBER 6-8.—WasHINGTON, D. (¢ 
National Rivers and Harbors Congress Annual 
Convention Secretary, S \. Thompson, ¢ ’ 
rado Building, Washington, D. ¢ 
DeceMBER 7-8.—Cuicaco, Iu 
Northwestern Road Congress Third Annual 
Session Secretary, Joe L. Long, Moline, Il 
Decemper 7-9.—Bartimore, Mp 
Safet First Federation f imerica Annual 
Convention, also Annual Meeting. Executive 


Secretary, W. LD. Heydecker, 6 East Thirty-ninth 
street, New York City 
Decemeer 11-13..—New York City 
’ortland Cement Association Annual Meeting 
Address, A. H. Ogle, Assistant to General Man 
ager, 111 West Washington Street, Chicago, Ill 
DeceMBER 14-15 Syracuse, N. Y¥ 
( vapernte for Better County Government in 
the tate f New Yor Second Conference. 
ve may Otto FE Cartwright, 15 Court Street, 
White Plains, N 


+ + 


The American Society of 
Municipal Improvements 


The twenty-third annual convention of 
the American Society of Municipal Im- 
provements was held in Newark, N. J., on 
October 9-13 This convention was the 
most largely attended of any in the history 
of the society, 510 having registered, of 
whom 300 were active members. Repre- 
sentatives were present from 125 cities in 
29 states of the United States, from six 
Canadian cities, and from Cuba, Sweden 
and Denmark. There were many more pa- 
pers on the program than it was possible to 
read, and nearly half of them were read by 
title and author only. <A resolution was 
passed authorizing a committee of five to 
submit a revision of the constitution and 
by-laws to the convention in 1917 

The following officers were elected for 
the coming year: President, Norman S. 
Sprague, chief engineer Bureau of Engi- 
neering, Pittsburgh; first Vice-President, 
E. R. Conant, city engineer of Savannah, 
Ga.: second Vice-President, George H. 
Norton, city engineer of Buffalo, N. Y.; 
third Vice-President, R. Keith Compton, of 
Baltimore, Md.; Treasurer, F. J. Cellarius, 
Dayton, Ohio. Charles Carroll Brown, 
Wulsin Building, Indianapolis, was re- 
elected Secretary. 

The next convention will be held in New 
Orleans. 

















THE AMERICAN CITY 





GOODRICH 


TRUCK TIRE 
SERVICE POLICY 


—The Service Division of our 
Truck Tire Department is 
the most efficient and highly 
specialized organization of its 
kind in the United States. Its 
policy involves the following 








factors : 
1. Ample stocks.—Your size always on hand, 


2. Complete shop equipment.— Hydraulic presses, chain 
hoists, drill presses and other modern mechanical devices. 


3. Intelligent workers.—Men trained to use their heads as well as their hands. 


}. Prompt and courteous treatment.—Appointments by ‘phone. No delays. Promises 
kept. Satisfied customers. 


Test this policy at our nearest service station. 
The B. F. Goodrich Company, Akron, Ohio 


Makers of the Celebrated Goodrich Automo- £c% Service Stations and Branches in All 
bile Tires—‘‘Best in the Long Run."’ Important Trucking Centers. 






























ey mT ie z! 
ae Tires” 


PERFECT 
We believe that the United Stat 
Motor Truck Tire is as perfect as it 
humanly possible to make a tire. 

It is the result of years of experi 
mentation by the chemists, engineer 
= and manufacturing experts of the largest | 
rubber company in the world. 

Let us tell you more about United 
States Motor Truck Tires. 


United States Tire Company 


Proadway and 58th Street, New York 





57 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 











si erento 


. 


——— 
oe 





NOVEMBER, 1916 THE AMER 


The Recreation Congress 

Anyone who thinks of “play” as merely 
childlike, amusing, unimportant, would 
have been surprised at the hundreds of 
powerful, earnest men and women assem- 
bled in Grand Rapids at the Recreation 
Congress from October 2-6, intent up>-n the 
invigoration of American life thru whole- 
some use of leisure hours of all the people. 
Many delegates came from great distances, 
at large personal sacrifices of time and 
money—from Dallas, Winnipeg, San Diego, 
Providence, and from many towns and 
cities in between, with a sprinkling of 
leaders from other countries, even Uruguay. 

The need of community centers was em- 
phasized, with their varied activities—dra- 
matics, games, civic discussions, music, li- 
brary centers, dancing, sometimes pool 
tables, always clubs, classes and serious 
study groups. 

Technical discussions characterized this 
congress more than the previous ones: 
“What games to play?” “How reach all 
the children all the year?” “Rural life, how 
make it more attractive?” ‘Methods of re- 
creating industrial power killed by monoto- 
nous tasks”; “Can politicians be shown 
that efficient playgrounds are good _poli- 
tics?” “Whence shall adequate public 


funds be secured?” “Apparatus”: “Acci- 
dents”; “Laying out playgrounds”: “Rec- 


reation buildings.” In short, the delibera- 
tions indicated a determination to develop 
such virile Americanism as shall be fully in 
harmony with internationalism, as well as 
with the spirit of universal brotherhood. 

The Recreation Congress was held under 
the auspices of the Playground and Recre- 
ation Association of America, with head- 
quarters at I Madison Avenue, New York 
City. H. S. Braucher, Secretary. 

+ + 

United States Good Roads 
Association 

The United States Good Roads Associa- 
tion held a meeting in Birmingham, Ala., 
on October 6, for the purpose of planning a 
national highway to connect Memphis, Bir- 
mingham and Atlanta. Three routes West 
from Birmingham to Memphis, and three 
routes east to Atlanta were proposed. The 
delegates representing the various contest- 
ing interests arrived early to present their 
claims to have the highway run thru their 
sections. After much discussion of the va- 


rcAN City 593 


rious routes, the most direct, called the Air- 
Line route from Memphis to Atlanta, was 
adopted. 

\n association to be known as the Bank- 
head Highway Association, named in honor 
of Senator Bankhead, was perfected and 
will build the highway. Senator Bankhead 
is the author of the Bankhead good roads 
bill appropriating $85,000,000 for roads 
thruout the nation, and is also president of 
the United States Good Roads Association. 
lhe senator was present and took an active 
part in the proceedings. 

The Bankhead Highway Association will 
be incorporated and will have its head- 
quarters in Birmingham. T. S. Plowman, 
of Talladega, \la., was elected president ; 
\. S. Preston, of Jasper, Ala., treasurer, 
and J. Asa Rountree, Birmingham, Ala., 
secretary 

+ + 


League of Washington Municipalities 


The seventh annual convention of the 
League of Washington Municipalities, held 
in Everett, October 12-14, proved the best 
attended and the most successful meeting in 
the history of the League, all first and sec- 
ond class cities and the larger third and 
fourth class cities of the state being repre- 
sented. 

\mong the resolutions adopted at this 
convention the following are of especial in- 
terest to readers of THE AMERICAN City: 

Providing for the appointment of a special 
committee to consider ways and means of put- 
ting into effect the fundamental principles of 
city planning and to draw up uniform plan- 
ning ordinances for the cities of the state 

Providing for the appointment of a commit- 
tee to draw up a model ordinance to standard 
ize traffic on streets and highways 

Requesting the Legislature to pass a law 
permitting cities to establish stockades and 
work their prisoners on property owned by 
such city outside its corporate limits, and per- 
mitting city and county officials to coGperate 
in the establishment and maintenance of stock- 
ades for the housing of prisoners outside the 
city limits. 


+ + 
American Road Builders’ Association 


The fourteenth annual convention of the 
\merican Road Builders’ Association will 
he held in Mechanics Building, Boston, dur- 
ing the week beginning February 5, 1917. 
The program will include papers and dis- 
cussions on subjects connected with road 
and bridge building and street paving by 














THE AMERICAN CITY 


The"Panama |ine” 












“*Panama 
Giant’’ 


Use the ‘‘Panama Line’’ 


You cannot do good work with poor tools, nor can you build good roads 
with poor road machinery. The successful contractor assures an almost perfect 
job by employing able workmen and the best of machinery—in most cases you'll 
find he uses the ‘‘Panama Line,”’ the line where quality comes first. 

In the “‘ Panama Line”’ there is ‘a machine for every job,’ and each machine 
does its particular job more thoroughly than any other machine of its kind. 


Build ‘‘Up to Panama Standard ”’ 


The ‘‘ Boston Grader”’ 
is the most practical low 
priced grader ever made, 
it meets the requirements 
of a drag, a two-horse 
grader and a four 

horse grader, and 

like every other 

ty “Panama” 
% machine, is 
° built “‘up 







The Boston Grader 











The > , 

F. B. Zieg % to Panama Star- 

Mfg. Co. m dard.”” Owing 

ee “ea % to its special 

Guetieeen <= *» construction and roller bearings this machine will handle a wider 


Send your “Panama range of work at less power than any other similar machine. 
Line” catalog as offered in 
THe AMERICAN CITY. 


Investigate 
Write today for ‘‘The Panama Line’’ Catalog 





You'll be interested in our catalogue, which we will gladly send you on request. < 








— 4 


B. ZIE 


Fredericktown, Ohio 





THE F. 


os When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 














oon GI 





























the foremost authorities of the United 
States and Canada. 

In connection with the convention, and 
in the same building, will be held the eighth 
National Good Roads Show. This exposi- 
tion will include exhibits by leading manu- 
facturers in the United States of the ma- 
chinery and materials used in road and pay 
ing construction and maintenance. This 
exhibition takes on added importance on 
account of the enormous sum of money ap- 
propriated under the recently enacted Fed- 
eral Aid Law and the additional large sums 
to be expended for road building by the 
various states and smaller units of govern- 
ment. The management announces that 
the services of Mr. H. G. McConnaughy 
have been secured as Director of Exhibits 


+ + 


American Association of Park 
Superintendents 

The annual convention of the American 
Association of Park Superintendents was 
held on October 10-12 in New Orleans. It 
was decided to hold the 1917 convention in 
St. Louis. 

The follow ing officers were elected for the 
ensuing year: President, John F. Walsh, of 
New York City; Vice-Presidents, Henry W. 
Busch, Detroit; Herman W. Merkel, New 
York; Ernest Strehle, St. Louis: Clarence 
L. Brock, Houston, Tex.: C. W. Davis, 
Memphis, and T. Stewart, Ottawa, Canada. 
R. W. Cotterill, of Seattle was reelected 
Secretary-Treasurer. 


+ + 


Young Men’s Business Clubs 
of America 

The organization known as the Young 
Men’s Business Clubs of America repre- 
sents a new force in civic and community 
development in the United States. The 
second national convention of this organi- 
zation was held on October 10-14. A two- 
days’ session was held in Jackson, followed 
by a one-day session in Vicksburg, and 
closed with a two-day session in New 
Orleans. 

The Convention received national recog- 
nition when a telegram from President 
Woodrow Wilson was read at its first ses- 
sion, in which the chief executive acknowl- 
edged the growing power of young Amer- 
ica and exhorted the young men to loftier 


NOVEMBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


wn 


ideals and accomplishments for their cities 
and for their country 

Howard S. Williams, president of the 
Jackson club, was elected president of the 
national association, and the cities of La- 
mar, Pueblo and Denver. Col., were chosen 
for the 1917 convention. 

+ + 

National Housing Conference 

rhe fifth National Conference on Hous- 
ing in America, held in Providence October 
g-II, was more largely attended than ever 
before, with one exception, and the amount 
of lively, intelligent discussion that fol- 
lowed ev ery paper made it a great success, 
Representatives sent by New England 
manufacturing cities to learn what housing 
experts had to tell them about providing 
low cost homes, were there in numbers. 
lhe program had been fortunately arranged 
to meet this need of the hour and it pro- 
vided papers by some of the best informed 
men in the United States on every phase 
of housing construction. No session of the 
conference proved more enlightening than 
the one at which Mr. Lawson Purdy, of 
New York, gave his address on “The Dis- 
tricting of Cities.” 

+ + 

National Paving Brick Manu- 
facturers Association 

More than 400 engineers, officials and 
men of technical pursuits journeyed to 
Paris, Ill., on October 6 to attend the dem- 
onstration of actual paving methods in lay- 
ing a 12-foot, curbless, monolithic pave- 
ment on a rural road some two miles north 
of the business section of Paris This 
demonstration was a climax to a two-day 
session of the National Paving Brick 
Manufacturers’ Association. The major 
part of this session took place at Terre 
Haute, Ind., seventeen miles from Paris. 

The officers of the Association were all 


reelected: 


President— ( Blair f the Bessemer Lit st 
Company, Youngstown, Ohio 
Vice-President—]. W. Robb, of the Clinton P 
ing Brick Company, Clinton, Ind 
Treasurer—C, ( Barr f the Barr Clay ¢ 
treat lH 
Secretary Will P slair Engineers’ Buil g 


Cleveland, Ohio 

The outdoor program began October 6 
with a trip of inspection over a few of Terre 
Haute’s brick pavements. The point chosen 
for the demonstration on October 7 Was a 
strip of the Chicago highway adjacent to the 


city water-works reservoir at Paris. The 
































Giving the Municipality 
Dollar for Dollar Value 


Progressive municipalities, townships or villages are constantly repairing 
bad roads or building new ones. Good roads are a business asset to any commu- 
nity. That has been demonstrated and proved. 





Therefore, to get the maximum value for the money spent it is necessary to 
turn to the equipment with which the work is done. Where honest value is 
considered, where the equipment is chosen for the results it produces (and not 
the first cost of the machine), there you will find Case Road Building Machinery 
playing an important part in good road construction. 


Let us describe how carefully Case Road Rollers, steam and gas tractors, 
rock crushers, graders and all such equipment are built and why contractors 
and municipalities find Case machines their most economical investment. Our 

Case Road Building catalog explains Case machinery in 
detail. A request brings a copy postpaid to your home or 
office. 


J. 1. CASE T. M. COMPANY, Inc. 











793 LIBERTY ST. RACINE, WIS. 














The 

100% Watson 
Turning 

Ina 

Narrow 





The Last Word in Efficiency and Economy 


Every Municipality or Corporation can use one or more 100% WATSONS. 
One outfit will do the work of eight teams. Easily handled. Gets in and out 
of places inaccessible with other outfits. 


Tractor part can be used with various styles of trailers 
Correspondence with City Engineers, Street Superintendents and other City Officials solicited. 


A post-card will bring full information. 


WATSON WAGON CO., 30 W. Center Street, CANASTOTA, N. Y. 











When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 





a ee 














tn een natn ty BET 





NovEMBER, 1916 


work done was a part of 
the actual contract for 
improvement of this 
road, now being carried 
out by Contractor Allan 
J. Parrish, under the 
general supervision of 


Black- 


Engineer \W. T. 


burn. In this connecti-n 
the article on “Strength 
of Brick and Concrete 


Surfacing 
HE AMERICAN CITY, 
October, 


Highway 


1916, will be 
found of interest. 
Later, two or. three 
hours were devoted to a 
trip of inspection over 
the various types of road 
to be found in the vicin- 
ity of Paris. The main 
thorofares have been im- 
proved with brick to the 
north, east and west 


excellent condition. In 


and the 


the eve 


after-dinner spe akers included 





paving 
| 7 


ning 


l 


> 


4 











THE BRICK 

















THE AMERICAN CITY 





Elastite makes an absolutely uniform joint because it 
is formed as accurately as the paving brick. When 
it is set against the curb one edge rests on the sand 


When the paving expands the pressure is distributed 
uniformly. There is no weak spot. 





Uniform from sand | 
cushion to surface . 















EXPANSION 


JOINT 


The original and only Elastite Joint 








cushion and the other edge is on the exact level of 
the pavement. \ 





A sample will be sent on request. 


THE PHILIP CAREY COMPANY 


| 
8 Wayne Avenue, Lockland ; 
CINCINNATI, OHIO ; 








When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 











NovEMBER, 1916 THE 
Association of Urban Universities 

The Association of Urban Universities 
plans to hold its next meeting in New York 
City. Altho the College of the City of New 
York will act as the host, it Was decided 
by the authorities and Mayor 
Mitchel to make the welcome to the visit- 


college 
ing delegates a welcome from the entire 
city of New York. Consequently the local 
committee of arrangements has 
enlarge itself. Mayor 
pointed Commissioner 


decided to 
Mitchel has ap- 
Leonard M. Wall- 


to repre- 


stein and Mrs. George V. Mullan 
sent the city on this 


committee. Mr 






Copies may be ordered of Tue American City, 
those indicated as free, which should be ordered 


TUCKER, 


James I., Professor of Civil Engi- 
neering, University of Oklahoma, and 
Consulting State Engineer, Oklahoma 
Department of Highways 
The American Road. A Non-lngineer- 
ing Manual for Practical Road Builders 
1916. xii + 235 pp. Photographs, charts, 
diagrams, statistical tables. $1.08 
lreating only the construction, udminist tion and 
economics of improved earth roads, this ok aims 
primarily to assist in forming an enlightened publi 
opinion by presenting simple facts which ur 
work, and secondly, to furnish the material for a brief 
corresponde nee course for actual road buil 
a discussion of general conditions and the necessary 
preliminary studies, the problems of road economics 
cam road administration are considered The various 
kinds of roads—stone, gravel and sand-clay—are de 
scribed in general and in regard to construction and 
maintenance. Special chapters deal with cost account 
ing and earthwork, waterways, bridges, road finance 
road building with oils, and needed legislation. To 
vast number of officials thruout the country eng 
in building and improving country roads this book 
should prove of immense value. 


Weeks, ArLAnD D., Professor of Education 
in the North Dakota Agricultural Col- 
lege. 

The Avoidance of Fires. i916. vi+ 128 
pp. Photographs, drawings and _ biblio 
graphy. 60 cents 

It would be interesting to try to compute the pro! 
able reduction in the total fire loss of American cities 
which would have resulted if the adults of the present 

generation had had the privilege of studying such a 

book as this in their early school days. Professor 

Weeks has written a straightforward, simple narrative 

calculated to hold the attention of children and giving 

a clear understanding of the essentials of intelligent 

fire prevention methods. He discusses fire and its 


origin, carelessness in the handling of matches, the 
dangers of kerosene and gasoline, spontaneous com 
bustion, chimneys and stoves, gas and _ electricity, 


Christmas trees and bonfires, Independence Day cele 


brations, fires caused “by lightning, forest and prairie 
causes .of fire are discussed and the 


fires, etc. The 
proper means of extinguishing them, as well as the 
various agencies of fire prevention, city fire depart 
ments and school fire drills. 
the last two chapters, one of which contains some val 


uable suggestions in regard to fire prevention, and the 


AMERICAN CITY 


o%a nla nTe aa nva nVanvanvenvanvenvanvesvasvesvanve svanvenve svanve sven as a sve sve 
Municipal and Civic Publications 


ect from the offices publishing them 


a airliner liaartaataatrtnatctaeatntintaiael 


Of particular interest are 


599 
George McAneny represents the Trustees 
of the College of the City of New York 
Dr. Frederick B. Robinson, Secretary of the 
\ssociation of Urban Universities, is also 
a member of the committee. The additional 
members will be representatives from Co- 
lumbia University, New York Universit! 
Hunter College, the City Club, the Mer- 
chants’ Association and the Chamber of 
Commerce. This enlarged Committee of 
\rrangements plans to hcld a very exten- 
sive program of conferences on the 15th, 
16th and 17th of 
of the 


November. ull details 


program will be issued later. 


ith the exception of Government publications and 


wat OEnrEs "ASAE MEF 


% 


the a number of examples of res, show 
1 ¢} ] 


J 


ne 
ie waste involved 


kicHeL, Orto R., M.D., Director, 
Sanitary Supervisors, New 
Department of Health 
A Manual of Fire Prevention and Fire 
Protection for Hospitals. i916. vi 


Division of 
York State 





69 pp. $1.00 
As hospitals in the past have often approached the 
fire problem from the viewpoint of protection rathe 
than prevention, and occasionally with regard chiefly 
to protection of property instead of human life, it will 
readily be understood that there is grea 


just such a book as this whi h Dr. Eichel 
Commencing with a section explaining the 
organizations referred to, ‘the book tells some 
the causes and cost of hospital fires, and 
on to a consideration of common hazards 
ghting, heating, exposure and miscellaneous | 
nd the means of guarding against them 
types of fire appliances and safeguards i1 
are next discussed, as well as the miscellan 
cautions necessitated by local conditions. 
section treats of fire rules, the fire drill and inspe n 
service, and outlines a plan of organization f 2 


hospital fire department 


CALIFORNIA MUNICIPALITIES, LEAGUE OF 

A Handbook for City Officials of the 
Fifth and Sixth Class Cities of the State 
of California. 1016. Statistics, forms, 
ordinances, etc. (Free to the officials of 
the cities and towns belonging to the or- 
ganization. ) 

That the League of Californ 








cor 
1es the high form of service w edit 
the past is evidenced by this admirable little booklet 
which it is now distributing. The book contains ex 
tracts from the Constitution of California relating t 
municipalities, with citations; a synopsis of the laws 
elating to the organization and incorporatior f mu 
nicipalities; a model accounting system, the charters 
of fifth and sixth class cities, with citations; extracts 
fron the codes relating to municipal « ts } 
methods; the California health ewe of interest 1 
nicipalities, and concludes with model specifications fo 
making various kinds of municipal improvements \ 
feaiure is the index, in which every subject is care 
fully indexed and cross-indexed Out of the 240 


corporated cities and towns of California about 220 are 
cities of these two t 
ments already are coming in complimenting the Ls 
on this excellent piece of work 


classes; numerous favorable 









































Get it Off Before It Melts 


» 2 1U may seem to have plenty of time to d f; 
get the off SLAM! —an reezes 


g snow , when, down 
comes a warm rain followed by 20 below and causes 
Then the streets are a mass of slippery ice 


and the attorneys work overtime damage suits 


‘” 

* 

& 

& ° 

t The beauty of the B aker Snow Plow is 
that it works fast. Does the work of fifty 

€ men with shovels, on sidewalks, roads or 

y gutters. Has the old ‘“‘A”’ plow beat a mile 

‘ in economy, speed, and thoroughness. When 


you buy it, you get also an ice scraper, mud 
scraper, stone spreader, ditcher and ROAD 
GRADER. 


TWENT7 IE TH CEN7 UR Y Pieced 12g matter on Baker horse 


THE BAKER MFG. GO. 
S&S N ©O VA/ 503 Stanford Avenue, Springfield, III. 
New York 


as Baker-Barron, Inc. 
221 W. Broadway 











PLOW 5 





4 
- 


SS Sacre Eee 





61 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae American Ciry. 

















NovEMBER, 1916 THE AMERI(¢ 


Henpricks, S. E., Co., Inc., Publishers, 2 West 
Thirteenth Street, New York City. 
Hendricks’ Commercial Register of the 
United States for Buyers and Sellers. 
25th Annual Edition. 1916. 1738 pp. $10.00 
The twenty-fifth annual edition of Hendricks’ ¢ 
mercial Register of the United States for Buyers 
Sellers, incorporating “The Assistant Iuyer,”’ comes 
to hand with 235 more pages than the old editics As 
heretofore, this valuable book is especially ce 
the interests of the architectural, contrac ting, el« 
engineering, hardware, iron, mechanical, mill, 
quarrying, railroad, steel and kindred industries, 
forms a complete and reliable annual regist« 
ducers, manufacturers, dealers and consumers 
nected with the aforesaid industries and with 
tudinous other industries of inierest to buyers 


sellers . The products of the various companies are 
listed from the raw material to the finished article, 
with the concerns handling them from the p.odacer t 
the consumer A new feature is the 205-page se 1 
with pages of a different color, containing a list of 


the important trade names, brands, « 


Rupinow, I. M., M. D., Ph. D., Executive Se 
retary, Social Insurance Committee, 
American Medical Association; Presi- 
dent, Casualty Actuarial Statistical So- 
ciety of America. 

Standards of Health Insurance. 1g16 
Vili + 322 pp. $1.60 
With health insurance bills introduced in three 
states this year and many other states actively pre 


paring bills for introduction next winter, the problem 
of sickness or health insurance is rapidly becoming 
the most important issue on social legislation now 
before the American people. This book, in response 
to the growing demand, endeavors to present a brief 
and popular, tho scientifically sound, discussion of 
the essential principles underlying this sort of in 
surance and the various provisions which go to make 
a successful health insurance scheme Suc subjects 


are discussed as necessity for compulsion, benefits, 
proper way of apportioning cost, organization of 
imsurance associations, organization of medical aid 
Special chapters treat of the much-discussed 
of maternity insurance, the probable cost o 
insurance, and how it should be distributed 

appendices contain: “Constitutionality of Health In 
surance,” by Joseph P. Chamberlain, and “Organiz 
tion of Medical Aid,” by Alexander Lambert, M. D 





Dixon, Roya, Vice-President of the League 
of Foreign- Born Citizens 
Americanization. i916. x + 1096 pp 


56 cents 

Citing “ the alien hearts that are with us but not 
of us; the brother who is but a stranger within our 
gates,” Mr. Dixon, in straightforward words, presents 
the problems of Americanization, the nature of its 
work, and what its promoters hope to accomplish. He 
outlines a broad, practical and suggestive program 
based on the results of his association with the National 


Americanization Committee. Among the  subjec ts 
treated are: “What E very American Should Know,” 
“American Citizenship,” “The New Charity,” 


“America and Women’s Clubs “National Prepared 


ness,” and “The New America.” 





MACAULEY, WARD. 
Reclaiming the Ballot. 1916. 100 pp 
80 cents 


“Considering the vital importance of the ballot,” says 
Mr. Macauley, “it would naturally he expected that 
every safeguard would be thrown around the process 
of voting.”” This, however, he finds not to be the case, 
and in the pages of this Teadable little book h pre 
sents a clear and illuminating description of the evils 
of our present system of casting and counti 
at elections, together with able suggestions for a prac 
tical and effective remedy. The chapters are: ‘The 
Bulwark of Our Liberties, 7 ampaign Methods,” “Ir 
efficient Citizens,’ : 








om —— the People’s Will,” “Conservative Reform,” 
Precinct Civic Center,” ete. 


“Urgent Need of Ballot Reform,” 


lcBbain, Howarp Leg, Associate Professor of 


Municipal Science and Administration 
in Columbia University 
The Law and Practice of Municipal 
Home Rule. 1gi0. XViii 724 pp. $5.25 











I s, th st t g 
t Trigit i c « he r i < } 
e sec < s rN y t « 
t s es Ny < aT te A ik x 
es. r | I are sidered e scope 
t Slative r ties $ i 
ected s isia ¢ ses i 
{ , $ spe exis 
es \fiter r i < sideranor t 
« s il € clat s € é } 

« I t il Prt s re « 

t T s t t ne s t \M 

‘ ( Q Ml é ( 

Okla i 1 Oreg M g ) , Nebraska 

t lexas I g ‘ € ies § ‘ 
c ‘\ 

Reep, THomas H \ssistant Professor f 
Government in the University of Cali 
fornia 

Government for the Fesgis. IQ15. viii 
265 pp. haptes ibliographies $1.60 
ters of this ginally present , 

cs 1 « tures 1 
prese 1 Ss t s \ 

government I s eC ‘ 

gs of represent ‘ 

T mit 1 t T t t t tiv t s t 

tics x s w « « tie 
lems tat 1 s t r ert 
nist tl t ¢ t ‘ 

the secti s € neg x 

t | yn t 
1 t < 

Conopon, Leon A., M. S., Division Chief Food 

ind Drugs, Kansas State Board of 


Healt] 
Fight for Food. igi6. 207 pp. Diagrams 








; 0k P s 
‘ s other l ‘ t ike 
1 . 
r esthetic sense P sh f 
ellies, ] et 
ta ) t s « € 
iteration and sbr ¥ f 
the entorcement 1 ne x C 
ed, as is als the r r 
public health Interesting t evote 
ilk, sanitary handling of f s in t } e. rura 
Sanitation, portant phases of f 
st fli d food r ces 
food, flav the gr rR t ! 
ed poisons and drugs ir f 


SmitH, Harry Brapiey, Pd. M., Director of 
Industrial Education in the New York 
a College for Teachers Albany, 


Establishing Industrial Schools. (Intr 


duction by Charles A. Prosser, Ph. D 





1910. xxiv + 107 pp 60 cents 
States, cities and com nities ter te 
trial schools will find in this « ent f 
tiou as to concrete and pract ] met is of t 
ng what sort of industrial s¢ Is r ‘ t 
s be taught in the t t é 
pare the instructors ire t t re It 
ittempts to be side et s 
ts conclusions t ‘ litions te 
the best genera t t s lust € 
tion The fou ters treat, respect f 
‘Selecting the Sch i Making the Survey,” Select 
ing the Course,” nd Selecting the Teact ° 1dr 
Prosser’s 24-page introduction furnishes | 
evict f some of the blems of the s r 























THE AMERICAN CITY 





Frost Has Little Effect on 


“GENUINE OPEN HEARTH IRON” 
CULVERTS 
The presence of copper resists 


the destroying effects of the 
soil, water and climate. 


The culverts that last indefinitely. 
Try them on your next job. 





Write for booklet in the meantime 


THE NEWPORT CULVERT CO., Inc. 
NEWPORT, KY. 








ee 








OUR CULVERTS 
NEVER REQUIRE 
REPLACEMENT 

















1916 Iroquois Portable Asphalt Plant : 








: 
Rollers Increased | 
: * 
Tandem and Capacity, | 
Macadam Convenience, 
Heating Economy 
Kettles 
Write for 
Surfaces Special 
Heaters. Bulletin | 

















The Barber Asphalt Paving Company 


Iroquois Works Buffalo, New York 











62 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 


“ee 





603 


Pamphlets and Papers of Civic Interest 


See also the departments of Public Safety an 
tions, for other publications of special interest. 


The Last Word on Comfort Stations. 


In the October, 1916, issue of the Bulletin of the 
Department of Public Welfare of the City of 
Chicago (Vol. I, No. 3), Dr. Earle Edward En 
bank, Director of Social Surveys, publishes the 
results of a survey made by the Bureau of So 
cial Surveys of the Chicago Department of Pub 
lic Welfare in an article entitled “Public Com 
tort Stations for Chicago.” 44 pp. Photographs, 
charts, tables and bibliography. (Apply to the 
Department, 805 City Hall Square Building, Chi 
cago, Tl.) 


City Welfare Work in Chicago. 


Bulletin of the Department of Public Welfare, 
City of Chicago, Louise Osborne Rowe, Commis 
sioner, Department Serial Number 2, devoted to 
a description of the accomplishments of the Em 
ployment Bureau, Municipal Woodyard and Mu 
nicipal Gardens. (Vol. 1, No. 2; September 
1916.) 40 pages. P hotogrs aphs and _ statistical 
tables. (Apply to the Department, 805 City Hall 
Square Building, Chicago, LIL) 


The Houses of Providence. 


\ Study of Present Conditions and Tendencies, 
with Notes on the Surrounding Communities and 
Some Mill Villages. By John Ihlider, Madge 
Headley and Udetta D. Brown, Associated. 1916 
105 pp. Numerous photographs, maps and tables. 
(Apply to Mr. Henry D. Sharpe, Chairman, Com- 
mittee of Housing Survey, Providence, R. I.) 15 
cents, 


The City Manager. 


A New Opportunity for Engineers. Article by 
Gaylord C. Cummin, City Manager Jackson, 
Mich., with discussion, delivered M: ay 15, 1916 
Page 565, Journal of the Western Society of En 
gineers, Vol. XXI, No. 7, September, 1916. (Ap 
ply to the Society, 1735 Monadnock Block, Chi 
cago, Ill.) 50 cents. 


Specifications for Vitrified Brick Pavements. 


The National Paving Brick Manufacturers’ Asso 
ciation has recently issued three pamphlets giving 
Specifications for the construction of Vitrified 


+4 Brick Street Pavements, Highways and Country 
= Roads of (1) the Sand Cushion lype with Sand 
~ and Bituminous Joint Fillers, (2) Green Concrete 
oe Foundation Type with Cement Grout Filler, and 


(3) Sand-Cement Super-Foundation Type with 
Cement Grout Filler. Each 46 pp. Each illus 
trated with photographs. (Engineers and others 
interested may obtain copies from Will P. Blair, 
Secretary of the Association, 830-834 B. of L. E 
Building, Cleveland, Ohio.) 


Lessons from Infantile Paralysis. 


< Profiting by Experience with Infantile Paralysis 
- (Public Health News, the monthly bulletin of the 
. Department of Health of the State of New Jer- 
sey, in its issue of September, 1916 (Vol. 2, No. 
2), devotes considerable space to a consideration 
of the above.) 29 pp. (Apply to J. C. Price, 
p.. Director of ne salth, State House, Trenton, 
N. J.) 


Wisconsin’s Overage Children. 


By Janet R. Rankin, School Service Secretary. 
Issued by C. P. Cary, State Superintendent, Madi 
son, Wis., 1016. 12 pp. Tables and charts. ( \p 
ply to State Superintendent, as above.) 


National Education Association’s New 
Journal. 


The Journal of the National Education Associa- 
tion, Vol. I, No. 1, September, 1916. (Name of 
editor and subscription price not given.) Con 
tains Act of Incorporation, By-Laws, Department 
Officers and Journal of Proceedings of the 54th 
Annual Meeting. 95 pp. (Apply to the Associa- 
tion, Ann Arbor, Mich.) 


ws and Ideas for Commercial and Civic Organiza 


Union of Saskatchewan Municipalities. 
Eleventh Annual Convention of the Union of 


Saskatchewan Municipalities, Swift Current, 
Sask., June 28-30, 1916 92 pp Diagram ot 
civic administration. (Apply to W. F. Heal, Hon 


Secretary-Treasurer, Moose Jaw, Sask., Canada.) 


Los Angeles Municipal Charities Com- 


mission. 
Third Annual Report of the Muricipal Charities 
Commission, City of Los Angeles, Cal., July 1, 
1915—July 1, 1916 67 pp Statistical tables 
(Apply to Mr. Sayre Macneil, Secretary to the 
Commission, Room 12, Normal Hill Center, Los 


Angeles, Cal.) 


Pasadena Municipal Lighting Works De- 
partment. 

Ninth Annual Report of Pasadena’s Municipa 
Lighting Works Department, 1915-1916 ( W 
Koiner, General Manager and Electrical Engineer 
Municipal Lighting Works Department 32) opp 
Photographs, charts and tables. (Apply to Mr 
Koiner at the Department, Pasadena, Cal.) 


The Problem of Pensions. 


Federal, State, Municipal and Industrial. (Papers 
and statistics presented at 16th Annual Meeting 
National Civic Federation, Washington, }). C., Jar 
uary 17-18, 1916.) 15 pp 5-page chart of in 
dustrial pensions or retirement systems in opera 
tion thruout the United States. (Apply to the 
Federation, 1 Madison Avenue, New York City.) 


A Three Years’ Study of Tuberculosis. 

Laryngeal Tuberculosis: A Three Years’ Study 
By Dr. Julius Dworetzky, New York Municipal 
Sanatorium, Otisville, N Y (Tuberculosis 
Monograph No. 2, September, 1916, Department 
of Health, New York City.) 48 pp. Photographs, 
charts and tables. (Apply to Bureau of Public 
Health Education, New York Health Department, 
139 Centre Street, New York City.) 


Financing the City of New York. 
lwo Lectures by William A. Prendergast, Comp 
troller, delivered at the New York University on 
March 14 and March 28, 1916. 41 pp. ( Apply to 
author, Municipal Building, New York City.) 


Building Great Cities. 
\ Series of Twenty-five Articles on “How Big 
Cities Do Things” (reprinted from the St. Louts 
Star), with a Preface on “St. Louis—Its Progress 
and Its Problems.” By Charles H. Huff, of the 
St Louis Star. (Details civic activities of Cleve 
land, Baltimore, Philadelphia, New York, Newark, 
Chicago, Milwaukee, Detroit.) 1916. 64 pp. (Ap 


ply to St. Louis Star.) 


Brick Roads. 
Ry Vernon M. Peirce, Chief of Construction, and 
Charles H. Moorefield, Senior Highway Engineer 
(United States Office of Public Roads and Rural 
Engineering, Bulletin No, 373, Professional Paper, 
\ugust 25, 1916.) Photographs and diagrams 40) 
pp. (Apply to above office, Washington, D. ¢ 


Saving the Sight of Babies. 

Synopsis of Popular Lecture with Lantern Slide 
Illustrations—Inventory of Lantern Slides By 
Carolyn Conant Van Blarcom, R, N., Secretary 
(National Committee for the Prevention of Blind 
ness Publications, No.:7, February, 1916.) Photo 
graphs. 16 pp. (Apply to the Committee, 150 
East 22d Street, New York City.) 


Uniformity in Real Estate Tax Assessments. 
A Paper Read Before the Convention of Pennsy] 
vania Third-Class Cities, at Johnstown, August 31, 
1916, by Walter W. Pollock, President of the 
Manufacturers’ Appraisal Company, of Cleveland, 
Ohio. 6 pp. (Apply to author as above 








THE AMERICAN CITY 







 ORRRORRRGRR BDBOREDEEE ET. MEM tem ie ul _— 


vf 


GU008G06 744514. 





“* 
ee 


















“* 
** 














Did you ever stop to consider that when Naphtha vapor is 
mixed with the oxygen in the air it has even greater explosive 
power than dynamite? Although often disregarded at the risk of 
lives and property, this is a well-proven fact. Nobody would 
think of handling dynamite carelessly, but you have seen many 
instances of Naphtha being improperly handled as above illustrated. 












SPENT 





Ob 
a 
th 
oud 
Wh 
ttt 
Wh 
a 
tt, 





» HORDRRGGE ERG: (RORRGCRRee aes: <BROROROEOED 


eegeeeget! a 


Storage and Distributing Systems 


solve this problem not only in dry cleaning plants but also in fae- 
tories, garages, paint and hardware stores, or wherever volatile or 
inflammable liquids are handled. Bowser Systems are built in 
accordance with specifications approved by the National Board of 


Fire Unde ters and regularly examined and labeled by their 
ORORONNNE ancratories so designed and constructed that volatiles stored in  |OOURRBRORES 


laboratories—so designed 


CURRESARRGIT: ‘npenaacrEgees: <ececeeeeenee 





O: UOGRRAG REED 


ag 








= them are absolutely SAFE under any conditions. 

Pos If volatile liquids are being improperly handled in your city, 
he don’t you think you should see that municipal regulations are 
= made adequate and then enforced? 

,-4 We will gladly send you any information along this line you desire 

= No obligation of any hind incurred. 

= S. F. BOWSER & CO., Inc. - Fort Wayne, Ind. 
“ 4 Sales Offices in all Centers and Representatives Everywhere 








aif — | | 
 —— 


at 









oe 
’* 





7 
ne oe... om, 








“ORGRCERORGE = GRRCRREREEE Se: SennegRuReneee: cepeneneeAteG 









*? 


pereressrem:: ~URSESERDEGOR: RERDDSRORTSONTRGHRD ORT: DECLEOR RSE RUBE RRRER: BORE TAREE : 


63 When writing to Ad ertisers please mention Tue American City. 


























NovEMBER, IQI6 THE AMERICAN CITY 605 


City Manager Plan of Municipal Govern- Wider Use of the School Piant. 


ment. The Quicksands of Wider | 
Report with carefully prepared reference list Clarence Art Perry, Ass te 
Joseph H, Quire, Secretary, Bureau of Municipa ent of Recreat Nusse Sage | 
Reference, University Extension Divisior Ib ginning of ige I =). ‘ 
letin of the Extension Division of the Universit rou X . . ’ 
of California, New Series, Vol. I, No. 18, June, ‘0 a M son 41 5 sore 
1916.) 22 pp. (Apply to author, as above, at ‘ » cents 
Berkeley, Cal.) An Art Guide for New York City. 
: KA Guide to the Works of Art in New York 
How to Conduct Bond Campaigns. “ge santa, lose Wiccierinte, eae 
Presented before the Eighth Annual Meeting of gran I statistica t ) \ y 
the Kansas League of Municipalities by R. I r \meri | \ B Wes 
McDonnel!, of Burns & McDonnell, ( sulting th Stree Ne York Cit 
Engineers, Interstate Building, Kansas City, M ~ Stontein @ rs 
1916. 7 pp. (Apply to author as above Standards for Electric Service. 
( ec 3 Latest. Gaatee Bawe f Stes 
Sanitation of Swimming Pools. rds, No, 56, First Edition “pe S, 191 
An Article by Carl Ziegler, M.1)., B.S.G.. Direct \\ acd ‘ag ( P Ses 
Physical Education, Cincinnati, Ohio, P he . . “ 
Schools, appearing in the October issue of Mind Municipal Terminal Markets. 
and Body (Vol. 23, No. 252), page 25 wy ik Been ule . Seas c, : 
Statistical data (Apply to editor f Mir mm om Sete ( ves \\ “lis 
Body,. 72 West Johnson Street, Germantow 01 , ~ Ney tle * 
Philadelphia, Pa.) ( = ( Ml . 7 ; hes 
we Boroug ce By x. Chairmat { the 
Civic Government. Mayor's Market Commission of New York City 
\ Paper read at the Eleventh Annual Convent Reprinted f > —. = on N It 
of the Union of Saskatchewan Municipalities itute of Soe Sciences, J » 1916 + 
Swift Current, Sask., June 28-30, 1916 By ( | Ap t author, M I ding, Neé€ LN 
Yorath, City Commissioner, Saskatoon, Sask \ City.) 
vocates City Manager Form, Council elected Zone Ordinance Procedure. 
Proportional Representation.) Graphic diagram of eae Te = 
civic administration. 14 pp. (Apply to author, Sas Special issue of the Berkeley ¢ bullet \ 
katoon, Sask., Canada). \ N 1, August 10), COMtaIning rhe ( 
Pianning Movement Berkeley,” by J]. R. Doug 
New York Building Zone Resolution. ee Sie, Soe oe Gn Sone Coenen, | 5 
» | ' 4 ca | catior 
Board of Estimate and Apportionment, City of Zone Ordinance,” by Duncan Mc Duft e. and Text 
New York, Building Zone Resolutior adopted f the Zone Ordinance, Form of Procedure nd 
July 25, 1916) 12 pp (Apply to the Board, Fort f Petitior 4 Apply to City Club 
Municipal Building, New York City.) f Berkeley, 1040 Keith Avenue, Berkel Cal 


ee ee ee ee TTT TULUM MTT M UMMM MM MMMM IA TURTON 


About Machinery and Supplies 


Printed Matter Available Free to Readers of THE AMERICAN CITY 


Advertisers are invited to submit catalogues or circulars suitable for mention in these columns. 
Tue American City should always be mentioned when writing for this material. Officials who 
check over these items each month and write for such printed matter as interests them will find 
this a convenient way of keeping their information files up to date. = 

= 


MANUAL dan 











Al UOMO TATU eae cnane rence as 
Concrete Highway Construction. Motor Street Sweepers. 
All of the steps involved in the building of ce en ; ae : 
concrete road, itemized information as t its cost : bh ee po _ ] _ ry gona on = } 
detailed information as to its maintenance, pictures — — , ee ge eee y 2 
showing concrete roads in various stages of cot ; — ' ‘e! ‘ sweeper | 
, g1 l It s that he Ele 
struction, diagrams of specifications, etc., are | 1. as ‘ 
tained in a pamphlet published by The Atlas Port — — ee ee : 8 
land Cement Company, of 30 Broad Street, New a 7 * > sures are presented in support 
York City this — ere these swe rs 
¢ eing used 
Chlorine Control Apparatus for Water and 
Sewage Purification. Flushing Machines for Street Cleaning. 
The history of the use of liquid and its superiority - ; . 
over the chloride of lime treatment are outlined A — gt cae “a agp crsier ,methods of street 
and various types of chlorinators illustrated and : 1 OE xe porns fi eee Wik wae ih 
described in an attractively printed quarto cata ped scr ny by The Se. we tert ee atte 
logue issued by Wallace & Tiernan Company, Inc., Ret _ “Ind + eer aker Corporat sout 
137 Centre Street, New York City Ask for oe 5 yp — aker flusher tanks car — 
Booklet 1 A. mounted on any star make f motor truck 
Fundamentals of Street Maintenance. Rubber Goods for Fire Departments. 
\ reprint of an address delivered at the 1916 
convention of the American Society of Municipa The many kinds of er goods used in f le 
Improvements by Will P. Blair, secretary of the partments, such as hose, tires able, ts, toot 
National Paving Brick Manufacturers’ Associa wear, etc., are escribe , 1 sna ttle 
tion, Cleveland, Ohio, has been issued in pamphlet pamphlet issue y the B. F. Goodrich Company 
form under the title of “The Fundamental Neces of Akron, Ohic A n list of its branche 
sities in the Maintenance and Upkeep of Streets and representatives is contained the ly 
and Roads.” which will be handy to prospective pur users 













THE AMERICAN CITY 


TILT tT SSSR SEPERATE REX 
SRRSERE REE EO Besse ssssSSseSSsSosSoSssassessoceees RRAKRRARSRRSRRR ER ERE RR RSE RE ERAT ARREST ERR RES RR E RED 
PSSESSSSS SSS TS SSSSSSSSSSASSSSS SSeS EEE E HET SST ES t SSaESSSSSSSSeeuescerancneansaseranase RES RARER ERE . 
aes 
































Next to air, water is the most essential element 
in sustaining human life. Water being so 
important a factor—it is your duty to see that 
your citizens get it in the purest and cleanest 
condition 


















Unfor'unately it has been found that the mains 
carrying water from the filtration plant to the 
home are likely to be filled with dirt, growths, 
living and dead organisms and countless other 
impurities. It is possible that this condition 
exists in your city, and if so you can hardly 
have clean water even if it is filtered. Most 
cities have found that 


BEREERESEESERE EEE EEE 


PSSSSCSSSESSES SERB ee Hee eee 
Oe ee 













THE 


TION 


METHOD 


of cleaning mains is the quickest and most 
economical way. It makes them like new 
without relaying a single pipe, and the traffic 
is not hindered while our menwork. Don’t put 
life in the hands of chance by keeping the 
mains all clogged up with dirt. 


















Reeeasesneti 
BERGE SESS 
“eene 





Clean mains give better water pressure and 
cut down pumping expenses. 


Write us for book describing our whole method, its free for the asking 


NATIONAL WATER MAIN CLEANING CO. 


Hudson Terminal Building, New York City 


ROR a we ne OO See TST STS SASS EET TESS SSS FSS SEES SEES TEER SRR SSSR SSAA SSSR SSS SSEASSSSSS SEE LA SS RARER ERR EES =e. 
saesees SSSOSHSSSSIS SES Se eee O OO ee eee SSeS Sots Sesdes reste saessenseses ose SRERRRIKEAES =x 
eReerereeesses THSKLALLLLLPS SSS SSS Pe See ey RD ee RXR CRAMER EKEE SRST SRT ARR ERE RRSHKRKRKRKRR ERK RR eR eR 








64 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City, 



































Nov., 1916 ABOUT 


Removing Water from Trenches. 


rhe t atalo fH ( 
83 West Atlantic Avex e, Boston, M 

scribes the Atlantic diaphrag f 
removing water R 
work, trench excavation, et S 

braces and, sewer rods ar ulso lustrated and 


escribed, 


Markers for Underground Service. 


Settees and Chairs for Parks. 


The | | Mott | \\ ft \ 
ut. Seventeer Street N Yor ( 
ssited a pa hlet wit 
sctiees at chairs whic 
1 vi ks P 

ect s 


The Manograph Meter for Water and Gas 


Mains. 
! pan r \\ 
ent ( f ( S N 
City, t \l 2 
scr nS t 1 i 
e f the | pl | \ g 
ver t tT | < 
st ent ft 
f eas 
co liite 


Devices for Motor Truck panclaney. 


“To deser some of the ay 1 

which have gat! 1ered round =the g 
propelled cart, and which better er é . 
carry and deliv ” is the purpose fa t 
entitled iio that Mak for Motor 
Effgiency,” issued by The B. F. G ( 


pany, of Akron, Ohi 


Plants, Fruits and Flowers. 
The 3916-1917 


catalog of e P Re 


Company, Inc., whose ad s s Box 1 a 
Augusta, Ga., contains many suggestions of 

to planters. In addition, the catalog cx 

latest price lists of the plants, trees, f ts 


} 


flowers, etc., grown ry the mpany I 
pamphlet is well illustrated 


Concrete Paving for Alleys. 


The transformation in 


ippearance 


which can be achieved by the Se f 
pave old, muddy alleys is admi ly s I 
pamphlet issued by the Portland Cet Ass 


ciation, of 111 West Washington Street, ( 
Taking for illustration instances in mat 
palities where alleys have been paved wit 
crete, the author has mad hay 

selection of excellent “before and after’ 
graphs which 
paving clearly 


bring out th 


Free Booklet on Street Lighting. 
The King Foundry Company, 55 We 
Boulevard, Chicago, has prepared 
general distribution covering the s bject 
park and boulevard lighting 


Playground Apparatus. 


Information of value to those ter 


modern playground movement is foun n ( 

log No. 16 of the Ashland Manufacturing ( 
pany, manufacturers of all-steel playground 
ratus, located at Ashland, Ohio. Some 1 g 
inal designs and combinations, :; well 

fications of their older patterns are how \ 
guarantee against mechanical or mater le f« 
goes with every outfit sold by thi 

any part of the apparatus pr g fe 


be replaced free of charge 


MACHINI 


RY AND SUPPLIES 607 


Fire Department Apparatus and Supplies. 


I talog of \ 
( K s ( g 
a. an br 


A Catalog of Books on Sanitary Sciencé 





{ neg ) ? g ; vet te 
. & Sons \ e’ 
Y Kk City \ 
Milk Inspectors’ Outfits. 
\ 
M 
| " P 
4 ina t re 
= r 
Crushed Slag Pavement 
rR a x tal £2 
le all r 
pre; Y 
ccmeah 
n Com 
Steel-Bound Concrete Curb 
WA rig 
t 
St | ( ( Re 
| t | \ 
— Paving Plants. 
o Wenes B ( 
Road- Making “aang 
The Universal \I 
Kingston, N. \ S 
scribing in det the Re king 
nervy, r not 4 et g 
which espe ] es S I 
tion for roa ¢ 
Tractors for Fire Apparatus 
( e-G ” t 
(jear Freight-\W ¢ ( 
Ay Grand R s I 
er . : 
Water Meters 
The Ne \ ( 
East 4 S Ne Yor A € 
Vim Fire Truck 
I \ \l ( 

















THE AMERICAN CITY 












The Cole Recorder 


Fills a long felt want in the Water Works 
Field. An absolutely reliable station meter 
of the Pitometer type which, on account of 
its extreme sensitiveness is accurate at low 
as well as at high velocities. 


Not Necessary to Cut the Main or Interrupt the Flow 
It may be installed by the simple process of setting a standard 
one-inch corporation cock in the main at the desired gauging 
point. 
No mercury or liquid other than water is used. 


mplicity, economy, accuracy and durability are combined. 


Satisfactory service guaranteed. Write for our booklet. 


The Pitometer Co., 55 Duane St., New York 





When writing to Advertisers please mention Tus American City. 























6. LS SS © SOS 


Methods, Materials and Appliances 


News from Engineers, Manufacturers and Supply Houses 


SS. SS. ELLE HSH__—O_ 











ELECTRIK TRAFFIC POST AND ONE-LIGHT 








lr BOULEVARD LAMPS, ST. LOUIS BOUL] 
. RE. VD 

An Electric Traffic Post tate 

The statistics of street accidents have en oe oe ; aa ata 
abled wide-awake street officials t determine “ie 

“The holes for then dug ea 

just what localities, intersections and cro By Hany 
have contributed to most collisions, ar ter 4 ai : nee = 
particular points must be made safe | k eart f 
which beget caution. An expedient he — : 
in some localities is the use of a traffic post, f 5 feet and fir with @ tick 
consisting of an electrically-lit lamp equipped f 20 per cent Red ¢ s Extra six and a 
with series sockets and a ruby globe placed on oto oF fen” cee geek pee. 
a lighting standard. This traffic post is placed f to 6 feet dee ; . one aes ¢ 
at the dangerous intersections, and so situated rge a s at ficiently 
with respect to the streets crossing at that a 
point that the red light diffused from the g] \iter des ribing the details of his work, M 
serves as a warning to all oncoming vehick cand concludes as follows 

In the accompanying photograph ore of r er : for the best pos 
these trafic posts is shown. The street that ; ygteedig. ree y hi igre =i ae 
of the St. Louis Boulevard, South Berd, Ind ithe whol One of the 
Che traffic post in this view has been manu es process of blasting, for it permits tl 
factured by the George Cutter Compa eS eee eee ee poral! Migs: Ah axencts 
South Bend, Ind The park view posts wit! BPdeenceslll wan ae Sint ati. Stites 
white globes which line this street ar ls + + 


} fac “d b his compan : - " = 
SS es South Bend Motor Car Works Gets 
. * New York City Contract 
Use of Explosives for Planting “The s <P : : 
1e South Bend Motor Car Works, of 
Trees a 


South Bend, Ind., has recently received a 


In the November issue of the | ertical Far tract from the city of New York for tet 
ng Magasine there appears an interesting ite pieces of apparatus 
by N. D. Rand on the use of dynamite in plant In this order are omprised seven hose 
ing trees. Mr. Rand was engaged in the wort agons of 70-horsepower each, equipped with 
of transplanting some half-grown trees to ar the regular New Yorl indard turret pipe 





~~ © 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


MUNICIPAL 
SIGNS 


OF EVERY CHARACTER 
FOR EVERY PURPOSE 


" GUARANTEED 


6 
PORCELAIN 
ENAMELED 
IRON 


SIGNS 


*“‘BALTO” Guaranteed Porcelain Enameled Iron Signs 
stand alone in their field—the one and only one absolutely 
dependable sign product. 

These signs are made of the finest grade of vitreous Porcelain Enamel 
fused on specially processed iron at a temperature of 1600 degrees Fah- 
renheit—each color separately fused. 


‘“*BALTO”’ Signs, exclusively, are fitted with 


non-corrosive metal sleeve eyelets—this N 
DA feature protects the enamel at this point Nn OT ir 
NGER and adds another distinctive element of Kr AMT ry e 
5000 VOLTS finish to our signs. LEp ' NCE 
We produce every possible character of municipal 


Qur . 
4 ; signs—any size, shape, color combination or design. 
a Without obligation our Service Department will 


\ Ml eased to submit sketches an uotations. 
S857 64 be 2 d t ketch dq 
SANGER 
































tionally, we will send FREE, at our expense, 
to any authorized purchasing official or body a 
useful and attractive sample of finished Porcaiaia 
Enameled Iron. Write Department C. 


The Baltimore Enamel & Novelty Co. 


BALTIMORE, MARYLAND 


Al) 
A a Sy Th: LY, 
&) Sy ‘yQoPITAL 20y, 4%, 
RR 
XY 










a Ne 
HW y UNNECESSARY NOISES: Ze 


| PROHIBITED (° .? ; 


Faiz 


66 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 











“a 





els Sa 





Nov., 1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS 


The remaining three are combination wagons 
of the same horsepower rating, equipped with 
double 35-gallon chemical tanks, hose bodies 
whose carrying capacity is 1,200 feet of hos: 
and 300 feet of chemical hose All of the ten 
pieces of apparatus are to be equipped with 
solid tires, dual rear, and the regular S 
Bend Double Duty chain drive 

Among recent deliveries made by this c« 
pany is that to Three Rivers, Mich., of a 6 
inder, 95 horsepower combination — truck 
equipped with the old horse-drawn apparatus 
that has been in service in Three Rivers for 


twenty years. This car has a speed of 5 
miles per hour. Greenfield, Ind., is another 
recent purchaser of South Bend app 

\ delivery was made to that city of { 
nder, 60 horsepower combination chemica 


and hose car, fitted with cushion demounta 
le tires, and having a speed of 4o miles p 
hour. 


* + 


The Lighting Problem in Small 
Towns and Villages 

Many are the advantages of adequate 
iw to the small towns and villages 
fear of running into too large an ex 
heen a strong deterrent to serious 








LIGHTING STANDARD IN 
HASKINS, OHIO 


tion-of this problem by many such municipal! 
ties. Those whieh have, however, given it 
their attention have in many cases solved the 
problem to their satisfaction, 

Gas or electricity has sometimes been found 
beyond the financial means of villages seeking 


adequate protection against the dark, but that 


AND MANUFACTURERS 





a 
Kansas City Orders 2,500 
Water Meters 


1, Pp ‘ ‘ \f 
1 fhe Badger le I \i 


f Milw \Wis 


S S Oy 
ve S 
, 
1 1S ‘ 
sign t é | 1 
ters In cas 
' ] t 
ice sim] ‘ 5 
11 
1¢ gy all ess ‘ 
1 
1! nere 1 
ts 


Fire Apparatus Receives 
Severe Test 


he demonstrati rt 1 me 
I i | ince re I ha ‘ 
f Paxton. II] nS 
drew a very larg 1 
ide were thoro, and_ thosé 
much pleased with the 
ing apparatus Mi » t 


from the American-| 


ira, N.. Y., had charge ot t 
r ined in the ty til t 
fully instructed 1 t 

| tl tests made a st 


that the hydrant pressure in Paxt 


20 pounds. When the punip of t 
gine was started, a pressure of [50 1] 
achie ved, which resulte | i fl 

lons per minut In pumping 
reservoir, the pressut Vas gl 
pounds at the pump, and the machi 
able to throw water over the city t 


delight of the spectators Wit 


no zle 140 pounds pressure was aey 


lrawing the water from the rese 

causing a flow of 350 gallons per 
+ 

Locating Leaks “By Ear” 

Some of the methods formerly 
tempts t locate leaks in w ter | 
their well earned pl ce among the 
data of crudities in scienti method 





rH I AMERICAN CITY 











a y 
4 

LAWN MOWERS 
are made for service, not just to 
sell. How well they satisfy the 
demand for good mowers is indicated by the 


great popularity they enjoy among profes- 
sional gardeners. They 


are self-sharpening. &Q mis &) 


The “PENNSYLVANIA” 



















Write for catalog line: 
“*Peansylvania’’ “Pony” 
“Great American”’ “Horse” 
*“Continental’’ aid others 
“Pennsylvania, Jr.”’ 
*“Keystone”’ 








“Shock Absorber 
“Geli” 





we - Bo BATE Om 
JOHN BRAUN'&-SO 
FOUNDED '677 














When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 




















Nov., 1916 


NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 613 











LOCATING LEAKS AND PUMPING MACHINE 





FROUBLES BY THE USE OF THE DETECTOR 


PHONE 


longer necessary to rip up a great deal of good 
paving in a fruitless effort to find the leak, 
for with modern instruments an inspector 
often locate it with considerable accuracy 

The “Detectorphone,” manufactured by the 
Water Works Equipment Company, of New 
York City, is one type of instrument that has 
facilitated the location of leaks. It is an elec- 
trical device employing the microphone prin 
ciple. It detects the leak by detecting the 
sound which the leak makes in issuing from 
the main. Sounds not otherwise audible, even 
in substances like earth or wood, may be de- 
tected by means of it and located with great 
accuracy. By making one excavation in a road 
the instrument can be applied to determine the 
distance of the leak. In one test made by 
driving a stick into the ground and putting a 
Detectorphone on it, a leak over 300 feet away 
was located, altho the device was employed 
under unfavorable conditions. 

The Detectorphone is now used in a large 
number of cities, and it serves divers purposes. 
It aids in detecting water thefts; it is useful 
in locating users who allow water to run all 
night, and it has been employed largely by 
engineers in charge of pumping machinery in 
order to anticipate knocks and other troubles 
before they become so serious as to be audible 


to the unaided ear. 


+ + 


Aerial Trucks for Rapid 
Fire-Fighting 


The aerial truck shown in the photograph 
on page 574 is the one recently given a thoro 
test at Decatur, Ill, by C. W. Devore, Fire 
Marshal of that city. The weight of the men 
on the ladder was 760 pounds, the weight of 
the ladder 850 pounds, and the time of the 
test was a full hour, yet the amount of de- 
flection of the ladder was a drop of less than 
one-eighth of an inch. 

It is not this alone, however, which has given 
fire chiefs such satisfaction. The hoist is an- 
other pleasing feature of the truck. One man 
can manipulate the valves with one hand and 





can raise the ladder from 1 to 10 or more teet 
at a time. He can also lower it a foot and 
raise it again as many times as he desires 
This means that should a fire require that a 
number of persons be rescued from many win 
dows, one fireman can let the ladder into a 


window very quickly, raise it out again, and 
proceed to the next window without any ap 
preciable delay in handling apparatus The 


fact that this can be done by one man indi- 
cates, of course, that a larger number of fire- 
men will be available for the other activities 
necessitated by a fire 

The aerial truck here discussed is manufac 
tured by the Couple-Gear Freight-Wheel Com- 
pany, of Grand Rapids, Mich., and it is this 
piece of apparatus that has called forth an 
enthusiastic letter from Fire Marshal Devore 


+ + 


The Importance of Accounting 
in Municipal Finance 


\ virile incrimination of those cities which 
illow an antiquated accounting system to exist 
in their financial department, and an excellent 
analysis of the problems of municipal finance 
are contained in an article published in pam- 
phlet form by the firm of J. D. Cloud & Co., 
Certified Public Accountants of Cincinnati, 
Ohio. 

“It is by reckless extravagance, not only in 
operation, but also in the acquisition of im- 
provements, or so-called improvements, with- 
out considering where the money was finally 
coming from to pay for them,” says Mr. Cloud 
in this article, “that our cities have been se- 
cretly wasting their financial strength for 
vears. The piper has been paid by mortgag- 
ing for the future The question naturally 
arises, why is it that the American citizen, 
hard-headed, practical business man that he is 
presumed to be. has permitted these unsound 
financial methods to be used without protest ? 
The reason is simple. The citizens have not 
in the past been given intelligent statements of 
the true financial and operating conditions of 
their cities—statements such as they would de 
mand from any business enterprise in which 


; 
; 
’ 
' 
' 
' 








THE AMERICAN CITY 


STANDS WEAR AND AR, 

















All-Steel Playground Apparatus 
for Parks, Public Playgrounds 
Schools, Private Yards, etc. 





An all-steel galvanized 
product throughout, 
“a specially designed for 
\ y the wear and tear of 
w outdoor use. All de- 
= tails of bearings, con- 
nections, etc., have 
been worked out to the highest standard of per- 
fection. Pipe Fittings which are threadless 
and require no set screws, drilling or tapping of 
either fitting or pipe, thus simplifying and cheapening the cost of 
erection. 


.\ 
\ 











Perhaps we can be of service to you in deciding the problem of equip- 
ment. Write us fully advising us as to your ground space, apparatus 
desired, and we will cheerfully furnish plans and prices gratis. Our 
Services are yours for the asking. 





Catalog E-8 covering 
a full line of the 
latest and approved 
playground appara- 
tus sent on request. 


EVERWEAR 
MFG. CO. 


Springfield, Ohio 


























68 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tuz American City, 

















eee 














Nov., 1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 615 


they were interested. It is an undeniable fact 
that, in spite of its great importance, less prog 
ress has been made in municipal accounting 
and reporting than in any other branch of a 
countancy. Accounting methods which have 
been discarded years ago in the business world 
as absolutely inadequate, are even now in use 
in the majority of American cities.” 

After discussing with expert knowledge and 
keen understanding some of the main consid 
erations which a municipality should have in 
regard to taxes, revenues, bonded indebted 
ness, etc., Mr. Cloud says: “In order to estab- 
lish a permanent relief for the financial ills of 
\merican cities, it 1s necessary completely t 
revise the accounting and reporting methods 
that have been employed in the past, so that 
the citizens themselves, as well as the adm 
istrative heads, may have at all times 
telligent understanding of their cities’ financia 


status.” 
+ + 


Electrolytic-Lime Process for 
Sewage Treatment 

Great interest is attached to the Landreth 
electrolytic-lime process of treating domestic 
sewage and trade wastes. On September 30, 
the Electrolytic Sanitation Company, of Chi 
cago, Ill., which is furthering the use of this 
process, demonstrated it at the demonstration 
plant of the company in Decatur, Ill., to a 
large gathering of engineers, representatives 


of industries, professors and others, the great 
majority of whom came from Chicago 

This demonstration plant has a capacity of 
1,000,000 gallons each 24 hours, and the cost 
of construction and equipment was slightly 
over $20,000. The sewage is drawn off thru 
a short lateral into a small temporary receiv- 
ing well onto a horizontal screen of '4-inch 
circular openings, thru which it passes to the 
intake of a centrifugal pump. The centrifu 
gal pump elevates the sewage to a baffled box 
which acts as a grit chamber, and is so con- 
structed as to still the flow and allow the set 
tling of the mineral matter, heavy particles 
and the measurement of sewage by weir. The 
pump lift to this chamber is 18 feet. The 
sewage passes thru the rest of its treatment 
by gravity, first into the Landreth electrolytic 
machine, where it receives the electrolytic-and 
lime treatment, and thence to the settling basin 

The electrolytic machine is 23 feet long 
with nearly square cross-section, 3 feet on 
each side. It may be described as a huge 
electrolytic cell. Every part of the sewage 
passes between the plates and is subject to the 
electrolytic action, which is supplied at an 
average of 40 volts and 70 amperes. The ad 
ditional current necessary to turn revolving 
paddles which agitate the sewage is 1,200 
watts. Treating 1,000,000 gallons each 24 
hours, the time of flow thru the machine is 1 
minute. The lime is hoisted by hand to the 
slaking tank on the second floor, from which, 
after screening, it is discharged into a solution 
tank, pumped to an elevated box and fed into 
the electrolytic machine. 

The sewage flows directly from the machine 








DEMONSTRATION SEWAGE-PURIPICATION 
PLANT, DECATUR, ILI 
to a trough at the near end of the tank and 
then into the tank itself, whi is feet | 
nd 17 feet wide The sides | 
slope inward, leaving ectangul t 
whi are tour hoppers t elve t sludg 
t settles \ direct-suct 1 pu ises the 
sludge from the hoppers and pumps it thru the 
press, in which cakes are formed at a pressur 
% trom 60 to So pounds The chemists re 
porting upon the process, and different ferti] 
izer concerns, give values to the dried sludge 
— lit - 











ae 


ELECTROLYTI MACHINE WITH COVER 
REMOVED 
varying from $5 to $8.79 per ton, but even if 
$4 were taken as an estimate of the price pet 
ton, the product would still be quite valuabl: 


The daily cost of operation of the demos 
stration plant of 1,c00,000 gallons during 
test, including the pumping of the sewage. was 
$32.77, which is far in excess of what it would 
cost if the labor-saving devices. eté fa real 


municipal plant had been used. In the offici 
test conducted by thx ity of Decatur, it was 
shown that the machine removed 93.38 per cent 
of suspended matter and 95 per cent of ba 





THE AMERICAN CITY 














THE SILENT 
WATCHMAN 






Cutter Traffic Posts Maintain Their 
Efficient Service Day and Night 


Reduce the number of collisions and expedite traffic in your city 
by placing Cutter Traffic Posts in the center of intersecting streets. 
You eliminate confusion and reduce accidents by having Cutters on 
duty. 


These traffic posts serve the double purpose of protecting your 
citizens and helping to beautify your principal thoroughfares. 

Write us for illustrated circular regarding this traffic post also for 
general catalog describing Cutter ornamental lighting poles, Cutter 
Street Sign Posts, Cutter Indoor and Outdoor Lighting Fixtures, etc. 


Geo. Cutter Co, 113 Notre Dame st. South Bend, Ind. 








69 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 





























Nov., 1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 617 























PORTABLE STEEL-CONSTRUCTION ENTRANCES T) A PUBLIC COMFORT STATION IN 
BUFFALO 
teria, and produced sludge equal to about 4 my in construction of steel, altho the ict 
tons of dry sludge per 1,co0,000 gallons of ; metal that is of superior type; and special 
sewage treated. treatment of the metal to withstand wear 
+ + Prudential” steel buildings are used by the 
a ee national government in the Forest Service and 

Portable Steel Buildings in the Army and Navy Hospital of the United 

The main considerations involved in the States The company manufactures garages 
selection of the type of the two comfort sta for municipal departments. Raleigh County 
tion entrances shown in the picture, which rep W. Va., has purchased one of the company’s 
resents a monument in a small park in Buf double garages and it is in use at Beckley 
falo, were durability and appearance. It was that county. As a result of this purchase, pri 
realized that the first was of more importance, te concerns in Beckle were much attracted 
however, especially since the work of repairing to the garage and have sent orders to the 
these entrances would not only be an extra pany 
expense but would mar the beauty of the sur z + + 
roundings of the monument 

The structures were made by the C. D. Pru American Playground Apparatus 
den Company, of Baltim re, Md ; This com for Port Sunlight 
pany has been specializing in portable steel 
construction buildings, and it has so satisfied \n interesting indication that the European 
the authorities that the city of Buffalo has or war has not stopped all civic progress in Eng 
dered a number of other buildings for recrea land is furnished by a recent sale of American 
tion parks and playgrounds. Among the many playground apparatus An order for about 
features of this company’s careful method of $1,000 worth of playground equipment was 
construction are roofs that are absolutel placed on September 5 with the American 
weatherproof; allowance for free expansion Playground Device Company of Anderson, 
and contraction; elimination of the necessity Ind. The apparatus is to be shipped to Lever 
for foundations, as the buildings will give Brothers, of Port Sur it, England, and will 
good service when resting on level ground; idd still further to the joy of life in that 
No. 24-gauge galvanized steel linings; econ- well-known industrial garden city 





For Contractors and Boards of Public Works 


A Municipal Asphalt Repair Plant efficient system of contract-letting with et 
t 


in discretionary powers to the head of the 


In cities where all street work is don department has eliminated this trouble in some 
wholly by contractors, much fuss and red-tape localities, but in others the municipality has 
must often be braved before even a trifling wundertaken to repair its streets with its own 
repair job is taken care of, and even then poor forces. In Salt Lake City, Utah, there is a 


management may result in long delay An = municipal asphalt repair plant that is Johnny 











Court House and Police Headquarters, Tampa, Fla 
Heated throughout with Clow Gasteam Radiators 


HEAT the 
Public Buildings 


with 

CLOW 
Gasteam 
Radiation 


Steam Heat 
Without Coal 


St. Loui Mo., May 25, 1914 
Mr. G. W. Bean, Tampa, Florida 


In response to your inquiry, I beg to advise you 





that the larger public buildings of St. Louis are 
heated by large steam generating plants installed 
some years ago However, in the case of five smaller 
buildings constructed recently we have employed 


Gasteam Radiation for heating purposes with 
exceedingly satisfactory results 


Before installing this system, careful inquiries were 
made among users of this system in this city, includ 
ing several quite large buildings The reports wer 


so satisfactory that we had no hesitation in adopting 
the system 
I have been very much impressed with the merits 
of Gasteam Radiators 
(Signed) E. R. Kinsey, 


President, Board of Public Improvements 


JAMES B.CLOW&SONS 


Established 1876 
534-546 So. Franklin Street, C C O 


Sales Offices 
New York Detroit St, Louis S Fra ‘ 
Minneapolis Milwaukee Denver Los Ap , 
Works 


Chicago, Coshocton and Newcomerstown, 


THE AMERICAN CITY 














Are 
You 
Keen 
For 
Well 
Lighted 
Streets ? 





If so you w.ll be greatly interested in 
our beautifully ilustrated booklet 
dealing with Street, Park and Boule- 
vard Lighting. Send us your address 
at once and the book will be sent you 
free of charge. 








KING FOUNDRY CO. 


55 West Jackson Blvd. Chicago, Ill 





0 When ariting ic Advertisers please 


mention Tuz American City. 


























~ 





Nov., 1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 619 














A STREET IN SALT LAKE CITY BEFORE THE ASPHALT PAVEMENT WAS REPAIT 

the-spot whene er a iS¢ f njured t 
paving is reported The photographs rep itulithic mixtures, ft isphal ‘ 
duced herewith show this force at wor | tl sual mineral ager 
demonstrate also what a good j the t t 
of it neg 

Che plant used is known as the H e plant crete pavements 
manufactured by Robert Hook« f Chatt ! few | rs t é 
1ooga, Tenn. It is a portable mbination of +’ + 

re wagon and asphaltic mixture heater, and , Sex 
is accompanied by an outfit of tools. It can Paint for Metal Equipmen 
be operated by a few men, and these ma ( ngineers of t vat nd | 
part f the regular force special per di ‘ e the w 
empl es The machine its esp ] ere t \ 
for patchwork, and consists of l ‘ sleet, s 
the paving mixture, a fire wagon for heating nv are verv reful in”? elect 
the tools, and a kettle in which t | it nt wl } } ] 
prepare the asphaltic cement for ‘mix Z t 1 must not nl ol 
the other paving materials This de é . t must also ser 
adapted to the production of standard asphalt Tae Ae Gi 





| | 














THE SAME PAVEMENT AFTER BEING REPAIRED WITH THE HOOKE PLA 











THE AMERICAN CITY 





MOTT LAMP POSTS 


STANDARDS OF MERIT 





Special Designs of Lighting Standards 
For Type C Lamps 


LAMP POSTS FOR ALL REQUIREMENTS 


FOUNTAINS 
Display and Drinking 
For PUBLIC SQUARES, PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS, Etc. 

















ENTRANCE GATES, RAILINGS, SETEES 


CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION 


THE J. L. MOTT IRON WORKS 


Fifth Avenue and 17th Street, New York 


ese SPECIHICATIONS 


should be on your desk 


More brick streets and roads will be built 
during 1917 than ever before. 


“PAVE WITH BRICK” 
is becoming the slogan of the public. 




























Specifications for monolithic construction either the 
GREEN CONCRETE FOUNDATION TYPE 
(Laying the brick direct upon the green mortar) 


= or 
, Auplegtvidaahe aoe 
Blick Featherweight Typewriter -aying the brick on dry mixture of sand and cement) 


) ; : Sent to engineers, contractors and others interested 
writes those reports in clear, legible print upon request 


MUCH QUICKER THAN YOU CAN WRITE BY HAND National Paviag Brick Manutacturers Association 


—on a portable Blick. Will P. Blair, Secretary 
Use it anywhere—no regular table or stand required. And 


inexpenenced users learn to write quickly on a Blick, without Engineers —— 

any instruction whatever Building, ‘or 
if is simple—it has only about 25°), as many parts as the heavy Cleveland your . 

machines. Costs half <s much, but built stronger and LASTS copy 

LONGER today 


It is one of the fastest machines on the market today, and is 
capable of doing all classes of work of the highest grade. Not 
only has all the latest features in the typewriter line, but many 
advantages that can be obtained in no other typewriter. 

TRY THE BLICK 

If you are not conveniently near one of our branches, we wil! 
make arrangements to let you try a Blick before you buy it 
Write for catalog No. 126 and details of trial offer. 


Send for Catalog No. 126 


The BLICKENSDIRFER MFG. CO., Stamford, Conn. 
Agencies throughout the U.S. A. 











71 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City, 














Nov., 1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 621 


it ite I t spe 
r ss Stance r 
' i > ‘ t ‘ 
n ‘ sts ‘ 
tion 1 et fa 
st | ‘ \\ 
t r Suc t vie t 
+! ; 
S¢ le! ‘ the 
i 
‘ tir 


Unit Centrifugal Pumps 


ly vg ¢ ; 
ers in the past t ¢ s ‘ 
, I the entrifugal 
s is the pint expresse } 
the | r \I ( 
| 1uKe¢ W S W 1 ic ert ing 
ed ) I ¢ vy 1 
{ 
( 
The a panying ; 





STANDPIPE, OZARK, ALA 


two qualities that make it satisfacto 





users, viz., long service and good appearance 
rhe accompat ving pho ograph shows the 1 
nicipal standpipe at Ozark, Alla., ited witl 


1 

Dixon’s paint. An example of the kind of set 
vice which this paint has been giving in this 
municipality is evidenced by the following ex 
tract from a letter written to the manufa 
turers of the product, the Joseph 
cible Company, of Jersey City, N. J.. by Mr 
R. C. Dowling, Superintendent of the Water 
and Light Department of Ozark, Ala 

‘Tr ‘ 








1917 will have to repaint our 
W use your paint again on the job It $ 
been repainted since 1907, already a nine 
vice for Dixon's Silica-Graphite paint t ther 


r to run + + 
Patents Issued on Colloidal 
Bitumens 


United States patents have just been issued 
to Clifford Richardson on an improved “bitu 





minous substance” and on the process by which “EVINRUDE UNIT” CENTRIFUGAL PUMP 

this product is manufactured. Similar patents 

have also been granted in Canada, Great this pump It has but one 1 n¢ rt—the 
Britain, France and Italy. It is believed that mpeller—rotating in perfect balance This 
these are the first patents covering a product peller is mounted withir casing whicl 
and process involving the introduction of col s bolted the bracket or mounting for the 
loidal matter into bitumens of all types. A gasoline motor which furnishes the power. | 

cording to the inventor, he obtains “an in rder not to lose an ounce of this power, thi 
creased degree of body or stability in thes: motor is coupled up by direct drive Che ni 
bituminous substances, by means of the addi tion is built into the flywheel 








BurpeesSeeds Grow 


BURPEE’S SEEDS are grown not only to sell but to grow again. Each packet contains the result of 
our forty years’ of extensive operation pew” intensive investigation. Write today for BURPEE’S ANNUAL. 
It is brighter, better and bigg:r than ever before. 204 pages, it is mailed free. 


WwW. ATLEE BURPE®* & CO. Burpee Buildings, PHILADFLPHIA 














THE AMERICAN CITY 


Three More Cities 
That Have Grasped the Power 
Of Organized Co-operation 


THEIR SUCCESS POINTS THE WAY FOR YOURS 


LEBANON, PA. (Population 1910—19,240 


Previous attempts to develop a strong Chamber of Commerce here had been un- 
successful, due to lack of experienced guidance. There were plenty of men there 
who thought “it couldn’t be done.” They did not know their own strength. 
Today the Lebanon Chamber of Commerce ranks among the strongest in the 
nation for cities of that size. A campaign conducted during the first week in 
October under our direction gave it a -membership of 502 and a yearly income of 


$12,550. 


BEAVER FALLS, PA. (Population 1910—12,191 


During the last week in September a campaign to strengthen the Beaver Falls 
Chamber of Commerce was conducted here under the guidance of the American 
City Bureau. The membership rose to 396 on a basis of $25 dues pledged for 


three vears—a yearly income of nearly $10,000. 


FREDERICKSBURG, Va. (Population 1910—5,874 


There are few towns of the size of Fredericksburg that have felt they were entitled 
to a genuine Chamber of Commerce. Almost any individual in a town of this 
size could give plenty of reasons why such an accomplishment was impossible. 
Fredericksburg owes its present power to the fact that in it were men of vision, 
who believed in the community and in their fellow-citizens. The Fredericks- 
burg Chamber of Commerce today has 301 members and a yearly income of 


$7,500. This work, too, was carried out under our guidance. 


These achievements are not experiments. 


The methods of the American City Bureau have produced permanent 
success in Reading, Pa., Olean, N. Y., Johnstown, Pa., Pontiac, Mich., Paterson, 
N. J., and many other cities we can name. 


The same methods are producing the same sort of success in Lebanon, 
Beaver Falls and Fredericksburg. 


They could produce the same sort of success in yours. 


Why not ask us to tell you more about them? 


THE AMERICAN CITY BUREAU, 87 Nassau St.,New York 














