New York 


Publication Office: 


87 Nassau Street, 


nikeseter 


& 


7) 


mn 


$3.00 a Yeatdj 


35 Cents 























THE AMERICAN CITY 














i 

i 
I 
i 


“Not the name of a thing, but the mark of a service” 






MAZDA Service 


fi systematic re- 
search for mak- 
ing lamps more 
economical 














THE MEANING OF MAZDA— MAZDA is the trademark Service. MAZDA Service is centered inthe Research 
of a world-wide service to certain lamp manufacturers laboratories of the General Electric Company at Schen- 
Its purpose is to collect and select scientific and practical ectady. The mark MAZDA can appear only on lamps 
information concerning progress and developments in th which meet the standards of MAZDA Service. It is thus 
art of incandescent lamp manufacturing and to distr te an assurance of quality. This trademark is the property 
this information to the compar entitied to receive this of the General Electric Company. 





@ RESEARCH LABORATORIES OF GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY 
































When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American City 











| TTL mm MAN 













Hare Ss. B rENHEIM 


|THE AMERICAN CITY 


a 4 
I , , Pp 


Vol. XIV CONTENTS FOR JUNE, 1916 No. 6 


ARTICLES APPEARING IN THE CITY EDITION ONLY 


Municipal Preparedness for A Unique Domestic Community 565 
Peace. . vee sees 947 Authority for Municipal Pur 
Members of the New York State chases 566 
 vlayors’ Conference. .. . _ O49 Rapid Transit in Cities 567 
The Municipal Water Supply of ; . 
the City of New York.. 550 Salaries of Mayors, City Clerks a 
Statistics of Municipally-Owned and City Engineers | 570 
Water-Works 556 Definitions and Debates of the 
Width and Allocation of Space Community Center Conference 572 
ye ae ae 557 The Ideal of the Play Movement 574 
ARTICLES APPEARING IN THE TOWN AND COUNTY EDITION ONLY 
Ten Commandments for Your Budget-Making in Brunswick, 
Home Town. . 547 Maine 560 
Highway Bridge Construction The Rural Community Festival 563 
and Maintenance 549 The Canning Clubs of Calhoun 
Road Improvement in Alleghany County, Alabama 564 
County, Maryland 554 Safety First in Health O66 
The Old and the New in Bridge Wheaton’s New High School and 
Building—Talbot County, Md. 555 Community Center 567 
“The Largest City in America Cottages for Rural Teachers 570 
Without Water-Works”’...... 556 Street and Roadside Planting 571 
ARTICLES APPEARING IN BOTH EDITIONS 
The Philadelphia To-Day and To- In the Interest of Parks and Play 
morrow Civic Exposition 575 grounds 600 
Denver “Goes Back” 577 \ Vacation Survey 601 
The Illumination of Market The Edueation of Exceptional 
Street, San Francisco. . 578 Children 603 
Varieties of City Motor Fire News and Ideas for Commercial 
Apparatus....... 580 and Civie Organizations 604 
The Garden Terrace Theatre at Securing a Pure Milk Supply G12 
Yankton, South Dakota 582. Two Books for Teaching Local 
A A Rustic Lodge for a City Park 584 History and Civics 615 
| The High Cost of Sanitary Forward Steps Reported by Mu- 
|=} Ignorance........... 585 nicipal Officials and Depart- 
=| An Earth Dam of Unusual Cross- ment Heads G17 
ae Ge 590 Items of Municipal and Civic 
Water Distribution Systems in Progress. . 631 
Relation to Fire Protection 593 Conventions and Exhibitions 641 
Anti-Smoke Laws Valid 597 Municipal and Civic Publica- 
Children’s Play Day in Garfield tions 647 
Park, Cleveland......... 598 Manufacturers’ Literature 655 
How City Gardeners Could Co- Methods, Materials and Appli- 
operate with the Public Schools 599 ances 657 





a | Two editions of THE AMERICAN CITY are published each month, both containing the same 

Sil | number of pages. The distinction in contents is indicated above. The subscription price of either 

WE | edition is $3.00. For $1.00 additional per annum, any subscriber may receive both editions; or any 

= subscriber may have his name transferred from the mailing list of the City Edition to that of the 
Town and County Edition, or vice versa, without extra charge. 


\s 
L" 

















TeREENOC ST Me 


Sn ee ee 





THE AMERICAN CITY 











Warren’s Portable Asphalt Plant 














Warren’s Portable Asphalt Plant, Purchased and Operated by City of Syracuse, N. Y.,"1915. 


If you are interested in asphalt paving plants, you 
should be interested in the new catalogue of this 
plant, which is now ready for distribution. We have 
one for you, if you wish it. 


Write to 


WARREN BROTHERS COMPANY 


Executive Offices: BOSTON, MASS. 


DISTRICT OFFICES 


NEW YORK, N. Y. CHICAGO, ILL. ROCHESTER, N. Y. 

LOS ANGELES, CAL PORTLAND, ORE. PHOENIX, ARIZONA 

RICHMOND, VA. NASHVILLE, TENN. ST. LOUIS, MO. 

UTICA, N. Y. TORONTO, ONT. MONTREAL, P. Q. 
WINNIPEG, MAN. VANCOUVER, B.C. 











43a When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American Curry. 






































VOLUME XIV 


NUMBER 6 

















NEW YORK 


June, 1916 




















Municipal Preparedness for Peace 


Some Comments on the Proposal for a Three-Year Program of Public Improvements 


Advocated Editorially in THE AMERICAN CITY for May, 1916 


City of Cortland, N. Y. 
lo the Editor of THe AMERICAN City: 

The preparation of a program of public 
improvements extending for a considerable 
period into the future, as advocated and 
outlined by you in the May number of your 
valuable publication, has been the policy 
of our Board of Public Works for some 
years, and always with great value and 
economy to the city. 

The provisions of our charter are such 
that we can crowd our improvements into 
a much shorter space of time than was or- 
iginally intended, if public policy demands 
it, or may be extended far beyond the al- 
lotted time if the price of material or labor 
is prohibitive. 

We do not issue bonds in order to have 
the money on hand before the work is 
started, but issue certificates of indebted- 
ness as the work progresses, which are 
taken care of by an issue of bonds when 
the work is entirely completed. 

As an illustration of our system, our 
Board of Public Works now contemplates 
the extension of our sewer system in seven 
streets, and the paving of five. However, 
our labor is well employed and we could 
not do the work this year without an ex- 
pense far above the average. Consequently 
it is unlikely that we will do any of this 
work this year, confining our efforts to the 
improvement of our dirt streets, and get- 
ting ready for greater activities in the 
future, when conditions will be more ad- 
vantageous for our taxpayers, and labor 
more in need of employment. 

Letanp G. Davis, 

May 19, 1916. Mayor. 


City of Joliet, Ill. 
lo the Editor of THe AMERICAN CITY 

In reference to your editorial on “Munici 
pal Preparedness for Peace,” I beg to ad 
vise that the city of Joliet has beaten you 
to the program which you outline in your 
May number. On May 3, 1915, we outlined 
such a program as you have given to us, to 
cover, however, four years instead of three. 
We are using all of our municipal re 
sources, including our power of special as 
sessment, to carry the work forward, and 
can see no reason why we should change 
the program during the three years yet re 
maining of the four-year period. 

I heartily commend the method that 
you have used to call this matter to the at 
tention of the municipalities of the United 
States. WILLIAM C, BARBER 

May 16, 1916. Mayor. 


+ + 


City of Joplin, Missouri 
lo the Editor of THe AMERICAN CITY 

The city of Joplin will do its full share 
in regard to a nation-wide movement for 
“Municipal Preparedness for Peace.” 

At the present time the city of Joplin is 
just completing a viaduct, and plans are 
under headway for a considerable amount 
of street paving. Last week the city com 
mission contracted for two pieces of fir 
apparatus at a cost of $10,000. A bond is 
sue to the extent of $350,000 has recently 
been voted for a new high school building, 
and the contract for the efection of such 
structure will soon be let. It is probable 
that next -year a new city hall will be 





























548 rHE AMERICAN CITY 


erected and that other extensive new city 
improvements will be made. 

This city has been especially benefited 
on account of the high price for zine ore, 
and our citizens will generously respond to 
any reasonable call that might be made for 
maintaining national prosperity. 

Hucu McInpoer, 

May 18, 1916. Mayor. 

++ 


Conference of Mayors and Other 
City Officials of the State 
of New York 


lo the Editor of THe AmerICAN City: 

The Mayor's Conference Committee on 
Unemployment will present to the Syracuse 
Conference an important report, which, in 
my opinion, fits in with the plan advocated 
in your last issue. This report, to be pre- 
sented by Mayor Harry N. Hoffman, of 
:Imira, embodies among others the follow- 
ing recommendations: 

“Your committee has had presented to it 
so many examples of cities having prosecuted 
municipal work during the winter weather that 
we are compelled to believe there is much 
more public work that can be done reasonahly 
at that season, when unemployment is most 
acute, than is generally thought to be possible. 
\s an illustration. we have been told of the 
laying of water mains in Dayton, and sewers 
in Duluth and other outdoor work in Phila- 
delphia in the dead of winter. According to 
the representative of the American Associa- 
tion for Labor Legislation, the engineers of 
the first two cities report that the cost was no 
more than for ordinary work done in the 
summer. 

“We therefore strongly recommend and urge 
that regularization of public works be adopted 
by the cities and that when hampering or pro- 
hibitive conditions exist, the causes he re- 
moved as speedily as possible in the manner 
indicated. The only feasible way to accom- 
plish the results aimed at is by laying out 
a program of public expenditures over a 
period of vears, which is difficult but not im- 
possible with our present plan of city govern 
ment. 

“We further recommend supplementing per- 
manent and expensive public improvements 
with certain improvements that can be found 
in every city which will at once be on the dual 
basis of a necessary improvement and an im- 
provement with a relief motive. 

“We recommend that the Conference urge 
both state and Federal governments to adopt 
regularization plans in connection with public 
works under their jurisdiction, 

“We urge that each city through some de- 
partment, bureau or committee review prospec- 
tive expenditures in the light of employment 
conditions and make them at times which will 
do the most good to unemployed workers 





Voit. XIV, No. 6 


[he winter months are the idle period for the 
building trade. Cities should, therefore, plan 
repairs to buildings so that they may be exe- 
cuted whenever feasible during that period. 
The garment trades are slack in winter. Cities 
therefore should purchase uniforms and cloth- 
ing during that season. Investigation will re- 
veal other lines of business actively affected 
by city purchases which have stated slack 
scasons. By foresight purchases affecting such 
trades can be planned by cities so as to take 
advantage of the slack period. This, we be- 
lieve, will be an advantage to the workers and 
industry and may mean economy to the city. 
“We further recommend that the cities as 
a whole through the Conference urge the adop- 
tion of this plan by Federal and state govern- 


ment.” Wittiam P. Capes. 
\lbany, N. Y., May 16, 1916. Secretary. 
+ + 


Massachusetts AgriculturalCollege 
To the Editor of Tue American City: 
Permit me to compliment you most unre- 
servedly on your program entitled ‘“Pre- 
paredness for Peace.” Personally I am 
very much opposed to the present agitation 
miscalled preparedness, which is really an 
outbreak of militaristic spirit in this coun- 
try. The things we really need to do are 
those which you have so forcibly pointed 
out in your program. 
F. A. Waucu, 
Professor of Landscape Gardening. 
\mherst, Mass., May 16, 1916. 
+ + 


Editorial from “The Oklahoman”’ 
Oklahoma City, May 8, 1916. 

“THe AMERICAN City, a publication re- 
viewing municipal work throughout the 
country and promoting civic development, 
urges that cities in this country formulate 
a three-year improvement program immedi- 
ately following the termination of the Euro- 
pean war. It points out that such a plan 
will serve greatly to diminish the ill effects 
of the sudden stoppage of the heavy op- 
erations of munitions and other factories 
in the country and the consequent throwing 
of thousands of men out of employment for 
the time being. 

“Oklahoma City doubtless will enter into 
this plan by voting the bonds for the pro- 
posed waterworks project. It has been in- 
dicated that of the bond issue of $1,500,000 
not less than $1,000,000 will be paid out to 
workmen employed in clearing out the great 
impoundment basin, constructing the big 
dam, digging sewers and constructing the 
flumes. It is a necessary improvement to 
he undertaken at an opportune time.” 

















| 





Mayors of New York State Cities and Members of the Con- 
ference of Mayors and Other City Officials of the 
State of New York—-1915 and 1916 


The above collection of portraits of mayor f New York State cities for 1915 and 1916 was prey 
poster form for the Conference held at Syracuse, N. Y., May 31-June 2. Where two names are giver 
second is that of the predecessor in office of the present mayor They are, reading from lef 





First row \bram Baird, George W. Schermerhorn, Gloversville: Homer Eckerson, ! 
H. C. Midlam, Rome; Thomas F. Hennessey, Oswego; James R. Cline, Amsterdam; James S. ¢ 


Cohoes; Farrington M. Thompson, White Plains; John R. Earl, Lockport; Foster Studholm, Willian 


Simpson, Olean. Second row—Frederick E. Bates, Thomas Tree, Ithaca; Archibald C. N. Thompsor 








dletown; Julius Frank, Ogdensburg; Walter R. Stone, Louis Will, Syracuse; George R. Lunn, J. T. Sct 


craft; Schenectady- James D. Smith, Utica; W. Irving Griffing, Glens Falls; J. A. Taylor, ] 


I 








é liitvar 
Dunkirk Third row—William B. Mooers, W. H. Goff, Plattsburg; Frank H. Truitt, William R. Ely, Bing 
hamton: Louis P. Fuhrmann, Buffalo; John Purroy Mitchel, New York; Hiram H. Edgerton, Rocheste 
George W. Whitehead, O. E. Carr (city manager), Niagara Falls; R. L. Crockett, M. D., Otto Pfaff, Oneid 
Fourth row—R. L. Breen, Watertown; Cornelius F. Burns, Troy; Joseph W. Stevens (Treasurer of Mayor 
Conference), Albany; Hon. Charles C. Duryee, Schenectady, Honorary President of the Mayors‘ Confer 
ence; Rosslyn M. Cox, ex-mayor of Middletown and President of the Mayors’ Conference; Ho John J 
Irving, Binghamton, Honorary President of the Mayor’s Conference; James T. Lennon, Y« Edwin W 
Fisk (Mayor-Vice-President of the Mayors’ Conference), Mount Vernon; Daniel W. Wil hkeepsie 
Fifth row—Harvey J. Burkhart, M. D., Batavia; R. H. Gulvin, Geneva; Harry N. Hoffman, Elmira; Mark 
Koon, Charles W. Brister, Auburn: William Parr Capes (Secretary of the Mayors’ Conference and Director 
of the State Bureau of Municipal Information); Jonathan D. Wilson, John B. Corwin, Newburgh; Sar \ 
Carlson, Jamestown; Leland G. Davis, Cortland; Palmer Canfield, Jr., King Sixt row—P | 
Gumaer, Frank Lybolt, Port Jervis; James Albert Frost, Beacon; Joseph S , Oneonta: Benj | 
Rand, North Tonawanda: Edward Stetson Griffing, New Rochelle; Fred. McMullen, Norwi john H. M 


Intyre, Rennselaer; John Hoag, Henry Hl. Neff, Salamanca. Seventh row—William F. Schnell, Tonawand 


T. A. Toomey, John Widner, Lackawanna: Walter P. Butler, Saratoga; Edward Davis, Frank J. Nelsor 
ell; William Wortman, Hudson; Edward J. Foley, Edwin W. Joslin, Watervliet; Peter P. Turner, ‘ 
daigua Eighth row—George W. Lane, L. D. Lattin, Corning: Abram Zoller, Frank H. Shall, Little 
Victor C. Lewis, Frank E. Fox, Fulton; Borden D. Smith, Clarence W. Smith, Johnst 





—_~ 




















PPPs 
Phote Wy 


ws 














DOWNSTREAM FACE OF THE CROTON DAM, 


The Municipal Water-Supply System of the 
City of New York 


By ‘William W. Brush 


Deputy Engineer, Department of Water Supply, Gas and Electricity, New York City 


HE municipal water-supply system of 
the city of New York has for many 


years past been divided between 
two or more administrative boards. Under 
the charter of Greater New York, which 


became effective on January I, 1898, a de- 
partment, now known as the Department of 
Water Supply, Gas and Electricity, 
created, to have sole jurisdiction over the 
entire water-supply, with the exception of 
the construction work in 
the Croton system, 


was 


connection with 
which was then 


the Aqueduct Commission. 


under 
In 1905 a third 
organization, known as the Board of Water 
Supply, was created, to provide an addi- 
tional supply of water for the city of New 


York 


mission 


In June, 1910, the Aqueduct Com- 
was abolished and the duties and 
powers of the Commission transferred to 
the Department of Water Supply, Gas and 
Electricity. 


The Jurisdiction of the Department of 

Water Supply, Gas and Electricity 

The Department of Water Supply, Gas 
and Electricity directs the operation and 
maintenance, improvement and extension of 
the existing water supply system for all 
boroughs. Its jurisdiction extends to the 
following, among other specific matters: 


The sources of supply, collection, pumping 
and distribution of all water supplied by the 





























June, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY $51 

















NEW YORK CITY WATER-WORKS 


municipality (constituting about 92 per cent 
of the water used within the city of New 
York). 

Che quality of all water, whether supplied 
by the municipality or by private water com- 
panies. 

lhe high-pressure fire service in Manhattan, 
Brooklyn and at Coney Island. 


The collection of water revenue (amounting 
to about $13,000,000 per annum). 

The inspection of water meters and their in- 
stallation in places where water is furnished 
for business consumption. 


rhe regulation of the rates charged by pri- 
vate water companies. 

The population served is over 5,000,000 
people, and requires the delivery of over 
500 million gallons daily. This system cost 
up to December 31, 1915, $191,000,000, to 
which is to be added $9,000,000 for the high- 
pressure fire system. The annual expense 
of operation, maintenance and collection of 
revenue is about $4,000,000. The depart- 
ment has under its supervision 565 square 
miles of watershed, 143 miles of aqueduct, 
49 pumping stations and 3,095 miles of dis- 
tribution mains. Over 2,000 men are em- 


ployed. The more important sources of 
supply for the existing system are, for the 
the Borough of Manhattan, Croton River; 
for the Borough of The Bronx, the Croton 
River and the Bronx and Byram Rivers; 
for Brooklyn, surface streams and under 
ground water on the south side of Long 
Island; for Queens, surface and sub-sur 
face waters on the north shore of Long 
Island; for Richmond, sub-surface waters 
in various parts of the borough 


Jurisdiction of the Board of Water Supply 

Since 1905 the Board of Water Supply 
has had charge of planning and construct 
ing the works necessary for the additional 
supply of water from the watersheds in the 
Catskill Mountains, known generally as the 
Catskill water supply system. All the struc 
tures required to deliver a minimum sup- 
ply of 250 million gallons daily from the 
Esopus watershed have been completed 
This is the first watershed of the Catskill 
system to be utilized, and is located in the 
Catskill Mountains a few miles west of 
































THE KENSICO RESERVOIR 





artificial lake has an available capa 
city at the present rate of consumption. The downstream face of Kensico dam 
1 1 local granite, and tl dignified architectural treatment bestowed upon 





to the Bronx River Parkway 























THE KENSICO DAM UNDER CONSTRUCTION 


Showing how it is divided into unit sections by expansion joints which open and close slightly with the 


The tongue-and-groove outline of the joint effectively stops all leakage 











ty of 29,000,000,000 gallons—about two months’ supply for the 




















ae 


i ee 


ee 








JUNE, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 





























THE HILL VIEW RESERVOIR 


_ This is a pressure-equalizing reservoir, situated 295 feet above sea-level, about a mile north of the New 
York City boundary. In the picture is shown one set of gateways, before the installation of the 5-foot by 
15-foot sluice gates through which water is admitted from the Catskill aqueduct into the reservoir 


Kingston, N. Y. A large masonry dam 
with 5% miles of dikes forms a reservoir, 
holding 132,000,000,000 gallons, in which 
is impounded the runoff from a watershed 
of 257 square miles. This impounding res- 
ervoir is known as the Ashokan reservoir 
and from it extends an aqueduct 92 miles 
in length, to a-receiving reservoir, known 
as Hillview reservoir, located just north of 
the Bronx Borough line. The greater part 


of this aqueduct is constructed to have a 
capacity of not less than 500,000,000 gal- 
lons daily, but until an additional supply 
is made available from the Schoharie water- 
shed only one of the two or three siphons 
that will eventually traverse certain short 
valleys has been installed. The aqueduct 
as at present constructed has a capacity of 
between 350 and 400 million gallons daily. 
At Valhalla, about 15 miles north of the 

















THE AMERICAN CITY Vor. XIV, No. 6 


BUILDING THE CATSKILL AQUEDUCT 


nusually sinuous, stretch of the cut-and-cover, or open-trench, type of construction. 
The ribbed forms in the foreground were used repetitively in casting the horseshoe shaped waterway 











Jung, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


st 
wn" 
st 






































. 
> 
j CITY PIPE LINES 
To supply Staten Island, the Narrows, separating it from Brooklyn, are crossed by a 3 flex 
jointed cast-iron pipe, 9,000 feet long, in water up to 80 feet deep. The view shows how 12 ig f 
pipe were successively added and the water-tight joints “made up,” as the pipe-line was ¢ Lore 





to shore 


Hillview reservoir, a large storage reser- pipe line connections extending through 
voir, known as the Kensico reservoir, has Brooklyn to Queens, and also by means of 
been constructed, with a capacity of 38,000 a submerged pipe line under the Narrows 
million gallons. The water stored in this to Staten Island (Borough of Richmond), 
reservoir is available for use in case of an will deliver the new supply to all boroughs. 
interruption of flow through more than 75 This supply, when it reaches the city, will 
miles of aqueduct connecting the Ashokan be at an elevation of 295 feet above tide 
reservoir with this reservoir. A tunnel, level and can be furnished by gravity to all 
running under the boroughs of The Bronx, boroughs, except small areas where pump- 
Manhattan, and a portion of Brooklyn, with ing will be required, 











Statistics of Municipally Owned ,Water-Works 


N Tue American City for January, 
1916 (page 85), were published some 
advance statistics on water-works from 

the Census Bureau's report on “General 
Statistics of Cities; 1915.” This report 
is now available in book form, and may 
he secured on application to the Bureau of 
the Census at Washington, D. C. 

The report contains a mass of valuable 
data regarding the water-supply systems 
and water rates in the 155 cities of over 
30,000 population having municipal plants. 
The subjects covered include estimated 
value of systems, sources of water supply, 
power and pumps, purification pro- 
cesses, distribution equipment, population 
served and daily per capita consumption, 
and water rates. 

The following table gives the names of 
73 cities reporting the employment of puri- 
fication processes. The cost of purification 
per million gallons and the process or pro- 
cesses employed by each city are shown: 


Cost Per 
Million 
Gallons 


Processes 
City Employed! 
Cities employing five processes: 
Albany, N. 
Kansas City, Kans 
‘ities employing four processes: 
RETA, BEM cacscencesce 12.59 
St. Louis, M . 
Cincinnati, 
Louisville, 
Dallas, 
Trenton, 
Harrisburg, 
Decatur, 


fs 
ss 
vs 
oo 
&& 
an 


2 
- 


aan 


§ 
SS SsTseorss 


- 


asses 
ARAAA 


- 


SRKSKRAKSSH 


° 
a 
: 


‘ities employin 
Washington, 
Ss —— Mass. 
ew Orleans, La 
OS TE ary ee 


SI 9Iss2 


. 


Omaha, Neb. 
Nashville, Tenn. 
Council Bluffs, 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 


Flint, 

Evansville, Ind 

Charlotte, N 

Cedar Rapids, Ia.... 
Niagara Falls, N. 

New York, N. Y 
‘ities employing two processes: 
Richmond, Va 

Pueblo, 
Macon, 
Minneapolis, Minn. .......... 
Youngstown, Ohio 
TR. vs sencdencee 
Oshkosh, Wis. 

Lorain, Ohio 

Raltimore, Md. .. 

CE, SIRED scans cvecenes 


PSRPSSPRFPSHSS 
HH HMHS 


a Seo 
AARARAA 


- 


RaRaaresaaangBann 


CAR. ccxsenetinasenvn 


SPRRARAD SS 


ane 


Cities employing one process: 


Grand Rapids, Mich 

Fort Worth, T 

Norfolk, Va. 

ON are 
Binghamton, N re 
San Diego, Cal. .... 
Montgomery, Ala. 


Cleveland, Ohio . 
Detroit, Mich. 
Buffalo, N. Y.... 
Milwaukee, Wis. .. 
City, N. J. 


— 


HA AAARHAAAAARHA HASH RRRRRRARREN HON HOOPS 


1a, sedimentation; b, coagulation; c, slow sand fil- 
tration; d, mechanical filtration; e, chemical steriliza- 
tion. 

2 Cost not comparable. 

3 Not reported, : : rs 

In another interesting table the cities are 
grouped in accordance with the per cent of 


water metered: 


Per Cent of 

Water Metered 

Number 

of Cities 

Water Supplied 

(Million Gallons) 

SF Population 

Served 

Water Supplied 
® Per Capita (Gal- 

lons) Per Day 


oo 


157,712 195 


1,329,406 26,192,385 139 

Of 70 cities showing more than two- 
thirds of the water metered, only 10 had a 
per capita consumption greater than the 
average for all cities. The average per 
capita consumption for these 70 cities was 
103 gallons daily, while for 47 cities show- 
ing less than one-third of the water me- 
tered, the average per capita was 161 gal- 
lons. 
































sn 
wn 
™ 


Width and Allocation ot Space in Roads’ 


By F. Longstreth Thompson, B. Sc., A. M. Inst. C. E. 


T has been well said that the fundamental 
basis of town planning is the provision 
of adequate routes for traffic, and this 

generalization holds true, notwithstanding 
the infinite variety of considerations, all of 
great importance, which have to be borne 
in mind during the preparation of a 
planning scheme. 
one studies any 


town 
The more, however, that 
particular aspect of the 
problem, and this is especially applicable in 
the case of streets, the more one finds how 
closely connected and interdependent each 
is with all the others. 

'n approaching the subject of “the width 
and allocation of space in roads,” one is at 
once struck by the impracticability of at- 
tempting too much in the way of standardi- 
zation. There is such a large diversity, for 
instance, in what may be termed the “qual- 
ity” of traffic, that two roads carrying the 
same number of vehicles may require quite 
different widths. As an illustration of what 
I mean, take the heavy and slow moving 
traffic in a road serving the docks, and com- 
pare it with an equal volume of fast mov- 
ing motor traffic on an ordinary road; the 
latter will only require about a third of the 
width necessary for the former. 


Collection of Statistics 

It will be appreciated, therefore, at the 
outset that a careful classification of roads 
is needed, having as the chief consideration 
the prevailing type of traffic, and secondly 
the volume of such traffic. A great deal of 
preliminary investigation is required in or- 
der to obtain accurate statistics for both the 
classification and subsequent design. 

A certain amount of work of this kind 
has been done in more or less isolated cases 
up and down the country, and the investi- 
gations of the London Traffic Branch of 
the Board of Trade made for some of the 
principal London streets afford a valuable 
example of the method in which these in- 
quiries should be conducted. 

Observations were made on week days in 
both summer and winter, which showed 
that while there was considerably more 
passenger traffic in summer, the commer- 


* From a paper read at the meeting of the Town 
Planning Institute, London, England, March 10, 1916. 


cial traffic remained fairly steady through- 


out the year. The fluctuations in volume 
1 

marked 

in and near the city, where the full stream 


of the morning influx and the evening exo- 


during the day were, of course, very 


dus was felt, and the maximum volume was 
found to be on the whole about twice the 
average. Provision should be made in con- 
sequence for the maximum traffic. 

The distinguishing between through and 
local traffic was found to be difficult of ac- 
complishment, but this information is of the 
greatest importance, and some means of 
obtaining it must be found. The mere 
number of vehicles passing does not afford 
sufficient data, and values 
adopted, based on the amount of obstruc- 
tion caused by the various types of vehicles, 
having regard to their size, speed and flexi- 
bility. This classification is slightly mod- 
ified in the 1914 Report, and I give below 
the more recent scale. 


a scale of was 


If the coefficient of obstruction or “Traffic 
Unit” attributable to a motor cab or carriage 
be taken at one, the following numbers may 
be assigned to each class of Ve hicle 


Trad 

1 Horse (Fast).. 

1 Horse (Slow)...... 

2 Horse (Fast).... . j 
> Horse (Slow) 

Light Motor (Fast) 

Ileavy Motor (Fast) 

Heavy Motor (Slow). 


Passenger V: 

Electric Trams ...... 9 

Omnibuses (Horse)... ) 
Omnibuses (Motor) . { 
Cabs (Horse) 
Cabs (Motor) ....... l 
Carriages (Horse) ) 
Carriages (Motor) . 1 
ON ee ‘ 
Cycles 

It is essential to assign values to the va- 
rious classes of for it is obvious 
that a heavy and slow moving goods lorry 


vehicle, 


is a far greater obstruction, owing to its 
slowness and lack of flexibility, than, for 
instance, a taxicab: and the measure of the 
capacity of a street is, therefore, not its 
capacity of providing for such and such a 
number of vehicles,- but for so many units 
of obstruction. 


Determination of Width 
While the great 


s 


complexity of modern 








ES 


eae Sal 


t 
i 
‘ 





Sa ne ae 









558 THE AMERICAN CITY 


traffic—the mixture of fast and slow, cum- 
brous and flexible, local and through— 
makes it almost impossible to determine 
mathematically the utmost carrying ca- 
pacity of a road, or conversely to calculate 
the necessary width for a given volume, it 
is possible from a consideration of: 

1. The nature of the district, 

2. The class of traffic, 

3. The general importance of the 

traffic, 

4. The observed volume of the traffic, 
to determine from general principles the 
number of lines of traffic to provide for, 
and hence the width of road to allow. 

Provision must, of course, be made for 
the future, and it is here that the lack of 
reliable records handicaps us a good deal. 
In our eagerness to avoid the costly mis- 
take of underestimating future needs, we 
must guard against providing excessive 
width where it will never be required. 

In this connection there is one very im- 
portant safeguard in the hands of the town 
planner, which, however, requires careful 
and discriminating use. It is possible—and 
indeed it should be the basis of design 
—to so plan the streets as regards position, 
direction, gradient and width that the char- 
acter of the street is definitely settled. 
Traffic streets should always be the widest, 
most direct, and best graded, and there 
should be no inducement for traffic to leave 
them and invade the quiet and seclusion 
of the residential roads. 

The importance of settling the character 
of the street in this way can hardly be over- 
estimated. It has the great advantage of 
enabling the designer to concentrate his 
energies on the provision of adequate width 
where it is certain to be wanted, and it fur- 
thermore has the most beneficial effect on 
the property fronting the various types of 
street, for where the character of the street 
is settled there is no risk of it being spoilt 
for its particular purpose, and its value 
is therefore assured. 

This brings us at once to the need for 
classifying roads according to their use. 
They naturally divide themselves into two 
principal classes—Traffic Roads and Resi- 
dential Roads. 

Traffic Roads lend themselves to subdi- 
vision under numerous headings, but it will 
be convenient to limit them to the following 
classes: 





Vor. XIV, No. 6 


Main Avenues 

Main Streets 

Secondary Streets 

Local Streets 

Boulevards and Parkways 


Main Avenues 
The function of the main avenue is to form 


the chief artery by means of which traffic 
from one of the trunk roads of the country 
enters or leaves the city. 

It will be desirable to provide for either 
a service of motor omnibuses, a surface 
tramway, or an underground tramway, or 
possibly some combination of these. My 
own personal feeling is that the motor om- 
nibus will gradually oust the tramcar from 
the streets, and that tramways will develop 
much more on the lines of electric railways, 
and be located consequently either in a 
shallow subway under the road or, where 
space permits, in an open cutting. 

Up till now it has been usual, in proposals 
for main avenues, to allow at least one 
double track of tramway on the surface, 
and the Advisory Board of Engineers to 
the Royal Commission on London Traffic, 
1905, suggested that, in addition to a double 
track of fast trams in the center of the 
road, there should be a line of stopping 
cars on each side, whiie they also provided 
a subway to take double tracks for both 
fast and slow electric trains. These pro- 
posals, shown in Diagram 1, are perhaps 
excessive, and I think they might very well 
be limited to a double track for trams on 
the surface, and a subway with a double 
track for electric trains. 

The number of lines of ordinary traffic 
which should be provided is essentially a 
matter which ought to be decided on the 
merits of each particular case, but for pur- 
poses of comparison I have assumed that 
the streets considered under each of the 
headings are those of a large city. 

There is a general consensus of opinion 
that for main avenues lined with shops or 
business premises, four lines of traffic 
should be provided on each side of a cen- 
tral tramway. This allows for one line to 
be occupied by vehicles stopping at the 
curh, one by slow moving vehicles, and two 
by fast traffic. Taking each line of traffic 
at a width of 8 feet, we get a total of 64 
feet, to which must be added the tramway 
and the footpaths. 








Pee ES 

























































JuNF, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 559 
SECTION PROPOSED BY THE ADVISORY BOARD OF ENGINEERS 
DIAGRAM I 
Y% 
a 
! O LI 
| - 90-0" of — —32-0°— oe 20-0'-she- — 32-0" — -oe — 20-07 + 
we — ee — 26°C ———— ——2<-=— 
SUGGESTED SECTION : DIAGRAM 2 
‘ay 
| | 
ole 20-0» 
; 
‘ 
' 
) l 
| ++ 16-0104 
—— oe ——- 
SL hia ten 
SUGGESTED SECTION : DIAGRAM 4 ve facuote 
ij 
\| 














a 


er ae 

















360 THE AMERICAN CITY 


tramway must depend entirely on the spe- 
cial circumstances of the case. Under any 
conditions, however, I think it desirabl 
that the track should be definitely reserved 
for trams by means of a raised curb, and 
the minimum width allowable should be not 
less than 20 feet. Where it is possible to 
lav a sleeper track in grass between an 
avenue of trees it will be necessary to re 

serve a width of about 40 feet. 

The customary allowance for footpaths 
is one-fifth of the total width on each side, 
put in the case of very wide roads this is 
unnecessary, and a width of 20 feet seems 
to be a reasonable maximum. 

Diagram 2 shows the result of the for 
voing suggestions: it will be seen that w« 
have a total width of 124 feet between 
buildings, and I think we may regard this 
as a suitable width for a main avenue in 
built-up area. 

In districts not yet fully developed, wher« 
it is possible to secure a greater width 
without undue expenditure, there will be 
greater opportunities of providing for th 
amenities, and many variations suggest 
themselves. Diagrams 3 and 4 illustrate 
two alternatives. 

Whatever allocation is adopted, however, 
| feel convinced that one or two guiding 
principles should be rigidly adhered to 

In the first place, fast traffic should be lo- 
cated as far as possible from those parts 
of the road devoted to foot passengers, in 
order that the noise, dust and sense of un- 
rest inevitably associated with fast moving 
vehicles shall disturb pedestrians as little 
as may be. 

In the second place, tramways, whether 
they are placed towards the sides of the 
road or in the center of it, should have a 
track entirely to themselves. This secures 
not only much more efficient working of the 
trams, but it also conduces in a very pro- 
nounced way to the safety and comfort of 
the other traffic. 

In the third place, the indiscriminate use 
of trees and grass is to be guarded against. 

If trees are to be used successfully, they 
must form a definite part of the street pic- 
ture, either as a foil to the architecture, or 
for the purpose of affording shade, or pro- 
tection from noise and dust. Nothing can 
be more unsatisfactory than trees badly 
placed, or planted under conditions such as 
insufficient space or too smoky an atmos- 





VoL. XIV, No. 6 






phere, where they haven't a chance to grow 
properly, and quickly become an eyesore. 

Much the same argument applies to turf; 
if rightly placed, under conditions where it 
flourishes and is well looked after, it is a 
continual source of delight; but where thes« 
conditions do not obtain, it is far better to 
use gravel. 


Main Streets 


lhese include those streets which, though 
of first rate importance, do not fall within 
the category of main avenues. It is impos- 
sible to lay down hard and fast definitions 
of the various classes, but perhaps the best 
description in this case would be those 
streets which form the main traffic routes 
within the city itself. 

[hey form a group of hardly less impor- 
tance than main avenues, and much the 
same considerations govern their design. 
lhe probabilities are, however, that the 

ailable space will be more _ restricted, 
though, on the other hand, the traffic to be 
provided for may be rather less. 

Provision for three lines of traffic on 
each side of a double tramway track will not 
be by any means excessive, and taking this 
as a reasonable standard, together with two 
footpaths each 18 feet wide, a total width 
of 104 feet is arrived at, as shown in Dia- 
gram 5. 

We are again confronted with the prob- 
lem of deciding whether to provide an 
electric railway under the street, and on the 
whole I think it would be wise to do so. 
In any case, I think we shall all be agreed 
on the necessity for providing adequate 
subways for the various mains. These all 
need attention at frequent intervals, to the 
great inconvenience of the general public, 
when, as is usually the case, it necessitates 
taking up portions of the footpath or car- 
riageway. 

Diagram 6 shows an alternative arrange- 
ment, where the ‘trams are placed at the 
side of the road, but this has the grave dis- 
advantage that persons alighting from 
vehicles drawn up at the curb have to cross 
the track in order to reach the footpath. 

There is no little danger, I think, when 
one is endeavoring to arrive at some sort of 
a standard width for any type of road, that 
a nightmare of uniformity may be the re- 
sult. This is so far removed from the ideals 
of a town planner that it is more than ever 














ames ins ate 


























NE, 1916 THE AMERI ve Gis 561 
cessary to urge that the object aimed at ing the appeara 
is not a standardization of roads but a stand- id the result i p 
walt ecutl f th . vinci f le po ness, because the € pla s 4 | 
ardization Oo 1¢€ di in ple Ss Ot design appearance of me Bex . 
In this connection we have a very impot and wide streets + 9 . 
tant problem before us. For whereas ther: opposite impress 
is a fairly general agreement amongst tr This is a point of ch 
he expe rts that a width o about 100 feet t appears antagonist eals set 
is a proper allowance for main streets in  pefore us. cannot bi aS 
cities, we have a totally different opiniot1 shall do well to devote c: iderable ght 
expressed by men with a large experienc« to a solution of the diffic 
of retail trade. \ll the gentlemen who [ advances h some hes he sec 
kindly let me know their views as to the tjon shown in Diagram 7 as a td ' 
eneral requisites of a shopping street n which a comoromis Sats ; = 
l npromis ly ( Il 
" “i ‘ : » —_ c fered + ' . : 
igreed that main trafhe streets offered the plished. Here a sa ° in wid * 
best opportunities for shop They wish by abolishing the surface trai a 
however, limit the width—in the inter acing it ’ nea 
ests of shopping—to from 50 to 70 feet dees in co ction with ses 
he reason for this is put very concisely \ further economy is realize atric 
by Mr. Gordon Selfridge, whom I take the relegation of all delivery vat ice 
iberty of quoting. He says: road in the reat the shops il 
1 am reminded of Salt Lake City—it was laid path 18 feet in width would ; re 
t on the very wide street principle, ea S1c¢ quent bays for the accommodat ehi 
~ ~ ~ ‘les wishing t lraw ind Sit aS 
—_ STREETS siieealar 
gers. 
YP Secondary Streets 
i Y hes may < said t | 
t Wy connecting KS 1 tl ( 
mal streets he 
a ee ae iot deal to extent h ch 
OQ C) rafhc but are likely to « i ¢ 
j siderable volume of loca 1 wT 
> —18-O— a — 24-O— -ate —200- - —26< ~- +8 + local traffic. \ few icting as Su] 
— - — = - 04- —_ ~ plementar 9 1 1 the 
DIAGRAM 5.—SUGGESTED SECTIO? city, will require tramw tracks 
but as a gener! il 1 e it mav be take 
t that the se A ll ot he T 4 + i 
} In no other class Streets el 
haps, does the width and allocation 
GY of space depend so much on the pat 
ticular needs of the localitv, and a 
large number of variations are pos 
sible. 
to 16-0"se-14-O-oe — — —48'-0" me 14-0 oT 14-0 Che definitio1 eco reets 
p— ——-———-—-—— 104-0" - - a 
is necesSSa§riiy re lastic th 
DIAGRAM 6.—SUGGESTED ALTERNATIV] , ‘ 
the other classes, with the « ) 
of boul vards « k 
: 1 widths | 
y and widths have 
SERVICE ROAD SERVICE ROAD ATi i > 
AT REAR OF AT REAR OF posed Varving tre 60 t bas 
sHors SHOPS > 
Teet. 
Diagrams 8, 9 and 1 us 





oO 


| 
| 
| 1 
’ | 
18: 8-0" —-+}- 
— ane 


76-0" — 


SUGGESTED COMPROMIS 
OF SHOPPING 


DIAGRAM 7 
INTERESTS 


trate 


will be not ted 


sumed to 


Phe 


the 


t 


ildings on 


abut 


that 


some suggestiol 


—_ in all cases 
—_ a 
: the bul Idings have beet is 
—— 40-0" -—-- 8-0-4 





mn the footpath. 


ason for this is becaus« 


traffic roads as 

















ee! 


EE IT ITI ET 


se tn a i RES a aA se + et ome 





562 THE 






SECONDARY STREETS 





r 1 
i . ! 
I ' | 
i ! 


' 
! ' | 
‘ ! 1 
7 a 16-0 20-0 =~ 16 0-140 > 


_—_ - — — 80°C — — 
DIAGRAM 8.—SUGGESTED SECTION WITH 
PRAMS 








a 


bd i 
' | 
' ! 
| i 
i ! 
' ! 


, : ’ 
H- 14-00-10 = — - B2O- - -- +0 ~~ i4. 
Secewaed o ~~ BO-O + Hameo at 
DIAGRAM 9—SUGGESTED SECTION WI | Mi 


OUT TRAMS 








DIAGRAM 10.—SUGGESTED SECTION WHERE 
SPACE IS LIMITED 


a whole are likely to be confined to shops 
or business premises of some sort, on ac- 
count of the noise and dust inseparable 
from fast moving vehicles, and also on 
account of the increased value of premises 
fronting on these roads. 


Local Streets 

These comprise streets the traffic in 
which is of a purely local character. They 
give access to offices and buildings of that 
type, and, to use Mr. Brodie’s apt simile, 
they correspond to the rivulets in a system 
of water courses. 

A width of about 40 feet will be sufficient 
for this class, which provides for two 8- 
foot footpaths and a 24-foot carriageway. 


AMERICAN 











we Voit. XIV, No. 6 





Boulevards and Parkways 


In the design of boulevards, the town 
planner has perhaps his greatest opportun- 
ity of providing for the city a feature, dis- 
tinctive in character, useful in purpose, and 
an unbounded source of delight both to the 
visitor and the thousands of people who 
daily make it their promenade. 

As the term boulevard implies, these 
roads originated in the conversion of old 
lines of fortification into public prome- 
nades, and the natural allocation of forti- 
fications in the form of a ring round the 
city has led to the adoption very largely of 
a similar plan in cases where no such for- 
tifications exist. Continental cities have 
led the way in this department of road 
planning, and considering the great variety 
of treatment that is possible, and the short 
time at our disposal, perhaps the most prof- 
itable course to pursue will be to devote our 
attention to a few of the classic examples. 

Diagram 11 shows a section of the Ring- 
strasse in Vienna. The criticism one might 
make here is that the carriageways at the 
side appear to be of an uneconomic width, 
being too wide for two lines of traffic and 
not wide enough for three. As to the plac- 
ing of the trams, I feel that it would have 
been better to have put them on a reserved 
space just outside the trees, leaving a width 
of 32 feet entirely free for ordinary traffic. 

Diagram 12 shows the suggested amend- 
ment. 

Diagram 13 illustrates a section of the 
Gurtelstrasse in Vienna. The allocation of 
space is on a generous scale, and provides 
an interesting example of the treatment of 
an electric railway in a cutting. It may be 
noted that the use of retaining walls in- 
stead of an earth slope is a somewhat costly 
expedient, and in most cases the price of the 
extra land required for a slope would prob- 
ably be less than the cost of the retaining 
wall. 

The section of Unter den Linden in Ber- 
lin, shown in Diagram 14, is taken from 
Mr. Inigo Triggs’ book on Town Planning. 
Incidentally, it agrees neither with his de- 
scription nor that given by the Advisory 
Board of Engineers. The variation in 


width at different points probably accounts 
for this discrepancy, and the section may 
be taken as a fair average. 

Diagram 15 gives the allocation adopted 
for the Avenue des Champs Elysées in 





JUNE, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 





BOULEVARDS 











L ¢¢ @9 J 


8S a0 6 ae we 20-6—ere- 16-3 
_ _ -——— wee - ~ 


THE RINGSTRASSE VIENNA 
DIAGRAM II 


_% Li 58.9 | 


po 19-0" mhe 16-0" nie 32-0 — hei CO ae 16° O 
- - 76-0 - ~ 








Sl GCESTED AMENDMENT TO THE RINGSTRASSE 
DIAGRAM 12 





i 









RECREATION GROUND and 





' 
I 
' 
' 
' ' 
rit — sno— --- 34 76-O - 
=-—— = = > 248-0 — 


DIAGRAM I3:GURTELSTRASSE VIENNA 


to J CENEQaL VENICLES a9 POOME NADE ; Qe RACK «GCONTOm wees § o Vy 


- - 26-0 — on a: - ait heme 73 0 Some 13 Coe 32-0 —— 200— 
=—— — == -«- - -- = isso" - - - = - 





DIAGRAM 14: UNTER DEN LINDEN BERLIN 














conte ate ROADWAY ONTOE mite 1 
‘ 

i ‘ : 
row — — wr -— — - ~ n- 0” - - —_— — — $6-0 « 
— — —_— — 260-0 - ~ 

DIAGRAM I5:AVENUE DES CHAMPS ELYSEES PARIS 

l $ Tock a J ~ Promé nam + 
ieSdmte- — 29-6" — Soe aa —35-4—- - oe — = — = — - 05-0 — - - ~ ape 5 on en 
ee er er a aes ee ee ee ee OS em ~ ~ 


DIAGRAM 16; BOULEV. ARD DU REGENT BRUSSELS 























ee ee 


es 








364 THE AMERICAN CITY 


Paris. It shows the “contre allée” or gravel 
promenade frequently attached to the paved 
footpath in French cities. 

The Boulevard du Regent in Brussels, 
illustrated in Diagram 16, demonstrates an- 
other treatment for the same width as that 
possessed by the Avenue des Champs 
:lysées. It will be seen that the trees in 
the first example are placed much farther 
away from the buildings, thus securing an 
entirely different architectural perspective. 

One very important point to be borne in 
mind in the design of boulevards is that 
they should connect up and form part of 
the park system. The consideration will 
lead to a generous allocation of space to 
the park-like features, which will undoubt- 
edly result in a much greater use of the 
parks themselves than is the case when 
they are separated by tracts of uninviting 
bricks and mortar. 


Residential Roads 

The design of residential roads involves 
so many considerations that it is only pos- 
sible here to touch very briefly on some as- 
pects of the problem. 

It has been urged in the earlier part of 
this paper that the provision of wide roads 
should be limited to the traffic routes, and 
that these should be made so good that there 
is no inducement for traffic to leave them 
and invade the privacy of residential roads. 

Now, we have ample evidence that this 
principle has not been followed in the past, 
and the result has been an unscientific and 
ugly uniformity, together with an over- 
crowding of houses upon the land. 

The Housing and Town Planning Act, 
however, comes to our assistance in this 
respect by giving the Local Authority 
power to vary bylaws in the provision of 
a Town Planning Scheme. 

With proper safeguards as to the limita- 
tion of the number of houses to the acre, 
the proportion of curtilage which may be 
occupied by buildings, suitable building 
lines, and a restriction on the height of the 
buildings, I think we may look forward to 
much more reasonable requirements as re- 
gards the width of the roads 

In addition to the relaxation of the by- 
law width, however, considerable freedom 


Vot. XIV, No. 6 


should be allowed both in the design and 
construction of residential roads. “Only in 
this way,” as Mulford Robinson justly re- 
marks, “can each be fitted adequately to 
its needs; only thus can standardization be 
prevented from casting its costly and dead- 
ening blight upon them.” 

There is room for almost every kind of 
treatment, from the glorified carriage drive 
to the formal square, and it may be said, | 
think, with some truth that the only really 
guiding principle should be to make each 
road suitable to the property it serves. 

One hesitates to make suggestions in re- 
gard to a subject where generalizations 
serve no useful purpose, but a few notes 
may not be altogether out of place. 

In a high-class residential district where 
there are few houses and large gardens, 
traffic is reduced to a minimum, and it will 
be possible to make use of a narrow road 
possessing something of the characteristics 
of a carriage drive. One footpath will be 
ample, and the trees should be planted on 
the garden side of the hedge. 

On roads having a crossfall, an economy 
can be practiced and a charming effect pro- 
duced by keeping the footpath at a higher 
level than the carriage way. 

In the development of smaller class prop- 
erty, including that occupied by the work- 
ing classes, the houses are necessarily 
much closer together, and, consequently, 
the roads will be busier. 

Here much can be done by careful plan- 
ning, so that one fairly wide road may 
serve a large area developed by means of 
smaller roads, drives, closes and so forth. 

These minor roads can quite suitably dis- 
pense with a footpath altogether, and ex- 
amples are in existence at Earswick, Letch- 
worth and other places where this has been 
done with most happy results. Where vehi- 
cles use roads of this type a minimum width 
of 18 feet should be provided. 

As regards the design of formal residen- 
tial roads, I do not propose to say more 
than that they should form a definite part 
of the architectural scheme. The propor- 
tion of the width allotted to the footpaths 
and planted strips will naturally be greater, 
and that for vehicles less, than is the case 
for streets of similar dimensions designed 
for traffic. 








A eel oo picek ei piepicek Pic eee reek ele cloacae sesr 
el 7 
1 


; REAL ESTATE 


SUBDIVISIONS : 


Ih 
ITT SSIS ASAHI ASIA Asma aaa asa asa asee 


a5 25 25ee 25S 


A Unique Domestic Community 
. By O. R. Geyer 


DOMESTIC community in which 

back doors serve the same purpose 

as front entrances is being tried out 

at Mason City, lowa. A group of the city’s 

most prominent business and professional 

men have converted an old park, an aban- 

doned mill and a dumping ground into one 

of the finest residence districts in the state, 
simply by utilizing natural advantages. 

This settlement is practically half com- 

pleted, and when finished will contain 

twenty unusual dwellings 

of fireproof construction. 


The first thing done was to ¢ ( he 
old stone quarry into a_ sunk gvarce 

which has few rivals in this country, and 
which has more varieties of plants and 
shrubs than most other gardens in the Mis 
sissippi valley. A cement wall encloses th 
garden, and the badly scarred walls of the 
quarry are hidden during the summet 
months under a great mass of climbing 
plants and shrubbery. The hollyhock gar 


dens are very beautiful, and there are many 





Rock Crest and Rock 
Glen are the names 
which have been given 
the community, which 
consists of about twenty 
acres of ground lying 
within a few blocks of 
the business district. 
Rock Glen is the name 
of the valley side of the 
small stream _ which 
runs through the prop- 
erty. The section on the 
opposite side of the 














stream, which occupies 
a high bluff, is known as A VIEW 
Rock Crest; for years it 
, was known by the less euphonious name of 
“Stony Acres,” suggested by the old stone 
quarry in its midst. An abandoned mill and 
a rickety dam at the lower end of the prop- 
erty were some of the other assets on the 
‘ place, in addition to the stream known as 
“Willow Creek,” which has lent itself to the 
production of a beautiful scenic spot. 

J. E. Markley and James FE. Blythe be- 
came actively interested in the domestic 
community scheme about eight years ago 
and took over the entire twenty acres. They 
called in a noted architect and asked him 
to outline a plan for the improvement of 
the property as a residence community. 








IN ROCK GLEN, MASON CITY, IOWA 


rare and fine specimens of plants 

The old mill has been given a beautiful 
setting, and a modern concrete dam has 
been built, providing excellent fishing and 
boating facilities for the members of the 
community. Eight of the twenty houses 
have been built, and the Rock Glen im- 
provements are almost completed. Plans 
have been drawn for several new homes to 
be erected on the Rock Crest side of the 
stream, and it is expected that the commun 
ity project as a whole will be entirely car 
ried out within two or three years. 

Under the terms of the agreement which 
each member of the community must sign, 

















—————e 








OS aaa s 


> 





5 THE AMERICAN CITY Vor. XIV, No. 6 





all home and landscape 
improvements must be 
made in accordance with 
the outline prepared by 
the architect, and all 
plans are made subject 
to his approval. All the 
houses must face the 
stream So far they 
have all been of fire- 
proot construction. 

he idea which led to 
the establishment of the 
domestic community was 
that congenial families 
brought to 
gether to live under more 


might be 


nearly ideal conditions 
than in the ordinary 
residence district. The 














membership is limited to 
those persons who feel 
privileged to call on their neighbors Via 
the back doors, and such an agreement has 
resulted in the bringing together of a group 
of families which are getting the most out 
of this novel domestic scheme. 

One of the most striking homes is that 
of James E. Blythe, whose dwelling com- 
mands a view of the entire property. The 
roof, cornices and floors are made of rein- 
forced concrete, and the walls are built of 
stone quarried nearby. A clever lighting 
effect was secured by hiding the lights be- 
hind pictures and a light board Large 


LOOKING TOWARD ROCK CREST @-«:*S@ : ** 


landscape windows make this home distinc- 
tively a house of sunshine. The attractive 
home of J. G. Melson was built into the 
chalk cliff overlooking the valley; like the 
Blythe home, it is of fireproof construc- 
t10n. 

The ground adjoining the stream on the 
lower side of the property has been con- 
verted into a park; this is public property . 
and each member of the community has a 
share in it. In this, as well as in the other 
improvements, all the natural advantages 
have been utilized. 





Authority for Municipal Purchases 


\ contract to purchase municipal supplies 
is void and unenforceable against the city 
if the charter requires such purchases to be 
authorized by ordinance, and if that re- 
quirement has not been observed, according 
to a late holding of the United States Cir- 
cuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit 
in the case of American-La France Fire 
Engine Company vs. City of Astoria, 225 
Federal Reporter, at. 

rhe charter of defendant city provides 
that the city shall not be liable on any con- 
tract not authorized by ordinance, if more 
than $100 is involved. 


rhe fire and water 
committee of the City Council recommended 


purchase of a fire engine, and the report 
was adopted by vote of the Council. Uporr id 
this vote the committee contracted on behalf 
of the city with plaintiff to buy a fire en- 
gine, but the Mayor vetoed an ordinance 
which was later passed to provide for pay- 
ment of the price, and the city authorities 
declined to accept delivery of the engine. 
Plaintiff then brought suit to recover the 
agreed price, and obtained judgment before 
the United States District Court for the 
District of Oregon, but, on the city’s appeal, 
the judgment was reversed on the ground 
that until authorized by ordinance no valid 
contract could be entered into. 








Rapid Transit in Cities 


Preparedness for Growth by Adequate Transportation Facilities 


By Alfred Bettman 


Attorney at Law, Cincinnati, Ohio 


F the aisles in a factory become con- 
stantly overcrowded with goods or per- 
sons, the manufacturer will soon dis- 

cover that this fact is impeding his business 
and increasing his expense. If his analysis 
discloses that the situation is due to the in- 
adequacy of the aisle-area for the rapid 
movement of persons and goods incident to 
the conduct of the plant, he will promptly 
plan to correct the defect by widening or 
extending the aisles or building new ele- 
vators which will reduce the use of the 
aisles. If the physical capacity of the fac- 
tory is about to be reached and the growth 
of the business thereby brought to a stand- 
still, the owner will plan to increase the 
size of the plant by adding new floors or 
otherwise. We can hardly conceive of a 
manufacturer who would add a new floor 
to his building without carrying the ele- 
vator system up into the new floor. In 
short, a manufacturer of even average wis- 
dom will aim to reduce the expenditure of 
time and energy in the transportation of 
goods and persons in his plant, by provid- 
ing a system of aisles and elevators scien- 
tifically planned to accomplish the result. 

The analogy between an industrial cor- 

poration and a municipal corporation may 
easily be driven too far. Prosperity is the 
predominant purpose of the former, where- 
as the promotion of the health, convenience, 
comfort, morals and general social welfare 
of the inhabitants, as well as their pros- 
perity, constitutes the purpose of a city. 
There must, however, be considerable an- 
alogy between the methods used by indus- 
trial and municipal enterprises to attain 
their differing goals, and a city, as well as 
a business corporation, must plan _ its 
“plant” intelligently and scientifically. The 
streets and transportation facilities of a 
city may be likened to the aisles and ele- 
vator system of the factory building. Over- 
congestion in the streets, with its conse- 
quent delays to pedestrians, vehicles and 
street cars, causes economic waste to the 
inhabitants of the city, just as congestion in 


the factory aisles produces wasteful ex 
pense in the conduct of the factory. When 
all territory in a city tributary to existing 
transportation facilities has been built up 
to such an extent that further development 
of such territory would mean congestion of 
population with all its attendant evils, then 
a situation exists analogous to the factory 
which needs a new floor and the extension 
of the elevator system to that floor. A 
suburb capable of healthful growth, but 
which is without means of transportation 
to the central business and civic districts, 
bears some analogy to the fifth floor of a 
factory in which the elevator system has not 
been carried beyond the fourth floor. 


When a Rapid Transit System ‘Becomes 
Advisable 


An intelligent and enterprising munici- 
pality—one which desires to increase the 
prosperity and welfare of its inhabitants 
and to compete successfully with other 
cities—will constantly study and analyze its 
transportation facilities, including streets, 
street car system, electric terminals and so 
on, with a view to ascertaining their ade- 
quacy to promote the purposes, the func- 
tions and ambitions of the city. A large 
and growing city will reach a stage in its 
growth when one of the questions involved 
in such a study will be, whether the city 
has reached a point of development at 
which a rapid transit system has become 
advisable. By a rapid transit system is 
meant one upon which, by reason of the 
avoidance of the use of the surface of con 
gested streets and of grade crossings and 
heavy grades, a speed is obtainable which 
would not be possible upon the ordinary 
street railroad. 

The purposes of a rapid transit system 
may be roughly summarized as follows: 

1. To supplement the street railroad sys- 
tem when, by reason of congestion on its 
tracks in the central business or other dis- 
trict, that system or any important section 











——— 








568 THE 


of it has been brought to or is approaching 
the limit of its capacity. 

2. By reducing the time required for trips 
to outlying or suburban portions of the city, 
to reduce the operating expense of long 
hauls and provide lengthening trips without 
increasing fares and thereby build up new 
residential and manufacturing districts and 
keep down housing and other congestion. 

3. To furnish a facility for cheap and 
rapid distribution of food and light freight 
throughout the city and thereby reduce the 
cost of living in the city. 

4. To furnish connections or terminals 
for the interurban railways. 

The situation of any particular city may 
not require provision for all these purposes, 
but in planning any rapid transit line all of 
them ought to be kept constantly in mind. 


To Relieve Congestion in the Streets 

The erection of office buildings, depart- 
ment stores and other large enterprises in 
the central business district of a city, com- 
bined with the growth of suburban resi- 
dence districts, tends to bring about a rapid 
increase of car-riding, necessitating an in- 
crease in the number of cars operated upon 
the tracks in the central business districts. 
These tracks have a limited capacity; there 
is a limit to the number of cars which can 
he operated upon them with safety, com- 
fort and convenience within any given pe- 
riod, as, for instance, the evening rush 
hours. Temporary relief can usually be 
obtained by a rerouting of some of the lines. 
When, however, the maximum carrying 
capacity of the tracks in the central or 
other congested district, consistent with 
adequate, safe and comfortable service, has 
been reached, then the further growth and 
well-being of the city become dependent 
upon the construction of some additional 
transportation highway, so located as to 
avoid the surface of at least the busy 
streets. ' 


To Make Accessible New Industrial 
and Residential Districts 

Every large city has a housing problem, 
produced in its most acute form by the 
older and more discredited types of tene- 
ment houses. Regulation of existing struc- 
tures will seldom entirely solve the problem, 
and the healthful, decent housing both of 
the existing inhabitants and particularly of 
the city’s prospective inhabitants will re- 


AMERICAN CITY 





Vor. XIV, No. 6 


quire the opening of new residential dis- 
tricts. When all available land within con- 
venient distance of the existing street rail- 
way system is occupied, the development of 
these new districts will be dependent upon 
the extension of the street railroads. There 
is a limit, however, to the effectiveness of 
street railroad extensions in this regard. 
Long rides are expensive, both to the op- 
erator of the railroad and to the passenger, 
due not so much to the factor of distance 
as to the factor of time. The expense per 
passenger of wages of motormen and con- 
ductors and many other items of operating 
expense increase with the length of time 
involved in the carriage of the passengers, 
and a point may be reached beyond which 
the street railroad cannot afford to carry 
passengers without an increase of fare. 
\n increase of fare will tend to impede the 
development of new residence districts, es- 
pecially districts available for the houses 
of the working classes. There is a limit to 
the amount of time which a workingman 
can afford to give to the process of riding 
twice daily between his home and his work- 
shop. For these reasons, as the street rail- 
road lines to the suburban districts lengthen, 
they may reach a point at which they cease 
to be productive of further municipal de- 
velopment. When this stage is reached, the 
opening and development of new home and 
industrial districts, and consequently the 
further wholesome growth of the city, be- 
come dependent upon the construction of 
some form of transportation facility which 
will reduce this factor of time. 


To Reduce the Cost of Living 


The cost of living and the cost of doing 
business in any city are partly dependent 
upon the cost of transportation of food and 
other merchandise within the city. Here 
again the time element plays its part. Ina 
typical situation, food is transported by 
steam or interurban railroads to the central 
freight depots or yards, from which it is 
carried by the long, slow, expensive wagon 
haul through crowded streets to the resi- 
dential districts. An intelligently planned 
transportation system will often furnish a 
more rapid and cheap method of making 
this haul. Or, to take another fairly typical 
situation, food is brought in the interurban 
cars to the outer portions of the city by 
trolley-freight, but, owing to the lack of 
adequate terminals within the city, the 











June, 1916 rHE 
slow process of wagon hauling is necessary 
to distribute from this terminus to the va- 
rious residential districts. A well-planned 
system of local rapid transit would enable 
the cars to be sent without unloading di- 
rectly into these residential districts. The 
interurban railroad brings out-of-town cus- 
tomers to a city’s merchants, and, by means 
of trolley-freight, adds to a city’s food sup- 
ply. These benefits to the city will be les- 
sened, however, if the city does not possess 
an adequate system of terminals within the 
city which will enable the interurban cars 
to be carried with speed and consequent low 
operating expense to the various centers of 
distribution of passengers and goods. 


A Financially Practicable Location 

Of course the city must not attempt to 
huild a rapid transit system which is beyond 
its strength or beyond what it can afford. 
rhe city’s plans must be practical, prac- 
tical from an engineering and financial as 
well as social standpoint. The increased 
fixed charges that will result from the in- 
creased investment must be taken into ac- 
count, as well as the operating saving due 
to speed. Rapid transit is generally a 
costly type of transportation facility. Few 
cities can afford long subways under streets, 
or even long elevated railroads. The par- 
ticular kind or kinds of rapid transit con- 
struction which any city can afford 
depend upon its topographical layout. 
instance, the city of Cincinnati, 
the above-described conditions calling for 
rapid transit exist, is planning a rapid 
transit system of the belt-line or loop type 
about 16 miles in length. Of this, however, 
less than 3 miles will be of subway con- 
struction, and of this subway portion a few 
blocks only will be under streets. 
the subway construction will be located 


will 
Ke r 
in which 


AMER 


Most of 


ICAN CITY 


569 
and thus not entail 
the high cost of subways under streets. A 
large portion of the remaining mileage will 
be in open cuts and ravines, where the land 


an abandoned canal bed 


construction 

city which 
growth making 
will 


is cheap and the method of 
comparatively inexpensive. A 
reached the Stage of 
rapid transit advisable 
able to find a financially practicable loca- 
tion. 


has 
generally be 


The length of this article does not per- 
mit of more than a hint of the and 
factors of the problem. 

with an industrial 
said in general that the limit of the 
the the 
prosperity, health, comfort 
fare which a city can give to its inhabit 


nature 
lo return to our 
analogy enterprise, it 
may be 
city’s product—that is, limit of 
and social wel 


ants 


—is dependent upon the size and arrange 
ment of its “plant,” and this, in turn, upon 
the adequacy and appropriateness of its 
transportation facilitic \ wise city will 


not wait until the evil effects of inadequate 
transportation facilities are upon it, but 


will keep informed about itself and plan for 


the future. The owners of existing pri- 
vately owned public utilities, made timid by 
their experience, cannot be counted upon 


for extensions into undeveloped territory 


designed to prepare for or produce devel- 
The city itself must provide this 
Every city desiring to 


opment. 
“preparedness.” 
grow must arrange that its plant be in shape, 
take care of its 
otherwise the growth will not come; or if, 


so to speak, to growth, 
by reason of exceptional geographical situ- 
ation, 
despite its failure to prepare, 


growth in population comes to a city 
such growth 


will bring evils, difficulties and complica- 
tions, the removal and solution of which 
will prove vastly more costly than if this 


growth had been anticipated. 





betterment of urban life. 
in whole or in part, 
civic bodies. 


may wish to use it. 





This Magazine is Not Copyrighted 


Tue American City aims to make available to the largest possible number 
of persons the ideals of thinkers and the practical experience of workers for the 
To this end articles from any issue may be re printed, 
in local newspapers or in the bulletins of commercial or 
It is requested only that proper mention be made of Tue 
can City as the source of the information. 
graphs will be loaned without charge, or cuts sold at low rates. 
righted by their authors are so indicated. All other matter is free to those who 


AMERI 
If illustrations are desired, photo- 
Articles copy 












































Salaries of Mayors, City Clerks and City 
Engineers 


The Federal Bureau of the Census has 
just issued the volume of “General Statis- 
tics of Cities” covering the departmental 
year of each municipality closing between 
July 1, 1914, and June 30, 1915, inclusive. 
This work contains much statistical and 
other material which should be of great 
interest and value to municipal officials. 

The field covered, as enumerated, com- 
prises governmental organizations, police 
departments, liquor traffic, and municipally 
owned water-supply systems, in cities hav- 
ing a population of over 30,000. From the 
information given, the following statistics 
showing salaries of city officials have been 
chosen because of their special interest to 
readers of Tue AMERICAN City: 


Crry Crry 
City Mayor CLERK ENGINEER 
ALABAMA. 
*Birmingham..... $7,000 (> $4,800 
*Mobile....... 5,000 2,100 3,000 
*Montgomery..... 4,500 2,400 2,600 
ARKANSAS 
Little Rock... ... 4,000 2,100() 2,100 
CALIFORNIA 
*Berkeley........ 2,400 1,800 3,000 
Dir ahs 4 1,500 1,500 2,400 
Los Angeles...... 4,500 2,400 5,000 
*Oakland......... 4,200 3,000 4,500 
*Pasadena........ 3,000 1,620 2,280 
*Sacramento...... 3,600 3,000 3,600 
*San Diego....... 2,400 2,400 3,000 
San Francisco... . 6,000 4,000 15,000 
SI BUD. cee cv ese 2,000 1,500 1,800 
CoLorapo 
*Colorado Springs 3,600 1,800 2,100 
*Denver (@)....... 5,000 Jo, an 5,000(4) 
ee 2,400 1,500 2,000 
CONNECTICUT 
Bridgeport....... 3,000 3,000 4,000 
OS Ea 3,500 2,000 J 
New Britain. .... 1,200 2,200 3,500 
New Haven...... 3,500 2,000 5,000 
Waterbury...... 3,000 2,000 5,000 
DELAWARE 
Wilmington...... 2,000 1,500 2,300 
Dist. oF COLUMBIA 
*Washington...... ser (0) ee 
FLoripa 
acksonville..... 3,000 3,000 5,000 
ere 3,000 2,400 3,000 
GBORGIA 
Atlanta. . 4,000 3,000 4,000 
Augusta. . 3,000 2,200 4,800 
OS 3,000 2,100 2,000 
Savannah.. 3,600 2,400 4,800 
Ipano 
* se : 1,800 1,500 1,800 





City 
ILLINOIS 
Aurora. . 
Chicago... 
Danville....... 
*Decater......... 
East St. Louis... . 
DS She dlest ce 


eee 





*Springfield . . 


INDIANA 
Evansville 
Fort Wayne... 
Indianapolis... 
South Bend 
Terre Haute 


Iowa 
*Cedar Rapids 
Council Bluffs 
Davenport. . . 
*Des Moines. . 
Dubuque. 
*Sioux City. . 
Waterloo 


KANSAS 
*Kansas City 
*Topeka.. 
*Wichita. .. 


KENTUCKY 
*Covington....... 
*Lexington....... 

Louisvile........ 
*Newport........ 


LOUISIANA 
*New Orleans... . 
*Shreveport.... .. 


MAINE 
Portland........ 


MARYLAND 
Baltimore... .... 


MASSACHUSETTS 
oe : 
Ea 
Cambridge... . 
Chelsea... .... 


City 
Mayor CLERK 
1,000 1,800 
18,000 5,000 
2,500 1,800 
3,500 1,500 
5,000 1,800 
2,000 1,500 
3,500 2,000 
2,000 1,800 
2,000 1,850 
4,000 1,200 
4,000 2,000 
3,000 2,000 
7,500 3,000 
3,000 2,000 
3,000 2,000 
2,500 1,800 
1,800 1,500 
1,500 1,800 
3,500 2,000 
1,400 1,400 
3,000 1,500 
2,000 1,800 
4,000 1,500 
2,500 1,500 
2,500 1,200 
3,600 2,100 
3,600 2,000 
5,000 fade 
3,600 1,200 
10,000 2,500 
re rye ( 
2,000 2,500 
6,000 2,000 
10,000 5,000 
2,000 2,500 
3,500 3,300 
1,500 2,000 
1,200 1,350 
3,000 2,850 
2,000 1,700 
2,500 2,000 
2,000 2,500 
3,500 2,000 
3,000 1,800 
3,500 2,250 
1,200 2,000 
5,000 2,700 
2,500 2,200 
1,000 1,300 
2,500 1,600 
2,500 1,900 
2,500 3,000 
4,000 3,000 
1,200 2,000 
4,000 2,500 
1,000 1,500 
5,000 4,000 
100 2,332 
2,000 2,500 
750 1,600 
500 1,500 


~ 
Ci 
~ 


a 
~ 


City 


ENGINEER 


Bee 


ed en ee 


EEEEE 


i 


thi = b 


52 SESSEE5 


— none 


om bo 


& SSEE 


=o 
z 
S 


nd 
= 
S 


- 
z 
— 


fe im om So Nom bs GO NS NS tS tS ND Nm mm Go Sm So te 


SESSEE SSESSSLESSESSEEES ETE: 


bobo cee 


~ 















































JuNE, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 571 
City Crty | City City 
City Mayor CLERK ENGINEER City Mayor CLERK ENGINEER 
Micu.—Cont. Pa.—Cont. 
Lansing......... 2,000 1,800 2,400 *Harrisburg. . 3,000 2,100 2,500 
*Saginaw......... 3,000 1,800 2,500 *Johnstown. . 2,500 1,250 2,500 
| Lancaster. 3,000 1,400 2,000 
MINNESOTA | *McKeesport 2,500 1,500 2,500 
. > 4,000 2,000 2,700 *New Castle... ... 2,000 1,500 2,000 
a eae er 6,000 4,000 7,500 Norristown... 700(°) 480 1,500 
_ 2 ee 5,000 3,000 5,000 Philadelphia. . 12,000 6,000 8,000 
Pittsburgh. . . 10,000 3.00008) 1,000 
Missouri *Reading..... 3,000 1,200 2,500 
. <a 2,400 1,500 1,500 Scranton...... 5,000 2,000 2,000 
Kansas City. .... 5,000 3,000 4,000 * Wilkes-Barre... .. 3.000 2,500 2,500 
St. } a 3,600 1,800 2,400 *Williamsport.... . 2,000 1,000 1,800 
St. ee 10,000 4,000 9,000 a 2,000 900 1,800 
tSpringfield...... 1,800 2,000 1,500 
Ruope IsLanp 
MONTANA Pawtucket... 1,500 2,500 2.500) 
| aa 4,000 1,800 3,000 Providence 5,000 41,500 5,000 
Woonsocket 1,800 2,250 2,000 
NEBRASKA. 
. 2,500 2,000 3,000 Soutsa Carona 
| 5,000 2,500 3,000 Charleston. 3,500 2,100 4,000 
*Columbia. . . 2,500 2,400 3,600 
New HampsuHire 
Manchester... .. 3,000 2,000 3,000 TENNESSEE 
*Chattanooga 3,000 2,000) 2,400 
New Jersey *Knoxville.... 3,500 1,800(¢) 1,500 
*Atlantic City 4,000 2,400 4,500 *Memphis 6,000 3,000 3,600 
*Bayonne. .. . 2,500 2400 3,000 *Nashville. . 6,000 2,700 2,700 
Camden... 4,500 3,000 3,000 
East Orange 2,500 2,800 2,750 Texas 
Elizabeth. . 2,000 2,500 1,800 *Austin. ... ; 2,500 1,800 1,800 
*Hoboken........ 2,500 2,500 2,000 *Dallas : 4,000 1,800 2,700 
*Jersey City... 5,500 5,000 5,000 *El Paso ‘ 3,000 2,100 2,400 
ae 10,000 7,500 7,500 *Fort Worth 3,600 2,400 2,500 
*Orange.. . 1,800 2,000 1,800 *Galveston. . . 2,000 xcacee 1,800 
*Passaic. . 2,500 2,400 2,500 *Houston 4,000 (') 5,000 
Paterson....... 2,000 1,500 2,500 tSan Antonio 5,0Q0 1,800 3,000 
Perth Amboy 1,200 780 3,000 *Waco 2,400 2,400(°) 1,800 
i. 3,500 2,000 ay (*) 
West Hoboken. . 400 Y veece cee UTAH 
*Salt Lake City 4,200 2,400 3,600 
New Yorx 
a 4,000 2,500 3,500 VIRGINIA 
Amsterdam... ... 2,000 1,500 1,000 Lynchburg 2,000 600 3,000 
BMMB. « . 25 20s 1,000 1,800 2.500 Norfolk . 2,500 3,600 4,800 
Binghamton... .. 1,500 1,500 2,500 tPortsmouth 1,200 1,620 2,000 
Wren vs'rn ke 5,000 3,000 4,000 Richmond 5,000 1,800 4,800 
eee 1,500 1,700 1,800 Roanoke. . 1,800 1,800 2,100 
Jamestown... ... 1,500 1,600 1,800 
Mount Vernon 5,000 4,000 car an WASHINGTON | 
New Rochelle. 3,000 2,508 ace Bellingham... . 1,200 1,500(2) 2,000 
New York....... 15,000 8,000 12,000 *Everett..... 2,000 1,500 2,400 
N Falls. . 2,500 2,000 2,500 Seattle...... 4 7,500 4,200(2) 5,000 
as sw 5,000 2,000 5,000 *Spokane....... 5,000 2,400 3,600 
Schenectady. .... 3,500 2,000 2,000 ee 4,000 1,800 3,000 
s bias dns 4,000 2,800 3,500 
Ly) SoC 4,000 1,200 3,500 West VIRGINIA 
BES xine '¥ 2 xe 3,500 2,000 3,000 *Huntington...... 2,100 1,200 1,320 
i ERR 3,500 3,000 4,500 Wheeling (°). .... ee (4) 2,500 
Norra Caron WISCONSIN 
Charlotte........ 2,000 1,725(?) 1,800 La Croase....... 1,000 2,050 1,500 
Milwaukee..... 4,000 2,500 4,000 
Ono *Oshkosh..... .. 4,000 1,900 1,500 
Akron..... 3,000 1,200 2,400 NN rk win ad aid 800 2,900 2,500 
Canmtem.......... 3,000 1,200 1,800 *Superior......... 5,000 600('°) 1,800 
Cincinnati... .... 10,000 4,100 6,000 
Cleveland....... 10,000 4,000 5.000 eee re —— = 
Columbus....... 5,000 2.400 3.000 , = me in census report, as under the commis.~ 
_ arr sion form of government. 
Hamilton. . ieee 4 Ppa + Cities which have adopted commission form since 
ae 2.000 900(1) 1.800 census figures were compiled. 
Deki cevaws BEN): Oy. dia crete 1,980 (*) Census report gives no figures. 
ngfield 500 1,800(*) 2,000 (?) Salary is that of comptroller, auditor, or treasurer 
=a 4,000 2,500 3,000 who also acts as city clerk. 
Youngstown. ._.. 4,500 1,500 3,000 () Commission form abandoned: in Denver as a result 
of the se election of May 9, 1916; in Salem, at the 
onpeemene — — ay e mao ot November, _ 
i bia ont’ ‘ ° a. 1) unctions iormed by one of the city commis- 
*Oklahoma City 4,000 1,500 2,400 joners. sip . 
(®) City clerk receives $400 additional for acting as 
OREGON clerk for registrar of voters. 
*Portland........ Pn! |. os eware (4) 4,200 (®) Two engineers are appointed, one for sewers at 
$2,500, and one for streets at $2,700. 
PENNSYLVANIA (7) Mayor’s function performed by ‘‘ burgess."’ 
Allentown. ...... 2,500 1,200 1,800 (8) Two clerks are appointed at this salary. 
. ere 2,500 1,200 3,000 (%) Commission form adopted, to become effective 
TEs 66 vavase 2,000 1,000 -2,000 January, 1917. 
en . 2,500 2,000 2,500 (©) Plus fees. 

















as 
<i 





Pee Sots tele x Vee 


' 
- 
: 
- 





par ed 


us 
N 
t 


Definitions and Debates of the Community 
Center Conference 
By John Collier 


Director, New York Training School tor Community Center Workers 


HI first National Conference on Com- 
7 munity Centers, held in New York 
beginning April 19, and attended by 
delegates from sixty-eight places, was the 
scene of heated debate and of much tech- 
nical discussion, lasting over four days. 
The conference had been called by one hun- 
dred leaders in community work dwelling 
in various parts of America. Its presiding 
officer was Dr. Luther H. Gulick, president 
of the Camp Fire Girls of America. The 
preliminary work for the conference was 
done by The People’s Institute of New 
York and the New York Training School 
for Community Center Workers, and by six 
committees, whose titles indicate in part the 
scope of the conference: Committees on the 
Financing of Community Center Work; 
The Demands of the Community Center on 
the City Plan; Recreation; Health; Immi- 
gration, and Codperative Art. 

The community center movement was on 
the opening night of the conference sig- 
nificantly defined, in addresses by Luther 
H. Gulick, James Ford, of Harvard Uni- 
versity, Burdette G. Lewis, New York 
Commissioner of Corrections, and John 
Collier, secretary of the conference. As 
these definitions, with the conclusions 
drawn from them, aroused passionate con- 
troversy in the following days, they may 
be worth summarizing here. 

The community center is an impulse and 
a device, whereby individuals and groups 
of the people are joined together codpera- 
tively in schoolhouses and other public 
properties, or even in properties not public. 
This codperation may have any object of 
public advantage, from social dancing to 
the maintenance of clinics, from basket-ball 
to civic forums, from cross-country “hikes” 
to the maintenance of complex educational 
work, vocational, civic or fine art. By this 
definition the community center includes 
theoretically most of the field of social ser- 
vice, the whole field of public discussion 
and civic training, and a greater or less 
part of that definitely educational work car- 


ried out in school buildings after day-school 
hours. Reports made at the conference 
from various parts of the United States 
and from Canada showed that the begin- 
nings of all these things have actually been 
made in community centers. 

The opening speakers of the conference, 
having thus defined the community center, 
proceeded to lay down certain propositions 
as being fundamental to the growth of the 
movement: 

1. The community center is a small-unit 
affair. There must be the maximum of 
local responsibility and of local freedom. 
There must be real self-government, carry- 
ing with it the freedom to make mistakes 
and to learn by so doing. 

2. As Dr. Gulick put it, “No freedom 
without self-support”’—freedom, that is, in 
community centers. Neither taxation nor 
philanthropy was adequate for the develop- 
ment of community centers, nor was neigh- 
horhood §self-activity possible without a 
local control over funds. Community cen- 
ters, for reasons both material and discip- 
linary, raise an ever-increasing proportion 
of their own funds, and must do it through 
performing economic services. 

3. But community centers could not de- 
velop as isolated and inexpert retail enter- 
prises. A central overhead machinery was 
needed whose object would be, in the words 
of Clarence A. Perry, of the Russell Sage 
Foundation, to promote self-government 
and self-support. This overhead arrange- 
ment might be the Board of Education or a 
municipal department or state department 
created for the promotion of social organi- 
zation. Or it might be a corporation, or- 
ganized for service rather than profit. Or 
it might be a central agency codperatively 
maintained by all the local community cen- 
ters. Each of these plans was advocated 
at the conference—they could, in fact, all 
co-exist with perfect efficiency. James 
Ford presented a brilliantly worked out 
analogy between the industrial codperative 
moventent of Europe and the American 








Jung, 1916 THE 
community center movement as it might 
come to be. In the codperative societies 
the most absolute local autonomy is joined 
with overhead arrangements (inter-society 
arrangements) which enable the cooperator 
to use all modern devices of organization 
and specialization and to compete success- 
fully with “big business.” 


Self-Support and Free Speech 
So the conference opened. Storms were 
brewing, and they burst next day in the 
conference and still more loudly in the 
newspapers. Sidney A. Teller, of the West 
Park system of Chicago, chairman of the 
recreation committee of the conference, 
declared against what he held to be the 
commercialization of the community center 
movement. But the picturesque dissenter 
was Edward J]. Ward, now of the Bureau 
of Education at Washington, and formerly 
of Wisconsin and Rochester, N. Y. He 
denounced. the definitions and_ solutions 
above outlined as partaking of the designs 
of plutocracy and the philosophy of the 
I. W. W. He objected to the plans for 
overhead organization and appeared to ob- 
ject even more strenuously to the ideal of 
local self-government. Self-support he ab- 
horred. He advocated the exclusive sup- 
port of all community center work through 
public taxation. In the heat of debate he 
pointed to the expensive and slowly-dying 
New York public lecture system, whose 
management is entirely bureaucratic, as a 
model for the builders of public forums, in 
contrast to the Labor Forum of New York, 
to whose defense Carl Beck, its director, 
and Edward FE. Rybicki, of the “Big Six” 
Typographical Union, at once rushed vig- 
orously. Thus the debate was swung across 
from self-support to free speech. Prof. 
Charles A. Beard, of Columbia, made an 
impassioned plea for radical freedom of 
speech in school forums which quite swept 
the conference away, crowded out the war 
news on the front pages of newspapers, 
and is said to have occasioned a trustee 
meeting at Columbia University. 

Mr. Ward subsequently declared his own 
belief in complete freedom of speech, but 
appeared to advocate that school principals 
be the legally constituted directors of com- 
munity centers. Further discussion made 
it clear that he really advocated making the 
school principal, not the director, but the 
clerk of the community center, subject to 


AMERICAN 


CITY 57 


the orders of the citizens locally assembled, 
so that Mr. Ward carried off both the op- 
probrium and the glory of both sides of the 
controversy on free speech and self-gov- 
ernment. 

The conference was remarkable for the 
good feeling which attended discussions of 
a heated and sometimes personal character. 
When the time for permanent organization 
came, previous opponents rushed to nomi- 
nate one another for the various offices. 
Harry A. Lipsky, chairman of the com- 
munity center committee of the Chicago 
school board, was made president for the 
ensuing year; Pauline Witherspoon, com- 
munity center organizer of Cincinnati, 
treasurer; and John Collier, director of the 
New York Training School for Community 
Center Workers, secretary. The following 
executive committee was chosen, represent- 
ing various sections of America: 


Mary T. Follet, Boston, Mass 
Clarence A. Perry, New York City 
Edward J. Ward, Bureau of Education, Washington, 


Wilbur € Phillips, New York City 

E. L. Burchard, Chicago, III 

Edward A. Fitzpatrick, Madison, Wis. 

Celeste Parish, Atlanta, Ga. 

A. C. Ellis, Austin, Texas 

Cc. C. Kelso, Los Angeles, Cal. 

Josephine Preston. Olympia. Wash 

John Bradford, Montreal, Ont. 

Problems of Technique 

While the philosophy of the movement 
was thus being put into the melting pot, 
the conference worked hard at the various 
problems of technique and of content which 
every worker is practically facing. The 
health problem was discussed by Dr. Haven 
Emerson, the New York Commissioner of 
Health, Drs. Ira S. Wile, Herman Lorber, 
Thomas D. Wood and Donald B. Arm- 
strong, and by Edward F. Brown, of the 
New York Association for Improving the 
Condition of the Poor. They advocated 
the establishment of self-supporting com- 
munity clinics in city and country, and the 
administrative organization of health work 
on the basis of small units comparable to 
the community center unit. The conser- 
vation of immigrant social heritage and 
the right of special groups, ethnic, indus- 
trial and cultural, to cling loyally to their 
own values without being regarded as po- 
litical enemies of the nation, was urged by 
Percy Mackaye. Rabbi J. L. Magnes, presi- 


dent of the Jewish Community, Albert 
Shiels, director of research in the New 
York Board of Education, and_ others. 


Charles McCarthy, of Madison, Wis., de- 




















~~ 


At na RE A OIE Pee 





574 THE AMERICAN CITY 


livered a significant address on the duty 
of communities to aid in the distribution 
of immigration. The delinquent child in 
the community center, and the correlation 
of the after-care work of correctional in- 
stitutions through neighborhood agencies, 
was discussed by Edward M. Barrows, of 
Milwaukee, Mildred Taylor, of the Peo- 
ple’s Institute and National Prison Com- 
mittee, Burdette G. Lewis, and others. The 
committee on coOperative art presented the 
conference with an exhibit of immigrant 
folk craft objects, and a discussion of art 
in the community center was led by Harry 
H. Barnhart, creator of the Rochester com- 
munity choruses. William L. Tomlins, of 
Chicago, discussed community singing as a 
national movement. Joseph Lee gave an 
address of profundity and beauty on “Play 
as a Growth Process.” Earl Barnes, of 
Philadelphia, presented the claims of the 
family on the community center, deploring 
the tendency of recreations, public and com- 
mercial alike, as now organized, to scatter 





VoL. XIV, No. 6 


the family during its leisure hours. Hutch- 
ins Hapgood teased the mind of the con- 
ference with a defense of the social and 
human values of the saloon and a challenge 
to the community centers to become more 
hospitable toward workingmen and outcast 
people generally. 

Experience meetings on finance, admin- 
istration and methods of work in actually 
creating and maintaining community cen- 
ters, were participated in by most of the 175 
delegates. The demands of the community 
center on the city plan were presented by 
C. B. J. Snyder, architect to the School 
Board of New York, George B. Ford, con- 
sultant on city planning to the New York 
Board of Estimate and Apportionment, and 
Carol Aronovici, director of the Bureau of 
Social Research of Philadelphia. 

It seemed the general view of the dele- 
gates that the next annual conference should 
be held at Chicago. 

The proceedings of the recent conference 
will shortly be printed. 





The Ideal of the Play Movement 


By Henry S. 


Hic play movement, as it first ap- 
7 peared on the horizon, was “as a 
man’s hand,” and, later on, a small 
movement intended to furnish amusement 
for the leisure hours of children. As time 
has passed, however, it has steadily en- 
larged in scope and purpose until now we 
have a vision of a movement which shall 
some time furnish to every little child at 
its home a play outfit, including swings, 
seesaws, sand-bins and similar equipment; 
that shall see that the streets in residence 
sections are suitably surfaced, and, if no 
better place can be found, that special sec- 
tions shall be roped off at certain hours for 
the children’s play. It means that there 
shall be a small playground or children’s 
house on the Montessori plan in the tenter 
of every tenement block; and that the roofs 
of our public schools and other public build- 
ings shall be utilized for play; that our 
schools shall be built with ample grounds, 
and that there shall be at least an hour a 
day of organized play in the program for 
all the children of the elementary schools; 
that school grounds shall be open and in 


Curtis, Ph. D. 


charge of competent play leaders during 
afternoons, evenings, Saturdays and sum- 
ner vacations, 

The new ideal includes swimming pools, 
gymnasiums and auditoriums in connection 
with our new schools, where during the 
colder weather there may be swimming, 
dancing, games, theatricals and moving 
pictures for general entertainment. Where 
it is impossible to furnish adequate facili- 
ties of this sort in connection with the 
schools, the municipality should provide 
swimming pools, ball and tennis grounds 
and adequate facilities for field athletics. 
Under the play authorities there should be 
organized excursions and camping trips to 
places of beauty or interest lying round 
about the cities, and the children should 
have opportunities to become acquainted 
with the birds, trees, flowers and natural 
beauties of the neighborhood. Our national 
holidays should be suitably celebrated with 
festivals by the people. More and more 
great community centers should be devel- 
oped, where the people could meet together 
frequently to hear music, vocal and instru- 





























JUNE, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


mental, to see pageants, festivals and the 
like. As time goes on, moving pictures, 
and very likely the theatre itself, will prob 
ably become public institutions in our cities 

In order that these ideals may be realized 
and that each man and woman and child 
may lead a life worth living, the play 


movement proclaims to everyone the right 


to leisure. It be speaks the unive rsal week 
ly half-holiday, and, wherever possible, th 
eight-hour working day This is no smal 


program. It will not be realized at 


¢ 


nce, 
but we are moving in the right direction 
and rapidly. We have made a good begin 
ning along nearly every one of the re 


mentioned, 





Philadelphia To-day and To-morrow Civic 
Exposition 
By William Alexander 


Secretary, The City Club of Philadelphia 


\ JHAT a complete city with all its 
departments and bureaus has done, 
and is doing to-day, and what the 

city wants and is work- 


and has placed a larg 
hibits of the Agriculture and Treasury 


Departments from the San Francisco [x 





ing for to-morrow, is 
shown by the Philadel- 
phia To-day and To- 
morrow Civic Exposi- 
tion, now being held at 
the Commercial Mu- 
seums, Philadelphia. 

The City Planning 
Department shows a 
model of the new Park- 
way with the various 
proposed municipal 
buildings; the Depart- 
ment of City Transit ex- 
plains in detail the great 
system of high-speed 
railways which it has 
planned for Philadelphia 
and for which the voters 
of this city supported a 
loan bill amounting to 
$75,000,000; and every 
other department and 
bureau presents some- 
thing for which it is 
zealously working. The 
Free Library of the city 
has installed a model li- 
brary where one may 
rest while thinking over 
this remarkable center- 
ing of all interests. 





The National Govern- 











ment believes much can EXHIBIT BY 
be obtained by public 


presentation of its work, 


BUREAU OF LIGHTING OF THE DEPART 
MENT OF PUBLIC WORKS 


Bringing out the “Yesterday, To-day and To-morrow” characterizat 


the city’s ghting standards 














cemattinanenencmmcental 











see a ee 








sm we 


AMERICAN 


THE 











EXPOSITION 


if 


GENERAITI 








Vou tuo often sch a stredt 


4 


Yan. 








STREETS 


AND DESIRABLI 


UNDESIRABLI 


rING 









































| 


a ee 








position at the disposal of this civic enter- 
prise, and has ordered the arsenals and 
navy yards to give their heartiest codpera- 
tion. The Post Office has a model working 
parcel post station and post office in the 
exposition building. 

The public schools of the city have about 
10,000 square feet of space, where they hold 
daily and evening sessions of the various 
school grades, from kindergarten to manual 
training, domestic science and high school; 
besides exhibiting the work of all grades. 
Every day exercises are held explaining 
just what our great school systems are 
striving to do. The parochial schools have 
also taken a large space and placed there a 
fine exhibit of their interesting work. 

The Civic Club has a unique exhibit of 
a small street with its adjoining unimproved 
lot, dirty, unhealthy and filthy: beside this 
is a row of model houses, clean, healthy 
and attractive. Hospitals, charities, relief 
and educational organizations of every type 
have joined hands, believing in the results 
of codperation. One of the great achieve- 
ments is the large church exhibit. All the 
churches of Philadelphia, of whatever form 


JuNE, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


cs 


™N 


of faith, have united at this time in the 
message of one beautiful church, 30 x 60 
feet; its illuminated windows picture more 
than 300 churches of all denominations in 
Philadelphia, and at one end is a large map, 
showing electrically the location of every 
church in the city. Suffragists and Anti’s 
both strive at this exposition to convince 
the public of the merits of their causes 
Temperance organizations have visualized 
just what the demon rum is doing to those 
who cannot leave it alone, and what good 
may come to those who refrain from its 
use, 

In all its details this exposition is a vis 
ualization of what will be to-morrow—is 
bound to be, for men cannot stand still and 
some one is always ready to do a great 
work where humanity needs it. The City 
Club of Philadelphia, codperating with the 
city administration and the Civic Club, with 
Albert R. Rogers, who carried through the 
soston 1915 Exposition, as director of this 
undertaking, has originated an exposition 
for the people of Philadelphia which should 
have great results in the development of the 
city’s future. 





Denver “Goes Back” 


A Characteristic Popular Reaction Confused with Personalities 


By H. S. Gilbertson 


Executive Secretary, National Short Ballot Organization 


l a special election on May 9, Denver, 
the fifth largest city in the country 
to adopt the commission plan, aban- 

doned the system after a three years’ trial 
and adopted the “mayor” form. 

Several months ago the Denver Char- 
ter League, which had been investigat- 
ing the administration, resolved to submit 
a charter amendment for a reversion to the 
mayor plan. When their efforts took a se- 
rious turn, the city hall employes (among 
whom the influence of former mayor Rob- 
ert W. Speer was strong) decided not to 
oppose the League directly, but to submit 
a second proposition for a similar plan 
which would automatically elect Speer as 
the first mayor. Later a third amendment 
was put out by the Republicans, naming 
William W. Booth. The Speer amendment 


was carried by a vote of 30,883 to 22,178; 
the Booth amendment was lost by 44,254; 
the original amendment naming no candi- 
date was lost by 45,427 to 6.514. These are 
the unofficial figures. 

It is clear, therefore, that the issue in th« 
election was not the simple, clear-cut one 
of commission government vs. the mayor 
plan, but it was wrapped up in the much 
more personal question as to whether or 
not Mr. Speer should or should not be re- 
turned to power. The amendment was what 
is referred to in New York political circles 
as a “ripper” measure. 

A word about the new mayor will throw 
some light on the situation. He is a famil- 
iar figure in Denver politics and in many 
ways he seems to be a man very much after 
the heart of the western community which 

















~- 


~~ 


es 





| 








578 THE AMERICAN CITY 


he has been called to serve. During his pre- 
vious administration, when ministerial dele- 
gations informed him of the prevalence of 
gambling and other forms of vice, he is said 
to have cheerfully admitted the facts, in- 
formed his visitors that he was mayor and 
was quite willing to shoulder the respon- 
sibility for his official acts and let it go at 
that. Through his initiative the city en- 
tered upon the building of boulevards and 
other big public works. A large municipal 
auditorium was built and free music dis- 
pensed. Thereby Mr. Speer acquired a 
reputation for resourcefulness and force. 
The people of Denver returned Mr. Speer 
to office with a full knowledge of what they 
were doing. 

The recent election was apparently the 
reaction that is anticipated in most com- 
mission government laws by a provision 
that a period of from four to six years 
must elapse before a vote on reversion to 
the old system may be had. Under such 
conditions no city has ever “gone back.” 

The first administration had to deal with 
the usual heritage of politics from the old 
government and a patchwork charter. It 
did not work the instant regeneration that 
many people expected. 

That there were sound reasons for the 
abandonment of the old charter is not to be 
denied. The weaknesses inherent in the 
commission plan which have been frequent- 
ly pointed out by political scientists, re- 
vealed themselves in Denver. The lack of 


Vor. XIV, No. 6 


a strong executive to keep the commission- 
ers working in harmony seems to have been 
evident, for, as the Denver Times said, 
“There has been enough lost motion, be- 
ginning with Mayor Arnold and continu- 
ing through the present headless adminis- 
tration. . . . The.return of Mr. Speer may 
mean ‘one-man’ power, but that is better 
than no-man power.” The commission- 
manager plan, which would have unified the 
administrative departments, was suggested 
as the way out, but apparently the city was 
in no mood to enter upon what it chose to 
consider an experiment. 

Under the new charter the powers of the 
mayor are enormous. Among them are in- 
cluded that of selecting the heads of all de- 
partments of the city and county and of 
removing any civil service employe without 
a hearing. The council will be composed of 
nine members elected by districts; but in 
the first instance (till the next election) the 
mayor himself will appoint four, and the 
remaining five councilmen will consist of 
one member elected by each of the five fol- 
lowing bodies: the Denver Real Estate Ex- 
change, the Rotary Club, the Manufac- 
turers’ Association, the Denver Trades and 
Labor Assembly, and the Denver Civic and 
Commercial Association. To what extent , 
the prospect of having a direct representa- 
tive in the council influenced members of 
these organizations to vote for Mr. Speer 
is, of course, problematical. 





Illumination of Market Street, San Francisco 


By A. F. 


HE proposed lighting system for Mar- 

fé ket Street, in San Francisco, has 

been designed by Walter D’Arcy 

Ryan, Chief of Illumination of the Panama- 

Pacific Exposition, at the request of the 
Downtown Merchants’ Association. 

The system is to commence at the Ferry 
Building and extend to Seventh Street, tak- 
ing in fifteen business blocks on the south 
side of Market Street, and thirteen business 
blocks on the north side, a distance of ap- 
proximately 7,500 linear feet of street— 
1.42 miles—including the Ferry Building 
Plaza, approximately 1.5 miles. The Board 


Dickerson 


of Harbor Commissioners has agreed to in- 
stall sixteen lamps on the two 3-light and 
the two 5-light standards in front of the 
Ferry Building. They will also improve 
the lighting of the Ferry Tower. The Pal- 
ace Hotel will extend the system down New 
Montgomery Street with two 3-light and 
two 5-light standards. 

A decorative top piece designed by Willis 
Polk, architect, and executed by Leo Len- 
telli, sculptor, carrying three lamps, will 
replace the present single lamp of the 137 
ornamental trolley poles in this district. 
The over-all dimension of the new stand- 























June, 1916 


ard will be 30 feet and the average distance 
between poles 110 feet. The General Elec- 
tric luminous arc lamps, which were so 
largely responsible for the successful light- 
ing of the Exposition, will be used, oper- 
ated at 6.6 amperes. However, the appear- 
ance of the lamp will be greatly enhanced 
by the addition of the new sectional globe 
with special glassware. 

The three lamps will be mounted in the 
form of a triangle, with its plane transverse 
to the street. These three luminous arcs 
will have a combined initial candle-power 
of 4,500 as compared with the 225 candle- 
power of the present Market Street arc 
lamps. The proposed installation consists 
of 411 lamps on Market Street, 16 lamps in 
front of the Ferry Building, and 16 lamps 
on New Montgomery Street, making a total 
of 443 lamps. 

The Pacific Gas & Electric Company will 
purchase and install all lamps, cable, rec- 
tifiers and other station apparatus at a cost 
of approximately $100,000; 60 per cent of 
this amount will be for labor. The com- 
pany requires contracts which will insure 
the operation of this system for at least 
three years. The total maintenance cost of 
the Market Street system of 411 lamps will 
be $33,251.27 per year, and will be distrib- 
uted as follows: 

The top light on each standard is to be 
wired on a separate circuit, and is to be 
maintained by the city. This will be an all- 
night light and will cost $12,750.59 per year. 
The two side lights are to be maintained 
until midnight, jointly by the merchants, 
property owners, United Railroads and 
others, and will cost $20,500.68 per year. 
Of this sum, the United Railroads will pay 
$6,576, which represents what they are now 
paying for the illumination of this section 
of Market Street. To raise the balance, 
merchants and property owners are being 
assessed $2 per year for each foot of their 
frontage, the agreement to extend three 
years. It is hoped to obtain sufficient sur- 
plus collections, however, to pay for the 
lighting for five years. 

The system will be distinctive, as it will 
be the first of its kind. Beauty, dignity and 


THE AMERICAN CITY 




















THE NEW LIGHTING STANDARD IN 
SAN FRANCISCO 


efficiency will combine to make it perma- 
nent. By proper selection of glassware, the 
intrinsic brilliancy of the sources will be 
minimized. Not only will the surface of 
the street and sidewalks be illuminated, but 
also the full facade of each building to its 
skyline, figuratively filling the street with 
light. 


COLLIS OSRLES> 

















— 


580 


Varieties of City Motor Fire Apparatus 




















i kh. 


cee ae 


a a 


a’ 

















CENTRAL FIRE STATION, SIOUX FALLS, S. DAK. SHOWING AMERICAN-LA FRANCE CITY 


SERVICE TRUCK 


AT THE LEFT. 








a eee 








June, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 581 











<=e Som See coe 
csme.e ! 





ANDERSON HOOK AND LADDER TRUCK, KANSAS CITY, KANS. 

















MOTOR FIRE DEPARTMENT EQUIPMENT AT INDEPENDENCE, KANS 


The engine at the right is the new South Bend pumper 





pa nt 














FIRE TRUCK NO. 2, PHOENIX, ARIZONA, EQUIPPED WITH GOODYEAR TIRES 























The Garden Terrace Theatre at Yankton, 
South Dakota 


By George Harrison Durand 
Vice-President Yankton College 


Yankton, S. D., a beautiful outdoor 

stage and auditorium, for commun- 
ity uses in the summer season in the pre- 
senting of plays, pageants, concerts and 
other entertainments, and for any other 
public occasions for which the charming 
facilities of such a place may be desired. 
It is located on the campus of Yankton 
College and is called the Garden Terrace 
Theatre, the name indicating somewhat the 
style of its design. The theatre originated 
as the result of the annual open-air pre- 
sentation of a Shakespearean play by stu- 
lent amateurs, but the building of this per- 
manent structure for such purposes was 
undertaken by a group of Yankton citizens, 
and the theatre is to be devoted not to col- 
lege uses alone, but to the service of the 
community in which the college is located, 
as a civic center of educational and artistic 
influence. 


To ven has recently been opened at 


The Design 


The idea was suggested by some of the 
old garden theatres of Italy, dating from 
the time of the Renaissance, which were 
a part of the design of certain famous villa 
gardens, with a terrace stage backed by 
wall and hedge, and with shrubbery and 
trees enclosing a pleasant lawn for the 
seating of spectators. There the nobleman 
would entertain his guests with a play, per- 
formed by amateurs of his household or by 
companies of traveling actors. These old 
garden theatres of Italy are familiar to 
tourists and students of landscape art, but, 
so far as is known, this is the first adapta- 
tion of the idea in this country to the pur- 
poses of a regular open-air theatre. 

It will be readily seen that this type is 
quite different from that of the Greek the- 
atre, with its classic severity and massive- 
ness of form; it is a work of landscape art, 
romantic rather than classic in effect, with 
no masonry except the incidental feature 
of the garden wall. At the same time the 


Garden Terrace Theatre has adopted and 
harmonized with its Italian style certain 
features from the old London theatres of 
Shakespeare’s time—namely, a stage with 
two rear entrances and a rear balcony, 
without wings and with a minimum of mov- 
able properties. The experience of many 
years with a temporary campus stage had 
proved these features to be excellently 
adapted to open-air performances. 

The dimensions of the terrace stage are 
30 x 60 feet, a line of concrete shaped for 
footlights marking the front edge, and a 
30-degree slope forming the front eleva- 
tion, while the sides are outlined by low 
walls with steps descending to lower gar- 
den levels lying to right and left of the 
stage, which furnish extra space when re- 
quired. The rear line of the theatre en- 
closure, forming the back of the stage 
proper and also of the adjacent garden 
areas, a distance of 140 feet, is a garden 
wall in Italian design, finished in cement 
stucco, 9 feet high along the middle or stage 
part, and surmounted at the center by a 
stage balcony in appropriate design, with 
balustrade and brackets painted white and 
with roof of red tile. Through this rear 
wall there are two entrances to the stage 
proper, and an entrance also to each of the 
gardens at the side. 

Back of the middle rear wall, and not in 
view of the audience, is a pergola which 
will be covered with vines, and from which 
entrance is made to the stage. A flight of 
steps from within the pergola mount to the 
top of it, where a railed platform, level with 
the top of the garden wall, leads through a 
door into the stage balcony. The rear wall 
at each extreme end is brought forward in 
a wing to a distance of 30 feet, enclosing 
the two gardens at the sides of the stage. 
At each corner thus formed there is a gar- 
den balcony, with quarter-circling front en- 
closing curving steps which mount to a 
balcony platform 6 feet in elevation. These 
balconies will be used as a featyre of the 














JUNE, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 583 





picturesque setting in 
the case of a large pag- 
eant spe ctacle, and some- 
times for parts of the 


iction in a play. 


The Beauty of the 
Setting 

The location of the 
Garden Terrace Theatre 
was chosen with refer- 
ence to the favorable 
position of trees already 
growing, which are the 
basis of the complete 
landscape design to be 
developed. Two large 














trees rising from the 


stage itself form a wide- tT'HE YANKTON GARDEN TERRACE THEATER 


reaching canopy of fol- 

iage and other trees growing in the gardens 
at the side enrich that part of the scene 
Behind the rear wall, for its entire length, 
is a double line of large trees, which form a 
beautiful background to the stage and at 
the same time serve as an excellent sound- 
ing board. The audience area, a perfectly 
graded lawn sloping toward the stage, is 
enclosed by a formal hedge continuing the 
line of the wings of the garden wall, with 
entrances at sides and rear set off by square 
stucco gateposts, corresponding to the archi 
tecture of the wall. Outside the hedge and 
all around the theatre is an enclosing screen 
of trees, already of considerable size. rhe 
further planting of trees and quantities of 


shrubbery, vines and flowers to form the 
complete design, which was done a year 
ago, will greatly enhance the natural 
beauty of the place, and will have the par- 
ticular effect of veiling and softening the 
present lines of architectural wall and 


mal grading. 


lor- 


The whole enclosure is permanently 
wired for electric illumination, including 60 
feet of footlights across the front of the 
Stage, powerful bunch lights and other 
devices, and lights for suspended lantern 
effects through the branches of the trees 


ibove the Stage and gardens. 
The detail | f the Garden Terrace 
Theatre were prepared by Mr. Phelps 


Wyman, landscape archi 


ylans ( 











tect, of Minneapolis 


with whom was 50- 
ciated Mr. A. R. Van 
Dyke, architect. of Mir 
neapolis, who drew the 
design if the garde 
wall. The plans were 
gone over in conteret 
with leading authorities 
on dramatic irt. opet 


air theatre S, and pen-alt 
acoustics and illumina 
tion, in order to gain the 
utmost assurance of their 
practical feasibil ty. 
Now that the theatre is 
completed and has be 





gun to be used, its beauty 





A SCENE FROM “THE MERCHANT OF 


VENICE,” IN THE 
YANKTON GARDEN TERRACE THEATER 


and practical success are 


evident and striking. 























584 H ] AMERICAN CITY Vot. XIV, No. 6 


The cost of it has been very moderate. It len Terrace Theatre in the future is an oc- 
seems not unlikely that the Yankton Gar casional vesper service on a Sunday after- 
den Terrace Theatre may be the suggestion noon, with choral music as the main feature 
for similar creations in other localities and with the widest invitation to the public. 
For the coming season there will be a se- 

The Theatre in Use ries of fine performances about Commence- 

[wo impressive performances were given ent time to celebrate the Shakespearean 
on the new open-air stage last summer tercentenary, including the Coburn Players 
One was “The Merchant of Venice” by the in two productions; “As You Like It” by the 
college students at Commencement time, college students, and a Yankton Historical 
and the other, a few evenings later, was a Pageat t, W ritten by Mr. Joseph Mills Han- 
community Peace Pageant, directed by son, oft Yankton, which will be given in 
Miss Cora Mel Patton, of Chicago, in repetition on four successive afternoons. 
which some two hundred children and _ For the pageant, which will be a large com- 
young people of the public schools took unity affair, extensive plans are already 
part. Both performances were exceedit well in hand. Yankton is the historic town 


beautiful, capturing the audience with th , ne . 
: ‘ _. ; a of the two Dakotas, the original capital 
charm and poetry of that garden scen s —_ : 
: the territory, and the subject is full of 


der the open sky of night, broadly illun | picteresen terial for pas 

ated by the lights of the stave and wit! romantic and picturesque material lor pag- 
es te de i of shins = al] cantry. College and town people expect to 
through the overhanging branches of the ike this pageant a worthy consummation 
trees. In addition to these performances f the tercentenary celebration at Yank- 
there were two motion picture plays and a_ ton, and the chief demonstration thus far 
beautiful Sunday afternoon devotional read of the delightful facilities of the Garden 
ing. One of the uses planned for the Gar Terrace Theatre. 





A Rustic Athletic Lodge for a City Park 


The athletic lodge shown in the accom feet. The main room is 32 feet 3 inches in 
panying illustration was erected in Pelham length, and provides locker space of 60 com- 
Bay Park, in the Borough of The Bronx, partments. There are also lavatories and 
by the Department of Parks of New York | shower baths. 

City. Pelham Bay Park is located in the rhe building was designed by A. G. Wal- 
northeastern part of the Borough of The dreaon, Architect for the Department of 
Bronx and borders on Long Island. Bath- Parks in New York City. 


ing is popular at this point, 
and the Park Department 
: 





has made provision in the 
park for other athletic 
sports, such as_ cricket, 
football and baseball. 
These activities mnecessi- 
tated an arrangement for 
shower baths and locker 
space. The fact that the 
athletic field is surrounded 
by an abundant growth of | 
timber, thus furnishing the | 
right setting for a rustic + 
log cabin, suggested the 
location of a rustic ath- 
letic lodge at the edge of 
the forest. 





The over-all dimensions 
of the lodge are 49 x 23 
feet, with a porch 32 x 9 





ports oe ee 





ATHLETIC LODGE IN PELHAM BAY PARK, NEW YORK CITY 











The High Cost of Sanitary Ignorance 


A Community Having a Public Water Supply Known to be Contaminated by the 
Sewage of Other Cities, and Using It Without Attempting Its Purification, 
is a Victim of Defective Civilization 


By George A. Johnson 


Consulting Sanitary Engineer 


l is not a particularly far cry back to 

| the days when educated peoples spent 

the least possible amount of time in 
keeping clean. Water was considered ex 
cellent for boating purposes, and people 
filled their moats with it to discourage visits 
on the part of undesirable visitors. It was 
also useful as drink for beasts of burden, 
but if we are to believe such writers as 
Shakespeare and shrewd Samuel Pepys, it 
was mightily unpopular as a_ beverage 
among human beings. Black undercloth- 
ing was in common usage, since it was slow 
to show dirt, and strong perfumes took the 
place of water bathing. 

Improvident housewives cast into the 
streets the wastes of their kitchens and 
privies, while the more thrifty used them 
for fertilizer, or disposed of certain of 
them, at a profit, to scavengers for a like 
purpose. The streets thus provided a con- 
tinuous food supply for the animal king- 
dom, and it was due to the hungry activity 
of these animals that conditions did not 
become worse than they actually were. 
Perpetual pools of sewage stood in the 
streets, and doubtless Raleigh had a better 
reason than is commonly supposed for 
spreading his cloak before the footsteps 
of the Virgin Queen. 

Because of filthy modes of living among 
the human population, great epidemics 
swept away their victims by the tens of 
thousands; the so-called “black death,” bu- 
bonic, cholera, typhoid fever and dysentery 
plagues being the most prominent. All of 
these diseases were born of filth, and -di- 
rectly caused by specific germs. 

Civilization advanced, and with it more 
cleanly ways of living. The last great 
plague among the white races occurred over 
fifty years ago, although among the peoples 
of Asiatic countries great epidemics of spec- 
tacular proportions still occur. This condi- 
tion in Asia is due to ignorance, custom and 
religious bigotry—ignorance of the scientific 


developments in the field of preventive medi 
cine; the persistent continuance of insani 
tary customs; and the practice of certain re- 
ligious rites which strike deeply at the foun- 
dations of public health standards. 

During the last century, marked advances 
have been made in municipal sanitation. 
The public water supplies of a large propor- 
tion of the bigger cities are pure, and the 
sewerage facilities adequate and based on 
hygienic principles. 
reasonably 


The streets are kept 
clean, and the garbage and 
refuse promptly collected and disposed of 
in an approved manner. The purity of milk 
and other foods is subject to some measure 
of control, and the public in general is 
gradually becoming educated to the dangers 
of insanitary living. Proof of this is found 
in the fact that in thirty-three of the largest 
cities of the world, with a total population 
of over 40,000,000, the average death rate 
has been lowered 37 per cent in the last 
thirty This actually means that 
where I in 39 died thirty years ago, I in 63 
dies now. 


years. 


Among these 40,000,000 people, 
therefore, and on this basis, there is an 
annual saving of over 400,000 lives, or | 
per cent of the total population of these 
cities. In our great cities of Boston, Chi- 
cago, New York and Philadelphia, the death 
rate has decreased one-third in the last 
thirty years. In these 157,000 
people die each year, or 1 in every 67. If 
the mortality of thirty years ago still pre 
vailed, I in every 42 would die, or 95,000 
more each year. 

All this is substantial proof of better liv- 
ing, better understanding on the part of the 
public, better medical treatment of sickness, 
and the wider exercise of measures of dis 


four cities 


ease prevention. The improvement has been 
great, but at best it represents but a 
stantial part of the improvement possible 
Ignorance of the law, we are 


1 
Sub 


given to 


understand, is not considered a legal excuse 
for its violation. Similarly, ignorance of the 











| 





= SO a RE a Pee S 
eh oe it 


ee ee 


my ee 





586 THE 


cause of disease is no valid excuse, where 
the disease is preventable through the ob- 
servance of really simple measures of pre- 
caution. Of all the well-understood causes 
of death, one-half are in some measure pre- 
ventable, and some strictly so. It is a mat- 
ter of common knowledge that tuberculosis, 
which in this country alone kills 140,000 peo 
ple annually, in a very large measure is pre- 
ventable. Typhoid fever, a disease of which 
I in every 33 people suffers in the course 
of a decade, is strictly preventable, yet in 
\merica 300,000 people contract it every 
year, and 20,000 die of it. 


Typhoid Fever a Result of Defective 
Civilization 

Now typhoid fever, reduced to its lowest 
terms, is a result of defective civilization. 
It is caused by taking into the mouth the 
excrement of another human being. It is 
contracted by drinking water which has been 
polluted by sewage containing typhoid-in- 
fected excrement; or infected milk and 
other foods; or by transferring the excre- 
ment on the hands direct to the mouth. The 
real cause of the disease is a specific germ, 
the bacillus typhosus, discovered some 
thirty-six years ago. 

\ person who knowingly takes into his 
mouth the excrement of another human be- 
ing is certainly defective. A community hav- 
ing a public water supply known to be con- 
taminated by the sewage of other cities, and 
using it without even attempting its purifi- 
cation, is certainly a victim of defective 
civilization. A mother attending the wants 
of a child suffering from typhoid fever, 
bathing and otherwise constantly coming in 
contact with the patient, and who, without 
first employing every possible precaution, 
thereafter handles the food and drink of 
others, thereby laying them open to infec- 
tion, is equally defective. Some people har 
bor the typhoid germ for years, and dis- 
charge it in great numbers daily, and so 
become living threats against the health of 
the public. Thus Mary Mallon, better 
known as “Typhoid Mary,” during her ac- 
tive career as a cook, in the pursuance of 
her duties caused twenty-six cases of 
typhoid fever in seven different families for 
which she worked. She was a defective, 
and so is every person who does not use 
every reasonable effort to avoid self-infec- 
tion, or the infection of others. And the 
only precaution that need be observed is 


AMERICAN CitTY 






Vor. XTV, No. 6 


not to take human excrement into the mouth. 

Until one near and dear is attacked by 
typhoid fever its repulsiveness and fatality 
are not seriously viewed. To an individual 
who has it, typhoid fever is no joke. To 
those who have never experienced it per- 
sonally, or viewed its effects, it is often dis- 
missed metaphorically with an airy wave of 
the hand, as being largely one of those chil- 
dren of the imagination of sanitarians who 
derive profit from the preaching of the doc- 
trine of prevention, and who endeavor, 
through the exercise of meretricious reason- 
ing, to deprive the public of the comfortable, 
sovereign privilege of insanitary habits. 

The general public—eliminating, of course, 
those individuals who have learned by sad 
experience—rarely gives a thought to the 
possible disease-bearing properties of the 
two essentials to human existence, drink 
and food, unless these commodities actually 
are repulsive to the senses. There is tacit 
knowledge that such matters are controlled 
hy some mysterious, yet real, authority, 
hence blind confidence impels the public to 
take things as they come, and we well know 
with what disastrous results sometimes. Yet 
how can the public protect itself where in- 
dividual ignorance obtains, and when the 
health authorities cannot, or do not, exer- 
cise proper vigilance in preventing the de- 
livery to the people of impure water, milk 
and other foods? 

Twenty millions of people in the United 
States are now being furnished with filtered 
water at a cost not exceeding $8,000,000, 
or forty cents per capita, per year, and in 
cities having filtered supplies the water- 
borne typhoid fever has been practically 
eliminated, as reliable statistics abundantly 
prove. The results of water purification 
always show a big balance on the right side 
of the ledger. Where one dollar is spent for 
pure water, many dollars are saved in the 
form of vital capital through the prevention 
of sickness and death. If a community of 
19,000 people spend each year 40 cents per 
capita for filtered water, and thus each year 
prevents a single death and the attendant 
cases of illness from typhoid fever, it 
will come out even financially, and increase 
its self-respect into the bargain. In Pitts- 
burgh, to cite a well-known example, the 
adoption of water filtration has saved over 
six hundred lives, nine thousand cases of 
typhoid illness, and $4,500,000 in vital capi- 
tal annually. 

















JuNgE, 1916 Ph \MER 
rhrough sickness and death from typhoid 
fever alone $150,000,000 in vital capital are 
needlessly dissipated in this country each 
the total amount of money ap- 
propriated to the work of all the health ce 
partments of the cities of the United States 
amounts to one-tenth this sum. 


year; yet 


The pros 
perity of a nation depends upon its. produ 
tive power, and it can hardly be considered 
good business policy to submit to a deple- 
tion of that power many times in excess of 
the cost of its conservation, and resulting 
from failure of the public to realize the 
truth. In the interests of the nation it is 
imperative that they be brought to a re 
alization of it, and if they cannot or will not 
he taught, that country-wide changes in the 


resent modes of insanitary living | 
- s 


e forced, 
and the public be made to understand that 
in some things they must be guided by 
others without asking, or perhaps reasoning, 
why 

\ significant fact disclosed by a study of 
the mortality statistics in the United States 
is that in rural districts—that is, 
population of communities than 
typhoid fever is more prevalent than 
in urban districts, although the combined 
mortality from all causes is greater in cities 
Occasionally this rule may not hold, as per 
haps in the case of New York for last year 
when the rural combined death rate of New 
New 


where the 


is less 


2,500 


York State was in excess of that of 
York ( ity ; but generally it does. 


Why Typhoid Fever is More Prevalent tn 
Rural than in Urban Districts 
What, then, are the reasons why typheid 
fever is more prevalent in rural districts 
than in urban districts ? 
this mystery. 


To the sanitarian 
The farmer, living 
isolated from his fellows, usually considers 
that he is sufficient unto himself. He ob- 
tains his drinking water from the most con- 
venient source, which usually is a shallow 


is no 


well often located nearby his barnyard or 
privy, and thus open to dangerous con- 
tamination. The ruralite is not particularly 
concerned if his sink, privy or barnyard 
drainage discharges into a brock from which 
his lower-down neighbor takes his water 
supply. 
engineering to lead such drainage direct to 
the nearest waterway. It would take a pet 
to 


In fact, it is considered good rural 


son of high intelligence and eloquence 
teach convincingly the truth logic of 
riparian rights to the average farmer, who 


or 


1 ¢ 


wee Ga. 587 
Is SO prone to believe tl t is wise to 
not the 


ne 


hrst by whom the new is t1 
oTreater pre il nce t tvnl 
in rural districts, therefore, 


marily, to ignorance 
generation could be tau 
fly is a menace to health, and 

active agent 1! he 
typhoid-infected material; that vell 
lecated 


from the sink, privy at I 


so that it can receive the t ‘ 


stant element of danger: that milk i ee 
favorable mediun fey 
typhoid germ, and therefore should bi 
lected 


handled by p 


with tl 


ie greatest care an et 
come in itact with sicl eople, or whe 
have had typhoid at 
that garden truck should never be fertilized 
with human excrement: then each rural it 

habitant would bec 
to the spread of typhoid fever, and benefit 
only himself and his fam ut the 

\s it is, when persons so be 


nighted become public purvevors of greet 


not 


lic at large 


vegetables and dairy products, a promisi 
factor is introduced in favor of I 

gation of typhoid fever The high typl 
fever death 
chiefly to the dir 
method of inf 


rate in 
rection, al | vn thet tnt l il 
the agency of bad water, fli 
the typhoid gern 
less difficult road 


than it has in the 
Low Pay for Sanitary Knowledge 
some health departments art neither 


headed nor manned by persons well quali 


fied by knowledge, experience and energy 
| 


perform the highly responsible duties re 


quired of them. Unless a young 1 pos 
sesses independe nt 
thropi¢ turn of mind, the salari fered 
in health department 
promptly to 
dream of S| eedily a quirit 


discourage him in a ond 


xf a millionaire; but with the pr ilit 


appropriations it cannot be otherwis« 


It is a fact, certainly not realize: 


rany, that few thoroughly competent 


/ 


nicipal or State department hea 
positions except at. a 


\ here 


and experien competent] ti 


persona 
sacrifice 

knowledge 
fill the position is chief 


trered 1S 


ment, the salary 















a ee 





+ Ls SAND. 


atone ae 


a 


a carne 


ee eee 


? 





588 THE 


tively small measure of the financial return 
the same ability would command in private 
practice. Lack of satisfactory financial lu- 
brication does not tend to make the ma- 
chinery of the department run more 
smoothly or painstakingly, and the results 
accomplished by a year’s hard work are so 
far removed from the spectacular, and 
therefore incapable of popular exploitation 
and comprehension, that they more often 
than otherwise go down to history “unhon- 
ored and unsung.” 

Occasionally, however, such epoch-mark- 
ing accomplishments as those of Jenner, 
Pasteur, Koch, Reed, and more recently that 
of Gorgas in Panama, thrust before the re- 
tuctant-to-believe public mind the realiza- 
tion that a great step has been taken in 
conserving the health of mankind. But the 
road of the health official is usually a dreary 
one, unlightened even by an_ occasional 
fringe of primroses in the way of public 
commendation, and is made so by reason of 
the fact that it is his chief duty to prevent 
disease, and the measures of prevention are 
commonly distasteful to the public in whose 
interests he is acting. A successful year’s 
campaign against filth in a city of 100,000 
persons, resulting in the saving of a hun- 
dred lives, is publicly rewarded by a brief 
newspaper paragraph to the effect that the 
death rate has been reduced from 15 to 14 
per thousand population, and is as promptly 
forgotten, if read at all. 

The ways of public health work are some- 
times devious, and often obscure. They 
cannot readily be understood by the lay- 
man. Therefore such financial support as 
health departments receive from the public 
comes more or less grudgingly, even though 
the results obtained far outbalance the cost. 
Most of the diseases well understood by 
scientists are caused by a specific germ, and 
millions of such germs may be placed. on the 
head of an ordinary pin, yet the havoc they 
can wreak, tiny as they are individually, is 
measurable only by comparison of their size 
with the pyramids of Gizeh. The lay mind 
can comprehend a visible menace against his 
life, like a moving vehicle or a club in the 
hands of an enemy, and will take steps to 
avoid it; but an enemy which must be mag- 
nified a thousand diameters that he may see 
it is beyond his understanding. 

Vital statistics serve as a barometer by 
which the health of the nation may be deter- 
mined. In this great country one-quarter 


AMERICAN CITY 


VoL. XIV, No. 6 


of the people are without such information. 
If the healthfulness of a people governs the 
productive power thereof, as it surely does, 
the lack of reliable statistics from these 
twenty-five millions of people is mighty poor 
state and municipal bookkeeping. People 
are always very particular in demanding a 
record of real money expenditures, but the 
ever prevailing list of preventable deaths is 
one of the greatest leaks in the reservoir of 
productiveness, and among a quarter of the 
people of this country no reliable measure- 
ment of this leak is made. 

A community may start out with the best 
intention. Legislative enactments are put 
through to protect the public health. That 
is simple, for none but the framers of health 
laws really know what they signify, hence 
there arises no antagonism to their enact- 
ment. Next comes the task of obtaining the 
necessary funds to enforce these laws. The 
average appropriation of all the cities where 
such funds are made available is in round 
numbers 30 cents per capita per annum. 
This applies only to those cities having 
populations of 25,000 or more. What of the 
remainder ? 


Thirty Cents for Protection Against 
Preventable Disease 

Let any thinking citizen ask himself if he 
considers a contribution of 30 cents each 
year on his part is sufficient justification for 
his assurance of protection against prevent- 
able disease. Or, as another example, if he 
thinks, if given in charity, it is his proper 
share toward the fund for keeping in check 
and preventing the spread of the great 
white plague, which kills 140,000 people in 
America each year. Unquestioningly he 
would give far more to street beggars in the 
course of a year. If every man, woman and 
child in the United States contributed $1 
each year to public health work, the total 
sum thus raised would not nearly equal the 
annual loss in vital capital in this country 
from typhoid fever alone. Not one city in 
America does contribute $1 per capita for 
all the uses of its health department, but on 
an average contributes the far-famed 30 
cents, which is opprobrium enough. 

In the states best off with respect to health 
laws recorded on their statute books, the 
proper enforcement of these laws is too 
generally neglected. All public health laws 
have a penalty attached for violation. Com- 
monly it takes the form of a ridiculous fine 











vv 














} 








Jung, 1916 THE AMER 
or term of imprisonment. The arms of the 
law hesitate to make arrests, and the court 
usually limits the penalty to a reprimand, 
not infrequently administered to the officer 
making the arrest. Both fear an outburst 
of indignation accompanied by claims of dis- 
crimination and persecution, the officer from 
the court, and the court from the public, 
since the general violation of such laws by 
the public is so common. 

No one can gainsay that in progressive 
states the majority of the movements look- 
ing to the improvement of public water sup- 
plies originate in the health department. 
Especially is this true where the com- 
munity is small, and where the water depart- 
ment officials do not feel warranted in em- 
ploying relatively expensive men who are 
technically trained in water analysis and 
matters in general relating to water pollu- 
tion. Then, too, the officials of large cities 
often are slow to act in such matters, and too 
prone to fall back upon arguments based-on 
the financial inability of the community to 
carry through the construction of water 
purification works. It can be stated un 
qualifiedly that no community, whatever its 
size, is too poor to have a pure water sup- 
ply. It is better to have bad streets, grade 
crossings, and inadequate public buildings, 
than to tolerate a public water supply of 
questionable purity. 

When the questions arise as to the ade 
quateness of the water supply as regards 
volume, or more satisfactory distribution, 
little difficulty is experienced in obtaining 
the necessary funds to carry out the work, 
for the comfort and convenience of the pub- 
lic are affected. With improvements in the 
supply respecting purification it is different. 
When a city of 100,000 people is confronted 
with evidence furnished by its own officials 
and those of the state health department 
showing that the water supply requires puri- 
fication, and learns that works to effect this 
end will cost, say, $300,000, there follows an 
energetic sharpening of pencils to ascer- 
tain how this is going to effect the tax rate. 
There is strong opposition to the movement 
from the very beginning. 

The state health officials, realizing the 
necessity better than anyone else, order that 
purification works be built. The cost there- 
of being estimated, the matter of a bond 
issue to carry the expense is put up to the 
people, and very often is defeated. Then an 
extension of time is allowed, and the matter 


cme Crry 


drifts along for years without anv definite 
advance, 


Where is the City That Would Abandon 
Its Filter Plant ? 

Many cities have endured an excessively 
high typhoid fever death rate for years, and 
withheld the financial support necessary for 
the furtherance of measures of prevention, 
even when it was plain that the pul 
lic health of the community would be 
immensely benefited thereby. Great cities, 


such as Baltimore, Cincinnati, Louisvill 
Minneapolis, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, St 
Louis and Washington, temporized with 
the matter for years before building 
purification works, and in the meantime 


thousands of their citizens were needlessly 
killed by water-borne diseases lhen they 


i 


built filter plants, and it is safe to say that 


if a candidate for public office in an 
these cities should advocate the abandon 


ment of filtration, he would stand as much 
chance of election as the proverbial snow 
ball has of existence in Gehenna. The peo 
ple in these cities now realize what pure 
water means to them, and while at first re 
luctant to believe, actual experience of th 


benefits has turned their minds just as fat 
or farther, in the opposite direction 
Laws have been enacted 


viVINg T 
state the power to force the purincation 
public water supplies within their 
daries. The so-called Bense Act of Ohio is 
one of these. There is need of more legis 


lation of this kind, which leads to th 
tection of the public against itself. Such 
power, placed in competent hands, and with 
sufficient funds to enforce it, cannot but do 
immeasurable good. 

he promotion of ideal methods 
ing can only be effected by a slow transi 


tional advancement. True sanitation is that 
which benefits, not a single individual or a 
community, but the public at large. A cit 
may pompously declaim the possession of a 


modern system of water purification at its 
front door, and at its back door be fouling 
the water supply of its neighbor with its 


sewage. It has done for itself, taking no 
heed of its neighbor’s welfare 

Individual freedom is measured by the 
control which governs personal convenience 
and desire. Attainment is measured by 


sacrifice and restraint. An individual or a 
city has no more moral or legal right d 
liberately to pollute a public water supply 




















590 THE 
than deliberately to commit homicide. 
: lyphoid fever accounts for 20,000 lives each 
year in America largely through a miscon- 
ceived idea of what constitutes personal 
: liberty. Granting that the pollution of pub- 
lic waters cannot entirely be prevented, 
obviously it is the duty of every city to make 
pure such waters before they are delivered 
to the consumers. This is preparedness 
; quite as important as preparedness for war. 
It is a measure of protection against disease 

: and death, just as preparedness for war is 
protection against loss of life and property. 
If the wide array of laws against the pol- 
lution of public waters were enforced, 
grossly offensive conditions would never 
exist. If laws were enforced making it an 
imprisonable offense on the part of the 
officials of a city to allow the use of a con- 
taminated water, or the existence of privies 
and cesspools, or slack garbage collection 
and disposal, or unclean streets and gutters, 
the health tone of the country at large would 


AMERICAN 


City 


VoL. XIV, No. 6 


be immeasurably improved. It would cost 
money, and it would place restraints upon 
the individual citizen which at first would 
be resented, but a generation of such train- 
ing would result in the complacent observ- 
ance of the new order of affairs. If every 
public-spirited citizen could be made to re- 
alize that liberty does not mean license to 
injure another for the sake of his own con- 
veniences, and if he would understand that 
human happiness is based on the precept that 
the greatest good is that which conveys the 
greatest benefit to the greatest number, he 
would break away from his shell of custom, 
bigotry and selfish concern, and work for 
the general good of mankind, That is true 
liberty, true religion and true citizenship. 


Eprror’s Note.—A special article which appeared in 
The Journal of the American Medical Asseciation for 
\pril 22, 1916, is of interest in this connection. It 
is entitled “Typhoid in the Large Cities of the United 
States in 1915,” and covers reports of typhoid fever 
mortality in sixty cities of the United States having 
aver 100,000 population, 





+ HIE embankments described in this 
paper are those for the Ashby res- 
ervoir the Fitchburg ( Mass.) 





of 


works, constructed in 1915. 

This reservoir has a storage capacity of 
about 650,000,000 gallons and a_ surface 
It was necessary to 


area of 154 acres. 





FIG, L 


An Earth Dam of Unusual Cross-Section 


By Charles W. Sherman, M. Am. Soc. C. E. 
Ot the firm of Metcalf & Eddy, Consulting Engineers, Boston and Chicago 


build a dam at the outlet of the reservoir 
and a dike or embankment at a low point in , 
the watershed on one side, each having a 
length of about 1,200 feet. The maximum 
height of the dam above the original sur- 
face is about 28 feet, and of the dike about 
21 feet. 











id 


. 
é 


Fem SFT III 


MAXIMUM CROSS SECTION 


26 
OF THE ASHBY RESERVOIR DAM 






































JUNE, 1916 THI AMERICAN CITY 5 
- a 
; 
; 
FIG, 2 ASHBY RESERVOIR DIKE, NEARLY COMPLETED 
he maximum cross-section of the dam pressure without support fro 
is shown in the drawing, Fig. 1. It will be ment. Since the cost of a dam 
noted that compared with the usual section _ ticular locality will ordinarily) 
of an earth embankment, this is a very proportion to the amount of 
light section, being but 8 feet wide on top, _ tained in it, it is desirable to mal 
with side slopes of 2:7 upstream ind tities, both of earth and of « cre 
I 1 downstream. The top of the dam is as is consistent with safety 
6 feet above the water level, so that th In some cases it is necessary t 
thickness at water level is 29 feet. To be vision for a roadway across the 1 
sure, some dams in India have been built embankment, when a _ considerabl 
with a section as thin as 6 feet at the top, seldom less than 18 feet, must be prov 
7 but this was at an elevation of approxi In the case of very large res« 
mately 12 feet above water level, and th waves of considerable height 
thickness at water level was about 42 feet ticipated and the top of the e 
In standard American practice the least top must be built 12 or more : 
width of an earth dam is usually taken at water surface, and the thickness at . 
10 feet, and the ordinary top width varies level will be correspondingly inct 
from 20 to 30 feet. The dike at the Asho- the material available is somewhat I { 
kan reservoir of the New York City Cats- it may also be essential or desiral / 
: kill water supply is 34 feet wide on top at crease the thickness of the e1 
. an elevation of 20 feet above water; th order to increase the resistam 
thickness at water level is 114 feet. lation. j 
Phe Ashby dam differs from ordinary he Ashby reservoir is of 
practice also in the use of a diaphragm or, size, and waves of considerable | I I : 
| as it has been called, a curtain wall of re- not to be expected; consequently it cle | 
inforced concrete 12 inches in thickness, cided that 6 feet above water / 
in place of a core-wall. The masonry or adequate for the height « he « | 
concrete core-wall in the ordinary earth ment. The earthy materials lable 
embankment is of considerable thickness, clayey hardpan—was almost ideal fot ' 
seldom less than 3 feet and often as much purpose of constructing a { 
as 6 feet at the top, and is built with bat bankment, and a diaphrag 7 
tered or stepped sides so as to have a con- deemed necessary primarily 
siderable thickness at the base and to be the embankment against ; 
capable of withstanding a _ considerabl rowing animals, such as muskt1 
' 
; 














Le 








592 THE AMERICAN CITY 


therefore not considered necessary to rely 
upon the diaphragm or curtain wall for 
water-tightness, so that a thin wall would 
be nearly as efficient as an absolutely water- 
proof diaphragm. A thin waterproof dia- 
phragm, if adequately supported by the 
earth embankment, would also be equally 
eficient for resisting pressure, as_ the 
thicker core-wall of ordinary type. It was 
recognized, however, that unequal settle- 
ment in the embankment might occur, even 
though special precautions were taken to 
guard against it, and that such unequal set- 
tlement might result in cracking the curtain 
wall. Accordingly, steel reinforcement was 
provided to avoid any dislocation of por- 
tions of the wall sufficient to allow the pas- 
sage of burrowing animals which might 
make a passage for water. 

\t the site of the main dam the earth 
across the bottom of the valley was found 
to consist mainly of fine and very soft sand 
extending in some cases 20 to 25 feet below 
the original surface. A trench about 4 feet 
in width was accordingly excavated across 
the bottom of the valley and entirely 
through this sandy material, down to and 
well into hard and compact material. For 
part of the way across the valley this mate- 
rial consisted of clayey hardpan, and under 
the center of the dam of a layer of ce- 
mented sand having many of the character- 
istics of soft rock, but which could be re- 
moved by pick only with difficulty and 
which seemed to be absolutely impervious 
to water. The trench on 


VoL. XIV, No. 6 


material was spread in thin layers, watered 
when necessary, and thoroughly rolled with 
a grooved roller. A borrow pit near the 
opposite end of the dam was opened to pro- 
vide the remaining material after the ex- 
cavation of the spillway channel was com- 
pleted. This borrow pit was also utilized 
to obtain material for the dike, which was 
located at a point where suitable earth was 
not readily obtainable. At the site of the 
dike, however, firm foundation was encoun- 
tered close to the surface throughout its 
length, so that the construction of the cur- 
tain wall was very much simplified. 

The dike, which is shown in the photo- 
graph, Fig. 2, was laid out so as to follow 
the highest points of the ground, and is 
decidedly crooked. The plan of the dam 
consists of two straight lines making a 
slight angle with one another. Fig. 3 is a 
photograph of the dam under construction. 
lhe reinforcing steel for the curtain wall is 
particularly noticeable; also the method of 
compacting the earth by rolling. 

Plans for these embankments and the 
other structures appurtenant to the Ashby 
reservoir were prepared by Metcalf & 
Eddy, consulting engineers, of Boston. 
They also had consulting supervision of 
the construction, which was carried out 
under the direction of Ernest E. Lothrop, 
City Engineer of Fitchburg, with J. D. 
Savage as Resident Engineer. The con- 
tractors were E. W. Foley Contracting 
Company, of New York City. 





either side of the curtain 

wall was carefully re- 4 
filled with impervious 
clayey hardpan thor- 
oughly compacted, and 
this, together with the 
curtain wall, provides an 
adequate cut-off against 





the passage of water 
under the dam. 

The greater part of 
the material for the con- 
struction of the embank- 
ment at the dam was 
obtained from the exca- 
vation for the spillway 
channel at one end of 
the dam proper. This 
channel was cut through 














the side of a hill of 
clayey hardpan. The 


FIG. 3.—NORTHWESTERLY. PORTION OF THE RESERVOIR 
DAM DURING CONSTRUCTION 





a fisespe wench 


es 














eo 


ween 


ne 





593 


Water Distribution Systems in Relation to 


Fire Protection 
By George W. Booth 


Chief Engineer, National Board of Fire Underwriters 


HE distribution system of a_ public 
water-works may be considered as 
made up, in addition to the street 

mains, of valves, fire hydrants, service con- 
nections and fixtures, including those which 
furnish supply to sprinkler equipments and 
standpipes. 

In designing a new system, it is necessary 
to decide upon the use of one of the many 
formulas which have been dévised to deter- 
mine the probable carrying capacity of dif- 
ferent-sized mains. It has been our expe- 
rience that the Williams & Hazen formula, 
used either in connection with the book of 
tables or the slide rule, is the most gener- 
ally convenient. The values of “C” in this 
formula, as given in the tables, apply very 
well to pipe-carrying impounded surface 
water; these values show a decrease in 
carrying capacity of cast iron of 25 to 30 
per cent in twenty years, and of 38 to 45 
per cent in forty years. The smaller sizes 
naturally show the greatest decrease. lor 
most well waters and the harder waters 
found in the Great Lakes, the rate of dete- 
rioration is somewhat less, and a higher 
value of “C” must be used for pipe of a 
given age. 


Mains for Hydrant Supply 

No pipe as small as 4-inch should be laid 
to supply hydrants; roughly, one 6-inch will 
carry the same quantity of water as three 4- 
inch, and one 8-inch the same quantity as 
six 4-inch. The recommendations as to 
sizes of minor distributors incorporated in 
most of the reports of the Committee on 
Fire Prevention of the National Board of 
Fire Underwriters read as follows: 

“That the following be adopted as the stand- 
ard minimum size of mains used for hydrant 
supply for all future construction : 

“a. In residential districts, 8-inch; 6-inch to 
be used only to complete a good gridiron, and 
in no case in blocks 600 feet or more in length. 

“b. For important mercantile and manufac- 
turing districts, 8- and 12-inch; the former to 
be used only in sections where they complete 
a good gridiron and the latter for long lines 
not cross-connected.” 


The further recommendation is usually 
made: 
“That all 4-inch mains used for hydrant 


supply be replaced within five years 
\ note attached to this recommendation 
reads: 

“A gridiron system of mains of 
recommended above is satisfactory only when 
cross-connected at all intersections, fre 
dead ends, and with large secondary 
feeder mains at frequent intervals.” 

The maximum allowable length of the 
smaller mains between supporting larger 
mains is dependent very largely upon th« 
spacing of the 12- and 16-inch secondary 
feeders, and somewhat upon the initial 
pressure available. The maximum of 600 
feet for a 6-inch pipe is intended to apply 
to the type of system most often found, 


with 12- or 16-inch mains 3,000 or 4,000 
feet apart in either direction, and carrying 
such pressures that the total friction loss 
in the distribution system should not be 
allowed to exceed 15 or 20 pounds during 
maximum draft. There are some systems 
having secondary feeders not more than 
1,500 or 2,000 feet apart, or with an unusu- 
ally high initial pressure, where an unsup- 
ported length of 1,000 or 1,500 feet of 
6-inch pipe will still be able to furnish ade- 
quate hydrant supply at pressure not too 
greatly reduced. 

For pipe extensions into newly devel- 
oped districts, where the gridiron, as well 
as the supporting system of large mains, is 
likely to be incomplete for some time, a 
number of progressive departments are 
using 8-inch as the minimum size. Other 
cities have in years past adopted the co 
trary policy of laying 4-inch mains into 
new sections, on the theory that the de- 
mand would be light and no larger size was 
justified, and with the result that as these 
sections became more closely built, it was 
difficult to secure an adequate system with 
out replacing the smaller sizes. However, 
it is at present the almost universal | 


ractice 
to lay no pipe smaller than 6-inch for 
hydrant supply. A recent summary of the 





ee 


— 

















504 THE AMERICAN CITY 


practice in twenty-five cities in New Eng- 
land and New York shows only one where 
j-inch is still being used: in most of them 
the 4-inch is gradually being replaced and 
in a few others there is none in service. 


Distribution Mains 

lor mains in the distribution system, cast 
iron is usually considered in a class by itself, 
both as to length of service and general 
reliability. It is, however, subject to occa- 
sional sudden and disastrous breaks, some- 
times without apparent cause. Care is 
necessary in testing for defective pipes, 
both at the foundry and after laying, and 
many ruptures have occurred from a set- 
tling of the pipe line or from lack of care 
in avoiding high points of rock or hard 
earth in the trench, resulting in an uneven 
bed and unusual stresses in the pipe. In 
the attempt to find a material less liable to 
sudden rupture, the use of steel or wrought- 
iron pipe has been advocated. For the 
separate fire main system in the city of 
saltimore, installed in 1910, steel pipe was 
used, with special attention to eliminating 
impurities from the metal and securing an 
effective and durable coating for the pipe. 
Both these points are essential if corrosion 
is to be avoided. Kalamein pipe, which 
is essentially a galvanized pipe, has been 
used with considerable success in some 
western cities; it has not the life of cast 
iron, but is not so liable to rupture. Wood- 
stave pipe has also been tried in some 
western cities, and banded wooden pipe in 
some eastern cities, but their use in distri- 
bution systems is not advocated by the 
water-works officials who have had expe- 
rience with it. 

About twenty or thirty years ago many 
systems in the East, especially in New 
England, were constructed of cement-lined 
pipe, which consists of a thin sheet of 
wrought-iron or steel, covered with cement 
mortar inside and out, and in some cases 
of two wrought-iron shells, with layers of 
cement between and outside of them. 
These pipes sometimes gave good satisfac- 
tion for a number of years, depending 
largely upon the quality of workmanship. 
In general, this class of pipe has been found 
unreliable and subject to more or less fre- 
quent breaks, usually because the cement 
lining was not water-tight and the wrought 
iron has corroded and become so weakened 
that a slight shock has ruptured it. Trouble 


Vor. XIV, No. 6 


has also resulted from lightning discharges, 
which have, in some cases, ruptured a con- 
siderable length of pipe. 


Gate Valves 

From a fire protection standpoint, the 
main consideration in respect to gate valves 
is to secure sufficiently good spacing so that 
it will not be necessary to close off an un- 
reasonable length of pipe in case of acci- 
dent or repairs. The recommendation in 
the National Board reports that this length 
of pipe shall not exceed 500 feet in mer- 
cantile or manufacturing districts, nor 800 
feet in other districts, is considered rea- 
sonable, since many of the systems reported 
upon have gate valve distribution at least 
as good as this. A properly designed and 
ruggedly constructed valve is, of course, 
essential to good maintenance and reliable 
service. 

To make sure that valves are in good 
condition and are left open after being 
used, systematic inspections should be made 
at least annually, and records kept of in- 
spections and of all valves operated. A 
good illustration of the necessity for this is 
offered by the results of an inspection by 
the water department of a certain large city 
a few years ago: of about 7,000 valves in- 
spected, 49 were found closed, 300 partially 
closed and 100 were either not shown on 
the plans or were not in the ground. In 
another case a serious shortage of water 
at a rapidly spreading fire was discovered 
to be due to a closed gate. In some cities 
care has not been taken to secure gates all 
opening in the same direction, with the re- 
sult, especially when no proper records are 
kept, that gates supposed to be opened have 
been closed. 

In one city of about 30,000 population the 
fire flow tests conducted by National Board 
engineers showed a drop in pressure much 
greater than was anticipated. There were 
two mains, a 16-inch and a 12-inch, extend- 
ing from the pumping station to the mer- 
cantile district near by, with connecting 
lines crossing the street between the two 
mains; there should have been an adequate 
quantity of water available, with a loss of 
head of 15 or 20 pounds, whereas a less dis- 
charge resulted in a loss of head of over 80 
pounds. It turned out that a valve on the 
16-inch line and two on the connecting lines 
were closed, although supposed by the 
water department to be open; they oper- 





























JUNE, 1916 


ated in the opposite direction to most of 


the others in the system and had been 
closed for no one knows how lony, with 
little likelihood of the fact being discovered 


except by some such tests as were made. 


Hydrants and Hydrant Spacing 

Hlydrants should be of such dimensions 
and design as to pass adequate quantities 
of water with reasonable loss of head, 
should be sufficiently well distributed to 
permit of the maximum number of streams 
required to be concentrated on any fire 
without hose lines of excessive length, and 
good condition should be assured by fre- 
quent inspection and repairs when neces- 
Sary. 

Comparatively few fire departments at- 
tempt to supply more than one engine, serv- 

e an average of two hose lines, at a 
hydrant, or to use more than two direct 
hose lines from each hydrant. For this 
service, which means a flow of 500 or 600 
gallons per minute, the use of a hydrant 
with 5-inch foot-valve and 6-inch barrel 
and branch will result in a total friction 
loss of not more than 3 pounds, and this 
figure may be taken as a reasonable maxi- 
mum loss under maximum draft from dny 
hydrant. Smaller dimensions than those 
noted above may be allowable for hydrants 
on small systems or in scattered residential 
districts, but in general no 4-inch hydrants 
nor connections to mains should be used, 
and it is often worth while to replace 4-inch 
connections, especially if more than 1o or 
12 feet long. 

\ study of hydrant spacing in most of 
the large cities of the country has led to 
the conclusion that the area served per 
hydrant is a better index of the protection 
afforded than is the linear spacing or dis- 
tance between hydrants. This is so mainly 
because of the difference in the size and 
shape of blocks in various cities. An area 
divided into large blocks will require fewer 
hydrants to secure a given linear spacing 
than if the same area is divided into small 
blocks, even though in the former case the 
fire hazard and the necessity for good hy- 
drant distribution are greater. 

The quantity of water required for any 
district having been fixed upon, proper 
hydrant distribution may be best deter- 
mined from a sketch plan of such a num- 
ber of hose lines as are necessary to care 
for this quantity. A consideration of fric- 





THE AMERICAN CITY 





sos 
tion losses in hose indicates tha any 
thing like effective servic« » hose In 
should exceed 600 feet in length if fron 
a fire engine, nor 500 feet if direct f1 i 
hydrant, unless the hydrant pressure cot 
siderably exceeds that usu ily found whet 
direct hydrant streams are depended 

( onsidering the numbe r ot streams Ss 
taken from any hydrant, most high 
mercantile and manufacturing districts wi 
require at least one hydrant to each 40,00¢ 
to 80,000 square feet of area, and ordinarily 
well built-up residential districts one hy 
drant to each 100,000 or 12 000 squat 
ieet. rhe requirements will vary betwe 
he limits named, depending upon the total 
umount of water needed, and upon whether 
direct hydrant streams or fire engir 


streams are used. \s good or better dis 


tribution will be found in many of 


l 


larger cities, and in the case of 


districts such distribution corresponds 
roughly to a linear spacing of 150 feet and 
in residential districts of 300 feet. For 
each mercantile block 400 by 300 feet, c 
ter to center of streets, there should be i 
least three hydrants, probably located to the 
best advantage two at each street inter 
section and one intermediate hydrant « 
the long side of the block. 

Hydrants in poor condition ar st 
often the result of indiscriminate T 
other than fire department purposes. This 
results in worn operating nuts, worn and 


battered threads and leaky foot-valves 
lhis latter trouble is probably responsible 
for most frozen hydrants, since a hydrant 
with a tight foot-valve and proper drainag 


will seldom be found frozen. 


Quantity of Water Required for 
Fire Protection 
Reasonable fire protection requirements 
will vary with structural conditio1 
with other features affecting the conflagra 


} nd 
IS and 


tion hazard, and to some extent with the 
fire department strength of the city under 
consideration and of its neighbors. Popu 
lation is naturally not always a fair guid 


A aic, 


hut on the whole appears to be the best 


jua 
Reports issued 


measure for the approximate quantity of 


by the 
National Board recommend a minimun 


water necessary. 
1 oT 
1,500 gallons per minute in residential dis 
tricts, and for high value districts 
tity approximately equal to 1,00 

where x is the population in thousand 




















or 















OS 


596 THE AMERICAN CITY 


These quantities are considered to be per- 
haps 50 per cent in excess of what may 
actually be used through hose lines. The 
50 per cent allowance is intended to take 
care of the loss through broken service con- 
nections to buildings burned during the 
early stages of a bad fire, and will enable 
normal pressure conditions to be main- 
tained for a time at least, so that the fire 
department may not be hampered by lack of 
pressure as long as there is a chance to 
control what might develop into a confla- 
gration. During most of the conflagrations 
in which an estimate of the amount of 
water used has been possible, the maximum 
used on the fire and wasted through broken 
services and hydrants left open has been 
far in excess of what any of these systems 
may reasonably be expected to deliver while 
still maintaining normal pressures. At 
Salem, for instance, the maximum was at 
the rate of nearly 18,000 gallons per min- 
ute, nearly three times the amount called 
for by the above requirements. This quan- 
tity was, of course, delivered at very low 
pressure, and was only possible because of 
the emergency connections to the systems 
of adjoining municipalities. 

To determine the pipe sizes necessary in 
designing a new system, analytical methods 
must be used, with certain assumptions as 
to the effects of tuberculation of mains and 
other friction-producing elements. The 
same method may be used in determining 
the capacity of an existing system, but the 
results will be at best very approximate 
and actual flow tests from hydrants will 
give much more satisfactory and reliable 
figures. 

The method of conducting such tests as 
practiced by the engineers of the National 
Board of Fire Underwriters is a develop- 
ment of the scheme of measuring dis- 
charges from smooth-bore fire department 
nozzles by means of the Pitot tube and 
gage, originated by Mr. John R. Freeman 
and now used by the National Board in its 
tests of fire engines. 


Measuring Hydrant Discharges 

It is possible to measure hydrant dis- 
charges with much greater accuracy by the 
use of short lines of hose and large nozzles 
than from open butts. However, in cities 
where the normal hydrant pressures are 
low, only a small part of the total quantity 
available for engine supply may be obtained 


Vor. XIV, No. 6 


in this way, and much more time and labor 
is consumed than when open butt dis- 
charges are measured. For these reasons, 
and in order that a representative number 
of tests might be made in a reasonable time 
in the various cities reported on by the 
National Board, the present scheme was 
worked out. It is believed that the results 
obtained will show not more than 5 per cent 
of error. 

The number of hydrants in a group, all 
of which are opened simultaneously, varies 
from 3 to 6, or even more in exceptional 
cases, depending upon the quantity of water 
available, the pressures and the character 
of the district in which the test is made. 
It is usual to open all available outlets on 
the hydrants used. However, if the pres- 
sures are high enough to furnish effective 
streams direct from hydrants, it is better to 
open only enough outlets to lower the pres- 
sure in the mains to a figure assumed to be 
the minimum consistent with good fire ser- 
vice, which will range from 60 to 75 pounds 
or more, depending upon the character of 
the district. 

The pressure in the mains before and 
during the tests is determined by attaching 
a gage to a hydrant preferably located near 
the center of the group to be tested. It is 
sometimes advisable to have another gage 
at a hydrant outside the group, to deter- 
mine the loss of head in the main arteries, 
or a recording gage located near the center 
of the distribution system may serve the 
purpose for a number of groups. Knowing 
the loss of head due to ordinary consump- 
tion, and the additional loss due to the 
measured flow from hydrants, a close ap- 
proximation may be made of the quantity 
available at any given pressure. 

Hydrant outlets, especially the large ones, 
are often not completely filled by the 
stream; the area of no flow is almost al- 
ways a segment in the bottom of the outlet, 
of varying height, depending upon the de- 
sign of the hydrant and somewhat upon the 
velocity of the stream. Any projection into 
the waterway, such as the end of the stem 
of an independent valve or a roughness of 
the nipple, will also produce small “holes” 
in the stream. The area of no flow is in 
most cases fairly well defined, and the 
shape of the “hole” is sufficiently uniform 
to enable its proportion to the total area 
to be determined by measuring its height 
with a rule. For instance, with 44-inch 

















JuNE, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


outlets, a “hole” 1 inch high forms 10 to 
12 per cent of the area of the outlet; a 1™%- 
inch hole 20 to 25 per cent, and so on. 

In determining the average velocity of 
the stream issuing from the outlet, the Pitot 
tube is moved throughout the area, and the 
observer will soon train himself by this 
traverse to fix upon a substantially accu- 
rate average. Readings noted at the center 
and near the ends of the horizontal and 
vertical diameters will usually suffice, and 
the center reading in a small outlet is in 
most cases very near the average for the 
whole area. Readings should not be taken 
closer than one-fourth inch to the sides of 
the orifice, since there is a noticeable re- 
tardation of velocity caused by friction 
against the walls of the hydrant nipple. 
This retardation necessitates applying a co- 
efficient of discharge, which has been de- 
termined by careful experiments to be 
about 0.90; this is to be applied after al- 
lowance has been made, as above noted, in 
the case of outlets not completely filled by 
the stream. 

The Pitot tube used in determining dis- 
charges from hydrant outlets has a straight 
blade about 4 inches long, which is threaded 


597 


into one end of a piece of '4-inch brass 
pipe 8 or 10 inches long, ou the other end 
of which is screwed the gage by which the 
velocity of discharge is determined. The 
gage which appears to be best suited for 
his work is 3-inch, graduated in half- 
pounds, from 0 to 50 pounds. Such a gage 
may be read easily to the nearest quarter 
pounds; corrections should be made as indi- 
cated by calibrations before and after using, 
either by means of a weight tester or by 
comparison with an accurate test gage. 

Fire flow tests made as described above 
have been made by National Board engi- 
neers in more than 250 cities throughout 
the country. This method has also been 
adopted by a number of water departments 
and private companies. It has proved to 
be very useful in determining the quantities 
of water available for fire protection and 
the sizes of mains necessary for proper re- 
inforcement, as well as to detect abnormal 
conditions, such as closed valves or other 
obstructions in the mains. It is believed to 
be the easiest and most reliable method of 
making the determination which may be 
considered final in any system—i. e., its 
ability to deliver water at the hydrant out- 
let. 





Anti-Smoke 


“So far as the Federal Constitution is con- 
cerned, we have no doubt the state may by it- 
self, or through authorized municipalities, de- 
clare the emission of dense smoke in cities or 
populous neighborhoods a nuisance and sub- 
ject to restraint as such; and that the harsh- 
ness of such legislation, or its effect upon 
business interests, short of a merely arbi- 
trary enactment, is not valid constitutional 
objection. Nor is there any valid Federal 
constitutional objection in the fact that the reg- 
ulation may require the discontinuance of the 
use of property, or subject the occupant to 
large expense in complying with the terms of 
the law or ordinance.” 


In this language of Mr. Justice Day, the 
United States Supreme Court sealed the 
validity of municipal anti-smoke legislation 
in the recent case of Northwestern Laundry 
et al. vs, City of Des Moines (36 Supreme 
Court Reporter, 206). 


Laws Valid 


Plaintiffs sued to enjoin enforcement of 
an ordinance adopted by defendant city, 
which provided that the emission of dense 
smoke in portions of the lowa city should 
be a public nuisance, and prohibited the 
same. To that end the ordinance authorized 
the appointment of a smoke inspector, and 
otherwise dealt with the subject with a view 
to effecting the prohibited purpose declared. 
It was insisted by plaintiff that the ordi- 
nance was void because its standard of efhi- 
ciency required remodeling of many exist- 
ing furnaces, because licenses for such re- 
modeling were required, because the smoke 
inspector and the smoke abatement com- 
mission were given unrestrained discretion 
to prescribe equipment requirements, and 
because the ordinance does not operate 
uniformly throughout the city. All these 
and numerous minor objections against the 
validity of the ordinance were overruled by 
the Supreme Court. 





i 
' 


acc re A 


ee 








Children’s Play Day in Garfield Park, Cleveland 























Every year the city of Cleveland, Ohio, cel cluding Garfield Park, where these pictures 
brates in its parks a day known as Cleveland were taket he day is known as Play Day 
: Day Upon that occasion the city dedicates for the children who enjoy the playgrounds, 
t 1 . , , + , a ; ~ + 
! ew park or a new feature in an old and both boys and girls gather at the different 
park. On July 15, what is now know parks for games and dances. The daisy cos 
as Kingsbury Park was dedicated, and exer- tumes and the flower-covered hoops shown in 
cises were also held four other parks, in- the pictures were made on the playgrounds 
| l 
; 
i 





—- 














a 














599 


How City Gardeners Could Cooperate with 
the Public Schools 


By Alfred M. Brooks 


Professor of the History of Art, Indiana University 


ARDENING is good exercise because 
it brings many muscles into play and 
because it has to be done in the open 

air. Gardening is useful exercise because 
it sharpens the sight by developing keener 
perception of the signs of health and dis- 
ease in plants. 
ercise because it 
with objects of beauty. 
of gardening 
runners whose race is an ideal goal. 
of mind and hand which seeks to improve 
the flowers and fruits of 
ideal than that which seeks to improve the 
bodies of men. The Oslers and the 
banks are not far apart. In fine, 
is a healthful occupation, inseparable from 
things lovely, that holds great possibilities, 
both lucrative and spiritual. ‘Let the earth 
bring forth the herb yielding 
and the fruit tree yielding fruit,’ was the 
third command in the order of creation. 
Flowers always have been a part of man’s 


Gardening is civilizing ex- 
surrounds the gardener 
He whom the lure 
those 
Labor 


once possesses joins 


earth is no less 


Bur- 
gardening 


grass, seed, 


very being; their fruit, his life. They 
sweeten existence. They herald the com- 
ing spring. They symbol life after death. 


The bride wears them on her brow. The 
dead carries them on his coffin. 
fort and delight us. They belong to the 
poor and the rich; scarlet geranium in 
tenement window, orchid in palace 
servatory. 

The purpose of this article is a practical 
suggestion for the furtherance of garden- 
ing among boys and girls, and not its praise. 

Beginnings have been made in this di- 
rection, but little has been really 
plished. Filling school-room windows with 
blooming plants or giving seeds to school 
children in spring, with promise of a prize 
for the best results in autumn, are 
things to do, but not practical enough to 
insure highly desirable ends. The former 
calls for little more than admiration, and, 
at most, very little of the real work of 
“tending” the plants intelligently. The lat 
ter leaves the children undirected through 
the long summer vacation to do the best 


They com- 


con- 


accom- 


good 


they can with what plants 


up. The same is true, in most tances, 
when some philanthropic soul hires a 
vacant city lot, and parcels it t to the 
neighborhood children to cultivate he 
children are given land and seed. loo 
often they are not given daily instruction 
necessary to good results, nor are they 
shown the invaluable exampl rood re 
sults attained by some one who knows h 
to get them. 


Garden Helpers—an Unfilled Need 


In towns, large and small, pet s of 
moderate means, wanting a littl po 
must do all the work themselves. Gard 
helpers—i. ¢ intelligent and 1 derately 
trained help for such work—are ordinarily 
not to be had, because they do not exist. 
he services of a real gardener are onh 
for the rich. here is, howe ver, a demand 
for good garden hel pers, some one » come 
regularly for a few hours a week during 
the season, or upon special call, and not 
only do work, but show the owner of a little 
garden what to do and how to d These 
people would be analogous to the isiti lg 
nurses who are so useful in circumstances 
where a nurse is needed, but where twenty 
to thirty dollars a week for a nurse’s wages 


is out of the question. If these visiting 
gardeners were to be had, scores of town 
dooryards and larger plots on which, in 
spring, considerable money 1s ant llv spent 


SCc¢ ds and 


which is lost before mid 


fertilizing, and on 
plants—all of 


for digging, 


summer for lack of a little more care ot 
knowledge than the owner can provide 

would become continually attractive. As 
it is, such yards and plots soon become an 


eyesore and remain a public disfigurement 
Were it possible to hire 
the initial cost of the 
saved, the immediate 


i Visiting gardener, 
would be 


surroundings of 


gvarde n 


houses kept pleasant, and the good appear 
ance of the town, as a whole, wonderfully 
enhanced. 

How meet the need for this sort of gar- 











600 


den helper, as well as increase the demand, 
thereby adding to our own pleasure and the 
good appearance of our city, not to mention 
increasing the range of healthful jobs? 
The solution which | offer is one that would 
apply only to towns which have a city gar- 
dener and assistants, or some one whose 
duties are the same as those of a city gar- 
dener—i. e., a man who has charge of the 
grass, shrubs, trees and flowers on what- 
ever public land the town may own. Such 
towns are numerous, 


The City Gardener as a Teacher 

I would have the city gardener made a 
part of the public school system; the public 
places, parks and gardens, in part, a train- 
ing ground or laboratory. I would have it 
made part of the city gardener’s duty to 
teach gardening to a certain extent; the 
same of his assistants. I would start his 
classes by choosing a small number of boys 
and girls who wanted to learn to garden. 
I would fix, as condition of their taking the 
work, that they agree to give a stipulated 
number of hours to the subject, say a 
couple of hours per week after school, dur- 
ing the fall and later spring; more hours, 


THE AMERICAN CITY 





Vor. XIV, No. 6 


of course, during the summer. The work 
should consist in learning to help the city 
gardener, the teacher, and in managing un- 
der his direction a small plot given up to 
one or two varieties of ornamental plants 
or vegetables, such plots being, of course, 
not exposed to public view. But all the 
details could safely be left to the teacher. 
The more the pupils learned, the more they 
would be worth as help, until they might be 
paid a small sum for their work. After 
three years—the instruction might begin in 
either of the last two years of the gram- 
mar school course—these boys and girls 
would make good visiting gardeners. If 
properly advertised and vouched for there 
would be an abundance of work for them. 
Thus would many a boy and girl learn to 
earn a helpful wage, and some at least of 
the fundamentals of a useful occupation, 
while acquiring much desirable knowledge 
about the plant world by which our race is 
fed and by which it should be delighted. 
As I said to start with, there would be the 
accompanying benefits of healthful exer- 
cise in the open air, looking to the practical 
and honorable end of self-support. Would 
not the experiment be worth trying? 





In the Interest of Parks and Playgrounds 


The Park Institute of New England is an 
interesting organization, meeting several 
times a year in different New England 
cities. Mr. George H. Hollister, of Keney 
Park, Hartford, Conn., is known as man- 
ager of the Institute, and the man in charge 
of the park system in the city in which the 
meeting is to be held acts as a sort of lieu- 
tenant to the manager. Thus far, meetings 
have been held in Springfield, Worcester, 
Northampton, Lynn, Lowell.and Hartford. 
The following is a memorandum of the 
formation of the Institute: 


We, citizens of the different cities of New 
England, interested in municipal parks and 
playgrounds, and desirous of making available 
to each of us and to the public such knowl- 
edge and experience, arising from the methods 
and management of parks and playgrounds by 
cities, in order that they may give increased 
opportunity for the growth and development 
of children and young people, and add to the 
comfort and happiness of grown-ups, do agree 








to form ourselves into a Park Institute from 
New England and to abide by the following 
conditions: 


1. One member shal] have entire charge of the af- 
fairs of the Institute, to be known as its manager, 
who may make assessments as needed, arran for 
meetings, and do whatsoever work as in his judgment 
is necessary. He is to serve without compensation, 
and for one year or until his successor is chosen, to 
be elected at the first meeting held after the first of 
January each year. 


2. There may be six meetings each year to consist 
of addresses, papers, theses and discussions, which 
may be typewritten and sent to each member as re- 
quested. 

3. Candidates for membership may be proposed by 
any member, the vote being taken by letter, three 
negatives to reject; each member at the first meeting 


to prepare a thesis upon some subject of his own 
choosing. 


4. Each member agrees to qoveess papers and ad- 
dresses on any topic that may assi him by the 
manager, or to lead or take part in the discussion, to 
serve on committees of investigation or other matters 
as the manager may direct. 

5. The manager may drop from the roll those mem- 
bers who fail to attend three consecutive meetings. 

6. As the purpose of these meetings is for the se- 
rious consideration and formulation of the work and 
service of parks and playgrounds, all social affairs and 
banquets are to be discouraged and not to prevail until 
after the meeting for the presentation of subjects and 
their discussion has adjourned. 





A Vacation Survey 
By Herbert R. Sands 


Assistant Director of New York Bureau of Municipal Research in Supervision of Field Work 


N the “good old days” when it was de- 
sired to know how they were cleaning 
the streets, buying fire department 

equipment, operating accounting systems, 
etc., in another city, the opportunity offered 
for change of scene, a little trip, a few days 
relief from local worries, was rarely allowed 
to escape. The official making such a pil- 
grimage usually took with him one or more 
of his associate officials, and pleasure was 
combined with business. The local news- 
papers of the opposition forces got in the 
displeasing habit of quoting such trips as 
“junkets,” which habit was also acquired by 
certain dispassionate critics such as the 
local chambers of commerce, taxpayers’ 
associations, etc. The result was a falling off 
of official out-of-town, or rather inter-town, 
visiting. 

Two years ago an entire issue of the pub- 
lication Municipal Research was given over 
to the subject of “A Vacation Survey.” The 
present article is a “follow-up” on the plan 
therein suggested. 

Instead of combining pleasure with busi- 
ness—a small quantity of business being 
diluted in a large quantity of pleasure—the 
suggestion is to combine business with pleas- 
ure, and to do so without too great attenu- 
ation of either factor. Briefly stated, the 
thought is this: If you spend all or a part 
of your vacation in another city, or have a 
few hours between trains, why not keep a 
weather eye open to note the methods and 
results wherein the government of this city 
surpasses your home town? It is unneces- 
sary to make a task of it—quite the opposite. 
Simply follow your own proclivities or hob- 
bies of government, if you have any. If not, 
then this is the time to develop some. The 
suggestions made for a vacation survey in 
the above-mentioned issue of Municipal 
Research were so helpful that they are per- 
tinent to this article: 

Police 


Do patrolmen appear neat and business-like? 

Are they alert to assist pedestrians at cross-overs? 

Are they courteous and ready to advise? 

Do they attempt to cirect street traffic? 

Do they allow teamsters to obstruct street railway 
tracks? 

Do they allow children on the streets late at 
night: 


Are mendicants and vendors 

allowed on the 
Fire Prevention 

Are boxes, barrels, waste paper, excelsior 
allowed to accumulate in back yards? 

Is litter to be found under sidewalk gratings and 


of lead pencils, etc., 
strects? 


>» ete., 


in the entry ways «f vacant stores? 
Are livery stables, garages and lumber yards 
tolerated in the “congested value” district? 





Is gasoline storage pr regulated 
Buildings 

Are public buildings neat and orderly 

Are frame structures tolerated within the met 
cantile and manufacturing districts 

Are fire escapes equipped 
with iron treads? 

Are ladder fire escapes tolerated 

Do the buildings along the principal street 
form to an established building line 

Unnecessary Noises 

Are factory whistles, fire alarm 
wheeled street cars, vendors’ 
erated ? 

Do street musicians make their rounds early in 
the morning and late at night? 

Have “quiet zones” been established about schools 
and hospitals? 

Are drivers of automobiles, motorcycles, or mo- 
tor boats allowed to use the muffler cut-out with 
in the city limits? 

Soft Coal Smoke 

Is any attempt made to diminish the nuisance re 

sulting from the burning of soft coal in loco- 


perly 


with iron 


bells, flat 


cries, etc., to 


motives, factories, apartment houses and private 
residences ? 
Health 
Are unlicensed dogs allowed the freedom of the 
city? 


Do mosquitoes abound? 

Is the use of the common drinking cup and the 
roller towel permitted ? 

Are barber shops inspected? 

\re yard privies tolerated? 

Do dealers expose fruit and other 
dust and flies? 

Streets and Sidewalks 

Are side streets and alleys kept clean? 

Are receptacles for refuse placed at 
intervals? 

Are street-cleaning employes and teams sightly? 

Is money wasted in sprinkling water on unsur 
faced streets? 

Are there legible street signs at intersections? 

Are shade trees properly trimmed and protected 
from horses? 

Are overhead 
streets? 


food to street 


convenient 


main 


wires tolerated on the 


Are sidewalk openings covered with proper 
gratings? 

Are newsstands allowed on congested corners 

Are awnings and signs suspended at a proper 
height? 

Are merchants allowed to encumber the side 
walk with show cases, merchandise, packing 


boxes, etc. ? 
Parks and Playgrounds 

Are lawns and walks well maintained and kept 
clean? 

Are there rest rooms and comfort 
are they kept in good order? 

Are there suitable receptacles for refuse? 

Are playgrounds under the supervision of capable 
instructors ? 

Is playground apparatus dismantled over Sunday? 

Where do children ‘play on Sunday 


stations, and 


Almost every city does some one or two 
things particularly well—possibly better than 
any other city in the country. The visitor 























= 








602 THE AMERICAN CITY 


in a city should find out what these things 
comprehend. It would be impossible to pub- 
lish here anything like a complete list of 
such features, but by way of illustration 
the writer invites the reader to take an 
itinerant zig-zag with him across the coun- 
try from New York. 

Starting from 87 Nassau Street, the home 
office of Tue American Cirry, or from 261 
Broadway, the home office of the Bureau of 
Municipal Research—both of which offices 
always welcome visitors, and where the 
strong points of New York’s government 
can be learned, we will start south stopping 
in Norfolk, Va., and Atlanta, Ga. Comp- 
troller James N. Bell in the former city, 
and deputy comptroller B. G. West in the 
latter, can show the excellent improvements 
they have made in the accounting systems 
of their respective cities. In New Orleans, 
La., commissioner of property E. E. Lafaye 
has dene excellent constructive work along 
a dozen different lines. In fact he is one 
of the live wires of government in the South. 
Returning to New York we will of course 
run over from Jacksonville, where the 
American City Bureau has just reorgan- 
ized the Chamber of Commerce, to talk with 
the new city manager of St. Augustine, Fila., 
and also stop over in the other city-manager 
cities such as Lakeland, Fla., Beaufort, 
S. C., Hickory, N. C., ete. 

In Springfield, Mass., C. O. Dustin of the 
Springfield Bureau of Municipal Research 
has a group of unusually high-type business 
men behind him, and is attracting wide at- 
tention to his charter work and municipal 
accounting system. In Philadelphia, Pa., a 
perspective of the constructive features of 
recent years can also best be obtained from 
the Iecal Bureau of Municipal Research, 
where F. P. Gruenberg is in charge. Fail- 
ure to talk with Sherrard Ewing of the 
Chamber of Commerce in Reading, Pa., or 
with the chief accountant at the City Hall 
would be to miss a description of one of the 
best, if not the best, accounting system in 
the United States. On our way to Roches- 
ter, N. Y., we must surely stop in Syracuse 
to see that city’s new system of police 
records and reports. In Rochester there is 
a very wide-awake local research bureau 
backed by George Eastman, and, moreover, 
we must not leave without first having 
looked over the new system of work in the 
office of auditor E. S. Osborne, talked with 
Dr. Goler in the health department, in- 





Vor. XIV, No. 6 


spected the city’s park and playground sys- 
tem and learned of the efficiency work in the 
schools. In Buffalo, N. Y., the new com- 
mission government has not yet gotten well 
under way, but we will at least stop long 
enough to talk with Dr. Froncezak concern- 
ing his improvement of health conditions 
there, and ascertain from Charles B. Hill, 
Superintendent of Finance and Accounts, 
the new plans with respect to the city’s fiscal 
system. 

In Pittsburgh, Pa., we will go direct to 
Robert Garland of the city council, who has 
for several years been aggressive for better 
government in Pittsburgh. We will, of 
course, allow plenty of time to confer with 
M. E. Moffet of the Mayor’s Bureau of 
Costs, and Tensard DeWolf of the Voters’ 
League, who have been engaged on con- 
structive work in the front line of trenches 
for several years. 

Dayton, Ohio, naturally has for a year or 
more been the show town of the country so 
far as rapid-fire accomplishments are con- 
cerned, and we will save time by going 
direct to the local Bureau of Municipal Re- 
search for information. In Cincinnati, H. S. 
Moore of the local bureau can inform us as 
to the strong points. In Chicago we will 
motor through the entire boulevard and park 
system—the finest in the United States—and 
call at the Chicago Bureau of Public Effi- 
ciency in the City Club building for advice 
on the other good features of Chicago’s gov- 
ernment. In St. Paul, Minn., J. C. Flana- 
gan has been advertising to the world for 
two years past his excellent new system of 
water bureau administration. We must not 
miss that. In Minneapolis, Minn., Frank 
Staley of the research bureau of the Civic 
and Commerce Association puts on a special 
act entitled “How to Put the City and 
County Government to Work.” We want 
front seats there. 

Ex-Mayor C. M. Fassett, who is now 
Commissioner of Public Utilities in Spo- 
kane, Wash., has done much excellent work 
in public utility administration there, and 
we must surely see him. In Portland, Ore., 
Commissioner of Public Works, Robert G. 
Dieck, has been waging an up-hill struggle 
in constructive accomplishment. Los An- 
geles, Cal., has so much under way that we 
had best go direct to Dr. Jesse D. Burks 
in the efficiency bureau, and to auditor John 
S. Myers for guidance. Stopping in Denver 
on our return trip, Fire Chief Healy will 

















JuNE, 1916 THE 
show us one of the best administered fire 
departments between the two oceans. 

In this rapid survey we have merely men- 
tioned a few evidences of municipal pro- 
gress that have come to the writer's per- 
sonal attention. Many other points would 
be found worth studying in the cities in- 
cluded, as well as in other cities not noted. 

Having arrived back home, ask yourself 
your opinion of the old town. Are you satis- 


AMERICAN 


Gin ¥ 603 
fied with all of its methods of government? 
If you are, then forget petty polities and 
give your local officials your active sup- 
port. If you are not satisfied, then talk with 
your mayor and with the leaders in your 
commercial about and 
means for correcting its defects. Combine 


association ways 
with national preparedness some civic pre 
paredness talk and action for your city 
ernment. 


gov- 





The Education of Exceptional Children 


Children is the subject of the eleventh 

report of the Cleveland Foundation 
Education Survey. The investigations and 
report have been made by David Mitchell, 
of the Department of Psychology of the 
University of Pennsylvania. 

Mr. Mitchell divides such pupils into two 
classes, the socially competent and the so- 
cially incompetent. The competent are 
those who are expected to find a self-sup- 
porting place for themselves among other 
normal members of society. Classes for all 
these should be conducted in the regular 
buildings, and as much of the instruction as 
possible should be given in the same rooms 
with normal children, 

the epileptic, insane and feeble-minded 
children should be taught in separate build- 
ings. They can never be trained to take 
normal places in adult life. Able-minded 
children are only handicapped by the effort 
to use them to help educate those who can 
never be brought up to self-direction and 
self-dependence. This conclusion of the 
Cleveland Foundation Survey is contrary to 
the practice in Cleveland and many other 
cities. Its acceptance is socially sound but 
revolutionary in effect. 

The report discusses the use of the Binet- 
Simon Test for feeble-mindedness. The 
usefulness of this test is frankly acknowl- 
edged. The necessity and practice of study- 
ing the family history and past life of the 
child is recognized and commended. 

But the Binet Test is declared to be in- 
sufficient by itself for determining many 
cases of feeble-mindedness. The use of this 
method alone for measuring mental ability 
is compared with examination for tuber- 


Sciitare and Classes for Exceptional 


culosis by sputum tests alone. The sputum 
test may determine the large majority of 
tubercular patients. It can be given by a 
laboratory assistant, but no doctor relies 
on sputum tests alone for diagnosing tuber- 
culosis. He supplements the testing abil- 
ity of the laboratory assistant by palpita- 
tion, percussion, ausculation and tuberculin 
tests. Medical experience and training are 
needed for administering these supplement- 
ary methods of diagnosis. 

In the same way the Binet Test must be 
augmented by the methods adequately un- 
derstood only by the all-around clinical 
psychologist, and unusable by the person 
trained only in Binet testing. Such supple- 
mentary methods include the Yerkes- 
Bridges Point Scale, the De Sanctis Graded 
Tests, the Healy Tests, the Terman Puzzle 
Tests, the Thorndike Mechanical Tests, the 
Ebbinghouse Completion Tests, the Swift 
and Terman Interpretation Tests, and the 
“Aussage” Tests. 

A main defect of the Binet Test 
following : 


is the 
If a child fails on the test for 
a three-year-old, he is rated as an idiot 
whether he has lived seven or seventeen 
vears. A child who is fourteen years and 
tests at ten-year is feeble- 
minded with the same certainty as though 
he were forty and tested at ten. The dif- 
ficulty is that this same method assumes to 
locate people in reliable definite classifica- 
tions as to their mental abilities with the 
same certitude and precision as athletes are 
classified for competitions on the basis of 
their weight and previous performances. 
The rating as feeble-minded with these 
tests as the ultimate criterion is the funda- 
mental difficulty. 


classified as 














po gee 








604 








News and Ideas for Commercial and 
Civic Organizations 








Mansfield’s City Planning Com- 
mission 

MAnsFie_p, Onto.—At the suggestion of 
ne AMERICAN City, the Chamber of Com- 
merce brought to the attention of the 
Mayor and City Council of Mansfield the 
advisability of appointing an official city 
planning commission. Such commissions 
may be legally appointed by Ohio munici- 
palities under the provisions of an act 
passed by the 1915 Legislature and which 
became operative January 1, 1916. The 
recommendation of the Chamber was fa- 
vorably received, and on March 31 the City 
Council authorized Mayor George H. Low- 
rey to appoint such a commission. Inas- 
much as the suggestion came from the 
Chamber of Commerce, the Mayor asked 
that the Chamber make recommendations 
as to the personnel of the Commission. 

The act provides that in addition to the 
mayor and director of public works, the city 
planning commission shall consist of five 
citizen members. Through a system of bal- 
loting, the Board of Directors of the Cham- 
ber selected the following persons: C. F. 
\ckerman, T. R. Barnes, F. B. Black, H. L. 
Goemann and FE. S. Nail. These citizens 
were immediately appointed by Mayor Low- 
rey, and the appointments were confirmed 
on April 21. 

Cc. S. WILLIAMS, 
Secretary, Mansfield Chamber of Commerce. 


+ ¢ 


City Beautification Survey by 
Junior Chamber 

Srockton, Cat.—That boys ranging 
from fourteen to twenty-one years of age 
have well-developed powers of observation 
has been demonstrated by a survey made in 
Stockton, Cal., under the auspices of the 
Junior Chamber of Commerce. The survey 
was the first activity of consequence under- 
taken by the organization, which was 
formed in February, and the membership 
was limited for the time being to sixty. 





The most important ward of the city was 
selected and divided into six districts, each 
in charge of a captain who was given from 
four to six assistants. Reports were made 
hy the captains on cards, there being four 
cards for each block, thus providing for the 
four frontages, with subdivisions for the 
various parcels of property. The back of 
the cards was left blank for special com- 
mendation or criticism. The scope of the 
survey is indicated in the items on which 
reports were to be made. In the business 
district the following were to be reported 
upon: broken pavement, oil in street, refuse 
in street, broken walk, broken curb, un- 
swept walk, unwashed windows, billboards, 
refuse, awnings. In the residence district: 
sidewalks, curbs, streets, trees, fences, rub- 
bish, lawn. 

One of the concrete results of the sur- 
vey was a plan for the improvement of the 
old Weber home, where Captain C. M. 
Weber, the founder of Stockton, lived. A 
sketch was presented for the improvement 
of the property which for various causes 
has been allowed to deteriorate. It is the 
hope of the boys that the city government 
may ultimately be interested in the project 
and this historic spot beautified and pre- 
served. 

The following is a typical extract from 
reports of the captains, and indicates the 
spirit that animated the boys who handled 
the survey: 

“The team doing the work finds this district, 
as a whole, in exceedingly good condition and 
worthy of the highest praise for its commend- 
able attitude in trying to bring about a more 
beautiful Stockton, 

“There is little that could be said of any 
particular defect within this district, for the 
very few faults that can be found are of so 
slight a nature that they can be classed neither 
as great nor as unsightly. However, there are 
improvements which, if immediately and prop- 
erly attended to by the property owners, would 
add much to the beautification of this district 
of the ‘gateway city.” In some places tree 
roots have grown under and raised the side- 








JUNE, 1916 THE 


walks and in many cases left them full of 
cracks. And besides, there are a few trees 
that need trimming, fences that need painting 
or repairing, lawns that need 
caring for, and vacant lots that should be 
cleaned. One can hardly imagine the addi- 
tional beauty that would be conveyed to this 
section if lawns were planted between the 
sidewalks and the gutters, if the gutters were 
kept clean (mainly of fallen leaves), and if 
the telephone and other poles were given a 
coat of paint.” 


watering and 


Cards of appreciation, signed by the cap- 
tains and surveyor of the district, were 
sent out to residents whose property has 
been brought up to the high standard set by 
the boys, expressing gratitude for the co- 
operation of the residents in the scheme for 
making Stockton a more beautiful city. 

J. P. IRISH, je. 


Secretary, Stockton Chamber of Commerce 
+ ¢ 
The Value of Supervised Indus- 
trial Rest Rooms 

3oston, Mass.—It is usually admitted 
that an outlay of money for inspection and 
timely repairs of machinery is profitable. 
The worker who is not quite fit physically, 
however, is usually allowed to drag along, 
accomplishing less than a day's work, or 
else to give up and go home, in either case 
causing loss to the employer. The Com- 
mittee on Health in Industry of the Boston 
Association for the Relief and Control of 
Tuberculosis, organized a year ago, is work- 
ing to conserve the health of the employe. 

It was found that such supervision is best 
accomplished by establishing a treatment 
room or rest room in the factory, under the 
supervision of a graduate nurse, or, if the 
factory be very large, under a physician 
assisted by a nurse. The industrial plants 
of several members of the Boston Chamber 
of Commerce are so equipped, and the pro- 
prietors of those plants realize that the es- 
tablishment of such service not only makes 
for increased efficiency of the working 
force, but very materially cuts down the 
loss of time and diminishes suffering from 
preventable disease. The moderate outlay 
required is considered a profitable invest- 
ment. 

Many workers have their efficiency much 
impaired because they are suffering from 
some easily correctable defect, the existence 
of which they do not suspect. The factory 
nurse often discovers physical defects and 
arrests diseases in their incipiency. Pro- 


AMERICAN 


Sie y 605 
fessional observation of the workers, too, 
oftentimes enables the physician or nurs¢ 
to suggest the work best adapted to the 
worker and to determine work should 
be avoided. The rest room is also useful to 
employes only slightly or temporarily indis 
posed who might otherwise be obliged to 
£O home. 


what 


After resting in this quiet room 
a while, they 
work. 

The Secretary of the Committee ot 
Health in Industry, in gathering data fro 
half a dozen large plants which employ an 
industrial nurse, found that at one plant 
during the latter half of 1915 more than 
8,000 


are usually able to return to 


cases were treated, a tenth of that 
number being for affections of the throat 
and for colds contracted when la grippe 
was prevalent. Prompt treatment checked 
these conditions and prevented their devel- 
oping into serious illness. About 25 per 
cent of the cases treated at this plant were 
from minor industrial accidents, some of 
which, if neglected, would have developed 
blood poisoning and enforced the absence 
of the worker for a considerable period. 
In one large factory, 16,000 accident cases 
and a number of medical cases were cared 


for by the nurse and physician during the 
last three years, and it was estimated that 
$15,000 was saved to the corporation by 
maintaining this hospital service. 


The Secretary of the Committee on 
Health in Industry may be addressed at 4 
Joy Street, Boston. 


+ + 


County Highway Conditions 
Investigated 

Wi-LmiIncton, Det.—An investigation 
into the general condition of the highway 
work which is being done under the juris- 
diction of the Levy Court of New Castle 
County, Delaware, has just been concluded 
by a commission of engineers selected by 
a special committee of the 
Chamber of Commerce. 


Wilmington 
The investigating 
commission consisted of Arthur H. Blanch- 
ard, Professor in charge of the Graduate 
Course in Highway Engineering at Colum- 
bia University, New York City; Henry G. 
Shirley, Chief Engineer of the Maryland 
State Roads Commission: and George W 
Tillson, Consulting Engineer to the 
ough President of Brooklyn, N. Y. 
The commission’s investigations included 


30r- 











606 


consideration of the following items: Or- 
ganization; County Highway System; Ap- 
propriations; Preliminary Investigations, 
Surveys, Design, and Office Practice; Ad- 
vertisements, Bids, Specifications and Con- 
tracts; Accounts; General Condition and 
Cost of Highways Examined; Specific 
Types of Roadways for Intra- and Inter- 
state Trunk Highways; and Maintenance. 
The report covered the existing conditions 
relative to each of these items, followed in 
each instance by recommendations regard- 
ing the economic and efficient development 
of the several phases of highway work enu- 
merated. 

The Chamber of Commerce has itself not 
yet acted upon the recommendations con- 
tained in the report, but the committee un- 
der whose direction the report was prepared 
is now at work upon a definite course of 
procedure whereby the Chamber may labor 
in a practical way to accomplish many of 
the reforms suggested. 

The report has been favorably received 
by the public generally and by all the local 
newspapers. The Levy Court, our county 
governing body, has already adopted reso- 
lutions calling upon its attorney and the 
County Engineer to study the report care- 
fully and report back to it on the recom- 
mendations contained therein. There is 
every reason to expect improved highways 
as a result of this Chamber of Commerce 
activity. 

The Commission's report is available for 
free distribution upon request. 


CLARENCE C. KILLEN, 
Secretary, Wilmington Chamber of Commerce. 


+ + 
“Dress-Up” Week 


Cotorapo Sprincs, Coro.—The week of 
April 3-8 was “Dress-Up Week” in Colo- 
rado Springs, so designated by the Chamber 
of Commerce of that city. Prizes were 
offered for the most artistically decorated 
store windows in the several classes into 
which the merchandise was divided, silver 
cups for first prizes and ribbons for second 
prizes. The classification was as follows: 

Class A—Department, furniture, dry goods, 
millinery and art stores 

Class B—Men’s and boys’ clothing and fur- 
nishings, tailors 

Class C—Shoe stores 

Class D—Hardware, grocery, sporting goods 
and auto accessories stores, auto dealers 

Class E—General; best selling windows not 
in classes A. B. C or D 


THE AMERICAN CITY 





Voi. XIV, No. 6 


Class F—Most unique window not in classes 
A. B, C, Dor E 

At 7.30 on the opening evening bombs 
were exploded in different parts of the city 
as a signal for the lights in all the store 
windows and signs, as well as the street 
lamps, to be turned on. The contrast from 
darkness to light was very effective. The 
judges rode through the business district in 
automobiles to review the displays. On 
Thursday evening living models and ani- 
mated displays were seen in the windows of 
as many stores as could arrange for them. 
The Elks’ band furnished music every 
evening from an automobile, in which they 
were driven over the business district. 


RAY ROBBINS, 
Chairman, Retail Merchants’ Division, Colorado 
Springs Chamber of Commerce. 


+ + 
Indiana’s Centennial Celebration 


Peru, Inp.—During the summer and fall 
of the present year the centennial anniver- 
sary of Indiana statehood will be celebrated 
in pageantry and festivity throughout the 
state. There will be township and county 
celebrations, all culminating in a spectacu- 
lar demonstration at Indianapolis during 
the State Fair. 

The celebration for Miami County will 
be held in Peru during the third week in 
August, and will be planned and conducted 
under the auspices of the Peru Chamber of 
Commerce. An historical pageant will be 
presented, visualizing the development of 
the locality through a period of many years. 

This pageant will be devoted largely to 
the portrayal of scenes from the life of 
Frances Slocum, “The Lost Rose of the 
Wyoming,” who was kidnapped by the 
Delaware Indians from the home of her 
parents near the present site of Wilkes- 
barre, Pa., in 1778, when only five years 
of age, and for whom a fruitless search 
of many years was made until hope was 
abandoned. She was discovered over sixty 
years later living near Peru as the widow 
of a Miami chief. The body of Frances 
Slocum lies buried near this city, the grave 
being marked by a monument erected a 
few years ago by the Chamber of Com- 
merce. Members of the Slocum family 
from all parts of the country have signified 
their intention of witnessing the pageant, in 
which the life of their distinguished kins- 
woman will be given such prominence. 

The entire community, through its va- 





JUNE, 1916 THE 
rious organizations, is cooperating in the 
plans for the centennial celebration, which 
assures its success. 


H. E. HERSHEY, 
Secretary, Chamber of Commerce of Peru 


+ + 


How Eau Claire Won Her Audi- 
torium and Armory 

Eau Cratre, Wis.—The accompanying 
illustration shows how the auditorium 
building to be erected in Eau Claire will 
look when completed. 

The building is to be 100 feet wide by 
150 feet deep. The main auditorium will 
have a seating capacity of 3,000 people, in- 


AMERICAN C 


& & | 607 


inaugurated by the 
\ssociation in June, 


and Commerce 
1914. The Philhar- 
monic Society, which has been a substan- 
tial promoter of the musical thought and 
activity in this community, was a 
power in supporting the idea. It was be- 
lieved that improved facilities would ma- 
terially promote Eau Claire as a convention 
city, and her business interests were alive 
to the opportunities and advantages this 
line afforded. There were also excellent 
opportunities for large industrial exhibits. 
Local educational authorities were inter- 
ested in having an adequate assembly hall 
for school functions, and the members of 


Civic 


real 

















cluding the balcony and stage. This hall 
will be 80 x go feet in the clear, and the 
floor will be level to accommodate exhibi- 
tions, athletic drills and like events. Pro- 
vision is being made to slightly elevate this 
floor at the rear by a mechanical device for 
raising and lowering it, to permit those 
seated in the rear of the hall when public 
gatherings are held there to get a better 
view of the stage. On the ground floor— 
that is, the floor beneath the auditorium 
proper—ample quarters have been provided 
for the local militia company. On this 
floor there will also be large and small 
rooms for public meetings and other func- 
tions. The construction will be fireproof 
throughout, and much thought is being de- 
voted to making the structure everything 
that could be desired in architecture and 
service. ; 

The movement for the auditorium was 


the Northwestern Wisconsin Teachers’ As- 
sociation needed better convention, auditor- 
ium and exhibition facilities. 

With this partial preliminary survey of 
the situation, committees were appointed to 
obtain plans and secure a bond issue by 
popular election. The construction of a 
new city hall had been under consideration 
for some time, to be located on a block in 
the center of the city in which a beautiful 
public library had been built some years 
before. The remainder of that block was 
thought to be the proper location for the 
new auditorium building. This led to the 
development of the civic center idea, and 
a plan to secure this site was the first step 
in maturing the auditorium scheme. 
natures were obtained to petitions request- 
ing the city authorities to submit a proposi- 
tion covering a bond issue each for a new 
city hall and an auditorium building to he 


Sig- 














yh go 





fo8 THE AMERICAN CITY 


erected in this civic center. This was done, 
but the election failed by a very few votes 
because of a controversy which had arisen 
over the value of the land involved in the 
auditorium site. There seemed to be ample 
support for the proposition tq issue bonds 
to build the city hall, however, and the 
Council soon after submitted an ordinance 
for a bond issue of $50,000 for that purpose, 
which carried easily at the election. Con- 
struction was at once commenced, and the 
building will be completed by September 1. 
The city hall project was no doubt brought 
to a speedier consummation than would 
have been the case had not the joint scheme 
referred to been tried. 

The agitation for a public auditorium was 
renewed with vigor, and petitions for a 
new election were circulated and filed with 
the City Council. The Council promptly re- 
submitted the question by ordinance, pro- 
viding for the issue of $85,000 of bonds, 
to be paid serially over a period of twenty 
years, of which not more than $15,000 
should be expended for the site. The propo- 
sition carried at the election on December 
7, 1915. A site on the north side of the city 
was selected, the old civic center location 
having failed because of the limitation 
placed upon the amount to be paid for it. 
As a matter of fact, however, the site se- 
lected cost several thousand dollars more 
than the amount stipulated, the excess being 
provided by contributions from residents in 
the district in which the plot is located. 

To convince the public that a bond issue 
of $85,000 to be repaid serially over a pe- 
riod of twenty years would not be a burden 
to the individual citizen, the following com- 
pilation of figures was published, showing 
the full cost to each taxpayer for $1,000 
of assessed valuation: 


Bonds $85,000.00 Ay 4 


4 1-2 per cont interest 





00 
885.00080 840,162.60 $126,162.50 $11.621 

There is great enthusiasm over the un- 

dertaking. All feel sure that the new audi- 





Vor. XIV, No. 6 


torium will be a source of great satisfac- 
tion to the community, and that it will af- 
ford accommodations for every project hav- 
ing to do with the promotion of the welfare 
and prosperity of the people in this section. 
RICHARD F. KAISER, 


Seasstery, Civic and Commerce Association of 
a 


Eau ire. 
+ + 
A Membership Campaign and its 
Results 


Orrumwa, Iowa.—As a result of the re- 
cent membership campaign, the Ottumwa 
Commercial Club now has 605 members 
paying $20 a year each, and 50 special 
members at $10 per annum. In planning 
the program of work for the year 1916 spe- 
cial attention has been given to city plan- 
ning. Under the heading of The City Plan 
the proposed activities include: 


1. Putting all streets in permanent condition 
from end of paving to city limits. 

2. Marking organized highways; oiling 
roads; putting down cement sidewalks in place 
of brick. 

3. Bringing about the erection of a coli- 
seum. 

4. Improving and extending park system. 

5. Giving attention to the subject of flood 
prevention. 

6. Establishing a “white way” for the busi- 
ness district. 

7. Bringing about the erection of a tuber- 
culosis hospital, also a detention hospital. 


A splendid start has been made in other 
departments of the work planned for 1916. 
The addition to our old quarters, which 
were always inadequate, is rapidly nearing 
completion, and will enable us more easily 
to perform the larger work planned. This 
addition includes rooms for lounging, read- 
ing, billiards and cards, an assembly hall, a 
kitchen, a pantry, a ladies’ rest room, and 
a general and a private office. 

One of the first undertakings after the 
reorganization was the obtaining of $520 to 
be given to the boys and girls of Wapello 
County for the best individual acres of corn 
and the raising of young porkers. The 
next accomplishment was the securing of 
fifty memberships in Wapello County for 
a Greater Iowa Association. This branch 
is to have charge of the publicity and legis- 
lation relative to giving every county in 
Iowa option regarding the issuance of 
bonds for the improvement of county high- 
ways. The Clean-Up Campaign Committee 
is working effectively in its campaign for a 
cleaner and more attractive Ottumwa. 
Funds to the amount of $800 have been se- 








JUNE, 1916 THE 
cured for the establishment of a free dental 
dispensary to be operated in connection 
with the public schools. A short course in 
merchandising, to cost the Club $600, will 
be given, with the assistance of Iowa State 
University. Good progress is also being 
made on our new $300,000 hotel, which was 
financed by the Commercial Club last sum- 
mer. 
J. N. WEIDENFELLER, 


Secretary, The Ottumwa Commercial Club 


Combating the Mail Order Evil 

OrLanpdo, Fra.—Splendid success 
crowned the efforts of the new Retail Mer- 
chants Council of the reorganized Orlando 
Board of Trade when the Council's first 
two special trade days were held April 18 
and 19. The city was crowded from far 
and near by residents of the country, many 
of whom had been trading with other towns 
and with mail order houses. Band concerts 
were held on the morning and the after- 
noon of each day. Upon each corner in the 
business district stood a large covered 
barrel of free ice water. A high school 
athletic meet was a feature. 

The plan will be continued throughout 
the summer, two special bargain days being 
held every month. Wide 


AMERICAN 


City 


000 
and visitors are urged to send postal cards 
and literature descriptive of Miami to their 
friends in the North. March 25 was Postal 
Card Day this year. It is that 
fully 10,000 Miami postal cards found their 


estimated 


way into the outgoing mail on that day. 
No less than 6,000 views of the city were 
disposed of at the three booths of the Cham 
ber of Commerce located in the business 


section, and it is thought tl 
more were sold at the stores 


at al least 4,000 


Miami liter- 


ature in stamped envelopes was on hand at 
each booth and was given free to anyone 
buying cards. More than 4,200 pieces of 


literature were disposed of in this way 


It is difficult to predict the results of this 
advertising, but the Chamber of Commerce 
believes in doing everything possible to ad- 
vertise Miami, and feels that tourists are 
likely to be attracted south by such efforts. 

GUY W. LIVINGSTON, 
Secretary, Miami Chamber 


+ + 


News from Louisiana 
Monroe, La.—The Monroe Chamber of 
Commerce has recently 


of Com e 


been reorganized. 
In less than ten days’ time subscriptions in 
the amount of $7,500 were secured for the 





publicity is given over 
the central Florida ter- 
ritory by means of circu- 
lars and newspaper ad- 
vertising. Real bargains 
are offered by every 
members of the Council 
on these days. 

The Merchants Coun- 
cil plans to hold automo- 
bile tours to surround- 
ing communities during 
the summer, thus bring- 
ing about a closer ac- 


a. 
t 
1 
. 
: 
# 
’ 














quaintanceship. Instead 
of complaining about the 
mail order trade evil, first class goods are 
to be offered at such fair prices that the 
mail order trade will die a natural death. 


FRED M. ALLEN, 
Secretary, Orlando Board of Trade 


+ + 
Postal Card Day 


Miami, Fra—It has been the custom 
each year in Miami for the Chamber of 
Commerce to designate a special day as 
Postal Card Day, on which all residents 


\MENTAL 


LIGHTING, MONROE, LA 


year's work. The business interests as well 


as the citizens are giving the movement 
their hearty support, and the Chamber is 
confident that the present year’s work will 
be one of the best in its existence. 

The young men who compose the auxil- 
iary of the Chamber of have 
had sixty-eight electric lighting standards 
installed on five of the principal business 


Commerce 


streets, which is a distinct improvement in 
those thoroughfares. 
An important activity of the Chamber is 





S 
ty, 
* 


| 
| 


\ 
j 
) 
; 
f 
5 
¥ 
& 
- 





i 
+ 
i$ 








O10 


the effort being put forth to encourage the 
colonization of northern Louisiana by sub- 
stantial farmers who would buy small 
tracts. A great deal of the land in this sec- 
tion is owned by men who control hundreds 
or thousands of acres. The land, which is 
very fertile, is for sale at prices ranging 
from $25 to $60 per acre, and the Chamber 
is devoting itself to the work of opening 
up the country and placing its advantages 
before people seeking good agricultural op- 
portunities. 
F. D. GIBBS, 
President, Monroe Chamber of Commerce 


+ + 


Rising to the Occasion 

Bristot, Conn.—Bristol has experienced 
such an increase in population during the 
last year that many new problems have 
been created for the city to handle. Rec- 
ognizing this situation, the Chamber of 
Commerce recently appointed a city plan- 
ning board composed of practical business 
and professional men, which is making a 
study of some of these problems. The 
board is at present working out a plan of 
street improvements. 

The Chamber has already financed a 
housing corporation which will build homes 
for the hundreds of new workmen who are 
coming into the city, and is otherwise active 
in finding solutions of the civic problems 
that have recently arisen. 

The other local organizations are also 
alive to their responsibilities in this connec- 
tion. An “at home” was given to the new 
workmen late in March by the Congrega- 
tional Brotherhood in its modern parish 
house. This consisted of a dinner, which 
was followed by a program of music and 
speaking. Each member of the Brother- 
hood present wore a tag with his name 
written on it, and as soon as he learned the 
name of the stranger, fastened a name tag 
on him, The newcomers, all of whom work 
in the Bristol factories, sat at the same 
table with their employers, and the “get 
acquainted” hour that followed was a com- 
plete success. 

D. W. NICHOLS, 
Secretary, Bristol Chamber of Commerce. 


+ + 
Methods of Keeping Members 
Interested 
Spokane, Wasu.—Of the approximately 
2.000 individuals holding the 3,200 mem- 
berships in the Spokane Chamber of Com- 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


Vor. XIV, No. 6 


merce, we are able to secure personal ser- 
vice from about 450. These are the men 
and women that make up the 68 committees 
and sub-committees that do the work of the 
organization. The great majority of the 
members that render no service constitute 
a continuing problem with us. We ask 
them to pay their money into the organiza- 
tion, and yet they are not closely enough 
in touch with the work of the organization 
to feel a personal interest. Experience has 
shown that we must keep our work con- 
stantly before these people, or they come 
.o look upon their dues as a donation and 
we have difficulty in holding them. 

A member of our staff is assigned the 
particular duty of seeing that every Cham- 
ber of Commerce activity is fully covered 
in the newspapers. He is practically our 
press agent, and does his work so well that 
nearly every issue of each Spokane daily 
paper contains at least one display head de- 
voted to Chamber of Commerce activities. 

The members meet at luncheon every 
Tuesday, with an average attendance of 


This statement is 
lengthy but every 
word tells of work 
done for the benefit 
of your town. 


That makes your interest 
very personal. 


You are, of course, 
helping the work; but 
are you doing all you can? 


CARD SENT TO MEMBERS, WITH REPORTS 


something over 200. At each of these meet- 
ings a three-minute period is set aside for 
a brief report by the head of some active 
comunittee, telling about the work that he 
and his associates have in mind. At the 
end of each month we issue a confidential 
report to the members that covers in a con- 
densed form the work that has been in the 
hands of each committee during the pre-. 
vious thirty days, and concludes with a 
statement of the disbursements for that 
period. The members’ attention is called 
especially to the contents of statements and 
reports sent them by a card like the one 
herewith reproduced, printed in red ink, at- 
tached with a clip to the upper right-hand 





JuNE, 1916 THE 
corner of the sheet. All committees sum- 
marize their activities in an annual report 
distributed at our annual meeting in news- 
paper form. 

Last winter we supplemented this by 
staging for three days following our annual 
meeting a “Chamber of Commerce Exposi- 
tion.” This showed in seventeen booths the 
seventeen special lines of work carried on 
during the year, and consisted of letter files, 
photographs, placards and everything else 
that we could think of that would help to 
put the work in graphic form. 

GORDON C, CORBALEY, 
Managing Secretary, Spokane Chamber of Com 
merece, 
+ + 
Chamber Influences Favorable 
Vote on Municipal Bonds 

Suaron, Pa.—An issue of bonds in the 
amount of $125,000 for municipal improve- 
ments was approved by the voters in the 
election held May 16. The improvements 
cover $20,000 for street paving, $30,000 for 
sanitary sewers, $1,000 for storm sewers, 
$20,000 for a fire station, 5,000 for side- 
walks and approaches to a new bridge, and 
$40,000 to liquidate an overdraft. The bond 
issue carried mainly because of the sup- 
port given by the Sharon Chamber of Com- 
merce. 

While the directors of the Chamber felt 
that the proposed issue could be greatly im- 
proved upon, they decided to recommend it 
because needed improvements would be apt 
to remain at a standstill unless the bond 
issue was authorized, owing to the condition 
of the city’s finances. Before the proposi- 
tion was presented to the people it was thor- 
oughly discussed at conferences among the 
directors of the Chamber of Commerce and 
the members of the City Council. Some 
concessions were made to meet the views 
of the Chamber, one of these being the sub- 
stitution of serial bonds for term bonds. It 
had been planned originally to issue all 30- 
year bonds, while the life of some of the 
improvements would hardly exceed fifteen 
years. 

In a referendum on the subject which 
the Directors of the Chamber submitted to 
its members, the directors’ reasons were 
given for recommending the bond issue. The 
members supported the recommendations by 


AMERICAN 


Cis 611 
a vote of 170 to Ig. Some of Sharon's 
most energetic political leaders were activ: 
in the field against the bond issue and car 
ried their work to the polls. To combat this 
the Chamber followed up the referendum 
with a letter urging every member not only 
to support the bond issue, but to persuade 
every one else to support it that he could. 
Subsequently the directors circulated 5,000 
pamphlets containing their recommenda- 
tions among the people of the borough. 
On the day before the election, as well as 
on the day of the election, the Chamber 
called up its entire membership on the tele- 
phone and reminded them to vote. The 
Merchants’ Division of the Chamber had 
a banner strung across the principal thor- 
oughfare bearing the admonition: “For 
Sharon's Sake, Vote for the Bond Issue.” 
r. C, FITZGIBBON, 
Executive Secretary, Sharon Chamber of Commerce 


+ + 


New Bulletins 


Brooktyn, N. Y.—Bulletin of the Brooklyn 
Civic Club. Published monthly. 

CuHarteston, S. C.—Charleston Chamber of 
Commerce Journal. Published monthly by the 
Charleston Chamber of Commerce. 

Des Moines, lowa.—The Des Moines Com 
mercial Association Bulletin. Published 
monthly. 

Massiton, On1o.—Bulletin of the Massilon 
Chamber of Commerce. Published monthly. 

Morris, Itt.—The Morris Stride, issued by 
the Morris Commercial Club. 

St. Paut, Minn.—Saint Paul Association 
of Commerce Official Bulletin. Issued weekly 


+ + 
Recently Issued Printed Matter 


CINCINNATI, Onio—A_ pamphlet entitled 
“Something for Nothing and How to Get It,” 
containing information upon how the individ- 
ual may improve his living conditions. Pub- 
lished by the Woman’s City Club of Cincinnati 

CLEARFIELD, PA.—A placard gotten out by 
Clearfield business houses notifying their cus 
tomers of the early closing hours decided 
upon, as well as the holidays on which the 
stores will be closed, and asking their cus- 
tomers’ coOperation in this movement pro 
moted by the Clearfield Chamber of Commere« 

PLarnview, Texas.—An “Industrial Maga 
zine,” containing information about the re- 
sources of Plainview and of the “shallow 


water belt” surrounding the city, published by 
the Plainview Chamber of Commerce 











_- eS 








Securing a Pure Milk Supply 


The Work of the Milk Inspection Bureau of Portland, Ore. 


By Haldane White 


Hk remarkable results accomplished 
7 by the Milk Inspection Bureau of 
the city of Portland, Oregon, st und 

as an example of what can be done along 
milk and dairy betterment lines with proper 


administration of the municipal milk in- 
spection system. 


The City’s Present Standing 
From among the cities having a poor 
grade of milk, Portland has risen in about 
fi pos 


ve years to the top group of those 1 


~ 1 | 
sessing a pure milk supply. Portland's get 


eral milk supply won first honors in the 
lederal milk contest held for cities by th 
United States Bureau of Animal Industry 
at the Panama-Pacific International Expo- 
sition last summer. It also won first place 


a year ago in a similar contest for cities of 


the Pacific Northwest. The local and Fed- 
eral reports regarding the average tests of 
the Portland general milk supply have at- 
tracted attention all over the country and 
have brought many letters of inquiry re- 
garding the systems of inspection and milk 
production. 

rhe total figures for 1915 show that milk 
inspectors gathered from dairymen on their 
routes and from restaurants 5,000 samples 
of milk. Of this 5,000, which represented 
the general milk supply, including certified 
milk, raw dairy milk and pasteurized milk, 
05.07 per cent showed fewer than 10,000 
bacteria per cubic centimeter. The city 
ordinance of Portland permits as high as 
200,000 bacteria per cubic centimeter, and 
98 per cent of the supply ran under that 
limit. Nearly 96 per cent ran under 100,- 























A SANITARY DAIRY IN PORTLAND, OREGON 








JUNE, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 612 





inal YOR Ieee, 


i= 














BOTTLING AND CAPPING MILK BY MACHINERY, IN A PLANT THAT DELIVERS 
2,500 GALLONS PER DAY 


rhe inspector on the right inspects every bottle of milk as it comes n the ne 
000, and g2 per cent ran under 50,000, with it. No attention was paid t 
Only 8/10 of I per cent of the samples supply, and consequently the cit 
showed any adulterants, and only 2 per cent rate of infant mortality 
ran over the limit of bacteria permitted by In striking contrast to thos 
the ordinance. are the conditions of to-d 
all of the raw dairy milk comes from model 


How It Was Accomplished sanitary barns, moder 


Dr. D. W. Mack, a veterinarian, started izers, modern bottling machines, 





the milk inspection work and is still in tested cows d up-to-date eq 
charge. He is assisted by two veterinarians [lollowing in the wak f the impré ent 
for tuberculin testing of herds, one chemist, has been a rapid decrease in the infant 
two dairy inspectors, one milk inspector or mortality rate. In I915 the rate was lowe 
sample collector, and one bacteriologist and than at any time in the history « 

assistant bacteriologist. The total payroll as far back as records have been kept. 

of the division is $945 a month. \t the outset of the milk inspection \ 

To the letters of inquiry about how Port-  paign, dairymen were urged—not forced 
land has got results, he answers: “Co- to put in modern barns. Plans were pre- 
operation between the Milk Bureau and the pared by Dr. Mack and furnished free to 

, dairymen.” By no other means, he says, the dairymen, with alterations made to suit 
can the results be attained. Coercion has local conditions, from then until now 150 
no place in the work except in rare cases. such barns have been erected from thi 
More good, he claims, can come from get plans. These barns are fitted in thorough] 
ting the dairymen to compete for high sanitary manner, so as to minimize the 
analysis milk than from a thousand arrests ger of milk contamination from « 
and prosecutions. source common in the ordinary dair 

Portland began this work in Ig10 when \t about the same time the Bureau started 
dairy conditions were bad. The supply the tuberculin testing of herds. TI ster 
was coming from dirty barns, dirty cows met with opposition at first, as did 
and untested cows, and was being handledin the advance steps of the Burt t the 
unsanitary ways. Competition was not on benefits have been brought to tl 


the basis of quality, but on the basis of of the dairymen so forcibly that they hav 


price, and as prices dropped quality fell fallen into line. They are now demanding 











i4 rH I AMERICAN CITY VoL. XIV, No. ¢ 








berculin§ test f their herds hese scores or ratings have been mack 
In 1915, 264 herds, aggregating 4,35- vs public and have attracted wide notice. 
vere tested bv the Bure he United States Bureau of Animal I: 
\fter the « c for é r bar lustry, cooperating with the Milk Bureau. 
there came a < ‘i r better t] has conducted contests in which the qual 
At the eginning ot tl rl here I it nd puritv of milk delivered has beer 
sterilizer in the entire cit No ( idered exclusively The public has 
tic every dairyman has tea tel een given the results in the form of scores 
lizet Moreover, cor g methods ere blished in the newspapers. Dairymet 
bad Now very da ryvmat has i! odet re il i struggle to keep at the top of the 
oncrete cooling place Some of the « 1 st [hese scores serve as a remarkabk ‘ 
have even gone so fat to put inicet I ual against poor milk. 
facturing plants for cooling and preserving Many dairymen of Portland are now de- 
ring raw dairy milk which shows 
hese improvement of course, have gher degree of purity than the averag 
heen with the dairymen delivering ra certified milk. Samples have been take: 
dairy milk rhe concet shipping to the rom dairy wagons showing a_ bacterial 
pasteurizing plants | e taken long steps count as low as 100 and 200 bacteria per 
ulvance in the matte 
of barns and equipment 
] the ire not la 
ong 5 the raw i} 
roducers The outside 
concerns ship only 
thoroughly sterile cans 
ind have clean systems 


oT milki y and cooling, 
ut they have not gone 
to the extremes of the 
other concerns to bring 
ibout sanitary conditions 
and thereby keep dow1 


th bacterial count in 


- 
: 
: 











their milk 











: 1 a . F THE PORTLAND BACTERIOLOGICAI 
‘Rating the Dairymen LABORATORIES 
Running hand in hand 

with the campaign of education among thx cubic centimeter. More than half of the 
dairymen has been a campaign of educa samples collected show less than 10,000. 

| tion among the users of milk. By exter 

sive publicity the public has been show: Methods of Cleanliness 

; the need of pure milk and has learned 1 In their eagerness to keep down the bac- 

respect the records of the Milk Bureau as terial count the dairymen have gone to ex 

. to the better grade of dairymen. This has tremes to obtain cleanliness. Most of the : 
forced the dairymen to measure up to tl dairies refuse to employ persons who have 
standards of the Milk Bureau in order to failed to pass a medical examination. Milk 

maintain a place in business. ers are required to wear newly laundried 

; The Milk Bureau has established a stand suits each day. They milk into sterilized ‘ 

ard score card for the rating of dairies cans through cotton batting, and as soon 
along sanitary lines. The dairyman has_ as the milk is drawn it is taken from the 
been given points off for equipment he has _ stable to separate coolers, where it is cooled 
failed to install or for shortcomings in _ by the use of cold running water. 

i methods. Local contests have been held in he cows are kept spotlessly clean. In 

, which scores or ratings have been given on some of the dairies the proprietors keep 

quality of milk being delivered. Scores parate rags for the washing of the bag of 
have also been given « the basis of tl each cow before milking The tails of the 


dairy conditions and the quality of milk cows are tied, and the barn floor, which in 


so ep me 








lUNE, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


most places is of concrete, is kept scrubb« ing is the manner ¢ 
until it is spotless. The barns are all well teria in milk samples Phe } 
ventilated and protected in every Way pos ered by inspectors ft t} 
sible from insects. Manure is kept in cov their delivery routes is 
ered boxes and hauled away daily aboratory Duplicate 
In delivering milk only covered wagons i dilution enabling the « e of tl 

are used. The milk in most of these is _ teria on the basis of I to ( } 
kept in boxes and in a place where there cates the purity of Portlar 
is no danger of contamination Delivery cities this is not 
except to restaurants 1s by bott] only 1 + | made on the 

, Delivery to restaurants is in sterilized cans Of interest in connecti tl 
\Where milk is served to patrons in restau rovement of milk conditio1 | 
rants it must be in bottles with sealed top decrease in the city’s infant mortalit i 
Of the 20,000 gallons of milk delivered each he following is a tabulation of the deatl 
day in Portland, approximately two-thirds inder one year of ag I 00 births s 
is delivered by the retailer in bottles to th 09, Showing the decrease as th 
homes. The remaining one-third is sold at paign progressed 
wholesale in cans. More than S5 per ce . 
of the milk supply of the city is produced ‘ Ss 
within a radius of 15 miles of the city “+ ; 
its, and is received comparatively fresh , 8.4 

The Laboratories ~~. ay : 
lhe Milk Bureau maintains two labora Following is a tabulation of deaths 

tories, one for milk analysis and the other diarrhea and enteritis er two years 
for bacterial tests. Both laboratories do age since I9g090 


general work along health lines besides Rate P 
handling the milk tests. These laboratories 


are thoroughly equipped with modern ap- 
pliances for accuracy and speed in testing. 19 
Of the general methods of the bacterio + 
logical laboratory, one of the most interest- 19] 5 ‘ t 





Two Books for Teaching Local History 
and Civics 





It is refreshing to glance over the pages of oO! of education, in which emphasis 
the new text-books recently adopted by the placed upon the near in time 
New Orleans and Cincinnati public schools. rather than upon the more remot: 
In reading them one is reminded of the dif _ ; = 
ficulty most of us grown-ups had as chil The New Orleans ‘Book 
; dren to find out the history of this, that, or rhe New Orleans Book” was preparé 
the other interesting object which we en- it th suggestion of Superintendent 
countered when we ventured from ou Schools, J. M. Gwinn, by two teacher 
homes, and of the paucity even of published the elementary schools of the city 
’ contemporary local history. Under thos« Misses Emma Richey and Evelina Ke 
circumstances how could we be expected Superintendent Gwinn was _ prompte 
when we reached manhood and woman take this action by the realization that 
hood to take more interest in our home the children of a community are to becom 
town than in any other community wher« efficient citizens, it is of the utmost 
fortune might have taken us? tance that the main facts pertaining to that 
The adoption for use in public schools of | community should be taught in th bl 
a book which gives a more or less detailed schools. 
description of the city in which the childre: [he authors have presented the | 
live is an attempt to apply the modern the of New Orleans in such an attractive 





ee 








er that any child of average intelligenc: 


e interested in it lhe subject 1 


quite thoroughly, from the early his 


tor to the present, covering, among oth 
things, the geography, topography, climate 
and health conditions of the plac 
many excell nt illustrations he old-t 
portraits and scenes a t tell their o 
tory. Ihe systems of con nication, 
cluding waterways lroads, from tl 
beginning to the present are described 
the industries; and there is an enumeration 
ot the vegetable and ] ineral product and 
of the different species of birds and a1 
ommon to the locality. he chapter o1 
The City Beautiful” is a history of the 
growth of the city ph sically and estheti 
cally here is a cha ter each o1 paving 
street cleaning and street lighting, also one 
on the civic virtues. The supplement cor 
tains valuable information in regard to 
tate and town governments, showing how 


the state and city are interdependent. | 


hort, the volume contains informatio 


which it is too often taken for granted o1 


alre idy possesses, or which it iS assuni¢ 


one can obtain by going to the nearest pub 
lic library, when, as a matter of fact, it is 
rarely acquired after the young people have 
and have be 

come absorbed in their life work 


grown to be men and womet 


The Cincinnati “Citizens Book” 

\ book which is to be used by the teach 
ers of the Cincinnati schools as a basis for 
instruction in civics has just been pul 
lished by the Cincinnati Chamber of Com- 
merce. It is divided into twenty-two chap 
ters and contains sixty-six illustrations 
cies Hebble, Managet of the Civic Indus 
trial Department of the Cincinnati Ch 
ber of Commerce, and rank P. Goodwin, 
Director of Vocational and Civic Service 
of the Cincinnati public schools, are its edi 
tors, and many of the leaders in the edu 
cational and civic life of Cincinnati co- 
operated with them. The editors state 


This is a book for the citizen; for the citi 
en who would know what his city was, what 
it is and how it became so: for the citizen wh 
wants his city to grow better, who has ideals 


for its improvement, or who is seeking for 
such ideals; for the citizen who is willing, 
working with others, to help make Cincinnati 
a community which contributes the greatest 


possible good to each of its members.’ 


This book is said to be the first publica- 


Vor. XIV, No. 6 


its kind by a commercial organiza 
Y lt is an analysis of Cincinnati and 
her institutions, and has been prepared, lik« 
lhe New Orleans Book,” under the as 
sumption that the citizen should know all 
about his city as a portion of the ground 
vork of his education The volume de 
scribes the geography of Cincinnati with 
reference to the surrounding region, the 
ite and the influence of environment; it 
tells of the first settlement at Columbia, 
ind the founding of Losantiville (Cincin 
iti). It considers such subjects as th 
first boat-load of settlers, the purchase ol 
lots, the survey of the town, the apportion 
ment of lots, and primitive Cincinnati. It 
deals with the first settlers, their food, 
utensils and clothing, primitive exchange, 
arly schools, the first new spaper, the first 
church, the first pastor, and the first gov 
ernment, 
lhe book describes pioneer life and tells 
of the early residents; the percentage of 
foreign-born people, their needs, transpor- 
tation, distribution, employment, standard 
ization of living; their savings, investments 
and credit; their education and naturaliza- 
tion; delinquents, dependents and defec- 
tives; public health, from the conditions of 
olden days to the work of the present 
Health Department; the Police Department, 
fire prevention and extinction; the work of 
the Commissioner of Buildings; education 
and the public library; art and its relation 
to the Art Museum; music, beginning with 
the first singing master, and following the 
subject to the present day; recreation, show- 
ing why parks and playgrounds are needed, 
and describing their supervision and devel 


opment, 

Of especial importance are the chapters 
which deal with the early industry and 
commerce, and with their present-day de- 
velopment. One chapter describes the civic 
and commercial organizations of Cincinnati. 
Others tell of the labor organizations and 
labor legislation; public utilities and their 
characteristics; the municipal government ; 
municipal finance; and city planning. In 
the preparation of the last-mentioned chap- 
ter the editors had the codperation of John 
IX. Lathrop, Director of the American 
City Bureau’s Exhibition of American and 
Foreign City Planning. 


Eprror’'s Nort Copies of these books may be ob 
ed through the Book Department of Tue AMERICAN 





























FORWARD STEPS | 


| Reported to The American City | 
BY MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS AND DEPARTMENT HEADS | 








For this new department the editors will « 
county officials and heads of departments 
thers engaged in similar work Phot 
j a mpany the articles whenever 








Baltimore’s Underground Conduit 


System 
SALTIMORE, Mp.—The Electrical Com- 
mission of the city of Baltimore was or- 


ganized on October 1, 1898, for the purpose 


underground conduits in 
order to enable the city to force, in a sys- 


1f constructing 


tematic and positive manner, the removal 
of the poles and overhead wires which in- 
fested its streets and thoroughfares, some- 
times in such amazingly intricate networks 
as to almost obscure the sun, and which, 


consequently, constituted a most serious 
menace to life and property. 

Since then more than duct 
feet of conduit have been laid, and of this 


amount over 4,000,000 duct feet have been 


15,000,000 


occupied by cables of the various wire-op- 
erating companies, which are obliged 
lease this space at rental rates varying from 
7 cents a duct foot per annum. The 
system has cost to date about $4,700,000 


to 


5 to 


and has yielded a revenue of approximately 
Municipal departments, such as 
\larm and Police Telegraph, are ex 
empt from rental. 


>1, 300,000, 


| ire 


In its design and construction, the sys 
tem is unique in many ways. In the cen 
tral, where nearly 
every building is supplied with at least one 
kind necessary 
to adopt a “box-to-house” distribution sys- 
tem conduits. In other 
building in this area is connected indepen- 
dently with underground ducts from a man- 
hole in the same vicinity, and the various 
service cables enter the cellar or basement 


or business, section 


of electric service, it was 


of words, each 





J 


of the premises through these com 
In 
nections are comparative ly scarce and scat 
tered, it found, after 
study of the subject, that such an 


residential districts, where service con 


was an 


elaborat 


( 
and expensive system was unnecessary and 
practically financially prohibitive to the op 


the 


duct space, as well as to the city from the 


erating companies compelled to lease 


standpoint of securing an adequate return 


I 
In these ne ighborhoods, 


on its investment. 
especially in the older sections, it S not 
infrequent to find only two or three set 


notwithstanding this 
“box-to-house” 
the 
distric 


vices in a block, yet, 
with a 
distribution 


fact, underground 


almost equipment is 


arly 


same 


in a t where ne 


every building is supplied with service, 


necessary as 


al d 
the income is disproportionately small. 

lor these reasons a compromise system 
was adopted, wherewith the usual undesi1 
able manner of distributing from poles lo 
cated in prominent streets and main thor 
Chis 


oughfares is entirely eliminated 


accomplished by installing underground 
lateral spurs from suitably located trunk 
conduits to a distributing pole or poles 

the alley in the rear of the buildings to be 
supplied with servic In the few instance 


where the alleys do not suffice for such uss 


or where there are no alleys, special 


rangements for taking 
ot 


esthetic manner. 


are always mad 
the services in the safest and 


With such a system, now 


care 


in extensive use in this city, the only aerial 
wires permitted in the alleys are the few 
service loops to the build ngs, and some 
times a short two- or three-wire bus line 
between distributing poles; the maximun 


potential allowable being no more than 240 
volts, a voltage that it is customary to han 
dle with impunity. The 
is made as pleasing as possible 


aerial equipment 


the pole S 








orem 








618 THE AMERICAN CITY Vor. XIV, No. 6 


are short and straight and carry no cross- 
arms, the wires being secured by means of 
racks 


In addition t 


) the two distributing sys- 


The several photographs of “before and 
after” views accompanying this article are 
offered in evidence to support, what other- 
wise might be considered as slightly ex- 
travagant, certain of the 





BUN 75h 
SY WW Na 


rx Wis 

RAEN . 
. arm’ 

eo “one »" 


AX SA — 


CH Uh ts : 
ESN et 


UIQ: 
2% Sa 4 


WY \) WA 








foregoing statements rela- 
tive to the past condition 
of some of our prominent 
streets. 
JAMES H. PRESTON, 
— ayor 


Billboard Regulation 

Paris, Texas.—Prob- 
ably one of the most dis- 
tinctive “forward steps” 
which has been taken by 
our city is that one hav- 
ing for its purpose the 
elimination of billboards. 

With the aggressive 
and enterprising spirit of 
bill- posting corporations 








INE OF THE DANGEROUS AND UNSIGHTLY 
WIRES THAT USED TO BE THE TERROR OF 
MEN IN THE BUSINESS DISTRICT OF BALTIMORE 


we had no form of com- 
plaint or word of censure 
What did really trouble us, 


MASSES OF 
THE FIRE 





tems, a complete and com- 
prehensive system of in 
terconnecting trunk con- 
duits, varying in capacity 
from 6 to 8&1 ducts, has 
been provided lor convey- 
ing transmission lines 
Irom generating stations 
to sub-stations and other 
centers of distribution 
lhe potential of the ca- 
bles in these conduits 
range trom about I0 to 
13,000 volts. 

At the present time all 
poles and aerial wires, 
with the exception of trol- 
ley pole s and trolley wires 
which are exempt, have 





been removed from the 











business districts and also THE APPEARANCE OF THE SAME CORNER TO-DAY, AS THE 


trom a great portion of RESULT OF 
the residential districts. 

And at the present rate of progress it is 
expected that all the unsightly and danger- 
ous, but indispensable, conveyors of elec- 
trical energy still remaining “overhead” will 
have been cleared from the streets and 
housed safely and securely in the municipal 
conduit system within the next few years. 


FORCING THE WIRES UNDER GROUND 


however, was their civic ideals, or rather, 
more properly speaking, their total want of 
any such thing. The question of regulating 
the billboard nuisance was often under dis- 
cussion in our Council, but we could not 
bring ourselves to believe that we had the 
necessary police power to suppress them, 























June, 1916 


and the Interstate Commerce feature al- 
ways loomed large in our imaginations. 

It was while groping in this state of un- 
certainty that the Supreme Court of Mis- 
souri rendered a decision in the case of 
Gunning Advertising Company vs. City of 
St. Louis (137 Southwestern Reporter, p. 


129). This case gave us a degree of en- 
couragement, if, indeed, I may not say 
assurance, which we had not been able to 


secure anywhere else. We procured a full 


transcript of all the proceedings in the St. 
louis case, made a careful study of it, and 
then drafted an ordinance which we hoped 
would run the gauntlet of the Texas courts, 
for we had the assurance from the adver- 
tising companies that they would lead us 
to the bar of the highest tribunal. The fol- 
lowing constitutes the substance of the 
Paris ordinance as first passed: 


1. It provided for the selection of an official bill- 
poster, who would be nominated by the Mayor after 
due advertisement had been made for sealed bids to be 
submitted by those wishing to pursue this method of 
advertising as a business, and the person submitting 
the highest and best bid, or offering to pay 
liberally for the privilege, was, other qualifications 
being equal, nominated by the Mayor and confirmed 
by the Council, as the official billposter. 

2. The nominee was required to execute a bond in 
the sum of $500 for the faithful performance of all 
the duties of his office as imposed by the provisions 
and requirements of the ordinance. 

8. All other persons were forbidden to 
the business of posting bills, tacking signs or doing 
open-air advertising by means of billboards or other 
structures serving a like purpose 

4. Billboards were required to be 5 feet from the 
inside line of every sidewalk, and no fence or other 
structure, including the walls of buildings within 5 
feet of the walk, was to be used as a billboard All 
billposters were forbidden to use the sidewalks o1 
streets while posting bills or tacking advertising mat 
ter. All billboards used were to be securely and firmly 
fixed to the ground by means of braces and otherwise, 
so as to render them substantial, and were also for 
bidden to be of greater height than 12 feet, and in no 
event to be used until they had been inspected and 
pronounced safe and constructed in accordance 
all % specifications of the ordinance 

. The official billposter was required, either in per 
son or by deputies, to make frequent examinations of 
billboards and all structures used as such, to see that 
they were kept in a safe condition. He was also re 
quired to strip his boards from time to time with such 
frequency as would prevent them from at any time 
appearing unsightly. He was required also to keep on 
file with the City Secretary a list of all billboards and 
structures used by him or his agents for outdoor ad 
vertising, so that strict police surveillance might be 
maintained from time to time. He was likewise for 
bidden to tack, affix or otherwise display any indecent 
matter of any character upon billboards or structures 
used as such within the city. 

6. Maximum charges and fees were prescribed by 
ordinance and also penalties for its violation. 


most 


engage in 


with 


Immediately after the publication of the 
ordinance was completed, it was purposely 
violated by an agent of the advertising com- 
panies, who was promptly arrested and, 
upon his refusal to execute bond, was com- 
mitted to the city jail. A writ of habeas 
corpus was sued out in the State Court of 
Criminal Appeals, thus affording an imme- 


THE AMERICAN 


ute. 619 
diate opportunity for testing the 
the ordinance The 
found in Ex Parte 


validity of 
proceeding is te be 
Savage 
ern Reporter, p. 244). 

Our 


(141 Southwest 


ordinance was sustained on every 


issue joined, except the single provision fe¢ 


lating to our method of selecting the offici 


bal 
billposter. This being a matter of 


no col 


sequence and in no way hampering us in th 


efficient enforcement of the law, we at one: 


amended the ordinance to conform to the 
Court’s decision, and further perfected it 
some matters of detail, seeing we had the 
power to do so under a decision of 

state courts. From that good day, bill 
boards have not been a nuisance in Paris 


they are simply non est. 

It must be borne in mind, however 
our ordinance 
strictly 


that 
does not prohibit, but is 
regulatory. Our requirements aré 
which 
territ ry in 
limited, thus 
situation in Paris such that 
no billposting company will be interested 

our vicinity, at least 
freedom from hampering restrictions is to 
be enjoyed in so much of the outside world 


standard for boards 
used is high, and the 
which they may be 
rendering the 


stringent, the 
may be 


located 
while 


such complete 


ED. H. McCUISTION, 
M r, Paris, 7 





From CITY 
ENGINEERS 





Steps Up the Hill 
Satt LaKe City, UTAH The accom 
panying photograph of the terraced steps 
on Fourth Avenue shows a combination of 


utility and beauty which has solved a prob 
lem of heavy grade on a city 
Fourth Avenu feet 


roadway between curbs of 30 


Street 
wide, with 


feet, and ex 


is &2! 


tends from the stairway east about 2 mil 


The stairs are located about 400 feet east 


of the road in the bottom of City Creek 
Canyon. The total rise of the stairs is 
43% feet and the horizontal length is 99 
feet. 

Before the improvement was made 
Fourth Avenue was an unsightly and use- 


less street at this point. It was practically 
impossible for vehicles to use it, and in the 
winter months even pedestrians climbed 














620 THE AMERICAN CITY 


Vor. XIV, No. 6 














THE STAIRS ON FOURTH 


with difficulty. It was out of the question 
to attempt the construction of a roadway 
that could be used by vehicles, as the grade 
approaching from above was 8% per cent 
and the grade below 7 per cent, increasing 


in a vertical curve to 12 per cent at the 
foot of the stairs lhe road was therefore 
closed to vehicles and the terraced steps 
were put in for the use of pedestrians 

\ straight stairway without intermediat« 
platforms would have been possible on that 
slope, but would have been too fatiguing 
Steps leading towards the center and out 
again were therefore resorted to. In order, 
however, to obtain between the stairs a 
slope light enough for sodding, retaining 
walls were built leading to and from the 
central stairway, with a pipe railing on the 
upper walls. 

lhe white quadrangular spot to the right 
of the central stairway is the cover of a 
clean-out box over an 8-inch drain pipe 
emptying into the gutter at the foot of the 
stairs. In the left side a high retaining 
wall is visible, which was built to create a 
level building spot, on which a residence 
is now in course of erection. An electric 
lamp at the upper end of the central stair- 
way furnishes the light. 

Values of adjoining residential property 
have been distinctly enhanced, and this sec- 
tion of Fourth Avenue, with the City Creek 
park at its base, has become one of the most 
attractive districts in the city. 

SYLVESTER W. CANNON, 
City Engineer 





AVENUE, SALT LAKE CITY 





Fron COUNTY 
ENGINEERS 


The Building and Care of Con- 
crete Roads 

BALTIMORE County, Mp.—The first con- 
crete road constructed in Baltimore County 
was a short stretch at White Hall in the 
year IQII This road, 542 feet in length 
and 12 feet in width, was constructed along 
a stretch of road which is submerged two 
or three times each year, due to the swell- 
ing of a nearby stream after a very heavy 
rainfall. The traffic on this road is only 
ordinary county road travel, nevertheless 
the fact that no money has been spent on 





the concrete surface since its completion 
speaks well for concrete construction as a 
road material. There are in Baltimore 
County to date approximately 25 miles of 
concrete road, varying in width from streets 
432 feet between curbs to a 9-foot county 
road. 

Experience has convinced us that no con- 
crete road should be constructed less than 
14 feet in width, while 16 feet or, prefer- 
ably, 18 feet, is far better. A road con- 
structed 18 feet in width greatly reduces 
the maintenance on shoulder work. All of 
our roads are one-course construction, flat 
subgrade, 2-inch crown and mixture of one 
part cement, two parts of sand and four 
parts of stone. 


























JUNE, 1916 THE 

Our only maintenance on concrete roads 
without the bituminous skin coat has been 
the treatment of cracks, which are bound to 
occur more or less, depending on the char- 
acter of the course aggregate the character 
of the subgrade and the teriperature pre- 
vailing at the time of construction. 

The success of concrete roads has been 
judged to a considerable degree by the 
prevalence of cracks. This is an erroneous 
impression, as the cracks do not detract 
from the value or durability of the road if 
properly taken care of, except so far as 
they affect the surface appearance. This is 
shown by the phenomenal development in 
this type of road, the successful treatment 
of cracks, and the fact that many roads, al- 
though containing cracks, have given years 
of excellent service with a minimum cost 
of maintenance. 


Tar Treatment of Cracks 

A crew of two or three men, a cart and a 
tar kettle are used for this maintenance 
work. The tools used consist of a wire 
bristle broom, a wheelbarrow, a couple of 
shovels, a tar bucket and sprinkling cans. 
All cracks or spalled joints should be swept 
clean with a wire broom, after which tar 
should be 
poured, filling the cracks or covering the 
spalled area. This should stand for a few 
moments to prevent it from bubbling, after 
which it is covered with clean, coarse, dry 
sand or clean, dry stone chips. 

Pit holes are similarly treated. Where 
an imperfection exists over an inch in depth 
the practice is to clean it out and dry it 
carefully, paint it with hot tar, after which 
it is filled with stone of a suitable size, 
graded to fill the voids as nearly as possible 
and tamped in place. Hot tar is then 
poured over the patch, the quantity being 
gaged so that the tar will be taken up by 
the remaining voids without any large ex- 
cess being left on the surface, and sand or 
stone chips are spread with a shovel over 
the surface. One trip over a road yearly is 
usually all that is required. 


Applying the Bituminous Skin Coat 

Where a contract calls for a bituminous 
skin coat, it has been learned by experi- 
ence that this skin coat should not be ap- 
plied until the concrete surface has had at 
least two months’ travel, in order that the 
thin layer of latent cement which covers a 


heated to about 225 degrees F. 


AMERICAN 


City 621 
new concrete road, due to the chemical ac- 
tion which takes place while the cement is 
setting, is worn off under traffic. The tar 
coating then applied hot thoroughly adheres 
to the course aggregate of 


the concrete and 


“stays put.” Of cours« 


the concrete sut 
face should be as clean and dry as possibl 
before applying the skin coat of tar. Very 
few cracks the surface of a 
tarred concrete road, due to the fact that 
as they occur they are automatically filled 
with tar and stone trafic. The 
road makes a very 
pleasing appearance and acts as 


show up on 


dust under 

tar surface on a concrete 

cushion 

and protecting coat for the concrete sur 
face. 

WILLIAM G 

Baltimore County Roads Engineer, Tow M 


SUCRO 








‘crom HIGHWAY | 
DEPARTMENTS | 


A Successful Municipal Asphalt 
Plant 


Campen, N. J.—During the history of 
Camden's Highway Department the great 








est innovation has been the installation of 
the city’s own asphalt plant. 

In former years the city, in order to cop 
with other municipalities along the line of 
improved asphaltum streets, was compelled 
to let this kind of paving to 
contractors, 


contract. It 


out-of-town 
under a_ ten-year 
found that the durability 
of the guaranteed paving fell far 
its natural lifetime. The 


of keeping a large amount of improved pav- 


guarantee 
was 
short of 
grave situation 
ing in repair soon confronted the city, and 
it became apparent that it would be neces- 
sary for the city to repair its own asphalt 
streets. 

This work was undertaken with success, 
and resulted in the recommendation by the 
Street the City Council 
that the city build its own plant and con- 
struct its own asphalt streets. 


Commissioner to 


The plant 
was built in 1913 and cost the city $11,373. 
With the aid of the department force, which 
consists of a plant foreman, one clerk, one 
engineer, two firemen, one mixer-man, one 
stillman, one carpenter, one watchman, 
and enough laborers to meet the require- 
ments, and with the use of improved con- 


crete mixing machinery, this city is ef- 

















THE 


AMERICAN CITY 


. 6 











LAYING ASPHAL1 


PAVEMENT IN CAMDEN, N. 

















ROLLING 


THE 


FINISHED PAVEMENT 





























JUNE, 1916 THE 


ficiently doing its own asphalt construction 
work. The depth of the concrete base has 
been increased from 6 inches to 8 inches, on 
account of the heavy traffic in the city. 
Prior to the establishment of this plant, 
the asphalt 
ranged as high as $2. 
under the present system the 
reduced to $1.285 per square yard, includ 


cost of paving in Camden 
55 per square yard; 


cost has been 


ing the resetting of curbs, excavation and 
the street complete. 
the department constructed 33,397 
yards of new asphalt streets and did 4.939.5 
square yards of resurfacing, and the differ 
ence between the actual cost of 
tion the amount charged 
which is paid by the abutting property own 


During the year 1915 


square 


construc 


and ($1.90) 


ers—goes directly into the city treasury 
A. L. SAYERS 
Street Commiss er 


+ + 


Special Wagons for Rubbish 
Collection 


Granp Rapips, Micu.—The problem of 
caring for the accumulated rubbish and 


AMERICAN CITY 623 


school 
apids, Mich., is be 
All 


waste material at the numerous 
buildings in Grand R 


successfully handled 


ing 


refuse is dumped 


from baskets and swept from floors into a 
concrete-lined well in the rear each 
building. Several times each week dump- 


wagons, specially constructed after i de 
sign by the Highway Commissioner, call 
and make collections. 

The wagons are equipped with galvan 
ized ron cans with i capacity o! 400 
pounds, which are lowered by means of a 


crank operating a steel rope moving through 


pulleys attached to a variable crane. One 
man is capable of loading the refuse, which 
is drawn from the wells and dumped in the 
cart. The dumping is done by shifting the 
gears of the crank, thus permitti 


ng the 
operation of a second steel rope terminating 


in a catch which is hooked to the base of 
the can, as shown in the illustration. But 
little time is required to clean a well, and 


one wagon easily does the work of a week 
used throughout the 
city in collecting garbage 


by the white wing corps. 


Similar are 


Wagons 


placed it Stations 














GARBAGE COLLECTION CART, 


GRAND 


Wi 
RAPIDS 


TH DUMPING 


MICH 


MECHANISM, | 


























From PARK 
DEPARTMENTS | 


A Three-Unit Playground 

MINNEAPOLIS, Minn.—The improvement 
plan of Bottineau Field in this city provides 
for outdoor play and recreation activities 
the year around. The playground itself is 
planned on a three-unit basis—that is, a 
playground for small children, a playground 
for girls and women, and a playground for 
men and boys. The playground for small 
children includes a wading pool, swings, 
teeter-totters, slides, a giant stride, a merry- 
go-round and sand courts, and also a space 
for games and folk dancing out-of-doors. 

The girls and women’s playground pro- 
vides for gymnastic apparatus, a_play- 
ground ball diamond, volley ball courts, 
swings, teeter-totters, horizontal and _ tee- 
ter ladders and a giant stride. The men’s 
and boys’ playground consists of an out- 
door gymnasium with horizontal bars, 
traveling and flying rings, climbing poles, 
climbing ladders, a long slide and a horse 
and buck; also volley ball courts, basket- 
ball courts and a playground ball diamond. 

The athletic field is constructed so as to 
permit of its being flooded during the win- 





THE AMERICAN CITY 


Vor. XIV, No. 6 


ter time and used as a skating and hockey 
rink. Toboggan slides will also be in- 
cluded. The field consists of a five-lap 
track, a 220-yard straightaway, a jumping 
pit, a baseball diamond, a football field, and 
a grand stand with showers and lockers. A 
battery of six tennis courts is also included. 

It will be noted from the accompanying 
plan that the location of the field house 
makes provision for entering it direct from 
the athletic field, which is flooded in the 
winter time. The field house will do ser- 
vice as a warming house for skaters. The 
environs of the field are landscaped and or- 
namented so as to establish a proper har- 
mony between the two features of material 
equipment and parking. 

J. A. RIDGWAY, 


Board of Park Commissioners. 


+ + 
A Casting and Wading Pool 


Kansas Crry, Mo.—The combined cast- 
ing and wading pool shown in the accom- 
panying picture was constructed by the 
Park Department during the fiscal year of 
1915 and has been one of our very popular 
departures from strictly playground work, 
proving very attractive to both the anglers 
and the small children. 

The pool is 150 feet in diameter, 24 











PROPOSED ARRANGEMENT 





BOTTINEAU FIELD 
Doane x Pas Gumanyme oo FR tee 


Boos 
2 - 





% re rm 
— — = ‘ 
: ¥ 












ATHLETIC «+ 













_——_—— ie > ail (= evreces cy nnagon 
H-t + Ir tar a 
tae: 


PLAN OF THE NEW THREE-UNIT PLAYGROUND IN MINNEAPOLIS 








2 sree 
























JUNE, 1916 








inches deep at each end and 
33 inches in the center, the 
depth of water varying 
from 9 to 18 inches. The 
cost of the pooi, exclusive 
of the grading, $2,- 
549.38. It is in the shape 
of Maltese cross, which 
allows the angler to cast in 


was 





a 





direction, depending 
the The pre- 
vailing wind in this locality 
is mainly from southwest to 
northeast, and the casting 


any 














upon wind. 


pool is set with two arms in 
these directions and two at 
right angles. 

A club called the Kansas 
City Bait and Fly Casting 
Club was organized shortly 
after the pool was _ built. 
This club holds weekly 
tournaments on Saturday 
afternoons and Sundays 
throughout the season, and 
other evenings after 


4 
o'clock are given over to 
casting practice. At all 


other hours the pool is used 
by children for wading. 
The development of new 
ideas in park service which 
has been a distinguishing 
feature of park work in re- poe 
cent years, has been marked 
by the introduction of new 
forms of recreation that were not dreamed 
of in earlier ideas of public park duties, and 
this casting and wading pool is an interest- 








N 


lt 








FOR THE ENJOYMENT ¢ 
AND SMALL CHILDREN 


ing example of provision 
“quieter” sports. 
\ssistant Exe 


(ommiussioners 


RA 
RAI 











q 








SS 
Ne 











THE CASTING AND WADING 


POOL IN KANSAS CITY 


MO. 























626 THE 





| : a a Chima. —— 
@ YUN sone Perens 










| CITY OF DETROIT 
RECREATION COMMIS SION 
| CENTERS 1915-16 


| 
| 


f 


( 


j 








(Com RECREATION! 
EPARTMENTS| 


Graphic Methods in Recreation 
Reports 

Detroit, Micu.—In presenting the re- 
port of the first year’s work of the Recrea- 
tion Commission of the city of Detroit, we 
have made a beginning in the use of graphic 
methods of presenting facts. Our expe- 
rience is that in this day of daring head- 
lines, cartoons and motion pictures, about 
all that anyone notices in a report is the 
views or diagrams which catch the eye and 
quickly tell a definite story. The two dia- 


xfGI2 _ SCHOOL Gaounns Me 
x/ PIs = SCHOOL GReowns 





AMERICAN 





City Vor. XIV, No. 6 
@ RaaanGnONDS Pann epee 


.« 
6 eet eerns 
SE remot, TRAmaS CONTEND 
P © URMUP Rares CEWTT RS 
; > Tle eon wrens CoN Trt 
S ates ter 
{a sem COATES 
@ Lieery cones 


















grams herewith presented are typical of this 
method. The one showing the various 
types of recreation centers takes a bit more 
study than the other. Its table of signs is 
the basis of an interesting presentation of 


conditions. 
IRA W. JAYNE, 
Superintendent, The Recreation Commission. 


Grom DEDARTTIENTS 





ly PUBLIC WORKS 








x 7! - ScnooL os 2° Ea 782 





A School Ground Contest 

McA.ester, Oxia.—Each ward school 
in the city of McAlester has a full city block 
for building and grounds. A year and a 
half ago these grounds were very rough 
and rocky, and no attempt had ever been 
made to beautify them. At the opening of 
school in September, 1914, the writer in- 
augurated a contest for the improvement of 
school grounds, which was to last a whole 





* 171 S_ mises. on EE e415 008 


| 





WE Nemaer oF Grounds 


m UADER BOARD OF EDUCATION 
_s 


DArrenDANce AT GRouNnDS 


® UNDER RECREATION COMMISSION 


CHART SHOWING GROWTH AND ATTENDANCE OF SUPERVISED PLAYGROUNDS 
IN DETROIT 




















June, 1916 THE 
Six wards entered the contest, com- 
peting for a drinking fountain presented by 
the Fortnightly Club. 

Che results have been remarkable. The 
once unsightly grounds are now beautifully 
parked playgrounds without a rock and bor- 
dered with flowers and vines. The High 
School caught the spirit, and its grounds, 
formerly a waste place, have been trans 
formed into a veritable park. and 
flowers were planted by the children and 
their parents, and the grounds were sodded 
with Bermuda grass. 

The prize was won by the First Ward, 
with the Second and Fourth close contest 
ants. The of the 
which won the prize was, aside from mate 
rial and work donated, $18.50 for plants 
and $12 for fertilizer and labor. 
of the results is incalculable. The move- 
ment has spread to the homes of the city 
and to surrounding towns, and the towns 


year, 


| rees 


cost transformation 


Che value 


of the entire county are aw akened to a new 
civic spirit. 

In every ward school of this city and in 
the High School there is an active parents 
and teachers’ club, and the student 
have been organized into civic associations. 
The work of caring for the school grounds 
is being carried forward this year without 
a prize offer, in order to see how strongly 


bodies 


AMERICAN CITY 


our people desire civic attainment 
own sake alone. I am glad to report that 


almost as much enthusiasm is being shown 
asifa prize were at stake. 

The schools have now closed for the sum 
mer. 
all the planned closing entertain 


ments, and have made preparations to carry 


[he parents’ and teachers’ clubs in 
wards 


the improvement work through the summer 
vacation. 
F. D. PIT 


Commissione f Publ W ork 








| from FIRE 
L[DEPARTMENTS | 


The Policy of Fire Prevention in 
a Kansas Town 
MARYSVILLE, KANS 
years the little town of 
has had an 








During the last ten 
Marysville, Kans 
average of four fires per 
of 


The heaviest 


year, 


with an annual average loss $1,081.75, 


cents per capita. 
in this period was in IQII, and amounted 
to $5,213 


3 for four fires; $4,300 of this was 


due to a fire in an elevator, a corrugated 
iron building which was a 
on the inside before the 


in about midnight. 


mass of flames 
alarm was turned 


he lowest loss was in 

















THE PRIZE-WINNING SCHOOL 


GRO 


ND IN M ALESTER 











628 THE AMERICAN CITY 


1909—$50—and covered two fires. In 1915 
there were three fires, with a total loss of 
$515.50, or about 22 cents per capita. 

The present fire department in Marysville 
has been organized for twenty-four years, 
and in that time no fire has occurred that 
was not confined to the building in which 
it started. The company is made up solely 
of volunteers, and maintains three hose 
carts and one hook and ladder truck. There 
7 miles of water mains, 54 fire plugs, 
stand-pipe pressure, and direct pressure if 


are 


necessary. 

The citizen who helps to carry out a pol- 
icy of fire prevention is in my estimation 
doing as much as, if not more than, the 
man who puts out a fire. When the matter 
of fire prevention was brought to my at- 
tention several years ago, a clean-up day 
was advocated by every man in our depart- 
ment. The City Council consented to fur- 
nish teams to haul away the rubbish and 
estimated that three teams could easily 
handle it on the designated day. I started 
a campaign through our city papers, got 
out small handbills, used slides at the pic 
ture shows, went to each of the shows on 
nights when they had full houses, and 
talked clean-up day to the audiences. | 
told them that | would make a personal 
inspection of all premises in the city thre: 
days before clean-up day and would confer 
with the occupants of any premises that 
were not properly cleaned. This I did, and 
there were only two places where I had to 
stop and talk with the occupants; both had 
reasonable excuses for not having cleaned 
up, but promised they would do so by that 
day, and did so. 

It took three teams four and one-half 
days to haul the rubbish out of the city 
limits on our first clean-up day. Every- 
body was so well satisfied with the results 
of the work that we have had no trouble 
since then in getting the people to observe 
clean-up day. The citizens are told to have 
all the rubbish piled in the alley or street 
where it can be conveniently reached by a 
team, and the city does the hauling without 
expense to the individual. 

I contend that this kind of work is a 
direct cause of the decrease in our annual 
fire loss—not losing sight, of course, of a 
goodly amount of efficiency in putting out 
such fires as do occur. We, as well as the 
majority of Kansas cities of this size, need 
better fire-fighting equipment, and with the 


Vor. XIV, No. 6 


law which was put on the statute books 
last year * it is only a question of time be- 
fore all the departments in the state can 
have adequate funds for purchasing the 
equipment needed. 
GEORGE T. MOHRBACHER, 
Fire Chief. 





om DEPARTMENTS! 
of PUBLIC SAFETY 


The Umbrella Semaphore 
New Oreans, La.—In conjunction with 
Master Mechanic Lee, of the New Orleans 
fire department, the writer has designed an 




















THE UMBRELLA SEMAPHORE 


umbrella semaphore apparatus for traffic 
policemen which is giving great satisfac- 
tion in this city. 

The semaphore is an adaptation of those 
in use in other cities, but is considered to 
be in some respects an improvement. It is 
constructed in this wise: A steel rod set 
in a stand holds an umbrella eight feet 


*See Tue American Crty, April, 1915, page 347: 
“A ee Legislative Campaign for Fire Protec- 
tion Funds.” 











JUNE, 1916 


above the head of the traffic policeman. 
[he umbrella is quartered red and 
[here is also a switch lamp with red and 
lights at the top of the umbrella. 
ross arms extend from the umbrella rod 
between the umbrella cloth and the 
One of these arms bears the 
word “STOP” and the other “GO.” The 


rod which carries the umbrella, cross arms 


green. 
green 
\ 

just 


switch lamp. 


ind switch lamp is operated by a_ short 


lever and so constructed that it cannot be 


stopped half-way, but must be turned the 
also 


sall-bearing, making it durable and easy t 


entire distance when operated. It is 


operate. 

When vehicles are to go north and south, 
in addition to giving the whistle signal, the 
officer turns the umbrella so that its red side, 
ind at night the red light also, 
the direction of travel east 


is athwart 

lhe 
to the 
traffic going north and south and the words 
stop” to the traffic east and west. When 
the trafic is to proceed east and west the 
umbrella is turned. 


and west. 
cross arms then show the words “go” 


Whenever there is a sudden danger to 
traffic, such as a runaway or a fire alarm, 
the semaphorist drops or closes the 
brella and at the 


continuous 


um- 
same time whistles the 
signal to all traffic. \t 
night, as the semaphorist is not on duty, 
the umbrella is folded and set aside. 
HAROLD W. NEWMAN, 


Commissioner of Public Safety, New Orlear La 


stop 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


629 


From WATER | 
_DEPARTMENTS | 


A High-Water Catch 
Witurston, N. 











Dak.—The readers of 


uk AMERICAN City may be interested it 
the accompanying picture, which is som 
what outside of the usual SCOPE 

cipal water departme nt. 

During our high-water season in Will 
ton the deer were forced out of the 
lands into the hills lhe ones show 
this view were trapped between the iter 


caught hey 


will be kept tor our city park. 


and the ice and were easily 


CC. C. MACKENROTI 
iperinte ent Light a W 


+ + 


A Water-Works Bulletin 


Under the direction of H. P. Bohr 
Superintendent of the Milwaukee water 
works, a monthly bulletin i 


s issued. It cor 


tains: a summary of operating c an 


pumping statistics for the current month 


comparative balance sheet as of the end of 
the preceding month and the end of the cut 
rent month, showing increases and de 


creases, and condensed Statements of | rofit 


and loss and operating expenses. 

















DEER CAPTURED ON FLOATING ICI 


MARCH 18 


1916, NEAR WILLISTON, N. DAK 








THE AMERICAN CITY 





What 
ADAMS 
EXPRESS 
thinks of 

KELLY 
TRUC 





“OOS RS FE 


IV 


oe, 


a Oe 


TRE * 


eave 











Stane 









HE Adams Express Company origi- 
nally purchased, after the most thor- 
ough investigation, sixteen 344-ton Kelly 
Trucks for use in New York. They soon 
followed this up with an order for another 
ten o the same tonnage. Then two more 
were ordered for Toledo and two more 
again for New Haven. 


An efficient local delivery system is essen- 
tial to the best success of an express com- 
pany. Service must be prompt, reliable 
and always available. 


That the Adams Express Company was 
satisfied—that Kellys showed they could 
make good under the most exacting condi- 
tions—is certainly proved by these re- 
orders. 

The Complete Line 


Worm Drive—1% and 2) tons. 
Chain Drive—1%, 2%, 3%, 4, 5 and 6 tons. 


‘‘Like Kelly Does’? FREE 


We want to put your name on the free list 
of this valuable monthly publication devoted 
to truck transportation (not all Kelly). Full 
of useful information for all truck users— 
whatever the motive power. 


The Kelly-Springfield Motor Truck Company 
1306 Burt Street, Springfield, Ohio 











Advertisers please mention Taz American Ciry. 














Ce ee nn 


Items of Municipal and Civic Progress 


631 


a.) NO) 


EEE ll . 


Local Option in Taxation for 
Maryland Municipalities 


Under the tax reform provision of the 
constitutional amendment adopted by the 
state of Maryland last November, the Leg- 
islature has passed an act granting local 
option in taxation for local purposes to all 
incorporated towns in the state. The act 
confers on the towns the power to deter- 
mine the classes of property which shall be 
the subject of taxation for local purposes 
within their respective jurisdictions. Ex- 
isting charter restrictions as to taxation are 
superseded, for the act gives the munici- 
palities the right “to change the tax rate 
fixed by their respective charters upon the 
property taxed to the extent of covering 
any loss of revenue in case they may de- 
termine upon the exemption or partial ex- 
emption of certain classes or sub-classes of 
property.” 

+ + 


Prizes for Road Photographs 


A nation-wide photographic contest in 
the interest of the “Good Roads Every- 
where” movement, with cash prizes of 
$2,600, open to everybody, has been an- 
nounced by the National Highways Asso- 
ciation. 

The photographs selected in the competi- 
tion will be used to establish in Washington 
a national exhibit on the good roads prob- 
lem designed primarily to promote a 
nationally conceived scheme of highways. 

The prizes were subscribed by General 
Coleman du Pont, chairman of the Board of 
National Councillors, and Charles Henry 
Davis, president of the National Highways 
Association. 

The first prize, to be given for the most 
striking (good or bad) road photograph, 
will be a $500 cash award. In all there will 
be 166 cash prizes awarded. 

The competition will be kept open for 
eight months, closing at noon, Tuesday, No- 
vember 7th. All photographs should be ad- 
dressed to “Good Roads Everywhere” 
Photograph Contest, National Highways 
Association, Washington, D. C. 


Pittsburgh Competes with Other Cities 
to Lose “Smoky City” Title 


Pittsburgh has entered a contest in an at- 
tempt to lose its old nickname, “The Smoky 
City.” The city hopes that as a result of 
the contest the title will be inflicted on some 
other municipality. 

When Pittsburgh first proposed to drop 
the title, about two years ago, as the result 
of the indictment which was brought 
against the smoke nuisance by the Smok« 
Investigation of the Mellon Institute, it was 
discovered that there was no other city in 
the country anxious to adopt it. Under this 
circumstance Pittsburgh could only deny 
that the title rightfully belonged to it any 
longer, and to challenge the other cities of 
the country to a contest, the loser to tak« 
the titlk—‘“The Smoky City.” 

The contest is now on. It takes the form 
of a soot-fall study and was begun in Pitts 
burgh on April 1 and will continue for on 
vear. The study is being carried out un 
der the auspices of the Mellon Institute, 
University of Pittsburgh. 

On the same date similar studies 
begun in Cincinnati, Chicago and St. Louis 
J. W. Henderson, Chief of the Bureau of 
Smoke Regulation, is that the 
study will disclose that Pittsburgh has a 
lower soot-fall than the other cities in th 
contest. The smoke inspectors in the thre 
other cities are just as confident that Pitts 
burgh will be forced to retain its old title. 

The study in Pittsburgh has two objects 
in view: The first is to find out what im 
provement, if any, has been made in smoke 
abatement in Pittsburgh since the soot-fall 
study which was made by the Smoke Inves 
tigation of the Mellon Institute in 1912- 
1913; the second object is to compare the 
soot-fall of Pittsburgh with the three other 
cities. It is hoped to settle for all time the 
mooted question as to which city has the 
smokiest atmosphere. 

For the purpose of the study, glass jars 
four inches in diameter and ten inches 
deep are placed on buildings in twelve dif- 
ferent sections of Pittsburgh. 


were 


confident 


These jars 


are to be collected once a month for a year. 








THE AMERICAN CITY 

















ASK THE MAN WHO OWNS ONE 











The Turtle Gets There, but He 
Wouldn’t Do as an Egg Hauler 


Certainty is only one part of good delivery. Outside of backbone, 
the great need is speed. 

And the right type of truck is required, as well as the right make. 
That’s why there are seven sizes in the Packard line of trucks. 
Packard makers haven’t spent all their time over blue-prints. They 
have studied traffic fromthe driver’s seat and from the loading platform. 
They know that in light, rast hauling, mileage is money—any way 
you look at it. 

They know that goods must cover ground, if the money coming in 
exceeds the money going out. 

Thet’s why the 1 and 1'2-ton Packards were added to the line—to 
give snappy, light service, at any speed within reason. 

You can make a delivery for every promise—every day. 

A truck that will give you hurry one day and worry the next, hasn’t 
real speed. 

These light Packards are healthy all the year around. They'll sprint 
anytime you say—anywhere. 

They are true Packards to the very ribs, of the same frame and 
fibre as the heavies. 

The most exacting buyers saw the stuff in them from the first, and 
bought in large numbers—Marshall Field & Company, the Adams 


Express Company, the American Express Company and the United 
States Government. Write Department L for Catalog. 


PACKARD MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit 


GP? 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American Crty. 


—_———_ | 














JUNE, 1916 THE 


lhe jars are taken to the Institute and the 
contents weighed. At the end of six months 
or a year a sample of the contents will be 
analyzed. 


+ + 


A Garden City Project 

Yue AMERICAN City has received from 
Preston B. Moss, of Billings, Mont., Presi 
dent of the Yellowstone Garden City Hold 
ing Corporation, a prospectus of a unique 
project in city planning. Mossman, as the 
new city will be called, is planned to be 
built at the junction of the Great Norther 
and Northern Pacific railways, in Yellow- 
stone County, Mont. The scheme involves 
the acquisition of 5,000 acres of irrigated 
land now under cultivation and the develop- 












AMERICAN CITY 03 


> 
) 


ment of this property along modern garden 
city lines for farming, residential and trade 
purposes. The plans provide for “suitable 
terminal warehouse facilit es, stock vards, 
packing house, cold storage and creamery 
plant, municipal theatre and club houses, 
administration and store buildings and such 
other conveniences and essentials of a mod 
ern city to be built on original and scien 
tific lines and as an expression of the most 
advanced thought in its relation to civic art 
and beauty.’ 

The plan for the physical development of 
the property, as hers reproduced, has been 
prepared by Walter Burley Griffin, of Chi- 
cago. Among the many attractive features 
of the scheme is the reservation of 5 . 2 
and 20-acre tracts within the city limits for 


intensive farming under 


| eps = ccientific methods of soil 
culture. 
| The company expects 


to plat at the start only a 
very small acreage—per- 
haps not more than 150 or 
200 acres—the rest of the 
site of the future city to 








be leased as farm land 
pending development. 


+ + 
A Municipal Research 


Bureau for Detroit 
Detroit is the latest city 





to adopt the municipal re- 
search idea as a means of 
improving the character of 
its municipal government. 
The Detroit Bureau of 
Governmental Research 
was incorporated March 
22, and began work April 
15 with offices at 100 Gris- 
wold Street. The Board 
of Directors is made up of 
men who are most influ- 
ential in the city of De- 
troit, and who have a large 
interest in the govern- 
ment of the municipality. 
In addition to municipal 
work, the incorporators 
have included the county 
and state within the field 


of the new organization. 
The bureau is amply sup- 
PLAN OF THE NEW CITY OF MOSSMAN, MONTANA plied with funds which 


— 





ee ow 


sn re na 


WGK 


WS . 
\ 








THE AMERICAN CITY 


Man Blercks 


(ommercial Engines 


j=im EL 


ms ee escameaice- 





The Van Blerck Commercial Motor is manufactured in one cylinder size—5 4" x 6” 
and three units, a four, six and eight cylinder. Delivering power from 40 to 200 H.P. 
Designed and built to operate at 100% efficiency, it has created an enviable reputation 
in a dozen different fields, owing to the fact that it is doing work that no other gasoline 
engine had ever been able to attempt. Write for details. 


VAN BLERCK MOTOR COMPANY, Monroe, Michigan 





Yy 

4, —VIthth With y y y 4 y Vi thisie Wy, 

Ybppyyyse) MWIUW(J—@JJuU—C;WWY=@#| |JJ@J—Jjw@\™ | WW] —}#?| MMWWWWT@@JJ|!}MMJWMWMM@M|@(Jes@pow#; UY 
YY ee iL Ys WWWIWWWWJJJw=@leeew70u]u. 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Tax Ameaican Crrv. 














JuNE, 1916 


have been raised by private subscription, and 
the work has been undertaken for an initial 
period of three years. Freedom from par- 
tisan politics is assured by the fact that any 
trustee who holds office or becomes a candi- 
date for public office or accepts any public 
employment automatically severs his connec- 
tion with the institution. 

It is also expected that the bureau will 
afford a large field of training for public 
service, aS arrangements have been made 
with the University of Michigan by which 
graduate students in political science wish- 
ing to obtain degrees in public service 
courses will be required to spend a mini- 
mum of three months with the bureau. It 
is likely that this period of apprenticeship 
will be increased to one year in the imme- 
diate future. 

The Director is Mr. L. D. Upson, former- 
ly director of the Dayton Bureau of Muni- 
cipal Research and lately Executive Secre- 
tary of the National Cash Register Com- 
pany. 

+ + 


Boston’s Proposed Shakespeare 
Memorial 


At a meeting on May 12, arranged at the 
suggestion of Mayor Curley of Boston, rep- 


THE AMERICAN CITY 635 


Re) 


resentatives of various organizations espe- 
cially interested in honoring Shakespeare, 
as well as individual business and profes- 
sional men and women, listened to the out- 
line of a plan for a permanent Shakespeare 
Memorial in Boston. 

The Mayor explained the plan as having 
been a suggestion from the Shakespeare 
Festival Guild developed by the Shake 
speare Committee of the Citizens’ Public 
Celebration Association with his approval. 
Briefly, the proposition is, to have erected 
in due course of time, in a suitable location 
to be selected, an appropriate, practical and 
useful permanent Shakespeare Memorial in 
Boston, which shall be a recreation center, 
convention and public meeting place, as 
well as a unique attraction of interest to 
visitors from outside the city. The Com- 
mittee stated that the project should be so 
planned and constructed that it would have 
three distinct merits: (a) service to the 
community; (b) wide publicity value cal- 
culated to attract people to the city; (c) ar- 
tistic and educational merit. 

Briefly, the plan is for the building of a 
Shakespeare Village constructed and asso- 
sociated after the manner of an English 
village of three hundred years ago. A 
prominent feature would be a Shakespeare 








‘PROPOSER: PERMANENT: MEMORIAL ©F-118, SHAKESPEARE TERCENTENARY-™- BOSTON: 
© AP SHAKESPEARE VILLAGE: JN- THE: PENS: FOR PUBLIC RECREATION 
PROPOSED iaten <r mag pag ogy of the Ctszens of GRATER EOSIN 

















pa ne et AC 


—— 





THE AMERICAN CITY 














Trailer Outfit, Owned and Operated by the Department Public Works, Detroit, Mich. 


Detroit Has a Splendid 
Asphalt Department— 


NONE BETTER ANYWHERE 


They use the TROY Trailer for hauling hot asphalt for the 
same reason that the Ford Co., The Eastman Kodak, the U. S. 
Government, John Wanamaker, Swift & Co., tiker-Hegeman and 
scores of others are using TROYS. Because TROY Trailers make 
notor trucks pay big. 


Trailers are a good proposition for city departments. You 
ought to get full information. Write for Catalog 4-AC it entails no 
obligation. 


The Troy Wagon Works Company 
Troy, Miami County, Ohio 





New York Detroit St. Paul 
1876 Broadway 113 First Street 331 Amer. Nat'l Bank Bidg. 
Washington Philadelphia London, Eng. 
505 Riggs Building 206 Bailey Bidg. 49 Pall Mali 
47 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae American City 

















JuNE, 1916 rH \ME 


theatre with capacity for audiences of 1,000 
people, but so constructed that its walls 
could be opened and the structure serve as 
a stage, permitting 10,000 to 20,000 peopl 
to witness plays and other performances, o1 
concerts, - etc 


attend open-air meetings, 


Besides the theatre, the plan contemplates 


A tavern, which might be used for light 


freshments, with a tea garden in the r 
An inn, with enclosed court, t 
vention headquarters 
\ guild hall, for meetings and dinnet 
A Shakespeare house, as a mu 
A Shakespeare garden, wit! 
and plants 


» serve 


Anne Hathaway's cottage, to be uss 
women’s building 

Mary Arden cottage, to be 
building 

A chapel, to be a Pilgrim Memorial 


ecclesiastical museum 
A cottage to be 
with 


used as a childre ] 
In connection recreation 


adults and children 


Four locations have been suggest d, 
namely, Franklin Park, Back Bay Fens, pri 
vate land adjoining a park, the banks 
Charles River. 

The Committee emphasized the necessit) 
for a location which should be easy of ac 
cess to permit daily use and enjoyment. 


It is proposed that this Shakesp¢ ire Vil 


lage be in the custody of an incorporated 
organization, which shall include in 

gle administrative board or committee th 
city officials concerned as well as int 
for the 


ested citizens. The estimated cost 


entire group of buildings and surrounding 
There are two propositions f 
and 
one, to obtain public subscriptions 
the other, to use city funds. The Mayor 
expressed his opinion that it should be con 
structed by the city, but if this is not feas 
ible, then by contributions from citizens. 
The 
theatre (which is intended to be the first 
building erected) is from $10,000 to $15, 


by the 


is $100,000. 
the creation maintenance of the vil 


lage: 


estimated cost of constructing the 


000. Money is now being raised 
Shakespeare Festival Guild, and the Guild 
desires to be especially responsible for th 
erection of the theatre. 

Mayor Curley has referred the proposi 
tion to the 
partment, in order that it might be incor 
porated into the permanent scheme of 
velopment of Boston’s park system. 


3oston Park and Recreation D« 


R I ¢ 


LN CITY 637 
The New Municipal Dock 
at St. Louis 

(he new municipal dock and warehouse 
on the 
has just been opened to traffic 


Louis, 
This dock 


marks the beginning of the practical revival 


Mississippi River, at St 


of Mississippi River traffic along modern 
In the past all the 


ines. loading and un 
Oa ling of boats has been up steep levees by 

The new type of dock fits any stage 
f the river. | oading ind unloading is en 
crane, the 


boat 


> ; 
tirely mechanical, by electric 


connection between rail and being 


lirect 

St. Louis has just come into possession 
f eleven miles of double track along its 
river front This municipally-owned rail- 


d gives the city control of her entire 
al water-front. 


+ + 


The Elimination of Ugly Scaffolding 
on Streets 

\ desire to eliminate ugly scaffolds from 
building 


Dro! ipted the 


commerce 


operations in cities recently 


firm of George & Borst, con- 


tractors and builders, of Philadelphia, to 

r to 300 well-known architects in com- 
tition three prizes for the best designed 
ractical builder’s scaffold. The Art Jury 
of Philadelphia appointed as judges in the 
competition Messrs. Horace Wells Sellers, 
lohn Hall Rankin and Arthur I. Meigs. 
lhe prizes were volumes of standard 


ks on architecture. The successful de- 
Signs were to be adaptable to a 25 foot city 
foot sidewalk, 


hecome the property of any architect, owner 


lot with a 15- and later to 


or builder desirous of using them. 
he story of what led to this offer is an 
interesting one and is told in a letter of 
lanation by the firm 


exp! 
years ago it occurred to us that 
iffolds, or footwalk bridges, as the 


\ few 
ail 


lders s 


e sometimes illed, were most objectionable 
from an esthetic point of view, so we set about 
prove upon the design \fter much 

uught we de vised a neat structure, painted 

e boards white with cold water paint, and 
rnamented the framework with lattice work 
trailing vines At this time we had four 

di in course of construction in the heart 

the business sectiot f Philadelphia, and 
night we converted the old, hideous, un 
ted, unadorned scaffolds into itt{ractive 
elters Che effect was electrical; the success 
instantaneous. Congratulations poured in from 
| urces rowds gathered the next morning 
ew this unique experiment; photographs 

r news items appeared in at least twenty-four 
publications; and in the Philadelphia Public 





THE AMERICAN CITY 


; BE UP-TO-DATE 
Double Service a Trolley Poles 








i 




















THE OLD WAY 


THE NEW WAY (24 Hours Service) 
Two sets of poles. 


One set of Elreco combination poles. 


Tubular steel for supporting trolley wires. The addition of ornamental bracket and base 

, eh transforms the ordinary plain trolley pole into 

i Cast iron standards for lighting. a handsome lighting standard. 

“White Way” is obtai g - 
DOUBLE EXPENSE ite Way’”’ is obtained at less than one 


half the cost of a separate installation, 
Unnecessary obstruction along the curb line. Lighting wires may be attached to top of 


Underground wiring absolutely necessary. poles—saving all expensive underground con- 


struction. 
Difficulty of keeping both sets of poles in 


' Curb line free from all unnecessary obstruc- 
rr alignment. 


tion. 


GET FULL DETAILS AND CATALOG 


Electric Railway Equipment Co. 


Manufacturers Cincinnati, Ohio 
7 NEW YORK, 30 Church Street 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amenican City. 














JuNE, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 639 





Ledger alone photos or 
references were made in 
seven different issues, a 
whole page being devoted 
to views in its Sunday Pic- 
torial Supplement We 
quote one typical letter 
from Morris L. Cooke, 
Esq., then Director of Pub- 
lic Works of Philadelphia: 


“*My attention has been 
called to the very artistic foot 
walk bridge you have erected 
in connection with the recon 
struction of Huyler’s store, at 
1320 Chestnut Street. I want 
to express my very sincere ap 
preciation of the splendid man 
ner in which you have carried 
out one of the department's 
ideas in the matter of co 
operation to make Philadelphia 
a beautiful city, even in the 
midst of reconstruction work. 

“*This bridge has been com 
mented on in a highly flatter 
ing manner by many callers at 
this office, and I want to assure 




















you that your work in this THE FIRST-PRIZE DESIGN 

connection should act as an By Fred A. Fuller 
iverage rf $16 a scaffold 
more than the roughest 
hel 


sneiter required by law 
and surely the reputation 
of any builder is worth 
that much.” 





An exhibition of all 
the designs submitted 
was held in one of the 
architectural clubs in 
Philadelphia, and photo- 
graphs of the first prize 





design and others were 
published in the Phila- 
delphia Public Ledger. 
hree of the de Signs are 











A DESIGN BY JOHN EMLEN BULLOCK herewith reproduced. 





inspiration to everyone in your 
line of business.’ 

“It is interesting to note 
the development of scaf- 
folds since the advent of 
o ur. original — shelters. 
Hardly a builder has 
erected a building in this 
city but that he has at least 
painted the footbridge, 
and in some cases pleasing 
innovations have _ been 
made. The plan has even 
extended to other cities, 
though no attempt was 
made heretofore to pass 
the idea along. 





“No builder can offer an 
objection on the ground of : 
extravagance, for in the || dS Ae oe 
four cases previously 
mentioned it cost but an A DESIGN BY FRANCIS J. CREAMER 

















a 





THE AMERICAN CITY 








——————— 


49 





(/ BIG TONNAGE—BIG SAVINGS \ 


i The Knox tractor hauls all forms of heavy tonnage at a big saving over 
a horses or motor truck 
Tonnage limitations practically disappear because of the endless variety of 
a trailers that can be used in connection with the Knox tractor. The accom- 
panying illustrations show a 2-way, 2-compartment, side dumping trailer of a 
most advanced typ« Each compartment h 1 cubical capacity of 4 yards. The 


simple method of dumping eliminate 


such as hand hoists, hydraulic 
hoists, etc 


Write for “‘Hauling Costs Reduced’”’ 


Our big new illustrated bulletin, “ Hauling Costs 
Knox tractors with various forms of trailers in th 
siastic owners. Write for your copy today 


\ KNox MoTors ASSOCIATES 
: Springfield,” Mass, U.S. A. 


Reduced,” pictures 
actual service of enthu- 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amentcan City. 



































641 





Conventions and Exhibitions 


ON THE CALENDAR 


JUNE 5-7. On10. 

National. eniecenes on City Plan- 
ning. Annual Conference. Secretary, 
Flavel Shurtleff, 19 Congress Street, Bos- 
ton, Mass. 

June 5-9.—New Yori Ciry. 

American Water Works Association. 
Annual Convention. Secretary, J. M 
Diven, 47 State Street, Troy, N. Y. 

INE 6- 10.—New ARK, N. 

International Association of Chiefs of 
Police. Annual Convention. Secretary, 
C. G. Kizer, Norfolk, Va. 

JUNE 9-10.—CINCINNATI, OHIO 

American Association of Medical Milk 
Commissions. Annual Meeting. 
tary, Otto P. Geier, M. D., 
Cincinnati, Ohio. 





~ 


J 


Secre- 
Ortiz Building, 


June 14-16—Ortawa, ONT. 

National Assembly of Civil Service 
Commissions. Annual Meeting. Secre- 
tary, John T. Doyle, 1724 F Street, Wash- 
ington, D. C. 

June 14-16.—Swirt Current, SAsK. 


Union of ‘Saskatchewan Municipali- 
ties. Annual Convention Secretary, 
W. F. Heal, Moose Jaw, Sask. 

INE 19-22.—University, Va. 

Society for the Promotion of Engi- 
neering Education. Annual Meeting 
Chairman Administration Committee, Pro- 
fessor F. H. Constant, Princeton Un 
versity, Princeton, N. J. 

JUNE 21-23.—IsLe oF Pats, S. C. 

Tri-State Water and Light Associa- 
tion of the Carolinas and Georgia. An- 
nual Convention. Secretary and Conven- 
tion Manager, W. F. Stieglitz, Columbia, 
= 


J 


JuNeE 22-24.—Detroit, MIcH. 

National Federation of Remedial Loan 
Associations. Annual Convention. Di- 
rector, Arthur H. Ham, 130 East Twenty- 
second street, New York City. 

June 26-29.—INDIANAPOLIS, IND 


Anti-Saloon League of America. An- 
nual Convention. General Superintendent, 
Purley A. Baker, Westerville, Ohio 

June 26-Jury 1.—Assury Park, N, J. 

American Library Association. An- 
nual Conference. Secretary, George B. 
Utley, 78 East Washington Street, Chi 
cago, Ill. 

JUNE 27-30.—CLEVELAND, OHIO. 

American Institute of Electrical Engi- 
neers. Annual Convention. Secretary, 
F. L. Hutchinson, 33 West Thirty-ninth 
Street, New York City. 

JuNeE 27-30.—Atxantic City, N. J. 

American Society for Testing Mate- 

rials, Annual Meeting. Secretary, Pro- 


JuLy 11-13. 


JuLy 26-27 


fessor Edgar 


Marburg, University of 
Pennsylvania, 


Philadelphia, Pa. 
PitTsBuRGH, Pa. 

American Society of Civil Engineers. 
\nnual Convention. Secretary, Charles 


JUNE 27-30. 


Warren Hunt, 220 West Fifty-seventh 
Street, New York City. 
JUNE 28-30.—MILWAUKEE, WIs. 


American Association of Nurserymen. 
\nnual Convention. Secretary, John Hall, 
Granite Building, Rochester, N. Y. 

JUNE 28-30.—BATTLE CREEK, MICH. 

League of Michigan Municipalities. 
Annual Convention. Secretary, Charles 
\. Sink, Ann Arbor, Mich 
3-8.—New York City. 

National Education Association of 
the United States. Annual Convention. 
Secretary, Durand W. Springer, Ann 
Arbor, Mich. 

Jury 6-15.—MANHATTAN, 


KAN, 


School for Rural Leaders. Address, 
Division of College Extension, Kansas 
State Agricultural College, Manhattan, 
Kas. 

TuLy 9-13.—Detroit, MICH. 


World’s Salesmanship Congress. 
retary, Walter C. Cole, Detroit Board of 
Detroit, Mich. 

GOSHEN, IND. 


»ec- 


Commerce, 


Municipal League of Indiana. Annual 
Convention. Secretary, William A. Books, 
City Clerk, Goshen, Ind. 
JuLty, 19-21.—Hovuston, Tex. 
Texas Commercial Executives’ Asso- 
ciation. Annual Meeting. Secretary, 


E. N. Farris, Corpus Christi, Tex. 
Sr. Loul!s, Mo. 7 

United States League of Local Build- 
ing and Loan Associations. Annual 
Convention. Secretary, H. F. Cellarius, 
Station A, Cincinnati, Ohio. 

\ucuUST 22-24.—NorFoLK, VA 

Association of American Cemetery 
Superintendents. Annual Convention 
Secretary, Bellet Lawson, Jr., Elmwood 
Cemetery, Chicago. 

AUGUST 22-25.—BaA.LtimoreE, Mp 

International Assocation of Munici- 
pal Electricians. Annual Convention 
Secretary, Clarence R. George, City Elec- 
trician, Houston, Tex. 

AUGUST 29-31.—JOHNSTOWN, Pa. 

League of Cities of the Third Class in 
Pennsylvania. Annual Convention. Sec- 
retary, Fred H. Gates, City Clerk, Wilkes- 
Barre, Pa 

\ucust 29-SEPTEMBER 1.—ProvipENceE, R. I. 

International Association of Fire En- 
gineers. Annual Convention. Secretary, 
James McFall, Roanoke, Va. 














MOTORS COMPANY 


-~— 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


QyG 


CENERAL 


TRUCKS 


let the man from ruck Sleadguarters 
tell you his story 


No matter for what 
municipal use you may be 
considering trucks, you'll 
find his message mighty 
interesting. 


It’s asane, sound story 
based on hard facts —a 
story that will help you in 
your selection of satisfac- 
tory trucks regardless of 
your needs. 


First he will explain 
how the present high-grade 
GMC trucks were evolved 
thru the close, untiring co- 
operation of practical, ex- 
perienced men in every 


department 
great factory. 


thruout our 


Then he will show you 
how experience has proved 
that for some kinds of haul- 
ing, the chain drive is bet- 
ter and why for others, the 
worm drive is more suitable. 


And being able to fur- 
nish either type, he can help 
you decide—entirely with- 
out prejudice — which is 
better adapted for your 
various municipal needs. 


Next he will explain 
why GMC trucks pull up 


grades and out of holes im- 
possible for other trucks. 


Then, too, he will direct 
your attention to the many 
individual features in 
GMC design not yet 
attained by other truck 
makers. 


So finally you come to 
realize that GMC trucks 
have no superiors — even 
in higher priced trucks. 


Complete information 
relating to every phase of 
municipal trucking will be 
placed before you at any 
time at your request. 


GENERAL MOTORS TRUCK COMPANY 


_— York One of the Units of General Motors Company Philadelphia 
¢ : 
Chicago PONTIAC, MICHIGAN St. Louis 


(79) 


50 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 




















JuNE, 1916 


The New York State Bureau of 
Municipal Information 

At the annual Conference of Mayors and 
Other City Officials of the State of New 
York, held in Syracuse, May 31-June 2, 
Mayor J. T. Lennon, of Yonkers, presented 
an interesting report on the New York 


State Bureau of Municipal Information, 
from which the following extracts are 
taken: 


What has the Bureau accomplished during 
the first eight months of its history? It has 
organized—a big undertaking in itself. At the 
same time it has met the increasing demands 
for information by all cities in the state. It 
has researched and prepared and issued re 
ports on 146 general municipal subjects. Sev- 
eral of these reports are voluminous. I call 
particular attention to the reports on munici- 
pal housecleaning. These consist of reports 
on the methods and cost of collecting and 
disposing of ashes, garbage and manure in 
and by American cities; also a report on street 
cleaning methods and cost. The Bureau has 
compiled the water rates of all cities in the 
state and the cost and methods of street light- 
ing in all Empire State cities. It has pre 
pared reports giving the salaries of all city 
officials in each municipality in the state, and 
for one city it prepared a report giving the 
salaries of 175 different officials in twenty-five 
of the fifty largest cities in the United States. 

It has obtained the experience of many 
American cities which have used wood block 
and bitulithic for pavements. It has compiled 
information showing how American cities pen- 
sion their policemen and firemen and how they 
regulate by ordinance various activities. It 
has ready for distribution a compilation of the 
different traffic regulations in the principal 
cities in the United States. It has prepared 
reports on the experience of cities with various 
methods of sterilizing water, repairing brick 
pavement, steel and concrete bridges, public 
markets and their regulation, night schools to 
teach Enelish to foreigners, care of charity 
patients by private hospitals, various forms of 
government, municipal piggeries, methods of 
insuring public buildings, waste collection by 
motor trucks, municipal electric light plants, 
oiling streets and the various materials used, 
methods of selecting assessors, municipal sub 
ways, women on the police force, assessing the 
cost of ornamental street lighting systems, mu- 
nicipal infant welfare stations, two-platoon 
system for fire departments, municipal clean- 
up campaigns, paving by municipal forces, as- 
sessments, bond issues and tax rates. 

It has also prepared reports on the cost 
of different kinds of pavement laid in New 
York State cities last year. It has gathered 
and has ready to loan to any city in the state 
the blank forms used by American cities in 
purchasing supplies through a central agency, 
the forms used by American cities in securing 
departmental estimates for budget making, 
forms used by police departments in reporting 


THE AMERICAN 


cise 643 


accidents, etc., and forms used by investigators 
in charity departments in American cities. In 
addition to its general research work the Bu- 
reau has done considerable special work for 
individual cities. 


The Cost of Operation 


The Bureau is financed by the cities of the 
state, each first class city being asked to ap- 
propriate $500 annually, each second class city 
$300 annually and each third class city $150 
annually. Authority to make this appropria- 
tion is given in a general law enacted this 
year. When the Bureau was established, one 
of the three first class cities, six of the seven 
second class cities and thirty-one of the forty 
eight third class cities had pledged appropria 
tions for the first year. Since the Bureau has 
been in operation the two remaining first class 
cities, Buffalo and Rochester, the one remain 
ing second class city, Utica, and five of the 
remaining seventeen third class cities, New 
Rochelle, Cohoes, White Plains, Saratoga and 
North Tonawanda, have made their 
priations. 

These cities were convinced of the value of 
the Bureau solely by the service it had been 
rendering. Before the end of the vear we 
expect that nearly all, if not all, of the twelve 
third class cities which have not yet made their 
appropriations will do so, thus making it pos 
sible to report at the next Conference that 
every city in the state is supporting the Bu 
reau financially. We feel gratified over the 
results thus far obtained, for we now have 
every large city in the state and all except 
twelve of the smaller ones supporting this new 
activity 


appro 


+ + 


Signaling Devices on Automobiles Ad- 
vocated by Safety First Federation 
of America 

The use of mechanical or electrical sig 
naling devices on automobiles so as to indi 
cate the course of a car, one of the 
important recommendations adopted at a 
meeting of the street traffic committee of 
the Safety First Federation of America 
held last month in Cincinnati, Ohio. 

In the belief that automobile signal de- 
vices will increase in popularity, a plan was 
considered to provide for uniformity in 
their location and attachment to motor 
vehicles. Preference was given to a combi- 
nation of the signal with the tail light and 
license number, the signals to be visible at 
least fifty feet from the rear of a car, the 
design of indication to be by word or 
pointer; the mechanism to be substantial 
and positive in action, all operating parts 
protected from rain, mud, snow and ice; the 
control to be by hand or foot, with an auto- 


was 








| 





THE AMERICAN CITY 


























61 


THESTOCHESEace 


Its DIVIDENDS consist in furnishing the 
MAXIMUM OF SERVICE at the MINI- 
MUM OF COST. 


This can be accomplished only by MOD- 
ERN, ACCURATE and INTELLIGENT 
RECORDS. 


We Offer Specialized Service 


In Municipal Auditing, 


Budget Classification and Preparation, 
Efficiency Surveys, Special Investiga- 
tions and in the installation of modern, 
practical Municipal Systems. 


The Best Evidence 


of our ability to serve your city is the results 
accomplished by our work in other cities. 


Detailed Information as to our service will 
be given upon request. 


J. D. CLOUD & CO. 


Certified Public Accountants 


CINCINNATI, O. 


-——_—_—_—_——_—- 




















When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 












































June, 1916 
matic control for a stop signal. Approval 
was given for the location of these signals 
on the rear left-hand fender, so as to be in 
direct vision of the driver of any following 
vehicles and unobscured by extra tires usu 
ally carried on the back of a car. 

In the interest of safety and to expedite 
the movement of traffic, it contended 
that the signals should be shown both on 


Was 


the front and rear, so as to indicate clearly 
and in a positive manner to traffic officers 
pedestrians and drivers of other vehicles 
exactly what movement the car will make 
that 
course of a car 


It was contended by the committe: 
indicate the 7 
formed as necessary a part of the equipment 


signals to 
as the lights, horn, chains or fire extin 
guisher, this being especially true owing to 
the use of closed or curtained cars during 
rainy weather and in wintry months, when 
it is impossible to signal by hand. 

The street traffic committee approved of 
the accident form of report now in use by 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


645 


the New York Police Department, which 
will be generally idopted by the police ofh- 
cials throughout the country. 

\t a special meeting of the Board of Di 
rectors of thi Fede ration, 


Safety First 


which followed the street traffic committee 
conference, it was decided to inaugurate a 
campaign against trespassing upon rail 
roads, which will be prosecuted throughout 
the country. Statistics introduced at the 
meeting showed a loss of 8,621 lives through 
railroad accidents, 5,084 of which persons 


Kingsley, 


empow - 


were Darwin P. 


President of the 


trespassing. 
Federation, was 


ered to name a committee to outline a pol- 
federal Statute 


trespassing upon railway property 


icv for securing a against 

\pproval was given to plans presented 
providing for a Safety First Fourth of July 
campaign, and it was also decided that the 
second annual observance of National Fire 
should be Octo- 


Prevention Day held on 


ber 9 





Rummage Sales 
From the Weekly Bulletin of the Department of Health, Newark, N. J. 


lhe question as to how your clothes or 
other wearing apparel may act as dissemi 
nators of disease has recently come up for 
Trillat has lately shown that 
various pathogenic bacteria will live 


grow upon clothing, provided there is suf 


discussion, 
and 
ficient moisture present. 

from the hu 
man body may be sufficient for this pur 


The evaporation derived 


pose, so that in this way such bacteria may 
be able to maintain themselves and propa- 
gate for a long period. Provided that such 
conditions are present, the heat of the hod) 
acts as a natural incubator. On the other 
hand, investigations show that exposure to 
direct sunlight speedily kills off all but th 
most resistent bacteria 
surface of such material. 

As a result of these observations it is 
logical to suppose that clothing soiled with 
organic food matter or albuminous secre- 
tions of the human body may well become a 
serious menace to healthy persons 
subsequently use such infected 
without disinfection. 

Calmette long ago pointed out the dan- 


situated upon the 


who 
clothing 


gers of wearing apparel soiled by careless 


tuberculous patients. The sputum of such 
is loaded with the 


many of which may survive 


patients in many cases 
spe cific bacilli, 
adverse conditions of dry and cold, to read- 
ily infect a healthy person. 
In this respect rummage sales are a par- 
The 


irticles exposed for sale may readily come 


icularly undesirable form of charity. 
from cases of contagious disease, and many 
articles are verminous, especially old hats, 
bedding and padded goods 

In order to protect the public from any 
in the 


possible danget purchase of second- 


hand clothing or wearing apparel, the 
Newark Board of Health has recently 
passed an ordinance entitled “An Ordi- 


nance Regulating Rummage Sales and the 
Sale of Second-Hand Wearing Apparel or 
Bed Clothing,” 
tained 
held. 
It is further required that all 
hand clothing or 
infected to the satisfaction of the Board 
before offering or exposing it for sale. 


requiring a permit to be ob- 


before any rummage sale can be 


second- 


wearing apparel be dis- 











ee 





THE AMERICAN CITY 





= 


1916 Iroquois Portable Asphalt Plant 





Rollers Increased 
Tandem and Capacity, 
Macadam Convenience, 
Heating Economy 
Kettles 

Write for 
Surfaces Special 
Heaters. Bulletin 














The Barber Asphalt Paving Company 


Iroquois Works Buffalo, New York 















LITTLEFORD 


A tar and asphalt heater with 
Barrel Skid and Warming 
Hood. Itis not of the enormous 
proportion that you find in the 
large cumbersome rectangular 
type of heater, but on the 
other hand it is compact 
and a kettle of 500 gallons 
can easily be drawn be- 
hind a two horse wagon. 


This Littleford Heater is Exceptionally Etficient— 


due to the fact that the grate surface is large and the kettle sets 
almost entirely within the furnace, thus permitting the direct heat 
from the fire access to all sides. 


We make tar and asphalt heaters suitable for all conditions. 
Hand Pouring Pot No. 85 
Cap city Four Gallons WRITE US FOR CATALOG AND PRICES 


LITTLEFORD BROS., 500 East Pearl St., Cincinnati, Ohio 






















52 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American Cry. 

















Municipal and Civic Publications 


may be ordered of Tux American City, with the exception of Government 





publications and 


those indicated as free, which should be ordered direct from the offices publishing them 





SpaRKS, Frank M. 
The Business; of Government: Munici- 
pal. i916. xiv + 284 pp. $1.25 


While embodying a full analysis of municipal gov 
ernment in organization, functions and administra 
tion, this book differs from other studies in that it 
shows the integral relationships with county, state and 
national governments The evolution of municipal 
government from the old town meeting plan through 
the representative, board, commission, and cabinet 
forms to the city manager plan is first outlined and 
analyzed. The work of city departments and the 
functions of officials—legal, engineering, health, safety, 
taxation, recreation, utilities, etc are next discussed. 
Political partisanship and its machinery, the caucus 
and convention, the primary, elections, short ballot, 
corrupt practices, and other specific topics are treated. 
Several sections deal with the aspects of municipal 
finance and accounting, others with citizenship and 
its duties, civic bodies, woman suffrage. The book 
with chapters on county, state and national 
government. 


closes 


ANTRIM, ERNEST IrvinNG, A. M., Ph. D., 
ber of the Fourth 
vention of Ohio. 


Fifty Million Strong, or Our Rural Re- 
serve. 1916. viii + 152 pp. 80 cents 


This book discusses the part to be played by re- 
nascent Rural America of to-day in the great oppor 
tunities opened up in virtue of the European struggle, 
and emphasizes the necessity of rural leadership and 
rural codperation to achieve the best results. The four 
chapters consider: America and her equipment; rural 
America; rural leadership, and rural coéperation. It 
is the author’s belief that rural life fosters individual 
ism, and that the farmer, in order effectively to co 
operate with his fellows, must forget self and acquire 
a vision of his true place in the national life by work 


Mem- 
Constitutional Con 


ing for community advancement. Many interesting 
Western experiments in community cooperation are 
described. 


WisconstN WoMmMAN SUFFRAGE 
EpUCATION COMMITTEE, 
Quackenbush, Chairman. 

Social Forces: A Topical Outline with 
Bibliography. 1915 Edition. Revised, 
re-indexed, enlarged. 136 pp. 20 cents 

This handbook provides outline courses of study 

and material for papers, discussions and debates on 


social subjects and offers practical and suggestive in- 
formation as to how a club or an individual may go 


ASSOCIATION 
Mrs. A. S 


to work to solve local civic problems. The topical 
outlines cover civics, education, social service and 
government; the bibliographies include book, maga 


zine and free pamphlet material on each topic. Of 
particular interest to readers of THe American City 
will be the sections dealing with school problems, civic 
and moral training in schools, the school social cen- 
ter, child labor, city planning, public health, municipal 
ownership, recreation, rural problems, commission 
government, social settlements, unemployment, school 
and vacant lot gardens, etc. Certain sections of this 
volume (e. g., “Industrial and Social Outlines,” “Out- 
lines for Civic Work and Study,” “Training in Citi- 
zenship in Our Public Schools”) have been reprinted 
by the Civics Department of the General Federation 
of Women’s Clubs and may be obtained at the rate 
of five cents each from Mrs. George Zimmerman, 
Chairman, Fremont, Ohio. 


i a a a a ee 


Howe, FREDERI , Ph. D. 
The aetew City and Its Problems. 
1915. Xii + 390 pp. $1.65 
THe AMeRIcAN City regrets its delay in announce 
ing a work of such particular importance as this con 


tribution from Mr. Howe. Emuinently qualified to 
discuss his subject, the author in this volume holds 
our interested attention through chapters telling of 
the life and government of ancient, mediaeval and 
modern cities; of the successes and failures of the 
American city; municipal home rule; charters and 
charter changes; municipal ownership in Europe and 
America; city planning in Europe and America; police, 
fire, health, housing, social service, recreation, finance 
and revenue. Mr. Howe shows that American cities 
have been dominated in many instances by the inter 
ests of “big business,” and that this has resulted in 
dishonesty and corruption. On the other hand, as 
compared to European cities, we have built our democ 
racy on men and developed our 
rather than a property basis. While this has proved 
a temporary burden and has probably delayed effi 
ciency, it nevertheless involves self-government and a 


sense of responsibility on the part of the voters, and 


cities on a human 


is an achievement in itself, “even more to be desired 
than efficiency.” As examples of the eficiency of 
American cities, Mr. Howe instances our fire depart 


ments, our libraries, our schools, our 
grounds and our system of taxation. 


Leavitt, FRANK MITCHELL, Associate 
sor of Industrial Education, 
of Chicago, and 

EpitH Brown, Instructor in Prevocational De- 
partment, Albert G. Lane Technical 
High School, Chicago, Ill. 

Prevocational Education in the Public 
Schools. 1915. viii + 245 pp. Diagrams. 
$1.10 
Recent widespread investigations of our school sys 
tem as it exists to- oe have revealed that the ma 
jority ot our children derive the least benefit from the 
school system and leave it altogether before reaching 
the age of 16 or 17 years. It is the object of the 
present study to give information regarding the ex- 
perimental work undertaken by certain schools in an 
attempt to solve this problem. The first half of the 
book deals with the nature and purpose of vocational 
education, its relation to the school system, the inau 
guration of the classes, and personal characteristics of 
prevocational boys. The second half discusses ap 
propriate subject-matter for prevocational classes. 


Scuorr, HANNAH Kent, President of the Na- 
tional Congress of Mothers and Parent 
Teacher Associations. 

The Wayward Child: A Study of the 
Causes of Crime. (Childhood and Youth 


parks and play 


Profes- 
University 


Series, edited by M. V. O’Shea, Professor 
of Education, University of Wisconsin.) 
IQ15. xi + 274 pp. $1.00 


The evolution of the wayward child, the influence 
exerted by his environment, his relations with his 
family and with the outside world, are fully outlined 
in this book. Some discussion of occupations is given 
and the part played by the school and the saloon in in 
fluencing the lives of children is shown. The orphan 
and the truant are accorded special consideration, and 
two chapters are devoted to probation and the juvenile 
court, which the author regards as the necessary pre 
ventive and curative institutions. The introduction 
considers child-welfare activity, and furnishes a 
résumé of the historical development of legislative 
measures. 





——————————————————— 



























THE AMERICAN CISY 


Qualit 


LAWN MOWERS 


are the favorites with thou- 
sands of caretakers of pub- 
lic parks, cemeteries, golf 
courses and large private 
estates. 


Greater efficiency, durability and econ- 
omy are the reasons. 


Made of the highest grade materials 
and scientifically constructed to mini- 
mize strain, “‘PENNSYLVANIA’’ 


Mowers run easier and last longer. 


Write for our catalog. 


Cy mis & 


The famous “PENNSYLVANIA” 


line includes the following brands: 


“Pennsylvania” *““Shock Absorber’”’ 
‘Great American’”’ “Golf”’ 
““‘Continental”’ “Pony”’ 
‘Pennsylvania, Jr.”’ “Horse,’’ ‘‘Power’”’ 


““Keystone”’ and others 


“The Pennsylvania People’’ 


Sippke Biddle Hardware (ompany 


PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA 








53 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American Crty. 














JuNE, 1916 THE 


RAILWAY ( 
ON PUBLICATION 


NATIONAL ASSOCIATION Of 
SIONERS, COM MITTEE 
DECISIONS. 

Official Public Service Reports. (Pub 
lished officially, each week, for the Stat 
Public Service, Railway and Corporation 


OMM 


Commissions, under the direction of the 
above Committe?, in volumes or “Advance 
Sheets” of froin 250 to 300 pages and 


from time to time cumulated and repul 
lished ) 


These reports are designed to serve as a pract 
magazine for lawyer, manager, financier ur 1 
ministrator to keep them currently informed of the 
progress of regulation and public service activities 
every part of the country They should prove of 
considerable assistance in simplifying the work f 
municipal attorneys and municipal legal department 











rhe publication of the reports was arranged for by the 
public service, railway and corporation commiss 

of the several states through the National Associat 
of Railway Commissioners, with whi all the state 
ommissions are affiliated. The reports will cover a 
decisions handed down by state or municipal I 
service, railway or corporation commiss S, al 
decisions handed down by state or feder court 
viewing or affecting commission decisions or relating 
to regulation of public utilities Each point in the 
case quoted will be covered by full and complete head 
notes, and there will also be carefully prepared sul 
ject-indexes and syllabus-digests An annual digs 
including all index and digest entries in all volumes 
issued during the year, will be published, as well as 
supplementary digest covering published decisions f 
commissions and courts handed down from 19 t 
1914, inclusive, with references therein to present ed 
tions of reports. Finally, all laws and amendments t 
existing laws, relating to public service, corporation 
and railway commissions, will be printed i: the 
Weekly Advance Sheets as they become laws, and re 
printed annually in a separate volume, as a legislative 
supplement The subscription price of the complete 
service by the year is $25; single opies nt 
Advance sheets and bound volumes wit! abus 
digest to each volume, annual digest and annual legis 
ative supplement may be had at $4.50 per bound v 
ime, payable as delivered 

Rocers, ETHEL. 


Sebago-Wohelo Camp Fire Girls. (With 








an Introduction by Mrs. Luther Halsey 
Gulick.) 1915. 249 pp. Photographs 
$1.25 
The Wohelo camps ‘ook their origin from a family 
custom of summer cammng trios first inaugurate 
the banks of the Thames Rive near New Lon u 
Conn These trips grew in popilarity until it became 
necessary to adopt a plan for the sharing of expenses 
In this way the lake Sebago-Wohelo camp was started 
the word Wohelo being formed by the first two letters 
of the words Work, Health and Love, coined by Mrs 
Luther Gulick The book relates in simple and inter 


esting manner the camp life and activities of the girls 
at Wohelo. One gets from the story a feeling of sur 
lit forest lanes, swaying pine branches and the tang of 


the summer breeze. he ideals of Wohelo are we 

summed up by Mrs. Gulick: believe deeply and 
earnestly that spiritual health and development is a 
direct corollary of bodily vigor and mtrol: that the 
joy that comes from the exercise of efficient muscles 


has its counterpart in the soul; that to exercise the 
” 


is to exercise the other 

CooLey, Epwin G 
Vocational Education in Europe. Re- 
port to the Commercial Club of Chicago 


Volume II. 1915. 177 pp. Photographs 
$1.10 

This volume completes the extensive surve of 
European vocational schools undertaken by Professor 
Cooley for the Commercial Club of Chicago The first 
volume, published in 1912, was the result of a 
European study tour, and dealt with the schools of 


Germany, Austria and Switzerland The present 
volume contains the results of a second trip in which 


Professor Cooley studied conditions in Ireland, 
England, Holland, Denmark, Sweden, Norway and 
Germany, with especial reference to agricultural 


AMERICAN 


City 649 


‘ ‘ k 
liffe “ 
ns the status 
t t ifuc ~ . s 
n, the im ne . é ‘ 
ng peopijc te i 
nsisted upon, and t ’ 
narrow sche s g P 
ency, satifies tl ‘ s ‘ 
HIUEBNER, Grover G., Assistant Pr ss 
lransportation and Commerce, W1! 
ton School of Finance and Commerce 


University of Pennsylvania 
Agricultural Commerce: The Organ- 
ization of American Commerce in Agri- 

















cultural Commodities. 19 joo pt 
Maps, forms, statistical tables $2.07 
The regions f f t t 
es t { the 
€ sumer is e é i) 
eta esct n of 
has piece tog ethe 
numbe f ‘ s 
ad seaboard er Kets - 
| warehouse F 2 
entral cotton 1 kets, the st 
ntral n ck ke the 
ne irketing t t t ! € 
sidered at lene Dr. H ; 
! ited service giving tor r < 
t of the dis t er 
he United States 
|eAKE, ALpert H., Inspector of Manual Tra 
ing and Household Science, Ontario 
Canada. 
The Means and Methods of Agricultural 
Education. (Hart, Schaffner, a Marx 
Prize Essays, N XX1 ) xxiv 
273 PP $2.00 
I fourteer f \ ‘ 
¢ progress x 
expressed throug em 
ve ent 1 s t 
‘ teri si see ‘ x 
Itural colleges stit s 
rk The his ca ‘ f y 
educatior s reviewed ‘ S x 
sideration of e ¢ ° 
eld The author s s he . ! 
t le sa fol NS 1 P 
nditions RP. 
. entit t s ] r 
ng the establishme t ( 
s } r acs c 
€ x nta s s 
WARDS Ri HAR HENR Social Study 
Service Secretary, Student Young Me 
Christian Associations 
Popular Amusements Studies A 
erican Sx cial nditions r . ) 
229 pp $1.07 
Popular amusements this k re 
three general classes the t at gt ' ne 
lramatic presentations, vaudeville i 
tures; the “‘social rendezvous x ! g és 
public dance halls and | s. and the t 
group, including amateu ur profes thle 
In addition to these groups there are var spe 
amusements, such as circuses, holid elebrat 
cursions, etc It is shown that the , 
tessi nalism, c mmer : st iT | 
widespread that a publi iwakening 1 the 
provement of conditions by pressur ‘ 
is necessar Constructive pul ! S " 
mencing to express itself in ¢ we theaters 
drama leagues, social settlements g Is ! 
commu festivals and ageants In the last sect 
f th the author discusses each eg speci 
and makes certain suggestions for mmunity act 
Further valuable hints are contained the appe 








THE AMERICAN CITY | 


ie 








Saves 35% for the City of Milwaukee | 


N June, 1915, the City of Milwaukee ordered a Sterling-Kindling Motor Squeegee 

Street Washer. After keeping accurate cost data it was found that this outfit 
cleaned 1000 yards of asphalt pavement at a cost of only 16% cents —a saving of 
9 cents, or 35 per cent over horse-drawn equipment. Consequently this second 
Sterling-Kindling outfit was installed in April of this year. 


The Sterling-Kindling can easily be con- mechanism of the chassis means longer 
verted into a general utility truck. It is life and greater freedom from operating 
so designed that the tank can be quickly __ troubles. 


ee nie and — ng OF Mationery The Sterling-Kindling Motor Squeegee not 
fy only economizes but it also advertises a mu- 
The entirely enclosed and protected nicipality as progressive in civic enterprise. 


WRITE TODAY FOR FULL INFORMATION SHOWING EQUIPMENT 
FURNISHED AND ECONOMIES EFFECTED 


STERLING MOTOR 
TRUCK COMPANY | 


Builders of Motor Trucks Exclusively 
For Nine Years 


830 ROGERS ST., MILWAUKEE, WIS. 









TRUCKS 


64 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City 
















~ 








THE 





JUNE, 1916 AME 





EATON, JEANNETTE, and 
Srevens, BertHa M. 
Commercial Work and Training for 


Girls. 1915. xviii + 289 pp. Charts, 
statistics and bibliography. $1.61 

lhe authors’ studies show that the chief blam« 
the inefficiency of young office workers must be 1 
{ private cenmmmaoeiel schools. Only 10 per cent f 
the children of Cleveland attend the good commercia 
gh schools of the city—the majority prefer thi 
s! ter and supposedly more “practical” courses of the 
ivate institution. This appears to be due largely t 


R 





P te 
I 
P } 
and 
« re aay 
thes s Is s 2 
f the t 
] - .- ¢ 
tte f the k, 2,81¢ s 
ed a studied the 1 
« f k the 
f s et s t 
se I Ss forms 
v g ind g is 





Pamphlets of Municipal and Civic Interest 


Springfield, Mass., 1916 Budget. 
Issued with the Codperation of the Mayor 
Finance Committee by the Springfield Bureau 
Municipal Research, March, 1916 78 py Dia 
grams. (Apply to the Bureau, 403 Stearns Build 
ng, Springfield, Mass.) 


School Administration in the Smaller Cities. 
By W. S. Deffenbaugh, Chief of Divisi t 
School Administration, United States Bureau of 
Education. (Bulletin, 1915, No. 44, United States 
Bureau of Education.) 240 pp. Statistical tables 
(Apply to the Bureau, Washington, D. C.) 


Infant Mortality and Urban Housing and 
Living Conditions. 
By Henry H. Hibbs, Jr. 


(Reprinted from The 
xX 


urnal of Sociologic Medicine, Vol VI., No. 5, 


October, 1915.) 24 pp. (Apply to author, ¢ 
lumbia University, New York City.) 
Report of the United States Children’s 
Bureau. 


Third Annual Report of the Chief, ( en’s 


Bureau, to the Secretary of Labor. Fiscal Year 
Ended June 30, 1915. 26 pp. (Apply to the 
Bureau, Was shington, ~ 


The Present Position of Infant Mortality. 


Its Recent Decline in the United States By 
Henry H. Hibbs, Jr. (Reprinted from the Quar 
terly Publications of the American Statistical 
Association, New Series, No. 112, December, 
1915.) 16 pp. (Apply to author, Columbia Uni 
versity, New York City.) 


Report of City Plan Commission, Camden, 
N. J. 


The First Annual Report of the City Plan Cor 
mission, Camden, N. J., for the year ending De 
cembef 31, 1915. 1916. 16 pp. Map and photo 
graphs. (Apply to the Commission, Camder 
ee 


Juvenile Delinquents. 


The Problem of Their Disposition by the ( 
dren’s Courts, with Special Relation to Short 
Term Remands. 1915 31 pp (Ap t 
Leonard M. Wallstein, Commissioner of Ace yunts, 
Municipal Building, New York City.) 


‘the Auditor’s Office, City of Oakland, Cal. 


Report of a Survey of the Auditor’s Office, ( 
of Oakland, together with a Summary showing 
Advantages of the New Accounting System re 
cently installed on the Recommendation of the 
Tax Association of Alameda County. (Report 
No. 20, January, 1916.) 15 pp. (Apply to the 
above Association, 803 Oakland Bank of Savings 
Building, Oakland, Cal.) 


Report of the Ontario Commission on Un- 


employment. 


Printed by Order of The Legislative Assembly of 
Ontario. 1916. 334 pp. Statistical tables. (Ay 
ply to the Commission, Toronto, Ontario, Cana 


Ridge F a me 


\ Successf ( { I 
Elizabeth S Wi s 

eze Settlement ) k s N Y 
City.) 


Health Insurance : Its Relation to the Pub- 
lic Health. 


I Ss. Warren, Surgeon, and Edg S 
oH at Pub ic Health Statist in, t { S 
Public He alth Service : Healt B 

No. 76, March, 1916.) 6 Apply to Unite 
States Public Health Service, Washington, D. (¢ 


Motion Picture Conenide | in Pennsylvania. 





Rules and Standards Act passed May 91 
appropriation, June 16, 191 effective 15 
1915.) Pennsylvania State Board of Cens 
Motion Pictures 1915 Reproductions 
f official stamp and application blank. (Apply to 
the Board, Harrisburg, Pa 

Trachoma. 
Its Prevaler Its } ts [ n Vision, and the 
Methods of Control and Eradication, By Gordon 
L. Berry, Field Secretary, National Cor ttee for 
the Prevention f Blindness (National ( 1 
mittee for the Prevention of Blindness, Pub! 
tions Nos. 6: Trachoma—A Menace to Amer 
December, 1915 ) 40 pp Photographs and s 


tistical m aps (Apply to the « mmittee, 130 E 


[wenty-sec« ee Street. New York City.) 

Educational Lantern Slides; Educational 
Motion-Picture Films. 

Lists c ym piled by the Bureau f Visual Ir 


tion of the Extension Division of the Universit 
f Wisconsin I f J 





ersity of Wisconsin, ‘ 

No. 766, General Series N 67, October, 1915 
32 pp. (Apply to the Extension Division of the 
University at Madison, Wis.) 


Play and Athletics. 


Care of the Body, Player 1 ¢ 1 | 
ment, Athletic Contests, Organizatior f Meets, 
Leagues, etc. (Issued by the Public D 
Division of the Department f Extensior Ur 
versity of Texas. and published Rulle N 

» of the University of Texas, Tune 5, 1915.) 94 
pp. Photographs liagrams t bibliograp! 
(Apply to the Unive Aus I 


Teachers’ Cottages. 
By R. S. Kellogg (in codperation with the United 


States Bureau of Education). January, 1916. 58 
pp Photographs and diagrams (Apply t the 
United States Bureau of Education, Washingtor 
D. C.) 


Unemployment in New York City During 
1914-1915. 


Report of the Mayor’s Cor tte n Une 
ment, E. H, Gary, Chairmar He Rrueér Se 
retar Januar 191 1 Phot pt 
tatistical table ' f ttee organiz 
(Apply to the ittee, Mut suild 


ng New York Cit ) 








THE AMERICAN CITY 


Value is Based on 
Dependability and Length of Service 


The communities which are investing their money in good road maintenance art ; 





interested in the machines that will perform this work at a minimum of time and cost 
If the road commissioner or county official is to perform this duty he must turn to thi 
machine with which this work is done 

The saving lies not in the first cost of the machine for any saving in the purchase 


price may be overbalanced by troublesome delays, repair cost and a decrease in service 





ability. Dependability and length of service are the factors to consider. 
Case Road Machi Lead | 
In materials and methods of construction Case Road Machinery finds its greatest advantage 
Our own laboratories test all materials used. Every detail of construction is analyzed and its efficiency 
determined. Case engineers design from practical road experience It is this kind of investment which 
is the most economical in the long run 
. > . . 
Learn of its Superiorities 
The 1916 Case Road Machinery Catalog explains in detail the full line of Case equipment. It 
contains information of value to every road builder Your name and address bring you a copy 
J. I. Case T. M. Co., Inc. 
772 Liberty Street, Racine, Wis. 
| 
’ 


t \dvertiser ease mention Tue A\meRIcan City 








SF a en 


ae 








JUNE, 1916 THE AMER 


Chicago Plan Commission Report. 


Sixth Annual Report—for the Year 1915—< 
Plan Commission; Proceedings of the 
Meeting, held March 16, 1916. 

the Commission, Chicago, II].) 


hicago 
Fourteenth 
35 pp. (Apply to 


Housing Conditions of To-day in Boston. 


The Results of a Housing Investigation recently 
undertaken by the Housing Department of the 
Women’s Municipal League of Boston and pub 
lished as Vol. VIL. No. 3, of the Bulletin of that 


organization, for February, 1916. 79 pp. Nu- 
merous excellent photographs and diagrams. (Ap 
ply to the League, 6 Marlborough Street, Boston, 


Mass. ) 


Child Welfare Surveys and Bibliography. 


Extension Division Bulletin No. 16, Bulletin 

the State University of lowa, New Series N- 111, 
March 15, 1916. 12 p. (Apply to the University, 
lowa City, Ia.) 


Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. 


Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the States of 
Illinois, Colorado and California By F. Morse 
Hubbard. (Bulletin of Social Legislation of the 
Henry Bergh Foundation for the Promotion of 
Humane Education, No. 4, edited by Samuel Mc 
Cune Lindsay, Ph. D., LL. D., Professor of Social 
Legislation in Columbia U niversity ) March, 1916 
112 pp. (Apply to Columbia University Press, 
New York City.) $1.00 


Relation of Reproduction Cost to Fair 
Value. 


By Morris Knowles, C. E. (Publication No. 10, 
reprinted from the Proceedings of the Valuation 
Conference, Vol. I, No. 3, of The Utilities Maga 
cine, published by The Utilities Bureau, Phila 
delphia, January, 1916.) 1916. 13 pp (Apply 
to author, care of the University of Pittsburg, 
Pittsburg, Pa., or to The Utilities Bureau.) 


Report of Massachusetts Free Employment 
Offices. 


Ninth Annual Report on the State Free Employ 
ment Offices for the Year Ending November 30, 
1915. (Public Document No. 80, Commonwealth 
of Massachusetts, Bureau of Statistics.) 1916 
43 pp. Statistical tables. (Apply to the Bureau, 
Boston, Mass.) 


Laws Relating to the Public Health in 
Massachusetts. 


Manual of the Laws Relating to the Public 
Health, 1915. 1915. XVI + 260 pp. (Apply 
to the Massachusetts State Department of Health, 
Boston, Mass.) Send 6 cents for postage. 


Health Insurance and the Prevention of 
Tuberculosis. 


By John B. Andrews, Secretary, American Asso 
ciation for Labor Legislation. (Reprinted from 
The Medical World, February 26, 1916.) 10 pp 
(Apply to the author, 131 East Twenty-third 
Street, New York City.) 


Pamphlets on Public Health Nursing. 


Four reprints from the Public Health Quarter!) 
The Health Center Idea: A New Development in 
Public Health Work, by Michael M. Davis, issue of 
January, 1916; The Development of State Public 
Health Nursing, by Robert G. Paterson, issue of 
January, 1916; Typhoid Fever, by Bessie Ely 
Amerman, issue of October, 1915; The Richard 
Enderlin Welfare Work, by Anna Rumer, issue of 
January, 1916. See also: What the National Or 
ganization is Doing to Increase Its Membership 
(Excerpts from Report of Committee on Mem 
bership of National Organization for Public Health 
Nursing), and Standards in Visiting Nurse Work, 
by Lee K. Frankel, Sixth Vice-President, Metro 
politan Life Insurance Company. 18, 9, 7, 8 and 
13 pp., respectively. (Apply to National Organi 
zation for Public Health Nursing, 25 West Forty 
fifth Street, New York City.) 


I 


Can City 6053 


Leakage of Current from Electric Railways. 
Technologic Paper No. 63, issued by the Bureau 
f Standards of the United States Department 


of Commerce. (Apply to the Bureau, Washing 
ton, D. C.) 


The Progress of Municipal Home Rule in 
Ohio. 


By Mayo Fesler, S cretary, Cleveland Civic 
League. (Reprinted from National Municipal Re 
view, Vol. V, No. 2, April, 1916.) 10 pp (Apply 
to author or to the Review, North American Build 
ing, Philadelphia, Pa.) 


New York State Single Tax League. 


Activities and Achievements of the New York 
State Single Tax League, Year Ending Septem 
ber 30th, 1915. (Reported at the Third Annual 
Conference, New — City, November 6, 1915, 
and republished as Bulletin No. 3 of the League.) 
51 pp. Group photograph (Apply to the League, 
68 William Street, New York City.) 


Free Municipal Clinics for School Children. 
A Review of the Work of the School Children’s 
Nose and Throat Clinics in New York City and 
Conditions which Necessitate Such Institutions 
By J. H. Berkowitz. (Reprint Series No. 41, 
February, 1916.) 16 pp. Illustrated (Apply to 
New York City Department of Health, which 
publishes this series.) 


The Inspection of Weights and Measures 
in Baltimore City. 


Report No prepared by the Bureau of State 
and Municip at Research, issued January 31, 1916 
30 pp. Charts. (Apply to the Bureau, 728 Equi 


table Building, Baltimore, Md.) 


Planning of Alaskan Ports. 


By Paul Whitham (Publication of the United 
States Department of the Interior.) 1916. 36 pp 
One large and five full-page maps; 13 full-page 
plates (Apply to the Department, Washington, 
Db. C.) 


Mechanical Equipment Used in the Port of 
New Orleans. 


Advance printing of a paper by William von 
Phul, Mem. Am. Soc. M. E., to be presented at 
the spring meeting of the American Society of 
Mechanical Engineers, New Orleans, La., April 
11-14, 1916 44 pp Map, photographs and 
diagrams. (Apply to the Society, 29 West Twenty 
ninth Street, New York City.) 


The Menace of the Mentally Defective. 


\ pamphlet by Alexander Johnson and Margaret 
Johnson Lane, forming Bulletin No. 37 in the 
Social Service Series published by the Depart 
ment of Social and Public Service of the Ameri 
can Unitarian Association, 25 Beacon Street, Bos 
ton, Mass., for free distribution. 20 pp Dia 
grams. 


Protecting the Future of New York City. 


\ Plea for Stricter Regulations in Certain Mat 
ters Pending Before the Commission on Building 
Districts and Restrictions, April, 1916. 15 pp 
(Apply to the City Club of New York, 55 West 
Forty-fourth Street, New York City.) 


Ramshackle County Government. 


An article by Richard S. Childs reprinted by pet 
mission from The Outlook. May 3, 1916. 6 pp 
Chart. (Apply te the National Short Ballet Or 
ganization, 381 Fourth Avenue, New York City.) 


Budget Legislation in Two States. 


Issue No. 70, February, 1916, of Municipal Re 
search. 102 pp. Charts. (Apply to the New 
York Bureau of Municipal Research and Train 
ing School for Public Service, 261 Broadway, New 
York City.) $1.00 














THE AMERICAN CITY 


“4, The“Panama |ine” 








ret v—t— 


Hardin County Investigates— 
Then’ Buys ‘‘Panamas’’ 








IKE many friends who grow in favor as time elapses, ‘‘ Panama 
Line’’ Road Machinery bear investigating and the closer its con- 
struction and operating principles are studied, the more they are 
seen to afford many valuable advantages. 


ee 


That was the experience of Hardin County, Ohio, which has just purchased 
a large amount of equipment for building and maintaining its roads and streets 

After thoroughly investigating the various machines on the market, they 
found the ‘‘Panama Line’’ to embody more improvements and offer better ° 
value, dollar for dollar, than any other. As a result an order was placed for 
7 “Panama Giants” with patent scarifier attachments, weighing 5,000 pounds each, and one 
Boston Grader, weighing 1,000 pounds, also a number of ‘‘Panama’’ Drags. The photograph 
shows the equipment after being unloaded at Kenton, Ohio. 





Hardin County’s experience contains a ‘‘tip”’ for everyone. Have you the ‘‘ Panama Line”’ : 
Catalog? 


7 of These Machines in the Order 








' 
7 
A 
4 
The 
FP. B. Zieg 
Mig. Co. 
Fredericktown | 
Ohio 
Gentlemen — 
Send your “Panama \ 
Line” catalog as offered in The “ Panama Giant”, illustrated above, weighs 5,000 pounds and is, in reality 


Tae Aweatcan Crrr. % two machines in one, because a heav y and unusually practical scarifier is built 
() 


into it Either grader or scarifier may be used, or both at the same time 







mwen Y, It has roller bearing wheels, an exclusive feature, has worm gears through- 
CORR eRe eee een eee e wees out and many other valuable features, all of which are explained in 
detail in “‘The Panama Line” Catalog 
Addrese........ , 4 





Af #4 al 


THE EB. ZIEG MFG. COMPANY ‘ 
Fredericktown. Ohio | 
56 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 











{LALJUNL0ON0AN0NOOQOMDOADOLIOUGAOELTSRAAOANOAOLANLLALOUADADAAUA NUL LALLA ALteHAd LALLA LALLULSL4AL4BLOULALARNLLBLLLLA 444440 LLOLALAULELHLi LA Litt 


UASUAROULVOAAUUAACAUALUEAOLAR ALLEL 


Manufacturers’ taictatave 
Available Free of = for Readers of THE equal CITY 





ldvertisers are invited to submit catalogues or tlars suitable , ‘ se colu 
Tue American City should alu e mentioned wher rita ’ ‘ ’ 1a 
é er these items each month and rite for such printed w é s 
th @ conventent way Of keepmg thew 1 rmatt fils Pt d 
svyryeysynuyvqgqngr9nOTTNOEOEOTEUEROANENETDETOODUATUSUIATIN ' . mannan 
I IINNMi HRLOTNAUALYUOULLUULUGLUAL | HUET 


Specialized Service in Municipal panna The Economy of Asphalt Paving. 


Printed matter and information on the inst allati Phat epare ‘ 

‘ modern syetems oft municipa counting € nd roads witt As 

bei ng distributed by J. D. Cloud & ( ompany, Cer xpenditure of ‘ 

tified Public Accountants, Cincinnati, Ohio, sures streets and ids possessing 
" tractiveness, ¢ y na g er 

Valves for Water-Works Service. maintained in a folder recent 
\ valve for water-works service is manufactured United States As] t Ref 
the Golden-Anderson Valve Specialty Cor Street, New York Cit 


pany, 1229 Fulton Building, Pittsburg, Pa., whi . . : sai at 
automatically maintains a reduced water pressure Liquid Chlorine for Water Purification in 


in mains where it is desired to reduce a high-pres Small Communities. 
sure to a low-pressure service for domestic dis | , . r 
; 1 , this subject is dea " te 
tribution and which further may quickly be opens s , age : ‘ - 
: - a” ’ neat bookle } plishe y W \ 
means of an electrically operated attachme Company, Inc 1 6 Libs S98 
case of fire or whenever the full pressure is de Cits Tr that 
sired rhis valve and a great variety of others » good icdeiimant { 
f various purposes are described in catalogue a ceeneite: aaek clined 
No. 18, issued by this firm gr ee : 


— Supply and Purification. 


Power Lawn Mowers for City Parks and 
klet recently published by the Engineering Pl ds 
Record, 239 West Thirty ninth Street, New York aygrounds, 


City, contains a classified index to some of the The special features of t Idea t 5 
nportant water supply and purification articles 1 power lawn n ers are des 
recently published in that magazine, recently issued, whic tells 


may be obtained | frequent . itt ng 
The Van Blerck Motor. th dion t 


is adding to the strength 


The Van Blerck Motor Company, of Monroe, turf. This leaflet may be obtained fr 
Mich., presents the various models and advan Power Lawn Mower ( par { 
tages of its motor for cruisers, runabouts, hydro Street, Lansing, Mich 


ines, etc., in a handsome quarto bulletin—No 


4 Several inserts accompany this bulletin, Arc Lamps for Street Lighting. 


giving illustrations, results of tests, and other in An offer to mayors. alderme: 
formation showing the adaptabilit f this motor eBoy Beghe rt i a 
to watlaite ean lays’ free trial of a cor ev 
: ; ’ mp, 2,000 candle-power, fitted wi 
: extinguisher, is made in a folder re y 
Cast Iron Pipe for Culverts. Pie Kaden Sicaan Wianebaotarian Cos ; 
Some interesting data as to the wearing qualities \corn Building, Chicag Ill 


f cast iron pipe are given in Bulletin No. 1 of The 
Galion Iron Works and Manufacturing Company, Concrete Swimming Pools 
Galion, Ohio, in which letters are repr | % 


roduced 


from the cities of Boston, New York and Phila Of interest to playground and recre , 
delphia telling of the experience of these cities and all public officials is the attractiv 
with pipe of this kind, issued by The Atlas Portland Cement ( 


= = Broad Street, New Y k ( 
Concrete Mixers for Street and Sidewalk interesting views of ind 


Work describes how the ma e subst nt 
‘ nomicall ynstructed tl yncret 
Sulletin K. A. H., for April, 1916, of the Good gir a i 


Roads Machinery Comp any, Kennett Square, Pa., The Preparation and Certification of Mu- 
pictures and describes the 5- and 10-foot concrete 


mixers manufactured by this company with at nicipal Bonds. 
tachments such as hand-turning devices, gasoline [he service offere t mur ties 
engine, measuring batch hopper, low loading plat United States Mortgage and Trust (¢ 


form, etc Cedar Street, New York City, 


: . . ind certification of nds is ¢ 1ine 
Safe Storage of Explosive Liquids. M. B. 101, entitled “Municipal at 
Municipal officials, chambers of commerce and Bonds,” recently issued by 
thers interested in the problem of safe st 


f explosive liquids will find much of value to Story of the Chemical vue ee: 
them in the Bowser Bulletins issued by 5S. |! 








Bowser & Company, Inc., of Fort Wayne, Ind rhe 2 Seen oo Coe 

These bulletins describe and illustrate a great v . — sealer gui " 

riety of oil tanks, pumps and storage systems ee ee cee of : 
constructed with special reference 1 safet a rates PSMpnrt seceniy ! . 
features. American-La | r re Engir ( 


Elmira, N. Y 
Mixers for Concrete Road Construction. ci s 
“Concrete Mixers” is the title of a catalogue pub Electric Lamps oF ae treets. 





lished by The Jaeger Machine Company, of 215 Many electrica R ga 

West Rich Street, Columbus, Ohio, which describes able for us é I 

the various types of machines manufactured by this ire ribed and 1 ire nal g 
company, and illustrates their use in photographs (No. 14) published by the Ge Cut ( 
of actual construction work 413 Notre Dar Street, S 








so ee 


—_— 


— 


ete 


THE AMERICAN CITY 








SPRINKLES 
SWEEPS 


PICKS-UP 


At 12 to I5c per 1000 square yards 


EEDLE spray moistens the litter. Then a revolving broom nearly 
seven feet wide picks it up slick and clean, ready to be neatly 
dumped. And you can sweep several blocks between dumps. ‘The 





DUSTLESS PICK-UP SWEEPER 


is the best ““buy’’ your city can make in a sweeping outfit. It saves the wages 
of the push broom crew—or it can be used to make their work pay. It saves 
wasteful sprinkling. It eliminates dust. Ask for catalog. 


THE BAKER MFG CO.,503 Stanford Ave., Springfield, III. 


New York: BAKER-BARRON, Inc., 221 W. Broadway 





Note the heavy work a sweeper has to do on this street ! 





57 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae American City. 




















SSS) =h_]"]>]"__ SSS =_— 


Methods, Materials and Appliances } 


News from Engineers, Manufacturers and Supply Houses fl 


Sewage Disposal at the National Farm School 
By D. A. Reynolds 


"cranes, 





\t the Farm School 
Station of the Reading 
Railroad, near Doylestown 
Pa., is located an institu 
tion which is affording to 
many young men an op- 
portunity for practical 
training in scientific agri- 
culture This institution, 
known as the National 
Farm School, was opened 
in 187. Tuition, board, 
clothing and text books 
are all furnished free of 
charge, preference in the 
selection of students being 
given to poor but capable 
immigrant boys or sons of 














unmigrants 


As a result of an instal- THE NATIONAL FARM SCHOOL, NEAR DOYLESTOWN, PA 
lation just completed by 
the Green-Start | ngineering Company f ments It is known that the anaero and 
Philadelphia, the sewage from the various aerobic bacterial element is entirely different 
buildings on the school grounds will be han- the first being that of destruction of organi 
dled in a sanitary manner by the St irr system matter. while the latter is that of purificat 
of sewage disposal, This method has been in tt ERE : 

. . The former is effective in darkness wit ‘ 
stalled during the last fourteen years in con : : a ae 2 

> 1 ch” exclusion of oxygen, while the latter re juires 
nection with some two hundred private estates, =) ht 1 ai ee 

: . one . or tn Hent an alt » attempt t u tio 
public institutions, etc. The essential differ hott me _— erwin ey ne UiizaOn 
. 1 ot bo 1 Ss 1 S ; receptac! s to 
ence between the Starr system and the com ' ) or ement in a ingle re se fe is { 
mon septic tank lies in the applic ation of th obtain the best results trom neither 
. . or 1 Ty . - 211) — . ; 

bacterial action. The Starr method uses three In the Starr system, the sewage is received 
tanks, or rather one tank in three compart in the anaerobic chamber, under a slight pres 


er 
sure, dis harging beneath 





the surface so as not te 
disturb the strong anaero- 
bic element at the top. | 
to this point there can be 
no putrefaction, as_ the 
sewer has given the sew- 
age free passage to the 
chamber, carrying th 
solids in suspended matter 
more or less oxidized by 
its contact with the air 
and water in the sewers 
Coming in contact with 
the weaker anaerobic ele- 
ment in the lower strata 
of the receiving tank, or 





x te : . anaerobic chamber, an 
Pons ae , : ebullition takes place, car- 


SEWAGE DISPOSAL TANKS AT THE NATIONAL FARM SCHOOL rying the suspended mat- 




















THE AMERICAN CITY 


























Simm Avenue, Sioux City, Iowa 


Many of the Best Paved Streets in the country have Carey Elastite in- 
stalled. Leading engineers specify and insist on it. 


Mr. Fred C. Smith, city engineer of Sioux City, Iowa, says:—‘‘I have 
watched this joint through our hottest summer and also through some very 
cold weather, and it has proven so satisfactory and such an improvement 
over the old methods, that we will specify it exclusively for the next season’s 
work 


CAREY 





ExPANSION 


ION T 
THE ORIGINAL AND ONLY ELASTITE JOINT 





is away ahead of the old pouring method. It means a better job, at less 
cost and with less trouble. No moulds, pouring equipment, etc. Just a 
perfect, permanent expansion joint. 


Write for Samples and Illustrated Literature 


THE PHILIP CAREY CO., cindinnati, onic 





58 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 














June, 1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 6x 




















GREEN-STARR SEWAGE DISPOSAL TANKS 


ter toward the surface with the fine bubbles 
of gas, bringing the organic matter into the 
stronger bacterial element near the surface, 
where the real work of disintegration takes 
place. 

The gas thus formed is confined within the 
chamber, creating a certain degree of heat and 
pressure, which greatly facilitates bacterial 
action, constantly adding to the strength of 
the bacterial element. How strong this bac 
terial element can become may be appreci 
ated when it is known that a rubber boot is 
entirely consumed within four days. It may 
be compared to chemical incineration, or to 
the action of lye upon fatty substances, s 
powerful is its action in converting the sus 
pended matter into liquid form. In appear 
ance it somewhat resembles strong vinegar, 
with a jelly substance over the surface, some 
times called “mother.” 

It will be observed that this action takes 
place before putrefaction, and, as a result, no 
odor is possible even if the chamber were not 
hermetically sealed. The very fact that the 
gas generated through this process is confined 
until absorbed by the liquid within the chan 
ber, renders odor impossible, even if putre 
faction had taken place. Thus is formed an 
ideal condition for anaerobic action, devoid of 
light or oxygen, with the heat and pressure 
so essential to perfect anaerobi bacteria 
activity 

Under favorable conditions from 6 to 12 
hours are required for the anaerobic action 
solids offering the greater degree of resist- 
ance remaining in the chamber for a longer 
period This retention is naturally effected 
through the buoyancy of the solids until fully 
consumed, caused by the gas generated in 
their consumption. This principle equally ay 
plies to any organic matter that may at first 
settle to the bottom of the chamber, causing 
it to rise into the stronger bacterial element 
and remain there until fully consumed 

The passage of the effluent from the anaero- 
bic chamber to the aerobic chamber is also 
some distance beneath the surface, in order 
not to disturb the strong bacterial element at 
the surface or weaken it to any perceptible ce 


1 
] 





y rt ‘ 
ch v¢ ( 
draulx ( > 
in the st 
dis i iTwe ] Tl ‘ 
tank 1 i 
at the surface ; 
the ete Ir Ket re 
eMmuent sec 
chamber i re es 
i t ke 
Ww wate 
cep le ging 
: inaer ( a i 
HUDSON, N. Y f 
ve carried forward 
eluent, ito) high 
air, causing their immediate destructiot 
Here is employed, without the cost or uss 
of machinery, the principle known as i 
ated sludge process, the agitation taki la 
ifter the anaerobic action has elir 
pathogenic germs, and at a period it 
process of the purification of the effluent 
the aerobic action is most effe tive In this 
ond chamber the aerobi ele nent take ip ti 
purification of the effluent as it is discharge 
from the first chamber and ntinues the 
cess through oxidization until a high degre 
purity is obtained. This aerobi tion is 
tinued through the tlushing hamber, 
finally through filtration beds until ¢ 
illy absorbed in the soil beneat the fil 
beds, or discharged into some 
+ + 
A Combination Chemical and 
Hose Wagon 
rhe city of Waukesha, Wis., has ad 
nre department the combinatio1 emi in 
hose wagon illustrated on page s8o of 1 
sue Che particular features clair 
truck are extreme simplicity in ch 
struction, which cuts down the amo 
tention needed: protection of working 
trom water and dirt, by means of an oil 
which all running gear and mechani 
ates; and the exceptionally fine spring 
ities due in large part to the 
which helps to absorb road 
vibration This truck was manuf: 
the Sterling Motor Truck Comy " 


Rogers Street, Milwaukee, Wis 
+ + 

New Ladder Truck for Kansas City 
Kansas City, Kar has recently pur ed 
ity service hook 








m page Lted f thi issue, I Al 
son Coupling & Fire Supply ( i 
Kansas City, Kans. The truck ha SIX 
inder motor which develops too | €-powe 


The wheel base 18 20 feet the tra et 
f 8-inch section of spe 
of high per cent of nickel 








= 





THE AMERICAN CITY 







with the mortar wees 


' avery 
erete to ve sixed in vbatom and imne@is 










a 4 ortland 
& to be true, well-seasoee. pen has re- 
been used in importa ut showing signs of 
, which has least three yeare witnon” architect. 
n same not nich ie approved by the 
an - = : 


The cemen 










_— 


Covers it ™ 


Because A\l.PHA Cement is guaranteed— 
the guarantee being stamped on every new 
sack—always to meet the specifications 
of the Society for Testing Materials as 
adopted by the American Society of Civil 
Engineers, as well as the requirements of 
the U. S. Government, as to fineness, 
tensile strength, etc. 


Because ALPHA has been used in scores 
of notable works such as the Galveston Sea 
Wall, the great Catskill Viaduct, the Penn- 
sylvania Railroad Terminal and Tunnels in 
New York, Government Coast Fortifica- 
tions, etc., where concrete is called upon 
to withstand the severest tests. 

Because Al.PHA is tested hourly by chemists of 
real authority, to insure accurate proportioning of 
the raw materials, thorough burning and uniformly 
fine grinding. Under this system no cement lack- 
ing in binding power can leave an ALPHA plant. 
Write for the ALPHA book and Art Envelope 


No.2, showing views of many distinctive concrete 
constructions. 


ALPHA PORTLAND CEMENT CO, 
General Offices: Easton, Pa. 


Sales Offices: New York, Philadelphia, Boston 
Pittsburgh, Baltimore, Savannah 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amenican City. 














lune, 1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 661 


beyond the rear axles to support the load ot 
ladders The car ts equipped with Sewell 
wheels and cushion tires and is lighted by 
means of an electric generator. [he equipment 
includes further a complete assortment ot 
trussed ladders of various kinds and lengths 
This truck is the seventh of different types 
of motor fire cars furnished by the Anderson 
Company to Kansas City. 


+ + 
Introducing Pencils in Guatemala 


[he photograph of the enthusiastic Guat 
malan “Dixonite” here reproduced is taken 
from the April issue of Graphite, the house 
organ of the Joseph Dixon Crucible Company 
Jersey City, N. J. The photograph was ob 
tained for the Dixon Company by Mr. Guy 
D. Johnson of the National Paper & Type 











A GUATEMALIAN “DIXONITE” 


Company, through whose efforts Dixon's 
American graphite pencils are being intro- 
duced in Central America. The Indian ap 
pearing in the illustration is a typical Guate 
malan product. 


+ + 
Larger Quarters 


Mr. Elbert R. de Tamble has been made 
manager of the Eastern office of the Dayton 
Rubber Manufacturing Company, of Dayton, 


A Hook for 
Removing Ceilings 

The Aungst fire hook 
is a plaster fork and 
metal ceiling remover 
rnanufactured by James 
Boyd & Brother, Inc., 
25th and W harto 
streets, Philadelphia, Pa., 
admirably adapted ft 
removing wood, plaster 
ir metal partitions, walls 
ceilings, weather boards, 
tin roofs, et This im 
plement, designed and 
patented by an expe 
rienced fire chief, has a 
point triangular in shape, 
with sharp cutting 
edges Che two. side 
blades are so arranged 
that they are forced back 
when meeting an ob 
struction, making: it easy 
for the point to pierce a 
wall, ceiling or partition; 
then, the pressure being 
released, the blades re 
gain their original posi 
tion, so that when the 
hook is withdrawn the 
blades cut and tear at the HOOK 
obstruction, bringing it 
down in slabs. The hook is solidly construct 
and its wearing qualities can be depended up 
on A leaflet describing this tool, obtainable 
from the company, enumerates 54 cities as 
among those in which the fire departments en 
ploy the Aungst fire hook 


+ + 
Tire Mileage in Mexico 


The tire equipment of the United States 
army motor trucks now in service in Mexi 
is getting a severe test. Government advices 
show that the sharp, flinty sands cut the tire 
it every revolution of the wheel. The av: 








rit \UNGST  FIRI 





akt 

tire, which in the states is guaranteed to ru 
7,000 miles, is given only an average servic 
of 1,500 or 2,000 miles’ running in Mexi 

Che Swinehart Tire & Rubber C 
ron, Ohio, is congratulating itself be 
Jeffry Quad trucks purchased by the G 
ment for Mexico service are equippe 
Swinehart tires. Reports show that the 
are still running on the original tire equ 
after over 4,000 miles of severe ser 
are still going strong 

Mr. T. F. Walsh, president of the Swin 
Tire & Rubber Company, when informe 
the excellent mileage the tires were giving i 
showed no surprise, but said he was « de 


that they would outrun the mileage guarante 
notwithstanding the severe nditions to wl 


the tires were subjected \lex il le rt 








THE AMERICAN CITY 


MUNICIPAL 
SIGNS 


OF EVERY CHARACTER 
FOR EVERY PURPOSE 


% GUARANTEED 


fan! 


| siGcns  !RON 


“‘BALTO” Guaranteed Porcelain Enameled Iron Signs 
stand alone in their field—the one and only one absolutely 
dependable sign product. 














These signs are made of the finest grade of vitreous Porcelain Enamel 
fused on specially processed iron at a temperature of 1600 degrees Fah- 
renheit—each color separately fused. 

‘“‘BALTO” Signs, exclusively, are fitted with 
non-corrosive metal sleeve eyelets—this N 
1) feature protects the enamel at this point Wn OT iCg 
GER and adds another distinctive element of kKepe TAN 

finish to our signs. P py, Xe 






















We produce every possible character of municipal 
%, »  signs—any size, shape, color combination or design. 
\ = Without obligation our Service Department will 
, Q be pleased to submit sketches and quotations. 


| & & 7 64 Additionally, we will send FREE, at our expense, 
3 ¥,* 


oa NTS a 
<< - 


to any authorized purchasing official or wee A 
useful and attractive sample of finished Porcelain 
Enameled Iron. Write Department C. 


The Baltimore Enamel & Novelty Co. 


BALTIMORE, MARYLAND 


TM 


ee 


60 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tas AmEaican City. 


a. 
i 
Ri, 























For Contractors and Boards of Public Works 




















FEDERAL FLUSHING TRUCK USED BY THI 


A Motor Truck for 
Pressure Street Flushing 
Che city of Vicksburg, Miss., owns and 


erates the motor street flusher illustrated « 
this page The truck has two flusher le 
at the front and one on the right side, an 
sprinkler nozzle at the rear. The pressure 
power is supplied by a 30 h. p. gasoline motor 


suspended at the rear, working in connection 
with a centrifugal pump turning 1,800 revolu 
tions per minute. The water pressure can lhe 
regulated by the speed of the motor and by 
further opening or closing the nozzle. With 
a nozzle opening of 1 to 2% inches a pressurt 
of 100 pounds can be obtained; with a 2- to 
2\4-inch operting a pressure of 60 pounds can 
be obtained. \ street so feet wide can be 
flushed at a pressure of 100 pounds by one 
operation. It has been found that 900 feet of 
street can be flushed with 850 gallons of water 
Ordinarily the right front and side flushing 
nozzles are used where~a street has tracks, 
flushing one side at a time. Where a street 
has no tracks the two front nozzles flush tl 


Lilt 


ati 


it, Mich., whi 
is flusher, has 
( muni 

A if N 


TREET DEPARTMENT OF VICKSBUR 


he Federal Mot 


Zero Weather Demonstration 
of Road Oiler 


\ remarkable 
f t 
listributor for 


trying and unfay 
j 


onvention of 
Commissioners 
ill week long, 
ith the ther: 


mark, this 


he new Studel 


Cie 


sos 
d that despite the penet 


1 


itural heaviness an 


yution was 














THE AMERICAN CITY 





MOTT LAMP POSTS 


STANDARDS OF MERIT 


Special Designs of Lighting Standards 
For Type C Lamps 


LAMP POSTS FOR ALL REQUIREMENTS 


FOUNTAINS 
Display and Drinking 
For PUBLIC SQUARES, PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS, Etc. 


ENTRANCE GATES, RAILINGS, SETEES 





CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION 


THE J.L. MOTT IRON WORKS 


Fifth Avenue and 17th Street, New York 











CULVERTS 


Soil, climate or water have no effect on 
‘Genuine Open Hearth Iron” Culverts— 
the admixture of copper prevents it.—They last indefinitely. 
This is why they are the economical culvert to buy. 
Our Culverts Never Require Replacement. 
Send for booklet telling all about them. 

















61 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tus American Crryv. 























June, 1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 


005 





smoothly and evenly and 
urder_ perfect control. 
When first the machine 
was driven out and the 
100 or sO commissioners 
who had been gathered 
early saw the oil flowing 
smoothly, a certain feeling 
of distrust was evident. 
It was not believed that 
distribution could be main- 
tained evenly under the 
frigid weather conditions. 
Then when they had seen 
the actual performance, 
their feeling was that the 
machine would cease oper- 
ating as soon as the chill 
began to get into the oil. 
But when hour after hour, 
and day after day of per- 
fect work had demon- 
strated the feasibility of 
the Studebaker principl 
they were forced to admit 
the practical success of the 
demonstrations. As a re- 
sult, several of these 
heaters and _ distributors 
went to work on town and 
country roads this spring 

The new Studebaker 
booklet No. 1023 gives a 
complete technical and op- 
erating Cescription of the 
machine and will be sent 
n request. Inquiries 














should be addressed to BRAMM-BERNSTEIN MOTOR TRUCK, WITH ELEVATING BO 
the Studebaker Company’s 
Sales Office, South Bend, Ind position The truck is equipped with Go 
rich pressed-on tires 
+ + , 


: P + *+ 
An Elevating Dumping Body 
Motor Truck 

The 5-6-ton chassis equipped with elevat- 
ing dumping body which is pictured on this 
page, was recently sold to A Cherney of 


Road Rollers for Russia 

he Russian government has recently 
orders for 146 road rollers with The Austin 
Western Road Machinery Company of Chi 





Chicago, by the Gramm-Bernstein Company, cago, Ill. The orders. which were received in 
Lima, Ohio The dumping body of this April, 1916, are said to be the ever 
truck may be hoisted about 3% feet from the placed in the history of road roll 

top of the frame by means of an hydraulic ture. The machines were ordere f 
cylinder mounted inside a tube in the center ferent sizes, 8-ton, 10-ton and 12-ton, and they 
of the body, the raising pressure being sup- have been equipped to operate on Russian 
plied by a small rotary pump driven from the kerosene oil, the product of the vast oil fields 
engine. Sliding doors in the bottom of the located in southern Russia. These orders were 
body may be opened on either side at will in not the first filled by the Austin-Western ( 
order to chute the material into any desired pany for the Russian government, as this g 
position. If so desired, the body can be di- ¢™mment has owned and operated about 50 
vided into separate compartments. The move- Austin rollers for a number of years past 
ment of the body in the frame, as shown in Nine years ago, when the first Austin motor 


roller was put on the market, considerabl 


skepticism was expressed as to the reliabil 
of motor rollers, but this skepticism so 


the illustration, is controlled by shafts and 
pinions and toothed racks arranged so that the 
body is kept parallel with the truck frame appeared as the demand for the machine 

under all conditions; the body may be stopped tinued to grow, and the company was forced t 
at any point going up or coming down by make additions to its shops fou 


r times in of 
simply moving the small valve lever into lock der to keep up its supply 








a rns 





THE AMERICAN CITY 








CLOW LAMP POSTS 








A-3050 A-3053 A-3056 
MADE OF PIG IRON NOT SCRAP 


We have many more 
designs. Single light 


and clusters. 
Send for Catalog and Prices 


BUBBLE DRINKING 
FOUNTAINS 

for streets and parks; 

earthenware or cast iron. 

LAWN FOUNTAINS 

For city squares and 

parks. Send for catalogs. 


JAMES B.CLOW&SONS 


Established 1876 
534-546 So. Franklin Street, CHICAGO 





Sales Offices 
New York Detroit St. Louis San Francisco 
Minneapolis Milwaukee Denver Loe Angeles 
Works 


Chicago, Coshocton and Newcomerstown, Ohio 








UNION METAL 
LAMP 


STANDARDS 


The one feature of safety alone is sufficient 
reason for choosing Union Metal Lamp 
Standards. 


The base, shaft and head are in three 





separate parts fasten- 
ed to each other and 
anchored to the sub- 
base by steel tie rods. 


The pressed metal 
shaft might bend un- 
der severe shock but 
it can never break and 
fall to the street en- 
dangering the lives of 
people nearby 


Union Metal Lamp 
Standards have hand- 
some, clean cut, clas- 
sical lines and can be 
made in any desired 
proportions without 
unduly increasing the 
weight. 

Write for catalogue 
S-103, the most com- 
plete ever published 
on Ornamental Street 
Lighting. 


The Union Metal 
Manufacturing Co. 


CANTON, OHIO 





Design No. 792 


Canadian Union Metal, Lid., 
With Novolux Head 


Galt, Ontario, Canada 





62 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American Curry. 





























June, 1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 667 

















ST. LOUIS STREET MAINTENANCE AND FLUSHING TRUCK 


A New Road Maintenance and pump delivers the oil to a set of sixt 


e zles on the rear of the truck, and spt t 
Construction Truck uniformly over a strip of road & feet 
, : : , wide. The 80 pounds pressure tl 
The new combination road mantenance and outa dawn into ti : £ ol 
- ( ( 8) 1 into to rey es 
construction truck made by The White : | - 1 adi e 1: \ 
» on : face, binding it firm] \fter 
Company, of Cleveland, embodies in one tA . a 
. ae a . : turned off at the nozzles 
compact unit facilities for sprinkling and =: con o in 4] , 
" . . 9 ‘ wl a Small Seat in the reat I ¢ 
flushing streets, applying heavy or light oils ,, siales aid th 
? ’ . the 2 side, lé pump carries the 
to roads, either hot or cold, or uniformly i ! | Ny : 
, , t | It ) . remaining in the pipe S aA into the 1 
spreading he Z altic oils o 0% surfaces : p - 
prea t asphaltic on roac urracc automatic drip trough falls, prevent 
under a penetrating pressur« When the eee hen ale dd. TI pec 
- eakage to the roa S is espe 
truck is not needed for road work the iro tageous when the truck , ir ; 
irae . ; geous n the ( S passing OSS W 
tank that holds the liquids can be easily de- The heat is | : ited in ial t 
rt } eT § 1pocated In a special 
tached and the truck used with an ordinary ‘ ’ : . . 
teh : the rear of the tank. It consists of a time 
body for general haulage purposes tried gasoline burn age ee 
6 6 ne 2 ed gas r ul I d delhive 
lwo of the chief features of the truck art ‘rmly to every one of the boiler 
the rotary displacement pump and the special caudal +] sauteed 1 ; ‘ f 
’ . , . ; | are cated i e one I 1 lowe 
heating system, that is capable of raising the the tank. This is an improvement the 


temperature of a tank full of material at the . 
rate of one degree a minute and maintaining 
350 degrees steadily. 

The pump is driven by a lay shaft from the 


ypes that heat with flash burners 
section of the tank, because witl 
flues nearest the burners frequent! 


werheated, igniting the liquid 


is 
rear of the truck transmission case. It cat After the truck has been used 

be used to fill the tank with oil or water by tank can be quickly cleaned by using th 
means of an intake pipe at the front or to load pressure to circulate kerosene through it \ 
direct from freight cars. In the latter case the small tank filled with this cleaning fluid 

truck need not be on a lower level than thx tached to the left side of the tank 

cars, because the pump has a lift of 13 feet In flushing, the pump delivers 300 gall 

In heating the liquid the pump keeps it in con- vater per minute to the mouth of the 

stant circulation, and this agitation prevents ind covers a strip of pavement from &§ 

the heavier oils from settling on the bottom of feet in width, while the sprinkling noz 


the tank and becoming thick or gummy. The _ cover from 20 to 4o feet of highway 
























nt ee eerie 


aed 


op) eR ta 


Ss 


THE AMERICAN CITY 





We manufacture 


High Test—Quick Settling 


CHLORIDE OF LIME 


For Water Purification 


HOOKER ELECTROCHEMICAL CO. 


40 Wall St., New York City Plant: Niagara Falls, N. Y. 














$2,000 SAVED ON $5 INVESTMENT 


A Borough Engineer recently reported that five 
dollars inves ed in Engineering Record Proposal adver- 
tising had ‘ made the local bidders sharpen their pen- 
cils’’ and saved $2,000 on one job alone. This is an 
example of the value of advertising for bids in the 


Official Proposal Columns of the 
ENGINEERING RECORD 


These columns are regularly consulted by practically every 
contractor and manufacturer who wants business from American 
communities. 

Make your appropriations for improvements go farther by 
advertising for competitive bids in the Engineering Record. 

The cost is hardly worth mentioning—$2.40 per inch. 

See how other communities use the Record—write for a free 
copy of the paper and the booklet on proposal advertising. 


ENGINEERING RECORD, 239 W. 39th St., New York, N.Y. 


935 Real Estate Trust Bldg., Philadelphia, Pa. 1570 Old Colony Bldg., Chicago, III. 
502 Rialto Bldg., San Francisco, Cal. Hastings House, Norfolk St., London, England 











62a When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American Crry. 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


Na Call for 


U. S. Cast Iron Pipe ( 


Because U. S. Cast Iron Pipe Culverts possess every advantage a culvert should have and 


are entirely free of the various disadvantages found in every other type of culvert 
save cast iron. 











They possess great mechanical strength to withstand all loads and shocks borne 
by the highway. 


They resist corrosion almost indefinitely—cast iron pipe laid 250 years ago is still 
in good condition and in use today. 


They have impermeable walls of suitable thickness. 


They will better maintain alignment—no water seepage in the heart of an embank 
ment. 


They have the highest flow capacity of any type—the lowest friction loss for a 
given diameter. 


U. S. Cast Iron Culvert Pipe is complete when shipped and ready for use when 


received—easily, cheaply and correctly installed by unskilled labor. 
From every standpoint—service, economy, convenience and durability—U. § 
: Cast Iron Pipe Culverts offer those advantages which are necessary to good roads. 





Write for Our Interesting Booklet 
Entitled—‘‘Common-Sense Culverts.’’ 


United States Cast Iron Pipe & Foundry Co. 
General Offices, Burlington, N. J. 














1421 Chestnut St., Philadelphia SALES OFFICES: Security Bldg., St. Louis 

71 Broadway, New York Am. Trust Bldg., Birmingham, Ala. Monadnock Bldg., San Francisco 

122 So. Michigan Blvd., Chicago Oliver Bldg., Pittsburgh Northwestern Bk. Bldg., Portland (Ore.) 
} For Index to Advertisers see Pages 37 and 39 3 








THE AMERICAN CITY 


fj YJ 








S 
‘ S a ,, : 


—Vehicles for every 











Dump wagons for 
refuse collection, 
construction and 
repair work. 


Built to bear the brunt of many 
years’ hard service. All parts pro- 
portioned to the load and strain 
they must bear, resulting in awagon 














Garbage wagons 
that hold the liquid 
as well as the solid 
matter. 


* Studebaker Garbage collection 


wagons of this general type have 
been in continuous service for 
over ten years. 





STUDEBAKER, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 











Street Sweepers 




















+ When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae American Crryv. 











THE AMERICAN CITY 





| —the complete line 


town and municipal use 








of maximum strength, yet of light draft. 
| Made inI % yd., 2,24 and 3 yd.capacities, 


Neck reinforced on both sides with steel 
plates; corners tied together with angle 
steel. Hinges extend full length of doors. 


Box and doors fit tight—no leakage. 
Where garbage is mixed with ashes and 
rubbish no wagon is better than the 
Studebaker. 


Catalog 1005 gives complete information 








Furnished with either 3 yard or 2 yard 


tanks of steel, riveted and reinforced, 
water tight, and of water ‘measure 
capacity. 


Tank fitted with strainer and drain cock 
for drawing off liquid before dumping. 


Full cut under front gear permits turning 
in own length. 


Two wheel carts of similar construction of 
1% yard capacity are made for towns 
preferring smaller equipment. 





| 
L 





Wrile for specifications and prices 











| STUDEBAKER, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 




















Road Oilers Se Dump Wagons = j School Busses 


2085 














. When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American Ciryv. 5 















THE AMERICAN CITY 


STANDS WEAR AND TEAR 








~—-* Swing as High 
as You Like 


The children are safe on 
EVERWEAR swings. They 
are built with an eye single 
to safety. 


An all-steel galvanized product throughout, specially designed 
for the wear and tear of outdoor use. All detail of bearings, con- 


nections, etc., have been worked out to the highest standard of 
perfection. 


Take an X-ray look at the roller bearings by which these 
swings are mounted. We give you an “inside” view. As the 
swing sets this in motion, you notice what happens to the clamp? 
The bearings ROLL—they obviate friction—they increase the 
enjoyment of the device and prolong the life of EVERWEAR 
apparatus. This is just one of the so-called “little things’’ to 
which we have given careful attention like all the rest. 


EVERWEAR swings are equipped with malleable frame 
fittings and drop forged steel parts for bearings. Built in standard 
sets of 6, 9, or 12 swings to the Outfit. Special designs built to 
order. 

A full line of the 
latest and approved 
playground apparatus 
shown in Catalog k-& 
which will be sent on 
request. 


THE 


EVERWEAR 
MFG. CO. 


Springfield, Ohio 





i i a 























When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 


ti 








NE BA a 











THE AMERICAN CITY 


























STAN 


DS WEAR AND AR, 





The Old Cellar 
Door Commercialized 


If tl ‘re is é , one yiece of ylay 
Everwear Chutes lere is any one pi iy 


ground apparatus that the child likes 

for All Ages more than another, that outfit is the 

slide chute. This is the most popular 

outfit of all in the minds of the children, and just 

keep your eye on the ‘‘ grown-ups”’ for a slide on the 
sly. 











The bedways of Everwear Chutes are lined with either clear 
rock maple or heavy galvanized sheet metal—as you elect 
the price being the same. The all-steel step approach 
equipped with malleable TREAD STEPS and all metal part 


are galvanized throughout 


We furnish them in all lengths from the 
8-foot Kindergarten length to the 30-foot length 
for public playgrounds 


Catalog E-8 showing a full line of the latest 
and approved playground equipment will be 
sent on request. Send in coupon below 


The Everwear Mfg. Co. 
SPRINGFIELD, OHIO 
GENTLEMEN 
Please send me without cost, a copy of your New 


Catalog E-8, showing a full line of the latest and approved 
playground equipment 


Name 


Address 














When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 











THE AMERICAN CITY 









The Importance 
of Measure- 
ments 


How many 
million times 
a day are rulers 
and tape measures 
used? What would 
we do without these 
means of measuring? 
Of course, we could guess at 
dimensions, but would guess- 
work be tolerated very long in 
buying cloth, or selling city lots 
or farm acreage? 
Measurement is Essential in such trans- 
actions, and just as much so in the selling 
of water if an equitable basis of handling 
your water supply is desirable. 





90 WEST STREET NEW YORK 

CHICAGO - BOSTON - SANFRANCISCO 

ATLANTA “LOS ANGELES - PORTLAND - SEATTLE 
CINCINNATI 





* When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amenican Crrv. 



































THE AMERICAN CITY 





But, Measure- 
ments Must 


| If you 
| started out 
to measure 
with these rul- 
ers you would find 
your measurements 
) away off. So itis with 
many cheaply made wa- 
ter meters. They may look 
like real water meters at first 
glance—but after they’ve been 
used awhile you begin to find 
things wrong, and you wish you'd 
paid a little more at the start and se- 
cured the real article. Every reader 
of The American City who is interested in 
the subject of water supply is invited to 
send for our series of booklets showing the dif- 
ference between real meters and would-be meters. 


| en ine nee me meme 


— 








NEPTUNE METER COMPANY 
90 WEST STREET NEW YORK 


CHICAGO - BOSTON - SANFRANCISCO 
ATLANTA -LOS ANGELES » PORTLAND - SEATTLE 
CINCINNATI 





When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American City. 9 

















aarr & 


ia ae GI 


’ 
4 

1 
ti 
poe 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


ANNOUNCEMENT 








WORTHINGTON PUMP AND MACHINERY CORPORATION 


announces that it has taken over all the properties and assets of 


INTERNATIONAL STEAM PUMP COMPANY 


Snow Steam Pump Plant, . Z 7 Buffa'o, N. Y. 

Deane Steam Pump Plant, ° . r Holyoke Mass. 

Laidlaw-Dunn-Gordon Plant, . . Cincinnati, Ohio 
Blake & Knowles Steam Pump Works, East Cambridge, Mass. 
Power & Mining Machinery Co., ._. Cudahy, Wis. 
International Gas Engine Company, ._. Cudahy, Wis. 
Fred M. Prescott Steam Pump Co., ' Milwaukee, Wis. 
Jeanesville Iron Works Company, . ___ Hazleton, Pa. 


and will act as Sales Agent for HENRY R. WORTHINGTON, whose opera- 
tion will be under the direction of the Worthington Pump and Machinery Cor- 
poration. 


This opportunity is taken to express to the purchasing public the most 
cordial appreciation of past favors and support, and to bespeak for the Cor- 


poration the same courtesies and consideration heretofore extended to the above 
companies and plants. 


April 24, 1916. 


10 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amenican City. 

















a 





ae ae 











THE AMERICAN CITY 





WORTHINGTON 
METERS 


Really Frost-Piroof 


CONSTRUCTION 
All parts coming in contact with the water ol 
corrosive composition, or rubber Bottom plat 
covered with rubber gasket Only of large 
tap-bolt to set up frost-bolts No other olts ar 


used on this meter 
FROST-PROOF 


When the water is frozen, one or more of the break 


ing frost-bolts give way, relieving the pressure and 
protecting the meter from damage, 
AFTER 


FREEZING 
Snap the new bolts 
into place. Cost of 
new parts, from 5 = 
to 20 cents. No 
tools are required 
Not even a wrench 


Write for Bulletin 
W-205-72 


GLENDORA 
Deep Well Pumps 


50% to 300% More Water 
with the Glendora 


The Glendora Pump gives approximately three times the 
volume of water that can be obtained with a single plunger, 
single-acting pump of the same size, and approximately 50°, 
more than either the double-acting or the two-plunger type 








The Glendora Pump is unexcelled for deep well pumping for 
municipal supply, irrigation, railroad tanks, factories, paper 
mills, breweries and ice-making plants. 


These cities use the Glendora for Municipal Supply 


(4) Redlands, Cal. (1) Aurora, Neb 
(2) Winnipeg, Man. (1) Pasadena, Cal 
(2) Transcona, Man. (1) Alexandria, La 
2) Perry, Iowa. (1) Trenton, N.S 
(2) Mauch Chunk, Pa_ (1) Rigby, Idaho 
(1) Ralston, Neb. (1) Alamo Gordo, 
(1) Newton, Kan. N. M. 


Ask for Bulletin D 300-72 


WORTHINGTON PUMP AND 
MACHINERY CORPORATION 


New York Office; 115 Broadway 
Atlanta Boston Buffalo Chicago Cincinnati Cleveland Denver Detroit 
El Paso Houston Joplin Kansas City Los Angeles New Orlean Philadelphia 
Pittsburgh St.Louis Salt Lake City San Francisco Seattle St. Paul 

















When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 




























THE AME 








TT 





Over 2,000 Issues 
Aggregating $ 300,000,000 
The above figures represent 
the Municipal and Corpora- 
tion Bonds prepared and 
certified under this Com- 
pany’s plan, which is fully 
explained in booklet M. B. 

101 sent upon request. 


United States 


Mortgage & Trust Co. 
New York 


Capital and Surplus $6,000,000 

















RICAN CITY 





For more than thirty years 


STEWART PRODUCTS 


have been used and endorsed by 
American Municipalities. 

IRON FENCE AND ENTRANCE 
GATES for Parks—Playgrounds 
Reservoirs — Cemeteries — Public 
Buildings, etc. 

Fences of all designs and for all 
purposes. 

A great variety of Settees—Foun- 
tains—Vases—Lamp Standards. 
Lawn Furniture of every description 
Get our prices before placing your 
orders. 


STEWART SERVICE is pre-eminent. 


THE STEWART IRON WORKS 
COMPANY 





527 Stewart Block Cincinnati, Ohio 








Street Superintendents and City Auditors 


rich 





make their assessments and tax extensions 


Marchant 


Sent, express prepaid, for a thirty days’ free trial. 


Marchant Caleulaling Machine Co., Oakland, Cal. 


in quickest time with a 


CALCULATING 
MACHINE 


Automatically proves each operation. 


Branch offices in all large cities. 

















tree LEA DITE ex 


Registered U. S. Patent Office 


For Jointing Cast lron Water Mains 
NO CAULKING required 


Saves 50°% to 65° 


Write for information and price 


THE LEADITE COMPANY, inc. 


108 S. Broad Street Philadelphia, Pa. 





a) 


ae 


Thawing Machine 
The only practica working device which does the work quick- 
ly and economically. It particularly adapted to thawing 
service pipes, hydrants Tare . i 
helper of ordinary intelligence. — 

Write for Printed Matter. 











BURBANK THAWING MACHINE CO., Boston,Mass. 





18 When writing to Advertisers 


mention Tue American Crry. 











ee 














THE AMERICAN CITY 








BENNINGTON 


SUSPENDED PLATFORM 
AUTO TRUCK & WAGON SCALES 

















BENNINGTON SUSPENDED PLATFORM PRINCIPLE 
embraces the most practical and proper construction for heavy 
duty weighing where accuracy must be maintained. 

Our Auto Truck Scale is especially desirable for cities and towns 
maintaining weighing facilities, accomplishing the double pur- 
pose of public weighing, and also as a master scale to be used 
by Sealer of Weights & Measures in checking the accuracy of 
other scales in use within his jurisdiction. 

For further information relating to our Suspended Platform 
Principle consult February and March issues of this magazine. 


Write for full particulars or a free consultation with our engineers. 


BENNINGTON SCALE CO., Bennington, Vt. 


Manufacturers of 
RAILROAD, AUTO TRUCK, DORMANT, PORTABLE 
COAL and HAY SCALES and COUNTER SCALES 


Weights of all Systems 





When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American City 


18 








THE AMERICAN CITY 
































38 1 nh ; | 
| F 
| | 
; 
SSG 7 ‘ =] a" 
a liga iigtaia ancien athe Canon Gin Fie Taeeteent 
We Set the Standard in Motor-Driven Fire Apparatus 
Write us for information 
SOUTH BEND MOTOR CAR WORKS, Excccc.2Srices South Bend, Ind. 
Republi 
OQ it H 
FIRE HOSE 
Cotton, Rubber Lined Rubber Chemical 
Underwriters’ Mill Engine Suction 
STREET WASHING HOSE : 
VACUUM HOSE 
Airoduct Marro Republic 
MOLDED GARDEN AND WATER HOSE | 
In Lengths up to 1000 Feet 
RUBBER VALVES 
THE REPUBLIC RUBBER COMPANY 
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO, U.S. A. 
14 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amenican City. 





EE  . 





THE AMERICAN CITY 





THE GAMEWELL FIRE ALARM 
TELEGRAPH CO. 





“Registered U. S. Patent Office” 
Manufacturers of 
Fire Alarm and Police Signal 
TELEGRAPHS 


or 
Municipalities and Private 
Parties 


The Gamewell system of to-day is 
the outcome of the combined inventive 
genius and mechanical skill of many 
whose valuable services the company 
has been able to secure during the 
past fifty-seven years, in pursuance of 
its policy of meeting at any cost the 
requirements of the varied conditions 
existing in different localities. 


Correspondence Solicited. 





General Office and Works: 
Newton Upper Falls, Mass. 











Waste No Money 
on Fire Hose 





End View of Bi-Lateral Hose Flattened 


Every city official should see that his city gets the 
best for its money, not only best in price, but Best in 
Service. 


The waste of a city’s money on account of the 
wrong construction of fire hose, by reason of the fact 
that it has to be carried or stored in a flattened posi 
tion, is outrageous. 


BI-LATERAL FIRE HOSE CANNOT CRACK 


It is the most pliable hose made and can be flat 
tened without injury. 


It gives two and one-half times the service of the 
ordinary hose. 


Let us send you our printed matier on fire 
hose economy. 


Bi-Lateral Fire Hose Co. 


326 W. Madison St. Chicago. Ill. 














Building Roads 
in Oregon 


rye ‘ . . 
Ihe Goodrich De Luxe tires 
on this 5-ton Packard, oper- 
ated by Multnomah County, 
Oregon, in building and 
maintaining the public high- 
ways, are being examined 
after having given /reedom- 
Srom-trouble service of 7879 
miles. Note their excellent 
condition, 

Satisfied, as a result of this per- 
formance, that De Luxe wear- 
resisting qualities could not be 
matched by any other tire, the 
county authorities specified them 
for three other Packards in the 


same service, 


GOODRICH 
DE LUXE is 


wear longer because of their extra vol- 
ume of tread rubber and offer greater 
resilience, thus lowering operating 
costs. These are two vital rea- 
sons why buyers for municipalities 
in all sections of the country are 
giving GOODRICH DE LUXE 
the preference. 


The B. F. Goodrich Co. 
Akron, Ohio 
Makers of the Celebrated 


Service Stations 


Goodrich Automobile Tires and Branches in all 
-_ Best in the Long Principal Trucking 
Ran. Centers. 




















When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American City 


15 








THE AMERICAN vciTY 





Combining Power, 
Hand Hoist. Can be operated 
with ease by one man, and ex- 


tended to full height of 85 ft. in 


one minute. 


Spring and 


Manufactured by 
JAMES BOYD @ BRO., Inc 
“ Builders of the Best”’ 
25th and Wharton Streets 
Philadelphia, Pa. 


—mw ws FL ath ote 














When writing to Advertisers please mention Tus Amzaican Crrv. 


ac ll le ale ee, | 


BOYD AERIAL TRUCK 


The Quickest & Best Hoisting Device on the Market 


Note the 
Rigidity 
of the 


Ladder 








» a 





THE AMERICAN CITY 








—— 














A LONDON FIRE ENGINE OF 1633 


Do You Know— 


How fires were conquered in England 300 years ago—and 
what type of pumper was used in those days? 





When hose was introduced to the world and how? 
What’s happening in Fire Fighting Circles the States over? 
Where and how to buy the most modern Fire Apparatus? 
All these questions and many others are answered in the 
American-LaFrance Bulletin 
The Liveliest Little Magazine in A merica for Fire Chiefs 


Mailed free to Fire Chiefs everywhere. If you are not getting 
your copy regularly, write to 


AMERICAN JAFRANCE HIREENGINE [ OMPANY.ING. |} 


ELMIRA, NEW YORK, U.S.A. 




















When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae Americaw City. 17 








<a ag 


SE 
ee 








Makes Good in the 
Three Big Branches 
of Public Service 













ORE than by the building of 

public institutions, improvement 
of parks and waterways—a city ad- 
ministration is judged by the way it 
protects the homes and the health of 


its citizens. 





Keeping streets clean, fighting fires 





effectively, policing a city properly— 
are three big jobs. And motor trucks 
are a vital factor in the dispatching of 


these duties. 





To get and hold the confidence of the 
public, to avoid criticism of the administra- 














tion, the trucks used must be real trucks, 
and not price trucks. They can’t be simply 
converted pleasure cars supporting municipal 
equipment. They must be strictly trucks 
from start to finish 


The Lippard-Stewart measures up to 
these rigid requirements 





It is a durable, dependable commercial 
vehicle, designed for either light or heavy 


hauling, and speedy action. 











The men who build it produce motor 


trucks, exclusively. The parts and materials 





that compose it are selected because of their 
perfect adaptability to trucking needs. The 
concern behind it is a big responsible organ- 
ization with a clean business record. 


The Lippard-Stewart is the—Best Motor 
Truck—for the Best Town—in America 










Write us for information about it—today. 


THE LIPPARD-STEWART 


MOTOR CAR COMPANY 
228 W. Ltica St., Buffalo, New York 


\%, M, 1,1% and 2 Ton Motor Trucks 





THE AMERICAN CITY 





A Fire Hose 


of unusually careful manufacture 


Wax and Para Gum Treated 


The lUning is of fine Para Gum, hand made, 
four calendered, smooth bore or lap-jointed. 


each strand of ane t 
treated to a bath of melted 


Absolutely waterproof, 
aes the ideal for 
re 


solidifies the strands of cot- 
ton, assuring long wear. 


Mok & ob sis from 
1 to 6 inches inside diameter 


Fabric Fire Hose Co. 


Corner Duane and Church Streets, New York 
BRANCH OFPICES: 





















for the fire depart- 
ment means being 
Ready every time 
the gong rings— 
getting to the fire 
quickly — without 
delay or stop. 


Dayton Airless 
Tires 


protect your apparatus by their re- 
markable easy riding qualities. They 
never puncture or fail. 

They are built for any speed and 
any load. 

Write for fire booklet. 


The Dayton Rubber Mig. Co. 
1813 Kiser St., Dayton, Ohio 





1s When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 

















Swinehart 
Tires for wanpeid Service 


are made in twenty-four different types, whi 
cover every c¢ mceiv able service to which a 
truck is subjected. 


“Swinehart Cellulars” are especially « 
structed to safely carry your Fire apparatus t 
the blaze at a high rate of sp ed 

“Swinchart Ideals’? are built t { 
under the heavy loads of your large muni 
trucks. 


Send us your truck requirements. 


Your name and address brings 
trated and descriptive literature. 


The Swinehart Tire & Rubber Co. 
AKRON, OHIO 


THE AMERICAN 

















AUTOMATIC CHEMICAL 
SPRINKLERS and HAND. 
HOSE ceagiginianntag 














FOR OIL, PAINT, GREASE, 
VARNISH. COAL ‘TAR AND 
ALL FIRES! Stationary Systems 
and portable apparatus. 3-Gallon 
“Foamite”’ Hand Extinguishers 
and 60-Gallon 2- Wheel “‘Foamite’’ 
Chemical Engines. 


Representatives Wanted 


National Fire Extinguisher Co. 
WIDENER BUILDING, PHILADELPHIA, PA. 





CITY 





Safe, Sure, 
Economical 


No fire chief, no purchasing com- 
mission, can long overlook the con- 
vincing indorsement of Goodyear 
Fire Truck Tires as rendered by 
apparatus manufacturers—the men 
who know. 


During 1914 Goodyears were the 
tire equipment of 52 1-2 per cent 
of all new motor einen fire ap 
paratus manufactured. During 1915 
this tremendous lead was not only 
maintained, but actually was in 
creased to 59 2-10 per cent. 


The basis for this emphatic pref- 
erence is found in Goodyear 
quality and in Goodyear features 
of construction. No other fre 
truck tires, we believe, incorporate 
so many features designed to pro- 
long tire life by preventing common 
tire troubles. 


If you are contemplating truck tire 
purchases, permit your judgment to 
be influenced by the past record 
the safety, the dependability, the 
economy of Goodyear Fire Truck 
Tires. 


Write for beautifully illustrated book 


‘**Getting to the Fire’’ 


The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. 
Akron, Ohio 


(OODEYEAR 


FIRE TRUCK TIRES 




















When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 








SS 





THE AMERICAN CITY 





FIRE HYDRANTS | |The Anderson Coupling 





Frost-Proof . 
maesteditiddent & Fire Supply Company 


All parte removable with- 
out dissing up hydrant. 
Special device te 


KANSAS CITY, KANSAS 


Manufacturers of 
MOTOR FIRE APPARATUS 


General Fire Department Supplies 
Anderson-Hale Fire Station Door Openers 


Estimates Cheerfully Given 














<i pe? Loper Fire Alarm Co. 


GP wesw, ll STONINGTON, CONN. 
Gas, Oil, Hydraulic initieenes of 


Electric Operated = ie : 
yoo ceiiitiadhennieest Compressed Air Fire Whistles 





oo THB oo Whistle Blowers 
Ludlow Valve Mfg. Co. Bell Strikers, Boxes, Gongs 
TROY. N. Y. Etc. Etc. 
Branch Offices ’ 
New, tides phi Boston Estimates Cheerfully Given 

















Water Gates G Fire Hydrants 


BUILT FOR UTILITY AND DURABILITY 
Write for Booklet 


PRATT & CADY CO., INC. HARTFORD, CONN. 








SLUICE GATES, CHECK VALVES, AIR VALVES, INDICATOR POSTS, ETC. 
GATE FIRE 
VALVES EDDY HYDRANTS 


Hydraulically and Electrically Operated Valves and Sluice Gates. Valves Designed For All Kinds of Service. 
EDDY VALVE COMPANY, WATERFORD, N. Y. 


























New York Chicago Boston San Francisco Philadelphia 

( I-—-NEW_yor A RTT Te OS = Saas Fectanie 

| Keystone’ ~~ Eur iat —— 

me iawn... 

: New York 

4 Water Meters | = 
oe San F 

Pittsburgh Meter Co. | Mansiactures of Water 

East Pittsburéh.Pa Water Filters. 


ee 





| ROSS VALVE MFG. CO., Troy, N.Y. | 





20 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amexaican Crry, 

















THE AMERICAN CITY 








All Turbine Rod 
Couplings are made 
of Malleable Iron 
and will not break. 
All Wood stock is 
straight grain Oregon 
Fir. 
These Rods are 
Water-Proof and will 
Pome float. 

The 7 ‘u Ii fod 
This is the TURBINE that canbeadjusted Couplings ane aban 
lutely fool-proof as 














oe 


to clean all sizes of sewers from six to thirty 


inches in diameter. Let us give you a dem- they can only be put 
onstration of what this machine will do. together one way. 
f js Send for Free Sample 
Write for full information. 


and Catalogue. 


SAVES LABOR AND MONEY. 


TURBINE SEWER MACHINE 
RENOVATING CO. 


197 Eleventh Street Milwaukee, Wis 


Showing first method of coupling rods. 











Schramm Portable Compressors 
are complete, ready to operate, ROCK 
DRILLS, caulking tools, riveters, etc. 


Free trial can be arranged. Our catalogue 
shows the great labor saving that can be had 
with these outfits. 


CHRIS. D. SCHRAMM & SON 
304 N. Fourth St., Phila., Pa. 


NEW YORK OFFICE 
39-41 Cortlandt St. 














COLUMBIAN IRON WVORKS 
CHATTANOOGA, TENN. 
Manufacturers of Fire Hydrants, Valves, Valve Boxes, Sluice Gates, 


Meter Boxes and Water Works Supplies 
ESTIMATES PROMPTLY FURNISHED 











WM. E. DEE COMPANY 





At RS 8O N. La Salle Street Chicago, Ill. 
mange edith: | We manufacture Manhole, Catch Basin and 
CRE BMI Sewerage Castings of all Kinds. We make anything 











in Gray Iron. Write for our prices. 








When writing to Advertisers please mention Tax American Ciry. 21 








THE AMERICAN CITY 





Hydro Chronograph 
Municipal Water Works, Sewers and 
Hydro Electric Plants 


These instruments are made in 
19 different types, varying in maxi 
mum range from 2 feet to 60 feet. Can 
be operated several miles away from 
point registered 

We are prepared to design and man 
ufacture water level gauges of any 
character and will quote prices on re 
ceipt of information in regard to 
special requirements. 

Send for our booklet, also sample 
record chart for any type gauge. We 
will furnish sketch covering the re 
quirements of each individual installa- 
tion. 


Hydro Manufacturing Co. 











Sluice, Head and Penstock Gates 
Flap and Shear Valves 


The kind that don’t wear out 


COLDWELL, WILCOX COMPANY 


Water Street Newburgh, N. Y. 




















MORRIS 
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS 


12-inch Three Stage Pressure Pump. Direct 
Connection 350 H. P. Motor built for Char- 
lotte, N. C. Water Works, developed 764% 
efficiency when delivering 3,500 gallons per 
minute against a head of 260 feet, requiring 
300 H. P. 


MORRIS MACHINE WORKS 


Builders of Dredges, Contrifugal Pumps and Engines 





Bullitt Building Philadelphia Baldwinsville, N. Y. 
Branch Offices in Principal Cities 
22 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amenican Crry. 

















THE AMERICAN CITY 













WATER 
WORKS 


Capacities up to 
60,000 Gallons 
Per Hour in 
Standard Sizes 


Pumps of greater 
capacity built to 
order 


Fig. 50 Deming Triplex (three plunger) power pump. Made in 
many different sizes. May be operated by any power. Much more 
efficient than the direct-acting steam pump. 


In a Town Not Far From YOURS— 


There is very likely an installation of a Deming ‘Triplex 
Power Pump in municipal water works service. If your town 
is interested in a waterworks pump, we will be glad to give you 
the names of one or more of the Deming Installations nearest 
you, so that the members of your committee can see for them 


selves the kind of work which 





are doing Town after town has found in Deming power 


pumping units 
the solution to their water supply problem, whether the source of supply 
be deep or shallow wells 
Deming Power Pumps and Deep Well Working Heads may be direct 
connected to gasoline engine team engine or electric motor, or driven by 
belt from any power sources They require so little attention 


almost automatic. 


Ask us for the names of nearby towns in which Deming Pumps are installed 
Our engineering department will gladly co-operate with you upon receipt 
of a statement of the condition 


THE DEMING COMPANY, Salem, Ohio 


Manufacturers of Hand and Power Pumps For All Uses 
ENGINEERING AGENCIES: 


Chicago: Henion & Hubbell Boston: Chas. J. Jager Co 
Pittsburgh: Harris Pump & Supply Co. New York: Ralph B. Carter Co 

uffalo: Root-Neal & Co Richmond: Sydnor Pump & Well Co 
San Francisco: Simonds Machinery Co Denver: Hendrie & Bolthoff Mfg 


Kansas City: English Tool & Supply Co Philadelphia: W. P. Dallett 


Agencies in all principal cities. 








When writing to Advertisers please mention THe Ames nN City 23 











ee 





THE AMERICAN CITY 












The Cole Recorder 


Fills a long felt want in the Water Works 
Field. An absolutely reliable station meter 
of the Pitometer type which, on account of 
its extreme sensitiveness is accurate at low 
as well as at high velocities. 


Not Necessary to Cut the Main or Interrupt the Flow 
It may be installed by the simple process of setting a 
standard one-inch corporation cock in the main at the desired 
gauging point. 
No mercury or liquid other than water is used. 


Simplicity, economy, accuracy and durability are co nbined. 
Satisfactory service guaranteed. Write for our booklet. 


The Pitometer Co., 55 Duane St., New York 





24 When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American City. 

















THE AMERICAN CITY 


B SS = = 
——————— 























“Let NATER “And 
those R) FE those 
now who 
love ip always 

loved, 
we now 
never thie 
interchange- more”’ 


before’”’ Life. 
Accuracy. 


The merits of the Lambert have made water-meter systems popular. 
All improvements which the tests of time and long service show to be requisite in a Perfect Water 
Meter, are embodied in the Lambert. A good article is always worth the price. 


ONE QUALITY AND ONE MODEL ONLY. 


Made in all sizes 3’ to 6” of the best bronze Composition throughout, fitted with Unbreakable rein 
forced disc-pistons. 


able. 





— 





Maintenance OOOO 
cost nominal. 





We firmly believe in “The Survival of the Fittest’’. 


Here are a few reasons for our belief: 
Cleveland, Ohio, in 1912, awarded its entire contract for Water Meters, in sizes 
| 1 | 5-8 inch to 6 inches inclusive, at a price several thousand dollars higher than that of 
the low bidder, to this Company. 
A differential in value based on quality of material used, on low cost of maintenance, on merit 
and general excellence of Lambert Meters ascertained in a practical way by service use during many 
long years, had fully demonstrated their ‘‘fitness to survive.’’ 


i oeneteentnetieememmcsneeenel 
A 6-inch Thomson Meter, No 8217, was set June 1, 1890, at Fort Adams, R. I The Newport 
| 2 | Water Company, under date April 29, 1913, say concerning it: 
ae “In a period of nearly twenty-three years, this meter has worked continuously night and 


day, with only two periods of repairs, one in 1905 and one in 1913, with a total record of 59,715,950 
cubic feet of water.’’ 


LT 
Three (3) 6-inch Thomson Meters set in December, 1902, at Kingsbridge Power Station, 
3 Interborough Rapid Transit Company, 216th Street and 9th Avenue, New York City, N. Y., 
are still in service and during said time have not required any repairs. 





The numbers of the meters and registered amount of water which has passed through them, are 


oe | ee a ie 70,435,200 cubic feet 
a  - S ice 101,085,400 cubic feet 
No. 214,293...... ES EN ey 98,908,900 cubic feet 

ee neice pins nates ee 270,429,500 cubic feet 


Under date March 7, 1913, Mr. William Craig, Engineer in Charge, furnishes the foregoing details 
and says: 

“They have been tested on several occasions by the Water Department, the last test being made 
on February 11, 1913, and found correct.’’ 

These three (3) meters, at a rate of 10 cents per hundred cubic feet, evidence a revenue to the City 
in the sum of over $270,000.00, for Water used and measured through them. 

And no expense attached to the owners thereof, for repairs, during more than ten (10) 
years. 





Illustrated Prive List on Application. Address ‘‘Department E”’ 


THOMSON METER COMPANY, ‘sxooxtyy xy: 


When writing to Advertisers please mention THz American City. 26 














a aomenie 





THE AMERICAN CITY 








CORRECT PROPORTION AND CONVENIENT 
ARRANGEMENT OF PARTS IN A KING METER 





THE KING DISC METER 


Strength, Simplicity and Enduring qualities have been 
attained in the manufacture of The King. The materials 
and composition of metals in its construction have been 
selected only after exhaustive tests in actual service. 

The King Disc Meter is designed to meet the ever-increas- 
ing demands for a wholly reliable meter. 

The exacting requirements of modern water-works prac- 
tice necessitates first: correct proportioning and convenient 
arrangement of parts and no less important, a thoroughness 


in manufacture, obtainable only with the best of workmen 
and appliances, and attention to every detail. 


These are reasons why the king is used in so many cities 
all over the country. 


Write us for literature if you are interested. 


The Union Water Meter Co., Worcester, Mass. 





26 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American Cirv. 

















fae AMERICAN Crs 











BADGER PRODUCTS wxiionpitions 


BADGER 
METERS 












a et : 
eee 


Se | 


& 


—e from 2 to 1} in 


are equipped with 
Cast-Iron,Galvan 
ized, Breakable 
Bottom Plates 


: ’ 
oa. 
<a “ 





BADGER 
GEAR TRAMS 
are Built with 
Hard Rubber 
Bushings at all 
Bearing Points 





After All the big thing about a Water Meter is its ability 
to Stand Up under the stress and strain of constant service 


The Badger shows its superiority by its simplicity and enduring performance. 
It has always been a leader—not waiting until forced to follow the example of 
others, but preceding others with higher standard of workmanship and efficiency 


BADGER METER MFG. CO., Milwaukee, Wis. 








When writing to Advert sers ple ention Tt \M e 4 v a7 
















THE AMERICAN CITY 





Your Ais Will Be Sure and Certain 
If You Use 


ULCO LEAD WOOL 


Ulco Lead Wool has done more to reduce main- 
tenance costs on your water mains than any other 
material for the same purpose. 

Better than cast lead. Tested and proven by 
leading water departments to their entire satisfaction. 


Shall we send you sample ? 


UNITED LEAD COMPANY, 111 Broadway, New York 


SPECIALISTS IN LEAD PRODUCTS 











AMERICAN AND NEW NIAGARA 


WATER METERS 





Their Construction: Meter Literature: 
Dirt and Sand Proot Write for bulletins on 
Submerged Bearings the following subjects: 

safoecad TDi American and New 
Reinforced Disc Niagara Water Meters 
Jewel Bearing 
Intermediate Gears Facts and F Figures About 
Adjustment for Pressure Advantages o of Using 
Onl — 2 Sui Water Meters 
Specifications 
Self- Cleaning and os Bie 
= pees 
All Bronze Casings Water Meter Rates 
Part Bronze Casings, and Regulations 
or All Galv. Iron Casings a os 


BUFFALO METER CO. 


Established 1892 2917 Main St., Buffalo, N. Y. 





28 When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American City. 














THE AMERICAN CITY 





REMOVABLE PIPE PLUGS 


are used wherever the regular Cast Iron Plug is used in Water 
and Gas Pipes. { The Plug is easily removed 












intact 

without injuring the pipe or the plug and are varned, 
leaded and caulked the same as any other. © Because 
of their construction these plugs will not blow out 


Many are now in use under 
150 Ibs. pressure without 







blocking. { To remove, 
strike the plug with a 
hammer on top, bot- 
tom and both sides to 
loosen the joint. The 
Removable plugin place. plug is provided with lugs 
through which a crow-bar 
may be slipped, giving a great leverage and assuring 
easy removal. {| Can be furnished, tapped and 
plugged with one inch or two inch hole for line exten- 
sion or blow off purposes. { As a testing plug they 
are invaluable. 4] We carry a complete line of water works 
Tools and Supplies of every description. 


Our catalog is complete—send for it now. Plug removed showing thread 
cast in lead joint. 


WATER WORKS EQUIPMENT CO., 50 Church Street, New York 











SECURITY SEWER RODS 


wy es APPROVAL 
OF eecmeitlis'| I HERSEY DETECTOR METER 
i ag m= 


tightly on to the curved 
places at end of sticks. Se 
curity couplings cannot 
come off. 

Joint and unjoint easily 
and quickly—light weight— 


long ruus easily made. No : oa . 
Three-foot Rods, 55 conts cacn oe ee eee eae sives te The Hersey Detector Meter has 
Four-foot Rods, 65 cents each all practical bends. been ys ey for eleven years in 3 
4° 6,8 /0°and /2° sizes without any 
226-228-230 Huron Street i 
F. BISSELL COMP ° Toledo, Ohie restrictions or conditions of any 








kind by every Insurance Company, 








Stock and Mutual. doing business 
in the United States. and by the 


FOSTER PUMP GOVERNOR Water Departments and Water 


Companies in more than 500 Cities 


(Piston-actuated) and Towns for use on over 3.000 
, ire Services protecting nearly 
For General Service. Controlled solely s - Soe e, een 


- 2.000,000,000 worth of Insured Propert 
by the discharge pressure from pump. ties 


Has removable seats, easily renewed 
when worn. Governor is guaranteed 
to give close, continuous service. 


LET US SUPPLY YOUR PUMP HERSEY MANUFACTURING COMPANY 
GOVERNOR REQUIREMENTS 





BOSTON COLUMBUS, O SAN FRANCISCO 
NEW YORK PHILADELPHIA LOS ANGELES 
Foster Engineering Co. CHICAGO ATLANTA PORTLAND. ORE 


Newark, N. J. 














When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 29 











THE AMERICAN CITY 





RELIABLE CHLORINE CONTROL 


FOR WATER AND SEWAGE PURIFICATION 


You Can SEE 
THE CHLORINE FLOWING 


thats ONE of the many rea- 
sons for the superiority of 
“W & T” CHLORINE CON. 
TROL APPARATUS. 

No ( suess Work, No Float To 
Stick, No Moving Parts 

\ visible meter made of glass, hy 
draulic in principle enables the oper 
ator to tell at a glance that the 
chlorine is flowing No Matter How 
Small the Amount 


Write for Tech. Pub No. 1 A. 


if your community is interested in 
water or sewage purification at bed 
rock costs 


Is Your Name On Our Mailing List. 
WALLACE & TIERNAN CO., Inc., “N88. Gs" ¥ 
CHICAGO SAN FRANCISCO DALLAS 














THE CLARK METER BOX 
Once Used—Always Used 


Because it fur- 
nishes thoro pro- 
tection and give; 
entiresatisfac- 
tion. Catalog N 
tells the complete 
story—also tells 
about the 
CLARK METER 
TESTER—Valve 
Housings Leak 
Indicator — and 
many other 
Water Works 
Appliances. Write for copy—also Meter Tes- 
ter Bulletin R 6. 











The Ford Meter Box 
represents the latest development in itsline. Here is a 
type that we recommend. Write for detailed information 
FORD METER BOX COMPANY 
Wabash, Ind. 


H. W. CLARK CO. 


Manufacturers of 
Boerything for the Water Works 
130 So. 17th Street, MATTOON, ILL. 


New York Salt Lake City 
San Francisco Chicago 




















30 When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American Crry 














rT  , 





THE AMERICAN CITY 

















40,000,000 Gallon 
MUNICIPAL 
FILTRATION PLANT 


CHESTER & FLEMING EK ° HENRY SCHENK CO. 
rie, Pa 
9 e 


Engineers Gen'! Contractors 


This is one of many plants we have installed for 
municipal and industrial use. 


Builders of both Gravity and Pressure Type Filters. 
Refiltration Systems for Natatoriums. 
Estimates and designs cheerfully furnished. 


Licensed for Down Draft or Negative Head. 


NORWOOD ENGINEERING CO. 


FLORENCE, MASS 











When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City 31 











~—— Sa 
" Ee 


ame + ee 
orn enn wn. elle = 








THE AMERICAN CITY 


Chemicals 
for Water Purification 











We manufacture highest grade of 


Sulphate of Alumina 


also 


Chloride of Lime 


Liquid Chlorine 


PENNSYLVANIA SALT MFG. CO. 
115 CHESTNUT STREET  :: — PHILADELPHIA, PA. 











OF DOING 
BUSINESS 











. 

Atlantic Pumping Engines 
EASILY MOVED FROM PLACE TO PLACE 
Economical—Reliable—Unequaled 
Cannot be beaten for pumping out 


Trenches, Excavations, Cesspools, Pier Foundations, 
Filling Water Carts -_ <i Road Contractors’ Work 


Telegraph or write fo prices and full description 


HAROLD L. BOND COMPANY, BOSTON, MASS. 





32 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tas American City. 











THE AMERICAN CITY 


PURE WATER 


is the thing most to be desired by 
every municipality, and in no way 
can it be had more surely and at 
the same time so economically as 
by the use of 


PITTSBURGH FILTERS 


One hundred and forty cities are 
now using them with most satis- 
factory results. We design and 
build to meet individual conditions. 


Write for more information 


PITTSBURGH FILTER MFG. CO. 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
CHICAGO KANSAS CITY 





When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 88 





THE AMERICAN CITY 








Gasoline Hoists and Pumps 

Diaphragm Pump Equipment No. 13 

3 in. Pump Capacity 3,500 gallons, Price $95.00 

4 in. Pump Capacity 6,000 gallons, Price $111.00 
Hose and Fittings $44.00 to $60.00 extra f.o.b. Factory 















-Macbeth. 
Gas Fugines It 


CAST IRON PIPE SEE every tise of 





_ power and elec- 
tric current to look 

into a private power 
and light plant. It 
will surely lower present 
costs. 


nd for~ 






Water and Gas Pipe and Specials 
Service Boxes 
| Roadway and Valve Boxes 
























HAMMOND-BYRD.- IRON CO. isDooklet " 
NTMI he Peoples Gas Bldg Chicane i. Bree Macbeth acheth [nqine 











| S.E.T. WATERWORKS SPECIALTIES 


The Ideal Roadway Box 
A CAST IRON MANHOLE 


for valves and other apparatus 





requiring Protection and Acces- 
sibility. Sufficiently strong for 
heavy traffic. Adjustable to 
grade changes without resetting. 


Adaptable to any depth by inter- 
locking sections of size and shape, 
convenient for easy handling 
and quick installation. 





Write us for further information, and also ask 
. us about our other waterworks specialties 


} S. E. T. VALVE & HYDRANT CO., New York City 


84 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American Ciry. 


























er os ee 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


“SAFETY FIRST” 


By Means of GOLDEN-ANDERSON AUTOMATIC VALVES 


Prevent Flooding and 
Continuous Water Loss 
Golden-Anderson Cushioned, Automat 
Controlling Altitude Valves, for High or Low 
Pressure, automatically maintain a uniform 
stage of water in Tank, Reservoir or Stand 
pipe, doing away with the annoyance of 
floats or fixtures inside or outside the tanks 


Electric Solenoid enables valve to be 
closed from remote points, at any tin 
electrically Valve also closed by hand 


lever operation 

No Metal to Metal Seats o1 
Hammer? 

Thoroughly Air and Water Cushioned 
Valves arranged to work ‘“‘both wavs” on 
single line or close in case of break in mains, 
if desired 


Water 


An Automatic Cushioned 
Water Relief Valve 


These Golden-Anderson Valves are made in 
both Angle and Globe Types. They have 
NO METAL TO METAL SEATS. They 
are always cushioned in opening and closing 
with both water and air. Indestructible, 
and easy in operation. PREVENT 
BURSTING MAINS 





Cushioned Controlling Altitude 
Valve. Standard Automatic Type 


The most positive Pressure 
Regulating Valve known 

is the Golden-Anderson Automatic Cush- 
ioned Water Pressure Regulating Valves. 
For High or Low Pressure Service. Main‘ain 
a constant low pressure. They are always 
cushioned in opening and closing 


To Control the Water Level in 
Tanks, Stand Pipes, Reservoirs 


Golden-Anderson Cushioned Automatic 
Float Valves are the purest and most satis 
factory Float Valve known. For High or 
Low Pressure. The float swivels toany angle 

desired. Furnishes 
angle or Globe Type. 





Automatic Water Pressure 
Regulating Valve 


Eliminates Large 
Floats, Tanks and 
Other Fixtures 


Golden- Anderson Automa 
tic Controlling Float Valves 
ire especially adapted for 
Water-works, Gate Chambers 
and other service. Cushioned 
at all times by air and water 
Will operate on '% to 44 inch 
variation No metal to 
metal seats. 


We make the largest, 
heaviest and most cor- 
rectly mechanically con- 
structed and operated Au- 
tomatic, Steam and Water 
Service Valves in the U. S. 





Automatic Float Valve Angie 


When writing to Advertisers please mention THe AMERICAN 








Automatic Cushioned Controlling 


Altitude Valve 
Electrically Operated 





Automatic Water Relief Valve 


- 








Automatic Controlling Float Valve 


GOLDEN-ANDERSON VALVE SPECIALTY CO. 


1229 Fulton Building, 


Pittsburgh Peaona- 


City 





THE 





Firestones 
Conquer 


Mt. Wilson 


9-Mile Trail. 


Finished in 
Pe rfec t 
Condition 


When writing to Advertisers 


AMERICAN CITY 





Truck Tires 
At the Top! 


HEN experts needed 

material for the world’s 
biggest telescope on Mt. Wil- 
son, California, Firestone was 
the tire equipment that 
proved equal to the task of 
tackling the mountain trail. 
Going to the top is easy for 
Firestone. 
The conditions were extraordinary, 
Grade nineteen per cent much of 
the way; rocky road, narrow and 
tortuous; and a load of sixteen 
and one-half tons, which rested—a 
dead weight—frequently only on 
rear wheels. Equipment was 37 x 5 
on front—43x6 duals on rear— 
Firestone Hard Base Removable 
tires. Write for further data on this 
trip. It will go down in tire history 
as a thrilling event. 


Such extreme and drastic tests 
prove the in-built qualitv which has 





made Firestone Truck Tire equip- 
ment the choice with leading manu- 
facturers of every kind of vehicle, 
everywhere. 


Tires for Trailers 


Every type—heavy and light— 
brought to highest degree of per- 
fection. See the Firestone service 
man. 


Firestone Tire and Rubber Co. 


“America’s Largest Exclusive Tire and Rim Makers” 


Akron, Ohio—Branches and Dealers Everywhere 


please mention THe American Cry. 


7 Firestone | 


. 








THE AMERICAN CITy 








Proposal and For Sale Notices, Help Wanted 
and Situation Wanted Advertisements, Etc. 





BIDS WANTED FOR ONE PAVING 





































































FI} RICA ES NFER 
(1) MOTOR-PROPELLED Cresson, Ps ne Seer 
COMBINATION CHEMICAL jy. po: > as 
ENGINE AND HOSE CAR | vite: sea paving 
ori ~~ aa a 
Sealed bids or proposals for one (1) cage > wach 
tor-propelled combination chemical *“**’. “ ; y eng ( 
engine and hose car—6 cylinder, 80 /Y'™" ht ‘ ~ 
p. rated by S. A, I together with —— © ¢ 
i specifications and guarantee, are hereby Keystone Avenue fror rt t otr "tr 
ted by the City Council of the City to Brawl \ 
~ . MER 4 
Butte, Montana, to be filed with the Ashcroft Avenue f Front Str 7 wo 

City Clerk at pr prior to 7:30 P, M., to Third Stre 

June 21, 1916. Said proposals or bids Powell Ave f Second Street t 
1 be opened at a regular meeti at I irth treet 

the City ( ouncil Chamber Secor r Street fror Ashcroft Aver PARK EXECUTIVE 
The bids must be accompanied by a t , we L Av nue : ae a Cities desiring a competent, experi 
ertified check payable to the City of — ie . . RESUS ' ‘ enced park superintendent, engineer, 

Butte, or cash, in a sum of not le ss than we Avenue forester, secretary or other park execu 
€ >») per cent of the amount of I Bids will be re t the fice ft tive, can secure names of qualified 

be considered as liquidated damages the Borough Secreta til 8 ck applicants from . 
if : ‘ments ‘ on- Pp nt 19th d f Tune. 1916 
f the - 1 reese is byl pd 1 ¢ P.M the 1 y of , 19i¢ AMERICAN ASS'N PARK SUPERINTENDENTS 
and yd ar ot entered int rol sheets 1 TM t 1 from - ; - 
five id . ifter og award ha , - - ss en oF R. W. Cotterill, Sec. Seattle, Wash 
f (5) days after the award has the Engines ‘ und spe 

een ace itions av be t thee 
Ihe City Council reserves the right t Copies of the plans and a set ft 
ect any and all bids. ecifications may be o* tained by : , 

\. A. Docxstaper, City Clerk ting $6 with the Engineer rt ‘ WANTED: \ >« nd- 
, ‘ ‘ 1) + a ee - @ ontuane ° . - 

] — Soom, Sem, Sey OS, Doe nditios rye «the al hand steam rolle: + OI 
4] £ nd { l , 
PROPOSAL FOR MOTOR i. a comets. appwenienatety acer Chicka A ddre 

FIRE APPARATUS geal fool of carting. "An thes | Bon so A | 
Guen Ruioce. N. ] 1 material w e fur: he OX JZ, AMERICA By 
i pcE, N. l f ed 
Sealed proposals and specifications, in- the Contractor 
ng equipment of every kind, for a ha I t r 
otor-driven combination Chemical and ertined ‘ 
Hose Wagon, and alternate proposals on >i, : 2 
lar piece of apparatus equipped faith of the bidder = 

with an auxiliary or Booster or Junior Phe ¢ . of the hor t Cres 

Pump will be received at the office of 50M reser! s ove The gent t r 

John A. Brown, Glen Ridge, N. J., until Ject ar r all bi 

8 o'clock P. M., on Monday, June 12, \. Kernes 

I t whic time bids will be ea aoe y . Pes 
pened ; : ‘ One Horse Drawn Ladder 

| Genera : peewee may be obtained \ LLM Engineer, and Hose Wagon with two. 

trom the undersigned, 19 Aly ! Tr t B } . 

I The Borough Council reserves the ; Aten ~p oist > it extension 
right to reject any or all bids. y ‘ li rs, one 15 ft. roof ladder, 
By order of the Borough Council. . — —<P nel , ’ : 
ion A. Maswe, Bevensh Clock STREET PAVING 1S in gong, etc., capacity 
2 ‘ N, : } ) ' } 
: Sane. Wis LOO” f 2 neh fire hose 
PUMPING PLANT EQUIP- Sealed proposals on blank form { [wo sets Hale’s Swinging 
MENT by t ind addressed to t Fire Harness with Hangers 
Port Artuur, Tex. mf PP ohms, One Single Coach Harness 
Sealed proposals will be received at massa he pots: ” : es 
| this office up to 2 o'clock P. M. Thurs doesn One Rubber Tired, Sid 
: ‘aie . 1 for the 

day, June 15, 1916, for furnishing and , Spring Road Wagon 
nstalling equipment for a pumping , . 

plant, as per plans and specifications by ._ c : One Horse Drawn, Rubber 

J. F. Coleman, Consulting Engineer, ; Tired Patrol or Ambulance 

» are ot. 3 “ye aM ns , 

which are on file in thi office. an Wagon with Timken Bearings 
Deposit of five percent of the pro- E] Light ‘ : 

posal price, in cash or certified check, Se dectnic Lights (new batter 

to accompany bid - - “a pees. - ca and 15 inch gong 
. a “ f certified check made pay able to t 
Surety Company Bond required of suc- wer, for Wifteen Hondred Dollars Three T d Fire Horse 

cessful bidder in amount of one-half $1500) en —= i os RK oe we 

Bi et any or all ‘The right is reserved to reject any and Above property is all in 

bids. oo ~ all bids. good condition and is offered 

ae ~ on . "lans and specifications can be s n at 7 all 7 
Plans, specifications, etc., may be seen a wh — , f - ig ~ eae ape = sane be for sale account of being re- 

at this office; or copy of same may be py, USS OF RS re ee oe placed with motor apparatus 
heateat & LFc Consul Fla., and at the office of the Mayor of . =e 

obtained from J. F. Coleman, Consult- Sebring, Fla., and outline specifications 

ing Engineer, 921 Hibernia Building, ~  cheried t wetine @ En 

<= i : f $10, can be obtained y writing the En- Address 

New Orleans, La., upon deposit of $10. ¢ ers at Box 884. Bartow, Fla 

which said deposit will be fetuitea to * ai arn So a lm 

bidders immediately after opening of H. C. Brown, Mayor A.R. Russell, Public Engineer 

bids. For further information address Ae a : 

the Consulting Engineer. H. S. Jaupon Encineertne Co., DE KALB, ILL. 

L. D, Heckman, City Clerk. Engineers 
R. H. Dunn, Mayor. Savannah, Ga Bartow, FI 
When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American City 
. 


—_ 


THE AMERICAN CITY 

















zl 


Ys [rwe | al { 
FORREST 

THOUSAND! - 
BYEARS AGO 


od 





Cast Iron Pipe Soon Celebrates Its 
Centenary in Philadelphia 


This was one of the first American cities to use cast iron pipe—1817 was the date of its initial 
installation here, and pipe laid then shows no evidence of deterioration, 


After the ‘‘experimental’’ stage was passed Philadelphia bought heavily of Cast Iron Pipe 

for both water and gas. The 3,331 miles now in use give a fair indication of the high regard 
- — 

in which the city officials hold it. 

Asa matter offact Cast Iron Pipe has lasted foo long in the busier sections of the city—recently 

some of it has been removed because of its obsolescence, and replaced by larger cast iron pipe. 


The following makers of Cast Iron Pipe and Fittings are independent and competing. 
Inquiries may be sent to any or all of them with assurance of prompt and full response. 


American Cast Iron Pipe Co. Donaldson Iron Co. Lynchburg Foundry Co. 
Birmingham, Ala. Emaus, Lehigh Co., Pa. Lynchburg, Va. 
James B. Clow & Sons Glamorgan Pipe & Foundry Co. Massillon Iron & Steel Co. 
Chicago Ill. Lynchburg, Va. Massillon, Ohio 
Standard Cast Iron Pipe and U. S. Cast Iron Pipe & Fdry. Co. 
Foundry Co., Bristol, Pa. Philadelphia, Pa. 





88 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American Crrv. 


























Advertisers whose 








INDEX TO ADVERTISEMENTS IN THIS ISSUE 


Advertising pages are numbered at the bottom. 


appear in alternate issues or irregularly yas ae the year are 
indezed only in the numbers in which their advertisements are published. 








Albright & Mebus............... 
Alpha a Cement Co....... 
Algom Brick Ce... .cccccccescccces 
Alvord, J. W., “& C. B. Burdick .... 
American Ass'n of Park Supts. 


American Can Co........... ‘ 

American Cast Iron Pipe Co...... 
American City Bureau........... 
American-LaFrance Fire Eng.Co.,. 
American Nursery Co............ 


American Park Builders.......... 
American Playground Device Co.. 
American Telephone and Tel. Co. . 
Amies Road Co. 
Andorra Nurseries............... 
Anderson Coupling & Fire Supply 


Appleton & Ce., D...cccccccscces 
Arnold, Sheffield A 
Ashland Mig. Co............... 
Ashtabula Shale Brick Co........ 
Atlantic Nursery Co., Inc........ 
Atlantic Refining Co............. 
Atlas Portland 
Atlas Preservative Co. of America, 


Inc 
aenthe Western Road Mach’y Co.. 


Badger Meter Mfg. Co 
Bain Wagon Co...... 
OE err 
Baltimore Enamel and Novelty Co.. 

Barber Asphalt Paving Co 
Er 
Bay State Nurseries. ............ 
Bean Spray Pump Co 
YS ere 
Bennington Scale Co 
PD Cie Is Bencceveccsese 
Bessemer Limestone Co 
ree 
Bi-Lateral Fire Hose Co 
Bissell Co.. F 





Blanchard, Arthur H............. 


Bowser & Co. Inc., S. F........ .. 
Boyd & Bro., JAMS. ....-cecccee 
Bruce- Macbeth Engine Co 

Buff & Buff ya 
Buffalo Meter 





Burbank Thawing Machine Co.... 
Burns & McDonnell 
Buttrick, P. L 


CAC, . rc casactvbaavcs 
Carey Co., Philip 
oo SS *— ee 
Case, T. M. Co., J. L., Inc 
CII GOD s wc cccccccccese 
Champion Potato Machinery Co. 

Chester & Fleming 
CR ey vc ve cspecsenayes 
Clearfield Brick Kien «ss 
Cleveland ey and Clay Co 

D 


Cloud & Co 
Clow & Sons, James B 
Coldwell- Wilcox Co 





i ee ance kin owls gadede casi 
59 Columbian Iron Works Co........ 
93 Cowell, Arthur Westcott 

Se GS De Minbar éece cece 
37 Crone, D. A 





74 Crosby, W. W.. 





62 Hazen, Whipple & Fuller... 
22 Headley Good Roads Co 


care ahah ies ews 89 
Cullen, la Dich > backsenn Gewe 89 
ee ME, Bini c se ccncnvatencces 89 
17 Cumberland Hotel... 102 
i Ey Bs i, Bele Bec ccccncccce 89 
et CE Oy Cs nce ccnnesevecece 70 
40 Cyclome Fence Co... 2... cc cccene 77 
92 
105 Denville Brick Co............00. 93 
Dayton Rubber Mfg. Co......... 18 
Deckman-Duty Brick Co......... 93 
as ME Es ob echt cess cose 21 
ee es ane ss cows 23 
EY ee 89 
81 Dixon Crucible Co., Joseph....... 100 
93 Donaldson Co., (Willadean Nurs.). 85 
85 Donaldson Iron Co.............. 38 
et i MGs on cb daneew ecas 85 
105 Dreer, Henry kts rede onpnae see 85 
Duluth Engineering Co........... 89 
Du Pont Powder Co........... 78 
99 Dustoline for Roads Co.......... 65 
i OL eee 20 
98 Electric Railway Equipment Co... 48 
57 Engineerin eneed ot ar 62a 
60 Enterprise Iron we 82 
Ce Ph Ms © devesccecnebeene 91 
1s Everwear Mfg. AS wkd ocacu. 6-7-83 
8 
80 — Five Hose'Co.........02000 18 
Se ena 89 
13 Fines’ oO err 70 
85 Firestone Tire & Rubber Co...... 36 
Fitzhenry- wey DG agi ekave mie 76 
4 "73 ee 89 
15 Foos Gas oe SP ctnnsecesnse 34 
29 Foran Foundry & Mfg. Co........ 41 
06 Word Meter Boz Co.............. 30 
89 Foster Engineering Co........... 29 
94 Framingham Nursery Co......... 85 
85 Fuller-Coult a perish wriaveceens 90 
Se SO SO Wes cacccosusccerece 90 
=. Gamewell gin Me Gs osccs 15 
34 General Electric Co.............. 71 
88 General Motors Truck Co........ 50 
28 OS Se 80 
96 German Nurseries & Seed House.. 85 
> Glamorgan Pipe & Foundry Co... 38 
12 Glen-Gery Shale Brick Co........ 94 
89 Golden-Anderson Valve Spec’y Co. 35 
89 Goodrich Co., B. F.............. 15 
89 Good Roads Machinery Co....... 99 
58 Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co...... 19 
89 Gramm-Bernstein Co............ 104 
55 Greeley, Samuel A..............; 90 
87 Green-Starr Eng. Co............. 40 
41 i a St re ear 88 
89 Hamilton Smithing & Mfg. Co.... 95 
30 Hammond-Byrd Iron Co......... 34 
93 Hardesty Mfg. Co., R....... ecoe 
eS oe ns wan waen be 90 
a |) Rae 90 





Health Merry-Go-Round Co. . 





CO err 90 
Henderson & Co., Peter........ S4 
Hering & Gregory ewes cas 90 
Hersey Manufacturing Co Sas 29 
Higgins, J. Wallace.............. 90 
Hill Nursery Co., Inc., D......... 85 
Hill Standard Mfg. Co........... 8&1 
Hocking Valley Brick Co......... 94 
_ oes Se eee 102 
Holzbog & Bro., Geo. H........... 102 
PD BO Giccvacceccceuseenes 100 
Hooker Electrochemical Co... ..... 62a 
Hoopes Bro. & Thomas Co........ 85 
Hopedale Nurseries.............. 85 
Dee, Gee. GS nw ca cevcscvces 90 
CMs wdw na 60 th Rd paint 90 
PE Es hes go vccectsered@es 90 
Hydro Manufacturing Co.. 22 
Ideal Power Lawn Mower Co..... 83 
Imperial Brass Mfg. Co.......... 76 
Indestructible Sign Co........... 68 
peer 107 
Jennings, Lawrence & Lindsey.... 90 
pS eae 90 
Kansas City Nurseries. . -. 85 
anne Motor Truck Co.. 44 


NEE, Be Mivceceseccss 
King & Co., Albert B.... 
King Foundry Co....... 
Knox Motors Associates 
OR eae 
Kohankie & Son, Henry 
PEs c.tbecéerseccdcaucas 
Lake City Mfg. & Supply Co 
Law Publishing Co 
Leadite Co., The 
DO SE Wanecsvcceescesece 
Lehigh Portland Cement Co...... 
Lippard-Stewart Motor Car Co.... 
NN) ae 
Loper Fire Alarm Co........ 

i  — ) =n 
Ludlow Valve Mfg. Co 
Luten, Daniel B. 
Lynchburg Foundry Co. 


McCrady Bros. : Cheves 
McCrary Co., J. 

|) & are, 
Macbeth-Evans Glass Co. 
Marchant Calculating Machine Co. 
Marlborough Hotel............+.+- 
Massillon Iron & Steel Co 
Maury, D.H.. 
Mentor Nurseries..............-. 
Metropolitan Paving Brick Co., 





Minnesota Engineering Co 
Mitchell, Hugh C.......ccccccees 
Morris Machine Works 
Mott Iron Works, J. L........... 
Murphysboro Paving Brick Co.... 


National Fire Extinguisher Co. 
National Lamp Works of General 
Electric Co.. 


(Continued o on page » 41) 











MANUFACTURERS OF 


WRITE FOR CATALOGUE 


PACIFIC COAST PIPE CO., Seattle, Wash. 
Machine Banded and Continuous Stave Pipe, Steam Casing and Wood Tanks 


Allow us to demonstrate that we make he best and cheapest type of pipe for the water supply of growing communities 











TAS Re Hip 
ent inn element 




















THE AMERICAN CITY 





——_——_— 








oo 




















A New 
Wave Slide 


The HI pictured here is our 
newest addition. It was de- 
signed by the leading play- 
ground supervisors of the coun- 
try. The thirty-foot Wave Slide 
equipped with a metal platform 
and step approach has made the 
HI the most popular of any 
slide ever constructed. 














Heighth, 12 ft.; length of slide, 30 ft. 


Slide lined with extra heavy galvanized steel. 


American Playground Device Company 


ANDERSON, 


INDIANA 


AWARDED GOLD MEDAL AT THE PANAMA-CALIFORNIA EXPOSITION 


MAKERS OF EVERYTHING IN PLAYGROUND APPARATUS. WRITE 
FOR 1916 CATALOGUE AND DISCOUNT SHEET. 


Let Us Send You Prices on This Indestructible Equipment. 


























Fe —— 


HOTEL MARLBOROUGH 


36th St.—Broadway—37th St. 
One of the most comfortable hotels in New Y ork City 





Situated in the very heart of town, near all the 
leading shops and theatres, and convenient to every- 
where. 

One minute from Penn. Station and five minutes 
from Grand Central. Convenient to all piers. 


Very Large Rooms $1.00 ::’; 
With Bath, $1.50 2%; 


Restaurant Prices 50% Less Than Any Other 
First Class Restaurant 


Cc. H. Rus. J. AMRon J. Downey 








Club Rates for The American City 


In view of the fact that many municipalities, 
chambers of commerce and civic organiza- 
tions desire to subscribe for a number of 
copies of THE AMERICAN CITY for 
distribution among their officers, committee- 
men, etc., the publishers of THE AMERI- 
CAN CITY have arranged a special sched- 
ule of rates for clubs of subscriptions which 
will be quoted on application. ‘These club 
rates are also available for individuals who 
wish to arrange for a number of subscrip- 
tions for their friends. 

















SEWAGE PURIFICATION AND DISPOSAL 


The Starr System has the following features: It is 
Odortess, Automatic, Scientific, 
Efficient, ‘Sectional, 


It has met with the approval of every prominent 
sanitary engineer i C- it con- 


GREEN-STARR ENGINEERING COMPANY 


1530 Chestnut Street Philadelphia, Pa. 








Cy om em ee 


40 When writing to Advertisers 


please mention THe American City. 

















THE AMERICAN CITY 


Continued From Page 





National Water Main Cleaning Co. 66 Rundle-Spence Mfg. Co 7 Thorburn & Co., J. M S4 
Neptune Meter Co 8-9 Russell Grader Mfg. Co 88 Townsend Co,, S. P 5 
Newport Culvert Co... 61 Sanitation Corporation 73 Tracy, L. D + 
Norwood Engineering Co 31 Schramm & S a Chris. D ) Trautwine Co Ss 
Nutter, Frank H sue 90 Schulz & Hodgson 109 Trimble Paving Brick Co 4 
Ohio Road Machinery Co......... g5 Semet-Solvay Co 97 Troy Wagon Works Co. . - 
Ornamental Lighting Pole Co 67 5S. E. T. Valve & Hy drant Co $4 _— 1 one aye C bean 
Osborn Mfg. Co ; 102 —e 0 imewrenry - »Ine., Elmer 87 — c ae wer ssacaine Acnove 
Simplex ire Cable Co 70 ts . . 
Pacific Coast Pipe Co 39 Smith Co., W. & T 87 Ini e fe. Cc r 
Packard Motor Car Co $5 South Bend Motor Car Works 14 y hlon W nd Mi: ~ ee a - 
Peebles Paving Brick Co Ot Southern Clay Mfg. Co 94 United Lead Co 28 
Pe nosylvania Salt Mfg. Co 32 Spray Engineering Co 2 U.S. Mortgage & Trust Co 12 
Peters, Ti. Bs cccececs 91 Spring Hill Nurseries 87 U.S. Cast Iron Pipe & Foundry Co 3 
Pew, Arthur.... 91 Stack, Garrett M 91 Universal Road M achinery Co 2 
Pioneer Asphalt Co. 96 Standard Cast Iron Pipe & Fdy.Co. 38 ; pina. 
Pitometer Co... 24 Standard Sign Manufacturing Co.. 70 Van Blerck Motor Co.. 46 
Pittsburgh Filter Mfg. ee ee 33 Steel Basket Co.... : 79 . . . : 
Pittsburgh Meter Co......... : 20 Steel Protected Concrete Co 104 Wallace & Tiernan Co. Inc aU 
Pittsburgh Testing peroneal 91 Sterling Motor Truck Co........ 54 Warren Bros. Co . - t3a 
Pollock, Clarence D.............. 91 Stevens, Harry.... g, Water Works Equipment Co 29 
Potter, Alexander...... 91 Stewart Iron Works Co 12 Watson Wagon Co... 103 
Potts, Clyde...... ivewchawas 91 Stonehouse Steel Sign Co 790 Westinghouse Elec. & Mig. Co 69 
Power naeeuins Co 91 Storrs & Harrison Co 2 S4 Wilcox, Frank L . 91 
Pratt & Cad { eee 20 Studebaker Corporation, The 4-5 Witmer Co., J . + 
Prudential 4-4 85 Sturtevant Mill Co ‘ 77 Wood & Co., R. D be 
Republic Creosoting Co...... 96 Supplee-Biddle Hardware Co 53 Woodstock Hotel 53 
Republic Rubber Co............. 14 Swinehart Tire & Rubber Co 19 Worthington Pump and Machinery : 
Rich & BORGO. ....cccccccccess 80-91 Tarrant Mfg. Co........ 105 ,Corporation.....--..60++ sees 10-11 
PE MET diese casendvevece 91 Taylor, Henry W................ 91 Wright Wire Co......... vee 80 
eee Le nr 79 Taylor Portable Steel Derrick Co. 98 Wyman, Phelps....... 91 
Ross Valve Mfg Co 20 Thomson Meter Co 5 


25 Ziex. F. B. Mfg. Co 











Price 
$500.00 









sample 


338 Sheffield Ave. 


KUBLMAN SEWER CLEANING MACHINE 


Economical and efficient; we guarantee satisfaction; patented 
expansion buckets furnished to fit sewers eight inches and over; 
no wet, disagreeable work; let us tell more about this machine 
We also make Sewer rods that will please you. 
For cuts and description address 


CHAMPION POTATO MACHINERY CO. 


Hammond, Indiana 





Send for 



































HAMPA Sr. 


SIGNS 


legible, 


FOR PUBLIC HIGHWAYS 
Metal letters, die 
enameled and baked, making an indestructible sign 
artistic and economical of 


=-OF=THE=TIMES 
EVERYWHERE 


cut and welded onto a heavy me 


allsigns. Write for cat 


tal plate, 
The most 


slog, 





The R. Hardesty Mig. Co., farts S85 fee 


Denver, Coio., l 








ORNAMENTAL LIGHTING STANDARDS 
Manhole Heads, Catch Basins, Manhole 


Steps, and gray iron castings of every description 


Main Office, Foundry New York Office: 
and Pattern Works: 120 Liberty Street, 
F.ismincron, N. J New York. 


FORAN FOUNDRY 


& MFG. CO. 


Dock Builders and 
Contractors’ Supplies 
PLAIN AND GALVANIZED 


Galvanizing Works and 
Warehouse: 
Kent Ave. & N. 10th St. 
Broox.yn, N. Y. 














Do You Know How State Regulation 
Affects This Plant? 


You can only find out fully and promptly in 


OFFICIAL PUBLIC SEKXVICE REPORTS 
68 Broadway New York 





When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American City 41 


- 


; 
i 


| 








= 
: 
a 
= 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


HW OMT LT TR = 


Keep the Turf Green ! 


Those brown, burned, dried spots on lawns, gardens, playgrounds, etc., 
can be avoided this summer and the grass and gardens of your city kept green 
and fresh by proper sprinkling. The easiest, most reliable way to do this 


is with 





Sprinklers for Turf and Gardens 


There is a sprinkler to suit your particular 
need no matter what the water pressure or 
the condition of your turf. For new grass 
our Young Fountain gives a soft, mist-like 
spray which does not wash out the roots but 
does soak the ground thoroughly. Its 
round base permits pulling over the ground 
without injury to the sod. For big areas 


we have traveling sprinklers operated by 
the action of the water. Golf links, grass 
tennis courts, and baseball diamonds can 
all be kept in splendid shape by using these 
artificial rain makers. 


Write for descriptive booklet giving full 
information and prices. 


Spray Engineering Co., Div. 8, 93 Federal Street 
BOSTON, MASS. 


Young 
Fountain 


U-Rain-Us 
$2.50 


42 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 





AJNRNNNVQONAEENLUECNEA YEN 
WU Ct 


INUUUUNNNUA 


" 
| 


un 





= 
= 
= 











~~ - 





THE AMERICAN CITY 








Mathews Fire Hydrants 


! mn A Recognized Standard 





Made in Standard 
and High Pressure Types 


Frost-Proof— 


Positively Automatically Drained — 
Always Dependable 





GATE VALVES 
For All Purposes 


CAST IRON PIPE 
and 
FITTINGS 











“REDUCED” Fittings 


R. D. WOOD & CO. 


Philadelphia, Pa. 


Write for Catalogues and Prices 














When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae Awerican City 











THE 


AMERICAN CITY 


GASOLENE IS MORE DANGEROUS 
THAN DYNAMITE 


Dynamite will only explode from two or three causes, 
easily guarded against, but the vapor from gasolene will 
explode from many causes. 

You can see dynamite and beware of it—but gasolene 
vapor is invisible, and it is in the VAPOR that the 
danger lies 

Municipalities therefore should see to it that gasolene 
is always stored and handled in accordance with the 
most rigid requirements of the Fire Underwriters. We 
manufacture a complete line of tanks and pumps for this 
purpose, over a million of which are in use in the U. S. 
and Canada with never a fire or explosion, 

Our Bulletins contain much information on this sub- 
ject and we'll gladly send them free on request. 


S. F. BOWSER & CO., Inc., Fort Wayne, Ind. 


Branch Offices All Centers Representatives Everywhere 





A Bowser ‘“‘Chief Sentry’? curb pump with underground steel tank 


Wi 


g to Advertisers please mention THe American City. 














THE AMERICAN CITY 

















Economy in water is economy in flushing. This machine allows the operator to disburs« 
as much water as he thinks is necessary to flush the street Residential streets do not need 
as much water as thoroughfares, and this large saving of water is worth a second thought 

Yes, we're the people who take your old sprinkling wagon and remodel it int 


flushing machine at a surprisingly low cost 
White wing carts and other street cleaning equipment 


Write for catalogue and particulars 


THE LAKE CITY MFG. & SUPPLY CO., Cleveland, Ohio 














ODORLESS STAINLESS 


NON-ASPHAL TIC 


USO s 


(TRADE MARK) 


TRACKLESS TRANSPARENT 


Has NONE of the objectionable features of black asphaltic oils 





The most satisfactory dust preventive and road preserver on 
the market. Easy to lay as water. Does not track into houses. 
One or two applications sufficient for the season on most roads 


sites MUSOU = NL 


Phone 3194 Haymarket FOR ROADS PHONE 33 








When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 65 











—— es 


THE AMERICAN CITY 

















BY 
THE | 


TION 


METHOD | | 





Clean mains are your best insurance against 
conflagrations. They aid in the prevention of 
disease. They save unnecessary pumping costs. 
Your mains can be made like new no matter how 
badly clogged. 

Have you a copy of our booklet telling all about 
, : our method? It’s very interesting. 


NATIONAL WATER MAIN CLEANING CO., New'voweci't¥ 

















TTT mM " MT | 
parmillillll u UU 





66 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American Crry. 


i Ee ef | 














THE AMERICAN CITY 





Effective 
Street 
Lighting 


For the best possible street 
light we can highly recommend 
this standard. It is the best 
possible street ornament by 
day, and there is no better 
standard manufactured for even 
street illumination at night. 


The lamps have been placed 
at the correct distance from 
centers by our engineers to 
obtain the best results as a 
lighting standard. 

The casting is manufactured 
from especially prepared and 
mixed iron, non-corrosive and 
indestructible. 

We make many designs. 
These are shown in our :ata- 
logue which we shall be glad 
to seni you. 


The Casey-Hedges Co. 


CHATTANOOGA, TENN. 














Ornamental 
Lighting 
Poles 


are designed to add 
beauty to your streets, 
but they do far more. 
They help make your 
town prosperous by 
attracting business. 

This particular de- 
sign of pole is for the 
high efficiency Type 
“C” Mazda Lamp. 

Let us tell you more 
about this pole, or we 
will show you our 
other designs. 


ORNAMENTAL 
LIGHTING POLE CO, 
Poles for all Types of Lighting 
114 Liberty St., New York 











KING 


STANDARDS 
A 


4 


This type of post 
is suitable for 
residence, park 
and boulevard 
lighting. Many 
other designs to 
choose from. 





King Foundry Co. 


ST. JOSEPH, MO. 





When writing *o Advertise « please mention THe American City 67 














ei erlighnathaaetunandiiatee’ 


— 





THE AMERICAN CITY 














fs 








100 YEARS 
ON DUTY 





Just imagine standing out in the rain, 
sleet, snow, cold and sunshine for 100 
years—just think of having stones and 
bricks thrown at you now and then, for 
amusement. 

It takes a strong constitution to with- 
stand such abuse and remain on duty 
every minute of the time for 100 years— ‘ 


> > » 
but eg” Prien nee ent ee eee | 


INDESTRUCTIBLE SIGNS 


“The Signs that Outlive Father Time” 


are built to stand all this treatment. The fact is—tests have proven 
them practically indestructible. 


Read what B. F. Goodrich Company, Akron, Ohio, the 
largest user of Guide Board Adv. Signs in the world did— 


ee | 


| severe laboratory test to ascertain the rust resist 

















We have given several of your signs a very 


ing qualities. One sign we subjected to sulphur 
fumes for seven days and another sign in the hot 
water bath for five days. Our laboratory reports 
show that your sign will not rust as at present 
constructed and furnished us, and we believe the 
Goodrich Guide Post sign now being erected in 
all sections of the country will be a legible and 
lasting sign as long as a four-inch post will stay 


in the ground.” 











The above is an extract from a letter dated November 
5, 1914. Just lately we received a large order from the 
Goodrich Co. for more of our signs. Can there be better 
proof of why Indestructible Signs are the right kind for 
your city? 


Send for our booklet and testimonials. 


The Indestructible Sign Co. 


528 Denison Ave., Columbus, Ohio 


Sales Agents, The Good Roads Machinery Co. 
es =] Kennett Square, Pa. 






































68 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tas Ameeican City. 


THE AMERICAN CITY 




















Feeder Regulators Increase Profits 


They increase the sale of power by maintaining constant 
voltage at distributing centers. 


They save investment in Line Copper — your feeder 
capacity can be increased at less expense with Feeder 
Regulators than by additional line copper. 


Westinghouse Induction Feeder Regulators 
Represent Advanced Design—lImproved Construction 
Modern in Every Detail 


Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Co. 


Sales Offices in all | | EAST PITTSBURGH, 
Large American Cities PENNSYLVANIA 





When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae American Ciry. 








THE AMERI'‘ 





| STANDARD SIGN MANUFACTURING CO., 
' 





am Cit ¥ 





SIGNS 


Signs for any purpose —made of 
Porcelain Enameled Iron, will not 
fade or tarnish—Combine Durabil- 
ity with Attractiveness —NEVER 
WEAR OUT. Estimates Furnish- 
ed. SEND FOR BOOKLET. 


Pittsburgh, Pa. 











SIGNS 


THE STONEHOUSE STEEL SIGN COMPANY 
Clayton Building, Denver, Cole. 














A Bright Street 


means increased business. 
Attracts trade to business 
section. People stay longer 
and trade more. 


ALBA 


Ornamental Street Lighting 


makes business sections 
more attractive and pros- 
perous. Good lighting is 
really an investment. 

Ask us for 
information 
Macbeth - Evans 
Glass Company 
Pittsburgh 











VISITORS WELCOME 


Visit our factory. Permit us 


to explain our processes and tests. 


You can then give the same 
careful attention to wires and 
cables that you now give to other 
materials. 


Make a note of it - NOW. 


SIMPLEX WIRE & CABLE @ 


MANUFACTURERS 
201 DEVONSHIRE ST. BOSTON 
CHICAGO = SAN FRANCISCO 


1629 











FOR WHITE WAY LIGHTING 


1 


Sol-lux Junior Octagonal! Top 
Ornamental with 16-in. Diffusing 
‘op Top Ball and Ventilator 


So: 'ux Ornamental Post Tops for Type‘ C’’ Lamps 


GEO. CUTTER CO., 2un'Bena” indians 





Sol-lux Senior 
Ornamental 
wn 



































For Installations 
In City Streets 


ORANGEBURG 
FIBRE CONDUIT 


Offers many advan- 
tages. Shipments of 
standard material in 
three days. 

Send for Book “D,’’ 
it’s fully descriptive 


The FIBRE CONDUIT CO., Orangeburg, N.Y. 
New York Boston Chicago 








San Francisco 





70 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 


SS 

















THE AMERICAN, CITY 



































These are the new 
Novalux 
Ornamental Units 


With their advent 


the art of Ornamental MAZDA 
street lighting moves miles ahead. 


In thetr every line are 


character and elegance and style 
distinctiveness to grace the thor- 
oughfares wherever installed. 


In their design is the 


evidence of specialized study and 
intimacy with street lighting 
needs; they make the 

most of the wonderful 

MAZDA C lamp 


Built into them its 


the inflexible G-E standard of 
quality and durability to 
bring them down through 

the coming years. 


Made in any 


candle-power and for your 
circuit what ever tt ts. 


Why not 


Make YOUR community 
distinctive with the. 


Novalux Ornamental Units 


General Electric 
@ Company ®@ 


General Office: Schenectady, N.Y. 


Sales Offices in all Large Cities 





5878 























THE AMERICAN CITY 








The Leading Business Men 
of Forty Cities Have 
Approved the Methods 

of the 
American City Bureau 


There are, as this advertisement goes to press, 
forty cities in which the American City Bureau 
either has conducted Chamber of Commerce reorgan- 
izations, 1s conducting them or has contracted to 
conduct them in the near future. 

These cities range in size from 6,000 population to 
170,000. They are scattered from Ocean to Ocean 
and from Florida to Michigan. 

In each instance the decision to engage our services 
was the result of a careful investigation. The men 
who reached this decision were hard-headed, success- 
ful business men. They satisfied themselves that our 
methods were sound, that we were building on a solid, 
permanent foundation. 

These men have not changed their minds. You 
can prove this by writing them. We will tell you 
where to write if you ask us. 





If your Chamber of Commerce needs greater 
strength, why not use the experience of these forty 
other organizations to guide it ? 


THE AMERICAN CITY BUREAU 


87 Nassau Street, New York 








72 


When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American Crry. 





2 














THE AMERICAN CITY 











— TA Tc TT TTT tt Te 

River Elbe at point of discharge of Riensch-Wurl Screen = 

Sewage effluent from the City of Dresden, Saxony, Germany = 
P| 
; Zz 


l 





No Evidence of Sewage Discharge 


PVN TCMVUQNUUVEUU LUNs AAOL ALLL A eA 





Independent 


Cleanly 
Odorless 

















THAME HII 


Fine Screening Method of 
Sewage Treatment 


NNT TANT OOOO TO TTT 


UYU 


ee ee —— 





MN 


The most economic method of clarification. 


{ 


il 


Effluent submits readily to _ purification, 
activation, disinfection. 














TT 


Solids delivered of such consistency as permits 
easy handling, disposition or use. 


HII 














Ma 
! 


The Sanitation Corporation 50 Church Street, New York City 














THE AMERICAN CITY 








earn as nommiranigt — 












SANITATION 


While our ‘““CANCO” garbage 
can in point of appearance and 
strength of construction is without 
a peer, yet our equipment—the 
most comprehensive in the country 
—is such that we can make any 
sort of garbage container at short 
notice. 








We shall be pleased to estimate 
on any city or park requirement. 





AMERICAN CAN COMPANY 


Chicago NEW YORK San Francisco 


WITH OFFICES IN ALL LARGE CITIES 





When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 














— 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


Drinking Fountains 
of Every Variety 




















& 











A Cooling Drink 
for Everyone— 


A health giving, invigorating, 
sanitary drink is obtainable 
from fountains of the Rundle- 
Spence type. 








They shoot a clear, cool stream of water to 
your mouth. And the water is not contami- 
nated. It is as pure as it can be. No 
lips touch the nozzle. 


Your city should consider this most 
important question of placing drinking 
fountains on your streets, in your parks and 
squares for the use of every- 
one—man and beast alike. 


Also your schools and other public 
buildings should be equipped with sanitary drinking fountains. 


We know how to build fountains for every purpose. In 
fact, we manufacture so many different designs, we have 
issued a catalogue showing some of them. You ought to 
have this catalogue, and for your convenience we have placed 
the coupon below. Better send 
for it while you have the matter 
in mind. _| z, 
Rundle-Spence Mfg. Co. “= 


Milwaukee, Wis. ~ a 











Rundle-Spence Mfg. Co., 
Milwaukee, Wis. 





Gentlemen: 
Kindly send me your catalogue on Drinking Fountains, 
without obligation on my part. 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American Ciry. 75 








mene 


ee 


li 











THE AMERICAN CITY 











Beautiful Streets 
mean beautiful cities and towns. 
Make every street a park. Kill 


the weeds in the gutters. 


Atlas ‘‘A”’ 
Chemical Weed Killer 


permanently destroys weeds 
easily—quickly. Just mix with 
water and spray. The vegeta- 
tion disappears in a few days 
permanently because Atlas “A” 
gets down to the deepest root. 

’xecutives of cities and towns 
can profitably use Atlas “A” 
for better, clean, well-kept 
streets. 

Owners of homes can beautify 
the streets in front of their 
places—likewise paths, drives, 
tennis courts and all open spaces. 
I gal. trial cans, sufficient 

for 700 square feet.....$1.00 each 
6 gal Steel drums ...... . £4.75 each 

Prices F.O.B., New York. 

Order a trial can or send for our 

“* Blue Book” of facts. 


Atlas Preservative Co. 
of America (Inc.) 
96 Liberty Street, New York 








135 Firet Street 





Spraying Economy 


FITZHENRY-GUPTILL CO., 


Power Sprayers and Equipment 
E. Cambridge, Mass. 





























ARCHITECTS!» 


Send Today for FREE Catalog 
of IMPERIAL BUILDING 
Hardware Specialties 


Imperial Hardware Specialties cover 
a comprehensive variety, and include 
Nickel Trimmings for marble lava- 
tories, such as Hinges, Coat Hooks, 
Combination Coat Hooks and Door 
Bumpers, Towel Bars, Paper Holders, 
Locks, Stirrups for marble slabs, 
Angles, Wall Flanges, Tube Ends, 
Standards, and cost Brass Tubing 
Legs. 

We Submit Figures on 
Special Designs 

We make also, Railings, Gates, 
Combined Grab and Push Bars, 
Door Guards, Push Bars and Push- 
and-Pull Plates. Also Bronze and 
Brass Kick Plates, Standard Patterns, 
and special designs from Architects’ 
blue prints. Be sure to get This Free 
Catalog. 
IMPERIAL BRASS MFG. CO. 
1232 W. Harrison Street, Chicago, II. 





























76 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Ameznzican City. 


an 


—~— S§- ~~ _— _———————_-S— 4, 


——_————— be 








THE AMERICAN CITY 


















FOR CITY PARKS AND HOMES 
AND COUNTRY ESTATES 


Our method of construction makes this 
fence distinctive in style and quality. It car 
be erected on rolling land, steep grades, 
through ravines, etc., without affecting the 
stability or form of the fabric. 


oe 


~ J 
A A LE EOD SO | mo 


Affords Permanent Protection Against 
Intrusion, and adds to the Value 
and Attractiveness of the Grounds. 


Built of heavily galvanized wire, closely 
spaced and strongly woven. Barb wire top 


PHOTOGRAPHIC VIEW overhanging either side or on both sides pre- 
of Cyclone Non-Climbable Property Protection Fence, vents climbing over. Built in all practical 
erected on country estate of Mr. H. Timken, President heights. 


of Timken Roller Bearing Co., Canton, Ohio. Write for free Illustrated Catalog giving 


designs and prices. Give description and 
size of grounds to be enclosed. 





CONSULTATION SERVICE FREE.—Our engineers will 
help you solve your fencing problems without charge. We co- 


operate with those in charge of private estates, parks, playgrounds, 
ete. Engineer to superintend erection furnished at dem oc cost. CYCLONE FENCE COMPANY 


Dept. 107 Waukegan, Ill. 


YOUR COAL 
ANALYSIS 











PAY FOR HEAT UNITS ONLY; 
NOT FOR USELESS IM- 
PURITIES. 


YOU CAN KNOW JUST WHAT 
YOU ARE BUYING BY 
INSTALLING A 





PATENTED 


Sturtevant Automatic Coal Crusher and Sampler 


which Crushes and Automatically samples Coal at one operation, ready for the 
chemist to analyze. It takes 3-inch coal and crushes it to 4 inch and finer at the 
rate of 3,000 Ibs. per hour and at the same time automatically removes an accurate 
sample of 5, 10, or 15% of the total amount. Requires 2-3 H. P. Weight 900 Ib 
Belt or motor drive. Does the work of two machines. 


Sold on Approval. Send for Catalogue. 


STURTEVANT MILL CO., : 25 Clayton St., : BOSTON, MASS. 











When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City 77 











ee 


S) NUNEATON ANAT 













UENO EU CENA t ne: 


Order Your Evergreens 
Now for August Delivery 


Now that your spring planting is over, you 
know exactly what additional evergreens you 
need for filling up the ranks this fall 

Order now while it's on yourmind. We will 
ship when wanted 


TIANUUODGUOAAETNAOLAVEAUCUOUAAON AN aMMvA Naa Ucaana cee teneten eta 





One thing sure —no one grows better ever- 
greens. Few grow such roots. Send for catalog 


EQUAL AOODUPADOULAYOOL AOA AHA an 






684 Adams St. 
North Abington, Mass 


Sec ic 


SUIT AAOAANAAN HAAN 


SMUliililt 





THE AMERICAN CITY 





The Health Merry-Go-Round 
furnishes Entertainment, Exercise and 
Health for the children. 


Especially adapted to the needs of 
Parks, Playgrounds, Schools and 
Kindergartens. 





Guaranteed to be free from defects— 
Durable, Safe, Simple. 


Write for Mlustrated Catalogue 


THE HEALTH MERRY-GO-ROUND CO. 


Dept. K-14 QUINCY, ILL. 














—— —— 
—— ee ——— 
_— —— 
































i SIX YEAR OLD MAPLE PLANTED WITH DYNAMITE 


Save the Trees and Spare 
the Labor by Planting 
or Rejuvenating with 


Red Cross Farm Powder 


Growth is difficult to city trees. Countless 
conditions menace their welfare. ‘‘ Die-back”’ 
saps their strength and destroys. Pavements 
and sidewalks choke and kill. 


Red Cross Farm Powder will break up the 





hard subsoil, provide for increased nourish- 
ment and moisture and stimulate growth 
Its use is simple, easy and labor saving, and 
if instructions are carefully followed, it can 
be safely employed within a few feet of 
houses, watermains and sewers. 


Write for full instructions. 








E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. 
WILMINGTON, DELAW ARE | 














' 78 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 














THE AMERICAN CITY 








City 
sam > Requirements 


J 4 Manufacturedby the 


Rochester Can Co. 
Rochester N. Y. 


Iron Horse 
Brand 


All kinds of ash and 
garbage cans. 


Prompt delivery. 


Quality—tike age = — A STREET CAN 


Look beyond the 
price-tag to 





onvenient for hurried City people. Th¢ 
Ho »d cover hides the contents from passer 


results. by—the open ends allow papers, etc., to b 
easily and q 1i¢ kly dey sited. 
Send for Catalogue This Can may be used with sacks hung in 


and Prices. ide. Is made in set up or knock down shape. 
For complete description, ask 

THE STEEL BASKET COMPANY 

708 So. Third St., Cedar Rapids, Iowa 


Rochester 
Can Co. 
Rochester, N. Y. 

















A New Volume in the National Municipal League Series 
Edited by CLINTON ROGERS WOODRUFF 


-——Satellite Cities— 


A Study of Industrial Suburbs 
By GRAHAM ROMEYN TAYLOR 


‘The towns organized by big industrial establishments such as the Pullman works, 
the steel plant at Gary, and others are under the scrutiny of the skilled investigator 
The civic problems that have arisen require much serious thought since continued 
disregard of the community and social life of the individual worker is bound to result 
in conditions ruinous to his health, happiness and efficiency, the cumulative effect of 
which, on the interest of the employer, cannot easily be estimated. This new science 
of town planning indirectly concerns everyone, and Mr. Taylor’s new book is really 
the study of the great human problems connected with big industry The book i 
well worth owning by all who are concerned with one of the greatest of all community 
problems, that of civic development.’’—Boston Herald. 


“‘ As a unique work on a subject of National interest, it deserves public attention 
-Outlook. 
Many Illustrations. Cloth. $1.50 net 


Send for comple le list of Other Books in this series and de criplive matter of each. 


D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, PUBLISHERS, NEW YORK 








When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American Ciry. 79 








» 









Fence of Beauty 
and Permanence 


Every Excelsior Rust Proof Fence is as permanent <= 
a fence as can possibly be made. Everybody knows that rust ~~ 
is the great fence destroyer. Buy the fence that is rust proof. 


Athy ab wD -Xeled a 


fence is made to escape rust. The large strong wires are heavily covered with zinc, put on by a 
special dip galvanizing process. Every spot and every point is so thickly covered that rust gets no 
start. There are many styles. Suit the fence to the location. Send for illustrated Catalog G of 
Excelsior Rust Proof Fences, Tree Guards, Bed Guards and other products. 


WRIGHT WIRE COMPANY, Worcester, Mass. 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


lf 











LANDSCAPE FORESTERS 


Designers and Developers of 
Parks, Cemeteries and Private Estates 


Every City and Town should have a Working Plan. Let 
us make you a Tree Census and Park Survey. 

Proper Selection, Planting and care of Trees. Govern- 
ment Specifications followed in Tree Surgery. 

HAVE YOUR TREES EXAMINED NOW 
RICH & PUTNAM, Syracuse, N.Y. 
Manufacturers of 
R-P-R TREE PAINT, The Best Tree Preserver on the Market 
In use throughout the U. S. 

Seld in quantities from '5 gallon up. Send for leaflet. 

















Playground Equipment 


Give the children a chance to play right, 
on safe apparatus, especially devised and 
constructed for the purpose, away from 
danger. Equip your playground with 


“APEX” APPARATUS 


MANUFACTURED BY 


HOWARD GEORGE, Philadelphia, Pa. 


Estimates for large or small playgrounds 
cheerfully furnished. Send for catalogue 








Awarded the only Grand Prize (Highest 
Award) San Francisco Exposition 


POWER 
SPRAYER 


Byer The 10- point Sprayer 


Bean Double Giant Park Sprayer operates at 400 
lbs. pressure, supplying 25 gallons a minute. Six 
smaller sizes to meet all requirements. Built es- 
pecially for high pressure work and used by such 
cities as Newark, N. J., Cincinnati and Dayton, 
Ohio, San Francisco and Oaklind, Calif., and 
many others. Write today for Catalog No. 30 
and full description of the ten big exclusive fea- 
tures of the Bean Power Sprayer, and cur complete 
line of power and hand sprayers and accessories 


BEAN SPRAY PUMP COMPANY 
15 Hosmer Street, Lansing, Mich. 


224 W. Julian Street, San Jose, Calif. 


Sales representatives throughoui the 
United States and Canada. 





80 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tas American City. 








—_a...°;cN 


THE AMERICAN CITY 





\ IME TO EQUIP THOSE 
s PLAYGROUNDS 


Every day of delay means 
pleasure and benefit lost. 





You can’t do better than buy 


(THE) cavonpoN EQUIPMENT 
« - 


WHEN YOU THINK EQUIPMENT THINK ‘ FUN-FUL”’ 
The World Plays on Hill-Standard products. 


We have everything for the Playground. Send for free catalog. 


HILL-STANDARD MFG. CO. 








216 Fun-Ful Avenue Anderson, Ind., U.S. A. 














All-Steel Combinations 
And Single Appa- 
ratus. 

Built for Public Park 
And Private Play- 
ground. 

Cat. No. 16, Full Outfits 
And Fittings Only. 


} Do It Now Your Name 


THE EUREKA STUDEBAKER PARK COMBINATION And Address To Us. 
Better the playground and trained leaders 


than reformatories and uniformed guards. The Ashland Mig Company 





























he ureka ine 
ranscending Eeeines ie Dept. 14, Ashland, Ohio 
When writing to Advertisers please mention Tar American City. 81 











—_ 





THE AMERICAN CITY 


| rn Mes 


Protected by 



















MITTIN 


/INNITOONOONPNOT NE APEENI1 


{UUULLLAAAUL 001 SVE 


SWel=m@iet-tacmeyambue)e 


— 


; Ai?, 
| 
tr 


r lin ] 


{MIMI 


TAI 


Ut 






1 


ar 


core 


a we 


0° MA Deb OPS 


- 
« a 
« 


tas Me 
si< 


bE SDF 


be 
~ T438e b 


DIUUUTVNRMDLESCUU AAA 





UNV A 


YONYENYENNENNAOEULENOOUOADNONCOOSTT 





Let Us Ries -Prink Your 
Fence Needs Free : 


We will gladly “blue-print” for you the methods by which you can stretch 
an iron guard, for perpetual police duty, around your institution. We will 
“blue-print” your fence needs free and point out certain peculiarities of money- 


mn 


It 


f 
i 


INOUE 


saving that our 33 years’ experience in such planning affords. We will do all 


POUINUIUOTAUAUESLSLA NNT 


this without any obligation on your part. We are specialists in municipal iron 


ENTERPRISE FENCES 


The World’s Finest Municipal Fences 


fences. 





There are certain features in fence-craft that no other iron New Catalog— Just Out 


fence factory will supply you. One is the Enterprise Fence 

base, underground, which is built of cast iron. It thus gives a We have assembled a 
protection that is permanent because of its ability to resist library of photographs of the 
rust and corrosion. Ours is the only iron fence factory with world’s finest iron fences for 
its own foundry. This great protection against vandalism you to look over. Your copy 
and prowlers is worth investigating. Do so today without of this catalog awaits a letter 
obligation. Write your fence needs to or postal. Send it today to 


ENTERPRISE = — me E. 24th Street, Indianapolis, Ind. 








Be When writing to Advertisers please mention Tnx Amzaican City. 


























THE AMERICAN CITY 











Roller and 
Riding Mower 


For, parks,{boulevards, cemeteries, golf courses, large estates—wherever ex- 
tensive care at the least possible outlay of time and expense is needed. 











Ideal Roller and Riding Mower has 38-inch cut, with adjustment of from % to 2 
inches. Wood slat rollers which provide proper traction and do not spin and burn 
the grass. ‘Two-cylinder opposed motor of ample power; gearless differential; brake; 
simple, reliable clutch; throttle-con- 
trolled automobile-type carburetor; 
high tension magneto. 

Complete with riding sulky, sells for $500, 

f.o.b. Lansing. Smaller model with 30-inch 

cut sells for $350, f.0.b. Lansing 


Write to us for full particulars. 


The Ideal Power 
Lawn Mower Co. 


R. E. OLDS, Chairman 


400 Kalamazoo Street 
LANSING, MICHIGAN 

















Lawn Sweepers for Lawns, Walks, 


Golf Grounds, Etc. 
SWEEPS ALL GRASS, LEAVES, TWIGS, STONES AND OTHER 
LITTER. GATHERS WHAT IT SWEEPS 

The Everwear Sweeper is an effective rapid, labor-saving 
machine, constructed on correct sweeping principles, and 
gathers what it sweeps. The Everwear will sweep up every 
particle of cut and dead grass, leaves, sticks and other litter, 
carry and deposit it where you wish. 

The action of the brushes is “broom-like” and the sweepings are thrown 
FORWARD into the receptacle—leaving no chance for particles of grass or 
litter to escape. 

Made In Two Sizes Only—24 Inch and 28 Inch Widths. 
Send for full descriptive matter and prices. 


The Everwear Mfg. Co., Springfield, Ohio 


























When in New York Stop at the 


Hotel Woodstock 


Forty-Third Street, Near Broadway 
JUST OFF TIMES SQUARE 

The Best Moderate Price Hotelin New York City 
365 ROOMS—270 BATHS—EUROPEAN PLAN ONLY 


Room with use of bath $1.50to $2.00 
a = o ** (2persons) 2.50 “ 3.00 
Room with bath............. 2.00 “ 4.00 
” = “ (2 persons).... 3.00 “ 5.00 


WRITE FOR OUR MAP OF NEW YORK 


W. H. VaALiQueTtTe A. E. SIncLEToNn 
Managing Director Assistant Manager 











When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American Crrty. 83 

















THE AMERICAN CITY 








Directory of Nurseries and Seedsmen 
For reference use of public officials, park and cemetery superintendents, street commissioners, 
J landscape architects and all others who buy trees, shrubs, flowers or seeds for use in connection 
i with the ornamentation of parks, streets and other public or private property. 


-——+ 


AAAS EE EY fee 


: : 
, x 

Shoibdins : 

1916 Catalog ¥ 

¥. 


A very large volume of Thorburn Seeds 
are furnished for parks and cemeteries 

Write us for catalog and let us know your 
requirements: and your letter will have our 
prompt and careful attention. 


J. M. Thorburn & Co. 
53 Barelay Street NEW YORK 
ae & & oe oe eo ee ee 


{ 
t 


J 
¥ 
y 


AAAS AHA 


. 
{ 


c= 3 


> se te te ee ee i 


7" get the best results it is necessary to 
get the best Seeds. Every packet of 
Henderson’s Seeds that is sold has behind 
it the experience of 66 years of successful 
Seed Growing and Selling. The Initial Seed 
Cost is the smallest part of your expense. 
Henderson’s are Tested Seeds. 


“ Catalogue Pree om Application.” 


Peter Henderson & Co. 
35-37 CORTLANDT ST. 


be ee oo et ttt tt tt ttt 
. i i i i 








Nurserymen, Florists 
and Seedsmen 


Everything for Parks, 
Cemeteries and Private Places 
Largest general assortment 
in America. Personal inspec- 
tion invited. Special prices on 
car load lots. Switch from 
New York Central Ry. to 
our grounds. 1200 acres. 
Pleased to quote on your 
want list. 





Ghe 
STORRS & HARRISON CO. 
Painesville, Ohio 


eS 
When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amenican Crrv. 


NEW YORK 








_——eoooeoo---------------~~~* 





oF 





—-—-—---~- 


EEEEEEEEEFEFFTFTTTTFTT TT TTT TTT 





MFT TTT TT 

















i ilk ali ill ll alll 





THE AMERICAN CITY 


+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
ae 
- 
+ 
a 
+ 
* 
Da 
Da 
+ 
- 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
ae 
+ 
+ 
+ 
aoa 
oo 








Willadean Nurseries 


Offer a very complete line of Trees, Shrubs 
and Omamental stock for all kinds of 


x = 
a 





THE DONALDSON CO. 
Box 22, SPARTA, KY. 


* utnatins tigi liana 
z 


eee SS Se ee ee 
PeTereevwweree 
EEEEEEFEEFTIAS TTT 








tt3+43 4444455 + ttt 
i i 


es 





naaaaaaaaaaaaaaanaaaaananaaaanan™ 
YOU WANT 


BERCKMANS’ TREES AND SHRUBS 

For Park, Street and Landscape Planting 
We offer a large variety of hardy ornamental 
trees, plants, shrubs, roses, etc. Largest stock 
of broad-leaved evergreens in the South. 

WRITE FOR PRICES 

P. J. BERCKMANS COMPANY, INC. 

Box 1070-L Augusta, Ga. 


¢ 
+ 
+ 
aa 
+ 
a 
aa 
+ 
+ 
bie 
+ 
+ 
Ba 
aa 
+ 
¢ 
ava 
By 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 





Dreer Specialties 


Decorative Plants, Roses, Hardy Perennials, 
Hardy Shrubs, Hardy Climbers, Box Woods 
and Bay Trees, Hedge Plants, Aquatics, etc. 
We are large producers of above and many 
other plants suitable for Park use. 
Writs for Catalogue. 


HENRY A. DREER, Philadelphia, Pa. 3 


Twouwwwvwewwweww* 


tt ttt ttt 4333 434s 
‘on on on en 
LAEAEEEEEEEETETTS 


7, 
*. 
. ee 


ttt ttt ttt ttt ttt 











i 


FandF Nurseries American Nursery Company —pigodgood Nurseries 
Springfield, N. J. Singer Building, New York Flushing, N. Y. 


The exceptional facilities which our organization offers to Public Parks, Shade Tree Commis- 
sions, and other public departments, enable us to serve to particular advantage those requiring 
highest quality, extensive variety, and favorable prices. There are over Six Hundred Acres 
to select from, every acre in perfectly grown ornamentals (no fruit or miscellaneous stock), It 
wili Pay You to send us your Spring planting lists for quotation. 


Lists and inquiries addressed to our New York Sales Dept., or to either 
of our growing departments will have equally prompt and careful attention, 


t+ +++ ++ 
AEE 





~ 


-, 





vou 


EEFTT Ts 


for Immediate Effect 
3 Not for Future Generations ¢ 
Gua ee the largest stock that We do the long waiting—thus 
can be secured! It takes over | enabling you to secure trees and 


twenty years to grow many of the | shrubs that give immediate results. 
Trees and Shrubs we offer. Price List Now ready. 


——iorra TURSERIES Chestnut Hill, 


Wm Warner Harper Proprato- Phila., Box A, Pa. 
























jwuawwvwweweeeuwvuw* 


SEES ST TT TTT 





ee 
vwwwvvwervevwevrwewFfewveweteFfTe-TfffwCrCrCrTCrCrmlCrmlCrCVCeeVre TS ws see eS oe 





++ HAYS 
~ + 
t BOBBINK @ ATKINS : 
World’s Choicest Nursery and Greenhouse Products 4 
We invite interested parties to visit our Le gen, beneath and i a our Trees, Shrubs, Evergreens, Herba- | 
ceous Plants, Roses and other stock of which we than 300 acres. 


OUR ILLUSTRATED GENERAL CATALOG age 22 describes the high class Nursery material 


grow. 
SPECIAL PRICES quoted on lists for Public Parks. 
Nurserymen, Florists and Planters, Rutherford, New Jersey 





wwwuwuweweweeeuewuw™ 


Serr Tt Str 


5 
, 
, 
> 
‘ 
‘ 
, 
‘ 
‘ 
‘ 
‘ 
‘ 
5 


ti ttt tet tet eb’ 


r. 


~—worowerreereerererererererererererereeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee* 


‘ewwwee 
EEEEEEEREREEEESEREEEESESEGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGBGFGGGGGGGG GGG 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amzaican Crrrv. cy 

















Ty 
ee | 
= 


emer a 








THE AMERICAN CITY 


Plant Douglas’ 


TREES, SHRUBS and 
CHOICE EVERGREENS 


DEVELOPED especially for Park, 
Boulevard and Landscape Planting. 
Write for wholesale prices. 


R. DOUGLAS’ SONS 


Box 601 Waukegan, Ill. 





rw 





+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
ba 
+ 
+ 
- 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 


St ttt ttt ste tty 
rrry yyy 


rr 





framingham ‘Nurseries 


Ornamental! trees, shrubs and 
evergreens for street and park 
planting. 


FRAMINGHAM — MASS. 


eee eS ee 
an en ae 
Te ee ee ee 
SEEEEEEEEEEFFFTFTFT 








4 
| Gorman Nurseries & Seed House | 
: BEATRICE, NEBR. 
} Offer a large assortment of Orna- } 
f mental Trees and Shrubs, Roses and | 
+ Perennials for Park and Cemetery ; 
: a also Lawn grass mixtures, } 
, ite Clover, Kentucky Blue Grass, } 
etc. Large illustrated catalogue free. 


Ah ce "Sew we* 


Ate 
SEEFESFEEFSESFSFF44444 44494444 


FETT TT TTT TTT TTTF 


r ; 


ted td Sd he he he de he he he he he he he 
ee 








ues 





Hill’s Evergreens 
For Park, Boulevard 
Landscape Diection 

Perfect er — rte oty well as email) 


Write for prices. — Mention this magasine. 


. The D. Hill Nursery Ce., Inc. 
Box 406, Dundee, Ill. 











Oe ee ee ee 
FEEEEEEEETEFTSTFTFTFTTS 


al 


‘TT 'tr.ttr.ttttrtrtrtrrttree eee eee eee 


bi ik i i i a i a 


Ornamental! Trees, Shrubs, 
and Hardy Perennials 


A complete stock. 

Quality unexcelled. 

Send for price list. 
HENRY KOHANKIE & SON 

Painesville, Ohio 





TTT SS ee 
aaeaanaamamoanon 
i 
FETT TTT TTT TTT TTS 








ooo nati Ae Atti. 


ee : 








Hoopes Bro. & Thomas Co. 
WEST CHESTER. PA. 


For sixty years have paid particular 
attention to the Ornamental Department 
of the Nursery business. All new varie- 
ties, when found valuable, have been 
added to our collection, Send for illus- 
trated catalogue. 


Established 1853 


Ae 


Ante 
TTT 


: a a ne 
ee 
ia le a i i 


Over 600 Acres 


—o—--ee eee ee eee eee eee wwewewewhwL.}Y 
Be i i ee he ie i i i ee i i ee ie 


ttt tt ttt ttt ttt 











| 


Kalamazoo Grown Means Quality 


Specimen Norway and Silver Maples, Ever- 
greens, Shrubs, Perennials, etc., for Land- 
scape planting. 

Special prices on lists for Public Parks, 
Cemeteries and Landscape Architects. 


Prudential Nursery Co., Inc. 
Kalamazoo, Mich. 





ee 


ae 





bet tt tt tt ttt ttt 


SHABEEH AEE 
KANSAS CITY NURSERIES ; 


Offer a very large assortment of Shade, 
Ornamental Trees and Shrubs in all sizes 
suitable for Park or Cemetery planting also 
a complete list of Vines, Roses, Herbaceous 
Plants and Evergreens. 
Mail us a list of your wants for prices 
on request 
GEO. H. JOHNSTON, Prop. 

Ofics, 418 Reliance Building Kansas City, Me. 


> 
eee oe 
SESE E SES T SST E Tee 


% 
% 


oa ee ee 
et me a a a a a a ee, oe a 


ild Perenneals, Ferns, Etc. 


We collect these from many states and supply the 
best landscapists and heavest exporters with these. 
Some leaders ready to collect soon:—Trilliams, 3 
sorts, Erythroniums 2; Phlox 3; Lilium 3; Mertensia, 
Hepatica, dicentra 2; FERNS, 20; Hundreds of others 
in season. SEND FOR our LIST of Perenneala. 


Hopedale Nurseries, Hopedale, Ill. 





ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee 





SELLS 4p sp tpsss 
ee ee ee ae ee aN 
FEFETESTFTEETTST TTT 





| 


ed 


Specimen Stock 


Choice Evergreens, Trees, Shrubs, 
Roses and Hardy Perennials 


Write for our Illustrated Catalog 


Mentor Nurseries, Mentor, Ohio 





vit ited td, 
a 


ee ee ek 









86 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tax Amearcan Crrr. 
































THE AMERICAN CITY 


+ 


WE SPECIALIZE 


in Ornamental Trees, Evergreens, Shrubs, 
Vines, Roses, Perennials for park and 
cemetery planting. Norway Maples and 
Kosters Blue Spruce, leaders. 


Send list for price. 


Elmer Sherwood Nursery Co., Inc. 
Odessa, N.Y. 


a i ee 


EEE EL 





AEA 


Spring Hill Nurseries 


Established over 60 Years 
Tippecanoe City, - - - - OHIO 


Trees, Plants, Shrubs, Vines, and Ever- 
greens for Public and Private use. 


Highest Quality stock— moderate prices 
SEND FOR CATALOG 





St te ee tt tt ttt tt TS 





SEEEEEFSASFFSSASFEASSSSSASS FTTH et 


HEHEHE HAHAHAHAHAHA AAA EEE | 


WwW. & T. SMITH COMPANY 
NURSERY STOCK AT WHOLESALE 


‘Send tor Catalogue and Price List 


GENEVA NURSERY, 


Geneva, N. Y. 








Bound Volumes of THE AMERICAN CITY 


A set of bound volumes of THE AMERICAN CITY makes a most valuable reference work 
for municipal offices, public libraries, etc., and we are in a position to supply all volumes from 
Volume I to Volume XII, inclusive. The prices of the volumes vary somewhat on account of the 
scarcity of some of the issues contained. We will be glad to quote terms on application. 


THE AMERICAN CITY, 87 Nassau Street, NEW YORK CITY 


TOWNSEND’S TRIPLEX 


A BOOK YOU OUGHT TO HAVE 
The Greatest Grass-Cutter on Earth 


Shade Trees in Towns and Cuts a Swath 86 Inches Wide 


*,? 
Cities Drawn by one horse and operated by one man, the 
TRIPLEX MOWER will mow more lawn in a day 
than the best motor mower ever made, cut it better 
and at a fraction of the cost. 

Drawn by one horse and operated by one man, it 
will mow more lawn in a day than any three other 
horse-drawn mowers with three horses and three men. 








287 Pages — 251 illustrations — Price $3.00 


The selection, planting and care of shade 
trees as applied to the art of street deco- (ilccaumener aint 

ration; their diseases and remedies; their Write for catalogue illustrating all types of 
municipal control and supervision. Townsend Lawn owers, with list of users 


(FREE). 
THE CIVIC PRESS, 87 Nassau St., N. Y. City 
S. P. Townsend & Co., *oSsnge N°S"* 














Books on Physical Training and Games 
By WILLIAM A. a B . G. 
Director of Physical Education Public Schools ot “Philadelphia, Pa. 


The Theory and Practice of Educational Gymnastics 


8 vo., Cloth, (6 x 9 in.) 194 Pages, with 174 Illustrations. Net $1.50 


GAMES & DANCES 


A selected collection of Games, Song-Games and Dances suitable for ) Schesle, Play- 
“ . eae ted coed a Daa . 
A Guide to Track and Field Work, Contests and Kindred Activities 


8vo. 48 Pages, Iustrated, Paper, Net 50 cents 
JOHN JOS. McVEY, PuBLISHER, 1229 ARCH STREET, PHILADELPHIA, PA. 














Whea writing to Advertisers please mention Tas Amenican Crrv. 87 








THE AMERICAN CITY 





Test a “KOLESCH”’ 


We'll gladly send you a 


without the 


chase, until you've proved its worth. 


Send for Bulletin No. 33, with full particulars of 
Surveying Instruments and Surveyors’ Supplies 


—at our expense. 


“KOLESCH” 
TRANSIT or LEVEL to test and try out, 
slightest obligation to pur 


KOLESCH & CO., 138 Fulton St., New York 







Transul 
7670 











Gurley 
Highway Transits 


Gurley Light Mountain 
No.26 is the most widely 
used transit on highway 
work, It has the long, 
balanced telescope vial 
which makes leveling 
easy and accurate. 


Send for catalogue. 


W. & L. E. Gurley 


Troy N. Y. 
Western Branch: Seattle, Wash 











TRAUTWINE 


The Civil Engineer’s 
Pocket-Book 


“ The Incomparable Trautwine” 


(See Engineer Field Manual, Corps of Engr's, U. S. Army) 


Thum-indext 
$5.00 net. 





) TRAUTWINE 
| COMPANY 


257 S. 4th STREET 
PHILADELPHIA 
PENN’A 















ECKMAN 
aa ——— 


possess many distinctive and 
exclusive features that make 
for stability, accuracy and 
convenience of operation. 

For nearly half a century 
they have had the confidence 
of those who demand pre- 
cision. 


Write for booklet. 


THE L. BECKMANN CO. 
500 Jackson Ave. Toledo, O 


[eu 


ENGINEERING 
INSTRUMENTS 
are the strongest, most accurate 
and longest-lived Instruments 
built. The close accuracy, high 

grade materials and superior 7 
workmanship have made the Buff the recog- 
nized standard. Write for catalog No. 4. 


BUP2& BUPP MPG.CO.,JamaicaPiains, Boston, Mass. 
221 Lamartine Street 





























Won Gold Medal At The 
San Francisco Exposition 1915 


A complete line of most up to date labor saving road 
building and maintaining machines. Write for cata 
log and free trial offer. 


RUSSELL GRADER MANUFAC TORING CO. 
Minneapolis, Minn. 
Representatives in All Principal Cities. 





88 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tag Amentcan City. 








—— 

















eS 














THE AMERICAN CITY 





CT 
pIRE na. ORY. 


CONSULTING ENGINEERS $Ootruction 
CONTR.AC TORS 
LANDSCAPE AR.CHITECTS oad 














fo 
f Effective 


equires Wise 
y Planning 





Albright & Mebus 


CIVIL ENGINEERS 
T planning and munictpal improve- 
ments, parks, ‘irainage sewerage and 
ecwage 
908 LAND TITLE BUILDING 
PHILADELPHIA 


JAMES M. CAIRD 
Assoc. Am. Soc. C. E. 
CHEMIST and BACTERIOLOGIST 

: Orrice anp Lasonatory 
271 RIVER STREET TROY,N.Y. 
Water Analysis and Tests of 
Filter Plants 


MARTIN J. CULLEN 
Landscape Architect 


4590 Wyandot St. 
Denver, Colorado 








John W. Alvord 
and Chas. B. Burdick 
CONSULTING ENGINEERS 


Regests, Investigations, Plans and 
8 fications for Water Sugetes, 
ater Purification, Water wer, 
Sewerage, Sewage 


HARTPORD BLDG. CHICAGO 





O. T. CARPENTER 
Civil Engineer 


WHITE PLAINS, N. Y. 


Specialist in Cemetery Propositions 
Correspondence Solicited 


WILLIAM E. CULLEN 
Landscape Architect and Designer 


Ornamental Gardening, Beauti 
fying Homes, Rural Districts, 

owns, Schools, Yards, Parks 
and Cemeteries. 


BOULDER, COLORADO 














American Park Builders 


Mrzos H. Waser, Pres. 
Parks, Playgrounds, Cemeteries 
Fleaoed end Built 


CHESTER & FLEMING 
HYDRAULIC_AND SANITARY 
ENGINEERS 


Water Works, Water Piltration, Ap- 
aisements and R Sewerage, 








Lectures, Revivals and Plans 
on and for 
Playgrounds, Public Recreation 
and Child Welfare 
HENRY S. CURTIS, Ph.D. 
OLIVET, MICH. 
Former Secretary of the Flavqround Ae 


sociation of America and The Child Wel- 
tre ay and Supervisos of the 
8. 











City Plans Civic Reports Sewage Disposal, Gowatita of Veee: 
Marquette Bidg., Chicago UNION BANK BLDQ. Pittsburgh 
SHEFFIELD A. ARNOLD LOUIS S. COLE 
Landscape Architect Landscape Architect 





Land Subdivisions 
City Parks Institution Grounds 
Private Estates 


50 Bromfield St. Boston, Mass. 


Consultations :: Reports :: Plans :: Specifications 
1626 Lytton Buliding 
CHICAGO, ILL 


JEROME A. DITGCHY 


Landscape Designer 
ANN ARBOR, MICH. 














A. H. BLANCHARD 


M. Am. Soc.C.E. M. Can. Soc. C. E. 
CONSULTING HIGHWAY 
ENGINEER 
BROADWAY and 117th STREET 


Consultations Plans 
ARTHUR W. COWELL, B.S. 
Landscape Designer 
PENNSYLVANIA STATE COLLEGE 


The Duluth Engineering Co. 

W. B. P. Mem. Am. Soc. C. E., 
City Enginees Duluth, Manages 
MUNICIPAL ENGINEERS 


Waterworks, Electric Lighting, 
Town 


Suite 612-616 Palladio Building 


























NEW YORK CITY State College, Pa. DULUTH, MINN. 
iomtmn we ines 2 > CRAVATH M. FERRY 
Burns & McDonnell Consulting Engineer Street Lighting Plans and 

ConsuLtine ENGINEERS 140 8. Dearborn St., Chicago Specifications 
Appraisals, Rate Investigatio A isal of Gas, Electric, Water, Tele 
Expert Testimony, Water Works, Srsomt Meets. as and valuations. ples ‘end Teanapertation Properties 

Sewerage, Lighting. of operation of electric Electrolysis—Testing of Materials. 

Clinton S. Burns R. BE. McDonnell 936 National Life Bldg.,Chicago, Ill. 
al Tes Ins or 
P. kL. SUTTRICK W. W. CROSBY RF a 


Consulting Forester and 
Expert in Mosquito Extermination 
P. O. Box 607 
New Haven, Connecticut 
Park and Shade tree work & forestry problems 
Mosquito areas located and mapped. 
Measures & cost of eradication reported upon . 








Mem. Am. Society C. E. 
CONSULTING ENGINEER 
Landecape and Park Work. Organiza- 

Seine cal Tedna ‘Feria 
1481 “Monsey Bupc.” Baitmors, Mp. 








WALTER H. FLOOD 


Chemical Engineer 
PAVING AND ENGINEERING MATERIALS 
Municipal Work a Specialty 
326 River Street, CHICAGO 








When writing to Advertisers please mention Tax Amzaican City. 89 








THE AMERICAN CITY 








GEORGE W. FULLER 


Consulting Hydraulic Engineer and 
nitary Expert 
Ww 
ater Supply and Pustication, ane | 
of Epidemics, Wates 
Works’ Valuai Supervision of Con- 
ction and Op 
Associate: Jas. R. McClintock 
17@ BROADWAY, N. Y. CITY 





Charles C. Hopkins 
M. Am. Soc. C. E. 
Consulting Hydraulic and Sanitary Engineer 
349 Cutler Bidg., Rochester, N.Y. 
a sup; bply and purification. Sewerage. 
Sewage and wastes disposal. Municipal 


engineering. Plans, reports, estimates, super- 
vision. Expert testi y and 





J. L. LUDLOW 
Winston-Salem, N. C. 


Cogeutiias py - 3h, Engineer 








FULLER - COULT CO. 


Consulting and Supervising Engineers 


Electric Light and Power Plants, Hydro- 
Electric Developments, Sanitary wer 


Systems. Water-Works Systems, Street 
Paving. 
Chemical Bldg. ST. LOUIS 


M. H. HORVATH 


Landscape Architect & 
Consulting Forester 


649 Leader-News Bldg. 





LUTEN, DANIEL B. 


DESIGNING AND 
CONSULTING ENGINEER 


Reinforced Concrete Bridges Exolusi 
poe hy de ad yg 


INDIANAPOLIS 








SAMUEL A. GREELEY 
64 W. Randolph St., Chicago 


Hydraulic and aay “338 Engineer 


Sewerage, Sewage Dis od Bp 
Supply and Filtration, and 
Refuse Disposal, Sestmwenk 7 ,«*—~ 
trial Waste, Supervision of Operation. 


Cleveland, Ohio 
J.W- HOWARD, C.E. 
Pavements and Roads 


Consulting Engineer 





Specifications, Qualities of Materials, 
Chemical Anal and Tests, 
Inspection, &c. 27 Years’ Experience. 
1 Broadway, NEW YORK 


CIVIL oe 
a nit eS 


Estate cmetcrie, Player 
Basen Bros. & Cheves 
CHARLESTON, S. C. 




















Sid. J. eo 8. Herbert Hare 
Fellow A.S.L. Member A.S.L.A. 


HARE & HARE 
Landscape Architects 
604 Gumbel Bid., Kansas City, Mo. 
Plans and “aad Bebdvinone Parks, Park Eevee, 


OF ae ae, re 


Jennings, 
Lawrence & Lindsey 


CIVIL AND 
MUNICIPAL ENGINEERS 


Hartman Bidg., COLUMBUS, OHIO 


TheJ, B. McCRARY CO. 
Engineers-Financiers 
Main Office: 14th Floor Third National Bank 
Building, ATLANTA. 

Branch Offices in Florida, North Carolina, 
Virginia, West Virginia, Arkansas. 
Southeen Work Only 20 Years’ Experience 




















HAZEN, WHIPPLE & FULLER 
CONSULTING HYDRAULIC 
and SANITARY ENGINEERS 

WATER SUPPLY and SEWERAGE 


Apes Hasen G. C. Whip; 
E. Fuller F. F. 
bs a Everett L. N. Babbitt 
30 East 424 St. NEW YORK CITY 


GEORGE A. + eee 
M. Am. Soc. C 
Consulting Hydraulic Engineer sis Sanitary Ixpert 
150 Nassau St., New York. 


Water Suppl and Purification. 
ews am Sewage Disposal. 
Plans and Reports. Supervision of 


Sane TS . Im- 
groves Operation of Existing Plants. 
nvestigation of Epidemics. 








DABNEY H. MAURY. 
Consulting Engineer 
tm War Wr ont reg fe aaa see 


ifgitng. Appin of Public Dan 


1137 Monadnock Block, Chicago 











Arthur Hl. Helder 


Landscape Architect 
418 Reliance Bidg., Kansas City, Mo. 


A. Elliott Kimberly 
Sanitary Engineer 
Tote cea osprey fm 


SBast Long St. Celumbus, Ohio 


The Minnesota Engineering Co. 
W. S. MORRIS, Mer. 
MUNICIPAL ENGINEERS 
Waterworks, Sewerage, Town- 
planning and Paving. 


Suite 408-409 Providence Bidg. 
DULUTH, MINN. 








HERING & GREGORY 


CONSULTING ENGINEERS AND 
RE ve mee oe 


Rupoirs Heainc Jouxn H. Grercorr 


170 Broadway, New York City 


MORRIS KNOWLES 


Consulting, Sanitary and 
Hydrauli c Engineer 


~~ Communi 
and Civic ned 
Pittsburgh, Penna. 





HUGH C. MITCHELL 
GEODETIC ENCINEER 
CONSULTANT ON CITY TRIANGULATION, 


PRECISE LEVELS, AND TOPOGRAPHIC 
SURVEYS. 


3036 NEWARK ST. 
WASHINGTON, D0. c. 











J. Wallace Higgins 


Assoc. M. Am. Soe. C. E. 
CIVIL AND —o — 


Municipal 
Cemeteries, baiviioos Topterephie 


Surveys, Title Surveys, Estimates, 
Supervision 
52 Vanderbilt Avenue, New York 








CHARLES W. LEAVITT 


CITY PLANNING 
and all branches of 
CIVIL and LANDSCAPE 
ENGINEERING 
220 Broadway NEW YORK 


FRANK H. NUTTER 
Landscape Architect and Engineer 
710SykesBiock, Minneapolis, Minn. 


Advice, Sketches, Designs or full Work- 
Ing Plans for Parks ay 
or Home Grounds it 











bh ll 


90 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amearcan Crrv. 




















THE AMERICAN CITY 





ARTHUR PEW 


=. Am. SOC. Cc. &, 
=. IneT, c. £. 


CONSULTING ENGINEER 
ATLANTA, GA. 


WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE, PAVING 





RICH & PUTNAM 

Landscape Architecture and 

Forestry 

Fd the smaller city and town what the 
Commission and City Forester are 

to the larger c.ty. 
SYRACUSE, N. we 

. Harry Rich 


. Putnam 


1441 Buckland Ave., Fremont, O. 
ARBORICULTURIST 
and TREE EXPERT 
Tree Repair and Regeneration 
Ornamental Gardening for Parks, 
Cemeteries, Municipali- 
ties and Estates. 








CLARENCE D. POLLOCK 
M. AM. SOC. C. E. 


CONSULTING ENGINEER 
Park Row BUILDING 
NEW YORK CITY 


PAVEMENTS, ROADS, ORAINAGE AND 
GENERAL MUNICIPAL PROBLEMS 








WILLIAM H. RICHIE 


Landscape Designer 


41S. 15th St. Phila., Pa. 





CY, L.D. 


Assoc. Mem. Am. Soc. C. EB. 
Civil and Sanitary Engineer 


Examina’ Surveys and Reports Made 
Plane and tions Prepared fos 
eee - Disposal Plante 

oads and vements 


245 Pourth Ave. Pittsburgh, Pa. 








Alexander Potter, C. E. 


Hydraulics, Sanitation, Con- 
a Structures Designed 
Executed. 


50 Church Street, New York 
(Hadeos Terminal) Tel., Cortlandt 5501 





FARM EXPERT 


Confidential reports concerning 
the farm you desire to purchase, 
improve or sell, Personal ser- 
vice in land Clearing, Orchard- 
ing and Forestry. Garrett M. 
STack, Brookfield Center, Conn. 


FRANK L. WILCOX 


CONSULTING HYDRAULIC 
and SANITARY ENGINEER 
WATER SUPPLY and SEWERAGE 


915 Olive Street ST. LOUIS 








Clyde Potts 


Civil and Sanitary Eogineer 


Hydraclica. Water Wake Futsation, 
Reports, and Eetimates. 














HARRY STEVENS 
Consulting Engineer 
Sewerage and Sewage Water 
too Powes lan Sarveve; amine, 


Union Trust Bidg. Washington, D.C. 


J. F. WITMER 
Mem. Am. Soc. C. E 


J. F. WITMER CO. 


Hydraulic and Sanitary Engineers 
La Specifications, Eotienstes and 
rts on Water Works, Sewerage 
Syecome and all other Municipal Pro- 
jects. 


A. J. YEAGER 


Sen. 64 
Dun Bullding BUPPALO, N. Y. 








POWER ENGINEERING CO. 


G. Herman Gamper C.O. Daughaday 
Consulting Bngineers: Mechanical, Blectrical, Civil 
Power plants,electric light, heat and power. 
Water supply, hydraulic and sanitary. 
Preparation of conteste d rate cases for the 
presentation to PublicUtilityCommissions. 
421 New First National Bank Bldg., Columbus, Ohio 








Albany, N. Y 100 State St. 


HENRY W. TAYLOR 


HYDRAULIC AND SANITARY 
ENGINEER 

Water Supply. Water Purification, Sewer- 

age, Sewage Disposal, Reports, Plans, Su- 

pervision of Construction and Maintenance 











PHELPS WYMAN 


LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT 


Parks, Playgrounds, Land Subdivision, 
Town Planning, Country Estates. 
Reports, Designs, Working Plans. 


McKnight Bidg. Minneapolis,Minon. 








Pittsburgh Testing Laboratory, 


New York Philadelphia 


Cincinnati 


Birmingham 


Dallas 


“P. T. L. Building,” 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 


Chicago St. Louis 


ROAD AND PAVING MATERIALS—-W ATER WORKS SUPPLIES 


INSPECTION, TESTS, 


SUPERINTENDENCE, CONSULTATION 


BACTERIOLOGICAL CONTROL OF WATER SUPPLY; COMPLETE LABORATORIES 








When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American Cirr. 





The Handling of Waste Paper is a 
Vexing Question 


Until it is changed from a problem into a good 
money maker by the use of the 


ERTEL 
Hand Power Baler 


Low cost—lasts for years. 
Send for illustrated printed matter 
GEO. 

500 Kentucky St., Quincy, Ill., U.S.A. 


Will pay for itself in a few months. 


ERTEL Co. 





$1 














THE AMERICAN CITY 












1875 


The First 
Telephone 





1916 
The Country-wide System 








Forty-one Years of Telephone Progress 


The faint musical sound of a 
plucked spring was electrically carried 
from one room to another and recog- 


nized on June 2, 1875. That sound 
was the birth-cry of the telephone. 


The original instrument—the very 
first telephone in the world—is shown 
in the picture above. 


From this now-historic instru- 
ment has been developed an art of 
profound importance in the world’s 
civilization. 

At this anniversary time, the Bell 
System looks back on forty-one years 
of scientific achievement and eco- 
nomic progress, and gives this ac- 
count of its stewardship; 





} 
=) One Policy 


One System 


It has provided a system of com- 
munication adequate to public needs 
and sufficiently in advance of ex- 
isting conditions to meet all private 
demands or national emergencies. 


It has made the telephone the most 
economical servant of the people for 
social and commercial intercourse. 


It has organized an operating staff 
loyal to public interests and ideals; 
and by its policy of service it has won 
the appreciation and good will of 
the people. 

With these things in mind, the 
Bell System looks forward with con- 


fidence to a future of greater oppor- 
tunity and greater achievement. 


ges AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY 
a AND ASSOCIATED COMPANIES 
SI 


Universal Service 


92 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Ameaican City. 








THE AMERICAN CITY 








RR i ce eit 


Alton Brick Company S - 
Repressed Block and Wire-Cut-Lag Block AL CONN 
ALTON, ILL. z ALTC N- 











** A Paving Block 
as good in appear- 
ance as it 
is dependable.”’ 


The 
ASHTABULA SHALE BRICK C0. 


Makers of ‘“‘BULA BLOCK” 
ASHTABULA OHIO 

















Bessemer Limestone Company 
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 


Repressed Bessemer Block and 
Dunn Wire-Cut-Lug Blocks 











BIG FOUR CLAY COMPANY 


CITY NATIONAL BANK BLDG. 
CANTON, OHIO 











CLEARFIELD BRICK MANUFACTURING CO. 


Shale and Fire Clay Paving Block 
TWO PLANTS LARGE CAPACITY 


CLEARFIELD, PA. 











THE CLEVELAND BRICK AND CLAY CO. 


Office: Engineer’s Building 
CLEVELAND, 0. 











THE DANVILLE BRICK COMPANY 


Danville Recessed-Lug and Dunn’s Wire-Cut-Lug Blocks 
DANVILLE, ILL. 

















27 Years’ The Deckman-Duty Brick Co. 
Service Repressed and Wire-Cut-Lug 
Reveals “Medal” Block 
Superior HILLSIDE BLOCK ALWAYS IN STOCK 
Quality CLEVELAND, OHIO 








When writing to Advertisers please mention Tux American City. 











THE AMERICAN CITY 





GLEN-GERY SHALE aa 
BRICK CO. Shale Paving Block and 
Brick 
READING, PENNSYLVANIA Large Capacity 











Hocking Valley Brick Company 


COLUMBUS, OHIO 


Manufacturers of HOCKING REPRESSED BLOCK 
anD DUNN WIRE-CUT-LUG BLOCK 











Metropolitan Paving Brick Co. 
“Best Paving Block Made” 
CANTON os *& & ee 











MURPHYSBORO PAVING BRICK COMPANY 





























Equal te Repressed and Dunn Wire-Cut-Lug Surpassed 
the Best. Egyptian Paving Block. by None. 
MURPHYSBORO, ILLS. 

PROMPT DELIVERIES. LET US QUOTE YOU PRICES. 








The Peebles Paving Brick Co., Portsmouth, Ohio. 


Manufacturers of 


PEEBLES BLOCK 


Representing the Highest Degree of Efficiency 
100,000 DAILY CAPACITY 
Licensee's under Dunn Patented Wire Cut Lug Block 














SOUTHERN CLAY 
MFG. CO. 


James Building 


Annual Capacity : 
Thirty Million Paving Blocks 
Manufacturers of 


WIRE-CUT-LUG BLOCKS 











CHATTANOOGA, TENN. DUNN PATENT 
GAe Daily Capacity 
Trimble Paving Brick Co. °° 
800-801 U. B. Building Trimble, Ohio 
DAYTON, OHIO Glouster, Ohio 








ee 











Blaw Steel Forms 


for Sidewalks, Curbs, Curb and Gutters and Roads of 
all Types, are cutting costs in hundreds of municipalities 


Write for Bulletin 69-H —Today 
BLAW STEEL CONSTRUCTION CO. Dept. “a” Pittsburgh, Pa. 








04 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tse Amenican Crrv. 











— 


THE AMERICAN CITY 








OHIO ROAD MACHINERY The Invincible Traction Engine 
ROAD BUILDER 


Combining Two Complete Machines in One. 














Machines can be steered from the opera- 
tor’s platform. The attached scarifier, which 
is a very powerful auxiliary, is also operated 
from platform. 

All parts are strongly built and of the best 
material. They are built to stand rough 
usage. 

Send for photographs and booklet 


OHIO> ROAD MACHINERY CO. 
OBERLIN, O 








Yhe MOORE 


SP moan Macon. JUST THE DUMP WAGON 
fer FOR STREET WORK 


—BUILT LOW DOWN 


This feature makes it easy to shovel 
into and saves time of your men. 


—SHORT COUPLED 


Only 7 feet 8 inches wheelbase—easy 
to handle and light running. 


Write for our catalog about the Moore Dump 
Wagon and learn more facts of interest: 


The Hamilton Smithing & Mfg. Co., Hamilton, Ohio 














It is much better to pave with 
“Metropolitan” Paving Block 
than to wish you had 








“Best Paving Block Made’’ 





The Metropolitan Paving Brick Company 
CANTON, OHIO 





When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amenican Crry. 96 











THE AMERICAN CITY 











cn, 


ot EXPANSION and CONTRACTION 
pe SrNS 








. . in conerete, | rick and wood block road construction 

“topes? are natural forces which must be provided for. When 
these forces operate, the pavement is bound to fail un- 
less expansion joints are used. The “PIONEER’”’ 
way insures your work against failure. 








“PIONEER” EXPANSION JOINTS are pure asphalt 
with a meshed jute fabric reinforcement incorporated 
on each sice. They are encorsed by leading engineers 
and used everywhere. Manufactured in any wicth or 
thickness, neatly crated and shipped to the work, 
ready to install. 


Write for samples, literature and prices. 


THE PIONEER ASPHALT COMPANY 
LAWRENCEVILLE, ILL. 


Producers of Highest Quality Bituminous Products 


























Buffalo Pitts Road Rollers 


Our Macadam Rollers have made a record 
for durability and efficiency that is unequaled. 

Used exclusively by the leading municipali- 
ties and contractors. Built in all sizes up to 20 
tons. Write for catalogue. 





Buffalo Steam Roller Company 
Buffalo Pitts Macadam Roller BUFFALO, N. Y. 











- 
Bitoslag 
DURABILITY DEMONSTRATED BY SERVICE TEST 


CAN BE LAID ON OLD MACADAM, CONCRETE, OR BRICK 
PAVEMENT, ROLLED BROKEN STONE, OR SLAG FOUNDATION 


BITOSLAG PAVING COMPANY, 90 WEST ST., NEW YORK CITY 











PERFECT WOOD-BLOCK PAVING 
Long wear and satisfactory service are only possible with wood-block paving when it has been 
creosoted with the right oil. The service record of Reilly Improved Creosote Oil as a paving 
block preservative has established its reputation with municipal engineers throughout the 
country. This known service efficiency has led conservative engineers to specify Reilly Improved 
Creosote Oil for this work, Write for the FREE handbook. 
Republic Creosoting Co., Indianapolis, Ind. Plants: Mobile, Indi polis, Mi poli 








96 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American Crry. 











THE AMERICAN CITY 

















The Most Economical 
Road Binder 


and Dust Preventive 


Streets and highways may be 
kept in good order, and entirely 
free from dust, through the driest 
spell of weather— at low cost 
by the application of ‘‘Solvay”’ to 
the surface of the  road-bed. 
Quickly distributed by hand, or 
by inexpensive horse spreader 


SOLVAY 


Granulated 
Calcium Chloride 


produces a firm surface—without 
holding up traffic—which is re 
markably wear-resisting, and posi 
tively prevents dust. ‘‘Solvay’’ is 
a clean, chemical salt, free from all 
objectionable features. It is stain 
less, odorless, convenient to use, 
and no skilled labor or special 
apparatus is necessary for its suc- 
cessful application. ‘‘Solvay”’ does 
away with the expense of sprinkling 
carts, and effects a noticeable re 
duction in the cost of road 
maintenance. 


The ‘“‘Solvay Road Book’’ giving 
the plain facts will be sent 
postpaid upon request. 


Semet-Solvay Company 


410 Milton Avenue, SOLVAY, N.Y. 




















Makes Economical Highways 


The average road, even expen- 
sive macadam, is quickly destroy- 
ed by the wear of ordinary traffic. 
To keep such roads in good 
repair requires an annual road 
tax that is constantly increasing 
because of the increase of motor 
traffic. 


Concrete roads cost but little 
more than macadam to build and 
practically nothing to maintain. 
An average of $50 a mile per 
year will keep the concrete road 
in first class condition and afford 
a road that is good in every season 
for every kind of traffic. 


Lehigh Cement meets the most 
exacting requirements for con- 
crete roads and every other type 
of concrete construction. Twelve 
great mills located from coast to 
coast having an annual capacity 
of over 12,000,000 barrels, 
afford a service and a quality that 
have made Lehigh the National 
Cement. 


Ask your dealer for Lehigh Cement 


LEHIGH PORTLAND CEMENT COMPANY 
Chicago, IIl. Allentown, Pa. Spokane, Wn. 


LEHIGH 





9 39.78 9 ie 


Member of Portland Cement Association 
Concrete for Permanence 





When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 97 











THE AMERICAN CITY 








At 7 A.M. this 
outfit was ON THE 


CARS one quarter of a 
mile away. 


At1 P.M. it was 
Crushing Stone. 


Six hours to unload, 
move and reset this 
complete 


RELIANCE 
stone crushing 
plant. 


Capacity 15 tons per hour. Here is actual proof of the practicability 
of RELIANCE machinery. Make your equipment a time saving 
equipment. We build that kind. Catalogues on request. 


Universal Road Machinery Co. Kingston, N. Y. 


Branch Offices: Boston, Harrisburg. Agencies in 1§ principal cities. 











THE BAIN 





The TAYLOR 


THE BAIN PORTABLE STEEL DERRICK with Gondola 
Car Attachment for HANDLING PIPE or 
other heavy material from gondola cars. 








Catalog illustrating the 
Taylor Portable Steel 
Derricks furnished on 
application. 


Hauls 
the Hottest Asphalt 


Yes—the Bain Dump Wagon can be so 
constructed as to carry the very hottest 
asphalt and keep tt hot—a point most im- 
portant when using asphalt. 

The neck of the Bain is reinforced to in- 
sure its strength, with plates of sheet steel, 
inside and outside. The doors close one at 
a time and are almost watertight. Every 
metal part is wrought iron or steel. 


Write for prices and description. 
BAIN WAGON COMPANY 


TAYLOR PORTABLE STEEL DERRICK CO. 
Main and Pearl Sts. Kenosha, Wis. 213 W. Grand Ave., Chicago, Ill. 











os When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Ameazican Crry. 


——ygdNgK—__—————————_ 








THE AMERICAN CITY 





—Champion Steel Rock Crushers 





DO YOU KNOW 


That there are more Champion Rock Crushers in use than of 
any other one make? Doesn’t this mean that Champion Crushers 
possess those qualities that make them of value to users—durability, 
economy in upkeep, large capacity, etc? 








Champion Crushers are made in many 
sizes, ranging in capacities from 50 to 
1000 tons daily. Write us for anything 
you need in building and maintaining 
roads and streets. 


eg, \ AIRS = 
@, im we = > Catalogue free. 
ie aD, rs ial = as ee ea) The 
amon Good Roads 
Machinery Co. 


Champion Portable Crushing Plant. The Idea! Crushing Outfit 
for Cities, Contractors aiTom. wa Kennett Square, Pa. 


4 


key 


ee ee 
. oo 





Standard of the World 














The Dust Nuisance Remedied 


The Austin Combination Sprinkler-Sweeper has 
solved the problem of sweeping dusty streets. 


The sprinkler spray discharges in 
front of the broom, precipitating dust 
that tends to rise and at the same time 
accumulating the sweepings in a suitable 
condition for easy removal. The spray 
can be regulated instantly by the opera- 
tor so as not to unduly wet the pave- 
ment or make the sweepings sticky. 

The two-speed broom on this ma- 
chine is a special feature. By increas- 
ing the speed of rotation the broom 
sweeps more vigorously where dirt is 
heavy, with better results and very 
slight increased pull on the horses. When the broom becomes worn, using 
the high gear remedies the loss of periphery speed in the smaller diameter of broom 
and equals the work of a new broom. 


THE AUSTIN-WESTERN ROAD MACHINERY C0., Chicago 


We manufacture a full line of road-making, earth-handling and rock-crushing machinery 














When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Ameaican Cry. 99 














THE AMERICAN CITY ‘ 





The Hooke Portable 
Asphalt Patcher 


This is Designed for Repairing 

SHEET ASPHALT and Other 

BITUMINOUS PAVEMENTS 
Full Directions for its Operation 


Furnished with Each Outfit. Write 
for Prices and Further Information. 


ROBT. HOOKE, Chattanooga, Tenn. 





PROTECT YOUR EXPOSED 
METAL WORK BY USING 
DIXON’S Gkaéruire Paint 
for standpipes, water tanks, smokestacks, 
bridges, etc., and all exposed metal surfaces. 
Write for booklet 107-B. 
Made in Jersey City, N.J., by the 


JOSEPH DIXON CRUCIBLE COMPANY 
Established 1827 

















IT IS DIFFERENT 


HGR No. 1 
COLD PATCHING COMPOUND 


Bicomac 


COLD SURFACING COMPOUND 
Send us your name and learn more about them. 
HEADLEY GOOD ROADS CO., PHILADELPHIA,PA. 














SCHULZ & HODGSON, 


DON’T “KID” THE TAX-PAYER 


He's “getting wise” to so-called “cheap”’ 
improvements. There are millions of him and 
that means a tremendous kick. 


Why clutter roads and streets with perishable 
materials for drainage use when the 


HALL INTERLOCKING CONCRETE 
CULVERT 


is cheaper—not only in First Cost—but also 
in the Long Run. 


LOOK AT IT—and then send for our literature. 
We invite questions, tests, comparisons. 


19 S. La Salle Street, CHICAGO 















a Straight or Curved Bars 












Unit of Plate and Anchorage 
KAHN SYEB 


Substantial Steel Protection 
The scientific, practical, efficient and economical 


concrete curbs, columns, walls, entrance posts, platforms. 
Write for Highway Pamphlet, describing Curb Bars and also Armor Plates. 


TRUSSED CONCRETE STEEL CO., C*fs- Youngstown, Ohio 


Rigid, Positive Anchorage 
No Split of Concrete 
Easy to Handle and Install 


otection for edges of 











When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 











ee 


THE AMERICAN CITY 









































Columbus-Newark Road 
near Newark, Ohio. 
Made with Atlantic 
Penetration Asphalt 





She 
Lowest-Cost 


Permanent 
Road 








 Raemeigtcsashaie to the wear of traffic; permanence; attractive appearance; 
and a smooth, easy-riding surface—all at a low cost—make the penetra 
tion-asphalt road ideal for country highways and suburban streets. Parts of 
many of the country’s most famous highways have been built by the penetra 
tion method with 


ATLANTIC 


Penetration Asphalt 


The binding and lasting qualities of At Atlantic Penetration Asphalt was applied 
lantic Penetration Asphalt make it the to the section of the Newark-Columbu 
desirable asphalt for penetration roads Road (in the illustration) by the Atlanti 
It is a Mexican asphalt, refined from high system of pressure distribution, which in 
grade crude for the definite purpose of pro sures uniformity, smoothness, and added 
ducing a road-asphalt of such excellenc« life to the road. Our engineering staff will 


that it will comply with the most exacting be glad to discuss pressure distribution with 


open specification. you. 


The Atlantic Highway Digest is an interesting periodical 
dealing with highways. It is free. Write for it today. 


cmH The Atlantic Refining Co. 


Philadelphia and Pittsburgh 

















When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City 101 





THE AMERICAN CITY 








PUSH BROOMS 


Bamboo, Rattan, Bass, 
Wire and Mixtures 


GUTTER AND STREET 
BROOMS 


SNOW, SWITCH AND 
FROG BROOMS 


GROUTING BROOMS 





——— 


BROOMS and BRUSHES 


for 
MUNICIPALITIES 


THE OSBORN MANUFACTURING Co. 


CLEVELAND 
Detroit 


New York Chicago San Francisco 


ROTARY BROOMS— 
For Machine Sweeping 


FIBRE—For Refilling 
Rotary Brooms 


WAREHOUSE AND 
FACTORY BROOMS 


ASPHALT SCRAPERS 








Holcomb’s Bass Street Brooms are stronger, pound for 
pound than any other street broom made 


They are 





constructed on our exclusive patented plan and guaran- 
teed never to come apart hey will not be materiall 
affected by water, heat or cold. They sweep clean with 
one stroke. To prove these statements— 


Let Us Give You 
This Broom 


ad 





You will be under no obligation to us. We will ship 
you this broom prepaid. All that we ask you to do is 
to see that the broom gets a thorough and severe try- 
out in actual, every day work. It's the only way that 
we can prove the strong claims which we make for our 
bass brooms. It's the t way we have of convincin 
you that you can save real money on your annua 
street broom bills 


Write us today — just say 
will try it.” Address 


J. I. HOLCOMB MFG. CO. 


Largest Manufacturers and Distributors of 
Cleaning Brushes and Sanitary Supplies 


1500 Draper Street, Indianapolis, Ind. 


~“Send your broom —we 











HOTEL CUMBERLAND 


NEW YORK 
BROADWAY AT 54th STREET 


Near 50th St. Subway 
Station and 53rd St. 
Elevated. 


“Broadway” Cars from 
Grand Central Depot, 
7th Ave. Cars from 
Penna. Station 
New and Fireproof 
Best Hotel Accommo- 
dations in New York at 
nable Rates. 


ROOMS WITH 
ADJOINING BATHS 


$1.50 up 


ROOMS WITH PRIVATE 
BATHS 





$4.00 up 


Ten minutes walk to 
40 Theatres 


PRICES MODERATE 


EXCELLENT RESTAURANT. 
Send for Booklet 
HARRY P. STIMSON, formerly with Hotel Imperial 
Only New York Hotel window-screened throughout 








SANITARY CARTS 


For Garbage, Night Soil, Material from Sewers, Inlets, Etc. 
MADE POR 1 OR 2 HORSES. Write for Catalogue 


GEO. BH. HOLZBOG & BRO., Jefiersonville, Indiana 





BONDS 





29 years’ experience in the manufacture 
of all kinds of bonds and certificates— 
including Municipal Government, Public Utilities, 
Industrial and C cial bles us to produce 
such documents technically, as well as mechanically 


lect. 
Dertect be worth your while to consult us on your 
next issue. 














ALBERT B KING & 60 INC 


204 BROADWAY 


ESTAR. 1886 NEW YORK CITY 





102 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tax American Curry. 














THE AMERICAN CITY 


135 WATSON DUMP WAGONS 
Owned By One Firm 








Waayyanracs Pagans, Coniernine | 
Cronaeagagas, (Crore Aiiteadtayosts; | 
WEWOHEGNG,  senuary 1%) 1918. | 


Wateon Wagon Company, 
Canastota, New York, 
Gentlement- 

Replying to yours of the third instant would advice 
that the last car of wagons reached here December thirty-first 
in ample time to start on our contract with the city of Newark,N.J. 
for the removal of ashes and refuse January first 1916; this gives 
ue 120 Wateon Wagons for use in our general contract work. 

We desire to thank you for your efforte in making prompt 
Gelivery of the new qquipment, and remain, 


Youre very truly, 


NEWARK PAVING OC ° 
dem. 











—E 





We have just shipped seventy-five Watson 
Ash Wagons to the Newark Paving Company. 
This is one of the biggest and best contracting 
firms in New Jersey. On January Ist they 
began a five-year contract with the City of 
Newark for removal of ashes and garbage. The 
job involves about a million dollars. 

Every dump wagon owned by the Newark 
Paving Company is a Watson. Read Mr. 
Gilligan’s letter. Since this letter was written 
Mr. Gilligan has bought fifteen more Watsons 
making a total of 135 now in use. 

In Newark and vicinity there are thousands 
of Watsons in use, and here’s an important 
point: Not oniy the biggest contractors there 
use Watsons, but many hundreds of teamsters 
who own only one or two teams of horses. 
Draw your own conclusions. 


WATSON WAGON COMPANY, Canastota, New York 


The World’s Largest Builders of Dumping Wagons 


BRANCH OFFICES: 256 Broadway, New York, N. Y. 1102 Farmers Bank Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
604 Witherspoon Blidg., Philadelphia, Pa. 











When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 103 








THE AMERICAN CITY 


For Every Municipal Service 


Fire Street Cleaning —Street Construction— 
Hospital Sanitation, Gramm-Bernstein Trucks 
give you the most in truck efficiency. 


Gramm-Bernstein 








Sizes up to 6-ton 
capacity Bodies 
built and chassis 









painted to order 


motor trucks, backed by 15 years of truck success, 
pay back their purchase price in less than a year. 

City Officials, send name and address for 
catalog No. 9. 


The Gramm -Bernstein Co. 
Lima, Ohio 





The Wainwright Galvanized Steel Corner Bar 


stays firmly in place, without requiring the aid of Clips, Bolts, Prongs or 
Hooks; is not a mere shell held in place at intervals, with no intervening 
anchorage; liable to be displaced by frost, or shock of blows between 
socalled holding devices. 

Write us for printed matter. 


Steel Protected Concrete Co., “piss. 








THE PERMANENT PAVING |: 
Bessemer Block 


(No. 6 of a Series on “‘The Making of Bessemer Block’’) 


Results secured with BESSEMER BLOCK are a matter of record. No failure of a BESSEMER 
BLOCK pavement or road due to the quality of material has ever occurred. 

A combination of circumstances and intelligent effort has produced this ideal road and paving block. 

(1) Bessemer Shale was discovered to be an exceptional paving block material. A long firing 
4 range and a tough, hard product. 

(2) ‘Two million dollars has been spent to develop this deposit. Eight steam shovels, 25 miles of 
tracks and 20 industrial locomotives are part of it. 

(3) Beds are stripped carefully before we dig the shale—so that no pebbles or coal will get into 
the finished brick. 

(4) BESSEMER BLOCK ARE WIRE-CUT-LUG BLOCK, MADE UNDER DUNN 
PATENTS. 

(s) Big storage bins and preliminary mixing and grinding machinery insure uniformity of product. 

(6) Continuous kilns are used—the most modern way of burning paving block. 

(7) Inspection is unremitting—our aim is to furnish only paving block fit for paving. 

‘There are more good reasons why Bessemer Block is known as the Permanent Paving. Let us send 
you all the facts. Write. 

(Any engineer may call the Dunn organization of paving engineers into consultation. Ask us about 
this consulting service.) 


Ww Bessemer Limestone Co., 
i] Member of the N. P. B. M. A. 


YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO Plants at Bessemer, Pa. 














; 104 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amenican Crry. | 


RA NO TCT 


THE AMERICAN CITY 











Wastes on Repair 










Jobs—Saved 
“TARCO” 


Combination 
Heating 
Kettle ana 
Pouring Pot 


The TARCO Com- 
bination holds 10 
gallons. It’s small 
but just right for a 
small job. 

This combination can be used prac- 
tically on any small job and is suitable 
for heating and pouring all kinds of 
bituminous road preparations. It 
takes less men, less time and less 
money to operate. 

Let us send you information about 
how tt ts built. Write now. 

THE TARRANT MFG. CO. 
12 Maple Ave. Saratoga Springs, N.Y. 

















Asphatric 
~ Concrete 









Shipped Ready 
For Application 





Unioading 





— LAID COLD 
ay 
: oding ona Rolling W\ 


Amsusite 9 o Dusthess, Water- 
proof and Auvto-proof Road 
Material. It is also Sanitary 


Write for Descriptive Literature 


AMIES ROAD CO 
Drake Bidy Beswa.Pa Finished High 














ted of At ‘Portland ( en 


Save 95 per cent 
in maintenance 



















' 
It is easier to get money to build Log 
roads than to raise funds for main ‘ 
tenance So why not build high | oa 
ways that are low in both first cost P§ 
and maintenance? 4 


Concrete roads average only 4 
cent a square yard per year to ig 
maintain, as compared with as high 
as 10 cents a square yard for roads 
of most other materials 4 

Concrete roads are also low in first i 
cost, indestructible and are quickly 1 


constructed SS 
Atlas Road Building Service 
Our highway department is at your 
service for preparing | 
and t esti é ad 
for inspection, if desira Send t : 
coupon for our | ,  Concret ; 
Highway Constructior It is f H 
’ 
The Atlas Portland Cement Co. 
Members of the Portland Cement Association : 
: 30 Broad Street, New York 3 
Corn Exchange Bank Building, Chicago res 
Philadelphia Boston St. Louis { 
Minneapolis Des Moines Dayton oe | 
} 
) Se 


The Atlas Portland Cement Co., 30 Broad St.,New York, 
or Corn Exch. Bank Bldg., Chicago 


Send me your book—“ Concrete Highway Construction” 


as 
Name.... 


Address..... 


(Add data below if you desire approximate cost estimate) 


Proposed road.. miles long........ ft. wide 
Sand Gravel 

Gee's wod cocccccccocceses Cems ccccecccccocesecesoce 
Stone Unskilled labor 

CEE. cccccccccccscccccece Cost 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amenic+n Crryv. 105 








THE AMERICAN CITY 


=>LAKE 


DA\D)aspaatr 


Dictionaries say it is Different 
Service proves it is Best 


THR 


In defining ASPHALT both the Webster and Standard 
Dictionaries refer to Trinidad Lake Asphalt as an example 
of genuine asphalt. 





Webster’s New International 


Artificial—1. Made or contrived by art; 


When they define the word 
ARTIFICIAL they cite among 
other examples of things “not gen- mt minonie. sie. 9. Deipoats 
uine” the asphalts that are by- EN iT 
products or residuums from the | [2m ‘stniné of certain Kinds of petro- 
refining of petroleum. 


produced by human skill and labor in op- 
position to natural; as artificial gems, 
salts, minerals, etc. 2. Feigned; fictitious; 


Asphalt. A brown to black solid sub- 
stance found about the Dead Sea, on the 
Island of Trinidad and elsewhere; mineral J 


The claim that artificial asphalt | pits. 
is “just as good” or the same thing 
as Trinidad Natural Asphalt hasn’t 


even a dictionary definition to back 














New Standard 


Artificial—1. Produced or composed by 
art rather than by nature; manufactured 
2. Produced by art to imitate nature, from 
different materials and with an inferior 
result; imitation. 3. Imitating or aping 
nature; lacking genuineness or reality. 


Artificial asphalt a by-product from 


the refining of certain petroleums. 


Asphalt. * * * A mixture of different 





it up. 


But more important than this 
is the fact that service tests of mil- 
lions of yards of Trinidad Sheet 


hydrocarbons; mineral pitch; hard bitu- 
men. It is found mostly in superficial 
deposits in various parts of the world, the 


Asphalt prove it to be the pave- 
ment of longest life. Write for | 
“The Asphalt Primer’ and ‘“Evi- 

dence’’—a record of 20-to-30-year-old Trinidad pavements 
| in 30 cities. 


so-called pitch lake of Trinidad being the 
most notable source. 











The Barber Asphalt Paving Company 
Philadelphia, Pa. 


106 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 











Tos AMERICAN -CLTY 











Why the constant re-orders from users 
Why the frequent substitution of the ““Big-an-Litle” for other kind 
Why the continual addition of Jaeger’s ‘“‘Big-an-Litle”’ to th 
ment of many of the largest contracting firms and cities 


BECAUSE IT’S 


The Mixer That Pays Large Dividends on Investment 
Because of SIMPLICITY, SPEED and STRENGTH 


The mixer that leads the way 
in improvements without in- 


equip 
jul} 


crease in price because of quan- 
tity sales. 


These are things to consider 
if vou're going to buy a Mixer 
The “Big-an-Litle”’ is the eco 
nomical mixer to use on all 
work because its superior 
features — portability, light- 
ness, compactness and ability 
to deliver the goods, make it 
the Ideal Mixer for all kinds 
of work. 
Investigate the ‘‘Big-an-Lith 
proposit'on before you decide 
on a mixer—that’s the sen 
sible thing to do— it obligates 


you not at ail and you cant 
) wrongs 





When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American CITY 107 











THE AMERICAN 


CITY 























show | 
a ( 


New York 


Birming 


THe PATERSON Mec 





et it | illing for special expansion joint 


ed with a bituminous filler. Such 


xpansion joints are good—but why not use # 

as a filler and have every joint an ex- re 
i nsion joint! pa 

R I Barrett’s Paving Pitch will last as long as 3 
, : oe 
t pavement. We can show jy 1 streets - 
‘ ae ae - Kiss 
Barrett's Pitch has been in the pave oh. 
t ve 30 vears and g If = y 








. I~ . . 
v i pa 2 | 
4 
' 
s 
: 
ia Bostor St I i Cleveland Cincinnati Pittsburgh Detroit 
City M t s Salt Lake City Nashville Sea tt le Peoria 
. Limite Montreal Toronto Winnipeg Vancouver St John, N.B 
Halifax, N.S Sydney, N.S. K 
: “Ty kaa? sae ee Se eo Se, aa FON, FIT ak i 
l <b uae? Ba aes HAR Go shes oes eee AB 
7 SEE OO RT Es > Kemeny teats ere . 
3 Gee 4 ae oO wera f Ly PTY Le? os 
BET) SSUES SHY RRO Se Saas SD BET A 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American Curry. 





