April, 1916 
nts $3 a Year 





A NIGHT VIEW FROM NEW YORK’S MUNICIPAL BUILDING 


The Illuminated Tower of the Tallest Office Building in the World as 
Seen from Between the Columns of the Municipal Building Entrance 


























THE AMERICAN CITY 











An Economical Roadway of ProvenSuccess! 


BITOSLAG 


An Asphaltic Concrete Pavement 
Manufactured by Special Process in Which 
Pulverized Slag is the Principal Mineral Aggregate 


In 1910 there was laid in McKeesport, Pa., an experimental pavement 
composed of a specially prepared asphalt and a mineral aggregate of finely 
crushed slag and a good proportion of the usual dust or “filler.” 


After five vears’ service under heavy traffic and without any maintenance 
cost whatever this experimental section remained in an unblemished condi 
tion, and proved in the opinion of many engineers and paving experts a road- 
way that was durable, economical, non-slippery and a most practical and suc- 
cessful method of utilizing a waste product, and at the same time insure those 
features so essential to the modern highway. 


This new and successful pavement, which has received the name of 
BITOSLAG, can be laid on old macadam, concrete, old brick pavement, 
rolled broken stone or slag foundation. 


The detailed specifications for the BITOSLAG wearing surface to be 
laid on the various types of base mentioned will be furnished on request. 
Our laboratories and engineering experts will be pleased to give full informa- 
tion as to preparing the mixture properly and testing same from time to time. 
This service is free to public officials and contractors to assist them to secure 
the best possible pavement of this type. 


Correspondence Invited as to 
Licenses to Lay this Pavement 


BITOSLAG PAVING COMPANY 


90 West Street, New York, N.Y. 




















When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American City. 




















VOLUME XIV 


NUMBER 4 




















NEW YORK 





April, 1916 























Inhibition—Permission—Compulsion 


“Thou shalt not”; “Thou mayest”; “Thou 
must” :—by these three signs may be desig- 
nated the pathways of city planning prog- 
ress. 

In some of our American states the mu- 
nicipalities are still in the stage of inhibi- 
tion: the right even to appoint official city 
planning commissions has not yet been made 
a legalized municipal function. In such 
commonwealths adequate control by the 
cities and towns of their own future devel- 
opment can scarcely begin until public sen- 
timent shall compel broad constitutional 
rights of home rule or grants of city plan- 
ning powers by legislative enactment. 

By a gradually increasing number of 
states the second pathway has in some 
measure been reached. In most cases, how- 
ever, the functions of city planning com- 
missions are wholly or chiefly of an ad- 
visory character. Pennsylvania, New Jer- 
sey, Ohio and Nebraska can be credited 
with real though limited progress in the 
control of development through city plan- 
ning commissions. In other states—notably 
New York and California—recent legisla- 
tion and court decisions have granted or 
confirmed the right of cities to regulate 
growth through the establishment of build- 
ing districts and restrictions. 

The third, or mandatory, pathway in city 
planning progress will probably make slow 
headway in the United States. The Massa- 
chusetts act providing for the appointment 
of plan commissions in all cities and towns 
of over 10,000 population may be cited as 
an instance of mandatory legislation. But 
no power to control development is given 
to the Massachusetts commissions. 

Perhaps it is well that city planning by 
legislative mandate should not come too 


hastily. The conflicting claims of hom: 
rule and state regulation will have to be 
worked out with great care. The general 
recognition, however, of the wisdom of cer- 
tain measures of control by the state in 
such matters as public health, education and 
municipal financing may well justify simi- 
lar action in certain fundamentals of city 
planning. A wise combination of state 
regulation with a large measure of local 
initiative and control is doubtless the ulti- 
mate ideal. 


A British Proposal for Obligatory Plan- 
ning of Urban Areas 

This problem of optional versus man- 
datory city planning is agitating our Eng- 
lish cousins at the present time. On Feb- 
ruary 4 last, at a meeting of the Town 
Planning Institute of Great Britain, were 
discussed suggestions of the “Land Enquiry 
Committee” for facilitating and extending 
the advantages of the housing and town 
planning act of 1909. The case for action 
is thus stated in the committee’s Urban 
Land Report: 

“While it would be pessimistic to assume 
that the rate at which unbuilt-on areas are 
being protected, on the lines laid down by the 
act of 1909, will not increase progressively in 
the future, it is essential to a proper under- 
standing of the situation clearly to grasp the 
fact that over the vast majority of urban areas 
the development of building estates continues 
on the old, unsatisfactory lines.” 

As a definite policy the committee recom- 
mends that each municipality shall be re- 
quired to prepare, within a specified time, 
what may be termed a preliminary scheme: 
the following being some of the principal 
matters to be dealt with: 


1. The fixing of the maximum number of 
dwelling houses which may be built per acre 








talon aCe ft ater 


CL ON Ae Rg. 





; 


Sener 


Bt pe a ee et 


Wi 
i 
if 





326 THE AMERICAN CITY 


Such general limitation might be adjusted in 
greater detail for the different areas if and 
when a complete planning scheme is subse- 
quently adopted. 

2. The fixing on all existing roads of such 
building lines as will reserve sufficient unbuilt- 
on width to meet any probable future widen- 
ing required by the traffic. 

3. Such modification of by-laws as to streets 
and buildings as will facilitate developments 
on the improved lines now generally recog- 
nized as desirable. 

4. The securing of routes for any new main 
communication roads, whether local, regional 
or national, the need for which is recognized 

Under the plan proposed each locality 
would have the opportunity of adapting the 
regulations to its own needs, and also of 
including other matters in its preliminary 
scheme, and no doubt some elasticity would 
be permitted by the Local Government 
Board, whose approval would still be neces- 
sary for all schemes. But the Board, be- 
fore they could be enforced, would see that 
every scheme met certain minimum require- 
ments. The committee suggests that if any 
locality failed within the specified period 
to prepare a preliminary scheme the Local 
Government Board should have power to 
prepare and enforce one. 

The arguments adduced by the commit- 
tee are supported by figures and illustrated 
by diagrams in which Mr. Raymond Unwin 
has demonstrated two points of cardinal 
importance: 

(a) That the adoption of the proposals 
of the committee need not be accompanied 
by any increase in the cost per house for 
roads and sewers; and 

(b) That where landowners adopt the 
new methods of development, the size of 
the garden plot attached to each house may 
be quadrupled with only a small increase 
in the rent per house. 

The Town Planning Institute has pub- 
lished in pamphlet form exceedingly valu- 
able discussions of this Urban Land Report 
by H. R. Aldridge and Harold Shawcross, 
Secretary and Chairman, respectively, of 
the National Housing and Town Planning 
Council. 

Mr. Aldridge’s discussion is devoted to 
the committee’s proposition that some 
measure of town planning control should 
be exercised in every urban district in 
which growth is taking place. “Following 
the familiar methods of the logician,” Mr. 
Aldridge states his premises and conclu- 
sions in the following syllogism ; 


Voit. XIV, No. 4 


“That it is the duty of the State to strive 
to secure that the members of the community 
skall live under conditions of health, safety, 
efficiency and amenity. 

“That experience has shown that these con- 
ditions cannot be secured in full measure un- 
less wise foresight is shown in controlling city 
and village growth and unless definite plans 
shaping this growth are prepared and carried 
into effect. ; 

“That the State should—either by the per- 
suasion or by the compulsion of local authori- 
ties—take steps to secure that they (the local 
authorities) shail prepare and carry into effect 
town planning schemes.” 

This syllogism is followed in Mr. Ald- 
ridge’s paper by a detailed consideration 
of the arguments for and against obligatory 
town planning. The author places special 
emphasis on the utilitarian elements of the 
problem—urging that “town planning shall 
be made obligatory, not to secure the ‘pretty- 
pretty’ adornment of towns, but to minister 
to the fundamental needs of the people.” 


“Tt is not enough for Local Authorities to 
spend money on sanatoria and hospitals to 
lessen the ill-health among the poorer mem- 
bers of the community. The millions of money 
we are spending on the construction of sana- 
toria could for the greater part be saved—not 
to speak of the human suffering that might 
he averted—if only the areas in which people 
live were properly planned and the problems 
of air and light in the factories in which they 
were employed were dealt with on the right , 
lines.” 

That it is possible to devise a simple form 
of town planning that can be applied in 
every growing urban district is the theme 
of the discussion by Mr. Shawcross. He 
grades the requirements of an obligatory 
town planning scheme as follows: 
MATTERS OF IMMEDIATE NECESSITY 

Building lines for all roads, present and 
future 
Limitation of buildings to the acre 


Proportion of size of dwelling-house to 
be built on 


Space about factories, workshops and 
buildings of exceptional height 


Concessions in widths of roads in return 
for plans submitted for estate devel- 
opment 

DESIRABLE MATTERS, BUT NOT OBLIGATORY 
AT ONCE 

Oven spaces—i. e., land secured by ar- 

rangement with landowners 


Unsuitable land in district for building 
dwelling-houses on 


Marshy land and view places 
Land that cannot be sewered 
Sites for public works or buildings 





Apart. 2es6 THE AMER 


Roads ultimately necessary- 
roads and footpaths 
\llotments 


Diversion of 


MATTERS TO 
NECESSITY 


BE POSTPONED 
ARISES 


TILL THE 
Detailed plans for particular areas show- 
ing: 
Residential districts 
Position of shops 
Land for playgrounds, etc 
Factory areas 


In the discussion which followed the pa- 
pers of Messrs. Aldridge and Shawcross, 
President Raymond Unwin, of the Town 
Planning Institute, suggested that the Ur- 
ban Land Report should be considered in 
the light of the circumstances in which it 
was prepared. It was clear, if one read the 
introductory portion particularly, that the 
authors set themselves to work to see how 
they could create the greatest improve- 
ments in British housing conditions with 
the least amount of legislative difficulty. 
Mr. Unwin urged, also, that if there was 
to be an obligatory element in town plan- 
ning the limitation of all obligatory work 


ICAN CITY 327 


should be recognized. Mr. Aldridge had 
laid stress on the necessity of foresight 
and at the same time on obligatory town 
planning. But he (Mr. Unwin) would 
point out that it was very difficult to make 
foresight obligatory. Therefore, if there 
were to be any obligatory schemes, they 
would have to embrace just those parts 
which could be reduced to some degree of 
mechanical simplicity ; limita- 
tion would restrict very considerably the 
amount of town planning that could be 
made obligatory at all. 


and such 


The making and carrying out of town 
planning schemes in Great Britain has, of 
course, received a serious set-back owing to 
the war. It is a hopeful sign, however, 
that constructive thinking is still going on; 
and when the nation’s energies are again 
released for constructive legislation and 
action, the value of this thinking will be- 
come evident. Meanwhile, the work of the 
Town Planning Institute will not be with- 
out effect on American progress in making 
forethought effective in urban development. 





Planning a Roadway 


Mam mw ano 


Ca, 


for Increased Traffic 








~_-—-—b 























3sLOW 






































thew wee eee ee ee eee 








QUEEN’S DRIVE, LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND, 84 FEET WIDE 


The cross-section at the top shows the drive as constructed; the other cross-sections show alternative plans 
or the future widening of the roadway for tramways and traffic 





328 






























City Planning by Coercion or Legislation 
By George B. Ford 


Consultant of the Commission on Building Districts and Restrictions, City of New York 
ERHAPS the most remarkable justi- in foreign languages, and also in a number 
fication of city planning that has _ of technical and trade magazines. 

ever appeared in this country is It meant that the big merchants on Fifth 
the accompanying full-page advertisement Avenue in New York had reached the limit 
which appeared in all of the New York of their endurance and were forced out of 


THE PVENING Post wEw yor’ MONDAY, MARCH « 116 


ee ——— 





SHALL WE SAVE NEW YORK? 


A Vital Question To Every One 
Who Has Pride In This Great City 


HALL we save New York from what? Shall we save it from unnatural and 
unnecessary crowding, from depopulated sections, from being a city unbeau- 
nful,from high rents, from excessive and illy distributed taxation? We can save 
it from all van. so far at least as they are caused by one industnal 
evil—the erection of factories in the residential and famous retail section. 





: The Factory Invasion of the Shopping District How it Affects the City and its Citizens 

The factones making clothing, cloaks, suits, furs, pert It ts umpossible to have a city beautiful, comfortable or safe 

} wis, etc, have forced the large stores from one section under such ¢ The sacrifices 
and followed them to @ new one, deplenng it of its normal _‘fine residence blocks for factones, which remain fore ime and 


ad Ge: with bia then move On to devastate or another secnon, lev - 
: “ { “ oe sp t . ee a eg SO ing ugly scars of blocks of nan edinn unused by business 
ve ta a ty cChons 10" 

residennal and shopping dusrrict of Fitth Avenue, Broadway oe we i o- 

upper Sixth and Medison Avenues and the crow streem tt How it Affects the Tax-payer 

requires Concentrated co-operanve action to stem this invading Every man im the city peys taxes emher as owner or tenant. 
tde The ec: » constantly a it % growing more The wide area of vacant or depreciated property in the lower 
serious and more difficult to handle. lt needs imstant ection middle part of town means reduced taxes, « defic# 


7 ‘ made up by extre assessment on other sections Taxes have . 
The Trail of Vacant Buildings (grown to starthng figures and: this affects all interests. 
Shall the finest resail and residennal sections in the world, (The Need of Co-operative Action 


trom Thurty-third Sereet north become blighted the wey.the =, mpending men anesems 
ald parts of Now York have been? : tn under chis the wo of may be 


= 








. checked and to prevent a destrucnon similar to that which has 
4 The lower wholesale and rte districts are deserted, and cecurred below Twenty-third Street 
} there ss now enough vacant space to eccommodate many ——— = —. 
mes over the manulacturing plants of the cay. If nen c od the coqyraien verte, : garment as corxatzoms 
it lorn fo tory laddinges ave required, why not encourage as 4 te pra Yer heel ees 
tom of suck structures in that section instead of Wee A the coope home or rents an opartment 
ual factory bealdongs in the mdst of our homes and We st the op eguation amp ry man ond women in New York who bas 
bE he retail vevtrons pride vn the future development of thas great city 








NOTICE TO ALL INTERESTED 


N evew of the facta herein set forth we wish to gwe publicity to the following notice :— We, the under- 
} tagned merchants and such others as may later join with us, will give the preference in our purchases 








of surts, cloaks, furs, clothing, etc., to firms whose manuf: plants are bocated outmde 
‘ pe nee of Thirty-third Street, Fifty-nanth Street, and Seventh Avenues, 
Bi also mchodeng thirty second and thirty-third Streets, from Sixth to Seventh Avenues. 
4 February tet, 1917, is the time that this notice goes into effect, so as to enable manufacturers now 
R located im this zone to secure other quarters. eer ey be oe AY OU og 
A remove thea plants from this zone. pn ene tpn ete me tee different manufac- 
} turers im the above mentoned lines, as among other ressons they will have the benefit of lower rentals. 
i i B ALTMAN & CO. J. M_GIDDING & CO. LORD & TAYLOR FRANKLIN SIMON & CO. 
Pe ARNOLD, CONSTABLE & CO. GIMBEL BROTHERS JAMES McCREERY & CO. SAKS & CO. 
; BEST & CO. LP. HOLLANDER & CO. RH MACY 4 CO. 
BONWIT TELLER 4 CO. 
The umderngnedd endorse thee movement for the benefit of the City of New York 
' Nester oie. Ager Tow Co Toten & Ce Wo) Seow ws 
Gemnhes One 3S ay PUD Avomer Band Po, Sue o Fone ye Re a 
\ tee hae Cemrenter Teme on Las Joy a 
Rae Carn ate Ren > 4. te Oven or & Co i ttamy 
Masel Brmes one! Mankemen * aCe Mann & Co apne & Sear — 
Mere! Me kage Pate Me herman ba aes ay Nd LLU > > e 
CY —— a oe he Soon & Fowke Co freak |. Saenger path Rage Bc 














papers on Sunday and Monday, March 5 _ sheer necessity to unite in a fight for their 
and 6. Not only did it appear in all the very existence against a common foe. For 
f regular newspapers, but in various papers ten or twenty years they had made a losing 











| 
| 


Gis y 


AMERICAN 


THE 


4 


= 








CITY OF NEW YORK 


BOARD OF ESTIMATE AND APPORTIONMENT 


COMMISSION ON BUILDING DISTRICTS AND RESTRICTION: 


S 


MAP 


ACCOMPANYING TENTATIVE REPORT OF MARCH |0® I9/6 


SHOWING 
4+ TENTATIVE USE DISTRICTS 





IN THE 


BOROUGH OF MANHATTAN 


PLANATION 


ex 


> Resident districts - Rest cled sgamns! Dusine 


ee 


we adus™y, 


OP, 


—eesteene Uvesiricied ~ 

















wn 
PUTRI 


+] 


' 
tit 
Ay 


Avy 


tp 
ay fees! 


- 9 ep Ney ;: j x . 
LO SILI 
f A es! f : : 4 ( ‘ 


Ki ere | |.) RAI Sok 
7D, | eee 
", OPAL. y 
HEE > ¢ 


Mans 07 
tpt, 
Th COIL A 
SOK “ty i/ 
POL 
100 Gry 


oe 





wally, 
ie 
My, Min ft 


My 





oy 
fall 
Mal he 


, 
4 
) "5 
4, 

~ 
+. 





4, 
J 
0 
yt "4, 
Gl, 
Soe, 





F 

i Z-- 
== 
Ee | 
eg 

1s _ ys Wig tat Bis 

a; STU TIL ,, tee Mae t ra 

i xy Ed ee a 

5 Lip, GK, <tlpp =e 

“eR hil sf 

}. 

13 

4 

















THI 

















CITY OF NEW YORK 
BOARD OF ESTIMATE AND APPORTIONMENT 
COMMISSION ON BUILDING DISTRICTS AND RESTRICTIONS 


| ACCOMPANYING seine OF MARCH 107 1916 
j SHOWING 
+ TENTATIVE HEIGHT DISTRICTS 


BOROUGH OF MANHATTAN 


| EXPLANATION 


+ | times street und but not more ther ” 


> - 
" 18 Wiig aA “yy 
AAAS Da bo 





AMERICAN ( 





ity 

















i 


— 


) a ae 
fe 





Wij 

YM ies 

Vigne 
AWA 

Ly 5 ear 


. 





Ty ey, 
7, hy tip, thd 
tN z : 
Oe | ‘ 
y= ee 
a 


ih, 











ee ett 





A 
ye 





10 1916 





?p) 
re Z 
2 5 
' & EE 
i @ < 
$s’ Oo F 
ESa ia 
ua 2“ 
<ezuWe 
Zyr Ozu 
Feat 9 
5 
lJ 
res 
| 
° 
es 
1 E83 
— 


CITY OF NEW YORK 
BOARD OF ESTIMATE AND APPORTIONMENT 


iid Git 
a iit 


# 
2 
: 
: 
3B 


+ 
‘ 

















Pe ee ag. 


¥ 


steayy anid 


o 





oy 








| 
: 
. 


— 


ENE Ss OEE SEE 


— 


ae ae 





332 THE AMERICAN CITY 


fight against the enemy, yielding trench 
after trench only as they were overwhelmed 
by sheer numbers. 

It was only natural that the manufac- 
turers and jobbers should follow close on 
the heels of the big department stores and 
high-class shops as they moved farther and 
farther up Fifth Avenue. It was good 
business for them to be near their buyers, 
and the real estate promoters naturally did 
all they could to help the idea along—but 
what the result was, this advertisement 
shows. Fifth Avenue became overrun be- 
tween 12 and 2 o'clock with the tens of 
thousands of the employes of the garment 
and other shops on the side streets. Grad- 
ually these great manufacturing loft build- 
ings came onto the 
Avenue itself, and one 


Vor. XIV, No. 4 


are also getting together and saying that 
to help out this movement they will se- 
riously consider refusing to lend money in 
the future on the buildings within the Fifth 
Avenue district which are designed for 
manufacturing use. 

Now all of this trouble would have been 
quite unnecessary, and enormous amounts 
of money would have been saved in the 
shifting of land values, if the proposals of 
the Commission on Building Districts and 
Restrictions creating height, use and area 
districts differently in different parts of the 
city had been put into effect twenty, or 
even ten, years ago; for these proposals 
would have accomplished, at no expense, 
the very thing which the Fifth Avenue 

merchants are now 





after another buildings 
originally erected as 
office buildings were 
forced to change over 
into manufacturing 
lofts. What was the 
result? Land values 
between Twenty-third 
and Thirty-fourth 
Streets on Fifth Ave- 
nue were in a number 
of instances cut in 
halves. The high-class 
shopping value was 
forced down to a 
manufacturing value. 
At first thought it 
would seem that this 
would raise a storm 





“A vested interest cannot be 
asserted against it [the police 
power of a state] because of _— 
conditions once obtaining. To great contribution to 
so hold would preclude develop- 
ment and fix a city forever in 
its primitive conditions. There 
must be progress, and if in its 
march private interests are in 
the way, they must yield to the 
good of the community.” 
—From the decision of the United 

States Supreme Court, upholding 
the right of the City of An- 


geles to remove a manufacturing 
plant from a residential district. 


striving to do at an 
enormous cost. 
However, this pres- 
ent action of the Fifth 
Avenue people is a 


New York, because 
their plan is retroac- 
tive, whereas the plans 
of the Commission on 
Building Districts and 
Restrictions would ap- 
ply only to buildings 
which would be erected 
or altered in the future. 

Of course the ques- 
tion which immediately 
arises is about the con- 
stitutionality of dis- 








of protest. What has 
been the result? Out of thousands of let- 
ters which the Committee has received 
since this advertisement appeared, only one 
has been against it, and even the manufac- 
turers themselves are saying: “Why, of 
course we are glad to conduct our business 
downtown or over near the water-front, 
where rents are often only a quarter as 
much as they are in the Fifth Avenue dis- 
trict, if we can only find adequate buildings 
and your buyers will come down to our 
shops. We did not move up into the ex- 
pensive Fifth Avenue district from choice 
—just merely because we felt that you 
wanted us to.” , 
Another way in which this movement is 
working is that the big lending people, life 
insurance companies, savings banks, etc., 


tricting by legislation, 
and the chief uncer- 
tainty was the Fourteenth Amendment to 
the United States Constitution, about tak- 
ing a man’s property without due process 
of law. In that connection the following 
quotation from the opinion of Mr. Justice 
McKenna for the Supreme Court of the 
United States sustaining the opinion of the 
Supreme Court of California, in the case of 
J. C. Hadacheck vs. City of Los Angeles, 
is most illuminating. In this case the city 
of Los Angeles created residential districts 
which were not only designed to take care 
of future buildings, but which were actually 
retroactive, in that they put the factories 
and other buildings out of residential dis- 
tricts. In this particular case a brick yard 
had been doing business for fifteen years 
or more in this spot, when the city of Los 





_ 





ApriL, 1916 


Angeles compelled it to move out of a resi- 
dential district, despite the fact that the 
land was claimed to be worth $800,000 for 
brick-making purposes as against only $60,- 
ooo for residential purposes. 

Mr. Justice McKenna said, in the opinion 
of December 20, 1915: 


“We think the conclusion of the court is 
justified by the evidence and makes it unneces- 
sary to review the many cases cited by peti- 
tioner in which it is decided that the police 
power of a state cannot be arbitrarily exer- 
cised. The principle is familiar, but in any 
given case it must plainly appear to apply. It 
is to be rememtered that we are dealing with 
one of the most essential powers of govern- 
ment—one that is the least limitable. It may 
indeed, seem harsh in its exercise, usually is 
on some individual, but the imperative neces- 
sity for its existence precludes any limitation 
upon it when not exerted arbitrarily. A vested 
interest cannot be asserted against it because 
of conditions once obtaining. To so hold 
would preclude development and fix a city for- 
ever in its primitive conditions. There must 
be progress, and if in its march private inter- 
ests are in the way, they must yield to the 
good of the community. The logical result of 
petitioner’s contention would seem to be that a 
city could not be formed or enlarged against 
the resistance of an occupant of the ground, 
and that if it grows at all it can only grow as 
the environment of the occupations that are 
usually banished to the purlieus.” 


Is any stronger justification needed of 
control by the city of the development of 
private property in the interest of the com- 
munity as a whole? In the same connec- 
tion it is also interesting to read the opinion 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


333 


of the United States Supreme Court in an- 
other case, where the city of Little Rock, 
Ark., has put a long-established stable out 
of a residential district as created by city 
ordinance. Said Mr. Justice Pitney: 

“So long as the regulation in question is not 
shown to be. clearly unreasonable and arbi- 
trary, and operates uniformly upon all persons 
similarly situated in the particular district, the 
district itself not appearing to have been arbi- 
trarily selected, it cannot be judicially de- 
clared that there is a deprivation of property 
without due process of law, or a denial of the 
equal protection of the laws, within the mean- 
ing of the Fourteenth Amendment ” 

We are rapidly coming to recognize in 
building our cities and towns that, despite 
our fetich of the inviolateness of private 
property rights, it is poor policy to let every 
man develop his property just as he pleases. 
For so very often it is done in a way that 
not only is poor business for the owner him- 
self, but highly detrimental to all his neigh- 
bors. Or, again, an utterly selfish and 
grasping owner will go into a settled dis- 
trict and put up an entirely different sort 
of a building, that depends wholly for its 
light, air and attractiveness on what it 
steals from its surroundings. It is a para- 
site. Its value depends on the other build- 
ings remaining as they are. The moment 
the surrounding properties are developed 
like his, his value is gone. Districting 
would keep the vampire from sucking the 
life blood out of his neighbors. 





Port Newark Terminal 


ORT Newark Terminal received its 
first ocean cargo on March 18, this 
being a four-mast schooner load of 

mahogany from the Philippines. 

The citizens of Newark, N. J., have un- 
dertaken a project in the reclamation of its 
useless meadows which will not only give 
the city improved shipping facilities, but 
will provide an excellent location for new 
industries and an unusual opportunity for 
increasing the city’s commercial interests. 
Under a special act of the Legislature, the 
municipality was authorized to expend up- 
wards of $2,000,000 in the construction of 
the first unit. The work has been in prog- 
ress about two years and the first division 
was completed in October, the work having 
cost approximately $2,300,000. Of the total 


area—the 1,150 acres being acquired by the 
city of Newark—z200 acres have been filled 
in and improved, and are ready for occu- 
pancy. 

The work comprehended in the reclama- 
tion in this vicinity consists of filling in and 
improving more than 4,000 acres of tide 
marshland located on Newark Bay, which 
means the improving of ten miles of water- 
front along the bay. The plan includes 
a series of water channels extending into 
the marshlands for a distance of from 
half a mile to a mile, to provide for the 
future growth of industry, which will de- 
mand rail and water facilities for the ship- 
ment of freight. The plan also includes the 
building of piers 1,200 feet or more in 
length to accommodate ocean vessels. It 


ne penmecsiginartnate 


ee 











a 2. ee ee 


THE AMET 








BIRD’S-EY}I 


VIEW 
Pe 


O} 


\ 


> rt Ne 


howing the 
is intended that these piers shall be equipped 
with modern appliances for the handling 
and transfer of freight. Each pier will 
have double standard-gauge railroad tracks, 
on which electric traveling cranes will be 
operated. 

The work of constructing new arteries 
for travel from built-up sections of the city 
is being pushed rapidly to completion, and 
a municipal railroad, part of which is al- 
with the 
Pennsylvania, the New Jersey Central and 
the Lehigh Valley railroad systems, and un- 
doubtedly will later be extended to the Erie 
and Lackawanna Railways. 

The Board of Street and Water Commis 
sioners is now engaged in formulating def- 
inite arrangements under which leaseholds 
can be effected. The appointment of a Har- 
bor Supervisor is under consideration, that 
officer to have charge of the rental of sites. 

One of the reasons urged for making 
these extensive improvements is the fact 





ready constructed, will connect 














RICAN CITY 


Vor. XIV, No. 4 





AmatOsE <mammete 








CENTER 


(within the circle) 


GREAT MARITIME 


rminal section 


that the Newark zone comprises a natural 
land terminal of the continent. A large 
percentage of all transcontinental freight 
passes through the Newark zone, and in or 
der to reach New York and make deliveries 
of the material destined for export, on ar- 
rival at the shores of the Hudson it has 
been necessary to employ expensive floatage 
and lighterage service, involving enormous 
sums of money, greatly increasing the cost 
of service for the country at large. It is 
hoped that much of this expense will be 
saved through the facilities being provided. 

The entire plan was devised by City En- 
gineer Morris R. Sherrerd, with the assist 
ance of James C. Hallock, who, as engineer 
in charge, is carrying out the plans under 
the direction of the Board of Street and 
Water Commissioners. The latter is work- 
ing through the Department of Docks and 
Meadows, which was created by the city on 
January I, 1914, to execute the Board’s 
plans. 











City Planning for Industrial Development in 
Fall River 


By Walter B. Snow 


HE Quequechan River, along which 
many mills in Fall River, Mass., are 
located, has been allowed to decline 

to such a condition that the mills can make 
only partial use of the river and of the great 
storage capacity of the ponds. Further, 
the river itself has been polluted to such an 
extent that it is a nuisance and a menace 
to the welfare of the whole community. 
Although Fall River has an exceptionally 
favorable location for general manufactur- 
ing purposes, the limit of profitable mill de- 
velopment along the Quequechan under ex- 
isting conditions has been reached. To pro- 
mote further development of this section 
of Fall River, it has been recognized by the 
municipality that effective measures for the 


improvement of the stream should be tak« 
t once. 
\s the result of long agitati by the 


Chamber of Commerce of the city, the Stat 
Legislature in 1913 authorized Fall River 
to appoint the Watuppa Ponds and Que- 


quechan River Commission. This Commis- 
sion subsequently retained Messrs. Fay, 
Spofford and Thorndike, of Boston, as con- 
sulting engineers. As the result of their 


joint report, the city bids fair to accomplish 
some remarkable civic improvements. 


The report is unique it iny Ways, and 
contains the solution of a number of dif- 
ficulties which the city has long discussed 
For the first time complete figures of the 
ultimate cost of improving the Quequechan 








owt 


Re a 

















LOW WATER IN THE QUEQUECHAN RIVER, FALL RIVER, MASS 

















—— rr 


336 THE AMERICAN CITY Vor. XIV, No. 4 


























PLAN OF PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT OF QUEQUECHAN RIVER AT FALL RIVER, MASS. 


_ The three-level main conduit is shown coming from the Soot, Watenes Pond (down the center of the 
picture) to the Watuppa Dam, from which connections to the various mills along the river branch out on 
each side. The area of the flats to be filled in is shown on either side of the conduit 











River are set forth in this document. 

Owing to the lack of available storage 
and of efficient and proper regulation, the 
flow of the Quequechan River is to-day ex- 
tremely variable in amount. Under pres- 
ent arrangements, water is used for power 
purposes at two of the mills whenever the 
level of the South Pond remains within one 
foot of its full height. This height is main- 
tained as long as possible in the spring by 
drawing from the waters of two tributary 
ponds at this season, and thus the benefit 
of storing the water in these ponds for dry 
periods has been lost. 

Other nills along the stream use the 
water of the river for condensing purposes, 
consuming nearly thirty million gallons per 
day, and returning the heated water to the 
stream. During the dry months when the 
stream is low, the water in the river, and 
especially in the stagnant ponds covering 
the flats, becomes so heated from use over 
and over again in mill condensers, and so 
foul from sewage, mill wastes and debris 
which are thrown into it, that it is far from 
suitable for general mill uses. Shutdowns 
occur at various times during these periods 
of low water, due either to high tempera- 
ture of the supply or to its scarcity, or to 
the clogging of the mill intakes by debris 
and filth. 

The novel feature of the plan devised by 
Fay, Spofford & Thorndike is a three-level 
conduit to run from the Sand Bar to the 
Watuppa Dam. It has three distinct func- 
tions: The lowest channel carries cold 
water and is the foundation for the other 
canals; hot water from the condensers 
is returned to the pond in the upper chan- 
nel; the middle channel is used for sur- 
face or storm water from the adjacent 
slopes, and a separate sewer is installed 
alongside the cold water channel. 

With these proposed improvements the 
mills will have available a supply of clean, 
cold water, almost unlimited in extent. In 
designing this conduit allowance has been 
made for the future business growth of Fall 
River and the future needs of the existing 
mills. The conduit will supply from two 
and a half to three times as much water to 
the mills as they use to-day. The hot water 


\prIL, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 337 


returned to the pond will have th 
rated from it before it passes into the por dl 


4 


he engineers estimate the cost of con- 
struction at $2,600,000. This amount in 
cludes not only the cost of building the r 
quired conduits and their connections and 
controlling apparatus, but also the cost of 
all sewers and drains as well as the cost of 
filling in the entire area of the Quequechan 
flats. This figure does not include the items 
of damages and general expenses, but it is 
estimated that these will be offset twice 
over by the value of the filled flats remain- 
ing in the possession of the city when the 
project is completed. As a further reduc- 
tion, a part of the expense is assessable 
upon interests especially benefited by the 
undertaking. The net estimated expense 
to the city, therefore, is less than $1,250,000. 
Che usable land reclaimed from the pres- 
ent shallow submerged river banks includes 
about 146 acres, and is particularly suitable 
for manufacturing plants. It is expected 
that this new land will attract to Fall River 
industries of varying character, thus chang- 
ing somewhat the industrial complexion of 
the city from one in which practically 
everything is devoted to cotton manufac- 
turing. This would act as a sort of bal- 
ance wheel and make the city less depen- 
dent for its general prosperity upon the 
state of the cotton market. The improve- 
ment of the sanitary condition, so greatly 
needed, will benefit not only this particular 
locality, but the entire city as well. At the 
present time the river is an open sewer 
carrying sewage from thousands of people. 
It is only through good fortune that serious 
consequences have not resulted in the past. 

The execution of an enterprise of such 
magnitude as this, effecting the transform- 
ance of an unsightly and unsanitary district 
into one exceptionally well fitted for indus- 
trial and ‘civic development, will demon- 
strate the progressiveness and breadth of 
view of the city of Fall River. The report 
of the Commission is now in the hands of 
the City Council. In order that the entire 
plan may have sufficient consideration, it is 
very probable that the city government will 
delay final action on the project for some 
little time. 


SEATS GAR 














Ce ee ee ee 








Proposed Charter Amendments Relating to 
Water Charges and Water Meters 
in New York City 


NDER the direction of William Wil- 
liams, Commissioner, and Delos F. 
Wilcox, Deputy Commissioner, of 

the Department of Water Supply, Gas and 
f the City of New York, an 
intelligent and determined attempt has been 


lle ctricity ( 


made to remedy the very unsatisfactory 
conditions now existing as to water rates 
and meters in Greater New York. The De- 
partment has, however, been prevented 
from making substantial progress in this 
matter, owing to antiquated provisions in 
the city charter. 

lhe paternalistic interest of the rest of 
the state in the local affairs of the me- 
tropolis is well known. To many of our 
readers in home rule states, however, it will 
be something of a surprise to learn that the 
largest city in the United States has not the 
authority to install a water meter in one of 
its own public buildings without the per- 
mission of the State Legislature. 

In the hope that the lawmakers at Albany 
may be induced to grant to New York City 
not only this right, but also other needed 
reforms in relation to water charges and 
meters, the Department of Water Supply, 
Gas and Electricity has just drafted with 
great care a charter amendment bill for 
submission to the Legislature. The follow- 
ing memorandum has been prepared by the 
Department to accompany the bill. It is 
here published in full as revealing some of 
the curious handicaps to city progress which 
arise from lack of municipal home rule, and 
also as embodying clear statements of the 
advantages which New York City would 
derive from the universal metering of its 
water services: 


MEMORANDUM 

To ACCOMPANY BILL PROPOSED BY THE DePart- 
MENT OF WatTeR Suppty, GAS AND ELEc- 
TricITy OF THe City or New York To 
AMEND THE CHARTER OF GREATER NEW 
YORK IN RELATION TO WATER CHARGES AND 

WATER METERS. 
(a) Present Unsatisfactory Conditions as to 

Water Rates and Meters 

1. With the additional burden of the carry- 
ing charges on the Catskill investment about to 
be assumed, the municipal water-works, after 


making all possible economies in operation, 
will face a deficit for a number of years unless 
revenues can be increased. 

2. The city derives slightly more than half 
of its revenue from the sale of water by 
meter, though the amount so sold is less tha: 
27 per cent of the total amount of water con 
sumed, lost and wasted. 

3. Certain classes of residential buildings 
which, under existing conditions, the depart 
ment cannot meter, notably the large modern 
apartment houses, are escaping their just share 
of the cost of supplying water to the city. In 
most cases these buildings pay at frontage 
rates only from 30 to 40 per cent of what they 
would pay at regular meter rates. 

j. The frontage and fixture rates now ap 
plicable to residential premises are grossly 
discriminatory. They have no relation what 
ever to the amount of water actually used, and 
in the outlying sections where houses are de- 
tached and are of irregular and distinctive 
shapes, the frontage rates have little or no re- 
lation to the necessary or proper uses of water. 

5. At the present time there are tens of thou- 
sands of premises on the city service which are 
partly metered because they are partly occu- 
pied for business purposes. Under existing 
laws and ordinances there is a double charge 
m every one of these premises, as the entiré 
building pays frontage rates, while a portion 
of it also pays tor water by meter. 

6. The Commissioner has authority, in his 
discretion, to cause meters to be installed on 
business premises, but cannot cause them to 
be installed on residential premises, even the 
largest apartment houses, without the consent 
of the Board of Aldermen. Moreover, the 
Corporation Counsel is of the opinion that, 
under the present law, the Board of Aldermen, 
in granting such consent, could not classify 
residential premises, but would have to give 
its consent to all or none at one and the same 
time. 

7. The Commissioner has no authority to 
place and maintain meters on public buildings 
and exempt institutions, with the result that 
the department cannot with any degree of 
certainty make even a remote estimate of the 
amount of water consumed or wasted on 
“free” services and cannot adopt any adequate 
measures to check waste on such services. 

8. Under the present law the right to de- 
mand a meter is not given to a property owner 
in any case, yet he ought to have such right if 
meters are to be installed anywhere on similar 
premises. 

9. There are now some 13,000 meters in- 
stalled on residential premises without proper 
authority. Many of these were originally in- 
stalled in Richmond and Queens on private 
water company and village services later taken 














ApRIL, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 339 


wer by the city. Unless the department is 
given authority to extend the meter system, 
the use of these thousands of meters, most of 
which are maintained by the choice of the 
yroperty owners themselves, will have to be 
liscontinued, 

10. Two of the existing private water com 
vanies are fully metered, and if the city should 
take over their services there would be more 
than 20,000 additional meters already in ser- 
vice which could not lawfully be maintained 
nder present conditions. 

11. Under the present law it is impossible 
for the city to establish a service or minimum 
harge, which is an essential part of every 
rational schedule of meter rates. 

12. Under the present law, all costs of me- 
ters and their installation and maintenance 
nust be charged to the individual property 
»wners, and under present practices the me- 
ters are furnished and the repairs made by in 
lividual plumbers. Each installation or repair 
s a separate job, with the result that it often 
osts more to get a meter repaired than the 
price of a new meter, and the burden upon 
the property owners is thus unnecessarily 
great. 

13. Under the present system of private 
ownership, when a meter is removed for re- 
pair, the property owner does not have an 
other meter to take its place, and as a result 
there is a considerable period, sometimes sev 
eral months, when the water is not measured, 
and the amount consumed has to be guessed 
it in making up the meter charges 

14. The Commissioner has jurisdiction over 
private water companies serving some 400,000 
residents of the city. In some respects he 
alone has greater power over the rates and 
regulations of these companies than, acting in 
‘onjunction with all the other city authorities, 
he has over the city’s own water rates and 
regulations. The exercise of this authority 
is embarrassed by the fact that under existing 
conditions the department is powerless to es- 
tablish a scheme of rates on its own service 
which it could justly impose on the private 
companies. Consumers in private water terri 
tory petition for “city rates” without realiz- 
ing that the city rates as now established are 
so inequitable that the Commissioner cannot 
properly require a private water company to 
adopt them. 

15. The sale of water by meter with a proper 
schedule of service and minimum charges is 
the just and fair method of apportioning the 
‘ost of the municipal water-supply among 
those who receive the benefit. The extension 
of the meter system is inevitable not only for 
the development of the city’s revenues and 
the just distribution of burdens, but also for 
the curtailment of the waste of water. The 
effect of meters may be seen by a comparison 
of the amount of water supplied in Flatbush, 
with a population of about 95,000, and in New- 
town, with a population of about 150,000 
Flatbush pays frontage rates mainly, and it 
is estimated that in 1915 upwards of 120 gal 
lons of water per capita per day were pumped 
into the mains, while in Newtown, where 
meters are all but universal, the corresponding 





amount Was .5 g ~ 

nent las pract il I 

rope in the ext ‘ 

less it can get 2 elie \ 
the unanimous cons¢ t all the I 
ies It would ¢ Ipossible unas es t 
charter provisions to install meters es 
dential premises on any plan that w | re 
the full benefits f the meter syst 

the city or to the property owners 

(b) Pru ( ) 

I The dis r t ( P t 
install meters is extended f1 
only to all places conne 1 % ‘ 
water-sup ply. 

2. The department, with the approva t the 
Board of A Ide rmen, m ssume 1 K pense 
f furnishing, installing and g 
ters, thus changing the vste 


ownership to city ownership 


1 
3. The department, with the ‘ 
Board of Aldermen, is authorize 
meters now owned by the property wners 
and to assume the expense of ke: ng them in 
repair. 
+ The right to demand tl Pe ok eee 
i meter s extended t r ry < Ww rie 
( r ted \ th the ] \ é S 
5. [he city is autl ed estab! 
service ] ges 1 sii l 
aaa r 
nection witl e s etet 
6. The ce LED IE GRE a ’ : 
’ ‘ 
evenue from sé . —— 





~ The method of estimating tl ne ad 
water used while a meter is out of 1 r is 
made more elastic 

Q Certain minor changes re le whicl 
ire incidental to the sn th administration of 
the department under the new nditions 

) (,enera if ? Tt ’ ’ 
Becomes Law 

1. Until meters are installed n residential 
premises under the new plan, frontage rates 
will continue to be charged as now nd all 
rules, regulati ns and practices 1 \ n effect 
will continue until changed in the rderly 
working out of future plans made possible | 
this act 

2. The depaztment will sul to t RB d 
of Aldermen for approval a new schedule of 
rates affecting metered service This ~hedule 
will include an annual service charge t ver 
the average cost to the city of installing and 
maintaining meters and ar nnual minimum 
charge probably based on th ber of fami 
lies supplied through the same set e. under 





which the consumers will be entitled to an al 
lowance of water reasonably adequate for pure 
lv domestic consumpti without further pay 
ment. and a meter rate at which all water used 
wasted in excess of the minimut llowance 
must be paid f What the fi rates 
shall he is at tier ft he nall letermin ed 
ifter further study and consultation and after 
public hearings have been held he depart 
ment now has in mind to retain the present 
meter rate of Io cents per 100 bic feet | 
























~ ss 


nee 


340 THE AMERICAN CITY 


to establish a schedule of service or meter 
rental charges beginning with $3 per annum 
for the ordinary 5<-inch meter and a mini- 
mum charge of $6 per family, for which each 
family would be entitled to use or waste 125 
gallons of water per day without further pay- 
ment. 

3. The department will submit to the Board 
of Estimate and Apportionment for approval 
in connection with the budget estimates for 
1917 a plan for the establishment of a meter 
setting and repair division, the expenses of 
which will be paid out of a special fund to be 
replenished from time to time with the reve- 
nues derived from service charges. 

4. The department will submit to the Board 
of Aldermen for approval a standard design 
and specifications for a New York City meter 
to be purchased from time to time under com- 
petitive bidding at a price not to exceed a 
maximum approved by the Board 

5. The department will submit to the Board 
of Aldermen for approval a new set of rules 
and regulations relating to metered service, in- 
cluding a plan for the acquisition of privately 
owned meters now in service, of which there 
are about 100,000. This plan will probably 
set up a schedule of allowances based upon 
the size, type and length of service of the 
meters, and will provide for the assumption 
by the city of the meters and their future 
maintenance. The plan will probably provide 
for crediting the value of the meter in each 
case against future service charges imposed 
upon the premises. 

6. After the new rate schedule and the new 
rules have been approved, the new adminis- 
trative machinery for setting and repairing 
meters established, and the design and price 
of the New York Citv meter approved, the 
department will proceed in a systematic man- 
ner to extend the meter system as rapidly as 
conditions warrant and financial and adminis- 
trative limitations permit. beginning with the 
large apartment houses which are now mani- 
festly escaping their fair share of the cost of 
the water service. Meters would also be in- 
stalled in all new buildings hereafter con- 
nected with the public water-supply, and for 
simplification of administrative work all prem- 
ises now partly metered would be fully me- 
tered as rapidly as possible. The comnlete 
meterine of the citv under proper conditions 
will probably require not less than five years. 


(d) Objections Answered 

1. The general plan outlined under “c” is 
tentative and not final. and any obiections to 
snecified details should be reserved until the 
matter is pronerly before the denartment and 
the Board of Aldermen for consideration after 
the enabling act has been passed. This relates 
to the particular rates suggested, to the scheme 
for the purchase of meters, to the establish- 
ment of a standard meter for New York Citv 
and to the method of installing and repairing 
meters. Under the proposed act. all these 
matters will be left to local discretion. 

2. It may be objected that too great power 
is given to the Commissioner in authorizing 
him to put a meter on any service connected 


Vor. XIV, No. 4 


with the public water-supply without the ap- 
proval of any other local authority. This ob- 
jection is without force. The rates for me- 
tered water and the rules and regulations in 
regard to the use of meters will be approved 
by the Board of Aldermen. The meter itself 
is only a measure, and it is ridiculous in the 
highest degree that the Water Department 
does not now have untrammeled discretion to 
apply a measure to the use or waste of water 
on any premises. Moreover, the whole city 
cannot be metered economically all at once. 
Under the most favorable conditions several 
years will be required to bring about universal 
metering. It is necessary that the department 
should have discretion in order to carry out 
the metering policy according to a logical and 
economical plan. The provision that any 
property owner whose premises have not yet 
been reached may, if he feels aggrieved, de- 
mand that a meter be installed on his service 
forthwith, will obviate any danger of injustice 
in the exercise of the Commissioner’s discre- 
tion. The Board of Aldermen, whose consent 
is now required before the meter system can 
be extended to residential premises, cannot 
give its consent except for all residences. 

3. In the past there has been strong objec- 
tion to the extension of the meter system to 
tenement houses on the theory that meters 
would unduly curtail the use of water among 
the poor, and thus have bad social and sani- 
tary results. We are confident that this objec- 
tion has been greatly overstated, as the regular 
meter charge, one cent for seventy-five gal- 
lons of water, is too low to result in a material 
curtailment of the use of water for ordinary 
domestic purposes. What it would curtail ,is 
the waste of water, which readily mounts up 
to large quantities from small leaks that are 
going all the time. Nevertheless, to avoid the 
possibility of limiting the necessary and legiti- 
mate consumption of water, either through 
nressure from the landlords or otherwise, it 
is proposed to establish a minimum charge 
per family which will entitle the consumer to 
a quantity of water adequate for the normal 
domestic needs of all the families served 
through the meter. In fact. the proposed 
minimum allowance is much larger than the 
actual average consumption in tenement houses 
where there is no waste. As the minimum 
charge will have to be naid whether or not the 
water is used, there will be no motive for un- 
duly restricting its use. 

4. Against the extension of the meter sys- 
tem to residential premises some landlords 
will raise the old objection that as the depart- 
ment collects from the pronverty owner, dis- 
gruntled tenants under the meter svstem will 
seek to “get even” with their landlords bv 
wasting water. The extent to which this 
would be done, even if no nrecautions were 
taken to prevent it. is prohahlv erossly exag- 
gerated. But, at anv rate. the city must con- 
tinue to deal with the property owner, and it 
certainly has a right to insist upon his seeing 
that water is not wasted on his own premises, 
or else that he pay for it. Where the prop- 
erty owner wishes to charge each tenant for 
the actual amount of water used by him, this 














SOR i Dats al 


a a oR te 2 eae Mares. — 


aati 


\PRIL, I916 rH! \MEF 


o~ 


be done by sub-metet 


er entirely between land] 


which the department has not g 
necessary for the protection t the lar 
ls, an ordinance could be passed g 
isdemeanor for tenants wantonly to wa 
t¢ 

s. Some persons will say that ers é 
vy WwW ll reauc: the city S ne revenu 
gh the additional st ot 1 niste 
the eter system ind marti nt 1g r 
t 1 in the amount t water sed ‘ 
ent has made ireful estimates w 
v that many one two-far ses 
the outlying districts the straight tet 
ter rate would bring in less reve e tl 
established frontage rates, but the | 
sed minimum charge will protect th 

loss in all cases of very small cons 

Even then many property owners 1 
mewhat less, but only where the prese¢ 


tes are relatively high. On the ot 
e increase in revenue from large multip] 


family houses will much more than offset 
w! = . 1 
ssible reductions, leaving the ty 
iin of a very considerable sum | 
nal st arising out of the inst 
ntenance and inspection of meters 


et by the additional revenues deri 








Lower Electric Rates in Philadelphia 


By Judson C. Dickerman 


Consulting Engineer 


HEN in 1912 Morris L. Cooke be- 
came Director of the Department 
of Public Works, Philadelphia, he 
found the street lighting service of the 
city furnished at high prices by two cor- 
porations which evidenced no desire to 
compete. While 18,000 expensive gasolin 
lamps were in service, mostly in permanent 
locations, and 9.6-ampere open arcs of th 
type used twenty-five years ago were pro- 
vided, no incandescent street lamp Service 
was being supplied. 
In his efforts to decrease the cost 
increase the efficiency of the street ligh 


and 


ng, 
Director Cooke met with the more or less 
direct opposition of the corporations con- 
cerned. He found that, in order to obtain 
electric street lighting service on terms rea- 
sonably close to that enjoyed by other pro- 
gressive cities, it was necessary to investi- 
gate the financial and operating practices 
of the electric company. The creation of 
the Public Service Commission of Pennsyl- 
vania about this time offered an opportunity 
to determine in a large case whether rea- 


sonable rates and first-class service might 


active support of 


this end George 


W. Va., with no assista1 


make an approxin 
pany’s property. 

of reproduction less depreciat 
was approximate] 


securities outstane 








- tT] AMERICAN CITY Vor. XIV, No. 4 


! ( + ind 
n { lo! ‘ I ‘ il i b bl 
pronts Oo tne i investment rat ged be- 
tween 17 and 22 per cent a yé¢ 
Clayton \W ike, Chief of the lectrical 
burea es 1 th pring l « lence 
concer! c I rice 1 ‘ ght g 
th a i ( investme d operat 
gy cost Ss « la < 
‘ bette ( ( He \ tec 
rt Ra l’aline Oo hicago ind 
Otto M. Rau, « Milwaukes ederick \W 
Ballard, of Cleveland, furnished turther 
evidence of the excessive price at which the 
arc lamps were supplied to the ¢ nd of 
the possibilities of cheaper at etter set 
vice, and confirmed in some measure Mr 
Morse’s esti te of the pl bable total 
vestment, 
ludson CC, Dickerman furnished an anal 
vsis of the rate schedules of the Philadel 
phia Electric Company, showing wherein 
they were discriminating, and a compariso1 
of these rates with those in force in other 
large \merican cities, shown oy that Phila 
d Iph a rates were among the highest ror 


ill service except t the traction co npanic Be 

where the Philade Iph a rates were lowest 
Evidently this preliminary presentation 

was forceful and sufficient, for before it 


1 


Vas co! clude the Philade Iph a | lectric 


ompany offered to present to the Commis 
sion what it had previously declined to give 

namely, an inventory and appraisal of its 
properties, which it was having made by 
Prot LD) { Jackson, ot Boston lt Octo 


ber, 1915, this appraisal was presented by 


Prof. Jackson, claiming “a fair ue of 
property ot approximately $52,000,000. 
his appraisal was subjected to critical 
analysis by { layton W. Pike, | W. Ballard, 
Roy Husselman, Edward W. Bemis and 


Clyde L. King 

Dr. Ernest M. Patterson, of the Univer- 
sity of Pennsylvania, testified as to the 
financial history of the company, showing 
that on a most liberal basis the outstanding 
securities of the company of ovet $50,000, 
000 Tepre sented not over $30,00 10,000 actual 
investment in the property and business of 
the electric company, and that on this ex 
cessive capitalization Philadelphia co 
sumers had been paying annually nearly 
$1,000,000 more than a fair return Mr. 
Ballard presented an estimate based on the 
company's inventory, indicating that a re- 
production cost new in a plant properly de- 


signed to render the service given in Phila 
delphia would be approximately $23,000,00¢ 
lhe company presented testimony from 
many widely known experts in its support 


7 


sparing no expense in this matter. At the 
close of this testimony and before argu 
ment by counsel, the Philadelphia Electric 
Company offered a compromise to end th 
proceeding, which compromise was ac 
~ pted by Mr. Cooke and his associates, as 
it provided for a readjustment of rates s 
that the gross income of the company would 
be diminished approximately $1,050,000 as 
of the year 1915. The maximum ordinat 
rate will be 9 cents per kilowatt hour, but 
is quickly reduced to 7 cents, so that the 
average consumer will have an average rat 
not in excess of 8 cents per kilowatt hour. 
rhis compromise, subject to the approva 
of the Public Service Commission, will 
volve, therefore, a sav ing to the consumers 


based on probable business for 1916 of 


nearly $1,250,000. It wil 


1 mean a reduc 
tion in the cost to the city for street lamps 
of at least $10 per lamp, and a rebate o1 
the city’s bills for 1915 and part of 191( 
of approximately $175,000. It will mea 
lowering of rates charged to small and m« 
dium-sized consumers, the elimination « 
the difference in charge between direct 
current and alternating current service, 
reconstruction and simplification of the rat 
schedules, and definite and considerable in 
provements in the plant and organization of 
the company to meet the new conditions 

rhe settlement of this first very impor 
tant case brought before the Public Servic« 
Commission of Pennsylvania with such fa 
vorable results to the public will have a 
important bearing on all other utility ques 
tions of similar character in this state. Th 
Public Service Commission is now recog 
nized as a positive and efficient instrument 
by which justice and fair dealings in public 
utility questions may be brought about, and 
long drawn out contests involving larg« 
expense on both sides may possibly be 
largely eliminated. 

The Philadelphia Electric Company has 
set an example to the other utility corpora 
tions in recognizing, even though tardily, 
the reasonableness of a complainant's de 
mands for adequate lowering of rates and 


improvements in service. It would appear 
that a new era of readjustment without bit- 
terness, but involving marked benefits both 
to the public and the corporations, is opened. 








ope ie 











| A Comparison of Municipal Indebtedness 





BONDED DEBT, PRINCIPAL CITIES December 31, 1915. 





Litigation Avoided in Bath Water-Works Case 


ONG and costly litigation has beer or 
avoided and a precedent has been set point 


by the city of Bath, Me.., the ma res 
ner in which it has acquired the wat 
works System formerly owned by the Maine 45,01 
Water Company. By mutual agreement be he 
tween the Bath Water District and the tal 
company, the question of price was referred hey 
to two engineers as arbitrators, with power prec 
to choose a third arbitrator. Mr. Frederic = goin; 
H. Fay, of Fay, Spofford & Thorndike \t 


consulting engineers of Boston, represented 
the Water District, and Mr. William B 


(setchell, of Augusta, Me.. represented the that the 
water company. These two « ngineers welt tor 

able to reach a satisfactory agreement chises | 
promptly without the necessity of calling with th 


in a third arbitrator. 
rhe trustees of the Water District and 
the Maine Water Company first agreed to 


submit the question of reproduction cost 


vatet 


the physical plant, depreciation an 


rights to the engineers on both sides $53 








: 
;, 
{ 
4 
2 
i 
ft 
- i 
“ 
) 
q " 
| 
iH 
; 








344 


Chambers of Commerce and Public Utilities 


Popular Handling of Technical Studies, as Illustrated by a Recent Investigation of 
the Street Car Service of Reading, Pa. 


By Sherrard Ewing 


Secretary, Reading Chamber of Commerce; Secretary, Pennsylvania Housing and Town 
Planning Association 


PITTSBURGHER with a waggish 

turn ot mind, commenting one time 

on a survey whose editor claimed 
that the published findings “made a_ blue- 
print’ of conditions, insisted that instead 
they “made a black-and-blue print.” Per- 
haps the awakening of public consciousness 
resulting from certain attacks on social 
conditions is compensation for the unde- 
sirable effects of a “black-and-blue print”! 

Chamber of commerce studies of public 
utilities, however, when designed to be 
effective, are on a “work-with” basis, and 
are not planned as an “attack” or “ex- 
posure.” An illustration of the “work 
with” method is given by a recent booklet 
which includes “A Study of Reading Street 
Car Service, by John P. Fox, and Preceding 
Reports of the Transportation Committee 
of the Chamber of Commerce, Reading, 
Pa.” This report—not only in its printe 
form, but in the preparatory studies, the 
work of compilation and the ultimate pub- 
licity—evidences an honest purpose to really 
make a “blue-print’’; to recite the good 
points with the bad; to make criticisms con- 
structive ; and to deal with facts rather than 
opinions, 

Surveys, reports, studies and investiga- 
tions have been aimed at public service cor- 
porations large and small. Too often the 
modicum of advancement secured has not 
been commensurate with the effort ex- 
pended. By one class of such efforts, the 
public has been aroused momentarily to 
fever pitch by sensational publicity of state- 
ments, either exaggerated or impossible to 
substantiate, followed by a resulting re- 
action of the public mind to an apathy more 
profound than ever. Sympathy is aroused 
and real faults are condoned if a man or a 
corporation is attacked with apparent bit- 
terness. In another class of reports fall the 
abortive efforts of groups of honest-minded 
men who have no appreciation of the neces- 
sity of preliminary preparation and culti- 


vation of the public mind or of the reason 
for eventually handling technical material 
in a way interesting and informative to 
newspaper readers. They generally fail, 
also, to plan effective follow-up measures 
once the report is issued. When these met 

find their carefully determined facts hav 

made scarce a ripple on the public con 

sciousness, they blame the press for lack oi 
cooperation. 

Many studies of public utility services, 
then, have been wasted effort because of 
violation of one or all of the factors of 
effectiveness in report writing. These may 
be summarized in brief thus: 

(1) Inquiry with an open mind void of 
personal animus; 

(2) Confidence of the public and, if pos- 
sible, of the corporation officials in the in- 
vestigators’ honesty of purpose; P 

(3) Long cultivation and preparation of 
the public mind on the subject and on the 
attitude and scope of the proposed study ; 

(4) Collating of material in a form in- 
teresting and quickly grasped by the aver- 
age reader; 

(5) Proper preparation for newspapers; 

(6) Effective follow-up methods to se- 
cure results. 

Perhaps the most important factor in a 
report's weight and effectiveness is the men- 
tal attitude of the committee or other body 
doing the work. This attitude has a vital 
influence also upon the second factor, viz.: 
outside confidence in the effort’s honesty of 
purpose. A committee may approach the 
task in hand with bitterness and a determi- 
nation to “expose,” or it may plan to “white- 
wash”—although the latter attitude, some- 
times charged by demagogues, is practically 
unknown in chamber of commerce activi- 
ties. Another attitude, almost equally un- 
fortunate, is failure to realize that hard 
work must be done; that a mass of facts 
must be digested; and that material must be 
carefully collated. 


ae a 





a 














9 onimotas 


Pina mint 








\pRIL, 1916 THE AMERI 


Choosing the Committee 

\ppointment of the personnel of a com 
mittee, the first step taken, will indicate the 
probable measure of outside confidence in 
its future work. The public, for whose 
enefit the labor is undertaken, is as ready 
as are officials of the corporation concerned, 
to suspect an ulterior motive. For some 
unknown reason the man inexperienced in 
organization work has a conviction that a 
railroad official will be an ideal appointment 
to a committee charged with a study of 
trafic matters; or an insurance man to in- 
vestigate fire insurance rates; or a transit 
company head to report on needed street car 
improvements. In fact, some organizations 
follow this practice. 

There is a time-honored saying to the 
effect that a man has some difficulty in serv- 
ing two masters. It would appear a logical 
deduction that a committeeman, however 
honest his intention, when asked to quarrel 
with his bread and butter will prove a mem- 
ber of little value. His trend of thought has 
been that of the representative of a corpora- 
tion, not of the public. More important than 
the effect on a committee of such a mem 
ber’s presence is the impression conveyed 
to the mind of the man on the street. He 
will naturally doubt the sincerity of a com 
mittee constituted so as to give the corpora- 
tion to be studied representation “on the 
inside.” Such expert knowledge can be 
made available to the committee more wise- 
ly by frequent conferences with officials and 
by the employment of competent assistance. 

In the Reading instance, the choice of 
committeemen was peculiarly fortunate 
since—a too rare combination—they are men 
of standing who were willing to work. All 
are free from suspicion of domination by the 
street car interests. The personnel includes 
a manufacturer, a lawyer, and representa- 
tives of a wholesale hardware house, an in- 
surance company, a grocery and a bank. 

The committee, as expected, commanded 
public confidence and the respect of officials 
of the public utility studied. Frequent con- 
ferences with company officers convinced 
them that the purpose of the proposed study 
was constructive, and resulted in each side 
meeting the other half-way in the spirit of 
“Let’s get together and hammer this out.” 

Calling in an expert too early is perhaps 
the most frequent mistake made by well-in 
tentioned committees. The problem seem 
so enshrouded by technical details that a 


Law CiTt® 


Ommitteeman tfteeis the 
1:99.32 , 
SAlLieCd advisor! Oo be 1 peratl 


1] , 
at ali are to De 


In Reading the | mittes 

tion plugged away fc é 

lohn P. Fox, of N \ 

\\ | what loss ( g \1 
committee | ¢ i | 
ar matters Succes ts 
ind prepared the C oT 
vinced it of the rness é 
ttitude. An essential work was 
sible therefore the { 





A Summary for Newspaper Use 


A ne wspaper Story, it properly dratted 
summarizes the contents in the first para- 
graph. An interesting and particularly val 
uable feature of the Reading report is tha 
the volume of 100 pages has bee Imost 
brutally summarized to less than three 
printed pages under the sub-headings “Re- 
cent Improvements,” “Important  Criti- 
cisms” and “Important Recommendations.” 
The summary was ideal for newspaper use, 
but all the city’s papers, because of the 
months of preparatory publicity, printed in 
addition large sections of the body of the 
report on successive days The work of 
summarizing was done as part of the work 
of preparation of the report and was there- 
fore in accord with its intent loo often a 
voluminous work is turned over to the ten- 
der mercies of a hurried newspaper man 
for him to “boil down” as his time and pa- 


tience dictate. 

Organizations, civic and charitable, an 
even churches, are sometimes found that 
work harder to advance thems« 
forward the very purpose of their establish- 


Ives than to 


ment. So the means become in a measure 
the end. Generally a committee with a re 


port printed has the satisfactory feeling of 


g 
a work well done instead of the inspiration 
of a work well started. In Reading the 
‘ommittee called a meeting only ew days 
after its findings were published to giv 


public opportunity to the president of the 
street car company to reply to the criti 
‘isms. Announcement was made that the 
committee would make further studies on 


the lines opened up by the report 


Warnings from Experience 
The steps followed fot er a vear in 


Reading in the effort for improved street 








AMER 


PCAN C 


ITY Vor. XIV, No. 4 



































r service off thing pa ove 3-—Do not employ an expert until c 4 
it are r offering efinit itteemen have gone as far as possible ; 
ethod of procedure to secure results. Ex 4.—Do not keep the public in ignorance of | 
perience sets the follow irnings each step. 
long the f f st g util 5.—Do not expect the public to interest 
es tself in a technical treatise 
1.—Do not a int committeemen with 6.—Do not expect busy newspaper men t 
elfish interest in the subject summarize satisfactorily 
Do not begin with the id f fighting 7.—Do not think the work is over whe 
exposing the report is published 
. 7 | . 
Removing Sidewalk Encroachments in Albany 
By Warren Wheaton 
IDEWALK croachments | ad Public Works to see that the almos 
quate methods of elimination have gotten ordinance was strictly enforce 
ee! problem to mat ties plan Since neglect of the regulations against 
ning municipal beautification This prol encroachments had been permitted for s 
. em the city of Albany, N. \ satisfac- eral years, merchants incurred some in 
| torily working out venience when apprised of the fact that the 
\bout three years ago cit oritic rdinance must be lived up to. Summar 
ivic Improvement associatiot taxpay- action had to be taken in some cases 
| ers inaugurated a campaign for the removal thers business men cooperated with th 
from the sidewalks of encroachments pr ‘ity in its attempt at beautifying. Several 
jecting over 18 inches from buildings. This firms on the principal business street of th 
agitation was directed to the business se city spent hundreds of dollars in fixing uy 
{ tions of the city here is a general ordi their store fronts to conform with the pro- 
nance on the city’s statute books covering visions of the regulations 
this hindrance to traffic and civic beauty Within the last few months that part o¢ 
| ut it had been permitted to become largely the general law which confined show wi 
a dead-letter measure New streets and dows, store fronts, canopies, etc., to a pro- 
sidewalks were about to be laid in the busi jection of not more than 18 inches over any 
| ness section, so the late Mayor James B sidewalk has been revoked by an amend 
ni McEwan directed the Commissioner of ment to the city’s building code which 
| =< 
if ~ 
A | 
a | 
| 
‘| 
} 
a | 
H ‘ 
i FTER THE REMOVAL OF THE CANOPY : 
fF STOOP 
ne | 








a iad 























STORE FRONTS ON SOUTH PEARL STREI 


REMOVAL OF THE SIDEWALK ENCROACHMEN 


makes the extension distance 12 inches 
Perhaps one of the most noteworthy 
changes in the general aspect of one of 
\lbany’s main streets is the removal of a 
canopy that projected across the entire 
width of the sidewalk in front of a theatre 
on South Pearl Street. An otherwise fair- 
ly wide sidewalk was spoiled by this canopy, 
electric light poles and a stoop that ex 
tended nearly half the width of the walk 


lr, ALBANY, BEFORE AND AFTER THI 


J 


The result of enforcing the encroachment 
ordinance in this particular case is readil 
seen in an accompanying cut Che whol 
appearance of the street is changed 


How store fronts underwent a change for 
the better and how the looks of So ith Pearl 
Street were improved can be seen in other 
pictures here reproduced. The improve 
ment made by removing wide door-steps 


and a basement entrance is evident 












345 

















SSS 


A a 
& 


Fost OF7ICe 





{ 
‘iy 
im | 
; 
: : 
a 
i | 
| | “ 
7 : A property loss estimated at $14, . resulted from the conflagration in Paris, Texas, on March 21 
f : Mayor Ed. H. McCuiston telegraphs T: \M can Crty We have provided a city plan and realize that 
i) . 
] the present calamity opens to us a most excelle opportunity to use it wisely. Our loss is largely due to the 
: prevalence of wood shingles” 
; 
be 
} 
fi 


Ruins Left by the Conflagration in Paris, Texas 








Mbabane 

















REAL ESTATE SUBDIVISIONS 





349 


is | 


15 ee 


An Industrial Town in Northern Ontario 


By Arthur P. Melton 
Assoc. M. Am. Soc. C. E. 


FEW years ago it was not customary 
A for industrial concerns to give much 

thought to the development of town 
sites in connection with new plants. ‘hey 
built the plant and some “company houses,” 
while real estate men subdivided some of 
the outlying property and possibly built 
some cheap houses. We all know this type 
of town—ugly rows of cheap, unsanitary 
and unsightly houses, each row built from 
a stock plan; a few dingy corner saloons, 
the clubhouses of the workingmen; a few 
low-class stores and markets; unpaved 
streets, garbage- and paper-strewn alleys, 
and a general air of dejection and poverty. 


For those unfortunates to whom destiny 
has assigned such a place to be born and 
raised in or as a habitation in later life, the 
continuous effect of such depressing en- 
vironment—with its lack of beauty, refine- 
ment, culture, healthful pleasures and ideals 
—can but result in a lower moral and men- 
tal standard and in less efficient physical ca 
pacity. 

Heads of great industries realize to-day 
that, to obtain the fullest results, efficient 
men, as well as up-to-date-machinery, are 
necessary; and to keep their men efficient 
they give much attention to providing pleas- 
ant surroundings and other influences neces- 














pagerer< 


350 THE AMERICAN CITY 


sary to the development and contentment of 
their employes. 

In planning the town of lroquois Falls, 
Ontario, for the Abitibi Power & Paper 
Company, Ltd., the writer found Mr. F. H. 
Anson, president of the company, as deeply 
interested in the details of the town site as 
in the construction of the great pulp and 
paper mills, which were then nearing com- 
pletion. 

The town site is beautifully situated in 
a right-angle bend of the river, on a rolling 
plateau having an elevation of 125 to 150 
feet above the river, the plateau being in- 
dented in various places by short and deep 
ravines, two of which extend back about 
one-half mile from the river. The soil is 
clay, with ledges of trap rock outcropping 
in a few places. 

The town has no near neighbors, so what- 
ever pleasures and diversions the people 
have must be at home. A _ population of 
about 2,500 or 3,000 is expected, as about 
500 men will be employed in the plant and 
some 2,000 in the woods; the latter, how- 
ever, making their headquarters elsewhere 
for the most part. 

The controlling features of the plat of 
the first subdivision of Iroquois Falls are 
the railroad, with the government highway 
alongside, and the edges of the plateau. 

A number of rectangular blocks were 
laid out adjacent to the railroad for busi- 
ness purposes. A small park forming a 
sort of civic center and sufficient in size to 
contain the city hall, post office, library and 
Y. M. C,. A. or other club building was laid 
out adjacent to the railroad and the business 
district, the idea being that some of the 
high-class buildings, such as the theater, 
hank and hotel, will front on this park. A 
small park is also provided at the end of the 
railroad, which, with the other, furnishes a 
screen between the residence and business 
portions of town. The arrangement of 
these details will give a very pleasing first 
impression to passengers alighting from 
trains. 

The school site contains about nine acres. 
It is intended that the school grounds shall 
he the public playgrounds and athletic park 
for adults as well as children. It is planned, 
also, that the school gymnasia and audi- 
torium be open to the public at all times 
when not being used for school work. Part 
of the school grounds is set aside for chil- 
dren’s gardens, the idea being to give the 
children actual experience in growing such 


Vor. XIV, No. 4 


products as may be propagated in that far 
north climate and at the same time foster an 
interest in agriculture. 

The school grounds as shown on plat 
merge into a large park, which includes two 
branches of a deep ravine that forms the 
boundaries of the school grounds proper. 

In laying out the streets, a drive named 
Hillcrest Road was laid cut around the edge 
of the plateau, following closely a certain 
elevation. Interior streets were then laid 
out approximating in principle the gridiron 
plan, but being curved to the general di- 
rection of contour lines, so that the rec- 
tangular effect is lost. Where possible all 
streets terminated in the heads of the va- 
rious small ravines at the edge of the pla- 
teau, thus furnishing a dumping place for 
all surplus material excavated and at the 
same time enabling more ground to be used 
for building purposes. Street grades were 
established so that the sidewalk would be 
slightly lower than the general property 
grade, to provide proper slope from the 
house to sidewalk, the average cut being 
from one to two feet in the paved portion 
of the street. In the same manner as the 
streets were curved to conform to the 
topography, were the grades adjusted to 
conform to the surface of the ground, all 
changes in grade being connected by ver- 
tical curves. It was attempted to keep all 
grades under seven per cent, although in a 
couple of instances it was found necessary 
to exceed this. 

Nothing out of the ordinary was at- 
tempted in the way of improvements, all 
streets being of macadam with combined 
curbs and gutters and with 5-foot walks. 
Residence streets were planned 24 feet be- 
tween curbs, and business streets 36 and 40 
feet. Macadam stone and gravel are ob- 
tainable within a short distance, while other 
materials would have to be shipped 500 
miles or more. Sewers are all collected into 
one 24-inch outlet which discharges into the 
river helow the town. They are constructed 
of vitrified tile and have more than ample 
fall in all cases. 

The water supply is taken from the 
Abitibi River above the town, and will be 
treated by means of a coagulating and pres- 
sure filter installation. The severe climate 
requires that all water pines have at least 
seven-feet cover. The company will fur- 
nish electricity for domestic and _ street 
lighting. All sewers, water pipes and poles 
are placed in alleys wherever possible. 














Se ene ee en ee 




















GATEWAYS OF STEEL AND STONE, WHICH OPEN UPON PLEASANT DRIVEWAYS 


STATELY ROWS OF TREES, OR 


SHRUBS AND 


ALLURING VISTAS OF FLOWERS 


FOUNTAINS” 


Ornamental Street Entrance Designs for 
Suburban Districts 


By Thomas J. Davis 


[ is the common experience of those en 
gaged in home decoration and civic 
adornment to discover that the beauti 

ful home and the beautiful city do not lie 
far apart. They perceive that the indi- 
vidual building of private ownership and 
the municipal structure are not separate 
architectural entities, but that each is a part 
of the other in a truly vital sense; they un- 
derstand that anything which adds to the 
appearance of either enhances the beauty of 
both; and they know that the really beau- 
tiful city is an artistic whole to the glory 
of which every building therein contributes 


its share. Moreover, it is a frequent oc- 
currence for some feature of home archi 
tecture that lends itself to more general 
treatment than is possible in a _ private 
dwelling to be seized upon by municipal 
architects and developed into a distinctively 
public structure. 


Street Entrances in Southern California 
An interesting example of this tendency 
is seen in the ornamental street entrance 
designs that. have found favor in recent 
years in various parts of the country, espe 
cially in the cities of southern California. 
One of the attractive features of country 


estates and extensive private urban grounds 
always has been their entrances—gateways 
of steel and stone, of more or less elaborate 
design, which open upon pleasant drive 
ways, stately rows of trees, or alluring vis 


tas of flowers, shrubs and fountains. Simi 
lar gates have also added to the attractive 
ness of cemeteries, parks and other semi 
public grounds, and have lent charm to resi 
dence courts, squares and places whos« 
ven to public travel although 


streets are oj 


the title thereto remains vested in the own 
rs of the abutting property. And fron 
the use of entrance gates on these streets, 
where individual and collective ownership 
meet, It is but a short step to the adoptio1 
of similar structures for public thorough 
fares that have been dedicated to general 
use. Moreover, in thus evolving out of 
feature of home decoration into an impor 
tant factor in municipal adornment, th 
street entrance has gained 1 S1z¢ ul 
claborateness, and has developed 
those lines that best adapt it to the purpos« 
it is called upon to serve. 

The California entrances, photographs 
if some of the most popular of which are 
hown herewith, owe their origin to thr 


separate interests: that of the real estat 














352 THE AMERICAN CITY 


promoter, of the individual property owner, 
and of the general public. They have been 
erected, for the most part, in the fashion 
able subdivisions that have been platted 
and opened for building during the past 
four or five years. The promoters of these 
enterprises, seeking to make their property 
as attractive as possible to the prospective 
purchaser, and not content with providing 
sidewalks, paved streets, and, in many 
cases, retaining walls and steps for indi 
vidual lots, have constructed at both ends 
of the streets traversing their tracts en 
trances which not only are beautiful in 
themselves, but also give to the entire tract 
that air of exclusiveness and privacy which 
characterizes the private villa. 

This appeal has not been lost upon dis- 
criminating home-builders, who are at 
tracted by the beauty and dignity of the 
entrance designs, and who, although they 
understand that the streets are public prop- 
erty, are pleased to reside in a district that 
is set off architecturally from the rest of 
the city by such artistic and distinctive 
structures. And while they who make up 
the general public may smile at the patent 
efforts of the real estate dealer to make 
his ware attractive, and at the desire of the 
home-builder for aloofness and exclusive- 
ness, they rejoice in every legitimate at 
tempt to add to the beauty of their city, 
and approve the erection of these street 
entrances, undisturbed by the fact that in 


VoL. XIV, No. 4 


so doing they are indulging one of the pet 
foibles of man. 


Wide Variety of Design 

Public street entrance designs permit of 
considerable variety in size and style. They 
vary from simple square stone columns or 
concrete pillars set on one or both sides of 
the street to regular two-story buildings, 
whose size and elaborateness are limited 
only by the width of the street, the amount 
of available funds, and the architect's sense 
of appropriateness. The simplest designs 
consist of two pairs of columns, one smaller 
than the other, the former being set just 
outside the sidewalks and the latter in the 
parking between the sidewalks and the 
street. On top of these are placed orna- 
mental stone designs, electric lights, or 
flower urns, and sometimes connecting steel 
arches span the streets or both the streets 
and the sidewalks. Occasionally the en- 
trance is a low concrete wall or fence built 
upon the street curbs and ending in orna- 
mental street lamp posts. 

The more pretentious entrances, how- 
ever, usually belong to one or two widely 
differing types: the tower entrance or the 
portico entrance. The former of these is 
a square, tower-like building with solid 
walls, Roman arches, and heavy tile roofs. 
Sometimes it is a two-story structure with 
spiral stairs leading to the tops of the cor- 
ner towers, and an enclosed passageway 




















“LIMITED IN ELABORATENESS ONLY BY THE WIDTH OF THE STREET, THE AMOUNT OF 
AVAILABLE FUNDS, AND THE ARCHITECT’S SENSE OF APPROPRIATENESS” 








—— THE AMERICAN CITY 




















THE USE OF COBBLESTONES FOR MARKERS 
































TWO DESIGNS IN WHICH CEMENT BLOCKS ARE USED 











THE AMERICAN CITY 





ACKING THE RIGID DESIGN OF THE TOWER BUILDINGS, THESE NEED NOT BE SET 


SOUARI ACROSS THE STRI BUT MAY BE ADAPTED TO THE CURVATURE 
O! | t.ANCE AND TO THI OPOGRAPHY OF THE ADJOINING LAND” 
xt ower t ( Ss 1 graceful and facile beauty to which the 


reet : lly, in the middl more solid structures cannot attain. 
these passage OTs Open upo 
from which one mav obtan in @ The Setting 
view of the entire tract and the \n important feature of every entrance 
unding country esign is the background. As an artistic 
portico entrances are lighter ore ile of stone and steel, it would be beauti 
| struc é th Cor col l, to be sure, if erected in the middle of 
is-relieft triezes and Grecian arches desert or on the edge of a forest; but its 
the 1 design of the tower eauty is enhanced and its attractiveness 
es, thes it be set squarel creased by an appropriate setting of trees 
the street it may be adapted to the hrubs and flowers. When judgment and 
iture of the entrance and to the to iste are used in the choice and arrang: 
pography of the adjoining land; so that rent of these, they harmonize with the en 
from within and from without the tract the trance design and carry the gaze and in 
rance frequently presents entirely dif terest of the beholder on to the other build 
fronts. By reason of this mobility ings in the tract. In some of the most 
le, the portico entrances lack much ffective combinations, smilax and other 
austerity—but none of the dignity mbitious vines climb up the corners of the 
tower entrances, while they possess entrance and spread over the broad sut 








“TOWER-LIKE STRUCTURES, WITH SOLID WALLS AND HEAVY TILE ROOFS” 











ns ee 





[eee 6. « 


- 

















\prIL, 1916 THE AMI 
faces of its sides; the as- 
piring ivy twines itself 
around the slender col- 


umns and creeps along the 
stony crevices, from pillar 
to pillar and from arch to 
arch: guava trees, laven- 
der bushes and_ slender 
evergreens cluster around 


the 


liotrope and white myrtle 


base; geraniums, he- 


smile from their boxes, 
urns and baskets: dusty 
miller, sword fern and 


hoxwood hedges line the 
sidewalks or spread their 
wings around the corners 





of the entrance itself; 
and, finally, in the middl A sti 
of the parking, from en- 
trance to entrance through the entire tract, 


stretch rows of sturdy acacias, graceful 
eucalyptus, friendly pepper trees and stately 
nature 
hand in the scheme, and then, beyond the 
farthest the the 


smiling sides of a friendly hill or the purpk 


palms. Sometimes herself takes 


entrance, vista ends in 
rim of distant mountains. 


An Effect of Unity 


It is a rather curious fact—for which 
many interesting explanations have been 
offered—that where the street entrances 


have been constructed prior to the erection 
of any buildings in the tract, the residences 
like each 


the en 


subsequently erected not only are 
but 
trances themselves. 


also are reminiscent of 
There 


other, 
may be a dis 
— 





LS anaes 


RI ( 


AN CITY 














A COBBLESTONE REST-ROOM MARKER IN 


~ at we 
i 
MARKER I) 18) 
tinct and definit Ss ce t ( the 
structures, or there i e ol 1 vague 
undefinable suggestion of one in tl ther 
but the likeness is so unmistakable that the 
sidences and entrances seem t ‘ ed 
o each other artistically, and all se« | 
parts of one architectural whok her tha 
unconnected and isolated buil os ‘ 
ure, there has bes 10 conscious ¢ ! 
the part of the ers to attain this t 
impression, and oO econcerted it 
ity of plans, other tl i the Cc 
restrictions fixed by the promot < f the 
tract; nor has there been at rchitec i 
plagiarism or avish copying of « g1 
and yet the buildings reveal that ess 
amid unlikeness, that semblance among 
differences, th oneness 11 iri¢ which 
“ ne Soul true 
vorks On } 
same thee is that 11 
dividual b ing is som 
es Sa to h ( ici I 
cte ind to ¢ é at 
nosphere ‘ { 
its¢ 1 tl est 1 ~ 
domin d chitec ill 
bv ornamental street « 
trance designs vhich 
were d I ed Tigi ill 
tron one ot he i 1Sti 
features of the ho ( 
beaut may be said t 
possess individuality an 
to contribute the Ow 
eECI r qualities t th 
i ospher iti 
GLENDALE, CAL. city 














Negro Segregation by Initiative Election 


in St. 


Louis 


By Roger N. Baldwin 
Secretary, Civic League, St. Louis, Mo. 


HE first popular vote by use of the 
ry initiative under the new St. Louis 
city charter, and the first popular 
vote in the United States on negro segrega- 
tion, resulted in adopting the segregation 
ordinance by a three-to-one vote on Feb- 
ruary 29. Seventy thousand voters, one- 
half of the total registered, cast their bal- 
lots. Of the eighteen thousand votes cast 
against segregation, about nine thousand 
were those of negroes. The only white 
wards which voted against it were two in 
the downtown district inhabited by citizens 
of foreign birth. 

The election marked the end of a six- 
year fight led by small property owners and 
real estate dealers, to secure the segregation 
of the races. Every attempt to get the 
city’s legislative body to pass such an or- 
dinance has failed. The advocates of segre- 
gation were among the foremost supporters 
of the initiative and referendum amendment 
to the old charter and the direct-legislation 
features of the new. It has been the con- 
sensus of opinion all along that negro segre- 
gation would be one of the first propositions 
submitted under direct legislation. 

The ordinances were not vigorously op- 
posed because it was apparent from the 
start that it would be almost impossible to 
make much headway against almost uni- 


versal race prejudice and the interests oi 
small property owners. However, a strong 
citizens’ committee of one hundred was 
formed, composed of leading white men who 
believed segregation a violation of Ameri- 
can principles. The Post-Dispatch was vig- 
orous in its opposition, but the other daily 
papers either let the subject as much alone 
as they could or were inclined to favor it 
in their news columns. The leading Repub- 
lican organ made no editorial mention of 
the issue at all, and the local Republican 
party failed to oppose it actively. The So- 
cialist party and the entire foreign press 
were unanimously against the ordinance. 
Although the churches were appealed to, 
very few ministers took any stand. 

Much prejudice against the negro had 
doubtless been aroused by the long run of 
the “Birth of a Nation,” which was shown 
only a few months ago. 

One definite result of value was the test- 
ing of the initiative clause of the charter in 
the Supreme Court of the state, which up- 
held its validity. The segregation ordi- 
nances will be taken into the courts at the 
first opportunity, and, together with the 
Louisville ordinance and those in litigation 
elsewhere, will be carried to the United 
States Supreme Court. 





Teaching Physics to Children in the Grades 


By Ray F. Myers 
Teacher of Physics, Emerson School, Gary, Ind. 


bb T child is a natural scientist,” 
says Mr. William Wirt, Super- 

intendent of Schools, of Gary, 

Ind. Yet few people have any idea what 
11- and 12-year-old children actually can 
accomplish with real laboratory privileges. 
Seventh grade children have the investi- 
gating spirit at its keenest, and the work in 
physics, one hour a day for thirteen weeks, 
is planned to appeal to this spirit of in- 
quiry, as well as to give a foundation for 
more advanced work in the ninth and 


eleventh years of the school life. 
Twenty-five experiments make up the 
course of study. Only two of them can 
be described, but I wish those educators 
who are still reserving all their science for 
the high school years could see the younger 
children using the sling psychrometer and 
hygrometric chart, measuring tapes and 
animometers, with the dexterity of high 
school children, and with more interest. 
The first experiment has to do with the 
ventilation of a given school room. Fol- 








APRIL, 1916 
lowing are the data which the class obtains: 

The topics are divided into six groups: 
1-6, 7-9, 10-13, 14-19, 20-22 and 23-25. 
Phen the class of thirty is divided into six 
sections, and each section goes after the 
data to which it has been assigned, some 
going out of doors, others to the fan room, 
others to the classroom which is being 
tested. In forty-five minutes all are ready 
to report. The class then meets in the lab- 
oratory, and data are exchanged so that 
each child has a complete record at the end 
of the hour. Unsanitary conditions and 
recommendations for changes are talked 
over. 

The conclusion of the experiment is the 
preparation of three finished reports, one 
to go to the principal, another to the engi- 
neer, and the third to the school physician. 
It is an hour of hard work, but the boys 
and girls know they have done something 
worth while. 

The second experiment has to do with 
water, gas and electric meters. 

We first made arrangements with the 
parents of four boys living near the school, 
and on the day the Gary Heat, Light & 
Water Company had the meters read we 
began our work. We divided into five sec- 
tions and in sixty minutes each section had 
read the meters in the school plant and each 
of the meters in the four homes. Every 
student whose home was not one of the 
four kept a record of the home meter in 
addition. The reading was repeated on one 
day of each week till the end of the month. 
Then when the meters were again read by 
the company, we computed our results and 
were ready to check them with the com- 
pany’s bills. 

The children record the data in this way: 


fom khmer 


PHYSICS 


News eles ton! Recelr ZE Location of Meters 221 hewrgca Me 


THE AMERICAN 





Giry 357 
PHYSICS DEPARTMENT 
Ventilation Data 

School E ageo* PL 
Date 242-15Room2/O Period FS -IC 
Weather _ ( dd, A ain 
Direction of wind Arreoer Filo hhiureal 
T ature outdoors; Wet bulb 4G" Dry bulb * 
h j ty itd ys per cent 
I maa 
Temperature in fan room. Wet bulb 62° Dry bulb 73 
Relat lit om 60 per cent 
Te vutside room window 3 ‘ 
Tem perat rmometer PP te 
Temper meter Wet bulb& 2’ Dry bulb | aed 
Hu y in room. 3... per cent 
Length of romZ2 St. Width2d He 7 
Fl cert A og. A. ¢ ts EVM. cu. fr 
oO nis in room PH Contents per occupant 
Windows: No.5. Length J .. Width &.. Area /2C 
Ratio of window space te floor space £5 
Windows, doors, transom. open or closed? Cuca. 
Air Supplied. 
tion 1 deff corre. vity in ft. per m /4O 
» Oil comune 420 
; Centar 260 
5 Wepre Bh cover 2PO0 
; Left 370 
Averag 2794 
Average velocity times area of opening... (4 70 
Air supplied per occupant 6/ 
t. Air pa ne 9 
sition ay ty in ft. per mir Z0C 
2/0 
300 
 YpeGitcornes 4/0 
soft 320 
Average... 29F 
Average velocity times area of opening f Q Pe 
», Number of occupants permitted in this room “2 


REQUIRED BY STATE LAW 
Floor space 15 sq. ft. per occupant, 
pant. 


Contents 225 cu.ft. per occ 
Air supply 30 cu. ft. per occupant. Ratio of window space to 
tloor space, one-sirth. Relative humidity betwe 
Room tempe rature 65 to 68 


Alumedi ly Too hugh Fe 
see a Ltt Ioc Aare 


en 40 and 50 per cent 


aph 


ade SA2 


If space permitted, I 
should be tempted to tell 
about the work of the 




















a" — | = | Amount | “a Fa _ gsr — the 

ee ee a Pores automobile, a neighboring 

1 a |_* «|g 0 | lo. wll ¥hg a ice plant, and a dozen 
650} 6 | I30 | sd  ol4y7z3 | other topics. It is i 
re a an 1¥3 0 | 11 1£¥o 4 P dh is their 
174m |1a» |1%__ [4s pa Uy 7 eagerness and fine curios- 
a"; ar oo | ' ity which make the teach- 
—!_____ ota $F 000 fe | Lites ing of science to seventh 


BF __0 cu. tt. of gas at $1.00 per 1000 co. ft. $ Fa2Z lees 10 per 


oa » i grade children—and even 
06 gala, of water at $25 per 1000 gal._L.ct0iens 10 per cont J. 2% to fifth grade children—a 
\3._Kw hours of Elect. st $.09 per Kw. hr.cl.@Ziess 10 per contd /, $6 


T 


never-ending satisfaction. 




















358 


Municipal Responsibility and Food Supply 


By Emerson P. Harris 


its duty to us citizens in the matter 

of food supply by such negative 
function as is involved in more or less ade- 
quate inspection of food materials and 
regulation of the sanitary conditions under 
which foods are distributed ? 

Even a superficial inquiry reveals the 
fact that free and unregulated competition 
fails to answer the question of efficient pur- 
veying of foods. In practically every mu- 
nicipality competition brings about, or at 
least permits, several times as many food 
stores as are required to perform the ser- 
vice, with a multiplication of overhead ex- 
pense budgets, accordingly. In very few 
municipalities are there single dealers or a 
number of dealers with sufficient efficiency 
and courage to so concentrate the business 
of food supply as to more nearly approxi- 
mate economy. So it comes to pass that the 
function of purveying foods in different 
cities and towns costs all the way from, 
say, 20 per cent to 40 per cent gross profit 
paid to retailer and wholesaler. 

For example, the Bureau of Industrial 
Statistics of New Jersey reports that a cer- 
tain bill of staple foodstuffs, including fifty 
articles of daily use, costs $11.60 in Cali- 
forn and $17.51 in Rutherford. Here is 
the enormous difference of 50.1 per cent 
between the cost of living in one town and 
another town of the same state. Perhaps 
it would not be far wrong to guess that the 
local cost of retail distribution (with de- 
livery) is 25 per cent of the retail price, 
and that another 10 per cent of the retail 
price is paid to wholesalers; so that the cost 
to get food products from the importer, 
broker or manufacturer to the consumer is 
around 35 per cent of the retail price. 

Of course, this varies greatly if we are 
to consider anything less than the total 
foods consumed. For instance, a big tea 
peddling concern has just had its operation 
audited for the purposes of incorporation, 
and it is found that coffee which—with 
trading stamp premiums, etc.—cost the con- 
sumer 35 cents a pound, cost the retailing 
concern less than 16 cents a pound, and 
gave the company a net profit of 18 per 
cent on a turnover of $8,184,548. 


De the municipality fully discharge 


While the average town pays nearly 25 
per cent to have its foodstuffs served, it is 
possible to have this work performed at 
much less cost and to bring about a corre- 
sponding reduction in the cost of living. 
For instance, a store in Tuxedo Park, New 
York, owned by a group of citizens, dis- 
tributes $300,000 worth of goods at a cost 
to the consumer of 15% per cent, including 
delivery and the soliciting of nearly all the 
orders at the home. This economical ser- 
vice, which is also efficient, is probably 
brought about by the fact that the Tuxedo 
Club permits but one food distributing store 
in the town, thus avoiding duplication of 
expense for such matters as rent, delivery, 
etc. 

In Providence, R. I., the Providence 
»ublic Market Company, a private concern, 
distributes $7,000,000 worth of foods per 
year at a cost to the consumer (that is, a 
gross profit) of 18 per cent. This con- 
cern, buying in such enormous quantities, 
probably buys within 2 per cent as low as 
any wholesale concern can buy; thus, the, 
consumers of this $7,000,000 worth of food 
supplies pay a total profit—for wholesaling 
and retailing—of probably not exceeding 
20 per cent. 

This store, by the way, is conducted in 
the spirit of a publicly owned institution: 
whenever the net profits to the four owners 
exceed 2 per cent, prices are reduced. 

Now, if municipalities could exert a con- 
structive influence to determine whether 
the citizen should pay 40 per cent or 20 per 
cent for his food supply service, results 
might be brought about which would make 
possible savings in taxes look insignificant. 

There is another reason for inquiring 
whether the municipality can take any prac- 
tical steps in this matter, and that is the 
rapid growth of chain stores, which is by 
many regarded as a serious menace; for 
these companies, owning numerous stores 
in many localities, have much of the po- 
tency of a verv obnoxious monopoly. 

What can the municipality do? There 
are one or two steps which seem clear. In 
the first place, if the inspection of foods 
would include, not only purity and sanitary 
conditions, but prices, it would be a great 











Arrit, 1916 THE 





Reference is made to budget prices— 
that is, a list of foods making up a balanced 
and normal ration could be investigated, 
and stores reported as to the prices of this 


gain. 


budget. This, to avoid the confusion which 
now leads to the deception of housewives. 

It is a well-settled policy for certain kinds 
of stores to make a low price on what are 
“leaders,"—articles which 





called every 
woman knows the value of,—put these arti- 
cles in the window and mark them conspic- 
uously to create the impression that other 
prices are as low accordingly, whereas the 
rest of the stock is largely of unknown 
brands which pay the dealer a liberal profit. 
lhis public inspection on the budget plan 
would indicate who the dealers are who 
really sell at reasonable prices, and tend to 
eliminate the ones who do not, and thus 


AMERICAN 





Cie 


359 


the of the 
sumers of the town. 

To go comprehensively into the matter of 
food supply, however, a town should un- 
doubtedly take up the question of building 


terminals and cold storage warehouses, and 


reduce expense burden con 


then either by a system of inspection (as 
above referred to) or by giving license to 
dealers only on the condition of selling at 
a certain margin of profit, insure that the 
food supply shall be distributed with such 
economy as to make reasonable prices pos- 
sible. 
those who wished to join in codperative 
buying, would undoubtedly mean a reduc- 
tion in the cost of living to the average 
community of not less than 10 per cent. 
One thing is certain, the present chaotic 
condition is wasteful, unwise and unneces- 


Such licensing, with opportunity for 


sary. 








Health Messages to the People 








Upon the Stage of Household Health 
Be a Star Performer 


Wo Unhealthy Dampness. Summer &Winter. Cold. Feet 


STWARD THE Star of EMPIRE TAKES ITS WAY” 
WAS SAID BY SOMEONE OF A BY-GONE DAY, 
But Loox! tHe Star of HouseHoip HEALTH IS NEAR 





eatin Ct Wan 





TWO OF THE CARDS WHICH ARE 


Pure Food = sunshine 
Shelter 





Health 


Cleanli - 
ness 




















TO SHED ITS LIGHT UPON YOUR HOME, RIGHT HERE. 
Gert ates orm 





BEING 
DEPARTMENT 


each for these five necessities 
ith clean hand and clear head 
Man! and if need be clinch 
fist and fight for them. 


Signed by tw Coren AD 












DISTRIBUTED BY 
HEALTH 


THE CHICAGO 


OF 




















News and Ideas for Commercial and 
Civic Organizations 








A Survey of Benevolent Asso- 

ciations 

Youncstown, Outo.—The first step in 
the plan of the Youngstown Chamber of 
Commerce to assume supervision over the 
charitable agencies in Youngstown has been 
taken in the survey which was recently 
made of those agencies through the Cham- 
ber's Committee on Benevolent Associa- 
tions. The survey determined the societies 
which could safely be endorsed, and recom- 
mendations were made for coordinating the 
several agencies for the benefit of the com- 
munity. Meantime, the members of the 
Chamber of Commerce will be protected 
from unnecessary annoyance through the 
plan of requiring all benevolent and elee- 
mosynary institutions to obtain its endorse- 
ment before soliciting funds for their spe- 
cial objects. 

The committee's report is spread upon the 
pages of one of the recent issues of the 
Chamber's weekly bulletin Youngstown, 
and occupies nearly the entire issue. The 
names of the associations approved by the 
committee are listed and a brief description 
of each is given, including a mention of the 
income and expenses, the equipment, and 
the objects for which each is organized. 
The report also contains a tabulated state- 
ment showing the value of the property of 
each organization, the amount of its endow- 
ment fund, the income from the endowment, 
the beneficiaries, and the amount of the con- 
tributions. 

The requirements which must be met by 
the societies in order to earn the endorse- 
ment of the Youngstown Chamber are as 
follows: 


1. The organization shall have a_ responsible. and 
satisfactory management. Its administrative commit- 
tee or board of managers shall meet at least four times 
a pow. 

The organization shall be doing a local work 
Bk. value a commensurate with the amount of 


mone 
3. The org or den shall agree to codperate with 
ine charitable institutions in preventing nena 
of effort and in promoting efficiency and econom 
% in the charities of the city, as a w ole. 
. If a new organization, it shall fill a need not al- 





ready well filled or not capable of being so filled by an 
—a organization, 

1 funds shall be collected according to methods 
approved by this committee. (lhe committee is op- 
posed to the raising of money through entertainments 
promoted by professional promoters, or entertainments 
where the expenses are disproportionate to the receipts, 
and will refuse to endorse a charity that pays an ex- 
cessive percentage to collectors.) 

6. The organization shall keep regular books of ac- 
count, open to inspection by a representative of the 
committee, and shall publisn and file with this com- 
mittee an annual report a’ an account of all 
moneys received and expended. li the organization is 
not publishing an annual report, it shall agree to do 
so at the end of the current fiscal year. 

7. The organization shall agree hereafter to have all 
accounts audited annually by accountants approved 
by the committee, where this is not now being done, 
and shall file a copy of the auditor’s report with this 
committee. 


Four societies had not, at the time of 
making the report, agreed to all of those 
requirements. Their names are mentioned 
among the “not endorsed,” and, as in the 
first group, an outline of the activities, 
equipment and resources of each is given. 

The Chamber of Commerce desires all 
the endorsed agencies to feel that they are” 
working under a standing committee which 
is glad to consider suggestions for broader 
usefulness and which will listen to well- 
grounded complaints not based upon petty 
jealousy or personalities. And the Cham- 
ber desires each society to feel that it is 
playing a part in the unified work for the 
betterment of social conditions in Youngs- 
town. 

The survey was conducted under the per- 
sonal direction of Mrs. Edith M. Cruise, of 
Kansas City, Mo., who has had wide ex- 
perience in such work. 


ROBERT WADSWORTH, 
Secretary, Youngstown Chamber of Commerce. 


+ + 
Library Week 


To.epo, Onro.— The week beginning 
Wednesday, March 1, was Library Week in 
Toledo. That period was set aside by the 
Library Committee of the Commerce Club 
for the purpose of stimulating a more lively 
interest in good literature and to help in- 
crease the circulation of library books at 
the several branches of the Public Library. 
Many people, it was discovered, were un- 











Aprit, 1916 


aware that the library is a free institution; 
many thought that some form of guarantee 
must be given in taking out a library card, 
and others thought that only a certain class 
of people were allowed in the livrary. 

‘Lhe committee had spent several months, 
meeting weekly, devising ways of making 
the library more active, hence no avenue ot 
publicity was overlooked in the actual cam- 
paign. The daily newspapers published gra- 
tuitously each day during the week articles 
containing news items about the library, 
which had been prepared by the committee- 
men. There being three papers, eighteen 
such articles were written and published. 
An effective advertisement was placed in 
all the papers. 

The proprietors of the moving picture 
theaters were induced to cooperate. Slides 
were used in their performances bearing 
such slogans as “Learn More, Earn More,” 
“A Book for Every Reader—A Reader for 
Every Book,” and many others. On the 
fronts of the street cars appeared placards 
bearing the forceful announcement, “The 
Fool Never Learns. The Average Man 
Learns from his own Experience. The 
Wise Man from the Experience of Others.” 
Every laundry package upon being opened 
disclosed a polite request to use the Public 
Library to “Learn More and Earn More.” 
Twenty thousand of such messages were 
sent out in various ways during the week. 

Store windows in different parts of the 
city contained appropriate displays, inform- 
ing the public of the new Carnegie branch 
libraries which were soon to be erected in 
the city. The windows of one of the sav- 
ings and trust companies in a prominent 
section, where thousands of people pass 
daily, were decorated with attractive signs 
reading, “Are you going to build this 
spring? The Library has books which will 
tell you how.” 

A small, six-page folder was gotten out, 
with a picture on the front page and the ad- 
monition to “Know all there is to know 
about your job,” containing inside a story 
entitled “Why Smith Kept His Job.” 

The Superintendent of Schools had one 
thousand of these pamphlets distributed to 
the teachers, who in turn told the story to 
their pupils. The children who are influ- 
enced in this way to visit the Public Library 
will be shown on those visits how easily the 
library may be used. The Sunday news- 
papers contained an article on the chil- 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


361 


dren's story hour and about many interest- 
ing branches of the library work. The 
churches of all denominations helped to 
make the week a success, announcements 
being made from the pulp.ts calling atten- 
tion to the Public Library, and leaflets be- 
ing distributed through the congregations. 

In addition to this publicity, a room was 
taken in one of the largest office buildings in 
the city and an attractive display was ar- 
ranged there, including a stock of library 
books. A number of employes from the 
Public Library were kept busy making out 
library cards for business men and any one 
who happened in. 


; W. A, PHELPS 
Secretary, Publicity and Convention Department, The 
Toledo Commerce Club. 


+ + 
One Year’s Work and Plans 


Hamitton, On1to.—A few of the sub- 
stantial accomplishments of the Hamilton 
Chamber of Commerce during 1915 are 
noted herewith. 

In consequence of the persistent effort of 
the Chamber's Good Roads Committee, 
Butler County will soon possess a system 
of model highways. At a conference held 
on December 30 among representative citi- 
zens from all parts of the county, including 
the county commissioners and road authori- 
ties and the State Highway Commissioner, 
it was decided to provide funds to the 
amount of $175,000 a year for the recon- 
struction of the county’s road system. The 
state will provide more than $50,000 for 
this purpose in 1916 and about $37,000 
in succeeding years. It is believed that in 
less than five years the roads of Butler 
County can be brought to a high state of 
perfection under the program adopted. 

Through the efforts of the Chamber, 
Hamilton and Butler County have been 
placed on the route of the Dixie Highway. 

The Committee on Industrial Education 
succeeded in August last in prevailing upon 
the Board of Education and the authorities 
of Hamilton High School to present a four- 
year cooperative part-time industrial course 
and thus inaugurate a system of vocational 
training in Hamilton. This course is cer- 
tain to have a highly beneficial effect on the 
industrial life of the city and to open a field 
of educational opportunity to many ambi- 
tious boys who are now forced to leave 
school at an early period. 

A city beautification campaign was or- 















































} 
i | 
i 


362 THE AMERICAN CITY 


ganized in December which marks the 
opening of the most important effort in 
behalf of civic beauty in the history ot 
Hamilton, Sixty-four Hamilton organiza- 
tions responded to the call of the Chamber 
for the endorsement of this movement and 
for cooperation in carrying it through. | he 
plans of the committee are comprehensive 
and the possibilities for public good in the 
movement are very wide. 

The Chambers Agricultural Committee 
is endeavoring to substantiaiiy increase the 
wheat yield o1 the county. A series of an- 
nual seed wheat prize contests for the chil- 
dren of butler County was initiated las, 
year. It is noped through the continuation 
of these contests to develop a_ sufficien: 
amount of selected seed wheat to provide 
for the entire requirements of Butler 
County. 

C. R. GREER, 


S.cretary, Hamilton Chamber of Commerce. 


+ + 
A Road Bond Issue 


Str. Louis, Mo.—The approval of a three- 
million-dollar road bond issued by St. Louis 
County, on February 15, makes possible the 
development of the so-called Outer Park 
and Boulevard System advocated since 1907 
by the Civic League of St. Louis. The 
movement has had a rocky career for nine 
years, with obstacles thrown in its way by 
the Legislature, the Supreme Court and city 
officials. The movement was once defeated 
in a popular election, largely because of the 
feeling that the city would be taxed for the 
benefit of the county, from which the city 
is entirely separate. 

While the voting of the bonds will not 
make possible the purchase of the scenic 
reservations contemplated in the original 
plan, it will at least provide boulevards and 
highways connecting the city and suburban 
towns with the chief scenic areas on the 
three rivers which bound the county. The 
county is planning to employ an expert road 
engineer who will conceive the plan in the 
spirit of city planning. 


ROGER N. BALDWIN, 
Secretary, Civic League of St. Louis. 


+ + 
A Civic Song for Grand Rapids 


Granp Rapips, Micn.—The contest for 
the Grand Rapids civic song closed on Jan- 
uary 1. The prize was won by Mr. E. M. 
Standish, who is a bookkeeper in the office 


Vor. XIV, No. 4 


of Swift & Company, Grand Rapids. The 
words appear below: 


With faith as simple as a child, 
Midway of our beloved land, 
Our fathers cleft the wooded wild 
To build a city on the Grand. 
Foursquare her ample lines were laid— 
Firm faith in God; in brawn and mind; 
A patriot zeal, ofttimes displayed ; 
Benevolence to all mankind! 


We hail thee, City of our Pride! 
Fruition of our fathers’ dream. 
Strength, purpose, will, in thee abide, 
To guide thy bark against the stream. 
We see thee in thy day of power, 
All kingly in thy chosen field, 
And pray the future hold no hour 
When lust or greed cause thee to yield. 


Lead on, Grand Rapids, on, and on! 
Beneath yon starry waving flag, 
Fair symbol of the rising dawn 
That flashes light from crag to crag. 
Lead on in commerce, learning, art. 
Walk with the giants; ‘tis thy right. 
Thy sons and daughters claim a part 
In every test of civic might. 


O God, to whose all-sovereign will, 
To-day, as in the favored past, 
We hold our title subject still, 
Grant us Thy grace unto the last. 
May past achievements lead the way 
To all the higher things we feel; 
The sun of Progress shed a ray 
Whose glory is our nation’s weal. 


A prize of $100 in gold has been offered 
to the person who will write the best musical 
setting for the words. The prize offer will 
be given nation-wide publicity, and when 
the musical composition is decided upon, an 
effort will be made to have the Common 
Council adopt both the poem and the music 


as the official civic hymn for Grand Rapids. 


W._K. PLUMB, 
Secretary, Grand Rapids Association of Commerce. 


+ + 


Opposed to Free Lighterage 

Newark, N. J.—The Newark Board of 
Trade contends that northern New Jersey 
has sustained a continuous loss in its de- 
velopment because of the discrimination 
which has been made against the natural 
land terminal facilities on the New Jersey 
shore in the granting of free lighterage 
privileges. Such privileges are enjoyed at 
the water-fronts in Brooklyn, Long Island 
City, The Bronx, Yonkers and Staten 
Island. While they have greatly added to 
the valuations of property at those places, 
they have worked very much to the disad- 








ApriL, 1916 THE 
vantage of Newark and points north, which 
have the same transportaticn rate from all 
cities west and south as New York, but do 
not participate in the lighterage privilege. 
Besides, northern New Jersey, including 
Newark, pays three cents more than the 
New York rate to or from New England 
points, and it is felt that this section of 
New Jersey is entitled rather to a rate three 
cents lower than that of New York harbor 
points, since it does not share in the lighter- 
age service of freight from the West and 
the South. 

New Jersey residents desire the same op- 
portunity to develop the water-frontage on 
the Hudson, Newark Bay and Kill-von- 
Kull that is afforded on the New York 
water-front, and the matter is to be brought 
before the Interstate Commerce Commis- 
sion in a test case at an early date, through 
the efforts of the Newark Board of Trade. 

It is estimated that it will cost $25,000 to 
carry through this test case. That sum is 
heing raised through a Joint Ways and 
Means Committee appointed by Governor 
Fielder, which has secured the codperation 
of all the cities of northern New Jersey in 
a plan to have the amount pro-rated among 
them. 

TAMES M. REILLY, 


S-cretary, Newark Board of Trade 


+ ¢ 


Letter-Writing Week to Stimulate 
Tourist Travel 


PortLAND, Ore.—If the expectations of 
the Portland Chamber of Commerce are re- 
alized, there will be many tourists in Ore- 
gon this summer. During the week of Janu- 
ary 13 to 22 all Oregon participated in send- 
ing invitations to residents of other states to 
spend their 1916 vacations in Oregon. That 
period was proclaimed “letter-writing week” 
by the Governor, at the suggestion of the 
Portland Chamber of Commerce, in an ef- 
fort to induce the traveling public to visit 
the state this year. It is thought that more 
than a million such invitations were mailed 
In all of these, reference was made to the 
Columbia River Highway, Rainier National 
Park, Crater Lake, the Marble Halls, and 
the joys of the great pine woods of the 
Northwest, not omitting the Rose Festival 
which will take place in Portland next June. 
A monster letter-box was built in front of 
the post office in Portland, and each day at 
noon, as the whistles blew and the bands 


AMERICAN CITY 


363 


played on the streets, school children and 
the members of civic organizations by the 
hundreds deposited their letters in the box 
MARK WOODRUI 


Secretary, Bureau of Publicity and Conventions, ie 
land Chamber of Commerce 
+ + 
An Information Booth for Summer 
Tourists 
Dututu, Minn.—The Duluth Commer- 
cial Club operates an information booth 


every summer from June 15 to Septem- 
ber 15 on the corner of Fifth Avenue West 
and Superior Street. This is a prominent 
corner which is passed by nearly every one 
arriving in the city by train or boat, and 
about 25,000 inquiries are made during that 
period each year. A young man, supplied 
with information on every subject concern 
ing the city, is placed in charge. Literature 
of the Commercial Club, railroad folders 
and other material of general local interest 
are distributed from the booth. A directory 
of rooms available for transients is kept for 
the benefit of tourists, who are put in touch 
with the proprietors. No charge for the 
service is made to either party. 

The Commercial Club has had erected at 
each of the three railroad stations in the 
city a large gold-lettered sign directing 
travelers’ attention to this summer informa- 
tion booth, and inviting them to call at the 
rooms of the Commercial Club at all times 
during the year. 


GEORGE D. McCARTHY 
Assistant Secretary, Commercial Club of Duluth 


+ + 


Home Demonstrator 

AsHEVILLE, N. C.—Through the efforts 
of the Asheville Board of Trade, a fund of 
$500 has heen raised, matching a similar 
amount appropriated by the State Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, with which to employ 
a woman home demonstrator and canning 
club expert. Miss Allie Rymer, of this 
county, who has had several years’ expe- 
rience in the State Normal School at Troy, 
Ala., and in home demonstration work, has 
been appointed agent for Buncombe County, 
effective March 11. 

On the day of her appointment Miss Ry- 
mer consulted fourteen principals of high 
schools in the county, who pledged their 


hearty cooperation. On the following 


Monday and Tuesday she organized girls’ 
clubs in the high schools at Grace and West 





a 















































364 THE AMERICAN CITY 


Asheville, with 31 and 43 young women 
enrolled in them respectively. 

The appointment of a home demonstrator 
for Buncombe County is considered quite 
a step forward for the county, and is an 
achievement of which the Board of Trade 
is proud. 


N. BUCKNER, 
Secretary, Asheville Board of Trade. 


++ 
* They Say ” 


Peoria, I_t.—At the recent annual meet- 
ing of the Peoria Association of Commerce 
the following original lines were recited by 
Mr. Eugene Brown, a member of the Board 
of Directors: 

THEY SAY 
(And you know who “They” are) 
We oft hear it said that the town’s goin’ back 
That nobody's boostin’, an’ business is slack. 
Say, boys, are you boostin’ at all for your city? 
If not, come around and get on a committee. 


They say we must try and get up a big boom, 

And get lots of factories while there is room 

Well, maybe they're right, but it’s really a pity 

They don’t come around and get on a com- 
mittee. 


They say that the programs are boresome and 
slow, 

The music is rotten, and also the show. 

But, say! Can they whistle, or just sing a 
ditty? 

If so, let them come and get on a committee. 


WILLIS EVANS, 
Executive Secretary, Peoria Association of 
Commerce. 
+ 


Sacramento Adopts Scientific 
City Plan 


SACRAMENTO, CaLt.—On February 24 the 
City Commission of Sacramento adopted by 
unanimous vote the preliminary city plan 
prepared by Dr. John Nolen, of Cambridge, 
Mass. This action of the Commission 
marked the culmination of three years of 
earnest effort on the part of a group of 
citizens organized by the Chamber of Com- 
merce of Sacramento. 

Prior to the campaign inaugurated by 
the Chamber in the interest of city plan- 
ning, Dr. Nolen was employed by the park 
committee of that organization to prepare 
plans for the development of Del Paso 
Park. This park consists of a beautiful 
tract on the old Haggin Grant, and con- 
tains over 800 acres. At that time so little 
was known regarding city planning and 
park development that the Chamber of 





Vor. XIV, No. 4 


Commerce with difficulty induced the City 
Trustees to accept the plans without ex- 
pense to the city. For educational pur- 
poses, committees of the Chamber of Com- 
merce financed visits and investigations by 
Charles Mulford Robinson and Dr. Wer- 
ner Hegemann, each of whom made a brief 
survey of the city and left written sugges- 
tions giving their views on the develop- 
ment that Sacramento should take and on 
the possibilities for scientific city planning. 
Another branch of city planning—name- 
ly, housing—was then taken up and a par- 
tial housing survey made of the city with 
the view to impressing upon the people the 
importance of this branch of the work. 
Sufficient interest had been aroused by 
that time to create a committee of 150 citi- 
zens, divided into fifteen sub-committees 
and embracing every branch of city plan- 
ning. This committee finally induced the 
City Commission to employ Dr. John Nolen 
to draw for Sacramento a complete city 
plan embracing every phase of the work. 
When the preliminary plans were pre- 
sented a few months ago, the usual oppo- 
sition was made by those who did not un- 
derstand city planning, and who said that 
the plans were impossible and impracticable. 
Fortune favored the movement, however, 
in a somewhat novel way. It so happened 
that a great deal of the City Commission’s 
time had been taken up during the past 
vear in deciding controversies between 
home owners and those who wished to 
locate various industries, from a blacksmith 
shop and garage to a big oil plant. The 
members of the Commission had been so 
harassed in connection with this work that 
it finally dawned upon them that they could 
rid themselves of such unseemly contro- 
versies by adopting a city plan, definitely 
locating, as it does, manufacturing zones of 
various characters and also residential dis- 
tricts. The property owners who happened 
to be protesting at this crucial moment 
with respect to the location of an asphalt 
plant were quick to seize the opportunity 
to turn their influence towards the accept- 
ance by the Commission of the city plan, 
which was done without a dissenting vote. 
This action by the City Commission made 
it impossible to locate the particular indus- 
try under discussion adjacent to one of the 
finest residential sections in the capitol city. 


S. GLEN ANDRUS, 
Secretary-Manager, Chamber of Commerce of 
Sacramento. 





THE 


1916 


AMERICAN C 


ITY 


265 
A Permanent Industrial Welfare surance Company, of New York | 
Exhibition \cross the end ot th exhil 1t10n h i 
Detroit, Micu.—A permanent industrial ‘™@"sparent display showing the various 
welfare exhibition has been installed in the vays in which this large insurance c 
building of the Detroit Board of Commerce pany provides for the welfare of its ¢ 
the Industrial Welfare Bureau of that ployes, The display of the National Casl 


Displays are presented from 
more than thirty of the largest firms in the 
United States, each rep- 
resenting a particular line 
and 
of 
velfare work being 
One of the 
nteresting exhibits is that 
of the Ford Motor Com- 
pany. A complete repro- 
in miniature 
of the Ford gen- 
eral plant, illuminated, and 
with the power plant in 
actual operation. Ther 
are from 
the assembly department, 
out of which every thirty 


organization. 


— 


each 
the 
done 


of business, 
showing phases 


by it. most 


is 


duction 


shown 


two doorways 








Register Company, of Dayton, is on 


the most complete and artistic 





seconds, according to the 


MODEL CAFETERIA, NATIONAL LAMP WORKS 











Through the cour 
of the New York 
Culture Society, 


| terial which w 


tes) 
Ethical 
the ma 
is provided 

New 


turned 


tor its exhibition in 
York ( 


over to the Detroit Board 


ity was 
of Commerce for this per 
| manent exhibition. Some 
companies sent their com 
plete exhibits, which wer¢ 
at the Panama-Pacific Ex 
Added to thes 


a large number of new 


position. 
are 
exhibits, 


espe cially pre 








pared for permanent i 
FORD MOTOR COMPANY’S HOUSING EXHIBIT stallation at the Board 
( ommerce 
time at the factory, a car is run down to the lhe exhibition covers the following sul 
service shed in the rear. jects: 
Another exhibit is an exact replica of the tory Building 
Standard cafeteria, sent out by the Na- oe re 
tional Lamp Works to its 26 factories. The ba. _ n 


one represented is capable of feeding 4,000 
persons a day. A miniature recreation 
room, similar to many installed in moder 
factories, is shown by the Brunswick-Balk« 
Collender Company. An interesting ex- 
hibit is that of the Metropolitan Life In- 


Machine guards 


Notices 
Instruction 
mmodations 
Drinking fo 
Lunch rooms 
Rest rooms, | 
Seats for women, elevat er vice 

















impioyment 
Minimum wage 
Seasonal fluctuation 
Change in monotonous occupations 
Health 
Entrance examinations 
Emergency hospitals 
Medical inspection and treatment 
Care of occupational diseases 
neurance 
Outside hfe insurance 
Sickness disability funds 
Service and old age pensions 
Accident compensation 
Recreation 
Libraries 
Recreation rooms 
Clubs 
Athletics 
Outings 
Musi 
li dustrial Education 
Continuation schools 
Student courses 
\pprentice systems 
Representation 
In directorate 
Conferences, 
Profit sharing 


arbitration boards 


Housing 
Investigation of present conditions 
Model houses owned by employer and sold or 
rented to employes 
Building and loan associations 
Garden cities 
The Industrial Welfare Bureau of the 
Detroit Board of Commerce was created 
for the purpose of building up an informa- 
tion bureau on all matters relating to the 
physical, intellectual, social and economic 
improvement of employes, and also to ad- 
vance their general efficiency. 
In addition to the exhibition, the work of 
the Bureau is closely interwoven with that 
of the Industrial Welfare Managers’ Asso- 


ciation, which is composed of representa-. 


tives from Detroit plants in the Executives’ 
Club. The committees of this association 
are carrying on extensive research work 
regarding sanitation, factory lunch rooms, 
mutual aid associations, employes’ organi- 
zations, fire prevention, industrial educa- 
tion, profit sharing and voluntary minimum 
wage, and unemployment. Reports of these 
meetings are issued from time to time and 
will eventually be drafted into recommen- 
dations to be presented to the employers in- 
terested. 
HELEN BACON, 


Assistant Secretary, Industrial Welfare Bureau 


+ ¢ 


Eradicate Commercial Disease 
Wasuincton, D, C.—Not only must we 
cultivate commercial health, but we must 
eradicate commercial disease. Such was 
the opinion expressed hy R. Goodwyn 
Rhett, the newly elected president of the 





ICAN CITY 


VoL. XIV, No. 4 


Commerce of the United 
States, to various commercial organizations 
before which he spoke last month. Mr. 
Rhett addressed the Association of Com- 
merce in Peoria on March 14, the Chicago 
\ssociation of Commerce the next day, and 
the Kansas City Commercial Club later in 
the week. Commercial disease, Mr. Rhett 
said, is just as real as physical disease, and 
its prevalence has just as harmful an effect 
upon industrial growth as the prevalence 
of physical disease has upon the growth of 
population. 


(Chamber of 


“One of these commercial diseases is ‘pes- 
simism’—which too often masquerades under 
the synonym of ‘conservatism.’ Pessimism 
amongst your prominent citizens is a commer- 
cial cancer which eats out the heart of enter- 
prise. True conservatism is a balance wheel 
which is very essential to successful business; 
but pessimism that sees only failure, calamity 
and disaster for everything existing or pro- 
posed is as much to be dreaded as a noxious 
physical disease would be dreaded by your 
health department. 

“Another commercial disease is commonly 
known as ‘knocking.’ It is quite different 
from pessimism, yet almost equally harmful. 
It is commercial gossip—repeating disparaging 
rumors about business men and enterprises 
with an added touch of exaggeration, attribut- 
ing low or mean motives and finding fault gen- 
erally, merely because of the pleasure of fault- 
finding. And then the ‘sucker’ with his ‘What 
am I to get out of it! sapping your strength 
with his inordinate selfishness. If you wish 
your community to flourish industrially and 
commercially, endeavor to eradicate such com- 
mercial diseases as well as to cultivate a gen- 
uine coOperative spirit.” 

Mr. Rhett said that just as it was found 
that individual efforts in a city or town 
were futile, and that codperative efforts 
through local chambers of commerce were 
necessary for the development and growth 
of a community, so it has been found that a 
cooperation of local chambers through the 
Chamber of Commerce of the United States 
is equally necessary to secure those larger 
benefits which can come to a community 


only from beyond its immediate environ- 
ments. 


“If you stop short of the larger codperative 
work, then you have failed to grasp the full 
meaning of a modern chamber of commerce. 
There are many laws being enacted and many 
things being done which affect your commun- 
ity and a great many others similarly situated. 
You can hope to have any influence upon these 
laws or upon these actions only through that 
same cooperation which you have found effec- 
tive in local affairs.” 














\prIL, 1916 THE AMERI 
A Foreign Export Exhibit 

New York City Che 

Department of the National 


rad 


Foreign 


Association of 


Manufacturers has prepared an interesting 
exhibit which shows in concrete form thi 
ictual details involved in foreign track 
The exhibit is called “The History of ar 


Export Order,” and traces by actual docu 
ments and forms the various steps involved 
in an export order from the time it is re 
ceived by the manufacturer until the receipt 
ot payment from the foreign customer, and 
helps to eliminate the idea of mystery ofter 
associated with export transactions. 
Included * The 


mode l 


in History of an Export 


Order” are forms of orders, credit 


reports, lactory tickets, invoices, Statements 
lhere 


1 
AldsO 


ind record forms. 


S an extel 


s id ship 
| he S 
photographs ot 


he 


tra 


ve collection of payment forms at 


ping and insurance documents 


are 


supplemented by numerous 


Worl ld al d 


the leading ports throughout t 


the 


routes from and to American ports 


by a large map showing nsportation 


Che exhibit first appeared at the Interna 
held 


tional Trade Conference recently 


( 


oO 


i 








ol expens 1 a ( 


WV 
f shipping one way 
the exhibit 


tT \ trot 


ommer>rce 


ttracted considerabl 
the 


February 28 at 


SVvracuse 


the ¢ 





AN EXHIBIT OF MODEL 


BANKING Dé 


SHIPPIN« AND 
MENTS 








THE 


HISTORY OF AN EXPORT ORDER 


New York City under the auspices of th 
Foreign Trade Department of the National 
It 
an unusual degree of interest on the 
lo afford 
it to be seen by as many as possi 


It 


\ssociation of Manufacturers aroused 


rt 


pa 


ot exporters, an Opportunity tor 


} 


pie, 1 was 


decided to have installed for short ps 


riods in chambers of commerce and other 


trade bodies throughout the United States, 


SHOWN IN ORIGINAL DOC I 
Syracuse Chamber of Commer 

Cleveland fro March 6 1 ( 
will also be at the Chamber of C ere 
in Philadelphia, Columbus and | o. Ap 
plication for the loan of the exhibition 
should be made to the | oreign Dey nt 
National \ssociation of Ma itactt S 2¢ 
(hurch stireet, New York ¢ 

FREDERI( \ t 











sweat VS 


eT 
em 


Rar 
ee 


se a ae 


Ss 








H 
Pt 
a) 
\y 
\ 


368 THE AMERICAN CITY 


A Cooperative Agricultural 
Society 

Tampa, Fia.—The Agricultural Commit- 
tee of the Tampa Merchants’ Association 
is of the opinion that the state of Florida 
should be able to produce all of its own 
forage. In order to compass this object, 
it promoted the organization of the Flor- 
ida Agricultural Society, which will culti- 
vate Natal hay cooperatively on a large 
scale and endeavor to make that crop the 
leading staple in Florida. 

Natal hay is indigenous to a section of 
South Africa near Natal, where it grows 
anywhere, without cultivation or care ex- 
cept to cut, cure and bale the product. It 
is said that in climate, sandy soil and pre- 
cipitation this section of South Africa is 
very similar to that of Florida, where Natal 
hay has been introduced, and that the 
hay will not prosper in any other part of 
the United States. Natal hay rivals tim- 
othy in food value, containing 26 per cent 
more protein, and cattle like it better. In 
Florida Natal hay produces from three to 
hve crops each season; indeed, from June 
15 ofttimes to as late as December 15 it 
may be cut every six to seven weeks. Each 
cutting produces from one to two tons or 
more per acre, and this estimate is con- 
servative. It spreads very rapidly; the 
seed, being as light as feathers, are often 
carried by the wind more than a mile, thus 
promoting voluntary seeding. 

The Florida Agricultural Society pro- 
poses to purchase 3,000 acres of land in 
Florida for the cultivation of Natal hay. 
The officers of the Society are members of 
the Agricultural Committee of the Tampa 
Merchants’ Association, who are expending 
much of their time and money on the pro- 
ject to assure its success. Membership 
certificates in the Society are sold on small 
weekly installments. 

The plan is to clear fifty acres in the 
center of each section of land the first year, 
sow the area with imported seed, and then 
clear the surrounding land, which has al- 
ready been cut over, plow and prepare it 
to receive the seed which will blow onto it 
from the adjoining fields. While the Agri- 
cultural Committee has the greatest con- 
fidence in the project, knowing the value 
of the crop, it guarantees only that the 
money will be well spent and that rigid 
economy will be practiced. 


HAFFORD JONES, 
Secretary, Tampa Merchants’ Association. 








Vor. XIV, No. 4 


New Bulletins 


Eau Craire, Wis.—The Index. Published 
monthly by the Eau Claire Civic and Com- 
merce Association. 

GAINESVILLE, TeEx.—The Monthly Gain—of 
Gainesville. Published monthly by the Gaines- 
ville Chamber of Commerce, 

GreensBporo, N. C.—Bulletin of the North 
Carolina State Bureau of Publicity for the 
Development of Agriculture and Industry. 
Published monthly. 

New York City.—Central Mercantile Bul- 
letin. Published by the Central Mercantile As- 
sociation of New York City. 

Sr. Aucustrne, Fra—The Differential. 
Published by the St. Augustine Chamber of 
Commerce, 

Sioux Fauts, S. D.—Commercial Club Re- 
view. Published monthly by the Sioux Falls 
Commercial Club, 


+ + 
Recently Issued Printed Matter 


ALLIANCE, Nes.—"The Messenger,” a yearly 
report of work of the Commercial Club. 

AtLanta, Ga.—Three booklets of the 
Georgia State Chamber of Commerce, viz., 
“The Facts in Evidence, Why the Georgia 
Chamber of Commerce Represents the Great- 
est Forward Movement in the History of the 
State’; “Georgia, Concentrated Truths of 
Things as They Are in the Empire State of 
the South, Compiled for Easy Reference of 
the Busy Man”; “Motor-Way Year-Book, Con- 
taining the Georgia State Highways of the 
Georgia Chamber of Commerce.” 

Tempe, Tex.—A four-page leaflet giving in- 
formation about Temple, 

CLEVELAND, O.—“How Uncle Mose’ Spends 
His Money,”’—An Account Rendered by the 
Committee on City Finances of the Cleveland 
Chamber of Commerce. 


Cocumata, S. C.—“Street Map and Guide to 
Columbia, South Carolina's Shopping Center.” 

Derroir, Micu.—Address entitled “Retail 
Salesmanship,” delivered by J. S. Knox, of 
Cleveland, before the Salesmanship Club of 
Detroit, on February 24, 1916. 

Granp Rapips, Micu.—Annual Report of 
the Grand Rapids Association of Commerce for 
the fiscal year ending February 1, 1916. 

Winona, Minn.—Annual report of the Wi- 
nona Association of Commerce for the year 
ending February 10, 1916. 





To Secretaries of Commercial and Civic Or- 
ganisations . 

Publications listed in this column each month 
are restricted to new printed matter issued by 
commercial or civic organizations. It is sug- 
gested that secretaries watch not only this 
column, but also our regular monthly depart- 
ment of Municipal and Civic Publications. In 
the latter department this month will be found, 
for example, reference to two valuable compila- 
tions of data on clean-up campaigns, and the 
name of a new magazine of convention dates. 

Tue Eprrors. 














: 
369 


/ A City Fights the Cigarette Habit 
By Charles Alma Byers 


‘<6 Y keeping a careful record, | have gin at 8 o clock in the 
found,’ says Leo W. Marden, hour betore this the 
head of the Police Juvenile bu the door. As they i t 
reau of Los Angeles, California, “that over lined up two abreast, and 8 ck 


ninety per cent of the boys under twenty~ little after, the line usuall xtends trom the 


one years of age who are arrested and door of the Juvenik 
brought to my office are cigarette smokers. the corridor, down the 


2 iat gman 


\nd the percentage of cigarette-smoking for a distance of half a block 
° girls who have come under my official juris- sidewalk. And it is frequent! 

diction is almost as high. Surely there must before the line is exhausted 

be some conclusion to be drawn from such \mong the patients are fou 
figures. Then, too, the prisoners art girls as young as ten years and men 
almost without exception 


stunted in growth and un- 





derdeveloped in mind 
, : ~ o . “r " 
Believing that crime 
must be more or less 


2 ew i 


closely associated with 
cigarette smoking among 
juveniles, the city of Los 
\ngeles, through its Po- 
lice Juvenile Bureau, 
some months ago began 
the holding of anti-ciga- 
rette clinics to combat the 
evil. The clinics, in the 
matter of attendance at 
least, proved an imme- 
diate success, and are still 
being conducted. They 
are under the personal su- 
pervision of Mr. Marden, 


omen atin 


who has been in charge of 
the Bureau since its 
founding eight years ago, 
and are held three nights 
each week in the office 
rooms of the Bureau at 














LOS ANGELES BOYS RECEIVING FREE TREATMENT FOR THE 
CIGARETTE HABIT 


the Central Police Station. Dr. T. H. Trin- as eighty, with, of course, practically every 
with, a specialist in the treatment of liquor, intermediate year represented. Some are 
drug and tobacco habits, administers the well-dressed and prosperous-looking and 
treatments. others are in rags, and they are of all 
I Since the starting of the department, from nationalities. Boys predominate, grown 
sixty to more than one hundred and fifty men come next in proportion, and after that 
cigarette smokers have been treated each’ girls and grown women, respectively, who 


night. At first the clinics were open to ordinarily comprise approximately 10 per 
juveniles only, but before many weeks had _ cent of the line. 
: passed it was decided to make no restric- The treatments are given without charge, 
; 


tion as to age. When news of this spread and no one is obliged to take them Fron 
over the city, men and women of all ages’ one to six treatments are necessary to effect 
and all conditions began to flock to the what is declared to be a cure, depending 
rooms for the treatment. The clinics be- upon the obstinacy of the case. Untechni- 














‘ 
| 
! 
~ 
i 


nets Sa 








— 


ee 


EEE 
ee ee a FR 


oN 


ee od 
= 


oS 


Pe 





370 THE 


cally speaking, the treatment consists of a 
simple throat wash and a tonic—a treatment 
that, with certain variations, is more or less 
well known to the medical profession 
throughout the country. Whenever sev- 
eral administrations are necessary, the wash 
and tonic are gradually increased in 
strength, and no case is considered hope- 
less, if there be a genuine desire on the part 
of the patient to be cured. The writer has 
personally heard hundreds of the patients 
tell of their progress as they came to the 
second, third or succeeding clinics for the 
treatment, and he has also interviewed many 
who have completed the course. Cures have 
apparently been effected in more than ninet 
per cent of the cases. However, the cure 
is permanent only so long as the patient sin- 
cerely desires to remain cured, for there is 
nothing to prevent him or her from ac- 
quiring the habit all over again, The treat- 


AMERICAN 


Ciryz Vor. XIV, No. 4 

nent merely eliminates the craving for to- 
yacco and makes smoking at least as re- 
pulsive as it is to the beginner. 

In one notable case a young man was 
cured who had smoked cigarettes for nearly 
fifteen years and had reached the stage 
where his system seemeed to demand ninety 
cigarettes per day, twenty of which were 
consumed after he had gone to bed for the 
night. In another instance a girl of twenty 
who had smoked on an average of fifty 
cigarettes per day and had become a nerv- 
ous wreck was caused to give up the habit. 
Boys and girls still in their early ‘teens 
have returned a week or so after taking the 
treatment to state that they had ceased 
smoking entirely, and similar results seem 
to have been obtained in the cases of aged 
men who had smoked cigarettes for perhaps 
thirty or forty years. 





A Carnival that Raised Playground Funds 
By G. A. Sherron 


Street Commissioner, Norwalk, Conn. 


NOVEL method of securing funds 
A tor public playgrounds, when a 

municipality is unable to appropriate 
money for the purpose, was employed last 
summer in Norwalk, Conn. 

rhe citizens of the First Ward in Nor- 
walk have for several years past held a car- 
nival cn the night of July 3. Until 1915 the 
proceeds were used for such purposes as 
Land concerts, extra street lighting, dona- 
tions to charities, etc. Last year a goodly 
portion of the proceeds was given to the 
Playground Association, to be used to equip 
and operate a public playground in the First 
Ward. 

The carnival was promoted and handled 
by the Norwalk Carnival Association, Inc., 
an organization composed of business and 
professional men, city officials, and public- 
spirited citizens, all of whom devoted their 
time and money to insure the success of the 
project. Its principal feature was a large 
parade, headed by the local coast artillery 
and naval militia companies, with a band, 
followed by the “King and Queen of the 
Carnival” in a beautifully decorated auto- 
mobile; then floats and members of various 


fraternal orders with Lands an drum corps, 
uniformed volunteer firemen, inuividuais 10 
costume, and, lastly, decorated automobiles. 
There was also an advertising section for 
automobiles. 

The streets were lined with people during 
the passing of the parade, the crowd being 
estimated at 30,000. Carnivalers were 
everywhere, raining confetti and streamers 
upon the paraders. All the streets in or 
leading to the center of the ward were 
closed to traffic, and the street railway com- 
pany suspended operations until the parade 
was officially over. Visitors came for miles 
around—from Stamford, Darien, New Ca- 
naan, Bridgeport, etec——to see the fun and 
join in the festivities, and they carried 
home with them pleasant memories, as well 
as large amounts of confetti in their hats, 
hair and clothing. Horns, cow bells, rattles, 
and every other kind of noise-making in- 
strument imaginable, red fire and colored 
lights, were greatly in evidence; but no 
fireworks, these being prohibited by the City 
Council and the Carnival Association. 

A band concert was given on the after- 
noon of July 3, and, as the merchants had, 











ApriL, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 371 





Pa ee 
'CHiLoREN'S MARKET 














for the month preceding, been advertising orn y the 
special bargains for that afternoon, the f many similat 
streets were thronged with people tro t he exper 

ot town ind good business was reporte It 
everyone All business hi 

rated in honor of the annual ent, a é x Of 2 


United Electric Light and Water eals ! g tl 


decorated all light and trolle oles witl of the worl 
thousands of multi-colored lights. | gant i 
of this work, several hundred dollars, wa stume, the best 




















THE CHILDREN’S MARKET FLOAT IN 17 
The float consisted of a giant market bas l ! 
in a children’s garden contest, 
in appropriate costume, represents S f t Gar 














372 THE AMERICAN CITY 


and the rivalry 
keen 
cash, gloves, candy, umbrellas, etc 

rhe net profits were somewhat in excess 


for these prizes was very 
The winners received loving cups, 


of $550, and the carnival was adjudged a 
from The 


success every standpoint sum 





Vor. XIV, No. 4 


of $500 was given to the Playground Asso- 
ciation, and it is the general belief that the 
work accomplished by the expenditure of 
this money will result in better citizens and 
a greater city in the years to come, through 
the aid of healthful recreation. 





The Profitable Municipal Operation of Park 
Concessions 
By Chester W. Shafer 


11H the breaking-up of winter, mu 


nicipal ofhcials are face t 
face with the problem ot operating 


proht he 


again 


concessions in city parks tor 


plan of operation under direct supervision 


f the municipality, with no outsiders shar 
ing in the concessions, is gaining a stronget 
this 
while in 
Behind the 
failures are many reasons and explanations, 
and back of the successes is a wealth of 
good information, not only for those officials 
who have tried missed but for those 
who contemplate entering the field 

No city with 125,000 population or less 


foothold every year. In some 
profitable, 


others it has been unsuccessful. 


cases 


method has proved 


and 


has been more successful in this new branch 
of municipal work than has Grand Rapids, 


Mich., and the success has been due almost 


entirely to the efforts of Eugene V. Goebel, 
superintendent of parks and playgrounds 
l‘or five years he has studied the pavilion 
which is maintained at John Ball Park, at 
the western edge of the city, and during 
that time he has conquered many perplex- 
ing problems. As a result of eradicating 
old ideas and installing new ones, he has 
been able, for two years, to keep the pa- 
vilion on a paying basis. His knowledge, 
consequently, is invaluable. 


The Old Plan 
In the first place, Mr. Goebel declares, no 
municipal pavilion or concession can be op- 
erated successfully under political influence 
he supervision and authority must be 
given over to one competent man, and his 
methods, unless later proved inefficient, must 





. g >* . 
See «a a 
es Se on tee eae he 














PAVILION IN JOHN BALL PARK, GRAND RAPIDS, MICH., OPERATED AT A PROFIT BY THE 
CITY 

















\PRIL, 1916 THE 


not be questioned. No official of the city, 
not excluding the mayor, should be allowed 
to take any part in the management unless 
the necessity is palpable. Operated exclu- 
sive of political influence and with good 
judgment, any concession can be made t 
pay dividends, 

During the first two years the pavilion 
referred to was rented to professional con- 
cessionaires. They realized profits, but the 


city lost. Exorbitant prices were charged 
for the low-grade merchandise, and the 


pleasure-seekers were dissatisfied. Numer- 
ous complaints of ill-treatment were re 
ceived and a general reputation of an odious 
nature was bred. Consequently, when Mr. 
Goebel took charge he had to break down 
the difficulties which had arisen 


The New Sales Basis 


His primal step was to rid the pavilion of 
all professional salesmen. He picked a 
bright young man and put him in charge. 
Chen he gave the order that has proved the 
foundation of his success, that the best of 
everything should be purchased at the low- 
est price—but always the best. Then the 
selling plan was changed. 

In making popcorn, a pound of the best 
butter obtainable used on 30 sacks. 
The cost of production of a sack was 3/2 
cents ; it was sold for 5 cents. 


was 


Large jumbo 
peanuts were bought, instead of culls, and 
the purchaser received 7 ounces in a sack 
for 5 cents. Twelve-ounce glasses were 
filled at the soda fountain for 5 cents, and 
the grade of ice cream used was the highest 
to be procured. Lemonade and orangeade 
were made from fruit only; no acids were 
used. And so on, in every detail, the cus- 
tomers secured the best products for the 
same money that they would pay at other 
places for inferior grades. 

It was not long before the guests at the 
pavilion realized that they were not being 
“stung” on their purchases, and as a result 
a fine feeling was established, the credit for 
which went to the city authorities. It was 
enhanced, too, when Superintendent Goebel 
began selling quart bottles of soft drinks, 
instead of pint bottles, for 5 cents. A case 
of a dozen bottles of quarts cost 35 cents; 
of pints, 30 cents. The difference was so 
slight that the superintendent figured he 
could afford to give the larger bottle and 
thus encourage the reputation for fairness 
His point was well established when the 


AMERICAN C 


Ss we 373 


I40 


father of a family realized that for halt 


price he could secure enough 


retreshment 


to suffice. 


Service and Comfort 


Next the superintendent decided to em 
ploy competent help in place of the slip 
shod employes used by the professionals 


Instead of paying a waiter 50 cents or $1 
for an afternoon and evening's work, he 
paid $2. kK T soda “yerkers” he paid $2 50 
a day. As a result, he had regular service 


at all times, service that pleased the patrons 
This proved a master stroke in his rejuve 
nation policy. 

These innovations formed the foundation 
for the ultimate success of the new manage 
ment. At the end of the first year the su 
perintendent found that he had made $550 
net. Last despite the inclement 
weather and the fact that the gross receipts 
were $2,000 less than the first year, a profit 
of $530 was shown. Moreover, the citizens 


season, 


realized that they were getting more than 
they could hope for in values, and they 
were getting it quickly. The plan of “rea- 


sonable margins” and “liberal 
was undeniably the only one. 

Other ideas were also adopted by the su- 
perintendent in his work. He insisted, at 
the expense of several employes, that the 
pavilion should be kept clean 
at all times. passage 
of an ordinance prohibiting all wagon ped 
dlers and vendors from approaching within 
100 yards of the park. This ordinance re- 
sulted in the elimination of all persons who 
might spoil the enjoyment of the park 
guests by buttonholing them for sales and 
filling the air with hideous cries of theit 
wares. 

Lastily, Mr. Goebel made it known that 
parties wishing to spend the day at the park 
could use the pavilion as a place to spread 
their lunches. The tables 


treatment” 


and sanitary 
He also secured the 


were placed at 
the command of the public, and they were 
frequently used. The idea did not inter 


fere with the general working plan, and it 
helped considerably to 
munity interest. 

With his experience, Mr 
Goebel knows that a city, to operate a mu 
nicipal pavilion at a profit, must operate it 
independent of politics; that small margins 
and liberal treatment must be resorted t 
that the help must be well paid, and that the 
place must be kept neat and clean, 


encourage com 


successful 





Children’s Playground Parades in Topeka 
By O. R. Geyer 


OUR thou ( opeka_ childret 
enthusiastic patrons of the new sys 
tem oO! ey la ed Amus¢ ( 

which has bee 1ug ted 1 th Nansas 
})1 | lhe season of I915 the nirst under 

the new plan, was so successful that there 
little doubt of the status of | is 
vgrounds i the coming 

hough nn their niancy, the playgrounds 

| ¢ @g ‘ the ( | iable re 

i g other we cities. Now tl 

ground spirit has taken hold of the lder 

people of Topeka, and last summer all the 

playgrounds were kept open until dark t 


humb parade, in which several hundred 
children took part. 

When the 500 children marched through 
the State House grounds with their dolls 
ind “turnouts,” work of all kinds was 


valted for many blocks around, while sev 





cral thousand persons lined the streets to 
tch the progress of the parade. Phe 
children were divided into two sections, one 
each playground, and a _ continuous 
clicking of cameras, both amateur and pro 
fessional, attended their march through 
the Capitol grounds. 


Dolls of every nationality and descrip 

















\ PRIZE-WINNING GROUP IN THE TOPEKA DOLL PARADE 


} 


Notice the doll in the ba ’ 
permit the older bovs and girls and the 
parents of the children to use them 

lhe high-water mark in interest was 
reached late in the summer when 500 boys 
and girls of the kindergarten departments 
participated in the first doll parade the 
West has ever known. It was a genuine 
success, as the entire city can testify, and 
was followed after a few weeks with a lan- 
tern parade, which also was unique in char- 
acter. Hundreds of lanterns, all of them 
made by the children themselves, were 
shown in the “Parade of Fire,” as it was 
called. The season of unique entertain- 
ments was closed with a Mr. and Mrs. Tom 





in the center foreground 


tion were entered in the contest. The cen 
ter of mterest was an entry consisting of 
a doll seated in a bath tub drawn about on 
wheels. One playground was represented 
by a float filled with dolls made of peanuts, 
nuts and ears of corn, all made by the chil- 
dren. Present in the parade, and a prize 
winner, of course, was a homemade me- 
chanical doll which did acrobatic stunts for 
the entertainment of the crowd while th: 
judges were finishing their difficult task on 
the Capitol steps. Prizes were awarded for 
the prettiest doll, the best home-made doll, 
the oldest doll, the oddest doll and the best 
playground group. 











4 


<a 











Making the “Flower City” Justify Its Name 
By Roland B. Woodward 


Secretary, Chamber of Commerce, Rochester, N. Y 


HE work of the Flower City Com: 


tee of the Rochester Chamber of one cf th 


Commerce, during 1915, was local succeeded 
of pioneer character hat fact necess lic 
tated a considerable propagandist ¢ oval 
order to interest the public; it explaine: he ! 
the mistakes of a first trial, and it gives ee may be ‘ ‘ ‘ 
that trial an historical interest, for no one ther t S 
doubts that the work which has been begut 1) fe Roe 
will 48) forward for vears with steadil ( ity itS cal 121 
proof that the C1 


gaining strength. 
\s a new movement, of strictly ci 


1 


character, the undertaking called 


dividual leadership that should be ent 
1 t fu The Preparations 


f 


siastic and tireless, confident and uC 
lirst of all, met 


The chairman of the committee addressed 


many meetings, talked the work in season prepared a_ pamphlet 

and out of season, and gained a cordial planting suggestio1 S 

backing from the committee members. The suitable for garden use in Rocl I 
S rinted t | 


task of Charles Mulford Robinson, as chair 











j 


A FINE SELECTION OF PERMANENT SI 




















376 THE AMERICAN CITY Vor. XIV, No. 4 











A TYPICAL OLD-FASHIONED GARDEN 


ind distributed in response to req 
lhe demand for it was so great that the 
first edition was quickly exhausted a1 
second edition was issued. The edu 
nfluence of these publications was 


Sneeadiier + - 
loubtedly very gre 


| it 
: lhe committee next created an ad 
oard, and on its recor endation the city 
is divided into ten districts. One of these 
districts included the down-town business 
treets, where, no vards being available for 
: gardens, the dependence was on the window 


OX In each of the other ten districts a 


prize was offered for the best garde Ss ol 
those competing lots that had less thar 


feet of frontage, and another prize for the 





gardens on competing lots having a fro 
ige of so feet or more By this arrange 
ment the small lot, where the work is get 
erally done by the householder himself 
was not in competition with the large place 
where a trained and paid gardener is likel\ 
to be in charge In the business district 


ilso, two prizes wel offered—one for the 





general building effect and the other for 
individual exhibition 


In all cases it was required that con 




















petitors must enter their premises in th 
competition before it began. The responses 
umbered between two and three hundred 
representative of all parts of the city and 
f all classes of property. A staff of judges 
as appointed to visit the gardens during 
the summer and award the prizes, the priz 
in each instance to be a photograph, framed 
ind suitably marked, of the winning proj 


rt 
t 


Conditions of the Contest 

(he judges, in beginning their work, 
idopted the following outline of points on 
which the properties should be marked 

1. Proportion of Property included 

2. Design 

1) Appropriateness 

(b) Merit 
hoice of Plants 

1) Permanent 

(b) Temporary 

4. Color Harmony 

;. General Maintenance 

6. Attention to Detail 

(Weeds, Borders, etc.) 

Chey also decided that no garden should 
ve judged eligible for a prize if the front 
portion, visible from the street, was not of 


} 











\pRIL, 1916 THE AMERI 


such merit as to contribute to the beauty 
of the street. This ruling barred out som: 
very attractive back gardens; but it seemed 
to be necessary, since an announced pur 
pose of the competition was to contribute 
to the beauty of Rochester. The judges 
stated also that the “criterion of the front 
ard’s merit was not the degree of its 
‘auty, but the degree to which its possibili 
ties had been realized. Sometimes thos« 
vere necessarily meager, but if an owner 
had done with a small front garden the very 
best that could be done with it, he was held 
to have as good a chance for a prize as had 
the man whose house was fifty feet back 


from the street.” 


Some Keen Comments 

lhe following extracts from the Report 
of the Judges, in which there was comment 
on every property to which a prize was 
awarded, will give an idea of the value and 
success of the competition, and may be ex 
pected to be of use to competitors in suc 
ceeding campaigns by the indication it gives 
of common dangers: 

The back garden is quite a little gem in its w 
The small front garden is, perhaps, overcrov 


re the main criticism which the judges would m: 
i they would make it with much emphasis, is the 





sregard for color harmony This was noted on ea 
t of the judges, and almost caused it to lose the 
re. 
I ne f the ise iS g 1 g g 
f t f the se ul the ar ge f 











Can City 77 





are att v ‘ 
g tea e fr g P 
c t T € t 
eness 
cront of 4 
er border \ x 
t is W 
' c ve it ] t s 
€ e xz xl feat e g VV * 
ack t 
Na M4 line & 
2 where the spa g 
\ V ? ¢ ’ 
g else wl the i1dges " k 
4 street tT “ 1 
se g fairly good planting as s« 
s back of the h exte 
I t € i r € 
el to the street f x I 
‘ re the backs f six g 
‘ 311 into one big flow g en 
h there is an infor ' Yor ) 
vers were in hI! n there : ig 
While the garden lacks design, it offers a striking 
ence of what the scarcely felt sacrifice 
} each abuttir 
I terior k 
é g l 
t f I 
| i 
k of waste space 
c , er 
In the Business District 
With reference to the business district 
the judges pointed out that rk ther 
if , 7 
called “for a larger measure of | c spirit 











A PRIZE-WINNING BACK GARDEN 


OUTLINED WITH FLOWER BORDERS 














t! ‘ I ss ty Treque Vas x ind ft 
ke expe é F ight to be so arranged that they wi 
te x se se with the building—which means th 
cneneeecs is a ot ration they add will fit into the ar 
i . I tthe eisure | rye tectural scheme [his requires that the 
| ersol cart Ss req re I the ect locations be suitable and that there 
est part of the 1v. and Nature is now sense of proportion or scale To secure 
ae satin ter on a lara building, it often is desira 
beanie ; ectenaee s the boxes Finally, wit 
: : ‘ st hoice of plants. it is eas 
CHISTP A ae t ise of trailing irieties Mar 
e been well described as ‘weet 
f most buildings are strong ar 
S ne ] ‘ { t 1 prig ertain sturdiness and uprightness 
vill often fit them bette: 





An Endless Flower Chain 


By Clarence D. Skinner 
Topeka, Kan. 











kt) " } 
i ‘ t { 
hict ly’ it el 
ne owe ‘ the ( 
i ni ! ( ess ch 
te T + 
‘ ( vn 
| : . 
: 
4 
: . 
\A 
: ders A h fe ‘ 
} ( n S arn find 
: othe rollyho« 
. iter : 
e otn siness 
( tl itistac 
shioned ; ’ 
I | ( S tely ‘ 
d perpe self fro i 
] ceed tts ‘ c¢ nad \ 
‘ i | ( ( re ng to sla Tew 
' eds tinuity enough to 
{ each veat t tated seasons lhe 
| ntage of plant x hollyhocks s that 
hev will on ft ear to vear making 
; ‘ | mimum of 
i aiess ¢ cha cter of the 1 
‘ T ( ‘ <} ] by S¢ {’ 








om each one to whom the three seeds are HOLLYHOCKS AS THEY GROW IN KANS s 


et the same promis \s long as my suy readers of THe AMERICAN City. for post 


Iv holds out I shall 1 glad to send to the Lore only, samples of the Colorado holly 











\prIL, 1916 THE AMERICAN CIT 




















; 
i 
a 
4 
) 
5 
4 
FLOWERS AND VINES TRANSFORM THE ALLEY FENCI 
b 
j hock seeds, provided they will give of theit result of my sending to them packag« 
4 first fruits” as suggested. cosmos seeds gathered espe 
More than fifty “shut-ins” are exchang from the hillsides of Colorado ( 
ng seeds with me and with each other as ; flowers grow in great al 





| A Bird Campaign Conducted by a City 
| Museum 
By George W. Stevens 


Director of the Toledo (Ohio) Museum of Art | 





HE bird campaign conducted by th them were given by the childr to the | 
Toledo Museum of Art last summer city, and were put in place by 
: was designed primarily to enlist the Scouts, under the direction of expert 
j activity of the children of the city in the  thologists. Many others were placed in th 
r protection of bird life in that region, and school grounds and around the homes 
the interest grew and spread until not only the children; hundreds were purchased 
thousands of children, but hundreds of the Art Museum and placed in_ privat 
grown people as well, were planning for grounds \lthough the houses were set 
\. the welfare of the useful birds around late in the spring, a surprising 1 
them. wrens and bluebirds availed themselves 
Three thousand bird houses were made the new homes. Food shelters ‘ itl 
in the manual training departments of the were constructed and maintained i 


public schools, from lumber furnished numbers. Illustrated lectures on bird lif 
through the Museum of Art. These houses were given under the auspices of th 
were shown in the Museum in March, and  seum on Saturday mornings, field tri 
were inspected by 11,000 people ; they were Saturday atternoons were organi ed, and 
built according to plans furnished by the lectures on birds were arrange 


United States Government, and were at neighborhood clubs and school 


tractive as well as utilitarian. Many of he splendid cooperation of Dr. Guit 











350 THE AMERICAN CITY Vor. XIV, No. 4 





CHILDREN BRINGING THEIR 


teau, Superintendent of Schools, Mr. Carl 


(otter of the manual training department 


lepartme 
the members of the Board of Park Com 
missioners, the Scout Executive with his 
vigorous and efficient troop of scouts, the 
School Protective Committee with Miss 
Gertrude Crim as chairman, the Traction 
Company, the lecturers who gave their ser- 
vices, and many donors ot lumber, bird 
food, time and money, made the campai 
successful. Through the School Protectiv« 


ti 


Committee the’ children of the schools ars 
kept in active touch with the work as 


develops. In a contest which closed o1 


BIRD HOUSES TO THE MUSEUM 


October 1 the Museum offered twelve cash 
prizes for the best bird stories founded o1 
personal observation, written by children of 
fifteen and younger. 
lhe Museum Bird Club has been organ 
ized and is accomplishing much definite 
good. While it has given the childrer 
something to build of practical use and civic 
importance and has made them, in the giv 
ing, public benefactors, it also protects th 
useful birds who in turn care for the gar 
dens and orchards by destroying devastat 
ing insects—and all of this work makes 
Toledo a better and more beautiful city. 
’ 
‘ 





BOY SCOUTS ERECTING A MARTIN HOUSE 











Destroying the Destroyer 


Now is the Time to Fight to a Finish in the War Against Tree Pests 


By Carl Bannwart 


Secretary, Shade Tree Commission, Newark, N. J. 


IS, it’s war. War sure enough. And visits his activities against a 
not a merry war, either, but serious limited variety of trees and shi 
Since the song birds have been ex especially partial to the ( 
iled from town, our deadly friend, the pest horse chestnut. In Newark h 


insect, enemy of trees, has multiplied and every tree except the Ailanthus 


waxed fat. And he gives the Tree Man a_ sycamore. He comes upon th ( 
handful of work to combat him. He's a latter part of M iy and continues | et 
critter’ of many _ kinds. Age cannot formance through the rat 
wither him nor custom stale his infinite and into July. If allowed his 
ariety. Here in Newark and hereabout part, he’d play the ver 
we have the Tussock Moth ( aterpillat the ive, But he’s not allows not here I 
Im Leaf Beetle, the Wood Leopard Moth Newark. Our | quid artillery is too much 
(borer), all devastating little beasts. Other for him. 
pests, not so destructive and covering but The Elm Leaf Beetl \ US 
limited areas, are the Red Spider, Bag chap. Ravenous of appetite And choice 
Worm, Spiny Elm Caterpillar, Woolly in his selectior please, fot 
Louse, Cottony Maple Scale, Aphis and nothing other than “the whi pering leaves 
Phenacoccus. f high-towered elms ill suit Ats maw 
‘Whispering ’ leaves, is it? eaves that 
Some of the Pests “whisper,” forsooth; why, the beetle makes 


The Tussock Moth—This red-headed them shriek. Professor L tl 


arauder is distinctly a shade tree pest and School of Forestry, \ 

















LIQUID ARTILLERY FOR LEAF-EATERS 



















eh ne ee 





a tA 


g os 


amen sow eens 


382 





sponsible for the statement that this devas- 
tating pest is annually causing the defolia- 
tion of thousands of elm trees throughout 
the United States. Several successive de- 
foliations are liable to kill a tree; and, in 
matter of fact, a pitifully large number of 
actual deaths of stately elms have thus re- 
sulted. 

The beetle is not indigenous to our beau- 
tiful city, nor to our beautiful country, 
either. His erstwhile habitat was Europe. 
Somehow—we don’t know how, but it must 
have been through the agency of Old Nick 
—he stole a march some fifty years ago 
and set up his tents in this land of the free. 
And a most “undesirable immigrant” he 
has proved, drat him. However, here in 
Newark we have been able, by persistent 
effort, to put a crimp in his vicious activi- 
ties; which, being interpreted, means that 
here we have him under our control. So 
far as the beetle is concerned we may sing 
the Jubilate, yes; but in passing be it noted 
that we are not caroling any peans of joy 
with respect to the elms, the trees them- 
selves. 

Here and hereabout the outlook for this 
grand family of stately growths is not rose- 
ate. They are assailed not only by the 
beetle and the Tussock Moth (both of 
which we control), but also by the Woolly 
Louse and Red Spider. Last of all comes 
Satan, that fiend, the Wood Leopard Moth, 
alias the Borer, with his murderous tunnel- 
lings (of whom more anon). Then certain 
street conditions further contribute to make 
the career of the Newark elm a way of 
sorrows. This tree needs, must have, can- 
not get on without, a plenteous area of 
bare soil about its base. And it is hardly 
practicable in a city of paved and side- 
walked streets to grant a sufficiency of 
such open area, so essential to this tree. 
Without such area our elm is denied its 
quantum of those vital elements, air and 
water. These must find free and plenteous 
access to the roots or the tree is doomed. 
Well, with all these varied insect and soil 
conditions confronting us, we are not set- 
ting out any more elms—have not done so 
for several years. But this is a digression 
from our present theme. 


The Ammunition 


Arsenate of Lead.—That's the stuff with 
which we fight both Tussock Moth and Elm 


THE AMERICAN CITY 








Vor. XIV, No. 4 


Leaf Beetle. We have been using a solu- 
tion, 8 pounds of the arsenate, paste form, 
to 100 gallons of water. Now we use the 
powder form, 3 pounds to 100 gallons of 
water. This is applied in a fine spray by 
means of a gasoline power sprayer, 2%- 
horse-power, aiming the spray at the under 
side of the leaves, and taking pains to 
do thorough work. 

The general spraying here for leaf-eaters, 
chiefly the Beetle and Tussock Moth, be- 
gins in late May and continues to mid-July. 
From four to eight gangs were at it every 
suitable day last year. The weather was 
favorable. High winds and wet weather, 
either of which makes spraying impossible, 
were few and far between. Taking the 
actual count for eight specimen working 
days as a basis, the cost of labor, teaming, 
insecticides and power shows as $2,565.32. 
The total number of trees sprayed was 30,- 
448; average cost per tree, 8 cents plus. 
Of course the trees varied in size; 11,792 
were 5 inches in diameter and under, and 
3,377 included all sizes—io inches in diam- 
eter and over. An average of 173 trees 
per day were sprayed by each gang. 

Formerly we used a spraying machine of 
which the motive power was carbonic acid 
gas. It had many good points and did us 
good service, but the cost of maintenance 
was rather large. To avoid this we pur- 
chased and put on trial one gasoline 
sprayer, 2%-horse-power. It was especially 
equipped with single shaft and wooden 
wheels. We acquired this machine in the 
spring of 1911, and that year’s use of it 
gave abundant proof that the gasoline 
sprayer was the sprayer for us. We 
sprayed from May 15 to June 20, a period 
of five weeks, covering more territory than 
with the other machine, and did so at less 
cost. We began, therefore, to gradually 
displace the old type of sprayer with the 
gasoline type. We have now five of these 
latter and three of the former. On the pre- 
ceding page they are all lined up before you. 


More of the Pests 


As for the other insects mentioned at the 
beginning of this article, the Bag Worm 
and the Spiny Elm Caterpillar are chewing 
insects. In this respect they are in the 
same class with the Beetle and the Tussock, 
and so we treat them accordingly. Arse- 
nate of lead solution for theirs. The other 
















| 








er 


ai bln ls ! ee 


— 


a ne ee en 








\PRIL, 1916 THE 
fellows, Red Spider, Woolly Louse, Aphis, 
Phenacoccus Acericola, Cottony Maple 
Scale—these are a different brand of cat- 
tle, and must be treated differently. They 
are “suckers.” No, this is not slang. These 
insects do not chew and swallow; they suck 
their nourishment from leaf or bark. They 
just insert their myriad little tubes and 
suction does the rest. Gay little pumpers, 
they. The insecticide that does the busi- 
ness for the “chewer” goes its merry way 
through his mouth into his littie tummy. 
Not so the “sucker”; that which is to avail 
for that gentleman must wrap him as in a 
garment of mucilage, shut up his pores, 
and so put a stop to his breathing processes. 
Whereupon he shuffles off this mortal coil 
and ceases to be. 

To achieve this desirable end, any one 
of several solutions may be used—whale 
oil soap, kerosene emulsion, tobacco extract, 
lime-sulphur wash. We use mostly the 
whale oil soap. It is simple and effective 
One pound of the soap to about five gallons 
of water is the proportion for summer use. 
In winter one pound of the soap to two 
gallons of water can be used on the dor- 
mant trees to combat the Cottony Maple 
Scale or the Woolly Maple Scale (Phena- 
coccus Acericola). These solutions just 
above mentioned are known as contact 
poisons. Take a word of caution as to 
them. Let no layman use them. You may 
kill your tree or plant. This is a job for 
the “Three Man” exclusively. Or, if you 
must experiment, apply for specific instruc- 
tions to your state entomologist or to the 
United States Bureau of 
Washington, D. C. In writing to these 
authorities, take pains to give correct, pre- 
cise and specific particulars. It would be 
well to send on a specimen of the insect 
and a piece of the affected leaf or bark. 
Your communication will receive prompt 
and courteous attention, and you will be 
advised authoritatively and, we need hardly 
add, without charge. 

And now for the Borer, cousin german 
to that man of sin, the son of perdition, 
who opposeth and exalteth himself. The 
Borer is a “demon bug.” He is numerous 
throughout our territory, especially in the 
cases of silver maples and elms. Also we 
have to say that he is by no means “under 
control.” And we are persuaded that the 
most effective way to get rid of him is to 
eschew the silver maples and elms alto- 


Entomology, 


AMERICAN 


CITY 383 


gether and set out only those varieties not 
susceptible (or, at the least, not so readily 
susceptible) to borers; for instance, Nor- 
way maple, oak, buttonball. 

To stamp out the pest by the mere reme- 
dial measures to which we are now lim- 
For consider the his- 
tory and habits of the beast. The eggs are 
deposited upon the bark and the young soon 
hatch and crawl to a convenient place and 
commence to bore into the wood, working 
first upon the smaller branches and _ then 


ited seems hopeless. 


descending to more spacious quarters as 
they increase in appetite and size. They 
are voracious in their feeding habits, and 
a single borer often causes the death of a 
young tree. Their work can easily be seen 
in large trees, as it takes the form of a 
gnarly protuberance, sometimes of a depres- 
sion, on the surface of the bark. The treat- 
ment of this pest is very difficult, the only 
method in use at present being to go over 
the trees at regular intervals and extermi- 
nate all that can be found. This is no small 
job. Mr. Borer cannot be “exterminated” 
wholesale. Not he. He must be taken one 
at a time, and, oh, his name is Legion, for 
he is many. 

We find a small hole in the bark. That 
is the entrance to the Borer’s tunnel. In 
there is the grub. We insert a wire, sharp 
ened or hooked at the point, and that does 
the business for the grub. To make sure, 
yank him out. Some folks inject carbon 
bisulphide into the tunnel, stopping up the 
entrance with putty or soap. The fumes 
of this chemical will kill the borer if they 
reach him. We prefer the wire method. 
Either method is necessarily tedious and 
slow of progress. 

After the borers in a given tree are killed, 
the decayed wood is cut out and the hole 
treated antiseptically and refilled to the out- 
line of the tree to keep out rain, damp, dirt, 
tree bacteria, etc., and help the wound to 
heal. The next step is to keep the tree as 
healthy as possible to give it a chance to 
recover from the borer’s depredations. In 
some cases the tree is so far gone, and the 
infestation so past remedy, that the one 
only sane mode of “treatment” is to cut 
the tree down, plumb to the roots, and burn 
it. Is it any wonder that we (don’t) love 
the Borer? 

And the moral of our little dissertation ? 
Why, it’s like this. We are 
peace, oh yes. But there is no peace, saith 


lovers of 














: 
" 








384 rHE AMER 
the wise man, to the wicked. So in our rela 
tions to these wicked insect destrovers of 
our trees there is naught of peace; naught 
for these pests but battle and sudden death 
Said an Assistant Editor to his Editor 
Here’s a farmer who writes and asks 5 


how to treat sick bees And the 


[CAN CITA VoL. 


XIV, No. 4 
answered: “Tell him he'd better treat then 
with respect.” Quite so—the bees. But em 
phatically not so, these destructive tree in 
sects. Treat them with respect? Nay, nay! 
lreat them with the bane of death. For 


them, cry havoe and let loose the dogs of 
var! 





Drinking Fountains 


Drinking Fountain 
minor 


genuinely welcomed 


Few municipal features are s 
as 18 the public drink 
ing fountain, and if one may fron 


experience in traveling. fnq town to town 


judge 


| » ioe ‘ 
'y motor, few’ features are more generally 
scr! T) ‘ ‘4 » 

hesrécted. Probably more than half of the 


laces one 


goes through do not 


possess a 


fountain where the 


resident and the tran 
nch his thirst 


"4 
sient alike may que 


traveler. The latter enters the town per 
total stranger 


the place . 


haps 
and if there is no place where he 
drink of 
troubling some one, he is 
to the next town 


finds a 


can secure a water without 
apt to hurry on 
On the other hand, if he 
pretty sanitary 


where bubbling water is awaiting his ar 


This does 
not affect the town’s resident as it does the 


to the inhabitants of 


drinking station 


and Watering Troughs 


A Welcome from the Municipal 


rival, he naturally has a warm spot in his 
heart for that place. He tarries and looks 
around, finally getting acquainted with som« 
f the residents, and, nine times out of ten 
he finds the residents just as cordial and 
inviting as was the fountain. 
This fact was realized by some of the 
women residents of South Pasadena, Cal 
who organized themselves into an improve 


ment association, raised sufficient money 
and erected the attractive fountain shown 
in the accompanying illustrations. The 


fountain is made almost entirely of cobble 
stone and cement, and the roof is of red 
(Spanish) tile. It is about 1o feet in width 
and 18 feet long, and has drinking places 
for human beings and also for both large 
and small animals. The sanitary faucet 
used by human beings is at the rear end of 
the enclosure, along either side of which 

















THE DRINKING FOUNTAIN IN SOUTH PASADENA, CAL. 





A th IN lei me 


se I eee 





APRIL, “HI 


1916 I 








THE REST-ROOM END OF THE SOUTH 
PASADENA FOUNTAIN HOUSE 
there is a comfortable cement seat, thus 


providing a rest room as well as a drinking 
station. 

Che central the fountain is 
taken up by the drinking basin for horses 
and other large animals. 
ample one, being about 3 feet deep, 7 feet 
long and 6 feet wide. On either side of it is 
a wall made of cobblestones and cement al 
most a foot thick, which also may be used 
At the other end is the drink 
There is a 


section of 


This basin is an 


as rest Seats. 
ing basin for small animals 
platform connected with it which makes it 
asv of access by the smaller animals 

An interesting feature of the fountain 
is that none of the water is wasted. The 
unused water from the drinking basin for 
human beings runs into the larger animal 
compartment, and from this into the smaller 
Upon the completion of the fountain 
climbing vines were planted around its bas« 
These were cared for, until now they hav: 


basin. 


AMER! 


climbed up the 
even the 


the roof 


upon 


Drinking Fountains for Portland 
Streets 
The city of Portland, Ore 


fitted by the installatio: 


fountains of the four-bubbk 
fountains are located for tl 
the congested districts so 
venient for the largest numb« 
and visitors 
he fountains are 9 
Mr. S. Benson, a long-time res t al 


capitalist or 
properties in 


resents an initial investment of $5 


water supply and inte 
vided by the city 

Benson Park, near the Col Rivet 
Highway, was also a gift from Mr. Bensot 
This park has been laid out with I 
tem of trails leading to differe . 
interest, chief among hich is Wal 


Falls. 

















FOUNTAIN AT A 
STREET CORNER 


ENJOYING THE 











—. 
a4 


he 








cal an 


la aa ae a 


26 THE AMERICAN CITY 


VoL. XIV, No. 4 





Boulder Watering 
Troughs 


Farmers who come to 
Grand Rapids, Mich., 
and teamsters whose op- 
erations are conducted 
within the city limits 
have no fault to find with 
the system of watering 
troughs which the muni- 
cipality maintains for 
the use of all dumb ani- 
mals. 


A large boulder, 














weighing from one to 
three tons, the top sur 
face of which is from 
two to three feet above the ground, is 
at every much-used corner \ basin has 
f the rock, and this is 
kept constantly filled with pure water from 
the city mains 


been hollowed out 


\ grooved outlet carries 
the surplus supply to a 4-inch sewer pipe 
From a sanitary viewpoint the boulder 
troughs are without parallel, as all scum and 
offensive substances are quickly carried 


awav inthe overflow. The basins are with- 


ONE OF THE BOULDER WATERING TROUGHS IN 


GRAND RAPIDS 


in easy reach of horses, dogs and cattle, 
and cats and birds find no difficulty in 
perching on the flat surfaces and obtaining 
their fill. 30 4 

Already twenty-seven of "the “fountaims, 
which will not have to be replaced for cen- 
turies, are in operation, and sufficient 
moneys have been appropriated to jncrease 
the number to 150 as soon a$ workmen are 
able to prepare them. 





Safety First 


It is believed that all employers of labor 
try to exercise reasonable care to prevent 
accidents to their men. Ordinary instincts 
of humanity, if nothing more, would dic- 
tate such a policy. 


In the state of Pennsylvania there are 
additional reasons why employers should 
he particularly careful to avoid accidents. 
lhe new Compensation Law makes the 
adoption of safety features more imperative 
in that state than ever before. 

\ few suggestions offered by FE. I. du 
Pont de Nemours & Co., of Wilmington, 
Del., are especially apropos at this time: 


1. Use low-freezing extra dynamites wher- 
ever possible in preference to the high-freezing 
straight dynamites. They are- safer because 
they are less sensitive to accidental shocks, 
and seldom require thawing. In addition, they 
are considerably cheaper 

2. Adopt electrical. blasting methods wher- 
ever possible in preference to fuse and blast- 
ing cap method. The principal object of this 
is to prevent hang fires and misfires, which are 
always dangerous to workmen 

3. The use of blasting machines in blasting 
operations makes it unnecessary to have 


in Blasting 


natches on the job. The advantage of this is 
»bvious. 

4. Every blasting operation should have a 
zalvanometer for testing blasting circuits and 
. rheostat as a part of the equipment. These 
iseful little pieces of apparatus eliminate the 
guessing, which is always expensive and en- 
ails risk of life. 

5. When thawing is necessary, use standard 
hawing kettles of thawing house equipment 
instead of permitting employes to soak frozen 
dynamite in warm water or to heat it in 
ovens, or to thaw it by standing it around an 
open fire. All these practices are dangerous 

6. Magazines should be kept clean and dry. 
Sand, nails or other foreign substances on 
floors may cause explosions and loss of life. 

7. Magazines should be properly located to 
comply with the American table of distances. 

8. Dynamite and blasting supplies should be 
kept separate until they are ready to be loaded 
into bore holes. 


Compliance with the above simple sug- 
gestions may save a good many lives and 
render employers immune from damages 
under the new Pennsylvania Compensation 
Law, and what is good for Pennsylvania is 
good for any other state, even if it doesn’t 
happen to have a Compensation Law, 





-« 
Purr 























LOCOMOBILE CAR FOR CHIEF’S USE, SAN ANTONIO, WITH GOODRICH TIRES 

















AMERICAN-LA FRANCE TRIPLE COMBINATION PUMP AND HOSE CAR, WITH GOODYEAR 
TIRES, AT IDAHO FALLS, IDAHO 





a 








Litas 


ry 





Se eee 


228 


Novel Uses for Motor Trucks in Public Service 

















OPERATING A SAND SPRINKLER IN VICTORIA, B. C. 








a 
4 


a 
e, 
ae 


a 2 
~ . J 
o 


i 


shires |: 











TRANSPLANTING RHODODENDRONS IN PALISADES INTERSTATE PARK, NEW YORK 








etl, nee eR ES 2. 


co oe 


CS eee 








Arrit, 1916 


THE 


AMERICAN 


City 


**) 

















A KELLY-SPRINGFIELD TRUCK HAULING 


A ROAD 














WHITE TRUCK AND TROY TRAILERS IN 


ROAD WORK IN FAYETTE COUNTY, 











more Se 
Se ia 








ae, PEE 





ra 


Beating the Modern Arson Game 


By Haldane White 


© successfully burn a house is a new 
iy criminal science as exact as the mill- 
ing of a passable counterfeit or the 
brewing of a good grade of moonshine, ac- 
cording to interesting discoveries made by 
the Fire Bureau of Portland, Oregon, in re- 
cent extensive investigations and crusades. 
The work, covering a period of eight 
months, brought to light a remarkable 
series of arson plots and systems, complex 
and scientific in their nature and extending 
into many parts of the Pacific Coast. Simi- 
lar evidence has been gathered in other 
cities of the Coast, but in Portland the busi- 
ness was probably the most advanced. The 
Portland crusades have resulted in 35 ar- 
rests and 24 convictions. Seven arsonists 
are now in the Oregon state prison. 


Organization of Arson Rings 

It was found that organized arson rings 
were operating, and that without arousing 
suspicion they had exacted toll from insur- 
ance companies to the extent of about $150,- 
000 in less than two years. The business, 
spurred on by success, had developed into a 
science requiring skill and accuracy. Cog- 
nizance had been taken of increased speed 
of the fire department by reason of auto- 
mobile apparatus and modern equipment and 
methods, and great study had apparently 
been given to such questions as the best oils 
to use, the best means of getting fire dis- 
tributed quickly into vantage points, the 
best types of buildings to burn, the best 
means of concealing arson “plants” and the 
safest means of dealing with the insurance 
companies 

In Portland two distinct arson rings were 
found, one with twenty members and the 
other with seven. The specialty of these 
rings was the building of new houses and 
the remodeling of old ones for burning. In 
the new houses construction costs were cur- 
tailed, the amount of insurance made as 
heavy as possible and the places arranged 
for fire before completion. In old houses 
purchased by the rings, interior alterations 
were made to suit needs. Oftentimes 
leases were taken and such houses fitted with 
old furniture for burning. 

It was the unusual number of fires and 


the heavy losses that brought about the in- 
vestigation and crusade. It came when in- 
surance companies were threatening the 
city with increased rates. At first the plan 
was to investigate fire causes and gather 
data for a fire-prevention campaign. But 
the investigation was little more than 
started before the intricate arson evidence 
was found and plans were changed. 

The first step in the effort to beat the 
new game was the organization last April of 
an arson squad in the Fire Bureau. This 
squad of three firemen—Capt. W. A. Grace, 
Capt. Fred W. Roberts, and Lieut. E. J. 
Treese—was placed in charge of Fire Mar- 
shal Jay Stevens. Instructions were given 
for a detailed investigation of every fire 
hy one or all members of the squad. The 
members were on duty at all times and vis- 
ited the fires usually before the department 
had finished its work. Investigations were 
conducted even where there was no cause 
for suspicion of arson. 


The Arsonist’s Use of Oil 

In the modern arson game the use of coal 
oil has been tabooed. It is too slow for a 
fast fire department. Speed is the first es- 
sential in a successful touch-off. Fire must 
be scattered quickly and to places where it 
will take strong hold and eat into the heart 
of the building before it is nabbed. * The 
first essential of speed is the right kind of 
oil. The new arsonist has developed an oil 
which is characterized by both speed and 
stability, yet not too much of either. The 
most delicate part of the whole operation is 
the mixing. Improper mixture generally 
means failure; an oil too light means a 
flimsy flame, while an oil too thick or heavy 
means a slow, heavy fire, easily smothered. 

Portland’s largest arson ring had the oil 
part of its business worked down to a fine 
point. An ex-fire-lieutenant who had 
learned a great deal about oils and fires 
through several years of experience was the 
oil mixer of the ring. This ring was the 
one that erected houses to burn and bought 
old houses and remodeled them for burning. 
The oil used was a mixture of boiled linseed 
oil and turpentine with a dash of varnish or 
gasoline. It was mixed and tested until the 











Fe ate eae 


ME aD tee ta. 





\PRIL, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 391 


flash was exactly right. Lhose in charge 
spent weeks in experimenting with various 
oils, and were able to detect the proper mix- 
ture by the flash. 


Houses to ‘Burn 

laking a piece of property purchased or 
leased by the ring, the arsonists proceeded 
to erect a house. It was made flimsily and 
with runways, chutes, open stairways and 
ypen windows at the bottom of the house 
and at the top to give good draft for fire 
\s it neared completion, the general prac 
tice was to insure it to the limit. In pre 
paring for the fire a little later, the debris 
under the floors, such as shavings, building 
paper, tissue paper, straw, greasy rags and 
other inflammable materials, was given a 
light coat of oil. All vents were opened 
and the fire directed toward these so that 
the blaze would quickly spread upward and 
scatter throughout the building. The plants 
would then be set in the basement among 
the debris and fitted with slow-burning 
fuses. These could be cut of such length 
as to time the fire ; when all were of the same 
length, they would finish burning at the 
same time and would set the building afire 
in several places simultaneously. rhe 
fuses enabled.the'time of a fire to be set for 
any hour of the day or night. 

After a number of successes with special- 
ly constructed houses, the ring turned its 
attention to old houses as a source of larger 
returns. A place would be purchased and 
furnished with a lot of cheap furniture. The 
general practice was to tear out the plaster- 





A WALL ARSON “PLANT,” WHICH STARTED 
A FIRE, BUT WAS DISCOVERED BEFORE 
MUCH DAMAGE WAS DONE 











ing from the walls so as to give the fire 
better chance to burn unhampere In one 
house fixed by this ring every foot of plas 
tering was torn out and buried in the basse 
ment and in a neighboring field This fire 
was not altogether a success, a! vhen the 
arson squad got to work on the case the 
plastering was found 


and taken into court as 
evidence 

ven with the pains 
taken by the arsonists 
to develop the oils 
properly, it has been 
found extremely hard 
to build plants that ars 








A “PLANT” THAT FAILED TO GO OFF 


sure to go off. In the 

probing, the irson 
squad members found 
a number of plants that 
had failed to work. In 
one attic tour plants 
were found: they had 
been set to eo off si- 
multaneous but onl 
one iught. It 
nappene th nilk 











“== 


<eewiaeks 











| 

+ 
aa 
a3 
. | 
eB 
5 


1 Was passing on his early morning 
rounds and he got the fire department at 
once, and the fire was put out after only 
slight damage to the roof of the house. 
lhe other plants were found still intact. 
lhese were the plants that led to the un 
doing of the arsonists. 


Other Kinds of ‘‘Plants”’ 


\nother practice in getting a g 


od hre 


tarted was the digging of a hole in the 
laste1 ing to make room for inserting a hol 
ywed board in the partition. This board 
was filled with oil and connected with a 
fuse Several of these in various parts of 


a house, set to go off at the same time 


would ordinarily get a fire well started be 
fore discovery Improper mixing of oils 
aused the failure of a plant of this kind 
and the arrest of the perpetrators Only 
one out of three of the plants took the 


laze, and this did not start a substantial 


In a store was found a novel system to in 


sure success in a touch-off. The usual type 
of fused plant was built in a back room and 
connected up to a frail barrel of oil by a 


trail of matches rhe plan was to get the 
hack room well ablaze by the time the 
natches carried the fire to the oil barrel 
lhe oil barrel, being flimsy, would break 
open after a few moments of burning. By 
the time that took place,the back-room blaze 
would be strong enough to resist the flood of 
oil. The oil would act as a sudden stimu 
lant to the fire. This system was calculated 
to give double assurance of a permanent and 
hot fire and one which would in all prob- 
ibility cause a minimum of suspicion. 

In another case a teakettle filled with 
slow-burning oil was set in a barrel of pa- 
pers and shavings and a fuse attached. 
Above the barrel was a shelf covered with 
matches. Flimsy paper decorations were 
run up to the top of another shelf, the 
whole surface of which was covered with 
matches dumped out of their boxes. The 
arrangement was so set that after the fire 
had burned a few minutes the matches 
would be dumped down onto the floor and 
would keep the fire going. But in this par- 
ticular case the oil in the kettle proved too 
heavy, and, while some damage was done, 
the matches did not get a chance to do their 
part of the work. 

In many instances plants were made to 
appear as mere bits of carelessness, but in 


392 THE AMERICAN CITY Vor. XIV, No. 4 


these cases the arsonist merely took a long 
hance of getting a real fire started. Onc 
scheme that was uncovered consisted of the 
leaving of a big, greasy rag beside an elec 
tric chafing dish, which was turned on and 
left. Another was the leaving of an elec 
tric curling iron turned on beside a quantity 

celluloid. In both of these cases fires 
were started, but only slight damage was 


lone 


A Played-Out Game 


In Portland the arson game is at present 
very quiet. There has been too much 
activity on the part of the arson squad 
lhe game isn't as safe as it used to be, be- 
ause the officials are doing too much in 
vestigating. Formerly, if a plant of any 
type failed to go off, it was not discovered 
y the firemen, even though they entered the 
uilding to fight an incipient blaze resulting 
from the attempt to touch it off. They 
were not looking for such things then, and 
there was no arson squad. In those days it 











A “SET” IN WHICH A KETTLE FILLED WITH 
OIL WAS USED AS A _ TORCH ., 


Note the matches on the shelf above 


* 
wate a. 


Weince 

















Il 19016 THE A M ERICAN City 








3 
VaS a prosperous and comparatively Sate police and hre oth S 
: usiness, but it now involves all the risks of was going o1 Bi , 
: ther nefarious vocations lhe arsonists litterent story Off 5 ‘ 
ere fortunate in having had no resistance eat the arsonists at thei vn game 
uring the period they were experimenting lire Marshal Stevens of Port 5 
vith their business and bringing it up to a_ officials of other cities t 9 
cientific basis. Their experiments with the question of fire uses ’ t} 
lants involved but very little risk even may discover some thir 
here success did not favor them, for the suspected 
e 
An Unusu cciden 
sual Accident 
\ \ wrecked 7-ton fire engine in a cellar hoseman who was at 
vas an object of great interest in Philadel chauffeur was at the vheel 
hia on March 6. The engine had been out some unknown reason the ate onli 
m a demonstration trip and was returning at he meee “a ae 
o the engine house. On a down grade the ene ; 
, driving tne nachine s CK to 
ower was shut off, and the engine was . Sa 
oasting at a moderate speed wher sud their posts, and both were injures Uh 
denly it turned toward the pavement and engine turned over, flattening the dome 
plunged through a pile of stones into a 30 against the inner wall and crushing th 


foot excavation. It is reported that a_ tractor on the floor. 





a 


5 earth Mo 


. 
| 
| 
’ 
" 
7 
t 














A RUNAWAY MOTOR FIRE ENGINE IN A PHILADELPHIA CELLAR 


























THE BEAUTIFUL EFFECT OF THE ILLUMINATED COURT HOUSE AT PLYMOUTH 


Illuminating the Court House at Plymouth 


N the evening of March I a celebra- 
O tion was held at Plymouth, Mass., 
to commemorate the opening of a 

white way consisting of thirty-five orna- 
mental luminous arc lamps. One feature of 
the celebration was the illumination of the 
Court House and the tower of the new 


Federal Building with G-E flood lighting 
projectors. Ten of these were used to 
illuminate the Court House, two being in- 
stalled to light the tower and eight to light 
the face of the building. As the building is 
made of red brick with white trimmings, 
the effect was very beautiful. 





Nitrogen-Filled Lamps for Street Lighting 


HE failure of certain cities and towns 
fi to profit by the use of modern types 
of incandescent lamps was pointed 

out by Prof. Arthur H. Ford, of the Elec- 
trical Engineering Department of the State 
University of lowa, in a paper presented 
at the recent annual meeting of the lowa 
Engineering Society. Prof. Ford called at 
tention to the fact that tungsten lamps were 
a great improvement over the old carbon 
lamp, and that still greater efficiency has 
been attained in the new nitrogen-filled 
lamps. Some of the old carbon lamps are, 
however, still in use; and arc lamps of all 
types, except flaming arcs of either the car- 


bon or metallic type, may also be con- 
sidered as obsolete. Said Prof. Ford, in 
part: 


“The reason that both non-flaming arc lamps 
ind carbon incandescent lamps are continued 
in use is largely due to the fact that the con 
tracts have customarily been made on the basis 

f using a certain type of lamp, and such con 
tracts usually run for five or ten-year periods 
One of the vital questions in regard to the in- 
troduction of the new type incandescent lamps 
is the question of the equivalence between the 
new type lamp and some old lamp which has 
been specified in the contract. Where the old 
contracts called for incandescent lamps of a 
certain candle-power, the new type lamps have 
usually been introduced voluntarily by the 
electric power company. The introduction of 


a 
cons 


1 eta 

















the new type lamp means a saving in the en- 
ergy required and therefore enables the service 
to be supplied at a lower cost. Where the con- 
tract called for an arc lamp, the introduction 
of incandescent lamps has been somewhat 
slower, because of the lack of information as 
to what size of an incandescent lamp can be 
considered as equivalent to the existing arc 
lamps, thus making the electric power com- 
pany hesitate in making a substitution in lamps, 
and thereby inviting criticism. Where 6.6 am- 
pere alternating-current enclosed arc lamps are 
in use, 250-candle-power gas-filled tungsten 
lamps can be considered as their equivalent, 
and where 7.5 ampere alternating current en- 
closed arc lamps are in use, 400 candle-power 
gas-filled tungsten lamps can be considered as 
their equivalent. 

“Where an electrolier system or curb light- 
ing system (as it is commonly called) is in use, 
the introduction of gas-filled incandescent 
lamps reduces the energy required by a con- 
siderable amount, though if the electrical sys- 
tem has been laid out for operation at 110 volts 
this reduction will not be as great as though 
the system had been laid out as a constant-cur- 
rent system operating at a current of 5.5 am- 
peres or above. The new type of lamp has 
practically the same life as the old type, so if 
the contract with the power company calls for 
a lamp of a certain power consumption, the 
gas-filled lamp may be substituted with a result 
that the light is considerably increased with no 
additional expense. 

“When planning a new electrolier system, it 
is well to bear in mind that the present tend- 
ency is to use a single lamp per post, which is 
due to the fact that large lamps have greater 


AprRIL, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


395 


efficiency than small lamps Che objection 
may be raised that it is desirable to have the 
top lamp of a five-lamp post lighted all night, 
while the lower lamps will be lighted only until 
midnight. Practically the same result in light- 
ing the street can be accomplished by equip- 
ping the corner posts with slightly larger 
lamps and operating the corner posts all night, 
while the others are operated until midnight. 

“There has been a tendency to use electro- 
liers which were too heavy to harmonize with 
the architecture of the buildings along the 
street, and this tendency has been particularly 
marked in the introduction of five-light elec- 
troliers. The return to single-light electroliers 
using a rather large globe has had a desirable 
corrective effect in regard to the tendency to 
use heavy electroliers. The use of globes of 
a uniform size does not necessarily mean that 
the lamps in those globes shall be all of the 
same size. In fact, it is well to select lamps 
of such size as to compare to the importance 
of the street being lighted; small lamps being 
used in the center of the block and large lamps 
being used at the corners 

“Incandescent lamps are used for street 
lighting purposes in preference to arc lamps. 
not only because of the technical reasons, but 
because there is less difference in appearance 
between large lamps and small lamps than 
there is between incandescent lamps and arc 
lamps. Therefore, it is much easier, from the 
political standpoint, to adjust the lighting of 
a street to the needs of the street when in- 
candescent lamps are used throughout, than 
is the case when are lamps are used for the 
principal streets and incandescent lamps are 
used for streets of secondary importance.” 





Fire Equipment Statistics for 


CENSUS of the fire apparatus and 
hose in service and reserve in 670 
cities whose population is 7,000 or 
over, and also of the possible purchases 
during 1916, is presented in an extended 
table published in a recent issue of the Fire- 
man’s Herald. This census represents an 
increase over the previous year of more 
than 30 per cent in the cities reporting. 
From the statistics given one learns that 
there are now 9,295 pieces of apparatus in 
service and reserve, of which total 3,426 
represent motor and 5,869 horse-drawn 
equipment. From the latter figure a heavy 
deduction must be made “to provide for 
the large number [of horse-drawn  ve- 
hicles] that are nominally held in reserve, 
but are in reality carried on fire depart- 
ment books because it is not easy to find 
purchasers at fair prices.” 
A striking feature is the rapid elimina- 


American and Canadian Cities 


tion of horse-drawn apparatus: In I914 
there were 315 cities with 7,059 horse- 
drawn vehicles, while in 1915, although 
twice the number of departments, including 
the original 315, are entered, the number of 
horse-drawn vehicles is less by over 1,000. 
This tendency is further illustrated in the 
census of possible purchases where 7 ve- 
hicles “pulled by Dobbin” are listed as 
against 808 automobiles. 

The combination chemical and hose car 
leads the motor apparatus with a total of 
1,012. The apparent hesitation in adopting 
the triple combination pump, chemical en- 
gine and hose car seems to have disap- 
peared, as there are 385 registered as 
against 290 straight automobile pumping 
engines. Water-towers and ladder trucks 
number 313, tractorized pieces 573, and all 
other fire automobiles, mostly chi 
853. 


efs’ cars, 








asaaas2s35 





Types of City Streets and Pavements 4 


t SPERGEESE D525 25 ans aS EE SeSese 


t mis 























BLOOMFIELD AVENUE, NEWARK, N, J. 
Paved with grouted granite block upon a 6-inch foundation. The pavement between the car tracks is 
grouted trap rock block. Width between property lines, 66 feet; width of paved roadway, 39 feet. The 
i sidewalks, planting strips, curbs and gutters take a width of 13% feet 
— : —— es ee ee 
’ 
q 

















COURT AVENUE, WINTERSET, IOWA, LOOKING WEST FROM SIXTH AVENUE 


Paved with Trinidad sheet asphalt. Width between property lines, 824% feet; width of paved roadway, 
30 feet; sidewalks, 4 feet wide, 8 inches from property line 














— 


=——_— 
































\pRIL, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 397 

















SENECA PARKWAY, ROCHESTER, N. Y. 


There is a central parking 58 feet wide; two paved ge 0 one of bituminous macadam, th« 
asphalt, each 20 feet wide; and two side parking strips, each 30 feet wide 

















FRESH POND PARKWAY, IN LOWELL MEMORIAL PARK, CAMBRIDGE, MASS 
General width between property lines, 70 feet; macadam roadway, 40 feet wide; sidewalks, 9 feet wide, 
with 6-foot parking strips 











| 
: 
‘ 








we 


so 


398 


Items of Municipal and Civic Progress 


tet tte eee Tee ee 


Cooperation Between Communities 
in Fire Protection 

The fire chiefs of Central Ohio have re- 
cently banded themselves together to form 
the “Codéperative Association of Central 
Ohio Fire Chiefs’—an organization whose 
objects are: (1) the promotion of the 
standardization of hose couplings and fire 
department equipment in all cities; (2) the 
working out of all problems relative to con- 
flagrations and the lending of aid by one 
city to another during heavy fires, and (3) 
the conservation of the resources of Ohio 
which are subject to destruction through 
conflagration. 

This organization is the first of its kind 
in the country, although similar organiza- 
tions are now under way in Cleveland, Cin- 
cinnati and Toledo, with the prospect that 
other cities will be included in the near 
future. 

The Ohio association has mailed to all 
chiefs of fire departments of Ohio water- 
works towns, as well as to all chambers of 
commerce, copies of a pamphlet entitled 
“General Consideration of the Need of Co- 
Operation Between Communities in Case of 
Fire.” Attention is directed to pages 7, 8 
and 9 of this pamphlet, where the method 
-of changing non-standard and adaptable 
hose couplings to the National Standard is 
explained; also to pages 12, 13, 14 and 15, 
which give a list of Ohio water-works 
towns with dimensions of hose couplings, 
by reference to which any chief can easily 
ascertain what cities within a radius of fifty 
miles would be able to render assistance in 
time of need. 

The Ohio State Fire Prevention Associa- 
tion, at a meeting on February 1, 1916, 
adopted an amendment to its constitution 
providing that any chief, assistant or bat- 
talion chief of any Ohio fire department, 
who is a member of any Ohio coéperative 
organization of fire chiefs, shall automati- 
cally become an honorary member of the 
Association. This body is exerting itself in 
every way to work effectively with the new 
Codperative Association. 


New Jersey’s New Law for Municipal 
and County Bond Issues 


A law enacted last month by the New 
Jersey Legislature embodies many modern 
ideas in the bonding of public improve- 
ments. The act restricts all issues to the 
serial form, allowing a latitude of 50 per 
cent for the maximum annual payment over 
the minimum annual payment. The act 
also allows the governing body to fix the 
term of the bonds to correspond with the 
life or utility of the improvement which the 
proceeds of the bonds create, but gives a 
schedule of maximum terms within which 
all bonds for such specific classes of im- 
provement must mature. 

A unique feature of the act is the form 
of bid specified. The bidder is required to 
state that he will turn over to the selling 
municipality the amount of money called 
for, and to state how few bonds he will 
take for the money turned over, plus any 
small premium to adjust the bid over and 
above the unit denomination of the bonds. 
In this way, premiums cannot exceed 
$1,000; and by such a plan the large pre- 
miums which have been received, for which 
it is claimed there is no proper place of 
credit, will be done away with, and the mu- 
nicipality will receive the exact amount of 
money it is authorized to spend. 

The validity clause is also a feature of 
the bill, whereby after due notice to the 
taxpayer, if no protest is received, bonds 
become incontestable in the hands of the 
purchaser. 

The bill also fixes a debt limit for muni- 
cipalities and counties. 

This bill is the result of the work of the 
Commission for the Survey of Municipal 
Financing, of which Assemblyman Arthur 
N. Pierson, of Westfield, N. J., is chairman. 
The Commission also presented several 
other bills, all of which passed both houses 
of the Legislature, but were vetoed by the 
Governor. 

The bills vetoed included a sinking fund 
bill providing for the supervision and audit 
of all sinking funds by a duly authorized 

















| 











state authority; a bill requiring a uniform 
reporting of the financial condition of mv- 
nicipalities; a budget bill; a bill regulating 
borrowing in anticipation of the receipt of 
taxes, and a funding bill providing for the 
distribution of all indebtedness to depend- 
able assets and refunding such indebtedness 
as might not be supported by a live asset. 

The Report of the Commission for the 
Survey of Municipal Financing—a pam- 
phlet containing much information of value 
to state, county and municipal officials—may 
be obtained by any reader of Tue AmMenrt- 
cAN City on application to Assemblyman 
Pierson, 

+ + 


A Reference Library for City Officials 
and for Business Men 


A new departure in reference libraries is 
that recently introduced in the city of Min- 
neapolis, where a branch library devoted 
to trade, finance and civics has been opened. 
This institution was modeled after the suc- 
cessful Business Public Library of Newark, 
N. J., but the plan was enlarged to include 
a municipal department. 

The opening of the new branch marks the 
culmination of three years’ effort, by the 
Minneapolis Civic and Commerce Associa- 
tion, for a centrally located library devoted 
exclusively to business and municipal sub- 
jects. The library is located in the midst 
of the business district and has adopted 
business hours—8.30 A. M. to 6.30 P. M. 

City and trade directories, financial and 
municipal journals, atlases, maps, charters, 
ordinances and general works on business 
science, accounting systems, etc., make up 
the present collection. To this initial in- 
stallation will be added further volumes of 
such nature as the demand indicates. Miss 
Mary Dietrichson is in charge of the new 
branch. 

+ + 


Bulletins on Preventive Hygiene 

On the well-established principle that 
public health work is not confined to ques- 
tions of sanitation alone, but embraces the 
equally important field of preventive hy- 
giene, the Dallas Department of Health is 
publishing in its monthly bulletin a series 
of short articles covering a few matters of 
vital importance to the health and comfort 


Aprit, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


399 


of growing children, for the edification of 
the parents and teachers in Dallas. The 
first of these articles was published in No- 
vember, 1915, and called attention to the 
signs of danger which appear in connection 
with some of the more important diseases 
of the eye, ear, nose and throat. An article 
appeared the next month on “The Exami- 
nation of Children’s Teeth,” and a third was 
on “Regulated Play for Children.” 


+ +t 


New York’s New Court for 
Municipal Cases 

A Municipal Term Court reserved exclu- 
sively for the trial of cases concerning the 
city, and which is the first of its kind in 
the United States, has recently been opened 
in New York City’s Municipal Building. 
Magistrate Charles W. Appleton has been 
assigned to act permanently as judge. 

The first Municipal Term for Manhattan 
and the Bronx was officially opened March 
20 in the presence of Mayor Mitchel, Con- 
troller Prendergast, Corporation Counsel 
Hardy and Chief Magistrate McAdoo. 
\fter preliminary speeches the court settled 
down to its work, and before it adjourned 
33 cases had been heard, 29 had been ad- 
journed and 4 offenders had been fined $5 
each, 

The object of the new court, as explained 
by Chief Magistrate McAdoo, is to effect a 
greater economy and efficiency in the trial 
of cases involving infractions of the tene- 
ment house law, the labor law, the fire pre- 
vention law, the ordinances of the Mayor’s 
License Bureau, the regulations of the De- 
partment of Water Supply, Gas and Elec- 
tricity, the sanitary ordinances of the 
Health Department and the laws of the 
Park Department. A judge specializing in 
these cases will have more time to become 
familiar with the intricate details of the 
laws concerned. 

It is believed that the new court will 
prove to be a great advantage to the com- 
munity, the citizen and the property owner. 
The latter will no longer be obliged to go 
before the ordinary police court for minor 
technical offenses. The present intention, 
also, is to issue summonses rather than to 
arrest those who are wanted, except in the 
case of refractory offenders. 





THE AMERICAN CISY 

















































































Municipal Motor Equipment 








In every progressive city the heads of the various depart- 
ments are vitally interested in the economies which modern 
motor equipment would effect in the work of their departments. 


In every department of municipal work in which modern 
motor equipment decreases costs and increases efficiency, 
Sterling Trucks are pre-eminent. Their strength and dur- 
ability, their economy and simplicity of operation, their 
adaptability to a wide range of work, makes them the most 
profitable investment for municipal applications. 


TRUCKS 


Automatic Dumping Trucks for Oil Distributors (Sterling-Allen 
Road and Street Construction System 


and Maintenance General Utility Motor Wagons for 


Combination Chemical and Hose Lighting and Power Plant Sup 
Wagons plies 
> ‘ ’ +e Je - 
Te Patrol and Ambulance W agons 
Sterling-Kindling Motor Squeegee 


Pressure Flushers and Sprinklers Street Washers. 







Write for specifications of the kind of motor equipment you are 
interested in and for interesting data showing economies effected 


STERLING MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY 


998 Rogers Street Milwaukee, Wis. 
























When writing to Advertisers please mention Tus Amearican Crry. 











Poo 














scr Ab inten 














\prIL, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 401 


New York and Vicinity Organizes 
a “Mosquito Week” Campaign 

\t a meeting of the Inter-State Anti- 
Mosquito Commission, held January 12 last 
in New York City, it was decided to under- 
take a campaign of education among school 
children in regard to the breeding of mos- 
quitoes. To this end a “Mosquito Week” 
was to be declared, at which time educa- 
tional leaflets would be distributed, and by 
every other means, such as moving pic- 
tures and exhibits, the necessity of mos- 
quito extermination would be emphasized. 

Since this meeting the various members 
of the Commission have been actively en- 
gaged in making the preparations for the 
campaign. Local Anti-Mosquito Commit- 
tees in Westchester County, Connecticut 
and New Jersey have been communicated 
with and their codperation requested. Dr. 
Charles F. Bolduan, Director of the Bureau 
of Public Health Education of the New 
York Health Department, has been busily 
engaged in preparing an  anti-mosquito 
pamphlet with an arresting front-page car- 
toon and with stories explaining how mos- 
quitoes breed. 

Large numbers of mosquito larve are 
now being gathered for use in the cam- 
paign. These will be placed in jars and 
bottles and distributed among the schools 
so that each child may see the life-stages 
in the growth of the mischief-maker. The 
Providence Daily News, in connection with 
the work of larve gathering, has offered to 
take a series of photographs which will be 
used in the campaign. “Mosquito Week” 
will take place early in May, and should 
prove of assistance in furthering the larger 
work of national education to restrict the 
breeding of insects which propagate disease. 

+ + 


A Philadelphia Competition for a 
Plan for Workingmen’s Houses 

Drawings of a plan for workingmen’s 
houses in competition for the Walter Cope 
Memorial Prize, offered by Mrs. Walter 
Cope in memory of one of the founders of 
the T-Square Club of Philadelphia, will 
be received at the Club up to April 24 at 
3 P.M. The first prize is $100, the second 
$60 and the third $35—these sums to be 
spent by the winners for books on archi- 
tecture, in consultation with the officers of 
the T-Square Club. 


(he committee in charge of the compe 
tition has chosen a lot near the Midvale 
Steel Works as the site for the proposed 
houses, and has formulated certain speci- 
fications. These specifications require that 
the gross annual rentals from the whol 
property shall amount to not less than ten 
per cent of the total investment, including 
land and houses, and that they shall be 
graduated according to a prescribed month 
ly basis. 

lhe drawings will be passed upon by the 
members of the committee in charge of the 
competition, and the right is reserved to 
withhold one or all of the prizes should 
the drawings be considered unworthy of 
award. The committee consists of John 
Molitor, Chairman; George Howe, Secre- 
tary; Donald M. Kirkpatrick, Bernard ] 
Newman and Clarence R. Siegel. It is 
hoped that this competition will prove a 
stimulating suggestion to other towns and 
cities. 

+ + 
Occupational Disease Clinics 
for the Cities 


The Department of Health of Boston has 
recently opened an occupational clinic for 
the examination of all persons engaged in 
the handling of foodstuffs and for the dis- 
pensing of typhoid prophylactic and the 
giving of free vaccinations. This clinic, in 
the Chardon Street Home Building, West 
End, will be open daily except Sundays and 
holidays. 

Examinations, for the present, are re 
stricted to hotel and restaurant employes 
who handle foodstuffs, and it is hoped that 
those having infectious diseases will be pre- 
vented from engaging in these occupations. 
\ certificate, renewable yearly, is issued to 
applicants after examination, and already 
many of the hotel and restaurant proprie- 
tors of the city are demanding that their 
employes obtain, these certificates. A law 
is pending which proposes to make the ex- 
aminations compulsory. 

New York City also has taken up the 
question of the study and treatment of oc- 
cupational diseases. About six months ago 
Dr. S. S. Goldwater, then Health Commis- 
sioner, authorized the opening of an occu- 
pational disease clinic, placing it under Dr. 
Billing’s division of preventable diseases, 
with Dr. Louis I, Harris in direct control. 
\s there was no appropriation for this new 





a 


we 


a aan 


| 














Ce ae 





KI—— 





THE AMERICAN CITY 


YOUR CITY IS MORE THAN A MASS 
OF BRICK AND STONE AND STEEL 





It is a Thing Alive, Throbbing With Human Energy, Growing, 
Changing Every Day Towards Something Different 


What will this something be? 


Is it to be a city cursed by traffic congestion, poor railroad facilities, 
unhealthy living conditions, lack of adequate parks and playgrounds, in- 
convenient arrangement of streets—by any of a score of other physical 
faults that may retard a city’s progress? 


Is it to be a city where the doctrine of “each man for himself’’ holds 
sway, where the “knocker” is the most powerful factor in the community, 
where effective cooperation is seldom in evidence—the sort of city that 
young men leave “because there are no opportunities’’? 


You can determine your city’s future—not alone, but by working on 
the minds of others, your fellow citizens. The American City Bureau is 
ready to help you. 


Through its City Planning Exhibition, it will develop public interest 
in the community’s physical growth. This has already been accomplished 
in more than a dozen cities. 


Through its Campaign Department it will revitalize the spirit of your 
community—give the citizens a new vision of their civic duty—a new under- 
standing of the things they can accomplish by working together. This we 
have done in a score of cities by establishing a genuinely effective Chamber 
of Commerce. We can do it in yours. 


If you are interested in the healthy development of your city, ask us 
for more information. 





aman CITY BUREAU, 87 Nassau Street, New York 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 





Aprit, 1916 


department, Dr. Harris utilized a large loft 
in a building owned by the Department of 
Health, and, to quote The Survey, “begged, 
borrowed or stole” from the other offices 
enough furniture to serve the bare necessi- 
ties. With the laboratories of the depart- 
ment at his service for chemical and micro- 
scopic work, Dr. Harris has organized a 
clinic in which 150 to 175 persons are ex- 
amined daily by 17 to 20 physicians. 


The Chicago Drama League Plans 
a Theater for Juveniles 

The city of Chicago is soon to have a 
children’s theater, which, it is said, will be 
the only one of its kind in the country. It 
will be opened next fall with plays such as 
“Snow White” and “Hansel und Gretel.” 
with professional actors and actresses who 
retain the “spirit of youth” acting the prin- 
cipal réles. 

The project was announced at a recent 
meeting of the Drama League in the rooms 
of the Chicago Woman’s Club. It is 
planned to give productions every Satur- 
day morning, with an admission charge of 
ten cents. According to Theodore B. 


Hinckley, president of the Drama League 


of Chicago, his association will advance 
whatever funds are necessary, although it 
is expected the theater will become self- 
sustaining, at least after the first year. 
Newton H. Carpenter, of the Art Insti- 
tute, is coOperating with the directors of the 
Drama League. It is hoped that arrange- 
ments can be made whereby Fullerton Hall, 
Art Institute, will be available for use as 
the theater building. The object of the 
Drama League in its venture is to reach 
the children with good plays at a time be- 
fore they have-formed the “movie habit” so 
thoroughly as not to care for other plays. 
+ + 


Bryn Mawr Alumnae Cooperate with 
State to Reduce Fire Hazards | 

In the desire to express a recognition of 
“what the college owes to the public,” the 
alumnz of the classes of 1889, 1890, 1891 
and 1892 of Bryn Mawr College have con- 
tributed a fund to make possible a study of 
fire prevention in industrial plants employ- 
ing women in Pennsylvania. 

The field work in this fire prevention 
study will be performed by Miss Fannie 
Travis Cochran, of the class of 1902, Bryn 
Mawr, and Miss Florence Lucas Sanville, 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


403 


Barnard College, class of 1901, under the 
direction of Commissioner John Price Jack- 
son, of the Department of Labor and In- 
dustry. The results of the study, which is 
expected to continue for about six months, 
will be given in the annual report of the 
State Department of Labor and Industry. 

This gift, in so far as is known, is the 
first of its kind. The idea, starting with a 
group of eleven Bryn Mawr graduates of 
the class of 1889, grew in popularity until 
the three other classes in college with ‘89 
petitioned to join the original group. There 
are thus more than sixty women in the 
present movement. Commissioner Jackson, 
in accepting the gift on. behalf of his De- 
partment, wrote to the Alumnz as follows: 

“I beg to assure you that your purpose has 
been a great inspiration to me, and I believe 
that its influence on the public will be very 
great. I can imagine no other action which 
would better enable the Department of Labor 
and Industry to gain the real codperation and 
help of the public in carrying on the vital, hu- 
mane work in which we are engaged.” 


+ + 


A Civic Ritual for Fourth of July 
Americanization Ceremonies 


“The New Citizenship” is the title of a 
little book written by Percy Mackaye, re- 
cently published, which is devised for use 
as a civic ritual at public meetings. 

The book is the outcome of a request 
made by the New York Citizenship Day 
Committee to the author for a form of 
ceremony for use by newly naturalized 
citizens in the City College Stadium. 

The plan for this celebration, as first 
proposed by Frederic C. Howe, Commis- 
sioner of Immigration at Ellis Island, was 
to hold a meeting of welcome to the new 
citizens in the stadium, or in the Madison 
Square Garden, on July 4, 1915, and it was 
for this celebration that Mr. Mackaye un- 
dertook the composition of his civic ritual. 
As the time proved too short for the need- 
ful preparations, the meeting was postponed. 

Mr. Mackaye’s ritual, though in the first 
instance written for use in New York City, 
is not intended to be limited to such use. 


- Rather, the author has sought to fill a na- 


tional need for a civic ceremony for presen- 
tation as part of the Fourth of July celebra- 
tion program. To this end he has placed 
his work at the service of any American 
community, committee, school or civic so- 
ciety, which may secure permission to use it 
by writing the author. 











a 














THE AMERICAN CITY 






















Oil 
Tempering 


ye buy machinery when you buy a lawn 
mower. Yet you have nothing but looks 
to guide you, and all lawn mowers are painted 
to Sod Be alike. How wise then to look 
for this identifying mark of a geod mower in 


the handle of every ‘‘ PENNSYLVANIA” 
Quality Lawn Mower. 


“PENNSYLVANIA” Mowers cut as smooth and 


true as a pair of shears because every blade (curved as 
well as straight), are made of oil-tempered crucible tool 
steel and with as much care as the finest cutting tools. 


“PENNSYLVANIA” | self-sharpening blades stay 


sharp a dozen years or more without the usual yearly 
dollar for regrinding, soon saving the cost of the mower. 


The “PENNSYLVANIA” trade mark is on the handle 
of the following brands: 





‘‘Pennsylvania”’ Shock Absorber’”’ 
‘Great American’’ “*Golf”’ 
“‘Continental’”’ “Pony”’ 
“Pennsylvania, Jr.’’ “*Horse,”’ “‘Power’’ 
“‘Keystone’”’ and others 
one “The Pennsylvania People’ 


and Testing 





PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA 


~ 


——~ > 





Gre ® Sippke Biddle fardware (ompany 





Lawn 











Mailed free: 
yy Z| “ Scientific Lawn Mak- 
Y ing," interesting treatise by 

nha 








49 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City, 














APRIL 12-16.—New Or .EANS, La, 

Southern Sociological Congress. Gen- 
eral Secretary, J. E. McCulloch, 323 Sixth 
Avenue, Nashville, Tenn. 

ApriL 13-14.—CuHIcaAco, ILL. 

Conference on Engineering Codpera- 
tion. Secretary, C. E. Drayer, Cleveland, 
Ohio. 

APRIL 19-22.—CINCINNATI, OHIO. 

American Physical Education Asso- 
ciation. Secretary, Dr. J. H. McCurdy, 
93 Westford Avenue, Springfield, Mass. 

APRIL 19-22.—New York City. 
National Conference on Community 


Centers and Related Problems. First 
Conference. Secretary, John Collier, 70 
Fifth Avenue, New York City. 
APRIL 26-27.—TEMPLE, Tex. 
Associated Young Men’s_ Business 


Organizations of Texas. Secretary, W. A. 
Brady, Temple, Tex. 
APRIL 28-29.—PHILADELPHIA, PA, 

American Academy of Political and 
Social Science. Annual Meeting. Sec- 
retary, J. P. Lichtenberger, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa. 

May 4-5.—Kuineston, N. C. 

Carolina Municipal Association. An- 
nual Convention. President, Thomas J. 
Murphy, Mayor of Greensboro, N. C. 

May 4-6.—SHreEveEporT, La. 

Southern Commercial Secretaries’ 
Association. Annual Convention. Sec- 
retary, Frank H. Andrews, Vicksburg, 
Miss. 

May 7-9.—BurFra.o, N. Y: 

Open Forum Council. Annual gather- 
ing. Held under the auspices of Calvary 
Forum of Buffalo. Address George W. 
Coleman, Director, Ford Hall Foundation, 
354 Congress Street, Boston, Mass. 

May 8-10.—Waco, Tex. 

Southwestern Water Works Associa- 
tion. Annual Convention. Secretary, 
E. L. Fulkerson, Waco, Tex. 

May 9-11.—Cuicaco, ILL. 

National Fire Protection Association. 
Secretary, Franklin H. Wentworth, 87 
Milk Street, Boston. 

May 10-17.—INDIANAPOLIS, IND. 

National Conference of Charities and 
Correction. General Secretary, William 
lr. Cross, 315 Plymouth Court, Chicago, III. 

May 11-12.— WASHINGTON, 

National Association for the Study 
and Prevention of Tuberculosis. Annual 
Meeting. Secretary, Dr. Henry Barton 
Jacobs, 11 Mt. Vernon Place, West, Balti- 
more, Md. 

May 22-27.—CHICAGO, ILL. 

National Electric Light Association. 
Annual Convention. Secretary, T. Com- 
merford Martin, 29 West Thirty-ninth 
Street. New York City. 


Conventions and Exhibitions 


May 22- 





UNE 2—New York Ciry. 

General Federation of Women’s 
Clubs. Biennial Meeting. Corresponding 
Secretary, Mrs. Eugene Reilley, 508 Park 
Avenue, Charlotte, N. C. 


May 23-26—WaAsHINGTON, D. C. 
Annual Conference on Weights, and 
Measures. (Under the auspices of the 


Bureau of Standards.) Secretary, L. A. 
Fischer, United States Bureau of Stand- 
ards, Washington, D. C, 

24-25.—OMAHA, NEB. 

Nebraska State Association of Com- 
mercial Clubs. Annual Meeting. Secre- 
tary, W. D. Fisher, Commercial Club, Al- 

liance, Neb. 
May 31-JUNE 2.—Syracuse, N. Y 
Conference of Mayors and Other City 
Officials of the State of New York. An- 


May 


nual Conference. Secretary, W. P. Capes, 
25 Washington Avenue, Albany, N. Y. 
May 31-JUNE 2.—Syracuse, N. Y. 


National Association of Comptrollers 


and Accounting Officers. Secretary, 
George Martin Rex, Industrial Trust 
Building, Providence, R. | 


JUNE 5-7—CLEVELAND, OHIO. 


National Conference on City Plan- 
ning. Annual Conference. Secretary, 
Flavel Shurtleff, 19 Congress Street, Bos- 
ton, Mass. 

JUNE 5-9.—New York City. 

American Water Works Association. 
Annual Convention. Secretary, J. 
Diven, 47 State Street, Troy, N. Y 


June 6-10—Newark, N. J. 
International Association of Chiefs of 
Police. Annual Convention. Secretary, 
C. G. Kizer, Norfolk, Va. 
JuNeE 21-23—IsLe oF Pars, S. C 


Tri-State Water and Light Associa- 
tion of the Carolinas and Georgia. An- 
nual Convention. Secretary and Conven- 
tion Manager, W. F. Stieglitz, Columbia, 
5..<. 

June 26-Juty 1.—Aspury Park, N. J. 


American Library Association. An- 
nual Conference. Secretary, George B. 
Utley, 78 East Washington Street, Chi- 
cago, Ill. 
JuNE 27-30.—ATLANTIC City, N. J. 


American Society for Testing Mater- 
ials. Annual Meeting. Secretary, Pro- 
fessor Edgar Marburg, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa. 

‘NE 28-30.—MILWAUKEE, Wis. 

American Association of Nurserymen. 
Annual Convention. Secretary, John Hall, 
Granite Building, Rochester, N. Y. 

NE 28-30.—BatTtLe Creek, MICH. 

League of Michigan Municipalities. 
Annual Convention. Secretary, Charles 
\. Sink, Ann Arbor, Mich 


J 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


THE ONLY WAY 


To Obtain an Ornamental Lighting . 
System and Retain Overhead Wires 


ELRECO } 
COMBINATION POLES 


serve the double purpose of Ornamental 
Lighting Standards and Trolley Wire 
Supports. 











Handsome brackets for 
supporting very latest Nova- 
lux Lighting Units or the 
Ornamental Luminous Lamps 
improve the appearance of 
the plain Trolley Poles. 


i 


You can string your wires 
along the top of the poles, 
A a a where they are practically 
unnoticeable and out of the 
way of traffic. 





ee ee en en eee 


You save the cost of addi- 
tional lamp standards and 
underground construction, 
and avoid further obstruction 
of the curb line. 





Catalog E describes this 
money-saving plan and full 
details—free. 








Electric Railway 
Equipment Co. 


New York Office : 30 Church Street 
acme —~ Pole 


Bracket 10338 and CINCINNATI, OHIO  omamentai c.e. 


G. E. Novalux Unit Form $3 Luminous Arc 














50 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae American Curry. 











ApriL, 1916 


Community Centers and 
Related Problems 

The National Conference on Community 
Centers and Related Problem;, to be held 
in New York April 19, will give especial 
attention to the problem of financial sup- 
port for community center work and for 
social service generally. Other divisions 
of the conference will relate to Immigra- 
tion, Recreation, City Planning, Health and 
Codperative Art. The Conference has been 
called by about one hundred leaders of the 
community movement, dwelling in various 
parts of the United States, including John 
Dewey, Meyer Bloomfield, Edward J. 
Ward, Luther H. Gulick, Margaret Wood- 
row Wilson, Charles McCarthy, George E. 
Hooker, George B. Ford and Henry Bruére. 
The president of the Conference is Luther 
H. Gulick; its treasurer, Sam A. Lewisohn; 
and its secretary, John Collier. Its offices 
are at 70 Fifth Avenue, New York. 

Those signing the call state: 

“It is probable that no contemporary social 
movement has developed more rapidly, or 
taken on a greater diversity of forms, than 
has the community center movement during 
the past four years. The movement has be- 
come self-conscious in many terms. It is fo- 
calized in the wider use of school buildings 
and public properties, but reaches over into 
varied fields of codperative action and of 
social service. 

“But in spite of the apparent diversity in the 
community center movement, a number of 
definite problems are being confronted and 
more or less adequately met by workers in 
various cities and in rural districts as well. It 
is believed that a vital contact between work- 
ers, and a discussion focalized through reports 
carefully prepared in advance of the confer- 
ence, will have the effect not only of enrich- 
ing the experience of all those engaged in the 
movement, but of clarifying the philosophy 
and defining the ultimate program.” 

The conference program is being worked 
out by special committees which, in addi- 
tion, will present, in advance of the confer- 
ence, printed reports on the subjects of 
finance, immigration, health, etc., to serve 
as a basis for discussion. The committees 
have the following chairmen: 

Finance—John Collier 

Immi = Spies 

City a a, Snyder 

Cooperative re Perey *Mackaye 

Recreation—Sidney A. Teller 

Among the speakers will be Joseph Lee, 
Edward J. Ward, Franz Boas, Sidney 
Teller, Mrs. Mary VanMeter Grice and 
Henry Bruére. 


The community centers, now found 


THE AMERICAN CITY 407 


scores of cities, occupying school buildings 
and park properties as well as county court 
houses and town halls, are faced with the 
need of economic self-support, to be 
achieved through various methods of co- 
operation. The problem of organization for 
local self-government, and of the creation 
of overhead arrangements which serve ef- 
ficiency without destroying freedom of ac- 
tion, is involved with the fiscal problem. 
The general aim of the convention will be 
to see the various specific questions grow- 
ing out of community center work in the 
light of these questions of organization and 
finance. 
+ + 


National Conference of Charities 
and Correction 


The forty-second annual meeting of the 
National Conference of Charities and Cor- 
rection will be held May 10-17, 1916, at 
Indianapolis, Ind. At the same time and 
place will be held meetings of the Ameri- 
can Association of Officials of Charities and 
Correction, the National Children’s Home 
Society, the National Conference on the 
Education of Dependent, Truant, Back- 
ward and Delinquent Children, the Polish 
Social Workers, the National Probation 
Association and the American Association 
of Societies for Organizing Charity. 

A preliminary program has recently been 
issued which gives the list of subjects up 
for discussion and the names of special 
papers with the authors who are to read 
them. Among the latter the following will 
be of particular interest to readers of THE 
AMERICAN City: 


1. The Gary Plan and Its Social Bearings. William 
Wirt, Superintendent of Schools, Gary, Ind. 
2. The Police as a Social Force. Hon. Arthur 


Woods, Police Commissioner, 
Alice ‘S. Wells, Policewoman, Los 
Charles C. Brown, Indianapolis, Ind. 

8. Codrdination of Civic Effort in Small Communi- 
ties. Introduction to subject by Margaret F. Bying- 
ton, Associate Secretary, American Association of 
Societies for Organizing Charity, New York. 

4. Codrdination of Community Needs. George Mce- 
Aneny, former President, New York Board of Al- 
dermen, now associated in the management of the 
New York Times. 

5. Organization of Community Forces, Allen T 
a Director of the Cleveland Foundation, Cleve- 
lan 

6. Community Action Through Surveys. Shelby M. 
Harrison, Director, Department of Surveys and Ex- 
hibits, Russell Sage Foundation, New York. 

7, Endorsement (of Public and Private Charities) 
by Chambers of Commerce. Otto W. Davis, Assist- 
ant Secretary, Minneapolis Civic and Commerce Asso- 
ming. Minneapolis. 

Public (Charitable) Relief in Chicago. Eugene 
= in Superintendent, United Charities, Chicago. 

9. The Organization of Charitable and Correctional 
Work in Cities (Joint Session). Chairman, Leroy A 


New York City; Mrs. 
Angeles, Cal.; 





THE AMERICAN CITY 



































PACKARDS are the 
Acknowledged Standard 
for Municipal Hauling 


HE City of Elgin, Illinois, recently placed an order 

for two Packard Light Service Motor Trucks, to 

modernize its fire department. The chassis have been 

delivered and special combination hose and chemical bodies 
are now being fitted. 

For every class of municipal transportation, Packard 
Chainless Trucks have proved most efficient and economical. 
They are at work in paving, passenger carrying, lighting, 
forestry, garbage, police, fire and hospital departments in 
fifty cities of the country. 

W ith deliveries of Ligur Service Pack aRps now going 
forward as rapidly as day and night shifts in our mammoth 
truck plant can provide them, city officials are enabled to 
motorize their light hauling. Built in two sizes, rated re- 
spectively at 1—1'4 tons and 1%—134 tons, these lighter 
Packards are designed along tried and proved truck lines. 
They possess, in relative degree, all those qualities which 
have made Packard Heavy Service Trucks the choice of 
thousands of business men throughout the world. 

Packard dealers everywhere are now prepared to point 
out the superiorities of these Light Service Packards and 
to tell you where you can see them at work. 

There is a Packard for every hauling requirement, 
seven sizes altogether, ranging from 1—1% to 6—6% tons’ 
capacity. Write Department 1. for catalog. 


PACKARD MOTOR CAR COMPANY, DETROIT 




















Ask the man who owns one 





2 OS 6 6 6 6 6 OSSS OES SS SES SSS SS SESS SSE ESSE ESSE SSSSESSSSES STEHT ESET ES EES EE EESEEEES ST TTrrriit ted } 
i 











$1 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 








Apri, 1916 


Halbert, Superintendent, Kansas City Board of Public 
Welfare, and President, American Association of Of- 
ficials of Charity and Correction. : 

10. Unemployment. A number of special papers by 
various authorities. 

A series of informal conferences on the 
subject of social hygiene is also planned as 
a special feature of the Indianapolis meet- 
ing. 

+ + 


An Exhibit on Feeble-Mindedness 


The Exhibit on Feeble-Mindedness, 
which closed in Philadelphia on March 8, 
was undertaken with the purpose of arous- 
ing the people of Pennsylvania to a full ap- 
preciation of the importance of making 
adequate provision for the feeble-minded, 
so that the state, as well as the unfortunate 
defectives themselves, may be protected. 
The exhibit opened February 23 and was 
held under the auspices of the Public Chari- 
ties Association of Pennsylvania. Repre- 
sented in it were many institutions and or- 
ganizations operating in Pennsylvania, 
such as the Eastern and Western Pennsyl- 
vania State Institutions for Feeble-Minded, 
the Psychological Clinic of the University 
of Pennsylvania, and the Municipal Court 
of Philadelphia. Among those represented 
from outside the state were the Massa- 
chusetts and New York State Reforma- 
tories for Women, the Russell Sage Foun- 
dation, the Juvenile Protection Society of 
Chicago, and the institution for the feeble- 
minded, in Vineland, N. J. 

The exhibit forms part of an aggressive 
campaign now being conducted in all parts 
of Pennsylvania, with a view to (a) dem- 
onstrating the need for liberal appropria- 
tions by the next Legislature for the devel- 
opment of existing institutions, the imme- 
diate completion of the Village for Feeble- 
Minded Women of Child-Bearing Age, and 
the proper maintenance of all these institu- 
tions during the next two years; and (b) 
bringing home to each community in the 
state its own particular problem with re- 
spect to the feeble-minded, and presenting 
a definite, feasible plan for meeting that 
problem. 

The exhibit is divided into two parts. 
The first part, in five booths, presents the 
facts that constitute the problem of feeble- 
mindedness. The second part, occupying 
six booths, suggests the proposed remedies, 
namely, the discovery, registration and seg- 
regation, in suitable institutions, of those 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


409 


who are a menace to themselves or to the 
community. 


++ 
Building Officials’ Conference 


At the second annual meeting of the 
Building Officials’ Conference, held on 
February 14 in Chicago, the following im- 
portant resolutions were adopted: 

“Resolved, That discretionary power should 
be vested in building officials to vary or mod- 
ify the law, where practical difficulties arise in 
its literal enforcement, so that the intent of 
the law is secured; and that in case the build- 
ing official declines to exercise such discre- 


tionary power an appeal should be to a board 
of technical experts. 

“Resolved,* That proper means of egress 
from every building should be provided in the 
form of enclosed stairways; that outside metal 
fire-escapes should not be considered as a re- 
quired means of egress from new buildings 
and that their use should be confined to ex- 
isting buildings where other means of egress 
are impractical; and that wherever such fire- 
escapes are used the openings thereon should 
be protected by metal sash and wire glass, or 


by fire-resisting doors with proper fusible 
links.” 


Rudolph P. Miller, of New York City, 
was elected to serve as Chairman of the 
Conference for the next year and James 
G. Houghton, Building Inspector of Minne- 
apolis, was elected Vice-Chairman. Sidney 
J. Williams, State Building Inspector of 
Wisconsin, was elected Secretary. Super- 
intendent Carlin, of Brooklyn, and Building 
Commissioner Forbush, of Newton, Mass., 
were elected members of the Executive 
Committee, 

+ + 


National Septic Process 
Protective League 

The National Septic Process Protective 
League was formed at a meeting of the 
League of Iowa Municipalities, held in Des 
Moines, Iowa, on March 14, 1916. Dr. H. 
M. Bracken, of Minneapolis, Secretary of 
the Minnesota State Board of Health, was 
elected President, and F. G. Pierce, of Mar- 
shalltown, Iowa, Secretary-Treasurer. The 
object of the League is to defend all suits 
filed against its members for the infringe- 
ment of Cameron septic tank patents. All 
municipalities, corporations, companies and 
individuals interested in sewage disposal 
are eligible to membership, subject to the 
approval of the executive committee, upon 
the payment of the proper fee, 














eed 











a oe Oe 


te 


aE ee ee 


THE AMERICAN CITY 





For street flushing 
and municipal trucking 


Efficient trucking and sprinkling appara- 
tus mounted on GMC chassis is now being used by 
many cities and towns both in the United States and 
Canada. We are in a position to give facts and figures 
regarding horse-drawn flushers and motor-driven flush- 
ers. We can also supply data regarding trucks for 
garbage removal, police patrols, ambulances, supply 
department work, public lighting service and mainte- 
nance, fire fighting, etc., etc. 


Our technical department will be pleased 
to answer questions regarding special equipment or 
send you a copy of ‘‘Municipal Progress.’’ 


GENERAL MOTORS TRUCK COMPANY 
One of the Units of General Motors Company 


PONTIAC, MICHIGAN 


Direct Factory Branches: New York Boston Chicago 
Philadelphia St.Louis (65) 





When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American Cry. 























ApriL, 1916 


Copies may be 


Noten, JoHN, Fellow, American Society of 
Landscape Architects, Editor. 

City Planning. A Series of Papers Pre- 

senting the Essential Elements of a City 

Plan. National Municipal League Series. 

1916, xxviii + 447 pp. Photographs, 

maps and diagrams. $2.12 


Presenting the lines of investigation, planning and 
control which have been found most sound in theory 
and most successful in practice in the cities and towns 
of the United States, this volume aims to cover the 
essential elements of a city plan. The editor has 
chosen his contributors and arranged their studies in 
a fashion to achieve this purpose. The complete list 
is as follows: Introduction, Frederick L. Olmsted; The 
Subdivision of Land, John Nolen; Public Control of 
Private Real Estate, Frank B. Williams; Local and 
Minor Streets, Edward H. Bouton; Public Buildings 
and uasi-Public Buildings, Edward H, Bennett; 
Neighborhood Centers, Arthur C. Comey; General 
Recreation Facilities, J. Horace McFarland; Park 
Systems, a Nolen; Water Supply and the City 
Plan, Caleb M. Saville; Non-Navigable Waters, Arthur 
A. Shurtleff; Navigable Waters, E. P. Goodrich; Rail- 
roads and Industrial Districts, George RK. \WWadsworth; 
Transportation and Main Sisrousitieess and Street 
Railways, Benjamin A. Haldeman; The Effect of 
Rapid Transit on the City Plan, John V. Davies; 
Residential and Industrial Decentralization, James 
Ford; Fundamental Data for City Planning Work, 
George B. Ford; City Financing and City Planning, 
Flavel Shurtleff; City Planning Legislation, Charles 
M. Robi A b of bibliographies are in- 
cluded, as well as short notices of the various con- 
tributors, 








Newark, N, J., City PLan Commission. 
Comprehensive Plan of Newark, New 
Jersey. Presented to the Mayor and 
Common Council, December 31, 1915. 180 
pp. Numerous maps, photographs and 
diagrams. $1.00 


Published after the completion of the first unit of 
Newark’s great port terminal, this book impresses us 
with a new sense of the force and practicability of the 
ideas and recommendations which it urges. e text, 
divided in four parts, treats of Streets and Transpor- 
tation of all Kinds; Recreation and Civic Beauty; 
Housing and Public Control of Private Development, 
and ne 4 the Greater City and a Program for 
Future Work. The plans and recommendations are 
comprehensive and cover in their proper proportion 
and relation the whole range of city planning. The 
most important of the street changes recommended are 
now being carried out. The City Plan Commission has 
exercised its prerogative of passing on land subdivisions 
so beneficially that now operators come to the Com- 
mission before initiating new developments. The re- 
routing and re-scheduling of the street car system, and 
the traffic regulations, have proved most effective in 
popes. In cone the work which has been done in 

ringing together all of the surrounding communities 
to work for a common plan is reviewed, and a chrono- 
a and financial program for future work is out- 
in 


HeGeMANN, Werner, Ph.D., Director of the 
International City Planning Expositions 
in Berlin and Duesseldorf. 

Report on a City Plan for the Munici- 

pallties of Oakland and Berkeley. ( Pre- 

pared and published under the auspices of 
the Municipal Governments of Oakland 
and Berkeley, the Supervisors of Alameda 


Municipal and Civic Publications 





oY 
ordered of Tue American City, with the exception of Government publications and : 
those indicated as free, which should be ordered direct from the offices publishing them % 


County, the Charaber of Commerce and 
Commercial Club of Oakland, the Civic 
Art Commission of the City of Berkeley 
and the City Club of Berkeley.) 1915. 165 
pp. Photographs, maps and diagrams. 
$1.00 
_ Believing that the economic features are those to be 
first considered, the author reverses the usual orde: 
and discusses the problems of harbor development, dis 
position of railroads and street planning, before con 
sidering parks, playgrounds, and civic centers. The 
question of harbor development is shown to be of 
pressing importance, as the San Francisco harbor is 
now overtaxed. Berkeley, by connecting her harbor 
with those of Oakland and Richmond and by exe- 
cuting a systematic development scheme, should be able 
greatly to increase her maritime importance. The or- 
ganization and distribution of long-distance, suburban 
and urban freight and passenger railroads is next dis 
cussed, and certain suggestions are made. Under 
“Streets” are considered main traffic streets, business 
streets and residential streets in expensive and inex 
pensive regions. Part IV deals with parks, parkways 
and playgrounds and urges wise cooperation between 
Oakland, Berkeley and vicinity to bring about the 
creation of a — park system. “Civic Art and 
Civic Centers”—the last section—discusses the various 
schemes and plans suggested for the Berkeley region, 
and urges the immediate appointment of a City Plan 
ning Commission. Former works and reports are re- 
ferred to constantly; among the names mentioned are 
Frederick Law Olmsted, the elder, who is extensively 
quoted; Charles Mulford Robinson, Oscar Prager, Dr. 
John Nolen, Charles H. Cheney and John Galen 
foward. 
Tue Utimities Bureau, Morris Llewellyn 
Cooke, Acting Director. 
Proceedings of the Conference on Valu- 
uation. Held in Philadelphia, November 
10 to 13, 1915, under the auspices of The 
Utilities Bureau. (The Utilities Maga- 
gine, Vol. I, No. 3, January, 1916.) 227 
pp., including !ndex and Index of import- 
ant cases referred to. Paper, $2.00; cloth, 
$2.50. 

The chapters of this votume are as follows: “The 
Reproduction Theory,” “Original Cost,” “Franchise 
Values,” “Land Values,” “Depreciation,” “Going 
Value,” “Unit Prices,” “Financial Aspects of Valua- 
tion and Regulation,” “Making and Maintenance of 
Priced Inventories,” ‘‘Valuation by Approximation,” 
“Constitutional Protection in Valuation,” and “Val- 
uation and the Future of Public Utilities.” Special 
papers were presented by John M. Eshleman, H. Find- 
lay French, Geo. W. Anderson, Dr. Edward W. 
Bemis, Halford Erickson, Alfred Bettman, Dr. Delos 
F. Wilcox, Henry Del’. Baldwin, Hammond V. Hayes, 
Frederic P. Stearns, J. H. Goetz, Morris Schaff, Clif- 
ford Thorne, M. G. Glaeser, Paul A. Sinsheimer, 
Robert C. Wood, Chas. L. Pillsbury, John G. Morse, 
ig H. Grow, Chas. A. Prouty, Wm. D. Kerr, and 
Dr. Milo R. Maltbie. These papers were discussed by 
experts in prepared papers, after which the discussion 
was opened to all who wished to participate. 


Fotweti, A. Prescott, Am. Soc. C. E. 
Sewerage. The Designing, Construction 
and Maintenance of Sewerage Systems. 
Seventh Edition, revised and enlarged. 
1916. x + 540 pp. Photographs, tables 
and diagrams. $3.00 


Recent advances in methods of sewage treatment 
made it desirable to revise Part IV of this work deal- 
ing with sewage disposal. The author has taken this op- 











































om 


i 













OE EPS PPP a 































publication 


transportation (not all Kelly). 
Full of useful information for all 


truck users 
power. 


THE KELLY-SPRINGFIELD 
MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY 
1304 Burt Street, Springfield, Ohio 


Announcing 
The New Worm Drive Trucks 


“Like Kelly Does’? FREE 
We want to 
free list of this valuable monthly 



















THE AMERICAN CITY 


The complete Kelly Line is now made even 
more complete. Two new worm driven 
models have been added—the K-32, 1%- 
ton and the K-36, 2%-ton. 


We've perfected a worm drive that satisfies 
us. It is the development of years of in- 
vestigation and research carried on by our 
Engineering Department. We know it to 
be worthy of the Kelly reputation. 


This new Kelly worm drive incorporates only 
those features proved by experience. The axle 
shafts are especially rugged and designed with a 
maximum factor of safety. The fixed hub mount- 
ing of the wheel is the last word in up-to-date axle 
construction. Special features provide a flexible 
drive. 








All built to the Kelly standard. The same Kelly 
heavy duty motor with its ample supply of second- 
ary power. The same strong, unusually flexible 
Kelly frame. The low operating cost and depre- 
ciation ratio that distinguishes all Kelly Trucks. 


Plus—Kelly Service. Organized to serve Kelly 
users always and everywhere—complete, com- 
petent, willing and permanent. We see to it that 
every Kelly Truck makes good however and 
wherever employed. 





put your name on the 


devoted to truck 


-whatever the motive 


When writing to Advertisers please mention To AMERICAN Crry. 


The Complete Line 
Worm Drive— 
1% and 2% tons 
Chain Drive— 


114-2 %-3 4-4-5 and 6 tons 








ns 


Apri, 1916 


portunity to make additional changes, especially in the 
portions dealing with tank treatment, where he has 
included the available information concerning the new 
activated sludge process. The methods for clarifying 
sewage have been dealt with at greater length, while 
those for more refined purification have been abridged. 
The standard specifications of the American Society 
of Municipal Improvements have been substituted for 
those prepared by the author for the first edition, and 
a table of over 900 sewage treatment plants in the 
United States has been added. The book, as in pre- 
vious editions, is divided into four parts, dealing suc- 
cessively with the designing, construction and main- 
tenance of sewage systems and the various methods of 
sewage disposal. 
ZevuBLIN, CHARLES. 

American Municipal Progress New 

edition, entirely rewritten and greatly en- 

larged. 1915. xiv + 522 pp. $2.20 

This book—presented to the reader as “a record of 

typical instances of American municipal progress”— 
amply justifies its title in the multitude of facts, ex- 
amples and narrated instances scattered throughout its 
pages and impressed upon the reader’s mind by means 
of virile language and excellent photographs. The 
chapters treat of roads, street cleaning, waste and 
sewage disposal, water supply, health, fire, justice and 
charity, education, libraries and museums, social cen- 
ters, and public parks, and the more general subjects, 
such as city planning, municipal ownership, mu- 
nicipal efficiency and municipal administration. A 
feature of prime importance is the inclusion, in appen- 
dix form, of statistical information supplementing the 
different chapters. These statistics relate to such 
questions as display lighting, public comfort stations, 
indoor and outdoor markets, fire protection cost, police 
departments, policewomen, vice investigations, morals 
commissions, municipal lodging houses, school and 
home garden work, municipal reference libraries, so- 
cial centers, civic pageants, etc. very full civic 
bibliography of 64 pages completes the volume. 


CuBBERLEY, Ettwoop P., Professor of Educa- 
tion, Leland Stanford Junior University, 
assisted by Fletcher B, Dresslar, Ed- 
ward C, Elliott, J. H. Francis, Frank E. 
Spaulding, Lewis M. Terman and Wal- 
ter R. Tanner. 

The Portland Survey. A Textbook on 
City School Administration Based on a 
Concrete Study. (School Efficiency Series, 
edited by Paul H. Hanus.) 1915. xiv + 
441 pp. Statistical tables and diagrams. 


$1.50 
As the conditions in Portland to a great extent are 
typical of the conditions in many other American 
cities, this survey of the Portland school system, with 
its analyses of the system of organization and adminis- 
tration and the different ramifications of power and 
authority, could easily serve as a working model for 
any progressive city desiring to reorganize its school 
system on an efficient and practical basis. The book 
is divided into four sections dealing with: Organiza- 
tion and Administration; Instructional Needs; Build- 
ings and Health, and Attendance, Records and Costs. 
An appendix contains a suggested “Law for the Man- 
agement of the Portland School District.” 


Lee, JosePH. 
Play in Education. 1915. xxiv + 500 
pp. $1.62 


_ Taking as its object the presentation of a true 
icture of the child nature, this book draws upon 
iology, philosophy and concrete experience in an 
attempt to show “grown-ups” wherein our present sys- 
tems of up-bringing have proved defective. “Play,” to 
the child, is a definitely serious thing—it means growth, 
training for life and the cultivation of the achieving 
instincts. Work is merely the fulfillment of the play 
instincts—the highest form of play. With this con- 
ception in mind, the evolution of the child is traced 
from boyhood through the “dramatic age,” the “Big 
Injun age,” the “age of egeny: and the “apprentice 
age.” With this last peri in the majority of cases, 
comes disillusionment, for the child—now verging on 
manhood—finds that industrial civilization does not 
allow for the proper expression of his “play” instincts. 
As a result the young man revolts, and, we are in- 


THE AMERICAN CITY 413 


formed, his revolt is “a moral one and in accordance 
with the general sentiment of mankind.” It follows 
that the problem of present-day civilization is to work 
out a system which will allow for the more complete 
expression of the instincts common toe human nature 
Rapeer, Louis W., Ph. D., Professor of Educa- 
tion, Pennsylvania State College, Editor. 
Educational Hygiene from the Pre- 
School Period to the University. 1015. 
xx + 650 pp. Photographs, charts and 
diagrams. $2.68 
Educational hygiene—here referred to as “the 
science and art of health preservation and promotion 
which the school can more or less directly promote 
through its various health agencies”—-is a compara 
tivey new science covering the five divisions: medical 
supervision, my education, school sanitation, the 
teaching of hygiene, and the hygiene of instruction. 
In the present volume the various aspects of these 
problems are discussed in separate papers by experts 
Besides a bibliography there are four appendices. 
Gantt, H. L. 
Industrial Leadership. (Addresses de- 
livered in the Page Lecture Series, 1915, 
before the Senior Class of the Sheffield 
Scientific School, Yale University.) 1916. 
xiv + 128 pp. Charts. $1.00 
This book is written in the belief that the financial 
element is no longer the most important element in 
business,—that to-day neither money nor organization 
will permanently insure success without proper direc 


tion. “It is, therefore,”’ the book continues, “impera 
tive upon us to study leadership and to find the laws 
on which successful administration is based.” rhis 


new attitude opens up new vistas to us, increasing 
our knowledge of human nature and showing us 
many ways through which human nature may ex 
press itself more completely. The special aspects 
of the problem are treated, such as the training of 
workmen, principles and results of task work, and 
production and sales. It is the author’s opinion that 
if there is any one principle which, more than any 
other, is influential in promoting the success of an 
organization it is that “‘the authority to issue an order 
involves the responsibility to see that it is properly 
executed.” 


Morcan, Dick T., Representative from Okla- 
homa in the 61st, 62d, 63d and 64th Con- 
gress of the United States. 

Land Credits: A Plea for the American 
Farmer. 1915. xviii -+ 209 pp. $1.58 
Insisting that the farmer is the first person to be 
considered in the matter of land credits legislation, 
the author condemns private, profit-sharing, surplus- 
creating, dividend-paying, land-banks—recommended 
by certain bills now before Congress—and advocates 
government aid to farmers in so far as it may be 
necessary to insure scope credit and a low rate of 
interest. The new land-credit institutions, he main- 
tains, should provide equal credit facilities and uni- 
form interest charges throughout the United States. 

This can only be brought about by unity and centrali- 

zation in the institutions authorized to issue farm- 

mortgage bonds. Covering the whole controversy, the 
book should aid in solving the problem. 


Watp, Litzian D. 
The House on Henry Street. Illustrated 
from etchings and drawings by Abraham 
Phillips and from photographs. 1915. xiv 
+ 317 pp. $2.00 
For twenty years Miss Wald, as head of the Henry 
Street Settlement, has watched and endeavored to 
ide the incoming streams of Armenians and Jews, 
uns and Slavs being mingled in the process of 
Americanization. Her settlement was situated in the 
heart of the district which housed the greater part of 
the recuaey arrived immigrants. Health, sanitary, 
housing and numberless other problems arose in this 
region, and under Miss Wald’s guidance the settle 
ment, with its efficient organization for district nursing. 
grew up directing its attention to the attempt to study 
and solve the new problems. Miss Wald has told in 
interesting fashion the story of her venture, and has 
succeeded in painting a picture bright in color and 

convincing in theme. 

















a ON NY i Ne Ll calipers. 8 at 








THE AMERICAN CITY 


THE TRACTOR 
SAVES MUNICIPAL MONEY 


Municipalities are buying Knox Tractors because they will do more work, a greater 
variety of work, and at less cost than any other motor vehicle manufactured. 


Any type of trailer may be used with our standard Model 35 Tractor—tear, side or 
bottom-dump, oil-spreading, street-flushing, fire apparatus, etc. In short, the Knox 
Tractor is an all-purpose ‘gasoline horse,’’ which has conclusively proved its time- 


saving and money-saving value. 


Write for “Hauling Costs Reduced” 


Our new folder, ‘‘ Hauling Costs Reduced” is practically a photographic record of 
how, why, and where Knox Tractors are saving money. This folder will be sent without 
charge to anyone interested in hauling problems. 


SEND FOR YOUR COPY TO-DAY 


Knox Motors Associates, Springfield, Mass., U.S.A. 





When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amenican City. 


























415 


Pamphlets of Municipal and Civic Interest 


Copies should be ordered direct as indicated. 


The Port of Los Angeles. 


Annual Report of the Board of Harbor Commis 
sioners of the City of Los Angeles for the year 
ending June 30, 1915; Port Statistics; and Laws, 
Ordinances and Rules Governing Los Angeles 
Harbor; also Abridged Report of the Board of 
Harbor Commissioners for the year ending June 
30, 1914. August 31, 1915. 135 pp. Photo 
graphs, diagrams, maps, statistical mo (Ay 
ply to the Board of Harbor Commissioners, Los 
Angeles, Cal.) 


English Town Planning Proposals. 


The Town Planning Proposals of the Urban Land 
Report. By H. R. Aldridge and Harold Shaw- 
cross. (Papers read February 4th, 1916, before 
the Town Planning Institute, and published to 
form Vol. II, No. 5, of the Publications of that 
body.) 19 pp. Tables and diagrams. ( Apply to 
the Institute, 4 Arundel Street, London, W. C.) 


Town Planning. 


Report to the Honorable “2 Minister of Public 
Works by J. C. Morrell, R. Il. B. A. Ordered 
by the Legislative y pot of Victoria to be 
printed, August 24th, 1915. 82 pp. Photographs, 
maps and diagrams. (Apply to the Minister of 
Public Works, Melbourne, Australia.) 


The Vrooman Street Act, State of Calli- 
fornia. 


As enacted 1885 and amended to te ». Compiled 
By Melvin G. Dodge, of the California State 
Library. 1916. 56 pp. (Apply to the California 
State Library, Sacramento, Cal.) $1.00. 


An A-B-C of Housing. 


Published by the Commission of Immigration and 
Housing of California. 1915. 16 pp. Bibliog- 
raphy. (Apply to the Commission, 525 Market 
Street, San Francisco.) 


Annual Report of School Playground Ac- 
tivities, 1915. 


Issued by the Board of Public Education of 
Philadelphia, Department of Superintendence, 
Division of Physical Training. Printed by Stu- 
dents at the Philadelphia Trades School, 1916. 20 
pp. (Apply to the Board, Philadelphia.) 


What Social Workers Should Know About 
Their Own Communities. 


As outline. By Margaret F. Byington. Third 
Edition, Completely Revised. (Publication C. O. 
7, Charity Organization Department of the Rus- 
sell Sage Foundation.) 1916. 43 pp. (Apply to 
the above department, 130 East Twenty-second 
Street, New York City.) 10 cents. 


Collection and Disposal of Garbage in 
Cities. 
Methods and Cost of Collections and Disposing of 
Garbage in Cities. Report No. 52 Data gath- 
ered by the State sees: of Municipal Informa- 
tion of the New York State Conference of May- 
ors and Other City Officials, W. P. Capes, Dire« 
tor. Albany, N. Y., January 1, 1916. 10 MS. pp. 
2 comprehensive tables. (Copies supplied on ap- 
plication only to city officials.) 


Certain Features of Street Lighting in the 
City of Milwaukee. 


Report to the Milwaukee Electric Railway and 
Light Company on the Present Lighting Condi- 
tions in the City of Milwaukee, a Criticism of a 
Proposed Plan for Lighting Same, and Sugeges- 
tions as to a Practical Plan to be Installed and 
amar 5 hyn arles F. Lacombe, E. M. 1915. 

oe. ( Ae y to the Milwaukee Electric Railway 
ight Company, Milwaukee, Wis.) 


In so doing, please mention T AMERICAN CrTy 


Responsible Government. 





Issue No. 69, January, 1916, of Municipal Re 
search, mon thl y publication of the New York 
Bureau of Municipal Research 135 4 \ppen 
dix. (Order from the Bureau, 261 Broadway 


New York City.) $1.00. 


League of Cities of the Third Class in Penn- 
sylvania. 

Proceedings of the Sixteenth Annual Convention 
of the League of Cities of the Third Class 
Pennsylvania. Held at Reading, Pa., August 3 
to September 2, 1915. 1915. 178 pp (Apply to 
the Secretary, Fred H, Gates, City Clerk, Wilkes 
tarre, Pa.) 





Philadelphia Employment Bureau Report. 
Special Report of Bureau of Employment of the 
Home Relief Division of the Emergency Aid Com 
mittee of Philadelphia. 1915. 21 py (Apply to 
the Emergency Aid Committee, 1428 Walnut 
Street, Philadelphia.) 


The Use of the Unemployed in the Field of 
Sanitation. 

By James F. McCrudden ef, Division of 
Housing and Sanitation, P hil idelphia (Paper 
read by title before the American Public Health 
Association, Rochester, N. Y., September 7 to 10, 
1915, re -printed from American Journal of Public 
Health, Vol. 5, No. 12.) 6 pp. (Apply to autho 
care of Division of Housing and Sanitati n, 
Philadelphia. ) 


Report on Winter Unemployment. 
By J. P. Newall, E. G. Ho yeeon, et al., a Special 
Committee of the Oregon Society of Engineers. 
(Reprinted from Journal of the Association of 
Engineering Societies, Vol. 54, No. 6, June, 1915.) 
16 pp. (Apply to the Oregon Society of Engi- 
neers, Portland, Ore.) 


World Convention Dates. 


A new publication giving advanced information 
about coming events of international, national 
and state character, with tl name and address of 


the secretary of each organizatic mn. Vol. I, No. 1, 
March, 1916. Published mon nth ly by The Banking 
World Publishing Company, 5 Fifth Avenue, 
New York City. Subser ice, $10 per an- 
num. No single copies sold, 





Building Districts and Restrictions in New 
York City. 
Tentative Report. March 10, 1916, of the Com- 
mission on Building Districts and Restrictions, to 
the Board of Estimate and Apportionment, New 
York City. 20 pp. Illustrated. (Apply to the 
Commission, Municipal Building, New York City.) 


Municipal Clean-Up Campaigns. 
Various Methods and Plans Adopted by American 
Cities—Organization—Samples of Literature Used 
-Programs Report No. 111, State Bureau of 
Municipal Information of the New York State 
Conference of Mayors and Other City Officials, 
W. P. Capes, Director.) March 1, 1916. 11 pp. 
(Copies may be obtained, by city officials only, 
from the Bureau, Albany, N. Y.) 


Make Your Hometown a Better Hometown. 
How You Can Help Make Your Hometown a 


Better Hometown An Exposition of Cleanliness, 
Thrift and Civic Pride as the Essentials for 
Homes and Towns Beautiful ty Harold G 
Blodgett, Associate Editor, Amer " Paint 


and Oil Dealer. Issued, 1916, by the National 
“Clean-Up and eye p” Campaign Bureau. 64 
»p. Illustrated. ly to the Bureau, Kinloch 
uilding, St. Bian ‘ho) 























bt 


ee 





LOW 'S CASTINGS: 


CLOW CASTINGS 


for 


FILTRATION PLANTS 
nd 


WATER WORKS 


We are equipped to give you 
the best of service on all 
specials made of cast iron 


Quick Shipment of 
CAST IRON PIPE 


can be insured by placing 
your orders now with 


JAMES B.CLOW &SONS 


Established 1876 
534-546 So. Franklin Street, CHICAGO 


Sales Offices 


New York Milwaukee St. Louis Kansas City 
Minneapolis Los Angeles San Francisco Denver 








26 children were poisoned last year in only 11 states 


Fly Poison Kills More Children 
Than All Other Poisons Combined 


For Safety’s Sake, a 


Is there in your home, anywhere 
within baby’s reach, a saucer of arsenic 
poisoned paper floating in water, or a 
can with a sweetened poisoned wick? 

During 1915, 26 cases of fly poisoning 
were reported from 11 states; in 1914, 46 
cases from 14 states. Fly poison kills 
more children than all other poisons com- 
bined. 

Yet fly poison still is left unguarded 
except in the homes where mothers have 
learned that the safe, sure, non- eis 
efficient fly catcher and destroyer is 


TANGLEFOOT 


, Orman O matt 


The Journal of the Michigan State Medical 
Society comments thus in a recent issue: 






















“Symptoms of arsenical poisoning are very similar 
to those of cholera infantum; undoubtedly a number 
of cases of cholera infantum were really cases of 
arsenical poisoning, but death, if occurring, was 
attributed to cholera infantum 

““We repeat, arsenical fly destroying devices are 
dangerous and should be abolished. Health officials 
should become aroused to prevent further loss of life 
from their source. Our Michigan Legislature, this 
last session, passed a law regulating the sale of 
poisonous fly papers.” 


THE O. & W. THUM CO. 
Grand Rapids, Mich. 








65 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tas American City. 











4 








eal} 


3 
8 
3 





a 


t 
i 


El OAUTH 


The Advantages of Brick as a Paving 
Material. 


This subject is covered in a very convincing man 
ner in the illustrated printed matter distributed 
on request by the National Paving Brick Manu- 
facturers’ Association, of Cleveland, Ohio. 


Erie Revolving Shovels. 
Two bulletins (S-12 and S-14) published by the 


Ball Engine Company, of Erie, Pa., give “Facts, 
Figures and Photos” to set forth the excellence 
of this company’s revolving shovels for powerful 
excavation work. 


Concrete Culvert Construction. 


“More Profits in Concrete Culvert Construction” 
is the title of the new Bulletin No. 70, published 
by the Blaw Steel Construction Company, of Pitts 
burg, Pa., which fully describes the new Blaw 
culvert mold. 


The Whole Year Round. 


“All Kinds of Meters for All Kinds of Services” 
are presented on the unusual calendar which the 
Hersey Manufacturing Company, of South Boston 
Mass., issued for the new year. The calendar 
is headed by an embossed cut showing the interior 
of one of this company’s water meters, with an 
effect of the actual metal of which the original is 
constructed. 


“The Packard.” 


The February number of this periodical contains a 
statement of the “Americans First” policy of the 
Packard Motor Car Company, of Detroit, Mich., 
and much interesting information about the ad- 
vantages of the Packard Twin Six motor. 


The Highest Concrete Water Tank in the 
World. 


The Blaw Steel Construction Company, of Pitts- 
burgh, Pa., has published, in a 12-page pamphlet 
with a number of illustrations, a reprint from 
Engineering and Contracting, which gives an ac- 
count of the design and construction of the rein- 
forced concrete water tank recently built for the 
city of Middleboro, Mass. 


Practical Methods Applied to Modern 
Paving. 

This booklet, which is full of interesting illus- 
trations, explains the Lutz method of repairing 
asphalt pavement, by which a perfect weld is pro- 
duced between the old and the new pavement. 
The Lutz surface heater is manufactured by The 
Equitable Asphalt Maintenance Company, 1901 
Campbell Street, Kansas City, Mo., to which ap- 
plication should be made for the booklet. 


The Atlantic Highway Digest. 


The Atlantic Refining Company, of Philadelphia, 
issued in February the first number of a publica- 
tion with the above title, which is designed to pre- 
sent to contractors, highway engineers and officials 
interested in highway development the various 
features of road construction. The Digest will 
be - as free to anyone interested in paving or road 
work. 


41 


N 


A AA Se 


Manufacturers’ 
Available Free of Charge for Readers of THE AMERICAN CITY 


Advertisers are invited to submit catalogues or circulars suitable for mention in these columns. 
Tue American City should always be mentioned when writing for this material. 


Literature : 








CNA 


Pulmotors for Rescue Work. 
A six-page illustrated folder has been issue 
The Draeger Oxygen Apparatus Company, 
First Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa., showing various 
steps in the processes of manufacturing breathing 
apparatus an pulmotors for rescue work. 


A Sand Stone Dryer. 


The Rapid Mixer Company, 89 Porter Building, 
Grand Rapids, Mich., is sending out a circulas 
calling attention to its rapid sand stone dryer—a 
light, portable, self-contained machine. : 


Preventing Pin-Holes in Fire Hose. 


In a letter sent out to city officials, The Bi-Lateral 
Fire Hose Company, 326 West Madison Street. 
Chicago, Ill., calls attention to the fact that it 
has made an improvement in the construction of 
fire hose which prevents pin-holes, and that this 
improvement has been thoroughly tested by the 
cities of Chicago, Minneapolis, Cleveland, St 
Louis, Louisville, Cincinnati and others. 


Street and Road Signs. 


Joseph N. Early, 127 Reade Street, New York 
City, is sending out a folder in which are en- 
closed a number of loose sheets illustrating in 
colors a variety of street and road enamel sign 
plates. These signs are for various purposes and 
are attractively presented 
scribed in the folder. 


Suction Street Sweepers. 
A system of street cleansing which removes both 
the litter and the dust is described in a 16-page 
pamphlet issued by The Way-Cleanse Company, of 
Sandusky, Ohio. This company’s suction sweep- 
ers clean the streets without sprinkling. 


The Aeroplane Road Machine. 


This is the clever name of a road maintenance 
machine made by the American Highway Supply 
Company, of Terre Haute, Ind., and which is 
described and illustrated in a pamphlet published 
by the company. he machine can also be used 
as a snow plow. 


“Signs of the Times.” 
This is the title of a striking pamphlet issued by 
The Hardesty Manufacturing Company, of Den- 
ver, Col., printed in black and white on red paper, 
and giving facsimiles of the street and road signs 
made by thig company. These are of iron with 
aluminum-covtred letters. 


“Hauling Costs Reduced.” 
Such is the statement made by the Knox Motors 
Associates, of Springfield, Mass., in a large 
“broadside” folder fully describing, with interest 
ing illustrations, the Knox tractor as constructed 
and in service. 


“Ten Big Convincing Reasons.” 
The Troy Wagon Works, of Troy, Ohio, has 
issued a striking poster-folder showing the use 
that ten (and more) large firms are making of 
Troy trailers in their hauling work. 


Water Meter Boxes. 
Under the title of “Shop Talk,” the Art Concrete 
Works, of Pasadena, Cal., has issued a booklet of 
$2 pages, which presents by means of pictures 
and interesting descriptive matter the merits of 
concrete water meter boxes. 


They are fully de- 














ee ee ee 





-- 


ce STE erp ene 





ee 








ih} 


rT 
{ 


Witt 

















THE AMERICAN CITY 














Som So —— 














The Van Blerck Motor Company specialize on high speed, 
high duty Motors for commercial purposes, such as for use in 
Fire Trucks, Caterpillar Tractors, Electric Lighting Sets, Centri- 
fugal Pumping Sets, Vacuum Cleaning Machinery, Gasoline Elec- 
tric Cars, etc., concentrating its entire resources, capital, plant, 
organization, engineering talent and equipment in the produc- 
tion of a standardized article. 


The Model ‘D” Van Blerck is manufactured in four, six, 
and eight cylinder units, delivering power as follows: 


Model D-4 Four Cylinder 5'4’’x6’"— 48to 90 H.P.—700 to 1600 R.P.M. 
Model D-6 Six Cylinder 54"'x6’"— 70 to 140 H.P.—700 to 1600 R.P.M. 
Model D-8 Eight Cylinder 5!4’’x6’’-100 to 185 H.P.-700 to 1600 R.P.M. 


Complete technical specifications of these engines are printed 
in convenient form and will gladly be sent you on receipt of 
details regarding your actual requirements. 


VAN BLERCK MOTOR COMPANY 


MONROE, MICHIGAN 




















When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amznican Crrtyv. 





—_ 


od 





ee 2 ell a ge — ct 


— 
ee ee 


senior dine eee 


Apr., 1916 


“The Sandwich Joint.” 


A number of quarto circulars have been issued by 
the Philip Carey Company, of Lockland, Cincin 
nati, Ohio, illustrating and describing the use of 
Elastite expansion joint in the constructior 
roads, sidewalks, viaducts and othe 
work, 


ot 


construction 


Fire Hydrants and Valves. 


Water-works officials or fire chiefs interested in 
such equipment will find it worth while to write 
for the booklet published by Pratt & Cady Com. 
pany, Inc., Hartford, Conn 


Road-Making Machinery. 
The Universal Road Machinery Company, 
Kingston, N. Y., has published a 24-page pamphlet 
escribing in detail the Reliance road-making m 
hinery, and another pamphlet of 8 pages wil 








especially presents the Porcupine scarifier f 
reaking up hard road surfaces n prepar 
g, maintenance ar repairs 


NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 











419 
Metal Signs. 
The Standard Sign Manufact g " 
Avenue and ull Streets, f tsburgh, | 
lished a 16-page booklet which gives re 
s of many of the | ‘ enameled i N 
h this company makes for all sorts | 
Preserve Your Trees. 
A six-page folder s been issuc y R & i 
nan ft Sy Ise N , essage 
It tells what the R. P. R. t s t 
se d it g $ we 
< t ing gethe h te 
1s of t s ‘ 


Electric Motors for Fire Trucks, Centrifu- 
gal Pumps, Electric Lighting Sets, etc. 
sers of motors tor any of t s 

erested in the specifications 
1 ir nvenient form and d 


Van Ble k M Cor Monr M 


|| 5 =a 2 8 LL] SH SSS \\ 
——————) 5 | — = ————) 


o Methods, Materials and Appliances o 
0 


BS 
Ba 
News from Engineers, Manufacturers and Supply Houses fi 











5 











STUDEBAKER WATER WAGONS 


“They’re on Their Way to Mexico”’ 


An interesting example of the ability of one 
of our largest manufacturers to codperate with 
the government to further our national pre- 
paredness is found in the record recently mad 
by the Studebaker Corporation, of South Bend, 
Ind., in furnishing the United States Quarter- 
masters’ Corps for the Mexican campaign 23 
complete water wagons, finished and painted 
in accordance with government specifications, 
in less than 48 hours. 


When General Pershing was marshaling his 
forces on the Mexican frontier, preparatory to 
advancing in pursuit of Villa, the rumors that 
Villa’s followers were poisoning wells and 
creeks made imperative the providing of the 
troops with adequate water supply These 








SSS] = ==S>pP| SS_ SSL SS HS 


—— 








ON THEIR WAY TO MEXICO 


water wagons were converted from regular 
Studebaker street sprinklers taken from stock. 
\fter all the sprinkler attachments had been 


removed, the manhole openings were losed 
up; holes were drilled and threaded and 
faucets inserted. Drum brakes were fitted on 
all. The wagons were then repainted and re- 

ished and tested thoroughly The entire 


rder was filled and the wagons on the cars 


y 4 P. M., Tuesday, March 21—about 48 
hours after the order was received, and only 
about 36 hours after actual work was started. 
\ photograph of the entire shipment is re- 
produced herewith. 

It speaks well for the high quality of these 
sprinklers that vehicles could be taken out of 
regular stock and be quickly adapted to meet 
the government’s specifications. It also evi- 











THE AMERICAN CITY 


| % The“Panama line” 
| 





io. 7 oe a 


OS RRR NTT 4 








ae” 


Exclusive Patented 
Features Commend 


This Culvert Pipe 

















he “Panama” Round Culvert Pipe 


gives to purchasers seven distinct points of superiority. They F 
combine to give good facilities in shipping, unusual conveni- . 
ence in installing, strength and protection against the 
elements when installed and the very maximum of service. 





These are points which every practical road engineer, official, | 
and contractor considers essential, and he has only to read the complete descrip- 

tion of this pipe as given in the “ Panama Line” Catalog to immediately note 
the unusual value and entire practicability of these exclusive features. 


; This Machine Is Its Own 


Silent Salesman 


Salida a 













The Word “Panama” 


as applied to road graders, 
drags and kindred tools stands 
















for paramount quality — ij 
; is a coveted name, in 
a fact, upon which a 
high reputation 
has been built. 
q If you do not already have 
‘ The it, you will want to give The Boston Grader 
F. B. Zieg the “Panama  Line’’ 
Mig. Co. & Catalog e permanent That the Boston Grader is a machine of very exceptional 
. place in your library. , . a y pt 
Fredericktown, value is convincingly indicated in the fact that wherever intro 
Ohio ey its performance results in many additional orders. It is 
ight enough for two horses and strong enough for four and can 
‘ Gentlemen — be quickly adapted for use as a drag. 
: Send your “Panama : 
4 Line” catalog as offered in We claim the Boston Grader to be the most practical low ‘| 
3 Tae AMERICAN Crrr. priced grader ever made, to be more substantially constructed 
and to embody more features of approved design than any : 


similar machine in existence. You will want to judge for your 
A a . * self, however, and consequently will want complete information 
as given in the “‘ Panama Line” Catalog. 








— = a 


THE FE B. ZIEG MFG. COMPANY 
Fredericktown, Ohio 
57 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American Cry. 











lla le a a 


= 


ee 


Oban mtn oe 


ee ee 





Apr., 1916 


dences this manufacturer’s ability to handle 
regular orders for municipal equipment 
promptly and with the minimum delay. 


+ + 


Fun and Healthful Exercise for 
the Children 


The Hill-Standard Manufacturing Company, 
of Anderson, Ind., which has become widely 
known through its “Irish Mail” line of 
children’s vehicles, has added to its business a 
new department known as the “Fun-Ful” line 
»f playground equipment. The designs and 
the construction of this equipment are of the 
latest, and the catalogue shows a complete and 
attractive line. The new department is under 
the management of a man who has had wide 
experience in connection with schools and 
playgrounds and in the manufacture and sale 
»f playground equipment. The accompanying 
illustration shows one of this company’s 
unique devices known as the “Marathon 
Racer,” which employs the tread-mill idea. 
This gives plenty of exercise with interesting 
and exciting features. By means of a large 
dial with two hands of different colors, the 
number of yards covered by each contestant is 
indicated and readily observed. This is only 
one of the many new devices offered by this 
company in addition to the standard apparatus 
now generally on the market. 





THE HILL-STANDARD 


NEWS “FROM ENGINEERS 


AND MANUFACTURERS 421 


Pressed Metal Lamp Standards 

[he very attractive loose-leaf catalogue of 
ornamental street lighting standards issued 
The Union Metal Manufacturing Company, 
Canton, Ohio, is a handy manual on its su 
ject. The convenience with which the sheets 
can be detached for separate use is an excellent 
feature. The various sections cover the dé 
scription and construction details of the street 
lighting standards made by this company, and 
a classification of them into standards for 
business district lighting, for residential and 
park lizhtning, and for cluster lighting. The 
points of superiority claimed for these star 
dards are the following: their handsome, clea 
cut and massive appearance; their strength 
and durability; the “Safety First” sectional 
pressed metal construction; which is said to 
absorb shock and vibration and thus give long 
life to lamps and glassware; the light weight 
low freight and low cost of erection: and 
flexibility of design—more than 2,000 different 
ombinations being possible [he company 
gives a guarantee by which it agrees to re- 
place, at any time within 20 years from the 
date of erection, any one of its pressed steel 
shafts that fails from any cause whatever 
(except by wilful, malicious mischief), for the 
nominal sum of $3, net, F. O. B. the factory 
in Canton. This insurance guarantee is 
printed on an envelope, one of which is at- 
tached to every steel shaft when it leaves the 
factory 


“MARATHON RACER” 





ee 


me? 


acne i ED 


<a 


iT Rg 


— 


es 


Din Pitas 8s oi 





ee 


—— oe 














THE AMERICAN CITY 








eis 


ESTSHEVERY. HO 


wr Swany = 2 


BS Syijis ASA 


S 


J - 
Ty 4 
1 ~ 

* ‘ 


























As an engineering authority recently said: 

“The making of Portland Cement requires the 
greatest care and long experience. It is a 
scientific and chemical procedure representing the eZ 
antithesis of guesswork or slipshod methods.” =f 

The ALPHA system of manufacturing is the se 
result of 25 years of experience, during which time 
ALPHA CEMENT has displaced the best im- Ah 
ported Portlands. 

The chemist is a man of real authority in every “J 
ALPHA plant. He cannot be overruled by men me 
zealous for large or economic output. AMY 

The hourly system of tests, beginning with the A 
quarry borings, is followed strictly. A 

Result: It is impossible for cement that is 
lacking in binding power to be shipped from an a 
ALPHA plant. gS 

The word “Guaranteed,” now stamped on every x 
new ALPHA bag, assures you that the cement will < 






more than meet all standard requirements. 






Let us send you Art Envelope No. 2, showing views of distinctive 
concrete bridges, buildings, roads, dams, etc., and a copy of “‘Alpha 
Cement—How To Use It.” \/- 









ALPHA PORTLAND CEMENT COMPANY 
General Offices: EASTON, PA. 









SALES OFFICES: 


Boston 
New York 
Philadelphia 
Pittsburgh 
Baltimore ny 
Savannah 














aa = 
Teeést 


7337 





58 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American Cry. 





ee 











Ae 


\pr., 1916 


Act Early to Save the Trees 


About the time that the sap starts upward to 
give life to the dormant tree buds, the first 
detachments of the army of creeping tree pests 
begin their annual march up the trunks so as 
to reach the buds as soon as the sap does 

Tree Tanglefoot, made by the O. & W. 
Thum Company, of Grand Rapids, Mich., of- 
fers an efficient way to preserve the life and 
beauty of trees against certain of these pests 
It is made in the form of a sticky substance 
hat is applied in a band around the tree 
trunks. In no way does it injure the trees or 
their bark, and after being applied it remains 
a forbidding bar to insects that try to reach 
the tree’s foliage by way of the trunk An 
application of Tree Tanglefoot remains sticky 
from three to four months, depending on the 
severity of the weather. Two applications a 
year—one early in April 
and the other in July—will | 
give ample protection to a 
tree throughout the insect- 
infested season. Tree Tan- 
glefoot has the advantage 
of not requiring inspection 
every day An occasional 
examination as to whether’ | 
the sticky qualities are still | 
strong is sufficient. No mix- 
ing is required before it is 
applied, and a pound makes 
about 9 lineal feet of band. | 


+ + 


Two New Motor Truck 
Models 

rhe Kelly-Springfield Mo- 
tor Truck Company, of 
Springfield, O., announces 
in a large pamphlet the ad- 
dition of two worm-driven 
models to its line. The va- THE El 
rious features of design 
incorporated in this axle are those which 
have proven the most successful in prac- 
tical service. The worm and gear are designed 
and built by the Timken-David Brown Com- 
pany. The axle shafts are especially rugged, 
and are designed with a maximum factor of 
safety. The fixed hub mounting of the wheel 
is an important feature. The driving strains 
are taken through the radius rods, swivel- 
jointed at each end, while the torque and 
braking reaction is taken through the springs. 
Thus a flexible drive is provided which re- 
lieves the frame of sudden shocks due to start- 
ing or to the sudden application of the brakes 
Both brakes are mounted on the rear wheels 
This relieves the bearings and propeller shaft 
of heavy strains and applies the braking pres- 
sure directly to the wheels, the logical point of 
application. The matter of lubrication was 
for a long time a trying problem in worm 
drive construction. However, this obstacle 
has been surmounted, so that it is said that 
the lubrication of the worm-drive is liberal 
and certain. 


NEWS FROM ENGINEERS 





RI 


AND MANUFACTURERS 42 


>) 


Preparing Playgrounds for 
Summer Use 


Mr. J. M. Studebaker, of South Bend, Ind., 
s a son of Ashland, Ohio, having been born 


& 


and reared there. Recently the city of Ashland 
had a celebration lasting through a week, com- 
memorating the one hundredth anniversary of 
its founding, and Mr. Studebaker was one of 
the honored guests. While visiting in the old 
home town he became interested in the exhibit 
1 The Ashland Manufacturing Compa 

Che exhibit of playground equipment covered 
a block, and was in use by the children and 
young people who thronged that street. Mr. 
Studebaker purchased equipment used in this 
exhibit and donated it to Howard Park, South 
Bend, Ind., and Mr. L. R. Willour, the super- 
intendent of The Ashland Manufacturing 


bi 
ly 











KA STUDEBAKER PARK COMBINATION 


Company, personally supervised the erection 
of this apparatus. When The Ashland Manu- 
facturing Company issued its new Catalogue 
No. 16, showing its line of all-steel playground 
apparatus for 1916, it included an entirely new 
and original outfit covering approximately 50 
feet square, named, in honor of Mr. Stude- 
haker, the Studebaker Park Combination. It 
is one of the largest and most practical com- 
binations for playgrounds that is 


tured, c 


manutac- 
leature of 


idmitting almost 


vering practically every 
playground equipment and 


every variety of exercise. It includes among 
other things tw ull-metal aluminum slides 
me 12 feet in length and the other 30 tTeet in 


length. 
+ + 


Sanitary Fencing 

\ folder picturing the wire fencing manu 
factured by the Cyclone Fence Company, of 
Waukegan, Ill, shows a number of varieties 
f this product suitable for front and back 
vards, and for flower-bed borders and trellises 








Se 











as 








howe 


THE AMERICAN CITY 





The broom of this sweeper cleans a swath close to seven feet 
wide. With a team averaging two miles per hour, an area equal to 
64,000 square yards can be cleaned in a eight-hour day. That’s some 
speed! Compare it with the progress you are now making—and 
decide for yourself what it’s costing your taxpayers not to use modern 


machinery. 
s then picked up and dumped in moist piles 


500 feet apart. One man operates it. No 


D U ae T 7 E oe om push broom crew needed. 


Write for our catalog—it’s mighty in- 
teresting. 


Pick-up THE BAKER MFG. CO. 


xe VV E; E. P E: R 503 Stanford Avenue, Springfield, III. 


BAKER-BARRON, Inc., 221 W. Broadway, New York 


Guts Sweeping CGosts 


Raises No Dust 


The Baker Dustless Pick-up Sweeper is 
as near to dustless perfection as human skill 
will likely accomplish in years to come. It 
‘arries a sprinkling system with needle- 
sprays that moisten the litter. The litter 








When writing to Advertisers please mention Tar American City 


















\pr., 1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 425 


Regulating the Water Pressure the lowest elevation of this lin 


; ~: plied under a pressure of I15 poun Sali 
in Salt Lake City ake City has uss Ross regulati mY l hed 
[he two accompanying photographs show’ more than twent 1] 
e two regulators on the thirteenth South for its new \ S 
Street water supply main in Salt Lake City. Macquarrie e « : 
[his main was constructed in 1914, and has a __ both pictures 


: total length of 19,342 feet. 
P The intake is established at 
in elevation of 4,935 feet, 
nd the line supplies water 

7 to distribution mains at an 
levation as low as 4,325 
et. so that the line has a 

il head of 610 feet. It 











me necessary, therefore, 
reak the pressure, and 
a point 6,271 teet from 


the head of the line the first 
set of regulators were placed 
1 elevat nof 4,032 Teet; 

a pomt 10,790 feet Irom 
the head the second set of 
regulators were set at an 
elevation of 4,414 feet. These 
regulating valves are made 
the Ross Valve Manufac 
turing Company, of Troy, 
N. ¥ They are set so that 
pressure of 135 pounds is 
arried on the high side, and 
are placed in the line in dup- 
licate, with gate valves on 
each side, so that either 
; pressure-regulating valve 
{ can be cut out of the system 
: for inspection or repairs without interrupt- Telling of Firestone Tires 





Se the 
r 




















ing the service. The distribution lines from A monthly magazine. called 7 restone. 
rire 
x \ m 
pa \K nl A 
5 1 rorc ry 
. s ‘ how 
i nat i tires 
ve the tol 
I carries 1 eel 
wire 1g \ at 
S1g t he ( gie UOb- 
ser teles« ( Mt 
Wils ir I Angeles, 
p ) ( ull, 
wit 1 y 
shar W s d t s. and 
. vith the veignt | t ex 
ciusivel) n the t ires 
' Yet the tires 
di { tr leage 
: + + 


An Office Removal 


Che Uni a es Cast 
Iron Pipe & Foundry Com 
pany announces the removal 
of its Soutne ant 
t thc mMces ( itta 
nooga, Tenn o2 Am- 
erican Trust & Savings 
Bank building, Birminghan 





























ET iam 





ad 










THE AMERICAN CITY 


STANDS WEAR AND AR, 








# Swing as High 
as You Like 


The children are safe on 
EVERWEAR swings. They 
are built with an eye single 
to safety. 


An all-steel galvanized product throughout, specially designed 
for the wear and tear of outdoor use. All detail of bearings, con- 


nections, etc., have been worked out to the highest standard of 
perfection. 


Take an X-ray look at the roller bearings by which these 
swings are mounted. We give you an “inside’’ view. As the 
swing sets his in motion, you notice what happens to the clamp? 
The bearings ROLI—they obviate friction—they increase the 
enjoyment of the device and prolong the life of EVERWEAR 
apparatus. This is just one of the so-called “little things’’ to 
which we have given careful attention like all the rest. 


EVERWEAR swings are equipped with malleable frame 
fittings and drop forged steel parts for bearings. Built in standard 
sets of 6, 9, or 12 swings to the Outfit. Special designs built to 
order. 


A full line of the latest 
and approved playground 
apparatus shown in Catalog 
C-3 which will be sent on 
request. 


The EVERWEAR 
MFG. CO. 


Springfield, Ohio 




















When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American Crry. 





— oe 








5 
4 
: 
| 
PY 





ee 








Apr., 1916 


NEWS 


FROM 


“The Security Tube’”’ 
Kolesch & Co., of New York 
veying instruments a 





drawing paper The 
tin japanned black, in three lengths, 30, . 

Che paper is easily loaded into the 
tube by pushing back the slide cover and clos 
paper remaining t 
tected without opening the tub« 
entire roll has been used. W 
specified length is to 
measuring tape is drawn to the required lengt 


42 inches 


ing it, the 


} 
t 


the paper or cloth is drawn 


ENGINEERS 


1 
makers Of sur- 


nd drawing materials, 
have devised a tube for protecting and storing 
blue-print paper, tracing paper and cloth and 


tube is 


be use¢ 


, ] ’ 
lace l heavy y 
7 
Va 


horoughly p1 

again until the 
hen a sheet of 
l, the atta hed 


out accordingly, 


and is easily cut by means of a straight cutting 
edge provided for the purpose. 
the tube to the drafting table 
sired. Waste of the paper or 
when this device is used. 


A Chief’s Car 


The car shown on e 387 
owned and operated by the cl 
Antonio, Tex., fire department, and is one of 


the most luxurious, fast and efficient { 


+ 


4 


page 387 


Brackets hold 
11 

OT Wall aS dae 

loth is avoided 


i 1 1S e< 
lief of the Sar 


re aux- 
¢ 
Le 


iliary machines in the country. It is a standard 


1910 Roadster, built by 


The Locomobile Com 


pany of America, of Bridgeport, Conn., and is 


completely equipped with all the appointments 





AND MANUFACTU 


t ther \ 

cle vel peor a Spe 

hour Small hand chet 
ther light fire equi; t 
exclusively the chief's « 


St. Paul’s Water Met 





I 


ers 


The B M 
pany, of Mul ikee \ 
the ¢ tr tt 
Mint with water r S 
I nel 
ment 


Picking up the Dirt 


The accompanying | 


> ’ 
B ike r dust ess picK 
the streets of Pulask \ 
} ] 
comopined SW ¢ S 
, 1 
wagon three ma 


I 
at lan 2 +} ' 
water dampens tie ) 
} } 
room and renders 


dustless. The gutter 
: . s ‘ 
rew incnes tl 
being picked up 1 
then dumped 
added this ye 
ixles, two speeds f tl 


friction device for sweepi 











BAKER 


PICK-UP SWEEPER AT WORK IN PULASKI, VA 


» 
\ 


> 
\ 


Sy 











ee ee on ove ‘ 
“A 


re 


es 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


MUNICIPAL 
SIGNS 


OF EVERY CHARACTER 
FOR EVERY PURPOSE 


% GUARANTEED 


AN —— 
ENAMELED 
IRON 


SIiGnsS 


‘‘BALTO” Guaranteed Porcelain Enameled Iron Signs 
stand alone in their field—the one and only one absolutely 
dependable sign product. 














These signs are made of the finest grade of vitreous Porcelain Enamel 
fused on specially processed iron at a temperature of 1600 degrees Fah- 
renheit—each color separately fused. 

‘*‘BALTO”’ Signs, exclusively, are fitted with 
non-corrosive metal sleeve eyelets—this Nn~ 
D feature protects the enamel at this point ND OT ir 

ANGER and adds another distinctive element of k AMT ry e 

finish to our signs. CEp oue } 



















We produce every possible character of municipal 
signs—any size, shape, color combination or design. 
Without obligation our Service Department will 


S764 







be pleased to submit sketches and quotations. 
Additionally, we will send FREE, at our expense, 
to any authorized purchasing official or body a 
useful and attractive sample of finished Porcelain 
Enameled Iron. Write Department C. 


The Baltimore Enamel & Novelty Co. 


BALTIMORE, MARYLAND 










S 
NM ? 


(UNNECESSARY NOISES) 7-47. 
| PROHIBITED (° .7 ka 


TA 


61 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tax Ameznican City. 


* 
i ea a aR NR RIN 0 





ls 


. 
eee eee 





ate St 








\pr., 1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS 


well as overhead charges, is computed at 
ut 13 cents per 1,000 square treet 
Che manufacturers of this machine are The 
jaker Manufacturing Company, 503 Stanford 
venue, Springfield III 


+ + 
Cities Buying Motor Fire Equipment 


The following deliveries of mot ire a 
iratus have recently been made by the Amer 
in-La France Fire Engine Company, o 
Imira, N. Y., all with Goodyear cushion fire 
ruck tires; one type 12 triple combinat 
each to Idaho Falls, Idaho, Knoxville, Tent 
ind El Reno, Okla.; a type to triple com! 
to Sayre, Pa., and a type 31 four-cy 
s-foot aerial truck to Annapolis, Md. A p 
ture of the Idaho Falls apparatus will be found 
n pages 387 of this issue 


+ + 
New South Bend Double- Duty Model 


The South Bend Motor Car Works, of 


Po 


South Bend, Ind., has recently announced its 


AND MANUFACTURERS 429 





itest I A \ ] It 
rour aiftere é ‘ 
ye 
1-CVl aer a Ss é 
rse€-power 4 2 
1 A ry ‘ 
cy'inder. The unique feature of this 
r is that the wheel se and let 
, “ ; . 
CK SCa ( ( irrang¢ t 
rent learance for if Z 
. » 1 6ncecl | ‘ 
rvice truck, aerial truck or what¢ 
pparatus is to be us¢ ( é 
lhe tractor will be eq ed with t tv 
electric starting and ghting ster 1] 
eel equipment wil e 38 inches 
. os } 1 1] 1 
size I tires will e detern ed ¥y ti 
f apparatus to be used with the tract 
| 1 | | ‘ ’ 
Vil € ull ed W ( Hele c il 
ces and ele il lighting syste he 
paratus is | ult w both t 
cl ill dr { | Z +84 i ce \ 114 
bee € I the treatu s M tl 
double-duty ‘ pparatus It is especiall 
Gapted for use with | | 





re department apparatus, as every part, 
matter how small or how large, has an amj 


lactor of safety 





eee Nozzles for Highway W oes 


In road construction work by the penetra- 
tion method, the heavier asphalt binders, 
which are practically solid at ordinary tem- 
peratures, must be heated to 350 degrees F. 
and then sprayed onto the roads by means of 
a pressure sprayer. It has been found that 
vhen a spraying machine designed for han 
dling the lighter oils was used, the heavy 
inders would clog the nozzles and render 
them unfit for use. To handle this heavy ma 
terial, a type of nozzle has been developed 


which has been tested in practical w rk fora 


number of years hese nozzles are 
the Spray Engineering Company of Bostor 
and have bee n use l ror Spraying the { 
binders in the construction of roads by tl 
Massachusetts Highway ( ission and The 
Barrett Manufacturing ( pany and other 
The device costs but a s! ll part of the price 
a pressure sprayer, and is said to do good 
work quickly and economically It is cor 
structed so that it can easily be taker apart 
and reassembled without causing delay in 


the work. It will spray at the rate of one 





HAND-SPRAYING ASPHALT IN ROAD WORK 








ee 








THE AMERICAN CITY 














EXPANSION 
JOINT 





Meets National Paving 
Brick Specifications 


Section 23 Specifications for vitrified brick pavements and highways 
of the National Paving Brick Association call for expansion joints 
of a “‘prepared bituminous material that will remain pliable at all 
temperatures to which it may be subjected as a paving filler.” It 
must be “‘made into strips of suitable length, depth and thickness” 
and “should be laid in the pavement as the bricks are being laid.”’ 
ELASTITE meets every requirement in a manner that saves the 
contractor a lot of money on every job. 


WRITE FOR SAMPLE AND LITERATURE. 


THE PHILIP CAREY COMPANY 


8 Wayne Avenue, Lockland, CINCINNATI, OHIO 

















When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American Curry. 


—— 


— a ee 









































ae icin ile 








quarter to one and one-half gallons per square 
yard, and will coat the stone evenly on all 
sides as well as on the upper surface. The 
illustration on this page shows handspraying 
with the No. 10 special nozzle made by this 
company. 


+ + 
Sanding Oiled Roads 


One of the photographs shown on page 388 
of this issue shows the operation of a device 
for sanding oiled roads by the use of a Commer 
motor truck. A hopper, attached to the rear of 
the truck, feeds onto a circular wrought-iron 
plate rotated by bevel gears and a chain-and 
pantie drive from the rear axle of the ma- 
chine. Shovelers stationed in the body of the 
truck keep the hopper filled with sand, and 
the rate of flow is controlled at the botton 
opening by a sliding plate. The whirling plat 
is 30 inches in diameter and is divided into four 
sectors by angle-iron plates forming vertical 
radial ridges which, as the plate revolves, act 
like the vanes of a centrifugal pump and dis 
tribute the sand evenly upon a 10-foot width 
of roadway. The picture shows the device at 
work in Victoria, B. C., where Charles H. 
Rust is city engineer. 


t+ 
A New Expansion Joint 


A new material for the expansion joints of 
concrete, brick or block pavements is now be- 
ing offered by The Barrett Company, of New 
York City. It is a mastic which comes ready 
to lay, in ribbon form, in a variety of widths 
and thicknesses. It contains no felt or paper 
reinforcement. The new fibre weld process 





BARRETT’S NEW FIBRE-WELD-PROCESS 
EXPANSION JOIN1 


gives to the bituminous mastic the requisite 
cohesiveness to stand handling and storage in 
the ribbon form, without affecting the elasticity 


Apr. 1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 


431 


that is necessary for expansion requirements 
Che material seems to possess all the elasticity 
of a poured bituminous joint with all the ad- 
vantages of easy hoodies It is wi iterproof 
and weatherproof and is not injured by street 
acids or automobile oils It 
rittle with age or cold weather and does not 
soften or run in hot weather. It eliminates 
heating and pouring apparatus, and brings 


about a reduction of the labor item, as it takes 


ye not ecome 


only a moment to unroil the joint and cut and 
put it in place. It will be marketed under the 
name of “Barrett’s Expansion Joint 

+ + 


Small Rock Crushers 


\ new department has been organized by 
rhe Jeffrey Manufacturing Company, of Co- 
lumbus, Ohio, to handle the sale of a line of 


small rock and ore crushers. With this equip- 
ment will also be furnished the Jeffrey eleva- 
tors, conveyors and screens. The small crush- 
ers, which will be made a specialty, will fit in 
well with certain well-established products of 
this company, such as pulverizers, loaders and 
sand and gravel machinery. The new depart- 
ment will be in charge of Mr. Leroy A. Kling, 
formerly sales manager of the road machinery 
department of the Wheeling Mold & Foundry 
Company, of Wheeling, W 
+ + 

Concrete Construction for 
Park Permanence 

A very attractive booklet, whose theme is 
“Concrete for Permanence,” has been pub- 
lished by the Chicago Portland Cement Com- 
pany, of Chicago, to show the possibilities 


of 
concrete when handled in the proper manner 
for park improvement. Indebtedness for aid 
in the preparation of the booklet is acknowl- 


edged to the South Park Commissioners of 
Chicago, especially to Mr. Linn White, chief 
engineer; Mr. Edward H. Bennett, architect, 
and others. 

+ + 
“Motor Trucks of America’ 

Twenty-six important devices described 
and illustrated in an article entitled “Devices 
that Make for Motor Truck Efficiency,” printed 
as an introduction to the 1916 edition (Volume 
IV) of “Motor Trucks of America.” 

This valuable handbook, just off the press, 
is bigger and better than ever. All the princi- 
pal motor trucks made in the United States 
are represented by photographs and tables of 
specifications covering all models. The specifi- 
cations are arranged after a uniform plan, 
that one truck can be 
inother. 

This book is not for sale, but is published 
annually by The B. F. Goodrich ‘ono for 
free distribution, not only to truck manufac- 
turers, agents and salesmen, but t: 
ers as well, and business firms contemplating 
the purchase of trucks. Requests should be 
written on business letterheads and addressed 
to The B. F. Goodrich Company, Akron, Ohio, 
or the nearest Goodrich store. 


so 
readily compared with 


» truck own- 


















} 
. THE AMERICAN CITY 
STANDARDS OF MERIT 
Special Designs of Lighting Standards 
For Type C Lamps 

LAMP POSTS FOR ALL REQUIREMENTS 
| FOUNTAINS 
Display and Drinking 

For PUBLIC SQUARES, PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS, Etc. 





ENTRANCE GATES, RAILINGS, SETEES 





CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION 


THE J... MOTT IRON WORKS 


Fifth Avenue and 17th Street, New York 

















Light Your Streets “ig 
With This Self-Extinguishing g PROTECT YOUR 


Lamp for 30 Days POLICE 
| so iret SIGNAL SYSTEM 


Aldermen—Merchants ! 


This is an absolutely Free offer—with no strings 
tied to it. We will ship one of the famous Acorn 
Boulevard Arc Street Lamps (2000 candle Power) 
to your town for 30 Day,’ Foe Trial. 

These lamps are in use in hundreds of towns. 
Giving greatest satisfaction everywhere. Actually 
give better light than gas, naphtha, acetylene or 
electricity. 

Get one. Try it 30 days without any obliga- 
tion tous. Check its actual lighting cost. Prove 
to yourself that it always gives satisfactory light 
even in worst wind, hail, rain and snow storms. 
Note how its self-extinguishing device always works 
at correct hour. 

Let us prove its superiority at ourrisk. Remem- 














PRMBLY A 


USE 
SIMPLEX 
STEEL TAPED 
WIRES AND CABLES 





eee 











ber,you pay nothing to us for the Thirty Days’ Free 
Trial. Bend today for full description and Special Free Booklet 
Introductory Offer. en 
ACORN BRASS MFG, CO. 
1141 A corn Bldg. 
ra SIMPLEX WIRE & CABLE @ 
Acorn of tea | 
3oulevard Arc 201 DEVONSHIRE ST. BOSTON | 
. CHICAGO ~— SAN FRANCISCO 
Street Lamp 161 
——eVo33Oowe 
63 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 

















NN 








ee re 





Apr., 1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 433 


Road Surfacing 


The principle and practice of road surfac- 
ing, as distinguished from applications of oil 
for dust laymg, are covered in a booklet 

‘Trinidad Liquid Asphalt,” just issued by ‘| he 
Barber Asphalt Paving Company, of Phila- 
delphia. The essentials of successful “carpet 
coating” with asphaltic materials are fully ex- 
plained. The pamphlet is illustrated with pho- 
tographs of park drives, city boulevards, sub- 
urban streets and country roads resurfaced 
with liquid asphalt, by both hot and cold ap- 
plications. Full specifications, in the form of 
explicit directions for the laying of carpet 
coats, are included. 


+ + 
The Care of Streets and Roads 


A new catalogue has been issued by the 
Municipal Equipment & Construction Com- 
pany, Conway Building, Chicago, under the 
title of “A Better Way.” Its theme is the 
improvement and maintenance of roads 
through the use of oil distributors. The Allen 
distributor, made by this company, is a one- 
man machine for oil distribution, road sprink- 
ling or flushing, for carrying municipal ma- 
terials and supplies, ashes, coal, stone or 
gravel. Its investment outlay can be dis 
tributed over several departments by keeping 
the chassis in constant use. An automatic 
dumping body or a stationary body of any 
standard type can be furnished. With the oil 
distributor and body an attachment can be fur- 
nished for connecting the rear portion of any 
standard road sweeper for cleaning roads be- 
fore applying oil or binder. The distributor 
applies the binder by a pressure spraying de- 
vice, which spreads the oil with uniformity 
over the surface of the road in any required 
quantity, from % of a gallon to 2 gallons per 
square yard. It is possible to raise the tem- 
perature of the oil from atmospheric tempera- 
ture to 250 or 300 degrees Fahrenheit; the by- 
pass agitator keeps the warm oil constantly m 
motion, giving an even temperature through- 
out the tank. Attachments can be furnished 


for sprinkler or flusher heads in the rear or 
for flusher heads under the center of th 


chine. The “Mecco” distributor has o been 
devised by this company to meet the demand 
for an internal heater and rear-control ma 


chine. With the exception ot the latter 


feature 


this machine possesses the same working quali 
ties and equipment as the Allen. It provides 
for an extra man on the rear of os machine to 
look after the lateral moveme: of the dis- 
tributors. The well-known Sterli Nassis 1s 
used. 

t+ + 


Building and Maintaining Good Roads 

A handsome ci atal gue, entitled “The Road 
Builder's Guide,” h een issued by The 
\ustin- Western Road Machinery Company, of 
Chicago, and deals with grading, rock-crush- 


ing and road-surfacing equipment. One of the 
many products of this company featured in the 
catalogue is the road scaritier illustrated in the 
accompanying photograph [his machine is 
used for breaking up old road surfaces prt 

paratory to relaying with macadan iled or 
bituminous surfaces, brick, etc. It provi for 
steering the machine independently f the 
hauling engine, which does the pulling only 
Its teeth are pointed at both ends, thus pro- 
viding for a double length of wear ach tyne 

is adjusted for wear and depth of cut without 
jacking up and down the main frame The 
tynes are raised and lowered instantly by a 
lever movement, so no time is lost in getting 
over car tracks, street rossings, manhole Ss, et 


The angle at which the tynes are set can be 
varied to suit the different classes of work. 
The machine turns around in its own tracks, 
and thus no time is lost in operating any re- 
versing machinery. The many other forms of 
road machinery produced by this company in- 
clude jaw and gyratory rock crushers, water 
and oil sprinklers, street sweepers and horse 
rollers, dump cars, dump and stone spreading 
wagons, wheel and drag scrapers, road plows 
and drags, motor road rollers, horse and trac- 
tion road graders, elevating graders and ditch- 
ing machines, etc. 

















USING A ROAD SCARIFIER 


ON AN OLD ROAD SURFACE 





ff momen. 








THE AMERICAN CITY. 


4 


Civilized man is distinguished from the 
cave man by his habit of co-operation. 


The cave man lived for and by himself ; 
independent of others, but always in 
danger from natural laws. 


To the extent that we assist one another, 
dividing up the tasks, we increase our 
capacity for production, and attain the 
advantages of civilization. 


We may sometimes disregard our de- 
pendence on others. But suppose the 
farmer, for example, undertook to live 
strictly by his own efforts. He might eke 
out an existence, but it would not be a 
civilized existence nor would it satisfy him. 


He needs better food and clothes and 
shelter and implements than he could 
provide unassisted. He requires a market 
for his surplus products, and the means 
of transportation and exchange. 


He should not forget who makes his 


One Policy 


64 


Cave Life ow 

















Civilizati 

clothes, his shoes, his tools, his vehicles and 
his tableware, or who mines his metals, or - 
who provides his pepper and salt, his books 
and papers, or who furnishes the ready 


means of transportation and exchange 
whereby his myriad wants are supplied. 


Neither should he forget that the more he 
assists others the more they can assist him. 


Take the telephone specialists of the 
Bell System: the more efficient they are, 
the more effectively the farmer and every 
other human factor of civilization can 
provide for their own needs and comforts. 


Or take our government, entrusted with 
the task of regulating, controlling and pro- 
tecting a hundred million people. It is to 
the advantage of everyone that the govern- 
ment shall be so efficient in its special task 
that all of us may perform our duties under 
the most favorable conditions. Interde- 
pendence means civilized existence. 


AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY 
AND ASSOCIATED COMPANIES 


One System 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 


Universal Service 

















