FOSOT SO TER REC ES 5 TOWN SASSO ANT 


.e8 sess SSS: 


ees Bacds' 


$3.00 a Year 


35 Cents 
+ ‘S, ee ee, 


me on 
LL 


AALLI2 


= 


re 


ee 


ya a. 


N 
x SS 


N 


"rt 
x. 7 
tA 

a 


eee: 
otis 


” 
iJd 
hth 

rrr 

(Li iD 


m 
- 47) 


TTIPe 


oe om, 
5 "4 z ge 
Soiase: 


tite 
x4 

ae 
Sas 


PLTIE 


5 ea 
= 


oo Ow 


oe Fe. 


£2 
Las 


—e 
2 
(43 
a= 


: 
N, 
wh 
8 
Ate 
s 

er SLSTSLALSSSLNULSS > SSSA LS TENSES Eraser esses 


— 
2441 
— 


— 


_—EE 


October, 1916 
tates 
pass #4 
ie Silene lee 


oA 


VIE 
| 


SS SSS OS a 


- 








PHI AMERICAN CITY 


MAZDA 


** Not the name of a thing, but the mark of a service’’ 














\s the turbines draw from Niagara the f 
| energy that sets the motors whirling—so 
MAZDA Service draws from the flood of 
| new thoughts in lighting, the ideas that 
. 


help the lamp-makers make better lamps. 
































The Meaning of MAZDA —— 


MAZDA is the trademark of a world-wide service to 
; : certain lamp manufacturers. Its purpose is to collect 

and select scientific and practical information con 
) t cerning progress and developments in the art of in 
candescent lamp manufacturing and to distribute this 
information to the companies entitled to receive this 
Service. MAZDA Service is centered in the Rerearch 
Laboratories of the General Electric Company at 
: Schenectady, New York. The mark MAZDA can 
{ appear only on lamps which meet the standards of 
MAZDA Service. It is thus an assurance of quality 
This trademark is the property of the General Electric 


i} Company 

i: 
: RESEARCH LABORATORIES OF 
(36 THE GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY 











2 When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American Cry. 




















} 
VOLUME XV NEW YORK 
OCTOBER, 
NUMBER 4 1916 



































' A “Home-Made” City Planning Exhibit 


and Its 


The Cause and Effect of the “My 


By George A. Damon 


Dean of Engineering, Throop College of Technology 


Sé W HAT is city planning?” 
“How can a city become in- 
terested in a city plan?” 
These two questions, which are so fre- 
quently heard in this day of constantly in- 
creasing civic effort, have received new 
answers as one of the many results of an 


Results 


City” Exhibit at Pasadena, Cal. 





exhibit which is now to be seen in the 
rooms of the Pasadena Board of Trade. 

A preliminary word as to how the ex- 
hibit happened may be of interest. About 
a year and a half ago the Pasadena City 
Beautiful Association was formed. This 
organization is composed of delegates from 

















Pasadens yY Peestiful 
Association 


i *)) Rae | 


Keep © the nent ¢=— 








GENERAL VIEW OF “MY CITY 


A home-made City 


’* EXHIBIT, PASADENA, CAL 
Planning display 











ee A 





|! 














370 THE AMERICAN CITY 


fifty different local societies, and holds 
monthly meetings at which projects for 
making the city “more beautiful” are dis- 
cussed. Active work is done by commit- 
tees reporting at these regular meetings, 
and considerable constructive work has 
been accomplished in the way of clean-up 
days, care of vacant lots, flower boxes on 
business blocks, rubbish collection, refuse 
receptacles, removal of real estate signs, 
billboard agitation, ornamental street lamps, 
etc. 
The City Planning Committee 

It was soon discovered, however, that 
there was a wide appeal for a “city orderly” 
as well as for a “city beautiful,” and early 
in the Association’s career a City Planning 
Committee was appointed to develop, if 
possible, a Pasadena Plan. 

It might have been thought by some that 
all this committee had to do was to hold a 
few meetings and then to hire a draftsman 
to reconstruct the map of the city by draw- 
ing up a few “centers” connected by radial 
or diagonal boulevards, and surround the 
whole picture by a “circuit” of green 
marked “outer park belt.” Other City Plan 
Committees have done this kind of work 
very well and their reports show just how 
to do it. Or an expert could have been 
hired to visit the city, and after a short 
stay leave a beautifully illustrated pamphlet 
as a souvenir of his study and suggestions. 


A Clearing House Policy 

But this committee did not follow the 
beaten path, and at one of its first meetings 
adopted a policy which is thought to be 
unique in the rapidly developing art of 
modern city planning. It was decided that, 
for a time at least, the committee would 
act as a “clearing house” for ideas, thus 
recognizing the important fundamental that 
the city as a whole is wiser than any one 
citizen or committee. 

Pasadena, like every other city, has an 
individuality which is the direct result of 
having a mind of its own. It was thought 
by the City Planning Committee that if 
some way could be devised for the city to 
express its own wishes, the resulting plan 
would be much better than a collection of 
theories from a single individual, or even 
from a limited group. 

One of the first things the committee ac- 
complished was to issue an invitation ask- 


Voi. XV, No. 4 


ing for city planning suggestions, and as a 
result more than one hundred separate 
ideas were submitted, both by individuals 
and by the allied organizations. 


“City Planning’’ Subdivided 


While this active campaign for material 
was in progress, the committee further ana- 
lyzed its work and divided it into three 
parts, which may be epitomized as follows: 

As a city 

“What have we at present?” 

“What do we want in the future?” 

“How can we get what we want?” 

It will be seen that the answer to these 
three questions, if correlated, will result not 
only in a city plan, but also in a civic pro- 
gram, and it was with this wider vision of 
responsibility that the committee continued 
its work. 

It was thus found desirable to be in a 
position to answer any question regarding 
the physical part of the city, and a set of 
maps were prepared showing the topog- 
raphy, the drainage, the street systems, the 
parks, the boulevards, the transportation 
systems, the water systems, the fire zones, 
the industrial districts, etc.; and, as far as 
possible, approved proposed extensions of 
all these systems were shown on the same 
maps. For instance, among the first maps 
of this kind were two showing the street 
trees. A survey was made, by means of an 
automobile, resulting in a map _ which 
showed the location of all the street trees. 
A complementary map was then made 
showing the streets and spaces without 
trees. This study showed the remarkable 
fact that over 80 per cent of Pasadena 
streets are already supplied with trees. In- 
vestigation showed at once a number of rea- 
sons why trees had not been planted on 
certain streets, and where the owners of 
frontage did not care to select some one 
of a number of varieties submitted by the 
Park Department, a decision was reached 
by the City Superintendent and a planting 
program determined upon which will, in 
time, result in a 100 per cent record of 
street tree planting. 


A Financial “Survey” 


As suggestions were made directly to the 
committee, and also oftentimes through the 
press, it was realized that an important 
part of a civic program for carrying out a 











ee 
on alia» celal 


¢ 





OcToBER, 1916 THE 


city plan would be the financial end of the 
problem. How could the city afford to 
adopt all of the very desirable improve- 
ments outlined, and which ones should 
come first? Here is where the City 
Planning Committee came in close touch 
with the five City Commissioners. These 
Commissioners had early recognized the 
value of the work of city planning, not 
only by attending a State City Planning 
Conference at Oakland, but also by appro- 
priating sufficient funds to pay for the tech- 
nical work of the City Planning Committee. 
The effort to collect all the possible infor- 
mation under the heading, “What have 
we at present?” was extended to include 
a thorough study of the financial history 
and present fiscal condition of the city. 
The fundamental idea of this financial in- 
vestigation was to ascertain facts upon 
which to base conclusions, not only for next 
year's budget, but also to develop a continu- 
ous and consistent financial program for a 
period of a number of years to come. This 
work involved a careful study of the finan- 
cial resources and civic expenditures for a 
number of past years, and a comparison of 
these results with similar figures from 
other cities of about the same size. Some 
most interesting conclusions were drawn. 

As the amount of income from taxes de- 
pends upon both the tax rate and the as- 
sessed valuation, both elements came in for 
careful scrutiny. Just at this time the city 
joined the county in a codperative effort to 
secure a logical assessment revaluation of 
all of the land and improvements in the city. 
The committee planned, at once, to keep 
in close touch with this work, which prom- 
ises to put the whole question of assess- 
ment and tax rate upon a more substantial 
foundation. There seems to be no reason 
why the city should not anticipate its needs 
and develop a policy consistent with con- 
stant growth, rather than leave the question 
of taxes and income to more or less hap- 
hazard agitation. 


Local Experts’ Reports 

The next important step of the City 
Planning Committee was to ask for advice 
from local experts on a number of impor- 
tant topics. For instance, the superinten- 
dent of the municipal lighting department 
was asked to lay out a comprehensive plan 
for the installation of underground con- 
duits, for the removal of poles, and for the 


AMERICAN CiTY 371 


gradual extension throughout the city of an 
ornamental street lighting system. From 
other recognized authorities similar reports 


were received upon “Housing,” “Tree 
Planting,’’ “Removal of Billboards and 
Unsightly Structures,” “Restricting Apart- 


ment Buildings on Boulevards,” “Comfort 
Stations,” etc. As these reports were re- 
ceived, many were given out through the 
local press. 


Pasadena—Past, Present and Future 

The accumulation of all of this informa- 
tion, together with the maps, diagrams, 
charts and reports, made- the office of the 
City Planning Committee a center of in- 
terest, and it was but natural that a local 
exhibit was suggested. The directors of 
our Board of Trade were consulted and 
they very kindly offered their rooms for the 
purpose of the display. The rooms were 
central and were already the headquarters 
of the City Beautiful Association for its 
monthly meetings and committee confer- 
ences. 

The City Planning Committee at first 
decided to call the exhibit, “Pasadena— 
Past, Present and Future,” and proceeded 
to assemble its material in accordance with 
that idea. Later, the name of the exhibit 
was changed to “My City,” as more indica- 
tive of civic pride. <A large sign, “Know 
Your City Better,” was mounted in a promi- 
nent place, and sounded the keynote of the 
exhibit. 

The Pioneer Exhibit 

A real human touch was added to the dis- 
play when it came to the collection of the 
material for “Pasadena Past’’—the histori- 
cal section. Pasadena was first “settled” 
forty-two years ago, and all of the “first 
families” making their homes in Pasadena 
between the years 1874 and 1883 are called 
“pioneers.” There are about two hundred 
persons now living who are eligible to this 
title. A call was sent out by the presider* 
of the Pioneer Society for a reunion, and 
a special effort was made to secure as many 
photographs and relics of the pioneer pe- 
riod as possible. The response was enthu- 
siastic, resulting not only in a notable event 
in Pasadena’s history, but leaving with th: 
exhibit a collection of over 500 photo- 
graphs. So much value was placed upon 
this part of the exhibit that arrangements 
were made at once to turn over the respon- 
sibility of its safekeeping to the City Li- 





























brariat Steel cases were installed to hold 
the photographs, reproductions were made 


ot many of the most valuable pictures, and 
a library attendant was placed in charge to 
classify and enlarge this very notable con 


tribution to a permanent record of Pasa- 


dena's beginnings 


The Exhibit Rooms 
The first thing in the exhibit was the 


rio 
oT! 


af 
1 


ial map ot “Urange (;rove”’ lract 
made in 1874, when the Indiana Colony sub- 
divided their holdings. This map attracted 
considerable attention as the first “Pasa 
dena Plan,” particularly as it showed liberal 
provision for parks, boulevards, and exten 
SiVé grounds about the proposed school- 
house. Pictures of the first house, the first 
churches, the first school, the first hotel, the 
first business block, the first stage-coach, 
and many other “first” things attract the 
visitors’ attention and make the display of 
“Pasadena Present” in the next room all 
the more striking. 


“Pasadena Present 
The Board of Trade had sent a very 
handsome illuminated transparency con- 
taining over 100 colored photographic 





iews of Pasadena to the Panama-Pacifi 
ternational Exposition at San Francisco, 
nd offered this display as a nucleus fot 


the xhibition in the room devoted to Pasa- 


dena as it is to-day. Upon the walls wer 
hung photographs contributed by architects 

lilders and owners of recent homes and 
business buildings, all resulting in an ex 


hibit which does credit to our architects 
landscape engineers and home-builders. 
\ unique feature of this room is a “slam 
corner,’ containing photographs of undesir 
ble structures, unkempt vacant lots, bill 
boards, and other blights to the beauty of 
ir city, all arranged around a map with 
tags and tape indicating their exact loca 
tion. The caption over this display is “We 
Protest—These Things Are Not Beautiful.’ 
In another corner of this room is a scree 
showing views of similar undesirable con 
ditions along the Pacific Electric right-of 
way between Los Angeles and Pasadena, 
which it is hoped to have improved. New 
pictures are added to the architectural ex 
hibit from time to time as houses, churches 
and other buildings are designed and built, 
the intention being to keep this part of the 
exhibit strictly up to date. 

















WILD FLOWER” FROM THE SAN FRAN 
CISCO EXPOSITION 


Loaned to the Horticultural Exhibit 





_ 





ARDY 


min 3 


ae 


hy ah pil 


wt 


(OCTOBER cepae) | H | \MI R 


The “First” Horticultural Hall 
Circulation is provided so that the public 
can see the display without interference. 


Che addition of the horticultural hall was 
accidental, and happened as a result of the 
effort to secure circulation Che rear 
rooms of the Board of Trade quarters 
opened out upon an alley court. It was 


found that this could be cove red with can- 
vas at small expense, and as soon as it was 
realized that the brick walls could be hid- 


PCAN CITY 


iny individuals have contribut 


mentary plants and baskets of 

exhibit started with a notable « 
cyclamen and primulas, which wer: 
lowed by similar displays of came 


hyacinths and begonias, all in due s 
On “Wild Flower Day” the high scho 
iny class showed a collection ¢ 
hundred kinds of local flowers 

trom the meadows and the mount 


correctly named. A gazing glob 


























PASADENA’S FIRST HORTICULTURAL HALI 


[his space was a “blind alley” 
den with palms, the idea of a permanent 
horticultural display in the center of the 
city was suggested. The Pasadena Horti- 
cultural Society, which holds two meetings 
a month in the Board rooms, adopted this 
idea enthusiastically, and what promises to 
be a permanent feature was worked out 
from a modest beginning. 

This horticultural display has been a 
source of constant joy. Several of the nur- 
serymen of the city have sent the best of 
their collections, the park department has 
furnished a profusion of cut flowers, and 


f the Board of Tr R 


f the art stores and a number of 
cypress garden craft furniture hay 


nished the trimmings to our flower 


But the crowning glory of this deli 
flower garden was the arrival of 
Flower,” the lovable littie bronz 
from San Francisco, which was ft 
‘the pet of the | xpositi n’ and w 
chased and loaned to us by a Pasadet 


lover. How the visitors to our exhil 
the little sprite, how they linger 
presence to take away in their 


all they can of her innocent loveline 


SSE 











374 THE AMERI 


A Live City Planning Exhibit 

lhe next departme nt of the exhibit to be 
worked out was a “city planning studio.” 
Here is to be found a drafting table of lib- 
eral dimensions containing one or two 
projects in process of design. On the walls 
are a display of the maps and diagrams 
showing the facts of the physical city. On 
easels and screens are displayed the results 
ot a number of studies of possible arrange 


ments of public buildings in “civic centers, 


CAN CITY VoL. XV, No. 4 


Land Value “Topography” 

A map showing land values throughout 
the city is, perhaps, the most unique feature 
of this part of the exhibit. Round pegs 
were made on a scale of an inch in height 
representing $40, and these upright sticks 
were placed in the middle of each block on 


the map and show graphically the value per , 
front foot of lots at that point. The highest 
peg is in the center of the city, where values . 


run $1,000 per front foot, and the lowest 

















MAP SHOWING PROPERTY 


The “hills and valleys” of front foot 


and other groups which have been sug- 
gested. The atmosphere here is that of 
planning a future home to which everyone 
who is to live in it has an opportunity for 
contributing something. 

Directly contiguous to this drafting room 
are placed the financial charts, lest in our 
enthusiasm for future glories we might 
forget our fiscal limitations. These charts 
are carefully constructed and arranged to 
show in a most striking manner all the 
pertinent facts of the city’s finances. They 
are receiving studious attention. 


. 
he 
VALUES GRAPHICALLY 
values attracted unusual attention 
. 
pegs are in the outlying districts, where . 
values are appraised as low as $10 per front 
foot. The results of this device for show- 
ing the relative values of real estate , 


throughout the city is striking and satisfy- 
ing, and no one single feature of the entire 
exhibit is attracting more favorable com- 
ment. The idea of the map is at once ap- 
parent and the reason for the difference in 
values of the various sections of the city is 
a subject constantly and intelligently dis- 
cussed. As a means of arousing a genuine 
and widespread interest in real city plan- 
ning, this map has been a great success. 











Octorer, 1916 


“Orders” for a City 

The concluding feature of the exhibit is 
the display of “projects.” A number of 
bristol board screens of standard size are 
arranged along the walls and on frames ex- 
tending out into the room, upon which are 
displayed photographs and diagrams, call- 
ing attention to the many suggestions 
which have been sent in to the City Plan- 
ning Committee. A ballot was also pre- 
pared in the form of an order blank and 
the visitors given an opportunity to express 
their preferences for the various projects. 
This expression of public opinion is the 
crux of the whole exhibit. Everything else 
is accessory. The whole idea of the ex- 
hibit was to have the people of our city 
find out what they want and then say so— 
and, therefore, the results of the “orders” 
have been awaited with interest. The peo- 
ple were conservative in reaching conclu- 
sions and were not urged to hurry their 
decisions. Many took their ballots home 
and returned with them. <A large number 
did not vote at all. It is estimated that 
about one in five of those who visit the 
exhibit avail themselves of the voting 
privilege. The results of the first 1,000 
votes are shown on page 377, and the rather 
remarkable uniformity in results will be 
noticed when the “points” from the first 
few hundred votes are compared to the 
later ballots. Each project apparently has 
a definite fixed place in the public’s mind. 
The forms of the ballots and the record of 
results indicate that the projects were di- 
vided into “city beautiful” ‘and “city or- 
derly” classifications. The City Beautiful 
Association has the first class of projects 
well under way, and it will only mean per- 
sistent and consistent effort on the part of 
the Association and the City Commissioners 
to bring all of these suggestions to success- 
ful conclusions. 

The city planning projects, however, 
need a large amount of constructive think- 
ing, first to determine the city’s actual fu- 
ture requirements, and then to develop an 
orderly program of accomplishment. 


“Town Meetings” 


There have been a number of incidental 
developments in connection with the ex- 
hibit which have contributed materially to 
its value as a civic influence. The exhibit 
rooms were arranged to accommodate both 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


public meetings and private conferences, 
and a number of each have been held. 

The “Committee of Fifty” appointed by 
the Commissioners to investigate our trans- 
portation problem held a supper followed 
by a discussion in the exhibit room, and 
sub-committees of the larger committec 
make the rooms their headquarters. 

An open meeting of the old-fashioned 
“town meeting” variety was held to discuss 
the school question, particularly in regard 
to the adoption of the intermediate or jun 
ior high school plan. This meeting devel- 
cped the very important suggestion that our 
educational sub-centers should each con- 
tain a branch library, a neighborhood park, 
a swimming pool, a playground, an athletic 
field, and an intermediate school with 
plenty of grounds to be used for a setting. 
\lready this underlying idea of codrdinat- 
ing schools, small parks, library and play- 
ground requirements is taking root, and a 
number of studies for several sub 
are on the drafting table. 


centers 


A public discussion on “flood control” 
was the means of clearing up a general mis- 
understanding of this very important sub- 
ject. The importance of check dams in the 
canyons, of spreading systems on the debris 
cones at the mouths of the canyons, and of 
protecting channels in the valleys was 
brought out. This meeting did much to ad- 
vance the idea that all of the cities, towns 
and communities in what we may call the 
Pasadena District should combine 
comprehensive flood control program, 
which should include the regulation of the 
mountain watershed which delivers water 


+ 


to the valley. Such a combination would 


on a 


mean an area of 60 square miles of favor- 
ably located “garden city” districts contigu- 
ous to a great natural mountain park of 36 
square miles in extent, and this idea of a 
greater Pasadena District is now one of 
the most favorably considered projects. 
Special days have been held from time to 
time. There has been a “Board of Trade 
Day,” a “High School Day,” a “Parent- 
Teachers Day,” a “Woman's Civic League 


Day,” a “Shakespeare Club Day,” and a 


“Wild Flower Day,” at all of which the 
attendance has been more than satisfactory. 
The average daily attendance was about 
200 during the first six weeks of the ex- 
hibit, at the end of which time the exhibit 
was adopted as a permanent feature of the 

















a 


> == 








376 THE AMERICAN CITY 


Board of Trade rooms, thus creating a per- 
manent center of civic interest. 


A Civic Center 


At one of the recent meetings of the 
Pasadena City Beautiful Association, it was 
decided to locate the new library as part of 
the proposed civic center, and the City 
Planning Committee was instructed to pro- 
ceed with a study of the various possibili- 
ties of a center near the “heart” of the city, 
to contain not only a library, but a new 
city hall, a municipal auditorium, possibly 
combined with a permanent horticultural 





| “Let our Watchword be Order and env Reavun Beanty 


To make “My Crry” more BEAUTIFUL, I favor the 
following improvements in the order | have indicated 
Vote for at least ten, thus 1-24-45, ete 


—_ Constant care of Vacant Lots 
—— Remove the Poles 
——.Kliminate the Billboards 
Refuse Receptacles 
City Rubbish Collection 
_.__. Remove Unsightly Structures 
——_ Flower Boxes on Busines. Streets 
Trees on every Street 
Parkings cared for by City 
. Sidewalks protected from Dirt 
Beautify approaches to Colorado Street Bndge 
Neighborhood Parks 
Parapet at Arroyo Vista 
Control Dumping Grounds 
Home Grounds Contest 


CITY BEAUTIFUL PROJECTS 


Vor. XV, No. 4 


Conclusion 


Our exhibit has taught us that City Plan- 
ning means an effort by the city as a whole 
to agree upon improvements in civic mat- 
ters so as to produce, in the future, the very 
best possible living conditions. 

The exhibit shows that one way to get a 
city interested in its own city plan is to 
give the citizens an opportunity to take 
part in the preliminaries of the plan in the 
making. A “home-made” exhibit, such as 
herein described, with its backward look 
into the past and its forecast of a future 
linked together with a satisfactory repre- 











| City Planning is Common Sense Forcoaght 





To make “My City" more ORDERLY, | would 
encourage the City Planning Committee to work on 
the following projects in the order marked 
Vote for at least ten, thus: 1-21-45, ete 
~— New Library Building and Branch Libraries 
Widen Colorado Street 
Arrove Seco Park 
Kapid Transit to Lax Angeles 
Remove Santa Pe Railway north of Colorado Street 
(mon Terminal and Restricted Industrial Dist riet 
Civic Center for City Hall and_Anditeriam 
___ Horticultural Hall 
— Art Views 
_— High Line Drives and Mountain Roads 
Park and Boulevard Sv stem 
—. Plavyrounds and Supervision 
—_.. Comfort Station 
Restricted Apartment Districts 
——. Warkingmen’s Homes . 
— — Pha in Meviean District 
_Sntermediate Schools 
_— Diagonal Boulevards 
Pload Control 





CITY PLANNING PROJECTS 


Method of counting ballots:—On each ballot, projects receiving first place were weighted with ten 
points, second-place projects with nine, and so on, to one point for tenth place. The number of points 
received by each project on each hundred ballots were added together and plotted on the charts shown on 


the opposite page. 


display, an historical museum, a memorial 
hall, together with the rest rooms and a 
“civic building” for use of the Board of 
Trade, and for the display of a permanent 
civic exhibit. 

The “order and beauty” of the two ex- 
positions held last year on the Pacific Coast 
have had a lasting influence on the mind 
of our people, and the sentiment is often 
expressed that Pasadena should produce at 
its center a permanent contribution to city 
building as pleasing in its combination of 
architecture and horticulture as the tem- 
porary demonstrations at the fairs have 
shown to be possible. 





sentation of the present, goes a long way 
toward clarifying a vision of the city’s pos- 
sibilities and the crystallizing of the city’s 
mind on definite projects. 

Pasadena has evidently made up its mind 
to certain things which in time must be- 
come part of the “Pasadena Plan.” 

First and foremost comes provision for 
rapid transit. We feel that we shall never 
occupy the position in the larger commun- 
ity of which we are a part until we can 
travel the ten miles between the center of 
Los Angeles and the center of Pasadena 
in less than twenty minutes. Our other 
transportation problems consist of the find- 




















OCTOBER, 1916 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


RESULTS OF BALLOTS | 














CITY BEAUTIFUL PROJECTS vat ee 
is 
4 
| 
| } 
| y 
w } = 
? | Fa 
' ¥ 
— —-+-— - + + ~~ +— 
| » 
g 
4 ia ; 
| A” ae 
, aot 
p A o 
« 
ot t 
4 “ a a 
oe } 2 
Pe * 
La , 
tole | tot onset * 
Be | z a ee — 
ati oe / ge 
¢ : 7 © vw 
Ft f eis 
/ ee got x « 
fe +——_—— ee ae +> bce Sine OE re oF 
| Pe Er —T t —g we oo 
, ie ae $e o 
/ A oa 4 t ot 
‘ q ae - ; “a t ~~“ 
nad pa }— 4 
p S00 So 
as ill ead e } } 
+ in 4 ae 5 | yen oars 
- pe {pF + —— 
Ft | ge j 134 
— 7 - + . _ a 
7 f T ee ape ES 
= _—+ + perenne ba + - 
a al 
4 OE 


| | 








500 «600 
. NUMBER OF BALLOTS 


7002S _« 800 








. RESULTS OF BALLOTS 


It is interesting to note how consistently the voting ran, the first few hundred tes being 
he same as the following hundreds It was concluded from this that 1000 votes represents he 
ment of the community. 




















378 THE 
ing of some method to eliminate our grade 
crossings with both the transcontinental 
steam roads and the interurban electric 
railways, and in doing this we should like to 
arrange for a confined industrial district 
served by a union terminal for both freight 
and passenger business. 

We recognize that our street system is 
inconsistent and inadequate. Some streets 
must be widened, some streets cut through 
and a more complete circulation provided in 
order to equalize and stabilize land values. 

We are ready to adopt a broad policy in 
connection with a comprehensive park sys- 
tem. The thirty-six square miles of moun- 
tain watershed should be under the control 
of the city. The entire Arroyo Seco should 
be gradually secured and turned into a 
natural park with informal planting and 
winding roads, and neighborhood parks 
with swimming pools and _ playgrounds 
should be established at natural sub-centers. 

The whole Pasadena District, which in- 
cludes the sixty square miles directly south 
of our mountains, should be interconnected 
with a boulevard system, and this same dis- 
trict should combine to provide comprehen- 
sive systems for drainage, flood control and 
sewerage, as well as transportation. 

Pasadena is particularly interested in the 
possibilities of a “civic center,” and for- 
tunately its program for civic improve- 
ments includes nearly all of the elements 
which go to make up the very heart of the 
city’s design. The exact location of this 
center, its size, its arrangement and _ its 
style of architectural treatment, are details 
to which the city will, very shortly, address 
itself. Here is where expert advice may 
well be consulted—but what will be wanted 
will be architects, landscape engineers and 
civic engineers who can catch the un- 
doubted individuality of our people and ex- 
press in the civic center our pride as a city 
and our love of order and beauty as a 
united people. 


Immediate Results 
A brief catalog of the tangible results 
of the “My City” exhibit may be of interest. 
The City Planning Committee now has a 
working partnership with the City Commis- 
sion. Projects which affect the city plan 


AMERICAN CITY 





Vor. XV, No. 4 


are worked upon by the Committee and are 
to be accepted by the Commission only 
when it is certain that public opinion is 
strongly in favor of the improvements. 
This spirit of codperation is reflected in 
frequent joint meetings with the Commis- 
sion and by an agreement that the city will 
pay one-half of the expenses of the City 
Planning Committee. We believe this to 
be a better plan than to have a City Plan- 
ning Commission appointed by and work- 
ing under the city officials. 

“City Planning” has been provided per- 
manent quarters in the Board of Trade 
rooms. <A separate office for our one eim- 
ploye, who has been given the title of 
Engineer-Secretary, insures continuous ef- 
fort. The prominent display of our exhibit, 
which is constantly changing, means con- 
sistent progress toward a conception and a 
realization of our civic possibilities. 

The press have treated us liberally. Dur- 
ing the first six weeks of our exhibit we 
had fifty-two columns of publicity in our 
local papers, mostly in the form of short 
articles descriptive of the exhibit and of 
our city plan projects. Our people are 
familiar with our city plan problems and 
now have a very fair perspective view of 
the step-by-step line of progress, which ap- 
parently must be followed. . 

The Committee of Fifty, which has been 
working on our transportation problem, 
has formulated a definite policy which, 
when carried out, will permanently estab- 
lish the transportation center of the city 
and open the way for a permanent location 
for our civic center. 

The city is keen to “start something” 
and has quite agreed upon a new library 
as the first thing upon which we can all 
unite. It has been suggested that, pending 
the development of the rest of our civic 
center, this first buiding should also pro- 
vide a temporary home for our local civic 
societies in the form of a large “civic liv- 
ing room” for meetings and banquets, with 
space on the walls for loan collections of 
pictures and convenient offices for secre- 
taries and committees. This library build- 
ing project, no doubt, will be our next civic 
“hobby,” and will be the first step toward 
realizing our present ideals. 


SATOSHI 











379 





E 











; Editorial Comment 
: 


The Civic Work of Educational Institutions 

The time is passing in which a man’s ef- 
ficiency can be relegated to his business or 
his profession, his church relationships or 
any other of his private concerns. To be 
efficient as a citizen he must interest him- 
self intelligently in the affairs of his com- 
munity, his state and his nation; he must 
have as a basis for such interest a working 
knowledge of the organization, the func- 
tions and the methods of good government. 
\nd in order that he may learn to think 
clearly and to act justly, his civic education 
must be begun many years before he is 
plunged into the confusing currents of life 

Various forces and organizations—the 
press, the pulpit, civic and educational asso- 
ciations—have emphasized the need for di- 
rect preparation for the obligations of citi- 
zenship, and the movement is now well un- 
der way by which the schools are to do 
their important part in relieving civic 
apathy. 

The theory of the new civics is made 
clear in an article in the September issue of 
The Annals of the American Academy of 
Political and Social Science by J. Lynn 
Barnard, Ph. D., Professor of History and 
Government in the Philadelphia School of 
Pedagogy, who helped to formulate the plan 
of civic education which is just going into 
operation in the Philadelphia elementary 
schools. 

The teaching of civics is in its aims, 
both cultural and practical: it seeks not 
only to acquaint the pupil with his environ- 
ment, but also to train him for efficient 
community service. To these ends “civics 
as a school subject includes both a curricu- 
lum of studies and a curriculum of activi- 
ties.” One must first become thoroly well 
informed about the affairs of the commun- 
ity; this effort is sure to arouse interest in 
the problems discovered, and to lead to ac- 
tive participation in the work which is being 
carried on by community agencies. The 
boys and girls must be led by the well-es- 
tablished method of “from the known to 


the unknown” to expand the concept of 
their environment until it includes the func- 
tions and structure of local, state and na- 
tional government; their consciences and 
wills must be strengthened_until “knowing” 
compels “doing.” 

Two types of method’ in civic education 
have developed in elementary schools. One 
is in force in Indianapolis, and is described 
by Arthur W. Dunn, one of its originators, 
in Bulletin No. 17, 1915, of the United 
States Bureau of Education; by this plan 
civics is not taught as a separate subject 
until the last year in the grammar school, 
but all the studies are so correlated that 
each contributes its share in the pupil’s civic 
education. The second type, as illustrated 
in Philadelphia, consists of a distinct course 
in civic instruction thruout the eight years 
of the elementary school, and passes in or- 
derly sequence from a study of the funda- 
mental civic virtues as embodied in home 
life, thru an understanding of the way in 
which these virtues should be exemplified in 
the service rendered by tradespeople and 
various public utilities, to a knowledge of 
the city’s industry and commerce, the func- 
tions of governmental departments, com- 
missions, ete., and of private civic organi- 
zations, and to a differentiation between 
city, state and national government as to 
structure and functions. This long course 
of study is illuminated by visits to the 
various agencies at work and by the build- 
ing up of a civics laboratory of all sorts of 
pertinent illustrative material. 

In the high schools “civics” or “civil gov- 
ernment” is now becoming “‘social science,” 
and is taking on the character of an anal- 
ysis of the results of all the observations 
made during earlier school years. It com- 
pares and relates sgcial. forces and events, 
determines the strength or weakness of 
representative types of government, never 
getting away from the test of practical ex: 
perience. 

Colleges and universities have for years 
been at work on the modern plan of civic 


oe 


j 
] 
| 


























380 THE AMERICAN CITY 


education—that of correlating theory and 
practice. This is illustrated by the fact 
that no adequate collection of municipal 
and civic material is complete without a 
section under the head of “Universities and 
Public Service.” The rise of municipal 
universities and the organization of the As- 
sociation of Urban Universities, of which 
Dr. Sidney Edward Mezes, President of the 
College of the City of New York, is Presi- 
dent, is of immense interest in public af- 
fairs. 

Realizing the importance of civic instruc- 
tion in educational institutions, THe AMERI- 
can City has from time to time published 
articles dealing with various phases of the 
subject. Among these is the interesting 
paper by Jesse B. Davis, on “Moral Train- 
ing and Instruction in the Public Schools,” 
which appeared in the September issue. In 
order to make such material more effectual, 
Tue AMERICAN City will, in its November 
issue, establish a new department under the 
head of The Civic Work of Educational 


Vor. XV, No. 4 


Institutions. This will be conducted in co- 
operation with the work of universities, 
colleges, secondary and elementary schools 
in stimulating a civic sense thru intelligent 
instruction and modern methods. The 
opening article will be on the subject of 
“The Municipal University’—its origin and 
growth, its theory and its purpose, and its 
actual workings—and has been prepared by 
Prof. Carl Holliday, of the University of 
Montana. It will be followed from month 
to month by articles of practical interest to 
those already working in the field of the 
New Civics. 

Tue American City is already doing 
good service as a school text-book in civics. 
To make its articles of more direct value in 
this work, a set of typical questions for 
class-room use will be published each 
month, with page references to the answers 
as found in the current issue.* It is planned 
thus to contribute regularly to the “civics 
laboratories” of our educational institu- 
tions. 





The City Manager Plan in a Boy City 


By Robert D. Leigh 


Instructor in Government, Reed College, Portland, Ore. 


A BOY’S camp is a hotbed of govern- 


mental problems. In its close-living 

citizenship there is either absolute 
control or anarchy. Most often, perhaps, 
the former is secured by the benevolent 
despotism long familiar to the schoolroom. 
But such a community is an excellent field 
for experiments in democracy and citizen- 
ship. Such an experiment was the basis 
for the form of government established this 
last summer at Camp Willapa, located on 
the shores of the Pacific Ocean, not far 
from Portland, Ore. A complete system 
of city government organized according to 
the city manager plan was operated suc- 
cessfully and with much profit to the young 
citizens. 

Under the guidance of a college instruc- 
tor in government, a charter was drawn up 
following closely the model prepared by the 
National Municipal League. The only im- 
portant deviation was the making of the 
council identical with the voting body, a 
necessity on account of the size of the com- 





munity. According to good Oregon tradi- 
tions, the recall was made applicable to the 
elective officers, including the judge. 

The young citizens showed their under- 
standing of the functions of officers under 
the new plan by choosing for the mayorship 
the only woman in camp, recognizing the 
special fitness of the sex to act as hostess 
and preside at ceremonial occasions. For 
the important and expert task of manager 
they selected the camp director, and as 
judge the instructor in government. This 
selection put one older citizen in a position 
to direct and advise in each of the depart- 
ments of government. The boys themselves 
were chosen for the other offices. They 
were as follows: 

Commissioner of Public Safety: in charge 
of police and fire, and court bailiff 

Commissioner of Public Works: in charge 
of highways, parks, -buildings and city plan 

Commissioner of Public Health: in charge 
of water, sanitation, vital statistics, etc. 

Commissioner of Public Utilities: in charge 





t See page 382 in this number. 








————V—V— 

















Ocroper, 1916 


of transportation, boats, lighting, water, bath 
house 

City Clerk: in charge of records, clerk of 
council and court and editor of city newspaper 

City Librarian: in charge of city library and 
loan system 

City Postmaster: in charge of camp mail 

City Attorney: in charge of prosecutions, 
and legal adviser 

All the above officers except the city at- 
torney were subordinate to the manager. 

The city attorney was given the power 
of grand jury in bringing delinquent of- 
ficers to trial, but few such cases were re- 
ported. The city manager made only one 
change among his subordinates, and that 
was for the purpose of centralizing respon- 
sibility and recognizing the unusual ability 
of the commissioner of public utilities. The 
zeal and faithfulness of all the officers was 
surprising even to the optimistic founders 
of the plan, and the summer’s experience 
undoubtedly meant much to the boys for its 


THE AMERICAN CITY 381 






valuable lessons in civic responsibility. The 
college instructor was convinced that the 
boys learned more about the manager plan 
than his classes did in months of study. 

The value of such lessons in practical 
government is its power to drive home the 
fundamentals of politics. The boys in 
Camp Willapa learned that good order was 
the result of good administration rather 
than of excessive legislation. The average 
city council might learn lessons of self-re- 
straint from the camp council record of 
nineteen city ordinances. Scoffers at new- 
fangled machinery in government would be 
silenced by the cooperation and efficiency 
secured in the work of the commissioners 
under the city manager. The real meaning 
and purpose of law was brought home as 
never before by the oral opinions and deci- 
sions of the court. Camp Willapa produced 
some eager and enthusiastic propagandists 
for efficiency in municipal government. 





Election Day Fire Protection 


booklet prepared by William H. Allen, 

and others of the Institute for Public 
Service of New York City, there is cited 
as an example of codperation between 
schools and city departments the effective 
work done by the pupils in reducing elec- 
tion day bonfires. 

In New York City, as in other cities, 
there has always been serious damage on 
election night from bonfires built on asphalt 
paving. These bonfires not only destroyed 
the street paving, but in some cases set fire 
to buildings, and caused serious injuries to 
the participants. Moreover, it was the oc- 
casion of a great deal of loss to shop- 
keepers and others, who suffered from the 
theft of barrels, buckets, boards and excel- 
sior—in fact, anything that would burn. 
The Police Department could not spare 
enough men to cope with the situation, on 
account of the additional burden on the de- 
partment in the more important work of 
watching the polls and handling the elec- 
tion crowds. 

The remedy has been found in codpera- 
tion between the police and the children. 
In one neighborhood where there had been 
much trouble from fires, an active cam- 


“High Spots in New York Schools,” a 


paign was inaugurated by appealing to the 
children’s civic sense, and by getting the 
teachers and their pupil lieutenants to take 
the following pledge: 

THE PREVENTION PLEDGE 


We, the pupils of Class , pledge ourselves not 
to gather wood for Election Day fires, and not to build 
fires on that day. We will notify the police concern 
ing wood that has been gathered, and will use our 
influence to prevent other boys from building bonfires 
Class Secretary. 


‘Class President. 

Reports were turned in by each pupil fire 
guard assigned to a precinct. Here is one 
of them: 


SPECIAL REPORT—ELECTION DAY FIRE 
PREVENTION 

Name of officer, John Smith. Address, 461 West 
2Ist Street. Class 7B 

I. I am happy to report no fires in my precinct. 

II. I regret to report fire in front of house No 
DD evcvcncvns Street. 

Ill. I took the following steps to prevent fire: 
Gathering of wood, etc a 

State whether you notified police, etc 

In front of No. 60 I told the cop ................. 

This report will be called for Wednesday, Nov. 2 
at 10 A. M., in your class room. 


One result of this campaign is to be seen 
in this letter of last year from the Borough 
President to the school principal: 

“I am very much gratified to find that there were 
only four fires in the neighborhood of your school, and 
only 12.7 square yards of asphalt pavement damag-d, 


whereas in 1914 ...there were 21 fires and 77.4 
square yards of pavement damaged,” 





oa 


ee 

















—— eee 





A Page of Questions for Classroom Use 


Municipal Organization— Government 
by City Manager 


What is a city manager? Who aids him in 
the work he has to supervise? Read over the 
brief biographies of the city managers. What 
is the nature of the educational and municipal 
training which most of them have had? What 
functions of the position of City Manager ex- 
plain the evident preference for those having 
previous engineering or technical training? To 
whom do the City Managers owe their appoint- 
ment or election in most cases? With what 
form of municipal organization is this plan 
most frequently associated? What are some of 
the general features of the charters under 
which these City Managers operate? Approxi- 
mately how many cities have in the United 
States the city manager plan, according to the 
latest available figures? (pp. 413-422.) 


Municipal Administration 


Civil Service. What are some of the de- 
fects in the classification of the salaries of mu- 
nicipal employes in the various cities? Which 
cities have taken steps to eliminate these de- 
fects? How has Chicago met this problem? 
What are the main features of a good measure 
for salary standardization? What are the 
benefits to be derived from a good standardi- 
zation measure? (pp. 457-463.) 

Municipal Welfare Work. What provision 
should be made for the old people in a muni- 
cipality who are too old to support themselves? 
What should be done for the superannuated 
municipal employe? What are the arguments 
that can be used for and against allowing him 
to keep his position as long as he needs it? 


(pp. 384-385.) 


Municipal Departments—Their Work 


Streets. Paving in Winter. What objections 
are there to construction of concrete pave- 
ments in winter? What are the methods gen- 
erally used to make winter concrete work 
practicable? (p. 395.) 

Streets. Underground Construction Rec- 
ords. Why is it necessary to know what pipes, 
cables, wires, etc., are under the surface of a 
street pavement? Describe a good way of 
illustrating where these underground con- 
structions are? What are the essential fea- 
tures of an underground construction map? 
(pp. 406-408.) 

Sewage Disposal. What is the difference 
between a sanitary sewer and a storm sewer 
system? Which system requires more pipes? 
larger pipes? Which is usually set deeper? 
What are the advantages and disadvantages of 
combining the storm and sanitary sewers into 
one system? (pp. 401-403.) 

Snow Removal. Why should snow be re- 
moved from city streets as soon as possible? 


Which districts of a city should be given first 
attention? Which parts of the streets should 
have snow removed first? How can the 
sewers be used in snow removal? What pre- 
cautions should be adopted? Mention three 
ways in which the city meets a snow emer- 
gency. What kinds of vehicles are used in 
snow removal? Should a city have snow re- 
moved by contract with a local company or 
should it have its own removal force? Out- 
line a plan of organization for this snow re- 
moval force which will make for efficient 
handling of the work? (pp. 390-393.) 

Garbage Collection and Disposal. What are 
the dangers of exposed garbage? Suggest one 
good system of garbage collection and dis- 
posal. What is an incinerator? (pp. 404- 
405.) 


City Planning 

City Plan. What is a city plan? Mention 
four purposes of city planning. In replanning 
a city, what kinds of city maps does the city 
planner need? Why must he know the topog- 
raphy, the drainage, the street systems, the 
parks, the boulevards, the transportation sys- 
tems, the water systems and fire zones, the in- 
dustrial districts? Is it necessary to know the 
approved proposed extensions of all these sys- 
tems? Of what use is a map showing where 
street trees are growing? What relation is 
there between city planning and the fin: incial | 
resources of a city, its system of taxation,” 
and its system of assessment? (pp. 369-378.) 

Civic Center. What is a civic center? What 
are the purposes of such a center? Where 
should it be located? What buildings and 
ther facilities should it contain? (pp. 376- 
378.) 

Housing. What are some of the expedients 
which can be adopted to forestall a housing 
famine? (pp. 399-400.) 


Public Safety 


Fire Prevention. Why does the rate of fire 
insurance differ between sections of the coun- 
try? Between sections of the same city? 
Trace connection between good roads and fire 
protection. Mention five municipal conditions 
that would hinder even the best equipped fire 
department in the work of fire prevention. 
What ordinances should a municipality have 
relative to garbage in this connection? (pp. 
423-424.) 

What dangers are involved in the use of 
wood shingle roofs? What kinds of wood are 
most inflammable? (pp. 425-426.) 

Accident Prevention. How many injuries 
and deaths have been caused during recent 
years by Fourth of July celebrations? In 
what ways were they caused? What has caused 
the great decrease in Election Day losses of 
life and property? What ordinances should 
municipalities have in this regard? (p. 381.) 








: School Buildings in Two Indiana Cities 























: 
‘ t 
* 
: 
} 
| - 
| = i 
> 
i 
; 
a 
; i] 
SCHOOL NO. 45, INDIANAPOLIS, IND 
) 
} 
} 
' 
* 
q 











HIGH SCHOOL IN MISHAWAKA, IND., BUILT AT A COST OI 








———————————— SEO OOS 








The City and its Old People 


By Marc 


VERY American city is confronted at 
E; some time with the problem of car- 
ing for its old people, of relieving 
want among families whose bread-winners 
have grown aged and become ill, perhaps, 
in the service of the city or in some occu- 
pation where the rewards have not in- 
creased with the years of service. Hun- 
dreds of men, whose threescore years have 
long since set their stamp upon both face 
and form, constitute a vast army of seekers 
for whatever may fall to their knotted 
hands. One sees them cleaning streets 
and sidewalks, tending public parks and 
cemeteries, mowing and sprinkling lawns— 
even sweeping out saloons at an early hour 
of the morning. They are the odd-job 
men of the bustling city, scratching a pit- 
tance for themselves and their dependents 
from the dirt which younger and more 
skilled men are apt to scorn. 

The smile of the politician gladdens their 
hearts, for in that smile there may lurk the 
chance of getting a job on the streets, or 
in the sewer gang, or the army of snow 
shovellers. The short duration of the job 
weighs lightly when set against the pres- 
sure of its immediate necessity; nor does 
its disagreeable nature in any way impede 
the alacrity with which it is accepted, once 
it is proffered. 

But the politician's favor is at best a 
fleeting one, though he may deserve a cer- 
tain share of credit for producing casual 
employment. It is no fault of his that his 
patronage is not a permanent “first aid”; 
one could almost wish that it were, after 
watching the sad faces of these aged in- 
competents as they labor and sweat under 
burdens quite too heavy for their slanting 
shoulders and declining years. 

You may pick them out one by one and 
learn from each a chapter in the Human 
Tragedy of modern industrial economics. 
The old man jabbing a long iron needle 
through stray leaves and scraps of paper in 
the city park once sat at a type case, “stick- 
ing” the bits of lead characters for the 
text-book that made you and me a com- 
petent mechanic or professional man. But 
premature old age, ill health, or varying 
fortune overtook him; then he seized for 


N. Goodnow 


the nearest straw within reach—a chance 
te pick up rubbish for the park commission, 
perhaps. The old “white wings” who trav- 
els in a slow cloud of dust once made the 
business section of the city ring with the 
sound of his saw and hammer as that 
nearby skyscraper reared itself above its 
humbler neighbors. But advancing age and 
changing methods threw him into the in- 
dustrial discard. Physical as well as do- 
mestic ills beset him; his daughter died 
soon after her husband deserted her, leav- 
ing four grandchildren to be cared for by 
the old man and his wife; or the small sav- 
ings which would have gone far toward 
making their last days comfortable were 
soon dissipated, and in his seventieth year 
the carpenter returned to the best that he 
was fitted for, with the single hope that he 
might “hang on” until the children could 
get their working papers. 

And thus one might continue indefinitely, 
citing instance after instance such as these 
—and getting no nearer to the solution of 
the problem—which, in fact, would seem to 
lie more within the hands of society in gen- 
eral and the municipality in particular 
than in those of the old people themselves. 
But in an age when the demand for ef- 
ficiency has somewhat stifled our human 
sympathies, we have always felt a little 
backward in applying to the situation those 
means of relief nearest at hand. 

Private business declines the burden; 
dividends which must be paid bar the way 
to remedy in that direction. The politician 
and the city’s commissioner of public works 
or parks alone stand between these old peo- 
ple and the humiliation of accepting char- 
ity, or being provided for by a poor com- 
mission, or being separated from their 
wives in state institutions. And if the ef- 
ficiency scruples of a record-making public 
official force him from old age to youth in 
selecting men for his gangs, then charity 
and the state meet the burden between 
them. 

Plainly, for the city, it is a question of 
dollars or men! Which shall be saved? 
Which shall be applied, efficiency or char- 
ity? 

“Is it real economy to save 50 cents in 











seen eel 


~ Aten or 








my department by employing more efficient 
labor, if that means that some other de- 
partment of the city must spend a dollar in 
charity to relieve the men whom we throw 
out of work?” 

This significant query was made by 
George H. Fenkell, commissioner of pub- 
lie works of Detroit, in a statement of his 
policy of hiring old men for the odd-job 
work of his department—street and alley 
cleaning, watchmen on torn-up streets, in- 
spectors on back-filling, ete—rather than 
see them become dependent upon Poor 
Commission funds or taken to state institu- 
tions for the remainder of their days. 

“T have heard the street gangs of our de- 
partment referred to as the Old Soldiers’ 
Home,” said Mr. Fenkell, “and I have like 
wise heard aldermen assailed for getting 
employment for such men. But I believe 
that if our aldermen never do anything 
worse than find employment for partially 
dependent men we shall have no proper 
complaints to make. 

“If the aged and infirm men are not 
given some kind of employment they will 
become wholly dependent on the charity or- 
ganizations, and the Poor Commission will 
have a heavier burden than at present. 
These sick and aged men must live in some 
way. The liability laws care for cases of 
accident, but the cash payments are many 
times frittered away by men unused to hav- 
ing such sums, and the army of injured 
turned out by the factories and railroads 
is one of the greatest problems in our city 

“We employ old men to chip tar and con- 
crete off old paving bricks. It costs us 
practically the same price to prepare old 
bricks as to buy new ones. We use the old 
ones and give these men employment, be- 
cause the old ones will last as long as the 


C)CTOBER, 1916 THE A MERICAN iT Sy 


345 

pavements are down, anyway 

\nd despite his policy--and his frank de 
fense of it M1 Fenkell has not vet bee 
accused of inefficiency in his d e1 
He is sincere in his belief that by cons 
ing the city’s old and infirn en he is cot 
serving the public good. By keeping th 
superannuated artisan or tradesman ré 
spectably employed, he is not elie 
ing the burden of the taxpayet it he is 
delaying that time when complete breal 
down must be met by charity 

Chese odd jobs comprise but a s I a 
centage ot the activities of the Dey irtment 
of Public Works For the sewer og 4 
ind cleaning, the paving, repairing and r¢ 
surfacing gangs, the garbage collectors 
cement sidewalk builders and _ concrete 
workers, the asphalt gangs and d me 
the department employs strong, robust and 


capable men. 

Mr. Fenkell does not believe that every 
department of the city need be compelled to 
make its similar contribution to inefficient 
old men, but the opportunity to offset chat 
ity with self-respecting employment has 
come to his department through the na- 


ture of the work in which it is engaged, 
and while that opportunity remains Mr. 
Fenkell proposes to meet it In don y that, 


he is not only setting a record for his de- 


partment, but is no doubt giving the old 


people of the city an othcial recognition 
which other municipalities may also feel it 
profitable to give. He does not fear that 
the adoption of sentiment thus far is going 


to interfere with any rule of efficiency in 
force; sentiment is not a bad thing in busi 
ness, anyway, and where you can “break 
even” on sentiment and efficiency the infirm 
old man is not a bad subject for applying 
this method. 





Two Distinctive Features of Recreation Plans in New York City 


In December, 1915, the Board of Esti- 
mate and Apportionment of New York City 
appointed a Committee on Recreation which 
has since been instrumental in inaugurating 
a number of commendable policies in city 
recreation. The following, taken from the 
report of the first eight months of the Com- 
mittee’s work, submitted on September 18 
to the Board, indicates to some extent the 
nature of their activities. 


“This is the first time in any city in the 


United States that a definite standard has 
been prepared for the amount of space 
needed in any neighborhood in the light of 
density of population, distribution of popu- 
lation, size of plots available, age and num 
ber of children likely to use plots, and 
‘load’ of attendants at any one time. This 
standard is being used in New York City 
to show whether present facilities are being 
used to the limit and what further facili- 
ties will be needed in the future 








ee er ar 





386 THE AMERICAN CITY 


“This is the first time in New York City 
that a detailed plan of coordination has 
been worked out for all recreation work 
under the Board of Education, showing 
how all branches can be brought under one 
head, how after-school, vacation and even- 
ing recreation work can be related to the 
play program in work-study-play schools, 


Vor. XV, No. 4 


how the work can be improved by central- 
izing it under a single worker in some 
neighborhoods and how this can be done at 
a lower unit cost than by present methods 
of administration. This plan has been 
worked out in codperation with members 
of the Board of Education and of its work- 
ing force.” 





Creating a Breathing Place 


An Example From New London, Conn. 
By Alfred Frederick Muller 


HAT a pleasure it is, upon travers- 

WV ing block after block of closely 

built-up business or industrial 
buildings, to come suddenly upon a well- 
kept green open space! To the thousands 
of passers-by who spend the greater part 
of their lives hemmed in by walls of brick 
and stone, this touch of nature is a veri- 
table oasis, a tonic for fagged nerves, a 
rest for weary eyes. 

And when we inquire into the first cost 
and annual maintenance charges of this 
little oasis, and set against these figures the 
immeasurable returns to each citizen, not 
only to-day but to-morrow and a hundred 
years hence, it is surprising indeed that 
more are not found in every city and town 
of the country. Open spaces of this type 
form one of the best antidotes for the un- 
natural conditions which accompany the 
segregation of our large populations, and 
consequently they must be classed as abso- 
lute necessities. Their acquisition by muni- 
cipalities becomes merely a question of time, 
and hence it behooves our city administra- 
tion, for economic reasons if for no other, 
first, to study well their problems in this 
respect; secondly, to draft out comprehen- 
sive schemes of land acquisition and devel- 
opment, and finally, and most important of 
all, to watch constantly for favorable op- 
portunities to carry out the details of these 
schemes. 

New London, Conn., thru the agency of 
John Nolen, of Cambridge, Mass., has made 
such a study of its park problem, and has 
adopted a comprehensive program. This 
program the city is pursuing vigorously, 
and opportunities are constantly being 


sought to carry out one step or another. 
For the city fathers of growing New Lon- 
don realize that a dollar will purchase to- 
day what it will take two to buy to-morrow. 
The following example is presented to il- 
lustrate one step taken by New London 
toward the gradual achievement of a park 
ambition. 

The first illustration shows the intersec- 
tion of Bank and Shaw Streets, as it ex- 
isted several years ago. Bank Street is the 
main north and south artery of the city 
and carries in addition all the thru-going 
automobile traffic. Shaw Street is a link 
in a future important circumferential thoro- 
fare. The city planner, in working out the 
park system, fixed upon this location as 
admirable in every respect for an. orna- 
mental traffic square. The municipal of- 
ficials appreciated the weight of the recom- 
mendation, and upon closer examination of 
the existing development realized the imme- 
diate possibilities. For here were shacks 
in the last stages of usefulness, disrepu- 
table tenements, stables and saloons, pre- 
senting a splendid opportunity to convert 
an eyesore into a civic adornment. Never 
again could a breathing place in this vicin- 
ity be provided so economically. 

A plan for its development was drawn up 
by Dr. Nolen and adopted by the city. The 
buildings were torn down, the land cleaned 
up and every vestige of the old slum re- 
moved. An iron fence was built about the 
triangular-shaped plot, walks were laid and 
shrubs and grass planted. Two splendid 
old trees were saved and included in the 
new park area, giving an immediate ap- 
pearance of age to the whole. The second 














eee 


weer ® 


es 





OcroperR, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 38 

















A CORNER IN NEW LONDON, CONN., AS IT FORMERLY LOOKED 


illustration shows the remarkable change  gretted by anyone, the expensivene thi 
effected. The total cost of this change was _ one small open space nevertheless les 
about $12,000, this high figure being due to son to the city to acquirs mn 


the valuable land takings. While not re- before they, too, rise to prol 

















THE NEW BREATHING PLACE AT THE SAME CORNER 

















THE ANGELL MEMORIAI 





ANIMAL HOSPITAL, BOSTON 


The Care ot Man’s Faithful Friends 


By Eleanor W. Pomeroy 


\NY years ago George Thorndike 
Angell dreamed of the time when 
there might be a modern hospital 

in which suffering animals could receive 
treatment from skilled hands. Six years 
after his death there was erected in. Boston 
the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital. It 
stands on Longwood Avenue near the fa- 
mous Fenway, and is of red brick with lime- 
stone trimmings and an occasional use of 
granite on the front. It is the finest hospital 
of its kind in the world, and is an outgrowth 
of the work of the Massachusetts Society 
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. 

lhe quarters for animals that need treat- 
ment are as sanitary and complete in surgi- 
cal appliances as those of any hospital for 
human beings. Operating tables on which 
a horse may be easily strapped, a surgical 
room for smaller animals, with every pro- 
vision for their treatment, stalls and rooms 
that afford complete protection to the con- 
valescent creature, testify to a large human 
sympathy for dumb animals. 

Since the hospital was opened, March 1, 
1915, more than 4,700 cases have been 
treated at the free dispensary. Treatment 
in the hospital has been given free to more 


than half of all the animals admitted. The 
Society 1S dependent entirely upon private 
benefactions. 

Among the services of the last year, in 
addition to the regular work embodied in 
the statistical reports, the President of the 
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to 
\nimals mentions the following: 

Preparing and sending to the military au- 
thorities of the Canadian Government, through 
their permission, thousands of cards giving 
directions for destroying humanely the fatally 
wounded horse, and containing suggestions also 
relating to the care and feeding of the horse. 

Supplying the nearly 2,000 policemen of 
Soston not only monthly with Our Dumb 
Animals, but also with a pocket folder, show- 
ing by illustration how to destroy animals 
humanely. 

Maintaining in the city, through the summer 
months, two wagons for watering horses, at 
an expense of $11 a day, and also providing 
men at various places to assist teamsters at 
hydrants in watering their horses. 

Making possible 45 weeks of vacation for the 
overworked horses of men unable to do this 
but for our assistance. 

Securing the observance of Humane Horse 
Day in many cities and towns of the Com- 
monwealth by sending out a large number of 
letters. 

Distributing the Humane Horse Day buttons 
and tags. 


Oe her 





© pe. 


























OcrToBerR, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 89 
: Mailing to 350 local agents 5,000 posters In many vavs Be 
‘ calling attention to the laws protecting song with the Society in its 
and insectivorous birds, and 2.000 posters to Dp ; bf 
the agents along the coast, particularly, re epartment Nas establish 
lative to the legal liability incurred by anyone Of hydrants for watering | 
abandoning a cat (one conviction obtained for action of the Departms . 
this offense) or a ee 
Dtoa eat pa Sats ry closed all the { 
Distributing 5,000 “Spare the Whip” buttons he Pol ‘ : 
among the teamsters through the Teamsters’ the rolice Department h 
Union. tive The lire Department 
rs The Society keeps unremittingly at cer-  casions during the last 
' tain tasks that are never finished. Its agents to the rescu small a ’ 
maintain close watch on the stock yards, lhe Public Works Departmer 
where thousands of cattle, sheep and swine langerous places in the stre« he 
: I g 
M are received and sold each week. Injure | winter has removed ac um 
. . 4 . j +7 + 
and exhausted animals are looked after, and where horses would have fa 
everything is done that is allowed by law This new $200,000 Angell H 
to lessen the inhumanity that characterizes onlv carries on humane vw < 
the slaughter of food animals. Complaints _ pital departments, not only sl 
are daily investigated and prosecutions car- active work of The Massachusett 
ried on. During the last year 1,788 horses for the Prevention of Cruelty mals 
were found by agents of the Society and but also the work 
humanely destroyed. This was done with Humane Education Societ 
out resort to courts. Often small sums are George T. Angell 
paid the owners of these horses who know ‘Alwavs speak to a horse as 
that they ought to be released from service to a gentleman,” is a by-word at 
continued too long. Hospital 
: 
: 

















CHANGING THE LITTLE DOG’S DRESSINGS, THE THIRD DAY AFTER RI 
LARGE TUMORS 























Municipal Work in Winter 
A Series of Articles Which Are Timely From the Point of View 
of Preparedness 














The Removal of Snow From Public Highways 
By John F. O’Toole 


Superintendent, Bureau of Highways and Sewers, Pittsburgh, Pa. 


ACH city has its own peculiar prob- 
k, lems to be considered when arrang- 
ing a plan for snow removal from 
public highways, and therefore no general 
rule can be formulated to govern all muni- 
cipalities where snow removal is given at- 
tention. Each city must have its own sys- 
tem, both as to methods of removal and 
measure of service to be given, based prin- 
cipally upon the local requirements, the 
city’s financial ability and its willingness to 
pay the cost of such service. Some cities 
remove snow only from narrow business 
streets or streets in highly developed busi- 
ness sections, or where street railway com- 
panies sweep snow from their tracks and 
pile it upon the shoulder of the street. In 
such cases vehicles are prevented from hav- 
ing ready access to portions of the street, 
and municipalities are compelled to remove 
the snow entirely, or at least from such 
portions of the streets as are used by busi- 
ness interests. 


Financing the Program 


When the measure of service to be given 
the municipality has been decided upon, 
money should be provided in order to per- 
mit the department having charge of this 
function to begin operations quickly. No 
specific amount of money can be estimated 
or provided, for the reason that there is 
no way in which the snowfall of a given 
season can be estimated with any degree 
of accuracy. I believe it is the best prac- 
tice to set aside a sufficient amount of 
money to pay for the operation of a specific 
organization for a short period, this period 
to be fixed by considering average expen- 
ditures for several years. Before the pe- 
riod for which these moneys were provided 
had elapsed, conditions in evidence would 
disclose the necessity for further appro- 


priation to be secured from the general 
contingent fund which every well-managed 
municipality provides to care for probable 
emergencies. This system has been tried 
in Pittsburgh and has worked out satis- 
factorily, as each year only enough money 
has been set aside to provide for actual 
expenditures. At times moneys have been 
provided by transfer from unexpended bal- 
ances in other functions of the city govern- 
ment, for this purpose. 

In this city a schedule has been worked 
out with a view to providing service for a 
snowfall of from 4 to 6 inches. The city 
has been divided into eight districts, each 
in charge of a supervisor, one general fore- 
man and a number of street foremen, with 
laborers, teams, snow plows and _ trucks. 
These men and teams are the regular street 
cleaning force, and in deciding upon the 
measure of service to be given any street 
or locality, the same factors that are in- 
volved in the general policy of the depart- 
ment are considered. The organization can 
be mobilized quickly, and the most impor- 
tant streets in any district can be given 
prompt attention. Three of the districts, 
on account of location, class of business, 
environment, etc., receive a greater measure 
of service than others, and one of them 
located in the theatre and shopping section 
is considered of such importance that dur- 
ing abnormal ‘or heavy snowfalls, the 
greater portion of the organization within 
the less important districts is called in and 
operated day and night in relief shifts until 
such time as additional men and equipment 
can be secured, when these forces are re- 
leased and sent back to their several dis- 
tricts. 


Enlarging the Force 


The organization can be made to respond 














<p ETO cet RR 





OcTOBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 3 


quickly when conditions warrant a change 
from our scheduled operations, and on a 
count of its familiarity with streets and 
dumping places, can do more effective work 
than if entirely new forces were organized 
to meet the first ravages of the storm. 
When the storm is of such duration that it 
is necessary to employ additional men and 
equipment, these new forces are appor- 
tioned to each district organization, to be 
sandwiched among the various divisions 
or units under the supervision of street 











to keep all their horses and e 
gaged. Che city s standal 1 eight 
with pay for overtime, makes s1 
moval an attractive propositiot 
\ list of team owners is kept on hile s 
they can be reached quickly 
when the occasion arises 

When it is necessary to enl 
direct supervising force of fore 
to be used as timekeepers, we 
our regular labor forces These men art 


selected first on account of thei: 








IMPROVISED SNOW-PLOW MADE BY UNCOUPLING THE FORWARD CARRIA 


AN ORDINARY ROAD SCRAPER 


TO THE CHASSIS OI! 


foremen. In this way our trained force 
act as leaders, and we are able, in a fair 
degree, to exact the same measure of ser- 
vice from new men and equipment as that 
which is expected from our regular em- 
ployes. Extra laborers receive the same 
rate as municipal employes, and hired teams 
are paid for on a per diem basis at pre- 
vailing rates paid by contractors and others. 
This work is much sought after by team 
owners and contractors who do not have 
sufficient work during inclement weather 


< 
} 
j 
D ATTACHING THE SCRAPER 
\ MOTOR TRUCK 
of streets and dumps. Among these re- 
cruits are drivers and other men from 


sewer repair forces who are particularly 
valuable where snow is being improperly 
fed into sewer manholes, or where there is 
congestion at dumping places caused by the 
conduct of drivers tending to hinder the 
systematic disposal of the load or a prompt 


return to the gathering point. 
Method of Work 
\t each snowfall our block-m: r push 





ee 


302 THE AMERICAN CITY 


cart men repair at once to all important 
street intersections and clean a passage for 
pedestrians by removing snow directly from 
crossings. After this, prominent car-stops 
are given attention by clearing a space 
about the length of a car. At the same 
time, other laborers, teams and snow plows 
are at work gathering and removing snow 
from streets in the order in which they 
appear upon our schedule. 

The sewers that will permit of the dump- 
ing of great quantities of snow are noted, 
with manholes that are placed at convenient 
locations, preferably upon side streets, 
where they will not interfere to a great 
extent with traffic. The snow is hauled to 
the sewer manholes in drop-bottom dump 
wagons, with a capacity average of 3 cubic 
yards, and is dumped directly over the 
manholes. Men with shovels are stationed 
at each manhole, and a passageway is al- 
ways kept clear. No trouble has ever been 
experienced from sewers becoming clogged, 
except when pieces of wood or débris are 
thrown in and lodge in the manhole or be- 
come wedged inside the manhole in the 
rungs of the ladder. This trouble does not 
happen frequently and may be almost en- 
tirely eliminated if the men at the man- 
hole will exercise care; it could be entirely 
eliminated if a special type of manhole was 
installed for the dumping of snow. When 
the snow reaches the sewer it is carried off 
quickly, as nearly all our outlet or main 
sewers have a good fall, owing to the city’s 
topography. Even in places where we have 
little grade no trouble has been encoun- 
tered, as it has been demonstrated that 
snow melts quickly under the temperature 
found in all sewers, especially in thickly 
populated districts. We have places where 
snow has been fed to the sewer at the rate 
of 80 wagon loads of 3-cubic-yard capacity 
per hour, without any indication whatever 
of clogging the sewer; in fact, at one place 
the velocity of flow is such that I do not 
believe that this sewer can be fed fast 
enough thru manholes to become clogged. 
Many of our small sewers have been used 
successfully, and where the water flow is 
light or sluggish we have opened a fire 
hydrant above the dumping point and thus 
increased the flow. In the case of the 
smaller sewers care is exercised in feeding 
snow to manholes in order to get the best 
results. 





VoL. XV, No. 4 


Comparing Results 

We have a system of cost accounting by 
which it is possible to make comparisons 
between work accomplished in the various 
districts or units. The reports from fore- 
men show number of men and equipment 
in use, number of loads busheled and dis- 
posed of, cubic yard measurement of loads, 
locality where material is loaded and point 
disposed of, which permits of a close check 
upon our men. No system can be justly 
compared with those of other cities unless 
all the details surrounding operations are 
noted; even within our own city, at times, 
considerable trouble is experienced in mak- 
ing comparisons. Taking as a basis for 
such comparisons the number of men and 
equipment engaged and the measure of ac- 
complishment, we have found that at times 
a force rated medium or low in efficiency 
has reported a greater measure of accom- 
plishment than one noted for its efficiency, 
and after investigation several elements 
that had not been thought of were disclosed. 
Unless all elements affecting this work are 
noted, comparisons are difficult to make, 
and are often misleading. 


Advantages Over the Contract System 

Our plan of organization has, I believe, 
many advantages over the contract system , 
for removal of snow. Our schedule of 
operation may be changed at any time that 
conditions warrant, without trouble. Any 
departure from specifications under the 
contract system usually results in delay, im- 
perfect accomplishment, extra cost and the 
very annoying and difficult problem of 
keeping true and accurate cost accounts 
and measurements. The saving in super- 
vision is reflected in our ability to expand 
an organization of from fifteen or twenty 
men and a few teams under the direct 
charge of a street foreman, to one of fifty 
or more men and sufficient teams to keep 
such organization employed. Moreover, it 
has been my experience that when there is 
a sudden rise in temperature we can imme- 
diately lessen our forces and permit nature 
to provide for snow removal, whereas the 
contractor, like the brook, goes on and on, 
as long as there is any snow in sight. 

[ believe our system of disposal into 
sewers is one of the best. I also find that 
drop-bottom vehicles are superior to the 
rear-dump vehicles, as no time is lost in 
getting into position at a dump, in causing 




















ions eee 








OcIoBER. 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


the doors to open and discharging the load. 

An improvised snow plow is shown in the 
illustration. It is made by uncoupling the 
forward carriage of an ordinary road 
scraper and attaching the scraper to the 
chassis of one of the motor trucks used by 
the Pittsburgh Bureau of Highways and 
Sewers in hauling asphaltic mixtures. This 
apparatus was tested during the winter of 
1914-1915 and gave satisfactory service 
The heaviest snowfall encountered during 
its operation was 8 inches, and with the 
use of chains on the rear wheels of the 
truck, little difficulty was experienced in 





sy 
securing traction. Three of thes hines 
are ready for use at any time in Pittsburg! 
They have done especially goo rk 
the boulevards in pushing the snow 
while soft and piling it in windr 
the curb, thus opening up sufficient space 
for traffic. while the snow was permitt 
to lie, except at intersections, until melted 
by rain or sun. expense €1 
tailed in putting é I 
tion. The cost of investment for special 
motor-driven snow plows is s 
greater field of usefulness for equipment 


hand is created 





Clearing Ice From Car Tracks 


lo the Editor of THE AMERICAN City: 
Those who are familiar with street de- 
partment work know that ice which is 
frozen close to the street pavement is about 
the hardest material to remove that one can 
encounter. It is much harder than any dirt 
excavation with which I am familiar and 
comes away much less freely than rock 
would, as one obtains only a small piece at 
a time under ordinary conditions. We 
have had a great deal of trouble here from 
the ice accumulating in the car tracks, as 


the wheels of trucks produce quit 

pression where the rails are, leaving the 
center and the outside roadways high 

the rails. The incre ased use of trucks dut 
ing the winter time makes this a dangerous 
and disagreeable problem. It is very dif 
ficult to extricate any truck that gets dow1 
into the slot or depression. Owing to the 


teaming conditions in Worcester, we are 
obliged to leave considerable snow on thi 
streets. This snow turns to ice, and ever 


the traction companies find great difficult 

















THE WINTER USE OF A MAINTENANCE S¢ 


ARIFIER ROLLER IN WORCEST 


The roller is equipped with picks on the rear wheels, for removing f track 





operating, on a t of the boxes 
er the center of the ¢ lr iggy yO t 
ce between the track 
he old method of emoval by | 
rf ve cos d slow es 
Ve have tried differ sorts of s¢ fie 
ni? chine these dl not he 
I Wi h ( Lis in inventi 
1 cK levelli p ( which \ K¢ 
short time bef vas out of 
101 Ij | r C ate me h 
using the new Buffalo Pitts maintenance: 
scarifier roller vhich we had purchase 1 tl 
eced S¢ SO! | reat vheels OT ft 
I I be eq ( either with h t 
{ cks o1 ith cl s or cleats nila 
P se in use on tract engines This 
ttachment gives the traction and h th 
chine stea The front whee ( 
eq ( h tw ectio! f heavy 


of ice breaking in our streets, quickly an 


ron, shrunk and bolted on. This enables 


the operator to steer the machine, which he 


innot do with the front wheels bare 
With this arrangement, which is illus 
rated in the accompanying photograph, we 


ve been ible to lo an increased amount 


small expense It enables us to keep the 
team roller busy in winter when it is usu 
aid up in the shed. As far as we have 


» ascertain, this is the first tims 


hat a device of this nature has been ap 
lied to a steam roller for winter work. 
he attachment is simply our own home 
ade makeshift and is not patented 
Acpert T. RHODEs, 
Commissioner Street Depar 
Worcester, Mass. 


tember 18, 1916 


ment, 


' 
©} 





An Unusual Tractor for Snow Removal Work 


In the accompanying illustration, “Miss 
Hattie,” a far-famed resident of the Cer 


tral Park Zoo, is seen drawing a snow plow 


With the snow falling as continuously as it 
lid during the winter of 1915-16, it is safe 
to assume that it might have been possible 








wan uu 















A WINTER JOB FOR “MISS 


Head Keeper Snyder (the man wearing a 
straw hat) is guiding her over the walks 
of the park, which she is clearing of snow 





HATTIE,” OF NEW YORK 


for the elephant thus to earn a goodly por- 
tion, if not all, of her board and lodging 
during that season, 








) 
: 
: 
: 








Cold Weather Concrete Work 


By H. Colin Campbell, C. E. 


Director, Editorial Bureau, Portland Cement Association 


HERE is no longer any need to think 
that with the approach of winter 
and consequent low temperatures, 

concrete work must be postponed until 
warm weather. For many years contrac- 
tors and others have been successfully do- 
ing concrete work in cold weather by sim- 
ply using a few precautions in mixing and 
placing the concrete, and then applying 
some protective means to keep it from 
freezing for several days. Contractors 
have profited from the possibilities of cold 
weather concreting because they have 


hardening of concrete while cold delays 

also, that moisture as well as warmth is 
necessary for the proper hardening of con 
crete. Any means that will cause these 
conditions to be present in cold weather, 
particularly when the concrete is going 
thru the early hardening period, will mak« 
cold weather concrete work relatively easy. 


Heattng the Aggregates 

Sand and pebbles or broken stone should 
be heated by one of several means, so that 
when used in proportioning the concr 





METHOD OF 


Notice that the improvised stove serves to heat water as well, a bend of iron pipe |! 


HEATING SAND 


on the fire in the stove 


thereby been able to lengthen their work- 
ing season. 

When one remembers the condition under 
which concrete hardens properly in warm 
weather, it will be realized that the pre- 
cautions and protective measures for cold 
weather work should be ones that will 
duplicate warm weather conditions so far 
as possible. To do this successfully, it 
must be remembered that heat hastens the 


mixtures their temperature will be in th 
neighborhood of 150 degrees Fahrenheit. 
This will insure that after the mixing water 
is also heated, concrete, when placed, will 
have a temperature of from 75 to &o de- 
grees, and if quickly placed and imme- 
diately protected in one of several ways to 
be described later, there will be no likeli 
hood of injury to the work, even tho tem- 
peratures may fall far below freezing. 





390 


THE 


Warmth given to the concrete from 
heated materials can readil e held in it 
tor some time as long as ma e necessary 


to complete early hardening addition 





r 





AMERICAN CITY 





Vot. XV, No. 4 


\ltho heating sand and pebbles or broke 
stone by steam has advantages over othe: 
ways on small jobs, they may be satisfac 
torily warmed by 


piling them over and 








PROTECTING NEWLY LAID CONCRI 

Ss} t} s are thrown on tl cove 

to the warmth given to the concrete by 
using heated materials, internal heat is de- 
veloped in the concrete as a result f 
changes taking place due to the chemical 


combination of the cemer 


] 
al 


his 
so helps to keep warmth in the freshly 


it and water 


placed concrete and aids to protect it from 


As cement forms but a relatively 
bulk of 
not be heated 


Mixing water can readily be heated to a 


lreezing 


small a concrete mixture, it need 


temperature of 150 degrees and kept at this 


temperature by allowing live or exhaust 
steam to escape in the barrel, tank or other 
receptacle in which water is held until 


used; or, where the quantities of water re 
heating in tanks or 
kettles over a fire will be 


quired are not large, 
(on 
large contracting jobs, mixing water is usu- 
heated by 
is no longer 


satisfactory. 


ally 
that 


steam. An old steam boiler 


safe for carrying high 


steam pressures may sometimes be used as 


a source of steam supply, because a boiler 


pressure no greater than 25 pounds is usu 
ally enough to furnish all the steam re- 
quirec 


rE 


WALK 
to 


BY A COVERING 


prevent it from being blown 


OF STRAW 


away 

around sheet iron cylinders, such as an old 
smokestack, a section of old iron sewer or 
culvert pipe, or an old steam boiler. If a 
fire then built within this improvised 
stove and the materials piled upon it and 
occasionally turned or raked over to pre- 
vent overheating near the fire, results will 
be quite satisfactory. 


is 


Unless the materials 
are turned, however, those near the stove 
may be injured if allowed to get too hot. 
This is particularly true where the coarse 
aggregate being used is a relatively soft 
limestone. 


Storing Aggregates Indoors 
contractors and other concrete 
workers, anticipate the possibility of hav- 
ing to do concrete work when temperatures 
are near the freezing point or below, and 
store the aggregates which they intend to 
use indoors, where they will be protected 
from frost or freezing. materials 
should not be in mixtures 
Chey not only chill the concrete, but pre- 
vent thoro mixing. 


Some 


Frozen 


used concrete 


Where piles of aggregates are not stored 








— 


OCTOBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 307 





20) 
indoors, the material may be heated by and mav be expec 
forcing perforated iron pipes in the piles. has been used 
\t all times unprotected piles of materials general, calcium chlori 
should be kept covered with tarpaulins to ible for the same re S } 
prevent them from becoming water soaked experiments conducted he | States 
and possibly frozen solid if the temperature Bureau of Standards indicate th 
should suddenly drop. chloride may have one distinct 
cold veathel work, in that s Se 5 

Use of Chemicals to Retard Freezing hasten the hardening of th setae 

Water containing common salt, calcium the experiments referred to a 4 per cent 
chloride (chloride of lime) or a number of — solution of this material in water was us 
other chemicals will not freeze at the same 
temperature as water which contains non« Heating Forms 
of these substances. [or this reason it was Before placing concrete in cold weather 
common in early cold weather concrete forms should be thoroly clean f snow 
work to add salt to the mixing water to ice or particles of frozen concrete. In ex 
prevent the concrete from freezing, but it tremely cold weather, wood forms should 
is generally believed that not more than 10 be heated. Metal forms should always be 
per cent of salt can safely be used because heated. Turning a jet of st iainst 
of the possibility of affecting the final form faces is best when available 
strength of the concrete. Besides, salt does Concrete work done in cold weather may 
not accomplish the one thing most desir- be protected in a number of ways. Usually 
able; it delays instead of hastens the hard- no one of these is used alone \s soon as 
ening of concrete; also, if used in rein- mixed, the concrete should be placed so 
forced concrete construction, salt may cor that none of the warmth given to it | 
rode the steel. Salt should not be used heated materials will be lost he floor 

- - = 
{ 





bate 





CONCRETE FLOOR COVERED WITH CANVAS SUPPORTED A SHORT DISTANCE ABOVE IT 
Beneath this housing, salamanders are kept burning to maintain the ter tur 
where the final appearance of the work — slabs, beams, columns, sidewalks and other 
would be spoiled by the whitish deposit types of pavement have a large surface 
that may later appear on the surface. This area in comparison with their me, so 


is commonly referred to as efflorescence more care must be taken to protect the work 

















398 THE AMERICAN CITY 


than would be necessary on foundations, 
abutments or other mass construction in ex- 
cavations where the bulk of the mass, com- 
bined with heavy forms, affords required 
protection. Building paper or canvas should 
first be laid over the concrete, as soon as 
it is possible to do so without marring the 
surface, then from 6 to 12 inches of hay or 
straw applied, depending upon the temper- 
ature to be protected against. This cover- 
ing should be weighted down with short 
hoards to prevent it from being blown off. 
Sometimes walks are housed in by means 
of a frame and canvas covering and the 
temperature maintained inside of this hous- 
ing as required, by discharging steam into 
it or by heating with open coke-burning 
stoves, commonly spoken of as salaman- 
ders. Manure should never be placed di- 
rectly upon fresh concrete. It is not only 
likely to stain the work, but owing to 
changes that may take place during decom- 
position, may injure the surface by causing 
a pitting or scaling. 

Foundations and similar work, mostly in 
excavation, is given nearly all of the pro- 
tection required against moderate low tem- 
peratures by the forms, yet sometimes to 
protect against more extreme cold it is 
necessary to build a lattice or framework a 
foot outside of forms and pack hay or straw 
in this space. The exposed concrete at the 
top of forms should be covered with from 
6 to 12 inches of straw or similar material. 

Barn, stable and other indoor floors built 
during cold weather or when outside tem- 
perature is below freezing, should be laid 
in such sections that a portion of the old 
floor may be used while concreting is in 
progress. This is necessary because of the 
longer time that concrete requires for hard- 
ening in cold weather, so that the concrete 
will not have to be put to use until properly 
hardened. Such indoor work usually re- 
quires little additional protection beyond 
that given by the enclosing structure. Tem- 
perature may be maintained as desired by 
oil stoves. Care should be taken to prevent 
increasing fire risk. It is a wise precaution 
to have an attendant on the job to watch 
stoves as a measure of safety against fire. 


Form Removal 
Too early removal of forms from con- 
crete is to be avoided regardless of season, 
but this important detail requires special 





Vor. XV, No. 4 


emphasis in connection with work done 
during cold weather. Especially is this 
true of walls, roofs and overhead floors 
which are intended to carry loads other 
than their own weight. Forms should be 
left in place until it is absolutely certain 
that the concrete has acquired strength 
enough to be safe against failure. The 
work should be carefully examined before 
forms are removed, by taking off a single 
board from some section of the forms and 
applying to the concrete thus exposed the 
flame from a plumber’s blow torch, a jet 
of steam or hot water, any one of which 
will thaw the water in the concrete if it is 
only frozen, thus showing the condition of 
the work. 


A Warning as to Sidewalks and 
Pavements 


Knowledge of cold weather concreting 
possibilities has, as already mentioned, prof- 
itably lengthened many a_ contractor's 
working season. It should be understood, 
however, that on such outdoor work as 
sidewalks and other pavements, concrete 
should never be laid when there is any frost 
in the soil. A special warning should be 
given against continuing concrete street and 
road work when the temperature falls 
nightly to the freezing point or below. 

Concrete street and highway paving 
should never be carried on promiscuously 
under such conditions, and no more work 
should be done than may be necessary to 
finish a small section that would permit the 
conclusion of a contract. Even then, all 
protective measures should be taken to pre- 
vent possible injury to the work. The 
length of time necessary to keep pavement 
closed to traffic when concrete has been 
laid while temperatures were low will de- 
pend entirely upon weather conditions. 
Work done when the average temperatures 
are lower than 50 degrees will harden very 
slowly. It is, therefore, difficult to deter- 
mine when it might be safe to throw a road 
or street open to traffic after laying of con- 
crete has been completed. To insure proper 
hardening of concrete pavement laid when 
the temperature averages below 50 degrees 
Fahrenheit, the frequent sprinklings neces- 
sary when the temperature is higher may 
have to be omitted. Experience is the only 
guide in such cases. 














FORWARD STEPS 


Reported to The American City 
BY MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS AND DEPARTMENT HEADS 





For this department the editors will welcome short articles from city, town and 
county officials and heads of departments, on subjects of interest and practical value to 
others engaged in similar work. Photographs, plans or other illustrative material 
should accompany the articles whenever available. 








Srom 
MAYORS 


Forestalling a Housing Famine 

Waterbury, Conn.—Many towns which 
are engaged in the manufacture of muni- 
tions have been called upon during the last 
two years to provide against a housing 
famine. The way in which Waterbury has 
dealt with the problem before it became too 
acute may afford suggestions to other places 
which, from whatever cause, anticipate 
similar conditions. 

The Scovill Manufacturing Company, the 
American Brass Company, the Chase Metal 
Works, and others, far-sightedly made plans 
tor housing the expected increased popula- 
tion before the situation grew unmanage- 
able. They first consulted the National 
Housing Association as to what had been 
done elsewhere in this country in the matter 
of industrial housing. John Nolen, of Cam- 
bridge, Mass., was retained to study the 
local problem and to suggest a remedy. 

A Housing Commission was appointed 
by the Mayor and included a representative 
of the savings banks, the Secretary of the 
Associated Charities, the City Engineer, 
and three manufacturers. The members of 
the Commission resolved that before com- 
mitting themselves to any sort of building 
undertaking, they would carefully investi- 
gate the extent and character of the de- 
mand for houses and find out how parallel 
conditions and requirements had been met 
in other places. A social and economic 
diagnosis seemed to them the first step to 
take, in order that they might not only 
meet immediate needs, but be able to adopt 
preventive measures that would apply also 





—a @ 





to normal times. The data collected showed 
that there were from 1,000 to 2,000 families 
to be provided for; that 35 per cent of these 
were skilled workmen and 65 unskilled, 
with an average weekly wage respectively 
of about $20 and $14; that 54 per cent of 
the men were married. It was the consen- 
sus of opinion that the one-family house 
was to be preferred if it could be afforded; 
that two one-family houses built together, 
but with separate yards, was the next best 
type, and that only when unavoidable 
should the three- or four-tenement house be 
built. 

The recommendations presented in a re- 
port by Mr. Nolen cover all the main points 
and furnish the Commission with a work- 
ing program. These recommendations are 
accompanied by maps and diagrams show- 
ing available lands, with prices, and full 
information as to existing public utilities 
and the cost of development. Briefly, these 
are the suggestions: 

1. That the main effort be put upon provid- 
ing single-family dwellings of various types 
for families which can save enough within a 
reasonable time to become owners of their 
homes. The single-family detached house or 
the double semi-detached is most desirable for 
this class, which should be provided for in out- 
lying sections where the laying out of land 
and the building operation could be sufficiently 
large to secure the advantages of wholesale 
contracts, efficient management, and the care- 
ful planning of the area by a landscape archi- 
tect along garden suburb lines. Among such 
developments are the Kistler Industrial Vil- 
lage at Mt. Union, Pa., Neponset (Mass.) 
Garden Village, Billerica (Mass.) Garden 
Suburb, and Goodyear Heights, Akron, Ohio. 
An appendix gives ten examples, in six classes, 
of approved types of houses for workingmen. 


2. That families which have acquired titles 
to building lots but have not yet built upon 
them, and which would be provided for almost 
entirely in partly built-up sections, should be 














AOA nat 











400 THE AMERICAN CITY 


helped to build by the following means: suit- 
able house plans to be obtained thru archi- 
tectural competition for which liberal prizes 
should be offered; money to be made more 
readily available thru the organization of co- 
operative banks or building and loan associa- 
tions. The advantages of other building un- 
dertaken for the more well-to-do class would 
probably be shared with this second class by 
enabling the lot owner to get a better contract 
for his house. 


3. That the family which cannot save should 
be provided for partly by renting to it the sec- 
ond house in the double-house unit owned by 
a family in the first class and partly by build- 
ing for rent groups of houses of the types 
common in Philadelphia and illustrated by the 
Octavia Hill Association, the Improved Hous- 
ing Company, of New Haven, and by the cot- 
tage flat of the Toronto Housing Company, 
Ltd.; partly also by tenements that will be 
vacated when better houses become available. 
The vertical division of houses of the Phila- 
delphia multiple type is recommended as more 
advantageous than the horizontal division. 


4. That examples of the various types of 
houses recommended should be constructed at 
once in the partly built-up sections of the city, 
and that architects who have successfully 
worked on dwellings of this kind should be 
at first employed in order to get the benefit of 
their experience. Names of such architects 
are given in the report. 

5. That an improved housing company be 
formed with a capital of about $400,000. The 
appendixes give a summarized description of 
the four methods of organization recom- 
mended by the Massachusetts Homestead 
Commission, and statements regarding the 
purposes, etc., of the Billerica Garden Suburb 
and Neponset Garden Village. 


6. That building and loan associations or co- 
operative banks be organized. A summary of 
their principles is given. 

_7. That the carrying out of the program 
finally decided upon by the Commission be un- 
dertaken by some one specially qualified and 


experienced who would give all his time to the 
work, 


An analysis of the reasons for the rec- 
ommendations forms one section of the re- 
port and is of general interest. 

Already some of these recommendations 
have been carried into effect. The Scoville 
Manufacturing Company has completed the 
erection of four or five houses on Oak 
Street, and it has work well under way for 
a dozen or more other buildings on Ives and 
Wood Streets. The American Brass Com- 
pany has commenced operations for the 
erection of forty or fifty handsome tene- 
ment houses in the eastern section of the 
city. The different concerns interested in 





Vor. XV, No. 4 


these projects expect to have erected and 
ready for occupancy within the next couple 
of months over half a hundred houses. 
There is urgent need of these buildings, and, 
as a matter of fact, it would require several 
hundred one- or two-tenement buildings to 
meet the housing conditions of Waterbury 


at the present time. 


MARTIN SCULLY, 
Mayor. 





rom 
LCITY MANAGERS 





Written to be Read 


Beaurort, S. C—And now, gentle 
reader, have you read the last annual re- 
port published by your city? No? Then 
you are not from Beaufort, S. C. Not that 
the good folks of this little southern town 
have peculiar literary tastes. They are 
quite normal when not talking politics, and 
for nearly a year the city government has 
given them little chance for that. 

They browse their newspapers in quite 
the usual way—nibble at the headline, and 
if it proves spicy, devour the first para- 
graph, which must be short and predi-? 
gested. So the annual report of the city 
of Beaufort has been served to them in 
news style. 

Plenty of headlines and short, snappy 
paragraphs tell what the city has done. 
Very few dollar signs and figures enter 
into the “story” part—just enough to clinch 
the point. More than that, the report was 
given them in their paper. Not in small 
type crowded into an obscure corner, but 
set up in double column in large, clear type. 

Expensive? Not the way we handled it. 
Legal advertising rates, used heretofore, 
are one dollar an inch. We used 480 inches 
—but not at that price. Bids were obtained 
for publishing the report in pamphlet form. 
When the type was all set up, sufficient 
sheets of newspaper size were struck off to 
supply both papers with inserts. The papers 
ran these sheets without charge because 
of the news value of the report. Our 
pamphlets and paper publication cost less 
than a quarter of the amount necessary 
had we paid the regular price. Following 
the story part come the financial statements. 
Even these are made fairly palatable by 




































Octoper, 1916 


being so arranged as to show real facts that 
every taxpayer should know. There are 
five of such statements: 


1. Current balance sheet of May 1, 1915, 
showing current accounts when the new form 
of government was adopted 

2. Operating statement, showing expenses 
and revenues for the year, classified as to de- 
partment and purpose 

3. Consolidated balance sheet of April 30, 
1916, separated into current accounts, capital 
accounts, trust accounts and summary 

4. Inventory of city properties as summar- 
ized in Statement 3, classified 

a. Sinking fund assets 

b. Real estate and improvements 
1. Realizable 
2. Unrealizable 

c. Equipment 

d. Live stock. 

5. Condensed balance sheet of the water and 
light plants, showing original investment, ad- 
ditions from profits, depreciation, present 
value, profit for year and per cent of profit. 


Larger cities have longer reports. Most 
annual reports are too long. The people 
don’t read them. Several of the cities un- 
der the newer plans have adopted this news- 
paper method of publicity. The last report 
published by Dayton is brief but tells a lot, 


for, like Beaufort’s, it is written to be read. 


HARRISON GRAY OTIS, 
City Manager. 


a From CITY 





ENGINEERS 


An Economical Sewerage System 

LaFAyeTTE, Inp.—Under the supervision 
of the city Civil Engineering Department, 
the construction of a sewerage system has 
been completed in sections of the first and 
sixth wards of Lafayette not previously 
provided with sewerage facilities. 

Owing to the fact that the soil in this 
part of the city consists largely of hard 
clay, ground water seeps into cellars after 
each rain and remains standing in various 
depths for weeks unless pumped or bailed 
out. This is not only especially obnoxious 
to the senses, but particularly dangerous to 
health. As a natural consequence, land 
values have been exceedingly low, thus 
making assessments for the improvement 
of streets and building of sewers a real 
hardship to the owners. It was necessary, 
therefore, to provide the best sewer possible 
at 4 minimum expenditure. This has been 








THE AMERICAN CITY 401 


accomplished in a manner most satisfactory 
to the property owners. 

Soon after surveys had been begun, there 
presented itself the important question of 
whether the construction of a combined 
system, in which both house sewage and 
storm water are taken by one pipe, would 
be advisable, or whether the construction 
of a separate system of sewerage, in which 
house sewage and storm water are taken 
care of by separate pipe lines, would best 
meet the conditions of this district. 

A natural water course and storm water 
drain known as Durkee’s Run lies south of 
and runs parallel to this district. It became 
evident that if the sanitary sewage could be 
otherwise provided for, the storm water 
could be emptied into the open course of 
Durkee’s Run, thereby making unnecessary 
the construction of a large trunk line storm 
sewer, three miles in length. Moreover, as 
such a sewer would, because of its large 
size, be very expensive, the plan for a sepa- 
rate system to carry the house sewage was 
decided upon. 

The general scheme of the sanitary 
sewer is a trunk line running along the 
east and south city limits with laterals ex- 
tending northward, thus draining the entire 
district southward into the trunk line. An 
outlet is provided by the Williams Street 
sewer, which is a large combined storm and 
sanitary sewer discharging into the Wabash 
River. If at some future date it should be- 
come necessary to treat sanitary sewage 
before emptying it into the Wabash River, 
this may be done by intercepting the sew- 
age at some point before it runs down the 
Halloway Street Hill and locating a dis- 
posal plant in the low-lying adjacent land. 
This would eliminate the pumping charge 
by having the sewage flow down by gravity 
thru the plant to the outlet. 

Another consideration which will illus- 
trate the advantage of the separate system 
over the combined system of drainage is 
worthy of note. The number of storm 
water laterals needed in the separate sys- 
tem are relatively few compared with the 
number of sanitary sewer laterals needed, 
so that a combined system would not only 
greatly increase the cost of the trunk line, 
but would likewise increase the cost of 
each lateral. Also, in a separate system, 
the storm water laterals need not be laid in 
as deep a cut as the sanitary system re- 
quires, 




































402 THE AMERICAN CITY 








MAKING THE CONCRETE PIPE FOR THE 


In the design of the sanitary system it 
was assumed that the amount of sewage per 
capita would be 100 gallons per twenty- 
four hours. This is very liberal, taking 
as a basis the water consumption rate on 
metered connections. From the examina- 
tion of data showing the fluctuation of 
sewage flow in other cities as well as La- 
fayette at different hours of the day, and 
various days of the month and year, it was 
decided to use 175 per cent of the average 
daily rate, or 175 gallons, per twenty-four 
hours, so that the maximum flow would be 
provided for. 

In order to drain cellars bothered with 
seepage water, which has been a great 
source of annoyance and sickness, the plans 
call for a depth such as will drain an ordi- 
nary cellar the floor of which is assumed 








Vor. XV, No. 4 








Se 
~~ 





TRUNK SEWER LINE IN LAFAYETTE 


to be not lower than 6 feet below the level 
of the street. 

The trunk line sewer is 18,211 feet long, 
or about 3% miles, and varies in diameter 
from 15 inches to 36 inches, and in depth 
from 0 to 18% feet, the average depth be- 
ing 11% feet. The sewer pipes, from 27 
inches to 36 inches in diameter, are rein- 
forced concrete pipes made along the line 
of the sewer in sections 3 feet in length. 
Pipes from 15 inches to 24 inches in diam- 
eter are of vitrified clay. 

The minimum grade of pipe lines used 
has been that which will produce a velocity 
of 2 feet per second when flowing half full 
This velocity, many authorities agree, will 
make a sanitary system self-cleaning, thus 
making flushing apparatus unnecessary. 
There is enough natural slope to the ground, 








VIEW ON OWEN STREET, LAFAYETTE, IND., 


SHOWING THE TRENCHING MACHINE DIG 


GING 18 FEET DEEP 











‘ ‘CTOBER, 1916 


so that this minimum is very seldom 
reached. Along the entire length of the 
sewer manholes have been provided about 
300 feet apart. 

In addition to those of the trunk line, 
plans have been prepared for over 17 miles 
of lateral pipe sewers ranging in diameter 
from 8 inches to 12 inches, which are to 
empty into the trunk line. When the 
whole system has been installed 4,000 lots 
will be provided with sewerage, and the ex- 
tent of sewers in the city will be doubled. 
The construction of this system of sewers 
is part of Mayor Thomas Bauer’s plan for 
providing sewerage for the entire city, and 
it is due to his progressive policy for civic 
betterment that this construction has been 


made possible. 
H. B. OVERESCH, JR., 
City Civil Engineer. 


eae RECREATION) 
IDEPARTMENTS)| 


The Plans for Scranton’s New 
Play Field 

Scranton, Pa.—This city will soon be 
on the map of the Playground World! The 
splendid generosity of C. S. Weston, to- 
gether with the gift of his sister, Mrs. F. 
M. Bird, has made it possible. It may ap- 
pear to some that there is a very indirect 
relation between the economic and other 
interests of a city like Scranton and a com- 
munity play field. Like fields have always 
increased land values, thus giving to cities 
a certain return for their presence in any 
particular part of a community. But those 
acquainted with the conservation of human 
values know there is a definite connection 
between the latter and public health, juve- 
nile courts, a community spirit, and general 
civic and social advance. 

Weston Field is a tract of 7% acres on 
Providence Road in the geographical center 
of this city. This particular piece of prop- 
erty was selected after exacting investiga- 
tions, conducted by trained representatives 
of the Playground and Recreation Associa- 
tion of America. Personal tours of inspec- 
tion by members of the local Bureau of 
Recreation were made to ascertain the 
most valuable land in the city from a rec- 
reational point of view. Each time we 
came back to the same site. 











THE AMERICAN CITY 


403 


The general outlay for Weston Field has 
been carefully planned by Ernest Hermann, 
of Cambridge, Mass. Had it not been for 
the generous codperation of the Playground 
Association, the local Bureau would not 
have been able to secure for the city such 
advice without spending a large sum of 
money. 

The one outstanding feature of the gen- 
eral plan will be the Community Field 
House, designed by Robert W. Snyder, a 
local architect. The Field House will, of 
course, be related to the whole general 
plan of the Field itself and may become the 
center of a great number of activities. En- 
tering the main gate on Providence Road, 
at a point opposite the axis of the grand- 
stand in the major baseball field, and turn- 
ing to the right, just beyond the Field 
House, the visitor will come upon a bowling 
green, some 120 feet square. This green 
may be used for ice curling in the winter 
or skating for the children. Still further 
to the right and approached by graveled 
walks will be the tennis courts, properly 
guarded by wire nettings. Behind both the 
bowling green and tennis courts will be the 
giant strides, quoit courts, and other recrea- 
tional opportunities for men and boys. 

To the left of the Field House, so closely 
adjoining it as to be under the supervision 
of those in charge, will be sand boxes, 
swings, teeter boards, a shelter house for 
outdoor dancing where community dancing 
of the best kind may be maintained. A 
children’s play house, together with a va- 
riety of outdoor apparatus especially de- 
signed for younger children, will complete 
this part of the Play Field. Beyond a row 
of trees and quite in the open along Dia- 
mond Avenue and Foster Street, there will 
be a good-sized playground for girls, with 
two 60-foot diamonds. Much of all this is 
so planned as to enable mothers to watch 
their children from the Field House porch 
or from shaded benches. Until the trees 
bordering the walks can grow to a suitable 
size for shade, devices for giving shelter to 
mothers may be used. 

The intention of the Bureau of Recrea- 
tion is to fence permanently two-thirds of 
the entire field so that it can be thoroly 
supervised, for supervision is absolutely 
essential to make the most of such a play 
field. The remaining third of the enclosure 
will be a board fence, eventually to be re- 
moved to allow a grand-stand to occupy the 























4C4 THE 


AMERICAN 





oy & md Vor. XV, No. 4 





= DEVELOPMENT OF WESTON FIELD 
| SCRANTON PA - 

WWEAL LAYOUT OF RECREATION 

FIELD FOR 74 ACRE Lor 


ADL mek ew COMBeIDeL 
APEROURD | EL AT ATION LAPRET maeene mustTTe 


= 





field on 
Avenue. 
be a regulation baseball diamond with two 
auxiliary diamonds in the corners. 
the entire stretch will be a regulation foot- 


Foster Street and 
In this major field will 


edges of the 


Meade 
Across 


ball field, 320 by 160 feet. Provision will 
also be made to cover the area between the 
grand-stand and the swimming pools with 
a carefully graded and drained grass field, 
giving opportunity for a track (one-sixth 
mile), properly backed at either end, in one 
instance close to the center of the grand- 
stand, and in the other at the dividing wall 
between the field and the swimming pools. 

Along the outer edges of the major field 
will be opportunities for running high 
jump, with concrete bases, running broad 
jump, and other outdoor apparatus. 

A peculiar and trying sewer condition 
has compelled the Bureau to alter its origi- 
nal plans for swimming pools flush with the 
surface. To enable the drainage to take 
place automatically, the pools will be some- 
what elevated, Mr. Hermann, the play field 
designer, having succeeded in planning both 
a sanitary and architectural scheme which 
will be watched by recreational workers 
with no little interest. 

When we come to the Field House itself, 
we are at the very heart of the community 
work of Weston Field. Designed to cover 
many needs, it will offer to a variety of 
agencies in Scranton an opportunity to ex- 
tend their own work in a community direc- 
tion. The building will contain a social 
hall, reading rooms, play rooms, shower 
baths for winter and summer use, etc., and 
an auditorium. Easy access will allow use 
of the outdoor swimming pools, 





It is the hope of the Bureau of Recrea- 
tion that Weston Field will be the means 
thru which the many national groups in the 
city will find expression for celebrations, 
festivals, pageants and holiday observances 
The organization and preparation for ef- 
fective civic expression and celebrations 
are very naturally part of the work of 
bureaus of recreation. 

Valuable codperation has been rendered 
by President Linen, of the Council, Direc- 
tor Hayes, of the Public Works Depart- 
ment, and the Planning Commissioners ; 
especially among these last have been 
Messrs. A. J. Casey, chairman, and Ber- 
nard Moses, both keenly interested in civic 
matters of this kind. All the city officials, 
in fact, have aided wherever possible in 


bringing the whole plan to its present stage. 
ROBERT P. KREITLER, 
President, Bureau of Recreation 


| rom HEALTH | 





DEPARTMENTS 


Garbage Collection and Disposal 

Jamestown, N. Y.—Garbage furnishes 
table board for flies and rats. In the aver- 
age city these undesirables need look no 
further for an abundance of daily food. 
The garbage can is the commissary depart- 
ment for the fly army—an army that is as 
deadly a foe as any foreign foe is likely 
to be. Not only is the average garbage can 





a sure guarantee to the fly against famine, 
but it is also the best incubator for the fly 
brood. 

There is a simple manner of handling 





bed hewn ~ 





Ocrorer, 1916 


garbage that will minimize both the fly and 
the rat population and make the collection of 
garbage a fit occupation for a human being. 
It is this: as soon as the garbage is col- 
lected in the kitchen, it should be drained, 
while fresh, of its water in the kitchen 
sink strainer and at once wrapped in news- 
paper or any other strong paper, and then 
placed in a covered metal receptacle for 
the garbage collector. This is all there is 
to the plan. No flies can have access to the 
garbage, for the paper effectually excludes 
them; and no rats can feed on it, because 
it is contained in a metal receptacle. 

The garbage has practically no odor 
when removed from the can by the col- 
lector, for it is dry and the packages can 
be removed with the hands. In many in- 
stances the collector will carry the garbage 
out to the wagon from the house on his 
arm precisely as he would any other lot 
of packages. Moreover, the garbage never 
freezes in the can, but is as easily removed 
in the winter as it is in the summer. The 
garbage is next removed to farms nearby 
the city and placed in shallow furrows and 
plowed under. The next year this ground 
can be plowed again and all traces of the 
garbage and paper are gone, thanks to the 
disintegrating bacteria. Can any simpler 
or more sanitary solution be made of this 
vexing problem? 

Some citizens who have never tried this 
system will say that it is objectionable be- 
cause it will involve much labor on the part 
of the housewife. We have not found it 
so. This system has been in vogue here 
in Jamestown for nearly six years, and I 
firmly believe that no housewife who has 
become accustomed to draining and wrap- 
ping the garbage would ever go back to the 
old system, even tho the ordinance requir- 
ing the wrapping of garbage were re- 
scinded. Many of the citizens who strenu- 
ously objected to this system at first, now 
cannot say too much in praise of it. 

As is to be expected, the inauguration of 
such a system is not accomplished without 
some labor on the part of the officials in 
charge. Yet the difficulty in our city was 
not so great as the writer anticipated it 
would be. In the light of our experience, 
the following factors are the most impor- 
tant: 


1. A garbage collector who believes in the 
system 
2. An ordinance which makes it mandatory 


THE AMERICAN CITY 405 


on the part of the citizen to comply with the 
provisions as to wrapping and draining the 
garbage 

3. Newspaper publicity which will expl 
the purpose and desirability of the system 

j. Good sanitary inspection and perati 
between the sanitary inspector and the ¢ 
lector 


1 


5. Interpreters to explain the system to the 
foreign-born population 

6. Absolute refusal on the part of the muni 
cipality to remove the garbage unless the 
visions of the garbage ordinance have beet 
complied with 

This ‘atter factor is, after all, the most 
important. If the householder does not 
wrap and drain the garbage, he is under 
pains to attend to his own garbage collec- 
tion and disposal. This involves both ex 
pense and labor on his part; therefore he 
follows the line of least resistance and com- 
plies with the provisions of the ordinance 

Now as to the expense of the collection. 
The city of Jamestown pays for its garbage 
collection and disposal annually, the sum of 
$13,000. This also includes the collection 
of tin cans and papers, but not ashes. As 
the population of this city is 40,000, this 
makes a per capita cost of less than 35 
cents per annum, or less than three-fourths 
of a cent per week per person. The gar- 
bage is collected not less than once each 
week, and oftener from hotels and restau- 
rants. The latter are not required to 
wrap the garbage. The city supplies the 
wagons, and the contractors furnish the 
labor and teams, as well as the ground for 
the plowing under of the garbage. 

Previous to the adoption of this system 
an expenditure of $50,000 for the construc- 
tion of an incinerating plant was contem- 
plated. This project was dropped because 
of the success, both from a sanitary and 
from a financial standpoint, of our present 
system—a system involving practically no 
additional expense to the city. I believe 
that any municipality which will give this 
system a trial will find that it is the biggest 
“swat” that can be given that nuisance and 
menace to public health—the fly. James- 
town has become almost a flyless city. So 
conspicuous by their absence have these 
pests become that even a casual visitor re- 
marks it. The exceptionally low death rate, 
especially of babies, is a concrete evidence 
of their scarcity. 

AUGUST F. NELSON, 
Secretary, Board of Health, Jamestown, N. Y 














~~ 


OP ERE: 





THE AMERICAN CITY 





rom FIRE 
| DEPARTMENTS | 


Fire Prevention and Control 
in Reading 

A Committee on Fire Prevention and 
Control was organized in January last by 
the Reading Fire Department, “for the ad- 
vancement of the art as applied to the pre- 
vention and control of fires and to con- 
serve life and property.” The committee 
is composed of one delegate from each of 
the fourteen volunteer fire companies in 
Reading, the Fire Chief, two Assistant Fire 
Chiefs, the Deputy State Fire Marshal and 
the Deputy State Factory Inspector of the 
district. 

The committee aims to prevent fires by 
removing the causes of fire. The complaint 
card here reproduced is liberally distrib- 
uted. Upon receipt of a complaint the 
committee member from the district makes 
the first call and advises as to the action to 
be taken. If the recommendations made 
do not receive proper attention, the matter 
is referred to the Fire Chief and the State 
Department. Since the organization of the 
committee more than fifty cases have thus 
been referred to the higher authorities, 
while hundreds of minor complaints have 
been voluntarily rectified. 

Meetings of the committee are held 
monthly, at which fire prevention topics are 
discussed and suggestions for future work 
are considered. The newspapers are co- 
operating by publishing articles prepared 
by members of the committee. The num- 
ber of fires has been 25 per cent less than in 


COMPLAINT CARD 


or Ts 





Fire Prevention and Control! Association 


READING FIRE DEPARTMENT 


For the Advancement of the Art as Applied to Prevention and Control of 
Property 


Fires and to Conserve Life and 


Complaint 
Number __ ; : Date 


VoL. XV, No, 4 


the corresponding period of last year, and 
there has been a considerable decrease in 
fire losses. 

A recent important activity of the com- 
mittee was the display in a local theater 
from July 31 to August 4 of the fire pre- 
vention and safety films of the State De- 
partment of Labor and Industry. Thou- 
sands of citizens witnessed the display. 

C. J. BECKER, 


Secretary, Committee on Fire Prevention and 
Control. 


Grom DEDARTTIENTS 
& PUBLIC WORKS 


Underground Construction 


Records 

SEATTLE, WasH.—This city appears to be 
ahead of many others in the matter of un- 
derground construction records. Not only 
have we accurate records of all sub-surface 
work, but we have them on a transparent 
cloth from which blue prints can be quickly 
made, giving to the company contemplating 
work a very clear record. We also have 
standard plans showing the locations and 
depths for every class of subway construc- 
tion, so that in the new districts, whefe 
there is little or no such work, the com- 
panies can know exactly where they are to 
locate their new construction without con- 
flict. Our plats are drawn to the scale of 
10 feet to 1 inch. By the use of these rec- 
ords the franchise companies are saved 
thousands of dollars annually, since they 
are able to secure exact information re- 
garding the obstacles, if any, to be encoun- 
tered, and the best locations, at a minimum 
of expense. Accurate loca- 
tions of their existing under- 
ground construction are also 
given them, so that, in case of 
repairs, the cost of sinking 
test holes, as public utility 











Reported by 
Complaint: 


companies in other cities are 
compelled to do, is eliminated. 


nihinenienithlipitiaitnnetianatamnnninaes: i: Se 
sewers and doing other small 
jobs, comes to our records, 
and with our advice deter- 





mines where he can most con- 





Referredto Date 
© taint 1 ti ted Date 





veniently, with the least ex- 





pense and interference with 











Sei LNigter 





THE 


Ocroser, 1916 


AMERICAN CITY 407 








CMLL SEN LIPL. 





SO LELOLLE DEA LMI 





ALLEY INTERSECTIONS 
SHOWING UNDERGROUND WORK 
IN THE CITY OF SEATTLE . 









wall | 4 WATER 


WAZ 


LECTRIC Za 











LLMOSPED AE bh r 





— — 


av) ww SOF 
P TELEGRAPH © 
& - 








7 1@= 











— 








SRR WAR” Bn PELE PHOAT 














iia 

AN EP 

+a Z 

aa 
: 

| AN 2 

1 HN GE 

ACCORDING TO STANDARD PLAN 











ACTUAL CONDITION RESULTING 
FROM LACK OF PLANNING, 








trafic and existing construction, place his 
work, and thus he can give a much closer 
estimate and save money for the property 
owner. 

The plans for standard locations for un- 
derground construction effect a great sav- 
ing in first cost as well as cost of mainte- 
nance, and enable us to obtain a maximum 
use of the space below the surface of the 
streets and alleys, which is at best none 
too large. Of course, we cannot follow 
these plans entirely in districts where any 
considerable amount of underground work 
had been done prior to the organization of 
this department or to the time when effec- 
tive supervision of public utility under- 
ground construction was begun. Our 
method has been to treat each street as a 
special case, taking existing conditions as 
we found them and building up from that, 
making the best of it for the future. How- 
ever, there have been a number of regrade 
projects completed, covering approximately 
20 miles of street in what has or will be- 
come business territory, where all existing 
underground construction was either 


graded out or covered so deep as to neces- 
sitate its removal or abandonment. It is 
here that we are deriving the full value 
from our plans. 

The ultimate elimination of confusion 
and the saving in cost has been readily 
recognized by the public utility corpo 
rations and our own City Lighting De- 
partment, and they are splendidly codper- 
ating with us to bring about these results. 

The portions of maps herewith repro- 
duced serve the double purpose of showing 
our method of keeping our records for 
ready use, and the confusion and poor con- 
struction resulting from lack of a precon- 
ceived plan. This is an average condition 
in the older business district. 

On new work the notes are taken at the 
time of construction, but in the old district, 
where most of the work was installed with- 
out keeping any record, we have had to 
get our notes whenever the opportunity 
presented itself in the form of an opening 
in any street for whatever purpose. The 
notes are kept in permanent form in field 
books. The maps are platted to the scale 

















408 THE AMERICAN CITY Vor. XV, No. 4 


of 10 feet to the inch in the down-town 
business district and 50 feet to the inch for 
the rest of the city 

Prior to placing any construction, each 
public utility files with this office an appli- 
cation in duplicate accompanied by prints 
showing the location in which it is desired 
to place the construction. This application 
is transmitted with our recommendation to 
the Board of Public Works, and when 
granted is issued to the company. Our 
inspectors follow up the work and see that 
it is done in conformity with the condi- 
tions of the permit, and they also secure 
field notes of location. These field notes 
are transcribed into office note books by the 
inspectors, and are platted by the drafting 
division of the department on its permanent 
records. The time of the inspectors and 
draftsmen, plus 10 per cent, plus car fare, 
is billed to the public utility company doing 
the work. This system of billing has been 
followed for years, and the utility com- 
panies do not dispute the charges, for they 
realize that the underground records of this 
department save them large sums of money 
each year. 


A. L. VALENTINE, 
Superintendent of Public Utilities 


Grom HIGH WAY 
DEPARTMENTS 


Cost of Accounting in Highway 
Departments 

Lynn, Mass.—This article is a brief de- 
scription of the system of cost accounting 
used in the Department of Streets and 
Highways. It was devised and installed by 
the writer. It is a card system which re- 
placed loose-leaf books that opened up 
about 4 feet across and weighed about 50 
potinds apiece. 

The chief features of this system are 
that it furnishes a wealth of detail, daily, 
monthly or annually; it is simple and gives 
a constant check against error; it gives the 
standing of expenditures or appropriations 
up to the previous night, and for an annual 
budget of nearly half a million dollars re- 
quires the services of but two clerks out- 
side of those engaged on the payroll proper. 

When work is ordered, the first move is 
the issuance of a job order number, the ap- 
propriation chargeable being designated by 








form Bo Bee mpteette 
Department of Streets and Nighways 
STREET DIVISION 





EE 19! 
Job Order No. — 
Street . - - 
Work a “ —_ —_ 
Appro. —_________— 
f.u8 ne | awe | wet 














FIG. 1—TIMEKEEPER’S SLIP 








Ce. yds. Removes 


Sq. yds Brick S. W. ‘Leia 
Sq. yde. Brick S. W. w. Retsid 
No of Brick Od 
“No of Brick New 
7 Ft of Crosewalh—Laid—Kind? 
Fi. ‘of Crosswalk Relsid 
fr of Curb Set—Kind? % 
Ft at Courb | Set—Kind? 
hick of Curb Reset—King? c= 
"No: ‘of Paving Blocks New 
“No. ¢ of Pavirg | Blocks Old ‘ 
“Sey yas. Block Paving Laid a is 
“Sa. 36 yds. Block Paving Relaid ee ! 





Cu. yea, Cinders from 
<= oo 
| Ce yds. Gravel from 


ee -«< 


Cu. yds Rakings from, 








I ie ‘Cu =. Sand from 
00) CRREETISEE gees rs oes an EE — 


Cu. “yas Crushed Stone from 
Tons Crushed Stone from | 














Hours Outside Team Single | 
“Hours Outside Team Double 

Hours Concrete Mixer 

Hours Road Roller 
a Hours Truck | 
‘| Hours Double Teams ~ 
Hours Single Teams ze 
Hours Labor =e 
































Total 








Foremaa 





FIG. 2.—REVERSE OF TIMEKEEPER’S SLIP 





oe 


rps 


a ee 


Octoser, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 












FIG. 3—INDIVIDUAL JOB CARD 


FIG. 4.—REVERSE OF INDIVIDUAL JOB CARD 


its serial letter. These orders are prepared 
in triplicate, the original being retained for 
the office file and the other two copies being 
forwarded to the general foreman, who 
retains one for his file, and delivers the 
other, with his instructions, to the foreman 
in charge of the job. 

In this department the foreman acts as 
his own timekeeper. He uses one side of 
the slip (Fig. 1) for that purpose and en- 
ters on the reverse side (Fig. 2) the 
amount of work done, materials used, teams, 
etc. All stock, teams, machinery, etc., are 
maintained and bought under one appro- 
priation, and this appropriation # credited 
when it is used by another appropfiation. 

When the slips are received, thé first op- 
eration is to post the payroll. The total 
amount of the slips and the payroll must 


agree before the slips are forwarded to the: 


bookkeepers. Before so doing they are 
totalled by appropriations, and the figures 
thus obtained are entered in a book,whose 
totals must agree with the payroll at the 
end of the week. When the slips have been 
received by the bookkeepers, the amount of 
materials, teams, etc., is computed, :and 
the amount entered in the second column of 
the appropriation card. The amount of the 
payroll labor is placed in the first column. 
Thus the first column of the appropriation 
card gives both the cash expense and the 


total of both the amount of material and 
labor chargeable to any appropriation. 

The materials are then distributed by ap- 
propriations on material cards which give 
the amounts that each appropriation must 
reimburse the carrying appropriation for 
material, etc. The totals of these columns 
must agree with the totals of the second 
column of the appropriation card of its 
corresponding appropriation. 

When this is finished, they are then 
distributed on the individual job cards 
(Figs. 3 and 4), by streets, and the totals 
of these must again agree with the total of 
both columns of the corresponding appro- 
priation card. These cards are kept sepa- 
rately by appropriations and are further 
subdivided by streets until the close of 
the year’s books. At that time they 
are sorted by streets into the general 
file, where it is possible to find the amount 
expended on any one street for a year 
or aterm of years. They are then posted 
monthly in a summary ledger, which gives 
feures by which almost any question 
as to costs can be answered, and are fur- 
ther posted as expenditures into a ledger 
giving the costs under each appropriation. 
Finally they are posted into one account 
showing expenditures under all appropria- 
tions under one heading. 

The office also prepares sidewalk and 


























| Som WATER | 


410 THE AMER 


sewer assessments and street permits. For 
each of these a system has been devised 
but as they do not enter into cost account 
ng their description is omitted. 

Material purchased is obtained by the 
purchasing agent on requisition from this 
department, and when the delivery is 
checked by him the bills are checked on 
the face of the requisition and forwarded 
for payment Duplicate copies are re 
tained in this office and distributed under 
the proper headings. 

HARRY T. RICH, 


( ef Clerk, Department of Streets and Highways, 


Lynn, Mass 








DEPARTMENTS | 





Doubling the Water-Supply 
SALT Lake City, Uran.—Salt Lake City 
is supplied with water from various moun- 
tain streams emerging from canyons of the 
Wasatch range. The water of these 
streams is generally very pure and cold, 
and forms an ideal supply. The conditions 
on the watershed are such that with due 
care the supply can be well protected from 
contamination. As is common to all such 
streams, the flow varies considerably from 
low water in the middle of winter to high 

water in the early spring and summer. 
lhe water consumption thruout the city 


SCAN City VoL. XV, No. 4 


is rather high, especially in the summer, due 
to the very extensive sprinkling of lawns, 
streets, etc. This consumption varies from 
about 140 gallons per capita in the winter 
to a maximum of 250 gallons in the middle 
of summer. In order to maintain an 
equable supply and to have a reserve supply 
available for emergencies, it is very desir- 
able that some of the run-off during the 
surplus water season be conserved for late 
summer and for general supply. 

The topography of these canyons is such, 
however, that no very extensive reservoir 
sites are available. As a result of investi 
gations and recommendations made by th 
writer some three years ago to the City 
Commission, with a view toward an in- 
crease of the city water-supply, two storag¢ 
dams have been completed and a third is 
now under construction. These improve 
ments, together with others, such as secur- 
ing additional water rights, distribution res- 
ervoirs, and supply mains, will nearly 
louble our available supply. 

The two projects recently completed are 
the Twin Lakes and Lakes Phoebe-Mary 
reservoirs, both of which are situated near 
the head of Big Cottonwood Canyon, about 
15 miles from the mouth of the canyon and 
29 miles from the center of the city. The 
improvement at Twin Lakes consists of an 
arched, rubble concrete dam, 69 feet in 
height above bed-rock and 650 feet in 
height from the top, located at the outlet 
»f the lower lake. This conserves 306,000,- 














ee. J} 





LAKE PHOEBE-MARY RESERVOIR, UTAH 





OcToBeR, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 








rWIN LAKES DAM 


AND RESERVOIR, UTAH 


Water surface 6 inches below spillway 


000 gallons of water, covering both lakes 
and forming an area of 30.4 acres. It was 
completed in November of last year and 
filled for the first time this spring. The 
Lakes Phoebe-Mary dam is a straight, 
rubble concrete dam 76 feet in height above 
bedrock and 330 feet long on top. It is 


located at the outlet of Lake Phoebe and 
covers both lakes. It stores 240,000,000 
gallons. Area of reservoir full is 27.3 
acres. It has been under construction since 
1913 and was finished in July of this year. 
[his reservoir is now practically filled. 
SYLVESTER Q. CANNON, 
City Engineer 





“Typhoid Facts” 


The American Water Works Association 
requests THE AMERICAN City to announce 
the publication of “Typhoid Facts,” a 
pamphlet of great educational value to 
water-works men, health officers, other pub- 
lic officials and individuals of all classes 
It is an elaboration of the treatment of this 
subject given under the title of “The High 
Cost of Sanitary Ignorance,” by George A. 
Johnson, consulting sanitary engineer, of 
New York City, in the June, 1916, issue of 
THe AMERICAN City. The pamphlet, con- 
taining more than 125 pages, is made up of 
abstracts from “The Typhoid Toll,” a paper 
by Mr. Johnson, read before the American 
Water Works Association at its last annual 
meeting, including about 50 pages of dis- 
cussion of the subject by 35 representative 
American physicians, engineers and public 


sanitarians. It is a non-scientific treatise 
covering the general subject of typhoid 
fever, its causes and means of prevention, 
its toll of lives and its economic sig- 
nificance. Readers of this magazine will 
find it of advantage to give this pamphlet 
wide publicity thru local newspapers, boards 
of health and libraries. The prices of the 
complete pamphlet are as follows: single 
copies, 25 cents; 100 copies, $18.75; up to 
500, $17.50 per 100; over 500, $15.75 per 
100. Orders, accompanied by check or 
money order, should be sent to John M. 
Diven, Secretary, American Water Works 
Association, 47 State Street, Troy, N. Y. 
An abstract of the pamphlet, in circular 
form, by John C. Trautwine, Jr., of Phila- 
delphia, may be obtained from the Asso- 
ciation. 


ee 











THE ENGINEER 


By Dr. Frank Crane 


The man of the future will be the Engineer. 

He is the man who can do things; and is better than the man who owns things. 

The Millionaire is a temporary, passing, makeshift product of civilization. He is 
merely holding things together until the people get sense enough to do their own owning. 

Some day little boys will read that the world once had millionaires and huge private 
wealth units, just as they will one day read and wonder that men once had kings. 

But the official who will forever be indispensable is the Engineer. 

The time will come when the President of the United States will be chosen as the 
man who has the greatest talent and skill in organizing public works. There will be no 
more politics in his selection than there is now in choosing the master mechanic of a railway 
or factory. 

When a nation goes to war nowadays, that is, when it becomes necessary to exert its 
supreme collective strength, nobody dreams of electing the most popular politician or the 
cleverest speechmaker to lead the armies. It is the man who can get the last ounce of 
efficiency out of men and metal that is wanted. 

Some day the nation will realize that it is continually in a crisis, and that in peace as 
in war we need the highest order of efficiency and organization. 

We need the Engineer to arrange the transportation of people and goods from place 
to place, without waste, without competition, without graft, looking only to the public good. 

We need the Engineer to get meat, bread, and milk from farm to citizen, without 
the present inefhicient tangle of trusts and middlemen working at cross purposes. 

We need the Engineer to turn the profit of public enterprise toward building good 
roads and bridges, instead of enriching a few shrewd manipulators. 

We need the Engineer to manage a city as economically and smoothly as if it were a 
manufacturing plant. 

We need the Engineer to organize the farmers so that all can work together for each 
and their products be marketed without being preyed upon at every step of the way from 
farm to household. 

Wealth can be taken away from us. But the power to do things cannot be taken 
away. 

The Millionaires could go and not be missed. The Engineers we cannot spare. 

“What availeth all thy wealth?’’ said the ancient philosopher. ‘“‘He that hath better 
iron than thou will come and take away all thy gold.” 

Says H. L. Gantt: 

“The man who knows what to do and how to do it is preéminently the engineer. 
The new world which is being ushered in by the great struggle now taking place is one 
in which the engineer is destined to be the supreme power, for it is becoming clear that, in 
future, the man who OWNS THINGS will not be as important a factor in the world as 
the man WHO CAN DO THINGS.” 


Copyright, 1916, by Frank Crane. 








Srcncaetignite 


Ss 











. iy 
4“ Present Status of the City Manager Plan & 
1 EL SL SLL LT SL LLL SLL LL SAS AS ASE CEE ASAE 


EDITOR’S NOTE 


Cue AMERICAN City herewith presents tls third symposium on the subject of 
agers. The first compilation, in June, 1915, covered 45 cities which had adopt 


manager plan or taken definite steps to do so. The second 
last. It contained photographs and information of the city 1 


regarding the adoption of the plan in 12 other cities. 


The present compilation includes bi 
The majority of this group have 


published of 25 city managers. 
article appeared. 


graphical informati 





Following the items accompanied by portraits are items from 12 other cities. Most of 
these include data regarding city managers from whom photographs could not be obtained 


Finally, there is a list of all of the 73 men now known to 
Manager in the United States, 


ordinance are much less broad than in 


mission-manager plan. 


be holding the office of Cit) 


e€ noiday 


and the names of 7 other cities in which the plan has be 
adopted. In some of these &o cities the powers of the city manager as defined by charter or 


thers in the list which have adopted the true com- 


Some City Manager Portraits and Biographies 


(Arranged in order of the population of the places represented) 





THOMAS H. REED 
San Jose, Cal. 


San Jost, Cat—Thomas 
H. Reed was appointed City 
Manager on July 1, 1916. An- 
nual salary, $6,000. He is 35 
years of age. Mr. Reed wrote 
the original draft of the new 
San José charter, and, when 
the time for choosing a city 
manager arrived, he was unani- 
mously selected for that office. 
At the time of this call, Mr. 
Reed was Associate Professor 
of Government in the Univer- 
sity of California. He is a 
graduate of Harvard Univer- 
sity, also of Harvard Law 
School, and was admitted to 
the New York bar in 1906. 


Mr. Reed has written the pro- 
posed charter for a_ consoli- 
dated city and county govern- 
ment in Alameda County, Cali- 
fornia. He is also author of 
“Government for the People,” 
published in New York in 1915 
by B. W. Huebsch, and is in 
charge of the department of Ju- 
dicial Decisions in the National 
Municipal Review. He is not 
a civil engineer by profession. 

The governing power of San 
José is reposed in seven coun- 
cilmen, who appoint the City 
Manager. He holds office at 
their will. The City Manager 
is the administrative head of 
the city government and is re- 
sponsible for the conduct of all 
its departments. He exercises 
all the rights, powers and du- 
ties devolving on mayors in the 
cities of California. He ap- 
points the City Treasurer, City 
Engineer, City Attorney, Board 
of Health and Health Officer, 
Chief of Police, Fire Chief, 
Board of Education, Board of 
Library Trustees, Superinten- 
dent of Parks, and all other 
officers, subject to the provi- 
sions of the charter. He may 
remove any person appointed 
by him, first filing a statement 
of the grounds for the removal, 
and giving the person sought 
to be removed an opportunity 
to present his case at a public 
hearing. 





DR. HENRY WILSON 
Newburgh, N. ¥ 


NEWBURGH, N. Y Dr. 
Henry Wilson was appointed 
City Manager on June 26, 1916. 
He was born in England, 
where he was graduated in 
medicine. He came_ to this 
country thirty-five years ago, 
locating in Newburgh, and has 
lived there continuously up to 
the present, devoting his time 
to the practice of medicine and 
the development of the pro- 
prietary medicine business. He 
retired from the practice of 
medicine five years ago. Dur- 
ing the last two years Dr. Wil- 
son has been making a study of 
municipal government and has 





414 THE 


issued treatises on this subject 
Newburgh operates under a 
modification of Plan C of the 
New York State optional char- 
ter law, with a mayor and five 
councilmen. The council pos 
sesses full legislative power, 
but delegates the executive and 
administrative power to a city 
manager, whom it selects 
[he council determines what 
officers and employes are neces- 
sary for the proper adminis- 
tration of the city, but the 
power of appointment and re- 
moval rests with the city man- 
ager. 
ore 
SANDUSKY, Onio.—Kenneth 
B. Ward was appointed City 
Manager on January 1, 1916 
Annual salary, $3,600. He is 
33 years of age and a graduate 
in civil engineering from Ohio 
State University, class of 1905 
After graduation and. until 
1912 Mr. Ward was an in- 
structor in civil engineering at 
Ohio State University. During 
1906 and 1907 he was also 
principal assistant engineer in 
Willoughby, Ohio, and had 
charge of the designing of a 
sewerage system and the con- 
struction of pavements and 
sidewalks. During the follow- 
ing three years Mr. Ward was 
engineer of tests, and equipped 
a road material testing labora- 
tory for the State Highway 
Department of Ohio. Subse- 
quent engagements included 
work as inspecting engineer of 
an important water power de- 
velopment, and _ construction 
und appraisal work for electric 
light and traction companies. 
Mr. Ward is also versed in the 
law, and was admitted to the 
Ohio bar in December, Ig1I 
The charter of Sandusky 
provides for the commission- 
manager plan, the Commission 
consisting of five members. All 
the powers of the city, except 
such as are vested in the Board 
of Education, are vested in the 
City Commission, which ap- 
points the City Manager. He 
is the administrative head of 
the municipal government un- 
der the supervision of the Com- 
mission, and holds office at its 
pleasure. Excepting the De- 
partment of Finance and 
Audits, the City Solicitor, the 
Clerk of the City Commis- 
sion, and the officers, boards 
and commissions appointed by 


AMERICAN CITY 





KENNETH B. WARD 


Sandusky, Ohio 





J. WARREN PRINE 
Ashtabula, Ohio 





0. J. S. ELLINGSON 
Sherman, Texas 


the City Commission, the City 
Manager appoints the heads of 
all departments and boards cre 
ated by the Commission. He 
is the acting head of each of 
the city departments, but, with 
the approval of the City Com 
mission, he may appoint a dep 
uty to represent him in any de 
partment of which he is thx 
acting head. 
ore 

ASHTABULA, Ox10.—J. Wat 
ren Prine was appointed Cit, 
Manager February 1, 1916 
Salary, $2,500 per annum. He 
is 50 years of age. Mr. Frine 
is not a civil engineer, and pre 
vious to this appointment had 
had no experience in municipal 
affairs except as Postmaster of 
Ashtabula, a position which he 
held for twelve years until a 
year prior to being appointed 
City Manager. During that 
year Mr. Prine conducted a 
business in coal and builders’ 
supplies under the name of the 
Ashtabula Coal Company. Be- 
fore he became Postmaster he 
was engaged in the pint and 
wall-paper business. 

The Ashtabula charter pro 
vides for a commission-man- 
ager form of government, with 
seven councilmen and propor- 
tional _ representation. The 
Council appoints the City Man- 
ager, who is the administrative 
head of the municipal govern- 
ment under the supervision of 
the Council. He holds office at 
its pleasure. 

ore 

SHERMAN, Tex.—O. ‘9J. S. 
Ellingson was appointed City 
Manager on April 17, 1916, to 
succeed Karl M. Mitchell. Sal- 
ary, $2,400 a year. He is 32 
years of age. Mr. Ellingson 
was graduated in civil engi- 
neering from the University of 
Texas in 1906. He has since 
been connected with the Mis- 
souri Valley Bridge & Iron 
Company, of Leavenworth, 
Kan., first as assistant engineer 
and later as contracting engi- 
neer; with the University of 
Texas as instructor in charge 
of the School of Drawing; 
and with the Midland Bridge 
Company (headquarters at 
Sherman, Tex.) as contracting 
engineer. For six months be- 
fore being appointed City Man- 
ager, Mr. Ellingson was City 
Engineer of Sherman. 


Vot. XV, No. 4 














: Ocroser, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 41s | 


The form of government 


> years was its president He 
provided by the Sherman char- served for a number of vears 
ter is known as the Council- s a director of the Commer 


ial Club. Mr. Wells is not a 


civil engineer. 


Commission - Manager plan. 
The authority is vested in a 














Mayor and Council of fifteen The San Angel hartet 
members. The Council selects provides for a ( S 
two of its members to serve, consisting of three members 
5 with the Mayor, as Commis- one of whom is the M 
4 sioners, who appoint the City Che City Manager is appoi 
Manager. The latter holds of- by the Commission s the 
‘ fice at the will of the Commis- administrative head of the city 
sion or the City Council. government, with the usual d 
' ore ties. He holds office at th 
BROWNSVILLE, TEXx.—Frank een pach ling ee 
abhi ; and must have been a resident 
H. Williams was appointed f the state of 7 eS 
. o! he tate I exas I i 


City Manager January I, 1916 
Annual salary, $3,000. He is 





least a year preceding his 


: PE ass pointment. Che charter pre 
46 years of age. Mr. Williams F. H. WILLIAMS eee cee ping SMe losel 
. . S( cs t a i , > iS 1 Sery 
is an electrical engineer and Brownsville, Texas celetel t» the Cle Mame 
for the past thirteen years has sheen Gon ‘eiciieniaiiadl tim den) ened 
devoted his time mainly to the ot Fit sie tien ae 
y management of municipally- ag ee ee 
ywned water and light plants. ary a i. , 
4 ered t appoint a Board t 
He has also had considerable ra See Pee 
City Devel pment of 1 t 


experience in general munici- 
pal affairs as the head of mu- 
nicipal boards in cities of New 
York State. 

The City Manager operates 
under a commission-manager 
harter which provides for a 
City Commission to be com- 
posed of five members, one of 
whom acts as the Mayor. The 
City Manager is appointed by 
the Commission, at whose will 
\ he holds office. He is the ad- 

ministrative head of the city 


than fifteen members, who s! 
serve without compensat 
and may appropriate not moré 
more than 10 cents I 
$100 assessed valuation of tl 
taxable property in San Ar 
gelo from the general fund 
the city to support the w 
of the Board 
ore 

Jounson City, TENN.—P 

F. McDonald has been Cit 


Manager and | 





government. Provision is made Johnson City since Jul 19 

in the charter for the creation He was known as City Co 
by the City Commission of a missioner until 1915, when his 

\ Board of City Development FE. L. WELLS title was changed to City Mat 
ly of not more than fifteen mem- eg ager. Salary, $1,500 a year 
4 bers, who serve without com- : He is 53 years of age. Mr 
pensation. The Commission McDonald’s experience as a 
: may make an appropriation not civil engineer for twenty-five 
* to exceed two mills on each years previously covers work 
, dollar’s valuation of the tax- =. as rodman for both the Penn 
able property in the city to aa Ww sylvania and the N. Y., I E 
support the work of the Board y ‘ & W Railroads, as assist ant 
, * engineer in construction tor 
od the Shenandoah Valley Rail 
, San ANGELO, Tex.—E. L road, and as roadmaster for 
Wells, Jr., was appointed City eighteen years for other rail- 

Manager on May 5, 1916. An- roads 

\ nual salary, $2,500. He is 48 The City Manager operates 
‘ years of age. Mr. Wells’ gen- under an ordinance f the 
eral experience has _ ranged Board of Aldermen creating 
from that of the manager of the office. He is in charge of 
a cotton compress in his youth the operating department: f 
and of a bookkeeper for a the city. The governing body 
wholesale grocery store, to that consists of eight aldermen and 


of the manager of an ice and 
electric light plant and a street 
railway line. He was a mem- 


: 
| ber of the city school board of 
f 
7 


a Mayor. The Board of Al 
dermen elects all department 
heads, including the 

ager, except those minor — 
Marshall, Tex., for fourteen P. F. McDONALD chosen by the Manager. The 
years, and for two or three Johnson City, Tenn City ioe tated ton 





416 THE AMERICAN CITY 





r. V. STEPHENS 
Cadillac, Mich 





J. C. COMMANDER 
Elizabeth City, N. C 


one year and is subject to re- 
moval by the Board of Alder- 
men at its pleasure. 

“ 

Evizasetu City, N. C—J.C. 
Commander was _ appointed 
City Manager of Elizabeth 
City in June, 1915- He is 55 
years of age. Previous to this 
appointment he had been en- 
gaged successively in farming, 
in the grocery business and in 
the real estate business. 


Capittac, Micw.—T. Vz. 
Stephens was appointed City 
Manager on February 14, 1916, 
to fill the position made va- 
cant by O. E. Carr, who left to 
become City Manager of Niag- 
ara Falls, N. Y. He is 29 
years of age and a graduate in 
both civil and sanitary engi- 
neering of the Pennsylvania 
State College- He was con- 
nected for two years with the 





F. J. BOLAND 


San Rafael, Cal 


Division of Sewer Investiga 
tions, Designs and Plans of the 
city of Cincinnati; was City 
Engineer of Cadillac for two 
years, and was Acting City 
Manager of Cadillac from De- 
cember 15 to the date of his 
appointment as City Manager 

The Cadillac charter pro- 
vides for five commissioners, 
including the Mayor, who ap- 
point the City Manager. He 
is the head of the municipal 
government under the super 
vision of the Commission 

oe 

San RAFAEL, Cat.—F. J. Bo- 
land was appointed City Man- 
ager on August 10, 1915. Sal 
ary, $2,400 a year. He is 35 
years of ag His civil engi- 
neering experience of ten years 
or more includes a connection 
with the Cincinnati Division 
of the Pennsylvania Railroad, 
also one with the Southern 
Pacific Railway- Between 1908 
and 1914 he was City Engineer 
successively of the cities of 
Hanford, Livermore and Coal- 
inga, in the state of California. 

The office of City Manager 
in San Rafael was created by 
ordinance of the City Council, 
by whom the City Manager is 
appointed. Inasmuch as he 
does the work formerly per- 
formed by the City Engineer, 
the Building Inspector, the Su- 
perintendent of Streets, Inspec- 
tors of City Work, etc., the 
salaries of all those officials is 
saved to the city and the sum 
paid to the City Manager is 
not considered burdensome. 


WINCHESTER, Va.—Arthur 
M. Field was appointed Gen- 


Vor. XV, No. 4 


ARTHUR M. FIELD 
Winchester, Va 


eral Manager on May 1, 
1916. Salary, $2,000 a year 
He is 25 years of age and a 
graduate in civil engineering 
from Cornell University, hav- 
ing specialized in municipal en 
gineering. He has had two 
ears’ experience in various 
lines of municipal engineering 
and contracting work in con 
nection with sewerage systems 
and sewage disposal works. H« 
also assisted in the compilation 
of a tax map. Immediately 
preceding his appointment as 
City Manager of Winchester, 
Mr. Field assisted Charles C 
Hopkins, a consulting munici- 
pal and hydraulic engineer of 
Rochester, N. Y. 

The office of General Man- 
ager is not provided for in the 
Winchester charter, but was 
recently created by an ordi- 
nance of the Common Council 
The General Manager is 
elected for one year and may 
be removed by the Council at 
its pleasure. All the depart- 
ments of the city are under his 
control except the Police De- 
partment, the Fire Department, 
the Department of Health and 
the Departments of Education 
and Finance. 


Granp Haven, Micu.—I. R. 
Ellison was appointed City 
Manager on April 10, 1916, the 
position having been vacated 
the preceding February by Ed- 
ward N. Beck. Mr. Ellison’s 
salary is $1,800 a year. He is 
33 years of age; is a civil en- 
gineer, also a post-graduate in 
electrical engineering His 
practical experience includes 
one year with the Mobile Elec- 














OctToswer, 1916 





I. R. ELLISON 
Mich 


Haven, 


tric Railway Company, one 
year with the Louisville Light- 
Company, three years in 
the engineering department of 
he { States Navy, and 
three years as City Manager 
(or City Superintendent, 
the official is called), of Eaton 
Rapids, Mich. 
lhe Grand Haven charter 
provides for a commission- 
of government, 
the authority being vested in 
a Council consisting of a Mayor 
and four aldermen. The 
Mayor, subject to the approval 
of the Council, appoints the 
City Manager, who is the ad- 
ministrative head of the muni- 
pal government. He is sub- 
ject to recall by the people. 


one 


ALBion, Micu.—Roland 
Remley was appointed City 
Manager of Albion on January 
3, 1916. Annual salary, $3,000. 
He is 34 years of age and has 
had twenty years’ experience in 
the construction of buildings, 
pavements, sewers and water 
mains. At the time of his ap- 
pointment as City Manager of 
Albion he was engaged in the 
erection of Albion’s new post 
office building. 

The Albion charter provides 
for a City Council composed of 
a Mayor and four councilmen, 
elected at large, who appoint 
the City Manager. Under the 
direction and management of 
the City Council, the City Man- 
ager is the chief administrative 
officer of the city government. 
He holds office at the will of 
the City Council. 


nited 


is 
« 


manager torm 


Cl 


THE 


AMERICAN 





ROLAND REMLEY 
Albion, Mix 
laytor, Tex.—W. E. Dozier 
was appointed City Manager 
on May 21, 1916. Annual sal- 
ary, $2,600 He ts 35 years ot 
age and a civil engineer. Mr. 


Dozier served in various ca- 


pacities between 1898 and 1908 
in the engineering departments 
of the ’Frisco, Rock Island, In- 
ternational & Great Northern, 
Kansas City Southern and 
Southern Pacific Railway sys- 


tems. He subsequently went 
into private practice, during 
which time he designed and 


built steel and concrete bridges, 
did some special municipal 
work, and made appraisals of 
two traction companies. In 
1913 he was appointed City En 
gineer of Temple, Tex., where 
he remained two years, and in 
1915 was appointed City Engi- 
neer of Taylor, which post he 
held until appointed City Man- 
ager. 

The municipal government of 
Taylor is vested in five com- 
missioners, who elect one of 
their number chairman. 
[he Commission appoints the 
City Manager, the City Attor- 
ney, the Recorder of the Cor- 
poration Court, the Auditor, 
and the Board of Equalization. 
All other officers and employes 
are placed or removed by the 
City Manager, subject to the 
approval of the Commission. 
The City Manager is the chief 
executive officer and is subject 
to removal by the Commission 
on three months’ notice. He 
may demand written charges 
and a public hearing on them 
before the Board of Commis- 
sioners prior to the date on 
which the removal is to take 


as 


Cire 


417 





- it 


W. E. 
Tayl 


DOZIER 


r, Texas 


4 
& 


H. G. VOLLMER 
Webster City, Ia. 





effect. In no case, excepting i 
the matter of removal referred 


to, may the Board of Com 


mis 


sioners act without first 

ing asked the opinion of the 
City Manager on the point un 
der consideration Che char 
ter forbids the appointment t 
city offices of persons closely 
related to the manager or t 
any one of the Commissioners 

ore 


WessTER City, lowA 
G. Vollmer was appointed City 
Manager on February 1, 1916 
He is 39 years of Mr 
Vollmer is a graduate in civil 
engineering from the Univer 


Henry 


age 


sity of le Wa He has been as 
sociated in an engineering ca 
pacity at different periods wit! 


the City Engineer of Burling 
ton, lowa; the City Enginee 
of Bozeman, Mont.; the Rock 
Island Railway System in Ce- 
dar Rapids, Iowa; and the Ot- 











418 THE 


tumwa (lowa) Bridge Com 
pany. He was County Bridge 
and Drainage Engineer o 
Grady County, Oklahoma, at 
Chickasha, for one year. In 
April, 1910, Mr. Vollmer be- 
came City Engineer of Bur- 
lington, Iowa, which position 
he held until called to his pres- 
ent post. 

Webster City is operating 
under a commission-manager 
charter. The City Manager 
exercises general -supervision 
and direction of the municipal 
government He directs the 
official conduct of all appoint- 
ive officers except the City 
Clerk, Police Magistrate, So- 
licitor, Corporation Council As 
sessor, Board of Review, and 
members of the Library Board 
He takes active control of the 
police, fire and engineering de- 
partments, and appoints or re- 
moves the assistants and em 
ployes therein He is given 
the supervision and manage- 
ment of all public improve- 
ments, works and undertakings 
of the city 


Bic Rapips, Micu.—Walter 
Willits was appointed City 
Manager on May 19, 1916, tak- 
ing the place of W. J. Fair- 
bairn, resigned. Mr. Willits is 
26 years of age, a graduate of 
the University of Michigan, 
and a civil engineer. His en- 
gineering experience includes 
one year’s work each on the 
government locks at Sault Ste 
Marie, Mich.; as County Sur- 
veyor of Mecosta County, 
Mich.; with the Michigan State 
Highway Department, and in 
connection with the Division 
of Valuation of the Interstate 
Commerce Commission. 

Che Big Rapids charter pro- 
vides for a commission-man- 
ager form of government, the 
commission consisting of three 
members, one of whom is the 
Mayor. The City Manager is 
appointed by the Commission, 
and holds office for one year, 
or until his successor is ap- 


pointed. 
ore 
Tarporo, N. C.—J. H. Ja- 


cocks was appointed City Man- 
ager on April 12, 1915. Salary, 
$1,500 a year. He is 41 years 
of age. Previous to being ap- 
pointed City Manager, Mr. 
Jacocks was City Clerk and 
City Treasurer of Tarboro. 


AMERICAN 





WALTER WILLITS 
Big Rapids, Mich 





J. H. JACOCKS 
Tarboro, N. C. 





DANIEL DURBIN 
Cynthiana, Ky. 


Can © Vor. XV, No. 4 


Che city government of Tar- 
boro is vested in a Mayor and 
eight Commissioners. The of 
hce of city manager was cre 
ated by an ordinance adopted 
by the Board of Commission 
ers, by virtue of the right 
which the town charter con 
fers upon that Board to estab 
lish a new office at any time 
that one is deemed necessary 
On becoming City Manager, 
Mr. Jacocks continued his du- 
ties as City Clerk and City 
Treasurer. He has direct su- 
pervision over all the depart- 
ments of the city except the 
police department, and all city 
employes are appointed upon 
his recommendation. 

oe 

CyNTHIANA, Ky.—Daniel 
Durbin was appointed City 
Manager in January, 1916. An- 
nual salary, $900. He is 54 
years of age and a civil engi- 
neer. Mr. Durbin studied at 
the University of Michigan, 
and later studied law at the 
Cincinnati Law School, where 
he was graduated. He prac- 
ticed civil engineering and law 
at the same time for several 
years. He served as a member 
»f the Cynthiana City Coun- 
cil for sixteen years at inter- 
mittent periods. 

The legislative, executive and 
administrative power of the 
city are vested in a Board of 
Commissioners, composed of 
the Mayor and four Commis- 
sioners. The Mayor is the 
Commissioner of the Depart- 
ment of Public Affairs, and has 
general advisory supervision 
over the affairs of all the de- 
partments. The Board of 
Commissioners designates one 
of its number to have superin- 
tendence of the Department of 
Public Finance, another of the 
Department of Public Safety, 
another of the Department of 
Public Works, and another of 
the Department of Public 
Property. The City Managing 
Agent, as he is called, operates 
under the supervision and di- 
rection of the Board of Com- 
missioners, and his term of of- 
fice is at its pleasure. He per- 
forms the duties of Street 
Commissioner, Water- Works 
Commissioner, and City As- 
sessor. He has supervision 
over the regular police and de- 
tective forces of the city, and 
appoints the Chief of the Fire 














a eee 





OcToBER, 1916 THE 


Department and the City 
Jailer. He may dismiss any of 
his appointees or employes for 
failure to perform the duties 
assigned them, subject to no- 
tice in writing and a hearing 
He is required to inspect cer 
tain articles of food placed on 
sale within the city limits and 
to make reports to the Board 


f Health. 
ore 

MONTROSE, CoLo.—J. E. Mc- 
Daniel was appointed City 
Manager on September 27, 
1915, in the position vacated 
by P. W. Pinkerton. Mr. Dan- 
iel’s salary is $1,800 a year. He 
is 44 years of age and has had 
twelve years’ engineering ex 
perience, mainly in irrigation 
projects. He was also Deputy 
County Surveyor of Montrose 
County, and Assistant Engi- 
neer on the Rainbow Route of 
the Colorado State Road. 

The Montrose charter pro- 
vides for a commission-man- 
ager form of government, the 
authority being vested in five 
Commissioners. They consti- 
tute the City Council and the 
legislative body of the city. 
The Commissioners appoint the 
City Manager, who is subject 
to recall by the electors of the 


city. 
ore 

GLENDALE, CAL.—T. W. Wat- 
son was appointed City Man- 
ager of Glendale early in 1914. 
He is not a civil engineer and 
states that he has had no spe- 
cial training for his present 
position other than the gen- 
eral experience acquired thru 
connection with the city affairs 
during the last nine years. He 
was a member of the first City 
Council er Board of Trustees, 
as it is now called, serving con- 
tinuously as a member of that 
body until appointed to the 
present office. 

Glendale is operating under 
the regular state law provid- 
ing for cities of the sixth class 
The Board of Trustees is the 
law-making and_ policy-deter- 
mining body, having power to 
create the necessary adminis- 
trative offices and to make ap- 
pointments thereto. The City 
Manager is appointed by the 
Board of Trustees and holds 
office at its pleasure. He is re- 
quired to see that the laws and 
ordinances are enforced and to 
exercise general supervision 


AMERICAN 





I. E. McDANIEL 


Montrose, Colo. 





T. W. WATSON 


Glendale, Cal. 


HARRISON GRAY 
Beaufort, S. C. 





OTIS 


Cis 


419 
ver all the departn ents t the 
city. Subject to the 
the Board t Trustees, he l 
has the general care and supet 
vision of all the public streets 
and alleys in the city 
the work thereon 
oe 
BEAUFORT, S. ( Harrison 
Gray Otis was appointed City 


Manager of Beaufort August 
16, IQI5, t fill the 

made vacant by I 

Horne He is 3I years ft ag 

Mr. Otis is not a graduate il 
engineer, but he studied muni 
ipal administration for some 
time at the University of Micl 

igan. As a part of that urs¢ 





he spent the summer IQI5 
at the New York Bureau of 
Municipal Research, d 


ng spe 
ial work in the pay-roll divi 
sion of the New York City De 
partment of Finance Before 
entering the university he had 


had eight years of practical 
experience, including news 
paper work, sales managership 
and insurance. 

The City Manager of Beau 
fort operates under a commis 
sion-manager charter which 
permits him to hold the posi 
tion of secretary of the local 
Chamber of Commerce at the 
same time, in order to further 
the commercial interests of the 
city. His salary is divided 
equally between the city and 
the Chamber of Commerce 
As City Manager he exercises 
the usual administrative fun 
tions of the city government 

ore 

WESTERVILLE, On1I0.—Ray S 
Blinn was appointed City Man- 
ager on January 15, 1916. He 
receives a salary of $1,500 ; 
year, and has the privilege of 
engaging in engineering prac 
tice outside of the municipality 
if he so desires. Mr. Blinn is 
45 years of age and was grad 
uated in civil engineering from 
Ohio State University in 1803 
After graduation and _ until 
1906 he was engaged in rail 
road construction in almost 
every capacity in many sections 
of the United States The 
most important of those posi 
tions included that of Resident 
Engineer for the B. R. & P 
Railway and the Scioto Valley 
Chief Engineer of the Canton 
& Akron Railroad, Locating 
Engineer for the Wabash ex 
tensions, and Division Engi 











THE 


Illinois Centra 
I 1906 he k 
e street | Zz in 
()} R ¢ 
JOS i \ de 
x i | i 


government I 
ided to incl ice 





here ar e % 


F. A. WRIGHT 
Collinsvile, Okla 


Wester ville 


fire department, the board of 
health and all public service ac- 
tivities The City Manager 
approves all disbursements on 
voucher except the salaries of 
the Commissioners and their 
administrative officers 
oe 

COLLINSVILLE, Oxia.—F. A 
Wright was appointed Busi- 
ness Manager on May 1, 1916, 
to the position previously held 
by Claude Thorpe. Annual 
salary, $1,500. He is 32 years 
of age. Mr. Wright began his 
business career by financing 


: himself thru a course in busi- 
; ness college. He was engaged 
— 24 in accounting work for some 

RAY S. BLINN time, including service in the 

Westerville, Obto Philippine Islands, where he 

was called in 1908 to the posi- 

City Treasurer, Auditor and tion of Chief Accounting Of- 

: Solicitor. In addition to the ficer for the Lighthouse Divi- 
: usual duties of a city manager sion of the Bureau of Naviga- 
i imposed the state laws, an tion. He returned to Collins- 


ordinance 
village council prescribes that newspaper business, which he 
Manager shall have 
charge of the water-works sys- at 
tem, the ¢ 


the City 


is AE 


\ NIAGARA FALLs, 
pointed City Manager of 


of the 


Westerville ville in I911 to engage in the 
followed until February, 1915, 
which time he was made 


tric light plant, the City Clerk of Collinsville. The 





AMERICAN CITY 





Vor. XV, No. 4 : 
offices of City Clerk and Busi- 


ness Manager were combined 
on May 1, 1916, 2nd Mr 
Wright was placed in charge 
of the city’s business affairs. 
The Collinsville charter pro- 
vides for the governing body 
to consist of the Mayor and 
three Commissioners, and cre- 
ates the office of Business Man- 
ager. The incumbent of the 
last-named position holds office 
at the will of the Commission 
ore 
HuNnTINGTON Beacu, CAL. 
George W. Spencer was ap- 
pointed City Manager on July 
1, 1916. Annual salary, $2,400. 
He is 36 years of age and is a 
civil engineer by profession. 
Mr. Spencer has had twelve 
years’ experience in municipal 








GEORGE W. SPENCER 
Huntington Beach, Cal. 


engineering and in_ private 
practice of a greatly varied 
character. At the time of his 
appointment he was City Engi- 
neer of Huntington Beach, and 
he will continue to perform 
the duties of that office in ad- 
dition to those of City Man- 
ager. 


Reports From Other Cities 


N. Y.—O. E. 


Carr was ap- 
Niagara Falls on 


up for Niagara Falls along much the same lines 








January 1, 1916, resigning the city manager- 
ship at Cadillac, Mich. to accept the call. 
Biographical information and a portrait of Mr. 
Carr appeared in the article on this subject in 
Tue AMERICAN City for June, 1915, page 502 
On account of the decision handed down by the 
Attorney-General of the state of New York, 
which questioned the constitutionality of cer- 
tain portions of Plan C of the New York State 
optional charter law, a new charter was drawn 





as the old one, making possible the administra- 
tion of the affairs of the city under the city 
manager plan, 


ALpeNA, Micu.—Harrison G. Roby was ap- 
pointed City Manager on April 12, 1916. An- 
nual salary $2.500. He is 33 years of age and 
a civil engineer; was graduated from Dart- 
mouth College in 1904 and from the Thayer 
School of Civil Engineering in 1906. Mr. 
Roby’s practical experience for ten years after 











—— 





Octoper, 1916 


leaving Dartmouth College includes the mak- 
ing of surveys for a railroad in Wyoming and 
a power company in Pennsylvania; also work 
as consulting engineer, resident engineer and 
superintendent of construction for power 
plants in Wisconsin and Michigan. In 1914 he 
took charge of the construction of a concrete 
arch bridge over the Sturgeon River in Michi- 
gan; in 1915 he designed and built dams for 
the Alpena Power Company and did other con- 
sulting work. 

The Alpena charter provides for the elec- 
tion at large of a Mayor, four Municipal 
Councilmen, one Municipal Judge, one Justice 
of the Peace and two Constables. The Coun- 
cil appoints the General Manager, City Clerk, 
City Attorney, City Treasurer, and Assessing 
Officer, a Health Officer, and such other officers 
or assistants as are deemed requisite in the 
transaction of the affairs of the city. The 
Council has authority to remove from office 
any of its members, or any officer or employe 
of the city, either elective or appointive, ex- 
cepting the Mayor and the Justice of the 
Peace, by a three-fifths vote of the Council. 
An elective officer may not be removed without 
first being informed in writing of the charges 
against him, and being afforded an opportunity 
to be heard in his own defense. The General 
Manager has general supervision of the de- 
partments of public safety, the municipal water 
and lighting plants, the department of public 
parks, the city’s parks and cemeteries, and all 
buildings and properties owned by the city. 
He appoints the heads of the several depart- 
ments under his supervision, subject to the 
approval of the Council, and such other as- 
sistants as are necessary to the discharge of 
his duties as manager. He may cause the 
affairs of any department or the conduct of 
any officer or employe under his control to be 
investigated, and may suspend or discharge 
any officer or employe under his control when- 
ever he deems it expedient to do so, and may 
fill the vacancies caused by such dismissals. 


ALHAMBRA, CAL.—Charles E. Hewes was 
appointed City Manager March 1, 1916. An- 
nual salary, $2,400. He is thirty-three years 
of age and is a civil engineer by profession. 
Mr. Hewes graduated from the University of 
California Mining College, in 1908. He spent 
two years in Globe, Ariz., in general engineer- 
ing practice and as Assistant City Engineer, 

and four years as chief engineer for Mark R. 
Daniels, of San Francisco, whose business was 
landscape engineering and city planning. For 
the two years before assuming his present 
duties, Mr. Hewes was City Engineer of Al- 
hambra, as well as a member of the Board of 
Sewage Engineers of Pasadena, South Pasa- 
dena and Alhambra. 

The government of Alhambra is. vested *in 
five Commissioners, one of whom is chosen 
President of the Commission. The other elec- 
tive officers are: the City Auditor, who is ex- 
officio City Clerk and Clerk of the Board of 
Equalization; the City Treasurer, who is ex- 
officio City Assessor and City Tax and License 
Collector; the City Attorney, and five mem- 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


bers of the Board of Education. The City 
Manager is appointed by the Commission and 
holds office at its pleasure. He 
removes all the chief appointive officials, as 
well as their subordinates and employes, sub 
ject to the approval of the Commission. He 
has supervision of all the departments, b 
and divisions created in the charter 


appoints and 


oards 


PeTROSKEY, MicuH.—On July 10, W. R. Cald 
well, who was appointed City Manager of Pe 
toskey on May 1, 1916, tendered his resigna 
tion, and his former assistant, Robert D 
altho not formally appointed to fill the va 
cancy, has taken active charge of the city’s af 
fairs and is said to be giving satisfact 


n 
on 


TEAGUE, TEx.—E. B. St. Clair was appointed 
City Manager in April, ror6. Annual salary 
$1,700. He is 36 years of age. Mr. St. Clair 
was previously cashier and president of a 
Teague bank, serving at the same time as City 
Secretary and Treasurer of Teague. He is 
not a civil engineer. 


Morcanton, N. C—C. T. Cain was ap- 
pointed Town Manager on July 1, 1915, to the 
position vacated by R. W. Pipkin Annual 
salary $900. He is 49 years of age. Mr. Cain 
is a mechanical engineer by profession 

The Morganton charter provides that the 
city government shall be vested in a Mayor 
and two Aldermen, comprising the City Coun- 
cil, by whom the Town Manager is appointed 
His term of office is at the ple asure of the 
Council. 


BLooMFIELD, Iowa.—R. C. Bristow was ap- 
pointed City Manager in April, 1914. His an- 
nual salary is $680. Mr. Bristow is 31 years 
of age, and is not a civil engineer by pro- 
fession. 


BENTONVILLE, ARK.—Edgar Masoner is City 
Manager of Bentonville. Mr. Masoner is 
working under an ordinance of the City Coun 
cil, giving him control of the municipal water 
and light plants. When it was seen that the 
utilities were not paying operating expenses. 
Mr. Masoner made the city a propos: il that he 
be allowed to lease them for a stipulated sum. 
This proposition was evidence to the City 
Council that he could make the water and light 
plants profitable to the city. The ordinance 
gives him general charge also of all the city’s 
affairs. 


INGLEWoop, CAL.—The city of Inglewood has 
discontinued the office of City Manager, which 
had been created by ordinance 


SHERRILL, N. Y.—Chester A. Brown was 
appointed City Manager on June 6, 1916. He 
is 50 years of age. Mr. Brown was previously 
an office man, and has taken an active interest 
in civic affairs for the past twelve years. He 
is not a civil engineer. 

The government of Sherrill is vested in a 
commission of five persons, elected at large, 
who appoint the City Manager, City Clerk, 


























422 THE AMERICAN CITY 


Deputy Clerk, Assessors and Health Officer. 
The Commission is not permitted to contract 
with the Manager for a longer period than two 
years. The City Manager has control over all 
the departments created by the charter. He 
is empowered to appoint or remove the direc- 
tors as well as the subordinate officers and 
employes in those departments. The Commis- 
sion determines the salary of the Manager. 


Hovtvitte, Car.—D. A. Starbuck resigned 
the position of City Manager of Holtville in 
May, 1916, to take care of personal business 
His successor has not been appointed, but his 
former assistant, E. L. Kenny, has been ap- 
pointed superintendent of the departments of 
streets and water, and is also acting as city en- 
gineer. The city’s affairs are being operated 
as formerly, except that Mr. Kenny has no 


Vor. XV, No. 4 


authority over the Police Department. 


Larco, Fra.—G. J. Perkins was appointed 
Town Manager on March 1, 1916, in the posi- 
tion previously filled by J. T. Sauls. Annual 
salary, $720. He is 32 years of age. Mr. 
Perkins was first Superintendent of the Water- 
Works Department in Largo, and when under 
the commission government charter it was de- 
cided to consolidate the offices of Water- 
Works Superintendent and Town Manager, 
Mr. Perkins became also Town Manager. 

Commission government went into effect in 
Largo on June 1, 1913. The town is very 
small, having a population of only 600, and 
one man is able to do all the work that the 
office entails. Besides being Water-Works 
Superintendent, he is Town Marshal, Tax As- 
sessor and Tax Collector. 





The Complete List 


(Arranged alphabetically according to states) 


The following list of City Managers in 
the United States is believed to be complete 
and accurate at the date of compilation, 
September 15, 1916, but the editors of Tue 
AMERICAN City will appreciate having 


their attention called to any errors or omis- 
sions: 


PE ccccnivebtens Robert A. Craig 
EEE, os cneneseeswanns Cc. K. Clarke 
a eee Edgar Masoner 
ee ee Charles E. Hewes 
Bakersfield, Cal.........+e0. . Wallace M. Morgan 
CE EL, cde tacks wanees .T. W. Watson 
SS Ss ct dcbdbnesaueé E, L. Kenny 
Huntington Beach, Cal....... George W. Spencer 
Se re Fred M. Lockwood 
Se Re ee Thomas H. Reed 
San Metadl,: Cahiccsccvevsees F. J. Boland 
De, SBD 6 xcdnsoseveccsad A. F. Hood 
ere J. E. McDaniel 
Civ schosansvcsnceeee G. J. Perkins 

St. Augustine, Fla.........0+ Winton L. Miller 
Se a ee H. H. Sherer 
Wins, Ths <v0b ices sscevcs R. L. Fitzgerald 
Bloomfield, Iowa............ .R. C. Bristow 
Clarinda, Iowa............++. T. A. Wilson 
Iowa Falls, Towa............ .E. L. Marriage 
Webster City, Iowa.......... H. G. Vollmer 
cS errr ee Kenyon Riddle 
Mulberry, Kan..........-++++ J. N. Marion 
Cynthiana, Ky..........+.++. Daniel Durbin 
Norwood, Mass............++ Clarence A. Bingham 
Bia, Ms os oincsneccssnnd Roland Remley 
Alpena, Mich.............++. Harrison G. Roby 
Big Rapids, Mich............ Walter Willits 
Cadillac, Mich...........se0- T. V. Stephens 
Eaton Rapids, Mich.........- Fred Moore 
Grand Haven, Mich.........+ I. R. Ellison 
Jackson, Mich............+++ Gaylord C, Cummin 
Manistee, Mich.........++++.+ Charles E. Ruger 
Petoskey, Mich............++- Robert D. Tripp 
Morris, Mian... .......+0s00 S. A. Siverts 
Glasgow, Mont..........---+- S. C. Moore 
Roswell, N. M....-.+--+++5 .A. G. Jaffa 
Newburgh, N. Y........-+++ .Dr. Henry Wilson 
Niagara Falls, N. Y.......--- O. A. Carr 





i ee See Chester A. Brown 


Elizabeth City, N. C......... J. C. Commander 
PGE) Ut: Mocknwéces dkeoune J. W. Ballew 
Remain Mh Go a soecks ane Cc. T. Cain 
co SS ee «- J. H. Jacocks 
Weeeaneten, Ws Gavekccascvse Frank D. Jones 
TRE, MIRE. 5 806k vo0n08 J. Warren Prine 
SG, Seas .ctesasvenne . Henry M. Waite 
Sandetiy,. Giles on. .ccsccee . Kenneth B. Ward 
Springfield, Ohio............. Charles E. Ashburner 
Westerville, Ohio............. Ray S. Blinn 
Collinsville, Okla...........0- F. A. Wright 
Oe eee Frederick J. Lafky 
8 per John S. Ekey ° . 
| ag , epee . Herbert A. Holstein a 
Benniart, B. Caccvcocecaseun . Harrison G. Otis 
ee as Loins wecu sues J. G. Barnwell 
oe eee J. E. Smith 
Johnson City, Tenn.......... P. F. McDonald 
Resse, Tile skcisscaseves .M. H. Hardin 
Brownsville, Tex.......+.s+0. Frank H. Williams 
NN, Wiha ss cause. dicnses Sam C, Gary 
San Angelo, Tex..........+. E. L. Wells, Jr. 
Deeenteth, THR. 608 ssh ncckens O. J. S. Ellingson 
Tagher, Tak. <cccscevssnvese W. E. Dozier 
Ce er err E. B. St. Clair 
whee: TMs sss cenescesrenwne Clay Hight 
Charlottesville, Va.........+++ A. V. Conway 
Fredericksburg, Va.........-- R. Stuart Royer , 
Gane,  Wiiines sccsccncesesh P. C. Nowlin 
Somnmbete, Viinnsdecsescesisve .S. D. Holsinger 
Winchester, Va. .....-...00s . Arthur M. Field 
Charleston, W. Va......--+++ B. A. Wise 
Williamson, W. Va.......--- O. H. Booton 

+ ¢ 





The city manager form of government 
has been adopted in the following cities, 
taking effect on or after January I, 1917, 
in all except the first two: 

St. Petersburg, Fla......... Effective July, 1916 


Portsmouth, Va...... sevens September, 1916 
Watertown, N. Y.......-+++ S January, 1917 
Wheeling, W. Va......---- » July, 1917 


Santa Barbara, Cal........+- at October, 1917 
East Cleveland, Ohio..,.... » January, 1918 
Zanesville, Obig,;:::+:.+--- “ January, 1018 














, 


_ 


ee a ae eee 











[FIRE PROTECTION | 


PUBLIC 


| TRAFFIC REGULATION | 


















































In the preparation of this department, as announced in the September 


number, THE AMERICAN City has the 
eration of America, 6 East 30th Street, 


cooperation of the Safety First Fed- 


New York. 


How a City Reduced Its Fire Insurance Rates 
By H. E. Wood 


Former Mayor of Joliet, Ill. 


HE fire classification of a city by the 
2 fire insurance companies forms a fair 
gauge of the directed efficiency in its 
several municipal departments. In fact, in 
deciding on a city preferable for a home 
in which to raise a family safely, one cau 
be guided in estimating the service which 
each municipality renders its citizens by the 
comparative fire classification of the sev- 
eral cities under consideration. The rela- 
tion of a city to the fire insurance com- 
panies is purely a business one. The price 
of the insurance which the companies have 
to sell depends on the liability of the occur- 
rence of fires. The liability of the occur- 
rence of fires depends, first, on the pre- 
ventive efficiency of the several depart- 
ments of the municipality, and, second, on 
the ability of the fire and water depart- 
ments to confine and extinguish any fires 
that may start from non-preventive or 
other causes. 

Could America have the advantage of 
trained municipal service coupled with 
longer continuity in office, more rapid prog- 
ress would be made in the prevention of 
fires and in the ability to extinguish fires 
quickly and thus prevent loss. The city 
administration which attempts to lower the 
fire classification of its particular city must 
introduce the principles of service and ef- 
ficiency into every city department, must 
put service as the sole requirement of em- 
ployes, must do away with political favorit- 





ism, and improve the discipline and person- 
nel of its employes. 

The experience of the city of Joliet, Ill. 
in this respect is in point. At the time 
when we began a two-years’ campaign to 
merit a lowering of our fire insurance clas- 
sification, we found a fire department some- 
what defective in equipment and lacking in 
discipline. The men had no pride whatever 
in the record of their department or its 
standing. The water department was lack- 
ing in the volume of water in storage, and 
the machinery was unable to develop a suf- 
ficient amount of water or pressure at any 
given point. 

Many of the business streets and alleys 
were unpaved and there was no fixed sys- 
tém of improved streets leading from the 
fire department stations into the several 
wards, enabling the department to answer 
at speed a call in any part of the city. Lit- 
tle attention had been paid to building ordi- 
nances or to the fact that the construction 
of one fire trap might not only endanger 
life, but would influence the insurance rate 
for blocks around it. Electrical wiring and 
plumbing had been installed at the con- 
venience of the property owner and gen- 
erally in the cheapest manner, so that sev- 
eral places in the down-town district were 
carrying more than a dollar special insur- 
ance charge for defective wiring, and in 
some cases this condition affected neighbor- 
ing buildings. 

The police force had no power under the 

















de oO 

















424 THE AMERICAN CITY 


ordinances to regulate the collection and 
distribution of rubbish in alleys, and gener- 
ally laid the blame for any dirt or rubbish 
upon the street department, which was 
manifestly unable to adequately collect pa- 
pers and rubbish promiscuously thrown into 
the alleys. 

We resolved to remedy this condition. 
First we called in a prominent fire insur- 
ance engineer and carefully considered 
each requirement for a better fire classifica- 
tion. Standard sets of requirements are 
published by the National Board of Fire 
Underwriters, and these were discussed 
with the engineer. We found him just as 
enthusiastic and ready to coéperate for a 
lower classification of the city of Joliet as 
we were ourselves. 

He advised us in relation to necessary 
construction in our water-works and as to 
the equipment of the fire department, and 
thru the inspection bureau of the fire de- 
partment codperated with us in standardiz- 
ing our electric wiring. Many helpful sug- 
gestions were made in relation to building 
ordinances and the general relation and co- 
operation of the several departments of 
the city. 

The matter was then up to us. For al- 
most two years we were busy in raising 
the personnel of our men, their pride in 
their work and the discipline of the several 
departments, up to the standard maintained 
in our most efficient factories and indus- 
tries. 

In the water department a considerable 
volume of pure artesian water was added 
to the supply, and the machinery installed 
made the maintenance of sufficient pressure 
and delivery of the necessary volume of 
pure, clean water a matter of ease. All 
departments were brought into earnest co- 
operation for the service of the municipal- 
ity. The police and street departments 
made short work of garbage and waste 
paper violations, and the city was made 
clean. In the fire department the use of 
liquor was entirely eliminated, disagree- 
ments and factions ceased, and earnest co- 
operation and pride, together with proper 
discipline, were brought about among the 
men. Motor equipment was substituted for 
antiquated horse-driven vehicles, and the 
department was brought up to an efficient 
standard. Thru all this work we had the 
codperation of the engineer of the fire in- 


Vor. XV, No. 4 


surance companies. He assisted us in in- 
spection of all machinery and equipment 
for the fire and water departments, and 
when we were ready for final inspection on 
our request to lower our rates, he conducted 
an exhaustive inspection of all the city de- 
partments. 

One fact should not pass unnoticed in 
this discussion. Many people believe that 
insurance companies are not guided by busi- 
ness principles in fixing rates and care noth- 
ing whether cities are in a higher or a 
lower rating. Just at the time when Joliet 
was being inspected on the question of 
lower rates, we suffered a $100,000 fire loss 
from a non-preventable fire. This fire was 
fought under the most trying circumstances. 
The thermometer registered 20 degrees be- 
low zero, and the fire occurred in the mid- 
dle of the night. However, the water de- 
partment proved that for nine hours under 
such conditions it could deliver the requisite 
amount of water. The fire department 
proved that even under such circumstances 
it could confine a big fire and that the spirit 
and discipline of the men were perfect. 
Instead of preventing us from getting a 
lower rating, this large fire actually dem- 
onstrated that the work necessary for a 
lower rating in the city of Joliet had been 
done, and that conditions were such that 
Joliet merited a full-class lower fire classi- 
fication. Our request for a lower classifica- 
tion was immediately granted by the fire 
insurance companies and is now in effect. 

What the city of Joliet accomplished can 
be brought about in any city by any admin- 
istration controlled by the spirit of ef- 
ficiency and service. Joliet experienced no 
favoritism on the part of the insurance com- 
panies. The companies treated our request 
as a purely business proposition and, as 
soon as we had met the requirements for 
a lower classification, granted the decrease 
in insurance rates to the city in spite of a 
large fire loss. We sought the codperation 
of the company engineers. There was no 
antagonism or suspicion. We raised the 
standard of efficiency and service in our 
city, brought our municipal departments to 
the point where fires were prevented to a 
large degree or where there were favorable 
chances of their being extinguished. Our 
citizens are enjoying the results in lower 
fire insurance rates and better health con- 
ditions. 














425 


The Menace of the Wood Shingle* 


By T. W. Haney 
Chief of the Fire Department, Jacksonville, Fla. 


of Directors of the International 

Association of Fire Engineers, there 
was assigned to me the subject, “Does the 
menace of the wood shingle justify its abo- 
lition?” It was little any of us then pres- 
ent realized that before the paper should be 
presented, the most disastrous results that 
have yet been known on the American con- 
tinent, due to this cause, would have been 
impressively brought to our attention. I 
refer to the sweeping conflagrations that 
occurred last spring at Paris, Tex., Nash- 
ville, Tenn., and Augusta, Ga., conflagra- 
tions that occurred with such short inter- 
vals as to stagger the country and entail a 
total loss of some eighteen million dollars. 

As insurance engineers were promptly on 
the ground and made a thoro and intel- 
ligent study of the causes and effects of 
these fires, with a view to drawing from 
them some lessons for future guidance, the 
information given out as to the prominent 
part played by shingle roofs in spreading 
these fires until they reached the magnitude 
of conflagrations is not a matter of guess- 
work, but comes to us as a statement of 
engineering facts. 

Regarding the Paris, Tex., fire, we find 
the following statements from the State 
Fire Marshal: 

“The swiftness and completeness of the de- 
struction in Paris is probably without parallel 
in the state, and in some respects in the na- 
tion. The destruction is greater in its com- 
pleteness and burned area than that of the 
Baltimore conflagration, in proportion to popu- 
lation. - .. A most important lesson to be 
drawn is the hazard of the shingle roof. Mod- 
ern history does not contain a more perfect 
example of the conflagration hazard that is 
present in every city or town where the shingle 
roof is prevalent. The burning of the busi- 
ness district of Paris was not due to lack of 
fire-fighters; it was not due to the lack of 
water; it was not due to the construction of 
the business district itself, but was primarily 
attributable to the shingle roofs of the resi- 
dence section of the city.” 

I would especially call your attention to 
statistical information that “of the build- 


A T the annual meeting of your Board 





_* From a paper delivered before the recent Conven- 
tion of the International Association of Fire Engi- 
neers. 


ings shown on the Sanborn map of Paris, 
1,440 were destroyed, and of these 1,051, 
or 73 per cent, had combustible roofs,” and 


to the engineers’ recapitulation, “fire 
started in rather small area frame ware- 
house. Spread is directly due to shingle 


roofs, aggravated by high wind, velocity of 
which is possibly overestimated.” 

Next let us consider the Nashville report, 
these excerpts being taken from the report 
of the Tennessee Inspection Bureau, whose 
head office happened to be located in Nash- 
ville, so that the officials were immediately 
on the ground and had every opportunity to 
study this fire from its inception. 

From this report we read: 


“On account of the high wind blowing, the 
fire spread with remarkable speed. The dem- 
onstration of the mistake of covering any kind 
of building with combustible shingle roof was 
even more remarkable. A wide open space 
separated the point where the fire started from 
the rest of this section of the city. Burning 
brands from the thirty-three buildings, burn- 
ing but apparently under control when this 
space was reached, were carried diagonally 
across it, first in a generally easterly direction 
a distance of 1,800 feet, and next in a south- 
east direction a lesser distance. Two second 
and distinct conflagrations were then started 
across this clear space. It is not proper to 
lay too much stress on the high wind blowing 
at the time of the fire. This undoubtedly had 
much to do with its severity and rapid spread, 
but it is idle to suppose that burning brands 
after traveling 1,800 feet would be deposited 
in such quantities as to be uncontrollable had 
fire-resisting roofs been encountered. It is 
likewise a matter of record that burning 
brands have been transported this distance 
from smaller fires with very light breezes 
blowing. This fire demonstrated not only the 
ready combustibility of the wood shingle, but 
also the readiness with which it lends itself 
to the formation of flying brands.” 

Under recapitulation we find “spread is 
directly due to shingle roofs helped by very 
high winds.” 

The last paragraph of the report is of 
especial interest: 

“Major portion of the fire occurred in a sec- 
tion of the city where new installations of 
shingle roofs are prohibited, but a number of 
such roofs are still in evidence and by the time 
fire reached this section the class of roof used 
had ceased to be a factor, thus illustrating the 
































426 THE AMERICAYW 


weakness of any partial restriction of this 
kind.” 

Finally I quote from the report of the 
Southeastern Underwriters on the Augusta 
conflagration : 


“The first building on the south side of 
Broad Street to catch on fire was a frame 
shingle-roof building near Second Street. At 
this time the main body of the fire was be- 
tween Sixth and Seventh Streets, four blocks 
west. This point is of paramount importance 
as demonstrating the part played by shingle 
roofs in this conflagration. It is further 
stated that almost immediately after this build- 
ing ignited, numerous buildings with shingle 
roofs on both sides of Broad Street in this 
vicinity seemed to burst into flame simultane- 
ously, the next block attacked being the north 
side of Broad Street between Second and For- 
sythe. In this block shingle-roof dwellings 
predominated.” 


Under “Lessons to Be Learned from the 
Fire” we find: 

“The danger of shingle roofs and the man- 
ner in which they spread fires beyond the abil- 
ity of a fire department to handle, with ordi- 
nary wind blowing, even when a fair propor- 
tion of the buildings are brick and have non- 
combustible roofs and buildings are not con- 
gested; ond the further fact that wide streets 
do not form a fire break when shingle con- 
struction is present.” 


CITY Vor. XV, No. 4 

In years gone by, when good cypress 
shingles were obtainable, with long life and 
cheap maintenance and no substitutes in the 
shape of fire-resistive coverings other than 
tin, slate or tile, and, again, with lower den- 
sity of population, and consequently more 
land and less congestion of buildings in the 
residence sections of our cities, many con- 
vincing arguments could be adduced as to 
why the wood shingle roof should play its 
part in building operations. That day has 
forever passed. Now, instead of No. 1 
cypress shingles, reliable for life and ser- 
vice, we have, with the decrease of our lum- 
ber supply, low-grade shingles from poor 
lumber, with short life, unreliable service 
and comparatively high prices. In contrast 
with these, we may purchase and put on at 
reasonable prices, fire-resistive prepared 
shingles with guaranteed life, elimination 
of maintenance costs and lower insurance 
rates. And, while such roofings are not 
comparable to tile, concrete, brick, tin or 
slate, nor suitable for roofing buildings in 
congested districts, they are far superior in 
every respect to the wood shingle, and ef- 
fectively eliminate the conflagration hazard 
for which it is responsible. 





Health Instruction 


mentary Schools has just been pub- 

lished in New York, under the aus- 
pices of the Board of Education. It is a 
pamphlet full of interest and inspiration for 
all who are seeking to advance the cause of 
public health by teaching the children how 
to live wisely. 

At the outset the syllabus takes up the 
question of the hygiene of the classroom, 
stating its object to be “to counteract and 
eliminate the health-depressing influences 
of school life.” The subject is treated un- 
der the following heads : 


Adjustment of seats to pupils 
Light arrangements 
Temperature 

Ventilation 

Cleanliness 

Recesses 

. Leaving the room 

. Setting up exercises 


In subsequent sections suggestions for 
the child’s daily routine are given and a 
typical program is outlined. 

The syllabus recommends setting aside 
ten minutes at the beginning of the morn- 
ing session for daily morning hygienic in- 
spection. A typical toothbrush drill is dis- 


A NEW syllabus on Hygiene for Ele- 


Pm Be 1S 


cussed and outlined in detail. Another page 
is given over to symptoms of illness in chil- 
dren, which should be observed by school 
teachers. 

By far the larger part of the syllabus is 
devoted to the subject matter which is to be 
taught. The method is outlined and a 
course of instruction for each half-year of 
the eight grades is suggested in detail by 
weeks. Special topics, such as nature study, 
home hygiene, seasonal hygiene and the 
like, are provided for. A special course on 
“The Care of Children” may be substituted 
for older girls in any grade from 6A up- 
wards, or in special classes. Provision is 
also made for pupils who prepare imme- 
diately for work in a special course on “The 
Hygiene of the Work.” 

There are so many good suggestions in 
the syllabus that it is hard to select any 
that stand above the rest. The pamphlet is 
necessarily condensed, and all the extrane- 
ous matter has been carefully excluded. 
Copies can be secured from the Board of 
Education, Park Avenue and Fifty-ninth 
Street, New York City. 




















Using a Store Show Window for a Health Exhibit 


By Leon Banov 


Assistant City Bacteriologist, Charleston, S. C. 


HOUSANDS of daily were 


deeply interested in a health exhibit 
made several weeks | 


people 
ago yy the 

large 
window of one of the leading mer- 
chants of that city. 
during a clean-up campaign in which nearly 


Charleston health department in a 
show 


The exhibit was shown 


a thousand citizens volunteered their ser- 
vices as inspectors. 
Che health exhibit was made for the pur 


pose of impressing upon the minds of the 
people the close connection between filth 
aimed at 
the fly and the mosquito, against which 
pests Charleston is at present waging a bit- 
ter war. The life history of these two in- 
sects was shown in such a simple but ef- 
manner that the most 
could understand the meaning and become 


and disease, and was particularly 


fective ignorant 


impressed with the importance of getting 


rid of the pests and preventing their ap 
pearance in the home or on the premises. 


One-half of the l 


window represented 





death and disease as bei I é 

nd the mosquito. \ sk h 
huge representation of 

and a mosquito the ( ( 
tracted the eve. Streamers 1 

ran from the mouth of the skelet 


directions, ending at numer 

ing the name of some diseas« 
the 
for transmitting 


or mosquito is consideré 


[The diseases that the fly 


was accused of spreading we | 
fever, infantile diarrhea, dysentet le 


tuberculosis, diphtheria, s] 





glanders and anthrax; the sq born 
liseases mentioned were feve 
dengue, filaria, elephantiasis, v feve 
blackwater fever and seven-day é 

Near the skeleton’s feet iS Se the 
newly made grave of a child, with a b 
stone over it, beside which sh n 
miniature bed holding the dumn e of 
a sick baby The figure of a tr ‘ Si‘ 


stood at the bedside, 


apparet 








‘ 




















THE 


SHOW WINDOW 





HEALTH 





EXHIBIT 




















428 THE AMERICAN CITY 


to the little patient. A sign near the grave 
bore the following inscription: “The angel 
of death may follow in the footsteps of the 
fly and claim one of your dear little ones. 
What are you going to do about it?” 

To correspond with this feature, a card 
near the bed of the sick child reminded one 
that “F-I-L-T-H_ spells disease, while 
C-L-E-A-N-L-I-N-E-S-S spells health.” A 
card over the head of the skeleton im- 


-pressed upon the spectators the fact that 


flies and mosquitoes are general wholesale 
and retail dealers in death and disease. 
As the antithesis of the above, the other 
side of the window showed the benefits to 
be derived from health and sanitation. The 
figure of a graceful woman, holding a card 
marked “HEALTH” in one hand and a 
card marked “SANITATION?” in the other, 
was the central figure of this part of the 
display. Streamers of white ribbon, con- 
trasting with the black ribbons of death, 
ran from her hands to cards bearing the 
following titles: Sunshine, Fresh Air, Pure 
Food, Cleanliness, Personal Hygiene, Sani- 
tation, Pure Water, Clean Milk, Regular 
Habits, Temperance, Happiness, Rest and 
Recreation, Proper Exercise, Dental Hy- 
giene, and last, but not least, Proper Cloth- 
ing. In the midst of these cards the figures 
of children were seen at play, represented 
by large dolls. This group particularly at- 
tracted the children. A little Kewpie, hold- 
ing a bottle of milk larger than itself, was 
one of the features of the group. A card 
over the woman’s figure said “Sunshine and 
Sanitation bring Health and Happiness.” 
In the center of the window two tabou- 
rets were arranged, each holding a large 
glass bowl such as are used for goldfish. 


Vor. XV, No. 4 


In one of the jars a mosquito had been pre- 
viously allowed to deposit its eggs, resulting 
in a mass of “wiggle-tails’ which darted 
about the water, coming up to breathe every 
now and then. Toward the end of the ex- 
hibit hundreds of fully developed mos- 
quitoes had emerged from the water and 
were flying about in the upper portion o1 
the jar, which, of course, was screened. 

The other jar contained a quantity of 
rubbish and filth in which some flies had 
laid their eggs. These eggs were hatched 
into larve, developed into pup, and finally 
emerged as fully developed flies, which 
were also prevented from escaping by a 
screen cover over the jar. 

The immediate front of the window con- 
tained preserved specimens depicting the 
life history of the fly and the mosquito, 
showing the eggs, larve, pupe and fully 
developed insects. Instruction cards in the 
window told how to fight the fly and mos- 
quito and what could be done to extermi- 
nate the pests. Epitomizing the advice 
given on these cards, there was a card read- 
ing, “No Loose Water—No Mosquitoes,” 
and another, “No Filth—No Flies.” 

Incidental features of the display were 
two stuffed rats and some roaches and ticks, 
which were accused of being parasites and 
disseminators of disease. 

To give the display variety, daily health 
bulletins were posted every morning, and 
the progress of infantile paralysis and other 
epidemics was shown from day to day. 

The exhibit, altho costing the health de- 
partment very little, proved very successful, 
and every hour of the day or evening thru- 
out the week groups of persons could be 
seen viewing the display. 





Figures Show a Safer, Saner Fourth 


Figures recently compiled by the Ameri- 
can Medical Association show a gratifying 
decrease in the number of accidents on July 
fourth. 

This year there were 30 deaths directly 
due to fireworks. Of these, 10 persons 
were burned to death by fire from fire- 
works, 9 deaths were from gunshot wounds, 
4 from explosions of toy cannons, 3 from 
explosions of powder, 3 from blood-poison- 
ing following more or less minor injuries 
from fireworks, and one person was killed 
by a mammoth firecracker. The. most se- 


rious fact presented this year is that 10 
persons, mostly small children, were burned 
to death by fire from fireworks, most cases 
being caused by the supposedly “harmless” 
varieties. 

There were 820 non-fatal injuries this 
year, or 315 less than last year, and 646 
less than in 1914. Ten lost one eye each, 
9 lost legs, arms or hands, and 24 lost 
one or more fingers. The totals of the 


more severe injuries have markedly de- 
creased, these being the smallest reported 
This year 222 injuries 


during 14 years. 








— 


I he en ee 


Pee 


Ocroner, 1916 


were due to the giant firecracker. Fire- 
arms, stray bullets and cannons caysed 202 
injuries, including 13 deaths. In 13 years 
a total of 44,801 persons were killed or in- 
jured in the celebration of the Fourth of 
July. 

As has been repeatedly stated in these 
reports of the American Medical Associa- 
tion, the responsibility for the great major- 
ity of Fourth of July injuries clearly rests 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


429 


with city governments. Rigidly enforced 
prohibitive ordinances in 43 of our largest 
cities would practically remove this na- 
tional disgrace. 

There is no doubt of the beneficial results 
of such prohibitive ordinances. Since 1908 
the number of deaths has been reduced by 
them from 215 to 30; the deaths from lock- 
jaw from 125 to none, and the totals of 
deaths and injuries from 5,460 to &so. 





“Let Us Make Oakland First in Safety” 


HE above slogan was used during the 
‘y recent Safety First Week held in the 
city of Oakland, Cal., and was the 
means of creating a great deal of interest 
in the subject of public safety. The cam- 
paign was conducted by W. R. Humphries, 
President of the Safety First Association 
of California, and was thoroughly backed 
up by the civic organizations and others 
interested in getting the subject before the 
people. 

Mr. Humphries was brought to Oakland 
by the Alameda County Auto Trade Asso- 
ciation, the general chairman of the cam- 
paign committee being Robert W. Mart- 
land, President of the Association. 

Seven days were consumed by the work 





handed to pedestrians and children, and de- 
livered through the aid ef the grocers and 
the dry goods merchants to thousands of 
homes. The tags contained Safety First in- 
junctions as applied to pedestrians and chil- 
dren, and to the problem of fire prevention. 
[Tuesday was designated as Watch Your 
Step Day, special attention being given to 
the rights and wrongs of pedestrians. Hand 
Out Day came Thursday, on which the need 
of proper signaling with the hand by 
drivers of automobiles was emphasized. 
This was Courtesy, Corner and Caution 
Day. The Boy Scouts assisted the traffic 
police and did all in their power to instill 
“horse sense” in the minds of motor vehi- 
cle drivers. Friday was termed Lucky Day 










THE POINT OF 


of the committee. The first day was a 
Pennant Day, during which over 6,000 
pennants, with the aid of the Boy Scouts, 
were attached to the wind-shields of auto- 
mobiles. On these pennants was printed a 
great deal of Safety First advice to drivers, 
together with the program for the week, an 
invitation to drivers of motor vehicles to 
join in the parade on Saturday, and an 
arrow showing the right of way at an in- 
tersection. 

Monday was Tag Day, and tags were 


All Traffic Crossing Your Path from the Right has the Right of Wa 


PUT THIS ON YOUR WINDSMHIELD—TINS SIDE TOWAKDS YOU 






appreciation by Joining ihe gerade 
soe ail in your power fur Matety 


your 

rd 

OxmLano FETY FIRST CAMPAIGN 
Counivtee 


* THE PENNANT 


and care was given to the testing and ad- 
justing of brakes. 

The campaign closed on Saturday with a 
big parade in which more than 900 auto- 
mobiles took part. Immediately after the 
parade a series of First Aid demonstra- 
tions was given with the codperation of 
the Oakland Fire and Police Departments. 
There were demonstrations of the lung mo- 
tor, and the afternoon was spent to great 
advantage by the many interested spec- 
tators, who thoroly enjoyed the entertain- 


























430 THE 
ment furnished by the campaign com- 
mittee, 

The following summary of work per- 
formed may be of interest: 

During the week 42,000 pieces of Safety 
First matter were distributed and fifteen- 
minute talks were made to all the pupils of 
the Oakland schools. The subject of Safety 
First was brought to the attention of all 
fraternal and church organizations. The 
members of the Oakland Chamber of Com- 
merce were requested to take up the matter 
with their employes, and the audiences of 
twenty-four theatres and moving picture 
houses were reached by the means of 
Safety First slides 

\ number of garages have painted safety 
lines on the sidewalks in front of their 
places of business, and the auto laws of the 
state, together with the rules of the road, 
have been published in four Japanese news- 
papers. The demonstrations given to the 
Japanese drivers of the city of Oakland 
were greatly appreciated, and a Safety First 
Committee has been formed by the Poly- 
technic students. 

The Safety First Association of Califor- 
nia, which was organized by Mr. Humph- 
ries, with headquarters in the Security 
Bank Building of Oakland, is doing good 
work. At the present time a campaign 
similar to the Oakland one is being con- 
ducted in Stockton, Cal., under the auspices 


AMERICAN CITY 





a 


Vor. XV, No. 4 














THE PENNANT ON THE WIND-SHIELD 


Held in position by Gilbert D. Keitle, Vice-President 
of the Stockton Junior Chamber of Commerce 


of the Junior Chamber of Commerce, an 
organization of sixty young men. 





New Bureau of Standards for Safety Devices 


T a series of conferences held in New 
A York last month, the officers and 
directors of the Safety First Fed- 
eration of America instituted a Bureau of 
Standards to investigate the merits of va- 
rious safety devices. This Bureau, after 
thoro investigation, is to recommend to the 
directors for approval such devices sub- 
mitted to it as have measured up to the 
standards which will be adopted. If the 
directors approve the report and officially 
endorse the device, permission will be 
granted to the manufacturer, under certain 
restrictions, to use the official emblem of 
the Safety First Federation in his adver- 
tising and to stamp each article so endorsed 
with the Federation’s emblem, and _ the 
words “Inspected and Approved by the 
Bureau of Standards, Safety First Federa- 
tion of America, Inc.” 





The personnel of the Bureau of Stand- 
ards includes President Darwin P. Kings- 
ley as Chairman; Ernest P. Goodrich, for- 
merly Consulting Engineer of the Borough 
of Manhattan, now Assistant Director of 
the Bureau of Municipal Research in New 
York, and Consulting Engineer of the 
Federation; E. E. Rittenhouse, ex-Presi- 
dent of the Life Extension Institute, now 
Commissioner, Public Service and Con- 
servation, Equitable Life Assurance So- 
ciety; Charles L. Bernheimer, President 
of the Safety First Society of New York, 
Treasurer of the Federation; William 
Guerin, ex-Chief of the Fire Preven- 
tion Bureau of the City of New York, 
Chairman of the Federation’s Committee 
on Fire Prevention; George H. Robertson, 
Automobile Expert and Chairman of the 
Automobile Technical Committee of the 











« 


; 





1 











ee ae 


RE wd, se 


OcrToBEeR, 1916 


Federation; Joseph Tracy, Consulting En- 
gineer; William Bondy, General Counsel of 
the Federation. 


Plans for Enlarged Membership 

Comprehensive plans for enlarging the 
membership and extending the work of the 
Federation were also mapped out during 
these conferences. Within a short time in- 
vitations will be extended to many cham- 
bers of commerce, automobile clubs, motor 
boat and yacht clubs, women’s clubs and 
other organizations interested in public 
safety work, to become affiliated with the 
Federation and to take part in carrying the 
Safety First doctrine to the public 


Street Crossing Campaign 

Plans were also perfected for a nation- 
wide campaign to educate pedestrians to 
use the crosswalks instead of crossing the 
streets diagonally or in the middle of the 
block For the purpose of raising funds to 
carry on this campaign, an appeal was 
authorized to the owners of all motor vehi- 
cles to contribute sums of $1 or more, the 
campaign to be conducted thru the con- 
stituent organizations of the Federation 
and thru the cooperation of the newspapers 
thruout the country. 


Change of Secretaries 


\t one of the meetings, the resignation 


THE AMERICAN CITY 431 


and report of Frederick H. Elliott, the re- 
tiring Secretary, were received and ac 
cepted with regret. Mr. Elliott, as Secre- 
tary of the Safety First Society of New 
York, was one of the moving factors in the 
organization of the Federation and has 
been its Executive Secretary from the be- 
ginning. He is succeeded as Executive 
Secretary of the Federation by Wayne D 
Heydecker, formerly Assistant Secretary of 
the City Club of New York and recently 
Field Secretary of the American City 
Bureau. 


Baltimore Convention 


The second annual convention of the 
Federation will be held in Baltimore on De- 
cember 7, 8 and 9, at which time the mem- 
bers of the Federation will be the guests of 
the Safety First Society of Baltimore. 
Convention and Program Committees have 
been appointed by the Baltimore Society, 
and invitations will shortly be issued to the 
many organizations interested in safety first 
work, to send delegates. Among the impor- 
tant questions which will come up for con- 
sideration at this convention is that of uni- 
form traffic signals. A report on this sub- 
ject will be presented for approval by the 
Street Traffic Committee of the Federation 
thru its Chairman, Police Commissioner 
John Gillespie, of Detroit. 





Recent Publications Treating of Public Safety 


Traffic Conditions in New Haven, Conn. 

\ report on the traffic conditions in New 
Haven, Conn., has been recently presented 
to the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of 
that city by a voluntary citizens’ commit- 
tee. Some of its recommendations have 
already been adopted. It involves sugges 
tions regarding streets and sidewalks, po 
licing and traffic regulations, trolley traffic, 
street lighting, ordinances and pavements 
(Copies may be obtained from Donald A 
Adams, Treasurer, The Civic Federation 
of New Haven, Conn.) 

Safety First for Vocational Schools 

An 89-page illustrated pamphlet with 
the above title has been prepared by Lewis 
\. Wilson, Specialist in Industrial Schools, 
for the University of the State of New 
York. The study has been issued as Bul 
letin No. 621 of that institution, dated 
\ugust 15, 1916. It contains detailed in 
formation in regard to safety measures in 
the various trades and occupations, gen- 
eral safeguarding rules, lists of references 
and the like. (Copies may be obtained 
from the University, Albany, N. Y.) 


Gas Explosions in Sewers 

[he causes of explosions in sewers and 
the means by which such explosions may 
be prevented are discussed in a pamphlet 
entitled “Quantity of Gasoline Necessary 
to Produce Explosive Conditions in Sew 
ers,’ which has recently been prepared for 
the United States Bureau of Mines by 
G. A. Burrell and H. T. Boyd. The study 
comprises a series of tests which were 
conducted by the Bureau of Mines and the 
city of Pittsburgh working in codperatior 
(In writing the Bureau at Washington for 
copies reference should be made to Tech 
nical Paper No. 117.) 

Book Lists on Public Health 

Three lists of public health books have 
been compiled by the New York State De 
partment of Health and are now bei 
distributed thruout the state. The list 
contain from twenty-four to forty-two 
standard books and pamphlets dealing 
with the various aspects of the new publi 
health and cost $10, $25 and $s0 respec- 
tively. (Copies may be obtained from 


the Department, Albany, N. Y.) 














Three Years of Municipal Improvements in 
Corpus Christi 


By H. M. Butler 


National Field Scout Commissioner, Boy Scouts ot America 


HE spring of 1913 found the little 
Py city of Corpus Christi an ill- 
lighted, poorly served, sandy and 
run-down tourist resort on the southeast 
coast of Texas. Located on Nueces Bay, 
with the balmy and cooling breezes of the 
southeast trade winds and the annual en- 
campment of the Texas Epworth League as 
its chief points of inducement to the tourist 
from whom it derives its living, it struggled 
on in sloth and despondency. Corpus 
Christi could not boast of a single block 
of paved street in all of its sand. It had 
but a few miles of sidewalk paving to aid 





its citizens or guests in getting about when 
the worn-out and decrepit street cars re- 
fused to run. Its water supply was weak 
and ineffective, and the only fire protection 
was by a volunteer company. A bald and 
unsightly bluff frowned on the business 
portion of the city. Yet because of its 
really delightful climate, even temperature, 
beautiful sea beach, and the medicinal 
qualities of a sulphur well, Corpus Christi 
lived on and refused to be dismayed. 

The year of 1916 finds Corpus Christi 
with twelve miles of well-paved streets and 
two more under construction. Now about 













“/ 


Wer nsteesdhatow balbhcee cree v0 







a 
Pethaed 


— 














THE FIRE DEPARTMENT 


OF CORPUS CHRISTI 


The apparatus is drawn up in front ot the new City Building, which houses the city offices, police station, 
jail, council chamber, National Guard armory, Boy Scouts’ headquarters, the Commercial Club, markets, 
several pieces of motor-driven apparatus, and provides quarters for the Fire Department. The piece of 
apparatus shown is of the American-La France make, with Dayton airless tires 








—— ch 


Wl “Wines eee 


4 


—— C/o 














phe 


uate 


>, ence 


Octane eRetoe . 


cial Warr arn 


OctToper, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 

















NUECES BAY CAUSEWAY 


9,000 feet long, spanning tl Nueces River It 


seventeen miles of sanitary sewer, as new) 
against less than eight miles three years model 
ago, and nine miles of storm sewer (all  erecte 


keep the city sweet 


‘ } 
an 


i 


clean. 


\ 


unit system garbage crematory plant, 


1 at the cost of $13,000, takes care of 











THE BLUFF APPROACH HIDING AN UNSIGHTLY ADOBE CLIFI 


The plans for the bluff improvements in Corpus Christi were presented in an ar 


Tue American City for March, 1915 


ticl 


e 


on 

















434 THE AMERICAN CITY 

















CORPUS CHRISTI IS 


Formerly these houses faced an ungraded road: 


all refuse. A new City Building houses 
the city offices, police station, jail, council 
chamber, National Guard armory, Boy 
Scout headquarters, Commercial Club, mar- 
kets and several pieces of motor-driven fire 
apparatus, and also provides quarters for 
a paid fire department. The city is now 
lighted by 289 arc lights and well-hung in- 
candescents. The old water system insti- 
tuted in 1892 has been supplemented by a 
thoroly up-to-the-minute plant which has 
cost the city $300,000. In one year over 
fifteen miles of water mains were laid. A 
good channel thru Aransas Pass gives ac- 
cess to the $50,000 municipal wharf 
Especially noteworthy has been the im- 
provement in the appearance of the adobe 
bluff overlooking the business section. A 
parapet of excellent and serviceable design 
now graces the bluff, and is flanked by a 
terraced lawn of great beauty. The im- 
provement in the streets, due to the paving 


A CITY OF HOMES 


ow they have the advantage of Bitulithic pavement 


and grading, has aided the street railway 
company, and it has responded by improv- 
ing its own stock, until now the cars run 
regularly and with certainty and are them- 
selves of improved construction. General 
building has improved with the develop- 
ment of the streets and the addition of ade- 
quate fire protection. 

Practically all of these improvements ar« 
the results of the painstaking and efficient 
work of the present Mayor, Roy Miller, 
and his Commissioners. They are a happy 
and faithful family of city lovers and home 
builders, who have always acted unani- 
mously on matters of importance. Not- 
withstanding the extent of the improve- 
ments made, the tax rate has remained al- 
most the same. It was $1.50 when Mayor 
Miller took office. It subsequently dropped 
to $1.40, and since the sale of the muni- 
cipal bonds, made necessary by the water 
plant, has risen to $1.63. 


























— 


* 


= ar 





Strength of Brick and Concrete Highway 
Surfacing* 


By LeRoy 


SERIES of important tests covering 

the strength of brick and concrete 

highway surfacing has been con- 
ducted recently at Seattle, Wash., upon the 
recommendation of Floyd W. Allen, County 
Engineer. These tests were undertaken 
with two primary objects in view: 


1. To secure accurate and reliable data as to 
the most effective combination of elements 
which constitute the strength of a vitrified 
brick highway surface, 
embracing, as well, the 


W. Allison 


struction has been studied in these invest 


gations, and it is estimated that this tvnpe 


of construction will reduce the avera 


ge cost 
of brick paving from about $2.60 per sq. vd 
to $1.90 per sq vd , OF an approximate Sav- 
ing of about $8,000 per mile for a 20-ft 


wide pavement. 
This monolithic type of construction dif 
fers from the present standard method in 


the elimination of the sand cushion ordi 





strength of other stan 
dard types of surfacing. 

2. To determine a suit- 
able basis for a method 
of construction which 
would reduce the present 
cost of the installation 
of brick pavement with 
sand cushion. 

In carrying out these 
experiments, considera- 
tion was given to the ex- 
isting wide variation be- 
tween the cost of a grav- 
eled surface and that of 
the high-grade brick sur- 
face as now ordinarily 
constructed. Present- 
day traffic conditions in 
many municipalities de- 
mand a stronger road 
surfacing than gravel or 














macadam, but local funds THE 
frequently will not per- 
mit the initial outlay 
required to build a vitrified brick surface 
on a concrete base, and which, in the !ong 
run, is a most economical type of highway. 
\ surfacing having a low initial cost and, 
at the same time, the qualifications to ren- 
der the long service of the brick highway, 
is much to be desired. 

The so-called “monolithic method” of con- 


POINT OF 


* Eprror’s Note.—This article is published not only 
because of the probable value of the tests described, 
but also as an interesting example of the painstaking 
study of problems of highway engineering now being 
made in various parts of the United States. It should 
be borne in mind, of course, that ultimate conclu 
sions must be based upon the results of a large num 
ber of such tests. This is apparent in view of the 
wide differences to be found in the quality of struc 
tural materials, and the variations which result from 
different mixtures, 


RUPTURE IN A BEAM PRESSURE TEST ON A 


TYPICAL CONCRETE BASE COURSE 


narily used between the _ brick-wearing 
course and the concrete; the bricks are 
zrouted firmly to the base, making this bas« 
and the wearing course a single, substantial 
monolithic body. 

Brick pavement for a trial test was laid 
in 1915 on a section of the Orillia-Renton 
Junction road, Washington, embracing an 
area about 125 ft. long and 20 ft. wide. In 
this test section a base course of I-2-4 con- 
crete, 4 in. thick, was laid, and on this base, 
while still soft, a ™%4-in. layer of cement 
mortar, of 1-5 mixture, was spread. The 
bricks were laid directly in the soft mortar, 
leveled with a hand roller and grouted with 


i 




















436 THE AMERICAN CITY 


a I-I mixture. In laying the brick the 
wire-cut side was exposed to the surface 
wear, instead of the more usual practice of 
exposing the die-cut side as the wearing 
surface. The brick used measured 834 x 4 x 
2% in. The test section has been subjected 
to traffic since the time of installation and 
has evidenced no signs of wear. 

To secure first hand data and anticipate 
the practical test of traffic and time on this 
type of construction, extensive laboratory 
tests were made at the plant of the Denny 
Renton Clay & Coal Company, Seattle, by 
Charles A. Newhall, engineer, to whom the 
writer is indebted for information. Test 
slabs formed of actual paving mixtures and 
of commercial materials were broken when 
forty-eight days old. Each slab measured 
about 72 x 21 in., the depth of the different 
slabs ranging from 2% to 11% in. All 
full-sized slabs were loaded at the center 
of a 66-in. span. 

Testing apparatus was devised as shown 
in the accompanying illustration. These 
tests indicate that: 

1. The present method of constructing a 
brick highway is not the most economical, in 
that the best use of the two courses is not 
secured. 

2. A monolithic construction, where the 
brick-wearing course is held firmly to the base, 





Vor. XV, No. 4 


secures the full value to both the concrete 
base course ard the brick-wearing course. 

3. Monolithi: construction with a 1-3-6 base 
and 234-in. brick carries nearly two and a half 
times the actual loading of the same thickness 
of base and standard construction. 

The accompanying figures, based upon 
the Orillia Road installation, set forth a 
comparison of the cost of standard type of 
brick paving and that of a monolithic type, 
indicating a saving of $8,201 per mile of 
construction. 


Cost Per Sq. Yd. 
Standard Monolithic 


Item Type Type 
DORR niin tacccncse’s $ .0225 $ .0200 
Cas® SO0UES .cccccscses 0224 0020 
Concrete base 1-3-6 and 

CD. capesnsds Oeaseus .6548 
Concrete base 1-2-4, no 

OD. ban vewans wens s« seave 4800 
Brick blocks, 43 per sq. 

ons ae eo 1.3721 
Flat bricks, 38 per sq. 

We, BE Eine vi deeseve aon .8500 
CG sneak us ohn ee .0166 poe 
Mortar bed 1-8......... ones .1400 
Expansion joints ...... 161 .0300 
Material haul .......... 0854 .0650 
DO esrirveinnsseres .0035 .0020 
Grout, 1-1, and culling. . 0750 .0550 
Water, watchmen, etc... 0909 0800 
ShemkSers 2c ccscecccccs 062 0060 

BOG: oe cckandionss $2.3655 $1.7300 


Ten per cent contractor's 
profit and overhead 


SEE capt eeeeentees 2365 .1730 
Se GE. cine vas $2.6020 $1,9030 
ee PERC eT Ee 6990 


Cost per mile, 20-ft. wide, standard type, $30,529. 
Cost per mile, 20-ft. wide, monolithic type, $22,327.90. 
Saving per mile, $8,201.10. . 





The “Old Way” versus the “White Way” 


HERE was hardly a fireside 
i. that did not have a repre- 
sentative somewhere along 
the parade route on the night of 
the formal opening of the white 
way in Oklahoma City last July. 
Mayor Overholser led the pro- 
cession, in which every city de- 
partment was represented. This 
was Oklahoma City’s first muni- 
cipal parade, and in it were 
shown more than one hundred 
pieces of city equipment. 

As the illumination from the 
eighty-four 1,600-candle-power 
lights transformed the darkness 
on Main Street to brilliance, a 
chorus of auto horns “honked” 
applause and approval. In the 
crowd of 30,000 spectators were 
old men who had seen the city 
grow from the “kerosene stage” 





The Oklahoma 


. City Lighting 
to white way grandeur; to them y Bee 


and many others the municipal 
parade was a revelation, for few 
of them had ever realized how 
many people compose the munici- 
pal family or how much of the 
city's money is invested in rolling 
stock and equipment. 

The speech by which the white 
way was accepted for the citizens 
of Oklahoma City was made by 
Commissioner Donnelly, of the 
department of accounting and 
finance. As a closing event of 
the celebration, a municipal street 
dance was held, the proceeds of 
which—$6o—were turned over to 
the milk and ice fund. 

The lamps along the white way 
are of the General Electric lumi- 
nous arc type, 6.6 ampere, and the 
posts are of pressed steel and are 
manufactured by the Union Metal 
Manufacturing Company. Steel 











—_- 








OcToRER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 























’ 
— 
THE OLD WAY OF LIGHTING IN OKLAHOMA ( 
tape d cable was used, inserte d abou 4 out con luit, is th S Cal le : it 
inches below the surface of the street, with lhe cost of the white way w t $1.3 
. 
‘ 














THE BRILLIANCE OF THE WHIT! VAY IN OKLAHOMA CITY 




















438 THE AMERICAN CITY 


per front fogt, including the laying of the 
cable, and was defrayed by the property 
owners and merchants. Current is supplied 


Vor. XV, No. 4 


by the Oklahoma Gas & Electric Company, 
and the expense of it is borne by the muni- 
cipality. 





Esthetics and the Water Department* 


By A. J. Sproles 
Superintendent, Greenwood (S. C.) Water and Electric Light Plant 


HIS subject is a comprehensive one, 
. but for the present we will confine 
ourselves to the landscaping and 
beautifying of the department’s source of 
supply, or the impounding basin, by all the 
means that the God of nature has provided. 
This is primarily a utilitarian age and 
everything is commercialized within cer- 
tain limits. Even water, light and air, once 
thought to be absolutely free, now have 
an intrinsic value, according as we get them 
when, where and how we want them. The 
when and how of a water supply means 
abundance, cleanliness and purity, first and 
all the time. Having safeguarded these, 
we turn our attention to some of the mate- 
rial things that beautify the grounds sur- 
rounding our pumping station, filter, plant 
or reservoir. 

There are many ways in which this may 
be done, and many points from which a 
start may be made. The source of supply 
is preéminently the place to begin. This 
should be the cleanest, most attractive and 
most beautiful spot in any town or city—in 
fact, some of us have no other place for a 
beauty spot. And yet even these grounds 
should not be embellished on such an elabo- 
rate scale as to be crowded, in bad taste, a 
burden to the taxpayers or embarrassing to 
the water department. In the nature of the 
case most water plants are surrounded by 
hills and dales, forests and streams, which 
under nature’s lavish hand furnish ideal 
conditions for parking without very great 
expense in the development. 

Of course noxious weeds should be kept 
down and unsightly objects removed, but 
this is not enough; nature’s useful orna- 
ments, trees, shrubs, plants, flowers and 
grass should be grown in rich profusion. 
If not already growing, they should be 
planted, selections being made, according to 
individual taste, from the endless varieties 


* From an address at the recent convention of the 
Tri-State Water and Light Association. 


of each. The whole should be made a 
squirrel and bird sanctuary, of which we 
hear so much nowadays, for the encourage- 
ment and protection of these little furry 
friends and certain of our native birds. For 
the most pretentious, of course, an added 
attraction would be a zoo and an aviary for 
wild animals and alien birds. 

If the development is to be made on an 
extensive scale, the services of a competent 
landscape artist should be secured. This is 
the more important if just a little is to be 
done each year, so that when finished the 
whole will present a complete picture ac- 
cording to a plan. Important as it is in its 
own place, an athletic park or playground 
is not necessarily a part of this esthetic 
development, tho not at all objectionable if 
space permits. It should be borne in mind 
that the esthetic and the athletic cannot o¢- 
cupy the same ground. 

The diversified beauties of nature are 
not only ornamental and uplifting, but are 
also economic, useful, helpful and healthful 
anywhere and everywhere, but nowhere 
more so than when massed, grouped and 
habituated to the grounds around the 
source of our water-supply, furnishing a 
pleasant and tonic retreat for meditation, 
rest and recreation. 

There may be some curiosity as to what 
has been done on our premises at Green- 
wood. I am frank to say, not as much as 
I would like, but as much as I could accom- 
plish without an appropriation for this pur- 
pose. 

About one mile from town we have an 
&5-acre tract of beautiful meadow and 
woodland for which nature has done much 
—a natural park, to which we have added 
a little from year to year. Our people are 
beginning to wake up to a realization of 
the possibilities and the necessity for park- 
ing the entire tract, for erecting suitable 
buildings, ete. An ideal development on 
that site is assured for the near future. 








Octoper, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 























ee 
‘ 
PARTIAL VIEW OF LAWN AND LILY POND, MUNICIPAL WATER AN LECTR rIGl 
PLANT, GREENWOOD, §S . 
be : 
. 














THE RESERVOIR AND A PORTION OF THE ROSARY AT THE MUNICIPAL WATER WV KS 
OF GREENWOOD, S. C. 





440 


Motor Apparatus for the Fire Protection | 
of Municipalities 




















LITTLE ROCK, ARK., FIRE STATION, SHOWING AUTOMOBILE FIRE APPARATUS 




















AMERICAN-LA FRANCE COMBINATION FIRE TRUCK, WITH GOODYEAR TIRES, DENVER, COLO 








ICTOBER 1916 THE AM ERICAN Gis e 441 
































@ 
y 

HARLEY-DAVIDSON SIDE-CAR MOTOR CYCLE, WITH FIRESTONI! l S 

IN USE BY THE FIRE DEPARTMENT OF CHICAGO 
It carries chemical extinguishers terns, axes, and othe 

* 
. 

KNOX TRACTOR WITH AERIAL TRUCK, USED BY THE FIRE DEPARTMENT, 

KANSAS CITY, MO. 





= or ~weews 





442 








The Use of Motor Trucks in the Care of City 
and Country Streets and Roads 











~ 
’ 








KELLY-SPRINGFIELD 5-TON TRUCK OWNED BY WARREN COUNTY, MISS 





—— y - 


ge 





° 
* ae 
= BK g's 

a Te 

Soo 
~ 











FEDERAL SPRINKLING 





TRUCK OWNED BY THE CITY OF THREE RIVERS, QUEBEC 








bit aoe 


at 


_W 





hag lay 


1 it: eli 


a 














News and Ideas for Commercial and 
Civic Organizations 








HE vga ngage ngs mgs OA OAHAMOMAMIM INSU LUIS 





0 04808 O40 AMO MOOG MED 


Abstracts of the Convention Papers 





secretaries. 





The annual convention of the National Association of Commer- 
cial Organisation Secretaries is in session in Cleveland, Ohio, as 
this issue of Tut AMERICAN City is being printed. Thru the cour- 
tesy of Howard Strong, of Minneapolis, Secretary of the Associa- 
tion, advance copies of the seven principal papers were furnished 
to this magazine. From these the following abstracts have been 
prepared. The convention program, published in full in the Sep- 
tember issue, includes also informal “round table” discussions on 
eight other subjects of importance to commercial organization 








National Bureau of Organization 
Service 

The following is an abstract of the paper 
on the work of this Bureau, presented by 
Colvin B. Brown, its Chief: 

rhe Organization Service Bureau of the 
Chamber of Commerce of the United States 
was established in August, 1915, pursuant 
to a plan of codperation between the Na- 
tional Chamber and the National Associa- 
tion of Commercial Organization Secre- 
taries, subsequently concurred in by the 
Association of National Trade Organiza- 
tion Secretaries. Organization was effected 
by the appointment of an Advisory Com- 
mittee of nine members. The policies of 
the Bureau are determined upon in consul- 
tation with the Advisory Committee. The 
carrying out of the policies is left to the 
Chief of the Bureau. 

The purpose of the Bureau is to collect 
from the organizations of the country accu- 
rate information concerning the methods 
pursued by them in their various activities 
and to distribute this information in answer 
to inquiries and thru such publications as 
may be agreed upon. The Bureau is not a 
director nor an advisor. It is distinctly a 
clearing house of information for and be- 


tween the organizations of the country. 
Its success will depend upon the coopera- 
tion which it receives from organization 
secretaries. 

In the acquiring of information four 
questionnaires have been sent out, one on 
Commercial Organization Structure and 
Method, a second on Trade Organization 
Structure and Method, a third on Member- 
ship Maintenance and Increase, and a 
fourth on Traffic Bureaus. Replies to these 
are tabulated as received, the information 
therein listed and interpreted, and the re- 
sult made known thru The Nation's Busi- 
ness and in answering inquiries. The more 
important information will be listed in 
pamphlet form. 

Documents consisting of annual and spe- 
cial organization reports and house organs 
have been read and reference index made 
of subject matter of interest they contain. 
Letters of inquiry have been sent out for 
the purpose of obtaining detailed informa- 
tion concerning matter of importance con- 
tained in these reports and house organs. 
Data so gathered, together with data re- 
ferred to in the subject index, has been 
made available for the answering of in- 
quiries. 

Of the 125 activities of commercial or- 





























444 THE AMERICAN CITY 


ganizations, some information concerning 
which has already been gathered, it is im- 
possible to give more than a brief mention, 
but the method pursued in regard to any 
one of these is the method being pursued 
in regard to all. The Bureau, for instance, 
has begun the collection of effective argu- 
ments used in securing members. These 
arguments have been’ gathered from 
speeches at meetings and banquets and re- 
corded in annual reports, house organs and 
newspapers; from copies of letters from 
organizations to prospects, from reports of 
membership committees and from news- 
paper editorials where campaigns have been 
conducted. In time it should be possible to 
give any secretary a list of arguments that 
have been used effectively in every part of 
the country, no two of which are entirely 
alike and each of which is compelling. In 
connection with this a collection is being 
made of effective letters to prospects and 
successful methods of membership sales- 
manship. 

The rapidity with which information on 
these many subjects is gathered, and its 
completeness and accuracy, will depend 
upon the codperation which the Bureau re- 
ceives from the secretaries of the country. 
It is from them that the information must 
come. The Service Bureau is simply a 
reservoir into which information from 
many sources is filtered and into which all 
may dip. 

+ + 


Secretarial Efficiency and the Col- 
lege, from the Standpoint of 
the College 


The paper on this subject was presented 
by Prof. Alfred Leslie Smith, of the Amos 
Tuck School of Commerce, Dartmouth Col- 
lege. In it he gives a concrete analysis of 
the method of instruction employed at the 
Tuck School in training men to enter the 
commercial executive profession, and the 
reasons therefor. Altho his treatise is 
based on the work done at this school, Pro- 
fessor Smith has aimed to enunciate gen- 
eral principles applicable to any like de- 
partment of instruction. He says: 

“In education for this particular profession 
efficiency of instruction depends in turn upon 
the successful solution of four problems, 
namely: (1) the problem of obtaining the cor- 
rect human material; (2) the problem of de- 
termining, gathering and arranging the neces- 
sary and the best subject matter; (3) the 








Vor. XV, No. 4 


problem of developing and using the methods 
of instruction best adapted to the needs of this 
field of education; (4) the problem of so plac- 
ing graduates that their collegiate training 
may be used to the maximum benefit of them- 
selves and their employers, and their contact 
with practical organization work be such as 
to round out their theoretical training most 
efficiently.” 

In discussing the problem of selecting 
appropriate subject matter, Professor Smith 
quotes the educational policy of the Tuck 
School as given in its Bulletin, as follows: 

“Upon the principle that the requisite quali- 
ties of adaptability and resourcefulness are 
more highly developed thru a training which 
may be characterized as broad and funda- 
mental, than thru a training which emphasizes 
narrower specialized study, the details of 
which are more practicably and accurately to 
be learned in later experience, the school gives 
emphasis in both the first and second years to 
groups of basic courses required of all stu- 
dents.” 

The course of instruction at the Tuck 
School is divided into three main divisions, 
namely: Part I, Organization and Func- 
tions; Part II, Perpetuation of the Organi- 
zation; and Part III, Activities and 
Methods. The several subdivisions under 
these headings are enumerated, and a clear 
conception is gained of the scope of the 


instruction which this school feels should : 


be covered, 

The clinical work, so called, which the 
Tuck School conducts is also described. 
The instructor performs a supervisory and 
advisory function in a number of active 
organizations in towns in the vicinity of 
the school, with the most of the work in 
charge of a student. Thus each student 
comes in contact with that wide range of 
problems which the full-time secretary 
faces and for the success of which he is 
responsible. 

Professor Smith emphasizes the need for 
hearty codperation between the older and 
more experienced secretaries and those who 
are just entering the profession; the latter 
to be allowed, where possible, to serve ap- 
prenticeships in strong organizations, under 
wise and sympathetic supervision. 

The definite ideas presented in this paper 
Professor Smith sums up as follows: 

“There is coéperative work to be done by 
the profession and the colleges. The work is 
more urgent because of the tendency of col- 
leges to introduce a course of this kind. Evi- 


dently there is need of something of the na- 
ture of a joint committee of educators and sec- 














_ 








Ocroser, 1916 


retaries, including a representative from the 
Chamber of Commerce of the United States, 
which is undertaking to gather facts and prin- 
ciples concerning proper methods of organiza- 
tion work and management, to consider the 
subject of the best matter for instruction 
Such a work might be perpetual in its nature 
because of the almost bewildering, rapid 
advancement in this work. A similar com- 
mittee might do valuable service on the prob- 
lem of so placing college graduates with spe- 
cial training in such positions that the grad- 
uates, on the one hand, and the profession on 
the other, will reap maximum benefits.” 


+ + 


Secretarial Efficiency and the Col- 
lege, from the Viewpoint of 
the Secretary 

George E. Foss, Secretary of the Spring- 
field, Mass., Board of Trade, presented the 
paper on this topic. He has drawn upon 
the secretaries of the country for their ex- 
perience and opinions regarding the value 
of college training for the commercial sec- 
retarial profession, and the information 
thus collected is given partially in tabulated 
form, with explanatory comment. In pre- 
paring the tables, the 143 replies were clas- 
sified into six groups, arranged in the order 
of the relative importance of the positions 
held. Group I contains the replies of the 
twenty-five secretaries holding what Mr. 
Foss conceived to be the largest executive 
positions. He says: 

“It has been assumed in previous papers 
that special college training will materially aid 
prospective secretaries in finding their way 
into the most desirable positions. What are 
the facts? Has the general and special train- 
ing of the college really been of value? Have 
college graduates proved the worth of their 
training by achieving a large measure of suc- 
cess in their chosen field?” 

Table 1 shows that of the 140 complete 
replies received, 20 men did not enter high 
school, 50 had some high school training, 
55 men had from one to four years in col- 
lege, and 15 did post-graduate work. In 
commenting upon this table, Mr. Foss says: 

“An analysis of these figures is interesting, 
especially when we consider the relatively in- 
significant number of men in the United States 
who even enter college. In spite of this nu- 
merical handicap, it appears that three college 
men are to-day in the most desirable and in- 
fluential positions to every two men whose 
education has not included some part of a 
college course. Note the figures again. Sev- 
enty secretaries out of 140—exactly 50 per 
cent—have had some college training, and of 
the remaining 70, 26 were graduated from high 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


445 


school, and 14 others had some part of a high 
school course. This would seem to be con- 
clusive proof that the number of secretaries 
who have had only a common school educa- 
tion is much smaller than is generally believed 
Further analysis I leave to you.” 


Table 2 expresses in percentage the rela- 
tive education of the secretaries. It is 
noted that the percentage of the college 
graduates decreases in the groups holding 
the less important positions. “It seems to 
be fairly evident,’ the author says, “that 
the college graduates are finding their way 
into the larger executive positions.” 

Continuing, he says: 

“There is another factor, however, which 
must be considered carefully before we can 
trust the accuracy of the foregoing conclu- 
sions. What has been the experience of these 
men? May it not be true that the men in the 
larger positions have had a wider experience 
which has fitted them for these places of large 
responsibility? May it not be true that their 
education has been only an incident, and that 
they have succeeded in spite of their college 
education rather than because of it? Tables 
3 and 4 give us the facts needed to answer 
these questions.” 

Table 3 shows that the average number 
of years in college of the secretaries who 
replied to the questionnaire was 1.71 for the 
six groups, Group I rating the highest; 
Table 4 shows the average number of years 
of experience of the secretaries in those 
groups was 15.49. 

Commenting upon the results shown in 
these tables, Mr. Foss says: 


“The men in each of the groups have had 
practically the same amount of experience be- 
fore reaching the positions which they now 
hold. The length of a man’s experience is not 
the determining factor in a secretary’s suc- 
cess. Of course, there are a few exceptions 
to this rule, but, on the average, education 
plus experience is the combination which 
brings a man into the largest executive posi- 
tions in commercial organization work, and 
the education is the determining factor. Con- 
sidering the fact that the men of Group I 
have had a little less than the average !ength 
of experience, the large percentage of college 
men among them becomes more than sig- 
nificant. It is conclusive evidence, I believe. 
of the value of college training for commer- 
cial organization secretarial work.” 

Mr. Foss quotes from the replies of those 
who are firm believers in the field of expe- 
rience, also from those who are equally in 
favor of a collegiate training for this line 
of work, and concludes his paper with the 
reply of James A. McKibben, Secretary of 
the Boston Chamber of Commerce, as a 











OR ae 





<<< = 


as 
rae 


Ets 


hae 


ee eee 
ee 





446 THE AMERICAN CITY 


summary of the conclusions reached. It 
is, in part, as follows: 


“It seems to me that the situation here is the 
same as that with reference to any other pro- 
fession. There seems to be no more reason to 
doubt that a college can assist in equipping a 
man to do secretarial work in a commercial 
organization than there is to doubt that a uni- 
versity can fit a man to practice law or medi- 
cine, or anything else. 

“But perhaps a word of caution is advisable. 
A man who graduates from a law school is 
not a well-equipped lawyer, nor is a man who 
graduates from a medical school a_ well- 
equipped doctor. A man who some years ago 
was president of the Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology told me that one of the things 
he tried hardest to make men there understand 
was that when they graduated from the insti- 
tute they were not civil engineers, but they 
had been given a training which would enable 
them to become good civil engineers. One 
trouble is that people expect too much from 
courses to fit men for secretarial work. They 
can do just what a law school, or a medical 
school, or a civil engineering or other schools 
are doing—no more and no less. A man who 
graduates from them is not a_ well-equipped 
secretary and it is not reasonable to expect him 
to be. He needs actual experience and train- 
ing to be that. The question, therefore, seems 
to be not as to the relative value of special col- 
lege preparation versus the field of experience, 
but whether a man spending a given number of 
years in college and in getting experience will 
be appreciably better equipped than a man 
who has not been thru college. It seems to 
me the answer is the same as in any other pro- 
fession. The man who spends three years in 
a lawyer’s office is undoubtedly more of a 
lawyer than the man who has just graduated 
from a law school, but in three years from 
that time the man who has been to law school 
and has had three years of experience will be 
a great deal more of a lawyer than the ‘nan 
who has had six years’ experience in a law 
office. 

“And as the years continue to go by, the 
man who has had both a college training and 
experience will usually continue to outstrip the 
man who has not.” 


+ + 
The Secretary in Perspective 


The following are some paragraphs from 
the presidential address on the above sub- 
ject of William George Bruce, Secretary of 
the Merchants’ and Manufacturers’ Asso- 
ciation of Milwaukee, Wis. : 

One symptom of progress in the commer- 
cial organization field is noted in the con- 
stantly increasing number of paid secre- 
taries in service. The community that has 
herefofore made spasmodic attempts in 
bringing an efficient organization into life, 








Vor. XV, No. 4 


that has relied upon amateur secretarial 
service, that has dealt with undigested in- 
tention rather than well-planned action, has 
begun to look for experienced, if not ex- 
pert, service. 

The real problem in this connection arises 
when the community attempts to find the 
man who shall fill the secretarial post. The 
supply of trained men is limited. The se- 
lection of the untrained entails much doubt 
and some hazard. The bright young news- 
paper man, the genial traveling salesman, 
and the affable young man about town, are 
the conventional candidates for paid secre- 
taryships. The one possessing a pleasing 
personality, convincing conversational pow- 
ers and giving the greater promise for 
efficient service, is usually chosen. 

Upon his character and ability depend 
not only the immediate success of the com- 
mercial organization that has chosen him, 
but also the life of that organization upon 
a permanent and efficient basis. I can point 
to cities that never had a real commercial 
organization until they had an efficient paid 
secretary, and also to cities where the re- 
tirement of an efficient secretary was fol- 
lowed by the decline and ultimate dissolu- 
tion of the commercial organization. 

But all things must have their beginning. 
The men who are ambitious to enter upon 
regular secretarial duties must have a 
chance to begin somewhere without pre- 
vious experience. They must be either 
selected from the amateur ranks of the un- 
paid secretaries, from those who have 
served as assistants to regular secretaries, 
or from a class of wholly untried men who 
are deemed acceptable owing to a promis- 
ing record in other fields of work. 

During the past year there have come to 
my attention several instances where com- 
mercial secretaries were chosen on a com- 
petitive basis. In each instance there were 
several applicants, some experienced and 
some inexperienced, who appeared before 
boards or committees to undergo a sort of 
cross-examination. It has developed that, 
as far as my information goes, the prefer- 
ence has gone to those who had a grasp of 
the fundamentals in economics and civics, 
who could discuss the aims and purposes of 
commercial organization effort and who 
possessed some knowledge of the function 
and scope of secretarial work. 

The remarkable feature which has come 




















IRS ee 


Sead 








OcToBer, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


to the surface is the fact that the inexpe- 
rienced applicant who was prepared to dis- 
cuss his own subject in a comprehensive 
manner secured the preference over the ex- 
perienced man who was not so equipped. 

The conclusion which must be reached is 
that young men who desire to enter this 
field, and those already in the service seek- 
ing higher positions, must familiarize them- 
selves with the literature which this Asso- 
ciation has produced. 

If those who have served on the firing 
line of commercial association endeavor aré 
permitted to advise the recruits, then I may 
presume to counsel my young contempo- 
raries. I would urge above all things the 
cultivation of that mental balance which 
lends poise and stimulates reserve force 
The rarest ingredient of the human mind is 
that sense of proportion which fixes an ac- 
curate estimate upon men and affairs and 
asserts itself at the right time and in the 
right place. 

The mission of the organization is along 
lines of advancement, vitalized by stimulus 
and innovation. The cause is greater than 
the man, but the man must be as great as 
his office. He must primarily possess that 
perspective which enables him to under 
stand his relation to the board, the mem 
bership, the press and the public. He must 
practice that sense of fitness which deter- 
mines his movements between the fore- 
ground and the background of the associa- 
tion scene. 

There are few vocations in life more po- 
tential of service to an entire community 
that touch a more varied range of interests, 
that call for a more intimate knowledge of 
men and affairs, and greater mental re- 
sourcefulness, that involve a finer shade of 
patriotism, than your own. Meet in the 
fullest measure the tenets of your office and 
vou will also express the highest form of 
\merican citizenship. 


+ + 


The Relation Between Civics and 
Commerce 


In a paper entitled as above, O. B. 
Towne, Secretary of the Chamber of Com- 
merce of Kalamazoo, Mich., discusses the 
principles of chamber of commerce philos- 
ophy. He treats his subject from a philo- 
sophical viewpoint, because secretaries are 


447 


dealing with men rather than with material 
things, and he regards a study of the sociol- 
ogy of community life as of vital impor- 
tance to those whose duty, in a great meas- 
ure, is to direct many phases of community 
thinking. Mr. Towne expresses his grati 
tude to those who painstakingly answered 
his rather difficult questionnaire, and for 
the assistance he received from the data 
and opinions the answers contained 

The author approaches the subject by u 
dertaking to define “civics,” and has taken 
the broad interpretation of the term as ap 
plying to those laws, methods and systems 
which administer the affairs of govern- 
ment. The definition is mow made to in- 
clude altruistic and welfare work and the 
humanizing of commerce, as well as civil 
government. He then continues 

“We accept the theory of the definition, but 
in meeting the civic and commercial require 
ments of the day we find actual limitations 
and danger lines which puzzle even the most 
analytical mind Where does civic work leave 


off and commercial work begin? Where does 
‘ommercial work leave off and civic work be 
gin? Where does civic work leave off and 


politics begin? Is there benefit accruing to the 
others when emphasis is placed on any one of 
the three? 

‘A city reflects the ideals of its citizens 
This is true in commerce as well as in civics, 
altho it will be more apparent in civics. The 
standards of community life are boldly im- 
printed on every department of community 
activity. ; 

“Tt is true that many communities have de 
veloped and grown without paying the least 
attention to civics. But a community without 
civic development remains at a standstill, and 
commerce will eventually blight, if not decay 
Commerce may make civic development pos 
sible in a pronounced degree, but civics in re 
turn makes commerce human instead of m« 
chanical, thus making permanent commercial 
progress possible.” 


Mr. Towne cites the experience of Henry 
Ford in his great automobile plant, of John 
H. Patterson, of the National Cash Regis- 
ter Company, and others in this country and 
abroad, as prominent examples of work 
in humanizing commerce. 

He then discusses the extent to which a 
commercial organization may legitimately 
interest itself in civic affairs, and states 
that the limitations that hamper some or 
ganizations are due largely to the age of 
the cities in question, also to the fact that 
the commercial organization in its present 
status is of comparatively recent origin 
He says: 



































THE AMERICAN City 





LIFE’S GREATEST BLESSING 
Without it—-Existence is a Burden —With it All Things Are Endurable 


THE COMMUNITY is to a certain extent responsible for the health 
of the individual. 

THE INDIVIDUAL is no less responsible for the health of his com- 
munity. 

CO-OPERATION between the two is essential BUT HOW TO DO 
THIS EFFECTIVELY is no less essential. The 


OL -IONALE 
XHIBITION==S 


will tell how. We carry in stock models, exhibits and lantern slides on sub- 
jects pertaining to public health. TUBERCULOSIS, BABY WELFARE, 
TYPHOID FEVER, FLY EXTERMINATION and kindred exhibits are 
at your disposal. 


We rent them. We prepare SPECIAL EXHIBITS and sell them or 


we will SELL PARTS and RENT PARTS OF THE SAME EXHIBITS. . 


Arouse Your Own 
Community 


We will furnish estimates and give any information desired. 


EDUCATIONAL EXHIBITION COMPANY 


Custom House Street PROVIDENCE, RHODE ISLAND 


Manufacturers and Distributors of GRAPHIC METHOD SUPPLIES and EQUIPMENT for 
Public Officials’ Departments. These include Glass Head Map Pins, all sizes and colors. Outline 
Maps. Other Equipment of Every Sort for Graphic Records. 


Send 25 cents for BIG SAMPLE PACKAGE of chart paper, curve cards, glass head pins and a 
copy of our free booklet for executives, ‘‘Graphic Presentation of Facts.”’ If booklet alone is desired 
simply ask for it on a postal. Write us your needs 


49 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American Crry. 


HEALTH 


% 


= lI ae 


3 











OctToperR, 1916 THE AMERICAN Cit 149 








“The reason for and strength of a m lhe other points handled by tl h 
mercial organization lie in its ability to serve a “Sige 
the community. The only danger which need ss cscae “ 
be considered is that which impairs this abil TINICIpie bring the ¢ 
ty [he danger, altho it may come from oo ne¢ the dang: e of 
many sources, 1S but a single danger internal line oft l¢ rcatiol etwee 
disruption. Whence comes this single danger tics: ti : f 
nd what are the rocks on which the organ ‘a said, ; P sai 
ation may split? This is the point of tl eer She ad civic a ne 
whole discussion. This single danger is tl I ommercial suc¢ 
limiting factor in commercial rganizati ood government (this phas« 
activity in the civic field. t is. we in, Spoaaiing 

The answer is found in a doctrine of a re 

wned educator in a great American uniy ssibility of the co CEGias OFg 

ty, Professor Overstreet. It is called ‘Ihe cing : ( egisiative ters 
Philosophy of Common Denominators, an city, state and t 


n brief is this: lake two numerals, 24 and - &£ 
Che common denominator is 12—a larg: 


denominator. Add another number at ran Industrial Development of the 
42 The common denominator shrinks t ’ ve 
- l I n ¢ ll * r 1 ¥) Small City 








Add another, 52, and it shrinks t j \ 

ther number, 13. the denominat William S. Millener, Secretary-Manager 

ne of the Williamsport (Pa.) Board of Trad 

Apply this to the commercial organization thorolvy covered this subject i wer 
lake two business men in the same line f r. ; ie . 

: , In order to learn the ethods a ; ss 
trade Che ground of their mmon under : sets : ‘ = 
standing is large Add a physician, eve f industrial development in other cities 
tl he be ever sO br vad minded Lhe \lr Mille eT sent ¢ t < eT Lot q ~ 
ground of understanding narrow Add a naires, and the data presented are based 
lawyer. Still the narrowing process continue for the most part upon the replies receiv 
Add a small grocer, an imsurance agent, ; , as f 
German butcher, a French tailor, a R Irom 64 secretaries, located in towns rang 
Catholic priest, a Jewish rabbi, a Methodist ing in population trot 0,000 10,000 11 
preacher, a railroad president, a manufacture 32 states. 

1 labor leader, a loan shark, a banker and a Some ot the questi ‘ } 
socialist. In fact, add the representative men , : 

from all lines of business and professional “®™S@40n OF the r des 

activity, such as the average commercial o1 u have a guar ee fund S 
ganization includes in its membership nd ne towns answered ““N 

then strike the common denominator—the ) u e aca fund f st mie 
ground of common understanding industrial securities \ vers 1 | 

The narrowing process has proceeded with tion indicate that only 2 towns out of 79 have 
an alarming rapidity. The habits of thought such a fund 
of the members of the organization, when ) u have an indust uilding for é 
viewed in the light of ‘the philosophy of com small industries Sixty-four towns a 
mon denominators’ indicate the danger to be swered, “No”: 2 towns answered, “Need ‘ 
encountered in civic work. 5 towns answered, “Planning one ind ¢ 

“In applying this philosophy in detail we towns answered, “Have one or more 
find there are points on which there is such iting that the idea is gradually being t 
great danger of splitting that it is well to li oes ur rganization wn , 
them here. either direct thru an allied FPOrs 

“A commercial organization must avoid my factory locations The 14 towns answer 
participation in religious controversies; it must ing “Yes” report having located 140 industr 
not take sides in keenly partisan political can r an average of 10 to the town 
paigns. It must avoid advocating the cause or past three years The 65 towns 
andidacy of any individual or group, using No” report the location of an average 
its influence exclusively for the commercial industries to the town 
interest of an individual or group of business Do you offer land free for factor 
men; interfering with, or opposing directly Che answers to these questions indicat vet 
officials of constituted authority; any tend eral disapproval of the ide 
ency toward exclusiveness; technicalities; tak lo you offer a sh f ( 
ing sides in capital and labor controversies this question, one secretary wrote 
taking credit for the work of other organiza ial organizations are isiness concert 
tions; interfering with or openly opposing th« the same tests of good | ss sl l 
operations of old established civic bodies; be made to apply It is questior t barg 
ing impractical, shallow and unprepared in its nd sale, securing the goods, if the é led 
civic promotional work; allowing politics, re - best possible terms for ur ‘ Wi 
ligion or factional interests to creep into the naid a bonus when we believed common busi 
organization and influence its conduct and the ness sense warranted our doing so, and I would 


election of its officials.” advocate doing so again under similar n 








THE 


AMERICAN CITY 


















Bracket 10347 and 


G.E. Novalux Unit Form 4 





Bracket 10338 and 


G. E. Novalux Unit Form 9 


THE ONLY WAY 


To Obtain an Ornamental Lighting 
System and Retain Overhead Wires 


ELREGO 


COMBINATION POLES 


serve the double purpose of Ornamental 


Lighting Standards 
Supports. 


Handsome brackets for 
supporting very latest Nova- 
lux Lighting Units or the 
Ornamental Luminous Lamps 
improve the appearance of 
the plain Trolley Poles. 


You can string your wires 
along the top of the poles, 
where they are practically 
unnoticeable and out of the 
way of traffic. 


You save the cost of addi- 
tional lamp standards and 
underground construction, 
and avoid further obstruction 
of the curb line. 


Catalog E describes this 
money-saving plan and full 
details—free. 


Electric Railway 
Equipment Co. 


New York Office : 30 Church Street 


CINCINNATI, OHIO 


and Trolley Wire 


SPAR 
wit 


Combination Pole 


an 
Ornamental G.E. 
Luminous Arc 





When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American Crry. 














Ocroner, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 451 








ditions.” In the main, however, the practice r more railroads sh ; : 
is considered unwise. directly or indirectly | 
To what extent, and how, do you assist ganization, to prevent 
worthy established industries to grow and ex- and the retarding of n " 
pand? One secretary argued that a commer “3. That commercia é 
cial organization can be of assistance to es directly or indirectly, suitabl 
tablished industries by providing a business facilities for small mar ft 
atmosphere in the whole community that will building or industrial building, that could be 
produce general conditions, such as stabilizing sublet at a reasonable rate, having all 
i labor, which in turn will provide the oppor veniences of low power, shipping { . 
F tunity for industrial growth, if the industry is et 
te well placed and capably managed.” “4. That the possession of a fu 
} Has your greatest industrial growth durin estment in industrial securities is ¢ 
the past three years come from the growth and tee of wise industrial development 
: expansion of established industries, or from “5. That more thought should be 
: the location of new industries Fifty-two an ways and means that make it possible 
< swered, “From established industries”; 6 tablished industries erow and ex { 
“From new industries”; 18, “About equal.” should be given to efforts to secure the | 
Has your organization engaged, either direct- tion of new industries 
ly or indirectly, in the erection of workmen's 6. That when the best conditions for 
homes or the improvement of housing cond facture and the proper housing of « yes 
tions in your city? The reader is referred to of established industries are sufficiently d« 
the paper itself for the discussion of this eloped, the new industries will seek you 
f phase of the industrial problem, which is con rather than your having to seek then 
vincing as to the importance of the question ‘7. That satisfactory industrial development 
to commercial organizations and valuable in will come to every small town when thes« 
the practical suggestions it offers. things have been done, for in the doing of 
As one possible solution of the housing them the human elements, Crgennnee ane 
problem, Mr. Millener describes fully a hy- | “ag n, will have been broug t to the 
: ASE, ghest point of development, and n 
pothetical method, called the subdivision — yyunity problems may be solved with dis 
plan, that may be proportioned to a town atch.” 
of any size and made to fit almost any need + + 


outside of large cities. He begins with the 
purchase of the land, and describes each The Essentials of a Home Pro- 


step, giving approximate cost figures, size ducts Exposition 
of the building lots, rentals the houses will 


E : < 1 ec a¢ iT dl ( \ ) 
bring, also terms of sale. . Phi subject wa handle 1 | y John M. 
The summary of Mr. Millener’s paper is ruild, Executive eecrctary 01 the sreater 
quoted in full: Dayton Association. He deals with tempo- 
’ “In the final analysis of industrial devel- ‘4Y €Xpositions in this paper rather than 


; “ 7 F -rmane > sitions » states th: 

opment of the small town, whether it be in ™ ith eee itions. He state that 
. - = ‘ . there are ds orar NoOSsI- 

making conditions favorable to industries there are two kinds of temporary exposi 








or in offering either direct or indirect spe- — the kind even Up my sii pie + 
cial inducements, the greatest factor for aig ein 1or pront, and the kind gotten 
success is the standard of the human ele- UP '°F yinbes prnqnesson and education. In 
ment back of the movement. Every move- commenting upon the former, he says 
4 ment needs its leader—its optimistic, deter- “Why should time and effort be 
mined, public-spirited man with a vision— hastily gotten up, glittery things, 
° ° ° ° 7 naratio i] ring forth 
f who will give freely of his own time and {tl preparation will brit agen te ag 
‘nfl , a £ thei ki that will be not only creditable to the 
in uence ot hers to give oO theirs, wort ing ation back of it. but will pron 
for the good of all. Such is the work of recognition of the organization’s 
M our commercial organizations, the building greater confidence in it, greater k1 
» ; P : re oducts. mor hiueinece nd 
of men and interesting them in all the rami- 1lome products, mor mess, anc 
. . ° ‘ ‘ better times? But there are two kinds of pe 
fications of community betterment and in- | : , , , 1 
; < - ple, those that wan to be entertained and 
j dustrial development. those that seek knowledge. Both must be is 
\¢ “There is no set rule which can be laid terested. All are purchasers o1 nsumers, 
down for the guidance of all, but the con- ind agony home patronage is ge Cistede abies 
. . . . dinals of such an expositior eretore, 1 
clusions I have reached in studying this nag : : gee fr 
e ti : 5 planning an exposition, the necessi Tor Strik 
question are: ing a medium between the two extren 
“1. That it is unwise to offer a cash bonus ; ; eer ; Be 
to secure the location of an industry. He states that the princ ipal reasons tof 
“2. That desirable factory locations on one 4 home products exposition are the promo- 
i 


eye 








we 


















TT LTT 


= 


ww 


! 


| 





COLCA OY CTY ET 





THE AMERICAN CITY 
UUTUOREDDEDLU EAE PONCE AT ADEE DUDE AD UNDE AAAHUUL A DADUE ATU AARLDAAA DOG EALLLSELOUELTERTUNNOT TT EYEON EPHORERONSDRO NO HHDURL ODL UVLO PAR STEMAD OED ALT TOMA DURA UL COPE GMEL EE TATE ET VTP ECU PELHr U YEE EAC OEP ERE et nn ee ante rnn es 








—= 
—— 








— 
































More! More Packards have 
been bought for U. S. Army 
service than any other truck 


Over $2,250,000 worth of 


chainless Packards purchased 
in six months—that’s the 
outcome of the Government's 


critical study and tests of 


motor trucks on the Mexican 
border. 

Handling a grave emer- 
gency with keen business 
sense, the Army svized the 
chance to make decisive trials 
of motor hauling under cam- 
paign conditions. 

Hard-driven—over-loaded 
—plowing along at touring 
car speeds in sand and mud— 
silent, worm-drive Packards 
proved equal toevery demand. 


Ask the man 





abet 





WU aL MUL UI 


51 





Their power, economy and 
freedom from road troubles 
won them the hardest jobs— 
won also the Army’s confi- 
dence and approval. 


The first Government order 
was for 27—the fifth for 330. 


In all, re-orders now total 
$,650%. The largest number 
of motor trucks of any one make 
bought for U. S. Army use are 
dust-proof, chainless Packards. 


Let us show you how to 
standardize your hauling, cut 
delivery costs and enlarge the 
operating zone of your busi- 
ness. Write Detroit—today. 


who owns one 





TRUCKS 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 


5 





DINTTTUTICOOTIUNINUODUTNLIIONULONT UT DOUDTUQTIT QUT QIU CTOLIW CQOQY N00 00000 000010000 COCCCQOOLLNIDN OOOOO CLO ON MOMLION UUQOOQNOQO DODO OOOO OIOOY OLN LD IOCO IO UOL OPTI TIIOIODU OLN MOCO COLT PTOI ULI OTTO LTE MOL 


= 











ee 

















4 


a, 


ot aeendens 


a ee ee 





1G oko 





OctToBer, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY C 


tion of trade, education, codperation, ad- 
vertising and profit. 

Under promotion of trade, Mr. Guild rea- 
sons as follows: 


“The exposition is intended to show the 
home people first everything made in their 
town. The average citizen, yes, and the aver- 
age business man, keen tho he may be, has 
little conception of what is made behind 
his neighbor’s factory walls. He is so en- 
grossed with his own affairs that to save his 
soul he couldn't tell whether or not some com- 
mon article of use that he himself doesn't 
handle, is made there. If that is true of 
home people, it is more so of strangers, and 
an exposition should aim also to reach the 
outside trade.” 


Under educational value, he says: 


“If the purpose of an exposition is along the 
lines so far indicated, the educational value 
to the community will be very great. To im- 
press home people with what is made in their 
town, to get them to try the home-made article, 
whether corn meal or a washing machine, im- 
pressing them with its equality or superiority 
to the imported article, and thereby get them 
to talk it among themselves and to outsiders, 
means an invaluable ally to the other recog- 
nized advertising methods. All of this means 
a greater home consumption, and there is no 
better advertisement than the general use of 
a home product. This use unconsciously de- 
velops a home pride and creates a natural 
confidence in everything else made there. It 
makes a citizen more readily responsive t 
other calls for civic patriotism.” 


Under codperation, he states: 


“If another purpose of the exposition be 
working up a spirit of codperation, this is a 
splendid medium. An exposition brings the 
different exhibiting interests together, and, be- 
ing for a common purpose, creates a closer 
fraternal and commercial spirit, even among 
trades widely different.” 


The author states that the exposition is 


452 


also invaluable as a means of community 
advertising. He says, further: 


“As the big national and international expo 
sitions, held years apart and in different parts 
of the country, are milestones of progress in 
manufacture, science and art, so is the local 
exposition a positive evidence of the progress 
in that community. The effectiveness of it as 
an advertisement depends on how widely it 
is advertised, whether only locally, in very 


l 


nearby towns, in all trade territory or wider.” 


In Mr. Guild’s opinion, when the purpose 
of the exposition is financial profit, that tu 
some extent detracts from the reputation 
and dignity of the proposition 

Continuing on that subject, he says 

“Fortunately, profit is generally of second 
ary consideration and is figured on more to 
insure no deficit than anything else. But in 
estimating the probable expenses and income, 
it is well to figure on a safe margin, so that 
contingencies will be provided for It is 
noticeable that where there has been a profit 
as the result of playing safe, it generally goes 
to the local organization to be reinvested for 
the benefit of the community. It is well to 
unnounce in advance, where there is likeli 
hood of the question being raised, that this is 
what will be done. It can be shown that 
whatever the admission charge, it will be but 
a very nominal tax on the tens or hundreds 
of thousands of people who attend.” 

Mr. Guild’s paper outlines in considerable 
detail both the method of organization and 
the method of operation of a home products 
exposition. The subdivisions under each of 
these two branches of the subject follow: 

Organisation—Preparedness, Plan, Of- 
ficers, Committees, Rules and Regulations, 
Building. 

Operation—Opening, Director, Admis- 
sions, Information, Selling, Entertainment, 
Safety and Comfort. 





- New Bulletins 


SARTLESVILLE, OKLA—The Windmill, official 
organ of the Bartlesville Chamber of Com- 
merce. Issued monthly. 

BiuerieLp, W. Va—Busy Bluefield, pub- 
lished monthly by the Bluefield Chamber of 
Commerce. 

CincInNATI, On1I0.—O Cincinnatian, a new 
bulletin published in Spanish by the Cincinnati 
Chamber of Commerce, for distribution in 
Brazil, Portugal and the Portuguese posses- 
sions, with the object of advertising Cincinnati 
and its industries. Issued monthly. 

DuBots, Pa.—Bulletin of the DuBois Cham- 
ber of Commerce. 


Gastonia, N. C—Gaston Magazine, pub 
lished monthly by the Gastonia Chamber of 
Commerce. 

PHILADELPHIA, Pa.—Last Minute Doings o 
Walnut Street and Vicinity, published weekly) 
hy the Walnut Street Business Association of 
Philadelphia 

POCATELLO, IpAHO.—Civic Club, bulletin of 
the Pocatello Civic Club 

WasasH, INp.—Al/l Together for Wabash, 
official publication of the Commercial Club of 
Wabash. 

Waurrtier, CAar.—Bulletin of the Whittier 
Chamber of Commerce. Issued monthly. 

















THE AMERICAN CITY 


peeesee J 








Peaeeeeeraces 


IT 


























[ 





























Specialization is the secret of success | 


in every field of en- : 
deavor. We centre all our energies, invent- 
iveness and resources in men, money and 





| material on truck building alone. The 
KELLY organization stands for trucks all the 
| way down the line from President to shop , 
‘ 19 apprentice. 
rae **‘Like Kelly Does** FREE 
{ A very useful monthly publication for all who 
Za operate trucks or are interested in the question. 
E— — — 4A The Kelly-Springfield Motor Truck Co. 
* ae 17 1310 Burt Street Springfield, Ohio 
~ _ 11 -— r 
pet tee \ 
mn. |) 4 \ 





te 









The Complete Line 


Worm Drive—1}4 and 2's tons 
Chain Drive—1}4, 2)9,344,4,5 and 6 tons 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae American City, 





om 











AU PMH UALR UTE TUT IMU tit 














ul LVN NN UNNNMIUEL LHL OTT 


Municipal Milk Regulation Valid 

The Waterbury, Conn., regulation which 
requires milk sold in bakeries, stores and 
butcher shops to be contained in tightly 
sealed bottles has been sustained by the 
Connecticut Court of Errors as being a 
valid regulation, against objections that it 
conflicted with the state law fixing milk 
standards, etc., and unjustly discriminated 
in favor of farmers and dairymen who 
make sales directly to consumers. (State 
vs. Stokes, 98 Atlantic Reporter, 294.) 


+ + 
Validity of Billboard License Tax 


The law enacted by the Connecticut Leg- 
islature in 1915, requiring the obtention of 
a license, and the payment of a license fee, 
for the display upon real estate of an ad- 
vertisement more than four square feet of 
surface, is valid and not void as being an 
unwarranted interference with a lawful 
business. (Connecticut Supreme Court of 
Errors, State vs. Murphy, 98 Atlantic Re- 
porter, 343.) 

+ + 


Garbage Disposal Plan as Nuisance 

A city may validly provide for the collec- 
tion and disposal of garbage accumulating 
within the municipal limits, but this must be 
done without producing a public cr private 
nuisance, and any person injuriously af- 
fected by the means of disposition adopted 
by the city has a right of action for dam- 
ages suffered by him. (Georgia Supreme 
Court, Kea vs. City of Dublin, 89 South- 
eastern Reporter, 484.) 


+ + 
Rights Concerning Water Supply 


A city operating a water-works system 
may be held liable in damages for injury to 
private water-power rights previously ac- 
quired arising from the appropriation of 
water from a stream for municipal pur- 
poses, but since the water-power owner’s 
interest is merely in the use of the waters 
of the stream, he is not entitled to damages 


AUULNHTNUU NAOT A 





Tn 


for the value of water taken from his mill- 
pond. (Kansas Supreme Court, Wallace 
vs. City of Winfield, 159 Pacific Reporter, 
11.) 

+ + 
Pittsburgh-Scranton Tax Plan 

At a recent meeting of the Scranton 
Board of Trade, hearty endorsement was 
given to the method of taxation now in 
force in Pittsburgh and Scranton. In a 
report submitted by the Committee on Mu- 
nicipal Affairs and adopted by the Board 
of Trade, it was recommended that the law 
be given the widest possible publicity, “to 
the end that this very meritorious statute 
shall remain intact and unrepealed until 
becomes at least fully operative.” 

The act in question was passed at the 
1913 session of the Pennsylvania Legis- 
lature and embodied a new method of 
taxation for the second-class cities of the 
state (Pittsburgh and Scranton). In the 
report of the Committee on Municipal Af- 
fairs, above mentioned, is included a state- 
ment from Mr. P. R. Williams, Executive 
Secretary of the Land Value Taxation 
League of Pennsylvania. This statement 
mentions several important building opera- 
tions and real estate sales in Pittsburgh 
which are believed to have been stimulated 
by the new method of taxation 

Mr. Williams says: 

“This plan for the gradual shifting of taxes 
from improvements to land values was pro 
posed in 1912 by the Pittsburgh Civic Com 
mission and recommended particularly as a 
means of promoting better housing conditions 
The plan was favored by many influent al citi 
zens and received the support of Mayor Ma 
gee, and a law providing for this new tax plan 
was enacted on May 15, 1913. It provides for 
a reduction of 10 per cent every three years in 
the tax rate on buildings and improvements, 
and within twelve years from the date of the 
enactment of the law. the ultimate reduction 
of 50 per cent would be attained 

“Tt was pointed out at the time that high 
prices of land and high rents are obstacles to 
the progress and development of a community 
The claim was made that the new plan of tax- 
ation would stimulate building and improve- 
ments of all kinds and would discourage 














THE 





CG 


GENERAL 


AMERIC 


moTORS 


in aoe x 


Cc 


COMPANY 


TRUCKS 





Come to Truck Headquarters 
For the Answer 
To Your Truck Question 


Cities and towns in all parts of the world, as well as 
hundreds of individuals and business houses in all lines, 


have come to truck headquarters for 
regarding motor equipment. 


They told us of their requirements 
told us of their present methods 
sometimes it concerned trucks for 
heavy hauling 
paratus 


sometimes fire ap- 
other times motor patrols 
or street sprinklers—in each case we 
were asked to suggest the type and 
size truck which in our belief was 
best adapted to render efficient serv- 
ice at lowest cost. 


suggestions 


As exclusive truck builders making 
a complete line in both chain and 
worm drive ranging in carrying ca- 
pacity from 34 ton to five tons, our 
recommendation in each case is 
unbiased. 

If you are considering motor equip- 
ment for any department, we urge you 
to communicate with us—in so doing 


you incur no obligation whatsoever. 


GENERAL MOTORS TRUCK COMPANY 


One of the Units of General Motors Company 


PONTIAC 


MICHIGAN 


Direct Factory Branches: 
New York, Boston, Chicago, Philadelphia, St. Louis 


The Complete GMC Line 


When 


writing to 


Advertisers please 


both Worm and Chain Drive 


344 Tons 





mention THe American Crry., 











. 


ee 


Ocroser, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


speculation in land and tend to reduce land 
prices. We believe that our experience in 
Pittsburgh, even under the slight change of to 
per cent, which has been effective during 1914 
and 1915, has demonstrated that the new law 
does have the effects claimed for it 


“It can also be shown that in direct saving 
in actual taxes paid, the new plan is a benefit 
to the average taxpayer, and particularly to 
the small home owner. A study was made, on 
the basis of a 50 per cent reduction of the 
tax rate on improvements, of the effects of the 
new plan in the Ninth and Thirteenth Wards 
of the city of Pittsburgh. The Thirteenth 
Ward contains more homes than any other 
ward in Pittsburgh. Out of a total of 5,200 
buildings in that ward, 3,982 homes will be re 
duced from 15 per cent to 25 per cent in their 
taxes, 800 reduced from 5 per cent to 10 per 
cent, and 418 pay the same as under the old 
system, while 2,380 vacant lots will pay an in 
crease of 20 per cent- 

“The Ninth Ward, a strictly wage-earners’ 
district, has a total of 3,464 dwellings, 2,180 
of which will be reduced on an average of 20 
per cent, 750 reduced on an average of 10 per 
cent, 410 remain the same, while 124 will be 
increased 20 per cent. The same relative re- 
duction will take place in the built-up portions 
of the Fifth, Sixth, Eighth, Tenth, Eleventh, 
Twelfth and Fifteenth wards; in the Six- 
teenth, Seventeenth, Eighteenth, Nineteenth 
and Twentieth Wards on the South Side, and 
in the home sections of the North Side. It is 
estimated that at least 70,000 home owners 
will be benefited. 

“Another important feature of what we term 
the ‘Pittsburgh-Scranton Tax Plan’ is the ex- 
emption of machinery from taxation, covered 
by a separate act passed in I9QII, applying at 
that time only to second-class cities, and since 


457 


extended in 1915 to Philadelphia, but not as yet 
to any other cities of Pennsylvania. This is 
distinctly to the benefit of manufacturing con 
cerns already established in these cities, and 
makes such cities more desirable for new 
dustries 

“The adoption of this progressive tax sys 
tem has placed Pittsburgh and Scranton in 
the front rank of the cities of the United 
States in this respect, and the long established 
policy thruout the state of Pennsylvania of 
refraining from the personal property taxes 
levied in other states tends to strengthen the 
tax plan now enjoyed by Pittsburgh and Scran 
ton. Other cities and states are displaving 
much interest and seeking similar legislation 
In New Jersey the Manufacturers’ and Mer 
chants’ Taxation League has been formed for 
the specific purpose of promoting legislation 
in that state to place their industries in the 
same position of advantage as those in Pitts 
burgh and Scranton. A similar movement 1s 
starting in New York City and we are re 
ceiving inquiries from business men in St 
Louis who have become interested. The third 
class cities of Pennsylvania want the law ex 
tended to them; at least the Chambers of 
Commerce in Reading, Johnstown and some 
other cities have endorsed the plan, and a bill 
providing for the extension to third class 
cities passed the State Senate in 1915, and a 
stronger effort will be made in the session of 
IQI7. 

“There is a strong sentiment in Pittsburgh 
favorable to the new tax plan. More attention 
will be attracted to it as the act becomes more 
fully operative. This year, under the 20 pet 
cent exemption of improvements, the millage 
in Pittsburgh is 12.66 on land and 10.08 on 
buildings, while in Scranton the millage is 9.807 
on land and 7.8456 on buildings. The next 10 
per cent reduction will be due in 1919.” 





Standardization of Salaries in Public Service 
By William C. Beyer 


Of the Bureau of Municipal Research of Philadelphia 


URING the last ten years “standardi- 
zation” has become a generally ac- 
cepted tool of efficient public as well 

as of private administration. The advan- 
tages of having uniform office procedure, 
standard specifications for the purchase of 
supplies and equipment, and equal pay for 
employments of similar character and grade 
are so obvious that they require no further 
elaboration. That these means of facilitat- 
ing public business have not been resorted 
to earlier in this country is only another 
bit of evidence of the lack of introspection 
from which all our governmental depart- 


ments have suffered grievously in former 
years. 

Of the various forms of standardization 
that have been undertaken by different local 
and state governments, that of salary stand- 
ardization is doubtless the most significant, 
as well as the one that at the present time 
is attracting the widest attention. 

To anyone familiar with conditions of 
employment in the average public depart- 
ment it is hardly necessary to mention the 
inequalities and maladjustments that exist 
in the absence of standardization and that 
tend to demoralize employes. Usually there 























——— —* 


BIG TONNAGE—BIG SAVINGS \ 


The Knox tractor hauls all forms of heavy tonnage at a big saving over 
horses or motor trucks 













Tonnage limitations practically disappear because of the endless variety of 
trailers that can be used in connection with the Knox tractor. The accom- 


panying illustrations sl a 2 2 






10w a 2-way, 2-compartment, side dumping trailer of a 
most advanced type Each compartment has a cubical capacity of 4 yards. The 


simple method of dumping eliminates all devices such as hand hoists, hydraulic 


hoists, ete 
Write for ‘“‘Hauling Costs Reduced’’ 


Our big new illustrated bulletin, “ Hauling Costs Reduced,” pictures 
Knox tractors with various forms of trailers in the actual service of enthu 
siastic owners Write for your copy today. 


KNOX MOTORS ASSOCIATES | 
Springfield, Mass, U.S. A. 












When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae American City. 














OcToBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 





459 
is an amazing lack of coordination between Oakland, Cal.: Houston. Tex.: St. Paul. 
salaries and duties. Some positions are Pittsburgh, New York City, and Cook 
paid far too high for the grade of work in- County, Illinois. Philadelphia, Milwaukec 
volved, and others are paid too low. Em- Dayton and Seattle, and the states of New 
ployes who perform exactly the same duties York, Ohio, Wisconsin and Massachusetts 
in different offices, or even in the same of- have begun studies of their local salar 
fice, frequently receive widely varying re problems. New York State, by the way, has 
muneration. Titles, as a rule, are legion recently issued one of the most comprehet 
ind are misleading rather than informing. sive reports on salary standardization that 

, In an eastern city, it was found that per- has yet appeared. In many other cities 
sons doing work as clerks were employed _ states civil service commissions | von 
[ under as many as seventy-five different on record as favoring standard 
titles, a large portion of which were clearly the employments under their juris 
q leceptive in their implications lhe common object of all standardizati 
lo make matters worse, most civil ser- measures that have been worked out thus 
vice commissions, in providing a basis for far is to secure uniform treatment of like 
promotion, have classified and graded posi- positions. Specifically this necessitates th 
tions according to rates of compensation all positions having similar duties shall 
Quite naturally, a system of promotion have (1) uniform titles, (2) uniform r 
\ reared on such a basis can hardly be more’ quirements for appointment, (3) unif 
equitable than the salary rates themselves. compensation, and (4) uniform « 
Bearing in mind that salaries and duties of advancement and promotion 
; often are not coordinate, we can readily see In order to attain these specific ends, sp¢ 
that under this type of classification promo- cialists along standardization lines h de 
tion in grade and salary may mean actual veloped a more or less elaborate technique 
; demotion in character of work, and vice Practically all of the essential features of 
versa. this technique may be found, in embryo at 
Furthermore, in most branches of the least, in the pioneer standardization of th 
public service no systematic provision is city of Chicago. It will be of interest 
made for an employe to advance in salary therefore, to examine this measure at cl 
while he remains in the same _ position range. 
This is not only unfair, but extravagant as he main features of the Chicago st 
well, for a worker who has nothing definite irdization may be stated as follows: 
to look forward to will not render the most 1. All positions under civil service rules 
> efficient kind of service. The chances are, are classified, according to th general 
if he is very ambitious and does not suc- character of the work involved, into elever 
ceed in getting a better paying position in distinct classes or services, known as the 
the employ of the government, he will leave medical, engineering, clerical, police, opet 
the public service altogether for more at ating enginering, fire, library, inspection 
: tractive opportunities in private enterprise. supervising, skilled labor, and labor set 
and a new man will have to be broken in vices. 
to fill the vacancy. 2. The positions in each of these classes 
> \ll of these conditions make for lack of | or services, are divided into grades accord 
; enthusiasm among employes, for waste of ing to their relative authority, importance 
the taxpayers’ money, and for inefficient nd responsibility. 
public service, and it is these conditions 3. For each grade a salary schedule is es 
a that the standardization movement is de tablished providing minimum, maximun 
, signed to correct. nd intermediate rates and applying, with a 
The pioneer effort in this movement was few exceptions, to all positions within the 
made by the city of Chicago, which began _ grade. 
} in 1908 to revise and standardize its entire 4. Promotion from one grade to another 
i municipal payroll and completed its pro s made subject to a competitive promotion 
1 gram during the next four years. Sine: examination, but advancement from a lower 
that date a number of other governmental to a higher salary rate within a grade is dé 
bodies have undertaken similar programs. termined by length of service and efficiency 
Among them may be mentioned Portland 5. Efficiency of employes is ascertained 
Ore.; Los Angeles County and the city of from efficiency markings reported regularly 











\MERTI«‘ 


Rear wheel of the 
Sterling seven-ton 
Monarch of Motor- 
truckdom, the big- 
gest, most power- 
ful rear wheel on 
any motor truck. 












Sterling Staunchness and Stamina 


TERLING Trucks — from 21% to 7 tons—are engineered on the steel railway car 
builders’ ideas of staunchness. They’re massively proportioned—giants in strength— 
staunch and sturdy, with stamina to stand the gaff and perform under unusual conditions. 


Massiveness in Sterling Trucks is gained by real scientific proportioning — strength 
where strength is needed. Twenty to forty per cent greater proportions are obtained in 
the Sterling with from 10 to 20 per cent less weight. That means economy of operation. 


WRITE FOR COST FIGURES OF MOTOR TRUCK OPERATION 


STERLING MOTOR 
TRUCK COMPANY 


Builders of Motor Trucks Exclusively for Nine Years 


830 ROGERS STREET, MILWAUKEE, WIS. 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae American City. 


















. 


(Sn arne 4 batt vie 6 * 


OcToBER, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 161 


by department heads in accordance with i 
structions submitted to them by the cis 
service commission. 

6. Titles are made uniform for all posi 
tions having similar duties, amd as far as 
possible are made actually descriptive of 
duties. 

Requirements for appointment are 
made uniform for all positions having simi 
lar duties 

Except for a few minor differences, th« 
standardizations worked out by Portland 
Oakland, Houston and St. Paul are the 
same as that of Chicago. 

In the case of the standardization meas 
ures now under consideration or already of 
ficially adopted by Pittsburgh, Los Angeles 
County, New York City and New York 
State, a distinct development in technique 
is observable. In the first place, much 
greater refinement appears in the later clas- 
sifications of service. Whereas Chicago 
grouped its numerous employments into 
eleven broad classes and then attempted to 
subject all positions in each of these classes 
to the same grading and the same salary 
schedules, Los Angeles County and the east 
ern cities have increased the number of pri 
mary groupings of positions to many times 
the number provided in the Chicago classi 
fication, and thus made possible more flex- 
ible and more definite treatment of individ 
ual lines of work. To illustrate: In the 
Chicago classification the “clerical service,” 
which includes clerks, bookkeepers and ac- 
countants, typists and stenographers, tele 
phone operators, etc., forms a primary di 
vision of the service. The same grading 

“d the same scale of compensation * ap- 
plies uniformly to all the various lines of 
work just enumerated, regardless of their 
differences in the training required or in 
their actual market value. The Los An 
geles classification, on the other hand, in- 
cludes each of these special vocations as 
separate divisions, instead of lumping them 
all as clerical, so that each may be graded 
and compensated in accordance with its 
own peculiar attributes. 

In the second place, the definitions and 
specifications for grades in the eastern 
standardizations are much more specific 
and exact than those of Chicago. This is 

* Recently a number of extra salary schedules have 
been introduced into the clerical service of Chicag 
in order to provide greater flexibility in compensation 


Originally, however, a single scale of compensation 
applied to the entire service. 


i mportant rovenn for it h st 
ivert a great «ce il of grument S ) 

~ ing oT i iviK i Sitions tl it 

ib] occu®rs whet the S cihcations ( 
general in terms and permit of various 


terpretations 

here are also differences in the methods 
provided for advancing employes frot 
lower to higher salary rates within th 
same grace In Chicago, as we have see! 


advancement depends upon length of set 


vice and efficiency, measured by a system of 
efficiency marking. Under the Los Angeles 
County plan, the first increase i! sal 

comes automatically at the expiration of 

fixed period of time, regardless of the ef 
ficiency of the service rendered Subse 
quent increases, however, are made upon 


special investigation and recommendation 


by the Bureau of Efficiency of the Civil 
Service Commission. The New York City 
standardization makes efficiency as well as 


length of service a factor in all incre ises 
in salary, but, unlike the Chicago idea, the 
efficiency of employes is ascertained not 
only from the efficiency markings reported 
to the civil service commission, but also by 
supplemental investigation under the rules 


of the Board of Estimate and Apportion- 


ment. Under the proposed plan of stand 
irdization of New York State, advances 
ment in salary is governed in much the 


same manner as in Chicago, except that in 

considerable number of cases the pay 
ment of a higher rate is made conditional 
upon special appraisal, under the rules of 
the Civil Service Commission, indicating 
that such rate does not excee 
he work to be performed. To a limited 
extent this plan also provides for auto- 
matic periodic increases, and in case of 
employments having varying market values 
in different sections of the state, depart 
mental authorities are empowered to desig- 
nate the rates that shall apply. 

It will be noticed that, in most of the 
standardization measures, efficiency mark 
ings play an important part. They are used 
not only in determining the efficiency fac 
tor in the advancement of employes within 
grades, but also in their promotion from 
one grade to another. Theoretically, of 
course, this idea is very appealing, but 
practically it presents unusually difficult 
problems. Past experienc: with efficiency 
records has been far from satisfying, but 
different agencies, including the Municipal 











THE AMERICAN CITY 


% The“Panama |ine™ 


\ a ab = 2 f a v EF 
ease fasole Feet OS AT ea 





All Controls Within Convenient Reach 
Covering Every Desirable Operation 


in the 
“PANAMA GIANT” 


HE Panama Giant Road 
Machine has every con- 
trol so placed as to be 
conveniently reached by the op- 
erator on the rear platform and 
by manipulation of these con- 
trols every desirable working 





position of the machine, or any 
particular part, may be obtained. 





The Platform is low, affording the operator an unobstructed 
view of the work and any adjustments in the machine are easily ac- 
complished as worn gears are used throughout. 


The “ Panama Giant” also incorporates several exclusive desirable features, 
important among which is the Panama Scarifier. This wonderful and 


efficient device is furnished as an extra and so controlled that it does not 












interfere in any sense with the blade, an advantage which every 
way, contractor and road official knows to be of great value, as it 
The really gives two machines in one. 
F. B. Zieg } 
Mig. Co. 
Fredericktown 
Ohio 
Gentlemen — 
Send your “Panama 
Line” catalog as offered in 
Tae AMERICAN CITY. 


These and many other good points, which have definitely 
Ye, established the high standing of the Panama Line, 
are explained in detail in the Panama Line Catalog. 
Get a copy. 


| 
= = 7 


THE FB. ZIEG MFG. COMPANY 


Fredericktown, Ohio 









56 When writi 


g to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 


















et ie ante a Sen 








OcrToBer, 1916 


Civil Service Commission of New York 
City, are working on improved plans fot 
marking individual efficiency. In time, no 
doubt, this idea can be made much more 
workable than it is at present. 

The value of standardization measures 
such as we have described can hardly be 
questioned. In the first place, they sim 
plify a very important phase of public ad- 
ministration—the control of employment 
\ppropriating bodies are given definite and 
reliable information to guide them in allot- 
ting funds for salaries which always con- 


THE AMERICAN CITY $03 


sume a large portion of the 

ot every governmental agency, and civ 
service commissions are given a sound 
sis for an equitable system of prot 

In the second place, these measures hel 
make the public service more attra 
employes Where formerly there 
blind alleys in which the ambition 

of public servants were often dissipate 
and lost, under standardized conditions 


employment we have open avenues, clear] 
mapped out, leading to higher positions 


and greater opportunities for ach 





Letting the Citizens Help in Making 
the Traffic Survey 


By Herbert F. Koch 


VERYBODY helped to make the traf- 

fic survey carried on in the Queen 

City, where a new rapid transit sys- 

tem is soon to be installed. Every passen- 

ger on the street cars of Cincinnati was 

asked to cooperate and did his share in 
making this survey. 

One hundred and fifty men were em- 
ployed by the city of Cincinnati to board 
cars at various points and solicit informa- 
tion from all who used the cars. These in- 
spectors were all experienced Street car 
conductors, “borrowed” from the Traction 
Company for the time that they were 
needed, and they received $3.25 a day dur- 
ing this period. 

Experienced street car men were hired 
for two reasons: first, they know how to 
handle crowds and are acquainted with 
streets and stops, and second, they have 
uniforms. Two of these uniformed men 
with conspicuous badges were stationed on 
every other car and handed each passenger 
a blank to be filled out by them. These slips 
contained spaces to be filled in with: 

1. The street corner number at which the 
passenger got on. (Each of the men is pro- 
vided with a card giving the number of every 
street corner.) 

2. The section number. 

3. The kind of fare collected from the pas- 
senger—whether cash, half-fare (child under 
ten years of age), a transfer, or if a “dead- 
head.” 

4. Whether a transfer was issued; if so, 
what life. 

5. The destination of the passenger. 

6. The destination section number. 


0 


When filled out, these blanks were « 
lected by the Rapid Transit employes 


lac 
idCal 


Several days before the survey a pl 
was placed in all cars of the particular line 
to be investigated, reading 


TO THE PUBLI 


lrathe Survey for e purp LD g 
Traffic to be Expected the Pr R 
Line. The Rapid Transit Comn n of the ¢ 
Cincinnati will make a Traffic Survey tl 

the next few days I f t 

irate and complete informat ‘ 

swering the questions asked by the inspe 

e cars 1s requested 

By the Rapid Transit Commissior f ¢ 

Per E. W. Epw 
Pres 


On the day the survey was begun, this 
placard was replaced by another stating 





‘The Rapid Transit Commission of the City 
of Cincinnati is making a traffic survey on tl 
car to-day. Your codperation is asked by the 
Commission in filling in slips presented and 11 
inswering questions 1 by the Ispe 
m this car as accuratel d « pletely 
possible.” 

rhese inspectors covered a given number 


of lines at a time and spent one or two days 
on each line. The survey of the lines of 
the city was completed in two weeks, and 
it was estimated that 230,000 passengers 
helped in this manner in carrying on the 
survey. 

After all of the questionnaire slips wer: 
collected, twenty clerks computed the statis 
tics gleaned. This information formed th: 
basis of the terms of the proposed lease of 
the rapid transit system and also deter- 
mined the location of stations and routes 
of trains. 





THE AMERICAN CITY 





The Distinction Between the 
“City Edition” and the 
“Town and County Edition” of 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


In order to serve more effectively the interests of its sub- 
scribers both in the large cities and in the small towns and 
villages, THE AMERICAN CITY began in September, 
1914, the publication of two editions each month. 





Both editions contain the same number of pages of read- 
ing matter. In the City Edition the first section comprises 
| articles of interest primarily to the larger municipalities; 
| while in the remaining pages it is the aim to include articles 
of interest to municipalities of any size. 


we} 





In the Town & County Edition the first section is of ; 
value primarily to municipal officials or civic workers in | 
places of less than 5,000 inhabitants, or to those interested 


in county and township government and improvements. 
The remaining pages are identical with the corresponding 
j pages of the City Edition; and all of the advertising pages 
. appear in both editions. 


The subscription price of either edition is $3 per annum. 
A subscriber for either edition may have his name trans- 
ferred to the other edition at any time without extra cost. 
Subscribers in the United States desirous of receiving both 
editions can obtain them at a combination rate of $4 per 
annum. 








Foreign subscription rates as follows: 


Either edition, Foreign $4.00; Canada, $3.50. 
Both editions, Foreign, $6.00; Canada, $5.00. 


nn ltt A Nt Pea tlt 











" 
4 


o 
1 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 








- 








465 


Conventions and Exhibitions 


eee AE 
ON THE CALENDAR 


Ocroser 2-6—GrAND Rapips, MICH. 
Playground and Recreation Associa- 
tion of America. Recreation Congress. 
Secretary, H. S. Braucher, 1 Madison 
Avenue, New York City. 


Octoser 5-6,.—Panrts, ILL. 

National Paving Brick Manufacturers’ 
Association. Study and Conference. Sec- 
retary, Will P. Blair, Engineers’ Building, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 


OctToper 5-6.—ANACcoRTES, WASH. 
Washington Federation of Commer- 
cial Organizations. Annual Meeting. 
Secretary, Frank C. Teck, Port Angeles, 
Wash. 
Octoper 7-12.—BuFrato, N. Y. 
The American Prison Association. 


Annual Congress. Secretary, Joseph P. 
Byers, Empire Building, Philadelphia, Pa. 


OcTOBER 9-11.—PROVIDENCE, R. I. 

National Housing Association. An- 
nual Conference. Secretary, Lawrence 
Veiller, 105 East Twenty-second Street, 
New York City. 


OctToBerR 9-13.—Newark, N. J. 

American Society of Municipal Im- 
provements. Annual Convention. Secre- 
tary, Charles Carroll Brown, 702 Wulsin 
Building, Indianapolis, Ind. 


OctToper 10-11.—CLEVELAND, OHIO, 
American Water Works Association, 
Central States Division. Annual conven- 
tion. R. P. Bricker, Shelby, Ohio. 


OctToBER 10-11.—DAVENPORT, IA., AND MOLINE 
AND Rock IsLAnp, ILL. 

Joint Meeting of Iowa and Illinois 
Sections of The American Water Works 
Association. Secretary of the Iowa Sec- 
tion, Jack J. Hinman, Jr., State University 
of Iowa, Iowa City, Ia. 


Octoper 10-12—NeEw Or.eans, La. 
The American Association of Park 
Superintendents. Secretary, R. W. Cot- 
terill, Seattle, Wash. 


OcTOBER 10-15.—VISALIA, CAL. 


California Conference on City Plan- 
ning. Annual Conference. Secretary, 
Charles H. Cheney, Crocker Building, 
San Francisco, Cal. 


OctToBer 10-15.—VISALIA, CAL. 


League of California Municipalities. 
Annual Meeting. Secretary, H. A. Mason, 
care Board of Supervisors, San Francisco. 








OctToBer 11.—VeERNON, B. C. 
Union of British Columbia Munici- 
palities. Annual Convention. Secretary, 
Ex-Reeve H. Bose, Surrey Center, B. C. 


OctToBeR I1-12.—CINCINNATI, OHIO. 

National Alliance of Legal Aid So- 
cieties. Biennial Convention. President, 
W. M. Acheson, Jr., Oliver Building, 
Pittsburgh, Pa. Secretary of the Cincin- 
nati Legal Aid Society, Robert P. Gold- 
man. 


OcToBER II-13.—INDEPENDENCE, KAN. 

League of Kansas Municipalities. An- 
nual Convention. Secretary, C. H. Talbot, 
University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kan. 

Ocroper 11-21.—New York Ciry. 

Electrical Exposition and Motor 
Show. Treasurer, Walter Neumuller, 
Irving Place and Fifteenth Street, New 
York City. 

OctToBER 12-14.—Everett, WaAsH. 

League of Washington Municipalities. 
Annual Convention. Secretary, Dr. Her- 
man A, Brauer, University of Washington, 
Seattle, Wash. 

OcToBER 12-14.—NeEW OrLEANS, LA. 

Young Men’s Business Clubs of 
America. Convention. Address, Harold 
B. Nathan, Hennen Building, New Or- 
leans, La. 

Octoper 13-14—New York Cry. 

Society for Street Cleaning and Re- 
fuse Disposal of United States and 
Canada. Annual Convention. Secretary, 
J. R. Buchanan, Department of Street 
Cleaning, Municipal Building, New York 
City. 

OcTOBER 14-16.—SPRINGFIELD, MAss 

Neighborhood Association of New 
England. Conference for a better New 
England. President, Mrs. Esther Taber 
Fox, Litchfield, Conn. 

OcrToBer 16-17—AMHERST, Mass. 

Massachusetts Conference on Rural 
Organization. Secretary, E. L. Morgan, 
Massachusetts Agricultural College, Am- 
herst, Mass. 

OctorerR 17-20.—Detroit, Micu 

National Safety Council. Annual Con- 
gress. Secretary, W. H. Cameron, 208 
South La Salle Street, Chicago, Tll. 

Octoper 18-19.—Rep WING, MINN. 

League of Minnesota Municipalities. 
Annual Convention. Secretary, Richard 
R. Price, University of Minnesota, Minne- 
apolis, Minn. 




















THE AMERICAN CITY 











EXPANSION 
JIOINT 


The original and only Elastite Joint 


All that is left of the tar kettle gang 


On hundreds of big contracts the work formerly done by half a dozen 
or more men and a foreman is now being done, and done better, by one 
common laborer and ELASTITE. 

This man takes the sections of ELASTITE from the crates in which they 
are delivered direct from our factory to the job. He sets them against ‘ 
the curb and the concrete is slushed up to them making a perfect bond. 


Wherever two unit slabs are to come together he places sections of EL,AS- 
TITE crosswise of the job. The concrete is poured on both sides of these 
sections at once and when it is hard he smoothes off the joints with a sharp 
shovel. 

These joints are uniform from bottom to top and there is no need of the 
tar kettle gang with all the extra labor time, trouble and confusion con- 
nected with every joint-pouring job. 





Write today for sample and literature. ; 


THE PHILIP CAREY CO., 2 tziyisy oties | 











58 When writing to Advertisers please mention Toe American City. 








OcrorneR, 1916 


OcToBER 19-21.—MILWAUKEE, Wis. 

American Association for Study and 
Prevention of Infant Mortality. An- 
nual Meeting. Executive Secretary, Miss 
Gertrude B. Knipp, 1211 Cathedral Street, 
Baltimore, Md. 


OctoBer 24-27.—CINCINNATI, OHIO. 
American Public Health Association. 
Secretary, Selskar M. Gunn, 755 Boylston 
Street, Boston, Mass. 


OctoBer 26.—MippLetown, Conn. 
Connecticut Chamber of Commerce. 
Annual Convention. Secretary, Frederick 
S. Valentine, Derby, Conn. 


Octorer 26-28.—HILisporo, TEx. 
League of Texas Municipalities. An- 
nual Convention. Secretary, Prof H. G. 
James, University of Texas, Austin, Tex. 


NOVEMBER 15.—URBANA, ILL, 
Illinois Municipal League. Annual 


Meeting. Secretary, John A. Fairlie, Uni- 
versity of Illinois, Urbana, III. 


NOVEMBER 15-16.—SPRINGFIELD, MAss. 
National Consumers’ League. Annual 
Convention. General Secretary, Mrs. Flor- 
ence Kelley, 289 Fourth Avenue, New 
York City. 


NOVEMBER 15-17.—New York City. 
Association of Urban Universities. 
Conference, to be held at the College of 
The City of New York. Secretary, Fred- 
erick B. Robinson, College of The City of 
New York, New York City. 


NoveMBER 16-18.—NASHVILLE, TENN. 
Fire Marshals’ Association of North 
America. Annual Meeting. Secretary, 
L. T. Hussey, Topeka, Kan. 


NOVEMBER 17-19.—La Crosse, WIs. 
World’s Purity Federation. Mid- 


biennial Meeting. Secretary, Laurence E. 
Brownell, Winnipeg, Manitoba. 


NOVEMBER 20.—SPRINGFIELD, MASS. 
Massachusetts Single Tax League. 
Special Meeting. President, Alex. Mac- 
Kendrick, 120 Boylston Street, Boston, 
Mass. 


NOVEMBER 20-21.—St. Louis, Mo. 

American Social Hygiene Association. 
Annual Meeting and Conference. Secre- 
tary, Donald R. Hooker, 105 West Fortieth 
Street, New York City. 


NOVEMBER 20-22.—LEWISTOWN, Mont. 


Montana Municipal League. Annual 
Meeting. Address, E. S. Judd, City Clerk, 
Billings, Mont. 


NOVEMBER 21.—SPRINGFIELD, Mass. 


Massachusetts Civic League. Civic 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


467 


Conference and Annual Meeting. 
tary, Edward A. 
Boston, Mass. 


Secre- 
Hartman, 3 Joy Street, 


NOVEMBER 20-23.—SPpRINGFIELD, Mass. 
_City Managers’ Association. 
Convention. Secretary, O. E. 
Manager, Niagara Falls, N. Y. 


Annual 


Carr, City 


NOVEMBER 21-23.—BRANDON, MANITOBA. 
Union of Manitoba Municipalities. 
Annual Convention. Secretary, Robert 
Forke, Pipestone, Manitoba. 


NOVEMBER 22.—SPRINGFIELD, MAss. 

Western New England Chamber of 
Commerce. Annual Meeting and Ban- 
quet. Secretary, James P. Taylor, Burling- 
ton, Vt. 


NOVEMBER 22-23.—SPRINGFIELD, MAss. 
Conference on Municipal Research. 
First Annual Meeting of Directors, Staff 
and Trustees. Chairman, Lent D. Upson, 
100 Griswold Street, Detroit, Mich. 


NOVEMBER 22-23.—PHILADELPHIA, Pa. 

Society for the Promotion of Training 
for Public Service. Conference on Uni- 
versities and Public Service, including a 
Conference on Commercial Education. 
Director of the Society and Secretary of 
the Conference, Edward A. Fitzpatrick, 
P. O. Box 380, Madison, Wis. 


NOVEMBER 23-24.—SPRINGFIELD, MAss. 


Massachusetts Federation of Plan- 
ning Boards. Annual Convention and 
City Planning Exhibition. Secretary, Ar- 
thur C. Comey, Cambridge, Mass. 


NOVEMBER 23-25.—SPRINGFIELD, MAss. 


National Municipal League. Annual 
Convention. Secretary, Clinton Rogers 
Woodruff, North American Building, 


Philadelphia, Pa. 
And allied organizations : 

Civic Secretaries’ Committee of the 
National Municipal League. Annual 
conference, to be held simultaneously with 
the meeting of the National Municipal 
League. Secretary, Hornell Hart, City 
Club, Milwaukee, Wis. 

Training School for Public Service. 
Special sessions, November 22-23. Super- 
visor of the Training School, Professor 
Charles A. Beard, 261 Broadway, New 
York City. 


DeceMBER. 4-9.—CHiIcaco, ILL. 
National Conference on Marketing 
and Farm Credits. Secretary, Charles W. 
Holman, Washington Building, Madison, 
Wis. 
DeBEMBER 5.—NewW Haven, Conn. 
National Civil Service Reform League. 


Annual Meeting. Secretary, George T. 
Keyes, 79 Wall Street, New York City. 


























THE AMERICAN CITY 





SNOW BOUND? 


NOT WITH THESE 
SNOW FIGHTERS HANDY ! 






Jump on the first snow with ef- 


fective methods. Rob the snow 
storm of its terrors this winter by 
having these speedy labor savers 
ready for business’ 















B ER AUTO TRUCK 
BAKER SNOW PLOW 
Does the work of 1,000 men 
with shovels. Attach it to any 
standard motor truck in a few 
minutes. Operator easily and 
quickly raises and lowers blade 
from his seat. Used by New 
York and Chicago Street 
Cleaning Departments. 


BAKER jf icists 


Picks up—loads—dumps the snow auto- 
matically. Driver does it all from his 
seat. Made in capacities up to 4 cubic 
yards. Saves its cost in a single snow 
storm. It’s the one big thing in snow 
removal. 


B ER 20th CENTURY 
SNOW PLOW 
A plow for street gutter and side-walk 
cleaning. Light handy and non-slipping. 
For one or two horses. The 20th Cen- 


tury is used by practically every large 
city in the snow belt. 





SAVE THAT TIE-UP THIS WINTER 
BY PREPARING RIGHT NOW 


We'll rush you the information. Write us. 


THE BAKER MFG. CO. 
503 Stanford Avenue, SPRINGFIELD, ILL. 
New York . 
BAKER-BARRON, Inc., 221 West Broadway 











tion Tue American City 

















OcToBER, 1916 
DrecEMBER 5-7.—St. Louis, Mo. 

American Association of State High- 
way Officials. Annual Meeting. Secre- 
tary, Joseph Hyde Pratt, Chapel 
ie 


DeceMBER 5-7.—NEW OrLE/NS, La. 


Railway Gardening Association. \n 
nual Convention. Secretary, Charles E 
Lowe, Sewickly, Pa. 


DeEcEMBER 5-8.—NeEW York City. 
American Society of Mechanical En- 


gineers. Annual Convention. Secretary, 
Calvin W. Rice, 29 West Thirty-ninth 
Street, New York City. 


DECEMBER 6-8.—MINNEAPOLIS, MINN. 
American Institute of Architects. 
nual Convention. Secretary, Burt L. 
ner, The Octagon, Washington, D. ¢ 


DeEcEMBER 6-13.—St. Louts, Mo. 

Federal Council of the Churches of 
Christ in America. Third Quadriennial 
Council. General Secretary, Rev. Charles 
S. MacFarland, 105 East Twenty-second 
Street, New York City. 


An- 
Fen- 


DECEMBER 7-9.—BALTIMORE, Mp. 

Safety First Federation of America. 
Annual Convention, also Annual Meeting. 
Executive Secretary, W. D. Heydecker, 6 
East Thirty-ninth Street, New York City. 

DeECEMBER 26-31—New York City. 

American Association for the Ad- 


vancement of Science. Annual Convoca- 
tion Week. Secretary, Dr. L. O. Howard, 


— 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


Hill, 


469 


Smithsonian Institute, 


DECEMBER New Haven, Conn. 
Society of American Bacteriologists. 
Annual Meeting. Secretary, Dr. A. 
Parker Hitchens, Glenolden, Pa. 


Washington, D. C 


26-28. 


DECEMBER 27-29.—CoLUMBuUs, OHIO. 


American Association for Labor Leg- 


islation. Annual Meeting. Secretary, 
John B. Andrews, 131 East Twenty-third 
Street, New York City 


,- 


27-29.—CuHIcaco_ ILL, 

American Society of Agricultural En- 
gineers. Annual Convention. Secretary, 
C. K. Shedd, Ames, Iowa. 


DECEMBER 


DECEMBER 27-30.—CoLuUMBUs, OHIO. 


American Economic Association. An- 
nual Meeting. Secretary, W. G. Leland, 
Woodward Building, Washington, D. C. 


— 


DECEMBER 27-30.—CoL_uMBUS, OHIO. 


American Sociological Society. An 
nual Meeting. Secretary, Scott E. W. 
Bedford, University of Chicago, Chicago, 
Ill. 


DECEMBER 27-30.—CoLUMBUS, OHIO. 


Aanetions Statistical Association. 
nual Meeting. Secretary, Prof. 
Doten, 491 Boylston Street, 
D.C 


DECEMBER 28-31.—CINCINNATI, OHIO, 
American Political Science Associa- 
tion. Annual Meeting. Secretary, Ches- 


ter Lloyd Jones, University of Wisconsin, 
Madison, Wis. 


An- 
Carroll W. 
Washington, 





GRAPHIC CHART OF CO. «VENTIONS IN SPRINGFIELD. MASS.-NOVEMBER 207 TO 25% 1916 
WITH DIAGRAMATIC SCHEDULE OF TENTATIVE PROGRAMS 


ane OATE 


MONDAY TUESDAY- 2) 


ou 


Municipol 


ty 
Asscciatior 


nce 
on 
for 
blic 


Dw 
Notl. Mun 


Federotion of 
Eng 


Massochugett« 
Cwie 

Mass& 
league 


Ta. 


DEFINITION of SymMBOLS 


WEDNESDAY- 





FRIDAY - 24 


miaza 


THURSDAY- 
2 











= Forme! Busmess Breoktast Meeting 
General Sessions Luncheon Discussion 
iD Feemal Pubic Meeting B Dinner Discussion 
(9 laspecthion Trip Ee Ponguet 


A Inspechon of NY Citys mumeipal octwities-QAM Sleeper 1/15 Pm 
B with Notional Municipal League 

C with Traming School for Public Service 

D Leove NY 24m. Arrwe Springfield (2:45 -a0r 

E Dotes not decided 





Pre pered by the Sprenotield Bureow of Moemerat Me senech Sot 1 19% 











THE AMERICAN CITY 








Frost Has Little Effect on 


“GENUINE OPEN HEARTH IRON” 
CULVERTS 
The presence of copper resists 


the destroying effects of the 
soil, water and climate. 


The culverts that last indefinitely. 4 
Try them on your next job. 


Write for booklet in_the meantime 


THE NEWPORT CULVERT._CO., Inc. 
NEWPORT, KY. 














OUR CULVERTS 
NEVER REQUIRE 
REPLACEMENT 




















1916 Iroquois Portable Asphalt Plant 





Rollers Increased 
Tandem and Capacity, 
Macadam Convenience, | 
Heating Economy : 
Kettles 
Write for 
Surfaces Special 
Heaters. Bulletin 














The Barber Asphalt Paving Company 


Iroquois Works Buffalo, New York 











60 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American Crty, ‘ | 
















Acc, T. R., C.E., Professor of Highway En- 
gineering, lowa State College. 

The Construction of Roads and Pave- 

ments, 1916. viii + 432 pp. Photographs, 

charts, diagrams and tables. $3.00 


Written to meet the need for a concise pusientes 
of approved practice in the construction of roads and 
pavements and of the principles involved, this book is 
intendea primarily for use as a textbook, but the 
numerous tables and typical designs and specifications 
included should add to its value as a reference book 
for highway engineers. The development of highway 
systems in general is first considered and then the 
surveys and plans necessary for constructive and last- 
ing work are described. Some attention is given to 
rural highways and the construction and maintenance 
of earth roads. Subsequent chapters discuss sand-clay, 
gravel, water-bound macadam, concrete, vitrified brick, 
wood-block, stone-block and bituminous roads, and spe- 
cial chapters deal with dust layers, bituminous car- 
pets, penetration, sheet asphalt and asphaltic concrete 
surfaces, etc. Two chapters give hints for the selec- 
tion of the type of pavement surface and for the selec- 
tion of the type of surface for a rural highway, and 
the closing chapters treat of pavement design and the 
tests for bituminous road and paving materials. The 
volume closes with a glossary. 


Watters, Francis M., A.M., Professor of 
Physiology and Hygiene, State Normal 
School, Warrensburg, Mo. 


The Principles of Health Control. 1916. 
viii + 476 pp. Photographs, charts and 
diagrams. $1.50 


This book places equal emphasis upon the necessity 
for avoiding the causes of disease and bodily weak- 
nesses and upon the building up of weak parts, im- 
proving body processes and strengthening the natural 
defenses. After considering the facts relating to the 
body which supply a basis for control and the causes 
and general sootbed of control of variations in physical 
condition, the various means whereby health control 
may be exercised are analyzed in separate chapters, 
and a scheme of action is outlined. Two chapters are 
devoted to a consideration of offensive and defensive 
methods of germ-fighting, and finally the larger aspects 
of public health control are discussed. At the end of 
po chapter is a list of questions which should prove 
valuable when the book is used in connection with 
classes in medicine. 


KENNEDY, JosepH, Dean of the School of Edu- 
cation, University of North Dakota. 


Rural Life and the Rural School. 10915. 
189 pp. Photographs. 80 cents 


This book recreates the conditions and atmosphere of 
rural communities in action by means of the simply 
narrated story of rural upbuilding work in which the 
author has been a leader. After considering the forces 
which are tending to draw people away from the rural 
regions to the cities, the real and the ideal rural school 
are taken up and some lines of progress indicated. 
The field has been neglected in the past, but the author 
sees an advance in the movement for the consolidation 
of rural schools. The teacher and his or her per- 
sonality is the real factor of importance in the rural 
school, and we should see that wages are adequate. 
Consideration of the curriculum leads on to the wider 
sphere of school activity, as illustrated in the social 
center, and the closing chapters deal with the problems 
of supervision, leadership and coéperation, home life 
of the farm and “the Rural Renaissance.’ 


Municipal and Civic Publications 


Copies may be ordered of Tue American City, with the exception of Government publications and 
those indicated as free, which should be ordered direct from the offices publishing them 


47° 





a8 MASOES M48 MANOZS ES 


Le Prince, Josepn A., C. E., A. M., Chief Sani- 
tary Inspector, Isthmian Canal Com- 
mission, and 

ORENSTEIN, A. J., M. D., Assistant Chief Sani- 
tary Inspector, Isthmian Canal Com- 
mission. 

Mosquito Control in Panama: The 
Eradication of Malaria and Yellow 
Fever in Cuba and Panama. (Introduc- 
tion by L. O. Howard, LL. D., Entomolo- 
gist and Chief, Bureau of Entomology, 
United States Department of Agriculture. ) 
1916. Xvili + 335 pp. Photographs, maps, 
diagrams, charts and tables. $2.66 


In Tue American City for September, 1915, was 
published a review of Major-General Gorgas’ book on 
“Sanitation in Panama.” This was the first readily 
accessible volume published discussing the revolution 
ary innovations in the field of public health control 
which have been effected thru the efforts of the sani 
tarians sent by the federal government to Cuba and 
Panama. The present volume serves as an admirable 
complement to the book of Major-General Gorgas, dis- 
cussing more fully points suggested in the first book 
and including a vast amount of fresh details and in- 
formation. After indicating the status of knowledge of 
anti-malaria work in 1904, and the previous campaign 
in Havana, the situation on the Isthmus before Ameri 
can occupation, in the same year, is considered. Mete- 
orological and topographical conditions, in so far as 
they affect insect life, are outlined, and the species of 
the Anopheles mosquito and the propagation areas 
which it has chosen are discussed. The rest of Part I 
tells of the various methods of attack on propagation 
areas, such as by filling, drainage, oiling, larvacides, 
natural enemies, cleaning out the ponds, removal of 
jungle, etc., and the closing chapter gives the results of 
the anti-malaria campaign, showing a reduction of cases 
of from 82 per cent in 1906 to 8 per cent in 1918. The 
yellow fever campaign, discussed in Part II, is treated 
similarly, and the means adopted to fight the Aédes 
Calopus mosquito, responsible for this disease, are 
explained. 


Aronovici, CaroL, Director of the Bureau for 
Social Research, Philadelphia. 

The Special Survey. 1916. x + 255 pp. 

Photographs, charts and diagrams. $1.25 


This book is a revised and enlarged edition of the 
author’s.study of the social survey which was first 
published as Bulletin No. 20 of the Department of So- 
cial and Public Service of the American Unitarian 
Association. The author presents the broader outlines 
of general investigation as illustrated in the social sur- 
vey in such a form as to be convenient as a reference 
work and guide to those contemplating such an under- 
taking. After discussing the general questions, the 
character of the community, as manifested in territory 
and population, is considered. A new conception of 
the “city plan” is revealed in the chapter of that name 
where the three prerequisites of a socialized plan are 
given as: “the adequate recognition of the needs of all 
the people, in regard to the preservation of their life; 
the facilitating of the efficient exercise of their power 
to labor; and the affording of adequate and _ well-bal 
anced facilities for the use of their leisure.” Local 
government is next discussed, and then suffrage, 
Americanization, and industry (types of industry, 
workers and compensation, unemployment, welfare 
work, etc.) A long chapter discusses health from the 
wider aspect now coming into general recognition. The 
final chapters treat of recreation, education, welfare 
agencies, statistics, legislation, the social program, et« 
A valuable appendix gives the sources of information, 
social agencies of national scope and a carefully pre- 
pared bibliography. : 











rH! AMERICAN CIT) 














FOR EVERY PURPOSE 
tt 
SISNS een 


MUNICIPAL 
" GUARANTEED 
PORCELAIN 
‘“‘BALTO” Guaranteed Porcelain Enameled Iron Signs 
stand alone in their field—the one and only one absolutely 





OF EVERY CHARACTER 
ENAMELED 
dependable sign product. 















These signs are made of the finest grade of vitreous Porcelain Enamel 
fused on specially processed iron at a temperature of 1600 degrees Fah- 
renheit—each color separately fused. 


‘“*‘BALTO”’ Signs, exclusively, are fitted with 


il non-corrosive metal sleeve eyelets—this 
s) | 





Keon 


feature protects the enamel at this point \ Na "ic 
~ AUMIT > 
500 i VOLT finish to our signs. 


and adds another: distinctive element of ; 





We produce every possible character of municipal 
signs—any size, shape, color combination or design. 
Without obligation our Service Department will 
be pleased to submit sketches and quotations. 
Additionally, we will send FREE, at our expense, 
to any authorized purchasing official or ow A a 
useful and attractive sample of finished Porcelain 
Enameled Iron. Write Department C. 


The Baltimore Enamel & Novelty Co. 


BALTIMORE, MARYLAND 


UNNECESSARY NOISES) 7 <p; 


Al PROHIBITED (° .? : 


Me 


g to Advertisers please mention Tut AMERICAN CrTy. 














— lh nail 


Octorer, 1916 


Comines, S. H. 
Industrial and Vocational Education, 
Universal and Self-Sustaining. Second 
wee Revision and Supplement by Mrs. 
. H. (Lydia J.Newcomb) Comings. 1915. 
ed pp. $1.50 
Professor Dewey, in “Schools of To-morrow,” has 
already told us something of the educational experiment 
so successfully being conducted at Fairhope. This in 
formation gives added interest to the present volume, 
because it was largely due to the ideas and teaching ‘ot 
its author that Fairhope was established. Believing 
that self-supporting institutions are vastly more de- 
sirable than endowed institutions, Mr. Comings always 
insisted that those who work should think and those 
who think should work; thus, in his conception educa- 
tion should prepare the child to earn his own living, 
as work in itself is an integral part of true education 
and only by making education self-supporting can it 

be made universal. 


Payne, Georce HENry. 
The Child in Human Progress. 
word by A. Jacobi, M.D., LL.D.) 1916. 
xx + 400 pp. Photographs. $2.66 
The condemnation of child sacrifice in the story of 
Isaac in the Bible is shown to have been the starting 
point of a new conception of child welfare, first prac- 
ticed on a large scale —a the reign of the Roman 
Emperor Augustus. In medieval Europe the work of 
St. Vincent de Paul served to keep the idea from dying 
out. The Fe of the factory system, which came with 
the modern era, had its hard effect on the children and 
led finally to a world-wide child-protection movement, 
manifested in the United States by the organization of 
the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children. 
Three appendices contain valuable statistical and biblio- 
graphical information. 


Crampton, C. Warp, Director of 
Training, New York City. 

The Second Folk Dance Book. 

79 Ppp. 

paniment. 


The popularity of the author's first Folk Dance 
Book, which presented a clear, concise description of 
the most useful and attractive folk dances appropriz — 
for schools and playgrounds, and the wide-spread de 
mand for more dances has caused the publication of 
this “Second Folk Dance Book.” In the seven years 
since the publication of the first book the author has 
had opportunity to collect and test the new forms of 


( Fore- 


Physical 


1916. 
Photographs and musical accom- 


$1.60 


THE AMERICAN 


CITY 473 


folk plays and dances, and from the best of these the 
present volume has been compiled. rhe names of 
some of the dances are as follows: “Seven Pretty 
Girls in a Ring,” “Out Rode a Rider,” ‘ *M: askrosor, 
‘Gustaf’s Skoal,” “Swiss May Dance,” “Knytnap 
spolska,” “Come Haul the Water,” “Irish Four-Hand 
Jig,” ““May-Pole Dance,” ete. The book informs us 
that folk dances have ceased to be a fad and are now 
used in connection with for mi 1 phy sical eral ing as a 
delightful means of obtaining hygienic, educational and 
recreative results from normal exercise 


BREMNER, KATE F., Mistress of Method under 
the Edinburgh School Board. 


More Song Games. (Adapted for school 
use by Kate F. Bremner, with musical ac- 
companiments arranged by F. H. Bisset.) 
1916. viii + 42 pp. Twenty photographic 
illustrations. $1.60 


The author of the song games in this book has 
attempted to interpret the sense or feeling of the 
folksong airs upon which most of the music is based. 
She has arranged her book se that the music is printed 
first, then under it the words and a photograph show- 
ing ‘how the school children of Edinburgh have acted 
out the song. At the foot of the page a few simple 
directions and suggestions are given to assist the teacher 
in her interpretation. The titles of some of the songs, 
which number thirty-two in all, are: “A Picnic in the 
Woods;” “Handy Andy, Jack A Dandy ;” “While 
Marching Around;” “The Broken Branch;” “A Sailor 
I Would Like to Be;’ “A Tea Party;” “ The Fairies; ® 
“Maypole Song;” “The Babes in the Wood;” ‘“*/ 
— Girl, ” “The First Christmas,” and “God Our 
Father.’ 


CootipGe, EMeELYN LiNcoLn, M. D. 
The Home Care of Sick Children. A 
Guide for Mothers in the Care of Sick 
Children. 1916. xii + 282 pp. Illus- 
trated. $1.00 


This book, with its detailed instructions for the care 
of sick children, should prove a valuable aid to the 
doctors, visiting nurses and others working in the em- 
ploy of cities which are engaged in fighting infantile 
paralysis and other diseases fostered by inadequate 
care of children in poor and unsanitary homes. Such 
problems are discussed as general care and feeding, 
peculiarities of disease and special methods of treat- 
ment, premature and delicate infants, common diseases 
of digestive organs, faulty nutrition and general 
diseases, diseases of respiratory system and nervous 
system, and infectious diseases. 





Pamphlets of Municipal and Civic Interest 


See also the departments of Public Safety and News and Ideas for Cx 


tions, for other publications of special interest 


Tar Spraying Worn Macadam Roads. 


Worn Macadam Road Repaired by Tar Spraying. 
By Robert H, McNeilly, Assistant Professor of 
Civil Engineering, Vanderbilt University. (Pages 
281-283, Engineering Record, Vol. 74, No. 10, Sep- 
tember 2, 1916.) Illustrated with photographs. 
(Apply to Engineering Record, 239 West 39th 
Street, New York City.) 


Road Dust Preventives. 


References to Books and Magazine Articles. (Pub- 
lications of the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh, 
Reference Lists series.) 1916. 39 pp. (Apply to 
Carnegie Library, Pittsburgh, Pa.) 5 cents. 


Physical Tests of Road-Building Rock. 


The Results of Physical Tests of Road-Building 
Rock. By Prévost Hubbard, Chemical Engineer, 
and Frank H. Jackson, Jr., Assistant ‘esting 
Engineer. (Bulletin No. 370, United States Office 
of Public Road and Rural "Engineering, Profes- 
sional Paper of July 20, 1916.) 100 pp. Statisti- 
cal tables. (Apply to the above office, Washing- 
ton, D. ) 


ymmercial and Civic Organica- 


The Federal Aid Road Act. 


Rules and Regulations of the Secretary of Agri- 
culture for Carrying Out the Federal Aid Road 
Act. (Issued September 1, 1916, as Circular No. 
65, Office of the Secretary, U maee py eee = Depart 
ment of Agriculture.) 24 p ply to the 
Office of Public Roads pee Sak gh 
Washington, D. C.) 


Investigation of Concrete Roadways. 

By T. Agg and C. B. McCullough. (Technical 
Report No 1, prepared in coéperation by the Iowa 
State Highw ay Commission and the Good Roads 
Section of the Engineering Experiment Station, 
lowa State College, May 1, 1916.) 100 pp. Pho 
tographs, charts, diagrams. and statistical tables. 
(Apply to lowa State Highway Commission, Ames, 
lowa.) 


A Readable Annual Report. 
Annual Report of the City of Dayton for the Year 
1915. Published by the City Commission, June, 
1916. 35 pp. Photographs, diagrams, financial sta- 
tistics. (Apply to H. M. Waite, City Manager, 
Dayton, Ohio.) 











THE A 

























erection. 














MERICAN CITY 


BVERWEAR 


All-Steel Playground Apparatus 
for Parks, Public Playgrounds 
Schools, Private Yards, etc. 


An all-steel galvanized 
product throughout, 
specially designed for 
the wear and tear of 
outdoor use. All de- 


. tails of bearings, con- 


nections, etc., have 


been worked out to the highest standard of per- 
fection. Pipe Fittings which are threadless 
and require no set screws, drilling or tapping of 
either fitting or pipe, thus simplifying and cheapening the cost of 

















Perhaps we can be of service to you in deciding the problem of equip- 
ment. Write us fully advising us as to your ground space, apparatus 
desired, and we will cheerfully furnish plans and prices gratis. Our 
Services are yours for the asking. 


Catalog E-8 covering 
a full 
latest and approved 
playground appara- 
tus sent on request 


EVERWEAR 


MFG. CO. 
Springfield, Ohio 


of the 

















When writing to Advertisers please 


mention Tue American Crrty, 














Ocroser, 1916 


Municipally-Owned Water-Works in Mas- 
sachusetts. 


Revenue and Operating Expense of Municipally 
Owned Water-Works in Massachusetts for the 
Year 1913. By Charles W. Sherman. (Reprinted 
from Journal of the New England Water-Works 
Association, Vol. XXX, No. 2, copyright, 1916, by 
the Association.) 7 pp. Statistical tables. (Ap 
ply to the author, care Metcalf & Eddy, 14 Beacon 
Street, Boston, Mass.) 


ata ~ p Toes in the District of Co- 


me. —_ Teas Engineer (Irvin S. Osborn) 
Upon the Collection and Disposal of Garbage and 
Other City Waste Originating in the District of 
Columbia for the Fiscal Year Ending June 30, 
1915. (Ordered printed February 5, 1916; issued 
as House Document No. 661.) 53 pp. Statistical 
Tables. (Apply to Daniel J. Donovan, Secretary, 
j-commnneners of the District of Columbia, Wash- 
ington, D. C.) 


A Brief for Health Insurance. 


Brief for Health Insurance: Special Articles, 
Representative Comment, Select eeeeeragny 
(The American Labor Legislation Review 

VI, No. 2, Publication 33, June, 1916.) 155 pp 
Map, tables and charts. (Apply to the American 
Association for Labor Lesion, John B. An- 
drews, Secretary, 131 East Twenty-third Street, 
New York City.) $1.00. 


The Conservation of Vision. 


Publications Nos. 2, 3, 5 and 9, National Com- 
mittee for the Prevention of Blindness, with titles 
as follows: “Take Care of Your Eyes” (4 pp.), 
“Directions for the Prevention of Blindness from 
Babies’ Sore Eyes” (4 pp.), ““What Women’s Clubs 
and Nursin Organizations Can Do to Prevent 
Blindness” (4 pp.), “Summary of State Laws and 
Rulin Blindness 
from (Apply to the 
National Committee for the ’revention of Blind 
ness, 180 East 22d Street, New York City.) 


Relating to the ee of 
abies’ Sore Eyes.” (6 pp.) 


The Prevention of Blindness. 


Consereatis ¢ Vision and Prevention of Blind 
ness. B . de Schweinits, M. D., Philadel- 

phia. aR? from The Journal of ihe Ameri- 
can Medical Association, Feb. 5, 1916, Vol. LXVI, 
pp. 393-397.) 1916. (Ap ly to author or to Na- 
tional Committee for the Prevention of Blindness, 
130 East Twenty-second Street, New York City.) 


Tendencies in Street Lighting Practice. 


Reports from More than 100 Cities Giving Fea- 
tures of Present Street Lighting Equipments with 
Rates, Cost of Installation and Maintenance. 
(Pages 475-478, Electrical World, September 2, 
1916.) (Apply to Electrical W orld, 239 West 39th 
Street, New York City.) 


New York City hidadineten Accounting 
System. 


Accounting System of New York Department of 
Water Supply, Gas and Electricity. y 
Stander, . A. (Reprinted from The Journal 
of Accountancy, August, 1916.) 11 pp. (Apply 
to L. E. Stander, Auditor, Department of Water 
Supply, Gas and Electricity, Municipal Building, 
New York City.) 


Smoke Prevention Convention. 


Proceedings of the Tenth Annual Convention of 
the Smoke Prevention Association, Cincinnati, 
Ohio, September 8-10, 1915. 176 pp. Photo- 
graphs, charts and diagrams. (Apply to Frank A. 

bers, Secretary-Treasurer of the Association, 
608 City Hall, Chicago, Ill.) 


Rochester’s Budget. 


1916 ete of the City of Rochester, N. Y. E. S. 
Osborne, Comptroller. 1916. viii + 47 pp. 
Financial - les. (Apply to City Comptroller, 
Rochester, N. Y.) 


THE AMERICAN 


CiTY 475 


Tuberculosis: A Selected Bibliography. 


Selection and Annotation by Dr. Philip P. Jacobs 
National Association for the Study and Pr 
of Tuberculosis. (Bulletin of the 
Foundation Library, No. 18, 
pp. (Apply to the i ibrary 
Street, New York City.) 


Infant Mortality. 


Its Relation to Social and Industrial Conditions 
Ey Henry H. Hibbs, Jr. (Publication No. CH 24, 
kKussell Sage Foundation.) 1916. viii + 127 pp 
(Copies may be had, at 30 cents each, from the 
Department ar Child-Helping, Russell Sage 
Foundation, 130 East 22d Street, New York City.) 


Standard Methods of Gas Testing. 


Circular No, 48 of the United States 
Standards, S. W. Stratton, Director. (Secor 
tion; issued June 10, 1916.) 202 pp. 
diagrams and ones, (Apply to the 
Washington, D. C.) 


evention 
Russell Sage 
lana 1916.) 4 
as above, 130 East 22d 


Bureau of 
d edi 
Charts, 
Bureau, 


A Comprehensive Plan for East Boston. 


East Boston: A Survey and a Comprehensive 
Plan. (Prepared by George Gibbs, Jr., Investi 
gator, for the City Planning Board, Mass., 
February, 1915.) Document 1916 
138 pp. Photographs, maps, ply to 
the Board, Boston, Mass.) 


Bost: n, 
q 116—1915. 
diagrams. (Ap 


Boston Market Situation. 


A_Summary of the Market Situation in Boston. 
(Preliminary Report of the Market Advisory Com- 
mittee to the City Planning Board, Boston, Mass., 
June, 1915.) 1916. 175 »p. Diagrams, statistical 
tables and excellent bibliography (Apply to 
Board, Boston, Mass.) 


Hartford Juvenile Commission Report. 
Seventh Annual Report of the Juvenile Commis- 
sion to the Mayor and Court of Common Council 
of the City of Hartford, Conn., for the Year 
Ending April 30, 1916. 30 py (Apply to the 
Commission, Hartford, Conn.) ; 


Micromotion Studies Applied to Education. 
By A. A. Douglass and W. L Clark 
University. (Reprinted gical 
Seminary, Vol. XXIII, June, 1916, pages 241-261.) 
21 pp. Photographs and charts. (Apply to 
authors, Clark University, Worcester, Mass.) 


Dealey, 
from the Pedag 


Proportional Representation. 


A Reply to Professor H. 3 
Humphreys, Secretary of the Proportional Repre 
sentation Society, London. ( Reprintex 1 from the 
National Municipal Review, Vol. 5, No. 3, July, 
1916, and issued as American Proportional Repre 
sentation League Pamphlet No. 8, July, 1916.) 11 
pp. (Single copies may be had, postpaid, for 4 
cents; a dozen copies, to one address postpaid, for 
30 cents. Apply a. American Proportional Repre 
sentation League, G. G, Hoag, General Secretary, 
Haverford, Pa.) 


_James. By John H. 


The Housing Needs of Working Men. 


Housing Needs of Working Men and 
Methods of Providing for Them. (Report and 
Recommendations Made to the Waterbury, Conn., 
Housing Committee by John Nolen, Landscape 
Architect, and published as a Supplement to the 
Waterbury Sunday Republican under caption, 
“Waterbury Housing Keport.”) September 3, 
1916. 8 pp. Photographs and plans. Copies may 
be obtained from Tue American City at 10 cents 
each. 


Proposed 


Lynching: Removing Its Causes. 


Address Delivered Before the Southern Sociologi- 
cal Congress, New Orleans, La., April 14, 1916, by 
W. D. Weatherford, Ph.D., Student Sec retary, In- 
ternational Committee of the Young gi s Chris 
tian Associations. 12 pp. (Apply to J. E. McCul- 
loch, General Secretary, Southern Sociok he Con 
gress, Nashville, Tenn.) 








AMERICAN CITY 

















"LAWN MOWERS 


cost a great deal more to make 
and a little more to buy, but are 
really much cheaper because of 
the superior service they give. 


They cut better, run easier and last so long | 
the cost is forgotten. 





PENNSYLVANIA” 


Mowers are self-sharpen- 
The “PENNSYLVANIA” , 

a includes the following ing, too. 
brands: 





Write for catalog 


“Continental” 
“Pennsylvania, Jr.” 


























63 When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American City. 





eS 





f 
ax 









Insect Pests Removed by Spraying. 


A complete list of power sprayers for use in parks, 
cemeteries, streets, public grounds, etc., for keep 
ing trees and shrubs in healthy condition thru 
the removal of insect pests, is issued by the Bean 
Spray Pump Company, 224 West Julian Street, 
San Tad. Cal. 


“Let the Motor Do the Work.” 


“A Packard Power Take-Off Does the Work at 
One-Fifth of the Cost for the Michigan State Tele- 
phone Company.” In a large folder, the Packard 
Motor Car Company, of Detroit, Mich., describes 
its power take-off, and the uses of this apparatus in 
municipal utilities. 


Surveying and Scientific Instruments. 


“Instrumentos de Agrimensura” is the title of a 
pamphlet written in Spanish, which is issued by 
Kolesch & Co., of 188 Fulton Street, New York 
City. It describes and illustrates the various su: 
veying instruments manufactured by this firm, 
which is an established one in the field of scientific 
instruments. 


New Floral Guide, Autumn, 1916. 


In a pamphlet of the above title, The Conard & 
Jones Company, of West Grove, Pa., presents a 
long list of the many flowers it deals in, quotes its 
latest prices, and gives some sound advice on a 
great number of matters which interest growers 
The pamphlet is replete with pictures. 


Concrete Highway Construction 


is the title of a book of special value to anyone in- 
terested in street and road construction, as it shows 
costs, itemized proposals, and photographs of con- 
crete paving in various parts of the country. It 
is sent free of charge by The Atlas Portland 
Cement Company, 30 Broad Street, New York. 


Fire Hose That Will Not Crack. 


3ooklet relative to special construction of fire 
hose in order to prevent deterioration by cracking. 
Bi-Lateral Fire Hose Company, 326 West Madison 
Street, Chicago, Ill. 


Municipal Scales. 


All cities and towns which maintain public weigh 
ing facilities will be interested to receive illus- 
trated printed matter of the Auto Truck and 
Wagon Scales made by the Bennington Scale Com 
pany, of Bennington, Vt. 


Power Sprayers for Trees and Shrubs. 


Catalog No. 30, issued by the Bean Spray 
Pump Company, 224 West Julian Street, San 
José, Cal., describes a complete list of power spray- 
ers for use in parks, cemeteries, streets, public 
grounds, etc., for keeping trees and shrubs in 
healthy condition through the removal of insect 
pests. 


Sprinklers for Parks. 


The booklet, ‘““‘The Boston Giant Park Sprinkler,” 
published by the Spray Engineering Company, Di- 
vision 8, 98 Federal Street, Boston, Mass., is sent 
free on request. Turf may be kept green and 
fresh at minimum expense. A circular area up 
to 150 feet in diameter may be covered at one 
time by this sprinkler. 


About aatineey and Supplies 


Printed Matter Available Free to Readers of THE AMERICAN CITY 


Advertisers are invited to submit catalogues or circulars suitable for mention in these columns. 
Tue American City should always be mentioned when writing for this material. 
check over these items eaci: month and write for such printed matter as interests them will find 
this @ convenient way of keeping their information files up to date. 


EM NNUUUNNUNNAIANA SALINE AU Tease tet 


Officials who 





EE 
= 
iis 


Sanitary Carts for Garbage. 


A_ pamphlet of testimonials, 





c | il 
officials of many sections are e chie con 
tributors, has been issued by f Ge H 
Holzbog & Bro., of Jefferso Ir I nen 
who thus commend the sar arts nm f 
tured by the company e sors garbage 
disposal, road construction, et« 

Steel-Bound Concrete Curb. 
Directions for laying steel-bound « strate 
by diagrams and cross-sections, and ir ding 
mathematical calculations and a tangent table, are 
contained in a pan oe issuec . by the Steel Pri 
tected Concrete Com y, of the Real Estate Trust 


Building, Philadelphia, Pa. 


Concrete Swimming and Wading Pools. 


Valuable information on the building of 
swimming and wading pools is yntained in a 
pamphlet published by the Portland Cement Asso 
ciation, of 111 West Washington Street, Cl 
Specifications, diagrams and well-cl 
graphs aid in making each point clea 


cago 


sen 


phot 


Winter Flowering and Decorative Plants. 


The Storrs & Harrison Company, of 


Painesville, 
Ohio, has just issued its Autumn ( ] 3 


i atalog, , 

1916, in which all its hardy flowers and plants, 

evergreens, truit trees, etc., suitable for late plant 

ing or especially adapted to the te seasons, are 
| 


illustrated and describe 


Steel Taped Cable for Municipal Lighting. 


Ihe advantages of using Simplex steel-taped cable, 
manufactured by the Simplex Wire and Cable Com- 
pany, of 201 Devonshire Street, Bost ton, are ex- 
plained in a neat pamphlet issued by the above 
firm. Its especial adaptability to the lighting of 


streets and the ease with which it can be installed 
are treated with emphasis, and many fine photo- 
graphs are shown. 


Ornamental Trees, Vines, Fruit Trees and 
Bulbs. 


A folder issued by the Atlantic Nursery Comy 


pany, 
Inc., of Berlin, Md., contains the 1916-1917 price 
list of the many deciduous trees, evergreens, fruit 
trees, grape vines, plants, etc., in which the com 


pany deals. 


Catalog of Civil Engineering Books. 


A handy pamphlet of reference on civil engineer 
ing books, well classified in sections and contair 
ing a brief outline of the topics covered in each 
book, has been compiled and published by John 
Wiley & Sons, Inc., of 432 Fourth Avenue, New 
York City 


Automatic Liquid Chlorine Water Disin- 
fecting Plant. 


This is the title of an article by James A. New- 
lands, attractively reprinted from Engineering 
News, by Wallace & Tiernan Company, Inc., 137 
Centre Street, New York City. The writer de- 
scribes the liquid chlorine water supply disinfect- 
ing system of Stamford, Conn., and tells of its 
mechanical and bacterial efficiency. 














OlPO0GOOHOHOQOQOQOOQHOHOOOHOOOOONOOOHHOHOOHOHOOOQOOOHOOHOQOOQOOQOQHOOHOOOQOOE 


THE 





Oo 


©0©OO0O0OO0O0OOOOQOQOQOQOOOQOQOQOQOOOQOQOOOOOOOOOQOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOE 


CLOW’S CASTINGS 


for WATER and 
GAS WORKS, FIL- 
TRATION PLANTS 
and SEWAGE DIS- 
POSAL SYSTEMS 


WE ARE EXCEPTIONALLY 
WELL EQUIPPED TO EX- 
ECUTE ORDERS FOR 
SPECIAL CASTINGS FOR 
ALL PURPOSES. PERMIT 
US TO QUOTE ON YOUR 








CAST IRON PIPE 
nd 


Fit 23% 5 


always in stock 


JAMES B.CLOW&SONS 


Established 1876 
534-546 So. Franklin Street, CHICAGO 





Sales Offices 
New York Detroit St. Louis San Francisco 
Minneapolis Milwaukee Denver Los Angeles 
Works 


Chicago, Coshocton and Newcomerstown, Ohio 


QOOOQOOOOOO gS 


"CAGO 


8 
: 
: 





AMERICAN CITY 





A ,HANDSOME DURABLE BINDER for your 
copies of The American City may be secured for one 
dollar from the publishers at 87 Nassau St., New York. 











The L. L. Poates Complete 
Atlas of the World 


stands for 
ACCURAC Y—CONCISENESS 
RELIABILITY 
Shows 193 pages of 
cate te epee 6 
colors. 


It is the “happy 
medium“ between 
the overbulky big 
Atlas and those too 
small to show de- 
tail clearly. 


Only $1.50 in cloth, 
and $2.00 in leather 
—postpaid to your 
door. 


L.L. Poates Publishing Co. 


22 North William Street, New York, N. Y. 








64 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae American Crry. 


“ 
_ 


a i ct eRe 











5 


: 









Oct., 1916 


Meter Boxes and Meter Testing Machines. 


Any municipal official interested in water supply 
can secure interesting printed matter fr 
Ford Meter Box Company, Wabash, Ind., 
to Ford meter boxes and meter-testing mac 
which are widely used by water-works departments 


om the 





“New Pavements for Old.” 


This is the title of a pamphlet showing how the 
old pavement can be used as a foundation for 
asphalt resurfacing with th: result of providing a 
new pavement for the price of the asphaltic to; 
It is issued by the Barber Asphalt Paving Con 
pany, of Philadelphia. 


Road Building Equipment and Devices. 


Catalog B of the firm of Littleford Bros., of ) 
E. Pearl Street, Cincinnati, Ohio, describes the 
many steel and iron appliances which it manu 
factures for use in road work. Illustrations are 
included of its portable tar heaters, powder maga 
zines, asphalt mastic heaters, distributing tank 
wagons, etc. 


Sidewalk, Curb, Gutter and Road Forms. 


A bulletin relative to these forms, telling why 
they are used on over 10,000 contracts is obtain 
able from Blaw Steel Construction Company, De 
partment H, Pittsburgh, Pa 


Portable Asphalt Plant. 


The history of the development of the Warren 
portable asphalt plant, the early experiments with 
it, the specifications of the machine and its ad 
vantages, as well as numerous illustrations, make 
up a pamphlet issued by the Warren Brothers 
Company, Boston, Mass. 


NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 


Water for Fire. 
“The Prime Necessity” is the title of a phiet 
issued by the United States Cast Iron Pipe and 
Foundry Compan of Burlington, N. J., for fire 















chiefs preven n 
rhis e water s yt 
fighting let st vs iy € 
cast iron iny ma es 
contributes to 

Ball-Bearing Lawn Mowers. 

Owners of suburban plots ters g 
from the easy chair of the office to the vigorous 
resistance of the mowed grass, as well as a 
others delighting in a clean-shaved lawn, wil 

interested in the y types of ball-bearing lawn 
mowers described in a pamphlet issued by their 
manufacturers, S. P. Townsend & Co., Orange 


N. J. 


Cost of Moving Dirt. 
“Table Showing Cost of Moving Dirt with Maney 
Four-Wheel Cubic Yard Scrapers” is the tit! 

a one-page diagram issued by The Baker Manu 
facturing Company, of Springfield, Ill. S 1 
are of great value to anyor 












} les 
the comparison or calculatior ving 
Hydrated Lime for Road W 
able Concrete” is the f mphlet 
the Hydrated Lime Burea f the Na 
Manufacturers Association, giving valuable 
struction to hose who e concrete t road 
work The effect of hydrated lir ete 
m the points of view rkal ength 
rmeabi ty, et S 





Methods, Materials and Appliances 


News from Engineers, Manufacturers and Supply Houses 


SSeS. SS —S FS _ —— 


Iron Fencing as an Asset 
to Property 


An iron fence is an excellent 
improvement to a park, a ceme- 
tery, a public building, a fac- 
tory, a handsome residence or 
a large private estate. Such a 
fence is no longer considered 
as a dead expense, but as an 
investment which adds to the 
value of a property. It affords 
not only an appearance of se- 
curity, but it actually does pro- 
tect. At the same time it gives 
to the property a distinctive in- 
dividuality. 

The manufacture of iron 
fencing has, in the last few 
years, become a highly special- 
ized business. The illustrations 
shown with this article are in- 
teresting as indicating how an 
iron gateway and fencing may 
be designed to conform to the 





general surroundings, providing an entrance 


Cuts by courtesy of the Enterprise Iron Works, 
1128 East Twenty-fourth Street, Indianapolis, Ind. 


IRON FENCING WITH CONCRETE POSTS 





in harmony with the buildings, the driveways, 
the paths or even the contour of the land 
Che individual requirements are very much 





THE AMERICAN CITY 








Li ddh bh hPL TTT 


LRERSEERREHEREEEES: 





FECT ESCE SHEER SEES ES 





65 











CLEANLINESS 


It goes without saying that cleanliness is an 
absolutely essential factor in the prevention of 
disease. And in spite of the fact that our 
Health Departments are continually ‘“‘preach- 
ing’’ cleanliness, many cities and towns are 
neglecting to make sanitary one of the most 
important of our necessities—our drinking 
water. This water passes sluggishly thru filthy 
mains—filled with dirt, growths, living and dead 
organisms and hundreds of other things. You 
may have an up-to-date filtration plant—but of 
what use is it if the water, after it has been 
filtered, slowly passes thru these dirty mains 
leading to your homes? There is only one way 
to remedy this condition and that is to have 
your mains cleaned, and cleaned by 


THE 


TION 


METHOD 


It is the quickest and most economical way. It 
makes them like new without relaying a single 
pipe, and your traffic is not hindered while our 
men work. Don’t put life inthe hands of chance 
by keeping the mains all clogged up with dirt. 











Clean mains give better water pressure and 
cut down pumping expenses. 


Write us for book describing our whole method, its free for the asking 


NATIONAL WATER MAIN CLEANING CO. 


Hudson Terminal Building, New York City 


When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 




















Oct.,1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS {81 





es 





























TYPE OF IRON GATEW 


AY SUITABLE FOR PARK OR 


diversified and a satisfactory solution requires Vitrified Brick Street Pavements 
the services OI a specialist in nstru . : Pe 
tiol Iron fences are no longer sold entirely and Highways 


a basis of price, but on a basis of method lwo pamphlets that 




















| « 
f mstruction and durability They are who have charge highv 
erected only in concrete or stone of sufficient e been published by i 
depth to assure the permanency of the Ip Brick Manufacturers As 
ports. Full provision must be made for ex ind, Ohio. The titles of t ‘ é 
pansion and contraction of the iron to prevent respectively, “Spec Atio1 é 
the buckling of the rails, and the proper kind tion of Vitrified Brick Street Pavements 
f iron preservative must be used Country Roads reen Concre 
The height of fencing is determined the Type,” and “Specifications for the | 
purposes it is designed to serve and also t tion of Vitrified Brick Street Pave 
certain extent by local conditions, such as the Vitrified Brick Highways Sand 
distance of the fence line from the main grou Superfoundati p 
f buildings, the contour of the ground, or th« In the announcement which prece the de 
a size of the property itself. tailed explanations the purpose tt 
The size of the pickets, rails and other parts phlets are well expressed. The g 1 
is governed first by the height of the fencing, quoted from the above 
as all parts must be heavy enough to be self “Te revising the spe 
supporting, and then by the individual require ave endeavored to set f 
. ments. For a park or a cemetery or a resi a lowing the a “4 4 . . 
dence, a fence 4 feet to 6 feet in height is usu ies. at ta 
ally provided; but for a factory, or other results in the s 
property where the feature of protection is vided We 7 
most important, a fence 8 feet, or even 10 feet Specifications, but 
or more, in height is advisable, usually wit engineers in the ¢ 
protective devices at the top which make de ted to local re nage 
liberate intrusion very difficult, if not = The text is arranged in s S t 
sible very paragraph has a prominent re 
It must be evident that, to construct a suit tation of its content he various sect ire 
ible fence, the services of a specialist to sur grouped int s. An idea of the 
vey the location are often needed. Some firms of the work may be gained from the 
send out such experts as a regular procedure the items. Some of t ure é 
for every fence erected. ge; Grading; Stone ¢ ng; ¢ I 



















THE AMERICAN CITY 


The Portable 
Test Pitometer 





—a private detective 
for Water Works’ 
Superintendents 






Oftentimes meters are measuring inaccurately, 
metered consumers are using water which is 
not being paid for, underground leaks are 
developing which never can be found—wast- 
ing money every minute of the day. But all 
such waste may be eliminated by the use of 
the Portable Test 


PITOMETER 


This instrument locates leaks, tests pumps 
for slip, checks up meters and detects water 
waste of every kind. 

For 15 years, the Pitometer has been actively engaged 
in saving money for hundreds of cities. It will do the 
same for you. Write for details. 


The ‘‘Cole”’ Recorder 
recently developed is especially designed for station use. 
Operates under a New Principle 


which guarantees its accuracy at low velocities as well as high. 


Write for booklet 


THE PITOMETER CO., 55 Duane St., New York 















66 When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American Crry. 














Ocr..1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 483 


ing; The Brick; Laying and Rolling the 
Brick, etc. Excellent illustrations are 
included, which add clearness to the ex- 
planatory matter. 

The two pamphlets are a careful piece 
of work in this field and constitute a 
standard text for use in construction 
of roads. 


+ ¢ 


The Use of Bronze for Tablets 
and Civic Memorials 


[he increasing use of bronze in me- 
morial tablets, building signs, orna- 
mental work and other features of mu- 
nicipal construction is due to a growing 
recognition of the manifold purpose 
which this metal can be made to serve. 
It is an imperishable metal whose ex- 
posure to the varying weather does not 
detract from its appearance, but can well 
be said to add to it, because of the va- 
ried coloring the bronze thus assumes. 
It can be fashioned into all conceivable 
forms with ease, and when modeled by 
a craftsman of artistic bent it is an ad- 
mirable medium for the reproduction of 
beautiful designs. 

Bronze tablets of this kind are apt to 
be expensive, but necessarily so. In any 
artistic tablet it is not the metal which \ TABLET OF BRONZE 














and the purchase of tablets on a 
basis of the lowest bid is apt to re 
sult in work of mediocre quality. 

A firm which is an example of 
those having the highest ideals in 
their profession is the Imperial 
Brass Manufacturing Company, of 
Chicago, III It possesses every 
facility and all equipment necessary 
in high-grade work. It has a corps 
of artists which can be depended 
upon to submit designs expressii 
the sentiments desired. Supported 
by a faithful clientele that is always 
growing, the company recently de- 
cided upon the building of an addi 
tional factory that will double t 
amount of floor space that the 
pany now has. 


4 + + 
An Indestructible Sign 
It is rather a dangerous progra 
for a concern to claim that it has 
a 


manufactured something that is 
destructible in spite of hard wear 
but the Indestructible Sign Com 
pany, of 68 Prescott street, Colum- 
bus, Ohio, has accepted the issue 
boldly, and to remind its clients of 
is the principal cost. That is only a slight the fact, has incorporated the word “inde- 
expense when compared with the greater ex-_ structible” in its name. 

penditure involved in the employment of men The illustration shows the improved type 
who are artists by nature as well as by trade, of one of these signs. The letters are cut deep 
and in the consumption of much time and care into the metal plate by the “drilled-in” process, 
in making models, trial designs, etc. This then the entire plate is galvanized and the de 
point is not often taken sufficient account of, pressed letters filled with bright aluminum. 





METAL STREET SIGN WITH ALUMINUM LETTERS 















THE AMERICAN 




















An Extraordivary 
And Decisive 


Fire Test = 























ec 4° 
aos? ‘ 
\ oor * _ oom a of 
ner . 00 en® 
\ g PL, HT aren cot 10 coin on 
+ : ¢ tO aan © er 
ait 16 . oes ras 




















S.F. Bowser & Co. 


INCORPORATED 
Engineers, Manufacturers and Original 
Patentees of Oil Handling Devices 
FORT WAYNE, INDIANA 


Sales Offices in All Centers 
Representatives Everywhere 








$4 PLLA Di 


»dereround & 


















































67 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae American Crry. 














lt 


TE oe 


ne eS NG a 





Oct., 1916 


By a new process which they call the “double 
stroke” letter, the company can make elaborate 
designs and produce script letters. The signs 
are designed not to chip, bend, break, rust or 
corrode. They are thus particularly adapted to 
those conditions of weather and climate which 
work havoc with signs not especially treated 

These signs are being used in many places 
as road indicators, street signs, advertising dis- 
plays, etc., and are said to be giving satisfac- 
tion because, in addition to other qualities, 
they are very legible. The company has just 
received a Diploma of Honorable Mention 
from the Panama Pacific Exposition 


+ + 


Methods of Disposal of 
Municipal Waste 


It is known definitely that vermin, rats, 
cats, dogs and other creatures which are 
around the house or in it carry disease, and 


NEWS FROM ENGINEERS 


AND MANUFACTURERS 485 


that all of these will feed on garbage if it is 
xposed or accessible. This is the basis of a 
strong plea for the use of the incinerator plant 
for garbage disposal, in a circular sent out by 
the Jarvis-Morse Corporation of New Yorx 
City 

Che infantile paralysis epidemic, which has 
raade garbage disposal a question of para 
mount importance, bids every municipal official 
tO give serious consideration to t 
The above company, which special 
held, has offered to aid the read 
magazine to a correct solution 

In this connection, there is reproduced 
form of information on the disposal of mun 
ipal waste which the company has circulated 
It is one which will appeal to all practical men 
who are in this phase of municipal activity, 
as an excellent aid to the sectiring of infor 
mation on the practice in the various munici 
palities, and it has brought many inquiries 
which have been given special attention by thi 
concern. 


his matter 
res in this 


ers Of this 


JARVIS-MORSE CORPORATION. 


90 West Street, NEW YORK—BOSTON, 261 Franklin Street 





Information upon THE COLLECTION and DISPOSAL of MUNICIPAL WASTE 






































Date Place a icone . Population - 
METHODS OF] General Statement Quantities and Costs Methods of Disposal = 
| ows | Loans fig sp| PCE | ¢ | i| a 
ria ce ltt lela 
Raatassdaca ts | | aly Qed ey 8 fay edis 
i) failings BB} ABE ue oe un 
Prev TTT Ti tiiticiii | 
Ys sea ee an | | | H AS as 
SH 
TUTTI Pee 
| Totale | | ae | | Sees 2288 














“ESTIMATED POPULATION—SUMMER 





NOTE.—When exact figures cannot be stated give approximate estimates and Mark thus X. Add any information 
on general subject with special note of exceptional conditions or quantities. 


WINTER . 








INFORMATION BLANK ON COLLECTION 


AND DISPOSAL OF MUNICIPAL WASTE 








THE 


AMERICAN 


Cis ¥ 








Blick 
Featherweight 
Typewriter 


write those reports 
in clear, legible 
print 


MUCH QUICKER 
CAN WRITE BY 
portable Blick. 

Use it anywhere—no regular table 
or stand required. And inexperienced 
users learn to write quickly on a 
Blick, without any instruction what 
ever. 


THAN YOt 
HAND—on a 


It is simple—it has only about 25% as many parts as 
the heavy machines. Costs 44 as much, but built stronger 
and LASTS LONGER. 

When you read about Blicks that have served for 15 
years, and are still in excellent condition, turning out 
perfect typewriting, then you will understand how well 
made this low-priced machine is. It is excelled by no 
other typewriter ever made, for general efficiency and 
good work. 

It is one of the fastest machines on the market today, 





and is capable of doing all classes of work of the highest 


grade. Not only has all the latest features in the type 
writer line, but many advantages that can be ob- 
tained in no other typewriter. 


TRY THE BLICK 
If you are not conveniently near one of our branches, 
we will make arrangements to let you try a Blick before 


you buy it. Write for catalog No. 126 and details of 
trial offer. 


Send for Catalog No. 126 


The BLICKENSDERFER MFG. CO. 


STAMFORD, CONN. 


Agencies throughout the U. S, A 











Did You Get Your Copy? 


Every municipal or county official 
having to do with the purchasing of 
equipment or supplies is entitled to a 


copy of The Municipal Buyers’ 
Guide—free. 
This Guide is a carefully classified 


reference book of 160 pages recently 
published by THe AMERICAN City 
for the convenience of municipal and 
county purchasing authorities. It 
has attracted widespread attention 
and favorable comment from muni- 
cipal and county officials all over the 
country on account of its convenience 
and value to those seeking informa- 
tion about machinery and materials 
for all sorts of public improvement 
work. 

Send for a free copy today—only 
a limited supply on hand. 


THE AMERICAN CITY 
87 Nassau St. New York City 





Back Numbers 
WANTED 


We desire to secure copies of 
the following back numbers of 
The American City. 


1909—Sept., Oct., Nov. 
1910—All except November 
1911—February, April, May, July, 
August, November 
1912—Jan., Feb., June, Sept. 


1913—Jan., April, June, July, 
December 


25 cents each will be paid for 
copies in good condition, deliv- 
ered at our office. 


87 NASSAU STREET 
NEW YORK CITY 








68 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae American City. 






































Ocr., 1916 


Salt Lake City’s New 
Lighting System 


One of the problems which had to be solved 
n connection with the new white-way lighting 
system at Salt Lake City was that of erecting 
lighting standards on a street already occu- 
pied by steel trolley poles, without giving the 





street that unsightly appearance which two 
COMBINATION LIGHTING 
STANDARD AND TROLLEY 
POLE, SALT LAKE CITY 
sets of steel standards generally impart. To 
solve this problem the trolley poles will be 


telescoped by large-sized pressed steel stand- 
ards similar to that shown herewith. The city 
has purchased 70 of these standards from the 
Union Metal Manufacturing Company of Can- 
ton, Ohio, which will be erected in the general 
business district. The pressed steel standards 
are said to be the largest of this class which 
have ever been built. The dimensions of the 
units are as follows: base diameter at ground 


NEWS FROM ENGINEERS 


AND MANUFACTURERS 487 


ne, 32.5 in.; height of base, 53 in.; base d 
eter of shaft, 14 in.; top diameter of shaft 
in.; height to light source of two iower lamps, 
26.5 ft.; height to light source of top 
28.75 ft.; and height over all .16 ft 

lhe base I the lig i tal d is 
several sections separated horizontally, so that 
each can be easily teles « ¢ 
steel trolley pole After these parts ar 
place the next unit I ] I 


pressed steel chart, whi 
in weight to 
this particula eae ee , 
this particular case the standards s« 





permit of 


le y pe le 


castings, the ire ae 
ind tie rods, so that they y be 
dependently of the trolley poles 


he: 


Che ene rey for 
furnished by the 


operating 


Utah P 


wer & Light ( 


pany Each of the three lam S wn h sul 
mount every standard will be of the lun 

arc type manufactured by the General 

Cc ympany of Schenes tady Plais glass gl 
instead of ribbed glass. su 1 s show! m the 
llustration herewith, wl | 

show the standard, will be used in this t1 

! + 


n 


+ + 


A Suction Street Sweeper 


\ gas-electric 
been manufactured by 


suction street sweeper has 
the Waycleanse Cor 


pany, of Sandusky, Ohio, which seems l 
idapted to the cle ining or city street It 
is based on the principle of dry sweeping the 
dust by the aid of a vacuum cleaner | 

ving it in an attached trailer 

As shown in the photograph on page 480 
the sweeper consists of a tractor and a trailer 
The tractor carries the power plant, driving 
the mechanism and sweeping machinery; the 
trailer carries the dust separating mechanisn 
and the dirt container The sweeping 
chinery has a compressor motor for supplyin 
compressed air for gutter sweepings, and is 


not common to all equipments, but to the ones 
that are especially fitted for gutter cleaning 
\ number of mechanisms are included f 


efficient control and adjustment 


In St. Louis, Mo., the sweeper has beet 
given a trial, and Mr. C. M. Talbert, the Di 
rector of Streets and Sewers, has advocated 


entering into a contract with the firm for fur 
work As outlined in his re 
Board of Estimate and Apportionment of that 
ity, the sweeper has, among other advantages 
the following: 


ther port to 


It removes the so-called “dust” or fine 
refuse, which contains bacteria to a greater 
extent than the more palpable and coarse mat 
ter, which is often merely litter. 

By cleaning these streets every night, the 


department has been able to eliminate street 
sprinkling as a practice. There has not beer 
iny sprinkling on the streets of the dow: 
town section since about the first of Jul 

The absence of a street sprinkler h 
advantage of eliminating the danger of wet 


1 


surfaces to rubber tires, of keeping the streets 











THI \MERICAN CITY 








ORNAMENTAL STREET LIGHTING 
THE PARAMOUNT ATTAINMENT 
IN CITY BEAUTIFICATION 





It expresses Art—Economy—Progress and Safety. 
It encourages civic betterment and stimulates busi- 
ness activity. 
By day the streets and building fronts are made 
more attractive because of its pleasing appearance. 
By night adequate illumination is afforded by 
clusters of soft lights or single units of high candle- 
power lamps enclosed in globes of diffusing glass. 
Take advantage of our Engineering Staff—let them 
help you select the most suitable design for YOUR , 
streets, parks and boulevards. 
Their knowledge is at your service free. 

‘rite now for Catalog 14, it contains an endless variety 

Writ for Catalog 14, it cont lless varieti 
of beautiful designs. 


GEORGE CUTTER CO., 415 NOTRE DAME ST., SOUTH BEND, IND. 





69 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 


oe” 





Ae aR 


eh ee IMM ihe 


peter 





Ocr., 1916 





NEWS FROM ENGINEERS 


AND MANUFACTURERS 489 

















THE WAYCLEANSE SUCTION STREE 


dry, and of dispensing with a slow-moving 
vehicle that aids in congesting traffic and 
causes inconvenience to pedestrians. 

Moreover, the use of the vacuum system has 
materially reduced the labor necessary to keep 
clean the sewer inlets and catch basins, and 
the superintendent of sewers has been able 
to report a reduction of about 35 per cent in 
material removed. 

Below is a statement of the work done by it 
in St. Louis, Mo.: 


SWEEPER IN USE IN S7r. LOUIS 


DATA COVERING SWEEPINGS ON 140 BLOCKS, 
JUNE AND JULY, 1916 






June Cleaning—132.98 cubic yards removed, 
O46 ounds. g 

Ih Cleaning—149.97 cubic yards removed, or 4 
949 pounds, 

Total 282.95 cubic yards r 481,015 

22 Tune Cleanings—Average per cleaning, 6.04 « 
yards, or 10,268 pounds. 

6 July Cleanings—Average per cleaning, 5.77 « 

ils, or 9,809 pounds. 

48 Total Cleanings—Average per cleaning, 5.89 cul 


rds, or 10,013 pounds 





For Contractors and Boards of Public Works 





Novel Features in New Motor 
Tractor and Trailer 


\ motor tractor and trailer known as the 
“100 per cent Watson” is now being built 
especially for heavy contracting haulage ser- 
vice. The entire outfit can be turned without 
backing in a 31-foot circle, and by backing only 
once in a 20-foot circle; and, in fact, a driver 
with only ordinary skill can easily turn the 
trailer and tractor in a street 12 feet wide 
without getting any of the four tractor wheels 
off the street. This flexibility in handling is 
particularly desirable on account of the many 
difficult places to which the contractor often 
has to deliver or from which he has to obtain 
his building material. Another advantage in 
this short-turning feature is that the leverage 
can be brought to bear when necessary to pull 
out of a hole, just as the teamster swings his 
horses to the right or to the left in a hard 
place. 

With this tractor and trailer but little time 








is needed in loading or placing the load where 
it is wanted. The construction of the tractor 
power plant is novel in that the engine is sup 
ported by special springs on a sub-frame en- 
tirely independent of the main frame. Not 
pound of the trailer load comes on these spr 
cial springs. They are designed to support 
only the constant weight of the engine, driver's 
cab and gasoline tank. The load on the main 
frame is carried by the usual set of heavy 
springs. This method of construction protects 
the engine and the vital parts of the car per 
fectly from undue vibration and shock 

Over 60 per cent of the load is carried on 
the steel tires of the trailer Only enough 
load rests on the rubber-tired driving wheels 
of the tractor to furnish sufficient traction, and 
when it is realized that a complete steel-tired 
wheel costs less than one rubber tire for a 
truck of equal capacity, the economy of plac- 
ing the greater part of the load on steel tires 
is quite evident. 

The readiness with which various types of 











THE AMERICAN CITY 


MOTT LAMP POSTS 


STANDARDS OF MERIT 





Special Designs of Lighting Standards 
For Type C Lamps 


LAMP POSTS FOR ALL REQUIREMENTS 


FOUNTAINS 
Display and Drinking 
For PUBLIC SQUARES, PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS, Etc. 


ENTRANCE GATES, RAILINGS, SETEES 





CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION 


THE J.L. MOTT IRON WORKS 


Fifth Avenue and 17th Street, New York 











LL MMT UU OEUCTOILCT NAY ETTIOTCPUTOT LOTION OOTOTOOOOTCDOON OED Oe COCO 


te 

















































Combined with KING SERVICE is a guaran- ; Z 

tee of EFFICIENT INSTALLATION and = z 

= OPERATION—ORIGINALITY of DESIGN z : 

= and QUALITY of MATERIALS and WORK- = z 

5 MANSHIP. = E 

= We have prepared a very attractive and use- Z : 

= ful booklet dealing with Street, Park and Boule- = = 

= vard Lighting Problems. We will be glad to = = 

E z send you a copy with our compliments. = = 
H =| 55 West Jackson Blvd. Chicago, Ill. £ : 
E = = = 
SIMUL MEL MUU id Te) Mkt ULL i TU & 


MUTT 














When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae American City. 


























Oct., 1916 


NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 491 

















THE “100 PER CENT WATSON” TRACTOR AND TRAILER 


trailers can be used with the same tractor, ac- 
cording to the character of the load, is an im 
portant consideration. As the new equipment 
is constructed, the standard trailer unit is a 
bottom dump similar to the Watson bottom 
dumping wagon, only much stouter and 
heavier. But trailers of other design can be 
readily substituted for hauling lumber and 
other materials. It is quite common practice 
to use three trailers with one tractor, one 
being loaded, one on the road and one at the 
destination being unloaded. The particular 
combination required depends upon the con- 
dition which the contractor has to meet. 

This tractor and trailer outfit has been tried 
out for more than a year on some very severe 
contracting work and is said to have made 
good. In fact, the contractor who has been 
using the equipment has recently placed an 





order for a duplicate outfit. The builders are 
the Watson Wagon Company, of Canastota, 
RN; 3, 

+ + 


An Efficient Road Oiler 


The accompanying photograph is that of a 
Studebaker oiler in operation. The distribu 
tor is being used to cover a strip of road 12 
feet wide, and therefore 2 feet of the right 
hand spray has been shut off. The oil used ts 
Trinidad liquid asphalt, “A” grade A dia 
phragm pump is used for pumping the oil 
from the tank car into the distributing wagon 

This oiler is reported to be giving very ef 
icient service. It is manufactured by the 
Studebaker Corporation, South Bend, Ind 














A STUDEBAKER OILER IN OPERATION 


AT 








H | 


AMERICAN CITY 

















CLEAN CUT 


The modern ideas in architecture 
and city planning are carried out 
in the design and construction of 


UNION METAL 
LAMP 
STANDARDS 


The pressed steel sectional con- 
struction gives a wide choice in 
working out the details of design. 


The flutes are sharp and clean cut, 
classical in line and in harmony 
with architecture of the buildings 
on city thoroughfares. 

In addition to their refined ap- 
pearance Union Metal Lamp Stan- 
dards are light in weight, easy to 
erect and provide a perfect safety 
to trafic from accidents due to 
falling of heavy standards. 


Write for Catalog S-103 


THE UNION METAL MFG. CO. 
CANTON, OHIO 


“Design No. 1539 
with G. E. Nov. Ornamental Unit.”’ 











71 When writing to Advertisers please mention THz American City. 








ee er 








ee ee 





Oct.,1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 193 








~2 7 < ) 











CASE NO. 1 GRADER MAKING DITCH CUT 


A Tractor with Hitch for Grader it is believed that no other single firm will 


| 
t 
: : | 
; . have so many trucks cot itrated in l 
It is interesting how often a useless road ti s, ind —— | 


can be made a valuable asset to the commun- 
ity by the use of modern road-building ma- 
chinery. The accompanying photograph of a 


tion. It is, indeed, hard to realize how large 
a “fleet” these fifty trucks make. 
It is interesting to note that these trucks are 


~ ; : ] 1 ) +} oodricl ] | 

Case tractor pulling a Case No. 1 grader is a all equipped er h Goodrich de ~gecighe~ “haga: 

good illustration of this fact. wh pie “ ade a, 38 re # ad tear 
, : ¢ ( drich ol \ f ron. O] is tha 
rhe operation of this grader is known as the inter sing Company, \K1 that 


ditch cut. It will be noticed that although the this tire is especially adapted to rough road 
grader works in the ditch, the tractor runs rT 
on the crown of the road where traveling is => 
easiest, which in turn means a saving in fuel Studebaker Buys the Ottofy Patent i} 
and operating costs. This operation is accom- on Street Flushers ; 
plished by means of a steering gear and hitch, : y 
a feature on this particular make of grader For more than five years patent infringé 
t 


- $n met s have been fought in t Federal 1} 
Other features of this grader reduce time and ™e™ — are i. C fought ©, the feat vha ; 
; ourts between the Sanitar treet Flushing i 
labor costs, and help to transform slow roads M a ye ee Seana) yrs . 2 | 
. °°: ~hine ompat owners of tl Ottofy I 
to those with “good going This grader is acuine bar mpany, ‘ , . ‘ i 
. Tr : 4 patents, < arious intringers 
made by the J. I. Case T. M. Co., of Racine, Patents, anc variou apap ee 
W ' Che Ottofy patent, No. 795,059, vers : 
1s. + + Aric} 


ing machine made, or that can be change 
Ordering Trucks “By the Dozen” or adjusted to deliver a flat stream of wate 
and Tires “By the Gross” a ee ere tee ee tain 


mush 


ingle of 20 degrees or less i s ult 

“Please send me fifty trucks at once.” having been sustained in the courts, Stude- 

If a motor truck manufacturer of a few baker concluded to acquire the patent. The 
years ago had received an order as large as Studebaker Municipal Utilities Company was 
this, it might have induced a stroke of ap organized for that purpose, and is now the 
plexy. Now it hardly produces a gasp, just a owner of the Ottofy and various other patents 
chuckle, perhaps, and a mental note to the covering the modern art of street flushing 
effect that as far as motor trucks are con- Flushers manufactured under these patents 
cerned, business is good and going strong will in the future be marketed thru the Ve 

Such a demand, which is admittedly excep hicle Division of the Studebaker organization 
tional tho not unique, has just been received he licensees of this mechanism are, at pres q 
by the White Company, of Cleveland. It was ent, The Studebaker Corporation of Amer i 
ordered by a Philadelphia trucking contractor, South Bend, Ind.; the Moreland Motor Trucl 
and altho other concerns, such as the great na- Company, Los Angeles, Cal., and the Int 


tional corporations, have a larger total number, tional Motor Company, New York 





Read Over This List 
of Titles 


of The American City Pamphlets 


Please check off the ones you would like to receive, mail the list 
to us and your selection will be forwarded at once. If you would 
like all the pamphlets the price for the entire set is $3.00. 


Water Consumption of Cities. The Effect of Meters 
on Water Consumption. (Tables.) No. 98. 10 cents. 
Some Fundamentals of Housing Reform. By Dr. 
James Ford, Harvard University. No. 99. 15 cents. 

How to Attack the Sewage and Garbage Problems. 
By Rudolph Hering, Consulting Engineer, New York 
City. No. 100. 10 cents. 

The Esthetic Treatment of City Bridges. By Henry 
Grattan Tyrrell, C. E., Consulting Engineer, Evans 
ton, Ill. No. 101. 15 cents. 

How to Organize a City Planning Campaign. By 
Frederick Law Olmsted. o. 102. 15 cents. 

Public Laundries in America. By Donald B. Arm- 
strong, M. D., Superintendent Bureau of Public Health 
and Hygiene, New York Society for Improving the 
Condition of the Poor. No. 102a. 10 cents. 

Refuse Disposal in Small Cities and Towns. By 
Samuel A. Greeley. No. 103. 10 cents. 

The Duty of Municipal Food Inspection. By Will- 
iam P. Capes. No. 104. 10 cents. 

Fighting Fires Before They are Lit. By Martin H. 
Ray. No. 105. 10 cents. 

How to Promote the Planting and Care of Shade 
Trees. By J. J. Levison. No. 106. 10 cents. 

The Efficient Utilization of Water Storage Reser- 
voirs. By George W. Fuller. No. 107. 10 cents. 

The City’s Need, the University’s Opportunity. By 
Herman G. James, J. D., Ph. D. No. 108. 10 cents 

A Notable Development in Ornamental Street Light- 
ing. By Walter C. Allen. No. 109. 10 cents. 

How to Determine Relative Values in Sanitation. 
By George C. Whipple. No. 110. 15 cents. 

Co-partnership Housing in Great Britain. By Henry 
Vivian, J. P. No. 111. 15 cents 

Relation of the Motor Bus to Urban Development. 
By F. Van Z. Lane. No. 112. 15 cents. 

Has Your City These Maps? By William P. Capes. 
No. 118. 10 cents. 

Water Supplies and the Part They Play in City and 
County Planning. By Charles W. Leavitt, Jr. No. 
114. 15 cents. 

Chambers of Commerce and City Planning. By 
George B. Ford. No. 115. 10 cents. 

The Modern Park Cemetery. By Hare & Hare 
Landscape Architects, Kansas City, Mo. No. 116 
15 cents. 

Public Comfort Stations; Their Economy and Sani- 
tation. By Donald B. Armstrong, M. D. No. 117. 
15 cents. 

Rose Valley—A Garden Suburb (near Philadelphia). 
No. 118. 10 cents. 

Public Health Work in Rural Communities. By 
Samuel A. Greeley, C. E. No. 119. 15 cents. 

Public Bath Houses and Swimming Pools. By Dr. 
William Paul Gerhard, C. E. No. 120. 20 cents. 

Civic Unification of a Small City. By Frank Koes 
ter, Consulting Civic Engineer. 0. 121. 15 cents. 

A Model Wet-Wash Laundry. By Philip S. Platt, 
M. A. No. 122. 10 cents. 

A Combination of Municipal and Privately Owned 
Utilities. By G. B. Baskerville, Jr. No. 128. 10 
cents. 


A List of City-Planning Reports. No. 124. 15 
cents. 

Handicaps to Legal Bond Issues. By Robert R. 
Reed. No. 125. 10 cents. 

Water-Supply, sovegs and Refuse Disposal for 
Small Towns and Villages. By Rudolph Hering, 
D. Se. No. 126. 15 cents. 

City Planning and Real Estate. By George B. 
Ford. No. 127. 10 cents. 

Coniferous Evergreens and Evergreen Shrubs for 
Parks and Public Grounds. By H. E. Holden. No. 
128. 15 cents. 

Points of Difference in Water Works Franchises. 
By Philip Burgess. No. 129. 10 cents. on 

Engineering Cotperation—A Plan for Municipal 
Economy in Small ‘ommunities. By Frederick Bass. 
No. 130. 10 cents. s 2 

A Step Towards Solving the Industrial Housing 
Problem. By Warren H. Manning. No. 131. 10 
cents. 

The Jitney Bus. By Clyde Lyndon King, Ph. D. 
No. 182. 18 cents. > ‘ 

Sheet Asphalt Pavements. By Daniel T. Pierce. 
No. 183. 15 cents. 

How to Avoid Root Growth in House Sewers. By 
William Robert Marshall. No. 184. 10 cents. — 

Organizing Rochester’s School Boys for Accident 
Prevention. By Roland B. Woodward. No. 135. 10 
cents. 

Municipal Clinics for School Children. By Edward 
F. Brown. No. 186. 10 cents. : ‘ 

How a Small Municipality is Profiting by a City 
Plan. No. 187. 15 cents, . 

Precautions to be Used in Securing Successful Bi- 
tuminous Macadam Pavements. By Philip P. Shar- 
ples. No. 188. 15 cents. 

Needed in Every City—Adequate Power and Com- 
mon Sense in Fire Prevention. By Clement J. Dris- 
coll. No, 189. 10 cents. 

Sewage Disposal by the Activated Sludge Process. 
By William B. Fuller. No. 140. 10 cents. 

Concrete Pavements. By W. A. McIntyre. No. 
141. 15 cents. ; 

Preparing to Abolish the Mosquito. By P. L. But- 
trick. No. 142. 15 cents. 

Improved Granite Block Pavements. By Z. W. 
Carter. No. 148. 15 cents. Y 

The Cost of Water for Fire Protection. By Delos 
F. Wilcox. No. 144. W cents. 

American Cities and the Prevention of Unemploy- 
ment. By John B. Andrews. No, 145. 10 cents. 

Motor Trucks for Refuse Collection. By Samuel 
A. Greeley. No. 146. 15 cents. 

Public Comfort Stations. By Wm. Paul Gerhard. 
No. 147. 20 cents. 

Hand Flushing—Its Place in the Street Cleaning 
Field. By Raymond W. Parlin. No. 148. 15 cents. 

The First Roadside Planting Along the Lincoln 
Highway. By Wilhelm Miller. No. 149. 15 cents. 

Town Planning Achievements in Walpole. By John 
Nolen. No. 150. 10 cents. ‘ 

The Assessments of Benefits and Damages in Street 
Proceedings. By Herbert S. Swan. No. 151. 15 cents. 


Orders for the above may be accompanied by remittance or we will send bill if you 
prefer. The pamphlets are of uniform measurement (7 z 10) and from four to 
twelve pages in length. The distribution of these pamphlets has proven to be a very 
effective means of arousing local interest on the subjects covered. Special prices 


quoted on quantity orders. 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


87 NASSAU STREET 
72 


NEW YORK 








