





AV 








| edo 


Nat 
1G 





THE AERIAL TRUCK IS AN IMPORTANT FACTOR IN MUNICIPAL PREPAREDNESS 


AGAINST FIRE 





Fire Departmen 


. 
c 
x 
<. 
- 
£ 
~ 
~ 
t 
_ 
& 
a 
3 
3 
o 
~ 
t 
° 
= 
£ 
E 
8 
x 
re 
ne 
» 
4 
S 
a 

















ene ern 





THE AMERICAN CITY 














MAZDA | 


**Not the name of a thing, 
but the mark of a service”’ 


[nstead of one manu- 
facturer s spasmodic 
development of his 
product, MAZDA 
Service substitutes a 
Ss) stematic, all-inclu- 
sive study of incan- 
descent electric 
lamps for several 


manufacturers. 


The Meaning of MAZDA 
MAZDA is the trademark of a world-wide service to 


certain lam facturers Its purpose is to collect 





© and practical information con- 
ad developments in the art of in- 
nanufacturing and to distribute 


this information to the companies entitled to receive 
this Service MAZDA Service is centered in the 
Research Laboratories of the General Electric Com- 


pany at Schenectady 





The mark MAZDA can appear only on lamps which 

meet the standards of MAZDA Service It is thus 
1 assurance of « . This trademark i« the 
property of the General Electrix Company 

ore RESEARCH LABORATORIES OF 
(JE) GENERAITI ELECTRIC COMPANY 











When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City 























— 


SE ace 


—- <= 
oe 











VOLUME XV 
NUMBER 2 

















jitter, 


NEW YORK 
AUGUST, 1916 























Real City Planning for New York 


of Estimate and Apportionment, just 

as this issue of THE AMERICAN City 
is going to press, the city of New York has 
adopted the plan of its Commission on 
Building Districts and Restrictions. The 
ordinance went into effect immediately on 
its passage—4.30 P. M., July 25. The re- 
strictions as adopted conform to the recom- 
mendations of the Commission as embodied 
in its Final Report, published June 2, 1916, 
with a few minor changes not affecting the 
principles involved. 

Readers of this magazine are familiar 
with much of the history of the movement 
which has now resulted in giving New 
York City definite control over the height, 
area and use of buildings to be erected in 
future thruout its five boroughs. Work on 
the law was begun with the passage of a 
resolution by the Board of Estimate and 
Apportionment on February 17, 1913, cre- 
ating a Heights of Buildings Committee, 
with George McAneny, then President of 
the Borough of Manhattan, as Chairman. 
In November of that year the preliminary 
maps and charts prepared by the committee 
were given their first public display in con- 
nection with an Exhibition of American 
and Foreign City Planning, gathered by the 
American City Bureau and shown at the 
New York Public Library. 

By Chapter 470 of the Laws of 1914, ap- 
proved by the Governor April 20, 1914, the 
New York State Legislature authorized the 
Board of Estimate and Apportionment of 
New York City to divide the city into dis- 
tricts and to regulate the heights of build- 
ings, the area of courts and open spaces, 
the location of trades and industries and 
the erection of buildings designed for spe- 
cified uses, 


B an epoch-making vote of the Board 


On June 26, 1914, the present Commis- 
sion on Building Districts and Restrictions 
was appointed with Edward M. Bassett as 
Chairman; Lawson Purdy, Vice-Chairman; 
Robert H. Whitten, Secretary; and George 
B. Ford, Consultant. The Commission de- 
serves great credit both for the thoroness 
with which it undertook the exceedingly 
complicated studies necessary for an intel- 
ligent report, and for the wisdom with 
which it secured codperation from the va- 
rious departments of the city government, 
as well as from the commercial and civic 
organizations of the city, and from finan- 
cial, real estate and other interests. A 
striking instance of this codperation was 
described by George B. Ford in “City Plan- 
ning by Coercion or Legislation,’ in THe 
AMERICAN City for April, 1916. 

In the same issue were also published re- 
productions of the tentative maps showing 
the Commission’s recommendations as to 
height districts, area districts and use dis- 
tricts for the Borough of Manhattan. Simi- 
lar maps were prepared for all five bor- 
oughs, and with slight modifications have 
now been officially adopted by the city. 

While much popular attention will no 
doubt be attracted to New York’s recogni- 
tion of its previous unwisdom in permitting 
the unrestricted erection of skyscrapers, 
the broad scope of the districting ordinance 
should not be overlooked by city planners 
\s the New York Times says in its issue of 


July 26: 


“The restrictions on skyscrapers are only 
one of many important features of the law, 
which will affect living and business mdi 
tions in every part of the city. The law is 
designed to check the invasion of retail di 


tricts by factories and residence districts by 
factories and business. It is aimed to prevent 








ae 


‘ 
: 
f 








120 THE 


an increase of the congestion of streets and 
of subway and street car traffic in sections 
where the business population is already too 
great for the sidewalks and transit facilities 
“It is intended further to prevent the over- 
crowding by manufacturing concerns of sec- 
tions where the streets are insufficient for the 
vehicular traffic, and at the same time to con- 
centrate manufacturing in localities where its 
products can be handled most efficiently and 
where its presence will not destroy real estate 
for residential and retail business purposes. 
“In addition to preventing congestion of 
street and transit facilities which is caused by 
housing a large population on a small area in 
a skyscraper, the purpose of restricting the 
size of buildings is a necessity from the stand- 
point of light and air, which are impaired by 
buildings of excess height. The principle of 
providing air and light is followed out in 
building restrictions in all parts of the city.” 


AMERICAN CITY 





Vor. XV, No. 2 


New York's success in adopting a com- 
prehensive districting plan will no doubt 
afford great stimulus to similar work else- 
where. But it cannot be too strongly em- 
phasized that other cities will make a se- 
rious mistake if they consider the New 
York restrictions as a standard to be copied 
in detail. New York has sinned so greatly 
in the past that its districting has had to be 
based altogether too much on congested 
skyscraper and tenement house conditions. 
As Frank Backus Williams said in his let- 
ter in THe American City for May, 1916: 

“Other cities can do better than we, and 
will be most culpable if they fail to do so 
We urge them not to wait until it is too 
late.” ‘ 





Vocational Training in 


That the public school system should as- 
sume its share of responsibility for all chil- 
dren until their eighteenth year is the con- 
clusion of W. Stanwood Field, Director of 
the Evening and Continuation Schools of 
Boston, and of Herman Schneider, Dean of 
the College of Engineering, University of 
Cincinnati, in important articles recently 
published. 

In School and Society for June 17, Direc- 
tor Field writes on “Vocational Training 
Through Trade and Continuation Schools 
and Its Relation to the Democracy of Edu- 
cation.” He points out the fact that, until 
recently, school departments have not con- 
cerned themselves with the educational 
needs of children who leave the regular 
schools. The attitude of the public has 
been, “Stay in school and take what is of- 
fered you or leave school and shift for 
yourself.” Mr. Field asks: 

“Who shall say which children shall be 
trained and which left in ignorance? Who 
shall pick out the ‘drawers of water and 
hewers of stone’? Who shall say that the 
child entering high school shall receive a pub- 
lic expenditure of $80 per year, while the child 
who works receives nothing? Who shall say 
that society is less responsible for one than for 
the other? Who shall deny that the state is 
ready for complete living only when every in- 
dividual reaches his utmost possibilities as an 
industrial unit and as an appreciative citizen?” 

Since September, 1914, every child in 
Boston between fourteen and sixteen years 
of age working under an employment cer- 
tificate has been compelled to attend con- 


Boston and Cincinnati 


tinuation school four hours per week dur- 
ing working time. Employers are codper- 
ating heartily, organized labor is lending its 
support, and children are undertaking their 
studies with enthusiasm. Pennsylvania is 
establishing such schools,* and Milwaukee 
already has similar schools under a state- 
wide act. 

As to trade schools and evening sthools, 
Mr. Field says: 


“A real trade school intensively teaching the 
practical knowledge of trades and efficiently 
training its pupils in manipulative skill, will 
put on the road to economic independence and 
civic usefulness boys and girls whom the regu- 
lar schools can never reach. A real trade 
school taught by real tradesmen benefits the 
individual, dignifies labor and contributes to 
industry. Such a school does for the future 
tradesmen quite as much as the commercial 
department in high school does for the future 
stenographer and bookkeeper. 

“T wish to distinguish between trade prepa- 
ration and manual training. The terms indi- 
cate the difference. Of manual training, as 
such, I most heartily approve. It is valuable 
and necessary training regardless of the voca- 
tion which a pupil enters. 

“Manual training superimposed upon the 
regular academic courses of a high school 
does not constitute a trade school. Amalga- 
mating a trade school with an academic high 
school is like wearing overalls over a dress 
suit. There’s a fear that the overalls will in- 
jure the suit. 

“Evening schools can be of great benefit to 
young workers between sixteen and eighteen 
years of age who are able to add evenings of 





rig See Tue American Crty for January, 1916, page 





Fate a 





\ucust, 1916 THE 
intensive study to their days of labor, but edu- 
cational opportunities for this group should 
not be restricted to evening schools. Evening 
school is no place for children under sixteen 
vears of age. An important work of evening 
schools is to provide opportunity for artisans 
to supplement their knowledge of their own 
trades thru short courses meeting individual 
needs. 

“The old school system began with all the 
children and ended with a favored few. It 
was like a tree from which the fruit fell be- 
fore maturity. The new school system will 
begin with all the children and end with all 
the children, having fulfilled its obligation in 
democratic manner, having led each child to 
the highest attainment of which he was capa- 
ble, both as a worker and as a citizen, thru 
such opportunities as he was able to accept 
Tendencies in education point strongly toward 
such a system. 

“Industry must not take our youths at four- 
teen and leave them intellectually at the same 
place when they are eighteen.’ 

The College of Engineering of the Uni- 
versity of Cincinnati is famous for its co- 
operative system of trade teaching, where- 
by students are enabled to work alternate 
weeks for wages in factories and commer- 
cial houses, so as to secure actual training 
during under-graduate study. Dean 
Schneider's appraisal of various methods 
in vocational guidance is outlined in an 
article entitled “Selecting Men for Jobs,” 
in The Survey for June 24. 

“The old-fashioned plan of trying the 
man on the job without any previous ex- 
amination of any kind” is, in Mr. Schnei- 


AMERICAN 


il he 4 121 


ders opinion, the most reliable plan for 


selecting men for the work for which they 


are to be trained. After pointing out th 


weaknesses of the test systems of expert 


mental psychology and of phrenology as 


“fact bases” on which to select men for 
work. Dean Schneider says 

“Now a job can usually be defined broad! 
by the major characteristics needed for su 
cess on it Thus a bridge erection need: 
an outdoor, roving, directive ‘riginal, dy 
namic man; a punch press job needs an in 
door, settled, dependent, imitative, static man 
If a student is successful on a job it is as 
sumed he possesses the characteristics whicl 
the job requires; if he is not, an analysis is 
made to ascertain which of the characteristics 
he lacks, and it is concluded that he probably 
has the opposites of the lacking ones. So in 


time, over a range of jobs, a student shows cer 
tain characteristics and a lack of other 
Upon a knowledge of him obtained in 
this way we safely ‘guarantee’ upper classmen 
for more responsible method is 


ertain 
ones. 


iobs The 
crude, but it is the best we can find 


In conclusion Dean Schneider points out 
that the f applied psychology 
seems to be at the point where chemistry 
was when it was alchemy 


science of 


Vocational euid- 
ance, he says, should accompany work; it 
cannot safely precede it for juvenile work 


ers. It should be continuous until the 
young man or young woman is at least 
eighteen years of age. Hence, mental train 


ing and direction by the school should ac 
company actual work. 





Controversial Articles 


There are a number of highly controversial 
articles in the July issue of the National Muni- 
cipal Review. One deals with Mayor Mitchel’s 
administration and its contribution to muni- 
cipal development under the title “Tuberose 
Obstacles to Reform in New York City,” 
from the pens of Dr. William H. Allen, of the 
Institute of Public Service, and Robert S. 
Binkerd, secretary of the City Club of New 
York. Another deals with “The Liquor Ques- 
tion and Municipal Reform,” by George C. 
Sikes, of Chicago. A third deals with Propor- 
tional Representaion, by John H. Humphreys, 
secretary of the Proportional Representation 
Society of England, being in reply to Prof. 
Herman G. James's article appearing in the 
April issue. Two other articles likely to at- 
tract a great deal of attention deal with the 
question of women voters. One from the pen 
of Prof. S. C. McLeod raises the question 
whether their participation in Canadian cities 
has been on the whole beneficial; the other, 
from the pen of Miss Edith Abbott, shows 





on Municipal Subjects 


what the woman voter in Chicago has been 
able to accomplish there in the short time she 
has been enfranchised 

“Some Recent Uses of the Recall” is the 
title of an article which discusses philosoph 
ically this “new instrument of democracy.” 
Three articles deal comprehensively with prog 
ress in three important fields of municipal a 
tivity, one by Charles Mulford Robinson re 
viewing the city planning reports of the past 
vear, one by Murray Gross with the develop 
ment of the civic and social survey idea, and a 
third by C. E. Rightor, of the Dayton Bureau 
of Municipal Research, on recent progress in 
budgets and accounting 

Among other articles to be noted are those 
on “Municipal Fire Insurance,” by R. H 
Blanchard; on “Community Development,” by 
Howard Strong; on “Civic Codéperation,” b 
Angus S. Hibbard: on “The Municipal Court 
of Cleveland,” by Raymond M le ; and 
“American Municipal Progress,” by 


Thomas 
\dams, of Ottawa 








122 


Fire Fighting Equipment and Methods in 
Providence 


By Reuben DeM. Weekes 


Chief, Fire Department, Providence, R. I. 


Hi. Fire Department of the city of ond-size American-La France. There are 
Providence is metropolitan in every ten ladder trucks, these including eight 
vith the possible exception Seagrave, one Hayes and one Combinatio 
if motor a rat ind within the coming Ladder Company. The latter piece of ay 
year it is expected that all the horse-drawn  paratus carries an 85-foot aerial, and ther 
upparatus now in service | be replaced are in addition three 75-foot aerials. The 
hy motor lhe personnel of the Fire De city has twenty-two hose companies, of 
partment nsists of « hief, Reuber which eighteen have combination wagons 
DeM. Weekes, three district chiefs, Wil and four single wagons. Twelve of th 
liam F. Smith, Abner G. Allen and Stepher eighteen combination wagons are motor 
Milles 3 captains, 2 eutenat and driven. In addition to the apparatus 
200 privates service, there are held in reserve two ste 
here are in service at the present time fire engines, a water tower which is 


fourteen steam fire engines, including twe quipped with a Morse turret gun, two hook 
first-size and five second-size Metropoli and ladder trucks, and one combinatior 
tans, one first-size Americ two first-size wagon. The Chief and District Chiefs 
American-La | rance, two third-size Amos- have automobiles, the Chief’s bei: gy su 
keags, one tl size Silsbec nd one sec plied with a driver 




















CENTRAL FIRE STATION, PROVIDENCE, R. | 





\veust, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 12 

















HOSE 4, MILL STREET STATION 


The illustrations on this page show types of | tus which are being superse t Prov e 
rt t¢ | I € 

he Gamewell is the fire alarm system and ten privates; of these, eight are opet 
used. There are 530 boxes in service at the ators and four are lineme: 
present time. All of these boxes are of the he fire alarm system is what is known as 
keyless type and most of them are the so- the Central Station System. When a box is 
called non-interfering. This fire alarm sys- pulled the alarm is received on a circuit it 
tem is in charge of a Superintendent, Gil- the Central Station. The operators work i 
bert D. Inman, one captain, one lieutenant pairs. As soon as an alarm begins to come 

















LADDER TRUCK 7, HOPE AND OLNEY STREET STATION 


The horses were 1¢ ribbon winners in the 1916 Work Horse Parade 





OO Lee! 


124 THE AMERICAN CITY Vor. XV, N 
he operator luty strikes a ever a steam fire engine is put into ser 
rning v, which 1 signal for every ata fire; while the high pressure pipes 
ce iratus in th lepartment to on the opposite side of the street and 
( h. Under this system the time used by the hose companies when worki: 
getting into the street is re- without engines. 
ce ( \t night when the warn 
struck it kens every mai Distinctive Equipment and Methods 
in the ) ent, st of the time Providence is probably the only city 
ck on all I opens all the country of any size that uses the Li 
stall dox that the | s are under the ery hydrants exclusively, there being 1 
harness when the en come down the post hydrants in service in the city ry 
poles ollowing the pulling of the box Lowery hydrant is flush with the sidewall 
nd the ing of the iT blow, two and to take the place of the post hydra 
uinds of the box number are sent out over the Providence Department uses a hydrant 

















A COMBINATION MOTOR WAGON 


An example of the 


: the quick system, followed by two rounds 

: on the slow system. 

"he water-supply for the Fire Depart- 
ment is obtained from three reservoirs, the 
gravity pressure being used entirely. Fruit 
Hill Reservoir supplies two high pressure 
systems, the first and largest covering the 

down-town section of the city, while the 


second covers the mill district of Olney- 


ville. The outlying districts are covered by 
a low pressure system supplied by the Pet- 
taconsett Reservoir. The high pressure 
system carries from 90 to 160 pounds pres- 
sure, while the low pressure service carries 
trom 33 to 72 pounds. In the down-town 


the 


one sick 


sector 


low pressure pipes are placed on 


the street and are used when- 


AT THE MILL STREET STATION 

newer equipment 

head or “chuck.” All the hose wagons 
carry 6-port chucks, while the steamers 


carry 4-port chucks. 

There are several things that stand out 
in the Providence Fire Department. Onc 
of these is the speed made in responding 
to an alarm. 
make a hitch before knowing the number 
of the box that has been pulled, our hose 
companies and our lighter ladder trucks 
and engines are rolling from the 
before the round of the has 
been completed on the quick system. W*: 
believe that the only way to prevent larg: 


Owing to the fact that we 


station 


second box 


fires is to get there and start work while 
the blaze is still small. 
never censure a citizen for pulling a 


For that reason we 


box 





 Sroes oe 


\ucust, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 125 























company on the scene is charg ith si 
ting the hydrant chuck and witl 

\ a line of hose into the building ar rect 

‘ to the fire. The only time we sta in the 
street and fight a fire is wher S 
sible for us to get in becaus« 
of fire or heavy smoke 

Our hose wagons art fere 

those used in other cit 
among the manufacturers of fire a rat 
as the Providence type hose bod nste 
of packing our hose all the way across th 
bottom of the wago! ve pack it in tw 
boxes which have a passagewa et 
them. The first wagon of this tvpe was 
built more than twenty vears ago by one 
Archibald Martin, a local wagor iker 


ind the type has been standard for Provi 
dence ever since that time This wago 


allows our men to do two things mrst, t 


THE MOST RECENT ADDITION TO THE PROVIDENCE FIRE DEPARTMEN 


Known as Truck 6, stationed at Atwell’s Avenue and America Street This truck, i 
to the regular equipment, carries an 85-foot aerial ladder specially trussed, whic ur 
or lowered by mechanical or hand power The ladder is shown in front of the Cent 
Station with seven men standing on it. The insert shows the raising and wering 1 


when he has every reason to believe a fire dress quickly and conveniently while on 


is in progress. their way to a fire; and second, with the 

Another thing that we do rather differ- exception of the man who is setting th 
ently than is done in the majority of metro- chuck and attaching the lin f hose. to 
politan cities is to go in if it is possible for ride to the nearest point to the fire, thereby 
us to get inside the building. The first saving many precious seconds when going 








inte t On this h ¢ e are 
able » pack 800 feet of hose, 400 feet in 
ich box, a this has bee found nply 
sufficient for all our ¢ eeds 

We have recently pla to « is 
Sik S5-Tor eT il ladde tf i ult by 
the ination Ladder ¢ vy of Provi- 
aence \ the | t ses the legisla 
ture the city of Provider iuthorized 
to borrow $150,000 tor tl urchase ot 
more ratus Already several triple 
combination pumping chemical and _ hose 
wagons, together with several combination 
che ic hose wagons inl a motor 
tractor, have been ordered for the Depart 
ment 


AMERICAN 


CUT Vor. XV, No 
The conduct of the Department, inclu 
ing the purchasing of supplies and ap; 
ratus, is vested in a Commission, one me! 
ber of which is elected each year for a ter 
years. The 
consists of John R. Dennis, chairmar 
Ralph W. Hamilton ard William Covell 
with John W. Morrill as clerk of the Con 
Nominally, the Commissionet 
are answerable to the Committee on | 
Department of the City Council. 


of three present Commissi 


mission, 


Eprtror’s Note The above outline f 
ent status and plans of the Pro De 
ment is published in tl ‘ 
terest to the fire chic 1s 





who will visit Providence Aug 
the annual convention of the Internatior 
f Fire Engineers 





The Rescue Work of the Pittsburgh Fire 
Department 


HE rescue squads of the Pittsburgh 


Fire 


Department not long ago gav 


their first public exhibition at the 
new fire training tower at No. 14 Engine 
Company, Neville Street The exhibitior 


was witnessed by most of the city officials 


and by a large number of citizens invited 


to the initial public drill. 


The instruction 


was under the supervi- 
sion of Captains James Kane and Alvan 
Foster and Police Surgeon D. E. Sable. 
Wearing uniforms and 


smoke: 


on scaling ladders: 


ascending to the top of the tower 
f sup 


resuscitation « 
posed victims of suffocating with the use 
of the pulmotor; shooting the life line and 
carrying supposed smoke and gas victims 
to the ground by means of rope descent 
This first class in rescue work was put 
thru the drill twice a 
weeks, and the same program was carried 


week for sever 


out until rescue squads of six men each 
from the eight fire districts had taken th 





heavy oxygen helmets, 


the masked figures pre- 
sented a grotesque ap- 


pearance as they went 


through their daring and 


dificult performance 


high ibove the concrete 
pavement The tower 
is 90 feet high. Every 


form of drill considered 
necessary in rescue work 
was gon over several 
times during the exhibi 
tion with surprising pro 
ficiency lhe drills con 
sisted in rescuing men 
supposed to have been 
overcome by smoke in 


high places, the firemen 
helmets that 


possible for 


wearing the 
make it 














them to enter the densest 





FIREMEN WITH 


SAFETY HELMETS 








\usust, 1916 THE 


AMERICAN 


CITY 127 





course and qualified in 
all branches of the work. 
following this, the dis 


trict chiefs were re 
thru the 


Same strenuous course. 


quired to go 


These rescue squads 


are organized to cope 
with peculiar conditions 
rhey 


at fires. will be 





eee 
\ 
\ ‘ 


employed in such work 
as shutting off ammonia 


supplies when pipes 
burst in cold storage 
plants; for entering and 


ventilating drug and 





chemical plants during 


fires; for reaching the 


seat of fires in smoky 





cellars and sub-cellars: 


for rescuing persons 
overcome by ammonia 


fumes, gases or smoke, ~ 


where ordinary means 
employed by fire fighters 
fail. Members of the 
rescue squad working at 
fires will go in pairs, so 
that protect 
each other in case of ac- 


they can 









Mi \\\\ 


TA Ws 











cident; if one should be 
overcome, the other can BELMETED 

signal for assistance by 

means of a life line that extends to a mem- 
be> of the squad in a position of safety, and 
that resembles the line carried by submarine 
divers. The helmets worn by the firemen 
supply fresh oxygen at the rate of two 
quarts a minute for an hour. At the end 
of that period a gauge known as the fini- 
meter registers zero, but enough oxygen 
still remains in the tank on the fireman’s 
back to keep him supplied at the same rate 
for twenty minutes more. 
onstrated at the public 
“smoke room,” a concrete air-proof struc- 
ture filled with the fumes of burning excel- 
sior, straw, oakum, rubbish, sulphur and 
tar. Captain Elmer Croco, wearing a hel- 
met, entered the and remained for 


This was dem- 
exhibition in a 


room 


MEN ON 


FIREMEN’S PRACTICE TEAM USING 
SCALING LADDERS 


one hour. \t the end of that time he 


emerged, nearly exhausted, with perspira 


tion slushing in his shoes at every 


step. 
His clothes were almost rotted away by the 
action of the fumes and heat. 


said ( ap 


“It was a tough experience, 


tain Croco, “but it certainly demonstrates 


what can be accomplished in rescuing peo- 
ple at fires or other accidents. 
At fires where there is no rescue 


work to 


be done, members of the reé scue squads pet 


their 
Charles S. 


form Director 


ordinary duties. 
Hubbard, of the public safety 
department, says he intends to have fifty 
four men expert in rescue work befor¢ th 


end of the summer. 


























Days Off For Firemen 


A Report of the Committee on Municipal and Metropolitan Affairs of the Boston 
Chamber of Commerce Concerning the Proposed “One Day Off in 
Three” Schedule for the Boston Fire Department 


N January, 1916, an ordinance was in- 

| troduced in the Boston City Council to 
give the firemen the one day off in 

three schedule. This matter was studied 
by a special committee of the Chamber of 
Commerce, which made the following re- 
port: 

The Boston firemen, since 1905, have 
been given one 24-hour period off duty in 
every 5 days, and also since 1909 three meal 
periods of 1'4 hours each, or, if they pre- 
fer, two meal periods of 2 hours each, daily. 

On account of the “one day off in five” 
rule, from one-third to one-ninth (33.3 to 
11.1 per cent) of each company is off duty 
throughout the twenty-four hours at all 
times. The percentage off duty is increased 
during meal periods. (For exact figures, 
see accompanying table.) The men in the 
stations are divided into three shifts for 
each meal period. These meal periods are: 
breakfast, 6.45 A. M. to 10.30 A. M.; din- 
ner, 11.45 A. M. to 3.30 P. M.; supper, 4.45 
P. M. to 8.30 P. M. During these periods, 
totaling 1144 hours (12 hours if the two- 
hour meal periods are taken), the percent- 
age of men off duty varies from two-thirds 
to one-third in a company. The firemen get 
three meal periods on the day they return 
to the station, and their breakfast period on 
the morning of their day off. According 
to the rules of the department, some extra 
time off is also allowed men who have been 
doing detail work, and they have also what 
is known as “church leave” on alternate 
Sundays. The committee has been in- 
formed, however, that very little time is 
granted under these two headings, because 
there is little detail work now, and many 
companies are so small that they cannot be 
handicapped by further grants of leave on 
Sundays. 

The fireman, then, is off duty on a regu- 
lar average of 7.8 hours a day, or, if he 
takes two meal periods of two hours each, 
8 hours a day—that is, 32% to 33% per 
cent. It should also be remembered that 
a fireman is permitted to sleep during the 
time he is “on duty,” nor is all of the time 


he is awake spent in active work. Thus a 
fireman averages less than 8 hours of real 
active work a day; he has almost 8 hours 
entirely free; and the remainder of the 
24 nominally on duty but free for sleep or 
recreation, provided he remains in the 
station. 


The Proposed System: One Day 
Off in Three 


The proposed ordinance provides a 24- 
hour period off duty in every three days, 
and three meal periods of one hour each 
during the course of the other two days. 
From three-sevenths to one-fourth (42.3 to 
25 per cent) of each company is off duty 
during the whole twenty-four hours. 

The men on duty are divided into three 
shifts for meals. The men returning from 
a day off get their breakfast before report- 
ing for duty, and have no dinner hour that 
day and no supper hour the following day. 
In this way, three meal periods are saved 
in each two days. The percentage df men 
off duty during these meal periods, which 
will cover 9 hours a day, varies from 57.2 
per cent to 28% per cent. 

A fireman, then, will have an average of 
9 hours a day off duty, or 37% per cent. 
Reducing the hours of the present system 
and the proposed system to a common de- 
nominator of 15 days, shows that the pres- 
ent system gives from 117 to 120 hours off 
duty out of 360, as against 135 hours for 
the proposed scheme. 


Arguments for the Proposed Scheme 

In order to hear both sides of this ques- 
tion, permission was secured from the Fire 
Commissioner to have a representative fire- 
man present the arguments for the pro- 
posed schedule to some members of the 
committee. A clear explanation of the rea- 
sons for the proposed scheme was given, 
which may be considered from the sides of 
humanitarianism, efficiency and economy. 

HUMANITARIANISM 

The firemen claim that the present regu- 

lations, which permit a man to be home for 








i 
a 
4 
i 


eben 


wl ee 


£ ~ 
* 

“ 
“ae 
ay 





Avucust, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 129 


only one day in five and three brief meal 
periods on each of the other four days, are 
a menace to the moral welfare of a growing 
family. What the irregular hours also 
mean to a fireman's wife, it is said, can only 
be appreciated by those who have had ex- 
perience with such schedules. 

fhe next argument is that the Boston 
firemen are not as well treated as those in 
other cities, and therefore this schedule 
should be granted to bring them upon a 
level with other fire departments. The list 
of cities accompanying this report shows 
where the ‘one day off in three,” “one day 
off in four” and the “two-platoon” systems 
are used. The ‘one day off in five” is used 
in all Massachusetts cities, in Rhode Island, 
and elsewhere, but a complete list of suct 
cities is not available. “One day off in six” 
is also a common schedule, but no list of the 
cities having it has been compiled. 

EFFICIENCY 

The effect of the proposed scheme in Chi- 
cago and St. Louis, the only two large cities 
where it has been adopted, is shown by the 
following quotations from letters sent this 
committee by Thomas O'Connor, Fire Mar- 
shal of Chicago, and F. E. Henderson, 
Chief of the St. Louis Department. Mr. 
O'Connor writes: 

“The adoption of this particular off system 
did not hamper the efficiency of the department 
in the least; on the contrary, it rather en- 
hanced it, and the system is still in vogue.” 

Mr. Henderson’s opinion is: 

“The third day off schedule is no longer an 
experiment in this city. It has proved emi- 
nently satisfactory in more ways than one. 
For example, there is less sickness among the 
members since we have adopted the third day 
off than there was when the men were re- 
quired to take every sixth day off. The dis- 
cipline is much better, the men work faster and 
are always in good spirits, but the greatest 
proof that the third day off system is the better 
of the two, or the two-platoon system, is the 
fact that we have reduced the fire losses in 
this city more than one million dollars during 
the year 1915, as compared to 1914.” 

It was strongly emphasized by the fire- 
men’s representative that the proposed sys- 
tem would provide more men in the stations 
during the nine hours of the meal periods. 
A study of the table confirms this statement. 
It should also be noted that there is a re- 
duction of 2% to 3 hours in the total meal 
periods as against the present system. 

ECONOMY 
The following statement on the “one day 


off in three,” taken from a pamphlet issued 
by the Helmet Club of the Chicago Firé 


Department, has been given wide circula 
tion in Boston 

“The prime merit of this system lies in the 
fact that the members of the Chicago Fire D: 
partment enjoy these privileges without hand 
capping their respective 1 nies and with 
out the addition of a single man to the payroll 


of the department 
his statement is considered very import 
tant by the proponents of the measure in 


Boston. 


Arguments Against the Proposed Scheme 
HUMANITARIANISM 

At first glance there seems to be som 
force in the argument that one day off in 
five and three meal periods daily is not 
much time for a man to spend at home. 
Comparison with other occupations shows 
that a fireman, except that he does not 
sleep at home, has much more time to spend 
with his family than most other men. How 
many lawyers or business men—not to men 
tion clerks or laborers—can take every fifth 
day with their families and three meals 
daily? A comparison with other city em- 
ployes does not strengthen the fireman's 
case. A policeman has even more irregular 
hours, if doing night duty, but he gets only 
one day off in fifteen, and one meal pe riod 
a day. It would not seem that this, or the 
other objections, to the life of a fireman 
were particularly strong, since there is al- 
ways a larger number of first-class candi- 
dates than there are places to fill. It should 
also be remembered that the firemen have 
much leisure time on their hands while 
theoretically “on duty,” even after all the 
routine work has been done; also that they 
can sleep while “on duty.” On the score 
of health, no serious contention is made 
that the firemen need more time off. 

As for the comparative treatment in 
other cities, full data as to hours off for 
meals, days off, etc., are not at hand, so that 
a real comparison is not possible. In days 
off, some cities give more than Boston, but, 
as was mentioned before, the Massachusetts 
and Rhode Island cities have the “one day 
off in five”; while if the list of the cities 
giving more than one day off in five as fur- 
nished by the’ firemen’s representative is at 
all complete, it is a fair inference that the 
majority of cities give less. 

\ very strong material offset to the argu- 








A AN ey 








130 THE AMERICAN CITY 


ment that some cities give more than one 
day off in five is the fact that Boston pays 
its firemen very high salaries. The fire 
mens represe ntative could name only two 
cities, San Francisco ($1,440) and Oak- 
land, Cal. ($1,404), which paid more than 
Boston ($1,400). New York pays as much 
as Boston. Oakland, however, has a con 
tributory pension scheme, while Boston's 
pensions are non-contributory. It would 
thus seem that the difference in days off 1s 
imply compensated by the greater salary. 
Since almost all firemen’s pensions are al 
th rate ot! half-pay, the fact that Boston 
pays better salaries than almost eve ry other 
city means that the pensions are also larger. 
EFFICIENCY 

The favorable statements as to the work- 
ing of this scheme in St. Louis are modified 
by other parts of the same letter from 
Chief Henderson. For example: 

“By adopting this schedule we blocked the 
double shift which was at that time strongly 
agitated by the members of this department, 
and the legislators had received a bill which 
had a second reading and which was reported 
out favorably for passage. However, the men 


liked the third day off much better than the 
double shift and for that reason it was an 
easy matter to defeat the bill of the legislators 

. and by defeating this measure we wer¢ 
enabled to save the taxpayers of our city $250, 
ooo every year 

This looks somewhat like taking the 
lesser of the two evils. Two questions 
might well be asked concerning the para- 
graph of Chief Henderson’s letter which 
has already been quoted: first, how good 
was the discipline before the “one day off 
in three” was adopted; and second, is there 
any real connection between the adoption of 
that system and the drop in fire losses of 
$1,000,000 during the single year that it has 
been tried? 

It is true that there are more men in the 
stations during meal periods under the pro- 
posed system than under thé existing one, 
which is generous in the meal hours allowed 
as compared with other cities. On the other 
hand, there will be a much smaller number 
of men in the stations during the fifteen 
hours of the rest of the day. These fifteen 
hours come mainly at night, when, accord- 
ing to the most experienced opinion obtain- 
able, fires are more dangerous than in day- 
time. The firemen’s representative argued, 
however, that meal periods were the worst 
time for fires. 


Vor. XV, No. 2 


\ statement of the effect of the proposed 
system on a ten-man engine company 
(horse-drawn) is informing. On one of 
the three days only six men will be at the 
station. If a bad fire should occur, two of 
the six will be obliged to stand by their 
horses, and two ought to be used to keep 
the engine at top speed, leaving only two 
men to handle the hose lines, or three if 
only one man is left to tend the engine. 
In either case these are insufficient to han- 
dle a line of hose weighing 59 to 62 pounds 
a length empty. The present system would 
give two more men on this day and one 
more on the other two days. 

The committee was told that 1% hours 
was barely long enough for many firemen 
to get home for a meal. With the meal 
periods reduced to one hour each, they 
could not do so. This would mean a sepa- 
ration from their families for two whole 
days. But it is perfectly natural to assume 
that they would very soon be pleading to 
have their former meal periods reéstab- 
lished, thus restoring what they had given 
up to get the third day off. 

A far better index of the relative ef- 
ficiency of the present and proposed 
schemes is the opinion of the Secretary of 
the Boston Board of Fire Underwriters: 

“In relation to the proposition to allow one 
day off in three for the firemen of the city of 
Boston, | can only say that I feel very sure 
that any such move as this will result in a 
decided increase in the insurance rates. 

“We are already considering whether it will 
not be necessary to increase the insurance rates 
owing to the quite unsatisfactory way fires 
have been handled on account of the lack of 
men. If they should make this other move, I 
know that we should have to protect ourselves, 
and our only method of doing this is by in- 
creasing the rates.” 

Commissioner Grady takes exception to 
the statement that the department is now 
undermanned. The recent additions of mo- 
tor apparatus have released about forty for- 
mer drivers for active service at fires at all 
times, and this number will be increased as 
the number of pieces of motor apparatus 
increases. If the new system were adopted 
the department would be seriously under- 
manned; for, without any allowances for 
men sick, injured, or on vacation, one-third 
of the force would always be unavailable 
instead of one-fifth as at present. The 
number of new members which it is esti- 
mated would be required to keep the present 











AucGust, 1916 THE 


effective strength on hand under the 
system is 192. 


new 


ECONOMY 
lhe argument for the proposed scheme in 
regard to economy seems to be based upon 


the quotation from the Helmet Club 
pamphlet : 

“The prime merit of this system lies in the 
fact that the members of the Chicago Fire 
Department enjoy these privileges without 
handicapping their respective companies and 


without the addition of a single man to the 
payroll of the department.” 

An entirely new light is thrown upon this 
quotation by Marshal 
ment: 


O’Connor’s _ state- 

“Provision was made in the appropriation 
for the year 1910 for the addition of 139 men 
to the department. When these men were 
employed, the one day off in three schedule 
was created by a rule of the Fire Marshal, 
with the permission of the Mayor at that time.” 
The cost of these men for the first year only 
was $125,000 

The statement of Marshal O’Connor, 
combined with the opinion of Mr. Cabot and 
the estimates of 192 more furnished 
for the report of the Boston Finance Com- 
mission, do not leave much room for doubt 
that the size of the Boston department 
would have to be increased with 
spondingly greater cost if the new system 
were adopted. The estimated cost of these 
new men is approximately $155,000 for the 
first year, and when these men reached 
their maximum pay in five and a half years, 
it would be approximately $268,000. An- 
other way in which the Boston 
would be increased over that in Chicago is 
the fact that “the day off in three” 
apply in Boston to all ranks; in Chicago 
all fire chiefs get only one day off in six. 
The ultimate increased cost of 
should also not be overlooked. 


men, 


corre- 


cost to 


would 


pensions 


AMERICAN 


Cis 13 


3! 

Conclusions 
Before drawing conclusions on this mat- 
ter, it would be well to consider the general 
condition of the city government, and als 


what steps have been taken recently to bet 
ter the working conditions of the fireme 
If any additional expenses are to b 
curred by the city, the streets should 
consideration 


receive 
shorter hours This 
is all the more true if these shorter hours 
may an increase in insurance 
What has been done for the firemen sinc 
1905 shows that Boston has not been ignot 
ing the splendid Service 


before 


involve rates 


which its fireme1 
that has beer 
fully realized that their occupation is 


so frequently render, and 
lat 
gerous and ought to be well rewarded by 
good pay and working conditions; in 19¢ 
they were given one day in five instead of 
one in eight; the meal hours were gradually 
lengthened to three of 1 
of 2 hours daily by department rule betweet 


; hours ot 


these hours were 
in 1913 their pay was 
raised $100 (more for the higher ranks), 
and in 1914 their pay was again raised $100 


Then 
fixed by ordinance; 


[905 and 1909 


Pensions, of course, automatically increas¢ 
with the pay. 
In advocating this new schedule, the bur 


den of proof was clearly upon the firemen. 
\s was pointed out, they based their cas 
upon three points: the humanitarian, the 
economic and the question of efficiency. It 


does not appear to your committee that they 


have proved their case in any one of them 
Your committee believes that the firemer 
are very W ell treated, absolutely and com 


The 
that the efficiency of the department would 
be decreased if this were 

unless a large number of men 
at great cost, and that 


paratively. committee is convinced 


system adopted 


added, 


if these men were not 


were 


iT 





COMPILED FROM TABLES IN THE BOSTON CITY COUNCIL PROCEEDINGS, JANUARY 10, 191 


One DaYIN Frve (Boston PLAN 


Men in 
full Per Cent. of Company Off Duty 
strength - 
company First Second Third Fourth Fifth 
day day day day day 
6 16.6 16.6 | 16.6 16.6 33.3 
7 14.3 4.3 | 14.3 28.6 28.6 
8 12.5 12.5 | 25.0 25.0 25.0 
9 11.1 22.2 | 22.2 22.2 22.2 
10 20 20 |} 20 20 20 
ll 18.2 18.2 18.2 18.2 27.3 
12 16.6 16.6 | 16.6 25 25 
13 15 15.4 23.1 23 .1 23.1 
14 14.3 21.4 21.4 21.4 21.4 
15 
16 18.8 18.8 18.8 18.8 25 


One Daytn THRee (Curcaco | 


Per Cent. of Company Off Dut 
During First Second Third D PF 
Mea! Periods day day day eal per 
33 .3-66.6 33.3 33.3 33.3 ”) 
42.8-57.1 28.6 28.6 42 8 28 6-571 
37 .5-50 25.0 37.5 37.5 37 * 
33.3-55.5 33.3 33.3 33.3 44.4 
40.50 30 30 10 10 —5O 
45. 5-54.6 27.3 36.4 36.4 3 4-54 
41. 6-50.0 33.3 33.3 33.3 41.650 
38 .5-53.8 30.8 37.8 38 5 3 8 
2 8-50.0 2k 6 5.7 5.7 6 .7-50 
*33 .3 3 3 $ ; ) 46.6 
43. 8-50.0 





~*Based on 15 men company, Chicago plan 








32 THE AMERICAN CITY Vo.t. XV, No. 2 





M Granted t Cit ( r ] 
rca c 4ics 
nected ‘ M ‘ ed by City ¢ I 
c . \ \ G € City ¢ | 
i > I I ed January, 1914 
| C] ( sf ( M Granted by City ¢ l 
san : \\ Ins ed by refere 1 vote { 
rii, 1913 \ 
City, Kans.—By City Council, July, 1914 
; 
WoO-P ( Cil S WITH ONE DAY OFF IN THREI 
' Chi I (jrante n 1911 System ca for 
two days, without any addition ¢t 
M ( N ember 1914 Svate > 
ee Peal rs per day ot o mit tes eac 
) N. ¥ Granted November 1 1915 
ITIES WITH ONE DAY OFF IN FOUR 
: a \ : \ t 0) Granted December, 1912 
: M Which gets additionally tw vac 
avs each, twice a year 
: , M ‘ ] i Granted by the City Council ir 
. . Pa ( promise between the member 
, , thoritie stead of the Two Platoon Systen 
nver ( Granted December 2 1915, for 
‘ services rendered and in the inter 
| ys sate ficier wit t any increase to the taxpayers ’ 
( P anites ke effect January 1, 1916 
| ‘ CITIES WITH ONE DAY OFF IN FIVE 
\ t Massachusetts and Rhode Island Ne 
M York City gives one day off in five plus twelve cor 
rs between days off 
i 
| 
} 
’ 
: xs > ° : ° 
City Planning for Fire Protection 
Ch nning receive heartv endors« local firemen to insure the vigorous enforce- 
; the annual meeting of the National ent of rules for cleanliness, good housekeep- 
Protection Association. held in Chi ing, and the maintenance of safe and unob- 
\4 0 structed exits, fire-fighting apparatus and 
. ; the: protective devices. ‘ 
he association commended the growing ' Ree “ ck 
boas’ [he enactment of ordinances similar to that 
em £ as HKCTY I Cleveland, Ohio, fixing the cost of extin- 
re eee ey ey ee 39 
uce bette onditions as u ig heigl guishing preventable fires upon citizens dis 
@ ' 
and congested areas, and provide the open regarding fre prevention orders, and a more 
; space nd broad avenues, which, beside general legal recognition of the common-law 
; ‘ ; é 
:7 their human and esthetic values. are excel principle of personal liability for damage re- } 
i} : anal P ulting from fires due to carelessness or 
ecks sweeping S ' 
: | : , negie 
: In its warfare against the needless sacri — : : E 
: ‘ . ‘ 4 ; [he wider general use of the automatic 
hce ot human ves al property Vv hre the am ‘ . . “¢ 
) ICE — ‘ . igb-aet sprinkler as a hre extinguishing agent and life . 
issociation advocates ng others the fo saver, and the more general adoption of the 
: wing measures re division wall as an important life-saving 
Phe adootion by mu ties of the Stand- exit facility 
ird Building Cod f the National Board of \ careful study of the technical surveys of | 
: Fire Underwriters. to the end that fire-resistive cities made by the engineers of the Committee 
/ uildin struct e encouraged. the on Fire Prevention of the National Board of 
; } —_ | : { rings rohy)l } , . 6 
i} use inflammabhte coverings prohi on Fire Underwriters, covering the items of 
’ dea t é dings assur 2 of. 28s | 
RSee SAN aCin : eC water supplies, their adequacy and reliability, | 
wd interiors so ion re-stoppe¢ a . 
: nd ~ v re department efficiency, fire alarm systems 
to make cas\ I extinguishment ¢ res . . - 
and conflagration hazards; and of the possi- 
therein - 7 fea 
) The adoption of the Association’s suggested ility of co-operation among neighboring cities 
: rdinance providing for the systematic inspec- through mutual aid and the standardization of 
; tion of all buildings ity fire marshals or hose couplings. 
3 
t 
: 











a“ 


That Denver Reversion 


lo the Editor of THe AMERICAN City: 

In your June issue appeared an article 
anent Denver's reversion to the mayor 
form of government by a charter amend- 
ment, adopted May 9, 1916, which returned 
Robert W. Speer to the office of mayor 
after an interim of four years. Mr. H. S. 
Gilbertson, the writer of the article, made 
the assertion that the underlying cause for 
the abolition of the commission form in 
Denver was political. 

In the interest of the actual facts some 
figures are presented here which may be 
relied upon to withstand any criticism. 
These figures demonstrate to a certainty 
that the basic cause for the change in Den- 
ver was not political, but economic. 

Mr. Gilbertson, whose analysis appears 
to have been made from a distance, made 
this statement: 

“It is clear, therefore, that the issue in the 
election was not the simple, clear-cut one of 
commission government versus the mayor 
plan, but it was wrapped up in the much more 
personal question as to whether or not Mr 
Speer should or should not be returned to 
power. 

Denver abolished the commission form 
deliberately after it had been weighed in 
the scale of public opinion for three years. 

The most convincing light thrown upon 
the commission form in Denver is a table 
of city operating expenses, taken from the 
annual reports of city auditors for a period 
of ten years. To make the comparison a 
fair one, the general city fund has been 
taken. Either the mayor or the commis- 
sioners have had direct, exclusive control 
of the city general levy and city general 
appropriations for the entire period re- 
ferred to. County, park, mountain park, 
sinking and bond interest funds are not in- 
cluded, 

Add to this fact that the commissioners 
levied for 1916, general city taxes, $2,721,- 


000, or an increase of $801,846 over the pre- 


vious year, and you will have the lerl 


ing reason why, during the recent car 
paign, not a newspaper, not a private citi 
zen—not even one of the five commissioners 
then serving—had aught to say in regard 
to commission form, except in aj 
In answer to Mr. Gilbertson’s assertio 


1 
logy 


that city hall employes put out an amend 
ment to reéelect Mayor Speer, it may 
mentioned that two of the commissioners 
accepted nominations for office n the 
Booth amendment ticket, put out by Repub 
licans to defeat the Speer amendment. This 
amendment lost by a vote of nine to one 

\ word as to the new administration. 
\ppointments have been divided equally | 
tween Democrats and Republicans, in con 
formity with a non-partisan policy. 

Taking office on May 20, Mayor Speer 
has cut the city payroll $93,700. The addi- 
tion of a council and a central inspection 
bureau caused an increase of $9,300 a vear, 
but this still leaves a net saving of $84,000 
a year, with a more cohesive and respon- 
sive administrative machinery. Seventy- 
seven city jobs were abolished and thirty- 
five reduced to standardize salaries. 

The city administration did not assume 
responsibility for enforcement of the stat 
prohibition law up to the change in govern- 
ment. The first act performed by the new 
council was to enact this law into a city 
ordinance. 

Denver did not go back to the mayor 
form, as it existed before the adoption of 
the commission form. The new chartet 
amendment is a progressive step, founded 
upon the best in the old forms. The state- 
ment is made here, advisedly, that the 
Mayor of Denver now possesses mort 
power than the mayor of any other Ameri- 
can city. 

Epcar C. MAcMECHEN, 
Publicity Ag 

Mayor's Office, 

Denver, Colo., July 14, 1916 


City General Amt. Put in Cash on Hand Defic 

; Year Taxes Collected Perm’'t Imp End of Year End of Y 
.. cuG@dpet ies oy 1906 $1,363,411 $245,900 $260,589 

| a - 1907 1,302,498 127,800 324,453 

Tl 6008 504s 60s ibe’ Seen 1,311,863 184,000 135,914 

SE ee . 1909 1,440,421 201,200 82,088 

OS eee ; . 1910 1,498,124 232,700 58,621 
 gadunnes ve 1911 1,639,756 144,700 240,863 
*Speer-Arnold ......... 1912 1,661,802 67,700 134,211 

*Arnold Com. Gov’'t.. 19138 1,543,295 25,500 $55.89 
Og Se a 1914 1,702,481 20,000 247.716 
eT e 1915 1,919,154 52,500 


* Speer made the appropriations and served five 
appropriations and served five months in 1913. 


2,! 210,508 


months in 1912. Arnold made t! 








- — 
ae ee nr 








A Campaign for Sanitary Collection and 
Disposal of Garbage 


By Mrs. Lee Bernheim 


Chairman, Waste Committee, Louisville Women’s Civic Association 


bage i Ove the te 
phot Ninh N 
‘ ‘ e the er I same tl g 
h px ed last wee k ’ ‘ 
‘ hhores t the out ‘ 
iskets! The flies the odor ar 
; ich emarks 
ne ‘ ti that .¢ >)" sal 
( Ss vet ut ( St oT ( 
en if the collect d come d th 
eighbor ha bee I ru | 1s { 
cle covered ca he more insid 
1 sults of oO t systen 
) re ill I} ot would 
| e bee ‘ pti ncovered, 
overflowing wag g here 
nd there ¢ the streets ts journe 
» the 1 \r th the dum 
itself, that festering SS OI a citys 
discard iecomposing veget ible mat 
ter cast-on clothing, often infected 
from contact with the sick room 
everything, in fact. that the individ 
ial must rid himself of, with abso 
lutely regard for wher it goes or! 
who 1 tects \ d whom does t 
attect Unanswerabk question ! he 


rats that breed in it, the hogs that dis 


eating it The men, w 
dren, ae licts of Soc 
it over in the hope o 
salable article ? Perha 
edly, for the odor is 
rats swarm through 
(One woman told ne 
indoors, summer evet 
dow closed, to having 
smelling air Anothe 
from one of the dum 
and a dog to keep the 
front door at night! 
But what of the ar 


sold? Into whose hom 


fected hat, the made 


little doll buggy at 


ve in tiny homes abou 


omen and chil 
1ety, who pick 


f finding some 


ps! rhe people who 
it its « lee ? Assur- 
ot pleasant—and the 


r 


the ne ighborhood 
she preferred sitting 
gs, with every win- 
to breathe that foul- 
r, who lived across 
s, had to have a cat 


rats away from her 


ticles recovered and 
e will come the in 
over mattress, the 


this moment bein 


iwed over by rats and pigs? Fortunately, 
unfortunately, no one knows, and very 


ew Care 


Remedial Suggestions 
[hese conditions, however, need not ex- 
st. To say that a better system of waste 
isposal is too expensive or impractical is 
acknowledge ignorance of the subject. 


[here are four clean methods of disposal, 
ich dependent for its success upon the 
ficiency with which it is handled. 

First, there is the “dump and fill” method, 





RETURNING FROM THE DUMP 


1 of cast-off material, which may be used agair 


be the means of spreading disease 


used to advantage in small cities. Each 
lay’s collection of refuse is dumped into 
a trench, especially dug for the purpose, the 
earth dug for the next trench being used 
to fill the firs-—and so on. Sandy soil can 
be used in this way for growing vegetables 
after one year, provided the ground is 
thoroly plowed. Grains can be grown the 
second year. If the soil is clay, four years 
are required to make the ground pro- 
ductive 

lhe use of fresh garbage for hog feed- 
ing has been most successful, when carried 
on in a sanitary and scientific manner. On 
the other hand, forty hogs died of cholera 





\uGUST, 1916 THE 


in one week on one of the Louisville dumps 
last fall. To insure 
must be furnished fresh daily, 


success, the garbage 
reparatior 
Che 
hogs should be inoculated against cholera 
and should be concrete 


which can be thoroly cleansed. 


being made for burying any excess 


fed in troughs, 
lhe two methods used mainly in large 
cities are reduction and incineration. R« 
duction is the method by which pure gar- 
bage is cooked, dried, and the by products 
recovered by 
apparatus. 


using mechanically 


operated 
It necessitates the separation 


A SCENE IN THE PICTURE SHOW, “THE 
PERIL” 


of garbage and rubbish by the householder, 
but offers no solution for the disposal of 


the latter. However, on account of its 
valuable by-products—grease for making 
oils, and tankage, which is the residue, 


dried and used for fertilizer—it is 
popular in this country. 

Incineration is the process of destroying 
in especially constructed furnaces, under 
high temperature, all the household waste. 
It requires no separation by the house- 
holder. The power generated by this fur- 
nace can be used in connection with water 
pumping stations, gas and electric light 
plants. Incinerators have been found as 
adaptable to small as to large cities. 

These were the facts which led the Louis- 
ville Women’s Civic Association to decide 
that we must have a better system in our 


very 


\MERI 





Cam Gt 135 
city Which should we choose, and how 
remedy dripping garbag« ions, irregular 
collections and absolute lacl ctions 
i some parts of the tow1 
Expert Study Recommended 
Just as special knowledg tech 
raining ind accurate surveys are i 
mountable preliminary essentials t he | 
cation and selection of the rout fa rail 
road, as well as to its subsequent construc 
tion, so authoritative knowledge 
actual field survey ire inevital 
proaches to any V1IS¢ 
of this problen is I i 
cit) for the sol g 
lem of city waste, a eng 
neer is need ind 1! ne c 
ganization al standard ( 
in efthcient system ec 
tailed working plan is essential 
We therefore determined to work 
for the appointment by the Mayor 
of a commission to direct such a 
survey—and to engage an engines 
to make it. 
Cooperation with othe: ganiza 





INVISIBLE 


tions in the making of an intelli 


gent public opinion was to be our 
work for the year. 

First, a mass meeting with Mar 
McDowell of ( hicago is speaker 
to crystallize our decision to ask for 
a Commission. 

Next, an exhibit consisting of 
photographs of our lo roblen 
compared with that of other cities 
This exhibit was open for two 

weeks in a down-town store, with these 
added attractions—a miniature mp and 
a window modeled from i picture of i 
very badly kept alley. A prize of $2.50 for 


the name of the alley was awarded for the 
first of the three correct answers 


he publication of 4,000 pamphlets, et 
titled, “Facts on Louisville's Garbage Prob- 
lem,” came next, to be used in connection 
with the exhibit—which was now being 


sent to clubs and schools 


In this way, we 


assured 


were of a hear- 


ing before the club women, but they were 


in the 


All roads led to the picture show, 


finally 


Rice 


to arrange 


minority. 


Education by Motion Pictures 


and 
we prevailed on Mrs. Alice Hegan 


a scenario. Thru the co- 


a 


























136 THE AMERICAN CiTY 


operation of the Board of Trade, Rotary 
Club, Men's Federation, and Jefferson 
County Medical Association, we produced 
the film, entitled “The Invisible Peril.” It 
shows the travels of a discarded hat, and 
the disease which can be spread thru the 
open can, open wagon, open dump system 
of waste disposal. About 20,000 people 
have viewed these pictures, and they are 
still being shown. This film is available 
at a rental of $10 and expressage. 

The school children have been our 
staunchest allies, and thru them we distrib- 
uted 50,000 “Housekeepers, Attention” 
slips. Among other things, we urged the 
good housekeeper to try a metal-covered 
garbage can, and keep it covered. That 
was a practical suggestion. A good can, 
able to withstand the knocks of hard wear, 
retailed at $1.35. We have bought 500 of 


Vor. XV, No. 2 


them, and by using a local advertisement on 
each are selling them for seventy-five cents 
apiece. When those are gone, we shall buy 
more. Thirteen local dealers and grocers 
are selling and delivering them for us. Ten 
picture shows are running slides advertis- 
ing the sale. Fifteen thousand dodgers 
have been printed, announcing the cans and 
why we are selling them. 

What have we accomplished in this 
year’s work? Last year at this time we 
found ignorance on the subject of waste 
disposal here and elsewhere; this year a 
readiness to discuss the subject anywhere 
and a realization of the necessity of a bet- 
ter system. When we get our commission 
appointed, we shall have an awakened and 
educated public opinion—aware of what it 
is asking and capable of selecting the “best 
plan for Louisville.” 





A City Regains Its Beaches 


\ protracted legal fight by New York 
City for the ownership of its bathing 
beaches has in all probability been ended 
by the recent decision of the Court of Ap- 
peals of New York State. For many years 
the beaches of Coney Island, New York 
City’s famous summer resort, had been un- 
der the ownership of the proprietors of the 
amusement parks. They had built high 
jetties, had closed in the beaches with high 
fences strung with barbed wire, and had 
levied a heavy toll on bathers. 

This condition brought serious objection 
from many citizens and civic organizations. 
The first move to remedy the bathing beach 
evil was made in 1907 by the Bureau of 
Municipal Research. Having prepared a 
thoro brief of the facts of the case and the 
law applicable, this organization submitted 
these with a letter to the Attorney General 
of the state, Mr. Carmody, urging that 
legal action be taken against the beach 
owners. Recognizing the soundness of the 
Bureau's contention, the Attorney General 
decided to prosecute a test case. He se- 
lected as a conspicuous offender the Steeple- 
chase Company, which had possession of a 
large stretch of beach under an express un- 
restricted grant from the Commissioners of 
the Land Office, who had been authorized 
to make such a grant by a legislative act. 

A vigorous legal struggle followed. 
Since the resignation of former Attorney 





General Carmody, Attorney General FEg- 
bert E. Woodbury has conducted the litiga- 
tion and has taken a deep interest therein. 
On the one side were the amusement owners 
fighting tooth and nail for their property, 
and on the other was an imposing array of 
editors, civic organizations, city officials 
and citizens. In 1913 the case came up 
before the Supreme Court, and the decision 
was given in favor of the people.* But the 
case was appealed and the fight continued. 

At common law the seashore is consid- 
ered as the space of land between the high 
and the low water mark, and belongs in this 
country to the State. Unless the State has 
conveyed away its interest by a special 
grant, the public have the right to the un- 
hindered use of all tidewater land for pur- 
poses of bathing, fishing, and navigation. 
The decision just rendered by the Court of 
Appeals expressly asserts that right, except 
as to the small portion of the shore line of 
Coney Island granted by the State to Jo- 
seph Huber in 1897. In directing the 
Steeplechase Park Company to remove 
those portions of its structure which pro- 
ject beyond the high-water mark, this deci- 
sion confirms the judgments of the Trial 
and Appellate Courts, which held such pro- 
jections to be an encroachment on the pub- 
lic right and therefore a nuisance. 


*See Tue American City for November, 1913, 
page 402, 





























for life—that is, social and economic 

preparedness—was the keynote of a 
four-days celebration in Rockford, IIL, 
which ended on May 19, when 10,000 school 
children took part in a parade through 
State Street. 

The occasion was the third annual Chil- 
dren’s Exposition and Playfest, the biggest 
event of the kind ever attempted in I]linois. 
This Exposition owes its inception and its 
success to C. A. Dickenson, of the Rock- 
ford Boys Club, to the Chamber of Com- 
merce, to the very-much-alive City Super- 
intendent of Schools and his Board of Edu- 
cation, and to a cooperative and efficient 
teaching force. 

Heading the procession were the city of- 
ficials, escorting the Goddess of Liberty, 
enthroned on a float. Then, marching by 
schools, in costumes representing phases of 
civic need, or nationalities of the old world, 
came the grade school children. The first 
of these little people wore white nurses’ 
uniforms, with Red Cross badges and flags, 
because health is of first importance. Then 
came Physical Training, carrying wands 
and dumb-bells, and performing gymnastic 
stunts en route. These groups representing 
athletics and military training were fol- 
lowed by other schools representing the 


MAKING AMERICANS—A LESSON IN PATRIOTISM TO TWENTY-THREE NATIONALITIES 


A City Reviews Its Youth 
By Lulu G. Parker 


REPAREDNESS, not for war, but 


“three R's,” as well as History, Music, Art 
Literature, etc. The girls of Rockford Col 
lege, representing Modern Culture in De 
mocracy, brought up the rear. The big 
High School band and the Harlem Con 
solidated School band, the latter a rural 
school organization, were notable features 
of the parade. 

While shops and factories closed their 
doors, and all vehicle traffic stopped, the 
children made their way to the beautiful 
natural theater of Old Fair Grounds Park. 
There, with music and pageantry, they were 
reviewed by Miss Julia Lathrop, head of 
the Children’s Bureau of the United States, 
who is a Rockford woman and who came 
home especially for the festival. 

Upon reaching the park, the young 
women of the City Teacher 
School, carrying arches whose lettering 
spelled the word Education, took their 
places before the reviewing stand. Through 
this archway, bearing the “old country” 
flag, came the little people representing the 
Swedes and the Italians, the Russians and 


Training 


the Germans, in all twenty-three nationali- 
ties, including American Indians and Eski 
mos. Group by group they passed under 
the arch of Education while the High 
School band played their national air. Sur 
rendering their flag to Liberty, they re 








i 





a ee 


- 








128 THI \MERITI‘ 














THE PARADE DURING THI 


ceived in return the Stars and Stripes 
Then several hundred High School boys 
formed a living flag, which was saluted 
by the little new citizens before they 
marched through the living lines of “Old 
Glory,’ thus symbolizing their complete 
\mericanization, 

Miss Lathrop later presented the children 
of the city with an autographed photograph 
of President Wilson. This will be hung in 
the Public Library. 

But the parade and the pageant were not 
all. Over at Armory Hall wonderland had 
its abode for four days. Among the hun- 
dreds of features there was fifteen-year-old 
Reynor Eastman’s eight-foot, brass-works, 
Colonial clock. And there was seven-year- 
old Cologara Mangericius’s pink bungalow 
apron with surprisingly few crooked 
stitches. And there were some 2,998 other 
entries, the painstaking work of young con- 
testants in sewing, cooking, designing, 
drawing, book-binding, block printing, tool 
work in leather, and what-not. 

Over in a corner the High School girls, 
working in as matter-of-fact a way as your 
grandmother might, made things to eat, 
using a kitchen cabinet and a gas stove. 
And your grandmother could not beat the 


HILDREN’S EXPOSITION AND PLAYFEST, ROCKFORD, ILI 


cooking! Down in the basement was the 
boys’ working exhibit, where articles of 
metal and woodwork were turned out with 
the skill of experts. Other boys demon- 
strated wireless telegraphy, the X-ray ma- 
chine, work in chemistry and school agri- 
culture. 

But even this was not all. Five concerts, 
one each evening of Exposition week and a 
left-over one on Saturday, gave opportun- 
ity for only a few of the very best musi- 
cians, orators, readers, school orchestras 
and choruses to perform. Gold and silver 
medals were awarded to the prize winners 
in each field of endeavor. 

It was a lot of work. It meant weeks of 
drilling, careful planning, and some ex- 
pense. Was it worth while? 

“We discovered talent of which we had 
never guessed,” said one school principal. 

“It gives us a broader view,” said an- 
other. “We discovered that there is good 
even in South Town” [the Italian quarter]. 

“It gives us an idea of how our boys and 
girls compare in scholarship with other 
boys and girls,” said a parent. 

“It ought to help the children to meet 
success and honor modestly, and failure 





\uGUST, 1916 rH 


without discouragement. That 
preparedness,” said a teacher. 
The pageant alone must have been a les- 
son in patriotism to all who saw it. To 
the parents of foreign birth it could not 
fail to be impressive. But the children 
themselves will never forget the spectacle. 
If Michael O'Halloran, from St. Mary’s 
Parochial, was too young to grasp the sym- 


surely is 


AMERICAN CITY 139 


bolism when, in his little Irish outfit, he 
marched with his mates to the stand t 
surrender his bit of green bunting—if h« 
was too young then, some day, surely, th 
real meaning of the play will come to him 
and he will be a better American for the 
experience. 

“And it was the best publicity stunt 
said a city official. 


o 





Allentown’s Great Play Festival 
By Robert J. Wheeler 


Formerly Commissioner of Recreation, Allentown, Pa. 


ACH year, at the close of the play- 

ground season, the city of Allentown, 

Pa., gives a Play Festival for her 
children. 

The spacious grounds of the Lehigh Ag- 
ricultural Society are given free by the 
Society and form an ideal place for such 
an event. 

\llentown has thirteen well-equipped 
playgrounds, and the Department of Play- 
grounds, supported by the Playgrounds As- 
sociation, arranges the festival for the pur- 
pose of displaying to the citizens the results 
of the playground work. 

\n event of this magnitude must be pre- 


ceded by careful organization to assure 


success. Our plan of organization was 
For two months before the 
Festival Day a general committee, consist 
ing of the Commissioner of Recreation as 
chairman, the executive 


Playground 


most complete. 


committee of the 
Association as officials, and 
local committees from each of the thirteen 


playgrounds, met once a week. All plans 


were presented in writing and all instruc 
tions to the local committees were printed 
in sufficient number to gi several copies 


to each local chairwoman. 


The general plans were rehearsed at each 


a 
meeting and all details carefully explained. 
I 








v5 & ms r 
¢ ® ¢ - . yo. 
“Bal an Pe 


rye 02 82 Cag pad 2" 
4 . ; i : 











THE PLAY FESTIVAL 


AT ALLENTOWN, PA 


di 








AMERICAN ITY VoL. XV, No. 2 

















TrHE WAND DRILI 


half over prepa Mr. George Smith, Park Superintendent, 

nd the play laid out the grounds, with separate head- 

der practi Each play quarters for each playground This plan 
lors and the prevented all confusion by placing each 

Si ficient money t playground in its own section, under the 


girls care of its own people. All play apparatus 
ind vomers; boys i was built and handled by the Park Depart 


\ general rehearsal of the big spectacu- 














FIFTY CARLOADS OF KIDS 











——— ee 


—— 








Avucust, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 14! 


lar events, such as the wand drill and the 
May-pole dance, was held the day before 
at the Fair Grounds. 

Twelve hundred exhibits of reed and 
raffia basketry and needle work were ar- 
ranged for display by sewing the exhibits 
on long strips of yard-wide muslin. This 
was also done the day before the festival. 

A special committee looked after the im- 
portant work of transportation and refresh- 
ments. Their arrangements were perfect. 
Children to the number of 7,500 were trans- 
ported to the grounds and home again 
without a single accident. On the grounds 
they were treated to ice cream, candy, soft 
drinks, peanuts and sandwiches free. One 


generous citizen, Col. H. C. Trexler, paid 
the entire bill for transportation and _ re- 
freshments. It required fifty trolley cars to 
handle the children. 

The festival was attended by 20,000 peo- 
ple. The children gave a wonderful exhi- 
bition of organized play, discipline and so- 
cial spirit. Their fine, healthy appearance 
as they went through their games greatly 
impressed the spectators with the value of 
the playground work. 

Allentown's Play Festival was originated 
by Mr. Elmer E. Manning, Playground Su- 
pervisor, to whose energy and splendid or- 
ganizing ability much of the success of the 
undertaking is due. 





Cautions Concerning Methods of Fly Extermination 


A recent issue of the Bulletin of the Chi- 
cago School of Sanitary Instruction makes 
some interesting comments on fly extermi- 
nation, from which the following sugges- 
tions are taken. 

Dead flies are dangerous and should not 
be handled by children. In some towns and 
cities the authorities are paying the chil- 
dren a stipulated price per hundred for 
flies killed. A safer plan would be to pay 
by the pint or quart; this would involve 
less handling of these dead insects, which 
have germs on their feet and bodies. Dead 
flies may be just as dangerous as live ones. 

Another phase of fly extermination work 
that deserves attention is the use of poison- 
ous substances for destroying these house- 
hold pests. Not only the arsenical poisons, 
but all the insectides now known are dan- 
gerous. They should always be used with 
extreme care and should be so placed that 
children cannot possibly reach them. 


The Bulletin recommends as an insectide 
a mixture of two tablespoons of formalde- 
hyde with one pint, equal parts, of milk 
and water. Flies swarm on the back porch 
when attracted by the odors of cooking in 
the kitchen. Keep the back porch clean and 
free from anything that flies can feed on. 
Place the fly poison on shallow plates in 
which several squares of bread have been 
put. The receptacles containing this mix- 
ture should be placed outside the home 
rather than in it, unless the screening fa- 
cilities have been neglected and the flies 
have had free access to the house. 

The trapping, killing and effective exter- 
mination of flies should be done outside of 
the home. In the important work of rid- 
ding a community of flies, it has been es- 
tablished that instead of swatting the fly, 
we should swat the places where the flies 
breed. If this has been done, the flies in any 
community will be reduced to a minimum. 


ee nee a ae See ae i iene naammaatati 


l Salaries of Mayors, City Engineers and City Clerks | 


l Great interest having been expressed in the tabulation of salaries in cities of over l 
30,000 population published in the June number, THe American City has gathered 
similar statistics from about 300 smaller cities. These figures will be compiled in tabular 

| form for ready comparison, and will appear in the September number. | 


nares eee Se 













































Ell UMM VANILLA 





Exemption of Real Estate from Taxation* 


By Martin Saxe 
President, New York State Tax Department 


T is a maxim of tax law, applied by the 
| courts, that taxation is the rule and ex- 
emption therefrom the exception; but 
when we look into the legislative develop- 
ment of exemption from taxation in New 
York State, we may well doubt whether 
the maxim obtains in our statutory system, 
for we find that during the last decade the 
exemption of real property from taxation 
in New York has increased nearly twice 
as fast proportionately as its assessment 
for taxation. In 1905 the real estate ex- 
emptions in this state aggregated $1,38s,- 
353,000, while in 1915 they aggregated 
$2,521,705,000, an increase of 81 per cent. 
On the other hand, the assessment of real 
estate in 1905 aggregated $7,312,621,000, 
while in 1915 it aggregated $10,832,565,000, 
an increase of 48 per cent. 

The average tax rate for all purposes in 
New York state in 1915 was .o19, which 
rate applied to the $2,521,705,000 total of 
exempt real estate produces $47,912,000, the 
annual gift of the state to the possessors 
of exempt real property. 

According to the 1915 figures, the total 
of exempt real estate amounted to about 20 
per cent of the total real estate assessment 
of the state; that is to say, about one-fifth of 
the whole assessed value of real estate in the 
state of New York is exempt from taxation. 
Of the total exemptions, 4 per cent repre- 
sents property of the Federal Government, 
4 per cent property of the state, and 4 per 
cent property of the counties, towns, vil- 
lages and school districts; 62 per cent rep- 
resents the value of city property; while 26 
per cent covers the private ownership ex- 
emptions, such as the real property of 
bodies organized for religious, charitable, 





* From a paper read before the recent New York 
State Conference of Mayors and Other City Officials, 
at Syracuse, N. Y. 





benevolent, fraternal, missionary, hospital, 
infirmary, education, scientific, literary, li- 
brary, patriotic, historical and cemetery 
purposes; also that of medical and phar- 
maceutical societies, and other special cases 
down to an academy of music in certain cir- 
cumstances, besides others. 

In considering the percentages of ex- 
empt real estate to assessed valuations in 
the various counties and in the state, it 
must not be forgotten that, as real property 
is generally under-assessed, despite the 
statutory mandate to the contrary, it may 
well be that in the assessment of exempt 
property full valuation is the rule; for 
which reason the ratios of exempt real es- 
tate to assessed valuations as above given 
do not correctly reflect the true and actual 
percentages. But reiterating that in the 
last decade the exemption of real property 
had apparently increased nearly twice as 
fast as its assessed value, what may we ex- 
pect will be the result in another decade 
unles something is done to put the brakes 
on? 

Is there any constitutional limitation to 
which we may look with some degree of 
hope? From the beginning of New York's 
constitutional history, down to.1go1, there 
was no provision limiting the legislative 
power in the exercise of its prerogative 
with respect to exemptions; but in that year 
an amendment was adopted prohibiting the 
Legislature from passing any private or 
local bill granting to any person, associa- 
tion, firm or corporation, an exemption 
from taxation on real or personal property. 
It is evident, however, from the growth of 
exempt real estate during the years 1905 
to 1915, that that constitutional limitation 
has not been at all effective; on the con- 
trary, it tends to a very liberal extension 
of the statute of exemptions, for the simple 


























Aucust, 1916 


reason that a private or local measure being 
unconstitutional, a specially merited case 
necessitates the adoption of a general stat- 
ute extending the operation of “the open 
door.” 

This year the Tax Commission, well 
knowing the attitude of the Legislature, rec- 
ommended some exceedingly mild amend- 
ments to the exemption clauses of the tax 
law, but the opposition which was quickly 
manifested made any progress impossible. 
The departmental bill sought to take away 
the exemption of real property held in con- 
templation of “use” by privileged associa- 
tions, but not actually used by them for 
their chartered purposes; and it sought to 
restrict the exempt real property of min- 
isters and priests to those resident of the 
state. In passing, it may be interesting to 
know that as the tax law now stands the 
property, both real and personal, of a min- 
ister or priest is exempt up to $1,500. An 
enterprising real estate dealer made a busi- 
ness of dividing up a large tract of land 
into small lots which he sold at about $1,500 
a lot to gullible clergymen all over the 
United States. The sales were made with 
an alluring excerpt from our tax law, in- 
dicating that such property in their hands 
could be held without the payment of 
taxes, while they waited for the unearned 
increment which they were assured was 
bound to come as the land was within the 
limits of the city of New York. The en- 
terprising gentleman succeeded in unload- 
ing his tract upon the clergy, and they are 
waiting for the unearned increment with 
a patience with which they are undoubtedly 
all blessed, and which they can well prac- 
tice, as they have no taxes to pay. 

Notwithstanding the statutory exemp- 
tions, there is no doubt but that we suffer 
considerably from illegal exemption by the 
assessor which, perhaps in most cases, is 
due to ignorance of the law or inefficiency, 
but in other cases is the result of deliberate 
intent. For instance, the tax law permits 
the exemption of parsonages to the extent 
of $2,000, but we are constantly finding 
such properties worth many times $2,000 
exempted for the whole amount. We find, 
too, that real property purchased with pen- 
sion money—which the law exempts to the 
extent of $5,000 of valuation, from state, 
county and general municipal taxation, but 
makes liable for school, stree: construction 
and highway taxes—is very frequently 


THE AMERICAN 


cid ys 143 


not taxed for the latter purposes at all. 

The practice of invidious exemption is by 
no means uncommon, particularly where 
communities desire to attract to themselves 
certain industries—giving rise, indeed, to a 
sort of competition from exemption by 
localities. Cooley, in his great work on 
taxation, referring to this practice, says: 
“It is certain that municipal authorities or 
taxing officers have no authority to make 
exemptions unless empowered by law: and 
to make any would render invalid the whole 
tax roll on which the exempted property or 
person ought to have appeared. The mo- 
tives of the exemption or the beneficial pur- 
pose expected to be accomplished by it can 
make no difference.” 

Not until the constitution is so amended 
that the Legislature can without question 
enact, and does enact, a law empowering a 
central supervisory body to reassess prop- 
erty where it is improperly assesed, will 
this evil of illegal exemption be entirely 
eradicated. 

+ + 
Specifications for Public 
Improvements 

The terms “approximately” and “plus or 
minus,” when used in blueprints and speci- 
fications upon which a contractor bids for 
construction of a public improvement to in- 
dicate depth of bedrock, do not permit of 
substantial variation from the figures given. 
Hence, if a contractor for the construction 
of a municipal bridge was required to ex- 
cavate to a materially greater depth than 
indicated by the data upon which he bid, 
he is entitled to extra compensation. (West 
Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals, City 
of Richmond vs. I. J. Smith & Co., & 
Southeastern Reporter, 123.) 

+ + 


Validity of Rat-Proofing Ordinances 


The ordinance enacted in New Orleans, 
requiring buildings, etc., to be rat-proofed 
to better prevent introduction into and 
spread through the city of bubonic plague, 
is a valid exercise of police power to pro- 
tect the public health. (Louisiana Supreme 
Court, City of New Orleans vs. Beck, 71 
Southern Reporter, 883.) 

- & + 
Contracting With Municipal Officers 

A contract of a city employing one of 
its regular employes to do extra work as 
an architect for municipal buildings, is in- 









































144 rHE AMERICAN CITY Vor. XV, No. 2 


valid as permitting a clash of interests as 
between him and the city, although he may 
have been granted a leave of absence from 
his regular position pending performance 
of the contract. (New York Supreme 
Court, Appellate Division; Seaman vs. City 
of New York; 159 New York Supplement, 
563.) 
+ + 


Municipal Statistics 
The chart below gives graphically an 
analysis of the relative functional value of 


wick, Municipal Reference Librarian, pre- 
sents a valuable compilation of “Municipal 
Statistics of St. Louis.” 
+ + 
Validity of Sunday Ordinances 
Ordinances forbidding conduct of secular 
business on Sunday are sustainable as be- 
ing promotive of the moral and physical 
welfare of the public. Such ordinances are 
not invalid, because a heavier penalty is 
imposed against violations in one line of 
business than in another, if all persons simi- 











the vearly expenditures of the city of St. larly situated are brought within a single 
Louis. It is also interesting to note that in’ class. (North Carolina Supreme Court, : 
the July number of the St. Louis Public Li- State vs. Davis, 89 Southeastern Reporter, 
brary Monthly Bulletin, Andrew Linn Bost- 40.) 
| | 
i 7 
My 
| ; eae) a 
| j %. \ .\ is ff 
q y %. ~ és 4 
; ? * = 2 
Y o \% rAd / en, ; 
, ; UY, * 
peoTectic No . a 
c nN (acd 
} “seq ‘ 2, »/ we 
Maylbe . iad ¥ wn? - ed 
«23>, . rg 
7 RIMLING ‘ o* 
A at <n t “et unt 
, ne ? “% % woe” 
“ 














? 3 wor? 
} #, 3 vat ‘ 
if 00) “eae 99-00 3 Seay ’ z Ae a RTE SAIS 
WOK UMRBRY “BOO a tore CAPLNDIT URES 
i omnia *24,021,236.90 ae. 
rate) Le herent goo 











“ 
> a 1% 
“NP +3 20100000 * ** 











CHART SHOWING FUNCTIONAL PROPORTIONS OF ANNVAL EXPENDITURES 


CiTy OF SAINT LOvIS 
FISCAL YEAR 1914-915 








PREPARED WEBER Tee DertErON OF 
Y Pusven, Compranite 




















Aucust, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


Taxation Legislation in Nova Scotia 


At its 1916 session the Legislature of 
Nova Scotia passed an Optional Assess- 
ment Act whereby any municipality may, 
upon the authority of a plebiscite, tax land 
and building values alone and may also 
gradually eliminate the tax on the building 
value until, at length, the tax will fall en- 
tirely upon the land. This act, of course, 
goes into effect only in case a municipality 
wishes to take it up, and on the majority 
vote of the people. The Tax Reform Asso- 
ciation of Nova Scotia helped to bring 
about the taking of this step, by urging the 


145 


matter upon the Legislative Council. On 
two previous occasions the Lower House 
had passed the Optional Assessment Act 
and the Upper House had thrown it out. 
This year, however, it was shown that there 
was an interest in the matter, and an effec- 
tive argument was put up. 

A special act affecting the city of Hali- 
fax was also passed at the last session of 
the Legislature. It substitutes a business 
tax for the tax on merchandise, and a 
household tax for the tax on personal prop- 
erty, fixing the rate on improvements at 
$1.50 and throwing all the rest of the bur- 
den of taxation on the land. 





Uncle Sam Helps the Sale of Municipal Bonds 
By Waldon Fawcett 


HE United States Government is per- 
T forming a most valuable service in 
aid of the sale of municipal bonds 
in general, although comparatively few 
public officials appear to be cognizant of 
this federal assistance to municipal finance. 
Moreover, new conditions created by an 
act recently passed by Congress will add 
to the influence of the national government 
in this direction, and, what is more impor- 
tant to many readers, will materially en- 
large the market for all classes and grades 
of municipal bonds. 


New Postal Savings Bank Rulings 

To connect the problem of raising funds 
for city improvements with the announce- 
ment from Washington that henceforth the 
individual deposit limit in the United States 
postal savings banks will be $1,000 instead 
of $500, may seem to require unusual dis- 
cernment, but, as a matter of fact, the 
relationship is close and direct. The best 
market for municipal bonds is found in the 
banks of the country. The banks buy mu- 
nicipal bonds because this class of securi- 
ties is, for all practical purposes, the only 
one that may be used to “secure” deposits 
of postal savings bank funds which they 
want to borrow. It is estimated that with 
the rentoval of the old limitation upon indi- 
vidual deposits in the postal banks, the 
funds placed for safe-keeping with Uncle 
Sam will be more than doubled in volume. 
Bankers will, of course, be eager to secure 
the use of the new hoard forthcoming from 
people who have no confidence in ordinary 
banks, and inasmuch as the securities of 


our municipalities are the only form of 
collateral that can be put up to insure the 
safety of such loans from postal savings 
banks to bankers, it follows that, obviously, 
there will be a heavy increase in the de- 
mand for municipal bonds. 

Primarily, then, the help which Uncle 
Sam is just now extending to bond-issuing 
municipalities takes the form of the crea- 
tion of an active and profitable market for 
such securities. Back of that, however, is 
another consideration even more important 
and farther reaching in effect. The United 
States Government, by means of codpera- 
tion between the United States Treasury 
Department and the United States Post Of- 
fice Department, is doing important “mis- 
sionary work” in behalf of the standardi- 
zation of municipal bonds. Such standardi- 
zation, once it has been accomplished, will 
prove a considerable boon to municipal of- 
ficials. Not only will this uniformity of 
system add to the marketability of all muni- 
cipal bonds issued in accordance with the 
plan, but it will tend to relieve municipal 
officials of a mass of detail and will obviate 
the necessity of a large proportion of the 
correspondence with which they are now 
burdened for each successive bond issue. 

Of course, it will be understood that the 
national government has no interest in this 
matter other than to smooth the pathway 
of the men and the institutions handling 
municipal bonds as buyers and_ sellers. 
When the solicitor for the Post Office De- 
partment took up, a few years ago, the 
newly imposed task of passing upon the 








een 


















en em 














legal acceptability of municipal bonds of- 
fered as security for postal savings de- 
posits, it quickly became apparent that 
many a municipality was inadvertently im- 
pairing its credit by little slips here and 
there in connection with the issuance of 


bonds. 


Defects in Municipal Bond Issues 


rom the outset it was evident that there 
would be need for better system in muni- 
cipal borrowing, for the very reason that 
the introduction of Uncle Sam as the men- 
tor of the municipal bond market was 
hound to disclose many a flaw that had 
been overlooked pre viously. That this 
more rigid censorship of municipal bonds 
has worked out just as anticipated, is elo- 
quently attested by the fact that of $10,000,- 
000 worth of municipal bonds examined 
last year by the arbiters at the Post Office 
Department, more than a million dollars’ 
worth had to be rejected. And these fig- 
ures cover merely the bonds actually sur- 
veyed. The rejection means, in reality, that 
in this one year there were barred as ap- 
proved securities seventy-one different. is- 
sues of municipal bonds having a total face 
value of more than $117,000,000. 

In the reasons for the rejection of the 
municipal bonds disapproved by the federal 
authorities, we find the key to the plan of 
self-help which Uncle Sam is aiding 
\merican municipalities to carry out. Some 
of the vetoed bonds were rejected because 
of lack of statutory power, and others by 
reason of irregularities in an election or 
notice of an election. So small a matter as 
an irregularity in the advertising and sale 
of bonds was fatal to the chances of some 
municipal obligations, and irregularities in 
the form and execution of bonds proved 
serious in not a few instances. In more 
than one instance it was found that neither 
the denomination nor the term of the bonds 
was in conformity with the statute under 
which the bonds had been issued, and here 
and there bonds were discovered the pur- 
pose of which was not properly stated. 
Most serious of all, in its reflection upon 
the reputation and credit of a municipality, 
was the discovery that there are afloat a 
surprising number of bonds which are not 
backed by sufficient power of taxation to 
provide for the payment of the bonds. In- 
deed, the recent investigations of the fed- 
eral officials have disclosed that this is the 


146 THE AMERICAN CITY 








VoL. XV, No. 2 


sorest spot in the whole structure of 
\merican municipal finance. Scattered all 
over the country are towns and cities that 
are authorized by law to borrow funds up 
to this or that aggregate, but where there 
is in existence in each instance some other 
conflicting law that so limits the rate of 
taxation that it would be a physical impos- 
sibility to take care of the municipality's 
duly authorized obligations. 


State Legislation Concerning Municipal 
Bonds 

The most conspicuous step in the right 
direction taken as a result of Uncle Sam’s 
disclosure of the need for reform and stand- 
ardization in the issuance of municipal 
bonds, is that whereby the State Legisla- 
ture of New Jersey recently enacted “Chap- 
ter 252, Laws of 1916,” being an act “to 
regulate the issuance of bonds and other 
obligations and the incurring of indebted- 
ness by county, city, borough, village, town, 
township,” etc. It is expected that this 
New Jersey law will prove a model for 
other states that take Uncle Sam’s hint that 
standardization of municipal bonds would 
add to their salability and commercial value. 
States have already, in several instances, 
taken action with the object of remedy- 
ing the confusion that has existed with 
respect to the standing of certain classes 
of municipal bonds. As a case in point, 
there may be mentioned the helpful action 
of the Ohio Legislature, which some time 
ago passed a law giving definite standing 
to the street improvement bonds issued by 
Ohio cities. 


How Municipal Officials May Aid 


Perhaps the most interesting angle, how- 
ever, of this whole situation is that wherein 
it is found possible for city officials to con- 
tribute to the prestige of the respective 
bond issues in which they are interested, 
even though the particular state legislature 
involved has not yet gotten around to the 
matter of standardizing all the municipal 
obligations in the commonwealth. Munici- 
pal officials can, if they will, supply prompt- 
ly the information required before the 
Treasury Department, and the Post Office 
Department will O. K. any issue of muni- 
cipal bonds. By so doing they earn a debt 
of gratitude from the bond-buying interests 
that would otherwise have to secure such 











——— 


= an 




















» ae. -- 





ll ce 





Aucust, 1916 


data and submit it to the Government. The 
City Comptroller of Milwaukee has re- 
cently adopted—purely in the interest of 
the standing of his municipality and_ its 
bonds—a plan of systematically informing 
the Government regarding each successive 
bond issue, that will doubtless become the 
general practice among other occupants of 
like positions when it comes to be realized 
that such forehandedness will save much 
questioning later. Before Uncle Sam ap- 
proves a municipal bond he demands to 





THE AMERICAN CITY 


147 


know all about the assessed valuation of 
real estate and personal property back of 
the bond; the general bonded indebtedness ; 
the amount in the sinking fund for the re- 
tirement of bonds; and, finally, whether the 
municipality has ever defaulted in the pay- 
ment of the principal or interest of any of 
its bonds. The municipal officers who get 
the habit of satisfying this curiosity at the 
time bonds are issued are simply, in effect, 
recruiting Uncle Sam as a sort of auxiliary 
salesman. ® 





Who Should Own 


HE question of ownership of water 
meters by the water-works or by the 
consumer has been debated from 

time to time by contributors to these col- 
umns. To make available a more compre- 
hensive expression of sentiment on this 
subject than can be had from occasional 
letters and discussions at conventions, THE 
AMERICAN City has obtained a postal card 
vote from 778 water-works superintendents. 
The result is as follows: 


Favoring Favoring 
Ownership Ownership 
by Water- 


y 

Replies Received From Works Consumer 
599 municipal plants......... 460 139 
179 private water companies. . 154 25 
778 plants (total)........... 614 164 


Some of the superintendents, in mailing 
their votes, have sent a brief explanation 
of their attitude. The following are 
typical: 


H. N. Roberts, City Engineer and Superin- 
tendent of Water-Works of Longview, Tex., 
votes in favor of ownership of meters by the 
city, “provided a meter rental equal to interest 
on cost of meter plus cost of repairs be added 
to the water bill.” 

W. C. Hawley, Chief Engineer and General 
Superintendent of the Pennsylvania Water 
Company, Wilkinsburg, Pa., favors ownership 
of meters by the water company “when the 
rates for water are sufficient to cover the 
added costs due to such ownership.” 

L. O. Farnsworth, Superintendent of Water- 
Works of Paulding, Ohio, explains that he 
voted for ownership by the consumer because 
the city was not in a financial position to issue 
bonds to buy meters and install them. 

John T. McKernan, Superintendent of 
Water-Works of Sanford, N. C., sends copy 
of his town’s tariff of water rates, which pro- 
vides that the municipality shall “furnish me- 


the Water Meters? 


ters for a rental charge of 25 cents per month 
for each five-eighths inch meter (larger ones 
at the same ratio) or the consumer may fur- 
nish meter of approved type.” Mr. McKernan 
states that this plan is working so well that 
he would not know how to vote to change it 
for the better. 

Carl P. Abbott, Deputy Commissioner of 
Public Works, of White Plains, N. Y., gives 
it as his opinion that it would be “extremely 
undesirable to allow private ownership of 
water meters. There would be endless trouble 
in trying to force private owners to repair 
their meters when they run dead and to pur- 
chase the most desirable make of meter. In 
the city of White Plains all services are me 
tered, and the city furnishes all meters, ex- 
cept a few big meters for private real estate 
subdivisions, which must be of an approved 
make and under the supervision of the city 
Under our present system, when a meter goes 
dead we go and take it out without any argu- 
ment or trouble and buy the meters which we 
consider best suited for our purposes.” 

W. T. Hardy, Superintendent of the Water 
and Light Department of Cedartown, Ga., be- 
lieves that “all meters should be owned and 
controlled by the company or municipality, in 
order that they may be repaired and tested or 
replaced at will. They should also be kept 
‘sealed’ at all times.” 

E, J. Condon, of the Indiana Utilities Com- 
pany, of Angola, Ind., considers “this question 
well settled by virtue of the actions of the 
public service commissions of several states. 
Wisconsin, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Massachu- 
setts, and a number of other states have de- 
cided that the meters must be furnished by 
the companies. The only ones seeming to do 
as they like about it are the municipally-owned 
water and light plants. I believe the ideas of 
the commissions.are correct if the rates are 
made high enough to take care of the invest- 
ment, operation, maintenance, depreciation and 
a fair profit. If it was done on this plan, 
there would be less opportunity to object there- 
after.” 





om --- 




















148 THE AMERICAN CITY Vor. XV, No. 2 












































Theo. C. Frazer, General Manager of the the measuring device as for a merchant to 
Winona Electric Light & Water Company, of | require his customer to bring along a yard 
Warsaw, Ind. expresses himself as “firmly stick to measure his goods.” He is “strongly 
convinced that the utility should in all cases of the opinion that a substantial minimum 
wn the water meters,” and that “it would be should be charged to guarantee an adequate 

unfair to require the customer to furnish — return on the investment.” 

A METER A FRIEND OF THE WATER CONSUMER A METER 
in working order registers out of working order regis- 
Che Meter ters less water than 
no more water than : 
> passes through it or 
passes through it WATCH IT sa HEED IT IT stops altogether. 
READ IT 
IT 1S FAIR TO THE IT FAVORS THE 
CONSUMER A PERPETUAL INVOICE CONSUMER 
= srograsche wa. DETECTION OF WASTAGE 
~25, = moath, 90c | 
SOURCES OF WASTAGE per 1000 cubic feet. te excess of 25 Eo Shut of the Bow of water from all fixtures supply 
month, 85 per 1000 cubic feet. In excess of 200,000 | by the meter. Note where pointer on lowest denomins 

By wastage & is meant that water & permitted to | cubic feet moath 8Uc 1000 cubic feet. | sive il in, end meter being in proper werki eda 
pass through the meter without whtimete use. This may SERVICE CH wa pement, chang: | Oena ae, @ wate & eeaping @ » adesive 
occur by dehberste or segligent wastetulness or by ean | Fee ae tin pe eh al — ted it cannot be atany known 


rf 


son of leakage due to defective, plumbing. Faucets im | water is used or mot. Service chscontiaved 
dun ox bydnats a ho pen oe tquey timed cnt | cher ates 6 tad ofl by wouter Sapaseenscs 
prevent ireezing of pipes. Thais done without reference | METERS—1t 
to the cost of water consumed for sch purpose, or the | ° f ae op hn Guar on ihe, 
comt of repairs to plumbing is given greater conmderation no charge will be made for again wp 0 908 
‘hac the amount of water wasted | @ew meter f 
The water closet may be out of repair and wasting | A. yw mp wee me ee A ge | 
water eather im the process of Gushing or when not in use. | if not paid by last days of these water may 
Motor pumps frequently and slestly waste water and | be shut off without worce, and as. addusal payment 
motor washers may work overtime The teucet ia the | 5° due hot day of each month, ond most be paid 
kachen or beth room may not shut off tightly The by- | the 13th de of the 
drant ur the yard or bere may be wore or carelessly al- | OFFIC 12 o'clock 
lowed woder, | Close at 12 o'ci noon, | water 
a tthe —— lice ty Phones—Ohio State 2194. Bell—Main 194. 
The lawn or garden, garage or stable hose maybe wse- | 
lessly pouring out water alter t has served its purpose. 
The urioal, gas engine, soda water font, fish tank | 
coolmg apparatus, drokirg lountam or any devise requir. 
ing constant or periodical how of water may be tumed oo | 
ot leh tureed on to  wastelul degree | 
| 


: 


7h 
i 
i 
i 


| 
i 
li 


J ef 
a 

Fi 
il 
jut 
Hid 


y: if ult 


z4 
it 
H 
iff 
H 
f 


ils 
j 
i 
i 
£ 
Eg 








RESULT OF WASTAGE 





9 4.15 | 86543 | | 

9-11-15 | 87125 | 582 |O. K. Normal 

9-18-15 | 89065 | 1940 |Hytirant leaking 
9-25-15 | 89735 670 |Hydeant repaired. 











PER SQUARE INCH AT ORIFICE HOW TO-READ METER * ey pone ea 











2% . F 
The 10 dial reads 3 ‘ 
st 35 } Tt: uxt won * + 6000 or 86543 Keep meter in ecceauble condinon for reading 
wooomo - =“ g0000 water = permitted to to prevent freezing, et 
fit i 8% | 48% | 1000000 = = 0 do qurGiipibiae Gab poo aneies tr date 
. | =p eae eel Fete eet to Sopp 
water 
i 1.150 138 $0.37 Dials are ntmbered from | to 100,000 on small charge.) If for « short time only, shut off at sop and 
sins "| pt domestic meters, and from | to 100,000,000 on waste beck of meter, draia pupes aad close faucets ughtly 
Me 4,600} S32 | 201.06] Bee pae Tien igen bie de wien bel Waich hydrants and faucet, 2 water expecially 
ne | 18.900) 222 | ool Se ae a a gt |  t ped 
% | 74,000 8.88 | 3,241.00 iY as the hand on the lower dial is not res we 
= . St sd water meter 1s a perpetual invoice. 
35 | 160,000) 1920 | 7,008.00 ee ae OeeN WT) 5 cake om. © be cain mia ten 
- seen It above » not fully understood, further mbormats water was used; but it will tell you, if consulted, at any 
wall be cheerfully gwen at water works office. jtime, how much in being used. 
CIRCULAR PRINTED ON BACK OF LETTERHEADS USED BY THE WATER-WORKS OF 


COLUMBUS, OHIO 


























149 





Town of Wasre.e 
Mhnomwen “v0 


Cowen a > erenee Leer cae 
Semen Comven om Them Fouaer 
i ea . 

















PROPOSED LAYOUT 
FOREST 


GENERAL PLAN OF 


FOR THE SCHOOL CENTER 
IN WALPOLE, 


AND THE TOWN 


MASS. 


The Town of Walpole Establishes a Com- 
munal Forest of 200 Acres 


By John A. Murphy 


ALPOLE, MASS., a little rural in- 
dustrial town of 5,600 inhabitants 
in the eastern Massa- 

chusetts, has won for itself the distinction 
of being the first town in the state to estab- 
lish a communal forest for future profit. 
The city of Fitchburg, Mass., has a muni- 
cipal forest, and several cities and towns 
have planted areas of forest as a protection 
to their sources of water supply. Walpole, 
however, is the first to establish a forest 
which will be developed after the model of 
the celebrated communal forests abroad, de- 
veloped not only for recreational purposes 
but as a source of future revenue. 

The development plan shows four miles 
of roads, with paths, and with an amphi- 
theatre to be used for choral singing, pag- 
eants and other town entertainments. Play- 
grounds and other recreation spaces are 


section of 


provided for, and a swimming pool in the 
Neponset River, which runs through the 
tract of land, thus making the possibilities 
of development most attractive. 

This seems like a pretty ambitious project 
for a small community, but Walpcle has 
already earned a reputation for courage 
and enterprise. The town forest 
has just been established is not the result 
feature in a 


which 


of spasmodic effort, but a 
carefully planned program of general 
town development. For the three 
years this littlke New England town has 
been winning fame as a live, progressive 
community by its achievements in town 
building. 

Thru the efforts of the Town Planning 
Committee and the public-spirited gener- 
osity of Mr. George A. Plimpton, who do- 
nated 150 acres of land for development as 


past 








| ¢ ni ite achieve ‘ I 
} sible 
{ T \i 

‘ rac e site 

i¢ ts several 

é XI \ ing 

st hi n SsSibi 
Cada 
The Dedication on Arbor Day 

{) Ma with the he Ip of the Conser 
\ 4 1 {te¢ of the Walpol Woman s 
he town observed Arbor Day by the 

licati f the forest and the 
he rst acrt Che chair in 
| (committee a Park 

I \I \ ve Tt pres ed the 
¢eting he exercises were conducted as 
: a genuine community celebration and were 

i ttended by Hon. Calvin M. Coolidge, Lieu 
: tenant Governor of the state, the officers ot 
: } WI secre y \ QO. Bailey of the 

State Forestry Department, and other dis 
nguishes rs The most impressive 
feature of the exercises was the planting of 

t 

















ESTHER GOODHEART PLANTING ONE OT 


rit FIRST TREES 














A 








LIEUT.-GOV, CALVIN COOLIDGE AND C. § 
BIRD, JR.. CHAIRMAN WALPOLI 
PARK BOARD 


the first acre by the children of Walpole 
One thousand boys and girls participated 
this community demonstration. The first 
tree was planted by Lieutenant Governor 
, oolidge. 

In his address the Lieutenant Gover 
referred to the work of Massachusetts 
promoting reforestation thruout the stat: 
and emphasized the duty of the press 
generation to provide for the needs of th 
future. “When you go out to plant a for 
est, aS you are doing here to day,’ he sa 
“as you go out to add to the material wel 
fare and the material resources of your 
town, vou are doing that which in the em 
will redound to the welfare of all the peo 
ple of your community.” 

lhe address of the donor was especiall) 
illuminating as a demonstration of the new 
civic consciousness that is being develop 
among American business men; a combina 
tion of the practical and the ideal. He 
urged the importance of conserving th 
nation’s timber supply, and paid tribute to 
the wisdom of the early settlers of the 
town who had planted otherwise valueless 
areas as a reserve supply of wood for heat 


ing their homes and for general uses. The 


discovery of coal and its use for heating 























ali 





THE PLANTING OF THE FIRST ACRE OF 


| in manufacturing marked the decline 
of interest in the wood lot in the farming 
districts thruout New England. In refer- 
ring.to the crisis that has arisen because 


~ 


of the shrinkage of our lumber supply, Mr 
Plimpton said: 


“It behooves the people of this community, 
ind the people of the whole state, to conserve 
the forests for the simple item of lumber. | 
was told by the State Forester that these littl 
rees which you will plant to-day will in forty 

rs from now, if they grow and are un 
1ampered, be worth from $4 to $6 each. In 
ther words, if a person should come around 
here thirty-three or forty years from now, he 
would find these trees, if cut down and put 
into lumber, worth from $3,000 to $4,000 
Now if you plant your 100 acres with trees of 
this sort, see what you will have. for instance, 
in forty or fifty years. You will have several 
hundred thousands of dollars. We may not 
he here to see it, but our children may see 
this prophecy fulfilled. What is being done 
here is an example of what might be and 
should be done thruout the state.” 


Immediately after the addresses the chil 
dren were marched to the acre that had 


rTHE TOWN FOREST BY 
OF WALPOLE 


THE CHILDREN 


been prepared for planting Phe 


was divided into twenty sections 


visor in charge of each section 
tine 


the children in the 


| 
Di 


ul 


of the 


white pine transplants which wer 


\ stake was fixed besick 
the name of the child who planted 


1 


each tres 


dev lopment of the present area 


additional tracts which 


it 


s hope 


secured, will be in charge of the loc 


Board. The actual work, however 


directed by a commiuttec 


chairman of the Park 


Board, P1 


made 


G. Jack, of the Department of Fi 


Harvard University, 


and 


Donald. Mr. George 


be associated with them 


ester. 


] 


\ 


{ 


Ir. Alf 


arlisle 





rest! 


1 


- 
( 


Cc msultis ’ 


Mac 


Planning the Forest for the Future 


\ detailed plan covering 


velopment of the forest has been 


by Mr. John Nolen 


town planning scheme 


cently developed fo 


asad 


the 


the f 


which he 


whole 


iture 


pret 
t 


town 


part of the gel 
has 








Se 














rate the iorest tron the railr i 


eacl ' side hile the town water mains are lai 
el along the other boundaries. It is intended 
the I that there be developed a system of ci 


ition between the forest fire statio1 


é d re located about three miles from the forest 
Some of the 1 nd the pupils in the High School. On 
il from the station a company of bo 
~ ( | reach any part of the torest twe 
r S 
l iture work will, of course, depend some- 
luring th hat on the character of additions to th 
site This initial unit 1s admirably 
a pleasi iw variety in cde velopmet t 
the present intention to plant the mai 
tl ody of the forest with white pine and witl 
| reas of red and Scotch pine tor the 
nger fro sake of variety and interest. In som 
1 et the more swampy areas white ash or oth 
ved at each varieties will be planted In additior 
The situation of the recreational and other features that 
hazard to be re have been planned, consideration has b 
ith | atur pt given to paths leading to points of interest 
irrangement Phe not accessible from the roads. Vistas have 
ble width of la also been planned so that from the highs st 




















EUTENANT GOVERNOR ADDRESSING THE CHILDREN 




















e € 





\uGust, 1916 THI 


points one may be able to catch glimpses of 
the river in the near distance or secure 
other equally interesting and attractive 
views. 


Stimulating Interest in Town Forests 

It is the purpose of the Park Board to 
commemorate the dedicaticn of the town 
forest by the erection of a suitable tablet 
at the entrance to the forest. A record of 
the names of all the boys and girls who 
took part in the planting will be kept. Such 
a record should prove a powerful influence 
in promoting the growth of healthy com- 
munity spirit, apart from its being a source 
of pride in after years to the future citizens 
of Walpole as indicating the part they 
played in establishing the communal forest 
idea in the state and in planting the first 
acre in the first town forest in Massachu- 
setts. 

While the Walpole town forest is the 
first of its kind to be established, the devel- 
cpment of the communal forest idea is to 
be seen in the plans of the town of Sharon, 
Mass., for forest development on certain 
areas of its lands. Brookline, Mass., has 
already planted 15,000 white pine trees on 
about 15 acres of watershed land located 
in Dedham, Mass. Other towns are awak- 
ening to the possibilities of the communal 
forest idea, largely as the result of the 





AMERICAN CITY 


PRA S 15 aS aS ass BSS aS Se SES Ett SES 


REAL ESTATE SUBDIVISION 


155 LaLa LS LLL aS aS SAA SAS SAAS AS ASE AS ASSS 


st 
“ 


earnest work of the Massachusetts For 
estry Association. which has been h ding 
town forest contests and tree planting con 


tests that are open to all cities and towns 
thruout the state. 


Social Value of Such Enterprises 

The citizens of Walpole are justified in 
being proud of their enterprise. To anyon 
familiar with their spirit the loyalty to com- 
munity interests represented by the new 
town forest is in no way surprising. The 
people of Walpole are practical enough to 
recognize that the town forest is in no way 
to be regarded as a luxury. The future of 
Walpole will be along industrial lines 
Thus the town forest is assured of a fu 
ture market for its product in supplving the 
local industries with their needed supply 
of lumber. In addition, it has a further 
practical value as a means of protection 
for the source of the town’s water supply. 
Wholly apart from its commercial value or 
the other advantages that can be measured 
in terms of dollars and cents, its recrea 
tional and esthetic value, its power to pro- 
mote the health and enjoyment of th 
future citizens of the town are immeasur 
ably greater. It should be a source of in 
spiration to every community thruout thi 
country as an example of what can be ac- 
complished by community loyalty. 


an; 


i 


A Practical Problem in Subdividing 


By Charles Mulford Robinson 


Professor of Civic Design at the University of Illinois 


HE major problem of the students of 
Civic Design (City Planning) in the 
second semester of their senior year 

at the University of Illinois, is a Subdi- 
vision. There is always an effort to make 
the problem practical, and helpfully illus- 
trative of the principles which have been 
taught. In fact, one of the objects in hay- 
ing a problem is to test the student’s grasp 
of those principles, and to emphasize them 
thru the experience of applying them. 


This year the writer learned that Julius 
W. Hegeler, the public-spirited president of 
a zine plant near Danville, Ill., had bought 
a quarter section of land adjacent to the 
mines for the purpose of providing com- 
fortable housing for his employes. The 
subdivision of the tract, in the usual erid- 
iron fashion, had already commenced and a 
number of lots had been sold on which 
houses were erected, but on request Mr. 
Hegeler agreed not only to furnish a topo- 





SOE 


ae 












































4 
154 THE AMERICAN CITY Vor. XV, No. 2 
| graphical survey of the tract, but to offer tract pretty effectually quartered. The 
to the Illinois Civic Design students prizes writer felt, however, that these handicaps 
amounting to $50 for the best designs. He to an ideal treatment made the problem far 
further agreed that, for the purposes of the more practical than if they had not existed 
; problem, all minor streets, as platted, might and more typical of the kind met with in 
| , e 
he disregarded, leaving only Spelter Ave- real life. } 
i} nue—a 100-foot street which bisects the rhe students, of whom there were fifteen ' 
property from east to west, and leads di- in the class, entered into the competition 
, rectly to the works—and the tier of platted with the greatest zest. They visited the 
i lots on either side of it. As it was neces- tract, and for two weeks before the time 
sary also to accept a 100-foot interurban limit expired it was necessary to keep the r ‘ 
right-of-way, which bisects the property drafting room open every night until mid- 
ih, from north to south, the students found the night. Each member of the class submitted 
ee 
| ¥ Sem ; 
e 74% 4 
: * Bendel” 
: . . - 
j ” ° $y ° 
| & ye 
YS 
7 t 
~ 
oe: 
ys 
& cat , 
S: f. 
. 3 oe 
: ~ = 4 
-) Rae 
» °s.» 
a = “ 
if 
: ~ . 
| » 
: $e Bic 
| 2 i 
ee 
14 . 23 
. aN ° | 
> 

















eter ey. 


cow* 7% 
S®ttesrectk wee 


ce 
was” ,a' 
‘ 


Jy 
% 
"ev 
. X we gt © 
oo. Hy 7 
* 





~~ 





sg fT eee otf 
@ertctcece 


¥ 
“¥ 
ov 













' } : . 
; io a4 = = Ae 
- he v- j Z r 
) a “ . 
|} 1 
_— coat eae | - . . ‘ 7 ¥ ; 
righ 2 E =o 3 ae ieee 
‘ 2 , . ‘* ood —s 
Se | ry “ON ROO’ s OW PD Ph- aie Hall 
; THE FIRST-PRIZE DESIGN 
By Mary A. Simpson 
































\ucust, 1916 


a plan, accompanying it with a thesis in 
which its features were fully explained. 
here was much variety in the plans and 
the award of the prizes was no easy matter. 
Three judges acted. The presentation was 
judged by Prof. R. R. Root, head of the 
Landscape Division at the University; the 
design, from a theoretical and_ practical 
standpoint, was judged independently by 
I’. N. Evans, Associate in Landscape at 


the University, and by the writer; and the 


cE ee a 
ea Qs “ARE 
Prd 





: > 
~~~ 


THE AMERiCAN 


tO | 
—_ 
ee . 
— - 
wsrrtss Gewtartretoty rT sae 


ace b 
iy 
fi 


— 





CITY 155 


writer judged the theses. Under each of 
these general heads the marking was based 
on about a dozen points. The plans were 
handed in anonymously, and it was not un 
til all the poimts on all the ballots had been 
tabulated and the awards made that the 
winners were known. They were: first, 
Mary A. Simpson; second, only a quartet 
of a point below, W. A. Strong; third, L. B 
Hiebel. Their plans are here reproduced. 
The terms of the problem, as given to the 


RSPR SS pe ' ' 
evaswunwin "wu «us 
a eet ee 


a f Suchet bbetietnatentecned 








of 


Ory s 





¢ 


tithe 


it 
KBR 


i. 





ae ag ace 


page 


+ 


i“ 


ei 
ta vey 


HAI 


THE SECOND-PRIZE DESIGN 


By W. 


A, Strong 


s A. 
CLORSL TOWN = ROAD 














ae ee 























56 THE AMERICAN CITY Vor. XV, No. 2 


lents. were s lemented by a memo large families are the rule. On the lots thus 
dum readinc ty rt as follows far built upon there has been a quite common 
tilization of back gardens for raising vege 
lhe t t livs twenty minutes (four mules) tables, the men not having very long working 
the heart of Danville, on an interurban hours Mr. Hegeler is of the belief that 
and a nine ne highwav 1s we | paved more space for this purpose would often be 

t } t t i is 1} pur] St el ne 
" sto en e the tract’s Ipane It is the company’s desire to sell rather 
mploves of the works onl These than to rent its lots and houses, and to induce 
ly foreigners, of many nationalities sales it offers low prices and easy terms 
German Pol yredominating Most Kents are generally $2 per room, and most of 
have beer the United States a con the houses thus far built have four or six 

le period before reaching Danville rooms 
* i ive 












ha 










eye 





ad 










be 
fata 


tobe 
oR are rare ” 


Seber en we 









teh 4 


O08 94 o 4 


Ps 
ae 


rHE THIRD-PRIZE DESIGN 
By L. B. Hiebel 





























Recent Developments in Bituminous Macadam 
and Bituminous Concrete Pavements 


By Arthur H. Blanchard 


Professor in Charge ot the Graduate Course in Highway Engineering, Columbia University, and 
Consulting Highway Engineer, New York City 

EFORE proceeding with a discussion concrete foundations renders 

of the many improvements in the renewals more satisfact 


T m cl 
construction of bituminous macadam of accomplishment. 
and bituminous concrete pavements which ; 
: SON-BITUMINOUS HIGHWAY 
have been developed during the period . 
i > . Chere has been general recognitiol 
from 1914 to 1916, it is advisable, in order 3 ; : 
2 : : since 1914 of the desirability of « ring 1 
to avoid misunderstandings, to quote the Mgt : 
Paine : specifications in more. detai nd with 
definitions of the two types of pavements wey 
“ad ; greater rigidity the physical properties of 
as recommended by the Special Committee sie — 
- 3 aT al . y  . the aggregates to be emploved and the sizes 
on “Materials for Road Construction” of . ie iit, 
‘ pees ; of the particies which compose such vore 
the American Society of Civil Engineers ; 
: - gates, For example, the 1914 Specifica 
“B 5 ’avement—One hav- . 
Bituminous Macadam Pavement ne ha tions of the American Society of Municipal 
ing a wearing course of macadam with the in- | d ; 
terstices filled by penetration methods with a mprovements covering bituminous mac 
bituminous binder.” adam pavements state, with reference to 
“Bituminous Concrete Pavement—One com- the physical properties of the stone, that 
posed or stone, gravel, sand, shell Or Slag, OF the rock employed must meet the follow ng 
combinations thereof, and bituminous mate- ; ae hig 
rials incorporated together by mixing methods.” requirements : 
G ] ‘The broken stone shall be s 
enera ibrasion tests and toughness tests conducted 
Certain developments which are common by the engineer in accordance with methods 
4 - 2 lor > n ry y “ ¢ st 
to both classes of bituminous pavements er the American Society Testing 
. . : . . . laterials, August 15, 1908 he | stor 
will be discussed prior to considering im- * Pe Fog ust 15, 1908. 1 aad gen 
A ~ . used or 1 onstructiol t the rst an S¢ 
provements which specifically refer to each gug courses shall show a French coefficient 
of the several types. wear of not less than 7.0 and its toughness 
FOUNDATIONS shall he not less thar 1.4 The broken stone 
‘ia used for the construction of the third Irs 
There has been a general ac knowles _ ind for the first and second applications of 
ment of the ultimate economy of construct- No. 1 broken stone, shall show a French co 
ing adequate foundations to support the efficient of wear of rot less than 11.0 and its 
- 5 . toug *ss shal ot be less tl 0. 
amount and character of traffic which the ughne hall 1 - a , 
several types of bituminous pavements are The necessity for more carefully drawn 
able to carry. In the case of bituminous specifications covering the sizes of the par 
macadam pavements, this development usu- ticles of which a given product of a stone 
ally has been characterized by the construc- crushing and screening plant is composed is 
tion of well compacted and, in many cases, illustrated by the following mechanical 
thoroughly filled, broken stone foundations. analyses of two products obtained from the 
In the case of bituminous concrete pave- same plant, both of which products passed 


ments, due to numerous failures which have over a section of a rotary screen having 
occurred where this type of pavement has circular holes of 114 inches and through a 
been built on old macadam or poorly con- section of a rotary screen having circular 
structed broken stone foundations, there holes 2% inches in diameter. 


has been a general tendency to advocate 


Sample A e le “R 
the use of cement-concrete foundations ; Per Cent Per Cent 
from 4 to 6 inches in thickness. It has mori + Sr aa a t 
generally been found that the cost of er $i inch screen 4 i} 
cement-concrete foundations does not ex- Passing 1. -inch screet 9 + 
ceed the cost of well-compacted and filled ae ty, inlet “e 7? 
broken stone foundations of equivalent Passing 2. -inch scree 32.9 


strength, Furthermore, the use of cement- 




















~ ee ee 




















It is hence obvious that for many forms 
of bituminous construction, in order to se- 
cure successful results, greater care must 
he used in the writing of specifications for 
products of broken stone. As an illvustra- 
tion of an improvement in specifications 
covering this detail, there are cited those 
adopted at the 1915 convention of the 
American Society of Municipal [mprove- 
ments covering broken stone to be used for 
the aggregate of one type of bituminous 
concrete pavement. 

“Broken stone for the mineral aggregate of 
the wearing course shall consist of one prod- 
uct of a stone crushing and screening plant. 
It shall conform to the following mechanical 
analysis, using laboratory screens having cir- 
cular openings: All of the broken stone shall 
pass a 1'4-inch screen; not more than 10 per 
cent nor less than 1 per cent shall be retained 
upon a I-inch screen; not more than 10 per 
cent nor less than 3 per cent shall pass a 
'i-inch screen.” 

It is noted that in this form of specifica- 
tion an attempt is made to cover in the 
mechanical analysis only the limits of the 
smallest and largest particles. No attempt 
is made to secure a carefully graded aggre- 
gate, but simply a product suitable for the 
type of pavement in question and uniform 
in character. For example, the following 
mechanical analyses show three products 
used in the successful construction of three 
different bituminous concrete pavements of 
the type mentioned: 


Sample Sample Sample 
—— —_— —" 


Per Cent Per Cent Per Cent 
“- 1.2 2.7 


Passing ‘g-in. screen. 2.7 1.0 
Passing '4-in. screen.... 4.2 5.4 2.5 
Passing ‘'-in. screen... 34.7 45.0 30.8 
Passing 34-in. screen.... 40.6 35.1 34.2 
Passing 1 -in. screen.. 17.3 10.1 23.4 
Passing 1'4-in. screen.. 2.0 1.5 8.1 

100.0 100.0 100.0 


BITUMINOUS MATERIALS 

There has recently been considerable dis- 
cussion pertaining to the advisability of the 
adoption of so-called “alternate type” speci- 
fications in preference to the so-called 
“blanket” specifications for bituminous ma- 
terials. By alternate type specifications is 
meant a series of specifications, each of 
which covers the physical and chemical 
properties of the most desirable grade of a 
given type of bituminous cement for the 
purposes for which it is to be used. On 
the other hand a blanket specification cov- 
ers in one set of requirements, pertaining 
to physical and chemical properties, all the 


158 THE AMERICAN CITY 








Vor. XV, No. 2 


types of bituminous cement which are to 
he used in connection with the construction 
of a given kind of pavement. For example, 
in the case of specifications for asphalt 
cement for biturrinous concrete pavements, 
it would be desirable under alternate type 
specifications to have not less than five sets 
of physical and chemical requirements, the 
limits for each requirement being as nar- 
row as the several processes of manufac- 
ture would permit, while on the other hand 
a blanket specification would cover with a 
wider range of limits the same chemical 
and physical properties for the five types 
mentioned. As an illustration will be cited 
the limits in the cases of Specifications “A” 
to “E” inclusive under the alternate type 
specification method for specific gravity, 
and the penetration at 25° C. (77° F.). 


Sp. Gr. Pent. 
NE, she keexdviatines 0.97 —1.00 75—00 
ai a ree ee 1.00 —1.03 90—100 
Ey cacvnaweeaeadt acum 1.03 —1.04 70—90 
Pn ese Nk e tie Cele 1.025—1.05 85—95 
WT $4 cnaeusncokacmae 1.04 —1.06 140—160 


In the case of a blanket specification to 
cover the same grades of the several types, 
the limits for specific gravity would have 
to be 0.97 to 1.06 and the limits for pene- 
tration would be 70 to 160. The penetration 
test, for example, can only be of maximum 
value when applied to the grade of a spe- 
cific type of bituminous cement which is 
most suitable for the type of pavement in 
question. In the case of the bituminous 
concrete pavement of the type mentioned, 
the proper penetration limits for a Cali- 
fornia asphalt lie between 70 and go, while 
for a fluxed Bermudez asphalt to be used 
in exactly the same type of pavement and 
under the same conditions the penetration 
limits should be between 140 and 160. It is 
evident that to attempt to cover the pene- 
tration limits for both materials in one 
specification is impracticable. In the first 
place, such limits as 70 to 160 are so wide 
as to insure but little uniformity in different 
lots of the same material, and in the second 
place an entirely unsuitable material of one 
class could be supplied under the maximum 
or minimum test limits of the other class. 

The proper use of alternate type speci- 
fications allows the contractor to bid to 
supply so many tons of bitumen which will 
comply with any one of the sets of require- 
ments. It will be noted, therefore, that the 
contractor is in exactly the same position 
as in the case when he bids to supply any 









m4 
>. 








=— 
ne 











— 
eae agg 


| 














\vcust, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


asphalt cement which will comply with the 
requirements of a blanket specification. 
GUARANTEES 

There has been a general tendency to 
abandon the use of guarantees on bitumin- 
ous pavements, as it is believed that, with 
proper specifications and efficient supervi- 
sion and inspection, guarantees are not 
necessary and that the requirement of a 
guarantee materially increases the prices 
bid on a given pavement. The subject of 
guarantees is too broad to discuss in this 
paper, but it should be noted that under the 
title, “The Economics of Guarantees of 
Pavements on State and Municipal High- 
ways,” it has been admirably treated by Mr. 
George C, Warren in a lecture in the Grad- 
uate Course in Highway Engineering at 
Columbia University, which lecture has 
been published under the auspices of the 
National Highways Association, Mr. 
Charles Henry Davis, President. 


Bituminous Macadam Pavements 

In addition to the improvements noted 
above, the most notable recent development 
in the construction of bituminous macadam 
pavements has been in connection with the 
compaction of the road metal and the dis- 
tribution of the bituminous materials. 

As a result of the numerous failures of 
bituminous macadam pavements which have 
occurred due to the improper rolling of 
wearing courses of road metal prior to the 
application of bituminous material, there 
has been a general recognition of the neces- 
sity for more thorough compaction of the 
road metal. This principle has been recog- 
nized by the Special Committee on “Mate- 
rials for Road Construction” of the Ameri- 
can Society of Civil Engineers in its 1915 
Report, the conclusion referred to reading 
as follows: 

“An important factor for successful results 
is the proper compaction by rolling of the road 
metal before the spreading of the bituminous 
material.” 

The above committee emphasizes another 
improvement which is aimed at the use, in 
some cases, of an excess amount of bitu- 
minous cement in this type of pavement. 
This conclusion is as follows: 

“Present indications are to the effect that 
the use of bituminous materials in quantities 
of more than 2% gallons per square yard, 
where the upper course of the macadam is 
to be 3 inches in thickness after compaction, 
is inadvisable under the penetration method.” 


rs) 


There has been a general recognition of 
the advisability of using properly designed 
distributors in connection with the applica- 
tion of bituminous materials in order to 
secure uniform distribution economically. 
Some specifications cover the requirements 
which a distributor must meet. For exam- 
ple, the 1914 Specifications of the American 
Society of Municipal Improvements con- 
tain the following paragraph pertaining to 
the pressure distributor : 

“The pressure distributor employed shall be 
so designed and operated as to distribute the 
bituminous materials specitied uniformly 
under a pressure of not less than 20 pounds 
nor more than 75 pounds per square inch in 
the amount and between the limits of tem- 
perature specified. It shall be supplied with 
an accurate stationary thermometer in the 
tank containing the bituminous material, and 
with an accurate pressure gauge so located as 
to be easily observed by the engineer while 
walking beside the distributor. It shall be so 
operated that, at the termination of each run, 
the bituminous material will be at once shut 
off. It shall he so designed that the normal 
width of application shall be not less than 6 
feet, and so that it will he possible on either 
side of the machine to apply widths of not 
more than 2 feet. The distributor shall be 
provided with wheels having tires, each of 
which shall not be less than 18 inches in width, 
the allowed maximum pressure per square 
inch of tire being dependent upon the follow- 
ing relationship between the aforesaid pres- 
sure and the diameter of the wheel: For a 
2-foot diameter wheel, 250 pounds shall be the 
maximum pressure per linear inch of width 
of tire per wheel, an additional pressure of 20 
pounds per inch being allowed for each addi- 
tional 3 inches in diameter. 

This specification provides for a distrib- 
utor by which it is practicable, under com- 
petent supervision, to secure uniform appli- 
cation of the bituminous material, and al- 
lows the use of a pressure distributor with- 
out danger of rutting of the wearing course 
of broken stone by narrow tires carrying 
excessive weights. 


Bituminous Concrete Pavements 

The improvements in the construction of 
bituminous concrete pavements to whict. 
attention should be called will be considered 
under the following classification of the 
three types into which bituminous concrete 
pavements generally may be divided. These 
types are designated as follows: 

(A) A bituminous concrete pavement 
having a mineral aggregate composed of 
one product of a crushing and screening 
plant. 











te rane eee 











= 


oe 


ee ——ee 














16 Pitt \METI 


(8) A bituminous conerete pavement 
| 


having a mineral aggregate composed of a 


certain number of parts by weight or vol 


ume of one product of a crushing and 


screening plant and a certain number of 


parts by weight or volume of fine mineral 


matter, such as sand or stone screenings. 
(() A bituminous concrete pavement 
having a predetermined mechanically 


graded aggregate of broken stone or gravel, 
or combined with fine mineral 
broken 


either alone 


matter, such as sand or stone 
screenings. 

PATENTS 
Unfortunately, the 


patent litigation has to be 


present status of 
considered in 


connection with the discussion of the sev- 


eral types of bituminous concrete pave- 
ments rhe majority of engineers and 


highway officials are interested in the types 


of bituminous concrete pavements which 
may be constructed without danger of liti- 
gation, rather than in a prolonged discus- 
sion of the probabilities of successfully d 

There is 


bituminous 


fending suits for infringement. 
hand that 
concrete pavements of type A may be con- 
structed without danger of litigation pro- 
ceedings, provided that the mineral aggre- 
gate is of the general character heretofore 
mentioned in this paper under the section, 


Ma- 


ample evidence at 


“General. 
terials,” 
The history of litigation cases indicates 
that the 
crete pavements of type B on a large scale 
will in all probability lead to 
lhe same remarks apply to the construction 
of bituminous concrete pavements of type 
in the case of the so-called To- 
peka bituminous concrete pavement, with 


Non-Bituminous Highway 


construction of bituminous con- 


litigation. 


(, except 


ggregate of the type specified either 
in the 1910 Topeka decree, or of the grad- 
ing which was adopted at the 1915 conven- 
tion of the American Society of Municipal 
Improvements. 


an ag 


rYPE A 

Materials.—Practice has demonstrated 
that broken stone, because of the satisfac- 
tory mechanical bond secured, makes the 
most suitable aggregate for type A bitumin- 
although pavements con- 
structed with gravel have proved satisfac- 
tory for light traffic where great care has 
been taken in the selection of the gravel 
and in the construction of the pavement. 
The development of the character of mate- 


ous concrete, 


ICAN { 


ie eg VoL. XV, No. 2 
rials used in current practice has been cov- 
ered in this paper under the title “General.” 
Much more care has been taken in recent 
years with reference to the quantity of bitu- 
cement to be used in the mix: 
here has been a general recognition that 
the amount used depends upon the kind of 
road metal and the bituminous material, the 
character of the aggregate and the climatic 


minous 


conditions. For the product of broken 
stone heretofore mentioned, it has been 
found that bituminous concrete mixtures 


should contain between 5 and 8 per cent by 
weight of bitumen. 

Mixing—Many improvements are noted 
in the methods employed in the mixing of 
bituminous There has been a 
general evolution from hand-mixing meth- 
ods to the utilization of mechanical mixers 
especially designed for the manufacture of 
this type of bituminous concrete. The large 
contract for thirty-five miles of bituminous 
concrete pavement of this type around the 
\shokan Reservoir, constructed under the 
direction of the Board of Water Supply of 
the City of New York, demonstrated the 
desirability of the manufacture of a plant 
especially designed for this class of work. 
The type finally evolved showed that it is 
practicable and economical to use a self- 
propelled plant, consisting of elevators, a 
rotary dryer, weighing devices and a mixer, 
having a capacity of from 800 to 1,000 
square yards of 2-inch wearing course per 
day. Experience has demonstrated that, ex- 
cept on small contracts and for repair work, 
mixers which provide for the heating of 
broken stone by the use of a flame in the 
chamber should not be used on account of 
the danger of burning the broken stone or 
the bituminous concrete. 

Laying.—There has been considerable 
discussion pertaining to the proper type and 
weight of roller to be used for the compac- 
tion of the wearing course. Experience 
demonstrates that in order to secure an 
even surface and adequate compaction by 
thorough interlocking of the particles of 
broken stone a tandem roller weighing be- 
tween 10 and 12 tons should be used. 

Seal Coat.—Many methods have been de- 
veloped for the application of the seal coat 
of bituminous material. It has been found 
that seal coats of from % to 1 gallon per 
square yard of bituminous cement are dis- 
tributed most uniformly by the use of hand- 


concretes. 








lta aad tt ti 




















\uGcust, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 161 




















CONSTRUCTION OF SUB-BASE COURSE 

















SPREADING SECOND LAYER OF FOUNDATION COURSI 























SECTION OF COMPLETED BITUMINOUS CONCRETE HIGHWAY AROUND ASHOKAN 
RESERVOIR, NEW YORK 























162 THE AMERICAN 


drawn gravity distributors followed by a 
squeegee. 

Seasonal Limitations. —Experience in 
many localities has demonstrated that bitu- 
minous concrete of this type should not be 
mixed or laid when the air temperature 
in the shade is below 50° F., as otherwise 
it is difficult, under average conditions, to 
secure an even and well-compacted wearing 
course. 

rYPE B 

Specifications for type B pavement have, 
during recent years, generally stipulated 
that so many parts of broken stone and so 
many parts of sand or other fine material 
are to be mixed with a certain amount of 
bituminous cement. By the use of this 
specification, unless employed under un- 
usual supervision, it has been found to be 
impracticable to secure a well-graded ag- 
gregate. In many cases the mixture has 
contained an excess of broken stone with 
insufficient fine material to fill the voids 
therein, while in other cases it has con- 
tained an excess of sand in which the 
broken stone exists as isolated particles. 
It is the conclusion of many engineers, be- 
cause of the conditions described, that 
when bituminous concrete pavements are to 
be employed either type A or type C should 
be selected. 

rYPE C 

During recent years the bituminous con- 
crete pavements of type C which have been 
most extensively employed are known as 
Bitulithic, Warrenite and Topeka. 

Bitulithic and Warrenite—Differentia- 
tion—The general use of Bitulithic and 
Warrenite bituminous concrete pavements 
throughout America has brought up for dis- 
cussion the matter of the fundamental dif- 
ferences between these two types of pat- 
ented pavements. It is believed that it will 
be of interest and value to the engineering 
profession to submit the following  state- 
ment, prepared by Mr. George C. Warren, 
President of the Warren Brothers Com- 
pany, for the information of the engineers 
enrolled in the Graduate Course in High- 
way Engineering at Columbia University: 





“Bitulithic and Warrenite mixtures are both 
made under the provisions of the Warren 
patents, which the courts have held ‘cover the 
product no matter how produced.’ Bitulithic 
is designed to meet the conditions generally 
prevailing on city streets, and Warrenite is to 
meet such conditions as may arise on country 





is is ge 





Vor. XV, No. 2 


roads so as to meet the physical and economic 
conditions and public demands as to cost. 

“Generally speaking, Bitulithic is mixed by 
a plant which is too cumbersome to meet 
country road conditions, which provides for 
combining the materials proportioned by sepa- 
ration of sizes of the aggregate, after heating, 
and then recombining by weight. 

“Warrenite is, generally speaking, mixed by 
a plant so portable that it may be set up either 
alongside the railroad, along the side of the 
road being constructed, or in the quarry or 
gravel bank from which the bulk of the aggre- 
gate is being procured as may be most eco- 
nomical in any particular case. This plant is 
constructed on the principle of proportioning 
the several separated sizes by careful measure- 
ment by bulk before heating, and retaining the 
Latch so measured as a_ separate entity 
through the process of heating and delivery 
into the mixer in which the bituminous cement 
is added. . 

“Generally speaking, crushed stune pre- 
dominates in the fine aggregate of Bitulithic, 
while sand predominates in the fine aggregate 
of Warrenite; also, fine, crushed stone and 
sand, respectively, are correspondingly used 
for the seal coat aggregate. 

‘In the selection of quality of material 
(whether gravel or crushed stone) for the 
coarse aggregate, a greater latitude is per- 
mitted in the case of Warrenite to practically 
meet the conditions of less opportunity for 
selections which are liable to prevail in locali- 
ties a considerable distance from railroad cen- 
ters. This latitude is allowed, because, while 
the traffic conditions on country road thor- 
oughfares are in point of weight and concen- 
tration of traffic rapidly becoming fully as 
severe as on most city streets, there is the im- 
portant difference that on country roads gen- 
erally the traffic is more exclusively of the 
motor vehicle rubber tire type, and conse- 
quently less exaction in physical properties of 
the quality of the stone forming the basis of 
the aggregate is necessary. Also, unfor- 
tunately, many city streets are abused by con- 
stant excessive sprinkling or daily scoured by 
pressure flushing machines, a practice which 
is more or less injurious to any road surface, 
while country roads are seldom, if ever, wet 
except by rainfall; therefore, in cases where 
the very best quality of stone is unavailable, 
it would be safe to use stone of slightly lower 
quality in Warrenite on a country road, al- 
though the same quality stone might not be 
safe for use in Bitulithic on a city street.” 


Topeka.—In many specifications the min- 
eral aggregate for the Topeka pavement 
specified has been that contained in the 
decree of 1910, namely: 

“Bitumen, from 7 per cent to II per cent. 


MINERAL AGGREGATE 


Passing 200-mesh screen from 5 to 11 per cent 
Passing 40-mesh screen from 18 to 30 per cent 
Passing 10-mesh screen from 25 to 55 per cent 
Passing 4-mesh screen from 8 to 22 per cent 
Passing 2-mesh screen less than 10 per cent 





Many unsatisfactory pavements have re- 
sulted by the unintelligent use of this grad- 
ing. It has been found necessary, in order 
to secure successful results, to specifically 
define the character of the sand or other 
fine material which shall be employed in 

, order to secure a satisfactory grading. 
Many specifications now cover the sand 
grading with almost the same care as in the 
case of sand grading requirements for sheet 
asphalt pavements. In order to encourage 
the use of a more satisfactory grading for 
this type of pavement, the American So- 


: \uGuUsT, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 163 


ciety of Municipal Improvements in 1915 
recommended the adoption of the following 
grading: 
Passing Per Cent i 
200-mesh screen, 7t 
80-mesh screen, but retaine na 2 10 t 
40-mesh screen, but retained on a a0, 
20-mesh screen, but retained on ‘ 
&8-mesh scveen, but retained on 7 I 
4-mesh screen, but retained on a 8, 
2-mesh sceern, but retained on a § 
Eprtor’s Note—The foregoing paper was 


presented by Professor Blanchard before the 
1916 Canadian and International Good Roads 
Congress at Montreal. 









































“SPLASH VW EEK” 
PUBLIC BATHS, BOROUGH OF MANHATTAN 
SAFETY FIRST LEARN TO SWid PRIZE CONTESTS 
* - 
Ss JULY 3d 
q to 
pS JULY 8th 
: inclusive 
“Sh gare 
ae 1916 
Swimming and a Contests for Men and Women for Medals Presented By 
the New York “‘American” wiil be held in the 
FREE MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOLS ccated at 
~ 326 Rivington Street Monday evening. uly 3,8 P.M 
@7 West 28th Stree Women's Water Polo Game Tuesday evening, uly 4,.8P.M 
23d Street and Avenue B Wednesday evening, July 5,8 P.M 
~ BRuygers Place Thursday evening, July 6,8 P.M 
~ op mag f 7 (Women's Water Polo Game Friday evening, uly 7,8 P.M 
442 Bast S4th Stree Saturday evening, July 8,8 P.M 
for Bo 
Conde fo i, FREE FLOATING BATHS tccated at 
| mag! da we irls only Tuesday afternoon, uly 4,2P.M 
treet Ba ast River Wednesday afternoon, July 5,2 P.M 
With ose ‘Bath —East River Thursday afternoon, uly 6,2 P.M 
96th Street Bath -- East River Friday uly 7,2P.M 
Sast 123d Street Bath — East River Saturday afternoon, uly 8,2P.M 
MONDAY, JULY 3 “PUBLIC HEALTH DAY” 
TUESDAY, JULY 4 “INDEPENDENCE DAY” 
WEDNESDAY, JULY s “SCHOOL DAY” 
THURSDAY, JULY « “LIFE SAVERS’ DAY” 
FRIDAY, JULY 7 “LEARN TO SWIM DAY” 
7 SATURDAY, JULY “RECREATION DAY” 
Add to Your Strength, Health and Happiness by Patronizing these Pools 
and the Other Free Public Baths at 
135 Allen Street 100 Cherry Street 347 West 4ist Street 243 East 100th Street 
93 Carmine Street 5% East 11th Street 523 East 76th{Street 
| Indepebdence Day Block Pa.ties, incluling music and dancing, will be held on the evening of July 4th, at 
a Cherry Street Bath West 4ist Street Bath East 109th Gtreet Bath 
East 11th Sweet Bath East 76th Street beth 
UNDER 
ADMISSION FREE cane Te yom = yl aly ny COMMITTEE 
PRESIDENT OF THE BOROUGH OF ——— 











\ NOVEL WAY OF INTERESTING PEOPLE IN PUBLIC SAFETY 


\ circular distributed by the Permanent 


Bath Committee of the Borough of Man 


hattan, New York City 





104 


Central Station Heating With Special Reference 
to Minnesota 
By John V. Martenis 


Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, University of Minnesota 


a3 E have three seasons in Minne- 
sota,” a friend told me during 


my first vear of residence here, 


and when asked to name them he said 
Winter, July and August.” 

This, of course, 1s a gross exaggeratior 
as well as a malicious slander upon the fair 
name and fame of the “North Star State, 


where it is generally conceded that its cli 


mate is most healthful and invigorating: 
but the fact still remains that our heating 
season is naturally longer than that of the 
states farther south. Our nearest coal 
fields are in Iowa and Illinois, although 
much of our coal supply comes from fields 
farther east, from which we draw good 
steaming coal, but it is of the bituminous, 
or soft kind 

North Dakota has considerable deposits 
of lignite which is used in briquet form 
\nthracite, or hard coal, is rather expen 
sive in this region, and if it should be i 
creased in price still more, the majority of 
householders will be forced by economic 
reasons to use soft coal. 

There are few furnaces now installed for 


residence heating that can burn soft coal 
without producing smoke, which is not an 
asset to the city beautiful nor soothing to 
the esthetic taste. 

There are two important factors in the 
attainment of smokeless combustion: first, 
i properly constructed furnace; second, a 
correct method of firing or stoking. Black 
smoke is a nuisance and the bane of wash 
day and a clean house, and practically all 
cities and many towns have regulations 
tending to prevent it. Only central heat- 
ing stations, whether operated in connec- 
tion with a lighting or power plant or for 
heating purposes, can be designed to burn 
the poorer and cheaper grades of fuel with 
practically no black smoke. These, there- 
fore, are conducive to a clear atmosphere 
tending more toward health and cleanliness. 
Individual heating plants for the home are 
relatively small and usually wasteful of 
fuel. The heating plants required in flats 
and small office buildings are more eco- 
nomical of fuel than the private plant, but 
have faults in common with it. 

Central station heating plants are com- 

















STEAM AND HEATING 


STATION, DETROIT, MINN, 











| 
| 
| 
| 


\uGusT, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY if 





monly operated in con- 
nection with privately 
owned, as well as muni- 
cipally owned light and 
power plants. When so 
operated, they are 
usually more profitable 
than those which are op- 
erated for heating pur- 
poses only; but there is 
no valid reason why a 
plant of the latter type 
should not be a paying 
proposition when cen- 
trally located in a dis- 
trict furnishing a_ suf- 
ficient heating load. A 
plant of this kind can be 














located on a street of 


lesser importance and HEATING PLANT IN JORDAN, MINN 


~ 


built to harmonize archi- : 
tecturally with the neighborhood: such a 
plant would also add much to desirability 
of residence in a district where smokeless- 
ness exists. 

In a recent survey of central heating 
tions in the state of Minnesota many in- 


teresting facts were shown. 

Information from sixteen plants was re 
ceived and of these, eight are municipally 
owned, seven are privately owned, and one 
did not specify ownership, but stated that 
the steam used for heating was purchased 


from a nearby power plant.” i 
ablv certain that there are more than six 


teen plants in Minnesota en 


gage 
trict heating business, but the request { 
information sent out by the Municipal Ref 


erence Bureau was ignored by the other 
plant operators or owner&rs 


Exhaust steam is used for h 











poses in thirteen plants, and three live 
steam is used. In nearly everv c ( vhere 
exhaust steam is used, it was found nec« 
sary to augment it by using live 
help it carrying the 
heating load during thos¢ 


times when the powel 
demand was below not 
mal, or when the heat 
ing demand exceeds th 


supply of exhaust steam 


Heating Systems and 
Rates 
The heating svster 
employed are as tol 
seven use direct steat 
two, both direct 
direct ; four, atmospheric 


and vacuum: ot 1S¢ 
direct, indirect and va 
uum: and two d not 
specifv the heati Svs 


tem used. 








Che heating | ds vary 
between wide limits 
oitieeaema alae ; 3 Lr : that is, fror 3,000 to 
ENGINE ROOM OF THE MUNICIPAL LIGHT, POWER, HEAT 


ING AND WATER PLANT, MADISON, MINN. 


710,000 square feet of ra- 














a 























166 THE AMERICAN CITY 


diation. The distance to which the heat 1s 
carried varies from one block of about 400 
feet to one-half mile. The pressure carried 
in the steam mains is low with one excep- 
tion, where a pressure of 140 pounds per 
square inch is used. 

The pressure carried in the service pipes 
at the customer’s building varies from 10 
inches of vacuum to 5 pounds gage pres- 
sure. 

In addition to other data, the survey 
shows the amount of radiation installed in 
a customer’s premises based on a boiler 
horse-power in the plant. This amount 
varies from 30 to 90 square feet; the latter 
appears to correspond more nearly to aver- 
age operating conditions. 

The charges for heat are usually based 
upon the amount of steam condensed, and 
the unit employed for this purpose is 1,000 
pounds of condensation. Twelve plants 
charge on this basis from 85 cents to 35 
cents, and the charge decreases as the 
amount of steam used increases. The other 
plants base their charges upon the square 
feet of radiation. In any case, the mini- 
mum cost for heating service varies from 
$4 to $5 per month. 

The rates charged by the private p!ants 
are somewhat higher than the correspond- 
ing rates of municipal plants, but in no case 
are they excessive. 

Judging by the many inquiries that have 
heen received from various parts of the 
state concerning central station heating, it 
is evident that the possibilities of obtaining 
a profitable return from waste heat are 
engaging the attention of many plant 
owners. 

Most of the present lighting and power 
plants have been located convenient to an 
ample water supply and where coal can he 
delivered as cheaply as possible. Usually 
such locations are not near the district 
where heating service would be in greatest 
demand. Long distance service will pre- 
clude the use of exhaust steam for direct 
heating purposes if the pressure necessary 
to force the steam through the system 
throws too much back pressure on the en- 
gines; moreover, long pipe lines increase 
the losses by friction and radiation. 

Not one of the sixteen district-heating 
plants in the state of Minnesota from which 
returns were received uses a hot water sys- 
tem, and the reason is probably due to the 


Vor. XV, No. 2 


higher cost of installation over that for a 
steam system. 

In order to use exhaust steam in a direct 
low-pressure steam heating system, the en- 
gines must be run non-condensing and 
carry a sufficient back pressure to circulate 
the steam throughout the heating system, 
but this conditioy does not hold where a 
vacuum system is used. 

Hot water heating, on the other hand, 
does not place these restrictions upon the 
operation of the engines, and in addition it 
has certain advantages over steam in heat- 
ing effect and control. The water tem- 
perature can be regulated at the plant to 
meet the heating requirements, whereas 
steam heating is subject to thermostatic or 
modulation control; either exhaust steam 
from engines and pumps or live steam 
from the boilers may be used to heat the 
circulating water; or economizers, which 
utilize a part of the escaping heat in the 
flue gases, can be used for the same pur- 
pose. The system is very flexible, but hot 
water heating requires two mains of the 
same size, which in addition to other costs 
often makes the installation of such a sys- 
tem prohibitive. Yet under certain condi- 
tions it is extremely economical in opera- 
tion and will often give a good return on 
the investment. 


Conservation of Waste Heat 

Central station heating to be profitable 
in the relatively smaller cities and towns 
is operated in connection with a lighting or 
a power plant where considerable exhaust 
steam is available. Exhaust steam retains 
the major part of the heat it had before 
doing work in the engine, and much of it 
as it leaves the engine is a waste unless 
some useful purpose is found for it. 

The average person little realizes the 
small part of the heat energy of coal that 
is utilized in a steam engine. If the steam 
as it is exhausted from the engine is not 
put to some useful purpose, a steam-oper- 
ated plant is very wasteful of heat. The 
commonly accepted heat value of exhaust 
steam is 85 per cent of that of live steam at 
the same pressure. A large part of this 
heat contained in the exhaust steam can be 
reclaimed, as well as a part of the heat of 
the coal which would otherwise escape up 
the chimney. 

In this age of conservation, the problem 





— 





_. 











ee 





\ucust, 1916 THE AMER:ICAN CITY 


of utilizing waste has engaged the attention 
of the power plant engineer who has sought 
in various ways to make use of waste heat. 
If the waste heat can be most prefitably 
used in the plant, it should be so used; but 
if this same heat can be utilized for heating 
purposes which will bring in a satisfactory 
return, then it should be used for heating. 

Central station heating has passed the 
experimental stage, and its many advan- 
tages are becoming better known by the 
people. They recognize, for instance, that 
the patron has no fires to attend and no 
ashes to get rid of; he finds there is an in- 
creased cleanliness in the house and neigh- 
borhood; more available space in the base- 
ment; no danger from furnace or flue fires, 
and heat always available. 

Probably the most important factor con- 
cerning the advisability of central station 
heating is a sufficient demand for heat 





107 


within a proper distance from the plant. 
The demand for heat will depend upon the 
character of the service and the price 
charged for it. There can be no doubt 
that the many advantages obtained by cen 
tral station heating will create a sufficient 
demand for the service to make the project 
1 peying investment. The combination of 
heat, light and power supplied by a single 
plant tends to increase the load factor and 
permits a more economical operation of th« 
plant. The labor cost for operation is not 
greatly increased and competition is usually 
not warranted where the capacity of the 
plant is equal to the demand for heat. 
Central station heating has not always 
proved successful financially, but in the ma- 
jority of such cases the cause is due to mis- 
management, faulty service or the attempt 
to extend the heating mains beyond a point 
where the line losses become excessive. 





Evening School Expenditures of the Leading American Cities 


The accompanying figures were made 
public last month by the United States Bu- 
reau of Education. So striking are the 
figures and so diverse the facts relating to 
per capita expenditure for evening schools, 
on the basis of total population, that wide- 
spread publicity of the results seems ad- 
visable. 

Expenditure figures are in accordance 
with the returns from the individual cities 
in response to a questionnaire sent out by 
the Bureau of Education in the fall of 1915. 
The figures for Seattle refer to 1915-16; 
all the others are assumed to cover the ex- 
penditures for 1914-15. 

While these figures do not have any 
necessary connection with the efficiency 
of the work accomplished, and while there 
are undoubtedly varying conditions to be 
considered, the per capita expenditure on 
evening schools must give some measure of 
the community interest in that type of work. 

Comparison of the amounts expended by 
specific cities show wide differences. Note, 
for instance, the per capita figures in New- 
ark and Jersey City, two adjacent cities in 
the same state; in Pittsburgh, Baltimore 
and Detroit, all cities of substantially the 
same population; in St. Louis and Boston, 
cities of almost exactly the same size, yet 


with a foreign-born population in the latter 
nearly twice as great as in the former. 
The following question is pertinent: 
“What consideration has been given to the 
problem of Americanizing the foreigner in 
the formulation of these evening 


school 
budgets ?” 


EVENING SCHOOL EXPENDITURES OF TI 
TWENTY-ONE * LEADING CITIES OF TH IE 
UNITED STATES, ARRANGED IN ORDER 
OF THEIR PER CAPITA EXPENDITURES 
ON THE BASIS OF TOTAL POPULATION 


7S 


‘_* ; 
U.S. Census &! 
_ ESTIMATE, 1915.8: 








EXPENDITURE 
Crrtes. - ——— - - 
Population | Rank Amount Per Capita 

Newark... 389,106 15 $172,291 $0 443 
Los Angeles 452,140 12 120,380 266 
Buffalo 457,723 10 111,000 242 
Pittsburgh... 564,878 8 105,000 186 
New York 5,333,539 1 926,215 174 
Kansas City. 284 567 21 40,000 41 
Detroit... . 546,183 9 65,000 119 
Chicago...... 2,397 600 2 244,744 102 
St. Louis.... 737 A497 4 75,000 102 
Seattle...... 313,029 19 30,000 0.96 
Cleveland....| 639,431 6 58.819 og2 
Cincinnati. . .| 402,175 14 35,504 ORS 
Boston...... | 734,747 5 63,000 O86, 
Minnea) 343,466 18 27,14 079 
Philadelphia..| 1,657,810 3 121,202 073 
New Orleans. . | 361,221 16 22,405 O61 
ersey City...| 293,408 20 17,661 06 

Milwaukee...| 419,589 13 24,000 057 
Washington. . 356,028 17 20,000 056 
Baltimore. 579,590 7 22.755 039 


* San Francisco, ranking 11 in population, has filed no report 
of its expenditures. 








NS ee 





i 





1608 


oe wa nM 8% we o%e wMe w%e w%e n%e o%e w%a ne wane we ne ne sVenve sve 














News and Ideas for Commercial and 
Civic Organizations 











The Charleston Chamber One 
Hundred Years Ago 


Cuarteston, S. C.—At a recent house- 
warming of the Charleston Chamber of 
Commerce to celebrate the acquisition of 
the Chamber's new home on Broad Street, 
an historical review of the organization’s 
activities for the 132 years of its existence 
was given by Mr. J]. Adger Smyth, a former 
president of the Chamber. To show the 
kind of work commercial bodies were doing 
a century ago, a portion of this history 
covering a few of the interesting facts and 
events which occurred from the beginning 
of the organization in 1774 up thru the year 
1828 is presented herewith. 

rhe city and the Chamber of Commerce 
were incorporated at about the same time. 
lhe Chamber has therefore been intimately 
connected with almost every crisis that has 
befallen the city, and has always aimed to 
give prompt and loyal response to the calls 
for assistance or counsel which Charleston 
has made upon it. 

The Chamber was legally incorporated 
on February 6, 1784, altho it must have ex- 
isted in 1774, since resolutions adopted by 
it on June 2, 1774, regulating charges, bills 
of exchange and usages of trade were pub- 
lished in Wells’ Register for 1775. Com- 
modore Gillon, its first president, was a 
man of remarkable courage and heroic en- 
terprise, and at that time commanded the 
little navy of South Carolina. 

\mong the records of the Chamber was 
found a letter from Thomas Jefferson dated 
May 22, 1784, asking for information in 
regard to the commerce and productions of 
South Carolina and Georgia. There is a 
record of a full reply having been sent to 
Mr. Jefferson, who was then in Paris. The 
records also showed that on April 16, 1791, 
the Chamber entertained the President, 
George Washington, who was visiting in 
Charleston. The address which was pre- 
sented to him on this occasion and Wash- 








ington’s reply are both on record. On the 
7th of the following May, President Wash- 
ington was again entertained by the Cham- 
ber in the Exchange Building, “to the great 
satisfaction of the members.” 

On February 4, 1828, a special committee 
of ten was appointed from the Chamber.to 
consider and report upon the project then 
being agitated of building a railroad to 
\ugusta. The committee reported favor- 
ably and the Chamber unanimously adopted 
the report. A charter was soon obtained 
and engineers employed to survey the route. 
They reported on March 15, 1828, that the 
organization of the railroad had been ef- 
fected, and on May 12, 1828, the directors 
were elected. Half of the latter were mem- 
bers of the Chamber’s committee appointed 
to investigate the matter. 

SIDNEY S. RITTENBERG, 
Publicity Secretary, Charleston Chamber of 


Commerce. 
+ + 


An Industrial Tract and Joint 
Freight Depot 

MinNEApotis, Minn.—Through the or- 
ganization of the Minneapolis Industries 
\ssociation, brought about by the Minne- 
apolis Civic and Commerce Association, the 
city of Minneapolis has been provided with 
an industrial tract that furnishes ideal sites 
for new industries at prices that will enable 
the proprietors to conserve their capital, 
secure sufficient space to reasonably antici- 
pate their growth, and give them industrial 
advantages usually available only to large 
establishments with unlimited means at 
their command. 

Stock subscriptions of $300,000, raised 
among the promoters, paved the way for 
the acquisition and development of the site 
selected, a 200-acre tract on the east side 
of the city. An appropriation of $300,000 
more toward the project was made later by 
the city. With a wholly undeveloped tract 
to start with, the Industries Association 
was able to plan the industrial district wise- 





| 
| 
| 


- 











~ 


—— 











\ucust, 1916 


THE 





AMERICAN CITY 169 








rail 








> 


FINAL GROUND PLAN 
CENTRAL INDUSTRIAL 
MINNEAPOLIS 


THE 


MINNEAPOLIS INDUSTRIES ASSN. 
1232 FIRST NATL $00 LINE BLDS. 








i Ve 
ay 
: 25 \< 
= aS 48 G 
jy “ Why | oc 
4, Wh > 
8 
Zs X 5 Z 
iy TEA 2 
o IL '} “PS 
typ ; ry = Ay +» He 
Yn (| Wiis . as 
| 5 
| | H 


LEVEE 


HRA SSS 




















ly with regard to future needs and to econ- 
omizing space. The factory sites which 
have been provided, therefore, are ideal in 
arrangement, trackage facilities and acces- 
sibility. 

The Central Industrial District, as it is 
called, is capable of accommodating one 
hundred new industries and is only two 
miles from the heart of the commercial 
center of Minneapolis. It is conveniently 
located for connection with the Minnesota 
Transfer Railway, a belt line owned by the 
nine railroads entering the city, which acts 
as a distributing medium for those rail- 
roads. By the building of four-and-a-half 
miles of new track, this belt line has been 
extended into the industrial district, thus 
furnishing each of the industries located 
in the new district side-track connection 
with all of the railroads. 

The location of the tract affords satis- 
factory gravel foundations at a depth of 
from seven to nine feet. The sewer and 
water pipes are laid and the trackage in- 
stallation has been completed. Nearly four 
miles of paved streets are being built, the 
entire district is now being parked, and the 
Association is negotiating with more than 
a score of industries which contemplate 
locating in the new industrial district. 


\s a further incentive to the proprietors 
of small business enterprises to establish 
themselves in the Central Industrial Dis- 
trict, a joint freight depot was built by the 
Minnesota Transfer Railway. The Min- 
neapolis Industries Association deeded an 
area of five acres to the Transfer Railway 
on which to erect such a terminal. This 
will make it possible for all the industries 
which locate in the new tract to truck their 
less-than-carload shipments for any of the 
nine railroad lines over a short, direct, 
paved thoroughfare to one central freight 
station. The service rendered by this new 
freight depot will not be limited to the 
Central Industrial District, for there are 
already 286 industrial establishments within 
a short haul of this freight station which 
ship 80 per cent of their outbound tonnage 
in less-than-carload shipments. The joint 
freight station, which was opened on May 
22, is now shipping more than 50 tons of 
outbound less-than-carload freight per day, 
and its business is constantly increasing. 

The cooperation of the railroad officials 
with the Minneapolis Industries Associa 
tion and their ready grasp of the impor- 
tance of the Association's plans in the es- 
tablishment and development of this indus- 
trial tract, have made the plans more easy 








ee 


tinal 





of consummation than would otherwise 
have been possible The railroads have 
shown a desire to aid the Association in 
every way in its effort to build a greater 
Minneapolis. 

DOUGLAS A. FISKI 
Pre ent, Minneapo Industries A t 


} 


+ ¢ 


An Industrial Survey of the San 
Francisco Bay Region 

San Francisco, Cat.—The San Fran- 
cisco Chamber of Commerce has under- 
taken the industrial development of San 
l'rancisco in earnest, and to this end a sur- 
vey is being made of the present industrial 
conditions in the San Francisco Bay region. 
Che counties of San Francisco, San Mateo, 
Alameda, Contra Costa and Marin, with 
parts of Napa and Sonoma counties, are 
heing included in the survey. 

lhe Chamber is preparing a map of San 
Francisco on the scale of 100 feet to the 
inch, lwenty-seven sections six feet 
square, covering the industrial district of 
San Francisco, have been completed. The 
map will later be extended to cover all of 
San Francisco and the Bay region. On this 
map is shown every building in a given sec- 
tion, the kind of construction and the num- 
ber of stories. By a legend printed thereon 
the layman can tell at a glance whether the 
building is occupied as a factory, ware- 
house, office, store, dwelling, garage, hotel 
or apartment, etc. All factories now in 
operation are shown in blue; all public 
warehouses are shown in purple, and all 
available factory sites and buildings are 
shown in yellow. A prospective manufac- 
turer can be furnished with complete infor- 
mation as to the cost, size, rent, insurance, 
interest, Owner's name, terms and other 
data relative to available factory sites and 
buildings. This information is kept on a 
card index file in the office of the Chamber. 
\ll the freight yards, railroads and spur 
tracks are graphically shown. Street grades, 
character of pavements and other informa- 
tion of interest to the manufacturer can be 
readily furnished. When finished, this will 
be the largest map of San Francisco in 
existence. 

Another map of the city has been pre- 
pared showing the time consumed in tran- 
sit from a two-block zone, including Third, 
Kearny, Market and Geary Streets as a 
center. Time zones are shown of five-min- 


170 rHE AMERICAN CITY 


Vor. XV, No. 2 
ite intervals consuming from five to forty 
ninutes from the center of the city to out 
lying residence tracts. Complete data have 
been secured of all residence tracts in the 
city and of many in the bay region, show 
ing the size, terms, prices and improve 
ments of all unsold lots. 

The various departments of the Chamber 
of Commerce are being functioned so as to 
forward San Francisco’s industrial expan- 
sion as rapidly as possible. For the past 
year the Information and Statistical De- 
partment has been gathering data on the 
comparative cost of factory sites, transpor- 
tation, taxes, insurance, labor, rent, leases, 
raw materials, light, heat and power in th 
Pacific coast manufacturing centers. . The 
Legislative Department is preparing a com- 
parative statement of the laws of all the 
states in the Union bearing on industrial 
matters. A close watch is also being kept 
m all city ordinances and state laws which 
in any way benefit or handicap industries. 
The Transportation Department is working 
for a greater distributive area for San 
Francisco, and is equipped to quote freight 
rates on all articles to and from San Fran- 
cisco to all rail points in the United States. 
rhe Foreign Trade Department has on 
hand data relative to foreign markets, trade 
opportunities, shipping regulations and the 
laws and customs of foreign countries. The 
Marine Department reports all incoming 
and outgoing vessels, secures copies of all 
ships’ manifests and prepares valuable ta- 
bles on the exports and imports of the har- 
bor. 

ROBERT NEWTON LYNCH, 


Vice-President and Manager, San Francisco 
Chamber of Commerce. 


+ + 


Pekin’s Civic Aspirations 

PEKIN, Itt.—The civic ideals of Pekin 
are indicated by the following planks in 
the platform of work adopted by the re- 
cently organized Association of Commerce: 

Make Pekin a City Beautiful—We will 
adopt a city plan, after careful study, suf- 
ficiently broad in scope to take care of 
parks, playgrounds, street extensions and 
new additions. We will clean up the river 
front and put in a system of ornamental 
lights. We will remove line fences, clean 
up the city and install an adequate system 
of garbage disposal. 

Hospital—We will erect a modern public 
hospital. 


oe 











\ucuUsY, 1916 THE 


fail—We will move the jail, or, better 
still, cooperate with the proper authorities 
to secure the erection of a new jail. 

Building Code—We will cooperate with 
the ( ity | ouncil to secure the passage ofa 
building code and a municipal housing or- 
dinance whfch will standardize ventilation, 
sanitation and fire protection. 

Harbor—We will see that Pekin has an 
idequate harbor to enable all steamboats 
coming up and down the river to make 
Pekin an easy stopping place. 

Good Roads—We will cooperate with the 
road commissioners to see that the roads 
radiating from Pekin are kept in good re- 
pair. We will secure more good roads and 
extensions of the present roads. We will 
cooperate with the city in building the 
Kighth Street viaduct. 

Secretary-Manager, Associatior f Commerce f 

Pekin 

+ + 
A Municipal Natatorium 

PENDLETON, OrE—In connection with 

the plans for establishi 


ig an extensive pub- 
lic recreation center at Pendleton, the 
Pendleton Commercial Association initiated 
and carried through the construction for 
the city of a swimming pool and bathing 
pavilions in Roundup Park as a part of the 
scheme. The annual Pendleton roundup 
occurs in this park, which was formerly 
owned by the Roundup Association. That 
association presented it to the city for a 





AMERICAN CITY 








municipal playground and_ assists . 
maintenance and _ beautificatior pro 
priating to the city for this purpos« s 
plus funds received from the an | 
up. 

The swimming pool shown in Tu 
panying illustration is built of reinforce: 
concrete, with a terra cotta e hnish 
around the edge to form a s« gh al 
life rail. he basin is 50 x 100 f S1z¢ 
and has a depth of from 2 to a h 
floor of the pool is 6 inches tl The 
walls are 18 inches thick at the | I 
tapered, 34 inch to 1 foot, to the whe 
the width is increased to 24 inches " 
depth of 8 inches to form a suitable sup 
porting ledg« The walls have contit 
ous footing 5 feet wide and 15 inches thick 

Heavy reinforcement was required in the 
construction of this pool because of thi 
porous character of the ground which, be 
ing adjacent to the Umatilla River on the 
north, is subject to seepage water from this 
source. The water level being higher thar 
that of the swimming pool, a freshet would 
cause undue outside pressure and would be 
apt to rupture the bottom or sides of th 
basin. A levee was constructed event 
actual flooding. 

The city water system es th 
source of supply for the pool iv be 
filled either from the pressure m s or | 
the overflow of the storage reservoirs. To 
permit extensive use of the pool during the 








THE MUNICIPAL SWIMMING 


POOL IN PENDLETON, ORE 








2 THE 


ind winter seasons, plans are undet 


the water to the 


sideration tor heat 
proper bathing temperature 

[he bathing pavilions consist of two 
wooden structures located at either end 


ot the pool. \ central entrance shed and 


lattice fencing around the entire area have 


ilso been constructed. The bath houses arse 

ided with more than 200 locke rs, toilets 
ind other appurtenances Plans are now 
under way for building a covered grand 


stand for visitors, as well as a_ shallow 
Wa ling por | for children 

This municipal natatorium cost $10,700 
lhe building fund was provided by popular 
subscriptions ranging from 25 cents to 


Siro00 and an appropriation of 


$2,000 made by the city. Whe 
ooo made by he ly, When CUTIZEN 


the Pendleton Commercial As- 
sociation transfe rred the prop 
erty to the city as a municipal 
holding free of debt 

During five davs of the week 
the use of the pool is free. On 
the other two davs a charge of 
ten cents is made, this revenue 
making the enterprise self-sup 
porting and covering the cost of 
attendants and operation. The Class 
formal opening in July, 1915, 
was the occasion of a city cele 
bration, augmented by diving 
ind swimming contests Phe 
pool has become the center of 
unusual public interest and has 
been patronized to a gratifying 
extent C. K. CRA 


Secretary, Pendleton Commercial 


atior rHE 
+ + 
Citizens ‘“‘Made in Hoboken, 
i & he 
Howoken, N. J. 
the “Made in U. S. A.” design on the sug- 


gestion of the Hoboken Board of Trade at 


\ new use was made of 


the celebration on Independence Day this 
vear, in which the recently naturalized 
citizens were the center of attention. \t 
the suggestion of the Secretary of the 
Board of Trade, who was made a member 
of the Mayor's Safe and Sane Fourth Com- 
mittee, a reception was tendered to those 
living in Hoboken who had taken out their 
final naturalization papers in that city since 
July, 1915. A list of them—2I0 in num- 
ber—was obtained from the County Clerk, 


AMERICAN CITY 





HOBOK 


USA 





Vor. XV, No. 2 


und special invitations were sent to them. 
With each invitation was enclosed a red, 
white and blue badge to be worn by the re- 
cipient, bearing a “Made in Hoboken, 
U. S. A.” device, and proclaiming th 
wearer a citizen of the class of 1916 and 
an honor guest of the city of Hoboken. 
lhe badge is reproduced herewith. 

rhe reception was given tn the City Hall 
by Mayor Griffin, the City Commissioners 
and the members of the Safe and Sane 
Fourth Committee, who received the new 
citizens. The patriotic exercises and flag- 
raising at the high school, which preceded 
the reception, were also attended by these 
graduates in citizenship. 

ROSCOE D. WYATT, 


Managing Secretary, Hoboke1 
Board of Trade. 


+ + 

A Municipal Garage 

CLEVELAND, Onto.— About 
seven years ago the city of 
Cleveland, in acquiring prop- 
erty for its Mall, had occasion 
to purchase a vacant tract of 
land, about five-sixths of an 
acre in size, adjacent to the 
City Hall. This building prop- 
of 1916 erty was originally the home- 


stead of Leonard Case, a public- 


July Ath spirited citizen of Cleveland, 


for whom the Case School of 
\pplied Science was named. 
The lot lay unoccupied and use- 


Honor Guest less. In the meantime, the Pub- 


lic Service Department of the 


Slakiaii CITY OF HOBOKEN city of Cleveland was using a 


number of automobiles and 
trucks which were constantly in 
need of repair, and under the 
administration of Mayor Herman Baehr it 
was decided to utilize this property for the 
repairing of the automobiles. A municipal 
garage was thus established. 

\s the demand for space for parking 
automobiles in the city grew, the lot on 
which the garage is located became a pub- 
lic parking ground, and the city instituted 
a charge of fifteen cents for parking a car 
for a day or any portion thereof. There 
were a few stalls in the outbuildings of the 
old homestead which were rented at $4 per 
month each. 


BADGE 


A mechanic formerly employed by the 
Winton Motor Car Company was installed 
as chief of the garage, and three other me- 





| 


ee ee eee 

















<P beh ene 


oe than 





\uGuUsT, 1916 THE AMER 


hMAm- G2 ¥ 17 


o*) 














MUNICIPAL GARAGE AND 


chanics and two watchmen were employed. 
\ll the repair work of the department is 
now being done at this shop, and some re- 
markable savings have been made. For in- 
stance, one small car, upon which the manu- 
facturers offered to make repairs for $125, 
was repaired in the city shop at a cost of 
$15. <A large truck upon which formerly 
$500 worth of repairs were made, it was 
found could have been fixed at this shop 
for $150. 

During the last month 2,118 cars were 
parked in the garage, from which the city 
derived an income of $333.70. The total 
income last year was $2,262. Since the lot 
is situated near the Public Square and ad- 
jacent to the Cleveland Chamber of Com- 
merce and other office buildings, it is an 
increasingly popular parking ground. 

W. S, LLOYD, 


Manager, Publicity Department, The Cleveland 
Chamber of Commerce 


+ ¢+ 


An Americanization Campaiga 

Detroit, Micu.—The Detroit Board of 
Commerce has been conducting for the past 
few months an active campaign to convert 
the foreign-born of Detroit into United 


REPAIR SHOP, CLEVELAND 


States citizens. Che campaign Was begul 
last September and reached its height i 
March. A comparison of the figures for 


the month of March this year against th 
same month last year reveals the effective 
ness of the efforts made by the factories to 
respond to the suggestion of the Board that 
they urge their men to becom \merican 
citizens. Notwithstanding the fact that th 
tide of immigration has been practically at 
a standstill since the beginning of the war, 
more than twice the number of applicants 
for th 
first five months of 1916 than during th: 


for citizenship have been recorded 
corresponding period in 1915 

lhe Americanization Committee of the 
Detroit Board of Commerce is closely co 
operating with County Clerk Farrell, t 
whose office most of the applicants for citi 
zenship papers go. The County Clerk is al 
lowed $3,000 out of the first $6,000 of natu 
ralization fees for his work in supervising 
the issuance of the papers. The increasing 
number of applicants has made it necessary 
to hire more clerks, and Mr. Farrell has 
agreed to expend for that purpose $2,400 
out of the $3,000 allowed him, retaining only 
$600 for himself. Mr. Farrell's codperation 

















{ THE AMERICAN CITY Vor. XV, No. 2 

















i bee! vet ettective ind a systen of s¢ t the Nebraska Conservatior and Publi 
\ | ] ] 
Velfare Commissiotr » enabl his commis 
be asesllites the applicants is eing worked - Well nm 1oOn i. ipie t mmi 
* 1} arry n its work t res hin t 
hicl ‘ ( Ik De e oO! el nent of the resources of the state 
the best 1 th ‘ tf ve proper publ ity to its W r} not mily 
ER ¢ Nebraska, but elsewhere; and to compile and 
disseminate data that will be iluable in mak 
\ } | } ; ‘ ‘ } h 
1 ‘ raska ; ret stat n which t ive 
+ + ng xe i ¢ cr t V ] c 4 
Secure the enactment of a State Forestati 
A Memorial for State-Wide Civic !aw, permitting the state, county or town 
Advanc quire waste lands for forestation purposes 
ance Secure approval of the plan to circulate ps 
PLATI NI \t the recent an titions calling for a constitutional conventior 
eeting of the Nebraska State Asso for the purpose of revising the state constitu 5 
tions i , ie tial it tion, as well as of activity to make certain the 
ee a oe carrying of this proposition at the coming 
{) i { ct r egis ilive progta elk tion 
is adopted and pre ted in the form of Secure the repeal of the State Occupation 
ie rial in the terest of civic improve tax as applied to corporations engaged 
ment thruout Nebraska he platform n inufacture, — Increased manuta turing 1s 
ee , , fol needed in Nebraska. Industry should be en 
mchuded mong others, tine ollowing : : 
- t. uuraged, and the State Occupation tax, ne 
plans cessitating discrimination, is a reflection upor 
S re the enactment of a State Highway the state and should be repealed 
Cor n law, or su imendments to the W. D. FISHER 
esel law as will et le the state to con Secretary, Nebraska State Association of ( 
nm c { Ss 
uct to assist in the nstruction of state ercial Clut -_ 
ghways; to coOperate with the United States 
Government in_ the nstruction of national . 
sone Bre gh pepe Bonga A City-and-State-Owned Road 
ient to carry on the above work SHARON, Pa.—There is nothing peculiar 
Secure an appropriation of $50,000 for the in the appearance of the road shown in the 
re ms _ 
} 
| 
j 
} 
J 
4 
' 
; 
. 
a 7 ; “ > »~* | e 
DELEGATES TO THE ANNUAL MEETING OF THE NEBRASKA STATE ASSOCIATION 
OF COMMERCIAL CLUBS 
I cture, taken on the top of a building, suggests a way of providing delegates with an interesting ; 
ivenir not only of the convention, but also of the convention city 
] 
i] 





\uGustT, 1916 THE AMER 
picture, yet its biography proves it to be of 
i very interesting sort. Its peculiarity lies 
in the fact that one-half of it is a state 
highway and the other half is in the Bor- 
ough of Sharon, Mercer County, Pa., the 
liziding line being in the middle of the 
roadway. 

It is a stretch goo feet in length and 28 
feet in width, and the improvement was 
made as a result of the activities of the 
Sharon Chamber of Commerce as part of 


a state-wide Good Roads Day campaign. 


lt was paid for by voluntary subscriptions 
labor, 


Six 


road-building 
of 


teams and 


hundred 


in money, 


equipment. tons coarse 





rcAN CITT 

other industries in Elmira for bett 

ing facilities was presented to th ine , 
men of Elmira at the regul 

luncheon of the Elmira Chamber 

merce helc in May The Chamber 

to undertake the work of oe the 
homes, and for that purpose a company ha 
been incorporated by the Chamber 

merce with a capital of $2c0,00 

ntention to sell one-half of this stock at 
once to provide a working capital i] 
ing operations will be commenced as soo 
as the stock has been subscribed 

The need for such homes for workme 

has been felt for some time, but the matter 

















rHE 
OF ¢ 


THROUGH 
BER 


THIS ROAD WAS IMPROVED 


ind fine slag were used. Had all the mate 
the teams, the labor and the equipment 
been paid for instead of coming aS a free 
contribution, the improvement would hav: 


rial, 


cost between $1,400 and $1,500. The actual 


cost in money was $330, and this was sent 
in to the Chamber of Commerce by 


after they had made a trip over 


autoists 
the im- 
proved road, 

\ coating of Tarvia or other material is 
to be put on by the Chamber of Commerce, 
which will again “take a chance” on raising 
the fund to pay for it 
BBO 


er ¢ (on 


r. C. FITZ ¢ 
Sharo ( nl 


+ + 


Elmira’s Home Building Plan 
Ermira, N. Y.—The demand 
by workmen at the A. P. Morrow plant and 


tary, 


increased 


INSTRUMENTALITY OF THE SHARON ¢ AM 
“OMMERCE 
was forcibly brought to the attent f th 


f the heads of the Mor 


row plant stated that if the houses were not 


people when one o 


provided, it would be impossible t tel 
the operations of the plant The « 
plans to build several hundred 
can be rented for $15 or $16 
that can be sold on payments of about that 
amount. 
Secretary, Elmira Chamber ( 
+ + 
Public Market Opened by Cham- 
ber 
KALAMAZOO, Micu.—Among the 
successful undertakings of the Kalama 
Chamber of Commerce its the opening of a 
new public market Although the market 


was actually opened on June 1 











> 
+] 
- 





( nt me 5 
he Market (: tee of the Chamber ol 
é : he Mavor and the 
r izes for the best 
it 5 for th rgest 
the he ( ght to the marke 
tl i y to pularize 
] ( Vas ottere Tor 
hie < » I the secor best 
IK th vest nd SI tor the sec 
gest load 
| rket | n except lly 
t ed 0) Tu ew davs af 
‘ I y. elohtv-fnive S 
( re tl eariy e th 
vere sol \ll produce is sold 
tically all of it being lis 
ed of within an hour and a half afte 
irket is opened in the morning 
s of this effort predicts the ‘ 
elopment of other and larger plans of a 
1 Lure 
O. B. TOWN! 
Her { Commere 


+ ¢+ 


Battle Creek at Play 
,ATTLE CREEK, MiIcH Battle Creek as 
community is learning to play. The busi 


ness and professional man, as well as the 


children, are being educated in the art thru 


the efforts of the Community Play Com- 


tee of the Chamber of Commerce. Cer- 
davs are set asic during the year for 
ntertaining the young people. The enter 
tainment takes the form of play festivals, 


\enetian nights, Hallowe'en ce lebrations, 


community dances, roller skating, commun- 
Christmas trees, outdoor sports, parades, 
iutomobile rides, m isqu¢ rades, etc Vhe 


1 
] 


ness men are not only interested in giv- 


the youth a rood time on these occa- 
sions, but take an active part themselves in 
the general play. The children, in turn, re 
heartily to calls for assistance when 
needed during “clean-up” week, in fly- 
swatting contests vegetabl garden con 
tests, and other civic affairs, 


lhe principal event of the present season 


is the children’s play festival, held this year 
on June 22 and 23, under the immediate su 
pervision of the Comm unity Play Committee 
the Chamber, assisted bv the business 

en and school officials, who acted as hosts 


lhe testiviti started off on the afternoon 
of June 22 with an exhibition by the Boy 


Scouts In the evening the children were 


AM Cit ¥ Vor. XV, No. 2 


ken for an hour's automobile rice ine 


indred automobiles were furnished for 


this purpose by the owners of cars in th 


ity The play festival proper was held the 


ywwing day. A costume parade was pat 


cipated in by over 3,000 children from th¢ 
ides below the eighth. One hundred 


prizes were offered to the best costumed 


he retail merchants had bought 10,000 
oise-making toys, paper hats, squawkers, 


orns and flags, which were distributed to 


— 


the children as they were lined up for the 
parade, in which many weli-known public 


nd historical characters were represented 


\ floral play given by children from be 


tween the first and fifth grades was staged 
on three large truck floats. There wer 


ponies, a Ferris wheel and a merry-go 
round on which the children enjoyed them 
selves free of charge. Ice cream, cake, 
sandwiches and soft drinks were served to 
them for one cent a portion. 

In the evening the annual community 
dance was held on the new asphalt pave 
ment near the center of the city, the pave 
ment being sprinkled with oatmeal to make 
a smooth dancing surface. The block was 
brilliantly lighted for the occasion and 
roped off from the traffic. Five thousand 
couples can be accommedated on this dances 
floor, and there were fully that many pres- 
ent on the evening in question, from all 
walks of life. One end was reserved for 
the colored people and the opposite end for 
very small children who were learning to 
dance The Grand Trunk band of forty 
pieces furnished the music. Men were not 
permitted to wear their hats or to smoke 
on the dance floor. No criticism could be 
made of the conduct of the dancers during 
the evening. 

The children’s play festival on the busi 
ness street will probably be made an annual 
event., as the care of the children and their 
transportation to Athletic Park have been, 
in the past, a serious problem. 

GRANT S. BENNETT, 


Secretar Battle Creck Chamber of Commer« 


+ + 


New Bulletins 
\pr1An, Micu.—The Chambder of Commerce 
Vews, official bulletin of the Adrian Chamber 
f Commerce. Published weekly 


LOUISVILLE, Ky Board of Trade Journal 
Published monthly by the Louisville Board of 
lrade 








it Ne 


\ r, Igt0 i . NI \ i 


Recently Issued Printed Matter 


\ NTA, GA The Off il Bull 
eorgia ( ber of ( erce, Vol t , 

. ss t} ri eri T ] 

——— 7 McKees 
( s¢ : Vv: 

Boston, Mass.—The annual re f th alae alt Sie 
soston Chamber of ( ! 

Cul | Abst ‘ 

ait es relat ng t s t 

t treets ; 1 alleys V4 

eights and easure c . 

1 Club of Chicag 

DurRHAM, N. ( e ( 

iving humorous and othe \ ' c GC 
ty, published by t ) ( 

Wme;T { Tl 1 ecti T ‘ 1 \ 
il | nvent f the N \ Le 
\ss held at 1) 1 Ny y \ 


1 Jersey City Week-] S \ \ ) ) 
( | rsev City Cl eT 7 s — \l \ 
JOHNSTOWN, PA Eve 
} t _ Qs ( 
Johnstown Chamber Comme 
mplete review of its mplis nts ’ vi, 
; ; | 00 B Pp 
ist Of its omMeers and mmittees a1 . 
es = 
LAKE CHARLES, La.—Facts and Photograpl BR Rall. in cl a oa 
f Caleasieu Parish (a County of | i brary of Newark, N. J 
ind the City of Lake Charles, the Parish Seat isiot oe its Ty 
hamber of ( ‘ | I co. 


Compiled by the ( , 
s and Calcasieu Parish, Lal ( 


are 





The Federation of Planning Boards in Massachusetts 


\ long step towards the unification of Bulleti 2 
planning-board methods has been taken in Present Legislatio1 \ 
Massachusetts. Instead of working inde- gives a ce Si 
pendently in all matters, as separate units, Laws on streets 
these bodies have organized into one cet ind playgrounds, ac 
tral state association, known as the Mas opment, general law 
sachusetts Federation of Planning Boards.’ relating to planning , 
\ great deal of the work that is of state building, bills before tl “y ei 
wide interest will now be pe rformed by the Legislature that eal 
association under the direction of its execu planning, and vestic . 
tives. By a series of publications this cen posed and future legisl ( 
tral board will keep the members informed © sions of this p hlet 
of the latest developments in its field Other bulletins re 
The first of this series, Bulletin No. 1 the topics. “Future P > Le 
deals with the following subjects Part I, Publicity” and \ os 
‘The Functions of Massachusetts Planning mart of a program to edu 
Boards’: Part I], “The Official Plan.” In to make the members | 
this pamphlet there is the important sug Massachusetts is tl 
gestion that as an addition to the functions to have a federatio1 I 
of planning boards, its members should be and the association clai1 
members of or should constitute the boards that this state | 
of survey It is also suggested that th boards thar 1 ¢] otl e 4 
powers of the boards of survey might bh Union coml Ha 
well enlarged in certain definite direction Salem, M hait } ede 
Valuable matter on the “official plat 5 ion, and Artl ' brids 


here presented. Secretary 

















| FORWARD STEPS 


| Reported to The American City 
| BY MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS AND DEPARTMENT HEADS 








MAYORS 


A Modernized Police Department 
lopLin. Mo 


ment the equal of any in cities of our size 








lo make our police depart- 


has been our consistent aim since the es- 
tablishment of a commission form of gov 
ernment two years ago We have taken 
advantage of the recent progress in crimi 
nology by adopting the modern methods ot 
police research and organization. A Ber 
tillon and finger print identification system 
has been established. A pulmotor and am 
hulance service have been provided, and 
our expenditure for these has been more 
than justified, for during the past eighteen 
months the use of the pulmotor has saved 
five lives. A police alarm and signal sys- 
tem has been installed and a detective squad 
has been organized. 

The police corps is efficiently adminis- 
tered and trained. The terms “neat” and 
courteous,” which are in many cities mere- 
ly paper qualifications, are here translated 
into actual daily practice. An officer using 
intoxicants is dismissed from the service. 
\ policeman’s relief board has been estab 
lished for the benefit of those who are 
injured or disabled in the performance of 
their duties 

In the treatment of crime, as well as of 
those who are held for trial, we have joined 
the progressive movements of the times 
lhe citv jail has been remodeled and 
is kept clean and free from vermin. At 
night each prisoner is supplied with a clean 
towel and is required to take a shower 
bath. City prisoners, instead of being con- 
fined in jail, are now working at improving 








short articles from cit town and 
P t f interest and practical value to 
plans r other wlustratwe material 


land belonging to the city. Over 160 acres 
of brush land has been converted by them 
into a beautiful park at a very small cost 
to the city. Ten acres of this land is being 
made into a municipal garden, and the 
things grown there will be used to feed the 
prisoners during the winter. Any person 
charged with a minor offense, instead of 
being taken to jail, is served with a sum- 
mons to appear at the next session of the 
municipal court. 

Recognizing the great value of codpera- 
tion, a number of desirable measures have 
been instituted. Daily reports to the police 
‘epartment are required from junk, pawn- 
hop and second-hand dealers, and this has 











No. 1 


Department of Public Safety 
City of Joplin 


WALKRITE 


Please— 


1. Keep to the nght. 





4 

2. Don't stand in the middle of the walk 

or before entrances. 
3. Don't lower before shop windows; 

give the merchant a chance to dis- 

play his goods. 
4. Use only the cross-walks in passing 

to the other side ef the street. 
5. Do your sidewalk visiting only near 

the curb line—or , 


6. Keep moving 
7. DON’T BE A JAY WALKER. 





























CIRCULAR DISTRIBUTED BY THE JOPLIN 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY 











cetera 








\uGust, 1916 


proved very effective in keeping down 
thievery. Daily reports are also required 
from garages of all transient automobiles, 
and this requirement has proved a great 
aid to the detection and recovery of stolen 
automobiles. The city of Joplin was the 
pioneer in the passage of this auto regis- 
tration ordinance. A bureau of weights 
and measures has saved the citizens of Jop- 
lin many thousands of dollars per year by 
enforcing accurate weighing. 

Constructive welfare work has been un- 
dertaken. 
the police station for homeless men who 


\ place has been provided at 
want a night’s lodging. A girl’s dormitory 
has also been established with a police ma- 
tron in charge, for the benefit of stranded 
and homeless girls. 

Some rigorously enforced ordinances 
supply the ounce of prevention. The num- 
ber of dramshops has been limited to fifty, 
and they are restricted to certain districts. 
lhey will no longer be permitted to occupy 
corner locations. There has been no viola- 
tion of the dramshop regulations in the last 
two years. Public dances are strictly regu- 
lated. A moving picture censorship has 
been established and vaudeville acts of a 
suggestive or indecent nature are pro- 
hibited. 

The enforcement of a body of up-to-date 
trafic ordinances rounds out the activities 
of the police department. A few provisions 
are as follows: safety zones in the con- 
gested district; square corners in crossing 
the street; vehicles must not stand in front 
of certain buildings; muffler must not be 
cut out; dirigible searchlights are forbid- 
den; the opportunities of mendicants are 
curtailed, etc. 

HUGH McINDOF 
fayor 

Eprtor’s Notre.—Copies of the “Walkrite” circular 
and of a poster on the prevention of spitting, issued 


the Joplin Board of Health, may be obtained by 
readers of Tue American City on application to 


Mavor McIndoe 
+ + 
Assessment Methods 


JOHNSTOWN, 


Pa.—Johnstown's = City 
Council has taken another forward step in 
the matter of assessment methods, follow- 
ing a Chamber of Commerce luncheon ad- 
dressed by Mr. J. J. Pastoriza, author of 
the famous Houston plan of taxation. An 
ordinance has been introduced providing 
for the issue to city assessors of a tripli- 
cate of each transfer of real estate as re- 
corded in the registry of deeds department 


THE AMERICAN CITY 


in the City Engineer's office Heretofor 
the Register of Deeds was not authorize 


to furnish such data to the « 


although the tegistration books re opel 
for public inspection 

The block book plat will prot Y also be 
adopted. This provides for the division of 
the city into blocks, numbered or otherwise 
designated. One sheet will contain the 
boundaries and location of the block, an 
another, correspondingly marked, will con 


tain all the necessary data for quickly ar 
riving at valuation figures, such as th 
price per front foot, previous valuations, 
recent sales or transfers, values established 
thereby, etc. 

Four wards of Johnstown have already 
been covered by the Somers system, and it 
is believed that before many months the 
entire twenty-one wards will be mapped 
out by either this or some other system ot 
appraising values. 

LOUIS FRANKI 
Ma 


yor 





Grom FIRE 
| DEPARTMENTS | 


A Model Fire Station 


\uGusta, GAa- The new double auto fire 





station No. 7, located in the residential sec 
tion of this city, at Central Avenue and 
Troupe Street, was placed in commissior 
on May I, 1915. It is situated on a trian 
gular park, and is surrounded by a variety 
of trees and shrubbery, including pine, oak, 
wild cherry, magnolia, umbrella china 


berry, elm, poplar, maple and palm lo 
give the grass a smooth, velvety appear 
ance, the front and sides are sodded with 


Bermuda grass, which is cut every week 
The pavements, which are colored a deep 
red, set off in striking contrast the light 
gray building and the beautiful foliage in 
the background. 

The architecture of the building is ot 
Spanish mission style. The material is 
brick with stucco finish. The roof is of 
red tile, and tiles are used for the vest 
bules and the veranda. The building has a 
frontage of So feet on Central Avenue 
The main entrance and the lobby are in the 
center of the building. To the east of this 
main entrance is the captain's office, and to 


the west is a spacious stairway. Each ap 











180 THE AMERICAN CITY 


Vol ‘ XV, No 














\UTO STATION Ni FIRI 
Hoo is 2 feet wide and <x reet 
et lhe assembly room is 32 by 28 feet 


in the west side is a portico 8 feet deep 


tl i¢ floor 

l interior arrangements are modern 
| convenient lhe station contains co1 
odious sleepi g quarters, bath-rooms, 


showers, a billiard-room, a reading-room, 
i locker-room, etc. The interior finish, the 


furniture, the fixtures, two Gamewell (15 


inch) indicators and gongs, the automatic 
lectric light switch, the self-recording 
water pressure gauge, the telephones and 

bells—all are of the very latest design. 


\utomatic red Signa lights over each ap 
paratus door flash at night when the bell 
strikes, to warn approaching trolley cars to 
\ triple 


wait until the apparatus passes 


motor pump (750 gallons) and a motor 
combination hook and ladder truck (with 
a 55-foot extension ladder) are on _ the 
lower fl 


oor of the building. Each piece 
ot apparatus has six men under one cap 
iin, and one lieutenant is in charge of the 
twelve men he captain is in charge of 
the pump and the lieutenant has charge of 


the truck. lhe men assigned to the pump 


~ 


and those assigned to the truck sleep in 


lhe build 


ing and fixtures cost $13,000, the apparatus 


quarters over their apparatus 


$14,500, making a total cost of $27,500 


$27, 
his double company covers a valuable ter 
ritory, in which are two tourists’ hotels. a 


large college tor women, and some of the 


most expensive residences in the city 


DEPARTMENT AUGUSTA, GA 





AUTOMATIC ELECTRIC LIGHT SWITCH IN 
AUTO STATION NO. 7, AUGUSTA, GA 


Many tourists, many apparatus manufac- 
turers, and quite a number of fire chiefs 
who have inspected this modern station, 
pronounce it one of the most attractive and 
complete in the United States. 

FRANK G. REYNOLDS, 


Chief, Fire Department 





vee 





- 


eel 


, 





\uGusT, 1916 


THE AMERICAN CITY 181 




















AUTOMOBILE FIRE APPARATUS IN MARSHALLTOWN, IOWA 


A Well-Equipped Fire Department 


MArSHALLTOWN, lowa.—This photograph 
of the Marshalltown Fire Department 
shows two combined chemical and hose 
Kissel fire trucks and one Kissel city ser- 
vice truck, all equipped with Goodyear 
tires. Truck No. 1 at the left of the pic- 
ture is equipped with a 50-gallon tank of 
chemical, two Babcocks, two Pyrene hand 
fire extinguishers, one Baker Universal 
cellar pump, four nozzles, three Peerless 
hose clamps, one door-opener, 1,100 feet 
of 24-inch hose, 250 feet of chemical 
hose, one 30-foot extension ladder, one 
20-foot ladder, one roof ladder and a full 
equipment of tools. Truck No. 2, which is 
used in the factory district, is equipped 
with practically the same equipment as 
Truck No. 1, but has in addition tools for 
use in factory fires. 

The city service truck, at the right of the 
picture, which is used in the business dis- 
trict, or in any fire in a building higher 
than two stories, is equipped as follows: 
two Pompier life belts and one life net, 
two Pompier ladders, one wire-cutter, four 
axes, one 50-, one 35- and one 16-foot lad- 
der, three shorter ladders, one 12-foot roof 
ladder, one Vajen smoke protector, one 35- 
gallon chemical tank, 250 feet chemical 
hose, one plaster-hook, one tin roof cutter, 
two pitchforks, one door-opener, six hel- 
mets and a complete equipment of tools. 

Station No. 1, in the business district of 
the city, has six firemen and one chief. 
Station No. 2, in the factory district, has 
four firemen, including the assistant chief. 
For the Chief, the department provides a 
motorcycle, which enables him to reach 
fires even in advance of the truck. There 


are twenty-four fire box stations in various 
parts of the city, and at the stations two 
indicators and one transmitter. The equip- 
ment has given very satisfactory service. 
Since the establishment of the paid depart- 
ment some fifteen or twenty years ago, no 
fire has ever spread from the walls of the 
building in which the fire started. The de- 
partment has had many bad fires to contend 
with which have given the equipment a 


thoro test. 
\. T. ANDERSON, 


ef, Tire Depa ent 





From HEALTH 
DEPARTMENTS 


Coordinating Health Department 
Activities 

The newer conception of the functions of 

a Department of Health, resulting in a 

broadening of its activities, has led in many 





instances to a complete reorganization of 
its administrative make-up. Such a change 
has been introduced in Dallas, Tex. 

Previous to the reorganization of the De- 
partment of Public Health by the present 
city administration in May, 1915, the City 
Health Officer performed the double func- 
tion of health officer and resident physician 
of the City Hospital. As a result of this 
arrangement and of the limited funds then 
appropriated for public health work, very 
little activity of a preventive nature was 
carried on by the department. 

The present mayor, Hon. Henry D. Linds- 
ley, realized that the function of a prop- 
erly organized department of public health 























Q rH! 
uC 
} | 
+} 
} 
‘ ()theer 0 
t} 
i He 4 ( ( 
the reg vit statist c 
ie ( lirecte f Sani 
t ? r + 
eve ection 
| the « he food 
( Dut £ t year 
\ é es of the « rtment 
e bee ca st success iy un 
1 
er these three ( S 1 the id 
\ iges ¢ | t] ( val t h ve 
‘ re t] the 
1 
he 
—— — 
f . 
ieesnesen 
a | 
E _ + . | 
Sick | 
a | 
T 
} 
———— ‘= — 
I ack f Pat ealth i 
r | 
L — = —- , 














Division of Preventive Division » 
Medicine & Sanitetion|__| ing & Admir 
N.C. Hamner H.W. Var 








Bureao of Sar 
tary Inspection 














\s the worl 


lagnitude 


} 


by coordinati1 
department undet 


his | 


J 

Th lan was 
the City Hi 
the Board of 


of Public ' 
has full charg 
(Commissioners 


ol all the 
The present orga 


is shown in the 


der the 


ce it became evi- 


be gair from the 
efficiency a economy, 
three branches of the 
ne v4 ] 


iministrative head. 
heartily | 


endorsed \ 


ilth Officer and the members of 


the 


fhee, that of Director 


th and resulted in 


e incumbent of which 
Mavor at 1 ¢ ity 
Health, 


1 the city 


1e Board of 
th activities it 
of the department 
ve diagram 

CHARLES SAVILLE, 


Health, Dallas, Tex 


AMERICAN 





Cite Vor. XV, No 

















Sron COUNTY | 


Ps 
at 


__ENGINEER S| 


Economical Road Signs 
Wasu.—A 


lat is reasonable in cost, adaptable in cor 





CLARKE COUNTY, road sig 
struction and permanent in service has beet 
use for Clarke 
Wash. 
(he accompanying photograph shows on: 
of these signs. It is all metal, th 
hich are made by the R. Hardesty 
facturing Company, of Denver, 


some time in County, 


letters 
Manu 
being 18 


gauge and the plate 14 gaug« rhe letters 

















ROAD SIGN IN CLARKE COUNTY, WASH 


are 


welded on the plate and 


each. 


cost 5 cents 
rhe cost of the sign was based solely 
on the number of these letters. 

\bout sixty of these signs have been set 
by me in the following manner: first, the 
natural location of the sign to be set was 
determined from the seat of an automobile 
With the post hole digger, 


bored down about 30 inches. 


use of a we 


I put the sign 


— — Qi 


oc A 





~~ 








Aucust, 1916 


on a 2-inch galvanized water pipe 12 feet 
long and set this pipe in the hole. . The sign 
was then turned in the proper direction and 
two clamps, one at the top and the other at 
the bottom, fastened it tightly. This ar- 
rangement makes it evident that the sign is 
adjustable to whatever angle the forks in 
a road may make. 

The next part of the procedure was to 
mix a very thin grout of sand, cement and 
water, and to pour it into the hole. The 
rock or gravel was then dumped in, tamped, 
more grout added, and so on. As we neared 
the top the grout was made thicker, and for 
the last 6 inches the mixture was made in 
the bucket, so that a good, plastic concrete 
that could be smoothed would result. 

I believe that this type of sign is one of 
the most economical, if we take into ac- 
count its cost and its permanence, that can 
be put up. 

W. A. SCHWARZ, 
County Engineer. 


rom CITY PLANNING 
COMMISSIONS 


The New Berkeley Zone Ordi- 

nance 

BerKeELety, Cat.—This suburban city of 
60,000 population was the second munici- 
pality in the state to establish a city plan- 
ning commission. The local body is called 
the Civic Art Commission because of a 
charter requirement. This name, by the 
way, has been found to be somewhat of a 
drawback, as it implies to local citizens an 
over-emphasis on the esthetic side of city 
planning and the giving of insufficient im- 
portance to the consideration of economic 
requirements and the study of better liv- 
ing conditions. 

The Berkeley Commission believed that 
the best foundation for city planning was 
a good zone ordinance, which would pro- 
vide districts in which established resi- 
dences and other properly located buildings 
might be protected by ordinance from the 
intrusion of the apartment house, from cer- 
tain businesses that make adjoining prop- 
erty no longer desirable—as undertaking 
establishments, laundries, coal and feed 
yards, etc.—and from industries of various 
types. They spent several months of hard 
work studying the Los Angeles and Minne- 











THE AMERICAN CITY 183 


apolis zone regulations, and others, finally 
recommending to the Council the present 
ordinance, which was unanimously adopted 
March 28, 1916, and went into effect a 
month later. 

This ordinance is in reality an enabling 
act, defining eight classes of districts or 
zones which may be formed by the passage 
of later ordinances, each locating a definite 
geographical district in which all property 
would be specifically limited to the use of 
the class designated. The only improve- 
ments permitted in these districts will be as 
follows: 


In Class I, single family residences. 

In Class II, single or two-family dwellings. 

In Class III, single or two-family or group 
dwellings with separate ground floor entrances, 
and not more than two stories in height. 

In Class IV, single, two-family or group 
dwellings and boarding houses and clubs (of 
which there are a great number surrounding 
the University of California, located in Berke- 
ley). 

In Class V, all buildings permitted in classes 
I, II, III and IV, and apartment houses, hotels 
and restaurants without display windows. 

In Class VI, public buildings such as 
churches, schools, parks, etc. 

In Class VII, ordinary industries that are 
not obnoxious. 

In Class VIII, industries of the heaviest 
type, which might prove obnoxious because of 
odors, smoke or noise. 

When the establishment of a district is 
proposed, the ordinance provides for the 
posting of notices thruout the given area 
and for a public hearing of protests before 
the Council, as in street work proceedings. 

Definite rules for the establishment of 
districts in Berkeley have been adopted as 
follows: 


1. The petitioners must secure the signature 
of fifty property owners in the proposed dis- 
trict, or of the owners of at least 25 per cent 
of the frontage therein. 

2. The petition must give the number and 
exact use of all buildings in the proposed dis- 
trict and state those, if any, where existing 
use would be prohibited. 

3. The petitioners must file a map showing 
the proposed boundaries, and the location and 
use of all existing buildings in different colors, 
as taken from the insurance maps, and must 
include all property and buildings for one 
block beyond the proposed district in each di- 
rection. 

4. The petitioners must certify as to the cor- 
rectness of the map and uses of property given 
and name a representative to confer with the 
Civic Art Commission and the Council. 


While the ordinance has been in effect 
only a short time, several districts have 





Sn a ee 


: 
' 
: 
: 
: 
; 
; 










































Ry THE AMERICAN CITY 


already filed their petitions and more are 
in process of formation. The Civic Art 
Commission is checking these up thoroly 
and carefully, interviewing all property 
owners affected in order that the utmost 
protection may be established with common 
sense and equity. 

The Berkeley ordinance is frankly a de- 
parture, and it is not absolutely certain how 
far the courts will construe as a “degree 
of reasonableness” the restrictions and pro- 
tection of living conditions provided in 
Classes I, I], I] and IV. State and na- 
tional courts seem to be more and more 
liberal in every decision on the use of the 
police power. 

The reason for setting aside a_ special 
district of Class VI for schools, churches 
and public buildings, is that if such prop- 
erty so districted is sold and the building 
is in the center of a good residence district, 
as often happens, the property could not 
become the site of a laundry, an undertak- 
ing establishment, a factory, etc., which 
would cause deterioration of values, with- 
out first amending the ordinance. This 
would require from thirty to sixty days’ 
notice and allow ample time for protest and 
the handling of the situation. As it is now, 
unclassified property may change hands, 
and buildings for a harmful use may go up 
without warning or redress. 

It is also noteworthy that districts of 
Classes VII and VIII for ordinary and for 
obnoxious factories both prohibit resi- 
dences in an area reserved for factories. 
This is another strict housing provision 
based on the observation of established fac- 
tory zones in many cities, in which the 
manufacturer has secured broad districts 
where factories may exist, with municipal 
sanction, and housing go to the devil. It 
seemed better to keep the factory districts 
very small and compact and encourage 
workmen's residence districts, for resi- 
dences only under Classes I and II, side by 
side with the factory districts, but each 
protected from the intrusion of the other. 
This is sound planning and good common 
sense and should stand the acid test of the 
courts. 

There is a certain disadvantage in the 
present method employed in Berkeley and 
in many other cities, of waiting for districts 
to form and petition to come under the or- 
dinance. At this time New York City and 
several other municipalities are being dis- 


Vor. XV, No. 2 


tricted as a whole and protections imposed 
upon all sections at once by a central au- 
thority. It would seem desirable and profit- 
able to have a stable regulation on all of 
the city at once. Under their present ordi- 
nances a large part of Berkeley and Minne- 
apolis and of cities with similar provisions, 
must remain unclassified and therefore con- 
tinue a hodge-podge and in uncertainty as 
to development for many years to come. 

The Berkeley zone ordinance has started 
neighborhood discussion in all parts of 
town in regard to individual versus com- 
munity rights. In this way it is arousing 
more thoroly than ever before new civic 
consciousness and forethought. As a-basis 
for sound future city planning, as well as 
for the splendid protection and stability it 
offers to property values, it is a construc- 
tive step in the right direction. 


CHARLES H. CHENEY, 
Consultant to the Berkeley Civic Art Commission. 


com HIGHWAY | 
DEPARTMENTS | 


Keeping the Streets Clean 








e . 
PHILADELPHIA, Pa.—A campaign of edu- 


cation for cleaner streets is being waged 
by the Bureau of Highways of the Depart- 
ment of Public Works. Our intention is 
not to inaugurate enthusiasm that will sub- 
side after the lapse of a week, but to con- 
duct the campaign in such a manner as will 
leave a permanent impression on the com- 
munity. We have been trying to awake the 
social consciousness by appealing to an in- 
nate sense of neatness-and propriety, and 
to this end have been making a wide dis- 
tribution of literature on this subject. 

A yellow card, containing an appeal to 
the citizens, having a number of “Don'ts” 
on one side and a few extracts of laws on 
the other, is being served on the occupants 
of every home or building in the city. 
Larger cards are printed to be placed in the 
windows of every trolley car in operation 
thruout the city. These cards are so fas- 
tened to the windows that one side, which 
bears a text, can be read by the passengers, 
while the other, in poster form, can be seen 
from the outside. <A third set of large 
cards is being displayed in store, shop and 
office windows. 

On the yellow card mentioned above is 











; } 


eed 








AuGust, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 185 


CAN YOUR RUBBISH, 


also 
YOUR SIDEWALK AND 


BUREAU OF HIGHWAYS AND STREET CLEANING 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS 


CITY OF PHILADELPHIA 


IMPORTANT OFFICIAL NOTICE 


TO ALL CITIZENS IN REFERENCE TO CLEANER STREETS 


STOR 2 4 E E Pp | i] CS s. a... oan of the City of Philadelphia is taking this means of making a direct 





i} has shown that a very 


appeal to you and everyone of its 1,700,000 citizens to co-operate 


rgent personal 
with its officials in the campaign for cleaner streets. 
portion of the dirt and litter found on our streets is caused by carelessness 





considerable 
on the part of the citizens in their failure to comply with the laws to prevent dirt and rubbish being thrown. 


and 
swept or scattered upon the 


LET EACH ONE DO HIS OR.HER PART AND IN THE FUTURE 


DON fail to put your rubbish in separate 
receptacies from those used for 
ashes. 


GT Sto wo 6 eb tight re- 

cepfacies, or to securely tie it into 

bundles. 

DON fail to use tight receptacles for ashes. 
If possible, provide galvanized iron 


DON fail to leave at least 3 inches of clear 
between 


the street. 


DON'T vmecat receptacte or gartege and to DON'T 


keep it covered at all times 


DON'T sweep dirt, rubbisn, waste paper 


grass cuttings, or anything else into 
the street from your place of business 
or hore. Put it in tight rubbish 
receptacles or,tie it irfto bundles to 


be taken up by the regular city DON'T 


collector 


DON'T dispose of newspapers, waste paper, 


cardboard boxes, fruit peelings or 
anything else by throwing it into the 


street or on the sidewalk. Deposit DON'T 


it in a street rubbish receptacle, or 
keep it in your possession until you 
can deposit it in a proper receptacle. 


"7 pack, unpack or store anything on 
the sidewalk or street. 


overload or carelessly load any ve- 
hicle carrying dirt or any other 
materials that are likely to be spilled 
on the street. Don't use any vehicle 
from which these materiais are 
likely to fall or leak while being 
carried through the streets. 


distribute advertising literature in 
the form of handbills. circulars, etc, 
on the streets or on the porches or 
in the vestibules or yards of dwell- 
ings or other buildings. 


forget that every particle of dirt or 
rubbish and every scrap of paper 
carelessly thrown or allowed to find 
its way onto the highway must later 
be picked up and removed, and that 
you, the tax-payer, must pay for 
having this done. 





THOMAS 6. SMITH, Mayor, City of Pritedeiphic. 
GEORGE E DATESMAN, Director, Department of Pubic Works 


ONE OF THE LARGE PLACARDS USED 


some interesting material. Besides the 
laws for the separation of ashes and rub- 
bish and the use of proper garbage recep- 
tacles, the card contains extracts from the 
city ordinances on scavengers and rag- 
pickers, store sweepings, throwing or 
sweeping of rubbish or anything else upon 
the streets, the distribution of advertising 
literature, and the overloading of wagons 
or other vehicles. 
WILLIAM H. CONNELL, 
Chief of the Bureau of Highways. 


i From CITY 





ENGINEERS 


Rehabilitating a Sewer System 

St. AUGUSTINE, FLA.—Previous to 1915, 
at which time the commission-manager 
form of government went into power, the 
city of St. Augustine had made only spas- 
modic efforts at retaining the services of a 
city engineer. It was customary to engage 
an outside firm to do the engineering work, 





WILLIAM H. WILSON, Directo, Department of Pubitc Setety 
WILLIAM H. CONNELL, Crief, Burceu of Highways and Street Civening. 


IN THE PHILADELPHIA TROLLEY CARS 


and the yearly average paid on such work 
would have nearly paid the salary of a good 
engineer. While not depreciating the work 
of some of those employed by the hit-or- 
miss plan, it may be stated that the results 
to the city obtained by this method cannot 
be compared with the results of employing 
a permanent engineer. The permanent en- 
gineer has time and opportunity to gather 
information, to study conditions and work 
toward a general plan. Better permanent 
records will also be left. 

When the writer accepted the position of 
City Engineer of St. Augustine in October, 
1915, he found that the storm sewers were 
not doing the work that should be expected 
of them. The water would stand over some 
of the catch basins for nearly a day after 
arain. There were only three manholes to 
be found on six miles of storm sewers, and 
the only plan to be found was one owned 
by the Florida East Coast Hotel Company, 
showing approximate location of a number 
of services which that company had con- 
structed, some as early as 1887. 

The sewer grades must necessarily be 





186 rHE AMERICAN CITY 


Vot. XV, No. 2 





slight, for the ground ts 
very flat and there is 


; : 
scarcely a place Io teet 

] 
above mean sea _ level 
Notwithstanding this 
very flat grade, no at 


tempt had evet been 
made to clean the 
sewers, except occasion 
ally to flush with a fire 
hose, altho a large per 
cent had been in the 
ground over twenty-five 
years 


Manhoie and catch 














basin castings and ; A 6INCH LATERAL EXTENDING HALF WAY THRU AN 


sewer cleaning machine 
were purchased and the 
work of constructing manholes for the 


purpose ot cleaning the sewers was be 
gun in December, I915 Much difficulty 
was experienced in most of the sections in 
running the rods thru the sewers, and in 
nearly every case it was necessary to flush 


the sewer to aid the rods \ll the sewers 

















ONE CLUMP OF ROOTS TAKEN FROM A 
12-INCH STORM SEWER IN ST, AUGUSTINE 


were found to have large quantities of dirt 
and occasionally large chunks of roots. 
One 12-inch sewer in a prominent street, 
close to the business and hotel district, was 
95 per cent full of dirt. In one instance two 
12-inch and one 8-inch sewer emptied into 
a ten-inch trunk This trunk, as well as 
some other sewers, had an up-grade toward 
the outlet. In two other cases one 12-inch 
pipe formed the outlet for two 12-inch 
pipes, all on about the same grade. 


8-INCH MAIN 


lhe Valencia Street sewer was shown by 
the Florida East Coast Hotel Company 
plan to run thru the railroad yards and 
empty into the San Sebastian River near 
the railroad bridge. A thoro search for 
the outlet revealed nothing until a foreman 
was found who had been around the yards 
for a number of years. He went to a point 
about 50 feet back from the present shore 
line and said that the end of the pipe was 
under the place where he stood. The end 
of the pipe was found buried under rubbish 
5 feet deep. 

The process of cleaning the sewers re- 
vealed obstructions in the pipe. In several 
cases pipes of various sizes crossed thru 
the sewer. One 4-inch gas main crossed 
thru the center of a 12-inch sewer. One 
6-inch lateral from a catch basin extended 
4 inches into the 8-inch main with which it 
connected. One obstruction was a sharp 
reverse curve made by two one-eighth 
bends. There was no apparent cause for 
this freak. 

When the work of constructing manholes 
was begun there was adverse criticism, for 
it was considered useless expense. About 
150 manholes have been constructed and 
most of the sewers have been cleaned. 
Now that the former critics have seen the 
results of the work they have changed their 
opinion. As one expressed it: “Where it 
formerly required hours for the water to 
get away, it now requires only minutes. 
lhe sewers are as good as new at a frac- 
tion of the cost of constructing new ones.” 

C. E. HENDERSON, 
City Engineer, 


RE 


4 
‘3 
: 
¢ 





hee 


\ucustT, 1916 THE 








From PARK 





A Place for the People’s Parties 


GRAND Rapips, Micu.—In an effort to 
encourage community interest the Board of 
Park and Cemetery Commissioners at 
Grand Rapids, Mich., has taken an unusual 
step which has proven gratifyingly success- 
ful. 

\t Garfield Park a two-story house was 


» 


erected at a cost of approximately $2,500. 





DEPARTMENTS | 


AMERICAN CITY 187 


The caretaker of the park, wl has 


family, is housed in the upper story, and the 


cost of his maintenance is thus mate/ially 


decreased. His wife is an exc cook 
and with proper notice will concoct refresh 
ents for a party at a moderate 

lhe only requirements which are insisted 
upon by the Board are that each guest sha 
register, that boisterous conduct be taboo 
and that smoking shall be forgott Sines 
the establishment of the Lodge only one 


party has violated the rules; they sue 
ceeded in breaking several chairs before the 
caretaker exercised his special police 


powers. The name of each member was 

















GARFIELD LODGE AND WADING 


It is of cement-plaster and frame construc- 
tion and is situated in the center of a grove 
of trees on the banks of a beautiful wading 
pool. On the first floor is a dance hall, with 
several small lounging and rest rooms. The 
second floor was modeled into a _ living 
apartment. 

This house, which is known as Garfield 
Lodge, is given over free for the use of 
any party, not to exceed thirty persons, on 
application to the secretary of the Board. 
A piano is a part of the furniture, and par- 
ties not caring to go to the expense of hir- 
ing a small orchestra find it economical for 
members to furnish the music. The light 
and heat are furnished gratis, and it is 
possible for a party to indulge in a very 
satisfactory entertainment without a cent 
of expense. 





POOL, GRAND RAPIDS, MICH 


secured from the register, and all were 


served with a polite, yet forceful, notice not 


to ask for a second privilege. 

In the winter time the lodge is always in 
use. Dancing parties are not the only func- 
tions, although they are predominant. Fre- 
quently Sunday School classes stage so- 
cials there, and mothers’ meetings are often 
held. It is the center of the minor social 
life in the vicinity and a favorite place for 
gatherings of all descriptions. In the sum 
mer it furnishes an ideal place around 
which lawn socials and other events of 
similar nature may be centered 

Che success of the | odge S unqu¢ stioned. 
Che money Sav ed on the expense Of main 
taining the caretaker will soon pay off the 
original cost. The expense for light and 
fuel is proportionately small And it has 











188 THE AMERICAN CITY Vor. XV, No. 2 


encouraged social activity and community 
miter tt such an extent that officials ce 
clare the benefit « ly remunerates tot the 
expenditure The Lodge has grown to lx 

uch a part of the community as th 
park itself, and without it the children and 


young folk would be heavily handicapped 

It creates a desire fot wholesome, clean 
entertainment and fun, which is just what 
every growing child and voung person 
needs. It gives them a place to go ot even- 
ings, where they meet their friends and ac 
quaintances and enjoy innocent pleasures 
Without it they would be forced to remain 
cooped up at home or they would be out 
running about the streets and placing them 
selves in jeopardy. There they are under 
fine supervision and their best behavior 1s 
encouraged. hey grow to like that sort 
of pleasure and it satisfies them. Without 
it they would be at a loss to know what to 
do, and as a result they would drift into 
dangerous channels. From a moral stand 
point, the lodge is indispensable. 

In the near future, it is anticipated, a spe- 
cial bond issue will be voted upon which 
will provide a fund sufficient to build lodges 
in all the wards of the city. 

rf. E. PULTI 


President, Park and Cemetery Board 





= 


From WATER 






‘y 
| 
| 
| 
| 








DEPARTMENTS | 





Laying a Submerged Water-Main 


RicuMonp, Va.—The accompanying pho- 
tographs are those of a submerged 20-inch 
cast iron bell-and-spigot water-main in the 
bottom of James River, in Richmond. 

Chis piece of work was begun about the 
middle of May, 1912, and completed on 
\pril 22, 1914. It was a tedious and dif- 
ficult undertaking. Coffer-dams had to be 
built on an uneven surface composed of 
boulders of stone. The greatest difficulty 
was in getting the coffer-dam tight, as the 
rocks and boulders had so many fissures, 
which caused leaks. One trouble encoun- 
tered was due to the blasting done a few 
years earlier, when the Railway Company's 
power dam was built. This dam crosses 
the river just where the water-main enters 
the southern shore, and the blasting had 
loosened many rocks. There were, of 


course, a great many “I told you so’s” who 
prophesied failure, but after the main was 
completed and no leaks developed no one 
had any comments 


The main was laid in a true line from 





shore to shore, crossing the famous Belle ? 

Isle (where Union prisoners were held dur f 

ing the Civil War) and a small island. 

lhe main extended 700 feet on Belle Isle 

and about 150 feet on the small island. a 

rhe total length of the main is about 3,000 

feet. I was very careful in preparing speci 

fications as to the manner of laying the 

pipe, the trench in the rock and on the isl 

and 1 also specified how the joints should 

be made—i.e., the depth and thickness of 

lead joints and the proper method of caulk 

ing. The contractor was required to have 

all joints made by employes of our pipe 

laying force, under the charge of the resi 

lent engineer or myself. 

The pipe was tested at the foundry at 

300 pounds per square inch, and was also 

tested at 150 pounds per square inch hydro- 

static. It was laid in sections varying from 

150 to 300 feet, and each section was tested 

when finished. The same pressure was put 

on all sections laid as the work progressed, 

but a test of 150 pounds on the whole line’. 

was made when it was finished. Only one ‘ 

pipe burst, and that was caused by fish 

hunters with a Mauser rifle shooting at 

fish in shallow water, their bullets striking 

the pipe. There was 90 pounds pressure on 

the pipe at the time it burst. This hap- 

pened on the small island and the break was 

soon repaired. The depth of the water 
. 
t 














AFTER THE LINE WAS RIPRAPPED 





\MER 


THE 


\uGUST, 1916 


ICAN 


Oo i a 











THE LINI 


t. Davis is stan 


HOW 


S 


over the pipe varies from 6 feet to the sur 


face of the river at low flow, near one of 
the islands. 
We were often asked if there was not 


some danger of the pipe bursting or leak 
ing. My reply was that the manner of lay 


ng this pipe was the same as if it were 





LOOKED 


IN THE ROCK TRENCH 
e further end of the pipe 
that no troubl 


an earth trench; 


developed in the trench pipe 
did not be lie ve th il 


more, that | 
the rive 


properly in the bottom of 


fail any quicker than in an earth tren 





THE LAKE 


main tac 


Plenty of city water is the tor it 
building is the home of Supt. William O'N« 


the vicinity 


we 


GENEVA, 


ring tor 


WATER-WORKS 


WIS., 
these attractive wr na 


he law erves as a pla 

















190 


Types of Motor Apparatus Used by City 
Fire Departments 

















AMERICAN-LA FRANCE APPARATUS IN THE RALEIGH, N. C., FIRE DEPARTMENT 





siti ~ — — 
} ~ aT 






me ee Ly 
— 





ie i Seip eB 











j 





HOOK AND LADDER EQUIPMENT MOUNTED ON A KELLY CHASSIS FOR THE CITY OF 
INDIANAPOLIS, IND. 











» —aniitoew 







\ucustT, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 








CLARA ARAL LA Sr ae 























SOUTH BEND COMBINATION CHEMICAL AND HOSE TRUCK 














3 GRAMM-BERNSTEIN TRACTOR WITH AERIAL TRUCK, LIMA, OHIO 


ides ss 





rH! AMERICAN CITY Vor. XV, No 

















ROBINSON “JUNIOR” FIRE ENGINE FOR SMALL COMMUNITIES 




















PACKARD TRUCK USED BY BALTIMORE SALVAGE CORPS 





Pemanae~ 


i ca 




















ELECTRIC-DRIVEN DIRECT-LIFT 


BRIDGE AT LOUISVILLE, KY 


A Unique Electric Direct-Lift Bridge 


By Frank C. Perkins 


HE accompanying illustration shows a 
novel and interesting electric-driven 
direct-lift span providing 55-foot 

clearance over the Louisville and Portland 
Cana] at Louisville, Ky. This bridge con 
sists of the main, or lift span, 210 feet long, 
and an approach span at each end, 85 feet 
and 75 feet long, respectively. The main 
trusses, which contain eight panels, each 26 
feet 3 inches long, are of the Pratt type, 
with inclined upper chords, and are spaced 
18 feet apart. The approach trusses are 
spaced 18 feet 6 inches apart, and the un- 
usual offset top strut to the main column, 
required to allow clearance for the counter- 
weights, may be noted. The bridge is de- 
signed for highway traffic only. The road- 
way has 16 feet clear width. The lift span 
is counterbalanced by counterweighted 
‘rane-like trusses, pivotally mounted on the 
main vertical posts of the approach spans at 
either end. These counterweighted trusses 
are provided with a pair of hangers, pin- 
connected near their mid-sections, while the 
lower extremities are pin-connected to the 
lift span, and their upper extremities are 
pin-connected to a member termed the 
“counterweight link,” the rear extremity of 
which is pin-connected to the counter- 
weight. The concrete counterweight itself 


is so connected to the rear extremity of th 
counterweight trusses that the four main 
pin points form a parallelogram. By virtue 
of this parallelogram and the connecting 
hanger, the main span and center of gravity 
of the counterweight are permitted to move 
vertically. 

In operation the span travels a vertical 
distance of 40 feet from the closed position 
to the fully open position. The movement 


is effected by means of electric operation, 
the operating pinions, four in number, being 
located at each corner of the span, below 
the floor, and engaging vertical fixed racks 
on the inside faces of the tower posts. It 
is claimed that only one minute is required 
to raise the span by electric power from 
the closed to the fully open position, and 
that the same period is required to lower it 
Emergency hand operation is also provided 
by two turning levers, which can be used at 
each end in the center of the roadway. In 
dicators are installed in the operator’s 
house, consisting of white and red incandes 
cent lights showing the various positions of 
the bridge. The movement automatically 
cuts out the lifting motors when the span is 
6 feet from the fully open or the fully 
closed position. However, a spring switch 
is provided which, if held closed, will 





THE AMERICAN CITY 























Published June, 1916 


THE PLANNING 


OF THE 


MODERN CITY 


By Ni Lew ngineer of the Board of Kstimate 
and Apportionment New York Cit Member, Am. Soc. C. E 


This book covers every phase of city planning. 





IT DEALS with th ibject from an engineering view 
point rom tl ty nvineer’s viewpoint—rather than 
from the architect landscape architect or the adminis 
tr | ih ] .* 

IT DIFFERS from other volumes in the comprehensive 
manner in which it is written, at the same time providing 
the required deta ul exactness necessary to make it 


. - 
valuable to all who 


FOR OVER 30 YEARS the author has been engaged in all branches of municipal 
engineering work, during the last fourteen of which he had intimately to do with the plan 
of the City of New York. He has also made an extensive study of the plans of many 
other cities both in this country and Europe, and has contirubted numerous articles to the 


literature bearing on city planning 


Examine this book and appreciate its valu Sign the coupon below and mail today 
No cash in advance is required 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 











The City Planning Movement Street Details—Utility and Adornment 
The Correction of Mistak« The Railroad in Its Relation to the Street System 
Elements of a City Plan Restrictions 
The Transportation Systen rhe Environs of the City 
The Street System Garden Cities 
Parks and Recreation Fa t City Planning Legislation 
Public Buildings and Ci Centre Progress and Methods 
The Economic Value of a City Plan Financing a City Plan 
~*~, The Industrial Tow r District Municipal Land Policies 
Street Trafl The Opportunities and Responsibilities 
~ of the Municipal Engineer 
ae 439 pages, 6 x 9, 62 figures in the text, and 87 full-page plates. 
» Cloth, $3.50 net. 
™% 
° ° . 
John Wiley & Sons Sa Free Examination—No Cash in Advance. 
lac. ° . 
432 Fourth Ave..N.Y.C  *@ You can examine this book for ten days, without sending 
GentumMEn:—Kindly send cash in advance. This privilege is extended to subscribers 
. tor free examinat m ; " . * ’ . ‘ 
~ f Lewis-City Planning “% to American City, or to members of any National 
It is understood that I am to remit 4 > engineering society. A reference will also be accepted 
the pri f this book, or retu t 49 
np, ° 
* John Wiley & S I 
» John Wile ons, Inc. 
* 

S432 FOURTH AVENUE, NEW YORK CITY 
st London: CHAPMAN & HALL, Ltd. 
ndicate nt nes a ‘ r you are A Sule ber to 
American City; org 2c of the Engineering Society of ~*~ Montreal, Can: RENOUF PUB. CO. 
which you area member. | are neither a subscriber to Amer- 
ican City or a mem» 23an Engineering Society, you can supply 


a reference 





























46 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 





AUGUST, 1916 PHI AMERICAN CITY 


render the automatic cut-out ineffectual and hous 
enable the bridge tender further to operate — chi: 


the bridge. 


erate 
For safety first, gates are provi led on the gate 
pproaches, controlled from the operator’s _ bridge is 


How a California Town Welcomed the Stranger 
Within Its Gates 


By N. Maude Scott 


Member, Women’s Auxiliary of the Santa Cruz Chamber of Commerce 


ANTA CRUZ, CAL., is literally a bordering th 


y ordering y 
garden spot, even in that land of sun Monterey Ba Se 
shine and flowers. It is picturesquely ect fro 

situated. A. broken line of wooded hills also modify tl ( 

forms a background and affords protection I 


from severe winds. From these hills the portant and valuabl 
town terraces down, with charming irregu- tors to Santa Cruz 
larity, to a broad stretch of sandy beach 

















ONE OF THE TWO BOOTHS MAINTAINED BY THE WOMEN’S AUXILIARY 
OF COMMERCE OF SANTA CRUZ, FOR THE DAILY DISTRI! 
FLOWERS AND FOLIAGE 








THE AMERICAN CITY 


BE UP-TO-DATE 
Double Service rm Trolley Poles 








> 














ili THE OLD WAY THE NEW WAY (24 Hours Service) 
i} Two sets of poles. One set of Elreco combination poles. : 
Y Tubular steel for supporting trolley wires. The addition of ornamental bracket and bas: ; 
\ : : sare Gibes transforms the ordinary plain trolley pole into 
} Cast iron standards for lighting. a handsome lighting standard. 
ia | “White Way” is obtained at less than one u 
| DOUBLE EXPENSE half the cost of a separate installation, 4 
Unnecessary obstruction along the curb line. Lighting wires may be attached to top of 
; Underground wiring absolutely necessary. poles—saving all expensive underground con- 
struction. 
,! Difficulty of keeping both sets of poles in Curb line free from all unnecessary obstruc 
alignment. tion. 


GET FULL DETAILS AND CATALOG 


Electric Railway Equipment Co. 
Manufacturers Cincinnati, Ohio 


| NEW YORK, 30 Church Street 


! 47 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American Crrv. 











- 
. 
i 


eee 


\uGUST, 1916 rH I AMERICAN ro 


velopment of floriculture. 

In the year of the World's Fair, thou 
sands of tourists traveled through Cali 
fornia. Santa Cruz is “on the road of 
thousand wonders,” to quote from an a 
ng advertisement. A number of womet 
who loved and appreciated the varied 
ties and possibilities of their home tow: 
felt that this opportunity of exploiting 
should be grasped, and that strangers entet 
g the city should be impressed with its 
distinctive character. 

How todo it? The problem solve 


n 
1 it 
(| 1tS¢ 
On the morning of July 5 the members of 
lhe Editorial Association, numbering ab« 


500, were scheduled t spen la few hours 


the town. The citizens had made arrangs 
ments to entertain them with a fish barbecuc 


breakfast on the beach \ committe 

women had planned to decorate the cars of 
these guests of the city while they were at 
breakfast 


morning another “special” of tourists had 


1 


As it happened, early that sam: 


come into town with a few hours to spend 
When the women began arriving at the sta 
tion with their baskets of flowers, awaiting 


the train of their city’s guests, they met 
members of the other “special” who were 
waiting the departure of their train \s 


the flowers arrived in large quantities, thes« 
strangers expressed much admiration of the 
unexpected flower show, and seemed so in 

pressed with the kind of place that could 
produce choice flowers in such variety and 
abundance that the committee shared the 
flowers with these appreciative people, som¢ 
of the ladies even going home for more 

lhe reception of this favor, as well as the 
delighted surprise of the other visitors, for 
whom the blooms had originally been gath 
ered, when, upon their return from the 
breakfast, they found their cars so gaily 
decorated, made some of the Santa Cruz 
women reflect. 

The problem was solved. Why not us« 
this abundant material in the exploitation 
of their home town, to show in epitome the 
beauty of its floral wealth and possibilities ? 

\ few of the energetic women consulted 
with the Chamber of Commerce as to plans 
They were warmly encouraged by that 
body. A meeting of the women of the town 
was called by these enthusiastic leaders, t 
which a large number _ responded \ 
Women’s Auxiliary to the Chamber of Com- 
merce was formed, for the purpose of ex 
ploiting the town by personal service in 


Strangers With 
Visitors, These | 

Help Yourselves he 
Santa (Tl Vis 
Women’s Auy 
Commerce 


he visitors were also gi 


movement 

Q , ry} 

nowe;rs i rie 

the gardens of Santa ( 


100m, and ract | < eT 


out a weilct 
Did these womet icceed 


sion of exploitation ? he xpress S 





love their home tow! the 
these women has been one 
cooperation, nd this i s beet 


an effective civic displa 


Even the large number of | 
from oth¢ towns we 
Santa Cruz 1s c y ‘ 
1 : , 

eacn a popular playgerTo 

residents from the warm interior le 

ind found the | t 

esting ind e1 igt ing 

continued as long as tl 

trains were scheduled to pass through tl 
] ] r q 


town, tor in this genial climate ower! 


bloom regardl SS OI season, 








A 


48 


3 


THE 


Ze 


-ton Kelly Truck with dump body 
owned by Harris County, 


When 


Texas 


“ 


riting to 


Adver 


AMERICAN CITY 






Little Refinements with 
Big Sequels 


Every unit in a KELLY is designed with reference 
to what it has to do individually and its part in the 
whole. However small or relatively unimportant it 
may seem, it is carefully studied—trefined where re- 
finement means more efficient service—strengthened 
where extra strength gives greater margin of safety. 


2 For example, we put an additional leaf in the right 
rear spring to compensate for the extra strain on that 
is protected by a heavy oak bumper attached to the 

E 

4 






Zz 












side caused by running on crowned roads. The motor 
front end of the chassis frame. The radiator is placed 
behind the motor, giving greater accessibility to all 
parts of the power plant. The three-point suspension 
“a the power plant differs from the conventional type 
n that the flexible joint is to the rear instead of to the 
he with a great advantage in maneuvering. The 
motor of a KELLY will crank in any position. Both 
brakes are applied to the rear wheels, a practice origin- AAA 
ated by KELLY designers. 


ANI 


\ 


z 


\ 


\ 
















Is it any wonder that KELLYS stand up? That for 
sturdiness and power they are unsurpassed? That 
they are economical to run—trequire the minimum of 
up-keep—show less depreciation than any other truck? 


W 


\ 
\" 


AM 


\ 
\ 


\\\ 






II 
A 


The Complete Line 
Worm drive—1'4 and 3 216 tons 
Chain drive—1%, 2% 4, ‘5 and 6 tons 













Ak 








\ 






“Like Kelly Does’’—FREE 


4 valuable monthly publication of great interest 
to all truck users and those concerned in the 
juestion of truck delivery. Sent free on request 


THE KELLY-SPRINGFIELD 
MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY 
1308 Burt St., SPRINGFIELD, OHIO 


\ 





\\ 





AIK 


A 


\\ 





\ 





AX 





AI 
A 





\\ 


\ 
N 


{A 


5 


EAA 


\\ 


ZF; 





tisers please mention Tas American City. 












ao 


























SCOTTEN AVENUE, DETROIT, MICH., AFTER 9,400 GALLONS OF GASOLINE HAD 
EXPLODED WITHIN THE SEWER 


A Gasoline Explosion Wrecks a Street 
By Marc N. Goodnow 


HE coming of the motor car has 
brought with it dangers not merely 
incident to street accidents, col- 

lisions and the like. The widespread use 
and location of gasoline has added to the 
burden of every city, and in many has taken 
its own toll of human life. 

lhe accompanying photograph illustrates 
what may happen when gasoline to the ex- 
tent of thousands of gallons leaks into 
sewer pipe and remains there in confine- 
ment. Scotten Avenue, Detroit, was torn 
up in places for a distance of two miles by 
the heavy explosion which followed the all- 
night leakage of more than 9,000 gallons of 
gasoline from a damaged oil car on a rail- 
road siding. 

The leak had been under observation for 
nearly ten hours when the first explosion 
occurred. Workmen, trying to repair a 
damaged oil tap attached to the car, were 
unable to stop the flow of the liquid, which 
well-nigh filled the sewer, 4% feet in diam- 
eter. Of 10,000 gallons of gasoline in the 
railroad car, only some 600 were salvaged. 


[In some manner which has not yet been 
explained by the municipal authorities the 
gasoline was ignited. Almost immediately, 
at a point many hundred yards from the 
point of entry, a deafening roar burst thru 
the pavement, and heavy paving brick, con- 
crete foundation and earth were thrown 
back as if so much paper. As tho a giant 
mine had been laid under the street, the 
explosion rocked houses, tossed 170 pound 
lids from manholes—even rolled persons 
out of their beds and injured several se 
riously enough to need medical attention. 

The property loss was large, the city of 
Detroit itself sustaining, it was estimated, 
nearly $100,000 in damages. Private prop- 
erty-holders along the street also suffered 
heavily from broken glass, sunken side- 
walks and twisted buildings. Adding to this 
the loss to the dealer, or nearly 10,000 gal- 
lons of gasoline at its high price of 20 
cents, it can be seen that neglect of the 
broken cap on the oil car was rather ex- 
pensive! 


Handling gasoline is at best a dangerous 











THE AMERICAN CITY 





Es 














al 


it 


DOM re An A A Ce 


TOU 















ibe 


LAL hs Ai 


CAE Es Gh Lenk 


Ty 
j 








TVMAVTUVOUATERAAYRUTIUDTTUUUOUTTT VU UNTU TUCO UCONN 


TUTTLE TTL 






































I win SUM UTQOves NOL UTTVOTUH Nectar nna! 
— ae : — 

































































—— 














War’s test is the test of tests 
—and particularly so in the 
desolate wastes of old Mexico 


And there the chainless 
Packard is Uncle Sam’s effi- 
cient burden bearer. 

Seven hundred and _ six- 
teen strong—Packards are 
showing what trucks can do 
under the most adverse con- 
ditions. 


And now the sixth big 
repeat order has come to us. 

Army officers specify Pack- 
ards because : 

(1) Their power and en- 
durance have proved equal 
to every demand. 


(2) Their maintenance, re- 
placement and repair charges 
are down to minimum. 

(3) Their simple, enclosed, 
dust-proof working parts and 
noiseless, chainless drive are 
dependable under every com- 
bination of bad roads and 
overloads. 

You can’t know what a 
motor truck will do for your 
work until you know the 
Packard chainless truck. 
Why not let our transporta- 
tion experts help you—now? 
Write Detroit. 


Ask the man who owns one 











tk ST Oe 








49 


TUT TT 






When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American City. 

















A 















Us 
2 
= 
FS 
= 
= 
= 
= 
— 
= 
= 
= 
= 





- 


AM ePTUDVOOIUTVININ ONO NOQUONY ODIO UNO DIDO OY LOCQOCLNR(TOO0O NCO COO0000 QOD QIAO IOS COOL OOOO OT CE 








\ ST, 1916 rH! AMERICAN CITY 























occupation When 10,000 gall ns get b into the ope 
vond control, potential havoc is loose in a dlangerous | ( 
community. As yet no cities seem to have sewel Perhaps, | r. 1 
on pelle | railroads or vasoline dealers to cap on the 
take the proper precautions to safeguard ecte ‘ 
city property and the lives of residents by mipty the « 
7 seyregation or Satet i ces leva vas 1 ce 
had the gasoline, in this ce, ¢ pe omissi 
7 o . . . 
Lighting and Adorning a City 
ANY changes in lighting and deco-_ bridge, which is directly at ( 
ration have made a_ considerabl with the (| Hall The effect of this 
improvement in the general appear- method of illumination, coupled th th 
ince of Des Moines, la The City Hall is Oo! i flag that flies twenty-f I | 
now flooded with light from a shaft rising a day from the top of the | ling, is 
from the center pier of the Locust Street very pleasing. Vhe state rious which 
S s oO el tion 
St S the ent« ot 
‘ magnihcent t ow 
be ge extend t great 
expense and much 
planning. lhe Capitol 
B ding 1S { of} ( 
it 1 ight | ( Ss 
te lights es t each 
corner of the ing 
lhe s¢ yy ( | ( 
light that ) 
agree ble ¢ ( ( 
boul irds h S t gas 
lights, which give sut 
ncient of} ( great 
adort nent | ? 
excess of g é 
But rtisti Ing 
in city beautifying often 
seems incomplete if it 
does not contall i Sug 
gestion oft nature \ bit 
’ of goTeecl i tre 
or flows 
tinctive touch of be 
and any of these et 
hances the total effect 
; 
Moreover, such natural 
ornamentatior s ottet 
very inexp¢ 
lowers ire easy t 
crow and o sore eyes 
¥ good.” For that reaso1 
beautiful flor lecor: 
<< tions have beet placed 
round = the City Hall 


ELECTROLIERS WITH FLOWER BOXES ON ONE OF THI 
MAIN BUSINESS STREETS OF DES MOINES, IOWA the Court House. the 













THE AMCRICAN CITY 


Saves 35% for the City of Milwaukee 


N June, 1915, the City of Milwaukee ordered a Sterling-Kindlir.g Motor Squeegee . 

Street Washer. After keeping accurate cost data it was found that this outfit 
cleaned 1000 yards of asphalt pavement at a cost of only 1644 cents —a saving of 
9 cents, or 35 per cent over horse-drawn equipment. Consequently this second 
Sterling-Kindling outfit was installed in April of this year. 


The Sterling-Kindling can easily be con- mechanism of the chassis means longer 
verted into a general utility truck. It is life and greater freedom from operating 
so designed that the tank can be quickly troubles. 

demounted and a dumping or stationary 


body easily attached. The Sterling-Kindling Motor Squeegee not 


only economizes but it also advertises a mu- 
The entirely enclosed and protected nicipality as progressive in civic enterprise. 


WRITE TODAY FOR FULL INFORMATION SHOWING EQUIPMENT 
FURNISHED AND ECONOMIES EFFECTED 


STERLING MOTOR 
TRUCK COMPANY 


Builders of Motor Trucks Exclusively 
For Nine Years 


830 ROGERS ST., MILWAUKEE, WIS. 


50 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amentcon Crtv. 











\uGusT, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 





Rock Island offices, the 
hospitals, the down-town 
apartment houses, the 
hotels, the newspaper of- 
fices, and many of the 
larger stores in Des 
Moines. 

The decoration of 
lamp-posts with flower 
boxes is an important 
feature in this system of 
beautification. The first 
picture illustrates such 
ornamentation; it shows 
an electrolier on one of 
the main business cor- 
ners in Des Moines. 
Here, amid the bustle of 
business, a scene other- 
wise monotonous to the 
city-bred person is re- 
lieved by the bright 
touches of natural 
beauty in the flower 
boxes on top of the 
lighting standards. 

Other cities have 
adopted the same kind 
of adornment. The sec- 
ond photograph shows a 
street corner in Seattle, 
Wash., with an electro- = 
lier supporting a flower 





Courtesy of the Seattle Chamber of Commerce 


A FLOWER 
box. 








DECORATED LIGHTING STANDAR 


SEATTLE, WASH 





Federal Aid 


N July 11 President Wilson signed 
the Bankhead bill appropriating 
$75,000,000 to aid the states in im 

proving their public roads used in the pos- 
tal service, and in addition $10,000,000 “for 
the survey, construction and maintenance: 
of roads and trails within or only partly 
within the national forests, when necessary 
for the use and development of resources 
upon which communities within and adja- 
cent to the national forests are dependent.” 

In order to obtain federal aid the state 
authorities designated in the act must sub- 
mit to the United States Secretary of Agri 
culture a statement of the projected road 
construction, which must be “substantial in 
character,” in which national assistance is 
desired. If the Secretary approves a pro- 


for Roads 


ject, the state authorities must then sub 
such surveys, plans, specifications and esti 
mates as he may require. If these eng 
neering and legal features are approved | 
the secretary, the state officials are at 
ertv to go ahead with the Vor? he 


l'reasury Department will pay to the prope 
state official from time to time, as the Se 


retary of Agriculture directs, the federal 


share of the cost of the work, not to e» 
ceed $10,000 per m le, which h S een 
spected and approved by hi This shar 
must not exceed half the cost This leaves 
the state authorities in control of the « 
struction, subject only to such rules 


regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture 
as are necessary to insure good designs and 
good construction where federal aid is 








THE AMERICAN CITY 











51 


The Knox tractor hauls all forms of heavy tonnage at a big saving over 
horses or motor trucks 


Tonnage limitations practically disappear because of the endless variety of 
trailers that can be used in connection with the Knox tractor The accom- 
panying illustrations show a 2-way, 2-compartment, side dumping trailer of a 
most advanced type Each compartment has a cubical capacity of 4 yards. The 
simple method of dumping eliminates all devices such as hand hoists, hydraulic 


Write for “‘Hauling Costs Reduced’’ 


Our big new illustrated bulletin. “ Hauling Costs Reduced,”’ pictures 
Knox tractors with various forms of trailers in the actual service of enthu 
siastic owners Write for your copy today 


KNOX MOTORS ASSOCIATES 
Springfield, Mass, U.S. A. 


hoists, etc 





When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae American Cyrty, 























\ucust, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


granted for carrying out the work. 
Ot the $75,000,000 appropriated for the 


construction of rural post roads, $5,000,000 


will be available for the fiscal vear ending 


lune 30, 1917, $10,000,000 tor I9I18&, SES 
000,000 for IQTQ, $20,000,000 lo! LQO20 and 
$25,000,000 for 1921. hree per cent of 
these sums is withheld for the federal ad- 
ministrative expenses, and the remainder 
is divided into three equal parts. One part 


is distributed among the states in propor- 


tion to their area, the second part in pri 
portion to their population, and the third 
part in proportion to the length of their 
rural delivery and star routes. None of 


this money can be used unless a state con 


tributes at least a eq | 
road on which it is | 

lhe law requit the state ! r ¢ 
ubdivisions to maintain the 
with federal assistance If nee pairs 
are not mack nd the surface reserve 

11 F | 

a reasonabdiv smooth conditiot ( 


the type of construction, the Secretary o 
\ericulture must notify the state authori 
ties of the fact, and if the road has not 


been put in proper conditior 


> 


months from the receipt of t 
Secretary is directed to disapprove any fut 
ther road project from that state or its 
civil subdivisions until the road has bee 


put in Satistactory conditior 





Teaching Agriculture to Families 
By Henry Sterling 


Secretary, Massachusetts 


l the next state election all Massa- 
chusetts cities will have an oppor- 
tunity to accept an act of the 1916 
Legislature, authorizing cities to maintain 


schools of agriculture and horticulture and 
to make provision, in certain instances, for 
the temporary housing of persons attending 
the school. 

The Massachusetts Homestead Commis- 
sion believes that it is vital to the progress 
aml well-being of the commonwealth that 
all who desire to get nearer to the soil, 
whether for a more wholesome and health- 
ful environment for themselves and their 
families, or for a profitable employment for 
spare time, or for the means of a livelihood, 
should have opportunity to do so. Only a 
few, however, of those who desire such an 
opportunity are equipped with the knowl- 
edge and experience required for success. 
lhe sensible and logical proposition in rela 
tion to the “back-to-the-soil” movement 
seems to be to teach those who want to go 
back how to make a living there. This 
would remove one chief obstacle from the 
path of those who might return to the soil. 
Every family group and every individual, 
young or old, who think they would like to 
practice agriculture, should have the oppor- 
tunity. If such an opportunity can be given 
with little or no cost to the community or 
commonwealth, and possibly with financial 
advantage to the learner, it is a costly mis- 


Homestead Commission 


take to withhold it. The problem thus be 
comes largely an educational on 
necessary that we provide for city dweller 
opportunity to learn agriculture 

It was for these reasons tl at the Hom« 
stead Commission recommen 
islature the passage of a bill which has now 
become Chapter 185 of the General Acts of 


1916. The full text follows 


GENERAL ACTS’ 


(gar IS 


An Act fo a nIZE ES MAINTAIN SCHOOLS OF AGRICULTURE 
D HOF rURE 
5 enuct os follows 
Section | Any city wh wc" . sof u 4 iat 
establish and maintain schools for wstructuny famules and luals 
ineans of 








day, part-time or ¢ ng classes wm garde 











oncult poultry keeping, anunal husbandry, anc bene 
vm and horticulture The locaton and “vanizaly { the sau 
“ and the mstruction given therein shall be subject 
#f the board of education 
Section 2 After the acceptance of this act by at 
urther action hereunder w taken, the school committee shall cause ” 
ilated a description of the purposes and scope of the ruction . 
en hereunder, with a request for applicauous from chose g such 
raction 
SECTION The city une or other board of officer having power 
ahe lamd for school purposes im any ty which acces he pr 
thes act may, m conformity with the p f general law relat 
the taking of land by municipalities, take w 4 and w a 
tlready appropnated to public uses for the purpx f mamta 
reumder, or may lease or pu a at rw 








city lemuts, for the said p 
may erect suitable buildings upon the land so acqu ‘ 
provesion, on terms that will not e¢ lo 
plots of ground and for the temporary housin g of those « 
amd complymg with its regulations, who have not a 


uitable for giving proper effect to the instruction of 
ection 4. This act shall ' submutted to the 


of the commonwealth the next anoual state 
acceptance or reyection, ar all take effect in any 

the voters of that city voting ereon shall vote wm the 

t shall be submutted in the form of the following qu 

wpon the official ballot Shall an act, passed by the ¢ 

ear nineteen hundred and sixteen, to authorize cities ¢ 
ves 

am «hools of agriculture and ture and to mak 
no 






mM certam mstances, for ¢ temporary h 


persons attending the school, be accepted? Approved M 





THE AMERICAN CITY 





The right equipment for your needs 


ficient motor flushing and sprinkling apparatus mounted on 
GMC chassis can be built to meet your needs. 


If City hydrants are not available for tank filling a compact 
pumping outfit can be provided to meet your individual 
conditions. In fact no matter what your requirement for 
municipal power vehicles you can get what you want from 
“Truck Headquarters.” . 


GMC Municipal trucks are ,“‘making good” in every class of 
city service where quick and reliable transportation is needed. 


Interesting facts and information are yours for the asking. 


GENERAL MOTORS TRUCK COMPANY 


One of the Units of General Motors Company 


PONTIAC - - - MICHIGAN ' 
: 


Direct Factory Branches: 
* New York, Boston, Chicago, Philadelphia, St. Louis (93) 





62 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae American City. 














eee 


" —— 











\uGusT, 1916 THE 


The Homestead Commission has outlined 
for the benefit of the cities of Massachu- 
setts the following conditions and possibili- 
ties of the act: 


1. The act takes effect in such cities as ac 
cept it by a majority of the voters voting 
thereon at the next state election 


2. After acceptance, all the powers granted 
under the act are permissive, except that in 
section 2 “the school committee SHALL caus¢e 
to be circulated a description of the pur 
pose and scope of the instruction to be given, 
with a request for applications from those de- 
siring such instruction.” This description and 
questionnaire should be ready by November 1 


3. Under the act there may be provided, for 
instructional purposes : 

(a) Gardens for school and working 
children, increasing in size with 
advancing age and faithful work 

(b) Gardens for adults of every age 


\MER 


ICAN CITY 207 


(c) Gardens for fam:hies 
(d) Gardens with 
for student families 


4. Under the act it would be obligatory to 
charge a fair market rate for the use of land, 
and the use of houses, if any. The returns so 
received would go far toward vering the 


yst of the project 


5. A map of vacant land, with names of 


»wwners, should be obtained at once 1n any city 
accepting the act lemporary use, if possible, 
of all such land should be obtained, in addition 
to any tracts that are bought 

6. In conjunction with the health authorities, 
the city should be divided into an inner zone 
wherein only vegetables, fruits, flowers, et 
could be raised; a middle zone, adding poul 
try; and an outer zone, with cattle and other 


animals. 

7. There should be a central agency for mat 
keting surplus products 

8. The act suggests the opportunity for re 
lated forms of manual instruction 





Net Weight Marking 


John F. Farrell, New York State Super- 
intendent of Weights and Measures, has 
sent the following notice to various meat 
packers: 


J ine 20, 1916 
GENTLEMEN: 
Your attention is called to the of the 
United States Supreme Court, handed Ay 





. 1916, in the case of Armour & Co. vs. The State 
of North Dakota, upholding the constitutionality of 
state laws requiring indications of net weight to be 
made 

In view of this decision of the Supreme Court of 
the United States, it is my purpose to insist upon 
all wrapped hams, bacons and smoked or cured meat 
products being marked in the manner prescribed ir 
General Regulation 8, adopted pursuant to law, 
copy of which regulation is sent you herewit! 

I must request an assurance from you of your will 
ingness to comply with Article II of the General Bus 
ness Law in the manner set forth in said regulatior 


In the event of such assurance I will allow you a 
reasonable length of time to make any necessary ad 
justments. Unless such assurances are immediately 


forthcoming, summary action will be taken to enforce 
the law. 


The New York State laws require all 
commodities to be marked with a represent- 
ation showing how much of the commodity 
itself and how much wrappings the pur- 
chaser receives. Altho most of the packers 
having their plants within this state have 
complied with the law, a number of the 
large outside concerns supplying the New 
York State markets have consistently 
fought against being compelled to live up 
io that law. Several prosecutions have 
been started against them and are now 
pending on their way through to the higher 
courts. On the trials of these actions it 
was shown that wrappings which cost less 





than 5 cents were being sold at 20 cents or 
more, the buyer not being able to tell how 
much he was paying for them. Mr. Farrell 
has always contended that though the pack- 
ers may charge a reasonable sum for the 
container, the purchaser should be enabled 
to judge readily whether or not it is worth 
the price; this contention has now been 
fully sustained by the United States Su 
preme Court. The retailers handling 
wrapped meats favor the enforcement of 
the law, and have been active in bringing 
t about. Supt. Farrell states 

“Our law places the guilt upon any person 
selling or offering for sale goods in containers 
which are not properly marked. I have been 
very loath to pro eed against the retailers in 


| 


this matter, as I felt that the real fault was 


with the packers As the Supreme Court 
decision thoroughly answers all the conte 
tions that have been made why net weight 
markings should not be required. it 1s now 
necessary to enforce the law strictly in accord 
ance with its terms. The packers will have t 
protect their customers, and if they do not see 


fit to do so they must suffer the consequences 
The consumer has been forced to buy a pig in 
a poke too long. Wrappings on sing 
ind bacons often weigh well over a pound, 

st less than 4 cents a pound, and are sold f 
from 18 to 24 cents. There is no practical dif 

ulty in the way of the packers marking in 
accordance with the requirements of our laws, 
und of the regulation which was adopted by 
this department after a thorough investigation 
f the conditions in the packing industry.” 





ek 


— 





> The 
: FP. B. Zieg 
= Mig. Co. 


: Fredericktown 





THE AMERICAN CITY 


The"“Panama Line” 


a a 














This is Just One of the Superior Features of 


“Panama” Road Machines 
“Panama” Roller Bearing Wheels 


RACTICALLY every machine in the “ Pana- 

ma Line” is equipped with roller bearing 
wheels, and this is just one instance of the 
thoroughness and superiority of “Panama” con- 
struction. No detail is too small to receive 
the most careful attention and every known 
good point of road machine construction, as well 
as several exclusive features, is incorporated in 
each machine of the “Panama Line.” 








LEADER OF THE LINE 


This big, heavy machine, embodying all the good points ever incorporated 
in a machine of this kind, as well as several “‘Panama’”’ features, is not only 
the leader of the ‘Panama Line”’ but the leader of all the road machines 


: Ohio on the market. 
> Gentlemen — one “up “er . . 7 
i es rhe “Panama Line” comprises road machines of every size and 


: Line” catalog as offered in 
> Teas American Crrr. 










Send your “Panama y 

p weight, one for every job, down to the “Panama Junior” 

% weighing only 600 pounds. 
O& ‘ 


Our catalog gives a complete description of each 






Sssdecckescabecevanss*seas * 
machine. Mail the coupon for a copy. 
BER c cseccvcscccececesesscesessece - 
3 


+ = _ 


THE FB. ZIEG MFG. COMPANY 


Fredericktown, Ohio 


53 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tae American City. 











el 














209 


Motion Pictures in a Public Health Campaign 
By Ernest A. Dench 


HE first spell of hot weather is the 

-£ time for municipal authorities to be- 

gin their public health campaigns. 

And the most effective medium is the mo- 

tion picture. I need only refer to some of 

the results achieved in this connection to 
suggest ways and means. 

As is perhaps logical, New York City has 
taken the lead. The first step in the “clean- 
up” campaign, for which Commissioner 
Goldwater was responsible, was arranging 
with over eight hundred exhibitors to show 
advance slides in their theaters. These 
slides drew attention to such subjects as 
flies, typhoid fever and care of the baby. 

This was followed by twenty free motion 
picture shows in the parks and on the rec- 
reation piers of the metropolis. The pro- 
gram in each case consisted of four reels 
of the sugar-coated kind, bearing the fol- 
lowing titles: “The Story of a Consump- 
tive,” “The Production and Handling of 
Milk,” “The City Beautiful” and “The 
Little Cripple.” Judging from the interest 
manifested by spectators, the stories “got 
across” sure enough. 

Boston, too, inaugurated a campaign 
along similar lines, with this exception— 
the programs were not confined to health 
films. The other subjects shown were cur- 
rent news pictorials, refined comedies and 
animated cartoons. These programs drew 
increased audiences, the average nightly 
attendance being from 8,000 to 10,000. 
The exhibitions were arranged by the Com- 
mittee on Park Shows. 

St. Louis has adopted the plan for two 
successive seasons. Each park playground 
was equipped with a portable projection 
booth and a portable screen, the gas-pipe 
frames making it possible to construct the 
latter with practically no delay. The screen 
was placed 54 feet away from the front 
row of seats, but this space was not wasted, 
as it came in handy to accommodate chil- 
dren on busy nights. The mixed programs 
appealed especially to the foreign element, 
who, for lack of funds, prefer to spend 
their evenings in stuffy tenements. The 
performances began at 7.45 and closed 
about two hours later. 

These free open-air exhibitions, I regret 
to say, are apt to antagonize the average 





exhibitor. Such was the result at first, both 
in Cincinnati and in Nashville, but instead 
of taking patrons away, the free shows 
actually produced extra business, convert- 
ing, as they did, many folk to the movie 
habit. It is a regrettable fact that the two 
forms of entertainment come in conflict, for 
those to whom a dime is nothing will favor 
the regular show, and consequently the 
health pictures fail to reach so many people. 

It would not be worth while to hold the 
exhibitions during the morning or after- 
noon, since the majority of the population 
are then otherwise occupied. Perhaps 
more satisfaction could be obtained were 
the cooperation of the local exhibitors 
sought. I know of a showman in Marsh- 
ville, N. C., who, of his own initiative, set 
aside one night weekly during the summer 
for the showing of health pictures. These 
included the following subjects: “The Mos- 
quito,” “The War on the Mosquito,” “The 
Fly Pest,” “Life in Our Ponds” and “Boil 
Your Water.” I am certain that it would 
not be hard to prevail upon the exhibitor 
to do this, especially when he is shown that 
he would thus be assisting the community ; 
and even were he not thus disposed, per- 
haps he would consent to run an occasional 
picture of this kind on his regular pro- 
gram. 

What stands in the way of the wide- 
spread adoption of this medium is the 
scarcity of suitable available subjects, but 
even this fact need not deter one from carry- 
ing out the plan. One can have a film pro- 
duced along the desired lines. The Massa- 
chusetts State Board of Health, for instance, 
has had two films produced, the stories of 
which relate to unhealthful living in its 
chief forms and its harmful effects. The 
photoplays are entitled “Bringing It Home” 
and “In His Father’s Footsteps.” I under- 
stand that the Health Board is prepared to 
lend these productions and to supply a com- 
petent lecturer without charge to any or- 
ganization requiring the service. 

You cannot interest children in health 
and sanitation by the lecture or the liter- 
ature routes, but show them a film on the 
subject and they will readily understand 
what you are driving at. 











THE AMERICAN CITY 






HE gigantic broom of this 
sweeper cleans a swath 


nearly seven feet wide. A team 
that averages two miles an hour 
will sweep 64 thousand square 


yards in an 8-hour day. Com DUSTLESS PICK-UP 


pare this speed with your present 
speed and you will find that 
here's an economy your tax- 


payers can see without a reading 
glass! This sweeper moistens the litter—picks it up—then dumps it in compact piles 


500 feet apart. That means 


Only 10 Stops per Mile 


Instead of About 170 


for the pick-up wagon. Raises no dust. Carries an economical needle spray that dampens 
the litter ahead of the broom. No kicks from abutting property owners. 

You can save the entire push broom crew’s wages—or—you can materially increase your 
present crew’s efficiency and value to your city. 

This machine actually cleans the street. It doesn’t blow the dirt onto the sidewalk 
and it doesn’t leave a film of dried mud on the pavement. It sweeps with the same 
thoroughness you would exact on a large warehouse floor. 


New 1915 model has Hyatt roller bearings—frictionless device for sweeping on curves 
pressure and speed adjustments, etc. 


Our Free Catalog Would Be Worth Money To You—Send For It! 
THE BAKER MFG. CO., 503 Stanford Avenue, SPRINGFIELD, ILL. 
New York: Baker-Barron, Inc., 221 W. B’way 


54 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 




















Conventions and Exhibitions 


ON THE CALENDAR 


AucGust 16-17.—Sr. STEPHEN, N. B. 

Union of New Brunswick Municipali- 
ties. Annual Convention. Secretary, J. W. 
McCready, Fredericton, N. B. 

\ucust 16-18.—OsukosuH, WIs. 

League of Wisconsin Municipalities. 
Annual Convention. Secretary, lord H. 
MacGregor, Madison, Wis. 

AUGUST 21-23.—MONTREAL, QUEBEC. 

Union of Canadian Municipalties. An- 
nual Convention. Secretary, W. D. Light- 
hall, Westmount, Quebec. 

AuGust 21-27.—SaAn Dteco, CA. 

Pacific Coast Association of Fire 
Chiefs. Annual Convention. Secretary, 
Ex-Chief H. W. Bringhurst, Seattle, Wash. 

AUGUST 22-24.—NorFOLK, VA. 

Association of American Cemetery 
Superintendents. Annual Convention. 
Secretary, Bellet Lawson, Jr., Elmwood 
Cemetery, Chicago. 

\UGUST 22-25.—BALTIMORE, Mp. 

International Association of Munici- 
pal Electricians. Annual Convention. 
Secretary, Clarence R. George, City Elec- 
trician, Houston, Tex. 

AvuGustT 23-25.—Ha.irax, N. S. 

Union of Nova Scotia Municipalities. 
Annual Convention. Secretary, Arthur 
Roberts, Bridgewater, N. S. 

AUGUST 29-31.—JOHNSTOWN, Pa, 

League of Cities of the Third Class in 
Pennsylvania. Annual Convention. Sec- 
retary, Fred H. Gates, City Clerk, Wilkes- 
Barre, Pa. 

AUGUST 29-SEPTEMBER I.—ProvipENCE, R. I. 

International Association of Fire En- 
gineers. Annual Convention. Secretary, 
James McFall, Roanoke, Va. 

AUGUST 30-31.—ToRONTO, ONT. 

Ontario Municipal Association. <An- 
nual Convention. Secretary, F. S. Spence, 
150 Confederation Life Building, Toronto, 
Ont. 

SEPTEMBER 6-8.—St. PAuL, MINN. 

Northwestern Road Congress. Secre- 
tary, Joe L. Long, Moline, IIl. 

SEPTEMBER 6-9.—NeEWARK, N. J. 

League of American Municipalities. 
Annual Convention. Secretary, Robert E 
Lee, Secretary to the Mayor, Baltimore, 

SEPTEMBER 6-9.—SEATTLE, WASH. 

Northwest Electric Light and Power 
Association. Annual Convention. Sec- 
retary W. G. Letson, Arlington, Wash. 

SEPTEMBER 12-13.—QUEBEC, QUE. 

The Canadian Association for the 
Prevention of Tuberculosis. Annual 
Convention. Secretary, George D. Porter, 


M. B., Toronto, Ont. 





SEPTEMBER 12-14.—DuBUQUE, lowA 

League of Iowa Municipalities. An- 
nual Convention. Secretary, Frank G 
Pierce, Marshalltown, lowa. 

SEPTEMBER 13-14.—QUEBEC, QUE. 

Canadian Public Health Association. 
Acting Secretary, Dr. Duncan Anderson, 
Toronto. 

SEPTEMBER 13-15.—PoORTLAND, ME. 

New England Water Works Associa- 
tion. Annual Convention. Secretary, Wil- 
lard Kent, 7:5 Tremont Temple, Boston, 
Mass. 

SEPTEMBER 25-27.—CLEVELAND, OHIO. 

National Association of Commercial 
Organization Secretaries. Annual Meet- 
ing. Secretary, Howard Strong, Civic 
and Commerce Association, Minneapolis, 
Minn. 

SEPTEMBER 26-28.—CLIFTON Force, VA. 

League of Virginia Municipalities. 
Annual Meeting. Secretary, Luther C. 
Brinson, Portsmouth, Va. 

SEPTEMBER 26-29.—Sr. Louis, Mo. 

Smoke Prevention Association. <An- 
nual Convention. Secretary, Frank A 
Chambers, Department of Smoke Inspec- 
tion, Chicago, Il. 

OcToOBER 2-6.—GRAND Rapips, MICH. 

Playground and Recreation Associa- 
tion of America. Recreation Congress. 
Secretary, H. S. Braucher, 1 Madison 
Avenue, New York City. 

OcTOBER g-11.—ProvipEenceE, R. I. 

National Housing Association. An- 
nual Conference. Secretary, Lawrence 
Veiller, 105 East Twenty-second Street, 
New York City. 

OcTOBER 9-13.—Newark, N. J. 

American Society of Municipal Im- 
provements. Annual Convention. Secre- 
tary, Charles Carroll Brown, 702 Wulsin 
Building, Indianapolis, Ind 

OcrTopeR 10.—VISALIA, CAL. 

League of California Municipalities. 
Annual Meeting. Secretary, H. A. Mason, 
care Board of Supervisors, San Francisco. 

Octoper 10-12—NeEW Or-eans, LA, 

The American Association of Park 
Superintendents. Secretary, R. W. Cot- 
terill, Seattle, Wash. 

OcTOBER II-13.—INDEPENDENCE, KAN. 

League of Kansas Municipalities. An- 
nual Convention. Secretary, C. H. Talbot, 
University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kan. 

OcTOBER 19-21.—MILWAUKEE, WIs. 

American Association for Study and 
Prevention of Infant Mortality. Annual 
Meeting. Secretary, Dr. Philip Van Ingen, 
125 East Seventy-first Street, New York 

OcTOBER 24-27.—CINCINNATI, OHIO. 

American Public Health Association. 
Secretary, Selskar M. Gunn, 755 Boylston 
Street, Boston, Mass. 











THE AMERICAN CITY 











CAREY 





ExPANSION 


JOINT 


The original and only Elastite Joint 


Makes Miles of Smiles 


The engineer smiles when he sees the job finished with ELASTITE 
Expansion joints because he knows that the pavement will not 
buckle and that the water will never get through it. 


The contractor smiles because he has saved time and money and insured 
himself against repair charges. He has eliminated the trouble and 
expense of pouring joints and lengthened the open season for his 
work. 


The public smiles because the going is always good and the tax bills 
represent value received. 


WRITE FOR SAMPLE AND TESTIMONIALS 


THE PHILIP CAREY CO., °‘Grcumart, omo 




















When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue Amgrican City. 























Aucust, 1916 THE 
A Joint Civic Convention 

One of the largest gatherings ever held 
in the interests of municipal problems and 
research will assemble in Springtield, 
Mass., during the week of November 20-25. 
Among the civic organizations that will 
meet in this city at that time are the Na- 
tional Municipal League, the City Man- 
ager’s Association, the Civic Secretaries 
Conference, the Massachusetts Federation 
of Planning Boards, the Springfield Bureau 
of Municipal Research workers, and the 
New York Training School of Public Ser- 
vice. 

Local arrangements are in the hands of 
the Convention Bureau of the Board of 
Trade and the Springfield Bureau of Muni- 
cipal Research, which are coOperating to 
make the week memorable to all those who 


attend the various meetings. 
+ 


Greater Vermont Association 

The meeting of the Greater Vermont As- 
sociation, held on July 12 and 13 in cele- 
bration of the 125th anniversary of the 


Green Mountain State, was one of the 
greatest successes ever achieved by such 
organizations. 


The session covered Wednesday after- 
noon and evening and most of Thursday. 
At the afternoon session on Wednesday, 
speeches were made by ex-Gov. Edwin C. 
Smith; Theodore N. Vail, President of the 
American Telephone & Telegraph Com- 
pany; John Barrett, Director General of 
the Pan-American Congress, and Rear Ad- 
miral Robert E. Peary. The stage was full 
of men of national reputation. In the even- 
ing a banquet was spread in the Municipal 
Auditorium and 800 men sat at the tables, 
while over 200 women were in the bal- 
cony. Col. George Harvey was toastmas- 
ter. The speakers were Gov. Samuel Mc- 
Call, of Massachusetts; Judge W. E. Staf- 
ford, of the District of Columbia; James 
H. Hustis, President of the Boston & 
Maine Railroad; Gov. Charles W. Gates, 
of Vermont, and Admiral Charles E. Clark. 
On Thursday a business session was held, 
and addresses on chamber of commerce 
work were made both morning and after- 
noon by Lucius E. Wilson, director of the 
field staff of the American City Bureau. 

The spirit generated by this meeting is 
one that will react strongly on the entire 
State. 


AMERICAN 


CITY 213 
International Association of 
Fire Engineers 
The great annual convention of the In 
ternational Association of Vire Kngineers 
will be held at Providence, RK. |... from 


August 29 to September 1. On this ocea- 
sion there will convene many of the men 
in whom is concentrated the chief respon- 
sibility of fire protection. 
sioners, heads of fire 
chiefs and fire specialists, will discuss some 
of the 
methods, and give the results of their ex 
perience in this field. This 
present an excellent opportunity to obtain 


lire Commis- 


departments, fire 
fire-fighting 


advances made in 


will give all 





CHIEF HANEY, OF JACKSONVILLE, FLA. 
HOPES TO BRING THE 1917 FIRE CHIEFS’ 
CONVENTION TO HIS CITY 


a comprehensive grasp of their subject that 
will at the same time be up-to-date. 

To aid those coming, special arrange- 
ments for transportation have been made 
in some localities of the country. At Chi- 
cago, Frank C. Stover has arranged for a 
special train to leave at 11.30 A. M. Sun- 
day, August 27. Information of other ar- 
rangements can be obtained from th 
retary of the Association, James McFall, 
Roanoke, Va. 


ec- 


+ + 


American Water-Works Association 

The-1917 convention of this association 
will be held in Richmond, Va., not in Den- 
ver, aS was stated in THe AMERICAN City 
for July. 














THE AMERICAN CITY 








For Municipal 
WATER 
WORKS 






Capacities up to 
60,000 Gallons 
Per Hour in 
Standard Sizes 


Pumps of greater 
capacity built to 
order 


Fig. 50 Deming Triplex (three plunger) power pump. Made in 
many different sizes. May be operated by any power. Much more 
efficient than the direct-acting steam pump. 


In a Town Not Far From YOURS— 


There is very likelyfan installation of a Deming Triplex 
Power Pump in municipal water works service. If your town , 
is interested in a waterworks pump, we will be glad to give you 
the names of one or more of the Deming Installations nearest 
you, so that the members of your committee can see for them- 


rome POWER 
PUMPS 


are doing. Town after town has found in Deming power pumping units, 
the solution to their water supply problem, whether the source of supply 
deep or shallow wells 


Deming Power Pumps and Deep Well Working Heads may be direct 
connected to gasoline engine, steam engine or electric motor, or driven by 


1 


belt from any power source. They require so little attention as to be 


aimost automat 





Ask us for the names of nearby towns in which Deming Pumps are installed. 
Our engineering department will gladly co-operate with you upon receipt 


of a statement of the conditions 


THE DEMING COMPANY, Salem, Ohio 


Manufacturers of Hand and Power Pumps For All Uses 
ENGINEERING AGENCIES: 


Chicago: Henion & Hubbell oston: Chas. J. Jager Co. 
Pittsburgh: Harris Pump & Supply Co. New York: Ralph B. Carter Co. 
Buffalo: Root-Neal & Co Richmond: Sydnor Pump & Well Co. 


San Francisco: Simonds Machinery Co Denver: Hendrie & Bolthoff Mfg. & Supply Co. 
Kansas City: English Tool & Supply Co. Philadelphia: W. P. Dallett 


Agencies in all principal cities. 








56 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amenican City. 








i stilt iN 

















Rosert B. 

Practical Landscape Gardening. 1910. 
266 pp. Numerous photographs, plans 
and diagrams. $1.65 


CRIDLAND, 


This book is written primarily for the use of the 
individual home builder who desires to plan and lay 
out his outdoor home surroundings so as to obtain the 
maximum return in beauty and comfort. However, the 
information given may be advantageously applied in 
solving the problems incident to the making and up- 
keeping of parks, squares and boulevards in the smaller 


cities. The author, in the opening chapters, insists 
upon the importance of careful planning and shows 
that the results obtained when this necessity is com 


yield great pleasure to the indi 
resulting in a defi 
_ Succeeding 


with not only 
vidual, but also to his neighbors, 
nitely good influence in the community. 
chapters discuss the location of the house; arrangement 
of walks, drives and entrances; grading, construction 
and upkeep of lawns; tree planting; wild gardens and 
flower gardens; architectural garden features; hardy 
borders and rose gardens. The concluding chapter 
gives planting plans and planting keys, as well as a 
glossary of technical terms. 
SANITARY RECORD AND 
ING, THE 
Empire Directo of Municipal Au- 
thorities and Officials and Year Book 
of “The Sanitary Record and Municipal 
Engineering” for 1916. 34th Annual 
Issue. 1915. xiv + 200 + I12 pp. 
$1.40 (duty extra) 
This is a_most complete and valuable directory of 
municipal officials in the various countries which come 
under the jurisdiction of Great Britain. Some of the 
countries comprised are: England and Wales, Scot- 
land, Ireland, Isle of Man, Canada and Newfoundland, 
India, Burma, Ceylon, Australia, New Zealand, South, 


plied 


MUNICIPAL ENGINEER- 


Central, East and West Africa, Rhodesia, Egypt, 
British West Indies, British Honduras, Federated Ma. 
lay States, Straits Settlements, Hong- Kong, Borneo, 


Seychelles, Papua and Fiji. The present volume, not- 
withstanding its issue during war times, includes 33 
municipal officials not included before. In addition, 
wherever possible, particulars of the following munici- 
pal undertakings have been given: electricity works, 
fire brigades, infectious hospitals, gas works, markets, 
public baths, refuse destructor works, sanatoria, sewage 


farms and sewage disposal works, tramways and 

omnibus undertakings, water-works, etc. A vast 

amount of other information is included, as well as 

carefully compiled indices. 

DoouittLe, F. W., Director, Bureau of Fare 
Research, American Electric Railway 
Association. 


Studies in the Cost of Urban Trans- 
portation Service. 1016. xxiii + 467 

pp. Maps, charts and statistical tables. 
3-70 
The Cogeens on Cost of Passenger Transportation 
Service of the American Electric Railway Association 
about three years ago recommended the formation of a 


Bureau’ of Fare Research. In May, 1914, such a 
bureau was organized, with Mr. Doolittle as its di 
rector. Since that time much investigative work has 
been undertaken, and that part of the studies in- 


cluded in this volume furnishes a fairly comprehen- 
sive summary of the many factors affecting the cost of 
passenger transportation service. These studies are 
presented “in the hope that they will assist in 
clearing up much of the misunderstanding that pre 
vails in many quarters as to the actual financial re 
sults of electric railway operation and the possibilities 
of lower fares and larger contributions from electric 
railways toward the cost of government.” 


215 


ola nTa nana na nVavTan a we ova nate we % 


Municipal and Civic Pubiications | 3 


Copies may be ordered of Tue American City, with the exception of Government publications 
those indicated as free, which should be ordered direct from the offices publishing them % 











and >] 
LAL ALL ADA a ahaha La LLL 
Lewis, Netson P., Chief Engineer, Board of 
Estimate and Apportionment, New 
York City 

The Planning of the Modern — \ 
Review of the Principles Governing City 
Planning. 191 XVi $23 pp. “Tilus 
trated. $3.50 
While there have een books on citv planning writ 
ten from the viewpoint of the architect and from that 
of the student of city e rnment. this book is the first 

comprehensive work devoted city plan g as 
engineering problem The aut! : idressing himsel 
especially to municipal eng States it as his 
opinion that “‘the fur " r s and fron 
their very nature mt ‘ g pt ems.”” The 
book takes up the city | vement and dis 
cusses its history to date, and shows t resent-da 
city planning largely consists in the correction of the 
mistakes of the past. The next chapter concerns itself 
with the elements of the city pl which are divided 
as follows: transportation system, street system, park 
and recreation facilities, and lox f public build 
ings. These elements are consid 1 in four goodly 
chapters. The remainder of the “*k treats of the 
economic value of city planning, industrial towns and 
garden cities, street traffic and street details, the rail 


road in its relation to the street system, the environ s 








of the city, restrictions, city in legislation, 
municipal land policies, financing the plan, and 
closes with a chap ter on ““The Opportunities and Re 
sponsibilities of the Municipal E ngineer.”” A brief 
indication of the sources of inf: tion is appended 
Commons, Joun R., LL. D., P rofessor of Po- 
litical Economy, University of Wiscon- 


sin, and 
\Nnprews, Joun B., Ph. D., Secretary, Ameri 
can Association for Labor I egislation. 


The Principles of Labor Legislation. 








Prepared in Coéperation with the Ameri- 
can Bureau of Industrial Research. (Citi- 
zens Series, Edited by William FI. Wil- 
loughby.) 1916. xiv + 524 pp. $2.15 
This is an important and painstaking book, which 
for the first time presents in orderly arrangement the 
various legislative elements in their proper rrelation, 
tracing the development of each to date and indicating 
the probable direction of future progress The basis 
of labor law is discussed, as shown in the labor cor 
tract, individual rights a the “due process of law” 
theory. The laborer is ) in his relationships as 
debtor, creditor, tenant and npetitor, and under col 
lective bargaining the law of conspiracy, mediation by 
government, coercion by government ind inions i 
government employes are considered \ iapter of 
particular interest is that devoted to the nimut 
wage, where this variety of legis] lisc usser 
from the viewpoints of economic basis, historical de 
velopment, standards, methods of operation, results and 
constitutionality. Chapter V considers the hours of 
labor and rest periods of men, women and children ir 
industry, and Chapter VI, on une nae ment treats of 
public and private employment has aus, the distribution 
"t public work, and the regularization f industry 
Under safety and health are included the reporting of 
accidents and occupational diseases, prohibitory law 
and the regulation of factories, workshops, mines and 
tunnels. The subject of social insurance is considered 
at length in Chapter VIII, under its vario divisions 
industrial accident, health, old age and invalidity, 
widows’ and orphans’ and unemployment insurance 
Ihe final chapter is devoted to administration as illus 
trated in executive, legislative, judicial bodies and the 
industrial commission. The “Select Critical Bib 
liography” appended is a particularly therough and 
valuable work. The volume closes with a table of case 


cited and an index, 














THE AMERICAN CITY | 





Mathews Fire Hydrants 


A Recognized Standard 








Made in Standard 
and High Pressure Types 


F rost-Proof— | 
Positively Automatically Drained — 
Always Dependable 


GATE VALVES 
For All Purposes 


CAST IRON PIPE 
and 
FITTINGS 











“REDUCED” Fittings 


R. D. WOOD & CO. 


Philadelphia, Pa. 


Write for Catalogues and Prices 














57 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amzarcan City. 











Picea rs 


salt ct, 


oe 





AuGustT, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


BarRNES, CuHArLEs B., Director, New York 
State Public Employment Bureau 

The Longshoremen. 015. xx 4+ 287 

pp. Photographs, maps and_ statistical! 

tables. $2.00 


The daily round of the longshoreman, from the 
arduous time he spends standing as a part of the 
‘shape,”” or semicircle, hoping to be picked out by 
the foreman for the work, until the late hours whe: 
his work is done, is here presented in a convincing 
manner, bringing before our eyes every detail of 
the color and action to be found in this haz ardous 





cupation. The first three ee Soil deal with the long 
shoremen as_ individuals—the lationalities re pre 
sented and the character of the men eet are di 

cussed the sorts of trade and commerce which are 
involved in longshore work. A most important chap 
ter is that which discusses the methods of hiring 
and shows the high percentage of irregularity of 


employment and the resulting hardships of the men 
After telling of wages and earnings, strikes and 
unions are considered and an outline of the move 
ment for organization among longshoremen is given 
The risks of the trade are outlined in the ninth 
chapter and here the part played by fatigue, pre 
ventable accidents, exposure and disease is explained 
The closing chapter contains the author's conclusions 
and his suggestions for constructive betterment work 
['welve appendices give the important features of 
foreign legislation and activities to improve the 
conditions im longshore work A carefully prepared 
glossary and bibliography complete the study Tr 
this contribution Mr. Barnes has performed a note 
worthy service to the history of the occupations of 
New York City and their hazards and risks 


Set, ANNA PHILLIPS (words). 

Lowe, Sipney Dorion (music). 
Children’s Songs of City Life. i916 
63 pp. $1.07 


The object of this book, as stated in the short 
foreword, is “to give to the city child songs to in 
terpret the beautiful in his environment.” The authors 
have taken their task seriously and have endeavored 
to picture the actual, everyday things and events wit! 
which the city child comes in contact; to this end 
Mrs. See employs charmingly simple word-pictures and 
Mr. Lowe uses easily-played, interpretative musical 
settings. Some of the subjects of the lyrics are as 
follows: The Parade, The Trolley Car, Back Yards, 
The Postman, The City, The Window-box, the Play 
ground by the Sea, The Little Mother, The Grocery 
Store, The Building of the House, Where Does the 
Street Go? The Organ-man and the Monkey. There 
are twenty-seven lyrics in all, each with its accom 
paniment. 





Srer_ine, Harry, B. Head of Department, 
Physical Training, Eastern District 
High School, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
The Playground Book. i916. vi + 105 
pp. Music, photographs and diagrams. 
$1.95 


This book presents a choice of the very best games 
and dances adapted to playground conditions and 
purposes, The writer classes playground activities 
under such heads as: singing games, folk dances, 
playground athletics, playground games and classroom 
games. Under each of these heads ten of the best 
examples of the type of activity are briefly given 
with instructions and illustrations (and musical ac 
companiment when required), so that they can easily 
be executed by the inexperienced playground or ath 
letic instructor. Some of the names of the various 
games and dances are as follows: Jolly is the Miller. 
Carrousel, The Snail, Portland Fancy, Chimes of 
Dunkirk, Virginia Reel, Bleking, Chebogar, Potato 
Race, Ring Toss Race, Shuttle Relay, Dodge Ball, 
Cat and Rat, Slap Jack, Balloon Game, Stage Coach, 
Going to Jerusalem, Follow the Leader, Kaleidoscope 
Valuable hints to playground workers and instructors 
are contained in short articles and notes at the ends 
of the different sections. 





217 

‘ 
Ritcuig£, FRANK H. T., Secretary Bovs’ W 
Department, International Committec 
Young Men’s Christian Associations 


Community Work of the —— Men's 
Christian Association. o1s 

















V ) 
pp. Statistical maps and diagrams 
35 cents 

his little 1 fur P é 
the organizing ar levelopm«e work t 
performed by the taff worker f \ g Me 
Christiar ( 
an introdu 
in the f I 
surveys the field of activit the obj rt 
the underlying principles ‘ work I 
ence s placed upor eader | f 
community program anal ¢ 
must get in touch wit t ele 
munity, gaining their syr ithy a working 

tion, until finally a str gar i ! 
Nor must the leader get t f ‘ 
his program for codperating with ex rN 
agencies; also, tl national and ternat 
izations an movement should be 
worker Other problen nnecte A 
work, such as co tut s and 1 t i 
tions, finances get ire i 
sections, and the book t ‘ rf 
DeEwey, JOHN. 

Democracy and Education: An Intro- 


duction to the Philosophy of —— 




















(Textbook Series in Education Edited by 
Paul Monroe, Ph.D.) 1916. xiv + 434 
pp $1.¢2 
Professor Dewey endeavor 1s le 
inderlying democratic society and the extent t 
which they are applied ir res¢ Ly cati 
methods, After indicating the const tive aims 
ethods of public educatior is seen from s 
of view, he critically estimates the theories of 
ing and moral development which, though fort 
in earlier social conditions, still operate in nomi 
democratic societies to hamper the lequa 
zation of the dem " le The philes c 
tained in Dewey ok connect the 
growth of democracy with tl levelopment f the 
experimental method in the sciences, eV ary 
ideas in the biological sciences, and the 
reorganization, and points out the changes ir 
matter and method of education indicated by these 
developments The book thoug written | 
from the philosophical standpoint, has chapters 
“Play and Work in the Curriculum.” “Vocationa 
Aspects of Education,”’ etc., which contain su 
information which should prove inspiring to practic 


teachers and others 


CoLeMAN, Georce W., Editor 
Democracy in the Making: Ford Hall 
and the Open Forum Movement. g!5 


xx + 340 pp. $1.50 
The origin of the open forum movement will 
probably be found in the Sunday-evening meeting 
held in Cooper Union some time after Peter Cooper 
founded the Cooper Institute in 1854, for the in 
struction and improvement of the working classes.’ 
George W. Coleman attended one of the meeting 
and was fired with the purpose to do met r 
similar for Boston, his own city The stor rf the 
growth and development of Ford Hall, fro th 
beginning, as well as the story of the purpose ani 
spirit of the meetings and their influence, is here 
related by various contributors, all of whom have 
helped in some way in its work. The book is divided 
into four parts: the first, a record f facts, tells 
primarily of the history of the forur the second 
contains the judgments of the work of Ford Hall 
expressed by seven prominent men; the third con 


prises studies of sixteen typical Ford Wall talks 
and the last part gives six typical Ford Hall talk 


on such questions as religion, socialism, the modern 
drama, democracy and industry. The appendix 
furnishes the schedule of speakers, their thject 


and the date of presentation, since the first seasur 
in 1908 














THE AMERICAN CITY 





Here is Proof 


News items like those shown above are found in papers 
all over the country. One city after another is gradually 
waking up to the fact that it is much cheaper to conduct 


A PITOMETER SURVEY 


than to let the water waste through leaks which amount to thousands of 
gallons daily. 

This instrument has been the standard for use in water works 
surveys for the past 15 years, because it really finds the leaks. During 
that time it has been successfully used by over 150 cities and twenty-four 
cities availed themselves of our services during 1915 and others have 
purchased or rented our instruments to be used by the local engineer or 
superintendent. 


Write for our booklet and learn how we can save you thousands of dollars 


annually. We have accomplished this for other cities and we can do the same for 
yours. 


THE PITOMETER CO., 55 Duane St., New York 








When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 




















Aueust, 1916 THE AMERICAN CITY 


BANNINGTON, B. G., Inspector of Nuisances, JOURNE, RANDOLPH S 

County Borough of West Ham The Gary Schools. (Wit 
English Public Health Administraticn tion by William Wirt, Supe 
Introduction by Graham Wallas, M. A Schools, Gary, India 
(Series: Studies in Economics and Po- 204 
litical Science, Edited by the Hon. W 
Pember Reeves, Ph.D.) i915. xiv 
338 pp: Statistical Tables. 

1.87 (postage and duty additional) 


,; 
pp. Photographs $1.15 





This is one of those excellent and thorough books 
which occasionally come to us from England and make 
1s wish that more of their kind could be produced 
on this side of the Atlantic. In his historical résumé 

. Mr. Bannington tells of the early labors of Chadwick 
and how these labors finally culminated, in 1848, 
the first public health act, called “the groundwork of 
our sanitary legislation,” which created a genera 
toard of Health with power to create local sanitary 
districts with local boards of health, either on petiti 
by the ratepayers or compulsorily when the deat 
rate reached 23 per 1,000. He continues: “The 
boards were required to appoint surveyors and 
spectors of nuisances, and were given wide, 
optional, powers, among which was the right t 
point a medical officer of health.’”” From this point or 
the author traces the development, treating in late: ) 

; chapters the problems incident to legislation, adminis tistics and some int 
trative organization, the medical health officers and 
health officials, the power of complaint and the right , 
of entry, objects a methods of inspection, cont of (JSBORNE THOMAS Mo 

diseases, records and reports, town planning and a a v 

provement, sanitary supplies and "aeeviaan, put Society and Prisons. ? L 
health finance, central control, voluntary agencies and 91.35 
the need for reform. A short bibliography is appended 


aj 





Sinciair, Upton, Editor. om Respo a ties — ship,” ; 
The Cry for Justice: An Anthology of = “criminal” is not a type of perso 
the Literature of Social Protest. (With = {rem others, but a1 oo 
an introduction by Jack London.) igis Aer yp ahi om 
Illustrated. 81 pp. $2.00 econd chapter, 


wt : } te 

Under such heads as Toil, Revolt, Marty: , ahs se son a 
Jesus, Mammon, War, Children, Humor, and Socia Pad " , epee 8 
ism, the editor of this book has arranged short poems - 4 Tr bate a 7 My 
and prose extracts from ancient and modern authors . ‘° aes : . 
which he thinks are appropriate to his subject. Georg: 
Crabbe is sandwiched in between Edwin Markham ar 
J. M. Barrie, and is shortly followed by Patrick Ma 
Gill, the “Navvy poet.” The interpretive titles 
corded each extract are striking: four lines by Wang ” eg linc 
An-Shih are under “Socialism;” Confucius is quoted Poh seer ge te ae bot : 
on “Radicalism;” the Prophet Isaiah discourses ( cor UW. eihiee Min. Clawcndl te , 
“Ladies of Fashion;” and we are treated with five lines a ee (eae —— - 
on “Wall Street” by the prophet Habakkuk. On th f agree ateoee W 
whole, the selections are well chosen and make very : pases ‘pan ty 
interesting reading. A large number of illustrations Fre 
representing the “social protest in art” are included 


Jones, Grosyenor M., Commercial Agent. ets, Mary. 


Ports of the United States: Report on Joseph Fels: His Life-Work. 1916. vi 
i Terminal Facilities, Commerce, Port +271 pp. Portrait $1.10 
~ Charges and Administration at Sixty- 
Eight Selected Ports. (U.S. Bureau of wt 
Foreign and Domestic Commerce, Miscel- methane ah toed mation” Tien 
laneous Series, No. 33.) 1916. 431 pp first business experiences of Mr. Fels are relate 
Maps and statistical tables. 75 conta feet sree fir 
ae Inadertakings 
The remarkable development of American ports ther interests 
during the last five years is described in this timely most to do in 
and comprehensive bulletin of the Bureau of Foreign the single tax was his experience in Philads 
and Domestic Commerce, which attributes this rapid working for the orgar t f a vacant-lot 
growth to the modern commercial development, the ussociation. | ooh 
building of the Panama Canal, and the recent ten ion, Mr. Fels intr ed the idea ther 
dency of Congress to require communities receiving ‘vacant-lot-garden” idea to the “farm-col 
federal appropriations for river and harbor work to but a step, and so he ntified |} elf with those 
coOperate in making the improvement or to provide movements which resu 
public terminals. Six chapters are devoted to the don and Hollesley B 
North Atlantic, South Atlantic, Gulf, Pacific Coast, convinced Mr. Fels of the soundness of the ‘ 
Great Lakes and Ohio River ports—covering about 68 theories, and he at once devoted his energies to the 
ports all told. There are a number of excellent maps work of propaganda. The 
; and several appendices containing additional informa London 








and on the Cont t in unremitting service 
tion. The summary of results in the first part of the for his cause, and, fir f s return to An 
book gives an excellent review of the condition to-day where, five 3 s bef 


year 
of the most important United States ports Fels Fund Cor ssi 











THE AMERICAN CITY 


Se ee ee 
CLEAN MAINS ARE 


ABSOLUTELY NECESSARY 1 


Clean mains are your best insurance against conflagra- 





tions. They aid in the prevention of disease. They save 
unnecessary pumping costs. Your mains can be made 
like new no matter how badly clogged. By 


THE 


TION 


METHOD 


It is the quick and economical way to get rid of this con- 
dition 





It makes them like new without relaying a single 
pipe, and your traffic is not hindered while our men work. 
Don't put life and property in the hands of chance by 
keeping the mains all clogged up. 


Have you a copy of our booklet telling all about our method ? 
It’s very interesting 







NATIONAL WATER MAIN 
CLEANING COMPANY 


HUDSON TERMINAL BUILDING 
NEW YORK CITY 


Some of the sedi- 
ment and incrusta- 
tions taken from a 
pipe line at Mer- 
ced, Cal. At the 
left is a part of the 
cleaning device. 








When writing to Advertisers please sennon Tae American City. 











oo et + 








Pamphlets of Municipal and Civic Interest 


What We Should All Know About Our 


Streets. 


Prepared for the Use of Our \ 
the City Schools, by Mrs. Julius ae Coher 
Chairman, Committee on Streets, W< 's Muni 
pal League of the City of New \Y 
pp. (Apply to the Woman's Municipal 
110 West Fortieth Street, New York ( 


oung Cuilizens it 


Leag 


Tuberculosis Among Industrial Workers. 
Report of an Investigation n 
with Special Reference to Predist sing ( 
By Surgeon D. E. Robinson and Assist 


ade it ‘ 


1uses 


it Su 
geon J. G. Wilson. (United States Public "He alt 
Service, Public Health Bulletin No. 73, Mar 

1916.) 143 pp. Photographs, charts, maps ar 
statistical tables. (Apply to the Public Healt 


Service, Washington, D. C.) 


Financial Statistics Regarding Houston, 


Texas. 
Exhibit A: A Chart compiled by |. J. Pastoriza 
Tax and Land Commissioner and Chairmar 
Finance Committee, Houston, Texas 


March, 1916. (Apply to author, Houston 





Reorganization of the Public School System. 


By Frank Forest Bunker. (Bulletin, 1916, No 
United States Bureau of Educatic 
Statistical ee. (Apply to the B 
ington, D. C.) 


yn.) 186 pT 


ireau, Was! 


Immigration, Housing and Unemployment 
in California. 


Second Annual Report of the Commission of In 
migration and Housing of California, Jan y 
1916 396 = pp. Photogr? aphs, maps, tat 
diagrams and charts. (Apply to the Comn 
Underwood Building, San Francisco.) 


Baltimore’s Charges for Permits, Etc. 


\ list of most of the charges for permits, 1 
privileges, rents and licenses of Baltimore anc 
Maryland, compiled by W. T. Childs 


, Comptroller 






of 


of Baltimore, reproduced in the Municipal Journal 


of Baltimore (Volume 4, Number 9, May 12, 1916) 
12 pp. (Apply to City of Baltimore, Md.) 


The Sanitary Privy. 


By Edward D. Rich, C. E., State Sanitary Ex 
gineer of Michigan State Board of Healt! 
(Engineering Bulletin No. 8, Michigan State 
Board of Health, issued March, 1916.) 15 pp 
Photographs and diagrams. (Apply to Michigan 
State Board of Health, Lansing, Mich.) 


Foundation Principles of Utility Valuation. 


With Special Application to Resett! ement Plans. 
By Bion J. Arnold. (A paper read before the 
34th annual convention of the American Electric 
Railway Association at San Francisco, Cal., Octo 


ber 7, 1915, to which Mr. Arnold has added a 
discussion of the “Depreciation of Overhead 
Charges” and a glossary of terms.) 1916. 


Charts. (Apply to American Electric Railw way 
Association, 8 West Fortieth Street, New 
City.) 

A Schedule of Civic Surveys. 
By Arthur C. Comey. (Bulletin No. 5, Ma 


1916, Massachusetts Homestead Commission.) 16 


pp. (Apply to the Commission, State House, Bos 
ton, Mass.) 


Annual Report of the Auditor of Accounts, 
Newark, N. J. 


For the Year Ending December 31, 1915. (A very 
complete little book tastefully gotten up in boards 
with Robert Treat poster on cover in honor of 
250th anniversary.) 1916. 210 pp. (Apply to 
James A. Rowe, Auditor of Accounts, Newark 
N. J.) 


oy 1916 15 


Comparative Salary Data. 





ne ir e | 
d State is 
P : S S 
: ( r r . 2 \i 
( | ‘ M 
f \\ I M 
6 St \ 
i ke 
Domestic Sanitary Engineering 
A Iss tt 
1d spe 
Or lin 2 es I 
Adoption byl I 
Plumbing 
ers, Sewer 7 < I 
he Use of Sanit Stor \ r Ss 
Wm. C. Groeniger, Stat ector of 
Ohio State Board | 
sue | ind distril ead > 
Health, Columbus, O 
Debate on the Single Tax. 
By Thomas B. Pres 
New York State Single Tax Leag vie { 
New York ( 
Cambridge ae ssouse oe. 
Prospectus ( 
Com, ins ex 
houses for the & 
Particulars f 
teature, may be I € 
the Cambridge H sing ( M 
| es S. Cassidy is Chair t ( 
Comey, Secre lreasurer t 4 A 
ing, Harvard §S ¢ ( I 
National Conference on Concrete Road 
Building. 
Proceedings of Se Nati ( 
Concrete Road Building, Chi 
15-18, 1916. Edited | Se 
328 pp Photo eT ‘ 


tables and rol 
tary of the Confer 
Street, Chicago, Ill.) 





New York City Consumers’ League. 
The Work of the Cor r 
rk 





Report of Dallas, Tex., Department of Pub- 
lic Welfare. 
First Annual Report, Dey 
fare, City of Dallas, 1915-1916 
to the Department, Dallas, Tex 


Workmen’s Compensation. 
Digest of Workmen’s Compensation I - 
United States and Perr; tories, with Annot 
Issued by the Workmen’s Compensation Publicity 
Bureau, 80 M aiden Lane, New York Cit Fourti 





edition, revised to Decembe 1, 191 

Apply to the Bureau at above addres $2 
Professional Course for Service Among 

Immigrants. 

The above is the title of my ed 

The Committee for Immigrants in America. 

W. 34th Street, New York City Prepared f 

use by colleges, schools of Dp antl py, et ‘ 

pp. (Apply to the committee at b e addre 

Free. 








THE AMERICAN CITY 





'’ OF DOING 
BUSINESS 


CUT IN HALF BY USING THE 













? Atlantic Pumping Engines 
PA EASILY MOVED FROM PLACE TO PLACE 

Economical Reliable—Unequaled 
Cannot be beaten for pumping out 


Trenches, Excavations, Cesspools, Pier Foundations, 
Filling Water Carts and Tanks; Road Contractors’ Work 


Telegraph or write for net prices and full description 


HAROLD L. BOND COMPANY, *“stst3siss™™ 











*Littleford Portable Tar 
and Asphalt Heater 


REASONS why your Street Department should use this heater 
*1—It is compact, thus reducing weight and making it easy 
to handle. 
Kettle rests entirely within the furnace, giving maximum heat- 
ing surface. 
}—Top of kettle is especially low, making it very accessible. 
4—Kettle is removable, enabling it to be easily cleaned. 
Air space between fire box and furnace prevents warping. 
6—Cover is absolutely watertight. 
Axle is tapered, machine-turned, and is located entirely outside 
of furnace. 
8—Wheels are extra heavy, staggered spokes, steel tires 4-in. x }4-in. 
Write for Booklet. 


Littleford Brothers, Gncinnate Simo 











PERFECT VWOOD-BLOCK PAVING 
Long wear and satisfactory service are only possible with wood-block paving when it has been 
: creosoted with the right oil. The service record of Reilly Improved Creosote Oil as a paving 
' block preservative has established its reputation with municipal engineers throughout the 
country. This known service efficiency has led conservative engineers to specify Reilly Improved 
Creosote Oil for this work. Write for the FREE handbook. 
Republic Creosoting Co., Indianapolis, Ind. Plants: Mobile, Indianapolis, Minneapolis 








WM. E. DEE COMPANY 


‘ SO N. La Salle Street Chicago, I11. 
; | We manufacture Manhole, Catch Basin and 
| | t Sewerage Castings of all Kinds. We make anything 

eee EEE in Gray Iron. Write for our prices. 

















60 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tas Amszazican City. 





~~ 


ay onan 


ieee 


ae RR NUUUOUUNCTOAUUUL ANAL 
M -_—* 


anufacturers 
Available Free of Charge for Readers of THE AMERICAN CITY = 


Advertisers are invited to submit catalogues or 
Tue American City should always be mentioned when writing for this material 
check over these items each month and write for such printed matter as interests 
this @ convenient way of keeping their information files up to dat 


LUTON 


A Book About Tires. 


The Dayton Rubber Manufacturing Company, of 
Dayton, Ohio, has just issued an attractive book 
let of 12 pages, entitled “‘Fire-Tested Facts About 
lires,” which, among other things, describes the 
new size 8C tire, which is intended for use on 
apparatus weighing from 11,000 to 18,000 pounds 
rhe booklet also contains a number of t 

from chiefs who have been using the Dayton air 





less tires for four or more years A full explana 
tion of the construction of the tire is given ar 
is stated that these tires are now it se 


than 600 fire departments 


Sewer Cleaning Machine. » 


Information and photographs are being distributed 
on request by the Champion Potato Machinery 
Company, of Hammond, Ind., relative to the Ki ah! 
man sewer-cleaning machine, which removes sand 
gravel and other material from sewers 


~Trees, Shrubs and Flowers for Parks and 
Cemeteries. 

A handsome booklet has been published R 
Douglas’ Sons, Box 601, Waukegan, IIL, relative 
to the nursery stock which they furnish suita 
for landscape gardening work “his booklet c 
tains valuable hints and suggestions, together wit! 
price list, etc. 


Playground Apparatus for the Youngsters. 


This is the subject covered in a catalog issued by 
the American Playground Device Company, of 
Anderson, Ind., illustrating and describing many 
interesting contrivances in the line of playgr« 
equipment. 


Fire Apparatus. 
A large mailing card issued by the South Bend 
Motor Car Works, of South Bend, Ind., gives a 
number of reasons why “Double Duty” fire appa 
ratus should be used. 


Lead Wool for Water-Works. 


“A Dissertation on the Usefulness of Lead Wool 
to Water Companies,” is the title of a pamphlet 
to be obtained from the United Lead Company 
111 Broadway, New York City 


Seeds and Garden Implements. 
“A Catalogue of High-Class Seeds,’ issued 
J. M. Thorburn & Co., 53 Barclay Street, New 
York City, contains price lists, photographs and 
descriptions, which will interest all garden lovers 
and landscape enthusiasts 


Asphalt Paving. 


A plea for the economy, durability and service 
natural asphalt pavements, and an exposition of 
the special processes of nature which are nece 
sary to make asphalt nent, are contained in a 
pamphlet issued by The Barber Asphalt Paving 
Company, of Philadelphia, Pa 


Ornamental Street Lamp Posts. 


Ornamental lamp standards, combination railway 
and lighting poles, and a large variety of lighting 
fixtures arranged for Mazda lamps or brackets for 
supporting ornamental luminous arc lamps are de 
scribed and pictured in Catalog “E” of the Ele 


tric Railway Equipment Company, Cincifinati, 


Ohio. 


HUTA ARAL 


Literature 











circulars suitable for mention in these ¢ lumns 





Oficial who 
them will find t 
‘ ca 
‘e. Se 
E 
PUUYUTINUOUNELULALSAASOULAYC200N0ULEYE AAG HANUHUULEEOU TONLE ir 


Explosives for moot Construction Work. 











A handsome Fa K i-bound <let recently is 
sued by E. | 1 Pont de Net & « pany 
f Imington Ye ware ‘ escribe 
ed t tl 
ere g é is given of 
n yundat 
the banks of the Bra it the sug 
gestion of I . o J 
Aspects of Industrial Service ‘Work. 
he National Lamp Wor eral Ele 
tric Company, at Nela ‘Park Cleveland, O 
as issued five { R s 
1e work of its S ; rt 
fo wing tit I \ Pr e f Factory 
Dispe I t S F 
Departn f Ss W ork 
Prepar I I yes 
" oe ctive 
} 1 
terest s Re 
juest t 
National S I ( 
land, Ohio 
Signs for City Halls, Schools, Etc. 
A list of special sig f I i of a 
stock of enameled iror ites, whi ire ad: 1 
for us t 
fort stations, police, fir nda water lepartn 
buildings, may by taine fr the Standard 
Sign Manufacturing ‘ ny, Pittsburgh, Pa 


Jointed Rods for Sewer Cleaning 








Rods made fr se k with 
couplings of 1 alle ble is i 
down very tightly h 
tachable tools to remove f rious 
kinds from sewer pij . eaflet 
of the F. Bissell Company, 
Kelly Trucks in Public Service. 
In a recent pamphlet, the Ke Springfield Motor 
pruck “compas y, of 1 Burt Street, Springfield 
Ohio ws t 
, bi; se 

ate their Ss I 
for county 
gas and other | 

Water Meters. 

The catalog ind ce t 1 .¢ t e 
Eureka water eter t 
Pittsburgh Met Con y t g, P 

ined w 

nd spe 
illustrated | ig S 1 


Drawing and Surveying Instruments and 


Accessories. 
The tentl ‘ ‘ 
orice list k ® ¢ g S 
New Y k ¢ 

i ‘ s t . 
pany eals it R t g 
sun print papers ar eq ents, drawing instru 
nents and materials, surveying inst ents ar 


accessories, etc 



























































‘ 
THE AMERICAN CITY 
—y 
CONGAS T= FOr 
DarMIAN RNS = 
The Galveston 
Sea Wall 
in which were used 
over 100,000 bags of 
1 
RIG.-GEN. HENRY M. ROBERT (U. S. Army retired), who 
was on the commission that built the wall, recently said: “‘The 
Galveston Sea Wall stands today, after being tested by two of the 
severest West Indian hurricanes on record, in practically as good 
condition as it was on the day of its completion.” 
lhe Galveston Sea Wall, built to withstand tropical storms for generations to come, 1 
nly one of many mighty engineering achievements where ALPHA Cement has 
CEN Tec quired to meet unusual conditions. ALPHA can always be depended on to i 
1ake concrete of the highest type. By hourly tests day and night, ALPHA chemists } 
nae sure that every bag of ALPHA is uniform in composition, fineness and tensile 
strength. 


Plants on six trunk line railroads (one on the Hudson River) and storage warehouses with capacity of 


4rt Envelope N . 2,000,000 barrels give unusual facilities for prompt deliveries. 

Aowing cicws of notabi: 

concrete structures and 

Hop a6 Pee ies ALPHA PORTLAND CEMENT COMPANY Sercit: Easton, Pa. 
aineia® season engunt Sales Offices: New York, Philadelphia, Boston, Pittsburgh, Baltimore, Savannah 





61 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tax American City. 








AAS ee 


AuGusT, 1916 THE 


Bituminous Stone Road Surfaces. 


lo prove, by means of photographs accompanied 
by a minimum amount of explanatory matter, that 
voidless mixture of varying sizes of crushed stone 
provides inherent stability, but that the open mix 
ture has the opposite effect, is the purpose of a 
pamphlet issued by the Warren Brothers’ Co 
pany, Boston, Mass 


Road Building Equipment. 


A large, ovtted : atalog and price list has bee 
issued by the J. ase T. M. Co., Inc., 770 1 
erty Street, RBS “Wis. manufacturers of stea 
road rollers, gas and oil tractors, rock crushers, 
elevators, screens and bins, road drags, du 


wagons, and accessories 


Interlocking Concrete Culverts. 


Fifteen “Good Reasons Why” concrete culverts 
in general, and Hall concrete interlocking culverts 
in particular, should be used in road work, 

well as a letter of praise from a municipal official, 
are compressed into a folio issued by Schulz & 


Hodgson, 19 South La Salle Street, Ch cago, Il 
who are Eastern representatives f t 


Pumps, Dredges and Steam Engines. 


Hundreds of photographs, a number of diagrams 
and a great deal of interesting materia leal 
ing with centrifugal pumps, hydraulic dredges and 
steam engines, are to be found in a catalog f 
126 pages, published by the manufacture the 


Morris Machine Works, Baldwinsville, N. \ 


Feeding Boilers in Power Plants. 


The power pump as an economic factor, | 
use in mills, mines, factori es and water-works f 
the purpose of boiler feeding, fire protectior , mine 
pumping, brine circulating, elevator service, 1 
and paper mill pumping, Sng are discussed in a 
12-page pamphlet issued by The Deming ( pany 


Salem, Ohio, and are accompanied by 
letters from representative firms 


Trees, Shrubs, Fruits and Flowers. 


\ catalog of fruit and ornamental trees, s! 3 
roses, seeds and bulbs, containing beautiful photo 
graphs of a great many varieties of such plants, 
and a mass of information about them, has beer 
published by The Storrs & Harrison Compan 

Painesville, Ohio 


Fire Appliances. 


The 1916 Fire Appliance Catalog No. 1, of the 
Pyrene Manufacturing Company, of New York 
City, contains a large number of illustrations of 
fre equipment and accessories, with their accom 
panying descriptions, and prices 


Motor Trucks in Mexico. 


A recent issue of the Packard Truck Digest 
tells of the experiences of U. S. Army Truck 
rrain No. 8, Mexican Expeditionary Force, i: 
the charge of Truck Master Carl Newell, former 
ly manager of the Packard service department i: 
Mexico City. The train consists of 27 of the 
61 Packard trucks now operating with the trooy 

in Mexico. Structural features of Packar 

trucks assuring efficiency and economy, ! 

Packard shop methods, are also treated 


A Steam Gong for Fire Alarm. 
\ powerful twelve-inch, three-bell steam gong ar 
valve which produces an immense volume of sound, 
far-reaching but not piercing, and whic! I 
effective for use as a fire alarm, is described in a 
catalog devoted to the valves, gongs, regulators 
ete., manufactured by the Union Water Met 
Company, Worcester, Mass 


Dump Cars for Road Construction Work. 


A great variety of cars and trucks for the above 
and other purposes, as well as many different 
types of excavating buckets, are illustrated and 
described in an attractive c atalogue of 152 pages, 
recently issued by The Lakewood Engineering 
Company, of Cleveland, Ohio. 


AMERICAN 


Caer 225 


Gurley Precise Transits. 
\ diagra 


Precise Transit 


Trash Cans and Pails. 


Small cans, larg 

cans, asn ca 

family, are ‘ 
of the Rox ster ( ( 


Cast Iron Extension Service Boxes. 


Vhe n any adv g 


A Water-Meter Price List. 


Trees for Parks and Boulevards 


Oak, linden, 
other evergre¢ 


and vines 


Saving Money on the Waste Paper of Mu- 
nicipal Departments. 


Protective Paints. 


The philos ny I 
the method of manufacture g 
ties of linsee 
skin, the t ‘ 
rtance of cl sing the right ¢ 
discussed i i 
Joseph Dixon Cr e Jer ‘ 
N. J 











THE AMERICAN CITY 




















Two Case Graders Being Operated by a Case Steam and Case Gas Tractor. 
Note in the illustration how all controls of the Grader are within easy 
reach of the operator 


What Determines Value? 


Value in road building machinery is based upon dependability 
and length of efficient service. That machinery which will do the 
work quickly and satisfactorily has accomplished but one purpose. 
The ability to do this work over a period of years— serviceability— is 
the all important factor. 


In Case Road Building Machinery you can by slight investigation, 
prove to your satisfaction that we have accomplished this result. 
Skilled engineers in our organization have incorporated a wealth 
of features in Case Road Machinery that save time, labor and money. 
Materials used in every part are tested in our laboratories for the 
efficiency demanded of them. Dependable machinery that gives 
lasting service is always the most economical. Wherever good road 
construction is in progress, Case Machinery, you can be sure, is in 


evidence. 


Road rollers, steam and gas tractors, graders, rock crushers, drags, 
scrapers, wagons are all a part of the Case line. Those interested 
in good roads will profit by receiving our latest Catalog which de- 
scribes and pictures the machines that have demonstrated their 
worth as result producers. A copy sent postpaid for the asking. 


J. 1, CASE T. M. COMPANY, Inc. 


725 Liberty St. Racine, Wis. 


The sign of 

Mechanical 

Excellence 
the world over. 





























When writing to Advertisers please mention THe American City. 





‘ae 
7 


ns 2 








a 
| Ds Pld NN sch etn tain a 





‘dice 2 RR eaeee ame 


Methods, Materials and Appliances 


News from Engineers, Manufacturers and Supply Houses 











_ EE 








© © 

© -98: ‘ 
pay P48 +e 

t'¢« 

Pediat eg, .i m 
© 10 Oy © fo 
Tv H+. “Tr 

Bye | 


; 


’ 
, ; 





eediene tr 


Ce lel ‘ey Omg 
[©.-e to 
Py \ 9 . 20 


— 


A’) 
Ly} 


4 











THE DETROIT TRAFFIC SQUAD IN RAIN 


Conspicuous Coats for ‘‘Cops”’ 


To have to stand out in the midst of an 
uncovered highway during a d ! és 
in dark or foggy weather is part 
tine work of each of our traft 
agreeable as this may be, it 
serious to him as the realizatior 
dition, he is in grave danger o1 





of being run over by a speeding t Departments 
[he danger is due to his black rubber coat, st 
which makes him inconspicuous against _lany interest 
blackness of the wet road. This is especial] chang 
true on roads where overhanging branches of nl 
trees, etc., produce dim shadows deceiving 
the eye. Often a speeding automobilist will 
not see the policeman at all, and sometimes ecient 
when he does it means a quick jerk at th reasons, « 
emergency brake and a leap of the heart it 1s absolu 
Motorists have complained of this nditi e at 
as a very vexing one. not onl 

To eliminate the dangers involved in t: 
duty on wet roads, the expedient f wus 
white rubber coats has been adopted in some ses, it 1 
municipalities. These white rubber coats offer ich fe 
a distinct contrast to the asphalt pavement Gasoline 
when it is wet and make the officer con is an extre 
spicuous. particularly 

The accompanying picture shows the po- Therefore 


licemen of the Detroit traffic squad in their tant, and every pré 


Gasoline Storage in Municipal 


amit 
S t leal wi 
"1 

Tt ea 
n irding 














THE AMERICAN CITY 





CULVERTS 


Soil, climate or water have no 
effect on 


“(jenuine Open Hearth Iron” 
Culverts — the alloying of copper 
OUR CULVERTS preventsit. ‘They lastindefinitely. 
NEVER REQUIRE i pt tae dhe aga the economi- 
REPLACEMENT ga ie“ etn 





Send for booklet telling all about them. 





The NEWPORT 
CULVERT CO. 


(Incorporated) 


NEWPORT, KY. 








~_— 








Rollers Increased 
Tandem and Capacity, 
Macadam Convenience, 
Heating Economy 
acre Write for 
Surfaces Special 

| Heaters. Bulletin 














The Barber Asphalt Paving Company 


| lroquois Works Buffalo, New York 











63 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amezaican City. 











TY hake ali 


Aue. 1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS 





AND MANUFACTURERS 22 


as 




















INTERIOR VIEW OF THE FIRI 


S ing Bowser self 


be taken to make sure that the storage tank 
installed is of approved design and construc 
tion and tested thoroly before installation 

The capacity of the storage tank depends 
upon the number of automobiles used or the 
consumption, as well as the delivery situation 
and the local ordinances. The capacity, gauge 
or thickness of the tank is determined on this 
basis and varies in each instance. The loca 
tion of the storage tank is also controlled 
largely by local regulations and conditions 
The usual installation provides for the tank 
to be buried about 10 feet from the building, 
so that the top of the tank is at least 2 feet 
below the surface of the ground, the tank be 
ing equipped with suitable arrangements for 
filling, venting and distributing purposes 

In arranging for the proper distribution of 
the tank contents, it 1s again necessary to cor 
sider safety, capacity and location. It is just 
as important to have the delivery end of the 
system absolutely dependable from the stand 
point of safety as to have the tank fireproof 
This demand can be met by using an approved 
pump of the suction type, which is supplied 
with necessary valves and attachments for 
keeping the gasoline in the pipe line and pump 
cylinder intact and free from exposure. Pumps 
of this type are obtainable that discharge pre 
determined quantities of from one to five gal 
lons at a stroke of the plunger 

As in the case of the storage tank, the ca 
pacity and the number of the pumps installed 
depend upon requirements. In determining 
the location, a point should be selected which 
enables the filling of the automobile containers 
conveniently and quickly, taking into consid 
eration also the local regulations 

Tanks and pumps as above described, | 
gether with necessary pipe and fittings, con 
prising complete storage and distributing sys 
tems, are manufactured by S. F. Bowser & Co., 
Inc., Fort Wayne, Ind. The systems built by 
this company are designed to solve all the 


neasuring one-gallor 


DEPARTMENT, LITTLE ROCK, ARK 


problems involved and can be adapted to any 
particular requirement or condition 

[he accompanying interior view of the Little 
Rock | ire Departn ent, | ittle R y k, Ark 
shows a. one-gallon’ self-measuring pump 
which is a part of the Bowser gasoline systen 
installed at this station In addition to advan 
tages such as safety and economy, this illus 
tration plainly shows the saving of floor spac: 
the convenience ; nd the cleanline ss whi h may 

derived from the use of a system of this 
kind. 

+ + 


A Larger Factory 


\nnouncement has been made of the re 
noval, on August 1, of the Wallace & Tiernan 
Company, Inc., to its new factory, 137 Centre 
Street, corner White Street, New York City 
The new building affords more than thre: 
times as much floor space as did the former 
quarters, together with better facilities for 
maintaining the business at its established 
standard. This company manufactures chlor 
ine control apparatus for water and sewage 
purification and other apparatus for sanitat 
engineering work 

Mr. A. R. Murphy, Jun. Am. Soc., C. E., 
Knoxville, Tenn., has become assoc ated witl 
the engineering staff of Wallace & Tiernan 
Company. Mr. Murphy is a graduate of the 
{ niversity of Tennessee, and has had several 


vears general water-works experience 


+ + 


A New Sewage Pumping Station 
for Bridgeport 


Plans and specification for an electy 1 
operated sewage pumping station in Bridge 
port, Conn., are being prepared by Hering & 
(Gregory, consulting engineet f New Yor 
City. 











THE AMERICAN CITY 


MUNICIPAL 
SIGNS 


OF EVERY CHARACTER 
FOR EVERY PURPOSE 


% GUARANTEED 


64 
PORCELAIN 
ENAMELED 
sIGNs  !RON 


‘‘BALTO” Guaranteed Porcelain Enameled Iron Signs 
stand alone in their field—the one and only one absolutely 
dependable sign product. 

These signs are made of the finest grade of vitreous Porcelain Enamel 
fused on specially processed iron at a temperature of 1600 degrees Fah- 
renheit—each color separately fused. 


‘*‘BALTO”’ Signs, exclusively, are fitted with 


non-corrosive metal sleeve eyelets—this Nn~ 
) feature protects the enamel at this point Yn {Tice 
GER and adds another distinctive element of Kellie, 
finish to our signs. : P p 
5000 vouts Q 
Without obligation our Service Department will 


\ Has be pleased to submit sketches and quotations. 


a> 4 Additionally, we will send FREE, at our expense, 
Ns) ‘ j to any authorized purchasing official or body a 
: VU useful and attractive sample of finished Porcelain 


Enameled Iron. Write Department C. 


The Baltimore Enamel & Novelty Co. 
BALTIMORE, MARYLAND 































We produce every possible character of municipal 
signs—any size, shape, color combination or design. 











¢ ay; 


C ¢ Ms 4 


~ 


VM 


64 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz Amenican Cirt¥. 














NEWS FROM 


AuG., 1916 


























CARBON BREAK PUSH-BUTTON SWITCH FOR CONTROL OF ELECTRICAL DE\ $ 
. . oe 
Distant Control of Incandescent Larger Quarters for 
Lights Meriam Company 
The switch shown in the photograph is on let locat 
designed especially for use where centralize t ‘ 4 S ‘ r A rte N \\ 
ntrol is desiral le, ind gives instantan¢ u il ) 
trol of lights or other electrical i t 1514 | \ CI 
erated o direct alternating ess t v 
[25 or 200/250 volts eadily, | o i 
Ce ntrol may be centered ne ‘ 101 t gi ‘ - 
sh-butt switch, or in different lo 1S, vice al i 
e us f a number of push buttons wired Iwo lines 1 er lope 
ultiple ne coil opens the switch and e is a line 9 ‘ R 
ther closes it The switch is self- t | a S 
ned unit with two sets of contacts, which g extensive le n 
re kept efhcient working l the facturers i | 
viping effect given the contact surltaces w he e fr sé f ime 
e switch is operated. The brush la ations e Meriam Mar M 
are under considerable pressure wh the non Indicat nd e Mer ] 
switch is closed, and assist in making quick, Met 
clean break when it opens e ¢ pa ils s dis u 
Che switch is simple and durable, s Carte buretor at Carter gravit 
made single-throw, single,- double, rhe epresents the leading manufactu 
ole. It was developed by the General | ‘ t uments 
ric Company, Schenectady, N. Y., and meets 
e specification of the National B t * ¢ 
nderwriters CC ge ; > Now 
Underwriter — Frank C. Stover Makes New 
' ; Business Connection 
Check Valves for Water-Works NARS ay ae a ee 
\ 1 ree order of 48-inch check alves ll | re Ala eleg ] l 


recently been completed for 





the city of Philadelphia ‘ 
R. D. Wood & Co., of Phila- 
delphia, -Pa. 

The picture gives a clear 
idea of the design of the 
valve The large gates or 
laps are of bronze, as are 
seats against which 
they close. 


also the 


(he company publishes 
pamphlets describing the pro- 
ducts it manufactures, among 
which are cutting-in specials, 
standard flanged pipe and 
specials, flexible joint pipe, 
high-pressure hydraulic pip- 
ing and loam castings; fire 
hydrants and gate valves of 











all descriptions. 48-IN 


CH CHECK ALVES FOR CITY Of! PHILADELPHIA 











2 ee ape 











THE AMERICAN CITY 


STANDS WEAR AND TEAR 








The children are safe on 
EVERWEAR swings. They 
are built with an eye single 
to safety. 


An all-steel galvanized product throughout, specially designed 
for the wear and tear of outdoor use. All detail of bearings, con- 
nections, etc., have been worked out to the highest standard of 
perfection. 


Take an X-ray look at the roller bearings by which these 
swings are mounted. We give you an “inside” view. As the 
swing sets this in motion, you notice what happens to the clamp? 
The bearings ROLL—they obviate friction—they increase the 
enjoyment of the device and prolong the life of EVERWEAR 
apparatus. This is just one of the so-called “little things” to 
which we have given careful attention like all the rest. 


EVERWEAR swings are equipped with malleable frame 
fittings and drop forged steel parts for bearings. Built in standard 
sets of 6, 9, or 12 swings to the Outfit. Special designs built to 
order. 

A full line of the 
latest and approved 
playground apparatus 
shown in Catalog E-8 
which will be sent on 
request. 


THE 


EVERWEAR 
MFG. CO. 


Springfield, Ohio 














65 When writing to Advertisers please mention Tue American City. 











’ 


oe AT 





\uc. 1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS 


known to fire chiefs and other municipal of- 
ficials in every section of the country, has be 
come vice-president and general manager of 
the Seagrave Company, and will be in charge 
if the sales of its fire apparatus 


+ + 
Steel Flag Poles 


In these stirring days of preparedness and 
border patrol, our national flag is being looked 
at with a more searching gaze perhaps than in 
those more placid days preceding the great 
conflict. Flags flying from houses or from 
poles no longer seem mere commonplaces of 
decoration, but have a more Significant mean- 
ing, voicing in each flutter a clarion call to 
patriotism and good citizenship. 

[hose who have to do with the displaying 
of flags will be interested in the new type of 
flag pole manufactured by the Walworth 
\lanufacturing Company of Boston. The ad- 
vantages claimed for it are that it is all steel, 
symmetrical, wind-, weather- and lightning 
proof, and retains its shape. With the inven 
tion of the patented ball-bearing weather 
proof revolving halyard top, and an improved 
method of putting together the steel pipe sec 
tions, this pdle fulfills its functions with satis 
factio. The erection of the poles, no matter 
how high they are, is not troublesome. 


THE STOWEWOUSE WATERPROOF UNIVERSAL SAFETY TAG 





CONSIDER THE WIFE 
AND BABIES. IF YOU 
HAVE NONE OF YOUR 
OWN, SOME OTHER 
FELLOW HAS 

BE YOUR 
BROTHER’S KEEPER 


Signed by 
Date 


HLLUSTRATING FULL SIZE TAG 4x7 INCHES 





ONE OF THE SAFETY FIRST TAGS 





AND MANUFACTURERS 


* 7 
¥ 











STEEL FLAG POLE ON THE COMMON 1 
MANSFIELD, MASS 


Schools, parks and public buildings have 
been using such poles The accompanying 
photograph shows the municipal steel fag pok 
on the Common in Mansfield, Mass 

+ + 
Street Lighting Poles 

Types of complete lighting units offered by 
the King Foundry Company, of St. Josey 
Mo., are displayed in a folder issued unde 
title “Monolights for Streets, P i! 
Boulevards.” Many globes have et pe 


cially designed for this company, and 
bination with the King standard, make a con 
plete unit for a prospective customer to sut 
vey, ready to set up and be electrically 


ly co 
nected. A dozen different types of standards 
are shown. Each is so constructed as to be 
weather-proof. All the parts are moulded 
special sand, which insures a smooth finis] 
adding greatly to the appearance of the pole 
+ + 

Safety Signs 

A most interesting series of folders can be 
obtained free from the Stonehouse Steel Sign 
Company, Denver, Colo. One of these opens 
up to a large size and contains a gre mber 
of miniature representations of the unusual 
variety of “striking, attention-arresting, ac¢ 
dent-prevention signs, tags and bulleti 
boards,” which the mmpany specialize 
making. 

“Safety-first” is the keynote to all of thes 
Each phase of gainful activity that is in the 
least dangerous has a number of tags and 
signs, all gotten up by a skilled psychologist 


and designed in an artistic manner in pleasin 
and striking colors. In addition to the tags 
intended for commercial use only, the com 
pany also manufactures a number of tags for 
use in general health-protection campaigns 
Such tags and signs cannot but be of immens« 
aid to those agencies which are trying to re 
duce the awful ravages of the danget 
cupations 











THE AMERICAN CISyY 








Quality 


| LAWN MOWERS 


are the favorites with thou- 

sands of care takers of pub- 
lic parks, cemeteries, golf 
courses and large private 
estates. 




















Greater efficiency, durability and econ- 
omy are the reasons. 

Made of the highest grade materfals 
and scientifically constructed to mini- 


mize strain, “PENNSYLVANIA” 


\lowers run easier and last longer. 


Write for our catalog. 


The famous “ PENNSYLVANIA” 


line includes the following brands: 


“‘Pennsylvania’”’ “Shock Absorber’’ 
‘Great American”’ **Golf”’ 
“‘Continental’”’ “Pony”’ 
‘Pennsylvania, Jr.’’ “*Horse,’’ ‘‘Power’’ 
‘*Keystone”’ and others 


Pennsylvania Lawn Mower Works 


INCORPORATED 


JOHN BRAUN & SONS 
Founded 1877 PHILADELPHIA 











66 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz AMERICAN Crry. 











Auae., 1916 


Court Holds 15-Year Old 
Patent Invalid 


Many readers will be interested in the recent 
decree issued by the Hon. John M. Clarke, 
United States District Judge, in a patent suit 
of the Berger Manufacturing Company, Can- 
ton, Ohio, vs. the Trussed Concrete Steel Com- 
pany of Youngstown, Ohio. The suit was in- 
augurated by the former on the basis of cer- 
tain alleged infringements of its metal lumber 
construction by the pressed steel construction 
department of the latter. The decision held 
that the patent (No. 682,316, dated September 
10, 1901, issued to William L. Caldwell) was 


NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 


235 


invalid. 

The case established the legal right of the 
Trussed Concrete Steel Company to use theit 
Kahn pressed steel construction 


+ + 


A New Vice-President for the 
Gamewell Company 

Mr. V. C. Stanley, General Superintendent 
of the Gamewell Fire Alarm Telegraph Com- 
pany, of New York City, was elected Vice- 
President of the company at the last meeting 
of the directors. Mr. Stanley has been with 
the company since 1903. 





For Contractors and Boards of Public Works 





Boston Residents Send Payment 
Contribution of $7,990.90 


Mayor James M. Curley, of Boston, exhil- 
ited to the newspaper men who gathered in 
his office on July 14 the following letter: 


Hon. James M. Currey, Mayor, Captain Joun H 
Ditton, Chairman, Park and Recreation Depart 
ment, Boston, Mass. : 

GENTLEMEN: 

In reference to repaving Peiditaabiai Avenue, 
hetween Arlington Street and Brookline Avenue. 

Understanding that you may feel constrained to 
award the contract for this work to a lower bidder, 
notwithstanding the expressed preference on the part 
of the residents of the avenue for the bitulithic form 
of pavement, and understanding that you would be 
willing to award the contract to Warren Brothers 
Company for their bitulithic pavement, provided the 
difference between their proposal and the bid which 
you have under consideration for sheet asphalt (said 
difference amounting to $7,990.90) should be borne 
by the residents, we enclose herein a cashier's check 
to the order of the city of Boston for seventy-nine 
ayy and ninety dollars and ninety cents ($7, 

90.90), this amount to be applied in part payment of 

a bitulithic pavement. 

As there was insufficient time to consult all the resi 
dents of the avenue, we are assuming the responsibil 
ity of acting for them, expecting that they will be 
willing to join us in paying their proportion of the 
excess cost of the bitulithic pavement, amounting to 
$1.25 per front foot for each abuttor. 

Trusting that this will be satisfactory to you and 
that the contract will be promptly awarded for the 
biulithic pavement, we remain, 

Very respectfully yours, 
Rosert S. Brapvey, 
Isaac R. THoMas, 
Wacter C. Bayes, 
F. G. Wepster, 
Samuer Carr. 


When asked for his comment on the subject, 
the Mayor said: “Commonwealth Avenue resi- 
dents have won their fight, and I am mighty 
glad to be able to accommodate them with the 
pavement they desire.” 

+ + 


Motor Dump Truck vs. Horse Dump 
Truck for Road Building 


Some interesting data as to comparative 
cost and performance of motor dump trucks 
vs. horse dump trucks in road building trans- 
portation have been compiled by the Sterling 


Motor Truck Company, 830 Rogers Street. 
Milwaukee, Wis. This information shows 
that road contractors who have 5,000 cubic 
yards of loose material to haul can handle 
this minimum amount more profitably in a 
heavy-duty dump truck. Considering ten 
teams, complete with wagons and harness, as 
representing the equivalent investment of onc 
7-ton Sterling dumper—viz., $5,000—the case 
of a contractor having 3% miles of water- 
bound macadam road to build is cited as an 
example. This road, which is 16 feet wide 
and 9 inches deep, requires the haulage of 
8,213 cubic yards of crushed stone, and the 
average length of haul is 2 miles. If the con- 
tractor owns his teams, his operating cost per 
day will include driver’s wages, feed, shoeing, 
interest on investment, depreciation and re- 
pairs, amounting to $34; if he hires his teams. 
at $4 per day, the operating cost per day wil! 
be $40. As compared to these figures, the cost 
of hauling with a Sterling dumper is reduced 
to $17, made up of items such as interest on 
investment, depreciation, driver’s wage, gaso- 
line, oil, repairs and tire wear. For the same 
2-mile haul, carrying 5 yards per load, the 
Sterling dumper will make two round trips 
per hour, hauling 100 yards in 10 hours at a 
cost of 17 cents per yard, or just half the cost 
for the same amount of material handled with 
teams owned, and approximately 60 per cent 
less than the cost with rented teams. On a 
3%4-mile contract a contractor would save on 
handling 8,213 cubic yards with a Sterling 
dumper the sum of $1,396 on the basis of own- 
ing his teams. And on the basis of hiring his 
teams the Sterling dumper would save him 
$1,88. Further statistics are given to show 
that the Sterling dumper effects a saving in 
time also and greatly reduces the cost of up- 
keep during the inactivity of the winter 
months. 
+ + 

Steel Sewer Forms 

The scheme illustrated of hanging steel 


sewer invert forms on chain blocks from a 


channel trolley track has been used success- 





neon tat 





ee 


on tae 


a 








— © 





THE AMERICAN CITY 





MOTT LAMP POSTS 


STANDARDS OF MERIT 


Special Designs of Lighting Standards 
For Type C Lamps 


LAMP POSTS FOR ALL REQUIREMENTS 


FOUNTAINS 
Display and Drinking 
For PUBLIC SQUARES, PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS, Etc. 





ENTRANCE GATES, RAILINGS, SETEES 





CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION 


THE J.L. MOTT IRON WORKS 


Fifth Avenue and 17th Street, New York 








! Almost every municipality has spent money acquiring title 
lu ge 2: t land for sludge disposal—but in sludge there is value 


it can be sold at a profit when it is formed in certain ways. 


SANITATION R-W PROCESS 


The Sanitation R-W Process produces screen- ming action recovers most of the fat and grease 
ings, which are in condition, easily handled, for with the solids. 

value recovery treatment. R-W screenings have full manurial and grease 
ae . values and consequently high monetary value. 
S re fresh—by skim Rp : . : 
Handles the sewage while it 1s [res A R-W installation is relatively inexpensive. 


The various features of the Sanitation R-W Process are 
fally described in our large Bulletin G-3. Write for copy. 


THE SANITATION CORPORATION, - 50 Church St., New York City 
Apparatus, Equipment and Complete Plants for Sewage Disposal 











CITY AUDITORS—USE A MARCHANT PALA DLATOR 


Do away with the detail part of your calcu- 
lations. Help your city to save money 
Save vourself energy and worry—by using a 


MARCHANT 


QUICK — ACCURATE — EaSY TO OPERATE 
Sent on trial, free. Address Dep’t L-8. 


MARCHANT CALCULATING MACHINE CO. 


Oakland, California 





Branch offices in all large cities. 





67 When writing to Advertisers please mention THz Amanican City. 











\uG., 1916 


NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 








fully in building trench 
sections of the South Side 
storm sewer in Columbus, 
Ohio, by J. C. Carland & . 


Co., of that city. Che 
section of the sewer for 
which this method was 
. devised is 10 feet 3 inches 


in diameter. A section of 
the Blaw invert forms is 
ifted by three chain 
blocks. Each of these is 
hung from a three-wheel 
€ trolley running on a 7 
neh channel, which is 
suspended by chains from 
the trench bracing over- 
head The forms are 
raised clear, run ahead on 
the trolley, and lowered 
on cement blocks, which 
are set to grade to sup- 





port the forms in the 
trench ahead of the last 
section concreted. Three 














trolleys carrying a set of 


forms are easily pulled re ae samnigebd 
ahead by three men with ® PREF IN 
a single rope pulley. The 
two 20-foot sections can 
be moved, set and braced in from two to 
three hours by five men. The arch forms are 


pulled ahead on rollers on a track of doubled 


2-inch plank. It takes about three hours for 
ve men to move ahead and set 60 feet of 
the arch forms. 

The South Side storm sewer is being built 
for the city of Columbus, Ohio. The main 


trunk is more than a mile long. The city is 
represented on the work by R. C. Chaney, 
assistant engineer under W. J. Weaver, en- 


gineer in charge of sewer construction, and 
; Henry Maetzel, chief of the city engineering 
department. + + 


Concrete Mixer for Street and 

Sidewalk Work 
The Good Roads 

Kennett Square, Pa., 


Machinery 


+) 


devotes the 


Company, of 


April issue 








HALF-ROUND 
DIAMETER ON 
TRENCH B 


INVERT FORMS FOR §S VER 
TROLLEY HUNG FROM 
RACES 


(Bulletin K. A. H.) of its series of publi 
tions to the Good Roads concret« mixer 
which it manufactures. In the accompany 
photograph is shown one of its most reliablk 
1odels. 

It is a 5-foot mixer, built of iron and steel 
of the best quality obtainable, Among its good 
points the foremost is its ability ix thor 
oughly and quickly. Specially designed steel 
blades and buckets catch the material as the 


drum is loaded, carry the mass up at least 24 


inches high, then tear it apart and throw it 


with a whirlpool effect towards the centet 
Here the mass is kneaded together and re- 
mixed. This 1 a tearing, scattering iction, 

not a rolling one 
The machine is of light weight 1,750 
pounds), but built for hard service, as hard 
knocks and rough usage are the portion of 
nost concrete mixet In 


| additi n, it has a tast ¢ is 
1 
cieal 


& + 


Constructing Roads 








§-FOOT GOOD ROADS MIXER 


Showing loading side of measuring batch 


One of the rgest ex- 
press shipments of vad 
construction machinery 
ever yrdered if the 
Northwest was received 
on May 24 by the Russell 
Grader Manufacturing 
Company, Minneapolis 
Minn., from the United 
states W ar Department 
This shipment was to be 

sent to the Mexican 

border for immediate use 

in constructing roads ne- 

cessary for army opera 

hopper tions The order illed 


NSS 


—— 























THE AMERICAN CITY 





and 


DRINKING 
FOUNTAINS 





R-735 
CLOW LAMP POSTS are 
CAST from Pig Iron —notScrap. 


We have many Choice Designs 
SEND FOR CATALOG No. 139 


CLOW BUBBLE CUP 
DRINKING FOUNTAINS 


MADDENS PATENT 


A-3050 A-3056 


Are Made of Adamantose Ware 
and Cast Iron. They Are Germ 
Proof and Law Proof. 


SEND FOR CATALOG No. 138 


JAMES B.CLOW&SONS 


Established 1876 
534-546 So. Franklin Street, CHICAGO 


Sales Offices 
New York Detroit St. Louis San Francisco 
Minneapolis Milwaukee Denver Los Angeles 
Works 


000000000OHOHOQNOHOOOHOHOHOOOOOOOOOOOOHOOHHOOHOOHHOOHOOHOOOHOOHOOOOHEOHOOOODOOHOOOHOOOO 


Chicago, Coshocton and Newcomerstown, Ohio 


| 


When writing to 








Q0OHOOOHOOQOHOHOOHOOOHHOOOHOOGO 9©OO0OHHOHOHOOOHHOOOGOOOOGHOOEOOOOOOOOQOOOOOOOOGOOOOOO 











VISITORS WELCOME 


Visit our factory. Permit us 


to explain our processes and tests. 


You can then give the same 
careful attention to wires and 
cables that you now give to other 
materials. 


Make a note of it - NOW. 


SIMPLEX WIRE & CABLE @ 


MANUFACTURERS 
201 DEVONSHIRE ST. BOSTON 
CHICAGO —s SAN FRANCISCO 


1629 














FOR WHITE WAY LIGHTING 


ae 





Sol-lux Senior Sol-lux Junior Octagonal Top 
Cunggeneel Ouaguenel with 16-in. Diffusing 
Top Top Ball and Ventilator 


Soi ‘ux Ornamental Post Tops for Type ‘‘C’’ Lamps 
GEO. CUTTER CO., Santas indons 

















“I knew that 


Fibre Cont 
enna 





oO 4 Conduit is the tad cond tr pF 
tter how you _it—price, permanence, pkeep, 
eoulation and ease of layj B bs o - 
THE FIBRE CONDUIT BS eenatel 
ORANGEBURG, N 
New York Boston Chicago ” San Francisco 








Advertisers please mention Tae American City. 








a OE 


ee ee oe 


ee 


\uc.,1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS AND MANUFACTURERS 








A SHIPMENT OF ROAD CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY FOR 
THE MEXICAN BORDER 


for the largest size elevating graders, Russell 
Mogul road machines with 12-foot blades, and 
road plows. 

In spite of the unusual amount of ma- 
chinery to be sent, the entire shipment was 
put under way within 48 hours It was 
ordered to go forward by the Wells Fargo 
Express, and completely filled two large ex- 
press cars. The total weight was approxi 
mately 50,000 pounds, ag- 
gregating express charges 
of $3,100.25. 

As a reward for this a 
promptness in delivery 
the company received an- 
other order from the War 
Department on June 109. 


+ + 
A Road Scarifier 


During the last few 
years thousands of miles 
of stone, shell and gravel 
road have been built, and 
those responsible for the 
maintenance of these roads 
are confronted with the 
problem of how to carry 
out the necessary repairs 
economically. A great 
deal of good stone in these 
roads is quite capable of 
being used over again in 
re-forming the surface, if 
it can be loosened in a 
whole condition and re- 











~ + | rolledtoays 


Aus 
1 , 
\\ ( é 
| 
t 
Ti r 
eans ‘ 
1 
oid r S 
> s { 
1 i 
i! ¢ 9 
it IT 
r 
S epa 
¢ 
¢ r 
| 
¢ 
t v ie ft 
| s ' 
( 
| 1 
l is 
+} 
| S ‘ ‘ 
1 Scari 
| : - 
ind th 
| 11 
té | 


j le 
ind it 
t suit 
whateve ye 
hauling it i both 
ends having irifier 
an | steer | 
engine, so g i 
tained Phis ut 
hru the scarific crust 
\ le vet ! ve 1 I 
vork instantly ( - 





THE AUSTIN ROAD SCARIFI 











rr 


THE AMERICAN CITY 




















Bowser Equipment After Fire —- Loeb Dye Works, Dallas, Texas 








Eight Hundred Gallons of Naptha on these premises at the time of 
this fire 


but it was powerless to add to the destruction because it was stored 
in a 





SUSE 
Dry Cleaners’ System 


Imagine the damage (possibly including loss of lives) if this amount of 
: Naptha had not been properly and scientifically handled. 


Many disastrous fires and sudden deaths are caused by improper methods 
of handling Naptha and gasolene—but there is no need of inviting this 
danger—when there is a chance of preventing it. 

To recommend Bowser equipment for dry cleaning plants, or wherever 


volatile or inflammable liquids are used or stored, is to serve in protecting 
both lives and property. 


S. F. BOWSER & COMPANY, Inc. 


Engineers, Manufacturers and Original Patentees of Oil Handling Deviees 
§ | { J g 











q FORT WAYNE, INDIANA 

q Sales Offices in All Centers and Representatives Everywhere 
69 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 

» | 








\uc., 1916 NEWS FROM ENGINEERS ANI 


) MANUFACTURERS 























. : ee een reed 
FOUR-WHEEL-DRIVE rRUCK US » IN SIOUX CITY, IOWA IR I \ S 
ON NARROW-GAUGE TRACK 

ngs, sewer manholes, ete The total weight ten round trips ( CAC 
of the scarifier approximates 6,300 pounds trailer carries 1 y shed 
It has been built of powerful nstructior rock, making a total 24 2 
with the aim of making it almost indestru The truck pulls this load whil ling 1 
tible high gear nd travels I2 t iles pe 

+ + hour 
Instead of a Locomotive rifty teams a . : a 
‘ work which Ss W ti Y « ( 

An interesting and unusual use of the ! tor ag ar ag esr i aioe ell 
truck is illustrated by the accompanying p ilar toy Oh ouch. ae caiihel 
tograph ae saving in cost is effected Phe erag il 

his truck, made by the Four Wheel Dr RIE x 
\uto Company, of Clintonville, Wis., is in the ea 
service of the Hanlon & ¢ _ s ( ompany, Di : + 
tractors, of Sioux City, la., and is used i = 7 ea 
place of a locomotive to dt iW string of Street Cleaning Vehicles 
heavily loaded trailers on a narrow gauge Phe ture show 
track. The truck itself straddles the rails, and treet \ t! B Cit 
enough traction is secured to pull the tran Idaho, Street Cleaning Departme her 
easily up a five per cent grade, altho no load are two Elgin r sweeper k-up 
whatever is carried on the body of the truck wagol d a gutter sweepe ese sweep 

The crushed rock, gravel and cement haule 0,000 square yards per « igl 
by this outfit are being used in the mstruc ach, at a « f cent r 1,000 square 
tion of a 16-foot concrete highway going nort! vards swept This cost includes lal gas 
from Sioux City on what is known as th line and oil, repairs, depreciati nterest o1 
Perry Creek road. The large amount of m investment, d il of sweepings, ete 
terial hauled is indicated by the fact that from The backgr s the ird a st 
500 to 6co linear feet of pavement are being The motor sweepers are d | 
laid daily The track is 4 miles in length, and Street Sweeper Compan Ele 1 

P 




















MEPARTMENT 


STREET CLEANING 


OF BOISE 


CITY, 


IDAHO 














THE 





AMERICAN CITY 








Protect Lamps and 


Glassware 


The built 


tional steel 


ul SCC 


standards ab- 
the 


\ ibration thus le ssen- 
ing breakage of lamps 


and glassware. 


these 


7 
shock an | 


\¢ rb 





UNiON | 


METAL Hl 


LAMP | 
STANDARDS ||| 


will insure your city a 


lower cost of upkeep on 


their lighting sj 


he constant vibration 
of traffic and the frequent 
jars received from vehi- 
cles, etc., will be absorbed 
and pee ata by Union 


Metal Lamp Standards 











Write for Catalog $-103. | 


Highest Award Panama-Pacifi: 


International I rposition 


The Union Metal 
Manufacturing Co. 


CANTON, OHIO 


Design No 
with G. E 
Novalux I 





| 
| 
stem. | 
| 
| 





1539 
t orm 


dead 


The Best Material for CALKING 


Joints in Cast Iron Pipes is 


Ulco Lead Wool 


Write for particulars to 


UNITED LEAD COMPANY 
111 BROADWAY, N. Y CITY 








SEWAGE PURIFICATION AND DISPOSAL 


The Starr System has the following features: Itis 
Qeestene, Automatic, Scientific, 
Flexible, Efficient, Sectional, 
Permanent 


It has met with the approval of every prominent 
sanitary engineer that has given it Pp r con- 
sideration, and it has also been coneumel te the 
Health Department of every State where plans 
have been submitted. 


Correspondence solicited from Municipalities, 
Sanitary Engineers a others interested in 
Sewage Purification and Disposal 


GREEN-STARR ENGINEERING COMPANY 


1530 Chestnut Street Philadelphia, Pa. 














Pruce-Macheth. 


Gas fugines 

ns f will pay 

Cleveland every user olf 

_ power and elec- 

tric current to look 

into a private power 

and light plant It 

will surely lower present 
costs 








Bruce Macbeth Enaine [e 
Tevecawe 














Do You Know How Your 
City Stands Financially? 


Are you struggling along with a discarded accounting 
ystem? We can straighten out that jumble of figures 
so that they may be easily understood by anyone 
We offer Specialized Service in Municipal! 
Auditing, Budget Classification and Prepara- 
tion, Efficiency Surveys, Special Investigations 
and in the installation of modern, practical 
Municipal Systems. 
Write us for detailed information and let us tell 
you about results we have accomplished in other cities 


J. D. CLOUD & CO. 
Certified Public Accountants 
CINCINNATI, O. 





79 When writing to Advertisers please mention Taz American City. 

















