'lf‘IZ: Whr-n you nnigh wading “1'9
a w» jllnr'o- a'umwcunt with“) “n “11”

m ‘11 th-i- magnzlnc, and it will be
“I 2', Um handy of our suldk‘rs or
.4 1~»~:Hned m prnceod t)~'1,erse:«1s. N0
awn rm address. A. S. Burleson.
master General

¢.. .

.a.

‘1

-..
x... 3'

1‘

M

-. .rl. '
. .

_M


cents

a copy

1870

 

2 ‘ The Woman (Jim ‘

jfrankltn Eimon s (to.

A Store of Individual Shops
Fifth Avenue, 37th and 38th Sts., New York

AUGUST FUR SALE

featuring an advance Winter model ,-.--  '

Specially priced for the
month of August only

It is distinctly. advantageous to make early
selection because prices later Wlll be
very much higher

MIN K FUR COATEE

LLUSTRATED is a Coatee of Natural Mink Fur,
that will be fashionable during the Winter season,
made of carefully selected, beautifully matched skins;
finished at bottom with tails and paws, large square collar
~ trimmed with heads and tails, sleeves formed by clasping
cuffs with mink heads, can also be worn loose as a full

cape.
62 5  Prompt Delivery Free
a Anywhere in the United States

 

[I

1.

3mm & (1E0. *

‘ Fifth Avenue at 35th Street 1'
Established I879 :le
' \

Worn the Year Round by 
Many—. l;
1.65 Silk AHTAB Hosiery

The 1.65 AHTAB is a ure 

thread silk stocking, me ium *2
weight.

The tops are double elastic, the Real Mattress Cleanliness

‘ Bed-ticking is a sieve-like fabric, which allows foreign matter
to filter through and become a fixture in the mattress. Re-
covering such bedding is an uncleanly makeshift.

What is needed is an antiseptic. washable

inforeed.

Special precaution is taken with
the toe. It is double silk and lisle.

The 1.65 AHTAB has a standard

all its own—that’s why it is worn '

by so many discriminating people

the year round. Fast colors. h EXCELSIOR QUILTING CO.
I

15 Laight Street, New York City

QUILTED

l EXCCISior MATTRESS PYOtCCtor

which really solves this vexing problem.

Made of bleached Muslin padded with white wadding—wash
easxly—dry light and fluffy as new.

soles and heels are strongly, re‘

Look for the trade-mark sewed on every Pad‘

 

 

 

 

 

 You Never Pay More at Best 's.—————————-——:————*——-———'

When writing to advertisers please mention the WOMAN CITIZEN.

at. . HE'S.- a

CONTINUING the Woman’s Journal, I
founded 1870 by Lucy Stone and |

Henry B. Blackwell, as a weekly news-

paper devoted to winning equal rights

an especially to winning equal suii’rage

for women, and published weekly in Bos-

ton, Massachusetts, from 1870 to 1917.

Continuing also the Woman Voter, and

the National Sufrage News. In suc-

ceeding the National SuErage N ews,‘The

Woman Citizen became the ofiicial organ

of the National American Woman Suf-

frage Association, and as such tries to

maintain intimate contact between the

Association and its two million members ‘

' throughout the United States.
I

 

 

OUTH DAKOTA has climbed to the top!

Having gained the highest rung in the
ladder up which she has been diligently striving
these weeks, the new incumbent issues a chal-
lenge to other rivals to dis lace her if they can.
It is safe to say that the are will not go long
untaken. Georgia has held first position so long
she will be homesick in second place, and will
no doubt be one of the first to take the of-
fensive.

Our records show a number of states in a
position to be likely contenders for the coveted
goal within the next few weeks. For instance,
Indiana has just issued a state-wide appeal to
the sun‘ragists: “It was your work that sent
Indiana from nowhere to third place. We look
to the Franchise Leagues to send Indiana to
first place.” All of which is evidence of big
things brewing in the contest.

That the Woman Citizen scores as a pro a-
ganda magazine is shown in a letter from rs.
Anna K. Lee of Warwick, Mass. Mrs. Lee,
looking ahead to a favorable result in the Okla-
homa campaign, took out a subscription for an
Oklahoma voter. The result was a vote gained
for suffrage, as witness the following letter
received by Mrs. Lee:

“ You certainly are a good suHrage fisher, as
you have caught me. I will vote for the Amend-
ment. I know several men who would not be
of much value to the community but for their
wives. I thank you for the Woman Citizen.”

Summer fishing of this sort is to be encour-
aged!

“ I would not be with-
out the Woman Citizen,”

writes Mrs. Bessie E.
Eichelberger, recording 1o Georgia
secretary of the Women’s - South Dakota

. Indiana

Christian Temper-
.Iowa

ance Union of Reno,

Nevada. “ It keeps us - Michigan
women accurate] posted - Minnesota
on all politic topics . New Jersey

particularly interesting . New York

to women—and in such
condensed form there is
no waste of time, which
is a most important sav-
ing these days when we
are trying to help the
government keep t h e
house properly, care for
and feed the family, and
last but not least, carry
bundles for the grocer,
butcher and baker. The
Woman Citizen should be
in every woman voter’s
hand as her guide in her
political education.”

Letters like this bring

that 100,000 goal much
nearer!

. Wisconsin
. Ohio

. Missouri,
. Alabama

. Texas
. Maryland
. Pennsylvania

. Maine .
. Louisiana

. Connecticut
. West Virginia 21-

. Nebraska

. Washington
Rm LAW” Gum“ 29. North Carolina
National Circulation 30. Vermont
Chairman.

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

Founded June 2, 1917

Published every Saturday by

The WOMAN CITIZEN CORPORATION
at 171 Madison Avenue, New York

Ten cents a copy; yearly subscription(52 numbers),
$1.00. Postage to foreign countries fifty cents extra.
Entered at the New York Post OEce as Second
Class matter, under the act of March 8, 1879. Copy-
right, 1918, by The Woman Citizen Corporation.

VOL. III

AUGUST 8, 1918 N0. 10

 

UBLISHED by the Woman Citizen
Corporation, in the hope that it may
rove a self-per etuating memorial to
rs. Frank Les 'e’s generosity toward
the cause of woman suii’rage and her
faith in woman’s irresistible progress.

The directors of the Corporation are
Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, Miss Alice
Stone Blapkwell, Miss Mary Garrett
Hay, Mrs. Thomas Bucklin Wells, and
Mrs. Arthur L. Livermore.

Alice Stone Blackwell is a special contrib-
uting editor.

Rose Young is the editor-in-chief.

Mary Ogden White, Mary Sumner Boyd,
and Rose Lawless Geyer are associate

. Massachusetts 9

. New Ham shire 12-
irginia 13.

. South Carolina, Kentucky
. Tennessee, Arkansas

. Washington, D. C.

. North Dakota

.  ISland,  27.

 

Military Unit Nurses in Our Hospitals in France

STA TE CIRCULA TION CHAIRMEN

Arkansas: Miss Billie Pitney, Little Rock
Conn.: Mrs. Bertha T. Voorhorst, Hartford
Indiana: Mrs. Jessie Fremont Croan, Anderson
Iowa: Dr. Eiiie McCollum Jones, Webster City
Louisiana: Mrs. Ruben Chauvin, Houma
Maine: Mrs. Dora H. York, Augusta
Maryland: Mrs. E. W. Rouse, J r., Baltimore
Mass.: Mrs. R..L. DeNormandie, Boston
Michigan: Mrs. John Waite, Ann Arbor
Minnesota: Mrs. I. E. Rose, St. Paul
New Hampshire: Mrs. Mary Post, Portsmouth
New Jersey: Mrs. F. H. Colvin, East Orange
North Dakota: Mrs. Katherine L. Brainerd,
Hebron
Rhode Island: Mrs. LeBaron C. Colt, Bristol
South Carolina: Mrs. J. T. Gittman, Columbia
Tennessee: Mrs. D. J. Kimbrough, Nashville
Texas: Mrs. Helen Moore, Galveston
Virginia: Miss Helen Stockdell, Richmond
West Virginia: Mrs. P. C. McBee. Morgantown
Wisconsin: Mrs. Charles Mott, Milwaukee

Relative Position of State Leagues in the Woman Citizen’s Circulation Contest:
July 20th

1. South Dakota

2. Georgia

8. Indiana

4:. Iowa

5. Michigan

6. Minnesota

7. New Jersey

8. Wisconsin

. New York

10. Massachusetts
11. Ohio

Virginia

New Hampshire
14-. Missouri

15. Alabama

16. Texas

17. Maryland

18. Pennsylvania
19. Maine

20. Louisiana
Connecticut

22. \Vest Virginia
24.
25.
26.

Washington, D. C.
North Dakota

28. Nebraska
29. \Vashington

81. Vermont

 

July 27th

23. South Carolina, Kentucky
Tennessee, Arkansas

Rhode Island, Mississippi

80. North Carolina, Kansas

editors.

 

 

Story
Circulation Contest

1. A pledge will constitute an entry.

2. No entries will be accepted after December
1 1918.

3. Cohtest closes January 1, 1919.

4-. In case of a tie for any one premium, the
prize will be awarded to each qualifying

contestant.
5.- Only actual paid subscriptions will be counted

in the awarding of premiums.

First Cash Premium

FIFTY DOLLARS

To the State Association that sends in the
highest number over 200 (paid new subscrib-
ers). The net price per subscription to the
State Association is .70, the .80 to go into the
state, county or local treasury, as may be de-
cided by arrangement between the state and
its branches.

Second Cash Premium
TWENTY-F IVE DOLLARS

To the County Association that sends in the
highest numbers over 100 (paid new sub—
scribers). These would come through the
State Association, and would help to swell the

state’s total.
Third Cash Premium

TWENTY-FIVE

DOLLARS

To the Local Club
that sends in the highest
number over 100 (paid
new subscribers). These
would come through the
County Association into
the State Association,
and thence to the Woman
Citizen.

Fourth Cash Premium
TWENTY-FIVE

DOLLARS

To the co-Operating
Subscriber who sends in
the highest number over
50. This would be inde-
pendent of state, county
and club circulation ac-
tivities, would apply to
states that do not take
up the circulation work
in an official way, and
would come directly to
the Woman Citizen. The
net price per subscription
is $1.00. No discount.

184

31’s. Altman & €111.

ANNOUNCE

THE AUGUST SALE

‘OF

@RHENTAL RUQS

mahisnn Avenue-31ml; Avenue, New york
Uhtrty-fmn'th 511121 TELEPHONE 7ooo Mumv HILL HIM-ml; 511121

 

 

THE WOMAN CITIZEN
Invites Your Cooperation   

    
   
 
   
   

IT PUBLISHES WEEKLY Aimspoenfukm  a

nothtng,ll'ou sayhct  E: - 

Political reports of the woman’s cause 'at home 33331113 glcgifyigl,  
and abroad. no days 1m each at the I

100000.000 pie mums

- o o in tlt‘ Unit) Stat‘s‘

Direct news from the National Amencan Woman mm d‘pik M $.19 Ma; r   _
o o o o ' 1.3. ,‘I f .s;_._;_;,.

SuHrage Association’s hospitals In France. Ej‘}§}j§§}3§[l§§§§§§j ;_ £33.53.“  I,_

10er 01 the nation "'  I“ h  I

A list of woman’s opportunities.

A column for the attention of Vigilance
Committees.

ORDER IT TODAY

First Aid to Subscribers

Pin a New York draft, Money or Express Order for
$1.00 to this advertisement, fill out the blank below, cut
out and mail both to us for one year’s subscription (new

or renewal) to Don’t save sugar from the

 WOMAN CITIZEN preserve jar.

Uncle Sam wants you to

us... root:- ADMINISTMTION I -—

Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. conserve fruit.
Address . . . . . n . . . . . c . o . . . . . . . . . . . o . . . . . . . o o . . . . . . . o . . . . . . . . ..      
cm, ............................ ..State ................... .. And in the bonbon box.

THE WOMAN CITIZEN 171 Madison Avenue New York

 

When writing to advertisers please mention the WOIAN CITIZEN.

7A .7,‘- i

‘ ‘ ivy,“ —. ‘ . - _,

 

 

The Woman Citizen

THE WOMAN’S

 

JOURNAL

A Journal of Democracy

August 3, 1918

“W e shall fight for the things which we have always carried nearest our hearts — for Jennaaey. for the right of
those who submit to authority to have a voice in their own government.”

The Suffrage Spirit

OMETHING over a month ago, a few wilful
Senators tried to block the progress of suffrage in
America by talking against time in the United States
Senate. They knew then, as they know now, that they
could not vitally impair the suffrage offensive, but they
saw a chance to tangle it up in talk, so they talked.
Other important war measures besides suffrage hung in
the balance, awaiting the Senate’s attention, but the
Senators talked on. Talked until they talked the Fed-
eral Suffrage Amendment into a corner, and left it there
enmeshed in language. They knew that it was a futile
procedure, they knew that the Federal Suffrage Amend-
ment must eventually drive through the thickest talk-
fest that senatorial garrulity can devise. But they
shut their eyes to the inevitable and enjoyed their own
verbosity—While they could.

Today, in spite of all that waste of language, the
Federal Suffrage Amendment is out of the corner and
awaiting the senators on the threshold the moment the
congressional quasi-recess is over. There it stands, just
as demandant as ever. Just as alive as ever. And
more certain than ever.

You see, there is something back of the Federal Suf-
rage Amendment. It is the suffrage spirit. It is far
more powerful than talk. It has survived a great deal
of talk—along with decayed eggs and stones.

This number of the Woman Citizen commemorates
the centennial of a great woman pioneer, Lucy Stone.
She was one of those in whom the suffrage spirit fiamed
incarnate. It informed and steeled her slender body
while the eggs came and the stones descended. From
her day to this the suffrage spirit has flamed on, and
though talk—fiat talk like that of Senator Reed, or
Senator Underwood or Senator Brandegee, or Mrs.
Wadsworth’s husband, on the subject of suffrage—is a
severer trial than any eggs or stones could ever have
been, the suffrage spirit endures, still afiame.

Forgetful of each and every temporary set-back, it
renews itself and starts forth afresh on stronger wings.

Because of it, speaking through the voice of Mrs.
Guilford Dudley, a vice-president and one of the
prime spokes-women of the National American Woman
Suffrage Association, you find today all Florida aglow
for suffrage. Mass meetings are being held in city after
city. Candidate after candidate for Florida’s offices is
catching the contagion and declaring for suffrage. Be-
cause of it you find Tennessee today agog with suffrage
interest, its press agitating suffrage, its people keen. It
is the suffrage spirit again, finding expression in a great
state organization led by Mrs. Leslie Warner.

' In South Dakota, in Oklahoma, in Michigan, women,
and men, for the matter of that, are out in these August
days campaigning for suffrage, standing discomforts
for suffrage, urging and pushing and compelling their
states into the suffrage fold. The suffrage spirit again.
In Texas that spirit has triumphed at the polls so glori-
ously that a glad wire has just girdled the earth with the

vibrant news: “Texas women sweep to victory! Every
candidate endorsed by the women winll ”

That Texas news but lends pith and point to the fact
that here and there and everywhere across the country,
candidates are springing up in the impending congres-
sional elections in opposition to the opponents of the
Federal Suffrage Amendment. Antis who have held
uncontested seat in the senate saddle for years suddenly
discover rivals for place this autumn. And they won-
der and then make another discovery. In each case the
rival has declared for the Federal Suffrage Amend-
ment. And never far away stands some group of
women, quiet, watchful, inscrutable. Truly the hands
of women are not tied as once they were tied and the

suffrage spirit can operate more quickly and more
surely than once it could.

It has suffered long and eagerly, the suffrage spirit.
Now it fares forth conqueringly. There is no with-
standing it. It is the crusading spirit. It never accepts
defeat. It marches straight on to victory. It is far
better to march with it than against it. ‘

Digitized by 600816

186

The Woman Citizen

The Appeal of Democracy

HIS article does not pretend to be a philo-

sophical treatise or an historical sketch of

the Democratic party. All that can be done

within its limits is to set forth some of the

achievements of the party and of this Admin—

istration, which have a special interest for the
women of this country.

With the beginning of the new century, in
its 1900 platform, the Democratic party adopted
this plank: '

“ We favor an amendment to the Federal
Constitution providing for the election of United
States Senators by the direct vote of the people,
and we favor direct legislation wherever prac-
ticable.” ’

Both of these reforms at once enlisted the
sympathies of many women. The newly enfran-
chised woman usually turns her attention to leg-
islation, that being the field where most is ex—
pected of her. Sometimes she is able to accom-
plish the changes she desires, but not infre-
quently she fails, and every such failure be-
comes an argument in favor of direct legisla-
tion. Women also learned long ago that the Leg-
islature which had a United States Senator to
elect seldom accomplished much else if there
was a contest for the senatorship. When this
change in the election of Senators was actually
brought about in 1913 it was heralded as the
greatest political reform of the last half century,
and their legislative experience made women
especially enthusiastic in its praise. It was the
first great step in the program of placing the
powers of government in the hands of the peo-
ple themselves.

And the second was like unto it. The revolt
against the autocratic powers of the speaker
culminated in the election of a Democratic
House in 1910. At that time and for years the
speaker of the House of Representatives had
control of the entire machinery of legislation
in that body. N 0 one could get a hearing with-
out his consent. The Democratic House amended
its rules taking away these arbitrary powers and
providing for a Calendar Committee represent-
ing both parties and all sections of the coun—
try. Since then fair play has displaced the
autocracy which had so long dominated the
lower House of Congress.

HE third reform was also purely political,
but when rules were adopted by the in-
coming Congress in 1917, by which the horde of
lobbyists was driven out of the Capitol, the
Congress of the United States was freed from
influences which had long hampered its useful-
ness. These three radical changes in methods
cleared the decks for action and made it pos-
sible to put through the legislation that has
made the last six years notable.

It may seem strange to speak first of the Child
Labor law, which has been held unconstitutional,
but the simple fact is that a bill of this nature
had been introduced in several Congresses and
had died with them while waiting for a respon-
sive Congress and a courageous Chief Executive
to make it a law. The court which set the act
aside commends the purpose of the law, and
other bills, drawn with the objections of the
court in view, are now pending.

More than that, last year there was promul-
gated what is known as “General Order No.
13.” It deserves to be called the Great Charter
of American labor, and it sets standards which

By Ellis Meredith

When you have been a voter as long as I have
you get away from the non-voting point of
view, and I think my view: represent those of
_a great many women.

employers must observe if they expect to re-
ceive government contracts. It covers the main
features of the Child Labor law and, in brief,
makes the following requirements governing the
employment of women and children and sets
similar standards for men:

No employment of minors under 14 years of
age.

No employment of children under 16 more
than 8 hours a day.

An eight-hour day for women wherever pos—
sible. '

Saturday half-holiday.

One day of rest in seven.

Avoidance of night work and overtime.

No tenement house work.

Avoidance of extreme temperatures in work—
rooms.

Adequate light, ventilation and sanitation.

Protection against fire, industrial fatigue,
disease and accident.

Adequate time for rest and meals.

A place to eat outside the workroom.

Equal pay for equal work.

Wages commensurate with increased cost of
living.

Mothers of young children in the home rather
than in industry.

Co-operation of employer and employe.

LL this is in line with the legislation that
fixed the eight-hour day for all Govern-
ment employes, for all employes of contraCtors
doing Government work, for women employes
in the District of Columbia, and for railroad
men throughout the nation.

The Farm Loan law excites only a languid in-
terest in states where money can be obtained
at 5 per cent, but in the far West it has been a
veritable emancipation proclamation to thou-
sands of farmers who lived in dread of losing
their farms through inability to keep up exor-
bitant rates of interest. The fact that in the
first year of its operation some 50,000 farmers
borrowed one hundred million dollars, much of
which was expended in taking up existing mort-
gages, is sufiicient evidence that this law was
actually needed.

Another act much appreciated by country peo-
ple is the Agricultural Extension law, which
brings the advantages of scientific education
to farmers and their families, teaching them how
to get the best results and relieving farm work
of much of its drudgery.

The Good Roads Act, like the Agricultural
Extension law, works on the principle of Federal
aid for state enterprise, and under its provisions
thousands of miles of turnpike have been con-
structed. These two measures, designed to in-
crease the output of farms and the facility of
marketing products, are great socializing
agencies and steps in preparedness for the
present war conditions whose value can hardly
be overestimated.

There are no sectional limitations upon the
blessings brought by the Federal Reserve Act.
\Vhen a man loses all he has his feelings are

(Conti: It’d on page 197)
Digiiized by Google

much the same whether he does business in
Wall Street or Tin Cup, Colorado. In 1907 a
few men had the power to precipitate a panic
and did not hesitate to use it. The world has
been at war since August, 1914, but there has
been no financial fiurry since the passage of the
Federal Reserve law.

HEN war abroad brought consternation

to thousands of business men and in-

surance rates for goods to be shipped abroad

began to soar, the Administration assumed the

risks, issued insurance at reasonable rates, paid
all losses and found it financially profitable.

These are plain concrete instances of the way
in which this Administration has brought the
benefits of Government to the people. The con-
structive program has been somewhat inter-
rupted by our entrance into the war, but the
same general policy has been pursued. “ Con-
scription ” is a hateful word to American ears,
yet there is an innate spirit‘of fairness that
makes reasonable persons admit that part of the
sons of America should not bear the brunt of
her battles. The selective draft is the fairest
way ever devised to raise a great army quickly,
and it has been accepted in that spirit by the
American peOple.

Having called her sons to the colors, Columbia
has made such provision for them and those they
leave behind as was never dreamed of before.
The soldier can take out from $1,000 to $10,000
insurance, specifying the beneficiary in case of
his death, or it may help to rehabilitate him
if he returns disabled, or serve as a nest-egg to
give him a new start in life. Realizing that many
men were leaving dependents, the Government
provides that the wife of the private receiving
$30 per month shall receive half of it and $15
more as a separation allowance. If there are
children this is increased. If the soldier receives
a larger amount he is expected to give half to
his family. If he is injured or discharged or dies
the allotments and allowances cease and the
compensation and insurance features become
operative. Nothing could do more to preserve
the “ morale " of the army than this knowledge
that the loved ones are provided for, and it has
done much to keep the fires of courage burning
at home.

UT the Government has not stopped at
“morale.” It insists upon morals and a
high standard of conduct. Evils which had
existed so long that they have been accepted as
ineradicable are finding their day of judgment.
Several prohibitory measures have been passed
in regard to liquor, and “red light” districts
have been ordered to clear out, rather than
to clean up. ,

Most women would be content to know that
their sons were brave and good, but Columbia
is more ambitious. The draft called many men
who could neither read nor write English. Some
of them were of foreign parentage and some
from regions where truancy laws are unknown.
They are receiving an elementary education. The
“Questionnaire” filled out by all men of draft
age was drawn with the intention that it might
help them to find their sphere of usefulness in
civilian life if they were not called to serve in
uniform. It seems, indeed, a fitting supplement
to the system of Vocational Education estab-
lished by a law signed by the President in Feb-
ruary, 1917.

August 3, 1918

 

MRS. LOUIS REED WELZMILLER

EMOCRATIC women and Republican
women of the Empire State have, within
the past fortnight, taken part in the unofficial
political conventions of their parties. Both con-
ventions were held in Saratoga and within five
days of each other. Both were distinguished
by being the first state party convention since
the women of New York state were enfran-
chised. Expectations were on tiptoe all over
the state and especially among men politicians,
as to what women would do, and on the main,
political leaders were eager to find out what
would please the new voters, and do it.

What happened at the Republican Convention
was reported in the Woman Citizen of July 27.
What happened at the Democratic Convention
may be gathered from the account below:

Women were numercially represented in both
conventions, in about the proportional strength
of their party enrollment. One hundred and
fifty women were reported present among the
Republicans and 103 among the Democrats, the
state enrollment of women having given to Re-
publicans 375,093, and to Democrats 247,676.
In one respect only, was there a noticeable
difference between the conventions. Women
delegates from New York City represented the
organized suffragists less at the Democratic,
than at the Republican Convention. Women
present July- 23 were picked by the men as-
sembly district leaders, and “few prominent
suffragists were among them.

Mrs. Charles L. Tiffany, Mrs. Louis Reed
Welzmiller, former director of the Woman
Suffrage Party for Bronx Borough and some
assembly district leaders in the last campaign
were noticeable as representing the New York
City women who had fought long and tirelessly
for the privileges women are now enjoying.

This was not generally true of up-state
women, however. Miss Harriet Maerills, one
of the most influential sut’fragists of the state,
and a former president of the New York State
Woman Suffrage Association, and Mrs. Francis
H. Lamon of Watertown, were among the
up~state contingent. Mrs. Tiffany, whose
summer home is at Oyster Bay, Long Island,
was one of the Democratic delegation from
Nassau County.

 

187

Democrats in Convention

Miss Kathryn Starbuck of Saratoga, an
active leader in the two New York State cam-
paigns for the vote. was a member of the Plat-
form Committee, of which Senator Robert E.
Wagner was chairman.

On the Platform Committee also were five
other Democratic women, among them Mrs.
Edwin S. Jenney, of Syracuse, Miss May Pat-
terson and Mrs. Elizabeth Barry of Brooklyn.

Mrs. Welzmiller also was promptly made
chairman of the permanent committee on organ-
ization, and the convention, as it were, waited
hat in hand to know what next it should do
to be fair to the new electorate.

Just here is where a revealing instance of the
spirit that is in women who have fought for
the vote, was manifested.

Mrs. Tiffany was approached at once by a
no less prominent leader than Senator Robert
Wagner and asked if she would accept a posi-
tion in the convention.

Miss Mary Garrett Hay had been chairman
of the Platform Committee at the Republican
Convention in Saratoga the previous week.

It is a matter of history that the New York
Democrats have shown a finely hospitable spirit
towards the new women voters, and if no
woman was honored by a chairmanship in the
Democratic convention at Saratoga, charge it
not to men’s fault but to the women’s judgment.
A chairmanship was offered to Mrs. Tiffany
by a committee composed of Mr. Charles E.
Murphy, Mr. Norman Mack, Mr. Thomas
Smith and Mr. Thomas Foley. It was the po-
sition of permanent chairman of the convention.

RS. TIFFANY declined the nomination.

Her answer is a classic, and should be

known by all politicians and all timorous souls

who fear women will stampede all the political

offices in sight. It defines with exactness, the

spirit of a large group of women in the suffrage
cause. She said:

“Acceptance of this office would serve no
purpose but to establish the fact that the Dem-
ocrats of New York State are as generous to-
wards new women voters as are the Repub-
licans.

,“I could not acceptably fill the position, since
I am not yet suliiciently familiar with state
leaders to recognize them as they rise. And
this kind of attention is not what we women
want. The time will come, and soon, when
some women will be prepared, as some men are
now prepared, to'engineer a big political party
through a convention like this one. We have
had a large experience in organization in our
campaign for the vote. But we are not at all
eager for positions given us just because we
are women, and, least of all, do we want frills.
We want to be put on your deliberative bodies,
and on your administrative councils. We want
to help shape the policies of this state which
is dear to us. We want to work. We account
opportunities for service sutiicient honor.”

\Nhen it was suggested that women be put
upon the ticket for state offices, Mrs. Tiffany

held firmly to her “ no frills ” argument. “ Not
because we are women, do we want anything,”
she reiterated, “but because we are fitted.”
Certain state otiices, Mrs. Tiffany hoped, might

be given to women, offices for which women’s
previous training had especially fitted them.

But she voiced the opinion of most of the
women in the state when she held to the prin-
ciple that women were not there to seek office,
but to serve the state of New York and in-
cidentally to serve at a critical period of the
world’s history.

Miss Starbuck and Miss Sara McPike of
Yonkers are among the New York Democratic
women spoken of for positions on the ticket.

T had long been on the cards that the national
suffrage cause would receive consideration
by the New York State Democrats.

National Committeeman Norman Mack,
whose wife was one of the active leaders in
the suffrage cause in Buffalo, where suffrage
polled a big victory in 1917, had announced
himself for the Federal Woman Suffrage
Amendment.

In Mr. Mack’s paper, the Buffalo Times, an
editorial appeared, calling on both Senators to
vote for the Amendment, and saying that
“universal woman suffrage is one of the imme-
diate certainties of civilization.” Therefore it
was in line that a large part of the “ Declaration
of Principles ” of the Democratic Party should
concern itself with the political emancipation
of all American women.

This plank followed the fifteen specified ques-
tions upon which New York State Democrats
are determined to wage their campaign this fall,
and reads as follows:

“ We welcome women voters to the electorate,
and we confidently invite them to join the Dem-
ocratic Party upon its record. We believe in
equal suffrage, without regard to sex, and we
recognize that the present influence, when our
nation is engaged in a great war, for equal
rights and individual freedom, is a time pe-
culiarly appropriate for its adoption by the peo-
ple of the United States. '

“ We, therefore, urge the immediate adoption
by the United States Senate of the concurrent
resolution amending the Constitution so as to
confer the right of suffrage upon woman. We
demand that the United States Senators from
New York represent their constituents by vot-
ing for the proposed suffrage amendment.

(Continued on page 192)

 

STILL FLIRTING—Eventng Telegram

188

The Woman Citizen

They Are For It

What the Press Says

N the month of June, 810 suffrage editorials,

mostly on the Federal Suffrage Amendment,
were returned by press clipping bureaus to the
desk of the Chairman on Editorial Correspond-
ence of the Leslie Woman Suffrage Commis-
sion, Mrs. Ida Husted Harper. The clipping
bureaus are ordered to return anti-suffrage as
well as suffrage comments, yet out of the 810
editorials, there were only five opposed to
suffrage.

What Governors Say

T this time when people all over the coun-

try are interested in the fate of the Federal
Suffrage Amendment in the Senate, a message
from the Governor of Idaho, where suffrage
has been tried for many years, is especially
timely. Governor Alexander says: “Idaho has
repeatedly declared itself on the question of
woman suffrage. After twenty years of trial,
there is no difference of opinion among our
people on that question, and we recognize our
women as our equals. Since the beginning of
the war we have valued their services and co-
operation more than ever.

“It is the women who furnish sons to fight
the battles of the nation and to bleed and die
for liberty and civilization, and their sacrifices
should entitle them to every consideration and
bestow upon them political and civil rights of
equality with men. Idaho is unanimous for
equality of men and women before the law in
every question that interests humanity.”

OVERNOR THOMAS C. RYE of Ten-

nessee, in the opening speech of his cam-
paign for the Democratic nomination for United
States Senator, delivered before a large audi-
ence at Chattanooga, July 8, affirmed his belief
in suErage for women.

“ To the women, whose political enfranchise-
ment our great President has given assurance
of his support," said Governor Rye, “I would
accord this rightful privilege so long withheld,
and to which they have proven their right by
their intelligent, patriotic and hearty support of
every war activity and every worthy cause.”

Hon. Clyde Shrapshire, in his opening ad-
dress as a candidate for governor of the state
on the Democratic ticket, also came out strongly
for equal suffrage.

What Mothers Say

N O greater appeal, no stronger argument,
could have been advanced for the passage

of the Federal Amendment than that embodied
in the petition now being circulated in Philadel-
phia, to be presented to Senator Penrose. The
petition reads:

“ We, the undersigned women of Philadelphia
County, Pennsylvania, having gladly released all
claim upon our sons, daughters, brothers,
nephews and other near relatives in order that
they may be free to serve their country in its
hour of need, do hereby earnestly appeal to you
for your aid in securing the passage of the
Federal Amendment for Woman Suffrage, to
the end that we may be fully equipped to de-
fend the interests of that democracy at home
for which they are fighting abroad.”

Every suffragist in Philadelphia with sons,

daughters or relatives in the service will have
an opportunity to sign this petition.

It was on motion of Mrs. George A. Piersol,
congressional district chairman of Group I, that
the Central Committee of the Woman Suffrage
Party of Philadelphia voted to circulate the
petition, and Mrs. Piersol leads the list of sign-
ers. Following her name are the significant
words, “Four sons and one daughter in the
United States service.”

The Pennsylvania suffragists have devoted
much time to war service. Among the special
features was an outdoor dance and Midway held
at Pittsburgh the last of June to stimulate the
sale of War Savings Stamps and raise a recrea-
tion fund for soldiers. Mrs. Clarence Renshaw
was general chairman of the affair and the
women did all the work in preparing the Mid-
way, including the carpentering. Admission to
everything was by Thrift Stamps.

The suffrage section of the patriotic parade
held at Harrisburg on the Fourth of July was
featured by floats and formations which de-
picted suffrage progress. Mrs. J. Sherman Mac-
Donald was general chairman qf this demonstra-
tion, being assisted by Miss Helen C. Clark,
congressional district chairman, and Miss Annie
Laurie.

The suffragists will take an active part in the
Fourth Liberty Loan Drive. Mrs. John 0. Mil-
ler, President of the Pennsylvania Woman Suf-
frage Party, has been appointed state chairman
of the Woman’s Committee for the Fourth
Liberty Loan.

What Women Doctors Say

T a joint meeting of the Chicago Medical
Woman’s Club, and the Chicago Woman’s
Bar Association in July, a petition was circu-
lated, asking the Senate to pass the suffrage
amendment, and forty-eight signatures were
secured, that being all present who had not
signed it before. The petition was unanimously
endorsed by resolution of the assembly.
A resolution was endorsed asking the citizens
of Nevada to elect Miss Anne Martin to the
office of Senator.

What the West Says
By Senator Miles Poindexter

HE entire West is intensely interested in

the outcome of the vote in the Senate on
the amendment to the Constitution giving
women the right to vote. The western states
have long since overcome the prejudices which
heretofore have discriminated against women
in the suffrage. The states themselves have
long since recognized women as equal partners
in the state, as well as in business and in the
homes. \Vith us it has ceased to be an experi-
ment, and most of the anti-suffrage arguments,
based upon theory and dire prophecy, have no
effect in the face of realities.

In the western states women have the right
to vote, and do vote, and exercise the most
wholesome influence in public affairs. I think
it is safe to say that many of the most excel-
lent policies now in force in the western states
would not have been adopted without woman
suffrage. Hard-headed business men, immersed
in material affairs, without much time or desire
to give to political speculation, who bitterly
opposed many of these new measures simply

4 5 ‘

Digitized by  6

because they were unaccustomed to them, are
now just as strongly in favor of them. In
other words, there is universal approval of
measures which the good sense and sound feel—
ing of women carried into effect.

T has been discovered, much to the surprise
of ultra-conservatives, that the suErage has
not in any respect changed the nature of
women, although it has given them a new dig-
nity and power. Women anti-suffragists,
especially, have argued that women would be
spoiled by politics. Nothing of the kind has
happened in the West. In the first place, com-
paratively few women are in politics in any
other sense than that of taking a keen and
intelligent interest in public questions and vot-
ing their convictions upon them. To do this
has not required any displacement of woman
in her domestic or other relations. As a matter
of fact, the wholesomest and best place for
the formation of public opinion is the family
circle. It is the real foundation of our insti—
tutions anyhow. It is here that papers, maga-
zines, and other sources of information are
read and discussed in a sane and normal way
under conditions which tend towards freedom
of judgment and intelligent decision. \Vomen,
of course, as well as men, have various oppor-
tunities, as they always did, of meeting with
their neighbors and exchanging views, and so
adding to their stock of' information and to
their ability to form a correct judgment. The
further act of registering this judgment in a
vote is, after all, when one sees it in opera-
tion, not such a difficult, complicated affair,
and not at all the horrible bugaboo which has
been pictured. Our polling places are decent
places. They were so before women voted, and
they are more emphatically so since they have
voted. Under the Australian ballot system the
greatest care is taken to protect the indepen-
dence and privacy of the voter. The exercise
of the suffrage has been with us always a
serious, if not solemn, function. We appreciate

’its privileges and its importance, and this feel-

ing is reflected in conditions at the polling
places, which are orderly, quiet, and fit places
for men to go with their wives, or for women
to go together, or alone, and to retire to the
booth for marking their ballots.

Suffice it to say that many years’ experience
in many of the states has confirmed our deep
conviction not only of the justice, but of the
value, not only to women, but to the entire
community of woman suffrage. We are in-
tensely expectant and hopeful of a favorable
result of the‘ Senate vote on the national
amendment.

What Wisconsin Says

0 many entries were made in the Essay Con- ‘
test instituted by the Wisconsin Womani
Suffrage Association that it has taken weeks to i
decide the winner. “ Why This Congress Should i
Pass the Suffrage Amendment ” was the subject
of the essays and the first prize was awarded to
Miss Blanche Fleming, a student in the \Nau- ‘
kesha High School. Some high school teachers
had all their English pupils write on the as-
signed subject and then selected the best essays ‘
for the contests. Twelve prizes in all were
awarded. Miss Ada James of Richland Center

was ' charge of e contest. 5

 

-1

L_ ‘ a—In

August 3, 1918
All Red-Blooded

American Women
Want Citizenship

HAT the women of America look forward

longingly to the time when they shall
share the same privileges of citizenship which
the United States has granted freely to the
foreign born men of every allied and neutral
nation, is indicated by two incidents noted and
commented upon by presidents of the suffrage
associations of Wisconsin and Indiana. Mrs.
Theodora Youmans, President of \Visconsin,
has sent to the Woman Citizen the following
appreciative account of the Milwaukee Cere-
monial which welcomed newly naturalized
citizens: .

“ Five hundred and ninety newly naturalized
citizens of Milwaukee, their wives and children,
were guests of honor at a'great reception held
in the auditorium in Milwaukee on the even-
ing of July 2. Every man had become a
citizen during the past year. Every woman
and child had been personally invited by a
representative of the Americanization Commit-
tee. Beautiful printed programs showed the
American flag on the cover and the names of
the 590 men. Other groups of the foreign-born
by nationalities—Greeks, Poles, Bohemians, etc.,
made a dramatic appearance as they marched
in to band music each carrying the American
flag and the flag of their nativity. Some of
them were. in native costume. The program
included community singing of a splendid in-
spiring character, speeches and dancing. The
affair was arranged by the Americanization
Committee of Milwaukee of which Mrs. A. M.
Simons is chairman. Mrs. Simons is one of
the active members of the Milwaukee County
Woman Suffrage Association.”

DRIVE for 100,000 new members has been
launched in Indiana by the Woman’s
Franchise League under the chairmanship of
Mrs. Fred H. McCullock of Fort Wayne. Mrs.
Richard E. Edwards, president of the Franchise
League, is convinced suffrage is a war measure,
as are the 1,500 officers of the League to
whom she sent the following open letter:

“ To win the war is our immediate necessity;
to win it the quickest, biggest, most enduring
way; to win it for the benefit of all people for
all time, and in the winning of this war so to
advance the cause of humanity and progress
that all our sacrifices need not be in vain.

“ You know, as every suffragist knows, that
the cause of suffrage is closely linked with
every hope of real democracy, with every idea
of real progress. We all believe that en-
franchisement of women on equal terms with
men is an actual war measure. Our allies
have found it so, and enfranchised their women,
or are definitely planning to. It is time to
make false the statement, now true, that ‘the
United States is the only English-speaking
nation in the world whose women are not
enfranchised.’

“ You have given yourself to war work! Give
now your time and your energies for the month
of August to this branch of war work, the
pushing of the Federal Suffrage Amendment.
You will find your work made easy by the
change of public opinion. Sentiment for
suffrage was never so strong as today.”

 

OFFICERS OF THE DALLAS EQUAL SUFFRAGE LEAGUE WERE FIRST TO ENROLL
FOR THE PRIMARIES

Terms women or partlclpatlon tn the

The enrollment of
Word received at the oMces of
Fisher Cunningham, presldent of
women enrollan would in all probability reach

the Na tonal American Woman
the Texas E ual Sup‘r
00,000.

rtmarles July 27th broke the record.
up'rage Assoclatlon from Mrs. Hlnnle
6 Association, stated that the number of

T is ts a phenomenal record, and establishes

anew their clalm that women do want to vote., And when Primary day came they voted. Out of the
750,000 votes cast about 625,000 were agalnst James Ferguson, the prevlousl impeached Governor of

Team, who entered the llsts

report at the Natlonal Democratlc Convention in St. Louls tn 191
orted tn the New York Tlmes “The woman vote swept Teams. Every

women remembered. As rep .
man they tndorsed won by a huge MGJOHW.”

Mrs. McCulloch, Chairman of the General
Committee for the campaign, when asked why
she was heading this drive for 100,000 mem-
bers and 700,000 petition signatures, said: “I
took up this work because I felt that I was
in some way discharging my debt to the women
who have worked so faithfully with me in
the last Liberty Loan Drive. In the different
house-to-house canvasses that women have
made, they have found so many women who
want to buy bonds, War Savings Stamps, and
Red Cross memberships, but have not a cent
of their own.

“WE could serve our country better if
we had the vote,” was the slogan
that stood out in black letters against the gold
background of the badges worn by the members
of the Woman’s SuErage League of Augusta,
Georgia, who took part in the parade which
featured the Fourth of July celebration in that
city. Six hundred members of the league were
in line, though they did not march as a unit,
but with the various organizations in the pro-
cession with which they were afiiliated. The
press report says of the six hundred: “Suf-
f rage leaguers are leading spirits in all Augusta
woman organizations and the badges appeared
like a chain linking them together—linking all
women together in the cause of woman.”

The SuErage League joined with the pro-
gressive and influential organization of men and
of women and with prominent taxpayers in
petitioning the City Conference Board of the
Richmond Board of Education for an increase
in salary for graded teachers. The raise was
granted. The accounts in the press state
that the petition, which played a big part in
the proceedings, was handled in a strong
way, the reading of the petition by Miss
A. B. Tarver being followed by a talk in
its behalf by Miss Anne Campbell. Busi-
ness men present pronounced Miss Campbell’s
talk the clearest, most convincing, and best
put together of any talk of that nature they had
heard. One of the school trustees is quoted as
saying, “ Any person—woman or man—who can
make a business statement or business argument
as this lady has made them, is worth more
compensation—war time or peace time—than
eighty-five dollars per month maximum.”

for a renomtnatlon. Governor Fer uson h

brought tn a minority
agalnst woman sum-age, and the

Dead Nebraskans Made to Sign

HE charges of fraud and forgery made by

the Nebraska Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion against the Anti Suffrage Association of
that state, relative to the securing of signatures
to the petition which suspended the partial suf-
frage law, are being substantiated to a remark-
able degree, as the testimony of the witnesses
called in the examination proceeds.

The plaintiffs called 132 witnesses when the
signatures obtained in Richardson County by
special examiner C. A. Emery at Falls City were
under examination. According to the Lincoln,
Nebraska, Press, a large number of the wit-
nesses called, declared under oath that they did
not sign the petition, and the only way they could
account for the appearance of their names was
that a circulator of the petition, John Norton
of Omaha, must have written their names in.
Only a few said they signed the petition with
full knowledge of its import, and others stated
they signed believing it was a suffrage petition.

A Richardson County undertaker, D. D.
Reavis, testified that the name of A. Kellar,
which appeared on the petition, must be a
forgery because he had assisted at the burial
of Mr. Kellar six months before the petition
was circulated.

Another witness called, proved to be nearly
totally blind and unable to read and write.

The Sheriff of Richardson County testified
that eighteen of the names appearing on the
petition were not, so far as he knew, residents
of the county.

An Omaha dispatch states that John Norton,
aged nineteen, and an employee of the post-
ofiice, for alleged forgery of signatures to the
petition has been taken into custody, being the
first arrest following the expose of alleged
forgery of signatures. Norton was arrested,
according to a report, on complaint of L. C.
Mauger, charged with forging Mauger’s name
to the petition. Mr. Manger is said to be a
strong advocate of woman suffrage.

Suffrage leaders, it is said, say that the
arrest of Norton is only the beginning of a
campaign which will result in the arrest of
many, many persons who are alleged to have
forged signatures to these anti-suffrage peti-
tions.

190

UCY STONE, whose one hundredth anni-

versary will be celebrated on August 13th,
has been called “The morning star of the
woman’s rights movement.” Other women
before her had spoken occasionally for this
cause, while devoting themselves mainly to other
radical subjects; but she was the first and for
a long time the only lecturer who made it her
specialty, and who traveled all up and down the
country preaching it, year after year, with an
almost magical eloquence. In the words of
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, “ Lucy Stone was the
first person by whom the heart of the American
public was widely and deeply stirred on the
woman question.”

She was born August 13, 1818, on a farm near
West Brookfield, Mass., the daughter of Francis
Stone and Hannah Matthews. She was a dc.
scendant of that Deacon Gregory Stone who in
1664, with three others, presented to the General
Court of Massachusetts a largely-signed memo-
rial protesting against the proposed government
of New England by a Royal Commission, not
chosen by the people. Her great-grandfather
fought in the French and Indian war; her
grandfather was an officer in the war of the
Revolution. Her father was a prosperous
farmer, much respected, but fully believing, like
most men of his day, in the right of husbands
to rule over their wives. Her mother was an
excellent Christian woman, who submitted
conscientiously.

Little Lucy grew up a healthy, vigorous child,
noted for fearlessness and truthfulness, a good
scholar, and a hard worker in the house and on
the farm, sometimes driving the cows bare-
footed by starlight before the sun was up, when
the dew was so cold that she would stop on a
flat stone and curl one small bare foot up
against the other to warm it. The mother
milked eight cows the night before Lucy was
born, and said, when informed of the sex of
the new baby, “ Oh, dear! I am sorry it is a
girl. A woman’s life is so hard!"

HE little girl early became indignant at the

way she saw her mother and other women
treated by their husbands and by the laws, and
made up her mind that those laws must be
changed. Reading the Bible one day, while
still a child, she came upon the text, “ Thy
desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall
rule over thee.” At first she wanted to die.
Then she determined to go to college, study
Greek and Hebrew, and satisfy herself whether
such texts were correctly translated.

She was the first Massachusetts woman to
take a college degree. Her brothers had gone
to college, but when her father heard of her
wish to do likewise, he said, “Is the child
crazy?” She picked berries and chestnuts, and
sold them to buy books. For years she taught
district schools, studying and teaching by turns.
At Mt. Holyoke Academy, which she attended
for a time, she was held up as an example for
the spotless neatness of her plain print dresses
and white collars.

She soon became known as a successful
teacher. Once she was engaged to teach a
“ winter school ” which had been broken up by
the big boys throwing the master headforemost
out of the window into a deep snowdrift. As
a rule, women were not thought competent to
teach in winter, because then the big boys were
released from farm work, and were able to
attend. In a few days she had this dillicult
school in perfect order, and the big boys who

had made the trouble became her most devoted
lieutenants; yet she received only a fraction of
the salary paid to her unsuccessful predecessor.
At the low wages given to women teachers, it
took her nine years to earn the money to carry
her to Oberlin, Ohio, then the only college in
the country that admitted women. Crossing
Lake Erie from Buffalo to Cleveland, she could
not afford a stateroom, but slept on deck on a
pile of grainsacks, among horses and freight,
with a few other women who, like herself, could
pay for only a “ deck passage.”

T Oberlin she earned her way by teaching in

the preparatory department of the college,
and by doing housework in the Ladies’ Board-
ing Hall at three cents an hour. Most of the
students were poor, and the college furnished
them board at a dollar a week. But 'she could
not afford even this small sum, and during
most of her course she cooked her food in
her own room, boarding herself at less than
fifty cents a week. She kept healthy and happy,
distinguished herself in her studies, and found
time in addition for good works.

Her first public speech was made during her
college course. The colored people got up a
celebration of the anniversary of West Indian
emancipation, and asked her to speak, together
with the college president and some of the
professors. The next day she was summoned
before the Ladies’ Board, made up of the pro-
fessors’ wives. They represented to her that
it was unwomanly and unscriptural for her to
speak in public. The president’s wife said:
“ Did you not feel yourself very much out of
place up there on the platform among all those
men? Were you not embarrassed and fright-
ened? ” “ Why, no, Mrs. Mahan,” she answered,
“ those men were President Mahan and my
professors, whom I meet every day in the
classroom. I was not afraid of them at alll ”

At Oberlin she met Antoinette L. Brown, who
was to become the first ordained woman min-
ister. The two girls soon formed a friendship,
which was cemented later by their marrying
brothers.

The young men of the class had to hold de-
bates, as part of their college work. The young
women were not allowed to debate, but were

required to attend, so as to help form an audi- ‘

ence for the boys. Lucy was intending to
lecture, and Antoinette to preach. They asked
to be allowed to debate. The professor in
that department was liberal, and consented.
Tradition says the debate was a brilliant one;
but the faculty at once forbade any repetition.
“’omen must “ keep silence.”

Lucy persuaded an old colored woman who
owned a small house to give the occasional use
of her parlor to the girls who wanted to debate.
Coming by ones and twos, so as not to attract
attention, she and Antoinette and others would
gather there and discuss all sorts of deep sub-
jects. Sometimes, in summer they held their
meetings in the woods. This was the first
debating club ever formed among college girls.

At her graduation she was appointed to write
an essay to be read at Commencement, but was
notified that one of the professors would have
to read it for her, as it would not be proper
for a woman to read her own essay in public.
Rather than not to read it herself, she declined to

ever spoke ' public bef e, and curiosity drew
Digitized by 6008 C

1.:— __

The Woman Citizen

The Centennial of

By Her
Alice Stone

LUCY STONE,
“ THE
MORNING
STAR OF
THE
WOMAN’S
RIGHTS
MOVEMENT.”

write it. About forty years later, when Oberlin
celebrated its semi-centennial, she was invited
to be one of the speakers at that great gathering.

She was graduated in 1847, and gave her first
woman’s rights lecture in the same year. Soon
after, she was engaged to lecture regularly for
the Anti-slavery Society. She mixed a great
deal of woman’s rights with her anti-slavery
lectures. Finally the Rev. Samuel May, the
agent of the Anti-Slavery Society, who arranged
her meetings, felt obliged to tell her that, on
the anti-slavery platform, this would not do.
She answered, “I know it, but I could not
help it. I was a woman before I was an
abolitionist, and I must speak for the women.”
She resigned her position, but the abolitionists
persuaded her to continue speaking for them
Saturday evenings and Sundays—times re-
garded as too sacred for a woman’s rights meet-
ing—while the rest of the week she lectured
for woman’s rights on her own responsibility.

ER adventures during the next ten years
would fill a volume. No suffrage associa-
tion was organized until long after this time. She

- had no co-operation and no backing, and started

out absolutely alone. She put up the posters
for her own meetings, with a little package of
tacks and a stone picked up from the street.
Sometimes the boys followed her, hooting and
preparing to tear the posters down. Then she
would call the boys about her and hold a pre-
liminary meeting in the street, until she had
won them all over and persuaded them to let
her posters alone. Once in winter a pane of
glass was removed from the window, a hose
was put through, and she was deluged with ice-
cold water while speaking. She put on her
shawl and continued her lecture. Pepper was
burned; spitballs and eggs were thrown; once
a hymn book was hurled at her head with stun-
ning force; but she almost always ended by
gaining her hearers’ hearts.

She traveled over a large part of the United
States. In most of the places no woman had

 

TE

TE

so ?
Wt

NH



 

DF

)R
lT

August 3, 1918

Daughter
Blackwell

THE FIRST
MASSACHUSETTS
WOMAN

TO TAKE

A COLLEGE
DEGREE.

immense audiences. They expected to see a tall,
gaunt, angular person, with aggressive manners
and a strident voice. They found a small, quiet
woman, gentle and winning, with the sweetest
voice ever possessed by a public speaker.

HE had a wonderful eloquence. Her trans-
parent simplicity, sincerity, and intense
earnestness, added to a singular personal mag-
netism and a complete forgetfulness of self,
swayed those great audiences as the wind bends
a field of grass. Often mobs would listen to her
when they howled down every other speaker.
At one woman’s rights meeting in New York
the mob made such a clamor that no speaker
could be heard. One after another tried it,
only to have their voices drowned forthwith
by boots and howls. The Rev. William Henry
Charming advised Lucretia Mott, who was pre-
siding, to adjourn the meeting. She answered,
“ When the hour fixed for adjournment comes,
I will adjourn the meeting; not before.” At
last Lucy Stone was introduced. The mob
became as quiet as a congregation of church-
goers; but as soon as the next speaker began,
the howling recommenced, and it continued to
the end. After the meeting, when the speakers
went into the dressing room to get their hats
and cloaks, the mob surged in and surrounded
them; and Lucy, who was brimming over with
indignation, began to reproach them for their
behavior. “ Oh, come,” they answered, “you
needn’t say anything; we kept still for you! ”
At an anti-slavery meeting held on Cape
Cod, in a grove, a platform had been erected
for the speakers, and a crowd assembled; but
a crowd so menacing in aspect, and with so
evident an intention of violence, that the speak-
ers one by one came down from the stand and
slipped quietly away, till only Lucy Stone and
Stephen Foster were left. She said, “You had
better run, Stephen; they are coming!” He
answered, “But who will take care of you?"
At that moment the mob made a rush, and a
big man, grasping a club, sprang upon the plat-
form. Lucy turned to him and said without

a Great Pioneer

hesitation, “This gentleman will take care of
me.” He declared that he would. He tucked
her under one arm, and, holding his club with
the other, marched her out through the crowd,
who were roughly handling Mr. Foster and
such of the other speakers as they had been
able to catch. Her representations finally so
prevailed upon him that he mounted her on a
stump and stood by her with his club while she
addressed the mob. They were so moved by
her speech that they not only desisted from
further violence, but took up a collection of
twenty dollars to pay Stephen Foster for his
coat, which they had torn to pieces.

HEN she began to lecture she would not
charge an admission fee, partly because
she was anxious that everyone should hear and
be converted. and she feared that a door fee
might keep someone away; partly from some—
thing of the Quaker feeling that it was wrong to
take pay for preaching the gospel. She econo-
mized in every way. When she stayed in Boston
she used to put up at a lodging house on
Hanover Street where they gave her meals
for twelve and a half, and lodging for six and
a quarter cents, on condition of her sleeping
with the daughters of the house, three in a bed.
Once when she was in great need of a new
cloak, she came to Salem, Mass., where she
was to lecture, and found that the Hutchinson
family of singers were to give a concert the
same evening. They proposed to her to unite
the entertainments and divide the proceeds. She
consented, and bought a cloak with the money.
She was also badly in want of other clothing.
Her friends assured her that the audiences
would be just as large, despite an admission
fee. She tried it, and finding that the audi-
ences continued to be as large as the halls would
hold, she continued to charge a door fee, and
was no longer reduced to such straits.

In 1850 she headed the call for the first
National Woman’s Rights Convention, held at
Worcester, Mass. (The first local convention
had been held at Seneca Falls, New York, in
1848.) This great meeting attracted wide at-
tention, and the report of it led Mrs. Taylor
(afterwards Mrs. John Stuart Mill) to write
her famous article in the Westminster Review
which began the modern movement for woman
suffrage in England. The annual National
Woman’s Rights Conventions, from that time
to 1855, were organized mainly by Lucy, and
she published their proceedings each year in
pamphlet form, at her own expense.

On May 1, 1855, she married Henry B. Black-
well, a young merchant of Cincinnati, Ohio, a
brother of Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell, the first
woman to take a medical degree. He was a
strong woman’s rights man and abolitionist,
highly gifted both as a speaker and a writer.
He had attended a hearing before a committee
of the Massachusetts Constitutional Convention
of 1853, when Lucy Stone, Wendell Phillips
and others spoke for suffrage; and he had made
up his mind then to marry her if he could.
She had meant never to marry, but to devote
herself wholly to her work. He promised to
devote himself to the same work, and persuaded
her that together they could do more for it than
she could alone. That promise was most loyally
kept. From that time on they were co-workers

191

in the movement. He gave to it not only his
high talents, but much needed financial help.

The wedding ceremony was performed by
the Rev. Thomas Wentworth Higginson. who
later went into the army, and is better remem-
bered as Col. Higginson. The bride and groom
drew up a joint protest against the disabilities
which the laws at that time imposed on mar-
ried women. It was widely published, and
helped to get those injustices corrected.

She regarded the loss of a wife’s name at
marriage as a symbol of the loss of her indi-
viduality. She was told by eminent lawyers,
including the Hon. Salmon P. Chase, later
Chief Justice of the United States, that there
was no law requiring a wife to take her hus-
band’s name; it was only a custom. With her
husband’s full approval, she kept her own name,
and continued to be called by it during nearly
forty years of faithful and affectionate married
life. She signed all- legal documents, “Lucy
Stone, wife of Henry B. Blackwell.”

N 1857, while they were living in Orange,
N. 1., she let her household goods be seized
and sold for taxes. One of the articles taken
was the baby’s cradle; and she wrote a protest
against taxation without representation with
the baby on her knee: For a few years she
dropped public work almost entirely and de-
voted herself to her child. Then she resumed
it, and kept it up untiringly till her death; but
without neglecting either husband or daughter.
In 1866 she helped to organize the American
Equal Rights Association, and was chairman
of its executive committee. In 1869, with Julia
W'ard Howe, Mary A. Livermore, Col. Higgin-
son, William Lloyd Garrison, George William
Curtis and others, she organized the American
Woman Suffrage Association, and was chair-
man of its executive committee for nearly
twenty years. When the National and the
American Associations came together and
formed the National American, she was chair-
man of the executive committee of the united
society. She always craved not the post of
prominence, but the post of work.

She and her husband took an active part in
organizing the Massachusetts Woman Suffrage
Association in 1870, and she raised most of the
money with which the Woman’: Journal was
started in Boston in the same year. Mrs. Liver-
more was its first editor, with Lucy Stone,
Julia Ward Howe, Higginson and Garrison as
editorial contributors. At the end of two
years, Mrs. Livermore resigned the editorship.
Mrs. Stone and Mr. Blackwell took it up, and
carried that burden to the end of their lives.
The 47 years’ existence of the journal—a life-
time unprecedented for a reform paper—was
due mainly to their efforts and to the interest
that they aroused and inspired.

Lucy Stone was chairman of the executive
committee also of the New England Woman
Suffrage Association. For a generation the
suffrage work of Massachusetts and New Eng-
land, and a large part of that throughout the
whole country, centred in her home and in the
Woman's Journal ofiice, and radiated out from
it. She took part in the early campaigns for
the woman suffrage amendments in Kansas,
Vermont, Michigan, Nebraska, Colorado and
Rhode Island; she spoke at innumerable legis-
lative hearings, in Massachusetts and other
states, both for suffrage and for married wom-
(n’s property rights, equal guardianship, etc.;

(Continue on page 197)

Digitized by GODS C

192

The Woman Citizen

Gentlemen—The Ladies

By Private Harold R. Peat*

Late 3d Battalion, Ist Canadian Overseas Contingent

HEN we of the armies of the Allies are

down in the trenches there is a slow,
monotonous passing of the time hard to realize
by anyone who has never been there.

Sometimes no shells are flying around; some-
times there are no bullets discharged; some-
times, though the shells are falling, they have
to find the range and we hug our dugouts for
safety which appears a certainty for the time
being.

Sometimes it is spring; a war-scarred but tri-
umphant violet will raise its blossomed head
bravely on the trench edge, the sky of France
will be blue as the skies of home, heaven will
seem far, yet near. Somewhere a lark will soar
superbly and sing as it wings by the flying
monster devised of man. Sometimes all of
these things happen, and we who are clad in
khaki with trimmings of dry mud must pass
away the hours, the days, the nights, while we
stand our watch in the front line.

There is stand to in the morning. There is
a cleaning of rifles and sharpening of bayonets
—something might happen. We take no chances
unneeded in Flanders. There is breakfast and
there is dinner; there is tea and there is supper.
There is cleaning up and 'stand to again, but
between whiles there is nothing.

Cards—yes; books—maybe; newspapers at in-
tervals, letters with fair regularity. What re-
mains? There are hours and hours of time to
fill. Sleep remains, and talk. We talk folks
—aye, gossip and gamble and chatter as the
veriest of home mothers’ meetings.

And the words of our talk, the subject of our
main conversations? War—no, siree, enough
of war—are we not there prosecuting war?

Peace? No, sir, peace is 'not yet. Peace only
when victory is in measured sight.
at at at 1: at at

E speak of women—mothers, wives, sis-

ters, sweethearts, daughters. There is

the list, and one more we add to it, those of us

who carry on our right arm the gold stripe of
wounds—nurses.

Those are they of whom we speak, quietly,
easily, pridefully. Sometimes to our latest,
greatest pal we will show a treasured photo;
sometimes we will read an excerpt from the
latest letter we have had from “ her.”

This is a woman’s war. It seems a senti-
mental saying, perhaps, to those who are un-
thinking, but—it is a woman’s war. We sol-
diers realize it more than most, we who were
through the first mad days of carnage and
almost despair, realize it. We saw and we
know.

The good God never intended this world to
be a world of men alone for men alone. In
the trenches for the first time we men, apart
from nature’s planning, realize how essential to
the world is woman.

Without a woman we would remain as children,
as thoughtless boys. ’Tis she and she alone who
can give us the spiritual uplift, the love which
has wrought miracles since time has been.

A woman’s war—how the living evidences of
it have burned their searing way into our brains,
our consciences, our souls themselves.

April 22, in the year of our Lord one thou—
sand nine hundred and fifteen—it is almosr

dawn, and we march in silence, though not de-
pressed, along the Ypres-Menin road which
leads to Calais—London—New York. Dawn
has broken, and a watery sun gleams iitfully
above the faint spring mist.

We near a bend and from the distance we
hear the slow squelching of footsteps, leaden,
weary. We wonder, then round the turn of
the road we swing and .before us breaks to
view the tragedy of a nation.

A woman’s war.

There is the grandmother in that long line
of pilgrim refugees. Old women, bent and
weary with years of toil, now dazed and broken
with horror.

There was mother, white-haired in an hour,
sometimes with a hand pressed to the stained
bandage covering a bleeding and bayoneted
breast.

There was the nursing baby and the toddling
youngster—whimpering, often screaming in ter-
ror as shells whistled overhead, following the
refugees like wanton courses of their enemy
the Hun.

There was the young girl—innocence, torn
and blasted, struggled for place with an awful
knowledge, in the eyes of maidens—who had
borne torture worse than death.

That is what we saw of war for women.

Behind them blazing homes; before—nothing,
hopeless nothingness.

It It 1: t a a

ND so to us veterans, as to the men latest
gone to the battlefields of Armageddon,
has come the living evidence.

“ Men have done that,” we whispered one to
another—and then we burned for shame that
“man” should be the name given fiends of
such diabolicalness—brutes; we dare not insult
the inhabitants of nature’s free land by calling
them men.

No, the name could not be “man,” for then
and there we vowed that to us would come the
honor of earning and holding the name of
“ man.” To respect and honor and protect
womanhood in war as in peace.

A woman’s war—women enduring.

Then as time passed, as the fight waxed,
flickered, waned and waxed again, rest would
come to us. Our turns in the trenches would
end, our days in billets would cease for a
thrilling, swift moving period of time.

We would secure our leave, our meager fur-
lough of eight days in 365. To England, to
London, to Paris, to the south of France. In
all of these places we saw women again.
Women at war, as women in war.

At the docks, women hauling freight and
shifting trucks. At the depots women despatch-
ing trains and women opening coach doors for
us; women at the platform barriers, inspecting
our transportations.

On the streets women steering automobiles,
trucks, lorries, ambulances, buses, taxis—
women police handling crowds—women window
cleaners mounting ladders and wielding sponges
and chamois.

 

‘ How adequately the “Corporal in the Sum-a
Trenches," writing in the Woman Citizen of Juy
13, voiced the sentiments of the private in the
French trenches is shown by Private Peat in a con‘
tribution to the Evening Sun of July 22.—Em'ron.

' vote should be theirs.

Digitized by  €

.m—h- “

Women in shops and women on delivery
wagons—women at canteen service—women in
khaki. Tommywaacs we call them for the
soldier work they do. Women in uniforms of
naval blue—“ wrens ” for the service they render
the navy.

Women who pull white steel from gleaming
furnaces; women who stitch endlessly at the
white sails of airplanes; women who hammer
and labor and sweat.

Women and war—woman working.
i t t t t #

Yes, how we talk of our women folk, how
we think of them, how we depend on them.

When our zero hour has almost struck, when
we stand poised for the leap, with foot on the
fire step, and every muscle tensed for the charge
I look down the line of waiting men. Every eye
is gleaming, every mouth set, not one of us but
knows that of all who go over at least ten in
every hundred must bite the dust.

Look closely at the men, and with the ex-
ception of one or two flickers over the faces
the reflection of an inward, happy smile. They
—we are happy. Strange as it seems, it is so.

Today—if women want to vote—then the
Politics will be cleaner
for their influence to the political world Social
and civic problems must become all the clearer
for woman’s newer, fresher point of view, her
grasp of detail and her intuition.

Ah, men folks, after we boys have been there,
have seen, have suffered, have fought—we
know.

Women in war—women in peace—women
victorious.

Gentlemen—the ladies.

(Copy ht, 1918. Bobbs-Merrill Company,
ritain rights reserved. Twenty-first
Century Press, Inc.)

Great

Democrats in Convention
(Continued from page 187)

“ Upon this declaration of principles, conn-
dent of the justice of our cause, we urge the
people of the state of New York to sustain the
Democratic Administration in the nation by
electing a Democratic State Administration and
a Democratic House of Representatives.”

The platform was informally discussed with
some of the leading women delegates present
and was in the main, acceptable, although there
was much dissent from Article 2, demanding
a referendum to the people of the Federal
Prohibition Amendment.

The platform includes vigorous support of
the President’s war policies, agricultural re-
forms, increased financial support for the pub-
lic schools, adequate pay for teachers, co-opera-
tion with Federal authorities to prevent
profiteering, extension of the workmen’s
compensation laws, of the Labor Law to pro-
tect women in industry—and the establishment
of a State Minimum Wage Commission.

Several of the planks in the platform seem to
have been furthered by women.

Miss McPike reports that at a meeting of
the State Executive Committee, in the mem-
bership of which she is one of twenty-one
women having equal representation with men
on the committee, the women were unanimous
in their demand that the party platforms call
for a mi ° urn wage a eight-hour day.

August 3, 1918

193

When War Calls Women

WOMEN are now being taken on by the

Pennsylvania Railroad in men’s places

at the rate of almost 1,500 a month. Previous
to the war women were very rarely taken into
the service of the Pennsylvania_Railroad. At
present women are working to the number of
8,767 in 69 classified occupations, many of which
were formerly universally regarded as capable
of being filled only by men.

Today 6 women are working, in various of
the shops, on car repairs; one is employed as a
“ caller," her duties being to summon trainmen
for their runs; 74 women are at work cleaning
locomotives; one is a crane operator; four are
employed as locomotive despatchers; 29 are
draughtswomen; 7 are draughting apprentices;
5 women are operating steam hammers; 3 are
gang leaders; 1 is ,a coal inspector; 595 are
working as laborers; 37 are employed as ma-
chine hands; 234 are messengers and assistant
messengers; 6 are mechanics’ helpers; 2 are
oilers; 29 are classed as shop hands; 15 are

employed as power operators; 8 are lever-'

women; 9 are drawbridge attendants; 2 are
switch attendants; 38 work as freight truckers;
1 is a trackwoman; 2 are turntable operators;
8 are upholsterers; 2 are warehouse women
and 92 are employed as crossing watchwomen.

In addition there are 132 signal women and
assistants; l6 bureau of information attendants;
24 parcel room and 258 storeroom attendants;
611 car cleaners; 2 Pullman space distributors;
12 elevator operators and 81 ticket sellers.

In the lines of work more customarily fol-
lowed by women, there are 105 janitresses;
679 telephone operators; 266 telegraph opera-
tors; 121 telegraph operator students; 15 cooks
and 4,723 girls and women who are classified as
clerks, stenographers and typists.

Almost a woman’s railroad.

In'June, 1918, women formed 49.37 per cent
of the stockholders in the Pennsylvania Rail-
road, holding 29.28 per cent of the stock.

IGURES for nine typical munition plants
given in the Monthly Review of the Bu-
reau of Labor Statistics for May, 1918, show
considerable variation between establishments
in the relative numbers of men and women em-
ployed since the war began. One plant has
never had as many as 10 per cent. women
employees, though the numbers have doubled
in the year. Another has risen from 6 per cent.
to 20 per cent. Two have fluctuated, and at
present the percentage of women is slightly less
than men. In the others the percentage has been
steadily upward by large increases. One, for
instance, which began in March, 1915, with
about 22 per cent. of the employees women,
now has over 58 per cent. women. At present
in these nine plants over 12,000 women are
employed, or 31 per cent. of the total force.

(CWOMEN are wanted still in many ca-
pacities by the Government. The
chemical-service section of the Army has asked
the Woman’s Committee to take a census of
women chemists in the United States. One task
to which these women will be put is experi-
mentation in connection with poison gas bombs.
The chemical gas department aims at a force
of 1,600 women to replace men.

An examination for a woman economist in

the Federal service will be offered August 20th
(salary $1,800-$2,500).

The Open Door

WO hundred women from 40 states are
taking the course in reconstruction work at

Reed College, Oregon. The training in the
course, which began June 24 at Reed College
and ends September 6, includes instruction in
anatomy, physiology, personal hygiene, psycho-
logical aspects of recovery, posture, theory of
bandaging, military hosiptal management, mas-
sage, corrective gymnastics and other remedial
exercises, practice in massage, and clinics in
orthopedic surgery. Training is provided which
leads to the American Red Cross Life Savers’
Certificate.

OW and again we are reminded that this

is not the first time women have been
through wars. Having engaged in active service
during the Civil War, a woman now 88 years
old ,is instructing a class in knitting. This is Mrs.
Elizabeth Hughes, of Takoma Park, Washing-
ton, D. C., who accompanied her husband to
Army camps wherever he was assigned for
duty in Civil War days. Still interested in war
service, she teaches knitting to children in the
Takoma Park Church school. -

The Seventh-day Adventist Church in Ta-
koma Park, of which Mr. Longacre is pastor,
is active in Red Cross work. The church is
divided into districts, which in turn are organ-
ized into societies under leaders. These societies
meet once a week to make garments for hos-
pitals, and sweaters or other knitted garments.

Marching Behind

6 ‘I ’M marching on,” said the colonel's wife,
“ Back of my soldier in the field,

His to command brave men in the strife,

Mine a weapon of love to wield;

To soothe, to comfort, to help, to cheer,

Those that the soldier holds most dear;

Gladly I turn to this task of mine,

To work for the women behind the line.”

“I’m marching on,” cried the mother brave,
“ Back of my soldier across the sea;
He fights this country’s cause to save,
He leaves a sacred trust with me;
Mine to keep burning the home-fires bright,
That our defenders shall have to eat,
Beef and sugar and fat and wheat.”

“I’m marching on," said the maiden fair,
“My brother’s a private far away;

He’s doing his bit with the boys over there.
I'm doing my bit with the ones that stay;

I’m training the girls for farm and field,

That crops may flourish and gardens yield;

For we must answer this nation’s call,

And our abundance replenish all."

“We’re marching—sisters, mothers and wives,
Back of our soldiers, brave and true;

Giving our strength as they give their lives,
Marching under the Red, White and Blue;

For us they are holding the foe at bay,

But we’re holding behind, every step of the way,

Our men to nurse, and to clothe, and to feed,

We're marching on with this nation’s need."

-—CAROLINE TICKNOR, of the Vigilantes.

~ mending bureau.

HE knitting of 224 woolen garments for

28 men in 98 hours is the record of less

than a dozen women of the National League

for Women’s Service at Wray, Colorado. If

knitters will work at a pace like that no wonder

the Red Cross reported recently 5,000,000

knitted garments sent overseas within a
year.

IVES still wistful for their old domestic

occupations, though their men are “ over
there,” should apply to the quartermaster’s
When a soldier tears a gar-
ment it is turned in to the government shops at
the cantonments where hundreds of women are
employed as menders and laundresses. In em-
ploying women preference is given to wives,
sisters and mothers of the men in the service.

OUSEKEEPING courses for wives are a
development of the war that makes it
look as if wives were planning after the war to
put housekeeping on a more professional basxs.
Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, announces for wives
and daughters of army officers, during the
term 1918-1919, three scholarships in house-
hold arts and science. They are designed es-
pecially for those going into domestic science as
a profession.

OST interesting perhaps, of all the Civil
Service positions opened by the war is
that of curative workshop instructor in General
Hospitals, Medical Department at large, and in
the War Department, doing educational work
with wounded soldiers. Competitors will not
be required to report for examination but will
be rated on education and experience in teach-
ing agriculture, commercial, industrial or voca-
tional subjects. Entrance salaries for these posi-
tions range from $1,800 to $3,000 a year, accord-
ing to the grade qualified for.

At General Hospital No. 7, Hospital Training
School, Jennie A. Turner is already doing re-
constructive training work. She was for three
years designer of weaving for the Massachusetts
Commission for the Blind.

MAN’S wages—five dollars a day and

keep—was the ultimatum of fifteen-year-
old Elda Winkelman, of Smith Center, Kansas.
Why not? She is doing a man's work—driv-
ing a five-horse—lZ—foot grain header. She is
managing her huge apparatus as well as any
man they ever saw, if one can believe the many
wheat-raisers from that section of Kansas, who
have been attracted as onlookers by the un-
usual sight of a girl driving five horses. There
are many women working in the wheat fields
of Northwestern Kansas, but Miss Elder is
probably the only one running a header.

With her two brothers gone to war and her
aged father despairing of getting his big wheat
crop cut, Elda boldly spoke up and said she
would run the header if he would allow her
a man’s wages. Her father snapped up the
offer in a hurry, although not believing his
daughter in earnest. But he was “shown”
an hour later when his daughter, garbed in
overalls, hitched up the horse power, got onto
the header and struck out for the wheat field.
She says that after she puts her father's crop
into the stack she will continue running
the header until all the fields of the neighbors
are cut.

Digitized by 600816

194

HERE is an ambulance now tossing about

in the hold of a French liner somewhere
on the high seas which carries with it as many
thoughts and sacrifices as have ever gone into
wood and steel and machinery. This ambu-
lance is on its way to France, where it is to
work for the new gas hospital unit of the
Women’s Oversea Hospitals, U. S. A. It was
bought with the earnings and the
sacrificial offerings of the pupils
of the Cortelyou School (P. S.
139), Brooklyn.

It started to become a military
ambulance a year ago and was
originally planned to accompany
the King's County Hospital Unit.
First of all it was to be a $1,000 ‘
ambulance, purchased entirely by
the grammar school children of Cortelyou.
Then the school grew confident and ambitious
and stretched its plans to a G. M. C., $1,700
ambulance of the latest 1917 make.

What the children of Cortelyou School did
might well set a goal for war fund financiers.

In three weeks they raised $1,680. All under '

fourteen, these children cut grass, cleaned cel-
lars and sold junk.

One little girl, a graduate of Cortelyou, came
back and offered to give up a week’s vacation
to make and sell a special kind of raisin bread.
Every noon at 12 o’clock through a very hot
week, she trudged in, flushed and heated, carry-
ing her orders of bread, finally earning $18.

.The children earned their money singly and
they earned it by classes. Nothing could stop
them once they were started on their campaign.
Some of them offered to go without desserts
for a whole year if their parents would advance
them the money the desserts would cost. The
graduating glass gave up flowers or gifts for
the sake of the fund. One class made and sold
ribbon pins of the Allies’ colors. Another made
Red Cross knitting bags.

Then the whole school gave a cake sale. We
are talking now about the days when people
spoke of cake above a whisper and there was no
ban on sugar. The cake sale started out as an
affair of a few tables. It grew to a corner on

mugs

u I
. .. 1"
I
I |
., .
I
'l .h.

 

Illustrations by Eleanor Middleditch

the cake market, it became a cake rout. Some
one sent a hurry call to the assistant principal of
the school telling her she’d better come down
and look after her cake sale, for it was swamp-
ing the city. When she arrived the cakes were
coming, coming in platoons, coming in brigades,
coming in regiments. Those in charge took in
cakes hand over hand, like a sailor taking in
sail. They set them on tables, under the tables,
behind the tables. And still they came, $400
worth, and all sold inside of three hours. One
mother said earnestly, “ I gave my very best. I
put eleven eggs in that cake." Think of it! But
that was a year ago, in 1917, before it was said
that “a frosted cake is an affair for martial
law.” Who could have an eleven-egg cake, or
any cake at all, in 1918?

WHEN the money was all raised Dr. Fiske
of the King’s County Hospital Unit, who
was to take the ambulance over to France, stood
in a reviewing stand while Cortelyou School
filed by on parade, each class handing in a check
for its quota of the great fund. One of the most
impressive moments of his life, Dr. Fiske called
it. It was so impressive that the school’s physi«
cal director caught the contagion for France on

The Woman Citizen

that very day and the school nurse up and vol-
unteered likewise as a Red Cross nurse.

This is what those earnest children did: sent
an ambulance and two people to the front.

And that ambulance was not bought in any
casual or injudicious manner, believe Cortel-
you. Dr. Fiske sent finer and finer types to
P. S. 139 for inspection until finally he found

the latest, most'up~to-date type,

and it was chosen. It stood in
the playground in all its efiicient
grayness while the children were
marched out—all the way from
first grade up to the eighth, to
look it over.

And it was solemnly approved.

And bought in July, 1917.

And expected to go to France
at once. But this wasn't the end of the story
of Cortelyou School ambulance.

HE King’s County Unit was delayed; Dr.
Fiske was delayed; the physical director
and the Red Cross Nurse were delayed, while
the ambulance, created out of love and service
and cakes and junk and grass cutting, did
odd jobs for the King’s County Hospital in
times of emergency, with a plate on its side
explaining it as the gift of Cortelyou School.

And then on February lst, 1918, notice came
from Washington to the much tried little work-
ers of Brooklyn that requirements for ambu-
lances were all changed and the Government
could not use this ambulance—which was re-
turned forthwith to the donors.

Now an ambulance is of about as much use
to a city public school as a street sprinkling cart
would be in Venice.

Here was a perfectly typical white elephant.

On the staff of the Women's Oversea Hospi~
tals, U. S. A., are several Brooklyn women.
Therefore, Miss Langthorn, assistant principal
of Cortelyou School, bethought herself of offer-
ing the ambulance to the women's hospitals for
service in France through Mrs. George Not-
man of the Brooklyn Suffrage Party, who ac-
cepted it with heartfelt thanks.

(Continued on page 198)

 

 

August 3, 1918

Industrial Women’s New Milestone

HE long up-

ward climb of
the industrial
woman has reached a vantage point within the
last few weeks. Early in July, just between the
Fourth of July and Bastile Day, to make it more
emphatic, Secretary of Labor Wilson announced
the establishment of a W'oman’s Bureau in the
United States Department of Labor.

This is considered by the National Women’s
Trade Union League to be one of the most
significant acts of the present administration.
It is the first time, they say, that the Govern-
ment has given full recognition to the woman's
point of view in the councils of labor. It is
also the first time that a trade union woman
has been given an appointment to an adminis-
trative office in a national executive depart-

ment.
There is no woman on the National War

Labor Board.

There is no woman on the executive council
of the American Federation of Labor.

At the head of the new bureau will be Miss
Mary Van Kleeck, chief of the woman’s branch
of the ordnance bureau in the War Depart-
ment, formerly with the Russell Sage Foun-
dation in New York. Her assistant will be
Miss Mary Anderson, a member of the execu-
tive board of the Boot and Shoe Workers
Union and for seven years organizer of the
National Women’s Trade Union League, and
the present vice-chairman of the Washington
Committee of the League.

153 ANDERSON, who is of Swedish

birth, knows the labor story, for she has

lived it—as a stitcher in the Chicago shoe fac-
tories for eighteen years.

During much of that time she was president
of the Chicago Boot and Shoe Workers Local,
and for a year, when she was working in a
factory at Lynn, Mass., she was president of
the women’s local there.

Miss Anderson enters her new position from
the Ordnance Bureau of the War Department,
Where she has been supervisor in the woman's
branch of the industrial service section. In
this capacity her work consisted chiefly of con-
ferences with workers and employers in con-
nection with the enforcement of the Govern-
ment’s labor policy in munition factories.

“The need for the Woman’s Bureau, and our
great hopes as to what it will do,” says Miss
Anderson, “grow out of the fact that the pe-
culiar problems surrounding women in industry
have never received enough attention. The
reason they have not is, I think, that the wom-
an’s point of view has never been represented
in policy-making boards.

“Until traditions are broken, and men ac-
quire the habit of putting women in adminis-
trative and consultative positions as readily and
as frequently as they put men in such places,
the Woman's Bureau has a big work cut out
for it. The greatest thing in the future of the
Woman’s Bureau will be the fact that its chief,
a woman, will be a member of the War Labor
Policies Board. This means that she will have
equal authority with any man on the Board,
not only with regard to women, but with re-
gard to men also—bringing to bear in the Gov—
emment for the first time in the history of this

Women in Industry Service

country the
woman’s view on

labor questions.”
Miss Anderson expresses herself strongly in

favor of writing the Government’s labor stand-
ards into all Government contracts. The great-
est problem of all the new bureau will have to
deal with, she says, is the problem of securing
equal pay for equal work by women and men.
In scores of factories, according to her obser-
vations, women are now doing men’s work for
less than men are paid.

6‘WE must focus attention on such things
as this, and on the ten-hour shift that
prevails for women in some factories, both day
and night. Women know what such conditions
mean to women, the mothers of the race. On
these and all other labor questions we hOpe to
make the Woman’s Bureau the expression of the
labor woman’s point of view in the Govern-
ment's labor administration.”

The oilicial title of the new bureau is the
“Woman-in-Industry Service.” Women lead~
ers in the labor movement for at least nine
years have seen the necessity for such a bureau.
It was at the request of the National Women’s
Trade Union League that the Jones-Casey bill
was introduced in Congress.

In 1916 it was computed that with women
constituting 20 per cent of the wage earners of
the country, and the number constantly grow-
ing, only 4 per cent of the funds appropriated
for industrial investigation were devoted to the
study of the special problems of women in in-
dustry. Vital facts concerning the conditions
of women’s work were not available.

The Jones-Casey bill never reached a vote
in Congress, but the war itself did for women
in this instance what‘it has done for women
in other forms of liberation from old and
binding traditionalism. Men used to say glibly
that they represented women, but now they
can say this no more, and they themselves
know' it.

This is a part of what the Secretary Of Labor
has to say about the establishment of this far—
sighted program for the working woman:

“The women’s division has been established
in response to needs widely felt by all, men
aswell as women, who are conscious of the
increasing share women must have in the in-
dustrial activities of the war.

“The women’s division will concern itself
primarily with war conditions, but will be mind-
ful of the need for observing and interpreting
the tendencies in women’s employment which
are likely to have permanent social effects.”

AN instance of the imperative need of such
a bureau is the first task undertaken by
this women’s division, to investigate and re-
commend as to whether the Government shall
sanction the employment of women in hazard-
ous chemical industries where only men have
hitherto been employed. The question has
been put into the hands of a committe of ex-
perts by Miss Mary Van Kleeck, chief of the
bureau, and the commmittee assembled in
Washington last Saturday to begin its work.
Miss Anderson, assistant chief, was sent to
Niagara Falls, N. Y., to visit the industries in

Digitized by

195

 

“A Clearing House of
Thought and Leadership ”

l have urged and Congress has now
granted the necessary authority to estab-
lish a woman’s division in the Depart-
ment of Labor. Its immediate task will
be to develop in the industries of the
country policies and methods which will
result in the most efective use of women’s
services in production for the war, while
at the same time preventing their em-
ployment under injurious conditions. Its
large and very necessary aim will be to
focus attention on the national importance
of the conditions of women’s work as
influencing national standards and as af-
fecting the welfare of [the entire nation.

The problems of women in industry
are so manifold and complex that a clear-
ing house of thought and leadership is
needed by the National Government. The
women’s division has been established to
give leadership. To make this leadership
efcctive, however, I confidently appeal to
all for co-operation with Miss Van Klee/e
and Miss Anderson—to women, individ-
ually and through their organisations, to
national and state administrations and to
industry generally.

WILLIAM BAUCHOP WILSON,
Secretary of Labor.

 

question and make a preliminary report on the
situation in time for the committee’s meeting.

THE committee consisted of experts in in-
dustrial hygiene and sanitation, most of them

representing departments of the Government
handling contracts with the industries in ques-

tion. The list of those invited by Miss Van
Kleeck included: Lieut.-Col. Harry E. Mock,
Surgeon-General’s thce, chairman; Captain
Austin D. Reilley, Ordnance Department, sec-
retary; Dr. Alice Hamilton, of the Bureau of
Labor Statistics, expert in industrial poisons;
Miss Mary Anderson; Commander Riley, of
the Navy Department; John Vogt, of the New
York State Department of Labor; Dr. Richard
M. Pearce, of the National Research Council;
Captain Bradley, of the Gas Defense Service;
Miss Nelle Swartz, chief of the new woman’s
bureau of the New York State Department of
Labor; Dr. A. J. Scherewsky, of the Public
Health Service.

This investigation is undertaken as the result
of a request from the Employers’ Association
of Niagara Falls, at which point are centered
21 industries producing chlorine, caustic soda,
electrodes, formaldehyde, poison gas, and other
basic war materials. The Employers’ Asso-
ciation states that “ Polish women here are
anxious to go on shift work of 8 hours, pro-
vided such permission could be obtained from
the Department, subject, of course, to super-
vision and suspension by the President.”

“ Our first consideration in this matter,” says
Miss Van Kleeck, “ will be to assure ourselves
just what the hazards are, and whether they are
of a kind to which women are more susceptible
than men. If the conditions are found to be
such as not to warrant the Government’s sanc-
tion for the employment of women, our experts
hope to be able in any case to minimize the
hazards an improve th conditions for men.

008 C

196

The Woman Citizen

Journal of a “Y” Worker under Fire

HE work gets more interesting every day.
T Yesterday we ordered our uniforms.
They are of gray whipcord, with F rench-blue
collars, ties, scarfs and hats and are fairly
good-looking and very comfortable. We are
wearing them as nonchalantly as possible, and
trying to look as though we had worn them all
our lives, with only occasional lapses into civil-
ian’s clothing. We wear white shirts in Paris
and blue in the field. Our pinafores are of blue
chambray, and our dress-up ones of a jolly
chintz. Our insignia all have the red triangle.

The hut pinafores have little white collars
and caps. We also have bright cretonne aprons
for dress occasions. All the aprons are made
by Mrs. Conkling’s French women, about whom
I will tell you later, and we are trying to get
the shirtwaist order for her, too. The capes
are of dark-green cloth with the blue collars.

I don’t think it has missed raining a single
day since I have been here. And the mud has
somewhat the color and consistency of soft
fudge. I wear my big shoes all the time, and
my raincape much of the time, and even an
umbrella part of the time, which I consider a
great concession to the weather, but when one
has only one uniform and hat to last nine
months, and has to go to bed while they are
cleaned and pressed, one has a care. Did I
tell you that we didn’t have to pay for our uni-
forms? The Y. M. C. A. now furnishes one
uniform with two skirts, one hat, four shirt-
waists, aprons and a cape. So that much
money is saved for something else. We wear
our uniforms always. Even if we are invited
to the general’s for dinner (which we aren’t),
we wear them. We have struck on the high
collars, though, and wear them turned down in
a little V-shape. They are so much more be-
coming that way. We are told they are very
smart looking, and they certainly save a lot of
trouble. Our spare time is becoming a joke.

We haven't any l

9

F I had worried before about the future pop-
I ulation of France, I have ceased to since I
have lived on this street. I have never seen
so many children before in my life. They all
wear little pinafores and have bright red
cheeks, and look just like Poulbot’s sketches.
And they all say Good Night quite indiscrimi-
nately at any time of day. It’s funny to hear
them use the English they have picked up.
Tonight I saw a whole row of little girls lined
up to salute some otiicers.

We’ve been having lots of fun with our pe-
culiar French. One day this week we went
shopping for rubber gloves, in our very best
French, as we thought. Everywhere we asked
they merely threw up their hands, or looked
vague but polite, as the French always do.
Finally we found some on a counter and
triumphantly purchased them. We found out
that the reason we had gotten no results before
was that we had been asking for “dents de
caoutchouc” instead of “gants,” meaning rub-
ber teeth instead of rubber gloves!

STARTED to tell about Mrs. Conkling’s

work. This morning she took us through her
Ouvroir, and I had tea with her yesterday. She
has a beautiful home, an apartment up near the
Bois. We went first of all to the little house
where the French women were sewing. It is
really a community house, where anyone in

_-,:!_ a 
' \- lihl-  v.

What They Are Wearing in France
By Helen Perry

 

In Paris you see only uniforms and mourning.
All the Red Cross workers, canteen workers,
telephone girls, etc., are in uniform as are the
French women, serving as conductors, cab
drivers, etc. Our uniform is recognized every-

where we go, is usually saluted by oficers, and
is a great protection from annoyance in a
French town like this.

   
   
   
 

\_

mldeub. "~_ , _,_. w. ’7 _ .r------'-t .H

STYLES FOR CANTEENERS

that quarter of Paris who is needy may find
work. These Women each do the thing they
can do best, embroidery, tine sewing, fitting,
laundering, dressmaking, etc. They are mak-
ing the aprons for the Y. M. C. A. and we
hope to get them the waist orders, too. They
are making and dressing quaint dolls. In an-
other building near by they give out coarse
sewing and knitting to the women who can only
work at home. They are paid very small sums
for these, for instance, twenty-live cents for a
pair of stockings, but it keeps them from star-
vation at least, and gives them a steady em-
ployment. In still another building they give out
garments to the refugees. A big box just came
as we were there. Mrs. Conkling says that
the shoes especially are a God-send, as their
price in Paris is prohibitive. Nothing worn is
too poor to send, old dresses, old underclothes,
hats, coats, shoes, anything. If you have any-
thing at all, send it. It all helps such a lot
over here. Mrs. Conkling is doing this work
in connection with the Sisters who have always
worked in that quarter of Paris, and know who
are worthy and who are not.

 

E PETIT Ouvroir du Gros Caillou was com-
menced in August, 1914, as soon as the war
broke out, by Mrs. Henry Conkling, the wife of
an American physician living in Paris. Know-
ing the conditions of the working people of the
city, Mrs. Conkling with the help of a French
lady, Mademoiselle Guilhou, set up a little work-
shop to give sewing to mothers of families
whose means of subsistence had been suddenly
swept away. From that time to this large num-
bers of destitute Parisians have been kept from
utter misery by means of the modest “ ouvroir.”
Money raised—largely in the United States—is

dispensed as small daily wages for sewing to
grandmothers, mothers and young girls, many
of whom are refugees. In addition, boxes upon
boxes of partially worn garments—above all
shoes—have been packed in the United States
and distributed among the “ little workers ” of
the Quartier Gros Caillou. In normal times it
is hoped by the promoters that this little work-
shop will become self-supporting, but that can-

not happen until after the war ends.—Editor’s
Note]

A Monument of Shame

HE following is from the diary of a Ger-
man prisoner:

“Since the 10th of this month (November)
50 women and young girls from Aertryke have
been working on the concrete shelters of Leke.
As Leke is in the zone of fire and has been
bombarded not later than yesterday, I do not
understand once more the authorities. If that
measure has not been taken as reprisals it con-
stitutes for Germany a monument of shame so
great that it is not possible to conceive a greater
one. Three or four weeks ago they drove out
the civil population of Leke, and now they
oblige women and children to work on con-
crete shelters of the village. It is a shame that
this measure has been taken, for it is I who,
every morning, bring the group of 47 women
to Leke and conduct them back to Aertryke.”

Saving the Children

N a recent number of L’Illustration, Henry
Bordeaux describes the work of Mme. Gil-
let-Motte, of Bonbaix. He says:

“ She was called to Annamasse to meet her
sister, nephews, and nieces, just back from In-
vaded France. She saw all the rueful defilee,
the clusters of children left without a mother,
five or six of them led by a 14-year old, whose
back was bent under the pack, whose keen
eyes followed every movement of the little band,
prompt to give notice in case of danger. Mme.
Gillet-Motte saw the painful sight and the next
day she came back, not alone. A manufacturer
of Lyon, Mr. Cabaud, accompanied her, and
with his help, she founded the ‘Secours aux
Rapatriés.’ They have now adopted over 1&0
orphaned or lost children and considerable
numbers of invalid women and old men have
passed through their hands.

“ The London Red Cross insisted on giving
her a hospital of 300 beds at Etrambiere. The
American Red Cross chose to look after the
children affected with anemia and contagious
diseases."

T is no uncommon thing in these days to

hear of nurses killed beside the beds of the
wounded. The long distance German gun
trained on Paris produced another type among
the heroines du jour reported each week in
La Francoise. The shell that struck La Mater-
nité struck Marthe Lere, a young pupil nurse,
as she was placing an infant in its mother's
arms. She interposed her body between the
two in the bed and the shell. The first rule of
that maternity hospital is “ whatever it may
cost, save the life of the child." Mlle. Lere did
better; she fulfilled the task imposed upon him-
self by one of the greatest obstetricians of the
day—she saved both at the cost of her own life.

August 3, 1918

Centennial of a Pioneer
(Continued from page 191)

she conducteda vast correspondence, and was in
continual request to address all sorts of gather-
ings. A host of the best men and women in
the country were her co-workers in the Ameri-
can Association. The compilers of the “ His-
tory of Woman Suffrage” were warm par-
tisans of the “ National " wing of the move-
ment, and they have naturally laid most stress
upon its activities. But the work of the Ameri-
can was extensive, earnest, influential, and wise,

UCY STONE was one of the most modest
and self-effacing of women. She had no
thirst for fame. She kept no record of her
work, did not save her press clippings, and,
when importuned to furnish particulars of her
life for books of “ Famous Women,” refused
almost with horror. Her zeal for woman suf-
frage was apostolic; it was like a fire in the
bones. There was something about her peculiarly
sweet and winning, almost angelic, that took
people captive. Obstinate opponents were
sometimes converted merely by the sight of her

face. All the purely womanly instincts were
strong in her. To the last, she loved a love-
story. She had infinite motherliness. Her

face always beamed at the sight of a baby; and
all children were drawn to her, like bees to a
flower. On countless occasions during her
lecture trips, on boat or train, she helped
worried and anxious young mothers to soothe a
crying child. She was an excellent cook and
housekeeper, of the old New England type.
She made her own yeast, her own dried beef,
even her own soap.

LTHOUGH so quiet and gentle, she hardly
knew what fear was. She told us that in
all the mobs and tumults of the early days, she
was never conscious of a quickened heart-beat.
Her husband called her “ the gentlest and most
heroic of women.” She showed the same
courage when she learned that she was to die.
" I know the Eternal Order, and I believe in it,”
she said. “ I have not a fear, nor a dread, nor
a doubt." To a friend who expressed the wish
that she might have lived to see suffrage
granted, she answered, “Oh, I shall know it!
I think I shall know it on the other side.”
When a letter from the Women's Press Asso-
ciation was read to her, speaking warmly of
her work, she said, slowly, “ I think I have
done what I could. I certainly have tried.
With one hand I made my family comfortable;
with the other—” There her voice failed
through weakness. She meant that with the
other she had tried to help the world. Her
last words to her daughter were, “ Make the
world better.” She passed away on October
18, 1893. ’

She had advised her family not to have a
public funeral; she thought there wo~uld not be
many who would care to come. But the people be-
gan to gather hours beforehand. When the doors
were opened, hundreds were standing silently
in the street. The great church was crowded.
Dr. Charles G. Ames said afterwards that it
was less like a funeral than a coronation. From
sea to sea the newspapers, even those most op-
posed to equal rights, bore testimony to her
worth. A life-long enemy declared that up to that
time the death of no woman in America had
called forth so wide an expression of public
affection and esteem.

HE protest published by Lucy Stone and
Henry B. Blackwell at the time of their
wedding was as follows:

While acknowledging our mutual affection
by publicly assuming the relationship of bus-
band and wife, yet, in justice to ourselves and
a great principle, we deem it our duty to de-
clare that this act on our part implies no sanc-
tion of, nor promise of, voluntary obedience to
such of the present laws of marriage as refuse
to recognize the wife as an independent, rational
being, while they confer upon the husband an
injurious and unnatural superiority, investing
him with legal powers which no honorable
man would exercise, and which no man should
possess. We protest especially against the
laws which give the husband:

1. The custody of the wife’s person.

2. The exclusive control and guardianship of
their children.

3. The sole ownership of her personal and
use of her real estate, unless previously settled
upon her or placed in the hands of trustees, as
in the case of minors, idiots and lunatics.

4. The absolute right to the product of her
industry.

5. Also against laws which give to the
widower so much larger and more permanent
an interest in the property of his deceased wife
than they give to the widow in that of her de-
ceased husband.

6. Finally, against the whole system by which
the legal existence of the wife “is suspended
during marriage,” so that in most States, she
neither has a legal part in the choice of her
residence, nor can she make a will, nor sue or
be sued in her own name, nor inherit property.

We believe that personal independence and
equal human rights can never be forfeited,
except for crime; that marriage should be an
equal and permanent partnership, and so rec-
ognized by law; that, until it is so recognized,
married partners should provide against the
radical injustice of present laws by every
means in their power.

We believe that where domestic dii‘n'culties
arise, no appeal should be made to legal tri-
bunals under existing laws, but that all dith-
culties should be submitted to the equitable
adjustment of arbitrators mutually chosen.

Thus, reverencing law, we enter our protest
against rules and customs which are unworthy
of the name, since they violate justice, the es-
sence of law. HENRY B. Bucxwm.

LUCY STONE.

West Brookiield, Mass, May 1, 1855.

Only “ A Handful of Antis”

6 6 OMAN suffrage will be given an over-
whelming victory this fall in South

Dakota,” said William Jennings Bryan to a com-

mittee of suiiragists at Sioux Falls, July 14.

“I presume you have your handful of antis
in this state,” Mr. Bryan said. “ Well, in the
states where women vote you find no antis, try-
ing to relieve the women of the ‘ burden and re-
sponsibility of voting.’ If it is such a burden,
why don’t the antis go to these states and help
relieve the women? Suffrage doesn’t come and
go, and I feel assured that woman suffrage will
come to South Dakota this fall, and as in every
other instances, of course it will come to stay.”

197

HOTEL LE MARQUIS

12 East 31st Street, New York
(Four Doors from Fifth Avenue)

—-—.~-
~.

"Combines every convenience and home comiort, and
commends itself to people of refinement wishing to live

on American Plan and be within easy reach oi social and
dramatic centers. Especially adapted to ladies traveling

gone- -MeAI‘.
Room and bath 84.00 per day with meals, or 82.50 per
day without meals. I

Illustrated Booklet gladly sent upon request.
JOHN P. TOLSON.

 

A Boarding and

sat Institute
8101 8 5W" 1‘- '“ Day School for Girls

Washington, D. c.

High School and College Pre ratory Courses. Two
Years of College Work. Spegi‘sl Courses: The Arts.

Journalism. Short Story Writing. Business and Beers-
tarlal Training. Kindergarten. Normal Training. Domes-
tic Science. Parliamentary Law.

Mrs. Nanette B. Paul. LL. 3.. President.
Author of “Paul's Parliamentary Law"
and Q‘The Heart of Blackstone"

 

The Appeal of Democracy
(Continued from page 186)

The Federal Prohibition Amendment was
passed by votes on both sides of the chamber.
It had strong backing from Democrats and Re-
publicans, and strong opposition also. The same
is true in the case of the Suiirage Amendment
which is still pending at the time this is written.
While the Income Tax amendment and that for
the popular election of Senators were submitted
by a non—partisan vote—as any Constitutional
amendment must be—they had been planks in
the Democratic platform, and for that reason
deserve to be classed among the achievements
of the Democratic party.

We are told that “the women of the West
voted for Wilson because he kept us out of
war.” Granted. They did not vote for him be-
cause of what he promised to do in the future,
but because of what he had done. It is a note-
worthy fact that when war was declared all
those far Western states, with one exception,
filled their quota before the draft went into
effect. The Western woman is no flaccid,
shrinking advocate of peace at any price.-

The women of America want this war waged
to a conclusive peace. Failure is impossible, but
if we win and go our victorious way to build
greater navies, more deadly weapons with which
to keep the world an armed camp, piling the
taxes ever higher against that future day when
we shall again go forth to slay and be slain,
then we shall have lost all democracy stands
for and all for which humanity and civilization
are struggling today. The immediate object of
this war is to do away forever with the power
of one man to bring about such woe and misery,
but the ultimate aim for Which we fight is the
abolition of war and that the world shall be
“ Safe for the peoples who live upon it and have
made it their own.”

Unless democracy means that we shall spend
our millions for those things which are' perma-
nent, for life more abundant, for freedom of
body and soul and in the realization, rather than
the pursuit of happiness, it means nothing. If
it means less than this to anyone who calls him-
self by its name, he does not know the meaning
of the term.

Also for Democracy

HARLES EVANS HUGHES, former

Chief Justice of the United States Supreme
Court, when in Detroit recently strongly en-
dorsed the woman suffrage campaign now in
progress in Michigan.

When writing to advertisers please mention the WOMAN  by 

198

Correspondence

A Postmistress’s Bit

To THE EDITOR or THE WOMAN CITIZEN:

WE had our “drive” to sell our quota of
Thrift and W. S. S. on June 28. W'e
are required to sell $600 of these. I have sold
here in the post office since last December to the
amount of $378.

On the 28th, at a meeting at the school, we
sold T. S. and W. S. S. to the amount of $613,
and received pledges to purchase $800 between
now and January 1, 1919. The work of this
“ drive” fell upon a Manual Garcia and myself
in about equal proportion, and there was a
good deal Of it.

This work came at the same time I have to
prepare Money Order and Quarterly Postal re-
ports and, what, with my post office duties to
attend to as usual, I had to work day and
evening, several times till midnight or after, as
well as Sunday and on the Fourth, in order to
get all the work done in time.

I am seventy-one years old, and for this rea-
son cannot turn Off work like a younger woman.
I enjoy being of use in the world at my time
of life and am glad to help along the work our
country is doing, though it is but a small part
I can do.

I could not get along without the WOMAN
CITIZEN and shall take it as long as I can find
the dollar to pay for it. '

There is much I would like to write, but have
' no time to spare in that way now. Others are
doing that kind of work more ably than I could,

What wonderful progress the world is making
under the stimulus of the Hun’s barbarian war-
fare! When this war is over we shall be in-
calculably further advanced in all that will
make the world a better place to live in than
we could possibly have been in a century or
more Of time but for this awful struggle, though
the price is stupendous, almost beyond concep-
tion. Who could ever have believed five years
.ago that emancipation of the masses, including
women, was destined to come through the Shed-
ding Of rivers of blood? Gerald Massey, seventy
years ago, wrote more prophetically than he
realized when he said:

“Freedom! the tyrants kill thy braves, but in
our memories live the sleepers;

And tho’ doomed millions feed the graves dug
by death’s fierce red-handed reapers,

The world shall not forever bow to things that
mock God’s own endeavor;

'Tis nearer than we wot of now when flowers
shall wreathe the sword forever.”

ELLEN M. BOLLES.

Lumberton, N. M.

A Warning

T 0 THE EDITOR or THE WOMAN CITIZEN:

EPORTS are being received Of activity by
stock salesmen and promoters, principally
representing companies whose securities have
doubtful value, in efforts to secure the exchange
of Liberty Bonds for the stocks which they
have for sale. This practice is specifically dis-
approved by the Treasury Department, and we
are compelled to characterize any continuance
of it as an act unfriendly to the Government.
If your readers have such cases come to their
notice, I will be glad to have them write me

When writing to advertisers please mention the WOMAN CITIZEN.
Digitizedrb'y-

ll
l

promptly, giving the name of the company
issuing the stock, the name of the stock which
is being offered, its address, the name of the
salesman and the names of the Officers of the
company, if they can be secured.

We hope you will give publicity to this letter,
with a view to stopping the practice.

Boston, Mass.

CHARLES A. MORSS,
Chairman Executive Committee, Liberty
Loan Committee of New England.

What the Grange Says

TO THE EDITOR OF THE WOMAN CITIZEN:

UR position regarding Woman Suffrage is
so well stated in the Master’s Address
given at State Grange that I enclose it herewith.
“The Grange has always prided itself and
justly, that it was the original woman suffrage
organization of the land. We approached this
subject from a different angle from most re-
formers. While many sought to enfranchise
women because it would further temperance
reform, the Grange took a higher stand. We
said, women have the inherent right to vote
as citizens, regardless Of how they would vote
on any measure, and time proved us to be
right. This question is settled in our state,
but let us not abate our efforts until it is
settled in our whole nation.

“A simple, inexpensive, but most effective
and practical plan of making the farmers’ in-
fluence of the nation most effective in securing
action on the Federal Suffrage Amendment,
both in the United States Senate and in the
Legislatures Of the several states, would be the
organization of a Farmers’ National Committee
on Woman Suffrage, to direct the farmers’
end of the necessary supporting campaign. I
believe suitable action at the session suggesting
the desirability of this to the governing board
of the Farmers’ National Headquarters, and
to the woman’s suffrage associations, might
result in action that would insure speedy vic-
tory for national woman suffrage."

We would suggest only one change in this
report and that is that the committee referred
to be a committee of Farm Women with head-
quarters with the other farm organizations.

We believe, in view of the service rendered
by the women all over the world during the
war that this should be a campaign now, not
only for national but for world-wide woman
suffrage.

We women of Washington are proud of our
freedom and want to do all we can to help
the women of other states and other countries
to win their emancipation.

LURA S. BOUCK,
Member of Washington State Grange.

To THE EDITOR OF THE WOMAN CITIZEN:

EFERRING to letter from Charles E.

Duryea, on page 117 of your issue of July
6, 1918, regarding C ttonseed Flour, I beg to
inform you that the (lJniversity of Texas, De-
partment of Home Economics, of which Miss
Mary E. Gearing is Professor, has done original
research work with cottonseed flour and has is-
sued a bulletin on the subject, which will be
available to anybody writing to the University.
MINNIE FISHER CUNNINGHAM.
Galveston, Texas.

The Woman Citizen

METROPOLITAN
DYE WORKS

CLEANERS
and DYERS

l‘lrsl ( lass “furl-t.

Prompt [lo-liver}.

Rf‘tiMlllillllt' l’rl' t‘x.

 

Adventures of an Ambulance
(Continued from page 194)

This ought to be the end of the adventures of
Cortelyou ambulance. One should be able to
add, “ and lived happy ever after," or to a good
Old age in the service of soldiers.

Not at all.

This was an independent ambulance with its
own ideas of self respect. SO it ran away. Yes,
that is just what Cortelyou ambulance did, it
cantered off all by itself and refused to go in
the Red Cross parade—just got its back up over
being rejected for the Army, no doubt. All the
little Cortelyou ’uns were asked very politely to
march in the Red Cross parade with their very
own ambulance at the head Of all the elemen-
tary schools in the city. And they all accepted
and dressed themselves up with a fine silk ban-
ner made on purpose to tell about their ambu-
lance. Fathers and mothers lined the curbs,
just the way fathers and mothers do when their
big sons go out in khaki, in order to see the
children’s ambulance go by.

Everyone was quite without any anxiety that
a huge gray motor vehicle could get itself misc
laid like a laundry bill or a fountain pen. But
that is what this ill-starred ambulance did. It
couldn’t be found, not hide nor hair of it, and
it wasn’t found until the parade was all over.
It had deserted, which was disappointment num-
ber three or four, or perhaps fourteen, for P. S.
139. But the Cortelyou School is not going to
be disappointed any more. The gray ambulance
at last reported for duty, quite sorry and
ashamed Of itself, and is now going to France
to do its bit and bring loyal credit on the chil-
dren who earned it, the Brooklyn Suffrage
Party who accepted it, the Women’s Oversea
Hospitals, and the National American Woman
Suffrage Association.

Needed for the

WOMEN’S OVERSEA HOSPITALS
Bed gowns for men, long and short.

Bath gowns of cotton flannel (to keep bulk
as small as possible). These may be made by
any accepted Red Cross pattern.

Sheets for single beds, pillow cases.

Send before August 15 to the Infirmary for
Women and Children, 321 East Fifteenth Street,
New York City, in care of Mrs. George W.
Bacon, and mark for

Women’s Oversea Hospitals.

SEND ALL FUNDS FOR THE HOSPITALS
' to the treasurer of the
NATIONAL AMERICAN WOMAN SUFFRAGE
ASSOCIATION

MRS. HENRY WADE ROGERS,
171 Madison Avenue, New York City.

 
  

' "August 3, 1913

  

Can You Vote This Year?

If you can you will want to read our articles on

PARTIES AND PRIMARIES

 

If you cannot you will want to read them just the same—
for you will vote next year or in I920, if not in l9l8.

There are seven of these articles—
July 20th and 27th, two articles, introductory and general

by Mary Sumner Boyd.

1”: " 1| ll  ill" ‘5 ' ‘n' " W" i ! l Jill! l :-i:.i' i "

August 3rd—To—day—An Appeal for Democracy
By Ellis Meredith, Director of Publicity of the Woman's Bureau of the

National Democratic Committee.

August lOth—Why You Should Be A Republican
By Helen Varick Boswell

President of the National Republican Women's Association.

August I 7, 24 and 3|, articles on the Socialist. Prohibition

and National Parties will follow in

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

Issues of these seven weeks will be furnished for
the special price of 50 cents upon application to

171 Madison Avenue New York

 

.  .- i WlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllIIIIlllilIIllilllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

Digitized by 600816

 
   

 

0

 

 

m

“it; damn v . r 1

E have arranged to

- _ Books at Less Than Published Prices .

I.
4* :

supply the books listed below at the special prices

named when sold in combination with new subscriptions to the Woman 
Citizen. They will be mailed post-paid to any address in the United States. '
This is an opportunity to save from twenty to thirty-five per cent on the

published prices.

If you are already a subscriber to the Woman Citizen ’;

and wish to own Certain of the books, invite your friends to become subscribers to the 9
magazine at one dollar a year, and have the. books of your choice sent to your address. I

They will cost you the difference between the full price quoted for each combination

and one dollar. Or subscribe to the magazine as a gift for a friend and have the book

sent to your address.

Published Combination :
Subscription
and Book

$1.85

On the War «Pi-31:31:
THE PAN-GERMAN PLOT UNMASKED: André Chéradame . . . . . . .. .$1.25

“OVER THERE”: Captain R. Hugh Knyvett . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50

FIGHTING FOR PEACE: Henry van Dyke . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25

WHY WE ARE AT WAR: Woodrow Wilson . . . . . . . .., . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .50

IN OUR FIRST YEAR OF WAR: Woodrow Wilson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00

FIGHTING FRANCE: Edith Wharton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00

THE UNITED STATES AND PAN—GERMANIA: André Chéradame.. 1.00
GENERAL J OFFRE AND HIS BATTLES: Raymond Recouly (Captain X) 1.25
ON THE RIGHT OF THE BRITISH LINE: Captain Gilbert Nobbs... 1.25
WHITE NIGHTS AND OTHER RUSSIAN IMPRESSIONS: Arthur Ruhl 2 . 00

A WAR NURSE’S DIARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25
MY WAR DIARY: Madame Waddington . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50
WITH THE ALLIES: Richard Harding Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25
THE DESERTER: Richard Harding Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .50

PRINCIPLES OF AMERICAN DIPLOMACY: John Bassett Moore.... 2.00

Novels

THE EARTHQUAKE: Arthur Train . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50
CHRISTINE: Alice Cholmondeley. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25
HIS FAMILY: Ernest Poole . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50
THE TREE OF HEAVEN: May Sinclair . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.60
R‘Iisccllancous

YOUR VOTE AND HOW TO USE IT: Mrs. Raymond Brown . . . . . . .. .75
THE WOMAN VOTER’S MANUAL: S. E. Forman and Marjorie Shuler. . 1.00
MARK TWAIN’S LETTERS, 2 Volumes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4.00
OBSERVATION: EVERY MAN HIS OWN UNIVERSITY: R. H. Conwell 1.00
THE MODERN CITY AND ITS PROBLEMS: Frederic C. Howe. . .. 1.50
THE HIGH COST OF LIVING: Frederic C. Howe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50
THE FOOD PROBLEM: Kellogg and Taylor . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25

.75

WAR FRENCH: Colonel C. D. Willcox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

This offer is for a limited period. Send your orders promptly to

2.00

NHrwrPEHFrrrr
832383833$3882883

PNHN
seas

222888382

Amount
Saved on

Combination I

$.40
.50
.40
.15
.35
.35
.35
.40
.40
.65
.40
.50
.40
.15
.65

50
.40
.50

60

.25
35
1.25
.35
.50
.50
.40
.25

THE WOMAN CITIZEN I

171 Madison Avenue

m-_ —— - — _-_ "___._.—_—. ,_..___ ...

'v.‘miczwrmammn,sand.-.'. = :. 33130:"... ‘v .I ~ .. vane. ..  - .

m__-¢_-u

 

 

 

New York City

