 _ 4 .u .,':%‘-'§~3  -. n - - - ' j_ . ~  cu «may. .'-‘:£«'_=:m“‘.t':t=:-'*5
5% Egg:eq :13». 2533:6359 - - ' L I __ t“ - - 5 _.-_n-.‘ .. gm ,_ng;a _.g_g§_;- n. a},

MAM' 'mwwmmwnmmmv emam‘m" Ifiir-‘a‘iTQ-E await-m‘wammm .

"5 yum  4:111:26”! aW-zvmxwmnnmcs:mms Hr: x39 n1I:anwaanm-‘W:www.m-mmmmvamxmm-mn “thwcmithmzlox’T-Wi mun-3r awn an amtmwvmzmmmaw " 51! v

 H --  . -- .- -% 
! A _| h ' '

 

52

 

' fir/III

r 

 

 

Young M arriecl People

The records of Best St Co. show the

names of many young married people who
are establishing their own good name.

Best SI. Co. asks no more of young people
opening accounts here than they themselves
would wish to know of those whom they
would be entertaining in their homes for
instance.

We want all aspiring young people of

principle to know that they are welcome to
, a charge, account at our store.

Office of Credit Manager
Main Floor

Twat & (£130. +

5th Avenue at 35th Street
Established 1879

New York

The Woman (Mun

afranklin Simon 8. Go.

A Store of Individual Shops

Fifth Avenue, 37th and 38th Sts., New York

Exclusive Fall Fashions

Women’s High Class Silk Gowns

Of Tricolette or Satin Meteor

No. 31—Women's Satin Meteor Gown, in navy
or black, with surplice front and long roll collar,
divided panel tunic elaborately silk embroidered
and trimmed with wide knotted silk fringe of ex-

ceptional quality; straightline skirt, close-fitting 9 8 
O

sleeves, embroidered self girdle.

No. 33—Women’s Ribbozine Embroidered
Gown of tricolette and satin in navy, black or
brown, with fashionable rounded collarless neck,
tunic skirt of tricolette with wide border embroid-
ered in self color, kimono sleeves and draped girdle
of satin.

Prices upon application.

Prompt Delivery Free—Anywhere in the United States

’ PHONE 6 9 0 0 GREELEY

 

69.50

HATS and SHOES illustrated, from our shops.

Real Mattress Cleanliness

Bed-ticking is a sieve-like fabric, which allows foreign matter

to filter throu h and become a fixture in the mattress.

What is needed is an antiseptic, washable
QUILTED

EXCCISlor MATTRESS

\
covering such edding is an uncleanly makeshift.
which really solves this vexing problem.

Re-

Protector

Made of bleached Muslin padded with white wadding—wash

easily—dry light and fluffy as new.

Look for the trade-marl: sewed on every Pod

Elba Never Pay More at Best’s

 

When writing to advertisers please mention the WOMAN CITIZEN.

EXCELSIOR QUILTING CO.

15 Laight Street, New York City

 

 

C ONTINUING the Woman’s Journal,
founded 1870 by Lucy Stone and
Henry B. Blackwell, as a weekl
pa r devoted to winning equ
an especially to winnin equal sud’rage
for women, and publish weekly in Bos-
ton, Massachusetts, from 1870 to 1917.
Continuing also the Woman Voter, and
the National Sud’rage News. In suc-
ceeding the National Sufrage News, The
Woman Citizen became the odicial organ
of the National American Woman Suf-
frage Association, and as such tries to
maintain intimate contact between the
Association and its two million members
throughout the United States.

news-
ago

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

Founded June 2, 1917 .
Published every Saturday by

The WOMAN CI'rIan CORPORATION
at 171 Madison 'Avenue, New York

Ten cents a copy; yearly subscription (52 numbers).

81.00. Postage to foreign

countries fifty

cents extra.

Entered at the New York Post Odice as Second
Class matter, under the act of March 3, 1879. Copy-
right, 1918, by The Woman Citizen Corporation.

VOL. III

AUGUST 3] , 1918

NO. 14

 

 

UBLISHED by the Woman Citisen
Corporation, in the hope that it may
rove a self-perHetuating memorial to
Rim. Frank Les e’s generosity toward
the cause Of woman suifrage and her

faith in woman’s irresistible progress.

The directors of the Corporation are
Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, Miss Alice
Stone Blackwell, Miss Mary, Garrett
Hay, Mrs. Thomas Bucklin ells, and
Mrs. Arthur L. Livermore.

Alice Stone Blackwell is a special contrib-
uting editor.

Rose Young is the editor-in-chief.

Ma .0 den White, Mary Sumner Boyd,
agldry Boga Lawless Geyer are associate
e tors.

.‘

Our Circulation Story

OUR friends seem to have so developed the
habit of saying. nice things about us that
there is scarcely any need of our adding an
extra word.

This time the good word comes from North
Carolina, from the pen of Chief Justice Walter
Clark of the Supreme Court of that state, who
assures us that the Citizen is a necessity in

winning suErage for women, in the following
words:

“ In my humble judgment the speediest and
most effective way to advance sud’rage in this
state is to arouse the women by increasing the
circulation of your paper.”

This sentiment fits in so exactly with what
moved to repeat our frequent claim that every
we have been thinking all along that we are
new subscriber means an active and well trained
addition to the fighting forces of democracy.
Judge Clark has hit the nail on the head.

We are happy to report that sud’rage senti-
ment has grown tremendously throughout the
South. In fact North, East, South and West
our Allies are working with a zeal that comes
only from a whole-hearted belief in the cause
for which they stand. Experience has taught us
that aggressive support of any cause is usually
founded on one’s fund of information concern-
ing that subject. The moral is plain, we hope.

If not, may we call your attention to this
word from Mrs. R. A. Jones of Athens, Ohio:
“ I would like to increase the number Of readers
of the Woman Citizen
in our county,” because
she feels it to be an ef-
fective way of . aiding
the cause.

“ I need the Woman
Citizen urgently always,”
writes Miss Mary Parke

2. Georgia
3. Indiana
4. Iowa

London, of Alabama, . Michigan
now working in the Okla- . Minnesota
homa campaign. Miss . New Jersey
London believes the Citi— - Wisconsin
zen indispensable because - New York
of its fund of informa- . Massachusetts
tion. . Ohio

“ It is a live magazine - Virginia
and helpful. I must have . New Hampshire
it,” is the word from . Missouri

. Alabama
. Texas
. Maryland

Mrs. C. E. Postlethwaitc
of New Rochelle, New
York.

From Portsmouth, N.
H., Margaret E. Mills
writes: “NO suRragist
ap reciates or enjoys its
va ue more than I.”

SO runs the enthusias-
tic and interesting story
as it comes to us from
Our Allies the country
over.

Remember, 100,000 new
subscribers is our goal.

Rosa Lamas Gena, '
National C i r c u la tion

Chairman.

. Maine
. Louisiana

. Tennessee,

. Nebraska

. North
81. Vermont

 

1. South Dakota

. Pennsylvania

. West Virginia
. Connecticut
. South Carolina, Kentucky

. Washington
. North Dakota
. Rhode Island,

. Washin on
arolina, Kansas

With Our

Allies

 

 

\\ \LTHH (MuUiK,fjhiFf.IHthT
SHI’F'WN' ('rmi‘f, ITOI‘HI. ('(U‘r'ahoml.

p—a
.—

[G
O

Arkansas

Mississippi

NNNNNNN N

p—a
pomscsessw

HHHHI—IHHH
wgqgmepm

Relative Position of State Leagues in the Woman Citizen’s Circulation Contest:
August 17th

Circulation Contest

1. A pledge will constitute an entry.

2. No entries will be accepted after December
1, 1918.

3. Contest closes January 1, 1919.

4. In case of a tie for any one premium, the
prize will be awarded to each qualifying
contestant.

' 5. Only actual paid subscriptions will be counted

in the awarding of premiums.

First Cash Premium
FIFTY DOLLARS

To the State Association that sends in the
highest number over 200 (paid new subscrib-
ers). The net price per subscription to the
State Association is .70, the .80 to go into the
state, county or local treasury, as may be de-
cided by arrangement between the state and
its branches.

Second Cash Premium
TWENTY-FIVE DOLLARS

To the County Association that sends in the
highest numbers over 100 (paid new sub-
scribers). These would come through the
State Association, and would help to swell the
state’s total.

Third Cash Premium
TWENTY-FIVE

August 24th

. South Dakota

Georgia
Indiana
Iowa '
Michigan

. Minnesota

New Jersey

. Wisconsin
. Massachusetts

New York

. Virginia
. Ohio

New Hampshire

. Missouri
. Alabama

Texas

. Maryland

Pennsylvania

. Maine

. Louisiana

. West Virginia
. Connecticut

. South Carolina, Kentucky
. Tennessee, Arkansas
. Washington

. North Dakota

. Rhode Island, Mississippi
. Nebraska

. Washington
. North Carolina, Kansas
. Vermont

 

DOLLARS
To the Local Club
that sends in the hi est
number over 100 aid

new subscribers). ese
would come through the
Coun Association into
the tate Association,
and thence to the Woman
Citizen.

Fourth Cash Premium
TWE N TY-FI VE
DOLLARS

To the co-Operating
Subscriber who sends in
the highest number over
50. This would be inde-
pendent of state, county
and club circulation ac-
tivities, would apply to
states that do not take
up the circulation work
in an Omcial way, and
would come directly to
the Woman Citizen. The
net price per subscription
is $1.00. NO discount.

 

 

'264

iii. Altman & (1111.

The Vanguard of the Autumn Fashions

provides the main feature of interest in the Departments devoted
to the appareling oi Women and Misses.

Every whit as charming as in other seasons, yet quite in line with the conserv-=
ing spirit of the times, are the smartly tailored Suits, the becoming Gowns, the
dainty Blouses, the piquant Hats and the modish Coats and Wraps. Every=
thing is new, everything is different, and—everything is attractively priced.

FURS EN TIHIIE FASHHONABLE MODELS

Mailman Avenue-Jim] Avenue, New hark
whiny-fourth Qtrnt TELEPHONE rooo MURRAY HILL whiny-$111 Strut

 

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

Invites Your Cooperation

IT PUBLISHES WEEKLY
Political reports of the woman’s cause at home

and abroad.

Direct news from the National American Woman
SuErage Association’s hospitals in France.

LEARN THE ART OF SELF -EXPRESSION

———

Express yourself; don’t be an imitation of
someone else! Gain the power of SELF-

EXPRESSION through a study of:—
Self-Analysis.

Physical and Mental Attractiveness.
Charm and Culture.

Good form in Business, Professional and
Social Life.

A list of woman’s opportunities.

A column for the attention of Vigilar ce ‘
Committees. ‘

ORDER IT TODAY ‘

First Aid to Subscribers

Pin a New York draft, Money or Express Order for '
$1.00 to this advertisement, fill out the blank below, i at ‘

out and mail both to us for one year’s subscription (1 w
or renewal) to

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

Observation, Concentration and Memory.
Physical, Mental and Emotional Poise.
Diction, Speaking Voice Culture.

Relaxation and Recreation.
Clothes.

   
   
 
 

Correspondence or Personal [n.truction Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Write for particular:
Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Amend Robertson School of Cultural Arts
City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . State . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

285 West Twelfth Street New York City
THE WOMAN CITIZEN 171 Madison Avenue New Y rk

 

 

The Woman Citizen

THE WOMAN’S

JOURNAL

A Journal of Democracy

August 31, 1918

“We shall Jight for things which we have always carried nearest our hearts-for democracy, for the right of
' those who submit to authority to have a voice in their own government."

Vote It In !

AST Saturday at a caucus of Republican Senators a resolu-
L tion was passed which urged that the consideration 'of the
Federal Suffrage Amendment be proceeded with immediately
after disposition of the pending unfinished business, and set forth
the intention of the Republicans to insist upon a final vote on the
resolution at the earliest possible mouent.

Which sounds good, and would be good if the resolution did
not carry this rider: ‘

“Provided, That this resolution shall not be construed as in.
any way binding the action or vote of any member of the Senate
upon the merits of the said woman sufrage amendment.”

In this day and generation for a party caucus to urge a vote on
the amendment without endorsing the amendment itself is to
stage Hamlet without the Dane. In failing to endorse,ithe Repub-
lican party whips lost a great opportunity to score a definite party
advantage. It is true that the Republicans can deliver to the
support of the amendment a two-thirds majority of their voting
strength in the Senate as the poll now stands, Put it is equally
true that the Democrats can at any moment walk away with the
honors of the situation by breaking their own deadlock on it.

The day has gone by for mere defensive action, mere jug-
gling with time and party advantage on the part of Republicans,
as of Democrats. The day has come instead for a vigorous offen-
sive that shall win to the one party or the other the full credit for
making America a democracy for all American people instead of
for half of them.

Women have come a long way in political education since 1916.
They have come a long way in democratic idealism. Meantime,
they have been so often called on to defend the. Federal Suffrage
Amendment from party politics at Washington that they have no
difficulty in discriminating between propositions that are made for
party advantage at the expense of the amendment and proposi-
tions that are made for the advantage of the amendment.

It will be distinctly disastrous to the Democrats to defeat the
amendment by failing to supply their two-thirds majority. It
will be equally disastrous for any Republicans to urge the vote for
It is by
no means enough in women’s eyes to have the amendment voted
on. It must be voted in.

the purpose of insuring the defeat of the amendment.

Helping Win the War

T is sometimes asked, “ Will equal suffrage help to win the

war?” We believe that it will. And there can be no ques-

tion that the success of the equal rights movement, so far as it has
already gone, is helping to win the war.

When that movement began, it was thought improper for
women to organize. In Susan B. Anthony’s youth, it was looked
upon as unwomanly even to join a temperance association. When
Lucy Stone was a girl, the Antislavery Society was split in twain
because a woman had been appointed on a committee. If those
oldirestrictions had been kept up, where would be the possibility
of all the manifold war work that women are doing now to save
the world from German tyranny? Yet to overthrow those anti-
quated ideas cost years of hard labor, under persecution and
obloquy. Every path which now lies wide open before women

has been worn smooth by the bleeding feet of those who broke
the road. -

If Elizabeth Blackwell had not pioneered the way for women
into the medical profession in the face of countless difficulties.
where would be the beautiful work of the Women’s Overseas
Hospitals in France—American women physicians now caring
for thousands of wounded soldiers and of suffering civilians,
when there are not nearly enough men doctors to look after
them? It is a special satisfaction to suffragists that those hos-
pital units were organized by the women connected with the New
York Infirmary for Women and Children, founded in 1857 by
the Doctors Elizabeth and Emily Blackwell and Dr. Marie
Zakrzewska, and that they are financed by the National Ameri-
can Woman Suffrage Association.

Obviously, women can do a great deal more and better war
work than they could if their hands were still tied by the old tra-
ditional restrictions, which left them uneducated, forbade them
to organize or to speak in public, debarred them .if married from
the control of their own property and earnings, and frowned
upon every sort of public activity on their part. They can do
more and better service not only for the foreign war, but in all
the good fights at home, against tuberculosis, liquor, child labor,
and the whole black brood of domestic enemies.

When the last fetter is taken off, they will be able to give better

A. s. B.
Digitized by 600816

service still.

266

HE men of America need
equal suffrage for women
immediately, because of four
facts, one of which has reference
only to American conditions, the other three are universal.
First, the men of this nation must grant equal suffrage to
women fully, freely and cheerfully at once, in order to square
their nation’s acts with its declarations. We male citizens of the
United States after three years of debate and deliberation
solemnly and practically unanimously declared that a government
without the consent of the governed was unjust and that the
existence of such a government was a menace to all free govern-
ments. We both publicly pledged our nation to the principle of
self-government and voted to consecrate every dollar of our
wealth and every drop of our blood to the cause of human free-
dom and human justice, to the end that this world might be
“made safe for democracy.” England, France and Russia ac-
cepted our principle and our leadership in good faith. Russia
has freed even her illiterate peasants. England has offered self-
government to the Irish, and Russia, France, England and Canada
have all either already granted equal suffrage to their women,
or have pledged to do so promptly. We alone lag behind. The
United States cannot lead in a war for democracy and be the last
great nation to establish democracy. To pledge ourselves to
democracy and then refuse to grant representation in our govern—
ment to half of our adult educated population is to give support
to the Kaiser’s contention that our democratic pretensions are
pure hypocrisy. The minute that this nation officially declared
war upon autocratic Germany for the cause of democracy, the
enfranchisement of our entire intelligent adult population, in-
cluding the women, ceased to be a matter of personal judgment
or state privilege, and became a sacred national pledge which
Congress is in honor bound to redeem at once or brand us as a
nation of knaves or fools before the bar of intelligent public
opinion of the world. In short, we must grant women equal suf-
frage by Federal amendment at once to demonstrate the sincerity
of our nation’s pretensions.

Second, we need woman’s suffrage to protect us and our gov-
ernment from our own one-sided masculine view of life. This is
not to say that our man’s views are wrong or that the women’s
views are right. We mean only that each view is partial and
inadequate, and needs the other to balance and complete it. With
few exceptions, men are more interested in problems of produc-
tion, distribution and sale, in questions relating to economics and
property interests, or in abstract speculation. Women are usually
more concerned with problems of conservation, of personal rela-
tions, of human happiness and human welfare. The future wel-
fare of men as well as of women is dependent upon proper gov-
ernmental attention to questions of health and hygiene, of food
and housing, of human protection in industry, of child welfare;
in short, of municipal, state, and national housekeeping. Women
are by nature more concerned than men with these vital questions
of personal relation and human welfare, and when women have
adequate voice in our government we can hope for wiser and more
speedy solution of these grave problems.

Third, men need to grant to women the privileges and duties
of citizenship in order to strengthen the weakening family bond
and enrich and elevate the home life for themselves and their
children. It is obvious that the great problems of municipal, state
and national government offer one a broader mental horizon than

By A. Caswell Ellis

Professor of Philosophy of Education in the University of Texas

The Woman Citizen

Why Men Need Suffrage for Women

do those of a single family. The
daily work of the mother, while
demanding the highest intelli-

gence, can very easily drop into a
ceaseless round of petty routine. It is not always true that the

family conversation becomes a mere recounting of commonplace
details about foods and servants, clothing and neighborhood gos-
sip, but this, alas, is the usual result. It is contrary to human
nature that women who are not allowed to participate in public-
life should take enough interest in public welfare or governmental
problems to inform themselves upon them or to enjoy discussing

, them in the home. If the husband is to find expression for his

interests in the broader problems of life, he must leave the home
and go to his club, the street, or the hotel lobby. The addition of
women to the electorate would give a wholesome corrective for
the narrowing effect of routine home duties of women. and by
furnishing broad matters of common interest for father, mother
and children, would elevate and strengthen home life and con-

tribute largely toward bringing up the next generation with higher
and better ideals of citizenship and of home.

Fourth, and most far reaching of all, man must grant equal

suffrage to woman in order to refine his own sense of justice
which is inevitably dulled by the continued toleration of any act
of injustice. Every one knows that his ideas infiuence and modify

his acts, but few recognize how much their ideas are colored and
modified by their habits of acting. If we live under a social or

civic system that leads us to act in a certain way, we soon begin
to justify that act. If we habitually act toward any class of
people as if they were of a certain character, we soon find our-
selves either consciously or unconsciously accepting a view that is
in accord with our conduct. This fact was deeply impressed upon
me one day in Berlin. The social democrats were demanding
equal suffrage for the men in Prussia with such vigor that the
Kaiser brought about forty thousand troops into the city and

filled the open square with machine guns in order to awe the
population. At that

time an honest, intel-
ligent, carpenter or
stonemason had about
one two hundred and
fiftieth of a vote in i
Prussia. I remarked l
to the wife of a dis- i
tinguished G e r m a n

"i 
‘ _i!. ’

    
  

\“ \\\~\« .

\ . =~ '_
WK 3‘73“ 1'3",

."

     

professor, at whose
home I was staying at
the time, “\Vhy not
let these honest, intel—
ligent men have a

vote? ” She threw up
her hands in genuine
horror at the idea,
and exclaimed, “Mer-
ciful Heavens! Let
that herd vote! Why,
they would steal
everything we have \ H
away from us and Rinse ' ,

(Cont d 0" P090 2/8) DEAD AGAINST THE WIND

Digitized by 600816

August 31, 1918

267

Easier to Amend One Than F orty-Eight

N August 8th the Senate

floor was the scene of a
suffrage debate when Senator James Reed from Missouri proved
that he had given no very serious thought to the difhculties Of
amending the state constitutions one by one so as to admit women
to the electorate. At that time Senator Reed pushed aside as of
no importance the obstacles in the way of amending the consti-
tutions of certain states. When Senator Jones of New Mexico
assured him that his own state’s constitution was practically un-
amendable, Mr. Reed acknowledged that there might be difficul-
ties in the way of amending “the benighted constitution” Of
Senator Jones’s state, but there were only one or two out of 48
states which presented such problems.

On August 12th, Senator Shafroth of Colorado, staunch friend
Of woman suffrage, took occasion to explain upon the Senate floor
the insurmountable ditiiculties, well-known to suffragists and to
students of state constitutions.

In Senator Shafroth’s explanation, given in the pages of the
Congressional Record of August 12, he said in part:

MR. SHAFROTH: “ Mr. President, in a colloquy which occurred
between the Senator from Missouri (Mr. Reed) and myself at
the last session Of the Senate, a question was raised as to why
the women were asking to put through an amendment to the F ed-
eral Constitution granting woman suffrage, instead Of attempting
to amend the constitutions of the states. I referred to the fact
that there were several states that had Obstructions tO the adop-
tion of amendments of their constitutions which made it very
burdensome and almost impossible to accomplish that end. The
Senator referred to the fact that I had mentioned obstructions in
two or three states only, and therefore it was not difficult. I
stated at the time that I thought there were some 12 or 15 states
with such obstructive provisions. I have now a compilation of
the matter from the National Woman SuErage Association. and I
desire to call attention to what these difficulties are.

“ In the passage of a joint resolution for the adoption by Con-
gress of a constitutional amendment it is necessary that there
should be a concurrence upon the part of the Senate and the
House by a two-thirds vote in each body, but when such Federal

.amendment is referred to the legislatures of the states, all that
is necessary there is that a majority vote of the house and the
senate of such state should concur in the adoption of the amend-
ment. How different it is when a state constitution is to be
adopted! ”

AMENDMENT STATES FROM WHICH SENATOR SHAFROTH QUOTED.

ALMOST IMPOSSIBLE STATES.

“ In NEW MEXICO during the first 25 years Of statehood the
adoption of a state constitutional amendment for woman suffrage
requires a majority of three-fourths Of all who vote on any ques—
tion or candidate at the election when it is submitted, and there
must be two-thirds of these in each county, a provision which is
absolutely prohibitive. The constitution of INDIANA says:
‘If a majority Of the electors of the State shall vote to ratify
an amendment it shall become a part Of the constitution,’ al-
though it would require a census of male citizens to determine
the number of electors. The constitution made in 1851 has never
been thus amended. Only one amendment at a time can be sub—
mitted in ILLINOIS, and to be adopted must receive a majority
of the highest number Of votes cast at the election. This oiIers

small chance for woman suffrage. In SOUTH CAROLINA,

Senator Shafroth Explains “ A Very Serious Obstacle.”

after an amendment has been
submitted by a two-thirds vote
of two Legislatures and has received a majority of as many votes
as were cast for representatives in the Legislature, this body at its
next session may nullify the election. This is the case in M18-
SISSIPPI after an amendment has received a majority of the
highest number of votes cast at the election. Woman suffrage
by state action in South Carolina and Mississippi is practically
impossible.

BY CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT.

“ In New Hampshire the Legislature cannot submit an amend—
ment to the lvoters, but this can. be done only by a constitutional
convention which meets once in seven years. In Vermont there
can be a constitutional convention but once in ten years. In many
states the calling of such a convention is very difficult and com-
plete woman suffrage never has been granted anywhere through
the submission of an amendment by a constitutional convention.

LARGE LEGISLATIVE MAJORITY REQUIRED.

“In many states a two-thirds or three-fifths majOrity Of the
legislature is necessary to submit an amendment to the Voters.
These are Alabama, Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Ken-
tucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan,
Mississippi, Nebraska, North Carolina, Ohio, South Carolina,
Tennessee, Texas, Vermont and West Virginia (20). In a num-
ber Of the states two successive Legislatures must vote to submit
an amendment. These are Connecticut, Indiana, Iowa, Maine, Mas-
sachusetts, New Jersey, North Dakota, Tennessee, Vermont, Vir-
ginia and Wisconsin (11). In all of these states except Massa-
chusetts and New Jersey the Legislature meets biennially, thus
requiring at least three years to have an amendment sent to the
voters. The Alabama Legislature meets only once in four years.
An amendment cannot be re-submitted in Illinois for four years;
in Pennsylvania, New.Jersey and Kentucky for five years; in
Tennessee for six years.

LARGE MAJORITY OF POPULAR VOTE NECESSARY.

“ Rhode Island requires a t‘hree-fi fths majority and New Hamp-
shire a two-thirds majority Of the votes cast on an amendment
for its adoption. The following states require a majority of the
largest number of votes cast at the election, not simply on
the amendment: Arkansas, Illinois, Minnesota, Mississippi,
Nebraska, Oklahoma. South Carolina and Tennessee require a
majority of the highest number of votes cast for Representatives
in the Legislature. Thus in all Of these statesthe ballots not
marked for or against an amendment are counted as opposed.

' The requirements in Indiana and New Mexico are cited above.

In these twelve states it is almost impossible to amend the con-
stitution.

“ A study Of the above facts Should convince all fair-minded per-
sons Of the great difficulty and long delay Of Obtaining woman
suffrage by individual action Of the states. When added to these
are the vast expense and the time and work required from thou-
sands of women, the advantage of a Federal Amendment, with
the comparatively easy and speedy process of gaining it by con-
sent Of three-fourths Of the state Legislatures, should need no
argument in its favor.

“It seems to me,” continued the Senator from Colorado,
“ under those circumstances the Obstructions are insurmountable.”

(Continued on page 278)

Digitized by GOOSIC

268

The Woman Citizen

“In All Candor, Gentlemen”

What the Tennessee

‘6 HE Tennessee Bar Asso-

ciation goes on record
as endorsing woman suffrage by Federal Amendment.” So reads
the resolution adopted at their annual convention.

We had a great and wonderful fight to put the resolution
through, especially with “ by Federal Amendment” attached to it.

There were present only a few women suffragists to assist, as
the heat was unearthly, and the hall where the convention was
in progress was almost too hot to endure without fainting. There
were present Mesdames Ed. Watkins, J. L. Meek, Samuel B.
Smith, T. C. Ervin,‘ all of Chattanooga; David B. Puryear, of
Memphis; Miss Sarah Ruth Frazier, of Chattanooga, and at-
torneys Elizabeth Lea Miller, of Bolivar, and myself, now of
Nashville. (The last two named are voting members of the
Tennessee Bar Association.)

Our men suffragists were splendid in their assistance. especially
the following: Col. Ed. Watkins, of Chattanooga, president of
the association (a copy of whose eloquent plea I enclose) ; Judge
David B. Puryear, of Memphis, who introduced the resolution;
Hon. Foster V. Brown, of Chattanooga, who used great tact; at-
torneys J. J. Lynch, Samuel Bosworth Smith, W. G. M. Thomas,
J. G. Cantrell, W. B. Swaney, all of Chattanooga; attorney J. H.
Spraken, of Jackson; Judges Malone and R. M. Barton, attorneys
W. N. Briggs, Lee Winchester, and Elias Gates, all of Memphis,
and attorney P. D. Maddin and Judge J. W. Judd, of Nashville.

We had our plans made to bring this question up on the last
day of the convention, but, since announcement was made that
our main speaker, Senator John Sharp Williams, of Mississippi,
was unable to attend, and as the long, hot and arduous day was
drawing to a close, the convention voted to hold no session the
next day, per the program, but to adjourn at once.

In looking over the crowd who were able to stand the heat and
had remained, I saw that our friends were in the majority; and.
though Judge Puryear was without hope, I insisted upon the vote.
He, therefore, introduced the resolution. President Watkins
handled the situation admirably, and Hon. Foster V. Brown made
a few telling remarks. The vote was called for, and the resolu—
tion passed unanimously.

Nashville is the only part of our state where anti-suffrage has
ever been able to gain a foothold, which is, I think, due to the in-
fluence of an anti, Col. Vertrees, a prominent lawyer there.

YOU can understand the great importance of this victory when
you recall that only two years ago the suffragists of Memphis
made a strong fight to pass a resolution in the Tennessee Bar
Association in convention assembled there, endorsing merely the
principle of woman suffrage, which failed by a large majority.
We sent a telegram to Senator Shields telling him the glad
news. Since he has made the claim that the majority of his con-
stituency does not want woman suffrage, we feel the passage of
this resolution for suffrage, “ by Federal Amendment,” by the
lawyers from all over our state—( for lawyers are supposed to
represent the highest thought, and the most intelligent ideas of
their communities, and, in fact, to influence and crystallize public
sentiment)—will assist himin making his decision and insure his
voting “ aye ” upon the amendment bill in September.
We have called a suffrage meeting for this week and will pass
a resolution thanking the Bar and President Watkins.

By a Woman Member, Margaret H. Ervin Ford

Bar Association Did

I am glad that I was privileged
to return to my state in time to
assist with this work at the present time, which, it seems to me, is
the most crucial in our long suffrage fight.

I feel sure Senator Shields will vote for our amendment and I
feel certain we’ll win.

Here is an extract from the speech of Col. Ed. Watkins, presi-
dent of the Bar Association:

661 T was universal suffrage to which I referred when I stated

that later on I would discuss one other subject which de-
mands, according to my humble views, prompt, generous and
effective legislation. I ask in all candor, gentlemen, upon what
just ground is there an embargo placed upon the rights of woman
denying her the privileges of freedom and liberty which are
accorded to man? Our speakers from every platform in this
glorious republic regale the people with the cry that we are in
this world-wide war not alone in the defense of the people of the
United States, but in the universal defense of all the people of
the world who are denied their rights, their privileges and their
liberties under the law, and especially those whose liberties have
been trampled under foot so as to deny them equal privileges and

rights with all other peeple. We pause but for a moment to take

a view of the picture which confronts us. We see this glorious
republic for which we freely offer our lives as a sacrifice upon
its altar, with one stroke of the pen enfranchise and extend privi-
leges to 4,000,000 ignorant inhabitants, which franchise and
which privileges they have to this day, and still we deny these
same rights and franchise to the educated and refined daughters
of this beloved America of ours.

“ They own in their own right 39 per cent of the property, per-
sonal and real, in this state, and pay their part of the taxes neces-
sary to bear the burdens of the government, and yet we deny
them the right to in any way express their views as to who should
manage this trust fund to which they so liberally contribute. It is
but recently that a married woman could sell and convey her.
property without the consent and signature of her husband, and
even now her personal property, when reduced to the possession
of her husband, becomes his without her consent or volition, and
frequently over her strenuous objections. If she happened to
have a bad husband, she has not left to her even a Chinaman’s
chance.

“W HEN we became engaged in this the greatest war ever
known, it was difficult to arouse the patriotism of the

men to the standard of necessary efficiency. Appeals were made
to the women, and, with wings of angels, they flew to the colors,
and their actions so electrified our people that the sentiment of
unalloyed patriotism swept the country, and today, through this
influence, we are marshaling an army of stalwart Americans,
superior to any the world has ever seen. i

“ Our women have not the physical strength to fight our battles.
but they instill courage into the wavering men and drive the weak-
ening soldiers on to victory by their Christian devotion and their
deep earnestness of sentiment and purpose.

“It was a country girl, full of faith and honesty of purpose, and
with a supreme devotion to the cause of liberty, that saved
Orleans for the French.”

Digitized by 600816

August 31, 1918

" It will be pure and good women of this country, by their cour-
age and Christian virtues, that will save to us our beautiful land.
And will we longer deny them the rights and privileges which we
enjoy? If we are an important factor in this great common-
wealth, then let our motto be:

“ ‘ That justice I to others show,
That justice show to me.’ ”

LIBERTY LOAN

“ In the third liberty loan drive which we had on our streets,
there was the largest procession ever witnessed in Chattanooga,
and the most impressive scene, was the mothers of children, five,
six and seven years Of age leading the little fellows by their hands
in this great parade to impress them in the early dawn of life with
the true sentiments of patriotism that they might become loyal
citizens when grown to man-
hood. I have seen those lovely
women of our city in broiling
sunlight lead the selectrnen to
the railroad station for enter-
tainment, while our men stood
idly along the sidewalks
shaded by comfortable um-

brellas. I have seen our most [ntewl‘ed w°men 3 Congress:

Women of England Have Saved the Allied Cause
Lloyd George Tells Women’s Congress in Paris

PARIS, August 21.—Premier Lloyd George sent this letter to the

I am anxious to bear testimony to the tremendous part played by the

269,

of ammunition at the Somme had it not been for the work of
women. Are you going to fling them out without a voice in de-
termining the new conditions? It would be an outrage. That is
why the woman question has become very largely a war .question.’

“ Ex-Premier Asquith, March 28, 1917: ‘ The House will not
be unprepared to hear that I myself, and I believe many others,
no longer regard this question (of woman suffrage) from the
standpoint which we occupied before the war. How could we
have carried on the war without them?

“ ‘ What moves me still more is the problem of reconstruction
after the war. Questions which will necessarily arise in regard to
women’s labor and women’s functions are questions in regard to
which I for my part feel it impossible consistently with either
justice or expediency to withhold from women the power and the
right of making their voices distinctly heard.’

“ Sir Wilfrid Laurier, ex-
premier of Canada, February,
1917: ‘Today my own belief
is that there is no reason why
she should be denied the right
of the ballot.’

“ Premier Hearst, of On-
tario, Canada, February,
1917: ‘ Having taken our

accomplished society ladies
lead this march in the sun-
shine and in the rain, bearing
immense flags of our country,
when they knew not a single
man in the column, except
that all were loyal American
citizens, offering their lives
upon the altar of their coun-
try as a sacrifice to the great
cause in which we are at
present engaged. These scenes
became so impressive to the
men that they also began to
form an honor escort for
these boys who were going to
fight for us, and like the in-
fiuences of the country girl
who saved Orleans, it aroused
all to the highest pitch of
patriotism.

PROTECTION OF WOMAN’S
RIGHTS

“ Advancing no personal
interest or claims, but stand-
ing for universal suffrage

women of England in this vital epoch of human history. They have not
only borne their burden Of sorrow and separation with unflinching
fortitude and patience, but they have assumed an enormous share of the
burdens necessary to the practical conduct of the war.

If it had not been for the splendid manner in which the women came
forward to work in the hospitals and munition factories, in administrative
omces of all kinds, and in war work behind the lines, often in daily danger
of their lives, Great Britain and, I believe, all the Allies would have been
unable to withstand the enemy attacks of the last few months. For this
service to our common cause humanity owes them unbounded gratitude.

In the past I have heard it said that women were unlit to vote because
they would be weak when it came to understanding the issues and bearing
the strains of a great war. My experience in South Wales last week is
what has connrmed me in the belief that the women there understand
perfectly what is at stake in this war. I believe they recognize as clearly
as any that there can be no peace, progress, or happiness in the world so
long as the monster of militarism is able to stalk unbridled and unashamed
among the weaker peoples.

To them this war is a crusade Of righteousness and gentleness, and
they do not mean to make peace until the Allies have made it impossible
for another carnival of violence to befall mankind. I am certain that this
resolution of the women of South Wales is but typical of the spirit of the
women of the rest of Great Britain.

This war began in order that force and brutality might crush out

freedom among men. Its authors cannot have foreseen that one of its
main effects would be to give women a commanding position and influence
in the public affairs of the world. To their ennobling influence we look
not only for strength to win the war, but for inspiration during the great
work of reconstruction we will have to undertake after victory is won.

The women who have been flocking to France to work for the Allies
are among the foremost leaders in this great movement of regeneration.
My message to their representatives gathered in Paris is this: “ Well
done. Carry on. You are helping to create a new earth for yourselves
and your children."

 

women into partnership with
us in our tremendous under-
taking, °I ask, can we justly
deny them a share in the gov-
ernment of the country. the
right to have a say about the
making of the laws they have
been so heroically trying to
defend? My answer is, I
think not.’

“ Premier Bosselli, of Italy,
May 15, 1917: ‘ As far as the
woman vote for municipal
elections is concerned, I do
not think there can be either
doubt or delay in giving it on
the same conditions as it is
given to men.’

“ In February, 1917, Signor
Sacchi, Italian minister of
justice, presenting to the Ital-
ian chamber a bill for the
abrogation of every law by
which in the Field of civil and
commercial rights, the capaci-
ties of women are at present
curtailed, called it ‘ an 'act Of

which guarantees to women the right to participate in the selec-
tion of their own representatives, who fix the burdens upon and
proxlide the protection for her property, her liberty and her
rights, I ask will you deny her request? Will you rend the
strongest and brightest link in the golden chain of a perpetual
union? Will you longer deny the ladies of this state at least
privileges equal to those which you claim and enjoy?

EXPRESSIONS OF GREAT MEN

“I read you some expressions from famous men:

“ Premier Lloyd George, of Great Britain, March 29, 1917:
‘Women’s work in the war has been vital to our success. It
would have been impossible to produce that overwhelming mass

justice—of reparation almost—to which women have now more
right than ever.’

“ Said M. Pierre Etienne Flandin, deputy Of the Yonne. the
reporter to the Chamber of Deputies, of the municipal suffrage
bill for French women: ‘What French women have done to
keep up the courage of the nation during the dark days cannot be
measured in words. They have been the backbone Of the national
defense. They should have the right to vote, first of all as an act
of justice, and secondly as a move dictated by public interest.’

“ President Woodrow Wilson, January 9, 1918: A delegation
of leading democrats who had waited on the President issued the
following statement: ‘ When we sought the advice he very

(Continued on page 278)

Digitized by 600816

270

UNT JINNIE and Uncle Jake are Insti-

tutions. They began, so far as we are
concerned, before Time‘ was, and I can prove,
by the arguments that the rector at our church
used last sunday for the immortality of the
soul, that they will endure till Time shall be
no more. For I am sure none of us children
can conceive of a world without our home as
its middle, and Aunt Jinnie and Uncle Jake
going in and out of it.

Aunt Jinnie is Mother’s only sister, and Uncle
Jake is Father’s only brother, so they are not
related at all except through us—which used
to puzzle us a good deal when Frank and I
were young. We are sixteen now, and though
of course Frank, being a boy, does not seem so
old as I, yet for a boy, he has a good deal of
sense, so that between us we think about things
a good deal. You see we are twins.

We are sixteen, Lucy is fourteen, the Beloved
Vagabond is twelve, Claire is ten, the Dude is
eight, the Junior twins are five, and Baby Boy
is one, and that is all there is of us, excepting
Father, Mother, and Aunt Jinnie and Uncle
Jake—thirteen in family, we are.

Frank and I find it wonderful that in litera-
ture, and public speeches The Family is always
talked of as though it consisted of nothing but
the parents and children, when the fact is that
almost every family that we know has one or
more “Secondary characters,” as our biology
teacher would call them. There are the Wood-
rufis. They have a Grandpa of eighty-seven,
and a little adopted niece of eleven. And the
Browns have three maiden aunts, and the
Thornes have a cousin who keeps house for
them, with her baby. Even the Lawrences have
Miss Dora, an elderly lady who used to be

Mrs. Lawrence’s governess, and who is sup-.

posed to live in their lodge, but really stays at
the big house most of the time.

0 we have decided to make a systematic
study of our own satellites, setting down
the facts about Aunt Jinnie and Uncle Jake as a
contribution toward a new branch of sociology
—-Planet_ary Rings, or Family Moons, we call it.
Aunt Jinnie, then, is just like Mother, but
more so; and while Mother herself is charm-
ing, Mother exaggerated is not. Mother is
slender; Aunt Jinnie is gaunt. Mother’s man-
ner is reserved; Aunt Jinnie’s is cold. Mother’s
hair is auburn; Aunt Jinnie's is red. Mother’s
nose is delicately aquiline; Aunt Jinnie’s nose
is long and severe. Mother’s lips are delicate
and but slightly curved; Aunt Jinnie’s mouth
is straight and thin-lipped. Mother’s dark
brows meet in a perplexed, puzzled expression
over her red brown eyes; Aunt Jinnie’s bushy
brows lower over eyes that snap. We fear
Aunt Jinnie; we love Mother. Aunt Jinnie is
two inches taller and three years older than
Mother. I sometimes wonder that Father, see-
ing Aunt Jinnie, and how much like her Mother
was, was not afraid to marry Mother lest she
should grow more so, too.

For Aunt Jinnie is very more so. But I sup-
pose Father thought that he would have a
counteracting influence. And something has
had that; but it seems to me that it is more
her nine children than her husband.

Just as Aunt Jinnie is more like Mother than
is Mother herself, so Uncle Jake is just like
Father, but less so. He is two years younger
than Father—just Aunt Jinnie’s age—and two
inches shorter than Father—just, indeed, the
height of Aunt Jinnie—but he looks shorter yet.

The Woman Citizen

The Indefinite ’Pi

Father’s hair is bushy black, and his eyes bright
blue; Uncle Jake’s hair is semi-brown and his
eyes light blue. He has less bulk, less weight,
less mustache, less nose, less voice, less every-
thing, physically, than Father, but at times you
can mistake one for the other. You couldn’t
call him an expurgated edition of Father, for
Father doesn’t need expurgating. Miss Rowe
did call him an edition de luxe of Father, but
she is setting her cap for him. I should call
him Father abridged.

And now for their characters, habitats, and
uses:

UNT JINNIE lives with us almost all the

time. Sometimes when there are crises in
other branches of the family, she goes away for
a while until the baby is born or the grandfather
buried, or the daughter married, but generally
we ourselves have an overlapping crisis before
the one she is attending has climaxed. and
she has to rush back before she is due, or
oscillate between the two households, trying to
fill two places at once. She seems always to
have done this, and it has marked her red face
with furrows worse than nine children have
worn Mother’s finely lined pink cheeks. Grand-
father left a badly run down estate, Father
says, so that when it was evenly divided between
Mother and Aunt Jinnie, they only got enough
to pay each of them a hundred fifty dollars a
year. But when she stays with us, Father gives
Aunt Jinnie not only a home, but ten dollars
a month spending money, just the same as he
gives Mother. And of course he pays all the
house bills and the bills for us children. And
he invests and collects for Aunt Jinnie free of
charge; I heard him say so to Cousin Max
Roberts. Come to think, though, of what Nora,
our second girl, gets and does in comparison,
I don’t think Aunt Jinnie has so much to be
thankful for. Nora gets twenty-two dollars a
month. and a good single bed room, and her
keep, and all of Mother’s everyday clothes, and
lots of tips and presents as visitors come and
go. Aunt Jinnie gets ten dollars a month, and
a bed, or a part of one, all over the house as
she herself may decide, according to the size
of the family. Being bigger than Mother, she
has to buy her own clothes, and nobody tips
her, of course; she is a lady. And as to work!
Aunt Jinnie—well, Nora says this is a
“har-r-r-d” place, but if she did half of what
Aunt Jinnie does, she might talk. What with
Mother having babies, and the babies having
croup, and us bigger ones having company-—
my Father believes in keeping open house, bless
him l—and the sewing and nursing, and cooking,
and gardening, and awful times changing cooks,
I can tell you Aunt Jinnie’s hands are' full.
You have to have two grown women in a house
like ours. If Aunt Jinnie weren’t here I’d be
grown myself at sixteen, I’m sure. When there
is a dinner party, Aunt Jinnie takes Care of the
dinner and Mother of the party; when Dudy
hurts his finger Aunt Jinnie pulls out the
splinter, and Mother kisses the place; when I
go to a party Mother dresses me and Aunt
Jinnie clears up the room; when the Juniors
had the scarlet fever, Aunt Jinnie went into
quarantine with them while Mother stayed out
to take care of Baby Boy. It has to be so in

a family like ours. And our two fit exactly.
If Mother hustled more it would be horrid,
but I don’t know that we could spare one
single one of Aunt Jinnie’s hustles.

All the same, when it comes to
deciding what one will be, I
would not care to be like Aunt
Jinnie. Lucy and I have written
out a liturgy for the girls of the
family. We say portions of it
every night, and all of it on Sun-
day—all the girls old enough to say it together.
And in it we have: “That we may be gentle
helpless wives, we beseech thee to hear us, Good
Lord; from becoming capable and efficient
spinsters, Good Lord deliver us.” And we
mean it. To be a mother of nine babies may
be, as the new curate says, to lead a con-
secrated life; but to be aunt to nine babies
seems to us much worse.

NCLE JAKE has an apartment in the city,

where he keeps a man; and he belongs to
a country club where he sometimes puts up over
night; and he and three of his pals have a
bungalow at the seashore where they stay for
weeks together sometimes, and where they take
turns having week-end parties; and he has a
pretty room at our house where he feels free
to come and go to suit himself. Of course we
often use the room when the house is full, but
we don’t usually use his bed. We just put
cots in so we can clear out if he happens to
turn up unexpectedly. He hates people to sleep
in his bed. He says if people have been in it
since he was it feels warm to him, even a week
later. The Vagabond calls him the Princess
and the Pea, but Mother says with all he does
for us he has a right to be humored. Cousin
Max Roberts’s wife said she supposed Mother
was careful not to offend him, seeing what a
confirmed old bachelor he is, because she ex-
pected him to leave his savings to us children,
and Mother was very much offended. She
said she thought natural affection and gratitude
for what he had done for us were quite enough
to account for any consideration we could show
our uncle. Frank said Cousin Sallie Roberts
was an old cat, and Father said she was a
gossiping woman. And somehow the noun
sounded quite as opprobrious as the adjective.

Uncle Jake is good to us. He gives us 'almost
all the treats we have. Grandfather—Father’s
father—left each of his two sons six thousand
dollars apiece, and they put it into a business,
and became partners, and did pretty well,
Father says, so that they have equal incomes
now.

F course the income that enables us to have

a cook, one housemaid, an occasional nurse
girl, and a man of all work in the suburbs, and
clothe and feed thirteen people, is enough to
give Uncle Jake a good time and lots of spare
cash. And he has the good time, and treats
us well besides.

In the first place, he has a fad. He collects
rare editions of books. He keeps all his
juveniles, in choice bindings, and with inter-
esting illustrations, and many of them contain-
ing the author’s autographs, in the pool room
at our house. And it is very pleasant to gather

Digitized by 600816

LO]

 
  
  

“ From bec01
spinsters, g:

“ V
yot

‘SI

me

of

August 31, 1918

:e of Aunt Jinnic

nnnolly

 
  
 

pable and ej’icient
rrd deliver us.”

r meant
a to be
J innie.”

’hat you
the na-
e case.

ire two
duty in
duty to
are and
to be
If you
no kind
m grow
md you
elf and
you out
ion.”

there -of a winter’s evening and have Uncle
Jake take them out of their locked cases, one
by one, and tell anecdotes of how he got this
or that author’s autograph or sketch by the
artist. Father would never col-
lect books. He says only old
bachelors can afford time for hob-
bies. Neither would Mother. As
to Aunt Jinnie, she began collect-
ing a set of Dickens when she
was a girl like me, and she just
finished, by the help of the children, last
Christmas. We couldn’t match her old edition,
though. So her set begins with fat red
volumes and ends with thin green ones. But
she doesn’t care. She reads them through and
begins again, and never seems to tire. Not that
Dickens is all she reads. She has spells of
reading, just as Old Mr. Wing has spells of
drinking, when she gets going and can’t stop.
Sometimes after a hard day she will read the
whole night through, only getting a short nap
towards morning. And she’ll do this for several
nights in succession, too, and comes out of what
Father calls her literary debauch as haggard
and potted under the eyes as Old Mr. Wing
at-his worst. Everything, she reads—French
plays, English history, American novels, Ger-
man philosophy, Latin hymns, Greek drama;
she set to last year, with a dictionary and
grammar to help her, and translated a Dutch
novel, just because she liked to. It’s wonderful,
but it’s useless. If ever I study five languages
and sit up all night over diliicult translations,
it will be to get a degree; but Aunt Jinnie isn’t
even a high school graduate. Uncle Jake says,
“The dear lady has a masculine mind.” But
her mind isn’t a bit like his.

0 return to Uncle Jake. He‘loves children.
Everybody comments on it, and seems to
think it a wonderful thing and much to his credit.
Well, he is fond of us, that’s sure. He gave
me a watch when I graduated from the grammar
school, and I’m to have a diamond ring when I
graduate from the high school, and a pearl neck-
lace if I graduate from college. If I marry be-
fore I’m twenty-five he says I shall have an
electric runabout. I don’t see how I am going
to put off being married to do all that graduat-
ing, but a pearl necklace is not a thing to skip,
if it comes in a series.

Picnics to the Bronx Park with Uncle Jake
when we are little, matinées and lunches with
Uncle Jake when we are older, weeks at Uncle
Jake’s seaside bungalow at any age, are the
pleasantest things that happen to us, and he
gives us huge tips at Christmas and Easter. As
for me, when I hear people wondering why he
hasn’t married, and telling each other how
young he is yet, and what a suitable match this
and that young lady would be for him, I
tremble. An old bachelor uncle, to our minds,
is a luxury and all of our boys have set their
minds on being exactly like Uncle Jake when
they grow up.

Somehow when I read over what I have
written about Uncle Jake it seems mostly com-
plimentary, and yet it doesn’t seem fair. I
seem to have made him not to have any force.
When I marry, my husband is going to have all
kinds of force, but he is going to let me direct

it. I suppose Uncle Jake has force. He seems,
however, not to use it much. I’ve never seen
him act as if he really cared about anything.
He acts as if it all bored him, and taking trouble
were not worth while. But Father has a high
opinion of his judgment. I’ve heard him say,
“ Jake has business gumption when he chooses.”
And he tells some very nice stories about how
Uncle Jake licked the bigger boys when he was
little, and cried all the time. Uncle Jake laughs
about it, but I don’t think he likes it to be told.
And he got real peeved at Captain Logan when
he told about his crying in the war.

Uncle Jake and Captain Logan were in
the Cuban War together, and Captain Lo-
gan says that Uncle Jake was awfully brave, but
when he was in action he always cried. He says
the soldiers said, “ Look out for the little Lieu-
tenant. When he's going to give ’em hell he begins
to cry.” Uncle Jake was put out when he heard
it. He said “ Logan’s rot! ” We children would
love to see him cry, but it might cost us too
much to make him mad. Besides we never have
a show. He always wants us to do pleasant
things.

The funniest thing in our family life is
the way the family is run. You see we have a
legal ruler, like the mayor of a city, the real
ruler, like the “boss” of the city, that the news-
papers tell about, and a go-between. Father is
the legal ruler. He hands out the money. And
what he says goes, if he keeps on saying it.
The thing is to get him to say the right thing,
or if he has said the wrong thing, to get him to
change if possible without his knowing that
he has done it. Aunt Jinnie is the Boss. She
hasri’t any power at all, as the city boss has,
to make the legal ruler do her bidding. She
can’t threaten to unseat him at the next elec-
tion. He is appointed for life. But she has
the most important things for a real ruler—
knowledge of what ought to be done, and de-
termination to have it done. And she mostly
gets it, but it’s at an awful loss of time and
brain work. Mother is the go-between. She
is always in full sympathy with Aunt Jinnie,
but she appears always to be trying to find out
what Father wishes, in order to fall in with
his plans—when, the truth is, he hasn’t any
plans about home affairs. He doesn’t know
enough or care enough to have any. I’ve no
doubts he makes excellent plans down in the
city, for he is much brainier than Uncle Jake,
and somebody carries on the business all right.

OW I don’t mean that my mother is dis-

honest, or my father indifferent to the
needs of his family. He wasn’t brought up by
his mother to know about family matters, I’m
sure, and he did not live in the country when he
was a boy, and he isn’t home enough, to learn
now, and he hasn’t a head for such matters
anyhow. Frank, who has had a twin sister all
his life, will be a much better master of a
household when he grows up. He has a kind
of respect for what I do. And he understands
quite intelligently how Father has to be man-
aged. And as to Mother, what can she do when
Father has absolute power, and lots of good
intentions, and no knowledge, and apparently
no consciousness of his ignorance, and cer-
tainly no intention of letting any woman run
his show, and when Aunt Jinnie has the whole

271

show to run and a back so stiff that all she
can ever be induced to do towards managing
anybody is to keep still? Mother simply has
to exercise a serpent’sI wisdom, if she is a dove.
And she does it with patience.

Suppose it is one of those mornings when
Father wakes early—in the spring, say, and he
has wandered into the garden, and taken one
of his sudden fits of interest in Peter’s work.
“ By the way, Lucy,” says he, looking up from
his paper, “I see that Peter has dug up a
nice lot there on the hill fit for potatoes. He
has planted two rows of potatoes, and I just
told him to lay the whole patch down to them.
Potatoes are going to be high next fall, and
we might as well raise a good lot of our own.”
There is an awful silence in the room. Aunt
Jinnie is standing by the sideboard putting up
our lunches, and her back stiffens as she stands.
The silence is full of her protest. I think to
myself, as I eat hot waffles, that if I were to
prod that silence anywhere with my fork I
would withdraw the prongs dripping with Aunt
'Jinnie’s blood. There is no one in the room,
from Mother to Baby Boy, who does not feel
the air thick with Aunt Jinnie—except Father.
He is as unconscious as—I was going to say
the eat, but Niggie knows—as the furniture—
and adds quite complacently, “The garden is
doing wonderfully considering how I’ve neg-
lected it lately.” “ Yes it is, dear,” says Mother
pleasantly; “ I’ll try to remind you to tell me
more about it this evening. Have you time
for another cup of coffee now? ”

“Oh, oh! ” cried the Vagabond as we older
children burst out on to the lawn from that
breakfast, “ Did you see the old mare lay her
ears back when Father ploughed up her garden
this morning? I thought she would show her
heels over the dashboard this time for sure.”

WILL say that Frank has considerable de-

cision of character in the discipline of our
younger boys. Of course none of the grown
folks know what to do with them; you can’t
expect it. They don’t even know what they’re up
to. And Lucy and I are really not strong enough
to handle them. But Frank is equal to them,
and to spare. He took the Vagabond by the
scruff of the neck, and held his face down into
the basin of the fountain until I thought the
boy was certainly drowned, and when he let
him up he still held him firmly while he Splut-
tered and gagged, half with rage and half with
suffocation. “ Young man,” said Frank. while
the rest of us stood around endorsing the
righteousness of the sentence, and Peter grinned
approval from the driveway, “ Young man, what
is the name of the lady who kindly put up
the lunch which has just spilled out of your
pocket into that basin? ” The Vagabond tried
a sideways spring. “ What is her name?” said
Frank, moving slowly toward the basin again.
“Aunt Jinnie," said the Vagabond, rolling his
eyes viciously towards the soaking lunch. “ Do
you respect her?” inquired Frank. “I do,”
responded the Vagabond. “Do you esteem
her?” “I do.” “Do you regret the use of
those equine similes? ”

“That's enough, Frank,” said I, “ They are
not similes; they are metaphors, and you
shouldn’t bully.”

“I do,” said the Vagabond. So Frank re-
leased him, jumping quickly out of the way of
the Vagabond’s sideways kick as he did so.
Then we all went quite happily to school.

(To be concluded)

Digitized by 600816

272

The Woman Citizen

Alice Stone Blackwell’s Page

' High Food Prices—One Reason
Why
- LL sorts of things are happening in these
days which must stimulate the wish of
thoughtful women to vote. Take, for instance,
the amazing revelations brought to light in the
recent report of the Federal Trade Commission
which has been investigating the meat packing
business.

It finds that the five great meat packing com-
panies—Swift, Armour, Morris, Cudahy and
Wilson—not only control the meat supply of
the country, but have secured a practical mo-
nopoly over “ the principal substitutes for meat,
such as eggs, cheese and vegetable oil prod-
ucts ; ” and they are rapidly extending that mo-
nopoly to- cover “fish and nearly every kind of
food stuffs."
abroad and agreements with meat companies in
the principal South American meat-producing
countries, they have secured the monopoly of
meat not only for the United States, but for
England, France and Italy. .

The commission finds that this enormous
power “has been and is being unfairly and.
illegally used.” It has enabled the great pack-
ing companies, 1. To manipulate live stock mar-
kets. 2. To restrict interstate and international
supplies of food. 3. To control the prices of
dressed meats and other foods. 4. To defraud
both the producers of food and the consumers.
5. To crush effective competition. 6. To se-
cure special privileges from railroads, stock-
yard companies, and municipalities, and to prof-
iteer in every direction. For a generation, the
meat packing companies have been defying the
law, and resorting to every method, legal or
illegal, that would increase their profits. These
are not the assertions of an irresponsible soap
box orator, but the serious findings of a gov-
ernment commission, based largely upon offi-
cial documents taken from the confidential files
of the packing companies.

The huge profits made by the meat-packing
companies have been frequently noted in the
press during the last few years, in the recent
official reports to Congress on excess profits
and profiteering, the profiteering in food stuffs
is declared to have been the biggest of all.

So far as the combined meat—packing com-
panies are concerned, the Federal Trade Com-
mission recommends that the great octopus
should be reached through the railroad admin-
istration. It suggests that all the rolling stock,
refrigerator cars, terminal stock-yards, and such
as are necessary of the storage plants and ware-
houses be taken over and operated as a Gov-
ernment monopoly affording “ an outlet for all
manufacturers and handlers of food products
on equal terms.” -

Whether this would be the best solution or
not, it is clear that something radical ought to
be done about it. The present writer is not
and never has been a member of the Socialist
party; but she believes that the American peo-
ple, irrespective of party, would welcome en-
thusiastically very strong measures to bring
down the price of food. The high cost of liv-
ing was the all-absorbing topic, for several years
before the war; and even now it fairly divides
public attention with the war. Those of us who
realize the vital importance of winning the war

Moreover, through investments,

are willing to suffer any privation that may be
necessary to that great end; but nobody likes to
suffer privation for the enrichment of prof-
iteers. Women who never thought about a vote
before are likely to wish for one when they

read the report of the' Federal Trade Commis-
sion on the meat packers.

A Wild Coalition

HE rapid advance of the suffrage move-

ment has scared some of the opponents
of equal rights into a state resembling night-
mare. With women already able to vote for
President throughout more than half the terri~
tory of the United States, with the nation-wide
suffrage amendment already more than half
through Congress, these opponents feel that the
deluge is upon them, and they are in a condi-
tion of delirium.

Here is one, Mr. Daniel Louis Hanson, for
instance, writing to the Boston Herald that
England is “in imminent danger through a
coalition of the Socialistic-Biolshevelistic
forces under Arthur Henderson (he means the
British Labor Party) and the woman suffrage
element under Mrs. Pankhurst, the coalition
spelling a peace with Germany on Germany’s
terms”; and he sees our own country fdlow-
ing in the same path.

Mrs. Pankhurst has been going through the
United States making red-hot speeches to
the munition workers, in which she urges them
to push the war to a victorious end, and casts
scorn upon the supposedly pacifist tendencies of
Arthur Henderson and the British Labor
party. That party would undoubtedly deny that
it, wants peace, “ on Germany‘s terms ”. abut,
however this may be, any coalition between
Mrs. Pankhurst and pacifism is as unthinkable
as a coalition between fire and water.

The assertion shows how grossly ignorant of
current events some anti-suffragists are, and
what amazing fables they are able to swallow.

A Slander on Women

HIS same Mr. Hanson declares that the

Kaiser wants all the Allies to adopt woman
suffrage. It is a pity he cannot make his wishes
known to the German voters in the United
States, most of whom continue to oppose it: or
to those prominent anti-suffragists in South
Dakota who were lately sent to prison for their
pro-German activities: or to that group of
German-Americans in Nebraska who are trying
to get woman suffrage repealed!

And why is the Kaiser supposed to want the
United States to adopt woman suffrage? Listen
to the amazing Mr. Hanson: “ He knows that
the woman vote would by big majority be
peace at any price—at Germany’s price.”
This is a libel on American women, whether
suffragists or antis. Let Mr. Hanson ask the
first twenty women he meets whether they are
in favor of peace ” on Germany’s terms,” and
see what they will say! Let any U. S. Senator
who may be inclined to attach weight to such
a plea make the same experiment.

This libelous assumption is constantly made
by the opponents of equal rights. Curiously
enough they also assume that women can get
what they want more easily with a vote than
without it. For years they have assured us that
women do not need a vote; that the majority
of women'can get anything they desire by

“indirect influence." Now they intimate that
a big majority of women want “ peace at any
price,” and cannot get it; but that they could
get it if they had the ballot.

The whole anti-suffrage argument is one
spongy mass of inconsistencies.

Women can get what they want more easily
of course when they have the ballot; but un-
less we are vastly mistaken, the majority of
our women do not want a “ German peace."
They believe that such a peace would be only
the prelude to a whole series of wars.

Lest We Forget

AIN that is past is no pain, someone said.

The reference was to the quickness with
which the memory of past suffering often fades
out, when it is over. The world has been
moving so quickly of late in the direction of
more equal opportunities for women that we
tend to forget the hard struggles which have
marked every step of the way. Yet it is a sur-
prise—or would be a surprise if any inaccuracy
on the part of the opponents of equal. rights
could surprise us—to read the following in the
official anti-suffrage organ:

“ Before the war . even ultra conserva-
tives recognized that the few women who did
not marry should in justice have every chance
in the business and professional world to show
their worth as individuals, and as a matter of
fact, in most modern communities women for
many years have had practically equal oppor-
tunities with men in every possible field of en-
deavor sought by them, excepting only that of
politics.”

It is not necessary to go back to the hard
fight that the women had who pioneered the
way into the various professions. In almost

every kind of work, the ultra conservatives

have urged, and still urge, that the responsible
and highly paid position should be reserved for -
men. There is discrimination against women
in the teaching profession, in the matter of hos-
pital appointments, in business, in the govern-
ment service, and all along the line. Mr. and
Mrs. John Martin probably would not admit
that they are ultra conservatives; yet have they
not assured us that every high salary paid to a
woman is a distinct loss to society, because “it
makes her less likely to marry ”? (This means,
of course, less likely to marry for money.
When she has a chance to marry for love, the
daughter of a multimillionaire accepts it as joy-
fully as the poorest factory girl.) The 0&—
cial anti-suffrage organ itself constantly
argues against equal pay for equal work; and
yet it has the assurance to say that even the
ultra conservatives favor giving woman equal
opportunities !

The Sunflower Lunch

167 Tremont Street

is run for the benefit of the cause,
by the Boston Equal Suffrage Asso-
ciation for Good Government.

Take your lunch there. Recom-
mend it to your friends. Send it
gifts of fruit or vegetables from
your garden.

Come in and visit the War Service
ShOp, at the same address. It is
doing patriotic service.

     
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
     

August 31, 1918

273

The National Party

By Florence Slown Hyde, Member National Executive Committee

LTHOUGH less than a year old, the Na-

tional Party has members in every state
and territory and will participate in the con-
gressional and state elections in a number of
states this fall. This youngest of political
parties is the result of a profound conviction
on the part of a goodly number of women
and men from various existing parties and
non-partisan groups that the times demand
the political union of all forward-looking citi-
zens for the speedy and sane social and
economic readjustrnents which have long been
needed and which the war makes imperative.

It must be admitted that various groups
have been crossing purposes with each other
to a lamentable extent and have frequently
been divided over minor questions when they
should have been united politically in behalf
of fundamental issues. There is an ever-
increasing number of non-partisan organiza-
tions, each seeking some one reform and each
ready to endorse candidates who are per-
sonally committed to their pet issues, regard-
less of the attitude of the candidate on other
vital issues, or the attitude of his party on
the pet issue itself. This popular practice has
resulted in such confusion and the repeated
defeat of important welfare legislation, while
the ballot is impotent to speak without the aid
of expensive lobbying, petitions, telegrams and
deputations.

The founders of the National Party seek
to unite in a new political alignment the
millions of women and men who are desirous
of such governmental action as will secure the
most widely diffused equality of opportunity
in all that concerns the lives of the whole
people.

The women voters have for the most part no
long-standing political allegiances, and should
not be guided by sentiment or family tradition
in the choice of a political party; and if they
are to be a vital force they must join a political
party as against being political nomads.

HE National Party offers to women voters

an opportunity to join with forward-look-
ing men and mark out a new political roadway
to true democracy. The constitution of the
party gives women an equal voice with men in
the management of party affairs, as it provides
that the National Committee shall be com-
posed of one man and one woman from each
state.

The National Party is the only party in this
country having a woman vice-chairman and
has more women on its National Executive
Committee than any other party. Miss Marie
C. Brehm of Long Beach, Cal., is vice-chair-
man. The women members of the Executive
Committee are Mrs. Frances E. Beauchamp
of Kentucky, Mrs. Sarah Lyons of Minnesota,
Mrs. E. L. Calkins of Michigan and the writer.
We also have a number of women on the
Advisory Committee, including Mrs. Charlotte
Perkins Gilman, the well-known writer and
lecturer; Prof. Ellen Hayes of Massachusetts,
and Miss Louise Adams Grout of New York.

Our platform embraces a comprehensive and
well-balanced program for democracy in gov-
ernment, democracy in industry and democracy
in international relations. It deals with issues

having to do with the common welfare, rather
than the interest of one class or group.

QUALITY of opportunity in political affairs,
E regardless of sex; is demanded as the basis
of democracy'in government, and the party is
pledged specifically to work for the submission
and ratification of the Federal Suffrage Amend-
ment. The first national convention held in
March sent special telegrams to President Wil-
son and to the Senate urging immediate submis-
sion of the amendment. Additional telegrams
have been sent recently. A deputation of
National Party representatives received by
President Wilson in the late winter, called his
attention to'the importance of woman suffrage
as a war measure.

This is the seventh in a series of
articles on “Parties and Primaries”
written by women leaders of each party
to set forth to the readers of the
Woman Citizen the claims of each party
to the votes of women. The eighth and
last. article, from The Single Tax
Party, will appear in the issue of Sep-
tember 7.

 

The initiative, referendum and recall, the
short ballot, prOportional representation, the
executive budget and, improved election laws
are demanded as the means by which the whole
people may have an unrestricted voice in their
own government. Prohibition of the liquor
traflic and prison reform measures are also
urged as necessary aids to democracy in gov-
ernment.

NDER “ Industrial Democracy,” the plat-

form demands public ownership of steam
and electric railroads, telegraph and telephone
systems, coal, metal mines, water power, natural
gas and all public utilities and basic industries
whose operations depend on franchises or re-
quire large-scale operation on a non-competitive
or centralized basis; municipal ownership of

public utilities; taxation of land values; exten-.

sion of postal systems; legislation to aid
farmers; abolition of speculation or trading
wherein products are not received or delivered;
labor legislation, including a shorter work-day;
more effective child labor laws; protection of
workers by governmental insurance against
sickness, injury and death, together with
maternity benefits and old age pensions; more
rigorous inspection of working conditions.

Under “International Democracy,” our plat-
form calls for ‘the abolition of secret diplo-
macy, an international tribunal for the settle-
ment of disputes, and a union of nations to
enforce equality of all nations, great and small,
and to maintain permanent peace.

The National Party is loyal to America and
has a “War Program ” which outlines a con-
structive policy relative to the problems involved
in the successful prosecution of the war and
the immediate after-war problems. This “ War
Program ” is a masterpiece of statesmanship
and should be studied by every patriotic Ameri-
can. It is possible to give only a few brief
extracts in the space allotted for this article.
Referring to labor’s power to serve civiliza-
tion in the present world crisis, the war pro-
gram says in part:

“ Labor, whether manual or mental, mechani-
cal, managerial or professional, is gaining a
ruling position in all fields of society. This
position must be strengthened until those who
do useful labor are in control of society. Dur-
ing the war this means a rapid extension of
labor representation upon all bodies concerned
with the management of the war, and espe-
cially those engaged in the organization and
management of war industries and in the mar-
keting and transportation of products.

“This extension of the power of labor must
center around the farmers’ organizations, trade
unions and the professional associations.
There is no other way to organize labor for

social purposes.”
The necessity for adequate protection of

women and children in industry is urged.

“In the midst of war, all the the nations
involved have awakened to the vital necessity
of preserving and protecting human life. This
protection must be extended. If the dire need
of the war forces children and women further
into industry every restriction and provision
tending to protect their health and well-being
must be extended and maintained. It will not
profit us to save our institutions if we leave
a physically and morally weakened population
to dissipate those institutions.”

T HE maintenance and enlargement of our
educational facilities and the increase of
the powers and appropriation of the Housing
Commission are discussed and urged as impera-
tive to meet the unusual conditions created by
the war and demobilization after the war is over.
Our convention voted unanimously to tele-
graph to President Wilson to express apprecia—
tion of his world leadership and assuring him ‘
that, “ while ardently seeking to advance our
program and aims by all proper methods, we
shall freely and gladly give you our loyal and
undivided support in order to bring about the
successful termination of the war.”

Owing to the election laws, which in many
states bar new parties from the primaries, Na-
tional Party candidates will, in such states, get
on the ballot by petition. Hence women voters
who wish to support our candidates should have
full information as to whether the National
Party will participate in the primaries. Such
information, as well as copies of our platform,
war program and other literature will be sent
free upon request by our National Headquar-
ters, 138 No. LaSalle Street, Chicago, or Eastern
Headquarters, 15 E. Fortieth Street, New York.

We now have in course of preparation a
series of “Studies in Democracy” which the
woman voter will find interesting and in-
structive. An outline of this course and full

information will be sent free upon request.

The National Chairman is Mr. David C.
Coates, former Lieutenant-Governor of Colo-
rado. Mr. J. A. H. Hopkins of New Jersey
is chairman of the Executive Committee. Mr.
Hopkins is a hrmer Progressive Party leader,
having served as national treasurer.

The National Party invites the support and
co-operation of women, both voters and non-
voters, in our efforts to build up a political
organization that shall express those social and
industrial standards necessary for the preserva-
tion of democracy.

Digitized by 600816

274

Some State Situations

Carrying On in Nebraska

HE closing days of the drive by the

Nebraska suffrage supporters to invalidate
the anti-suffrage referendum petition continue
to bring to light hundreds upon hundreds of
forgeries and misrepresentations.

Though the suffragists have, they believe, far
more than sufiicient evidence already they pre-
fer to leave no loopholes forethe enemy to
gain a footing and will push on as rapidly as
possible until the signatures of sixteen coun-
ties, possibly twenty-one, have been thor-
oughly examined.

“ With this cumulative evidence so over-
whelmingly in our favor it would seem that
the decision of the district court and public
opinion at large must be on our side,” said
Mrs. W. E. Barkley, President of the Ne-
braska Woman Suffrage Association, in re-
counting at New York headquarters the long
list of infractions of law and right that have
come to light with the examination of sig-
natures in the counties thus far.

“ We really had enough signatures thrown
out in Douglas County to invalidate the anti
petition. But we are taking no chance and
will go right on until at least 16 counties are
examined.

“\Ve must close by the first of October.
but plan to finish by the second week in Sep-
tember, when the whole case will be laid be-
fore the District Court of Lancaster County.

“ A most important step was made in this
case when it was ruled by the court that all
attacks should be on petition sheets and not
on individual names. This is following the
precedent established by Washington and
Oregon, where the initiative and referendum
obtain, when dealing with corrupt acts on
petitions. By this ruling proof of the in-
validity of one name on the sheet invalidates
the sheet.”

Forgery, false names, and misrepresenta-
tion are the three counts upon which names by
the scores and hundreds have been shown to
be invalid, according to Mrs. Barkley’s inter-
esting story. To the graveyard went the antis
for some of their names, says some of the
testimony given: out of their fertile imagina-
tions others were born, and when their case was
direst, they did not hesitate to represent the
petition as a suffrage petition. ‘

An outline of some of the evidence was
sketched by Mrs. Barkley. In Douglas County
1,800 names were eliminated from the petition
circulated by one man. Another petition was
thrown out entirely and a third was largely in-
validated. Out ’of 132 witnesses called in
Richardson County to testify to their signa-
tures, 98 under oath said their names were
forged. Needless to say this evidence threw
out that petition.

In Johnson County 8 out of 16 signatures
proved to be forgeries and other names were
thrown out on other counts. '

It took long and arduous hurhing on the part
of the sheriff of Hall County to locate even 34
persons named on the petition. The reason
was that a large number of the signers of the
petition were not residents of that county.

At the time the county papers came out with
this story the Democratic County convention

was in session and so incensed were the dele-
gates at the evidence brought out they sent
a delegation to the state convention pledged to
suffrage.

There have been so many high lights, so
much evidence of a startling nature that it is
impossible to pick out a climax as Mrs. Barkley
runs through the history of the case to date.
But Buffalo County will be a strong contestant
for dishonors. In Kearney (Buffalo County)

 

. /-IJ‘

“a.
~..._____ Pf/

 

MRS. \V. E. BARKLEY

lives the man who engineered the petition work
for the anti forces in the county but this did
not deter the local man, hired to circulate the
anti-petition, from turning state’s evidence.
The local man testified he believed he was cir-
culating a petition asking for full suffrage and
that the men who signed believed it to be a full
suffrage petition.

To review the case of the Nebraska suf-
fragists: The 1917 Legislature of that state
granted the women a large measure of suf-
frage. This aroused anti forces to the extent
that they sought to invoke a referendum on
the act of the Legislature by circulating a peti-
tion. They later said they had more than
enough names above the required number
necessary to place the suffrage measure on the
ballot. The suffragists started an investiga-
tion of the petition signatures and secured an
injunction which restrained the election ofii-
cials from placing the measure on the ballot un—
til a complete examination could be made of
the petition.

The petition by the suffragists looking to the
restraining order was met by a counter peti-
tion from the anti forces. The anti petition was
signed by men and women. Suffragists are
calling attention to the fact that the women
opposing snfi’rage continue to stand by a peti-
tion which is shown to have been based on
fraud.

The Woman Citizen

In Michigan

WENTY-FIVE state organizations of

Michigan have banded themselves together
in a Federation for the purpose of giving
united and aggressive support to the referen-
dum campaign now being waged by the suf-
fragists of that state. This is only the nucleus
of what the Federation is to be. When com-
pleted the Federation will represent practically
every state organization that stands for the
progress and welfare of state.
Grant D. Slocum is Chairman of the Federa-
tion; Lieutenant-Governor Luren D. Dickin-
son, First Vice-Chairman; Mrs. Percy J.
Farrell, President of the Michigan Equal
Suffrage Association, Second Vice-Chair-
man; Hon. \Voodbridge M. Ferris, Third
Vice-Chairman; Mark T. McKee, Secretary;
W. A. Comstock, Treasurer; John C.
Ketcham, Chairman Executive Committee.

The members of the Executive Committee
of the Federation will co-operate with the
suffrage association in pushing the campaign
to a successful conclusion.

Suffrage and Patriotism

T may have been that the Resolutions

Committee of the Democratic County
Convention which met at Grand Island,
Nebraska, was not in favor of including
endorsement of prohibition and woman suf-
frage among its articles of political faith.
But the Convention was, and the failure to
present the resolution led to an immediate
and heated debate which threatened to split
the delegates into factions.

When the resolutions were finally adopted
they included this: “Resolved. that we favor
equal suffrage for all citizens regardless of
sex." And it was wedged between two dec-
larations of loyalty, “ Resolved, that we place
patriotism above politics,” and “ Resolved,
that it is the supreme task of the civilized
world to crush the insolent attempt of Ger-
man autocracy to substitute a military dic-
tatorship for self-government and the right of
independent thought."

The German-American Alliance fought suf-
frage to the hilt in Nebraska.

In Texas

EXAS is getting to be a synonym for

Woman’s political emancipation. \Vhy,
even in Texas County, Oklahoma, women have
found that they are almost real people and may
file for the ofiice of County Clerk, County
Judge, Court Clerk and County Superintendent
of Instruction.

This was announced in June by S. P.
Freeling, Attorney General, by virtue of the
decision of the State Supreme Court in the
case of Stone against Riggs. N. E. Nance,
secretary of the Texas County Election Board,
advised the attorney general that four women
in that county had filed for these respective
ofiices, and Mr. Nance was at a lossto know
whether they were eligible.

Mr. Freeling’s statement explains that while
he hates to own it, yet the facts in the case
force him to admit that “the Supreme Court
holds that, as women may vote at School
Elections, they are qualified voters.” The attor-
ney reluctantly concedes that “ a woman who is
a resident of a county and a lawyer licensed to
practice in any court of record in the state, is
eligible to become a county judge.”

August 31, 1918

275

James Mccreery & 00.

5th Avenue

34th Street

NEW FALL APPAREL '

 

Unusually attractive assortments of New Fall
Apparel, including Suits, Coats, Dresses, Furs and
Millinery, suitable for all occasions, and in the
most fashionable models, materials and colors

5th Avenue

Moderately Priced

Women in the Professions

Women as District Attorneys

HE woman federal district attorney is step-
ping forward to the center of the stage.
Up to the past few weeks it is only as assistant
attorney that woman has been permitted to
shine. Mrs. Annette Abbott Adams, who re-
cently. graduated from the position of assistant
into that of state district attorney in California
has advanced the position of the woman lawyer
by a new milepost.

Miss Charlotte Kolmitz, a former University
of Washington girl, and only twenty-two, has
just been named assistant United States attorney
for the Western District of Washington, with
headquarters at Seattle. Miss Kolmitz, who was
appointed to the Federal position on recommen-
dation of United States Attorney Robert C.
Saunders, took the oath of office on July 15th.
Mr. Saunders says that in selecting his assistant
he was influenced by the desire to “ acknowledge
the ascendency of the sex in the professional as
well as the business world, and at the same time
to help conserve man power for war purposes.”

The Moment of Portent

N the resignation of the late United States

District Attorney of California, Mrs. An-
nette Abbott Adams has been appointed to the
position.

To validate the arguments of the suffragists
as to the wisdom of placing women in what-
ever positions they may be competent to fill,
it is not necessary that Mrs. Adams should be
wiser, better informed. or more righteous than

the average of her male predecessors. But
the women of the world do, nevertheless, pray
that she may prove so. And if she does not
prove so the advocates of woman never out of
the home will say, “ You see! ”

Lately the New York Tribune, in an analysis
of the psychology underlying' such manifesta-
tions as have been exhibited in the trial of
Rose Pastor Stokes, remarked that of course
no judge could be expected to know anything
about these subjects. Woman Citizen readers
'hope that there may henceforth be one United
States Attorney who regards it as her duty to
know human psychology both empirically and
scientifically; to prevent crime as well as to
bring criminals to trial; to so accuse that pun-
ishment, when it comes, shall cure sin rather
than avenge offences; and to use her otiice not
only for the discovery of those responsible for
social conflicts, but for the removal of the mis-
understandings which contribute to them.

Under the circumstances Mrs. Adams will
herself be on trial before two groups of critics.
The politicians will watch to see whether she
“ plays the game " well. Will a hint from the
right source lead to conviction or acquittal?
Will the prosperous escape and the trouble-
some fellow disappear? Or will there be no
fear or favor shown by the District Attorney’s
omce? If the former, Mrs. Adams may pros-

per; if the latter, there will be great rejoicing

in the ranks of all true patriots.
H’oman Citizen readers will be glad to record
each moral triumph as it occurs for the heart-
ening of all good watching women everyw
We congratulate Mrs. Adams, and wish

leitizdlliiy 0

34th Street

Godspeed in the fulfilling of her great oppor-
tunity for genuine patriotic service at this
crowning point of the world’s history. A quar-
ter of a century ago her appointment could not
have been; a quarter of a century hence, it will
be commonplace. This is the moment full of

portent. L. C.
Pioneering Under Handicaps
A PIONEER woman physician who pio-

neered under the double handicap of
being a woman and a negro is Dr. S. Maria
Steward, who was born in 1845. She was vale-
dictorian in her class at the Homeopathic Col-
lege for Women. Besides her professional
duties she was the mother of‘two children, and

was a musician of ability, being a church
organist for twenty-eight years.

The Chinese Estimate

6‘ OT one great man have the Chinese
brought forth,” says Prof. E. A. Ross,

“since they took to binding the feet and neg-

lecting the education of their daughters.”

The Chinese estimate of women is hit off in
its very alphabet.

“Double the ideograph for woman,” says
Prof. Edward Alsworth Ross, in La Follette’s,
“ and you have ‘to wrangle’; triple it and the
meaning is ‘intrigue.’ In Chinese thought the»
world is divided between good and evil, Yang
and Yin. Darkness is Yin; cold is Yin; earth

spirits are Yin, and woman is Yin.”

    
 

W for the ptember 28th issue of

(Q-Qt e

      
   

276

Women At Home
U.S. DEPT! OF AGRICULTURE

     
   

Sugar-Saving Canning

Fruits Without Sugar

1. See that all equipment is ready before

starting.

2. Test jars and rubbers.

3. Select only fresh, firm, sound products.

4. Prepare by cleaning, sorting, stemming,
seeding, paring and coring.

5. Scald or blanch peaches, apricots, figs and
plums l to 2 minutes in boiling water or steam.

6. Dip quickly into cold water. Finish
preparation. (Omit steps 5 and 6 for all fruits
not named.)

7. Pack at once in hot, clean glass jars or
other containers.

8. Pour over the fruit the boiling hot water.

9. Wipe around top of jar carefully with
clean cloth. '

10. Place scalded rubber and cap in position.

11. Partially tighten tops; seal tin cans com-
pletely.

12. Sterilize for the length of time given be-
low, according to the particular type of outfit
used:

Hot water bath . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..30 minutes

Water seal 214 degrees . . . . . . . . .20 minutes

5 pounds steam pressure . . . . . . ..12 minutes

13. Remove jars from canner; seal com-
pletely.

14. Invert to test joints for pinhole leaks.

15. Cool as quickly as possible, avoiding
drafts.

16. Label, wrap and store for winter use.

Use for pie fillings, puddings, ices, sauces,
salads and in the making of fruit punches.

Corn Sirup with Sugar
This table shows the proportions of corn
sirup, sugar and water that may be combined

for making canning sirups of different densi-
ties:

THIN smUP
Corn Sirup Sugar Water
1. 1 cup 1 cup 2'/. cups
2. 2 cups 1 cup 4 cups
3. 3 cups 1 cup 5% cups
MEDIUM SIRUP
Corn Sirup Sugar Water
1. 1 cup 1 cup l'/a cups
2. 2 cups 1 cup 2% cups
3. 3 cups 1 cup 3%, cups
THICK SIRUP
Corn Sirup Sugar Water
1. 1 cup 1 cup 1 cup
2. 2 cups 1 cup 1% cups
3. 3 cups 1 cup 1% cups

W HOLESOME PATRIOTISM.

Budget your canning—«1n ounce of
foresight may save ten pounds of sugar.

Fresh products mean half the can-
ning battle won.

Save yourself as well as the surplus—
plan your work and work your plan.

Reciprocity in canning pays well—
help your neighbor today and she will
help you tomorrow.

Save every drop of juice.

Save every grain of sugar.

System in canning saves more than the
product.

A well-screened kitchen saves many a
jar of jelly.

 

Apple Sirup

1. Add 5 ounces of powdered calcium car-
bonate to 7 gallons of apple cider or juice.

2. Boil the mixture in a kettle or vat vigor-
ously for five minutes.

3. Pour the liquid into vessels, preferably
jars or pitchers.

4. Allow to stand six or eight hours or until
perfectly clear.

5. Pour the clear liquid into a clean preserv-
ing kettle.

6. Add to liquid one teaspoon of calcium
carbonate; stir thoroughly. ‘

7. Boil rapidly (220 degrees F.) until bulk
is reduced one-seventh of original volume. It
should have the consistency of maple sirup
when tested in cold water.

Sugar-Saving Sweets

STUFFED FRUITS AND POPCORN

Stuff dates, figs, and raisins with nuts,
candied fruits, or soft sugarless candies.

These may be cut in small sections and

dipped in chocolate. Make popcorn balls
and peanut brittle with corn sirups. Pop-
corn may also be used to form a consider-
able portion of fondant, fudge, molasses
tally, and other candies made from corn
sirup, maple sugar, molasses, or honey.

 

The Woman Citizen

8. Pour into jars, pitchers, etc.

9. Cool very slowly.
10. Pour into fruit jars, cans, jugs or kettles.
ll. Sterilize for length of time given below

according to outfit used:

Water bath . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10 minutes
I Water seal 214 degrees . . . . . . . ..10 minutes
5 pounds steam pressure . . . . . . .. 8 minutes

12. Remove containers and tighten covers,
corks or cover.

13. Invert to cool and test joints.

14. Store for winter use.

Use on hot cakes, in beverages and like; mo-
lasses for sweetening cookies and desserts.

Sugar Beet Sirup

1. Wash sugar beets thoroughly with scrub-
bing brush.

2. Cut off tops at lowest leaf scar.

3. Pare; cut in thin slices.

4. Pour boiling water over beets to cover;
allow to stand in closed container 1 hour.

5. Strain off the juice through cheese cloth
to separate it from the pulp.

6. Put strained juice in kettle; boil to a

7. Remove; pour immediately into hot, ster-
ilized containers.

8. Process 10 minutes in boiling water.

9. Remove from canner; seal completely.

10. Cool, label, store. '

Beet sirup is good for all purposes for which
other sirups or molasses are used.

Fruit Juices

1. See that all equipment is ready.

2. Prepare fruits by cleaning; stemming, etc.

3. Heat slowly in an acid-proof kettle until
fruit is tender. Before beginning to cook ber-
ries, mash. A little water may be added if
necessary. Cut hard fruits, such as apples, into
pieces and add half as much water as fruits.

4. Place in dampened bag; press to remove
all juices.

5. Drain through closely woven bag, damp-
ened; do not press.

6. Pour fruit juice into hot jars, or tin cans.
sirupy consistency; skim continuously.

7. Place scalded rubber and cap in position.

8. Partially tighten tops; seal tin cans‘ com-
pletely.

9. Sterilize 40 minutes at a temperature of
165 degrees F. (simmering).

10. Remove jars from canner; seal com-
pletely.

11. Invert to test joints for pinhole leaks.

12. Cool, label, wrap and store for winter use.

Use for flavoring and beverages.

 

 

A War Fruit Cake

1 lb. raisins (chopped),
2 cups sugar,

14 cup fat (Crisco),

l teaspoonful cloves,

2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon,
1/2 nutmeg,

2 cups boiling water,
salt.

Put on stove and let come to boil slowly.
Take off; cool; add 2 teaspoonfuls soda,
dissolved in hot water; 3 cups flour.

Bake in slow oven.

, J

l
l

August 31, 1918

Women in Industry

HE following section (ix) appears in the
resolutions on reconstruction discussed at
the Conference of the British Labor Party, June
26-28, 1918, at the Central Hall, Westminster:
That the Conference holds that the changes
in the position of women during the war, in
which they have rendered such good service,
and the importance of securing to women as
to men the fullest possible opportunities for in-
dividual development, make it necessary to pay
special attention in the reconstruction programme
to matters affecting women; and, in particu-
lar, the Conference ahirms—
A.—With Regard to Industry on Demobiliza-
tion:—

(i) That work or maintenance at fair rates
should be provided for all women displaced
from their employment to make way for men
returning from service with the forces, or other
nation work.

(ii) That full inquiry should be made into
trades and processes previously held to be un-
healthy or in any way unsuitable for women,
but now being carried on by them, with a view
to making recommendations as to the condi-
tions of their further employment in such
trades.

(iii) That all women employed in trades
formerly closed to them should continue to be
so employed only at Trade Union rates of
wages.

(iv) That Trade Unions should be urged to
accept women members in all trades in which
they are employed.

(v) That the principle of “equal pay for
equal work” should be everywhere adopted.
G.—With Regard to Civil Rights:—

(i) That all legal restrictions on the entry
of women to the professions on the same con-
ditions as men should be abrogated.

(ii) That women should have all franchises
and be eligible for election to all public bodies
(including Parliament), on the same condi-
tions as men.

(iii) That systematic provision should be
made for the inclusion of women in Commit—
tees or Commissions, national or local, dealing
with any subjects that are not of exclusively
masculine interest.

(iv) That the present unjust provision of the
income-tax law, under which the married
woman is not treated as an independent human
being, even in respect of her own property or
earnings, must be at once repealed.

RESOLUTIONS
adopted at the 27th annual session of the Scandinavian Grand Lodge of Minn., I. 0. G. T., held at

Holmes City, Minn, June 20-22, 1918.

" Whereas, the International Order of Good Templar: stands for the equal opportunity and
development of humanity irrespective of race, color, creed or sex, be it

Resolved, that the Scandinavian Grand Lodge of Minnesota of the I. 0. G. T. assembled at its
twenty—seventh annual session June 20-21-22, 1918, at Holmes City, Minnesota, pledges its
members individually and collectively for “ Woman Suhrage,” and that we its members to the
utmost and to the best of our abilities work to attain that end, and be it further,

Resolved, that we disapprove of the recent stand taken by the American Federation of Labor
in denying representation on its council to its women members. To us it is inconsistent for
such an organization not to stand for equal representation of woman with her brother in the
management and important deliberations; especially now and at this time when woman by
her enthusiasm, energy, work and sacrifices in the cause of human liberties has shown herself

fully the equal of man, in the prosecution of the work of the government in its various depart-

ments and activities in the present world struggle and crisis, and be it further
Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be sent to Samuel Gompers, President of the
American Federation of Labor; to its Executive Council and to the Press.

Opportunity

IVE young women signed up as oilers on

the Steamship “ Franstand,” which sailed

on a six months’ trip from the port of Aber-
deen, Washington.

‘£ LL the good old soft snaps,” says the

New York World, announcing the first
of the 150 women ticket choppers to be put on
the subway, “that have been labeled, ‘for men
only,’ have been wrenched away and bestowed
upon the sex that used to dispel ennui over
the washtub, and waste nights riotously among
the bright lights scrubbing up otiice buildings.”

CERTAIN Memphis firm is employing

nine women, the number to be increased,
in filling a large Government order for wagons.
These women, it is said, construct the entire
bodies of the wagons, wield the hammer and
planing machines and paint the finished product.
Most of them receive the same pay as men,
according to the story.

ARIED are the activities of the women
employes of a western airplane factory:

They pack parts, stuffing bags with excelsior;
work on wire parts; cut copper pieces; bind
wires with tape, and solder joints of wire.
They put the “ dope,” a waterproofing mixture,
on wings and body of the plane, and paint the
United States emblem on the bodies. They do
light carpentering and metal work and sew
linen 'on the wings. ’

HE order withdrawing men from non-
essential industries has resulted, the New
York American tells us, in many changes at
the Hotel McAlpin, where a force of women
is now being taught to run the elevators. At
this hotel there are now two women assistant
managers, a woman comptroller, information
clerk, head bookkeeper and a woman at the
head of the laundry, which employs ninety-five
men and women.

Hotels

HOTEL McALPIN

Broadway at 34th Street, New York
An Entire Floor Reserved

Exclusively for Women

Hostess and Chaperon in Charge
Shopping Guides Available

 

HOTEL LE MARQUIS

12 East 31st Street. New York
(Four Doors from m Avenue)

Combines every convenience and home contort! and
commends ltaelt to people of rennernent wishing to live

on American Plan and be within easy reach of social and

argue centers. Especially adapted to ladies travelina

Room and bath “.00 per with meals. or 2.50
day without meals. d” s w

mutated Booklet gladly sent upon realist.
JOHN P. TOLBON.

 

Government Positions Open to

Women

B ECAUSE of the numerous inquiries as to

civil service positions which are open to
women, the Civil Service Commission an-
nounces that the following is a complete list of
positions open to applicants. Those marked
“ Open" will remain open until further notice,

examinations not being limited to any definite
date.

Accountant, open until further notice.

Balance of stores clerk (open).

Blue-print clerk (open).

Bookkeeper-typewriter, every Tuesday.

Clerk-bookkeeper (open).

Business administration (open).

Chemist (open).

Clerk, accounting and statistics (open).

Draftsman:

Draftsman: Copyist, Electrical, Engineering,
Mechanical, Radio, Topographic, Ship (all
open).

Field examiner (open).

Finger-print classifier (open).

Index and catalogue clerk (open).

Inspector of undergarments (open).

Laboratory: Assistant (open).

Laundress (open).

Law clerk (open).

Marketing- (open).

Messenger, every Saturday, in Washington and
Alexandria.

Operator:

Operator: Graphotype, Addressograph, Multi-
graph, Writer press, Calculating machine,
Statistical machine (all open).

Proof reader (open).

Physicist (open).

Plant pathologist (open).

Production clerk (open).

Railway clerk: Passenger rate, Freight rate,
Tariff rate, Statistician, Schedule clerk.

Stenographer-typewriter, every Tuesday.

Telegraph operator (Open).

Trained nurse (open).

For information and application blanks apply
to local post office or to United States Civil

Service Commission, Washington, D. C.

 

Be sure to read the Woman Citizen of
September 28.

When writing to advertisers please mention the WOHAngme. by c  I e

27 8

METROPOLITAN
DYE WORKS

CLEANERS
and DYERS

First Class Work. Reasonable Prices.
Prompt Delivery.

For stores throughout New York Ciiy. see telephone dinner}.

I

 

Suffrage for Women
(Continued from page 266)

tear everything to pieces.” She regarded
my proposal of universal male suffrage
about as if I suggested that every wild cat,
tiger, lion and hyena on the globe be given
the ballot. She was personally a gentle, kind-
hearted woman, she had a keen, active con-
science in general, and was kind and consid-
erate to her own servants, but she had lived
under a system of government that through its
suffrage law acted as if the laboring popula-
tion were wild animals unfit to trust with the
vote until she had acquired the idea that they
were exactly the kind that the law in effect de-
clared them to be.

Not only do our ideals tend to come into con—
formity with our conduct, but an ideal fostered
by conduct in one field of life tends to modify
our views even in other fields and bring us to
commit acts that would otherwise have been
abhorred. The institution of human slavery
in many cases resulted in better care for the
slaves than they gave themselves when freed,
and yet slavery had to be abolished as much to
protect, the minds of those who owned the
slaves from the corroding influence of the many
indirect effects of the institutions, as to protect
the slaves from injustice.

For these reasons we men cannot quietly con-
tinue to keep women in a state of political
slavery, denying them the fundamental right
to participate in their own government, without
blunting our own sense of justice, nor can we
continue to act toward woman in her civic re-
lations as if she were an infant or a civic
imbecile without to some extent coming to ac-
.cept this view. These false views and this
dulled sense of justice acquired by the con-
tinued performance of this act of injustice un-
fortunately will Spread their influence far be-
yond the incident which gave rise to them and
injuriously affect much of our thinking and
living. The only way continually to refine our
sense of right is to live up to the highest that

we now have, and the sure way to dull our .

sense of justice and lower our ideals is to allow
prejudice, personal interest or cowardice to hold
us back from following immediately the highest
light that is in us.

If the men of this nation refuse to heed
the light that our quickened consciences have
brought to us in this hour of supreme peril,
that light will vanish as we slip backward and
downward. We must as brave, free men break
the shackles of tradition and every unworthy
tie that binds, face without blinking the dawn
of this new day of freedom and justice and live
up to the highest that is given us in order that
we may become pure enough and strong enough
to see yet more light.

When writing to advertisers please mention the WOMAN CITIZEN.

Correspondence

To rm: Em'roa or THE Woman CITIZEN:

I have not before me while I write your
issue of August 10 and will therefore not at-
temps to quote verbatim, but my attention has
been called to a statement therein to the effect
that Senator Shields said at the audience which
be granted to Tennessee suffragists on July 26
that he had heard only the arguments of
“ picketers" up to that time.

I was present at the audience, and while I
would not attempt to say what Senator Shields
may have privately said to others than myself,
I know he did not, in his remarks to the dele-
gation as a body, make such a statement.

My object in making this correction is three-
fold. In the first place, the assertion does an
injustice to Senator Shields. In the second
place, it does an injustice to the National
Woman’s Party, and last, but by no means
least, it does a great injustice to the Tennessee
members of the National-American Woman
Suffrage Association, who, I know, have been
more or less on the job since the year One.
It would not have been possible for Senator
Shields to have made such a statement in the
presence of members of the N. A. W. S. A.
who have labored long and hard, and it is
reasonable to suppose by those who are the
least bit familiar with conditions in Tennessee
that he would not have made such a state-
ment, since there exists between Senator
Shields and many members of both suffrage
parties in Tennessee a mutual respect that is
deep and lasting.

Let me take this occasion to say to the
readers of the Woman Citizen that when Sen-
ator Shields votes for the Federal Suffrage
Amendment it will not be because the “picket-
ers " did or didn’t, or because the President did
or didn’t, or because of what Mrs. So-and-So
and Miss Something-or-Other did or said, but
because Senator Shields, after weighing all the
evidence adduced and all the arguments ad-
vanced, is convinced. He is that kind of man
with that kind of mind. The weight of the
arguments mean more to him than their source.
Every judge who ever graced a bench has had
cases in which on the one side was a well-
trained. polished star of the first magnitude,
while on the other side was one who may have
been, in the judge’s private opinion, the biggest-
fool-lawyer unhung. Judges, however, do not
sit upon the relative merits of advocates, but
upon the merits of the cause.

We may trust Senator Shields, the judge,
not to get mixed up on the issues, whatever

be his private opinion of some of us.
Nashville, Tenn, SUE S. WHITE.

SUFFRAGE WIN-THE-WAR
MEASURES

Buy Thrift Stamps.

Buy War-Savings Stamps.

Fight for Democracy.

Support the Federal Suffrage Amend-

ment.

 

The Woman Citizen

alll Institute A Boarding and
em e street. I. w..

Walnut-I. I). c. D“? 56M“ for Girls

High School and Coll Prepare Conreee. Two
Yeere of College Work... Speculative”: The Arte.

Journellem. Short Story Writing. Boeineee end Seer-e-

teriel '1‘ Kindergarten. Norlnel Traini . Donne-
tle Science. rlfenentery Lew. "

Mn. Nanette 8. Paul. L]... 8.. Proteins.
_ Author of “Penl'e Parliernntery Lew"
end "The Heart of Bleekeeone"

In All Candor

(Continued from page 269)

frankly and earnestly advised us to vote for the
amendment as an act of right and justice to the
women of the country and of the world.’

MAY GOD BLESS THEM

“When the Son of God wrought his miracles
upon this earth, He took as His emblems not
the tall and stately cedars of Lebanon, but the
creeping vine; not the giant oak of the forest,
but the unpretentious bush; not the roaring
lion, but the gentle lamb; not the proud and
mighty eagle that soars high in the heavens,
but the meek and lowly dove. So has He de-
signed woman to perform the divine mission.
He has made her heart the refuge of religion
and the receptacle of virtue.

“ With their gentle and persuasive influence
mothers have performed an important part in
the present war, for which they deserve the
greatest consideration on our part. Conditions
which will likely prevail at the conclusion of
this war will demand as much of them as the
present war does. Reverently speaking, may
God bless them in their efforts in behalf of

humanity.”

Easier to Amend
(Continued from page 267)

“Mr. President, in order to win under such
circumstances you have to make a paramount
issue of the question, and hence it is almost im-
possible under those circumstances to pass an
amendment to the state constitution.

“ All of these limitations and restrictions were
placed there for the purpose of preventing
amendments to the constitution.

“They were placed in those constitutions de—
liberately for the purpose of not having the
constitution amended, but times are changing
and amendments are necessary. The obstruc-
tions ought not to be so great as to hamper and
prevent the adoption of good and valid amend-

ments.
“You can see the difficulties these ladies

have been under in attempting to have a con-
stitutional amendment adopted in each of the
states of the Union.

“ Mr. President, I see the hour has arrived
for adjournment, but I want to call attention
to the fact that these are insurmountable objec-
tions to our attempt to get equal—suffrage reso-
lutions passed by each house in each state of
the Union under the limitations and obstruc-
tions prescribed. They are so great that it
makes woman suffrage by state action impos-
sible in a large number of the states of the

Union.”

Special Liberty Loan Number

HE September 28th issue of the Woman

Citizen will be a “ VVoman’s Liberty Loan
Number.” Many striking features of women's
relation to the great drive for the fourth Liberty
Loan will be presented.

 

030

THE WILLIAMS PRINTING COMPANY. N" 101‘

 

PARAGON
Shorthand

IN

  
     
   
   
   
     
     
   
   
   
   
         
    
        
     
   
       
     
 
      
   
       
   
       
         
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
       
       
       
      
  
    
   
 

  

EVIDENCE
or lTS MERIT

Read this from the head car-
toonist of Collier's Weehl and
a Member of Life's s . We

at many enthusiastic letters

he these.

F. G. COOPER.
iii East 13th Street.
New York. N. Y.

Ibelievelhaveareportthatwlll
interut you. Within a very fete days
aiterlreceivcdyoursetoilemonsl
made all the notes In my pocket note
book in your Paragon shorthand.

Pieascbearinmind.inthisconneo-
tion. that I had never so much as
glanced at any other system beiore
and knew nothing whatever about
any shorthand system.

After ilve evenings' study I wrote
the am two raga oi a story in your
shorthand. Six weeks later I got out
thetwopsgesandwrotethemoilon
the typewriter with no trouble at all.
ltstrikesmethat suohaninstanceis
quite a recommendation ior your sys-
tem. Sinoceiy. F. G. COOPER.

In re y to our r ueat for
perm seiontopu lishthe

above. Mr. Cooper wrote as fol-
lower

"1 should consider It s humanl-
tarisn duty to encourage my triends
andsoqusintancesintbeuseoiyour
system. and you are welcome to the
me oi my testimonial."

In Court Reporting

“I have been the Oillcial Court Ite-
porter tor the Ninth Judicial District
oi Louisiana tor a number oi years.
using Paragon Shorthand exclusively.
Some years ago I learned this system
In seven lessons. With Paragon
Shorthand I am abletodosnykind
oi work with as great rapidity as the
occasion may demand."—J. Martian
Hartley. Lats Providence. La.

Learns in Five Hours

"1 received your Course in Short-
hand and mastered the entire theory
In ave hours aiter I received it.
There is no reason why I shouldn’t
beabletowriteiwwordsaminute
siter s little practice. To those who
want to become expert stenogrsphers.
I commend your course very highly."
—Carl A. Jackson. Myrna. In.

Paragonisslsobeingtsughtinthe
High Schools of Alton. Ill.. Lsiayette.
lnd.. Johnstown. Pa.. and elsewhere.

In Big Corporations

“I am getting along iine with Pars-
gon Shorthand. It Is allyou claim tor
It. It is easy to write. and as ior
speed—there's no limit"—John Wal-
ler. Jr.. Standard Oil Company. Sugar
Crest. Mo.

By Business Men

“I am using Paragon Shorthand in
making my notu in the daily routine
oi the work. It is oi incalculshle

  

taken it up long since."—
John . cum. Auditor. Morena Elec-
Utatitss 60.. Plastics.

ONE EVENING m'"

 

7 Lessons in 7 DAYS. Prove It at Our Expense

SENT ON 7 DAYS FREE TRIAL

Think of it—a Shorthand so simple,.so easy, so practical
that, in one evening’s study of the first lesson, you will be able
to write more than a thousand words! In seven days you can
complete the Course of seven Lessons and read your notes per-
fectly! To absolutely convince you of this almost unbelievable
truth, we will send you the Complete Course of 7 Lessons on 7
Days’ Free Trial.

You never heard of such a thing before, of course, and may
therefore be inclined to be more or less skeptical of our claims.
More than likely you will say that it is out of all reason to
expect anyone to learn Shorthand in less than 7 MONTHS, to
say nothing of 7 DAYS. Many of the most brilliant and suc-
cessful PARAGON Shorthand writers bad Just such doubts in
the beginning. And Just as we urged them, we now urge you to

lay aside your doubts long enough to make the test at our
expense.

Ever So Simple—and Only $5 if You Keep It

PARAGON is the short cut to shorthand proficiency. It is
unlike any other system In the world—a thousand times easier
and simpler and absolutely practical for all purposes. You
learn in the quiet of your own home at a total cost of only
$5—and you will have a better, more practical knowledge of
Shorthand than you could acquire in 6 or 8 months of hard
study costing you from $50 to $75 by taking the old-time
systems. In 7 days you will have learned the 7 lessons com-
prising the course. You then begin practicing for speed.

You Need It—You Will Find It Invaluable

Whether you are a clerk, salesman or bookkeeper—college or high
school student—man in the army or navy—a wife or a young woman
at homF-learn Shorthand. It is one of the most valuable accomplish-

ments in business today. It will increase your emciency amazingly.
It will aid you to advance rapidly.

In World-Wide Use for 25 Years

Paragon is used in the oilices of the biggest corporations, in the
United States Government oinces, etc. You can use it for dictation,

taking down telephone messages, speeches, conferences, sermons, leo-
tttres, lessons, court testimony, etc.

Send No Money—Just the Coupon—That Is All

The complete Course oi 7 lemons is now only ts—the lowest
price tor a thorough education in shorthand ever known. Do
not send any money in advance. however. Try it at our expense
Am. Simply an out the coupon below and mail It to us. Aiter
you receive the Course. study It ior 7 evenings and it you be-
lieve you can be without this precious knowledge any longer.
mail it back to us and you will owe nothing. Send in the coupon
or write a letter today.

Try This Lesson Now

Take the ordinary longhand letter 4/ Elim-
inate everything but the long downstroke and there
willremain / This is the Paragon symbolise
D. II is always written downward.

From the longhand letter ’6 rub out every-
thing except the upper part—the circle—sad you
will have the Paragon E. s

' / and

Write this circle at the “sinks oi
yen will have Ed. /

By letting the circle remain open it will be a hook.
and this hook stantb star A. Thus will be
Ad. Add another A u the end. thus / and you
will have s girl's name. Ads.

From I eliminate the initial and has! sucks.
and a will remain. which is tho Paragon symbol
for O.

Forthelonghsnd/"V.whichismsdeoi7
strokes, you use this one horizontal stroke _

Therefore, .4 would be Me.

Now continue the E across the M. so as to add
'J—thus 7 and you will have lied. Now add
the large circle lot 0. and you will have
(mcdo). which is Meadow. with the silent A and W

Omitted.
You now have 5 of the characters. There are
only 26 in all. Then you memorize 26 simple

word-signs. 6 preiia contractions and one nat-
ural rule for abbreviations. That is all.

 

P-------------_—----------_------------- - --

Send in I
You may send me the Com-
the lete Course of PARAGON
I horthand with the dis-

CO“ I] or tinct understanding that I
Po I have 7 days after its re-

° ceipt to either remail the
wnte Us : Course to you or send you

n  I $5.00.

| PARAGON INSTITUTE HOME STUDY DEPARTMENT. 366 Fifth Ave., Sin 78! New York City

 

Woman Ctrtan—8-31-18

l _____________________——_
To D AY I lllllllllllllllllllllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllllllllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllll

 

 

Met  Than Pyblished Prices

_‘_‘ _.-_.-

-‘mb—Q an... _———‘—£-x=-m .u;.v~.~.r— ’—

 

i n » ‘.
7‘3"“(15‘. ‘ :h‘mf‘l' ' o ' f» ‘

sent to your address.

Pubiilhed Combination:
Subscription Saved on
and Book Combination

THE PAN-GERMAN PLOT UNMASKED: André Chéradame . . . . . . ...$1.25

“OVER THERE”: Captain R. Hugh Knyvett . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50

FIGHTING FOR PEACE: Henry van Dyke . . . . . . .., . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25

WHY WE ARE AT WAR: Woodrow Wilson. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .50

IN OUR FIRST YEAR OF WAR: Woodrow Wilson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00

FIGHTING FRANCE: Edith Wharton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00

THE UNITED STATES AND PAN-GERMANIA: André Chéradame.. 1.00
GENERAL J OFFRE AND HIS BATTLES: Raymond Recouly (Captain X) 1.25
ON THE RIGHT OF THE BRITISH LINE: Captain Gilbert Nobbs... 1.25
WHITE NIGHTS AND OTHER RUSSIAN IMPRESSIONS: Arthur Ruhl 2.00

A WAR NURSE’S DIARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25,
MY WAR DIARY: Madame Waddington . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50
WITH THE ALLIES: Richard Harding Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .. 1.25,
THE DESERTER: Richard Harding Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .50
PRINCIPLES OF AMERICAN DIPLOMACY: John Bassett Moo're.. .. 2.00
. N 0 v e l s -
THE EARTHQUAKE: Arthur Train...... .............  .......... .. 1.50
CHRISTINE: Alice Cholmondeley. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25
HIS FAMILY: Ernest Poole . . . . . . . . . .  .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50
THE TREE OF HEAVEN: Ma); Sinclair . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.60
Miscellaneous
YOUR VOTE AND HOW TO USE IT: Mrs. Raymond Brown . . . . . . . . .75
THE WOMAN VOTER’ S MANUAL: S. E. Forman and Marjorie Shuler. . 1 .00
MARK TWAIN’S LETTERS, 2 Volumes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4.00

OBSERVATION: EVERY MAN HIS OWN UNIVERSITY: R. H. Conwell 1.00
THE MODERN CITY AND ITS PROBLEMS: Frederic C. Howe. . .. 1.50

THE HIGH COST OF LIVING: Frederic C. Howe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50
-THE FOOD PROBLEM: Kellogg and Taylor . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25
WAR FRENCH: Colonel C. D. Willcox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .. .75

This offer is for a limited period.. Send your orders promptly to

THE WOMAN“ CITIZEN

New York City

 

 

 

 

O n t h e W a r 0335.51

.—.~———__.- hm- -

E have arranged to supply the books listed below at the spec
named when sold in combination with new subscriptions to the Woman
Citizen. They will be mailed post-paid to any address in the United States.
This is an opportunity to save from twenty to thirty-five per cent on the
published prices. If you are already a subscriber to the Woman Citizen

and wish to own certain of the books, invite your friends‘to become subscribers to the '

magazine at one dollar a year, and have the books .of your choice sent to your address.

They will cost you the difference between the full price quoted for each combination

and one dollar. Orsubscribe to the magazine as~ a gift for a friend and have the book

$1.85

2.00

85
5
5
5

030500

03
01

1
1.
1.
l.
1.
1.85
1.5
2. 5
1. 5
2.0
1. 5
1 5
2. 5

WOODCOCme

were
seas

HHMMHWHH

- 23¢  “‘1'

$.40
.50
.40
.15
.35
.35
.35
.40
.40
.65
.40

60
.40
15
65

eggs

ial prices

Amount

