. '  cents a. .c'Op‘y,.
' .' August 10, I918,

    

C n

11"8' '7 O

202 The Woman Citizen

jfranklin §imon a Go.

A Store of Individual Shops

Fifth Avenue, 37th and 38th Sts., New York

Fashionable Winter Model
SCOTCH MOLE FUR CAPE COATEE

(as illustrated)

At a special price prevailing

from August 10th to 31st, inclusive

STYLISH Cape Coatee of real Scotch mole fur which
will be fashionable during the Winter season; made of
carefully selected, beautifully matched skins, full square

cape back forming points at sides, new blouse front with
stole ends, deep pockets, large square collar.

325.00

 

Furs Purchased Now Stored Free Until Required

315cm: 8: ([0.

W Fifth Avenue at 35th Street 1"
] ' Established [879 1:!

i Worn the Year Round by
Lil ' Many— i
 1.65 Silk AHTABHosiery 

 The 1.65 AHTAB is a ure hill;
in“ thread silk stocking, me ium J.

 

IE. weight. “It

in . 9.1 °

gm The tops are double elastic, the "U Real M a t t r e s s C l e a “11 n e 3 s
 soles and heels are strongly re,  Bed-ticking is a sieve-like fabric, which allows foreign matter

1H: . Iii!’ to filter through and become a fixture in the mattress. Re-

‘izei, Inforqed.  covering such bedding is an uncleanly makeshift.

 S O l O O O  . What is needed is an antiseptic. washable l
[ 111138013 precaution lS taken Wlth I- QUILTED

 which really solves this vexing problem.

Made of bleached Muslin padded with white wadding—wash

all its own—that’s  it is worn easily—dry light and litu as new.

e toe. It is double silk and lisle. Ml] Excelsior MATTRESS Protector ’
I The 1.65 AHTAB has a standard I
I

 

 

 

W  so many  people  - Look for the trade-mark sewed on every Pad i
[1| the Year round. Fast co orso Lil EXCELSIOR QUILTING co. 1
 “U 15 Laight Street, New York City
 *2 You Never Pay More at Best ’s-f:* —= 'll‘ —' -

 

 

When writing to advertisers please mention the  - .  . ' ‘

-gm. 2

7 k # _ 7— 7 q _. r- m. w‘.

CONTINUING the Woman’s Journal.

founded 1870 by Lucy Stone and
Henry B. Blackwell, as a weekly news-
paper devoted to winning equal rights
and especially to winning equal suffrage
for women, and published weekly in Bos-
ton, Massachusetts, from 1870 to 1917.
Continuing also the Woman Voter, and
the National SuBrage News. In suc-
ceeding the National SuRrage News, The
Woman Citizen became the oiiicial organ
of the National American Woman Suf-
frage Association, and as such tries to
maintain intimate contact between the

Association and its two million members
throughout the United States.

Our

HE tremendous power of the ballot as a

weapon for good when used with intelli-
gence was never more forcefully demonstrated
than it was recently in Texas, when the wom-
en participated in their first statewide primary
election. Those candidates supported by the
women were nominated, and no candidate re-

ceived their support unless he could score 100'

per cent under the loyalty and sui’rage tests.

Women in great numbers in the unenfran-
chised states are looking forward with great
expectations to the time when the Senate will
make possible their early participation in gov-
ernment. Men the country over are seeing
with Praident Wilson that suffrage is an es-
sential part of this world war for democracy.

After all, suffrage is just a matter of educa-

tion, and there is no better text-book at hand
than the Woman Citizen, which cannot fail to

convince those who have not closed their minds

to progress. We have said before and shall say
again that a constant reader of the Citizen is a

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

Founded June 2, 1917
Published every Saturday by

The WOMAN CITIZEN CORPORATION
at 171 Madison Avenue, New York

Ten cents a copy; early subscription (52 numbers),
81.00. Postage to oreign countries fifty cents extra.
Entered at the New York Post Otiice as Second
Class matter, under the act of March 8, 1879. Copy-
right, 1918, by The Woman Citizen Corporation.

VOL. III AUGUST'10, 1918 NO. 11

   

  

“ Your last number (July 27th) is the
‘ best ever.’ Send me the worth of the
enclosed in copies that I may distribute
them.”

Warren CLARK, Chief Justice
Supreme Court, North Carolina.

        
   
 

STA TE CIRCULA TION CHAIRMEN

Arkansas: Miss Billie Pitney, Little Rock
Conn.: Mrs. Bertha T. Voorhorst, Hartford
Indiana: Mrs. Jessie Fremont Croan, Anderson
Iowa: Dr. Ellie McCollum Jones, Webster City
Louisiana: Mrs. Ruben Chauvin, Houma
Maine: Mrs. Dora H. York, Augusta
Maryland: Mrs. E. W. Rouse, Jr., Baltim0re
Mass.: Mrs. R. L. DeNormandie, Boston
Michigan: Mrs. John Waite, Ann Arbor
Minnesota: Mrs. I. E. Rose, St. Paul

New Hampshire: Mrs. Mary Post, Portsmouth

‘ ers).

 

UBLISHED by the Woman Citizen
Corporation, in the hOpe that it may
rove a self- e etuating memorial to
rs. Frank Bea e’s generosity toward
the cause of woman sudrage and her
faith in woman’s irresistible progress.

The directors of the Corporation are
Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, Miss Alice
Stone Blackwell, Miss Mary Garrett
Hay, Mrs. Thomas Bucklin Wells, and

Mrs. Arthur L. Livermore.

Alice Stone Blackwell is a special contrib-
uting editor.

Rose Young is the editor-in-chief.

Mary Ogden White, Mary Sumner Boyd.
agltit Rose Lawless Geyer are associate
e ors.

 

 

Circulation Story

Circulation Contest

1. A pledge will constitute an entry.
2. N 0 entries will be accepted after December
1, 1918.

8. Contest closes January 1, 1919.

4. In case of a tie for any one premium, the
prize will be awarded to each qualifying
contestant.

5. Only actual paid subscriptions will be counted
in the awarding of premiums.

First Cash Premium
FIFTY DOLLARS,

To the State Association that sends in the
ghest number over 200 (paid new subscrib-
The not price per subscription to the
State Association is .70, the .80 to go into the
state, county or local treasury, as may be de-

cided by arrangement between the state and
its branches.

hi

well-trained recruit for the final battle.

“ It would be impossible to keep up with
the times—now so rapid—without the Woman
Citizen,” writes Rev. S. E. Eastman, D.D., of
Elmira, New York. That has been our honest
conviction right along and we are glad to have
our beliefs borne out by one so discriminating.

Mrs. J. M. Ransen of Tullahoma, Tennessee,
writes us: “The BEST WOMAN’S PAPER
IN THE UNITED STATES.” (The capitals
are hers.) “ I should
not want to live without
it, for I feel in no other

New Jersey: Mrs. F. H. Calvin, East Orange
North Dakota: Mrs. Katherine L. Brainerd,
Hebron
Rhode Island: Mrs. LeBaron C. Colt, Bristol
South Carolina: Mrs. J. T. Gittman, Columbia
Tennessee: Mrs. D. J. Kimbrough, Nashville
Texas: Mrs. Helen Moore, Galveston
Virginia: Miss Helen Stockdell, Richmond

West Virginia: Mrs. P. C. McBee, Morgantown

Wisconsin: Mrs. Charles Mott, Milwaukee

Second Cash Premium
TWENTY-F IVE DOLLARS

To the County Association that sends in the
highest numbers over 100 (paid new sub-
scribers). These would come through the
State Association, and would help to swell the
state’s total.

Third Cash Premium

Relative Position of State Leagues in the Woman Citizen’s Circulation Contest: TVVENTy_FIVE

way could I be anything July 27:). August 3“
put atb’acl; number suf— 1. South Dakota 1. gouth Dakota DOLLARS
ragis gain our be- 2. Gear ia 2. eorgia
lief in the Citizen as a 8. Indiasna 8. Indiana thiosentg: inlfhcalhi (13.1“:
medium of information 4. Iowa 4'- Iowa number ov 1:0 (find
is confirmed by Mrs. 5. Michigan 5. Michigan new subscribe Tim
Thomas Colby Balaam 6. Minnesota 6- Minnesom would co 1:). h the
of Nauvoo, Illinois: 7. New Jersey 7- New Jersey Conn goat:qu ' te
“ The magazine is the 8. Wisconsin 8. Wisconsin the tState Alia 0111 tin 0
best I have ever known 9. New York 9. New York and then t th of; on’
and keeps all sutl’ragists 10. Massachusetts 10. Massachusetts aim." cc 0 e am”
so well posted.” 11. Ohio 11. Virginia '

“ Courageous, persist- 12. Virginia 13- Ohio
ent, intelligent and pa- 13. New Hampshire 13. New HtuIIlPShil'e .
triotic,” is the way Mrs. 14. Missouri 14. Mlisiouri Fourth C3311 Premmm
Ernest Bambach de- 15. Alabama 15- A a ma
scribled our “fight for 16. Texas 16. 'll‘exas1 d TWENTYJ‘IVE

ua suffrage.” And 17. Mar land 17- {9:er

these things it will 18. waisylvania 18. Pennsylvania ' DOLLARS

continue to be until we 19. Maine 19. Maine To ,the mPerating
reach the great al— 20. Louisiana 20- LoniSiana Subscriber Who sends in
political freedom gi- all 21. Connecticut 21. West Virginia the mghest number over
women. One of the best 22. West Virginia 22. Connecticut 50- This “Wild be inde-
ways in which to bring 23. South Carolina, Kentucky 23. South Carolina, Kentucky Feudal!t Of State: county
about an‘ early solution 24. Tennessee, Arkansas 24. Tennessee, Arkansas 83d Club CiI'CUIation ac-

25 25.

of this half century or .
26.

more of struggle is to

Washin n, D. C.
North akota

W'ashington

tivities, would apply to
26. North Dakota

states that do not take

enroll men and women 27. Rhode Island, Mississippi 27. Rhode Island, Mississippi up the circulation work
everywhere under the 28. Nebraska 28. Nebraska in an Dacial way, and
banner of the Citizen. 29. Washin on 29. Washington would come directly to

Rose Lawuss Gma, 80. North arolina, Kansas 30. North Carolina, Kansas the Woman Citizen. The
National C i r co 1 a t i o n 31. Vermont 31. Vermont net price per subscription

Chairman.

 

is $1.00. No discount.

 

 

Digitized by 600816

it. Altman 3c (tn.

The Vanguard of the Autumn Fashions

provides the main feature of interest in the Departments devoted
to the appareling of Women and Misses.

Every whit as charming as in other seasons, yet quite in' line with the conserv-
ing spirit of the times, are the smartly tailored Suits, the becoming Gowns, the
dainty Blouses, the piquant Hats and the modish Coats and Wraps. Every-
thing is new, everything is different, and—everything is attractively priced.

FURS llN TIHIE FASHHONABLE MODELS

Maintain Avenue-Jim; Avenue, New Hark
31181111an11 5.111% ‘ rumour root MURRAY m UM-Eflh Strut

THE MEDICAL COLLEGE
or VIRGINIA

Medicine STUART MCGUIRE, M.D., Pharmacy
LL.D., DEAN Nursing

OPENING NOW TO WOMEN

Physicians, dentists, and .pharmacists
to care for soldiers in France and civilian
population here cannot be recruited from
among the young men of the country in
sufiicient numbers.

Gaps in the ranks must be filled by

- patriotic American women.

The Medical College of Virginia,
founded in 1838 and situated in the cen-
ter of the Old South, offers faculty,

equipment, and cultural surroundings
unexcelled.

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

Invites Your Cooperation

IT PUBLISHES WEEKLY
Political reports of the woman’s cause at home

and abroad.

Direct news from the National American Woman
SuErage Association’s hospitals in France.

A list of woman’s opportunities.

A column for the attention of Vigilance
Committees.

ORDER IT TODAY

    
  
     
    
   
  
 
      

First Aid to Subscribers

Pin a New York draft, Money or Express Order for
. $1.00 to this advertisement, fill out the blank below, cut

out and mail both to us for one year’s subscription (new
or renewal) to

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Board of Visitors, Faculty, and Stu-
dents cordIal to the admission of women.

For information address, Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

MRS. EUDORA RAMSAY RICHARDSON,
1200 East Clay Street Richmond, Virginia

City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . State . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

THE WOMAN CITIZEN 171 Madison Avenue New York

 

When writing to advertisers please mention the WOIAN CITIZEN.
0
, m _ q n J

The Woman Citizen

THE WOMAN’S JOURNAL

A Journal of Democracy
August 10, 1918

“We shall fight for the things which we have always carried nearest our hearts —Ior democracy, for the right of
those who submit to authority to hate a voice in their own government."

Essential in the Conduct of the War

HEN America first went into the war to fight for democ-

racy for European men there were those who said that

the suf’fragists should furl their banners and wait till the war

was over to resume the struggle to secure democracy for Ameri-
can women. '

They said that the right of self-government for which Ameri-
can women had been so long fighting had no kinship with the
right of self-government for which European men were fighting.

They said that it was not patriotic for American women to
think or care about the right of self—government in America
when America was thinking so much and caring so much about
the right of self-government in Europe.

They said that woman suffrage was not a war problem, that
it had nothing whatever to do with the successful conduct of the
war, and that it was harsh and selfish for women to insist upon

it while the vast problems of the war pressed for consideration.

M EANTIME an authoritative voice had begun speaking for
America on the subject of war. It interpreted and clari-

fied.
as nobody and nothing else had done. Europe fell easily into the
habit of listening when it spoke and of valuing the content.
“ President Wilson’s War Aims,” “ Wilson’s ideals,” “ the W il-

sonian democracy ”—the words became catch phrases all over

It made men know and remember what the war was for,

Europe. America was justified in her own eyes and American;

gathered around the President with moral support and cor.
fidence without regard to party. Able men, national legislators
in particular, took pleasure in boasting that since unity was vastly
desirable and since the President’s ability to see into and through
a matter to its answer was so marked, they were ready to defer
to his judgment and be guided by his conclusions. They were
pleased to put the matter as a mark of their patriotism. On
measure after measure pertaining to the safe conduct of the war,
the President’s judgment and conclusions have been accepted as
hnaL

him, securer in him than in itself.

Individual dissent has ironed itself smooth in order to meet

As a converter of the dis-
sonants he has had no equal.

Y ET national legiSlators, who have supported him staunchly
on other issues because he was the country’s war leader and
their allegiance to country was involved in their allegiance to his
leadership, have pointed out that he has never oflicially taken his
stand for the passage of the Federal Suffrage Amendment as a
war measure, and that they were obligated to his support only on
such measures as he considered essential for winning the war.
Now comes the President with a statement, unofficial, to be
sure, but unequivocal, as to his view of the essential need of
passing the Federal Amendment in order to win the war.
Writing to the President late in June, Senator Shields, of
Tennessee, pointed out that if he could be persuaded that the
adoption of the suffrage resolution would contribute to the
successful prosecution of the war he would unhesitatingly vote
for it, but that he was not so persuaded. These were plain
words, but the President’s reply was plainer still. In his view
“the passage of the amendment at this time is an essential
psychological element in the conduct of the war for democracy.”
America’s action upon this amendment, will, in the President’s
belief, “have an important and immediate influence upon the
whole atmosphere and morale of the nations engaged in the war,
and every day I am coming to see how supremely important that
side of the thing is. We can win if we have the will to win,”

HEN it comes to a question of choice between the Presi-

dent’s judgment and the judgment of the individual
Senator as to what are the essential elements of winning the
war, it is to be remembered that America chose long before the
President included the passage of the Federal SuErage Amend-
ment among the essentials. It has come to the pass that it is
exceedingly ditiicult for the American people in this supreme war
crisis to brook having one of the essential elements of success
defiected and defeated by men who have pledged themselves to
the President’s support in winning the war. How much longer
will the obstructionists in the United States Senate be allowed to
block the passage of the amendment? And by what name does
America know those who fortify themselves against the elements

essential to the successful termination of the war ?

Digitized by 600816

246

The Woman Citizen

The Value of Being Constituents

From Senator Calder

THER times, other manners. Time was
when, if women were constituents, they
didn’t know it. Now, take notice!

Many suffrage women who reside in the Fifth
Congressional District of Brooklyn have re-
ceived the following letter from United States
Senator William M. Calder, a letter much ap-
preciated as a courtesy extended by the Senator
and as an indication of the decided change that
has recently been observed in the attitude of the
public oflicial toward his women constituents:

“ The New York State Legislature of 1917
reapportioned the Congressional Districts of
Brooklyn. As a result, the District in which
you reside has no Member of Congress.

“In view of that fact, I am now writing to
you, as your Senator, to say that I would be
glad to have you communicate with me when
there is any legislation pending in Washington
in which you are interested, or when I can in
my official capacity serve you here.

“ Permit me to congratulate you on taking
advantage of the first opportunity to register.
It indicates that you propose to take an active
part in the affairs of the nation, state and city.
It is a splendid thing at this time for our
women to realize that it is their PATRIOTIC
'duty to participate in both the primaries and
elections."

Mrs.- Catt on the Senate Vote

LL reports from Washington indicate that

there is every possibility that the minute
important war measures are out of the way
the Federal Amendment will be called up in
the Senate for action. Suffrage leaders are so
confident of the result that they are preparing
plans to launch ratification campaigns in forty—
five of the states whose legislatures meet next
year. ,
“The outstanding feature of my own op-
timism,” says Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, presi-
dent of the National American Woman Suf-
frage Association, “is the aggressive part
President Wilson has taken in his efforts to
convince certain senators that it is to the coun-
try’s best interests that the Amendment be
speedily submitted to the states. The Presi-
dent’s letters to Senators Shields and Baird
corroborate the statements made some time ago
that the President was prepared to go to great
lengths in his fight for suffrage.

“ Added to this are the reports coming from
authoritative circles in Washington that visits
back home have convinced a number Of sena-
tors that a vote for suffrage represents 100 per
cent in political expediency. Suffrage senti—
ment was never at greater height than during
the last few weeks, and politicians who were
deaf before are now waking up to the fact
that the sentiment for the Federal Amendment
has reached a state of crystalization which
presages‘ disaster to those politicians who would
impede its progress.”

A Message from Miss Hay

S loyal supporters of the Federal Suffrage
Amendment, we can help its passage by
taking every occasion to influence public opin-
ion in its favor. \Ne can point out the fact

WOMEN VOTERS REGISTER

Do you know that if you wish to vote on

NOVEMBER 5TH, ELECTION DAY
you must REGISTER in OCTOBER!

If you do not register you lose your vote.
Your COUNTRY needs your vote.

Register to vote on Election day for the
Candidates who will HELP TO WIN
THE WAR.

REGISTRATION DAYS

October 7, 8, 9, 10, II, from 5 p. m. to
10.30 p. m.,' October 12, from 7 a. m.
to 10.30 p. m.

For further information apply to

Woman Sufrage Party Headquarters
3 East 38th Street, New York City
Telephones 6310 Murray Hill

 

that the enfranchisement of all American wom-
en is bound to come, since matters cannot re-
main as they are, with the women of some
states powerful in the electorate and the
women of other states in the position of polit-
ical nonentities.

The question then to be decided is which
method of working for the ballot shall be em-
ployed, the long, hard, and costly one of the
state campaign or the quicker method of the
passage of a Federal Amendment and its rat-
ification by the Legislatures of the states.

Our opponents who naturally want to make
matters as difi’icult for us as possible are in-
sistent in their charge that national action and
state ratification are unjust both to the states
and to the people at large. Senator Morris K.
Sheppard in a speech on the Senate floor on
Monday, August 5, presented this question from
the suffrage viewpoint in a simple and lucid
manner.

[Senator Shelzpard's speech was (boted at length
in the Woman tttzen of August 1 .-—-Em'ron.]

.—______—__.—_.—

What British Women Want

i
LONDON, July I5.—-To the question |
“ What will women want next?” the i
' National Union of Women’s Sufrage
Societies have given a reply in their
manifesto of reconstruction. Among the
l

concessions asked for are:

Women members of Parliament.

W'omen envoys at the International
Reconstruction Congress after the war.

British nationality to be retained on
marriage with aliens.

Women magistrates and jurymen.

Women solicitors and barristers.

Higher posts for women in government
offices.

Women to be police constables.

Women teachers paid same money as
men.

State maintenance for widowed mothers
with dependent children.

Equal guardianship rights for fathers,
and mothers.

Equal moral standard.

Digitized by  C

From Kansas

To me EDITOR or THE WOMAN CITIZEN:
THINK it would be of interest to all who
are working for suffrage and a timely warn-

ing to all politicians as to what the future holds

for them to know that a man that was a known

“anti” in Kansas before women were en-

franchised cannot now be elected to a public

office of any importance. The recent primary

election in Kansas for the nomination of a

United States Senator has demonstrated that

this is true in this state and will be also true

in other states after the women have obtained
the franchise.

Mr. Charles Scott of Iola, Kansas, formerly
Congressman for this district, was at the bot-
tom of the list in the race for the nomination
on the Republican ticket for United States
Senator. The other two men, Governor Capper
and ex-Governor Stubbs, were both well—known
sutfragists.

I was president of the third district during
the suffrage campaign and had occasion to ask
Mr. Charles Scott at various times when he
was making public speeches, to say something
for suffrage but he consistently refused the
requests of both the suffrage leaders and those
of his friends.

Mr. Scott is a man of high personal character
but has that type of mind that cannot grasp
a change in public sentiment but believes that
what has been is now and ever will be. He
believes that if an idea has prevailed for sev-
eral hundred years it becomes a sacred in-
heritance and can be changed only at the peril
of civilization. Of course, he might concede
that we might try out municipal suErage for
women a few hundred years and if no evil
results followed, we might gradually extend it
to state and then to national suffrage. He did
not advocate the repeal of municipal suffrage
in Kansas but it had no doubt not had a long
enough trial to pass judgment upon, in his
opinion.

Mr. Scott can never be elected or even nomi-
nated as a representative of Kansas as he can-
not even carry his own district. This ought
to be driven home to every man that is now
opposing suffrage in the United States Senate,
for the time is near at hand when the women of
every state will help to select the men that
shall represent their state. I do not think that
Mr. Scott would now state that he was opposed
to suffrage and would no doubt vote for the
Federal Amendment, but it is before suEragc
for women becomes a fact in a state that sup—
port in that state is needed and not afterwards.

Sincerely,
(Mas) MAGDALEN B. MUNson.

The Spirit of Rhode Island

66 HE spirit of woman suffrage is abroad

in Rhode lsland. Our two Senators
are pledged for the Amendment, our Legislature
awaits with eagerness its passage to proceed to
its ratification,” says Mrs. J. W. Algeo, chair-
man of the Rhode Island Suffrage Party.

“Our women, native and foreign born, are
preparing with earnestness and thought for the
great day in 1920 when they cast their first vote.

“ What, we ask, are we to think of a Senate
which dares to hesitate in the face of so strong
and ' sistent a de and? "

__ ___

 

 

 

 

— sat 

August 24, 1918

247

Suffrage as Seen by Soldiers

Called to the attention of Senator James Reed of Missouri, who recently asked on the Senate floor: “ W hat. will
woman “mirage do for the war? Will it put another soldier on the battle front? Will it add a ship?”

The Most Ridiculous Thing

. NEW ENGLAND Lieutenant-Colonel, M.
D., has written the following letter to his
wife. This othcer has seen front line service.

The letter was brought to attention by Mrs.
Oakes Ames, of North Easton:

'° I wish I were a poet to write a few verses
on the text of Woman SuErage. It would
make you sit up and take notice at your old
gumshoe. It is not the things the women over
here are doing so much as the way they do it
and their attitude on the whole proposition.
You see the old idea of non-combatants and
the danger zones are quite changed with the
back area bombing and shelling game. So that
hundreds of nurses, canteen workers, Red Cross
people of all sorts are now exposed to the dan-
ger of bombs and shells. I could give you tales
galore. They not only stand it and stick till
they are driven out or pulled out, and often
after they have been ordered out several times,
but till the last patient or civilian is out. Then
and then only do they come. And all the time
perfectly placid and calm and matter of fact.
My attitude on their being up there now is
quite different from what it was. Then I won-
dered whether we ought to allow them to be in
the danger zone and wondered why the British
last summer did not send all the nurses right
away down to the base when they began to
bomb the place. But there was no question in
the nurses’ minds where their place was, and I
think there would have been an awful row from
them if it was suggested that they should re-
tire. Now, I feel that they have so earned their
RIGHT to be there that we have no decision in
the matter, but that we must give them freely
the privilege to go where they want to go.
Sarah Cunningham, 20 years old, with a little
special training at P. H. stayed and looked
after her remaining patients long after she
had been told to 'clear out. and after the others
had gone and the place was hardly livable.
Another 23-year-old girl, who found a lot of
poilus coming through the town she was in,
and, having to wait over night, wired to the
Red Cross “ What shall I do?” The answer
came “ Feed ’em”; so she got a cart and for
almost 24 hours she handed out stuff from the
tail of the cart, and in the freezing weather
both of her hands were frozen. Many other
nurses have stuck to their wards while the
enemy planes were overhead and the bombs
dropping, often near them, and not lying on
their tummies but going about, quietly, cheer-
fully, jollying the patients as if nothing was
going on. Last summer the nurses on night
duty, alone often, with practically no light at
all, were up, hour after hour, especially in the
resuscitation ward where often there would be
four to ten deaths a night. Gee, but it makes
you want to shout or cry or pray. And to think
that you, who as soon as the opportunity offers,
go into this sort of work as a matter of course
and ask and take no quarter or favors, should
have to ask, and petition and light for “equal
rights ” for the suffrage; why it is the most
ridiculous thing in the world. If I am not
busy when I come back and there should be any
question about this, I think I shall take the
stump for the Vimmens’ vote.”

“And to think that you, who as soon as

the opportunity ofers, go into this sort of
work as a matter of course, and ask and

take no quarter or favors, should have to
ask, and petition and fight for ‘equal
rights’ for the sufrage; why it is the
most ridiculous thing in the world.”

 

Women in Men’s Jobs

N answer to a letter, “ Women in Men’s

J obs,” of August 8 (written by Henry Chan-

cellor in the New York Globe), I would say that

I am the soldier husband of a conductorette and

fail to see why any one thinks that a woman

cannot maintain her self-respect and wOmanli-
ness, even though she is holding a man’s job.

Did the women step up and try to take the
men's jobs when they were not needed? No!
They waited till the time came when they were
compelled to work for themselves and then did
the men the honor of taking their jobs so that
they could show themselves Americans. Women
in men's jobs must be willing workers to stick
to their posts in spite of the slurs thrown at
them by what are called “ men.”

The women should have their vote, and they
will have it. Aren’t they worth it? I con-
sider my wife on a plane as high as any man
and much higher than some men. Now that
they are put to the test, the women seem to
be very little weaker than the men. They
deserve a vote more than a man who will
actually throw mud on a woman’s name in

general.

Conductorettes should have seats. Where is
the manly instinct of Henry Chancellor and his
like? Has he no mother, wife, or sister? And
why does he not get some kind of a rank to
be written with his name before he considers
himself authorized to criticize the women who
are willing to work hard so that their dear ones
might go to the front to protect the women and
children from the fate of Belgium? It seems
a shame that we must go out and fight for
the people as a whole when there are such
“ men ” mingled with them.

Pam-m L. Mum

Camp Upton, N. Y., August 8

To New York Globe.

. Major Elkins for SuErage

“THE United States could not successfully
prosecute the war with Germany and
her allies were it not for the women.

“ This acknowledged everywhere—and not in
the voice of regret but rather with a note of
triumph.

“Many men of West Virginia who, two years
ago, were against the suffrage proposition, are
strongly for it now. Among leading Republi-
cans of the state many new champions have
come to the cause of suffrage.

“ Of four candidates for. the Republican
nomination for United States Senator, but one
—-Major Davis Elkins—mentions suffrage.
Major Elkins says:

“‘ In this war of all wars, woman has
earned many times over her complete and equal

AL
Digitized by GOOSTC

I therefore favor

political rights with man.
Amendment giving

the National SuErage
women the right to vote.’

“ No if, ands or buts about that, either.

“ Mr. Highland does not mention it in his
declaration of principles.

“ Mr. Hughes is as silent as the grave—fear-
ing that such an expression might lose him a

few votes.

“ Joe Gaines always was opposed to suffrage
—same as to prohibition—and doubtless always
will be.

“If the women of West Virginia want a
strong exponent of suffrage in the United
States Senate, they would do well to turn their
attention toward nominating and electing Major
Davis Elkins. He was never known to break
his word when once given. He never reversed
himself on any political policy for which he
had declared—so long as such policy was for
the betterment of his state and his people.

“A man who is brave enough to come out
in the open and say that he favors woman’s
suErage is certainly entitled to all the support
that women can given him, especially when he
is a' candidate for the very ofhce that will have
the most to do with giving the women the right
of suErage. i

“ The women of West Virginia should sit
up, take notice, and turn their attention toward
electing a champion of their cause to the

Senate.”
Morgantown, W. Va., Post.

Lines from a Wounded Soldier

ED CROSS nurses who have joined the
army hospital work are not a part of the
military service within the strict meaning of the
term, hence they are not entitled to representa-
tion on a service flag, such representation being
confined to men in the service. This is the way
the ruling affects one soldier:

N Flanders' Field, in Holy Ground,
We shaped another lowly mound,
While sullen raindrops fell.
And in the darkness breathed a prayer
Then turned and left her lying there,
Whom we had loved so well.

She saw the gleaming Fiery Cross,

And, counting all for service loss,
She followed where it led.

And now in Flanders' field she lies

Beneath the sorrowing, silent skies
With other hallowed dead.

She bore no grudge that men decree
On service flag there shall not be
For her a single star.
The star, the symbol all men prize,
Of service and of sacrifice
And duty done in war!

It seems unmindful of her share

In that grim struggle over there,
Of dangers women face.

I do not wish my star to shine

On service Hag, 0 Country Mine,
Unless hers, too, has place.

Oman TAYLOR. A

The Woman Citizen

A Party of Principle

By Mamie W. Colvin, Candidate for Lieutenant-Governor of New York

HE Prohibition Party was the first to

champion equal suffrage, many years in
advance of any other party. It declared for
equal suErage in its first platform in 1872. It
has consistently stood by this principle, seating
women as delegates in its conventions and
electing women to membership on its commit-
tees. Because of this fact it merits considera-
tion of its history and principles.

The Prohibition Party has an unstained po-
litical record of nearly fifty years. It is one
of the marvels of political history that a po-
litical party without the spoils of office to sus-
tain it, and with but few of its candidates
elected has, year after year, continued to chal-
lenge the attention of the nation on its su-
' preme issue.

It is the longest-lived minority party in the
history of our country. Since its organization
more than a score of minor parties have been
launched, sailed the political seas for a time
and disappeared. Its source of power is its
heroic and persistent devotion to a great prin-
ciple.

A NATIONAL POLITICAL PROBLEM

The most shameful page of American. his-
tory is that which depicts the rise and growth
of the liquor power in American politics.

The adoption of the internal revenue system
in 1862 and the subsequent adoption of the high
license system in most of the states entrenched
the liquor trafiic in the government revenues
and every increase in the liquor tax has served
to make it more difficult to dislodge.

The U. S. Brewers Association organized also
in 1862 entered politics, and as early as 1867
declared that it would “ sustain no candidate of
whatever party in any election who is in any
way disposed toward the total abstinence cause.”

The liquor traffic is protected by national
law, promoted by national liquor organizations
which wield a balance of power and dominate
political parties, and the evil consequences of
that trafiic are incapable of being confined
within state boundaries. The Prohibition Party
holds that these facts make the liquor trafiic a
national problem and its destruction the great-
est internal task which America faces.

Furthermore it holds that the magnitude of
the task requires a political party committed to
Prohibition to deal with it successfully in ad-
ministration as well as legislation.

A PARTY or FARSEEING STATESMANSHIP

A great many people think that Prohibition-
ists are people of but one idea, but the plat-
forms of the party bear witness to the fact of
the farseeing constructive statesmanship which
seeks not only to change the attitude of the
government on the liquor traffic and harmonize
the action of all departments of government
on this subject, but to face squarely all other
problems confronting the nation.

Some one has said that “A statesman is one
who leads public opinion, a mere politician fol-
lows the crowd.” If this is true then truly
the men and women of the Prohibition Party
during the last half a century have been the
real statesmen of America.

The statement has been made by a'noted Chi-
cago journalist that most of the reforms of
the last generation have had their inception

On the Prohibition Party Ticket

in the minds of the Prohibition Party.

Some of the principles which were first
championed in the platform of the Prohibition
Party, most of them many years before they
were taken up by any other parties, are:

Equal suffrage, 1872; civil service reform.
1872; reform labor legislation, 1872; direct
election of U. S. Senators, 1876, twentyofour
years before either one of the old parties ad-
vocated it; suppression of polygamy and pro-
tection of the home through uniform marriage
and divorce laws, 1876; omni-partisan tariff
commission, 1904; anti-child labor plank, 1908,
before it.became the political capital of the
Progressive Party.

In the last national platform, 1916, written
a year before our nation entered the war, we
pledged ourselves to maintain an effective army
and navy and to provide coast defenses ade-
quate for national protection.

We declared that private profit, so far as
constitutionally possible, should be taken out
of the manufacture of war munitions and all
war equipment.

In normal times we favor the employment of
the army in vast reclamation plans, in reforest-
ing hills and mountains, in building state and
national highways, in the construction of an
inland water way from Florida to Maine, in
opening Alaska and in unnumbered other pro-
jects which will make our soldiers constructive
builders of peace. For such service there should
be an adequate industrial wage.

A plank on social justice included old-age
pensions, insurance against unemployment and
help for needy mothers, all of which could be
provided from what is wasted for drink.

We declared for the public ownership of
public utilities, for the court review of depart-
mental decisions, for the conservation of for-
ests, water power and other natural resources.
Other planks included prohibition, suffrage, in-
itiative and referendum, tariff commission, civil
service, merchant vmarine, labor and capital,
marriage and divorce and a vigorous plank on
Americanism.

A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT LOYAL PARTY

The Prohibition Party is the only one hun-
dred per cent loyal party in American politics
today for within its ranks there does not wrist
a pro-German constituency. The German idea
of personal liberty is incompatible with the Pro-
hibition American idea of civil liberty. Pro-
hibition expects no support from those who
favor the brewery interests and these are not-
ably associated with pro-German propaganda.

The recent Congressional investigation of the
German-American Alliance revealed the fact
that the brewers placed a barrel tax on beer
to raise money by which they financed the Ger-
man-American Alliance; revived the defunct
Bulletin of the Alliance through which paper
$800,000 was raised for German war relief and
turned over to Bernstorff. They also financed
the lobby of the Alliance in Washington.

The chief objects of the German-American
Alliance in America were to create and promote
German political solidarity, to force the Ger-
man languagc upon all pupils in the public

schools throughout the United States, and to
defeat prohibition legislation as opposed to the
German idea of personal liberty. .
These facts brand the brewing industry as
pro-German and if for no other reason we
should prohibit the manufacture and sale of

beer in this country.

WAR EMPHASIZES THE NEED or Pnonrnrrtou

The nation is in war, and food, fuel, trans-
portation, labor, money, ships—everything that
is essential to winning the war is retarded and
hindered by the liquor traffic.

Fifty—four million bushels of barley are still
wasted annually in the manufacture of beer.

Coal operators say that 15 to 25 per cent more
coal could be mined each year-if prohibition
prevailed.

The brewers had last year the unrestricted
use of 700,000 cars to carry beer.

Professor Irving Fisher of Yale, president
of the American Economic Association, says
that the ediciency of labor would be increased
at least 10 per cent and probably much more
under prohibition.

Enough money is wasted every year in the
direct cost of drink to subscribe for the First
Liberty Loan and build a Panama Canal.

Secretary Daniels said: “In every case where
we have had a shipyard or a community go
from open saloons to Prohibition there has been
an increase of efiiciency.

These facts indicate the magnitude of the
Prohibition issue in war time and brand the
liquor traffic as the strongest ally the Kaiser has.

WHY Von-2 THE Pnomnrrrou TICKET

1. Because the Prohibition Party is a clean
oarty of uncompromising adherence to prin-
ciple.

(a) It does not compete for the liquor vote
nor court the favor of the lower elements, nor
will it barter away public morals for paltry
revenue or party success.

2. Because it is a national party—no sec-
tional appeal—championing a great national is-
sue of prime importance to the health, wealth
and happiness of our people.

(3.) Because of its statesmanship, “progres-
sive without radicalism, conservative without
reactionary tendencies.”

(a) It offers a constructive solution of the
liquor problem providing for an efiicient ad-
ministration as well as mere enactment. It
provides for responsible party government.

(4.) Because of its unswerving loyalty, un-
fettered by fear of alienating the beer-drinking
German vote.

(a) The liquor interests are pro-German and
unpatriotic by wasting food, fuel, transporta-
tion, labor and money and hindering in every
way the successful prosecution of the war.

(5.) Because it offers an opportunity to ex-
press convictions in politics.

(a) We hold that no vote is thrown away
if it expresses conviction, but it is thrown away
only when it is used to gamble in elections.
“pick a winner,” or help elect a candidate be-
cause there is a chance of his election.

(b) We believe with Lincoln, “I am not
bound to win, but I am bound to be true; I
am not bound to succeed, but I must live by
the light I have. I must stand with my fel-

(Con ' ucd on page 258)

Digitized by GODS €

 

August 24, 1918

249

The Anti-Saloon League :-Its Aim and Political Policy

‘ By Adella Potter

“Wet” and “Dry” Map of the United States, Jan. 1, 1893

Win—Prohibition Territory
Studodm Local Option Territory
Bloch—-Litcnu Turltory

White Spot! In Slack States than Indian
"amnion:  by Federal Law

HE Anti-Saloon League is a national body

with 48 state organizations. Its aim is the

total elimination of the traffic in alcoholic

liquor as a beverage. It in no way attacks the

manufacture of alcohol for industrial or sac-
ramental use. Its method is non-partisan.

When it was organized in 1893 there was con-
siderable prohibition sentiment in the country,
but only six dry states, three of which shortly
lapsed back to license; there seemed no prac-
tical way of getting the existing prohibition sen-
timent into action as the majority of voters
would not leave the Republican and Demo-
cratic Parties to join the Prohibition Party.
At this crisis the founders of the League ap-
peared upon the scene and said: “ You don’t
have to stop voting your own party ticket in
prder to get prohibition—simply insist that the
representatives of your party, if elected, vote
for prohibition measures.”

When this new viewpoint got over to the peo-
ple, things began to happen. Republican and
Democratic legislators voted for prohibition
laws and submitted state prohibition amend-
ments to their constituents, with the result that
today 28 states are dry, either by statute or
constitutional amendment; the Hawaiian Isl-
ands, Alaska, Porto Rico, the United States
territory around the Panama Canal and Wash-
ington, our national capitol, are also dry. Sev-
eral other states through local option gains are
almost dry. Last December, the National Pro-
hibition Amendment was submitted by a two-
thirds vote of both 'Houses of Congress to the
48 state legislatures. Fourteen of these legis-
latures, Arizona, Delaware, Georgia, Kentucky,
Maryland, Massachusetts, Mississippi, Montana,
South Carolina, North Dakota, South Dakota,
Texas, Virginia and Louisiana have already
voted to accept this national amendment; of the
fourteen, Massachusetts, Delaware, Maryland,
Kentucky and Louisiana are still wet states.

Both Democratic and Republican states have
ratihed the amendment, and Democratic, Repub-
lican and Socialist representatives have voted
for and against the question. It has been and
is an absolutely non-partisan measure.

 

*“ The Anti-Saloon League is not another
temperance society or a political party. It is
not a rival of any other organization, but it
is, as its name implies, a League of organiza-
tions. It is a clearing house for churches and
temperance societies. Its primary function is
not the creation of anti-saloon sentiment (the
word saloon is used because it typifies the mod-
ern attempt to capitalize human frailty and is
branded by the court as the main cause of law-
lessness and crime), but the direction of exist-
ing sentiment to secure immediate results. It
is non-partisan and interdenominational. It has
found that prohibition prohibits better than
regulation regulates. Its fundamental proposi-
.tion is for every person who is opposed to the
saloon to unite with every other opponent of
the saloon without reference to what either
of them thinks concerning any other question.
It aims to make it possible for every citizen
to vote directly and effectively against liquor
as a beverage and at the same time to vote
his own party ticket.”

“The League has to do with candidates and

things for which they stand, not with parties
or platforms. Not being a party, the League
never nominates candidates, but when no party
candidate is satisfactory, it may encourage the
nomination of an independent. The perfection
of the League idea is not to make the League
as an organization, a great political power or
an end in itself. It prefers to have the or-
ganization stay in the background while the
citizens as individuals become so influential for
righteousness that all parties will stand for
moral principles as a matter of course and
divide only upon questions of administration.
It knows that the saloon on the corner is not
our grestest menace, hilt rather the saloon en-
throned in our government. ,Unseat the one
and it will be easy to get rid of the other.”

The success of this policy is shown by the
dry territory gained and the hatred of the
liquor forces toward the League. Over two-
thirds the area of New York State is now dry;
20 cities, using their new power given them
under the City Local Option Law, voted last
April to do away with the sale of liquor within
their boundaries. Candidates of all parties
running for the Assembly and State Senate are
feeling the pressure of the prohibition senti-
ment that is demanding the ratification of the
National Prohibition Amendment at Albany
this winter. This sentiment is so strong that
practically every candidate who is not for the
prohibition program (the ratification of the na-
tional amendment) tries to camouflage his
liquor adherence by announcing that he is for
prohibition—for the submission of a state
amendment (which means no action for three
or four years) or for a “referendum” on the
question, which is the unconstitutional, inef-
fective, fraudulent program of the liquor in-
terests.

The liquor forces themselves in statements
published in brewery magazines and at open
meetings give the credit for this situation to
the non-partisan policy of the Anti-Saloon
League.

. ‘ Extracts from “ The Church in Action
the Saloon," by William H. Anderson, State
lntendent of the-New York Anti-Saloon League.

 

ainst
uper-

“Wet” and “Dry” Territorial Map of United States, May I5, I9I8

  

SOUTH
DAKOIA

ARIZONA‘
,NLw utuco

l

Note—Wt. Indicates territory that M. M hm

h‘ui-‘l-n Mamet-kn Div-10....-

 
   
    

  
 

I, .v

"is?

IE‘L I). 0.0-: .i'

 
 
       
  

 

250

 

MISS MARY WALLS, OF THE JOHN
WANAMAKER STORE, SECRETARY

They have an international point of
view, as many of them have traveled back
and forth for years from Paris to the
United States, uniting the commercial
interests of the two continents. They
are members of a widespread trade, with
representatives in every city of the
United States; they have their own

publications, their own highly organized
bodies.

 

- - ‘ -. I.
. _ - h-
_. . 4' ., - 
‘ - 4‘,.\ ‘4. 1"» *‘gr‘ . -
_, . . .

.-_I‘:' I-.;,".‘_D"__ II. ._w _ .. I A. ‘-

 

 

MISS J. WISE OF J. WISE, INC.,
TREASURER OF THE UNIT

The Woman Citizen '

~ The Women’s A}
Women’s OVersea

These are women financiers,
accustomed to dealing with big
figures; to making garments by
the thousands; to buying and
selling for the trades.

 

MISS BERTHA BERNSTEIN, OF THE DRY
GOODS ECONOMIST. ORIGINATOR AND
' CHAIRMAN

An Aladdin’s Lamp Story

HEN Mrs. Charles Louis TiEany, chairman of the

Central Committee of the Women’s Oversea Hos-
pitals, took down her telephone receiver one day, she heard a
voice saying that the women of the garment trades wanted
to do some special war work all their own, and would Mrs.
Tiffany come and tell a delegation at the Dry Goods
Economist offices all about the Women’s Oversea Hospitals,
U. S. A.

Mrs. Tiffany would and she did. Then things began to
happen very fast, as things do happen in the commercial
world where there are brisk telephone connections and peo-
ple trained to make prompt decisions and fill orders swiftly.

The women of the garment trades were dead in earnest.
They arranged a banquet on the spot at which Mrs. Tiffany
was to be present and address a larger group. They made
an official staff of which Mrs. Tiffany is a member. They
made use of the fashion shows to spread the news of the
Unit’s plan. They raised money while one was getting ready
to say “ Jack Robinson.”

The Cloak and Suit Designers’ Association fell into line.
The Millinery groups were drafted; the retailers contributed
—all the big concerns got busy.

The Bonwit-Teller shops gave an ambulance.

The Fashion Art League of America collected nearly
$1,000 in pledges at its exhibition of summer styles.

EVENTY-FIVE THOUSANl
Women’s Oversea Hospitals, C
over the United States, who have tal
The Woman’s Apparel Unit is m:
journals, of women manufacturers 0
stores, of advertisement writers, of l
houses.

There are sixteen divisions in t
ing for and with other women. Ea:
eral, made up of one retail buyer an
waists, and so forth. In this way tl

The generals of the several divit

N eckwear—M iss S haughnessy a
Aitkins, Sons 6' Company.

C oats—M iss Kane of James M c
liam Fischman, Inc.

N egligees—M iss Hart of S ten
Esther Donner Company.

M illinery—M iss Boylan of Fred
M oorehead 6' Jardine.

Dresses—Mrs. Thorpe of Bonn;
M ax Cohen, Inc

Blouses—Mrs. Haughan of Gin
Waist Company.

Skirts—Miss Regan of Arnold G
Silverstein 6' Company.

U ndergarments—M iss M orelai
Cohen 6' Company. '

C orsets—Miss Carter of R. H.

. M odart Corset Company.

Infants’ W ear—M iss M cN amt
Burrill of the Nathan Krausskopf ‘
S nits—Miss F orestal of Bonwi
Ben Gershal 6' Company.
Misses’ W ear—M iss W olfson
of M. E. Schroeder 6' Company.
Advertisement W riters—M iss 1
Resident Buyers—M rs. C ower
Mail Order H oases—M rs. Burt
Specialty S hops—M me. George

 

 

August 24, 1918

Lrel Unit of the

ospitals, U.

LARS have been raised for the

by women of the garment trades all
he Labouheyre refugee unit.

the editorial representatives of trade
's wear, of buyers for big department
men in specialty shops, in mail order

vrganiaed company of women work-
n has a general and an adjutant gen-

nufacturer in each line, such as suits,
’ll represent the whole United States.
Is follows:

tan 6' Company, and Mrs. Rourke of
Company, and Miss Grannis of W'il-
's, and Miss Esther Donner of the
'ser (‘5' Company, and Miss Jardine of

5' Company, and Mrs. Max Cohen of
ters, and Miss Rubinger of the Ruby

6' Company, and Miss Flynn of Elias
n Wanamaker, and Sadie Cohen of

’Company, and Mrs. Barclay of the
inklin Simon (‘5' Company, and Miss
' Company, and Mrs. Ben Gershal of

i'Taylor, and Miss M. E. Schroeder

hn Wanamaker.

mdicate Trading Company.
lational Cloak & Suit Company.
l. Gidding & Company.

 

 

l GIVEN TO THE WOMEN’S
UNIT

S.

A.

Where other women can get
one garment made with dificulty,
these women can push buttons,
pull strings, and presto, tons of
clothes are made.

 

MRS. HAUGHAN, OF GIMBEL AND CO., GEN
. ‘ ERAL OF THE BLOUSE DIVISION

T HE pages of the garment trade journals sparkled with
bright stories about the Apparel Unit, full of “ pep " and
punch, and bubbling attractiveness. They were clever stories.

The designers got up a wonderful overseas blue silk, which
advertised the hospital unit while it advertised itself. It
sounded so attractive one wanted to buy nothing else.

A poignant poster, “Don’t Let Them Die,” by M. Leone
Bracker, carried a. gripping appeal to the emotions and was
shown at the Apparel Unit booths in every fashion display.
It and the clever tactics of the women at the head of the
unit brought money fast to the treasury. One read of the
Apparel Unit’s enterprises in Chicago, then in St. Louis,
then in Denver, then in San Francisco. The figures of the
funds raised ran up like a fever temperature from four
figures to five——and rapidly going to six. For the unit has
planned $100,000.

One of the women surgeons who has gone to the front
spoke before the unit on her way from Seattle to Southern
France. She told them that in her profession she could
relieve people of superfluous arms and legs and appendixes
and tumors but she could never relieve them of superfluous
funds as the officials of the Apparel Unit had succeeded in
doing. She said that even in the so-called rapid West, the
achievement of raising $75,000 in such a short time would
fill the women of her state with amazement.

251

 

MRS. BELLE ARMSTRONG WHITNEY, FASH-
ION EXPERT, HONORARY CHAIRMAN OF
PUBLICITY COMMITTEE

The publicity committee consists of
Mrs. Whitney, and the following women
from the trade papers: Mrs. A. E. Tom.-
linson of The Dry Goods Economist;
Miss Hoyt of The American Cloak &
Suit Review; Mrs. E. G. .McClelland of

Women’s Wear and Mrs. Roberts of
Nugent’s. '

 

MRS. A. E. TOMLINSON OF THE DRY GOODS
ECONOMIST. FOREIGN REPRESENTATIVE

252

The Woman Citizen

. Raising Hospital Funds

A Roof Garden Fete

NOTHER large gift toward the support
Aof the \Vomen’s Overseas Hospitals, which
are maintained by the National American
Woman Suffrage Association, has just been
acknowledged by Mrs. Henry Wade Rogers.
treasurer. It is $11,397.37 raised by the suffra-
gists of Pittsburgh, Pa., and their friends, at
a roof garden ball and war-time fashion show.

Mrs. Leonard G. “foods, one of
Pennsylvania’s most active and capable
sutfragists, who also has been particu-
larly active in food conservation and
other patriotic work, directed the big
fete as general chairman; of the com-
mittee in charge. This committee in-
cluded many widely known patriotic
women, not directly identified with
suffrage, as well as practically all those
who have been active soldiers in the
battle for the ballot.

Timed as it was to come just after
the close of the Third Liberty Loan,
the suffrage ball provided a brief mo-
ment of gaiety for the many women
who had labored intensively in the
loan campaign and for many months
previous to that drive in" other activi-
ties. The festivity proved so suc- __
cessful that suffragists of many other i '3'
sections of the country secured the
details of the arrangements from Mrs.
Woods, the most recent appeal having
come from Canadians visiting Pitts-
burgh, iwho wanted to raise funds for
war work. To our allies across the
border,’ Mrs. Woods contributed the
use of costumes.

The fashion show, which proved
popular, exhibited reproductions of
the war-time fashions of the Revolu-
tion and the Civil War ending with a
present-day parade. Before-and—after-
the-war tableaux included the care-
free American girl as she used to be,
interested in tennis and other light
sports. and as the same girl is now,
garbed, not in tennis togs, but in war
garden bloomers, the hoe replacing the
racquet. The typical boudoirgirl with
her novel and confections was ex-
hibited as transformed into the motor
corps girl and the bridge devotee at
the card table into the Red Cross worker
seated at another more serious table making
gauze bandages. All the different war activi-
ties were shown. Liberty Loan work, selling of
War Savings and Thrift Stamps played their
attractive part in depicting the serious side
of women’s life at the present in contrast to
her alleged frivolity of the pre-war days.

Flags and colors of ‘the Allies draped the
balcony of the big roof garden of the William
Penn Hotel and provided patriotic coloring.
The many officers stationed in Pittsburgh were
present as guests of the general committee.

An automobile, a jeweled American Hag of
rubies, sapphire and diamonds, donated gowns
and other desirable articles. were auctioned for
large sums.

In acknowledging the Pittsburgh gift, Mrs.
Rogers announced that at the request of the

French Government the National Suffrage As-
sociation has taken over charge of a 300-bed

hospital for the use of gassed soldiers. Her
letter to Mrs. Woods follows:
“ RS- CLINTON L. ,CHILDS has for-

warded mc.a check for $11,397.37, the
proceeds of' your Pittsburgh Benefit for the
Women’s Overseas Hospitals, I am sending her
a receipt for'_the.same, and I write you to thank

 

MRS. LEONARD G. “’OODS

you very warme for this splendid gift, and
through you all those who have assisted in
making the benefit a success.

“ The gift. is very timely, as we have just
taken over at the request of the French Gov-
ernment a 300-bed hospital for gassed men——
the entire charge of which will be in the hands
of a group of doctors, nurses and aides whom
we are getting together to send over at the
earliest possible moment. The maintenance of
this hospital will cost about $75,000 and is in
addition to what we have already undertaken
in France.

“I think it perfectly fine the way in which
the women have responded to the appeal for
the Overseas Hospitals, and this fine gift from
Pennsylvania is another evidence of their deep
solicitude for the men at the front in their
anxiety to do their share of war service work."

Tag Day in Providence

HE three thousand dollar quota assigned
to Rhode Island toward the Women’s.
Oversea Hospital Fund has now been secured.
Mrs. James W. Algeo, Chairman of the Rhode
Island Suffrage Party, says that the “ease with
which this money, and also the pledge to the
National and current expenses of her organi-
zation, have been raised reads like a fairy story.
“ We first sent out circular letters,"
she says, “after the ‘ gude man 0’ the
house’ had given one hundred dollars
to encourage our efforts. Mrs. Le
Baron C. Colt, daughter-in-law of our
senior Senator from Rhode Island,
who votes ‘yes’ on the Federal
Amendment, became treasurer. Our
letters met with a favorable response,
but not nearly enough to cover the
$3,000, so we decided to ‘tag’ for the
remainder. Now ‘tagging’ is a de-
lightful occupation if you can get
enough workers, which is not always
easy in the hot days of summer, but
the appeal for the women and babies
of France proved irresistible and in the
three tag days carried on by us many
a woman did her ‘bit’ by standing
for hours on a hot and dusty corner
disposing of our bright yellow tags,
with their winsome picture of mother
with baby in her arms, and the motto
‘pour la France,’ surrounded by the
lily of France.

“Miss Mary Cass, our Suffrage
Party leader in Woonsocket. and her
sister, Miss Madeleine Cass, netted
over $1,300 by their brilliant work in
their city. Mrs. William Poole, leader
in Ward 8 of Providence, produced
eighty-five workers and $400 in her
territory. Through the united efforts
of Miss Althea L. Hall, suffrage
leader in Pawtucket, and Mrs. Ellen
Ryan Jolly more than one thousand
dollars in that city was taken in ex-
change for tags. ‘ Had we had longer
notice of the event,’ said Mrs. Jolly,
who is a clever business woman from
the top of her curly dark hair to the
tip of her tiny shoe, ‘we could have
cleared $5,000,’ and I really believe
her."

Hospital Baskets
A Suggestion ,

OW are you raising your funds for the

Women’s Oversea Hospitals? This is
the way two young women, who were patients
of Dr. Caroline Finley before she went to
France, are doing it. They have already sold
$100 worth of berries and small fruits which
they have picked and marketed themselves
from bushes of their own raising. They ex-
pect to augment this sum by sending into the
city to friends who have agreed to buy them,
for the hospital fund, bushel baskets of as-
sorted vegetables. These they call Hospital
Baskets. They will contain whatever is fresh—
est and most marketable the day the basket
is shipped.

August 24, 1918

British Land Army
to American Sisters

HE Woman’s Land Army of America has
just received an official communication
from the Woman’s Land Army of Britain,
which was presented to the Board of Directors
at a meeting in August and is made public by
Mrs. William Pierson Hamilton, First Vice-
President of the Board, who is acting chairman
in the absence of the President, Mrs. William
Adams Brown. The letter brings an inspiring
message from the war workers of England, who
are in the fields 300,000 strong, to the new
sister organization on this side of the water.
The letter reads: ‘

“The Land Army of Britain congratulates
with heartfelt cordiality the Woman’s Land
Army of America for a great beginning and
the promise of a great future.

“Your vigorous young organization, already-

of twenty states, has created a new source of
inspiration in us, who have labored since the
beginning of the war; while your splendid help
in the fight against hunger and famine will
quicken victory for the Allies, who have not
looked in vain for your loyal and generous sup-
port. The American Land Army is facing its
responsibilities in a manner worthy of the
strength of a great democratic country under the
leadership of a great President, and we in
Britain are proud to have been the means of in-
spiring action so far-reaching. Our own ex-
perience, extending now through four years of
war, while it has taught us to appreciate your
diliiculties, has also given us faith in the power
of women to overcome. Your work of keeping
up the food supply is vital, and it is an essen-
tial contribution to that light for freedom in
which we are both engaged and in the result
of which lies the future of all nations.

“In the land trenches, behind your armies
and our own, a light is being bravely waged,
fraught with issues no less grave than on the
seas and battle fields of Europe. British women,
doing their utmost, are confident that. the
women, working together in one great cause
and in one great spirit, will remain as an un-
broken front till victory is achieved.”

RS. HAMILTON in giving this letter to

the press stated that the Board of Direc-
tors feel very greatly encouraged, not only by the
stimulus of such recognition, but by the reports
represented at the Board meeting. These reports
have come in from every section of the country
to the national oliice of the Land Army and
show a remarkable progress in the introduc-
tion of women as farm laborers, and an in-
variable success wherever units have been es-
tablished. Thirty-nine states are now organized
under the W'oman’s Land Afmy of America.
Of these seventeen have placed active units in
operation, while others are canvassing the farm
labor situation and strengthening their organiza-
tion so that they may be ready to meet the de-
mand another season.

One hundred and twenty-seven units of
women are now at work. These units range in
size from 20 to 150 women. A conservative esti-
mate of the total number of women serving
on the land this year will be 15,000, but, in-
cluding emergency units and women working in
their own locality, not joining an agricultural
unit, the number would greatly exceed that

 

253

 

MRS. STANLEY MCCORMICK

“. Watch your feet! ”

This advice Mrs. Stanley McCormick of Boston, second vice-president of the National

American Suhrage Association and in charge of the department of food production and home
economics of the Woman’s Committee, Council of National Defense, gives to women contem-

plating farm labor.

“ The most important part of a farmerette’s uniform is her shoes,” she says, “ and yet'

you never hear them discussed. . Don’t ignore footgear.

You have to have a good spinal

column to keep up with a good fob. The condition of the spinal column depends greatly
upon the feet. If you wear improper shoes which throw the body out of balance, though you
may keep at your job on the form you will not do it so well as with comfortable shoes.

“ Be picturesque if you wish, but also be sensible. The English woman adopted for farm
work a good stout unlovely boot. American women must also wear good stout boots if they
want to preserve their health and the health of their race.”

Mrs. McCormick believes that woman has a definite place to nil in the farm as a
laborer. She anticipates the recruiting of strong women for this work. When asked if by
any means the work may be too severe, her answer is this:

“ There is no work which the women cannot do.

farm implements will prove too heavy.

That will not necessarily stop the women.

It may be possible that some of the
Those

implements can and will probably be simplified to meet the new need. Then perhaps every-

body may projit by their alteration.”

figure. A remarkable eagerness has been shown
everywhere on the part of women to enter the
Land Army. Recruits have been drawn from
every class and from all the professions and
occupations as well as from women whose time
had been idle. The Land Army has not dis-
turbed to any extent existing industrial condi-
tions. Its workers are drawn from among the
women whose time is free during the farming
season—teachers, students, seasonal workers.
It is interesting to note, Mrs. Hamilton added,
that the attitude of farmers in the states where
the Land Army has not been introduced is a
very conservative and skeptical one. They are
slow to accept woman labor until they have been
“ shown " that it is worth trying. Once a unit
is established in any state or county, the move-

ment advances by leaps and bounds, farmers
calling for help from an ever increasing radius.

Kinds of work done by these women—most
of them wholly untrained at the beginning of
the season—are many, and include tasks which
were believed to be quite beyond the powers
of a woman farm hand. They include:

Haying, hoeing corn, binding grain, shedding
wheat, rye and oats, stocking grain, bagging
corn, cultivating, plowing, planting, thinning and
weeding, fruit picking and drying, potato pick-
ing, canning, berry picking, pruning and tending
and transplanting, feeding stock, dairy, harness-
ing and driving horses, running tractor, operat-
ing binder, chopping and sawing wood.

In doing this work the women have also

(Continued on page 258)

254

Seven Cents — or Democracy P

EMOCRACY is not cheap. It never has
been. Blood and treasure almostbeyond
count have been spent to win and to keep the
precious privilege of the ballot. And yet in the
long years .of their fighting for it, the people
have not often wanted to turn back. ' They have
felt that, even at this high price, democracy was
worth while. .

And they have sacrificed and suffered and
died for democracy,'not because they thought
that when they got it it would be a cheaper
form of government. They knew it would cost
more for a whole nation to vote than to have
one crowned representative vote for them.
They knew that Congresses and ~ Parliaments
elected by the people would cost more than
Congresses and Parliaments appointed by a
king. They also knew, from long experience,
that added cost means added taxes, that the
only place for a government to get money is
from the people. They, the people, were go-
ing to have to pay the difference. And yet
they did not for this reason renounce democ-
racy. It seemed worth while even at that price.

But perhaps none of us knew just how pre-
cious democracy was to us until Germany
threatened it. Now we know that we would
sacrihce anything for it, that without it life is
hardly worth while.

And yet there comes a new cry from the
antilsuffragists, that women must not now be
enfranchised because the election expenses

would be too much. And they feel particularly.

virtuous in urging that the 20,000,000 women
of voting age in the United States be denied
the franchise in order that some fictitious sum
which presumably would have to be spent in
providing additional polling places for women
be turned into the war—this war which we
are fighting for democracy and which is se-
curing this right to vote for both men and
women in Europe. For let us make no mis-
take. One form which the democracy we are
winning in Europe has already taken is the
enfranchisement of women—40,000,000 women
in the allied countries granted the franchise
within the last three years. And we, the na-
tion of all others that boasts democracy accom-
plished, must lag, behind because it will cost
too much! How will our soldiers feel when
the war is over if we present to them our con-
clusion that democracy is all very well to die for,
but that it is quite too expensive to practice?

UT let us see what the actual figures are, the

cost of adding the woman’s vote to that of
men. Take New York, where voting costs
more than anywhere else. The calculation of
experts shows that if as many women were
added as there were men voting at the last
mayoraltyoelection, the cost would be lifted
from $300,000 to $350,000, or about seven cents
each for the women to vote,‘as against the
forty-three cents each which it has cost for
the men to vote. This is because women use
the polls at different hours from those at which
men vote, and is also. the working out of a per-
fectly familiar ratio of proportionate decrease
in cost as to increase of use or output. But
it is surely hardly logical for anyone to decide
that the seven cents each for the women and
not the forty-three cents each for the men shall
be the limit beyond which the price of democ-
racy may not go.

 

HIGH TIME l

Fortunately there are not many men in our
democratic world who offer to die for democ-
racy and 'then want to save seven cents by re-
fusing to practice it. If there were any such,
we might present to them the two following
observations: 1. If in order to win the war we
must pour into our war fund the money it
would cost to provide voting places for
women, why not savestill more money by asking
men to renounce their franchise and closing
up the polls entirely? 2. The present and past
expenses of elections are and have been paid
out of the taxes. In paying their taxes women
have contributed their full share of cost of
men’s voting. Isn't it time that men be asked
to pay their share for women’s voting? But
it is‘ not alone money that the anti-sutfragists
boast of saving. They are “saving the coun-
try from destruction” and they are saving
“ women from politicalburdens and jury duty."

This is not so much the old boast of incom-
petence—“ we are not fit to vote.” “ Saving the
country from destruction " now means state’s
rights—an excellent skirt surely for a northern
woman to hide behind. Our allies will come
out of the war with democracy accomplished.
We must wait till the voting enemy alien, the
slacker, the negro, have all been converted and
graciously conclude that the American woman
is to be trusted with the ballot.

And the American women are also to be
saved from “political burdens and jury duty.”
Not if Ohio can help it. That anti-suffrage
state is seriously considering a bill to require
women to serve on jury duty not as a privi-
lege or as a punishment, but for the very
homely reason that men are scarce. And for
the same reason the American women whether
they want it or not, will have to take up their
share of the political burdens.

And in the end they will do it without com-
plaining even as the Anti-Suffrage Voters

_League is doing' in New York.

The spirit of democracy is abroad. We know
that our dream is to be fulfilled.

NANCY M. SCHOONMAKER,
Executive Secretary,
Department of Citizenship,
Connecticut Woman Suffrage Association.

Digitized by GODS C

The Woman Citizen

In Honor of Lucy Stone

IN honor of the one hundredth anniversary
of Lucy Stone's birth, August 13, 1918, the
Illinois Equal Suffrage Association celebrated
by having a “ Federal Amendment Tea” at
suffrage headquarters, 603 Tower Building,
Chicago.

There were short addresses by well-known
suEragists from different parts of the state.
Pioneers in the work who have known and
loved Lucy Stone were guests of honor and
gave reminiscences of their association with her.

The fact that thevcause for which this great
woman labored so long and unceasingly is at
the threshold of success lent unusual interest
to this Anniversary.

In honor of the one hundredth anniversary
of her birth, so widely celebrated, the Boston
Public Library placed its bust of Lucy Stone
on the first landing of the main staircase, the
most prominent spot in the library, during the

-week from August 10-17.

On August 13, the State Board of the New
Jersey Woman Suffrage Association celebrated
the birthday of Lucy Stone, pioneer suffragist
and founder of the Association, by an all-day
meeting at the home of the state president, Mrs.
E. F. Feickert, Colonial Farm, at the foot of
the Watchung Mountains near Plainiield. Fifty
women were present, representing nine counties.

- UCY STONE’S one hundredth birthday
anniversary was celebrated by the Massa-
chusetts Woman Suffrage Association with a
brilliant and largely attended luncheon at the
HOtel Somerset in Boston. Mrs. Charles Sumner
Bird presided. There were addresses by Ex-
Governor David I. Walsh, Rev. Dr. Antoinette
Brown Blackwell, Mrs. Judith W. Smith, Mrs.
Maud Howe Elliott (who brought a bunch of
roses from Julia Ward Howe's garden) and
Miss Alice Stone Blackwell. Dr. Blackwell,
who is 93, and Mrs. Smith, who is almost 97,
gave personal. reminiscences of Lucy Stone.
Letters and telegrams were received from:

J. P. Tumulty, Secretary to President Wilson;
Katherine Lipton Hasmer, President California
Suffrage Association; Miss Ludington, Presi-
dent Connecticut Suffrage Association; Mrs. J.
G. Smith, President Kentucky Suffrage Associa-
tion; Marjorie C. McGehee, President Missis-
sippi Suffrage Association; Miss Lawther,
President Iowa Suffrage Association; Mrs.
Lynch, President South Carolina Suffrage Asso-
ciation; Mrs. H. M. Youmans, President W'is-
consin Suffrage Association; Miss A. Y. Dow-
ney, President Delaware Suffrage Association;
Mrs. Cunningham, President North Carolina
Suffrage Association; Governor Milliken, of
Maine; Governor McCall, of Massachusetts;
Theodore Roosevelt; Anna Gordon, National
President W. C. T. U.; Holyoke Suffrage Asso-
ciation; Frances E. Burns, Great Corn. Ladies
of Macabees; Congressman James A. Gallivan;
Anna Howard Shaw; Carrie Chapman Catt;
Senator Henry Cabot Lodge; Senator John W.
Weeks; Congressman John Rogers; Congress—
man William S. Green; Congressman Frederick
W’. Dallinger; Mary Garrett Hay; Mrs. Newton
D. Baker; Maude Wood Park; Honorable David
I. Walsh, ex-Governor of Massachusetts; Hon-
orable Andrew J. Peters, Mayor of Boston; and
the Armenian National Union.

There were songs by Mrs. Jeannette Ellis.

The next day the War Service Committee of

(Continue on page 258)

 

SHE DYES TO LIVE

A Philanthropist in
Color

NE wing of the Ewig—Weibliches has gone
Skylarking after Batik designs. This is a
method of camouflaging the feminine figure so
that it shall look like anything from an advanc-
ing polyhedron to an astral map.

The designs go twice around the slender lady
and tie in the back, while they perch upon a
single sector of too, too solid ayoirdupois.

Woman is naught today unless highly pat-
terned. ,And since the patterning is being done,
here is an artistic young person with a soul who
is putting much gray matter, salt dyes- and artis-
tic education into making designs suggestive of
poetry and harmony. She is also keen for mak-
ing the punishment fit the crime or the pattern
fit the lady. “Why,” says she, “ dress up an
unsuspecting innocent so that she looks like a
vestibule wall-paper which has slipped its moor-
ings and is uncoiling down the street ?”

Miss Ernestine Ruprecht of No. 44 East‘35th
street, was a supervisor of art before the war.
She had dyed her own blouses and experimented
with color schemes in hats and shoes and
scarves and necklaces. Then the dye shortage
began and she turned her attention even more
earnestly to home experiments. And all the
while she belonged to a school of rhythmic ex-
pression by means of which she was seeking to
project her moods into pictures. “ Why not into
colors ?” she began asking herself, color being
her metier.

Now she goes right on thinking rhythms
which turn into colors with suspicions of design
lurking at their depths and she calls them by
such names as “ Depths of the Sea,” which is
a dream of waves tossing in the sunlight show-
ing every color from pale green to the purple
blues at the bottom of the wave.

“ Breath of Spring ” is a vision of daffodils
and brown earth with pussy willows and tag
alders. And what design there is carries out all
these rhythmic thoughts. But the designs have
no hard edges; they slip from shade to shadow
and lose themselves in light.

A kitchen table, rubber gloves, some white
enamel basins, born to more prosaic uses, and
laundry tubs just at hand, are all the outfit this
nascent enterprise exacted.

At first Miss Ruprecht’s experiments were
mainly with such pre-wartime fripperies as
chiffon scarves and nebulous tea-gowns—the
thingg rhythmic dancers like to float away in.

255

Fashions for Women Citizens

But she has no intention of confining her work
to the perishable stuffs of yesteryear. What
she claims for her wonderful color schemes is,
in the first place, that every woman can and
should adapt the colors she wears to those na-
ture gave her so that, instead of being a dag-
rant note of inharmony she can blend the tones
of her gown into those of her eyes and her skin.
Even such little passing notes of color as but-
tons, beads and tassels may be made to punctuate
thoughts in color. For that is really what Miss
Ruprecht proclaims—the art of thinking colors.

She is using salt dyes because they will wash,
making her own blends, .for after all, the art of
color thinking is to be an everyday art, adapted

‘ to working clothes as well as dress-up clothes.

One should not think of bad colors or lifeless,
cheerless colors at all, and certainly not for
eight strenuous working hours of every day,
leaving all the softening harmonies for the few
restful moments that are left when one’s zest
has flagged. Why not choose colors which flick
life into gladness for mornings as well as even-
ings, for ofiice as well as theatre?

ND why not use them on cottons and in
cheap materials—if there are ever to be any
cheap materials again? That question of plaids,
for instance. Who wants to see a plaid ele-
phant? Yet every purchaser of ginghams, slen-
der or rotund, has been driven this year by the
commercial textile world, into buying checked
dresses, plaid dresses, or dresses upon which
geometric problems and astronomic charts have
vied for first place. '

What Miss Ernestine Ruprecht did as a resist-
ance to the “ blind hand of fate " in the matter
of costuming was to make two dollars’ worth
of material spell out a little symphony of pleas-
ant thoughts. There is a little trick of art by
which a serviceable skirt can be multiplied by
tunics of fascinating differences into a fairy
wardrobe, given a few utensils, a few salt dyes
and color sensitiveness.

What she did as an instinct from the time
she was a little girl, she has now begun to do
as a commercial venture. What she hopes to do,
even more than to make money, is to share her
gift of color with those too busy to think out
color schemes of their own, or with less aware-
ness of their own colorful possibilities.

For it would be a genuine philanthropy to
rescue noble women from the slings and ar-
rows, the polka dots and rampant dice, the sun-
bursts and Dantesque distortions of the textile

counters.
Quite Apart
VEN the Federal Amendment has its
humors. It has found its way into the

society fashion columns. In.what the Antis
and Suffragists wore at the Nation’s Capitol
Margaret Wade (Hartford, Connecticut Times)
describes Mrs. Catt in a new role as the mirror
of fashion in “ dark blue voile with round black
hat trimmed in pink roses.” Mrs. Pankhurst
was “ distinctly feminine in her style of dress "
and Mrs. Wadsworth “ wore a white voile gown
striped in rose pink, which would do credit to
any country club, with the smartest kind of all
white Panama hat in round shape quite apart
from the ordinary sport mode .”

On the whole, in the matter of dress the
Antis carried off the honors, for of the suffrage
group as a whole it is said: “With few ex-
ceptions this body was composed of earnest,
tired-looking women in shirt waists and with-
out hats who believe ‘the vote’ will give them
greater opportunity.”

Stenographers in Uniform

EVERAL hundred telephone girls are now
overseas and the War Department has a
waiting list of 8,000. This group will be as-
signed to the Quartermaster Corps of the
American Expeditionary Forces and to the
headquarters of the staE of General Pershing.
Each applicant for service must be an expe-
rienced stenographer. She will be required to
own in her equipment, four uniforms (two for
winter andtwo for summer service). She must
pass a physical examination and will be engaged
for the period of the war. The salary now
stated is $1,000 a year, with the additional
allowance of $4 a day for the first month and
$2 a day for the remainder of the time.

 

ONE OF THE COSTUMES ADOPTED BY THE

GAS UNIT OF THE WOMEN’S OVERSEA H08-

PITALS, U. S. A., FOR. USE AT THE FRONT.

DESIGNED BY MISS Rnoa‘ns OF THE APPAREL
UNI

256

The Woman Citizen

The BoOk Stall

Women of Uruguay

SUFFRAGE crops up all over the world.
We have lately received several copies of

“ Accion Feminina,” the monthly magazine pub-
lished in Spanish by Uruguay’s National Coun-
cil of Women. The leading article of one is-
sue is headed, in English, “ Votes for Wom-
en! " It rejoices over the passage of the suf—
frage bill in England, and expresses the hope
that we shall soon hear of the election of “a
new Jeannette Rankin ” to the British Parlia-
ment.

Another article pays tribute to Hector Mi-
randa, the first member of Uruguay’s Parlia-
ment to champion equal rights for women. On
July 14, 1914, he introduced a bill to extend
. full suffrage to women on the same terms as
men, and defended it in an eloquent speech.
The measure was not passed, and would have
been unconstitutional at that time; but under
the new constitution, adopted since, Parliament
has the power to enfranchise women; and the
hope is expressed that Miranda’s friends and
colleagues, now mourning his early death, will
put the reform through. A few sentences are
quoted from his speech, describing women’s po-
sition under the present Uruguayan laws:

“ Woman is outside of civil society, an in-
ferior being, an entity without rights, a domes-
tic animal. To vote is the only legal means
for her to assert her rights and defend her in-
terests. To deny her the right of suffrage is to
refuse her the right of legitimate self-defense."

Apparently it is not the custom in Uruguay
for women to take part in funeral services or
memorial meetings, but, in view of Miranda’s
well-known views on the woman question, the
National Council of Women joined in the me-
morial service at the cemetery, and the Presi-
dent of the Council, Doctor Paulina Luisi, made
one of the addresses. She praised the “bril-
liant young tribune, whose voice shook the walls
of the ancient dwelling of the Viceroys,” and
quoted the words in which‘ he urged the Par-
liament of Uruguay to take the lead in adopt-
ing a measure not only just, but above all,
“democratic and human.” She said his name
would be remembered by the women of Uru-
guay, as that of John Stuart Mill is by the
women of England—and, we may add, as that
of Henry B. Blackwell ought to be by the
women of the United States.

Dr. Baltasar Brum is mentioned, in passing,
as a gifted young statesman who helped to get
the constitution changed so as to permit the
granting of suffrage to women, and who also
secured the passage of a bill to suppress pander-
ing.

Uruguay’s National Council of Women is two
years old. It is made up of about a dozen so-
cieties, including the Institute for the Blind,
the Temperance League, the Union Jeanne
d’Arc, the Italian Red Cross, the Dames Fran-
caises, the School for Nurses, the Anti-tuber—
culosis Society, etc. It has committees on Aid
for Children, Aid for Women, Library, Lec-
tures and Propaganda, Hygiene Finance, Im-
migration and Emigration, Legislation, Press,
Peace and Arbitration, Professions, Arts and
Ofiices open to women, Suffrage, Labor, the
White Slave Trade and a Single Moral Stand-
ard—a comprehensive program. The head of

the Suffrage Committee is Senora Carmen
Cuestas de Nery, Pte. Berro 38, Pocitos. There
is a report of a suffrage meeting held in Mori-
tivideo. C

Other interesting articles are a memorial
tribute to the founder and president of the Ar-
gentine National Council of Women, “ the
noble matron Alvina van Praet deg Sala,” who
has lately died; an account of the first District
Temperance Convention (at which equal suf-
frage was one of the subjects presented); a
report of the good work of the Union Jeanne
d’Arc; an article on “ Feminism in Italy," with
an account of a convention lately held in Rome
by the National Council of Women, to urge the
granting of equal rights; an announcement of
a gold medal taken by one Uruguayan woman,
and the appointment of another as assistant phy-
sician at the Maternity Hospital; and cordial
thanks to the press, both in Uruguay and else-
where for its friendly treatment of the Council
and its work.

The Council applied toall the foreign am-
bassadors and ministers in‘ Uruguay, asking
them to put it in touch with the women’s period-
icals of their respective countries. “ Accion
Feminina” is published in Montivideo and so—
licits exchanges. It brings us much interesting

information that we should not get elsewhere.
A. S. B.

A Timely Book

BOOK newly published, which has great

interest at this time, is “The Birth of the
Russian Democracy,” by A. J. Sack. It is is-
sued by the Russian Information Bureau at the
Woolworth Building in New York City, of
which Mr. Sack is Director.

It gives, first, a history of the progressive
movement in Russia up to the Revolution of
March, 1917, and then an account of its devel-
ment since. It contains many original docu-
ments, and a vast amount of valuable informa-
tion. It is enriched, also with portraits and
biographical sketches of a great number of the
heroes and heroines of the Russian revolution-
ary movement in the past.

In reading of these remarkable lines, it is
impossible not to be thrilled by the courage
and devotion shown by such a multitude of
men. and women, hundreds of them ready to
pour out their lives like water in the cause of
their country’s freedom—the women every whit
as dauntless as the men. There was Zinaida
Konopliannikova, a young teacher, who shot a
general guilty of great barbarities. At her trial
she said:

“ During the cross-examination I was asked,
‘Who gave you the right to kill?’ I ask you,
in the name of the people, ‘ Who gave you the
right to keep us for centuries in ignorance and
poverty, in prisons and in exile, who gave you
the right to send us to the gallows, and to
shoot and kill us by the hundreds? ” The exe-
cutioner approached her, and was about to
seize her to lead her over to the scaffold. She
asked not to be touched, and only to be shown
how to tighten the loop. Then she put it on
herself, very calmly, tightened it, and herself
threw the bench from under her feet. “ You
will sentence me to death. But wherever I die,
I shall die with one thought: Forgive me, my
people!

There was so little I could give you—

Digitized by 600816

only my life. And I shall die with the firm
faith that the day will come when, as the poet
has it, ‘ The throne shall topple, and the sun of
liberty shall arise above the vast plains of
Russia.’ "

The oliicial who was reading the sentence
could not bear the sight; his voice gave way and
his hands began to tremble. His neighbor
snatched the paper from him, and hurriedly
read it through. One of the soldiers fainted.

And this woman was only one of a great host,
all likeminded with her. Recalling the history
of the past, we can feel sure that the German
Government will never be able permanently to
hold the Russian down. A Scotchman is re-
ported to have said to the King of Spain, after
Lord James of Dorylas had fallen in aiding
him to drive out the Moors:

“ Be thou strong of heart, Lord King,
For this I tell thee sure—
The sod which drank the Douglas’ blood
Shall never bear the Moor!”

A country where the plant of liberty has been
watered by the blood of so many martyrs is in—
evitably destined to see its eventual blossoming.

Mr. Sack’s book is of additional value at this
time, when there is a widespread effort by in—
terested parties to blacken the Russians in
American public opinion, exaggerating all the
follies that they have actually committed, and
inventing others. It is not necessary to agree
with all the author’s conclusions to see that his
book is rich in interest and information.

A. s. B.
“ Widows Who Sit in Front ”

OW comes a large and scholarly volume to

the book table written by two Oxford
men, J. Vernon Bartlett and A. J. Carlyle.
Their “ Christianity in History, 0 Study of Re-
ligious Development” shows that women started
out in the Apostolic Church with the same
rights to be considered in its councils as had
men. Whether men or women, if they were
“ charismatic people,” that is, persons spiritually
endowed with gifts of “tongues,” or of heal-
ing power or of preaching power, they were
looked upon as natural leaders.

So divine or supernatural was the commis-
sion inherent in the gift of prophecy or of
spirit-prompted prayer—both forms of the high-
er ministry—that it overruled even the Jewish
custom and prejudice against women’s play-
ing a public part with men. Paul allows this
form of woman’s participation in church
while disallowing the more normal ones.

“The widows who sit in front,” say these
Oxford scholars, “ in some parts of the East
ranked as female presbyters and so within the
priesthood.”

It was not until the third century that the
tendency to lower the dignity of widows
and presbyteresses and deaconesses prevailed.
“Therewith,” these gentlemen would have the
world know, “ anything like equality between
the sexes in the Church’s ministry vanished,
and, so far, has revived only in very limited
circles, in modern times. Ministry of women
in the Church to an extent adequate to the idea
of Christianity, and even to early Christian
practice is still a thing 'of the future. It may
mark a fresh era in the spiritualixation of hu-
maniiy.”

August 24, 1918

In the Professions

UT in Ohio the

woman preacher
..dea has penetrated the
Presbyterian fold, long the most literal inter-
preter of the “let-your-women-keep silence-in-
the-churches” doctrine.

Miss Minnie Ellet is reported by the Akron
Beacon Journal as having carried the banner
of women’s equal rights as preacher fairly into
the ministerial camp.

“As long as women were being allowed to
vote in many states, and to be elected to Legis-
latures and Congress and to make gas masks
and to plow corn, and to practice law and medi-
cine, and 'write for the newspapers, why
shouldn’t they be given equal rights in church
as well—the right to sit in at meetings of
vestry and boards of deacons, and even to
preach, if need be? she asked.

“ She went to headquarters. She wrote to
the new Moderator of the General Assembly of
the Presbyterian Church of America, a South-
erner, Rev. J. Frank Smith, of Dallas, Texas.

“And Dr. Smith’s reply sent Minnie hustling
in from old Springfield with the glad tidings.

“ For he went ‘ clear across ’ for suErage. Here

is his letter:
“ ‘The City Temple,
“‘1. Frank Smith, Pastor,
“ ‘ Dallas, Texas,
“ ‘June 18, 1918.

“‘Minnie J. Ellet,

“‘ East Akron, Ohio.

“‘My Dear Friend:

“‘Your communications reached me and I
read them with joy. I am very sympathetic
toward woman’s work and place on this little
clod of ours. Nothing is too good for her. I
am in favor of her voting, preaching, and doing
anything else that needs to be done around her
Father’s House and in her Father’s world. If
she wants to be a soldier and put the kaiser to
flight, it might be embarrassing to some of us
men, but I’m satisfied the kaiser would be more
embarrassed. Some of these days the Presby-
terian Church is going to do what you say—
put woman side by side with her brother in
all the work of the Kingdom. With best
wishes for you in your work, I am,

“ ‘ Very truly yours,
“‘1. FRANK SMITH.’ ”

Upon receipt of this letter Miss Ellet wrote
as follows to the Woman Citizen:

“ My Dears: When I sent you a copy of
my 1916 letter to General Assembly Commis-
sioners for endorsement of the Suffrage Reso-
lution (it went through swimmingly), I told
you I’d keep right on until Presbyterians put
woman on equal footing with man in church—
I think I’m advancing. One sentence I wrote
Cleveland ministers was: ‘This woman has
known more than one ungodly man, to hold the
sacred otiice of ruling elder; she remembers
that the mother of every minister and elder
is a woman; she knows that the most godly of
women may be ordained neither elder nor
minister, and she wonders if Presbyterian
doctrines hold ungodly men superior to godly
women?’ One D. D.’s amazing reply was that
he had always opposed women’s having spiritual
rule because she was so much man’s superior
spiritually that were she allowed to serve as
elder or trustee she’d soon place the male mem-

The Woman I Preacher

bers in such a state of
humiliation that finally
no men could be found
to serve with her; that this was not pleas-
antry; that he had women in prayer meet-
ing; that even elders could not be per-
suaded to take part when these women
were present. Is he right? Yes and no.
Women are men’s superiors spiritually because
God intended man and woman to march side
by side, neither one superior nor inferior to
the other; man, in his desire to dominate, placed
the twain in the position of driver and driven,
unconsciously putting himself in the rear, and
only as brave Christian women have taken the
bits in their teeth and dragged men whither
he would not, has he kept any of his God—given
Spirituality. But the Doctor’s logic is faulty;
how can the great Presbyterian Church, or
any other church, expect to grow spiritually if
only the less spiritual side have any ruling
voice?

“ I sent all this and much more to Dr. Smith.
I told him North must find some other goat
than South upon whom to cast its sins; that
Texas .was ahead of Ohio in suffrage, state
prohibition and ratification and saved church
and country in Democracy. We don’t under-
stand its first principles. It is NOT ‘of, for
and by’ the MALE adult.”

Opportunities

HE National City Company, New York

City, has recently graduated a class of

thirty-five bond salesmen, twenty of whom were
women. ‘

CENTRAL registration system for ch-

nically qualified college students and
graduates has been installed by the Women’s
Collegiate Section, United States Employment
Service, United States Department of Labor,
of which Miss Julia Newton Brooks, 1410
Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington, D. C., is in
charge.

ORTH CAROLINA college women organ-

ized for war work are doing tasks held
unfeminine before the war. One girl drives a
milk wagon, two drive trucks, fifteen will divide
up responsibility for mowing the 25-acre campus
of the Normal School throughout the summer,
and ten have hoed 75 acres of corn for the
college.

PRELIMINARY course in employment

management was given this summer, at
Cleveland, Ohio, according to a statement made
by Captain Boyd Fisher of the War Industries
Board, 717 Thirteenth Street, Washington,
D. C. This course gave actual factory
work, besides class lectures and discussions to
women who wished to enter the field of employ-
ment management, but who lacked the qualifi-
cations which relate to industrial experience.
Living expenses and about $15 for books
covered the necessary expenditure, for the two
months' course, and there was no tuition fee.
Students will be paid beginning wages of
operators ($12 per week) in factories offering
them practical experience.

257

v. )2.

ARE'B’EST for’ 1' ‘
SOCKS and SWEATERS

KHAKI, GRAY, BLUE and NATURAL

Patriotic Women and all War
R e l i e f Organizations—knitters

who are doin their bit—can se-
cure PROM T' DELIVERIES

at WHOLESALE PRICES.
Write for Sample:

E. P. BOND & COMPANY
13 East 22d Street New York City

 

Women are now admitted to courses in em-
ployment management at Rochester, Pittsburgh,
New York and Boston. Applicants must be
not under twenty-five years of age and must
have had at least a high school education and

. three years’ actual experience in the factory.

. URKEY has her Waacs also. The Asso-
ciation of Ottoman Women is enrolling

a battalion work behind the front. As soon as
they can be trained women will be placed in
command.

Males Still Hold Privilege

NE more of the reluctantly conceded privi-
leges of the male Briton is still grudgingly
held in his own control. British women may
vote; but their ungenerous men folk make them
wait until they are thirty. Women may elect
men to Parliament, but they. may not sit in the
councils of state, thus reversing the half-rights
of Dutch women, who may be chosen to repre-
sent constituents in the Dutch Parliament but
may not themselves have any voice in elections.
All of the law oiiicers of England, Scotland
and Ireland were unanimous in their ruling
against women in Parliament, according to a
statement in the House of Commons, on August
8, by Andrew Bonar Law, Chancellor of the
Exchequer.

HAT the Labor Party of Great Britain

does not expect to submit to the recent de-
cision that women are not eligible to Parlia-
ment without making a fight is indicated by
press dispatches which announce the calling of
a convention of the women for October 16,
when this and other problems will be consid-
ered. It is said that the convention will con-
sider questions relating to the civil and polit-
ical rights of the new voters, and will demand
that women be given the right of membership
in the House of Commons.

Lady Rhondda, widow of Viscount Rhondda,
British Food Controller, has announced her
intention as a peeress to claim her right to sit in
the House of Lords.

Despite the ruling denying women the right
to sit in Parliament, Great Britain’s new voters
have made considerable progress in exercising
their new political prerogatives, according to
dispatches. Women are members of thirty gov-
ernment commissions, including those dealing
with the readjustment of labor conditions after
the war. Eight women are members of the lux-
ury tax subcommittee, and are reported to be
exercising an important influence in other com-
mittees and organizations.

When writing to advertisers please mention the WOMAN CITIZEN.

258

Where to Stop
and Why

HOTEL McALPIN

Broadway at 34th Street, New York

An Entire Floor Reserved'
Exclusively for Women

Hostess and Chaperon in Charge
Shopping Guides Available

HOTEL LE MARQUIS

12 Best 31st Street. New York
(Four Doors from m Avenue)

Combines every convenience and home contort, and
commends Itself to people of rennement wishing to live
on American Plan and be within easy reach at social and

grsmstic centers. Especially adapted to ladies travellns
one.

Room and bath 84.00 per day with meals. or 82.50 per
day without meals.

Illustrated Booklet gladly sent upon request.
JOHN P. TOLBON.

The Sunflower Lunch

167 Tremont Street

is run for the benefit of the cause,
by the Boston Equal Suffrage Asso-
ciation for Good Government.

Take your lunch there. Recom-
mend it to your friends. Send it
gifts of fruit or vegetables from
your garden.

Come in and visit the War Service
Shop, at the same address. It is

doing patriotic service. /

SUF F RAGE RESTAURANT

3 EAST 38th STREET
NEW YORK

The Prohibition Party
(Continued from page 248)

low man—must stand with him when he is
right, but part with him when he is wrong.”

(6.) Because an increased prohibition vote is
always indicative of a strong prohibition sen-
timent and influences politicians more than is
commonly supposed.

(7.) Some presume that the Prohibition
Party was organized for one object and when
that object is secured there would be no
further need of this party, and it would go
out of existence. The Republican Party was
organized for substantially one object, but it
has not yet ceased to exist.

If all who believe in Prdiibition would unite
in the Prohibition Party, its main object, Pro-
hibition, would be secured and a new, clean
party would be elected to power. Surely this
would not be a calamity in American politics.

When writing to advertisers please mention the WOMAN CITIZEN.

 

This Is the Fourth

HE Minnesota State Bar Association

adopted the following resolution unani-
mously at its annual meeting in Faribault,
August 14: '

WHEREAS, We believe in the national en-
franchisement of women,

BE IT RESOLVED, First, that we call upon the
United States Senate to pass the pending
Federal Suffrage Amendment; Second, that we
recommend to the Minnesota Legislature that
this amendment be duly ratified.

Senator Frank E. Putnam fathered the reso-
lution. He has been a faithful friend of
suffrage in the state senate for many years.
Mr. Frank Crassweller of Duluth and Mr.
Stiles Burr of St. Paul were among those who
ably assisted Mr. Putnam in getting it through.
The president of the association, Mr. George
W. Bufhngton of Minneapolis, was friendly and
helpful in his attitude toward the resolution.

The bar associations of Tennessee, Iowa and
Arkansas also adopted similar resolutions.

The Congregational Idea

The Illinois Association of Congregational
Churches at its annual convention passed a reso—
lution which follows:

“ We rejoice that the Congregational idea of
equality of women and men has been recog-
nized by so many states and we urge a speedy
passage of the National Suffrage Amendment
and the passage of the Illinois Suffrage Amend-
ment so that the women of our Nation may
be speedily enfranchised.”

Resolved in N. C.

“That the national crisis of war has given
women the greatest opportunity for service
eve before made possible and that we desire
an iven larger measure of service, which
en nchisement of women alone would con-
fer.

" Therefore, we, members of the North
Carolina State Nurses’ Association, do go on
record as endorsing the bill now pending in
Congress for the enfranchisement of women.”

(Signed) BLANCHE STAFFORD, R. N.,
Secy. N. C. State Nurses Asso.

In Honor of Lucy Stone
(Continued from page 254)

the Boston Equal Suffrage Association for Good
Government celebrated with a picnic at the old
home of Lucy Stone and Henry B. Blackwell
at Dorchester, inviting a number of the young
sailors in the United States service. The
arrangements were made by Mrs. Coe and Mrs.
Pinkham. After an open air supper Miss Black-
well told the boys about her father’s and
mother’s experiences in the early days. One of
the young men present was a descendant of
Lucretia Mott. The evening closed with music
and dancing.

First from Massachusetts

N connection with the recent Lucy Stone

anniversary, some of the papers have said
that she was the first woman in America to
take a college degree. This is an error. She
was the first Massachusetts woman to take a
college degree; but women had been graduating
from Oberlin for several years before she be-
came a student there. She would be the last
person to wish to claim any credit that does
not belong to her.

The Woman Citizen

METROPOLITAN
DYE WORKS

CLEANERS
and DYERS

l ir\.l l, in», “lurk.

l’rnmpt llcliwr}.

Rvasrmal) Iv Pri' r 

.l‘l' '1“

all Institute
I!" I m. I. We.

IMHO.

A Boarding and
Day School for Girls

8 School and Coils. Preparatory Cour-u. Two
Y2:- ol College Work. Special Courses: The Ark.
imr'  ! WI 5' ’w'i NI, m‘hm'mudpm
tie Science. momentary 13w.

Ills. Nanette B. Pad. LL. 8.. Paid-oi.
Author oi “Paul's Parliamentary hw"
and “The Heart oi Mm“

 

Among the pioneer suffragists she was the
only woman who had taken a regular college
degree. Julia Ward Howe, a great advocate
of the higher education, used to attribute Lucy
Stone’s good judgment and high mindedness,
in large measure, to her college training; but
in this I cannot think that Mrs. Howe was
right. There are plenty of college graduates,
both men and women, who show very little
judgment, and many persons are levelheaded
and magnanimous who have never taken a
college course. A. S. B.

Mississippi Valley Suli'rage Con-

ference Postponed

HE Mississippi Valley Suffrage Conference
will not be held this year as previously
announced. This decision was reached by the
committee in charge of the arrangements for
the conference because of the heavy demands
made upon the women of the country through
the war situation, which would make it impossi-
ble for many to attend. It was originally planned

to hold the conference in September at Sioux
Falls, South Dakota.

Land Army

(Continued from page 253)

proved that such outdoor labor is not harmful.
One large camp reports an average gain of
nine pounds per worker, and in every case the
physical condition of the women in Land Army
camps has been pronounced to be excellent.

Government departments and thirty-two or—
ganizations—patriotic groups and organizations
of women—have been co-operating with the
work of the Woman’s Land Army this year.
Thirty-four women’s colleges have also helped
in furthering the movement, either by carrying
on recruiting or by instituting special courses
to train women for agricultural work. The need
of dairy workers has been specially emphasized.
In many colleges throughout the country women
are being trained for this special phase of farm
work, for which they are said to be fitted.

Mrs. Hamilton stated that the Woman's Land
Army expects with another season to be in a
position to place units more widely under
trained and eliicient leadership and that work
for organization of the states and counties and
the preparing of women for agricultural life
would go on during the winter.

  
 
 

PART. NI' YOII

“98°

August 24, 1918 ' _ .

"' 1‘ .”"l".1£.‘l!"v.!1r"|..:.l11‘ Iii" "'.‘i:.:.:,\HWIHI'SEHIH":'H"'ii

Can You Vote This Year?

If you can you will want to read our articles on

PARTIES AND PRIMARIES '

hnwwmq—. . _ .- -.. .
.l . I

 

- If you cannot you will want to read them just the same—
for you will'vote next year or in l920, if not in l9l8.

THESE ARTICLES ARE APPEARING IN EIGHT OF OUR NUMBERS.

Five already printed.

August 24th—To-day—"THE PROHIBITION PARTY."
 By Mrs. D. Leigh Colvin, Prohibition Candidate for
 . Lieutenant-Governor of New York State, and
:- "THE ANTI-SALOON LEAGUE'S PLACE IN

POLITICS." By Adella Potter, Superintendent of

Organization Department of Anti-:Saloon League
of New York.

August 3|st—“THE NATIONAL PARTY.”

By Mrs. Florence Slown Hyde, Member of the
National Executive Committee of the National Party.

-- mammal-

September 7th—“THE SINGLE TAX PROGRAM."
By Mrs. Lloyd, Candidate for State Treasurer of
New York on the Single Tax Ticket.

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

Issues of these eight weeks will be furnished for
the special price of 50 cents upon application to

171 Madison Avenue New York

' -| llllllllllllllllllllllllllhllllllllhllillllllillllllllI;

 
 

 

 

 

x 5901‘: at Less Thai Published Price:

E have arranged to supply the books listed below at the special prices

named when sold in combination with new subscriptions to the Woman

Citizen. They will be mailed post-paid to any address in the United States.

This is an opportunity to save from twenty to thirty-five per cent on the

published prices. If you are already a subscriber to the Woman Citizen

and wish to own certain of the books, invite your friends to become subscribers to the
magazine at one dollar a year, and have the books of your choice sent to your address.
They will cost you the difference between the full price quoted for each combination
and one dollar. Or subscribe to the magazine as a gift for a friend and have the book

sent to your address.

Published Combination: Amount

0 n t h (3 I3"? .1: 1‘ 03333:. 83333331?" (2533333...
THE PAN—GERMAN PLOT UNMASKED: André Chéradame . . . . . . .. .$1.25 $1.85 $.40

“OVER THERE”: Captain R. Hugh Knyvett . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50 2.00 .50

FIGHTING FOR PEACE: Henry van Dyke . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25 1.85 .40

WHY WE ARE AT WAR: Woodrow Wilson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .50 1.35 .15

IN OUR FIRST YEAR OF WAR: Woodrow Wilson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00 1.65 .35

FIGHTING FRANCE: Edith Wharton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00 1.65 .35
THE UNITED STATES AND PAN-GERMANIA: André Chéradame.. 1.00 1.65 .35
GENERAL J OFFRE AND HIS BATTLES: Raymond Recouly (Captain X) 1.25 1.85 .40
ON THE RIGHT OF THE BRITISH LINE: Captain Gilbert Nobbs... 1.25 1.85 .40
WHITE NIGHTS AND OTHER RUSSIAN IMPRESSIONS: Arthur Ruhl 2. 00 2 . 35 .65
A WAR NURSE’S DIARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25 ' 1.85 .40
MY WAR DIARY: Madame Waddington . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50 2.00 .50
WITH THE ALLIES: Richard Harding Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25 1.85 .40
THE DESERTER: Richard Harding Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .50 1 35 .15
PRINCIPLES OF AMERICAN DIPLOMACY: John Bassett Moore.. . . 2.00 2.35 .65
N o v c l S
THE EARTHQUAKE: Arthur Train . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50 2.00 .50
CHRISTINE: Alice Cholmondeley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.25 1 .85 .40
HIS FAMILY: Ernest Poole . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50 2.00 .50
THE TREE OF HEAVEN: May Sinclair . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.60 2.00 .60
RIiscellancous;
YOUR VOTE AND HOW TO USE IT: Mrs. Raymond Brown . . . . . . .. .75 1.50 .25
THE WOMAN VOTER’S MANUAL: S. E. Forman and Marjorie Shuler. . 1.00 1.65 35
MARK TWAIN’S LETTERS, 2 Volumes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4.00 3.75 1.25
OBSERVATION: EVERY MAN HIS OWN UNIVERSITY: R. H. Conwell 1 .00 1.65 . .35
THE MODERN CITY AND ITS PROBLEMS: Frederic C. Howe. . .. 1.50 2.00 .50
THE HIGH COST OF LIVING: Frederic C. Howe................... 1.50 2.00 .50
THE FOOD PROBLEM: Kellogg and Taylor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25 1.85 .40
WAR FRENCH: Colonel C. D. Willcox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .75 1.50 .25

This offer is for a limited period. Send your orders promptly to

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

171 Madison Avenue New York City

zu—l" —-‘ —— e——---c ---‘-—..—.__— a —, ~—- _——.---..4..—_-——_. _-_. _~.- ~.—._— .__..._.——.—.—— — -——

 

