cents a copy'

.-   _'. - -_  "-1' f. ' ' "
32—h .. _ .. '- 

 ian'mxrcj

‘6: "n
-

‘I

WM

\
- ~§
‘
f
l
.“

«2'5thme vaummmm -

m.-3~¢Wma rm 

QM"-
. I
 W.
J? t. .. J r
Vim-1 W351an

$323355 2‘36“; .‘fééyéiiétm

‘2

 

)TIFE: When you finish reading this
L;:>.~r.:m place a. one-cent stamp on thls
z.- -- mail the magazine, and It will be
p ‘ -1 in the hands of our soldiers or
-»’9 damn-ed to proceed overseas. No
89% up Address. A. B. Burleson.

162 y The Woman Citizei

Men’s Bathing Suits

Guaranteed Pure Worsted Guaranteed Fast Color
Guaranteed Fine Values

THE special attraction in these bathing suits is that we
got the right quality and a little better than the right
price. They are the real thing in a genuine pure worsted
fast-color fine value bathing suit for sun and surf.

Sizes 34 to 44.

No. SI—Two-Piece Bathing Suit of Pure Worsted, 4 
in navy or black, trimmed white or red 0

No. 83—Two-Piece Bathing Suit of Pure Worsted, 5 
consisting of white shirt and black or navy trunks '

Shirt or Trunks can be bought separately. Shirt 3.00, Trunks 2.00

White Canvas Belt, illustrated on picture 83 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50c

Prompt Delivery Free anywhere in the United States
Phone 6900 Greeley

Men’s Furnishings Shop—4 W7est Thirty-Eighth St.

Separate Shop on Street Level

    

in '111011

 

336$ & (1130.

l Fifth Avenue at 35th Street 
’( Established I879 w

 

Only Six Pairs W
l: to a Customer - 1”.
ll One of the best arguments for the 1.35 ' ‘
ill} AHTAB hosiery is the fact that we 

W have been forced to limit sales to six
ml pairs to a customer.

i
1
M We think the reason why the 1.35 ‘

 o O l O t .

mg; AHTAB homery 13 so popu ar, IS no 1 e

jll because it costs less than the other two Real Mattress Clean] n 33

Ml  grades, bUt jUSt because “1 Becgi-ltickirig is :11 sieve-like fabrichwhich alloyvs foreign matlier
° ' ° t ter tll’Oll 1 ant ecome a xture m tie mattress. e—

 these war tunes, It dehvers so mucn for cgvering such gbedding is an uncleanly makeshift.

ill the money' i What is needed is an antiseptic, washable

 No matter how little they cost, nobody E l o QUILTED P

l O 0 0

 would be wanting 51x pairs of .AHTAB xce 8101' MATTRESS rOtCCtor

 1°35 StOCkingS  they didn’t: In Style: which really solves this vexing problem.

H1 in fast COlOTS, in wear, and in .Gt, Made of bleached Muslin padded with white wadding-wash

come up to the mark every time. eaSiIY—dry light and fluffy as new.

i .
ill Three grades—1.35, 1.65, 2.00
1 Sold exclusively by Best 81. Co.  G C0.
1

Look for the trade-mark sewed on every Pad

15 Laight Street, New York City

 

 

 

“'é‘vr You Never Pay More at Best’si-‘f ——

When writing to advertisers please mention the WOMAN CITIZEN.

a q a a _ _ .‘ —. ... -. 7‘4

 

PUBLISHED by the Woman Citizen

C 0 N6 the womm" Jm'm' ’ Corporation, in the hope that it may

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

B fgundedeis'lgbz ' Stgne In:  rove IIt». gilt-p; ating megorial to
° Ink" "'1’ rs. r s generosi toward
voted totowinning equal righzhgk Founded June 2, 1917 the “m of y mam “d M
Massachusetts, from 1370 to 1917. Con- The directors of the Corporation are
timing .1” the Wm Voter, and the The Woman Cmm CORPORATION Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, Miss Alice
National Sun News. In succeeding at 171 Madison Avenue, New York Stone £31m!de M11388 Ma Garrett
the Nation] 3 age Nmm Wm Hay, rs. Thomas ucklin ells, and

Ten cents a capy; yearly subscription (52 numbers), Mrs. Arthur L Livermore.
81.00. Postage to ford countries iifty cents extra.
Entered attheNew or]: Post OEceasSecond

Class matter, under the act of March 3, 1879. Copy-

Citizen became the omcial organ of the
National American Woman Sud'rage
Association, and as such tries to main-

Alice Stone Blackwall is a special coats-ib-
utin; editor.

 

_._...k m . _

tain intimate contact between the Asso-
ciation and its two million members
throughout the United States.

right, 1918, by The Woman Citizen Corporation.

VOL. III

JULY 27. I918

NO. 9

Boss Yéunx is the editor-in-chiat.

Whi Sumner Bo
Egonhwlg m are assaults

 

 

Our Circulation Story

HE state conventions of the two great
political parties indicate that the politi-
cians are devoting a considerable portion of
the summer season to the business of helping to
send the Federal Suffrage Amendment across

the line in the Sixty-fifth Congress after the
recess

One convention after another has adapted
a Federal Amendment plank calling upon the
Senate to submit the Amendment to the states
for ratificatiOn as speedily as possible. New
York, Iowa and Arkansas have been added to
the already long list of states endorsing the
Amendmt within the last few days, and many
other states will have taken similar action be-
fore the end of the convention season.

These federal suiirage planks in political
latforms are summer harbingers of victory
or the women of America. Before man
weeks, ap arently, ratification campaigns
be in swing and then, more than ever,
will the need 0 proper ammunition be felt.
Every subscription to the Woman Citizen
means an addition to the oiiensive strength

of the cause now gathering its forces for the
last great drive.

Each day’s mail indicates an increasing ap-

reciation of the practical value of the Citizen
iii such a campaign as the one drawing nearer
every day.

“ I couldn’t live without the Citizen—4 need
never be urged to renew my subscription,”
writes Mrs. H. G. Teson of Pittsburgh.

And Henrietta Osborne
Crane writes from
Ocean Grove, New J er-
sey: “ I very much ad-
mire and enjoy the
Woman Citizen.”

The indomitable spirit

Georgia.

Indiana.

for it,” runs the letter,

rejoices in
of

she
emancipation

and
“ the

July
South Dakota.

Pennsylvania.
Maine.
Louisiana.

“I greatly value the Woman Citizen
for its concise way of stating things,
and its clear type and convenient size

for reading.”
sAM WALLACE, Oxford, Alabama.

 

STA TE CIRCULA TION CHA IRMEN

Arkansis: Miss Billie Pitney, Little Rock
Conn.: Mrs. Bertha T. Voorhorst, Hartford
Indiana: Mrs. Jessie Fremont Croan, Anderson
Iowa: Dr. EMe McCollum Jones, Webster City
Louisiana: Mrs. Ruben Chauvin, Houma
Maine: Mrs. Dora H. York, Augusta
Maryland: Mrs. E. W. Rouse, J r., Baltimore
Mass.: Mrs. R. L. DeNormandie, Boston
Michigan: Mrs. John Waite, Ann Arbor
Minnesota: Mrs. I. E. Rose, St. Paul
New Hampshire: Mrs. Mary Post, Portsmouth
New Jersey: Mrs. F. H. Colvin, East Orange
North Dakota: Mrs. Katherine L. Brainerd,
Hebron \
Rhode Island: Mrs. LeBaron C. Colt, Bristol
South Carolina: Mrs. J. T. Gittman, Columbia
Tennessee: Mrs. D. J. Kimbrough, Nashville
Texas: Mrs. Helen Moore, Galveston
Virginia: Miss Helen Stockdell, Richmond
West Virginia: Mrs. P. C. McBee, Mor antown
Wisconsin: Mrs. Charles Mott, Milwa ee

Relative Position of State Leagues in the Woman Citizen’s Circulation Contest:
July 90th

18th
1. Georgia

. South Dakota
. Indiana

. Pennsylvania

. Maine
. Louisiana

Circulation Contest

1. A pledge will constitute an en .

9. No entries will be accepted a
her 1, 1918.

3. Contest closes January 1, 1919.

4. In case of a tie for any one premium, the
prize will be awarded to each qualifying
contestant. -

5. Only actual paid subscriptions will he count-
ed ln the awarding of premiums.

rDecem—

First Cash Premium
FIFTY DOLLARS

TotheStateAssociationthatsendslnthe

highest number over 900 (paid new subscrib-
ers). The net price subscription to the
StateAssociationis. ,the.30togointothc
state, county oriocaltressury,asmayhede-

aided by t between the state and
its MW

Second Cash Premium
TWENTY-FIVE DOLLARS

ty Association that sends in the
ghost number over 100 (paid new sub-
scribers). Thus would come through the

State Association, and would help to swell the

state’s total.
Third Cash Premium

TWE N TY—F I VE

DOLLARS

To theLocalClub that
sends in the highest

1.

2.
of the pioneer suRra-  Iowa, . Iowa mun“? We? 100 d
giSt stands forth in a 5. Michigan. . Michigan new l“b¢l'ib¢l’l). ac
letter from Ellen M. 6. Minnesota. . Minnesota 3'3"“ me throush the
Bolles, who, though 71 7. New Jemy_ . New Jersey than Association into
5' “1'5 0f 383: diSChal‘ges 8. Massachusetts. . New York a mute “N85011:
the dates 0f Post- 9. New York. . Massachusetts  en“ “*1” Wm
mistress at Lumberton, 10. Ohio. . Wisconsin tun.
New MCJdCO- . Wisconsin. . Ohio H h

“ I could not get New Ham shire. . New am . ire

'along withou t the Missouri, Virginia. . illisiouri, lrginia Fourth Cash Premium
Woman Citizen, and Alabama. . a ama
shall take it as. long as Texas. . Texas TWENTY-F IVE
I have a dollar to pay Maryland. . Maryland DOLI !B 8

To the co-operating
Subscriber who sends in

the masses—including Connecticut. . Connecticut the m at number on,
women "—destined to West Virginia. . West Virginia 50, would be 1nd,.
come out of this world South Carolina, Kentucky . South Carolina, Kentucky pendent of state, county
struggle. Tennessee. . Tennessee, Arkansas and club circulation u.

no not forget .we Washin on, D. 0., Arkansas. . Washington, D. C. tivitia, would apply to

have set 100,000 new North

subscribers to the Wom-
an Citizen as our goal.

Rose Lawuss Gavan.

National Circulation
Chairman.

Vermont.

akota.
Rhode Island, Mississippi.

Nebraska.
Washington.

North Carolina.

 

. North Dakota

. Nebraska
. Washington

. North Carolina

 

. Rhode Island, Mississippi

states that do not take
up the circulation work
in an Omani way, and
would come directly to
the Woman Citizen. The
net price per subscription
is $1.00. No discount.

 

Digitized by 600816

_—

164

715. Altman 3c (1111. M;

TRAVEL AND VACATIION OUTFIITS

and the numerous minor requirements to render both the journey
and the sojourn worth while have been provided in
interesting and extensive assortments.

      
     
   
    

The activities of the seaside, country sports, or the hours of leisure
have been amply anticipated in apparel typical of
fashionable life during the Summer period.

     
  
  

 

  

mahiann Avenue-Slim] Avenue. New york
Ema-1.1111111} 511721 TELEPHONE rooo MURRAY HILL Uhh’tg-ufth 511721

     
 

 

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

Invites Your Cooperation

IT PUBLISHES WEEKLY

Political reports of the woman’s cause at home
and abroad.

Direct news from the National American Woman
Suffrage Association’s hospitals in France.

A list of woman’s opportunities.

A column for the attention of Vigilance
Committees.

ORDER IT TODAY

First Aid to Subscribers

Pin a New York draft, Money or Express Order for l  -_   .   
$1.00 to this advertisement, fill out the blank below, cut

out and mail both to us for one year’s subscription (new Eat Corn, Save Wheat
or renewal) to

THE WOMAN CITIZEN I
NURSES OUTFITI'ING ASSOCIATION, In

Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 425 Fifth Avenue, New York

Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

cm, ............................ . . State ................... .. ’ RED CROSS GARMENTS

THE WOMAN CITIZEN 171 Madison Avenue New York

 

 

Sand for Catalog

When writing to advertisers please mention the WOHAN CITIZEN 

 

The Woman Citizen

THE WOMAN’S

JOURNAL

A Journal of Democracy

July 27, ‘1918

“W e shall fight for the things which we have always carried nearest our hearts — for denncrecy, for the right of
those who submit to authority to have a voice in their own loomed.”

Under Which Banner P

OR some months previous to the special day for registering
New York women in order to permit them to vote in the
primaries (the men having been registered previously), a sweet-
tempered but serious-minded controversy stirred the ranks of suf-
fragists from Buffalo to Montauk Point. The suffragists of New
York are pledged to the Federal Suffrage Amendment and to the
use of their votes to see it through to its ratification by the last
state. It has not yet passed the Senate and a minority in both
parties represented in that body have manifested an incomprehen-
sible hostility to its passage. It is clear, too, that, since New York
state has enfranchised its women by over 103,000 majority, and
since the legislature of the state has passed a resolution calling
upon the two Republican senators to support the amendment, and
the Republican National Committee and most of the Republican
County Committees have endorsed the amendment, the women
have the right to expect the support of their senators. Senator

Calder gave aid to the campaign within the state, and has right

royally supported the Federal Suffrage Amendment campaign, .

but Senator Wadsworth is one of three men at whose door lies
the entire responsibility of delay in the Senate.

New York has much territory which is practically one-party
Republican, and other territory which is one-party Democratic
in politics. Senator Wadsworth’s part of the state is Republican.
Under his direct influence it defeated suffrage in 1915 and again
in 1917. The two congressmen representing that part of the
state voted against the Federal Suffrage Amendment in the House
and Senator Wadsworth has led the obstruction campaign against
the Amendment in the Senate. That the women of New York
have the vote is due to sections of the state over which he has no
especial influence. He cost the women of the state two additional
years of slavish self-sacrificing campaign work and hundreds of
thousands of dollars. He is now costing the women of the nation
thousands of dollars because of the delay which he alone has
caused. Naturally many New York women are embittered by
these facts. Women normally Republican in politics and residing
in Republican territory, or neutral women qualified to choose a
party, hesitated to enroll themselves in the party of Wadsworth.

On the other hand the narrow-minded provincial opposition of
the Democratic minority chiefly from the so-called solid South
has made Democratic women and neutral women unwilling to
enroll with the Democrats whose enjoyment of a control of House

and Senate puts the main chairmanship into the hands of these
anti-suffragists.

One group of suffragists therefore is holding that until the
Federal Suffrage Amendment is ratified women should remain
non-partisan and throw their votes where they will be of most
help to the nation-wide campaign, but another, led by Miss Hay,
contends that the influence of women would be greater within

the party than out of it, that women should give to the country
the best service they can render at this time of its great stress,
while not forgetting their objective of enfranchising the women
of the nation by federal amendment. As a result of the contro-
versy about half the New York women who will probably vote
at the coming election enrolled in the primaries, (679,000.)
The leaders of all political parties have watched this controversy
with deep and understanding interest and are fully aware of the
tremendous influence upon the destiny of New York politics
which will be wielded by the women whose afliliations with polit-
ical parties are not yet made, as well as by those already enrolled.

Women Voters and Party Alignment

VER since the big pro-suffrage majority was piled up in the
Empire State last November, anxious conjecture and fore-
cast have done their best to tease from the future the answer to

the question, “ What strength will the women’s vote add to the
Republicans, what to the Democrats, what to the Socialists, and

what to the Prohibitionists? ”

During the first months after the great November victory it
was stylish in all our best political circles to stress the help given
by each party in New York State—according to which party you
wanted women to remember next November.

But, alas, for politicians! By the time the women’s enrollment
dates had rolled around, claims to consideration on account of
the state victory had been swallowed up in claims to considera-
tion on account of the federal suffrage situation. New York
women were manifestly on the lookout—and Washington was
what they were looking out at.

Of the two chief parties the New York Republicans have had,

to prop their hopes of the women’s alignment, a showmg far

secure nation-wide suffrage to women.

To help hold‘ the balance, Democrats pointed to President W il-
son’s work for the amendment—a telling gesture that immediately

166

lost in force because the President, do what he would, was not
able to prevail against certain hoary prejudices and traditions
that weight his party mill-stone wise.

It is the enrollment itself that has brought these more or less
painful cogitations to a close. Authoritative figures at last avail-
able in the official enrollment returns, lend weight to the insis-
tence of the Republicans that their support of the Federal Suf-
frage Amendment was sure to be a determining factor in.the
party alignment of the new women voters.

Of the 679,618 women who used the very limited opportunity
afforded to become affiliated with a party, 375,093 went into the
Republican fold, as against 247,676 who enrolled as Democrats.

Moreover, women form a larger proportion of the entire Republi-
can state enrollment than of the Democratic.

It did not need the New York line-up to prove that nation-wide
suffrage has grown vastly in significance to women voters during
recent months and to indicate that party as well as individual
record on the Federal Suffrage Amendment will be closely
watched by the women between now and the November elections.
Women are prone to get at fundamentals and to their crude minds
the right of self-government is fundamental to the choice of rep-
resentatives to do the governing. Their alignments may there-

:fore be expected more and more to refiect their interest in the
‘ fortunes of the Federal Suffrage Amendment.

Relative Party Gains

NE revealment in the ruthless figures of the New York
0 superintendent of elections must make bitter reading, in-
deed, to the opponents of woman suffrage. According to their
forecasts, women of the “ old-line ” parties, Republican and Dem-
ocratic women, would remember that woman’s place is in the
home, and stay there on election days, while the wives and sis-
ters and mothers of the Socialist men would pour forth to the
polls by the thousands. Be driven to the polls rather. For
Socialist women, quoth the antis, would but do the bidding of
Socialist men. So that to give votes to Socialist women would
be to double the Socialist vote, without any compensatory addi-
tion to the ranks of the Democrats and the Republicans. Thus
the antis in accents wild.

And now the New York enrollment figures in their cold and
cruel realism! Whereas, women have added 50 per cent, half
as much again, to the registered Republican strength in New
York, and 40 per cent, or two-fifths, to the Democratic, they
have added but 20 per cent, one-fifth, to the former Socialist
strength!

Just how the New York Times, semi-official organ of the Wads-
worthians, and Mrs. Wadsworth are to survive this shock, must
be a matter of some concern to the little group about them.

It is interesting to note in this connection that a comparison of
the relative contributions to the Socialist strength made by men
and by women shows that if votes are to be withheld from a sex
because of its superior propensity for voting the Socialist ticket,
the franchise must be taken from men, as between three and four

times as many men as women will vote the Socialist ticket in

The Woman Citizen

New York. It is also noteworthy, in view of the antis’ one-time
contention that it was the Socialist vote that carried New York
for suffrage, that the entire Socialist vote registered for the 1917
elections, 67,665, could have tumbled into East River, and suf—
frage would still have carried in New York by 35,000 majority.

Those Opposed

0 the antis, who make quite a fad of leaving dead people on
T their lists of “ those opposed,” there wasn’t anything funny
in the situation when Senator Brandegee of Connecticut got up in
the United States Senate on June 27th, and had read into the
Record a communication that voiced a long-winded protest against
woman suffrage. It was noticeable that during the clerk’s read-
ing of the communication Mrs. Wadsworth and Mrs. Wads-
worth’s husband looked summarily convinced. And, handled as
it was, the communication really sounded like a protest from a
group of people who, though backward, were at least still alive.

All the more interesting the fact that it was from an organiza—
tion that was defunct, with a president who had been for some
time dead!

The organization, which had known itself as the American
Constitutional League, had solemnly announced its own demise
to the press some weeks before. On our desk at the moment lies
a letter from the “ League ” addressed to a metropolitan city
editor, dated June 4, which reads as follows:

“ Mr. Everett P. Wheeler, who is now out of town, has re-
quested me to send you a brief statement for publication, an-
nouncing the termination of the affairs of the American Constitu-
tional League.

“ The American Constitutional League, as you will recall, has
been working against the Federal Suffrage Amendment for the
last few weeks on the ground that its passage would be a violation
of the Constitutional principle of States rights. For adequate
reasons it is now terminating its affairs, and I should appreciate
very much if you would make the announcement of this fact in
your columns.”

‘ “ For obvious reasons ” opposition to suffrage is very generally
terminating its affairs, and can be allowed to do so without
It does seem a pity, however, that the
Senate’s time and the Record’s perfectly good white paper should
be consumed with ghostly wailings from the dead. A great many

obituary or requiem.

dead pe0ple and dead organizations were opposed to suffrage,
just as they were opposed to railroads and fiying machines and
public schools. But today is not yesterday and what suited the
dead does not suit the living. . Woman suffrage belongs to the
present, not to the past, and precarious as is our opinion of some
United States Senators, the Senate itself is too dignified an insti-
tution to be fiouted by appeals from defunct organizations
camoufiaged as still alive and entitled to consideration.

“ There are those who bury themselves in the past,” says one of
the authoritative writers on the world’s war, “ there are those who
bury themselves in the past, on whose lips are the sayings only of
bygone days, the traditionalists for whom an injustice has legal

Digitized by 600816

July 27, 1918

force because it is perpetuated, who aspire to be guided by the
dead.”

Let us hope that against the United States Senate such a charge ‘

cannot much. longer lie.

Why Arkansas Will Ratify

ENATOR J. T. ROBINSON, of Arkansas and the United
States Senate, has summed up Arkansas’ experience with
suErage tersely. As an illustration of how rapidly public senti-
ment has grown on this question, he points to the fact that the
women of Arkansas cast their first ballot in the Arkansas primary
election a few weeks ago.

“ Up to that time, I confess, there was a good deal of doubt
and a good many open questions in the matter,” he continues,
“but today I do not believe there are a hundred men of even
average intelligence in the state who do not heartily endorse the
principle of woman suffrage, and realize that the women want the
ballot, and that they voted even more wisely than did the men.
They gave honest thought to their votes, and the best women of
the state went at the matter as a duty they owed and a privilege
they had long desired.

“ Arkansas will ratify the Federal Suffrage Amendment with
pleasure and without a mental reservation.”

Echoes from the Past
A CERTAIN Senator has been accustomed whenever the

subject of woman suffrage is mentioned to present in
person or by mail a reprint from the Congressional Record of
More,

he is so excited over the subject that when his caller comes upon

an article which he himself caused to have read into it.

some other errand and does not mention woman suffrage, he does
it himself in order to present his views.

The pamphlet was printed in the Southern Review in 1871,
forty-seven years ago, and seems to have been a standard oppo-
sition document ever since. It has been read into the Con-
gressional Record more than once, the last time in 1913. Its every
line represents a period so long past that it has been forgotten
by the majority of folk; but it becomes significant in our own
day for two reasons.

First, it undoubtedly reflects sentiments practically universal
when written and therefore sets up a milestone by which to
measure the world’s onward progress during these forty-seven
years. ,

Second, it presents the phenomenon of minds which have
stopped in their normal operations and, unobservant of changed
conditions, repeat parrotlike sentiments common in early youth.

The astonishing comment of the Senator upon this reprint from
the Record is that “ it is even more pertinent at the present time
than when Dr. Bledsoe first gave it to the public.” He assures
friends and foes that Dr. Bledsoe’s sentiments are his. A few
quotations taken at random will convey some idea of what these

sentiments are :

“ The root of all this mischief is the idea that woman is the
equal of man. . . . She is neither equal nor superior nor inferior

167

She was made for a different sphere, and in her own
sphere she is without a peer or rival. ‘ One star is different from
another star in glory.’ . . . Let not the sphere of woman, then,
be confounded with that of man, and let not her soul be unsexed to
do the work of man; unless, indeed, it be our object to subvert
the order of nature, to ‘ uproar the universal peace and pour the
sweet milk of concord into hell.’

“ Ah! ye strong-minded women, how ye must hate these words
—‘ being in subjection unto their husbands! ’ Have you no hus-
bands because you hate these words? Or do you hate these
words because you have no husbands? Have you no husbands
because the old-fashioned forms require you to ‘ Love, honor, and
obey,’ or because nobody has asked you? . . . Woman is some-
times contemptuously called ‘ the inferior animal.’ . . . ‘ Yes, that
is precisely our opinion of the sex—inferior animals but superior
beings. In brute force, in all that c0nstitutes the mere animal
frame and nature, women are inferior to men; but in purity of
mind, in refinement of sentiment, in all that most nearly assimi-
lates our race to the good angels above, they are superior to men.
. . . We can not deny, however, that although woman is the
‘ superior being,’ she is the ‘ weaker vessel,’ for such is the express
declaration of the Word of God. She is evidently the ‘ weaker
vessel.’ The frailer form, the more delicate organs, the more
sensitive and timid nature, all proclaim her ‘the weaker vessel.’
.Above all, the ease with which the balance of her judgment is
disturbed by the impulses of kindness or of cruelty show that she
is ‘ the weaker vessel.’ While man, during the Civil War, dis-
played his strength by the greatness and the heroism of his deeds,
woman betrayed her weakness by the violence of her sentiments.
She would have raised the black flag and caused it to wave in all
the darkness of desolation over the heads of her enemies even

to man.

while she was the ministering angel of mercy to her friends. It is
the weakness of human nature, and especially in the female sex,
that it is always prone to rush into extremes of both hate and love.

“There are, we are sorry to say, some of the sweetest and
most intelligent and most lovely young ladies in our land who
seem favorably inclined toward the woman’s rights movement.
We would do anything to save them, except marry a strong-
minded woman; and if we were a widower we fear we might be
induced to do even that, in order to rescue the beautiful creatures
from their perilous condition.”—C. C. C.

The Modern Note

T would be strange indeed if after all the sacrifices that women
I have made and are making for the triumph of democracy
on a world scale they should be denied the equal rights without
which real democracy, here or anywhere, is impossible—Times,

Bedford, Mass.

EXAS women voters are smashing records. The latest
T word from the state suffrage president is that the first
report of the women’s enrollment of 360,000 for this week’s
primaries, which seemed unbelievably high, was incomplete. The
figures on July 20 were 386,000, with a possible 400,000 in sight.

This is more than Texas men’ 'd ' v te.
Digitized by 

168

The Woman Citizen

Their First Convention

HE Republican State Conference, held for

the purpose of drafting a platform, took
place at Saratoga, July 18th and 19th. The
Democratic Conference was held for the same
purpose at the same place July 23rd.* The Re-
publicans treated the women voters with cor-
dial hospitality and with keen appreciation of
the fact that there is a large new electorate
whose party affiliations have yet to be fixed.

The vast Convention hall at Saratoga is
familiar campaign ground to suffragists.
'Most political conventions for the past genera-
tion have been held there and for twenty—five
years bands of representative women citizens
of the State have appealed to platform com-
mittees for political liberty and in the gallery
have listened to grandiloquent orations and to
platforms in which such expressions as “gov-
ernment by consent,” “equal rights for all,
special privileges for none,” “ free and equal,”
ad infinitum, have been hailed with boisterous
partisan applause without the slightest evi-
dence appearing to indicate that a single dele-
gate sensed an inconsistency between declara-
tion and realization in fact. .

For the first time last week women were
permitted to be a real part of it all. Over a
hundred women delegates, fairly representative
of all sections of the state, were seated, and
they were almost entirely drawn from the army
of women who had so heroically striven to
secure the ballot. One suffrage worker said she
had to pinch herself occasionally that she
might realize that she was at last within the
one-time forbidden sphere instead of a suppliant
still at the portals.

’Mrs. Edwin Danforth, wife of ex-Congress-
man Danforth, was appointed chairman of
the committee to escort Hon. J. Sloat Fassett,
temporary chairman, to the platform. Mrs.
Florence Knapp was appointed to the cre-
dentials committee and several women were
appointed honorary vice-presidents and secre-
taries, but the big honor fell to Miss Mary
Garrett Hay, Chairman of the Woman Suf-
frage Party of the City of New York, who
was made Chairman of the Platform Com-
mittee, a distinction which next to the Chair-
manship is the highest in the gift of a political
convention.

Heretofore this honor has been bestowed
upon acknowledged leaders of parties or old
“war horses ” whose years of party service

have given repeated tests of party fealty. It .

is safe to say that so responsible a post and
so distinguished an honor were never before
offered to an untried person and probably no
other woman ever held the position in any
State.

HE plan to make Miss Hay Chairman of

the Platform Committee was not prear-
ranged, but is reported to have been proposed,
in one of the early caucuses at Saratoga, by
a one-time bitter anti-suffragist. It is cer-
tain that the proposal did not come from
women. From the caucus the rumor spread
among the gathering delegates. Like a bolt
from the blue it fell upon friends and foes of
woman suffrage. One long-time woman hater
was heard to mutter, “outrageous, impossible,

 

‘ Full report will follow next week.

it must not be permitted," while another such
merely uttered a despairing “My God!”

Even the friends of suErage questioned the
wisdom of the movement. Of the fifty-one
members composing the Committee, there would
be many who not only were unreconstrueted
antis but were adepts at parliamentary tricks
whereby leaders of minorities at times trip
up unskilled chairmen and get their way.
Could a woman hold such a committee down
to its work? Would a resentful minority dis-
play mob character and in order to flout the
chairman prevent any business being done?
If a platform could really be drafted by the
committee with such a chairman, could a woman
read it, so that it could be heard by the thou-
sand delegates in the far reaches of Saratoga’s
vast convention hall? These were questions
passed from group to group, but the proposal
gained ground from moment to moment.

Miss Hay had been appointed a member of
the Platform Committee by the 18th Senato-
rial District and at the first meeting of the
Committee she was nominated by Mr. Sam
Koenig, Chairman of New York County,
and was elected unanimously. Among the
members were Senator Wadsworth, Nicholas
Murray Butler, Elon Brown, William Barnes,
ex-Governor Horace White and others whose
imagination had never visualized a woman
member of a Republican platform committee,
much less a chairman of one. Two other
women members served on the Committee—Miss
Mary Wood of New York and Mrs. Mary
Schwiedendorff of Buffalo.

A member of the committee, still harboring
a little doubt, said to Miss Hay hesitatingly,
“You know, Miss Hay, it may mean sitting
up all night. That often happens.” “Oh,”
responded Miss Hay, “I’ve sat up all night at
the door of so many platform committees,
hoping for a suffrage resolution, that that is
one thing I shall not mind in the least.”

HE committee did sit till three o’clock in

the morning and met again at nine A. M.
and was ready to report at the time ordered
by the convention, eleven A. M.

Experienced members of the Committee de-
clared that they had never seen a chairman
make quicker decisions or fairer rulings.
Those who enjoy odd incidents found amuse-
ment in the “I rise to a question of parlia-
mentary procedure,” frequently put to. the
Chairman by Senator Wadsworth. Apparently
the anti-suffragists bore themselves with more
resignation than was expected, and as a whole
the men friends of suffrage were enthusiastic
over the experiment and glad and happy that
they had been part of the movement that had
made it possible; while the former foes of
suffrage gave evidence of finding work with
women not half so terrifying as they feared.

When Miss Hay appeared on time with the
platform in her hand, she was received by a
standing audience and tumultous applause, con-
tinuing without a lull, a la favorite candidate,
for several minutes. Her first clear sentence,
resounding throughout the hall announced that
she brought a unanimous report, and that
aroused another salvo of applause. It was

Digitized by GODS

known that the platform would contain a plank
on behalf of the Federal Suffrage Amendment,
and that the group of anti suffragists would
bring in a minority report was expected. That
there was none was a relief to all concerned.

Senator Wadsworth announced to the Plat-
form Committee that he would not bring in a
minority report, but that fact was not to be
construed into the belief that he had changed
his mind.

Immediately after the planks relating to the
war and the duty of the state to the nation the
following plank was read:

“The woman’s Federal Suffrage Amend-
ment has passed the House of Representatives
by a tremendous Republican vote. Practically
every Republican County Committee in the
State has urged its approval. The decisive
plurality for suffrage in this great Republican
State has so clearly shown the sentiment of the
people, that we emphatically call upon the
United States Senators from New York to vote
for the submission of this amendment to the
states.”

The applause which followed the reading of
the above resolution exceeded that of any
other plank and recorded unmistakably the at-
titude of New York Republicans on the Fed-
eral Suffrage Amendment.

The description of the event in one news-
paper paid the woman chairman the compli-
ment of saying that “ she read the long instru-
ment of party faith so that it was not an in-
strument of torture, which in itself is a nov-
elty.” During the reading, the chairman in—
terrupted to say, “ Miss Hay, I fear the people
in the gallery do not hear you,” whereupon she
addressed herself to the gallery and asked
whether she was being heard. An unknown
woman sitting on the topmost~ seat responded
with clear tone, “ Yes, Mary,” which occasioned
a general laugh.

HAT Miss Hay performed the duties of

this high office with skill and dignity is
no surprise to those who know her. As pre-
siding officer her training has covered a wide
range and her repute as a tactful, composed and
intelligent chairman is common knowledge
among women. More, the parliamentary train-
ing of women is far more extensive and able
than most men realize. That a woman could
carry off such honors so easily may astonish
some men but it is no surprise to the millions
of organized American women.

The honor paid Miss Hay was a compliment
to all womanhood, but it was a more distinct
recognition of the Woman Suffrage Party which
through its intensive organization won the vote
for the women of New York. It was far
more clearly a suffrage that a woman’s victory.

In his convention address, the chairman, the
Honorable J. Sloat Fassett, made the follow-
ing comment on the presence of the women:

“This convention marks an epoch in the
political development of the State of New
York. For the first time we have sitting with
us representatives of the Republican women
of the State of New York. The franchise
never moves backward. There never will be

(Contian on page 178)

C

July 27, 1918

169

Parties and Primaries

AST week's outlines of the functions of the

parties and their reaction on each other

seem to present the party system as an almost
ideal engine of representative democracy.

But the control of government by the two
great parties has been too complete. They need
not fear losing this power, except at intervals,
and to each other. Here enters the flaw in the
party system; this flaw is political corruption.
The great parties too often lose sight of their
platforms or regard them merely as idle
promises with which to catch votes.

The statesman, says Ray, regards control
through political parties as a means of carry-
ing through beneiicial legislation; the “ poli-
tician” uses it as a means of acquiring pres-
tige and financial gain for himself. Through
control of Legislatures, through control of party
and government funds and through patronage,
or power to appoint to otlice, the politician is
able to further his own interests.

Within the great party organizations there
have grown up “ machines " which adopted the
party organization to the advancement of a
group, or “ rings ” organized about an indi-
vidual—a “ boss ” who very often does not hold
office but controls the officeholders. '

ELL-KNOWN examples are the Tam-

many machine in the Democratic or-
ganization and the Pennsylvania Ring in the
Republican organization.

Besides patronage, which has been attacked
by competitive civil service examinations, and,
though by no means done away with, is not
to-day as great an evil as it was. some of the
methods by which the corrupt politician has
controlled are thus described by a political

leader. -
“ Years ago," says Patrick McCabe, Demo-

cratic Leader of Albany County,* “ the bullies
of the day played a most important part in our
politics. It was very often upon their brawn
and muscle that momentous questions of state
devolved. They met and fought in the streets
for the possession of the polls, the vanquished
side leaving the victors to operate the election
to their own sweet will. This was followed by
a period of ballot-box stuffing, in which the
opposing election omcers vied with one another
in placing illegal votes in the boxes. This made
way for the activities of a class known as
repeaters, and who on election day went from
one poll to another throughout the city, re-
peating or voting on names furnished them by
the respective party workers. The repeating
evil gave way to the present-day corruption,
the purchasing of the electorate at the polls.”

MORE subtle method of control used in

modern days is thus described by Lynn
Haines, Secretary of the National Voters
League:

“ For a decade politicians have been employ-
ing the subtler and safer way of getting re-
sults by manipulating public opinion.”

In other words, the educating of public opin-
ion for the statesman’s ends has been replaced
by the debauching of public opinion for the
politician’s ends.

“ Instead of being,”, says Mr. Haines, “an
agency for the common welfare, modern poli-
tics has become an end in itself, this end being

 

‘ Albany Evening Journal, January 30, 1918.

Part Two
By Mary Sumner Boyd

ofiice and the ever-increasing perquisites.”

In his book, “ Your Congress,” Mr. Haines
shows in National affairs how the very ma-
chinery of Congress is adapted to his own ends
by the politici_an.* He shows how national
legislation itself is directed toward getting
votes.

“In the last short session of the 63rd Con-
gress,” says he, “there were passed 244 bills
and resolutions. Of this number 229 related
to one or another of the basic elements in the
political system, patronage or pork. Less than
30 were measures in which the general public
had an interest.”

“Pork” is a term descriptive of a measure
which secures some benefit to a member’s home
district at national expense; for example. a
civil war pension, a post office, or other local
public improvement.

S each of the great parties when it takes
its turn at oiiice takes its share at the
spoils, neither can make any very determined
attack on the other’s corruption. The result is
“ a bi-partisan system of' political plunder."
“ Oh, we fight some on little things like the
tariff," one politician. is quoted as saying of the
opposite party,1' “ but we agree on the main

issue that them as works in politics is entitled

to make a living out of it.”

Bossism, Prof. Dealey tells us, is a passing
phase in party history. Its passing may be
slow; it may never be complete, for it may, as
in Great Britain, persist in the subtler, though
destroyed in the cruder, forms. Through Civil
Service reform it has already been attacked in
the United States. Publicity has done some
good in correcting the debauching of public
opinion. Registration laws have been a help.

The most important step toward reform has
been the recognizing of the parties by law and
putting them on a semi-ofiicial basis. This is
the work of this generation, for up to then the
power behind the Government had no legal
recognition. It has taken the form of control
of the nomination of party candidates and su-
pervision of their campaigns for oiiice.

One of these two forms of legislation is
Corrupt Practices Acts for the regulation by
the state of the collection and expenditure of
campaign funds, so that they shall not be ob-
tained by force or fraud or used for bribery.
A Federal Act aims to control federal cam-
paigns, and most states now have Corrupt
Practices Acts, though most of these acts are
very inadequate.

Some states not only limit candidates’ ex-
penses, but bear part of them. The state of
Oregon mails some publicity literature for can-
didates of all parties at state expense and Col-
orado contributes a certain percentage of each
candidate’s campaign expenses.

The other form of legislation is Direct Pri-
mary Laws by which all elections are controlled,
conducted and paid for by the state; held at a
stated time before the election of candidates for

 

" See also the monthly Searchlight on Congress,
published by the National Voters League, Wood-
ward Bldg., Washington, D. C.

1 Your Congress, p. 46.

oiiice—in the case of general elections several
weeks before, the rank and file of the party
membership nominate the party candidates.

Previous to primary legislation methods of
nominating were various. The method in most
general use was nomination by convention.
Delegates of these nominating conventions
were occasionally nominated by the party mem-
bers, an old form of primary which is to be
distinguished from the direct primary for the
nomination of the candidates for office them-
selves. These party conventions were made up
of professional politicians, who chose candi-
dates of their own stamp. How corrupt the
make-up of a nominating convention could be
is shown by the following description, quoted
by Ray, of a convention held in Cook County,
111., in 1896:

Out of 723 delegates, 17 had been tried for
murder, 7 had served sentence for murder or
manslaughter, 36 for burglary, 2 were pick-
pockets. There were 84 other jail-birds; 9 kept
gambling houses or houses of ill-fame; 11 were
prizeiighters and 275 were saloon or pool room
keepers.

ITH the convention system so debased, it
was time the people took a hand in mak-
ing nominations, and ceased to content them-
selves with voting on election day for a “ slate ”
prepared by such party representatives as those
described. The system of nomination by con-
vention possessed the further disadvantage that
it removed the people still further from direct
government. The movement for direct pri-
maries is, therefore, one aspect of the move-
ment toward direct democracy. “ To regain
control over the government,” says Prof. Macy,
“the people have taken the nominating process
away from the parties and made it a state func-
tion. The party is thus a legalized agent of the
state."

To-day some form of primary law exists in
all states except New Mexico, which still ad-
heres to the convention system. Primary elec-
tions for all parties take place on the same
day; in a few states where the “ open " sys-
tem is in force also at the same polling place.
They are conducted at state expense on state
ballots by state election boards and under state
control. Many primary laws also regulate the
method of nominating party committees and
the powers of these committees.

Beyond this there is little unformity or stand-
ardization in the primary laws of the various
states. Many are very inadequate and rudi-
mentary. A list made by the Pennsylvania
Legislative Reference Bureau a few years ago‘
showed that about two-thirds of the states had
direct primary laws, most of them states-wide

. in scope—that is, covering all and not merely

local candidates—and most of them mandatory.
An optional law, that is one which allows
choice between convention and primary nomina-
tions, is of little value. A more recent analysis
(1917) of nominations for Congress showed
that under state laws all but seven states nomi-
nate these candidates by direct primaries. This
is probably a good index to the number of
states which now have state-wide direct pri-

maries.

 

1 An up-to-date list and analysis is being prepared

by thCman's Bu of the Deriigératic party.
Digitized by will?" page ) ’

170

“ Woman is proclaiming her compe-
tency and emerging from the age-old
traditions of the past into the sun-
light of a new day. It devolves upon
her now to establish her epiciency in
this era of civilisation, and by her
achievements prove to the world that
the masculine sex has no monopoly
upon genius.

“For the first time in the history of
our nation have the industries of this
country to any extent depended upon
the services of woman. They do now,
and there is no doubt that the woman
of America will rise and meet the
emergency as women have always
done, and the only reward expected
will be that they too shall share to the
fullest extent in the new democracy
which is now struggling for existence.”

—Florence King.

 

NE good thing about life—it quite fre-
quently answers its own problems. There
is the problem of woman’s relation to the gain-
ful occupations. Call it “ economic independence
of women” and about seven out of ten scurry
to cover, frightened by what looks in theory
like menace to home and family. Along comes
life and makes the point, through family priva-
tion and suffering in the home, that the old
division of labor, men outside of the house
and women inside it, doesn’t work any more
and that not to utilize women’s productive ca-
pacity on the outside is to impose an un-
bearable economic burden on men, make a para-
sitic growth of women, and deny both quantity
and quality to the wbrld’s aggregate output.
In answer to life’s acute showing, women file
out into industry by the hundreds of thousands,
into trade by the hundreds of thousands, into the
professions by the thousands. The home mean-
time adjusts itself so easily that it dawns upon
the stupidest that it is, after all, only the loss
of its manufacturing function, its dairying,
spinning, baking function, that we are howling
about in most of the outcry about the loss of
home.
That’s another good thing about life—what
is, is, and the stupidest has eventually to ac-
cept it.

TUPIDITY has made it possible, however,

and continues to make it possible, to retard
woman’s progress in the gainful occupations.
Some of it has been women’s own stupidity, our
stupid acquiescence in the traditional value of
women, and some of it has been men’s. Neither
women nor men have been able readily to take
woman’s relation to industry to business, as a
permanent relation, and both women and men
have been dominated by the conviction that
woman’s business ability must always be subor-
dinated to man’s, that she must always be kept
in the minor places, that even if she does the
work, forsooth, she mustn’t have the place or
the salary. The worst thing, the farthest reaching,
about this conviction is that it is vaguely back-
grounded in a sort of clouded religious feeling
that the male is God’s chosen provider and
that to let woman out and up is somehow to
go against God. There is nothing so gripping

Women and

as a clouded religious feeling. To be sure,
the female was God’s chosen provider in the
beginning, but we are so far from the be-
ginning and have drunk so much poor coffee
in the meantime that we have grown hazy.

N spite of stupidities and convictions, how-

ever, individual women have kept pushing
on and up, clearing their minds of the encum-
brances of tradition as they have climbed. And
all along the way, they have kept up a ding-
dong insistence on progress, on the illimitable
goal. It was a revelation to many to learn
last week that that ding-dong had at last
gathered suliicient force and volume in America
to be heard all over the Union and that in
response to it a great gathering of business
women, nine hundred the papers said, came
together in Cincinnati from thirty-two diEerent
cities for the express purpose of amplifying
the ideal and extending the goal for the busi-
ness and professional woman. Among them
were farmers, manufacturers, industrial
workers, lawyers, teachers, doctors, artists,
musicians, legislators and ministers. They
came at the call of the Woman’s Association

__._.._——-—

ex /‘

_.- '/'

of Commerce of the U. S. A., in itself a young
and daring innovation. They came, in the
words of Florence King, famous woman lawyer
and president of the association, because “ new
and greater responsibilities now urge with com-
pelling force a bigger and broader vision of
the field of usefulness for women far outside

the beaten path so long followed by men.”

HE Woman’s Association of Commerce of

the United States of America, she pointed

out, was in a position, through its different state

and local organizations, to encourage women

to greater activities and responsibilities, and

induce them to study new occupations where

greater possibilities for future achievements
have been opened up by war conditions.

Women are proverbially timid about the as-

’ “_"—

 

The Woman Citizen

FLORENCE KING,
FOUNDER AND
PRESIDENT OF
WOMAN’S ASSOCIATION
OF COMMERCE

 

‘ FLORENCE rm

“ The invincible
King has crowned
many women envy
and has made eve:
She is not only an
a graduate in met
neering. Today .
Her achievement it
an unanswerable
gentlewoman can
and command ad:
due to her own p:
tense interest in 4
been inspired by a
need of greater .1
She is a student a
in any cause f€1l
zoomen.”—Chicago

GEORGIA EMERY,
PROMINENT IN
MICHIGAN WOMEN’S
ASSOCIATION OF
COMMERCE

OFFICERS AND

Nnman’n Annuriatinn of 011m

Headquarters : l 653

Florence King . . . . . .

V

H. Anna Quinby . . .

1 Ge:

Mary T. Dohany . . .

Laura G. Fixen . . . .

Boa

Elizabeth Rainey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Indianapolis

Emily Napieralski . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .Chicag‘

Mrs. 'I‘hos. P. Scully . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Cincinnati,

Mrs. F. M. Pope . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joplin

Helen Varick Boswell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..New You

Joanna Downes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . Chicas

Mrs. M. Seybold. . . . .- . . . . . .. .. . ..Whee1ing V
Dr. Eleanor E. Fish ................... .. .Chlizag

July 27, 1918

“IN 1903 FLORENCE
KING DEFEATED THE
MOST BRILLIANT
LAWYERS AMERICA
COULD PRODUCE
AND ACTUALLY PUT
OUT OF BUSINESS
A GREAT CORPORATION
WITH A CAPITAL
OF £1,000,000"

I

 

m8 AT LA \V

mean of Florence
nth an honor which
we: born on a farm,
trout in her career.
tin legal matters, but
i and electrical engi-
rcrms her eforts.
realize to women, and
not that a refined
the professional field
a a: her eforts are
“exec. She has an in-
terment: that have
I randomness of the
but industrial activity.
ll auditions and eager
t the improvement of

U—Hemld.

L A URA LAKE FORREST,
PRESIDENT MICHIGAN
WOMAN’S ASSOCIATION
OF COMMERCE AND OF
DETROIT BUSINESS
WOMEN’S CLUB

b or GOVERNORS

the

P If 1!)! Huitrh States of Amertra

bi Bldg” Chicago, Ill.

 .......... ..Chicago, Ill.
‘ ' ....... ..Columbus, Ohio.

-'

. . . . . . . . . .Detroit, Mich.

. . . . . . . . .Chicago, 111.

Henry M. Dunlap . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . ..Savoy, Ill.
‘ Abbie K. Wilkins. .. . . . . . .San Francisco, Cal.
. t C. McKnight . . . . . . . . . . ...Grand Rapids, Mich.
Ida Drury Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Brooklyn, N. Y.
B.Dutfy . . . . . . ..  .............Omaha,Neb.
‘ V.Pence.......... .. . ...DesMoines,Iowa
' ' C- C. Bradford... . . . . . . . . . .Denver, Colo.
 tine Bell . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Columbus, Ohio

Big Business

sumption of the larger responsibilities of busi-

ness. They are hampered by the fears Of the
unaccustomed. Often they deliberately side-
step Opportunity, paralyzed by the impending
responsibility. Often they will do the work of
a job and quite contentedly allow some man
to reap its credit and salary for the sheer sake
of shouldering initiative and responsibility over
on him. The business world is far fuller today
of women than of men in the minor business
positions. The dynamic difference between them
is that nine out of ten of the men have their
eyes on the major positions. Nine out of ten of
the women don’t. They are afraid of the
major positions. When you add to their own
fear the inhospitality and actual inhibitions to
their progress imposed by men, you have built
up a fairly insuperable barrier between women
and big business.

This Woman’s Association of Commerce that
is today taking the lead in developing women’s
business initiative and in securing to them new
standards of achievement is just a year Old,
but already it has organized state associations
in Ohio, Indiana, Michigan, Illinois, Missouri,
New York, California, and the District of
Columbia. Its unit is not the individual, but
the organization. It is essentially a federation

 

of organizations of business women, including
associations of commerce, business women’s
clubs, women's professional leagues, etc.

ARIOUS of the state associations of

commerce have an extensive and in-
tensive life of their own, with local repu-
tations of a high order. Michigan women,
for instance, as will be seen from a fur-
ther perusal of these columns, maintain a
notable business organization. The Woman’s
Association of Commerce of Indiana includes
a number of business women’s organizations,
among them the Business \Voman’s Club of
Indianapolis, the Woman’s Rotary Club of
Evansville, the Business Woman’s Club of

l

171

 

The Woman’s Association of Com-
merce, in convention assembled at Cin—
cinnati, July 19-20, passed one resolu-
tion endorsing the Federal Sufrage
Amendment, another asking that at
least one woman be selected for con-
ference between warring nations when
peace treaties shall be considered, and
a third asking women of America to
pledge themselves not to purchase
goods made in Germany.

Anderson, the “Who Do” Club of Shelby-
ville, and the Woman's Association of Com-
merce of Crawfordsville. Cincinnnati is an
Ohio city that boasts two forward-looking or-
ganizations of business women, one the Cin-
cinnati Business Women's Club, the other the
Women’s Rotary Club. Besides the women’s
associations of commerce in eight states, women
are slowly being admitted to representation in
men’s chambers of commerce. For instance,
the Syracuse, New York, Chamber of Commerce
has two women members, Mrs. Adele Blauvelt

and Mrs. Frederick Hazard.

CCURATE figures are not yet available to

cover the great influx of women into in-
dustry, trade and transportation since the war
began, but that women's line of gainful occupa-
tions has increased until there is literally no limit
is current news. But individual abilities and
activities Of women are never so impressive

as they are when rounded up into an
organization. Sometimes an individual woman
who is making a remarkable record of

practical achievement is afilicted and inhibited
by traditions and prejudices against the theory
of woman’s business development, and so is
set against herself confusingly and, in the end,
destructively. She acts right, but thinks wrong.
She takes for herself, usually under the spur
of necessity, all the advantage of the open
door for women, but disapproves of women
doing it in general. I once knew a woman
manufacturer like that. I know a prominent
woman journalist who seems to be similarly
motived. It isn't selfishness that is responsible.
It is uneasy fear, a triste outlook. It is in

p the development of the community spirit toward

the open door, it is in the dispelling of fear
and the instilling of courage, and the forcing
of initiative, that organization has its great
part to play among business women. It is
that function that signalizes the Woman's As-
sociation of Commerce. It is the full and
fine self-apprehension of the function that
makes the outlook for its vast success so
roseate.

Will women ever vie with men as financiers,
as producers, as managers, as distributors, as
buyers and sellers?

Who knows?

Who cares?

Vying is not the point at all. The point is
that whatever ability women may have as finan-
ciers, producers, managers, distributors, buyers
and sellers shall be realized to the full when-
ever and wherever it is needed. The point
is that woman shall be limited only by that
ability, not by blank walls of tradition and
prejudice on which men have blandly written
“thus far and no farther.” R. Y.

172

The Woman Citizen

Senators, Lords and Women’s Progress

RS. PANKHURST is reported as say-

ing: “I wonder if your senators rea-

lize that they are now actually less progressive

than the conservative and reactionary House of

Lords? The body of lawmakers that they once

used to ridicule is now ahead of them in demo-
cratic measures.”

Now, this is not quite fair to the United
States Senate. It is true that the House of
Lords has passed the woman suffrage measure,
while the United States Senate has not yet done
so; but the lords passed it by a vote of a little
less than two to one. If our Senate, like the
House of Lords, could do it by a simple ma-
jority vote, it would have been passed long ago.
The United States is the only civilized country
that requires a two-thirds vote. That is why
we are delayed. On the woman question, the
American Senate and the House of Lords seem
to be about neck and neck.

Mrs. Pankhurst might with truth have boasted
of the British House of Commons, however. The
lower house of Congress voted for woman suf-
frage a little more than two to one, but the
House of Commons voted for it seven to one.
That magnificent majority left both the lords
and our own senators far behind. But when
our Senate does pass it, there will be no thirty-
year age limit for women, as in England. We
have no temptation to resort to that device to
keep the women voters in a minority, because
in the United States the women are normally
less numerous than the men.

Gains of a Hundred Years

HE Lucy Stone Centennial reminds us how
wonderfully the world has changed for
women in the last hundred years.

When Lucy Stone was born, it was looked
upon as utterly improper for a woman to speak
in public. Even to write for publication was
considered unfeminine. The gentle Charles
Lamb himself said, “The woman who lets her-
self be known as an author invites disrespect.”
A woman who had her living to earn was‘rig-
idly restricted by public opinion to a very few
poorly-paid occupations. There was not a col-
lege in the United States that admitted women.
There was not a free public high school for
girls. There were few organizations of women.
Even to join a temperance society was consid-
ered unwomanly.

A married woman had no rights over her
children. Her husband had absolute control
over her property and earnings. If she earned
a dollar by taking in washing, it was his dollar,
not hers. If her employer paid the money to
her, the husband could require it to be paid over
again, to him. She could not make a valid will
without her husband’s consent, unless she left
everything to him, in which case it was assumed
that his consent would not be lacking. She
could not sue or be sued; her legal existence
was said to be “suspended” during marriage.
Husband and wife were one, and that one was
the husband. He had the right to lock her up,
and, in most States, the right to beat her, “in
moderation.” This had been defined by a
learned judge as meaning that the stick must
not be thicker than the judge's thumb.

But the legal disabilities of women, heavy as
they were, were less crushing than the weight

By Alice Stone Blackwell

“Women never realize their inability to ef-
fect a reform until they attempt it, and then
they find how closely interwoven with politics
are all such matters, and how without political
power are they themselves.”——5. B. A.

of public opinion. Every man was brought up
to believe that he had a divinely-ordained right
to rule over his wife. Every woman was edu-
cated to believe that it was her duty to submit.
The belief in women’s inferiority, both of na-
ture and status, was practically universal. It
wrapped every girl child around, from her
cradle up, like a invisible strait-jacket.

It is good for our young women to look back-
ward now and then, at “the pit from which
they were digged.” It is hard for them to rea-
lize that gentle and virtuous women were ever
mobbed and ostracized, merely for making
public speeches upon philanthropic subjects——
and that this was done in America, within the
memory of persons now living.

The world has been largely revolutionized in
its attitude toward women. But all those
ancient limitations and disabilities had to be
demolished piecemeal, one by one, after years
of hard and laborious hammering away by the
friends of equal rights. The removal of 'each
one was fought by the conservatives as stub—
bornly as the Federal amendment is now being
fought by a handful of “wilful men " in the
United States Senate; and with just as sincere a
conviction that the change would wreck the
home and ruin womanliness.

Ida M. Tarbell, who is not a suffragist, says
that every woman of today, in the enjoyment
of a broader life, owes a debt of gratitude to
the pioneer advocates of equal rights. Among
the bravest and sweetest of these was Lucy
Stone; and the changed world for women today
is a monument to her and her co—workers.

Underpaid Teachers

HE shortage of teachers is also calling at-
tention to the fact that the 740,000 teach-
ers in the United States receive an average
salary of considerably less than $600 a year—a
trifle over $10 per week. Think of that, with
the cost of living what it is to-day!‘ And, if
this is the average salary, it means that a mul-
titude of teachers are paid even less. Susan
B. Anthony well said, when this subject was
discussed in a teachers’ convention, many years
ago, that the profession would always be at a
disadvantage so long as the great majority of
teachers belonged to a disfranchised sex.
There is also a pervasive and persistent ten-
dency to think that women’s pay ought not to
be high. Not long ago an effort was made in
Boston to have women teachers given equal
pay with men for equal work. The authorities
said, “ Oh, no! A man must have higher pay
than a woman, because he has a family to sup-
port.” At about the same time an investiga—
tion was going on to determine what should
be the minimum wage for the scrub women

Digitized by 600816

who clean Boston’s great oBice buildings. Al-
most all of them are widows with children.
The women on the investigating committee
wanted this fact taken into consideration in de-
termining what should be recommended as a
living wage for this class of workers. But most
of the men on the committee said, “Oh, no!
The pay must be according to the service ren-
dered. It would be out of the question to in-
crease a worker’s pay on account of the num-
ber of her children!” They even argued at
first that the minimum wage for a widow with
children should be less than that of a single
woman living alone, and should be reckoned
on the same basis as that of a daughter living
at home. That is, if a widow was supporting
six children, they would have estimated a liv-
ing wage for her as one-seventh of what it
cost to maintain that home. However, the
women on the committee finally made them see
the injustice of this. It was a striking example
of the importance of having women on all
boards that deal with questions relating to
women's work.

But the general rule laid down in the case
of the scrub women was just the opposite of
that laid down in the case of the teachers. For
the teachers, the basis of pay must not be serv-
ice rendered, but family obligations. For the
scrubwomen the basis of pay could be only
service rendered, and family obligations must
not be allowed to count. In each case, the rule
adopted was that which would' result in lower
pay for the woman.

Another Delusion Shattered

HE war is knocking out many nonsensical

ideas, some of which the advocates of
equal rights had hammered away at for years
without success. One is the doctrine that a
married woman cannot teach school without
neglecting her children. Just now there is an
acute shortage of teachers, owing to the much
higher pay that educated women are offered in
various war industries. And so we see Boards
of Education that had forced teachers to resign
upon marrying, now earnestly imploring those
married teachers to return to the schools. If
they really believe what they used to tell us—
that this would compel these women to sacrifice
the welfare of their children—what business
have they to urge any mother to wrong .her own
offspring? But, as soon as they are in a tight
place and really need the married woman’s
services, they see that in many cases it is quite
possible to adjust domestic affairs in such a
way that the children will not suffer.

Are Women Protected?

MAZING revelations of profiteering are
brought out in the recent report of a
Federal Commission. The overcharging of the
public for food is declared to have been espe-
cially exorbitant. These exposures recall the
question asked by the anti-sulfragists a few
years ago when it was said that women needed
the ballot for protection. The antis demanded
scornfully, “Protection from what ?" Well,
from many things, and among others, from food

sharks !

—_ ‘-

July 27, 1918

The Time

“ ONGRESS must be convinced that the

time has come for the enfranchisement
of the women of America,” said Mrs. A. L.
Bailey, president of the Vermont Equal Suffrage
Association, when addressing the annual con-
vention of the Suffragists of Vermont. “Leg-
islatures must think nationally, for government
of the people, by the people and for the people,
is a world question."

Plans for a state-wide ratification campaign
were laid at this convention, which was held
July 10 .and 11, at the Hotel Sherwood, Burl-
ington. It was a rousing convention, well at-
tended, and much work was outlined for the
coming months. The call to the convention
declared the passage and ratification of the
Federal Amendment to be a vital part of the
nation’s “Win-the-War” program, and there-
fore, work in behalf of the Amendment should

.4: an appeal to all patriotic Vermont
women. That was the consensus of opinion
among convention delegates.

RS. HALSEY W. WILSON, recording
secretary of the National American
.ian Suffrage Association, brought greetings
a Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, president of the
national body, to the delegates. At the evening
session Mrs. Wilson gave an address on “ Suf-
frage As An Immediate War Measure,” draw-
ing a vivid picture of the part women are play-
ing in the world's progress today. She showed
the possible result in the vote in future elections
if the war continues for an indefinite period and
men are sent to France by the millions, leav—
ing unenfranchised women at home.

A general discussion on “What Good Will
Suffrage Do Our Country,” evoked some rous-
ing speeches, with Mrs. Bailey leading.

Mrs. A. L. Bailey of St. Johnsbury, was re-
elected president. She will have on her stafit
Mrs. L. C. Blanchard, Montpelier, vice-presi-
dent; Mrs. E. J-. Parmelee, Enosburg, second
vice-president; Mrs. W. L. Bryant, Springheld,
third vice-president; Mrs. Anna Hawks Put-
nam, Bennington, fourth vice-president; Mrs.
L. K. Thomas, Richford, treasurer; Mrs. E. H.
Reed, Burlington, recording secretary; Miss
Dorothy Walters, St. Johnsbury, corresponding
secretary; Mrs. John Spargo, Bennington,
auditor.

URIN G the period of the convention, much

favorable comment appeared in the press
of the «rate. The Free Press of Burlington, in
welcoming the convention, said editorially: “ It
is hoped that the present session of Congress
may see the submission to the states of the
proposed Amendment to the constitution look-
ing to the extension of political justice to
women.”

The News of Burlington, also speaking
editorially, said: “Of especial moment is this
year’s session, both because of the growing par-
ticipation of women in the elections of Vermont
with the partial extension of the franchise, and
of the fact that the fate of the national suffrage
amendment is hanging in the balance.

“As in the case of daylight saving, when
these two things, national suffrage and prohi-
bition, have been accomplished, the only ques-
tion will be, why it took mere man so long to
see the advantages of the step.”

ma“

 N THE WAR

, x

of; a"
,  , . ,e
\!._r'r \ Ill] fa, 1U ' ,

 

lg"- i'.‘ 1.? 53.-‘_~..l7h»y

HE Arkansas Constitutional Convention,

by a vote of 69 to 9, adopted resolutions
endorsing the Federal Suf'f’rage Amendment
now pending in Congress and memorialized the
United States Senate to pass it immediately.
The resolution further asked that the Arkansas
legislature, at its session in 1919, ratify the
Amendment at the earliest opportunity, in the
event that it is passed by the Sixty-fifth Con-
gress. The resolution cited that the adoption
of the Amendment was desired as a war
measure. This action was taken by the con-
vention at Little Rock on July 14.

HE Democrats of Arkansas in convention
at Little Rock on July 11 wrote the fol-
lowing plank in their platform:

“ Believing that just governments derive their
powers from the consent of the governed and
in confirmation of the action taken by National
Democratic Convention, we stand for full and
unlimited suffrage for women."

The Resolutions Committee unanimously en-
dorsed the following resolution:

“We heartily approve extending the fran-
chise to women, and urge Senators and Con-
gressmen to support all the measures now or
hereafter pending in Congress looking to pas-
sage of a federal amendment to the Constitu-
tion of the United States permitting the women
to vote, and in the event of its passage, we urge
that the legislature of this state at once ratify
the same."

Mrs. T. T. Cotnam, chairman of the Arkan-
sas Equal Suffrage Central Committee, and a
member of the Resolutions Committee of the
Democratic Convention, in addressing the con-
vention at the afternoon session thanked the
Democratic Party for giving the women a voice
in their councils, and praised their liberal spirit
toward the women in the convention. She de-
clared women do not want to “run the state
government, but only to help run it.” Mrs.
Cotnam said women favor the adoption of a
new constitution. She believes the need for one
has been made greater because of the war.

A headline in the Arkansas Gazette states
“ \Vomen Delegates Prove They Are no Figure-

173

“Has Come

heads,” and then the writer continues:

“Whatever else may be said, it cannot be
asserted that the women are not taking a keen
interest in the convention proceedings. This
was one of the causes of complaint of the old-
timers. They wailed that the women insisted
on having every little detail explained to them,
and that the fair ones constantly were on the
alert for fear that something might be put over
on them in their unfamiliarity with the wiles of
the politicians.

“ There were' far more women delegates pres-
ent in proportion to their representation than
there were men. They attended in force all
such perfunctory proceedings as minor com-
mittee meetings and they controlled the actions
of some of these committees.

“ It may safely be said that absolutely nothing
was ‘ put over ’ on them by the wily politicians.
There wasn’t a chance—not a chance in the
world.”

OR the first time in the history of Arkansas

Democracy and possibly for the first time
in the history of politics in the South, accord-
ing to the press of Arkansas, a woman was
elected a member of the State Central Com-
mittee. Mrs. Stella Brizzolara of Fort Smith
holds this honor, having been elected at the
caucus of the delegates from the Twelfth
judicial district.

“One of the finest things about the conven-
tion, to my mind, was the consideration and
gallantry shown the women members. by the
men,” Mrs. Brizzolara is quoted as saying.

SuEragists Versus Brewers

TAX-PAYERS’ suit is on in the common

pleas court in Franklin County, Ohio, to
test the constitutionality of a proposed amend-
ment to the Ohio State Constitution, making
the ratification of federal amendments by the
Legislature subject to referendum.

The proposed amendment is initiated by the
Ohio Home Rule Association (the wets). The
National American Woman SuErage Associa-
tion is bringing suit at the request of the
Ohio Woman Suffrage Association in order to
settle the question for the whole country.

The taxpayers’ suit stands in the name of
Edgar L. VVeinland of Columbus, plaintiff. Mr.
Weinland is one of the leading attorneys of
the capital city, a member of the Commission
that framed the Columbus Charter, a trustee
of Oberlin University and a member of the
local draft board. He is acting as plaintiff
purely in conformity to his ideals of right.
His attorney in the suit is Frank Davis, Jr.

In his petition for Mr. Weinland, Mr. Davis
alleges that the proposed amendment is in effect
an amendment to the United States Constitu-
tion, a matter in which the Ohio Constitution
is powerless.

In view of this unconstitutionality, Mr. Davis
asks for his client that the Secretary of State
be restrained from expending any moneys out
of the public funds for printing ballots, pub~
lishing and distributing pamphlets and argu-
ments for and against the proposal.

He claims that it will cost the State at least
$25,000 to put to vote the question, which, if
carried, would be null and void.

(Continued on page 178)

174

Forty Years of Struggle

N a review of the forty years of unbroken
struggle for the passage of the federal
suffrage amendment, conducted by the National
American Woman Suffrage Association, Mrs.
Carrie Chapman Catt, president of the asso-
ciation, calls attention to the fact that from the
year 1878, when Miss Anthony, then secretary,
first got the suffrage measure introduced into
Congress, until today, there has not been a ses-
sion of House or Senate that has not been im-
portuned in behalf of the measure by the
association. ,

“It has been a long and weary struggle and
the victory can not come too soon. The burden
of carrying war work and suffrage work is
almost too heavy for even work-inured suf-
fragists to endure,” said Mrs. Catt.

“ For years it was Miss Anthony’s habit to
come in person to Washington to plead before
House or Senate committee that had the
measure in charge. She brought other women
with her, women famous in history of the last
century, women like Julia Ward Howe, Mary
A. Livermore, Isabel Beecher Hooker, Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton, etc. They were the hrst
‘ suffrage lobby’ that Washington ever knew.

‘ 5 ROM the beginning the association’s pro-

gram was conditioned by the need of
winning a sufficient number of states to suf-
frage by the state route to make it possible to
win the nation to suffrage by the federal route.
In those early days, Miss Anthony and her co-
workers were strongly imbued with the idea
that they were to stand not upon the order
of getting suffrage, but get it, and the plan of
the National Association was divided between
state referenda and the federal suffrage amend-
ment, now one, now the other, according to the
exigency of the times. Year by year the asso-
ciation has carried forward this dual program,
winning a state here, a state there, and year by
year keeping up 'the agitation and the educa-
tion on the subject of federal suffrage.

“The whole force of argument for the fed-
eral suffrage, as political leaders understand
forceful argument, has lain all along in the
number of women who might have to be
reckoned with as a national voting unit. Quite
aside from the question of sex solidarity, women
who have been enfranchised do not take kindly
to disfranchisement incurred through crossing
a state border. Their thought and ambition
turn toward federal suffrage as the agency
through which they will be assured the same
national protection in their voting rights as
men enjoy. Up to the year 1910 the number
of voting women was negligible. The total
number of electoral votes which they had a
share in determining was only nine. V'Vashing—
ton came into the full suffrage column that
year, under the banner of the National Ameri-
can Woman Suffrage Association, bringing five
more electoral college votes. In 1911 Cali-
fornia swung into line, and in 1912 Kansas,
Arizona and Oregon were counted in. In 1913
Illinois women won presidential and municipal
suffrage. In 1914 Nevada and Montana were
won to full suffrage. In 1917 the National
American Woman Suffrage Association inaugu-
rated its drive for presidential suffrage. The
legislatures of six states responded favorably;
one state, Arkansas, granted its women primary
suffrage, which, in a one-party state, is equiva-

lent to full suffrage, and Vermont granted
state-wide municipal suffrage. In November,
New York’s great victory was won. The year
1918 has been signalized by the winning of
primary suffrage in Texas.

“Years ago, I was traveling with Miss
Anthony on one of those state campaigning
tours which she used to have us all make with
everlasting regularity. ‘ How many states,’ I
asked her, ‘shall we have to win before we
shall be strong enough to give over this round
of state referenda and focus our whole strength
on Congress and the federal suffrage amend-
ment? ’ She was thoughtful for a minute and
then replied, ‘I don’t know how many states
we shall have to win, but I feel sure that when
the time comes we shall know it beyond per-
adventure of a doubt.’

“ The time has come, and we do know it
beyond peradventure of a doubt. While we
have been winning states year by year, we have
not lost sight of our federal objective. Year
by year, the association’s federal program has
been intensified and broadened, and year by
year, the focus on that program has grown
sharper. In place of the old flying squadron
that Miss Anthony used to bring to Washing-
ton, there was established, years ago, a perma-
nent Congressional Committee, with Washing-
ton headquarters.

" The personnel of this committee has been
composed, from time to time, of women of
political acumen and its firing line early became
a highly specialized training ground for the
suffrage lobbyist. The chairmanship of the
committee has been held by well-known women
from various parts of the country, at various
times. During this most highly critical year
and a half, Mrs. Maud Wood Park, of Massa-
chusetts, has been the chairman, and to her
untiring diligence and political skill women
attribute the highly favorable outlook today.

“But on the eve of success for this long-
drawn struggle the valiant service of the
women of the present is commingled with the
service of the women of the past, and no one
worthy of the name of suffragist is concerned
today as to what workers or to what stage of
the work credit for the impending victory is
due. It is enough that victory is near.”

 

 

The Woman Citizen

Ratification Prospects

REPARATORY to the ratification cam-

paigns which will be formally launched the
moment the Senate passes the Federal Amend-
ment, the state suffrage associations through-
out the country are getting everything in shape
for quick action. Already candidates for po4
litical ohice are being put on record as regards
their attitude on the ratification of the Amend-
ment. St. Louis suffragists sent out a ques-
tionnaire to all candidates for the legislature
from that district, in order to find out their
standing when a vote for the Amendment shall
come before the 50th General Assembly of
Missouri. The result has been satisfactory.
Many replies have already been received pledg-
ing the candidates to ratification.

Indiana suffragists, believing that women of
the state are anxious to know how the nom-
inees for the next session of the legislature
stand on suffrage, have published the list of
successful candidates who have declared them-
selves friends of suffrage. The list is long
and speaks well for speedy ratification by th
legislature of that state. '

ENATOR WILLIAM M. CALDER. of

New York, says “ New York State by a
majority of over 100,0“) has given its women
the vote, and when the Senate passes the
Federal Amendment, I have no doubt that the
New York Legislature will immediately ap-
prove it, in fact, I am sure it will for I am
in receipt of a resolution adopted by both
branches of the Legislature by almost an unan-
imous vote, approving the Federal Amendment
and urging me to vote for it.”

Senator Miles Poindexter, of Washington,
an ardent believer in the amendment, says that
the entire West long ago overcame the pre-
judice which troubles some parts of the coun-
try and is intensely interested in the outcome
of the vote in the Senate. The experience of
many years has confirmed the. deep conviction
in the West which will ratify the amendment
at the first opportunity.

Senator Morris Sheppard of the Lone Star
State, which gave women the primary vote in
the last legislature, declares that “ the sentiment
in favor of woman suffrage has grown so
rapidly in Texas in the past year that I be-
lieve it is now strongly in favor of the passage
of the Federal Amendment by this session of
the Senate, and that Texas will ratify at the
next session of the legislature. Texas realizes
that the United States cannot consistently stand
before the world as the leader and champion
of democracy, 'while refusing to establish a
democracy at home by denying self-government
to half its people.”

ITTITE tablets in the University of Penn-
sylvania museum recently deciphered by

Prof. Sayce of Oxford show that men and
women shared the government in the cities of
an empire which stretched from the Mediter-
ranean to the Black Sea. “Each province,”
says the New York Herald, “ was subdivided
into cities, and these were supervised by a
mayor and prefectress, whose powers were co-
ordinate. In one instance the woman mayor
had an official status independent of the male

 official.

July 27, 1918

Arizona’s Men
Leglslators

OUQUETS, verbal and floral, fell to

the lot of Arizona’s women legislators
from the men legislators, on the closing
day of the special session of the legislature
a few weeks ago.

Beautiful bouquets were sent to the desk
of the ladies and Mrs. O’Neil of Maricopa
County, as spokesman for all three women,
acknowledged the gifts, as well as the con-
tinued courtesies, of the liberal men of the
legislature.

It would seem that the men of the
Arizona House are proud of what their
women colleagues have achieved and didn’t
hesitate to tell them so. Representative
Cook complimented each woman on the
excellent measures she had mothered to
successful enactment.

This special legislature was a war ses-
sion, and its keynote was one of patriotism.
One of the most conspicuous bills pre-

sented was a 100 per cent-American
bill, proposed by Mrs. Theodore Marsh

of Negales, “ the lady from Santa Cruz,”
:1 Democratic Representative.

 

K38. PAULINE O’NEIL OF MABICOPA

Among the bills put through in the regular
legislative session of 1917, by Mrs. Marsh,
who is president of a large hardware
business, and its successful manager, was a
public welfare bill. She is known also as the
Sponsor of the Child Welfare Bill. Mrs. Marsh
inherited her big business from her husband’s
estate. She is a widow with two daughters.

Mrs. Pauline O’Neil of Phoenix, has secured
legislation on educational measures during the
two sessions of Arizona’s Third Legislature.

Mrs. Rosa McKay, “ the lady from Cochise,”
is known as the mother of the Minimum Wage
Bill, the winning .of which in the Arizona Leg-
islature of 1917 was characterized as “the
greatest victory ever won by women’s votes
and won by a woman, against tremendous odds.”

To put this measure through, Mrs. McKay
had to hght almost single-handed in the same
legislature now congratulating her upon her
Victory. The organized majority of the House

 

 

MRS. THEODOBA MARSH OF SANTA CRUZ

was lined up against her. She carried the
bill to the Senate herself and was permitted
the privilege of the floor. Her appeal was so
eloquent and impressive that her bill went
through with but three dissenting votes. '

The law is an unusually strong one, provid-
ing for- a minimum wage of ten dollars, and
carries compulsory power and penalties.

Mrs. McKay will probably run again for ‘the
House, this time from Gila County. Mrs. Mc-
Kay and Mrs. Marsh have represented Mexican
border sections, Cochise and Santa Cruz being
just across the line from Sonora, Mexico.

Women in Public Service

URHAM COUNTY, N. C., took a big

step forward when it decided recently to
place women on the school committees of the
county and in pursurance of the new policy
placed six women on committees. In com-
menting upon this departure from precedent
the Durham Herald says: “ Suffrage won a big
victory when the county board of education
adopted a policy of placing women on school
committees.” The Durham Sun says: “ Now
look for better schools.”

OMEN can keep secrets. This important
discovery was made by London bankers
and has been cabled to America. According to
the reports women were first admitted to em-
ployment in British banks with fears and mis-
givings on the part of the directors lest the
women divulge the business secrets. All this
is changed now, according to the Bankers’
Magazine, which says: “ It is gratifying to
think that after three years’ experience with the
new conditions no ground whatever has been
found for these fears."

LARA GRAECEN of the Treasury Depart-
ment, expert accountant and law clerk,

has joined the force of the Comptroller of
the Currency in France. She has been fifteen
years in the Treasury Department, and is de—
scribed as an “investigator of difiicult ques-
tions, giving special attention to naval tangles."

175
Proud of Women
Colleagues

‘ ‘ HERE women have been candi-

dates for oEice,” says the Los
Angeles Tribune, “it has been in answer
to a public demand for definite service, or
in calm, deliberate recognition of woman’s
share in the privileges and burdens of the
state, rather than an expression of indi-
vidual political ambition or desire for no-
toriety.

“In other words, woman’s desire for the
ballot is proven to be in protection of the
home, in loyalty to the country, in a deep
interest of the well being of humanity, and
an inborn passion for effective service in
every right activity. There is thus far a
singleness and sincerity of purpose shown
in woman’s use of the ballot which men in
general might well emulate.”

HE Washington State Federation of
Labor will welcome to its ranks
women who enter the various industries
that men may be released for military
service, according to a statement reported
to have been made by W. M. Short, Presi-

 

MRS. ROSA MCKAY OF COCHISE

dent of the State Federation of Labor, at the
annual convention of that body, held recently
at Aberdeen. He also stated that equal pay

for women union members with that accorded

men working in similar capacities will be de-
manded by organized labor. It is the intention
of federated labor to work for laws which will
place stronger safeguards about women and
children workers when the legislature convenes.

LTHOUGH the election was thrown out by

the Austrian Government on the ground

that the election of a woman was unconstitu-

tional, nevertheless the free choice of the people

sent a woman, Mme. Vikora Kuneticka, to the

Prague Constituent Assembly which met last
january.

HE United States Food Administration has
issued 20,000 diplomas to college girls who
have completed food conservation courses.

1‘76

The Woman Citizen

The Half-Loaf of .Dutch Women

N May let the lists of candidates for the
parliamentary election of July was pub-
lished, and it is not without interest for suffra-
gists. Since December 12, 1917, the women of
Holland have enjoyed the singular position of
half-enfranchised citizens, the Dutch legislators
in their inscrutable wisdom having judged them
worthy of governing town and country, not of
deciding who is to govern. Strange anomaly !
But the will of the people speaks in no uncer-
tain fashion; the political parties, both old and
new ones, have given women a place on their
list of candidates, and some quite favorable
places too; so our premier, who has always
prided himself on studying and carrying out the
will of the people, can now see that the Dutch
nation is determined to have the women by the
side of the men in the government of the state.
Accordingly political parties of old standing,
like the Liberals, and newly-formed ones, like
the Economical League, have each tried to find
women for their lists who might be expected to
have public favor and to win a number of votes
for the party. It is expected that some of the
women candidates will be elected; the total
number of female candidates is twenty scattered
over the lists of nine parties.

T HAS been interesting to observe the effect
of the new system of proportional repre-
sentation on our electorate. However, this
effect cannot be studied apart from the great
change in the functions of state and govern-
ment occasioned by the war, the task of these
bodies having now developed into becoming an
instrument for finding and distributing pro-

By Martina G. Kramers

visions for the community in addition to their
old task of protecting acquired property. The
opinion of the electors, now all the men over 25
years old, has felt the influence of the unprece-
dented circumstances in which we live and new
groups of people holding similar opinions have
been formed. Many accuse our parliament and
each and all of its members of drowning the
needs of the country in a flood of words, in-
stead of acting as circumstances demand. This
feeling has made people rebellious against our
ruler, our parliament and even the whole par-
liamentary system, and, in addition to this two
or three groups of workers and employees have
considered it profitable to try and get one or two
of their men into parliament regardless of public
interest and bound only to speak for their
groups of actors, farmers, retail dealers, sub-
altern soldiers, police or firemen. The general
discontent has given rise to various new parties,
all beginning by claimng that they wanted to
have nothing to do with “politics,” that de-
testable thing. Nevertheless they are promptly
obliged to form political parties if they would
be at all represented in parliament and have any
power in the government of the country.

GROUP of women, too, have taken up an
anti-political attitude and have split off

from the Dutch Woman Suffrage Association,
putting their specific women’s claims to the fore
and repudiating any alliance with or help frorn
political parties. They fail to explain how vote-

less women can ever hope to win the govern-
ment’s ear for their claims or its power for the
realization of those claims. However, disdain-
ing the support of any group of electors these
women have now founded a Neutral \‘Voman
Suffrage Association and a League to Promote
the Election of Women to Parliament and Mu-
nicipalities. Needless to say, this band of
women is small and their influence next to
nothing.

Meanwhile the Dutch Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation is losing no opportunity of urging the
women’s right tq participation in the nation’s
affairs and especially to the vote by upholding
the views of suffragists in all public discussions.
The names of twenty women on sundry lists of
candidates gives us a good starting point for our
argumentation

Our President, Dr. Aletta Jacobs, is No. 3 on
the list of the Radicals, our Vice-President, Mrs.
van Balenklaar, on that of the Liberal Union,
and many more members of the W. S. A.
occupy different places on other lists. Besides
the Socialists have put up six women candi-
dates, two of whom are nearly sure of elec-
tion; Miss Suze Groeneweg, member of the S.
D. Party Executive, is No. 3 and Mrs. Carrie
Pothins-Smit is No. 4 of the list, so we may
hope to see women enter our Second Chamber
in September.

With the encouraging example of Denmark

' before us, we feel sure of success on July 3rd,

the day of our Parliamentary Election.*
MARTINA G. KRAMERS.

 

‘ One of the women candidates, Miss Groeneweg,
was elected.

Detroit Business Women Meet

ICHIGAN women organized a state-wide

Association of Commerce last February,
and late in June of this year a two-days’ con-
vention of 600 representatives from all over
the state was held in Detroit under the direc-
tion of the Detroit Business Woman’s Club.
The object of this first convention of Michigan
business women was to organize all self-sup-
porting women into a body effective for han-
dling problems of vital interest to women in
civic, industrial and professional lines and to
stimulate the formation of local associations.

Probably the largest gathering of business
women ever held in the United States sat down
to the banquet, presided over by Mrs. Lena
Lake Forrest, president of the Detroit Business
Woman’s Club and also president of the Michi-
gan Woman’s Association of Commerce.

At the business session suffrage was unani-
mously endorsed. A resolution endorsing
“Equal work for equal pay ” was also unani-
mously adopted, as well as one endorsing the
plan of the National Business Woman’s com—
mittee for co-operation in war work with the
National Board of the Y. \N. C. A. This plan
is designed to bring about greater efficiency
in business and to promote and protect the
interests of all business women. A Bureau of
Information was established for the use of all
business and professional women of the state,
and through this bureau information regarding
positions, may be obtained.

The Detroiter says that there is a “new place

for women in the esteem of the community "
on account of the big financial war campaigns
in which women have developed “ unsuspected
capacity."

“For a long time women were rarely seen
in Board of Commerce rooms except at an oc-
casional evening entertainment. Then they be-
gan to appear in small numbers at committee
meetings and other gatherings. At the Liberty
Loan meetings they were numerously repre-
sented in the galleries. And now at the Pa-
triotic Fund gatherings they have been given
the front six rows of seats on the main floor of
auditorium. Next thing you know some one
will be proposing a plan under which they may
be admitted to membership and the directorate
of the Board of Commerce. At any rate, the
record they have made in war activities will add
thousands of affirmatives to the vote on the
equal suffrage amendment next November."

N years gone by, under the old regimen, every
I woman looked so naturally to home-making
as the acme of her ambition, that it is hard for
the women who are going into business to see
that initiative is the principal thing required in
a business career. It seems natural for woman
to strike for second rather than first place but
that is also the case with a large majority of
men, as you doubtless know. In everything in
which women assume positive direction, they
succeed as well as men, but the trouble is that
they so rarely are willing to take the whiphand.

How many generations of suffragists will have
to come and go before the customary habit of
mind of woman may change is a matter in the
realm of prophecy; but when she comes to
understand what she really needs to do, in
order to compete with strong men in the most
effective way, she will doubtless play the higher
part which is possible to women who have the
higher capacity.

There are just as many women per hundred
who are specially capable in all directions as
men, but the sex has not yet discovered that this
is the truth. C. C. GAINES,

President Eastman Business College, Pough-
keepsie, N. Y.

CONTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED DURING MONTH
OF JUNE, 1918
RIPOBTID as Ears“ W. Rooms, Tuasuua,
x. A. W. S. A.
Annual Pledges

Carrie C. Catt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $500.00
Mrs. Ernest Stix . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 50.00
Mrs. Gilbert Stark . . . . . . . . . . . .. 25.00

Wisconsin Women Suffrage Ass'n. 150.00
Mrs. William G. Willeox . . . . . . . .. 200.00

 

 

 

Mrs. A. G. Leonard . . . . . . . . . . . .. 10.00

Frances Lagrave Harrison . . . . . .. 50.00

Katharine Whiteley . . . . . . . . . . .. 10.00

Mrs. David O’Neil . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 25.00

Mrs. William Belknap . . . . . .  . . 500.00
$1,520.00
General Donations
Carrie C. Catt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $179.13

Mrs. James D. Winsor. .. . . . . .. 5.00

Mary Oleott . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 200.00

Frances Van Baalen . . . . . . . . . . . .. 25.00

Mrs. Willard Straight . . . . . . . . . .. 100.00

Mrs. H. A. Grant . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 100.00

Katherine Boyles . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5.00
$614.13
$2,134.13

Digitized by 600816

“9 July 27, 1918

. .. ., .l. A _- . .
' 1 | , x!

 is y ,.

TWO Letters

from -

“Over There”

From the Military Hospital
By Mary Averell Brown

T has been decided that I am to remain here.
Mrs. Raymond Brown is perfectly fine, and,
after talking it over with the medicin chef and
Miss McKee, they decided that I should stay,
and I’m delighted. I'm telling the truth when
I say I never felt better in my life. Miss Mc-
Kee and her friend, Miss Wilbur, are wonders
and take the best care of us. I am one of the
luckiest people in the world to be able to do
this work. Why, it’s wonderful, and I am
thankful to feel that I am truly helping. We
take down dressings, wash the wounds, shave
and put on temporary dressings, and the
patients are ready for the operation. You see,
we get the blessés direct from the trench dress-
ing stations, as they come to us only to be
operated upon, and evacuate the next day if
possible to a hospital further in to make room
for others. We have been and are terribly
busy now.

Yesterday we had nearly all Germans to pre-
pare. It is a good sign when we get so many
German prisoners. Most of them are mere
babies—not more than eighteen years old (not
much younger than their wise nurse), although
there were a few older ones among them. This
class of Germans are certainly fooled into be-
lieving all sorts of crazy things. One said seri-
ously that he thought the Kaiser was in Paris.

The Germans seem so much dirtier in every
way than the French and are alive with

 

MARY AVERELL BROWN
The Very Youngest Nurse at the Military Unit

!

“‘cooties.’ I’ve only
seen one “ cootie ” on
a Frenchman. I’m
feeling “ creepy ” to-
day and I’m' going to
comb my hair with a
tine-tooth comb and
am hoping for the
best. Most of the
French doctors are
just as decent to the Germans as they are to the
French. I think this is quite wonderful of them.

From the Refugee Hospital
By Anne  Curry
(Special Correspondence from France.)

VER here we are already blasé. Little sur-
prises us. So we glance through the
051cc door .and down the hill in a sandy hollow
we see the rear view of a very masculine pair of
blue overalls. The overalls seat themselves with
a tired thump and we are not at all thrilled to
catch the sunburned face of—a man? We know
better. It is Mrs. Griliith beneath the broad hat.
She is building an incinerator. Not that she,
or any other woman to our knowledge, ever built
an incinerator for a hospital before, but that
an incinerator is needed for the burning of
dressings, and so an incinerator is built—and
built well, we may add. “ C’est la guerrel "

Again, on top of the kitchen, astride the
peaked roof, sits a khaki-clad figure minus the
dignity of skirts. Blows from a well-directed
hammer assert that the stovepipe is in proper
place to stay. Again, a woman works.

Our chauffeur, driving to yesterday,
discovered that one of her pets, “ Sorosis,” was
not running smoothly. Under the car in a mo-
ment, stretched full length. Discovered, of
course, by a passing French motor, but disdain-
fully (and politely) declining masculine aid.

And so it goes. Women are building pump
drains, laying boardwalks, putting up shelves,
repairing engines—and doing these things with
what tools and materials they can get. For
both are scarce and perhaps defective; lumber
is not thoroughly dried and warps almost im-
mediately; a good planing tool is almost not to
be had, and one’s ingenuity is sadly taxed to ac-
complish the task that must be done well and
quickly. Even the tools and equipment that can
be purchased here are priced at figures out of
all comparison with their value, even with the
real need for them. . . In the oliice the situa-
tion is the same. For one bottle of good Ameri-
can ink—which is not to be had—the book-
keeper and secretary would willingly sacrifice
their allowances of butter. Index files are so
extravagantly priced that it is beyond all rea-
son to buy them; so our agile-minded car-
penter is building one for us, as she has built an
ohice desk of pine, one for the typewriter, and
supplied divers other necessities on which we

 

. ._ r_
. . |
.FCLIAI~I_ ..' '


A 
I

 

“ ONE OF THE LUCKIEST PEOPLE IN THE WORLD ” WHO IS
“THANKFUL SHE IS TRULY HELPING "

try to save money. Metal clips, such as are
counted by the hundred gross in every Ameri-
can otiice, are not to be obtained down here; we
use tiny bits of transparent gummed tape such
as are used to mend music and books with back
home; if the filing becomes heavy, a precious
pin is stuck in and guarded with jealous eye.
Every scrap of paper is used in some way, both
sides, and the wastebasket is the least busy of
all the office force. Every department of the
hospitals and the work relating to its carry-on
is facing the same condition of insullicient and
inferior tools. But it is excellent training for
the inventive mind—and for the temper!

HE opening of our hospital on Sunday,

June 23, was a great success. The en-
tire village, and more, was represented. The
Prefet, in all his glory and accompanied by his
four counselors, made a most charming and
gracious speech. The Minizan Band added much
to the festivities, and the school children, sing-
ing the National Anthem (ours) in English,
which they had learned in three days, were very
touching indeed. The simple refreshments
seemed to appeal to every one. We had lem-
onade and pastries and coffee.

I spent the day after writing letters of thanks
to those who took part and, will you believe
me, every single one wrote and thanked us
for writing. I tell you the French will not be
out-done in courtesy.

Needed for the
WOMEN’S OVERSEA HOSPITALS

Bed gowns for men, long and short.

Bath gowns of cotton flannel (to keep bulk
as small as possible). These may be made by
any accepted Red Cross pattern.

Sheets for single beds, pillow cases.

Send before August 15 to the Infirmary for
Women and Children, 321 East Fifteenth Street,
New York City, in care of Mrs. George W.
Bacon and mark for the Women’s Oversea
Hospitals.

SEND ALL FUNDS FOR THE HOSPITALS
to the treasurer of the
NATIONAL AMERICAN WOMAN SUFFRAGE
ASSOCIATION

Mas. HENRY WADE Rooms,
171 Madison Avenue, New York City.

N8

Their First Convention
(Continued from page 168)

in the future a time when the women will not
share with us equally the rights and the duties
of citizenship. I am not one of those who
ever regarded this revolutionary proceeding
with either dread, or suspicion, or opposition.
I never could see any good reason why the
state should deprive itself of the assistance of
the better half of its citizenry. I have always
believed that the women of this state and the
women of America would be a potent factor
for good service and good results in political
activities, as they have always been potent fac-
tors for good results in all charities of the
world, and in the church of the world, and in
the homes of the world.

“ Their passion for fair play and high ideals,
their motherly instincts for helping the weak,
and the unfortunate, and the inenicient; their
bravery and resolution in times of peril con-
vince me that we shall look back in the future
with great joy and pride to the occasion when
we first welcomed women to equal political
rights. I can only say in passing that I hope
the women, and I believe the women, will re-
gard this high privilege for which they have
struggled so many years in vain, with greater
respect than we men have habitually regarded
it.”

WHEN Miss Hay was reading the closing
paragraphs of the platform a group of
the picket party, sitting in the gallery, let down
a banner over the railing containing the words:
“ Senator Wadsworth obstructs the freedom
of women. We demand his support for the
national Suffrage Amendment or his resignation
from the Senate.” As soon as it was observed
by the delegates pandemonium reigned and
cries of “put them out, put them out,” “tear
it down,” were heard on every side. Chairman
Fassett ordered the banner taken down by the
Sergeant at Arms. The picketers held on to
it, while the Convention continued to roar,
there being no sympathy manifested among
the delegates for the interrupters. The banner
was eventually captured and peace restored.
Miss Hay stepping forward on the platform,
said:

“That banner was not put there by the vot-
ing women of New York.”

Later, when Mrs. Baker of Washington de-
nied the truth of this claim, Miss Hay issued
the following statement:

“I understand that it is said I made an inac-
curate statement in claiming that the banner
in question was not placed by the women
voters of New York State. A note was sent
me on the platform after the incident closed
to this effect. It was, of course, impossible
for me to reopen the discussion then. I am
told that several of the women connected with
the incident are enrolled New York voters.
To this extent, therefore, my statements seem
to have been inaccurate. But the spirit of
what I said remains true that this group of
women is not representative of the women
voters of New York State. In fact, the op-
position manifested by the whole assemblage
to the banner, justifies my own attitude through-

out the New York suffrage campaign, in always
opposing the militant tactics of the National
Woman’s Party, and also in the campaign for
the Federal Suffrage Amendement as unneces-
sary and undignilied tactics.”

As a matter of historical fact, few, if any,
women belonging to the group known as the
Woman’s Party assisted the great New York
campaign, while, on the contrary, several ob-
structed it. The women presenting the banner
were not known as women to whom any credit
for the New York victory belongs.

As a matter of further fact, the words on
the banner represented a sentiment very gen-
erally felt by men and women in New York.
Had Senator Wadsworth the nicety of feeling
which one should expect in a gentleman, he
would either vote for the Federal Suffrage
Amendment so strongly demanded by his State,
or if his feelings forbid, resign in order that
representative government may proceed. It
has been made clear that he has no such under-
standing of his duty and has given no evidence
that he intends to do other than continue to
obstruct the will of his state. No banner
tactics can compel him to change his attitude
and the psychology of such methods has the
reverse effect.

A woman beaten by her husband complained
bitterly to the neighbors. One night they heard
her cries as his blows fell upon her. They
flew to her defense but were much discomlited
when the woman grabbed a chair and attacked
her would-be defenders. She would not per-
mit them to thus “insult her husband." That

is a story of simple everyday psychology.

In similar fashion Republican men and
women who hold exactly the views of the
banner turned against the group of outstanders
who attempted to attack the Senator in public
fashion. Many men said to the women dele-
gates, “ We know Senator Wadsworth has not
done right. We cannot defend him and do not

intend to try, but we cannot stand by and see
him insulted."

Some tactics are psychologically right and
some are psychologically wrong and this was
an episode which helped not at all, but put a
bitter taste in many mouths. There is little
reason to suppose that “ rhyme or reason ” will
alter the bigotry of the Senator’s attitude.
The Federal Suffrage Amendment will pass
without him.

Mrs. Wadsworth is reported by the press to
have said to a picketer:

“ You will see, if he (Senator Wadsworth)
offers himself again for public service, the anti-
suifragists will be in a majority both among
men and women. They will support a man
who clings to principle rather than to bow to
political expediency.”

Senator Wadsworth’s wife has thrown down
the gauntlet and thus announces that when
and if he comes up for re-election it will be
a drawn battle between suffragists and anti-
suffragists. It is doubtful if Republicans will
take the risk of nominating him, but if they
do, New York at times has had a Democratic

senator. It will upon that occasion have
another.

The women of New York are fairly in
politics. C. C. C.

The Woman Citizen

METROPOLITAN
DYE WORKS

CLEANERS
and DYERS

i‘irsl ( lass Work.

Prompt Deliver};

Reasonable l’ri «xx.

‘..\,-'.1.

A Boarding and
Day School for Girls

paul Institute

8101 S Street. N. 'os
Washington. D. 0.
High School and College Preparasory Courses. Two

Years of College Work. 8 el Courses: The Arts.
Journalism. Short Story Wm Business and Beers.

tarlnl T Kindergarten. Normal Training. Domes-
tis Seienoe. rliunensary Lav.

MmNanstbSPsnl.LLB..Presidena
Author of “Paul‘s Parliamentary Law"
and 9'Ths Heart of Blackstone"

 

Suffragists vs. Brewers
(Continued from page 173)

The case has shaped itself into a clear con-
test between the Ohio “wets” and the Ohio
sulfragists.

It will attract national attention and may be
carried to the Supreme Court of the United
States.

Parties and Primaries
(Continued from page 169)

The president of the United States is still
nominated by convention, though about half
the states have presidential preference pri-
maries, by means of which state delegates go
to the National Convention with a knowledge
of the pe0ple’s preference for presidential can-
didate. These are of little effectiveness, how-
ever, and in his message to Congress in De—
cember, 1913, President Wilson recommended a
general Federal direct primary law. This
would bring Federal nominations, like Federal
campaigns, under the control of the National
government.

In about one-third of the states, delegates to
the National Convention are nominated at
primaries.

The direct primary is a great improvement on
the olsler system; the main charge against it
is a charge against the voter. Few voters come
out at the primaries. At the last gubernatorial
election in New York the Republican vote cast
was almost three times as large as the vote cast
at the Republican primaries. The reason for
this is partly that the voter is not yet fully
awakened to his responsibility, but it is even
more to be laid to the long ballot.’ The long
ballot is one of the great sources of the power
of corrupt politics.

Non-partisan elections on local issues and
candidates, where National party issues have no
bearing, is one reform which has as yet made
little headway, but which would do much to
undermine the corrupt power of the great
National political parties.

 

2 See Your vote for Democracy and Emeiency in
the Woman Citizen.

When writing to advertisers please mention the WOMAN CITIZEN.

 

THE WlLiJAhlS PRINTING COHPLNY. NEW I033

«@so

Digitized by 600816

luly 27, 1918 . i 1

 

Can. You Vote This Year?

If you can you will want to read our articles on

PARTIES AND PRIMARIE

0

 

If you cannot you will want to read them just the same—
for you will vote next year or in I920, if not in l9l8.

There are seven of these articles—

Two, general and introductory, in the issues of July

20th and 27th, by Mary Sumner Boyd.

August 3rd—Why You Should Vote the Democratic
Ticket. By Ellis Meredith, Director of Publicity

for the Woman's Bureau of the National
Democratic Committee.

August I 0th—Why You Should Vote the Republican
Ticket. By Helen Varick Boswell, President of

the National Republican Women's Association.

On August I7, 24 and 3 l , articles on the Socialist,
Prohibition and National Parties will follow in

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

Issues of these seven weeks will be furnished for
the special price of 50 cents upon application to

171 Madison Avenue New York

‘ ‘ 1" m arm  u'! *" WWIWMNWWWWWHllllllllllllllllllllIIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllmwllltl|IEI@@HWI III I W l W m Ill ll ‘19 HlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllleHll
' ' .

 

 

 

 

Books at Less T an Published Prices

 ‘——, ~£'*‘u ‘ . ' y 7 J

E have arranged to supply the books listed below at the special prices
named when sold in combination with new subscriptions to the Woman
Citizen. They will be mailed post-paid to any address in the United States.
This is an opportunity to save from twenty to thirty-five per cent on the .
published prices. If you are already a subscriber to the Woman Citizen

and wish to own certain of the books, invite your friends to become subscribers to the

magazine at one dollar a year, and have the books of your choice sent to your address.

They will cost you the difference between the full price quoted for each combination

and one dollar. Or subscribe to the magazine as a gift for a friend and have the book

sent to your address.
Published Combination: Amount

0 n t in c E't’a r .3333. 8::rsaeecsgsgss.
THE PAN-GERMAN PLOT UNMASKED: André Chéradame . . . . . . ...$1.25 $1.85 $.40

“OVER THERE”: Captain R. Hugh Knyvett . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50 2.00 .50

FIGHTING FOR PEACE: Henry van Dyke . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25 1.85 . .40

WHY WE ARE AT WAR: Woodrow Wilson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .50 1.35 .15

IN OUR FIRST YEAR OF WAR: Woodrow Wilson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00 1.65 .35

FIGHTING FRANCE: Edith Wharton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00 1.65 .35
THE UNITED STATES AND PAN-GERMANIA: André Chéradame.. 1.00 1.65 .35
GENERAL JOFFRE AND HIS BATTLES: Raymond Recouly (Captain X) 1.25 1.85 .40
ON THE RIGHT OF THE BRITISH LINE: Captain Gilbert Nobbs... 1.25 l 85 .40
WHITE NIGHTS AND OTHER RUSSIAN IMPRESSIONS: Arthur Ruhl 2 . 00 2 35 .65
A WAR NURSE’S DIARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25 1.85 .40
MY WAR DIARY: Madame Waddington . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50 2.00 .50
WITH THE ALLIES: Richard Harding Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25 l 85 .40
THE DESERTER: Richard Harding Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .50 l 35 .15
PRINCIPLES OF AMERICAN DIPLOMACY: John Bassett Moore.... 2.00 2 35 .65
N 0 V e l 5
THE EARTHQUAKE: Arthur Train . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50 2.00 .50
CHRISTINE: Alice Cholmondeley. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25 1.85 .40
HIS FAMILY: Ernest Poole . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50 2.00 .50
THE TREE OF HEAVEN: May Sinclair . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.60 2.00 .60
Miiscellaneous .
YOUR VOTE AND HOW TO USE IT: Mrs. Raymond Brown. . . . . . . . .75 1.50 .25
THE WOMAN VOTER’S MANUAL: S. E. Forman and Marjorie Shuler. . l .00 1.65 35
MARK TWAIN’S LETTERS, 2 Volumes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4.00 3.75 1.25
OBSERVATION: EVERY MAN HIS OWN UNIVERSITY: R. H. Conwell 1.00 1 . 65 .35
THE MODERN CITY AND ITS PROBLEMS: Frederic C. Howe. . . . 1.50 2.00 .50
THE HIGH COST OF LIVING: Frederic C. Howe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50 2.00 .50
THE FOOD PROBLEM: Kellogg and Taylor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25 1.85 .40
WAR FRENCH: Colonel C. D. Willcox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .75 1.50 .25

This offer is for a limited period. Send your orders promptly to

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

171 Madison Avenue

New York City

_m _. ‘9... 14r—_—_3--~‘__’- “1.-..” . _.-' -_ -_— _ _ <—-:> _._. . g -u .C- N ~—

 

 

 

 

