\

\.

ia.:--'

I

W
W

.3

"'er

 

lho- m

Escrow
hthNO
ille 8
nnm .9
Bl
Wowwuam
I. .08
1PRIFP)
“1 Or.
amisw.
rnnrnS
thUa
. .,.JA
hmanwA
Unrura.
.,.IUC
and; 0.
uwmxwu
“muddy!”
v.‘ mod
n ,1
n hm
.r.
"by
“W,
E»
,f...
T.
N.

3 i . v. \t,
; ‘ ‘ ‘ In mp
 =v : ,«ligmqnea

02 The Woman Citizen

     
    
     
 
   
     
     
     
 
     
 

jeanklin Eimon‘ & Go.

A Store of Individual Shops
Fifth Avenue, 37th and 38th Sts., New York

 
 

;  : NEW SUMMER MODELS
 f _ BOYS’ WASHABLE SUITS
‘ ' -  At Unusual Prices

Guaranteed Fast Color Materials

No. 4l—Boye’ Sport Suit (blouse and
knickers) of olive khaki drill or gray
linen crash. 6 to 15 years. 

No. 43—Boye’ New Model Outing Suit
0! olive drab cotton khaki or white '
army duck, belted coat with patch

pockets. 7 to 18 years. 

Prompt Delioe/ry Free—Anywhere in the United States

’PHONE 6900 GREELEY

 

‘ .
The business of financing the war is none the less m1 . 
urgent because voluntary. Save Thrift Stamps!  at Messages
 lo
' 'l .
’m   &  The Amencan People
. .
PM. A 35 h s A B”
1 venue at t treet 1 1
Established 1879 CARRIE CHAPMAN CATr
Ji‘
For Sport— 
o 0 V‘ o
AHTAB Sllk HOSlery ‘ N0. l—War Arms
FOCIi‘ the many Sport loccasions when I
O t —'t’ ' - ‘
gassesmzsskwas; No. 2—11.. Home Defense
“LIN .

AHTAB silk hosiery will stand the

S portswoman’s test. '

It is made thoroughly—made strong
—fast dyed—reinforced well—fits as NOW READY in leaflet form

gOOJ stocking: Should- at 5 cents each; 50 cents a dozen,

. Many mse sportswomen are as par- or at cheaper rates for large orders.
tlcular about gettlng a summer s supply

of A H TA B hosiery as about getting the
right grade of golf or tennis balls.

AHTAB silk hosiery in three grades:
NATIONAL WOMAN SUF F RAGE

1.35 1.65 2.00
Sold Exclusively by Best & Co. ‘   Inc-

 

 

 

171 MADISON AVENUE, NEW YORK CITY

 

 

 

 

3
—You Never Pay More at Best’sg‘L

When writing to advertisers please mention the WOMAN CITIZEN.

 

CONTINUING the Woman’s Journal,
founded 1870 by Lucy Stone and Henry
B. Blackwell, as a weekly newspaper de-
voted to winning equal rights and espe-
cially to winning equal suii‘ra for
women, and published weekly in oston,
Massachth from 1870 to 1917. Con-
tinuing also the Woman Voter, and the
National Sufra e News. In succeeding
the National Sn rage News, The Woman
Citizen became the odicial organ of the
N atlonal American Woman SuErage
Association, and as such tries to main-
tain intimate contact between the Asso-
ciation and its two million members
throughout the United States.

 

 

Founded June 2, 1917

Published every Saturday by

The WOMAN sznN. CORPORATION
at 171 Madison Avenue, New York

Ten cents a copy; yearly subscri tion (52 numbers),
cents extra.

81.00. Postage to foreign countr es fifty

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

Entered at the New York Post omce as Second
Class matter, under the act of March 3, 1879. Copy-

rigit, 1918, by The Woman Citizen Corporation.
VOL. III JULY 6, 1918 No.

6

PUBLISHED by the Woman Citizen

Corporation, in the hope that it may
prove a self- e tuating memorial to
Mrs. Frank Earllg’s generosity toward
the cause of woman sudrage and her

faith in woman’s irresistible progress.

The directors of the Corporation are
Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, Miss Alice
Stone Blackwell, Miss Mary Garrett
Hay, Mrs. Thomas Bucklin Wells, and
Mrs. Arthur L. Livermore.

Alice Stone Blackwell is a special contrib-
uting editor.

Rose Young is the editor-in-ehief.

Ma Ogden Whi Mary Sumner no
and"y Rose Lawleatg’ Geyer are associa’tg

editors. -

O

Our Circulation Story.

THE rapidity with which the suffrage map
is changing these days leaves one fairly
breathless.

The news of the victory won by the women

of Great Britain is hardly cold on the wire
before Canada comes to the fore with her
important victory. .
V Then we hear next of Italy’s Premier urging
suffrage for the women of his country, and
then France takes precedence in the iield of
suffrage progress with the news of the intro-
duction of a bill to grant suffrage to the
women of that country.

In the meantime Denmark elects nine women
to its parliament, and we hear that women of
India are suggesting reforms, including suf-
frage, that should be adOpted by that country.

This is only a sketchy outline of what is
happening in the world’s afairs of vital in-
terest to women.

Now, to be honest with yourself, did you
really know that all this was on foot, to say
nothing of the one hundred and one interesting
developments in our own forty-eight states?

If you did, wasn’t it because you were a
regular reader of the Woman Citizen?

Your magazine—the Woman Citizen—car-
ries each week comprehensive reports of the
manv activities of women in the sufrage
world, and sud‘rage, as the President has de-
clared, is one of the really big war-time issues.

Haven’t you noticed the Woman Citizen
reader is well informed on the march of world
events as relating to women? And have you
made certain the women of your own acquaint-

ance are as well informed
as you on these vital .
questions of the day?
Remember the Woman
Citizen is your maga-
zine——published in the
interest of the cause in
which you are vitally

1. Georgia

3. Indiana
4-. Michigan

5. Iowa
concerned — .and that 6. Minnesota
every subscriber you

gain for YOUR maga—
zine adds just another
active, well-trained sol-
dier to the large army
of women working for
the ballot?

“The Woman Citizen
is looked forward to as
much as_—and more than
—any publication that
mmes to us,” writes
Mrs. A. B. Libby of
Gardiner, Maine.

Our mail is constantly
filled with such intimate
glimpses of the reception
accorded the Citizen
when Uncle Sam delivers
it at the door. Do you
wonder that the goal of

100,000 new subscribers
is steadily coming nearer?

8. New York
9. Ohio

11. Virginia

12. Wisconsin
18. Alabama
14.
I5.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29. Vermont

Texas
Maryland
Maine

Tennessee

Nebraska

“WWW—WI M " W “MW '2 m ’  imagine; by (Zooglc

7. New Jersey '-

10. Missouri, New Hampshire

Massachusetts

Pennsylvania, Louisiana
Connecticut

West Virginia

South Carolina, Kentucky

Washington, D. C.
North Dakota
Mississippi, Arkansas, Rhode Island

Washington
North Carolina

Have you noticed the position of your state
in the circulation contest lately?
And have you enrolled as an active worker
in the ranks of the subscription forces?
Ross Lawuss Garza,
National Circulation Chairman.

STA TE CIRCULATION CHAIRMEN

Alabama: Miss Mary P. London, Birmingham

Arkansas: Miss Billie Pitney, Little Rock

Connecticut: Mrs. Bertha Taylor Voorhorst,
Hartford

Indiana: Mrs. Jessie Fremont Croan, Anderson
Iowa: Dr. Edie McCollum Jones, Webster City

Louisiana: Mrs. Sherard Brisbane, Baton
Rouge ‘

Maine: Mrs. Dora H. York, Augusta

Maryland: Mrs. Edwin W. Rouse, J r., Balti-
more

Massachusetts: Mrs. R. L. DeNormandie, Bos-
tOn "

Michigan: Mrs. John Waite, Ann Arbor

Minnesota: Mrs. I. E. Rose, St. Paul.

New Hampshire: Mrs. Mary Post, Portsmouth

New Jersey: Mrs. F. H. Colvin, East Orange

North Dakota: Mrs. Katherine L. Brainerd,
Hebron

Rhode Island: Mrs. LeBaron C. Colt, Bristol

South Carolina: Mrs. J. T. Gittman, Columbia.

Tennessee: Mrs. D. J. Kimbrough, Nashville

Texas: Mrs. Helen Moore, Galveston

Virginia: Miss Helen Stockdell, Richmond

West Virginia: Mrs. P. C. McBee, Mor antown
Wisconsin: Mrs. Charles Mott, Milwau ee

1. Georgia

2. South Dakota
3. Indiana

4. Michigan

5. Iowa

6. Minnesota

" New Jersey
8. New York

9. Ohio

10. Massachusetts
11.
12.
13.
l4.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.

25.

Wisconsin
Alabama
Texas
Maryland
Pennsylvania
Maine
Louisiana
Connecticut
West Virginia

Tennessee

North Dakota

27.
28.
29.

Washington
North Carolina
Vermont

Relative Position of State Leagues in the Woman Citizen’s Circulation Contest:
June 22nd '

2. South Dakota

June 29th

South Carolina, Kentucky
W ashington, D. C.

Mississippi, Arkansas, Rhode Island
26. Nebraska

 

Circulation Contest

1. A pledge will constitute an entry.

2. N 0 entries will be accepted after Decem-
ber l, 1918.

3. Contest closes January 1, 1919.
4. In case of a tie for any one premium, the

prize will be awarded to each qualifying
contestant.

5. Only actual paid subscriptions willbecount-
ed in the awarding of premiums.

First Cash Premium
FIFTY DOLLARS

To the State Association that sends in the

highest number over 200 (paid new subscrib-
ers). The net price pe

State Association is .70, the
state, county or local treasury,

aided b arran eat between
its bran’ches. m

Second Cash Premium
TWENTY-FIVE DOLLARS

TWE N TY-F I VE
DOLLARS

To the Local Club that
sends in the highest

number over 100 paid
new subscribers). hese

would come through the

County Association into
the State Association,

and thence to the Woman
Citizen.

Missouri, New Hampshire, Virginia

Fourth Cash Premium

TWEN TY—F IVE
DOLLARS

To the co—o era
Subscriber who fendstinirgi
the hi hest number over
50. d t’ Fould be inde-
pen en 0 state, coun
and club circulation etcZ
tivities, would apply to
states that do not take
up the circulation work
in an omcial way, and
would come directly to
the Woman Citizen. The
net price per subscription
is $1.00. No discount.

 

i
J
i
I
I
l
l
I

104

to ~
It?" >

 

     
    
      
        
   
     

  

Ill. Altman & Q'Ln. “W

TRAVEL AND VACA'H‘HON ourrrrs

and the numerous minor requirements to render both the journey
and the sojourn worth while have been provided in
interesting and extensive assortments.

The activities oi the seaside, country sports, or the hours of leisure
‘ have been amply anticipated in apparel typical oi
fashionable lite during the Summer period.

m

dilemma Avenue-Jail; Avenue, New Enrk
whim-an Street Uhh'ty-lifth strut

  
   

TELEPHONE 7000 MURRAY HILL

_~—__—_.

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

N ow has two correspondents atthe War
Front. Their contributions are
tOO good tO miss

First Aid tO Subscribers

Pin a New York draft, Money or Express Order for
$1.00 to this advertisement, fill out the blank below,
cut out and mail both to us for one year's subscription
(new or renewal) to

The New Art of Dress
HA  proved that the plaim’r
I woman, rightly gownad, is more at-

tractive than the prettier woman
in conventionalizcd garnwnts. Every
Woman has a latent beauty only brought
out by her own colors and lines.

The artist evokes the charm of appear-
H

(mm as the lower coo/cos the charm. of '
—'————_—— .\mm'

I n o 0 a c u n n o u u I I I I a u I u a I u o n t u n u n c o u c I I l O a O o o n o I I I O n I

«‘motion.

“in” for my WONG" Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

('ity. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Stair . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Ttt'cnty-one East Forty-Ilzinth Street
New York City

THE WOMAN CITIZEN, 171 MADISON Ava, NEW YORK

 

 

 

NURSES IOUTFITTING ASSOCIATION, Inc.
425 Fifth Avenue, New York

    
   

e ')

   

RED CROSS GARMENTS

 

I

 

Send for Catalog

When writing to advertisers please mention the WOMAN CITIZEN.

The Woman Citizen

THE WOMAN’S' JOURNAL

A Journal of Democracy

/ . July 6, 1918

" We shall fight for the things which we have always carried nearest our hearts —for danocracy, for the right of
those who submit to authority to have a voice in their own government."

Hope Lies Ahead

HE- Federal Suffrage Amendment is going

through the Senate—the Sixty-fifth Senate. N o

suffragist should be downhearted because the vote, long
expected, has not yet taken place.

The suffragiSts were in their seats and ready for the
vote on Thursday. Mr. Goff, of West Virginia, in very
ill health, came on at great risk, for 'the second time to
vote for the amendment, and other men made great
sacrifices to be present.

The opposition, realizing that the suffragists had the
necessary votes to put the measure through, indulged
in the filibuster, the tactics of the parliamentary high-
binder, to prevent a vote being taken, clearly in the hope
that on some other day suffragists would be absent, and
thus give their side the advantage which it lacked on
June 27.

The country, which has manifested a tremendous de-
mand for the passage of the amendment, is in no mood
to tolerate such obstruction methods of the minority.

Political state conventions, legislatures, associations
of every kind and description, and a very large portion
of the press, have expressed an impatience because the
Senate has not passed the Federal Amendment.

Many Senators still obdurate have confessed that
they have never received so many requests to vote for
any other measure as for the Federal Amendment.

Every day during the weary months which have
intervened since the House vote was taken, the senti-
ment has grown stronger, the friends more determined.

The demand is still growing and will continue to
grow.

The Woman Suffrage Committee has promised a
vote during this session, and the minority cannot for-
ever prevent it.

Meanwhile, primaries are due in July and August,
and all the members of Congress and one-third of the
Senate come up for election.

These facts are naturally.in every man’s mind with
more or less compelling force.

Most of the Senators want to get home to look after
their “fences,” and they are disappearing a few at a
time for days or weeks. A few will feel more like giv-
ingi attention to grave affairs of human progress. when
their own election, with its many problems, little and
big, are satisfactorily diSposed of.

The Senate at a distance looks invitingly attractive
to many men, and consequently in several states three
or four candidates are striving for the shoes of the in-
cumbent in Washington. This creates a situation which
tends to “ nerves.”

It must be conceded that all the patriotic earnest men
in the Senate have worked very hard at the driving
business of war legislation, and the numerous absences
from illness indicate that the Senate is tired. Every
man for these and other reasons seems pining for a re-
cess, and therefore a recess there probably will be
during the month of July.

That means that the vote may not come until August
or, even September. _

“Hope deferred maketh the heart sick” is an old
and perhaps ordinarily applicable proverb, but when
the hope is that of suffragists for the courtesy of fair
treatment, which cometh not, the fact maketh not the
suffrage heart sick.

It waxeth hot the suffrage temper and stirreth up the
suffrage blood ready for the next encounter in which
the minority may withhold courtesy. But the majority

certainly Wlll egitétirilzdegkc/t@00816 C. C. C.

106

“The

ILLIONS of suffragists all over the country watched
M anxiously for reports from Washington last Thursday.
Notice had been given that the Federal Amendment would be
brought up on that day (June 27th). An effort had been made,
unsuccessfully, to secure consent for a vote at a definite hour,
and there was other evidence that the opposition would attempt
to accomplish by a filibuster what it was doubtful of bringing
about by a count of votes.

The galleries were packed with women long before noon when
the Senate was called to order, and they had come prepared to
stay to the end however long delayed. It was a bitter surprise
to hundreds of them who had gathered from far and near to
witness the victorious passage of the amendment, to see instead
a demonstration of as unreasoning and ugly hostility as the years
of struggle have produced.

When consideration of the amendment was called Senator Un-
derwood, of Alabama, on behalf of the opposition declared that
- no vote would be allowed on the amendment unless pairs were
furnished for Senator Ollie James, who was absent on account
of illness. By his absence the opposition lost one vote. As the
vote on the amendment requires a two—thirds majority the pair-
ing of absentees has to be made on the basis of two for, to one
against. Y

The demand of Senator Underwood, therefore, was that two
senators present and desiring to vote should abstain from doing
so, thus taking two from the suffrage poll in order to give Senator
James, absent and ill, a vote on the anti side. To this demand

Senator Jones on behalf of the suffragists made reply:

“ Upon this question I would be unwilling to pair with
anybody under any circumstances, and if I am unwilling to
pair with anybody under any circumstances on this ques-
tion, then I am unwilling to ask any of my colleagues in the
Senate to do a thing which I would not myself do. That
is the situation which confronts the Senate. . . . I have no
assurance, nor is there any assurance that unless he returns
he can ever obtain a pair from anybody, and there is noth-
ing of hope held out to us that delay will aid in settling the
question of a pair. We have just as good hope of a pair
now as we will have later. If a Senator today is unwilling
to pair, he will be unwilling tomorrow; he will be unwilling
next week; and so far as that question is concerned we might
just as well take the vote now.”

The filibuster as the process of intervening speeches, motions,
roll calls, questions of privileges, etc., for the purpose of pre
venting the proper order of business is called, then began.

Senator Reed of Missouri, whose name is well known the
world over and clear up to the foot of the German throne as
the chief director of obstruction of war legislation in the United
States, took the floor. Assuming the pose of patriot he declared
that suffragists were responsible for holding back the passage of
the Military Appropriation Bill then pending, and in order to
do his part toward preventing any business of any kind, made
a long speech chiefiy repeating familiar war talk known to every

school child. At the end of an hour and a quarter he was over-

The Woman Citizen

Day” '

heard saying to ‘a fellow member, “I can’t keep this up any
longer,” whereupon another filibusterer took the floor. The women
in the galleries were forced to sit wearily through it, but the
senators on the fioor, setting guards to report when he should
quit talking, took the opportunity of going to lunch. A telegram
received next day read, “Missouri women’s only consolation is
that they are not responsible for Reed.”

During the early part of the afternoon it was clear that Senator
Lodge (Republican), of Massachusetts, was the leader and gen-
eral Hoor manager for the opposition, but the loving comaraderie

(6

between the “wilful few” Republicans and the wilful few ”

Democrats, who in normal relations do not waste time in each
other’s company, was an amazing sight to the galleries. Mr.
Lodge, of Massachusetts, Mr. Ellison Smith of South Carolina,
Mr. Brandegee of Connecticut, Mr. Martin of Virginia, Mr.
W’adsworth of New York, Mr. Underwood of Alabama, as
divided as the Kaiser and the King of England on most matters,
were as united as twin brothers in defending the nation against
“the awful disaster to the nation should women be enfranchised
by Federal Amendment! ”

The Congressional Record prints for the most part what
Senators say, but it cannot record the pictures of Republicans
and Democrats with arms around each other’s necks, with Demo-
crats slapping Republicans on the back in token of a copimon
jubilation that they had scored a mighty victory in preventing
the Senate from taking a vote! Brave men! They kept the boys
in the trenches fighting for democracy abroad from the appro—
priation the war needed for a whole afternoon, and the women
fighting for democracy at home from their vote by a filibuster!

The front rows of one gallery were resplendent with well-
dressed, well-powdered, well-batted but anxious antis. They
demonstrated again their uses as allies of the suffragists, for even
Mr. Brandegee, who made a speech a few days before, so vul-
gar in character as to shpck every listener, was forced to curb his
tongue to the limits of ordinary decency in remembrance of their
presence.

After it had been made apparent that the opposition was willing
to talk three weeks if need be, and go to any lengths necessary to
prevent a vote so long as the conditions predicted a victory for the
amendment, and as the opposition by so doing was really prevent-
ing the passage of a bill which the Secretary of W'ar had de—
clared to be absolutely imperative, Senator Jones, who had charge
of the suffrage bill, therefore made the following announcement:

“I want this joint resolution to pass. I believe it will
pass; but it is evident from statements made here that if it
is pressed now there will be great delay in its passage and
in the passage of the supply bills. Therefore I am going to
ask to withdraw the motion I have made. and which is now
pending. to proceed to the consideration of the joint resolu-
tion. with the understanding that after the supply bills are
out of the way this matter will be again brought before the
Senate and will he kept before the Senate in the face of any
attempt to recess for the summer.

“I make that request. Mr. President."

The motion for conside atio w r ore withdrawn.
Digitized by 

July 6, 1918

THE event of the afternoon was a speech by Senator

Brandegee of Connecticut. There is nothing on this green

earth which this gentleman hates like a suffragist. He has re-

fused to receive deputations of Connecticut women and has
closed his mind to their appeals, as well as his door in their faces.
It is as clear to him that men were divinely ordained to rule over
women as it is clear to the Kaiser that he is divinely ordained
to rule over men. Yet even he recognizes the onward strides of
the movement, and spent little time in discussing the right or
wrong of the measure. This gentleman member of a party and
representative of a state that went to war to determine that the
sovereign rights of a state were not supreme, prefaced his speech
by having several letters read into the “ Record ” from other Re-
publicans and making the most abject appeal t‘o‘the South to stand
by its old time tradition of States Rights.

Everett P. Wheeler, Republican, familiar and professional
opponent, in characteristic style wrote:

“ This attempted compulsion of States opposed to political
suffrage for women is not democratic. It is German. The
Germans were as confident of the excellence of their kultur
as suffragists are of their dogma. Instead of attempting
to convince other States, they sought to compel. That is
what the suffragists are trying to do with Maine, Massa-
chusetts, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Nebraska—all of
which have voted by large majorities against political suf-

frage for women.”
(No State. and no people in the United States have voted

against woman suffrage; a majority of men have done so, which
means something between about a quarter and a half of the

people)
A few briefs from Mr. Brandegee’s speech may serve to define

the nature of the opponents and the opposition:

“ Mr. President, of course in my opinion the granting of
suffrage to women will not make a better government and
will not make better laws for this country. I may be totally
mistaken about that. Of course, it will double the number of
voters and double the expense, and a lady has got to vote
either against her husband or with him. If she votes with
him the result will be the same, and if she votes against him
the result will be the same, and if she does not vote at all
the result will be just the same as it is now; and I cannot
perceive how the thing is going to purify politics very much.

“ Mr. Shafroth: Does not the Senator believe that the just
powers of government are derived from the consent of the
governed?

“ Mr. Brandegee: What does the Senator believe about
the Philippine Islands?

“ Mr. Shafroth: I must say that I have always been in
favor of giving independence to the Philippine Islands, and
fought upon the floor of the Senate for that very principle.

“ Mr. Brandegee: Mr. President, all this talk about strik-
ing the manacles and the shackles off the limbs of the en-
slaved women of this country is perfect tommy-rot. (Laugh-
ter.) That is all there is to it.

“Mr. Shafroth: If we are not to recognize that funda-
mental principle of government, which is the foundation
stone of our Republic, what are we fighting for over in
Europe?

“ Mr. Brandegee: I think to make the world safe for the
Democratic Party. (Laughter.)

“Mr. Shafroth: The Senator will find it is making it

107

safer for democracy, and you cannot make it safer for
democracy if you refuse to extend this ‘privilege ’ to

women.
“Mr. Brandegee: That argument does not convince me,

Mr. President.

“ Mr. Owen: Mr. President, the term ‘Privilege ’ seems
now to be accepted as the proper vernacular in dealing with
this right of suffrage, but I think that the Senator is not
justified in calling it a privilege, because if there is a moral
right it is for a human being who is of age to have a voice
in the government by which his life and liberties are con-
trolled.

“Mr. Brandegee: Mr. President, this question of moral
rights is beyond me. Anybody can evolve out of his inner
consciousness what he says is a moral right, and maintain
it, and there is no way of disputing it or arguing about it.
I do not consider it a question of morals at all as to the
qualifications of electors. I consider‘it a practical matter,
to be judged by practical men, as to what they think will be
the best form of government for the people of the country.
All this lingo about the women of America being enslaved
is pure trumpery and foolishness. You cannot get on a trol-
ley car without having to take off your hat and give up your
seat to every woman who gets aboard the car, and they are
petted and flattered, and—well, I will not say what else is
done with them (Laughter in the galleries) but they are
the queen bees in this country, and there is no nation in the
world where a woman’s lot is so happy as it is in this

country.
“ Mr. Shafroth: Mr. President, I should like to ask the

Senator, if men were deprived of the right of suffrage,
whether or not he would consider it of the character he has
described?

“ Mr. Brandegee: I do not think the men are going to
deprive themselves of a function which they have always
exercised.

“ Mr. Shafroth: But, as a matter of ’fact, the people re-
gard the deprivation of the right to vote as slavery.

“ Mr. Brandegee: I do not admit that it is a right at all.

“ Mr. Shafroth: The Senator does not consider it a right?

“ Mr. Brandegee: I do not. I deny it absolutely.

“ Mr. Shafroth: If it were taken away from the Senator
I am inclined to think he would think it was a great right.

“ Mr. Brandegee: I would not object, or if I did object, I
would be powerless. If the legislature of my State should
decide that bachelors could not vote I would think that it was
wrong, but I would submit to it.

“ I say if three-quarters of the legislatures of the States
do approve of this thing, if it is passed up to them by
Congress, thinking it necessary, then suppose it does not
work in the States? Suppose some states do not like it and
the results are bad. What have they got to do? They are
absolutely foreclosed for all time. What becomes of your
majority rule? There may be a dozen States that think
this thing is a failure and is working ruin upon them. They
have got to start an. agitation? for a constitutional amend-
ment to undo that constitutional amendmenthand they have
got to convince two-thirds of the Senate, two-thirds of the
House, and three—quarters of the legislatures of all the
States of the Union to put it out of the Constitution.

“Mr. President, the mere suggestion of that shows, as
Senator Elihu Root said in that letter I put into the Record,
that it is perilous to use the Constitution of the United
States to regulate the daily habits of the people and their
domestic concerns.

Digitized by 0" Page 108)

10:5

The Woman Citizen

Thus Ended “The Day”

(Continued from page 107)

“IS it so that the party which has for
seventy-five years stood for the doctrine
announced by its sainted leader that ‘that gov-
ernment governs best which governs least’ is
here today to say that their own states and their
own people have abandoned any idea of govern-
ing themselves and are now prepared to turn
that function over to Washington?

“ Mr. President, what sort of government are
we going to have when we get through ’with
this ghost dance we are now indulging in?
Ex-Senator 'Root foresees it and forecasts it.
The New York World foresees it and fore-
casts it. A good many Democrats see it and
forecast it, but they decline to stand up, and try
to prevent it. When I say Democrats, I am ,not
refiecting on them. A good many Republicans
are doing the same thing. I simply instance
Democrats because these things appear to me to
be more in violation of the things that they
have heretofore stood for and proclaimed should
be fundamental.”

ENATOR LEWIS, of Illinois, sounded out

the point signified: The States Rights
opponents contend that the amendment will
allow the Federal Government to dictate the
qualifications for voters, which, of course, has
no foundation.

“ Mr. Lewis: Mr. President, will the
Senator from Connecticut give me his opin-
ion as to a viewpoint expressed through the
article tendered by him? It is this: Has
the Senator from Connecticut any legal
doubt but that the power in the State of
Connecticut would still remain to prescribe
qualifications and conditions under which
suffrage could be exercised under this
amendment to the same extent as they do
now and as they have for the past ten years?

“Mr. Brandegee: I have no doubt about
it. It would utterly deprive the State of the '
power to determine the qualifications of its
own electors.

“ Mr. Lewis: \Nell, which viewpoint does
the Senator have?

“Mr. Brandegee: I have the viewpoint
that, if the Constitution of the United
States says that the State of Connecticut
can not prescribe the qualifications of its
own electors, it can not do so.

“ Mr. Lewis: Then I fear I did not make
myself clear to the Senator. I meant to ask
the Senator does he feel that this amend-
ment, when adopted. would in any wise take
from the State of Connecticut the same
power to regulate by conditions and qualifi-
cations the enjoyment of the suffrage to the
same extent that it has done heretofore un-
der State law?

“ Mr. Brandegee: I do not know whether
it is an enjoyment or not; but I think it
would absolutely deprive the State of the
right to limit the suffrage to males.
(Laughton)

“ Mr. Lewis: The Senator, of course. un-
derstands I recognize that it removes the
limitation of sex; but as to conditions and
qualifications in the enjoyment, such as edu-
cation, such as protection of the ballot at
the hands of those who should be enlight-

N the same week that the United States
postponed action on the political liberty of
American women a pledge was given that this
government would stand unequivocally for the
complete liberation of all branches of the
Slavic racc.

 

ened enough to exercise it, does the Senator
feel that this amendment in any wise would
interfere with that indicated in the paper
presented by him?

“Mr. Brandegee: My opinion is, of
course, that a State at present has the right
to confine the suffrage to the male sex, if it
chooses to do so; but if this amendment is
passed it can not do it.

“ Mr. Lewis: Yes; I concur with the
Senator9 if this amendment is passed.

“ Mr. Brandegee: As to any other quali-
fication, this amendment. of course, does
not touch them at all.”

Senator Williams, of Mississippi, offered an
amendment to insert the word “white” before
women. That amendment was not discussed,

and will come up when the amendment does.
And thus ended “the day."

On Which Side?

“0 N which side does the United States
Government stand on the subject of
woman suffrage? Beside her Ally, Great
Britain, or beside her Teutonic foe? Are we
Huns or are we blood brothers of England in
the world fight for democracy? The eyes of
the whole world are turned toward the United
States Senate. To them will belong the
splendid honor of deciding the question to the,
everlasting credit of the United States or the
obloquy of keeping American women in the
same class as those of their Teutonic foes.”
Nashville, Tennessee, Tennessean.

Senates 2,500 Years Ago

Is there anything whereof it may be said, “ See,
this is new "P It hath been already of old
time, which was before us.

I would have gone to my Lord in his need,
Have galloped there all the way,

But this is a matter concerns the State, '
And I, being a woman, must-stay.

I watched them leaving the palace yard,
In carriage and robe of state.

I would have gone by the hills and the fords;
I know they will come too late.

I may walk in the garden and gather
Lilies of mother-of—pearl.

I had a plan would have saved the State——
But mine are the thoughts of a girl.

The Elder Statesn‘ien sit on the mats,
And wrangle through half the day.

A hundred plans they have drafted and dropped,
And mine was the only way.

Lyrics From the Chinese, 675 no.

Digitized

How Long! How Long!

HE United States Senate is still holding

up Senate Joint Resolution No. 2, which
would submit to the state legislatures the
amendment to our federal constitution provid-
ing for woman suffrage. The House passed
this reselution January 10 of this year by the
required majority; the Senate committee ap-
proved the same resolution last September 10.
Yet this august body is not quite majority sure
whether it would be proper for it to send the
amendment along to the states. The old
argument that the initiative in this matter
should be taken by the states is absurd. Must
the federal government wait upon the states'
initiative as to whether, as a nation, we shall
do the best and the right thing for our citizens
and our country? The Congressional body that
most closely reflects popular feeling has said:
Submit the amendment. Let the upper House
follow suit. If we await the states’ initiative,
and if it might be possible for one state per
year to extend full franchise to its woman
citizens, which has been the rate the past seven
years, it will be 36 years before the women in
all our states can have a voice in public admin-
istration. With the federal amendment sub-
mitted at once, three-fourths of the states will
soon decide the question. A great many new
phases of public administration are bound to
develop in the next few years’, due to the
abnormal conditions through which we are pass-
ing, phases in which the welfare of our women
will vitally affect the welfare of the nation, and
it will be unwise and unseemly for the United
States generally to be in such an electoral
status that it can not have the advantage of
its women citizens’ decisions rendered 'in the
most effective, simple and dignified way—via
the silent, secret ballot. As individuals and
as organizations, let your Senators know
positively what you want them to do about this

resolution, and that you wish them to do it now.
—Ohio Farmer, June 15, 1918.

 

HE Iowa State Bar Association, in con-

vention at Des Moines, June 28, took a
firm stand in support of the Federal Suffrage
Amendment, urging its passage by the Senate.
The resolution, signed by Henry L. Adams,
President; H. C. Horack, Secretary, and George
Cosson, Chairman of Committee, said in part:

“Resolz'ed, By the Iowa State Bar Associa-
tion in convention assembled, that we earnestly
urge upon the Senate of the United States fa—
vorable action upon the proposed Amendment
to the Constitution granting equal suffrage. Be
it further

"Resolved, That this resolution be trans-
mitted to the senior Senator from Iowa, the
Hon. Albert B. Cummins. for presentation to
the L’nited States Senate."

The action by the State Bar Association fol-
lowed the rcading of a telegram from Miss
Anna B. Lawther, President of the Iowa Equal
Suffrage Association; Mrs. Francis E. \N'hitley,
Chairman of the \Voman's Committee of the
Council of National Defense, and Mrs. John \V.
\\'atzek, President of the Iowa Federation of
\\'omen's Clubs. who joined in requesting the
convention to.adopt a resolution favoring the

iieeegiem

July 6, 1918

Connecticut’s
Happy Moment

HE DEMOCRATIC PARTY of Connecti-
cut in convention at Hartford, June 27th,
unanimously indorsed a Federal Suffrage plank
in its platform. By this action the Democrats
have pledged themselves not only to support the
Amendment, but to work for its prompt ratifica-

tion through the Legislature of Connecticut.

The plank reads: “As a matter of justice to
the women of the nation and in conformity
with the action of the Democratic National

Committee, strongly supported by the Presi-
dent and the Administration, we indorse the

Federal W'oman Suffrage Amendment, and upon
its submission to the States pledge ourselves to

work for its prompt ratification by the Legisla-
ture of Connecticut."

On the eve of the convention a vigorous res-
olution, passed by the Resolutions Commit-
tee of the Democratic Party, was forwarded
to the Senate, urging the immediate passage of
the Amendment. It quoted President \Nilson’s
reply to the memorial from the women of
France as one of the party’s reasons for mak-

ing this request of the Senate at the present
time.

The Democratic State Central Committee had
previously indorsed the Iiederal Amendment.

The reading of the Federal Suffrage Plank
before the convention brought forth applause so
prolonged that Homer S. Cummings, National
Committeeman and Chairman of the Resolu-
tions Committee, was moved to say: “Gen-
tlemen, that was a happy moment.” In a sub-
sequent address, Mr. Cummings said: “ V\"e have
gone upon record in making our indorsement
of the woman suffrage movement. The Dem-
ocratic Party is endeavoring to ascertain the
needs of America, it will proceed to grasp any
new suggestion which may be a righteous sug-
gestion. Its face is always to the front."

Among other units of the Democratic Party
in Connecticut taking action in favor of the
Federal Amendment are the Democrats of
“'est Hartford who, in caucus, unanimously
indorsed the Amendment and addressed the
following letter to President Wilson:

“ Realizing the inconsistency of America’s
fighting for democracy abroad while twenty
million women are unenfranchised at home, we
urge you to exercise your powers as our con-
stitutional leader, and call upon the members
of the United States Senate for the immediate
passage of the Federal Amendment.”

“ Suffrage is the extension of a right and‘.a
privilege long deferred,” declared Thomas J.
Spellacy, Democratic nominee for Governor of
Connecticut, in his address of acceptance of the
nomination before the Democratic State Con-
vention. ” Something due should be paid im-
mediately." This statement was greeted with
continued applause.

The action of the Democratic convention was
received with great enthusiasm by the suf-
fragists. Among the delegation attending the
meeting of the Resolutions Committee and the
convention, were Miss Katherine Ludington of
Lyme, president of the Connecticut Woman
Suffrage Association, who is now marshalling
her forces for the ratification drive.

HE Executive Board of the Massachusetts
Woman Suffrage Association appealed to
Senator Weeks to support the Federal Amend-
ment in the following letter:
“You are aware of the great war sacrifice
and service of women here and elsewhere
throughout the world, and you are also aware

‘of the proposed extension of suffrage in Great

Britain through the efforts of English states-
men who in past years have opposed it.

“In view of these changed conditions and
in light of the social and economic problems
which are certain to follow in the wake of the
war, and which we believe can be-settled in a
permanent and democratic fashion only through

. equal suffrage, we hope that you may, at this

time, feel it to be your duty to support the
Suffrage Amendment to the Federal Constitu-
tion now before Congress.”

T the annual meeting of the Montgomery

County Federation of \Nomen’s Clubs,
held May 17, a resolution endorsing woman’s
suffrage was passed by a large majority. This
county federation is composed of twenty-eight
clubs, including the Social Service League,
which has many men members. The resolu-
tion was introduced by Mrs. Jessie Ross Thom-
son, state president, as well as Montgomery
County president of the Woman’s Suffrage
League. It is an interesting coincidence that
the Montgomery County Federation should be
the first in the state to endorse woman’s suf-
frage, and that the meeting at which it was
done was held in the old Friends’ meeting-
house at Sandy Springfwhere the Society of
Friends organized, many years ago, the first
equal suffrage association in Maryland.

Think of It, Americans

N the beautiful shaded lawn of the home
of Mrs. Alfred Lewis, the annual county
suffrage convention was held recently at
Geneva, New York. The pillared veranda
served for platform and the deep blue of

Seneca Lake and the wonderful hills beyond-

for background. The day was perfect and
should have made the convention a glad mem-
ory in the mind of every attendant. However,
other conventions have had perfect days and
beautiful settings, but that of Ontario County
recorded an incident which will never occur in
any other county convention.

It was attended by the last survivor of the
famous convention of 1848, Miss Rhoda Palmer,
now aged 102 years. She sat on Mrs. Lewis’
hospitable porch throughout the convention
looking, as the delegates said, rosy and good for
many years to come, but her one aim now is
to live until November 6' when she will have
the joy of casting her first vote.

She brought with her for exhibition one of
those hand-woven blue and white bed spreads
for which she had carded and spun the wool
and had woven it herself some seventy-five or
eighty years ago. Think of it, Americans, for
seventy years she has longed for the vote, doing
what she could to secure it for herself and her
sex. During that time millions of men have
entered our country and without test of quali-
fication have been given the vote freely after a
five years’ residence. In all the records of in-
tolerance which the history of the world can
show, future readers will find none more in—
excusable and diliicult to understand than the
case of Rhoda Palmer and that of the newly

arrived, perchance illiterate, foreigner.Digitized b

109

Kansas Women
to the Senate

“IT grieves me to tell you that I cannot at-
tend the state sulfrage meeting. I am
farming, and on account of the scarcity of labor,
I must work in the field or make a failure.”

This is what one earnest suffrage worker in
the voting state of Kansas said to her state
president, Mrs. Charles H. Brooks, in a letter of

. regret that she could not attend the annual state

suffrage meeting at Wichita on June 12. It is
the kind of thing that happens when the world
is at war. .

Suffrage and war service were so blended as
to show the active part the Kansas Equal Suf-
frage Association is taking in both lines of
work. Indeed, to them it is all one work; for
the Kansas sulfragists see the passage of the
Federal Suffrage Amendment and the enfran-
chisement of all the women of thecountry as a
part of the world’s fight for democracy.

The address of the president, Mrs. Brooks,
was devoted to the status of the Amendment,
and an aggressive program to gain the two
votes needed in the Senate was voted by the
assembled women. Kansas, like the other suf-
frage states, is keen to be one of the first to
ratify the Amendmentwhen it is passed.

The convention brought together women of
the state who had fought for the political free-
dom of Kansas women thirty years ago, and
women who were converts to suffrage not more
than four years ago when Kansas won her full
political freedom. In an address of welcome,
Mrs. W. A. Johnston of Topeka, honorary presi-
dent of the state association, reviewed some of
the changes in woman’s political status during
the past thirty years.

Mrs. W. Y. Morgan, as congressional chair-
man, paid tribute to the work which had been
done for suffrage, national and state, by Mrs.
Brooks, and, as a message to all Kansas suffra-
gists, said, “We must not hesitate to prove all
the time how sincere we are in wanting suffrage,
then we won’t need a congressional chairman."

An interesting feature of the program was a
letter from Governor Capper, read by Mrs. J. L.
Evans, corresponding secretary, in which he
paid tribute to the influence of the women in
bringing about better political conditions in
Kansas. .

Vying in interest with the report of the
Amendment was the report on the \Noman's
Overseas Hospitals given by Mrs. Brooks. Kan-
sas has been doing much active work to raise
its quota toward the maintenance of the hos—
pitals. Melting pots have been held through-

out the state. and a letter from Wichita shows
$1,150 raised for the fund.

T seems to be on the cards that the Japanese

will soon get into the electoral reforms pro-
cession. The Constitutional party is reported
as asking for an extension of the, right of fran-
chise, an important movement, as few Japanese
males can now vote.

At a recent convention presided over by Vis-
count Kato, a former foreign minister, now
president of the Constitutional party, where the
3,000 members present represented eleven prov—
inces of Japan, a manifesto was adopted asking

fo extension of democratic rights and the
' r  cational institutions.

The Woman Citizen

Where Governmen

1'10

ALASKA

 

 

19!?)
“’5, NORTHWEST b
7~ C?

TERRITORY
l9l8

     
   

SASKATCHEWAN
I9 I 6

Government 13 Not
“Of the PeOple”

In Labrador, Brew Foundland, Central
dmerica and the Southeastern States of
the greatest Republic on earth—the
Republic which. one hundred and forty—
two years ago this week proclaimed that
all people are born ” free and equal."
Even in Mexico, one province, Guano-
juato, recognizes that governments deri'ce
their " just powers from the consent of the
governed.”

In Virginia and Penns_1-'l-z‘ania, original
colonies which declared their indepen-
dence in 1770, there is not yet one 'Zi'ltllt.‘

spot of suffrage for 100 men.
X X )‘x X
X X. K K
' 7K 7'\ 3K K.

5CHO0L NU/Y/C/pAL

BOND m TAX JUFFA’HGE
p'
g - CENT

E E

to: t pit/MM v page/am mu PRES/DEN rm t. Home/m L No,
SUFFRA oe St/FFtP/i of sue/range e. MUNtC/PAL surname «tN actreenoe
SUFFRAGE CHARTH? (If/[5

   

~-- ___.

. July 6, 1918

: Is of the People

     

_ NEW
FOUNDLAND

 

/

Enfranchising Patriots

In 1017 the Dominion Parliament of Canada passed
an act of Political Home Defense which disfranchised,
for the period of the war, certain religious objectors and
all men naturalized since 1902.

It also enfranchised wives, widows, mothers, daugh-
ters and sisters of soldiers or nurses who have served or
will serve in Canadian or British military service.

It thus put out of politics its possible unpatriotic citi-
zens and brought in its patriotic citizens.

The bill gave dissatisfaction as unjust to patriotic
women who might not be included in the act.

Therefore, Sir Robert Borden announced that were
he returned as Premier he would correct the discrimi-
nation against such women by sponsoring a wider
sufrage for women.

He was returned and on March ZIst introduced a
bill extending the vote to all women who are British
citizens of the age of 21, subject only to the respective
qualilications of the several provinces.

This bill passed both houses of the Dominion Parlia-

ment, received the royal assent on May 23rd, and thus
the women of Canada from Ocean to Ocean have been
enfranchised on equal terms with men.

The Senate of the United States is asked merely to
permit the State Legislatures to take action on a similar
question.

Surely the Senate will not be less generous than

Canada has been! C. C. C.

Digitized by 600816

111

112

“ Sobresaliente ”
for the

N 1900 there was a curious little feminist pro-

cession in Madrid, the like of which never
happened before, and was truly Spanish. It
was the capitulation of Spanish men students
to Spanish girl students. The gallant caballero,
whose object in life had been to make love to
sefwriras with roses in their hair, suddenly dis-
covered something finer than noses. They saw
these girls as classmates with ambitions just
like their own. For some years girls had been
carrying off University honors and putting the
men to the blush, and at first men were dis-
concerted. One day two girls, Raquel Alonso
and Marina Rodriquez, studying for the degree
in pharmacy, were met at the door of the Uni-
versity as they were leaving morning exercises
with their teacher. Nearly four hundred stu-
dents formed in double line—“a royal escort "
—on both sides of the street. The Royal March
was struck up and books, canes, coats and even
bats were thrown down for the seiioritas to
walk on. “With characteristic dash and im-
petuosity,” says the recorder of this incident,
“the young men stopped the street cars and
also foot passengers—yes, everything must wait
while the girls with their escort passed! Here
was a street parade in the interests of woman’s
progress that preceded by many years the long
processions in the United States. All honor to
the Spanish pioneers!" These two girls had
studied successfully for four years, chiefiy in
the sciences and mathematics, although profes-
sors in those departments had at first opposed
the entrance of women into their classes.

HE Spanish have an educational title on

all fours with the magna cum laude of
the English universities, except that it has a
virility which is all its own. The Spanish
mark of highest attainment in scholarship is
Sobrrsalientc—“ leaping over everything.” The
story of two Spanish girls taught by an Ameri-
can woman, who broke the traditions of the
University of Madrid, and got sobresaliente in
every examination is an old story. But as told
with gusto in a comparatively new book, the
“' Life of Alice Gordon Gulick,” by her sister,
Elizabeth Putnam Gulick, it brings to a front
place in literature the whole picturesque story
of the Spanish woman of the twentieth cen-
tury.

“The regeneration of Spain must begin with
the education of women," was a sentence in a
Spanish newspaper, written twenty-two years
ago when four Spanish girls received the de-
gree of Bachelor of Arts from the Govern-
ment Institute of Guipuzcoa, at San Sebastian,
on the northern coast of Spain. This was the
first time such a degree had ever in the his-
tory of Spain been conferred upon women
taught by women. The teacher was the Ameri-
can, Mrs. Gulick, who had opened an institute
for the higher education of women in Spain.
and did not stop until she had succeeded in
matriculating her girls into the University of
Madrid.

In 1895 Mrs. Gulick secured from the Uni-
versity a privilege never before granted, that
Of Preparing her own pupils and sending them
"p m Madrid. Such an idea was wholly with-

out precedent, although there still hangs in
the University of Madrid a portrait of a noble
lady who first won the doctor's decree in the
liberal arts more than a century ago. 13;-
tween 1872 and 1892, that is during twenty
years, one hundred and sixty young women had
matriculated in the University, but the course
had been finished by only eighteen and
they were cared for by the Spanish professors.
When after long debate upon the subject it was
decided to accept the two girls from Mrs.
Gulick’s institute not only were they on trial,
but the efi‘icacy of women teachers was also
on trial. In every examination these two young
women students got Sobresaliente. Each of the
girls received in 1897 with honor the degree
of philosophy and letters, corresponding to
M. A., and the highest possible marks in the
University. The tribunal examining the girls
for that year were three of Spain’s most noted
men, who gave them, with a third woman stu-
dent, the distinction of the three notables of
the year.

EN seem to have accepted women in Spain

when once the initial step was taken with
a better grace than in some other countries. An
extraordinary young woman graduate from
Mrs. Gulick's institute wrote for the leading
papers in Seville a series of articles on the
women of America, England, Germany and
China. The articles were well-written and
attracted much attention. The last one was
signed with her name, and when it appeared
the writer was immediately invited by the Lib-
eral Club of Seville—the largest club of men
in the city—to give them an address on Spanish
women. When she appeared on the platform
there was such prolonged applause that it was
several minutes before she could speak.

No longer ago than the publication of his
“Castilian Days," John Hay characterized the
Spanish women as “kept in systematic ignor-
ance,” although conceding that they have a
quicker and more active intelligence than the
men. “ With a fair degree of education,” he
declared, “much might be hoped from them in
the intellectual development of the country.”

Examples of such leaders of the intellectual
development of Spain are many. Professor

Katherine Coman gives an account of one of

Spain’s great nineteenth century women, Con-
cepcion Arenal, 1820-1892. Dona Concepcion
was a sociologist and contributed the chapters
on Spanish prisons to Dr. Wines’s “The State
of Prisons.” and also wrote for Stanton’s
“W'omen of Europe.” In deference to conser-
vative Spanish ideas, Dona Concepcion offered
her first essay in the name of her own ten-
year-old son. Her paper on “The Abandon-
ment of Children " was read in this country
at the Conference of Charities and Corrections
in 1884. Some of her ideas were very modern.
Her treatises, “The \Voman and Home,” “The
Education of Women,” “The Woman of the
Future ” ring with stirring appeals for free-
dom and opportunity. “It is a grave error,” she
said, “ and one of the most prejudicial, to im—
press upon a woman that her sole mission is
that of wife and mother. \Vhether sin—
gle or married or widowed, she has duties to
perform, rights to reclaim, a dignity that is de-
pendent upou no one but herself, a work of
her own to carry into execution.”

At the International Council of \Vomen in
Europe a few years ago, one of the most

striking women present was Senora Emtbifgitiigarwi 

The Woman 'Citizen
Women
of Spain

Pardo-Bazan. Spain has an honorable record
in intellectual women; but Senora Pardo-Bazan
is probably the leading living feminist, the
author of a series of books on women and
of many psychological novels. Though denied
the right of being elected to the Spanish Acad-
emy of Letters because she is a woman, she
has been requested by the Government of
Spain to serve in the department of education,
and in 1916 was invited to fill a chair in the
University of Madrid.

ENORA PARDO-BAZAN belongs to the

north of Spain, the Biscayan sections, where
there has been a great literary impetus within
the last quarter of a century, a literary move-
ment full of vigor, Originality and charm, yet
only slightly known to the English-reading
world. More than another the instigator of this
initial move towards the revival of the virile,
humorous, picturesque—and picaresque—novel
of Spain was Fernan Caballero, a woman of
German descent but of Spanish enthusiasms.

The American woman. Mrs. Gulick. who
helped on the cause of woman's education in
Spain. was the intimate friend of such women
as Alice Freeman Palmer, of Katherine Lee
Bates, of Professor Katherine Coman and tle
sister of Miss Anna Gordon, the present head
of the Woman’s Christian Temperance Union.

To those who think of reconstruction as a
phase of the present war only it may be in~
teresting to point out an altruistic effort led
by the Government of the United States and
the friends of education at the time of the
Spanish-American \Nar. This was an educa-
tional and humanitarian effort on a large scale,
an effort not only to care for\ the Spanish
prisoners in a humane manner, but also to edu-
cate Cuban youth. For the entire summer of
1898, Mrs. Gulick who was then in America was
employed with her daughters in interpreting and
ministering to the 1600 Cuban men who were
prisoners of war on Seavey's Island in the
Piscataqua.

In 1900 she was in Cambridge, living in the
house of Alice Freeman Palmer, as dean of
the school for Cuban youths which was carried
on under the auspices of Harvard University,
the Cubans and Porto Ricans. whose customs
and language she understood, calling her grate-
fully, “ Princess Alicia."

A Dutch Feminist
Parhament

The Associated Press reports a bombardment
of the Dutch parliamentary elections by women
candidates. Due to the revised constitution of
Holland this innovation has been made possible
and twenty-two women were posted as on the
tickets of the general election for July 3.

Political writers in Holland are forecasting a
“solid front for women's political rights” in
case the women are elected.

They have been nominated by nine different
parties. although a solid block of opposition to
women representatives in parliament is being
maintaii )y the cleri[al and other parties of

C

l July 6, 1918

l

The Declaration
of Independence

N all India women’s deputation has pre-

sented the following remarkable petition

to Lord Chelmsford, Viceroy and Governor-
General of India, and The Right Honourable
E. S. Montagu, M. P., His Majesty’s Secretary
of State for India.

May it please Your Excellency,
Right Honourable Sir:

On behalf of the women of India we wel-
come you to our land, Sir, and thank you
for coming to investigate the position of
affairs at first hand, and to consult about pos-
sible changes with representatives of our people.
We beg you to accept our most sincere thanks
for receiving us today in the midst of your

‘ crowded programme of engagements.

we have asked for a portion of your valu-
able time because the women of India have

. awakened to their responsibilities in the public

life, and have their own independent opinions
about the reforms that are necessary for the
progress of India. Many organizations have
been started by and for women during the past
ten years, of which we have representatives
here, such as the Indian W omen’s Associations,
the Seva Sadan, the Mahila Seva Samaja, the
Indian Women's University, the W'omen's
Home Rule League branches, etc. VVe‘are in
touch with the new outlook of Indian Women,
and we make hold, at this historic time, to
lay before you VVomen’s views concerning the
necessary post-war Reforms, as we believe them
to be the necessary complement to the views of
our men. I.

The women of India understand and support
the broad claims of their people for Self-Gov-
ernment within the Empire, and they press for
its bestowal as urgently as do their brothers.
They have in large numbers signed the petition
organized by Mr. Gandhi in favour of the
Scheme of Reform drawn up by the National
CUI‘IgI‘CSS and the Muslim League. ,They have
also held large ladies’ meetings, taken part
in processions and public meetings, and in many
ways worked towards obtaining the measure
of Self-Government suggested in this Scheme
and in the Non—Otiicial Memorandum of the
Nineteen Members of the Imperial Legislative
Council. with the general terms of both of
which they, through us, wish you to know that
they are in agreement.

Our interests, as one half of the people, are
directly affected by the demand in the united
Scheme (1.3) that “the members of the Coun-
cil should be elected direct by the people on
as broad a'franchise as possible,” and in the
\lemorandum (3) that “the franchise should
be broadened and extended directly to the peo-
ple." VV'e pray that, when such a franchise is
being drawn up, women may be recognized as
“people,” and that it may be worded in such
terms as will not disqualify our sex, but allow
our women the same opportunities of repre-
sentation as our men. In agreeing with the
demand of the above—mentioned Memorandum.
that “ a full measure of Local Self—Government
«bould be immediately granted,” we request
that it shall include the representation of our
women, a policy that has been admittedly suc-
cessful for the past twenty years in Local Self-
(im'ernments elsewhere in the British Empire.

e'w'WF—rnn

 

DR. GURABAI KAMARKAR,
of Bombay, India

DR. KAMARKAR is a member of the Na-
tional Board of the Y. ll’. C. A. in India
and has just been in this country for an interna-
tional H’ar Work Council. She is a graduate
physician and is going back to do medical. work
among the women of her native country.

It may not be generally knpwn that women
of India have been called upon to give much
time to war work just as have other women in
the Allied cause. Since the war began India has
sent 1,100.000 of her sons, according to Dr.
Kamarkar.

“Mymountry has also contributed gold by
the ton, spices and grain,” she informed a
reporter. " We how even sent fire wood and
charcoal to ll’Iesopotamia, where they had only
palm leaves for fuel. Princes have given their
personal ornaments and many of the rajahs
have gone to the war. Within the first four
months the women had organized Red Cross
classes throughout the country and were mak-
ing great quantities of the garments needed.
As their men began to embark for foreign
countries a feeling of international friendship
was engendered among them for the women of
other countries whose men were also at the
front.

“ In India we are t'ery anxious for home
rule,” she continued, " but when England de-
clared war, the chief spokesman in Congress
urged his countrymen to put aside all diderences
for the moment and to unite in helping Great
Britain. And at the various war fronts are
Brahman, Indian Christian, Mar/iota, Sikh and
Gursha regiments.”

But while the women of East India are doing
their part in war work, yet they are not taking
the places in industry left 'Z'tlt‘dtti by the men,
as is the case in other countries.

“There are a number of them employed in
mills, but none in shops. on cars, or occupying
other public positions. :1 few of the women
enter professions."

113

Of Our Allies
The Women of India

The precedent for including women in modern
Indian political life has been a marked feature
of the Indian National Congress, in which since
its inception women have voted and been dele-
gates and speakers, and which this yearlinds its
climax in the election of a woman as its Presi-
dent. Thus the voice of India approves of its
women being considered responsible and
acknowledged citizens; and we urgently claim
that, in the drawing up of all provisions re-
garding representation, our sex shall not be
made a disqualification for the exercise of the
franchise or for service in public life.

In order to fit ourselves and our children for
future public responsibilities arising out of the
foregoing considerations it is absolutely essen-
tial that our educational system should be
reformed. At present only one girl out of every
hundred, and only thirteen boys out of every
hundred, are educated. Mr. Gokhale recorded
that only one out of every six Indian villages
possessed a school. All our young people are
clamouring for knowledge, and the few schools
we have are overcrowded. We bring the urgent
necessity for immediate action in educational
matters before you now because the granting
of facilities for education is a section of Indian
Administration definitely under the control of
the Imperial Legislative Council and the Gov-
ernment of India, and it must be made as far
as possible a uniform policy throughout all

British India.

E therefore ask (1) that the Government
shall make a pronouncement in favor of
Compulsory and Free Primary Education for
Boys and Girls, and widely extended Secondary
Education, and immediately set to work to bring
this into being, area by area, as is being done in
several of the Indian States. (2) We ask that
during the time elapsing before the completion
of this reform the Government shall immedi-
ately devote as much attention to the education
of girls as is now given by them to boys, and
provide an equal number of school facilities for
them and thus remove the unwise differentia-
tion which provides facilities for ten times as
many boys as girls, a policy which defeats its
own ends, as the uneducated wives of these
boys later hold back their progress.

In order to supply teachers for this wide
spread of education, we ask the Government
to provide a largely increased number of Train-
ing Colleges for Indian Women Teachers and
also to establish a‘number of \Vidows’ Homes
for this purpose, supplemented by the grant of
scholarships to widows and those anxious to be
trained as teachers. Several traveling scholar-
ships should also be granted for specially prom-
ising teachers. \Ne suggest that a system of .
grants should also be made to assiSt Associa-
tions which are now so widely attempting to
continue the education of married women out-
side ‘of ordinary school hours and curricula.

As a better physical standard is also an es-
sential of Indian progress, it is necessary to
have educational means by which to cope with
the disastrously high rate of infant mortality
and the high death rate of young married

(Continued on page 118)

114

 



DR. SEA GRAVE

RS. RAYMOND BROWN-is back from

France. This piece of news held front
place this week with the news from \Vashington.
For Mrs. Brown is back from her visit to the
Women’s Oversea Hospitals, U. S. A., in France.

At a luncheon in her honor on Tuesday. July
2, at the Cosmopolitan Club, she gave her of—
ficial report to the Executive Committee of the
National American Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion and the Central Committee of the hospitals.

Mrs. Brown spoke with enthusiasm of the
splendid work being done by all the National’s
units at the front. She has returned to select a
largely increased personnel for the civilian unit
and to organize an entirely new unit whose
location is not yet designated.

“ We shall need many new workers,” said
Mrs. Brown, “ and it is imperative that we have
the very best possible women. We shall need
doctors, nurses, aids and chauffeurs who have
attained excellence in their professions.

“ It is not necessary to demand that they shall
be fearless in danger, for every woman over
there is ready to go to the hardest post. What
is harder to bear than danger is the patient
endurance of enforced idleness, which is liable
to happen to every one.

“ Women who apply should be physically
strong, between the ages of 25 and 50, without
near relatives in the Army, and should under-
stand some French. Above all, they should go
out in the spirit of enlisted men, ready to take
whatever personal disappointments or vexa-
tions‘befall them. It is of first importance that
they should have the habit of team-work, the
ability to co-operate.”

R. MABEL SEAGRAVE of Seattle,
Washington, is the latest member of

the Women’s Oversea Hospitals, U. S. A. staff,
to leave for the front. Although she is a
surgeon of fifteen years’ active experience, a
Johns Hopkins graduate, an alumna of VVellesley,
1905, she has enlisted as a patriot. W'hile her
, special desire is for surgery, her immediate
location will be the unit at Labouheyre, Landes,
in southern France, where 500 refugees are now
being cared for in barracks, erected in the
mayor’s own grounds. In this section few
French doctors are left to care for the civilian
population, and the access of hundreds of
'refugees presents an overwhelming problem.
When the unit went to southern France there
was one doctor for the civilian needs of the
five towns in their immediate section. Now

there is not even one, and American women of
the Laboulieyre Unit are working up to their
limit for the civilian population as well as for
the refugees allotted to their care.

One of the two new units, assigned to the
\Vomen’s Oversea Hospitals, U. S. A., is to be
an extension of that at Labouheyre.

There are many stories told of the pathetic
gratitude of French women for the medical
care they have needed so long, but which they
have lacked because of the ,exigencies of war.
In some cases where operations are necessary,
they must be deferred until patients are

The Woman Citizen

A Message from the Hospitals

\\'hen Dr. Seagravc was asked what the war
would do for the woman doctor, she thought
it might help the eastern professional women
a great deal, but laughineg explained that the
western woman needs no help, thank you.

Dr. Seagravc is of the woman-voting West.
She was born in Cheyenne, W'yoming, the
oldest voting state, and is professionally
anchored in farthest-west Seattle, where great
shipping yards are flinging out almost daily
the new American Argosy. She is used to
seeing big things done speedily and by men and
women together, without sex discrimination.

 

 

 

 

 

THE MANSION OF THE MAYOR OF LABOUHEYRE, l.\' WHOSE

PHEASANT PARK IS THE FIRST REFUGEE UNIT OF THE
WOMEN'S UVERSEA HOSPITALS, U. S. A.

suHiciently built up to undergo the strain.

One of the unwritten heroisms of the war
will be that of women doctors splendidly
equipped, such surgeons as Dr. Seagravc and
Dr. Alice Gregory, who are just as keen as
are men surgeons to gain the added technique
of military hospital experience, yet, who for
humanity’s sake, are laying aside all personal
wishes to serve civilians and refugees.

” There will be a wonderful advance in

' surgical knowledge through the enforced opera-

tions made necessary by unusual wounds,” said
Dr. Seagravc in an interview before her de-
parture. “ Just to see such cavities opened
up will give the surgeon a chance to demonstrate
things which have heretofore been more
or less experimental. Experience gained now
is going to make it possible to introduce great
alleviations of suffering to the race. Military
surgery in France today is of the greatest
educational value, and an opportunity all
surgeons must covet.”

Yet for all this, Dr. Seagravc is going to a
civilian hospital because she is needed and be-
cause she is one of the intensest of Americans.
She has felt, ever since Belgium was invaded,

that the United States should take part in the '

world struggle for democracy.

HE Connecti-

cut Woman
Sutfrage Associa-
tion netted $1,000
from the Garden
Fete which was
given by the Hart-
ford County suf-
ragists for the
benefit of the
\Vomen’s Over-
5 e a 5 Hospitals,
U. S. A. The af—
fair was given on
the grounds at
Hillstead, Farm-
ington, the colo-
nial home of Mrs.
A. A. Pope. The
program included
a dramatic recital
by Edith Wynne
Mathison. in the

theater at Hill— 

stead: classic danc-

 

 

ing by Lada, and M. B A C 0 X.
a musical program THE MAY 0 R
by an orchestra. HIMSELF

July 6, 1918

115

The Journal Intime of a “Y” Worker

(This is the first installment of a serial story
of life at a canteen somewhere in France. It
is from a good suffragist, college graduate and
artist, who had made a record for herself as
the director of the Trenton (N. J.) Museum of
Fine Arts before America went into the war.
When the call came for recruits she could not
see why she should not give her youth and
strength in active service as her brothers are
giving theirs. She is now serving a canteen
under the Y. M. C. A. among enlisted men.
She constantly speaks of her gratification at
being placed among the privates instead of the
officers—Editor’s Note.)

HIS is about my third attempt at writing
this letter. Time is an unheard of luxury

over here. I sent off just a note to you this
morning to tell you that I was still alive, in
spite of all evidence to the contrary. The real
reason why I haven’t had time to write my
own mother this week, is because of other
peoples mothers. Sunday is Mother’s Day, and
all mail written on or before that day and
marked mother’s mail will be sent to America
by express as it were. So we’re putting up post-
ers and a mother’s_ day bulletin board, with pic-
tures of moth rs, and verses and anecdotes
about them, and you’d be surprised to see how
the men hang around that board, and copy the
verses. The letters are just. coming in in piles.
I'm going to send this letter through that way,
and see if it reaches you any more quickly. . . .
I wish you could have seen the canteen on
Sunday. It is always our busiest day, as the
men have more time then, and, besides, it was
rainy, so. the canteen was packed. I wrote you
a note Sunday morning, telling you that I was
giving every man a white flower on Mother’s
Day. I wish you could have heard the nice
things that they said. I had to ransack all the

say just a word or two to everybody.

Mother’s Day with Pershing’s Crusaders
By Helen Perry

greenhouses and gardens in town, and suppose
that I must have given out as many as two
thousand white flowers. Most of them were
daisies, as no carnations are to be had here.
We tried to pin most of them on ourselves, and
And I
wish you could have seen how pleased they
were. One of them said it was worth coming
all the way to France for that day. We couldn’t
keep enough writing paper to supply the men,
and I’m sure the censors will be entirely snowed
under. One man consulted me about whether
it would be entirely proper to write to his girl’s
mother on that day, as well as his own. Many
told us they had no mothers, and others wanted
to tell us all about them. We each ought to be
triplets. The morning service was “ In honor
of our Mothers,” and the room was packed. I
just wish I’d had a real mother here to show
those men!

\Ve each have one day off a week, and this
week I spent a part of it in fixing up our room,
removing the brass angels and paper flowers,
and replacing them with brass candlesticks, a
plant or two, our own books, chintz covers for
the pillows, a home-made lampshade, and some
of our own pictures and photographs. We
want it to look like a little bit of America, when
the men come to see us. We have turned the
bed in the downstairs room into a couch, so it is
really a very pretty little living room. We hope
to be able gradually to invite a few men here
at a time, and in that way reach men that we
would not be able to reach in any other way.
Its pathetic how much they want to talk about
American things and eat American food, and
have a real American good time. A man came
into the canteen to-day, who said: “ My, if you

were up our way (at the front) you’d have
sixteen hundred slaves. Some of us up there
haven’t seen a woman for months! ”

We’re beginning now to try and have the men
help us do things around the canteen, in the way
of little dabs of painting, repairs, putting up
stage decorations, etc. You see lots of them
stationed here have nothing much to do, and
love to putter around helping. Incidentally it
helps to get things done, in a country where
carpenters and painters, etc., may come to-mor-
row, or next week or next month.

I have never felt so old in my life. The
things these men tell us, and want advice about.
If I were a hundred years old, I could never
be wise enough to tell them. They tell us glad
things and sad things, and all their worries and
all their happinesses. We have seen pictures,
and read love-letters, and talked with them
about everything under the sun. Sometimes we
want to cry and sometimes to laugh, and always
what they tell us seems sacred, because it is
what they would so much like to be saying to
some other woman. It’s just that they have to
tell somebody. As often as we can, we bring
men in for a little while in the evening, and
have candle light and an open fire, and some-
thing American to eat. When you have lived
in a barracks for months, without any of the
niceties of life, and have eaten from an army
mess kit, that means more than almost anything
else.

One of the men who was in the other night
told one of the secretaries when he got back,
“ Gee, we had an open fire, and I sat in a big
chair and stretched out my legs, and the girls
sat there and sewed or something, and it was
just like home! ”

The lVoman Citizen will print, next week, the
story of “how it seems to sell soft drinks and
cigarettes over a counter.”

Opportunities for Women

N the four months since it was founded the
women’s divisions of the Federal Employ-
ment Service have placed 45,000 women in em-
ployment. Twenty-three states and the Dis-
trict of Columbia now have branches.

OMEN doctors are in such demand for
civilian work in England now that they
are being advertised for by municipalities
everywhere, according to press despatches.
Manchester wants a woman health ofiicer, at
$2,CI)O a year, while Denbigh and Derby are
seeking women doctors for municipal welfare
work at a similar salary. The government is
trying to get women doctors for posts in Natal

and Egypt, at $2,500 to $3,000 a year.

HE latest woman applicant for the post of

sea captain is a Japanese, Tatsu Imanizo.
twenty years old, whose entry into business
life is noted by the Japanese American Com-
mercial ll'eekly. She lives at a place with the
beautiful but unpronouncable name, Kawaji-
rimura, Kamo-gun in Hiroshima prefecture,
the inland sea. She applied to the authorities

for a captain’s license examination. At first
the authorities were astonished, but as there
is no discriminating provision between the
sexes in the examination regulations, her appli-
cation has been accepted. Miss Imanizo in-
herits her sea-faring inclination from her
father, who was also a captain, and with whom
she had often sailed.

IRL Scouts received their first ofiicial

recognition in the beginning of June,
when 26 scouts were appointed messengers by
the Surgeon General’s Office. They were
chosen on account of discipline and high stand-
ards of responsibility characteristic of the or-
der. They take the same examination as sol-
diers, and are paid $40 a month.

ECAUSE men of draft age are exempt

from jury service, causing a serious short-
age in the number of men eligible to act in this
capacity, Judge C. C. Lemert, of Zanesville.
Ohio, advocates women jurors. It is possible
that a bill making provision for women to
serve as jurors will be introduced at the next
session of the legislature.

T did not take the war to establish women’s

preeminence in finger-print work, though the
work of Miss Dahm and others now finger-
printing the army has received most comment
in the press. Ten years before the war Henry
P. de Forest of the New York Civil Service
Commission tells us that a woman was in-
structor to navy and army officials. This is
Mrs. M. E. Holland who studied her subject at
Scotland Yard.

Another woman in New York, says Mr. de
Forest, a Miss Sullender, about five years ago
began the study of finger prints. She became
extremely proficient and stood first in two
competitive examinations held for finger-print
experts by the Civil Service Commission of
that city. A Mrs. Tittle stood second. Both
these women passed a better examination than
the best man in the city at that time. Miss
Sullender is in the Finger—Print Bureau of the
Department of Charities. She has been teach-
ing the subject for the past three years, with
great success, and three of her women pupils,
Miss Dahm, Miss Burns, and Miss Nolan, are

now in the Finger-Print Bureau of the United
States N

Digitized byaGOOSIC

116

The Woman Citizen

For Vigilance Committees

Women on Both Sides of the Sea Are Guarding as Never Before the Lives and Health of Women and Children

HEN the family’s dirty linen is washed
in public, what happens?

Formerly this was modestly washed in the
privacy of the family wash-tub, at present
nearly as extinct as the Dodo. The family
wash is now done collectively in one of the
following places: shirt and collar laundries;
agencies; family, bundle or Hat-work laundries,
or the most modern of all, in the wet-wash
laundry.

But wherever it is done publicly, the family’s
dirty linen goes through at least ten pairs of
hands before it comes back as clean blouses,
shining damask, fresh handkerchiefs, dainty
lingerie.

Is it so dainty and so fresh after all? And
what, in its turn, has it done on its way from
dirt to purity toward contaminating the public?

These are questions which those guardians
of the public, the New York City Department
of Health and the Consumers’ League of the
City of New York have undertaken to answer
in a joint study of laundry conditions, The C as!
of Clean Clothes in Terms of Health:

The supervisor of this investigation, made
in the fall of 1916, was Dr. Louis J. Harris,
now director of the Bureau of Preventable
Diseases, New York City Department of
Health. Dr. Anna E. Ray-Robinson of the
Division of Industrial Hygiene made the neces-
sary examinations and the Consumers’ League
co-operated in investigating social conditions of
laundry workers. The report covers forty-two
steam laundries in New York City, with 3,024
employes, of whom 715 were men and 2,309
women-from one-fifth to one—quarter of all
the workers in this industry in Manhattan and
Brooklyn.

The first and last handlers of clothe-s washed
in public laundries and returned to homes are
markers and sorters. They turn over soiled
garments, marking when necessary, and often
by hand, such articles as infected handkerchiefs,
collars worn by diseased people. These people
ceme in closest contact with the wearers. If
the clothes are in the least infected, they suffer.
If the workers are infection carriers, the clothes
suffer.

If mothers know that babies’ nighties come
home handled by those in acute stages of
tuberculosis or suffering with trachoma—what
can they do about it? Very little individually.
Very much collectively through their colleagues,
the public health officials.

Out of thirty-seven sorters, examined in this
public health official inspection, 13.5 per cent
had active tuberculosis, besides one suspected
case. Throat or nose troubles were found in
84 per cent of the markers examined, 20 per
cent had eye-troubles. Two cases of typhoid
fever, one of diphtheria and two of trachoma
had developed in this group as a direct result
of their work. In the forty—two laundries seen,
facilities for washing the hands of the work-
ers were found to be insufficient and incon-
veniently located. In no instances were gloves
worn, and soiled linen was thrown about care—
lessly. As the same Sorters who have handled
the soiled clothes are frequently those who

finally assemble the garments to be returned,
it is quite evident that the way of real clean-
liness. public and domestic, lies only in intelli-
gent co-operation between home and laundry.

The laundry-study brochure shows'the effects
upon the workers of bad conditions such as
dust from soiled garments. wet Hoors, steaming
heat and badly ventilated rooms.

One of the worst effects of laundry work
upon women comes from long hours of stand-
ing and from working treadle-pressing machines
all day. Some of these presses are so con-
structh that it is necessary for the weight of
the operator's body to hold the treadle in place
throughout the ironing operation. This treadle
is often as high as 13% inches above the door,
and the body weight must be lifted to this
height each time the machine is operated. The
treadle moves with a jerky motion, often run-
ning as high as eighty-one operations a minute.
Only muscularly strong women can bear it.
Out of forty-six married women at this work
questioned by examiners, nineteen had under-
gone miscarriages. i

The survey shows. also. that laundry workers
are very generally paid below the wage-scale
necessary for decent living, four—fifths of the
women receiving less than $10 a week. Some
of the shakers receive as little as $4.50. It
naturally follows, as the survey points out, that
the low pay attracts workers whose living con-
ditions are Poor, setting up a vicious circle of
unwholesomencss.

From crowded, unvcntilated homes must be
drawn the workers, who touch and handle gar-
ments which are to go back into clean homes.
And the reverse of the picture is that those
already low in vitality from bad living condi-
tions are forced to work in daily contact with
the unwashen garments of infected persons.
It needs collective efforts of householders as
well as collective efforts of laundry workers
to bring about desired remedies for such con-

ditions.

Against Pauper Wages

NCREASED cost of living has brought the

teachers’ salary, problem to the front, and
the teachers' salary problem is pre-eminently a
women’s salary problem, as four—fifths of the
teachers in the United States are women.
"Teacher’s wages," says the Charlotte Ob-
server, commenting on conditions in North
Carolina, “are pauper wages.” This feeling is
shared by the Missouri Teachers’ Conference
which found the miners of that state getting
more than three times the pay of its teachers.
and by the District of Columbia grade teachers’
union which found Federal employees doing
unskilled and unlettered work with a higher
rate of wages than teachers. A nation-wide
drive for higher salaries is planned by the
National Education Association which is asking
the co-operation of women’s clubs.

The situation is summed up in these words
by Dr. Joseph Swain, chairman of the National

Education Association:

Digitized by 600816

“ Present salaries will not meet the ever-in-
creasing cost of living.

"Teachers are leaving their schoolrooms by
the thousands.

“They are taking up war work or entering
industrial occupations.

“ Their places are being Filled, if at all, by
unprepared and inexperienced recruits.

“ Only our best efforts can maintain present
standards. ‘

“Our children need the best the country can
provide.

“Democracy must have enlightened civiliza-
tion through education."

Already the Federal Bureau of Education is
calling for more teachers during the war; is
asking married teachers. formerly unwelcome,
to come back to the schools. This call should
be supplemented by a general raise of pay by
local school authorities which would make
teaching something better than a pauper indus-
try. Already a step is being taken in this di-
rection by the New York City Board of Edn-
cation which has recommended the raising of
the minimum rate pay from $800 to $1.000.
This would affect about 7,000 teachers.

The married teacher, by the way, is becom-
ing popular. R. R. Smith. in the Public, cham-
pions her cause; says Mr. Smith:

“ In nothing has the country been more im-
provident and wasteful than in her failure to
utilize the energies of the married woman
teacher. All over the country. year after year.
women, who, by natural endowment and by
preparation, are able to do superior work in
the schoolroom. are kept out because an inane
prejudice in most communities has decreed that
the marriage of a female teacher shall termi-
nate her contract."

i

For Equal Knowledge

HE Union 1:70Iit‘t1f54‘ pour le Suffrage dc:
Femmes, at its annual congress in Paris,
Mme. de \Vitt Schlumberger, presiding, en-
dorsed the following resolutions:
‘ That compulsory education should be of the
same duration for girls and boys.

That they should follow identical programs.
civil instruction being just as necessary for
women as for men, and hygiene and domestic
economy as necessary for men as for women.
That professional (or trade) training should
be provided for women as for men.

That local. departmental and national com-
mittees should be obliged to include women as
well as men in organizing the education of
adolescents.

Letters are being sent to all deputies invit-
ing them to join the parliamentary group for
women's rights, of which M. J. Siegfried is
president.

The Congress also decided to protest against
the unequal salaries paid by the government to
men and women in the Financial Department,
the advantage being greatly on the side of the
men.

The ll'OJlAN CITIZENS Vigilance Page

inr'itvs vii-operation.

July 6, 1918 ‘

117

Correspondence

Democracy that Saves
To THE EDITOR OF THE WOMAN CITIZEN:

MYSELF am a German-born woman from

Berlin—of course now a full fledged vot-
ing citizen—who came to this country eight
years ago to marry an, American. After I
had lived in America for four years I became
a suffragist. The American Suffrage move-
ment has given me so much, in fact it has
"made" me. Chiefiy through it I became
familiar with the laws and principal traditions
of this country. I still remember the thrill
which I felt back in 1914, when I looked up
in the dictionary the meaning of “Amendment
to the State Constitution," and, not entirely sat-
isfied with the explanation of my American
husband, procured books, to find out all about
it for myself. I‘do not need so many books
any more to gain knowledge about the “Fed-
eral Amendment.” I have learned a great deal
since 1914, and I am looking for the passage
of the Federal Amendment by the Senate with
anxious concern. It will mean so much to the
women of America and of the world.

I have great admiration for the American
SutTragist, her foresightedness, her efficiency,
her progressive spirit for co-operation and
comradeship, which I saw in the 1915 and 1917
campaigns in New Jersey and New York. In
this wartorn time, that has produced and is
producing such a sinister and fateful psy-
chology of hatred and distrust the American
“’oman Suffrage Movement was like an oasis
for me, that gave me great mental consolation
and comfort and at the same time a much
better understanding of things and events.

And is it only a vision, when I am hoping,
that the sutfragists of this country may help
the German women over on that other side, to
throw off—with the assistance of the men, who
will be left—that tyrannical, antiquated gov—
ernment and therewith save humanity?

The modern German woman, who before the
war had already greatly progressed from the
" Kinder—Kuche—und Kirche "—type to a self-
thinking and self-acting individual personality,
must have developed through these years of
war a heroism and courage, which would be
well worth while to kindle and stimulate to
deeds fatal to the present impossible form of
government.

Only through a manifestation of this char-
acter can the recently spoken words of Presi-
dent VVilson—“ the full and sincere democratic
reconstruction Of the world will not have been
completely or adequately attained until women
are admitted to the suffrage ”—ever become a
living truth.

A Tribute of Tears

PARIS, 1918.

IRST of all, let me tell you how touched I

was by the reception made by the Ameri-

can Red Cross to the French charitable societies,
which I represented yesterday.

In this large house, it seemed to me that I
was surrounded, pressed, overwhelmed by a mil-
lion of thoughts, which come from your great
country toward our “ sweet France,” that has
undergone so much during these cruel years of
war. I saw a vision of America bending over
our sufferings. listening to them in order to al-

leviate them, and giving to that end millions of
money and human lives.

And I can Offer you no other tribute of my
personal gratitude, which is but a tiny portion
of that of France, than my tears which blur my
eyes, while I write you these lines; tears of
suffering, pity, gratitude and also of pride that
France has deserved such friends.

This tribute, I convey to you, as an American
woman come to comfort us in the name of your
country.

Signed: (Madame) H. COMPEL,

Treasurer of the “Abri.”

An Ozark Pilgrimage

To THE EDITOR or THE VVOMAN CITIZEN:
NUMBER of persons from a distance have
written, within the past year or two, wish-
ing to know how I have progressed with the
horse-back campaign for suffrage that I was
talking about two or three years ago. I think

each and every inquirer is a reader of the-

I'Voman Citizen and this letter will tell them
that it became a wonderful seality and pros-
pered even beyond my most sanguine expec-
tations.

My series of stories in the Sunday magazine
of the St. Louis Post—Dispatch has kept a
number Of people informed of much of my
interesting and novel experience, but, of course,
there are a few benighted persons in the world
who do not read the St. Louis papers.

My experience these past two years has
taught me that what seems calamity may prove
to be the key to an interesting and worth-while
situation.

When I was suddenly plucked up, root and
branch, from intense work in the city suffrage
organization of my home town, St. Louis,
and compelled to come to live for an indefinite
time in the backwoods of the Missouri Ozarks
because of the physical condition of my husband
—well, it seemed, even aside from the sorrow

. of illness, nothing short of a calamity.

But I have traveled many miles on the back
of my saddle horse, La, Belle. And I have
converted men to suffrage. That has been my
specialty; converting men. I want men to
be so eager to have their women folk vote that
they are not going to invent excuses to leave
women at home on election day after they shall
have become voters,—something men could and
would do, holding as they always have held, the
“ balance of power ” in their hands. Perhaps
nowhere in civilization are women so subject
to their lords and masters as among the settlers
and small farmers of the hill districts.

The more I see of the everydays down in
these woods where one has, perhaps, more
leisure to see and think than in the city, the
more I am convinced of the need for workers
in the far corners of the earth—and the more
worth while I know these corners to be.

This summer I have combined Junior Red
Cross organization with my other duties. mak-
ing the Sunday school a base -.for Operations,
and scarcely a Sunday passes that I do not make
a Red Cross speech and organize a tine junior
league in some out-of-the-way backwoods Sun-
day school, leaving one Of my pupils‘ in charge
of my own Sunday school class in my own little
cross-roads church, for one of my privileges has
been to gather together the young people each
Sunday morning and teach them ethics.

Into these Junior Red Cross organizations, I
put both mother and daughter for the summer’s
work. Then, when the autumn school begins
the teacher will find a class of youngsters
already imbued with the Red Cross spirit and
qualified to help carry on the work from the
center to which it properly belongs—the public
school—leaving the mothers and aunts enthused
to take up the more advanced Red Cross service.

Of course, I do not fail, whether making
Liberty Bond or Red Cross speeches, to get in
something always for suffrage—and the fact
that a woman who wants to vote is also eager
to make gunwipes and knit socks for the
soldiers, has its effect on the n‘atives who have
prided themselves on being “ sot ” in their
opinions. ALICE CURTICE MOYER-W 1N6.

Do You Know This Flour?

Philadelphia, Pa., June 16, 1918.

To THE EDITOR OF THE WOMAN CITIZEN:
AST fall you published the name and
address of some lady in New Orleans
who knew the facts about cottonseed fiour.
I have been intending to write her, but having
“passed on ” my copy of the Citizen which
contained her address I cannot.

It seems to me that you or some one should
ascertain the cost and how to use such Hour
if it is available and give the news to the many
good cooks who are looking\for Hour substi-
tutes.

Perhaps you have done this, but if so I—a
mere man—failed to see it. The point is that
once you get and publish such information it
would be available to a host, whereas if even
a few bother the good southern lady she will
wish you had not published her name.

Do you know anything of sorghum seed
Hour? In the American Artisan of October
26, 1864, p. 194, I find a clipping from the
Savannah Republican which speaks of this
Hour favorably and says 30 to 50 bushels per
acre are produced with a total of 5,000,000
bushels available. Doubtless the call for more
sweets has increased the sorghum acreage and
much seed may be going to waste or to the
stock.

Yours for the cause,

3528 N. 18th Street. CHARLES E. DURYEA.

  

iMRS. PERCY v. PENNYBACKER
Lecturer

I ENGAGEMENTS FOR THE FALL. WINTER
AND SPRING SEASON 1918-19

Norr- Iiemg Booked
WIDE CHOICE OF SUBJECTS:
PATRIOTIC. EDUCATIONAL. and POPULAR
For information regarding engagements
Apply to HELEN KNOX. Secretary
thdings. Texas

       
   
   
   
       
 

   

‘ paul Institute
2107 H Htreet. N. W..

 

 

 

A Boarding and |

Washington. I). C. Day “idiom Jim, ("’2‘ I

High School and College Preparatory Courses. 'I'wn .
Years of Collr-gn Work. Sp-cial Cmirscs‘ The Aria,
.ltmrnnlmn, Hmrt Story Writing. Business and Secre-
' tariai Training. liindergnrren, Nurnmi Twining. I‘Itunes- }

tic Seienoe. Parliamentary Law.
Mrs. Nanette Ii. Paul. LL. 3.. President.
Author of “I‘nui'a I’nmninerztnry Law"

and “The Heart of Iilat‘kstrme'

 

 

 

 

 

SUFFRAGE RESTAURANT

3 EAST 38th STREET
NEW YORK

 

When writing to advertisers please mention the WOMAN CITIZEN.

118

The Woman’s Department at
our Fifth Avenue OEce
is in charge of
Miss V. D. H. Furman

, and is
especially equipped to handle
the accounts of women and
women’s organizations

COLUMBIA
“TRUST
COMPANY

358 FIFTH AVENUE
We are sometimes called the 06cm Suing. Bani

METROPOLITAN
DYE WORKS

CLEANERS
and DYERS

First Class Work. Reasonable Prices.
Prompt Delivery.

 

For stores throughout New York City, see telephone directory.

 

Women of India

(Continued from page 113)
women. We therefore press Your Excellency,
and you, Sir, to urge the Government to estab-
lish more Medical Collegesfor women and to in-
stitute short Maternity Courses, giving certifi-
cates to duly qualified persons, in connection
with local hospitals in the large towns through-
out the country, and to encourage women to
attend them by means of scholarships.

We request you with all the earnestness in
our power to recommend the Imperial Govern-
ment to initiate legislation on these lines, and so
bring our country politically, educationally and
physically up to the level of other parts of the
Empire to which we are loyally devoted, and
which we will serve the more eliiciently as we
get better educations and wider opportunities in
the public life of the Motherland that we love
so well.

\Ve beg to be, Your Excellency, Sir,

YOUR OBEDIENT SERVANTS.

Honor National’s Vice-
PreSIdent

IN recognition of her services as State Chair-
man of the W'oman's Liberty Loan Commit-
tee in the last three drives, Mrs. Guilford
Dudley, third vice-president of the National
American woman Suffrage Association, has
been requested by the national board to widen
her activities and become one of the active
workers in the national field.

Mrs. \Villiam G. McAdoo, Chairman of the
National Woman's Liberty Loan Committee, in
a letter of appreciation to Mrs. Dudley, pays
tribute to the women of the country and their
part in the Liberty Loan work in the following:

“The total in dollars and cents of the
achievements of American women in selling
Liberty Bonds is a notable and far-reaching
one. The spirit of loyalty and democracy that
has been demonstrated by the tens of thousands
who have contributed their time and ability
marks a milestone in the advancement of
women.

“ It was my privilege during the last cam-
paign to visit a number of the states. I never
was so profoundly impressed as by the army
of women devoting themselves with such ability
and unselfishness to this great task.”

As to Catherine Bresh-
kovksy

NQUIRIES continue to come in as to the

present whereabouts of Catherine Bresh-

kovsky, and the address to which letters for her
should be sent.

A message from her, given to a press corre-
spondent, appeared in a number of American
papers about May 8. She said that the Russian
people had been kept in compulsory ignorance,
and hence were misled by German agents. She
continued:

“ I assure you, esteemed Americans, that these
misfortunes will not check the possibility of a
bright future for our cruelly tormented country-
men, criminals or disfigurers, as we may seem
to the rest of the world.

“ Hoping for your confidence, I address to
you my prayer that you come to our aid and
unite your forces with ours. We must regain
our liberty and independence, now so threat—
ened by our own mistakes and by the rapine
of the Germans, who, once settled in Russia.

‘would become a dangerous foe to the civiliza—

tion of EurOpe and Asia.

“ The swiftness of our historic change filled
our people with hallucinations for a while, but
soon they will return to a normal state of'mind,
and I ask our true friends and teachers to come
to aid us to light the common foe, whose force
is a menace to the world’s civilization.

“ He who never abandons hope overcomes
all obstacles.”

Although Madame Breshkovsky asked for
the aid of the United States she has not speci-
fied what form that aid should take. i Since this
was written word came that Madame Bresh-
kovsky is very ill, but with no particulars. ~

A. S. B,

On June 30, a letter from “ the little grand-
mother of the Russian revolution,” was received
by Miss Blackwell. It was the first personal
word heard from her in months. Madame
Breshkovsky is now in hiding, for she is a
pro-war Socialist, and. therefore, opposed to
the Bolslieviki. She gives no indication of her

The Woman Citizen

whereabouts, but, writing under date of May
12,5ays:

“Till this hour I feel imprisoned and de-
prived of the pleasure of breathing fresh air.
Otherwise I would remain as strong and fresh
as you knew me. My freedom, like that of my
best friends, lasted for half a year only. No
doubt there are destinies that are the fate of
some persons from their childhood to their
death. I am so accustomed to such a situation
that it would be difficult for me to believe in the
reality of enjoying quietly the right to feel quite
free forever.

“ Our poor country is only in the first class of
the institute of political science. Yet I hope that
our allies will not forsake and will aid us as
they have done all these four years. As soon
as we are healthy we can be of use, too, for af-
ter this terrible experience the poor peasantry
will be ashamed of their foolishness and more
prudent in their actions and enterprises. I see
now many people more quiet, more reasonable
and hopeful."

Is This Fair P

WISCONSIN woman, born in England,

full of sympathy for the cause of the

Allies, is married to a German who is not

naturalized, and thus becomes, under the law,

an enemy alien, obliged to register, and subject

to all the restrictions placed, and properly placed,
on enemy aliens.

Other Wisconsin women, born in this country.
of parents born in this country, are, in some
instances, married to German men who are not
citizens of the United States. These also are
enemy aliens, obliged, with bitterness of heart,
to register.

Wisconsin women, who are as good Ameri-
cans as anybody, if married to Germans who
are not naturalized, become, under the law, alien
enemies and are treated as such.

On the other hand, German women, born in
Germany, full of German sympathies, dangerous
enemies it may be, are treated as citizens of
the United States if their husbands are citizens
of the United States and are under no special
supervision.

These things are coming to the surface dur-
ing these days of the registration of alien enemy
women.

Women, do you think they are fair and right?
Don’t you think you should have opportunity to
choose your citizenship as your husbands can
choose their citizenship?

Haven’t you the same loyalty in your hearts
that men have? Haven’t you the same devo-
tion to the cause of democracy that men have?
Does not the flag mean everything in the world
to you? Aren’t you willing to give everything
you have, and do everything you can do, to
keep it waving over a land of the free?

Votes for women do not imply simply an
abstract right. Votes for women mean juster
laws for women, a recognition of the dignity
and responsibility of the human being, even
though in feminine form.

HE Ontario women citizens’ associations,

according to the Woman’s Century, are'
asking for amendments to the Criminal Code
that will make the penalty for stealing a girl's
honor greater than that of stealing property,
and the punishment for white slavery sufficient
to prevent paying a fine and continuing the
traBic.

When writing to advertisers please mention the WOMAN CITIZEN.

THE WiLLuus PRINTING conmxr. new ronx®m

July 6, 1918 ’ l

  

Women Leaders

   

In Every
State
In the
THEY ARE CHAIRMEN OR MEMBERS OF SUCH
, WAR WORK COUNCILS AS:
Unlon

WOMEN’S COMMITTEES OF COUNCIL OF
NATIONAL DEFENSE.

LIBERTY LOAN CAMPAIGNS.

w. S. S. DRIVES.

FOOD“ PRODUCTION AND CONSERVATION.
RED CROSS CHAPTERS,

LAND ARMY OF AMERICA.

WOMEN’S OVERSEA HOSPITALS. U. S. A.

You are in“ Good Company when you Read

THE WOMAN CITIZEN
Digitized by 600816

- _.-,..-__(._ __ —z.n-r
Km -_‘A - ___ ..-._.. _._.__.=. ..___.__ r-_._ _..

Books at Fess The Published Prices

I“: A ~ ' ~21 . a
E have arranged to supply the books listed below at the special prices
named when sold in combination with new subscriptions to the Woman
Citizen. They wilI‘be mailed post-paid to any address in the United States.
This is an opportunity to save from twenty to thirty-five per cent on the
published prices. If you are already a subscriber to the Woman Citizen
and wish to own certain of the books, invite your friends to become subscribers to the
magazine at one dollar a year, and have the books of your choice sent to your address.
.They will cost you the difference between the full price quoted for each combination
and one dollar. Or subscribe to the magazine as a gift for a friend and have the book

sent to your address-
' Published Combination: Amount

0 n i: l) 8 VJ :1 1' 0:93.33. 8233c'é‘33i’“ £533.23...
THE PAN-GERMAN PLOT UNMASKED: Andre Chéradame . . . . . . .. £1.25 $1.85 8.40

“OVER THERE”: Captain R. .Hugh Knyvett . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50 2.00 .50

FIGHTING FOR PEACE: Henry van Dyke . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25, 1.85 .40

WHY WE ARE AT WAR: Woodrow Wilson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .50 1.35 .15

IN OUR FIRST YEAR OF WAR: Woodrow Wilson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00 1.65 .35

FIGHTING FRANCE: Edith Wharton.._ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00 1.65 .35
THE UNITED STATES AND PAN-GERMANIA: Andre Chéradame.. 1.00 1.65 .35
. GENERAL JOFFRE AND HIS BATTLES:Raymond Recouly (Captain X) 1.25 1.85 .40
ON THE RIGHT OF THE BRITISH LINE: Captain Gilbert Nobbs... 1.25 1.85 .40
WHITE NIGHTS AND OTHER RUSSIAN IMPRESSIONS: Arthur Ruhl 2 . 00 2 . 35 .65
A WAR NURSE'S DIARY....I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25 1.85 .40
MY WAR DIARY: Madame Waddington . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50 2.00 .50
WITH THE ALLIES: Richard Harding Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25 1.85 .40
THE DESERTER: Richard Harding Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .50 l 35 .15
PRINCIPLES OF AMERICAN DIPLOMACY: John Bassett Moore... . 2.00 2.35 .65
N 0 V e l. 5
THE EARTHQUAKE: Arthur Train . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50 2.00 .50
CHRISTINE: Alice Cholmondeley.  . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25 1.85 .40
HIS FAMILY: Ernest Poole . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50 2.00 .50
THE TREE OF HEAVEN: May Sinclair . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.60 2.00 .60
Mi i  cc] 121.110 0 u :5
YOUR VOTE AND HOW TO USE IT: Mrs. Raymond Brown . . . . . . .. .75 1.50 .25
THE WOMAN VOTER'S MANUAL: S. E. Forman and Marjorie Shuler. . 1.00 1.65 35
MARK TWAIN’S LETTERS, 2 Volumes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4.00 3.75 1.25
OBSERVATION: EVERY MAN HIS OWN UNIVERSITY: R. H. Conwell 1.00 1.65 .35
THE MODERN CITY AND ITS PROBLEMS: Frederic C. Howe. . .. 1.50 2.00 .50
THE HIGH COST OF LIVING: Frederic C. Howe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50 2.00 .50
THE FOOD PROBLEM: Kellogg and Taylor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25 1.85 .40
WAR FRENCH: Colonel C. D. WillcOx . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .7 1.50 .25

This offer is for. a limited period. Send your orders promptly to

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

171 Madison Avenue New York City

w—~..— m~-~W-W~- -—_—.- -w — —_-.v W -__.

i . 3- ~ r . ~21 - .
mi ' ‘ - .;_7 -7 .7- _ _ ' . . : _ n _...-. - r.‘ - .. . .7 -1 . . _.-_-...‘._.._ -5..- “-m1:.——2.5L2.L—4.--» _— ___7 .. .—..._. 7A -« a A 7 7-‘

 

