gem mm”

 .11 

 

SfirH‘E: Wh-m you finish rr'ading this
  r ILu- v a Lune-cent stamp on this
a. - (mail In- ma 'azme, and it will be
r  :n ma- hands of our soldiers or
 7.- oiestinexl u- prnceed nvc:rse:ns. No
p qua-13., 0 address, A. S. Burleaon,

5-4! ' ’oI

0“

122 he Woman Citizel

jfrankun Eimon a Go.

A Store of Individual Shops
Fifth Avenue, 37th and 38th Sts., New York

 

  

 't  Organdie and Ba'liste

 
   
  

   WAISTS
  I ..  wigs...“ II  . x. . .
 {‘1 - - -' ‘V- "   New Models at Specwl I’m-vs-
.z- I ‘ :-   I‘, {at}: Wri.
\' \ “i  -: - - -. . liar  F 07' Women and I” mm
\ -  g -I II t 2H  I; fl if  ’ Sizes 32 to 44 bust
1\ ___ f ;'-r<)>\ I' - '  |  I a“
tg-if:"-L:.-.‘   __ ,2“. .  No. l76—White French
m   5::77  ‘*  Batiste Waist, new but-
' 9‘: "7:; r _ _   Ion-back model, tucked
    a ' front and back, pleated
“5/,” . \ . - ‘-.\ . ' " ;-.

batiste frills at neck and
sleeves, piped with copen,
Prompt Delivery rose or yellow organ-

Free die; also in all white 

Anywhere In the No. 178—Organdie Waist, in copen,
Umth States tiesh or white; shawl collar, tum-back
pHONE cuffs and front trimmed with white

6900 GREELEY organdie Hutings, fastened with  
large crocheted button   \‘- 

 

 

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

‘I‘i‘  . .
', % e &  it Invites you to a banquet of good things
I ' ’ ‘ ‘ IT WILL PUBLISH WEEKLY

*} Fifth Avenue at 35th Street If: Political reports from Washington, D. C., the
 Established ’379 “1 fighting front of democraey at home;

if); .1’ o

[W  Our W Comments by SuErage leaders,

w Direct news from the Citizen’s War Corre-

iii  I’J— ili spondents in three locations in France.
I ORDER IT TODAY.

Best’s. And the daughters have grown W I First Aid to Subscribers

m, up and are establishing their families W Pin a New York draft, Money or Express Order for
W with the same traditional faith in us. 1;“ $1.00 to this advertisement, fill out the blank below, cut

{0 AHTAB Silk hosiery has not been a . w 331; :dwriiltglltroth to us for one year s subscription (new
Iii, Best & Co. feature for forty years as have 9
w

M For certain things we know Mothers - I
have taught their daughters to go to 

Hi some things, but it has been here a good THE WOMAN CITIZEN
while. Long enough for us to know that

it is only such as AHTAB that is good

N we . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
enough for us to offer. a
 silk hosiery in three grades: Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
1.35 1.65 2.00
City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..State . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

THE WOMAN CITIZEN 171 Madison Avenue New York

 

 

I Sold exclusively by Best & Co.

EYou Never Pay More at Best’s— 

When writing to advertisers please mention the WOMAN CITIZEN.

 

mm“ m c—-’

‘ THE WOMAN CITIZEN

 

 

 

PUBLISHED by the Woman Citizen
Corporation, in the hope that it may

CONTINUING the Woman’s Journal,
ating

founded 1910 by LueylStone and Henry

to

rove a self- e memorial

3- BM.” 9 Wee 3' mini” ' 6" rs. Frank s generosi toward
W ‘0 Winning e‘I‘N’J “85:” “If”; Founded June 2’ 1917 the cause of yoman sufrag'ety and her
Ch"! tznd pub ugh 0:11:31 8 gages”: Published every Saturday by faith in womans irresistible progress.

The directors of the Corporation are
Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, Miss Alice
Stone Blackwell, Miss Mary” Garrett
Hay, Mrs. Thomas Bucklin ells, and
Mrs. Arthur L. Livermore.

Alice Stone Blackwell is a special contrib-
uting editor. 1

The WOMAN Cram CORPORATION
at 171 Madison Avenue, New York

Ten cents a capy: yearly subscription (62 numbers),
81.00. Postage to forei countries dfty cents extra.
Entered at the New ork Post once as Second
Class matter, under the act of March 8, 1879. Copy-

tiuuing also the Woman Voter, and the
National Sufra News. In succeeding
the National Su rage News,The Woman
Citizen became the cacial organ of the
National American Woman Suffrage
Association, and as such tries to main-

 

I
‘ Massachusetts, from 1870 to 1917. Con-
|
i
l
i
I
\

tain intimate contact between the Asso-
ciation and its two million members
throughout the United States.

Our

5‘ [SS URSULA CLARK,” who re-
M cently declared in our Correspond-
ence Column, “the men don’t read

ysur magazine,” stands corrected!

Mrs. Grace 1. Bass, of Kansas City, writes
in direct re 1y to this statement, “ She is a bit
ta) sure. My men read it; my husband par-
ticularly looks forward to its coming and reads
it from cover to cover.”

Through Senator Hiram Johnson’s secretary
we have received a note saying that the Coili-
fornia Senator “has read the issues thus far
received with a great deal of interest.”

“I have just finished reading your issue of

May 18,” writes O. S. Campbell, of Montorville,
Minnesota “and if it samples the rest, I want

a whole year of it—and more, if I live to
read it.”

“It is interesting reading,” testifies William

, G. Duggin, of Richardson Park, Delaware.

“Mv two sons read it from cover to cover,”

says Mrs. Catherine T. Kenny, of Nashville,
Tenn.

“ Both Mrs. Norton and myself are greatly
pleased with the paper in its new form, and
especially glad that in any change made we are
not to lose the Blackwell editorials,” says E. Q.
Norton, of Mobile, Ala.

Congratulations come to us from J. F.
Schindler, of New York, “on getting out so
competent a paper. You have the right idea

and the proper amount of energy sanely di-
rected.”

right, 1918, by The Woman Citizen Corporation.

VOL. III

 

JULY 13, 1918

NO. 7

'Bose Young is the editoria-chiet.

en Whi Sumner Bo
Sail: Boseo‘d Lawns, m are associa’t‘i
1". .

 

 

Circulation Story

One Woman’s Magazine

That Men Read

STA TE CIRCULATION CHA IRMEN'

Alabama: Miss Mary P. London, Birmingham
Arkansas: Miss Billie Pitney, Little Rock
Conn.: Mrs. Bertha T. Voorhorst, Hartford

lndiana: Mrs. Jessie Fremont Croan, Anderson
lowa: Dr. Me McCollum Jones, Webster City

Louisiana: Mrs. Sherard Brisbane, Baton
Rouge '

Maine: Mrs. Dora H. York, Augusta .
Maryland: Mrs. E. W. Rouse, J r., Baltimore
Mass: Mrs.. R. L. DeNormandie, Boston
Michigan: Mrs. John Waite, Ann Arbor
Minnesota: Mrs. I. E. Rose, St. Paul.
New Hampshire: Mrs. Mary Post, Portsmouth
New Jersey: Mrs. F. H. Calvin, East Orange
North Dakota: Mrs. Katherine L. Brainerd,
Hebron
Rhode Island: Mrs. LeBaron C. Colt, Bristol
South Carolina: Mrs. J. T. Gittman, Columbia.
Tennessee: Mrs. D. J. Kimbrough, Nashville

Texas: Mrs. Helen Moore. Galveston

Virginia: Miss Helen Stockdell, Richmond
Wost Virginia: Mrs. P. C. McBee, Morgantown
Wisconsin: Mrs. Charles Mott, Milwaukee

Circulation Contest

1. A pledge will constitute an. entr .

2. N 0 entries will be accepted a er Decem-
ber '1, 1918.

3. Contest closes January 1, 1919.

4. In case of a tie for any one premium, the

prize will be awarded to each qualifying
contestant.

5. Only actual paid subscriptions will be count-
ed in the awarding of premiums.

First Cash Premium

FIFTY DOLLARS

To the State Association that sends in the
highest number over 200 (paid new subscrib-
ers). The net price r subscription to the
StateAssociationis.7,the.80togointothe
state, county or local treasury, as may be de-

cided by arrangement between the state and
its branches.

Second Cash Premium
TWENTY-FIVE DOLLARS

To the County Association that sends in the
highest number over 100 (paid new sub-
scribers). These would come through the
State Association, and would help to swell the

state’s total.

Third Cash Premium

f‘ Wm, 96653382., t 3682 Relative Position of State Leagues m the Woman Citizen’s Circulation Contest: TWEN'ry-FIVE
: service to its men read- Jim“ 39“ ‘ . July 6th DOLLARS.
era is evidenced by the ‘1' Georgi?) k ‘1' Georg”
Congressional R e c 0 r d O  Sout a ota 2. South Dakota To the Local Club that
Tum to its fairly solid 3. Indiana 3. Indiana sends in the highest
‘ pages and see how often 4.. Michigan 4. Iowa. number over 100 paid
, the? a". enlivened by 5. Iowa 5. Michigan new subscribers). hese
“defences to and quota_ 6. Minnesota 6. Minnesota would come through the
- 7. New Jrrsev 7. New Jerse'. Coun Association into
hons from the Woman , - . 3 t;
' Gin-z”.  greiw York 8. New York the tate Association,
_ . o 9. Massachusetts and thence tothe Woman
I With senators and rep- [0. Massachusetts ‘ _ . . 10. Ohio Citizen.
i tgrtelitatives gadin intfo 11. Missouri, New Hampslnre. Virginia 11. New Ham Shire
is oric ecor su - 12. Wisconsin 12. Missouri, ir inia -
frage data andkargument 13. Alabama 18. Wisconsin g Fourth cub Premium
L from our columns, With 14,, Texas 14_ Alabama TWENTY.FIVE
I men readers from Dela- 15. Maryland 15. Texas
waft 1:0 California teSti- 16. Pennsylvania 16. Maryland DOLLARS
: fymg to the interest of 17. Maine 17. Pennsylvania T0 the CO'OPCNW‘S
3 gigd P6656, $21.8": tilin- 18. Louismna 18. Maine Subscriber who sends in
en to .ieve t.at 19. Connecticut . 19. Louisiana the hi hest number over
I 0h“! Stat}! 0111311113100 20. West \ Irginia 20. Connecticut 50. is would be inde-
. C airmen Will do well wt 21. South Carolina. Kentucky 21. West Virginia endent of state, county
to for t th f th ' p
, . . on am am, en uc an n on ac-
l t tesge e men 01 en 22 Tennessee '22 S th C l K t ky (1 cl b circulati
I 5 “be 83 POW“tla Sub- 23. Washington. D- C- 23. Tennessee tivities, would [apply to
i scn rs. 24.. North Dakota 24-. Washington, D. 0., Arkansas states that do not take
. Remember our 100,000 25- Mississippwrkansas, Rhode Island 25. North Dakota up the circulation work
goal. 26- hebraSka 26. Mississippi, Rhode Island in an oEcial way, and
27. Washington. 27. Nebraska would come directly to
Ross Lawns: Gmu, 28- North 031911118 28. Washington the Woman Citizen. The
| National Circulatoon 29- Vermont 29. North Carolina 80. Vermont net price per subscription
I

Chairman.

is $1.00. No discount.

 

Digitized by

008 €

124

Iii, Altman 8:011].

TRAVEL AND VACATIION OUTFIITS

and the numerous minor requirements to render both the journey
and the soiourn worth while have been provided in

interesting and extensive assortments.

The activities oi the seaside, country sports, or the hours oi leisure
have been amply anticipated in apparel typical of
iashionahie iiie during the Summer period.

m‘

tillahiann Avenue-1H ifth Austins, New Enrk
(lilting-fourth 911121 TELEPHONE moo MURRAY HILL (minty-6ft}; Strut

 

 
  

English Women guaranteeing
max Years 17006 33329

   

A HANDSOME TRIBUTE
from a LONDON PUBLICATION

   

‘ -  =-<-----'~*'«':=-=:==::= '=-'+=-  ~ 

  
  

 

‘The International Woman Suffrage

News: A Valuable Link”

“This valuable link between-the women of many
nations continues month by month to do excellent
service to the Woman’s Cause in the broadest sense of
the word, and should be in the hands of all who are
interested in the co-Operation of men and women for
the good of every nation. The question of equal pay
for equal work is being dealt with in a most useful
way by the collection of evidence in various countries,
including Great Britain, the United States, Denmark,
Germany, and Italy. The articles form a most impor-
tant record in many spheres of activity.”

   

   

 
     
   
    

 
   
     
   
   
     

ORGAN OF

INTERNATIONAL WOMAN SUF F RAGE

ALLIANCE
CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT, President

. d y" .I 'I   a'.' I, '.'.I ‘I'  'ij ‘ hat _'. .' ' ‘ '_._  I32}: 

_ a. I..\' 

I ' ‘I I I . . | - I u a v ' .
' ‘Waterman»n‘nrM¢§M&W-.'ra - .  - '1 .I -

 

 
      

RE N1 COUNT V
 1:, ram r5 ext l'JLQLJ G H, NC 3 
 ,nJITH  (.3 f

———— —— MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY—'——— — '—

  
 

. 'u‘o ' en. t n' - - Aug-g, _"‘n.'."'.'.'.
L‘- “A lake‘s" ,- ii J *p- -.-;»,-.-—.v-EK)|-.‘

NURSES OUTFITTING ASS
425 Fifth Avenue, New York

_,

RED CROSS GARMENTS |

l_l__ !

Rent! for Catalog ‘

_l g-e_, e- '_ -4

     
 

  

Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

  
 

Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I enclose 81.00 for one year’s subscription, beginning month

of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

  
    
 

 

The International Woman Suffrage News
New York Office 171 Madison Avenue

       
 

 

When writing to lave-user: please mention the WOIAN CITIZEN

 

 

The W'oman Citizen.

THE WOMAN’S JOURNAL

. A Journal of Democracy
July 13, 1918

“W e shall tight {or the things which we have always carried nearest our hearts —for danocrocy, for the right of
those who submit to authority to have a voice in their own government."

Amending the Amendment

.\' July 2, Senator Gore, of Oklahoma, took the Hoor of
O the United States Senate to propose the following amend-
ment to the resolution (H.  Res. 200) proposing an amendment
to the Constitution of the United States conferring upon women

the right of suffrage:

“ .\"0 person other than a citizen of the United States sha‘:l be
entitled to vote for Senators and Representatives in Congress or
for electors for President and Vice-President of the United

States.”
House joint Resolution 200, as everybody knows, if he knows

much. reads as follows in its main provision:

“ The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be
denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on ac-

count of sex.”
In sending his amendment to the desk Senator Gore was at

pains to say that he would not insist upon it “ to the extent of
delaying the consideration or passage of the original joint resolu-
tion." The intent of the amendment is, as Senator Gore pointed
out, to “ prevent unnaturalized aliens from voting for Senators
and Representatives in Congress and for electors for President
and Vice-President. I wish to say that there are eight states
which permit that. They might elect the controlling factor in the
House of Representatives and the Senate and the controlling
number in the Electoral College.”

South Dakota’s legislators initiated a similar resolution under
the recommendation of Governor Morbeck this spring, and this
autumn South Dakota voters will pass on the question of requir-
ing full citizenship as a basis of suffrage for both men and
women.

The aim of such a measure as Senator Gore’s is beyond ques-
tion not only desirable, but necessary for the safeguarding of the
Americanism in American institutions. As it can, however, be
provided for in a separate resolution, Senator Gore’s discrimina-
tion in stipulating that his anmendment is not to be pushed to
the extent of delaying action on the Federal Suffrage Amend-
ment is commendable. The urgent need of American democracy

at this hour is standardization, and the keystone of that stan-

dardization in America, as President Wilson has pointed out, is'

the settlement of the woman suffrage question. With the settle-
ment of that question a common ground of full citizenship as a
basis for suffrage should be found for men and women without

discrimination.

To the Women of America

From the National Council of Women of New Zealand
Dear Sisters:

IT is a happy omen for us that our first duty as a Council is
to send a double greeting to the women of your mighty
.1: ederation, and the women of our own Motherland on the double
triut‘nph of the year.

we take it as the happiest augury of lasting unity of heart
and hand between your Federation and our Empire that the
same day which conferred citizenship on the women of Great
Britain conferred on you the full promise of the same right at
no distant date.

We beg you to believe that our congratulations on your nobly—
won triumph are as heartfelt as those which we send to our
sisters in Britain. The magnificent successes of the American
women in Social organization, in intellectual development, and
in philanthropic endeavor, have all been noted with admiration
by the women of New Zealand, and we rejoice sincerely that
this last and greatest proof of your country’s trust is now all
but within your grasp.

At no time could your triumph have aroused more enthusiasm
in Great and Greater Britain than now, when the entry of your.
great country may turn the balance of war towards the end of
all tyranny and of all battle-craft.

As your men and ours present to-day one living wall, firm as
a rock against all that would destroy the genius of civilization
and freedom, so it has happily come to pass that free women
clasp hands across the Atlantic, arrayed as firmly against all that
threatens the sanctity of health and home and hinders the coming
of the mighty Commonwealth of Christian nations we discern in
days to be.

Between the women of America and of Britain is the unfor-
gotten bond of Anglo-Saxon kinship; to that is now added the.
mightier bond of one high charge and one high purpose—the up-
lifting of all women, and the welfare of all the earth.

Accept then these cordial greetings from the remotest of
British States as a token that the hearts of all British women
rejoice with you.

\Ve are,

Yours cordially,
(Signed) ' K. W. SHAPPARIL, President.
C. K. HENDERSON, Hon. Secretary.

126
The Handwriting on the Wall

T is not often that the politics of one state furnish interest or
profit to other states. A possible exception arises in New

York.

A man named Elon Brown has served as Senator for many
years in the New York legislature. The Browns, Blacks, Jones,
and Smiths come and go in the politics of all states and one more,
in or out, is a fact of no import, but Elon Brown is a type which
few states have not known and regretted. His is a type which
women should recognize and understand.

Elon Brown has announced that he will not stand for re-elec-
tion, whereupon the Press finds cause for much comment and
citizens for much reflection.

Elon Brown has been Majority Leader in the Senate for some
years and has wielded the enormous influence which such posi—
tions alWays carry.

For years he led the opposition to woman suffrage.
and 1917, state amendments were submitted in spite of his opposi-
tion. In 1917 the Committee on War Measures, of which he was
chairman, introduced a bill which provided for the suspension of
all labor laws affecting men, women and children, during the
period of the war. Women traveled to Albany in great numbers
to oppose the measure, but Elon Brown whipped it through, de-
spite the fact that Great Britain warned this nation against the
effect of breaking down the safeguards which protect the labor
of women and children. Fortunately Governor \Nhitman, of
broader vision, vetoed the bill, but in 1918 Senator Brown re-
Meanwhile, the women of New York

In 1915

introduced the same bill.
received the vote in November, 1917, and when women poured in
their protests again it was as potential voters, and the Legislature
did not pass the bill.

Senator Brown successfully opposed the bill to protect girls in
the messenger service in the matter of age and hours and suc—
' ceeded in so amending it as tomake it apply only in cities of the
first and second class, instead of in all cities and towns.

I GAIN he blocked the elevator bill so that it never came to
vote. This bill was introduced at the suggestion of the
State Industrial Commission and would haveprohibited employ—
ment of girls under twenty-one years in the elevator service and
would have restricted the hours of their work. Because it was
not-passed, many girls, authorities say, are working all night long
and some for fifteen continuous hours.

Senator Brown, as Majority Leader, led the fight in the Senate
against the minimum wage bill, which aimed to protect the lives
and morals of women and girls by the increase of wages to a
standard which would make decent and healthful living possible.

Now, when Mr. Brown sees fit to retire, all the leaders and
followers of humane, progressive movements rejoice. Among
those who have frankly said so are:

American Institute for Social Service,

Child Labor Committee of New York State,

Commission on the Church and Social Service of the Fed-

eral Council of the Churches of Christ in America,

’ V

The Woman Citizen

Consumers’ League of New York State,

Girls’ Friendly Society of Central New York,

New York Association for Women Workers,

North Eastern Field Committee of Young Women’s Chris-
tian Association, ' ‘

The New York State Woman Suffrage Party, the New York
Auxiliary of the National American Women Suffrage As-
sociation.

0 NE would naturally take it for granted that all good, intelli-
gent, high-minded people, without exception, would rejoice
also that this leader of the opposition to everything women want
for the protection of the home and the school, the mothers and the
children, was about to retire. Yet certain newspapers, of opposite
politics to Mr. Brown’s, newspapers which would not admit their
opposition to every detail of women’s interests, loudly bewail his
departure. The New York Times, still grouchy over the adop-
tion of woman suffrage in New York, delivers itself of the follow-
ing editorial comment:

“ From his return to the Senate in 1913 he has shown so uni-
formly and brilliantly his pre-eminent and profound comprehen-
sion of parliamentary law, the processes of legislation, the needs
and resources of the state, he has studied so attentively the annual
legion of bills, that he has come to occupy a place apart.

“He is an expert, curiously indifferent to the-effect of his
official action upon his political fortunes. He is not only the
He is the leader of the whole
Senate, the wisest, most experienced head in it. Princeps Senatus.
He hasn’t let himself be charmed by

the persuasions or bulldozed by the threats of the sodalities of

Republican leader of the Senate.
He has definite principles.

enthusiasts, the associations of fanatics, the little troops and loud
minorities by which our Legislatures and Congresses are' so
largely bossed. If he had been as swift to let ‘movements ’
move him as are most of the political tribe, he would have louted
low to prohibition and woman suffrage. He would have patted
on the back every project of the coteries of Busybodydom. Hur-
rah for ‘ reform ’! Everything in our polity that is old is foolish
and wicked. Every innovation is blessed. Hide the wink in your
So, many or most politicians.

eye. Not principles, but votes!

Mr. Brown is of another school. He is a ‘ reactionary.’ That

is a word of honorable note, a distinction.”

HE New York Sun, throwing sweet-smelling bouquets to

Mr. Brown, declares that “ he cannot be allowed to go so

easily. It is to be very sincerely hoped that Senator Brown may
reconsider his decision.”

This expression of admiration and confidence in the man who
has never been known to serve any but machine measures of the
stand-pat kind, what does it mean? Why should newspapers of
opposite political faith find him so necessary to the welfare of
New York, while the Tribune of his own party declares that “ he
has been a liability to his party and a hindrance
that the public will be better off without him in ofiice.”

One need not search far for the explanation.

and

There is a job
to be done, a vote to be driven through the Senate, and an experi—

Digitized by 600816

July 13. 1918

enced, trusty hand at the whip will go a long way toward accom-
That something is to send the Federal Prohibition
Amendment to referendum in some form. The woman vote, the
untried, untested vote of a possible million and a half of women,
what will it do? No one knows; therefore, keep it ignorant of
the plan so far as possible. Keep Prohibition out of sight and the
Federal Suffrage Amendment in the background. Talk of otlfer
issues. Get the women to divide on candidates in each party.
Keep them talking about men in order that they may forget
measures. It is a scheme which has enabled machines to work
wonders with men. Can it be depended upon to dupe women?
So the advocates of the job to be done long for Senator Brown
with his long blackjack which has cracked many a reform meas-
ure to defeat in past years. '
That is the story for all the women of the Nation to learn.
Some Brown, or Jones, or Smith, will occupy the same position
in every state, but in many the women will have no vote to support
the measures these leaders will oppose, therefore they will have
a free field. Mr. Brown sees the handwriting on the wall and
knows that the day for such as he is gone and therefore volun-

plishing it.

tarin retires. Those who regret the coming of woman suffrage
regret the departureof Mr. Brown, and vice versa.

The Woman Citizen warns women to be on guard, to be watch-
ful of political slight-of—hand performances. Voting is not merely

giving “ consent of the governed,” it is guarding the nation against
tricks.

The Suffrage Amendment of All

Free Peoples

'l' is not merely our Fourth of July which has become “ the in-

dependence day of all the free peoples of the earth.” It is
our ideals of government which are becoming international. It
is, among other things, the Federal Suffrage Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States which has become a test ques-
tion of woman’s political freedom the world over.

Europe is receptive to all things American as never before.
Witness Paris renaming the Avenue Trocadero for the President
of the United. States. Witness Mr. VVells’s “In the Fourth
Year” where Mr. Wilson’s expressions about the war aims of
the Allies are quoted as the greatest contribution to the world’s
understanding of the allied cause. “ The Americanization of the
war," Mr. Wells hails with applause. This from Wells, who
has been wont to find American habits food for jest. An indica-
tion of how far Mr. VVilson’s frank acknowledgment of suffrage
for women as a part of the democracy for which the world is
fighting has carried was shown by the attention given his reply
to the memorial of the women of Europe at a recent meeting in
Paris of the Sociaiist group in Parliament. At this meeting'it
was decided to ask for the appointment of a committee of Parlia-
ment to consider and report upon the'question of universal suf-
frage for France.

Last week the National Woman Suffrage Publishing Com-
pany received an order from G. P. Putnam’s Sons for a

number of copies of Mrs. Catt’s book, “\Vomen Suffrage by

127

Federal Constitutional Amendment,” explaining that “ these
books are part of an order for export to South America,
the books being donated by the Carnegie Endowment for Inter-
national Peace, one copy of each being sent to a National Library
in Lima, Santiago, Rio de Janeiro and Montevideo.”

It begins to seem as if the national enfranchisement of Amer-
ican women is of vital concern to all the world as one of the ex-
Isn’t it
about time that the United States Senate began to comprehend

pressions of the Americanization of international aims.

this, “ Americanization ” which the rest of the world holds so
dear?

Hungarian Women Want Votes

PREMIER WEKERLE of Hungary is again determined to

introduce a woman suffrage clause into the Hungarian Elec-
toral reforms bill. His ministry previously suffered from its
determination to favor equal franchise measures, but the Premier
is evidently supported in his effort by the wishes of Hungarian
women. According to a Budapest telegram printed in the Dutch
newspapers of July 8, the Premier made a public promise to a
deputation of women to do all in his power to promote suffrage

for their sex in the Hungarian monarchy.

With the Editors

HEN the President puts the appeal for extension of the
suffrage to women in the category of war aims of the

United States, as he practically does, it must be a hardy Senator,
especially of his own party, who resists it.—Post, Charleston, S. C.

HE public is still interested in getting from Baird an answer

to the question: “ Why, in the face of your public Pledge

to stand by the President’s war prOgram, are you doing everything

in your power to defeat the woman suffrage amendment, which

is one of the important items in the program that you vowed you

would help carry out when Governor Edge appointed you to the
Senate vacancy? "—Times, Trenton, N. J.

OTWITHSTAN DING the earnest support received from

President Wilson, a little group of reactionary Democrats

in the Senate has been able to hold up the Federal amendment
providing for woman suffrage.

Because a large number of Democrats in the Senate—members
of the President’s own party, men who like to call themselves
Democrats, but who have failed to catch the spirit of true democ-
racy— because these men have refused to act like genuine demo-
crats the friends of woman suffrage have been fearful of bringing
the measure to a vote in the Senate.

Woman suffrage is an essential part of democracy. There is
only a partial democracy where only a part of the people have
a voice in the selection of officials or the making of laws. Presi-
dent Wilson recognizes these facts, although many of the leading
members of his party occupying seats in the United States Senate
are of the opinion that only a portion of the people are entitled
to enjoy the blessings of democracy—Tribune, Los Angeles, Cal.

Digitized by 600816

 

THE story Mrs. Raymond Brown has brought
back from France is a thrilling one, and
one which ought to gladden every suffragist and
make proud the heart of every American
woman, suffragist, or- not. For it is the same
kind of story that is filling the United States
with pride in her boys in France. A steadily
growing record ofhonest work and modest
merit and splendid recognition of services
bravely done. I

It is also in miniature, the history of women's
changed status in war time.

The Women’s Oversea Hospitals, U. S. A..
were offered to the French Government in the
summer of 1917. They were accepted with the
wonderful courtesy and appreciation of the
French. But it was only after interminable (16-.
lays that the First unit reached France early in
March this year before the first great German
offensive began. They had been designated to
the town of Guiscard, but this was taken over
by the British at about that time and the unit
was shut out, as under new English rulings
no civilian relief was allowed inside the British
war zones. Next the unit was about to In-
despatched to Vic-sur-Aisnes, when the tide
of battle swept .Vic-sur-Aisues out of the
Allies’ hands.

The German drive found a staff of 12 wo-
men, doctors, nurses and aides, in an army
camion en route for a military hospital near the
front lines which was evacuated while they
were on the way to it. Thus they were side-
tracked to a great military hospital, where they
made an unexpected arrival at nightfall. The
surgeons expecting a medical staff, were aston-
ished beyond words to find no one but wonien.

“Women surgeons!” they roared derisively.
“Think of sending women as military surg—
eons! " Woman doctors were still disregarded
in France as in the United States, as they had
been at first in Great Britain. That was in
March—vous savez—. In June this is what Dr.
Olga Povitzky wrote Mrs. Raymond Brown,
then in Paris. “ Our women have been on duty
24 hours at a stretch in the last drive.
ley is assisting Dr. Picot, the great French frac-
ture surgeon. who lets her do a great deal of
independent work in the operating room and
wards. Dr. Sholly assists another surgeon and
has charge of his post-operative wards. The
same is true of Dr; Mary Edward, who assists

Dr. Fin- '

A MOVABLE HOSPITAL READY TO START

a third surgeon. The work of Miss McKee
and the aides under her is highly commended
by all."

N three months, the women of the hospitals

which belong to the National American
Woman Suffrage Association had justified, not
only themselves and the association backing
them, but the case of the professional woman
for military hospital work.

But to go a long way hack to that tirst lone-
some night when the staff was drOpped down,
as it were, from the skies, upon a military hos-
pital which wasn’t sure it wanted them.

They were put to sleep in a' great salon in
what had once been a chateau rivalling Ver-
sailles. They could look up, up and watch gay
little cupids painted on the ceiling—and softly
tapestried walls and think of these things as the
kind of environment men thought suited to

The Woman Citizen

women before the war game proved women for
what they are—human beings, sharing and
bearing the world’s burdens.

For one day of idleness they served a kind of
test of whether they would do or not. Then
the war itself settled their fate for them as it
has been settling the fate of women everywhere.
Wounded men began coming in so fast that
there was no longer any time to think of men

, people or women people,-just of human needs.

In the First 36 hours of this rush 650 cases
were evacuated. The American staff stopped
at nothing. They did the hardest work, the
roughest work, undressing men with the mud
of the trenches still on them and getting them
ready for operations. ’

Doctors worked like nurses with no fussing
over dignities and nurses worked like orderlies
with the help of priests. They just made them-
selves essential to that military hospital.

 

OI'TSIDE TIIE BARRACKS “'IIERE WOMEN'S OVERSEA IIOSPITALS’ UNIT WORKS

July 13, 1918

 

IN A PARK RESEMBLING VERSAILLES HOS-
PITAL TENTS STAND CLOSE TOGETHER

N the sixth of June Miss Marie Lopez
wrote Mrs. Brown, who had left for
Paris: “These have been strenuous days with
us. Had you remained one day longer you
would have found yourself in the midst of the
horrors of war, the aftermath, the anti-climax
of the battle spirit.
“W'e have been working at white heat day
and night getting a little rest when we could.
We have the preparation ward, aside from the

tent, and no sooner are the beds vacated than -

they are refilled.”

“We are now, the doctors, I mean, doing
regular military surgery," reported Dr. Finley
in May, “with positions equal to those of
French Army surgeons. The Chef de Frac-
ture: is already giving me major operations.
. . . I have a French Army doctor, who does
not do surgery, to help me and I find the work,
though arduous, most profitable. . . . We have
an American équipe of nurses at last working
very hard, really doing more than they ought,

but every one is overworking. Their work is
fine and I am proud of them.”

On June 10, after the great drive, Dr. Finley
wrote again:

“I have just finished nineteen hours in the
operating room, assisting the Chef de Fractures
of the Third Army Division. . . . The news is
bad today but our women are steady. \Ne are
all working under such extreme pressure just

now that it is impossible to get together for a .

unit meeting, but talking to them separately, I
find not one who wishes to leave for a safer
place or easier work. It makes me very proud
of our American women.”

\

. HIS is the usual story. At another time Dr.

Finley reported that she had just put in
about twenty hours in the operating room and
the aides were there still. Again, “ We are very
busy. Hospitals nearer the front are being evacu-
ated here and we are also getting men direct
from the field. There were 25 operations last
night, besides othefcases. . . . Dr. Sholly oper-
ated until three this morning and our nurses
were up even later.”

Dr. Sholly sends word, “I have been operat-
ing for sixteen out of the last twenty hours.
The wounds are the most serious we. have had.”

In this hospital are four of the women doc-
tors: Doctors Finley, Sholly, Edward and
Povitzky, with eight nurses and aides. Among
them are Miss McKee, the head nurse; Miss

"Marple, Miss Wilbur, Miss Lopez, Miss East-

ham, Miss Lanz and Mary Brown.

Dr. Olga Povitzky, a bacteriologist. who re-
ceived her training in the Health Department
of the City of New York, has taken special
work in study of gas gangrene in Paris in order
to manage a laboratory of the hospital.

“ It is necessary for us to have our laboratory

in the French military hospital," Dr. Povitzky
has just reported to Mrs. Brown.

“ Dr. Picot

is very anxious to have me work with him.
He gave me a letter to Dr. Tessier, the best

known authority on war bacteriology. He

 

INSIDE THE BARRACKS——A FRACTURE “'ARD

‘ hospital force at Labouheyre.

129

 

NURSES OF THE WOMEN’S OVERSEA
HOSPITALS. U. S. A.

wants me to get from him the most important
points on this particular branch of bacteriology.
I am certainly highly flattered with the confi-
dence this highly critical gentleman bestows on
an American woman bacteriologist. And what
a splendid opportunity to make good!”

HE military unit of the suffrage hospitals is

in the Compiégne district. It is on one of
the routes which German air planes take when
they go to bombard Paris. The Chateau stands
on an exposed hill, open to the sky, and the
American women are lodged in the high French
roof. Over their heads travel the dreadful bomb-
throwing machines which these doctors and
nurses know will spare no hospitals. Yet when
the time came to sign up for a new six-months
contract with the National Suffrage hospitals,
not one nurse thought of faltering.

It is not in courage and skill alone that this
unit has made its record. When Mrs. Brown ar-
rived at Chateau Ognon, she found the nurses
and doctors shampooing each other’s hair,
blacking each other’s boots and darning each
other’s stockings for francs which they put in a
common purse. For what ?—-To buy delicacies
for their patients. One of her first requests
after she returned to America was for a special
fund for a simple diet kitchen so that wounded
poilus may have hot chocolate and fresh fruit
or any other little extra luxury they need.*

Such is the personnel, of the women’s mili-
tary unit serving in a base hospital of 1,000
beds, in the fighting zone of France.

But not all the service and sacrifice is in the
military équipe. While the military unit was
requisitioned by the French Service de Santé '
for the wounded, another set of war victims is
being cared for in Southern France by the rest
of the W omen’s Oversea Hospitals’ staff. These
are the pitiful refugees—fugitives from their
own villages, of which there are 10.000 in the
Department of Landes alone. The medical
work for this entire group is to be put into
the hands of the second division of the suffrage
This now in-
cludes a small hospital built by German prison-
ers in the grounds of the Mayor of the town,
whose story has been told at length in the pages

(Continued on page 132)

 

' Such a diet kitchen under‘the care of Miss Alice
Finley is now on the way to ()gnon.

130

To Our Commander-in-Chief, Woodrow Wilson: ’ r. w l

’M elected to write you a letter, though I know I’m not much as a scribe.
Out here we’re “four of a kind,” Sir—just soldiers—you know the whole
tribe—
My Bunkie went home from the trenches, all battered and bunged up and bent,
And climbed right up to the Senate to see how law-makin’ went.

And Bunkie just sweated and sizzled—he got so eternally mad

A hearin’ them old fellows gobble ’bout women—and what they had,

And hadn’t, a right to ask for—and expect that they would get

So he mailed back to us the “Record ”— and, whoopee! we’re swearin’ yet!

We had a company caucus and they told me to sail right in

And “represent” the manhood—(instead of some piles of “ tin”)
And ask you to wipe from our country this last and meanest shame
Of badgerin’ our'own women in the Senate’s latest game. 5‘: ,

And we hope you will jump right in, Sir, and deal with women fair,
S 0 we who are left in the trenches can feel we are on the square
When we talk out here of our country, “the great democracy!”

( l/V here the best half of the people is fighting still to be free!)

I T makes me feel kind of rotten, and eye can’t meet with eye
When we try to explain to the British—and tell that kind of a lie, ’
For they ask, “ What’s gone wrong with your women? Are all of them bad and
low?
If not, what on earth is the reason a “ Democracy ” treats them so?

“Are they worse than the men? Are they vicious? Ain’t they got no sense——
nor grit? ”

Then they point to the Red Cross nurses—And how can we answer it?

So the boys out here just asked me to put it up to you

To lead that fight for freedom—and see that they put it through.

Did you ever visit the Senate to size up the type of man

Who denies to women the ballot simply because he can?

Did you hear the filibuster of those men in sneering tones
As they sought to browbeat women in reply to A. A. Jones?

Who mildly had asserted that “ democracy,” now and then,

Should be applied to women as well as to all the men?

Were you thrilled with pride and pleasure to know that states still send
Such men to the U. S. Senate, our mothers’ rights to defend?

 

The Woman Citizen

A Letter to P

From a Corporal ii

I’M only a Nutmeg soldier, who
But here, as I lie in the trench

For he and his kind are Huns. Sir

By accident, in their stupid veins

They must go from the halls of C
To the junk-heap of bad ideals, tl
Blind to the sense of justice, blind
They are of the Kaiser's henchm

lVatchful waitin’s all right in its pi
They waited and watched Ollie J
W aitin’s poor grub fer t’live on
And women’s been watchin’ and

Digitized by 600816

3*” 3'" In

July '3, 1918 131

esident Wilson

be $116 rage Trenches

‘ ‘STATES RIGHT ” makes a good dodgin’ basis for those who must hide

or retreat .
But it don’t fool the boys in the trenches—nor our mothers who don’t know defeat 1
S 0, it’s time (and we all agree, Sir) to take of your coat and just fight ‘
As you asked us to do, out here, Sir, with all of your strength and might.

For America, not for the “States,” Sir (who cares over here for that dope?)

And that “ chivalry ” stu19E that they talk, Sir——we see it for just plain soft soap,

And that cynic dislodged from the Bay State with. his leer and his curls and his
smirk

When I see him sneer at the ladies, my only desire is a dirk

An’ the freedom to use it right spry, Sir, on him an’ his impudent kind.

He’s outlived his time and his welcome (with that sort of picayune mind.)

I don’t care how much he has “ learned,” Sir, it’s the kind of a mental machine
That needs to be took to repair shops, remade, and turned out fresh an’ clean.

Then the others (God save the Senate) those others who stand by their kind
Elected by Germans and liquor—the Germans they have to mind.

But if you’d come out in your gas mask, and start an attack with your might
You’ll find that real men everywhere, Sir, will back you right up in the fight.

WE’LL fight with all that’s in us for justice to all mankind,

But it takes our nerve, and riles us, to know that such men, behind
Can bully and flout our women who ask but their honest due—
S o we’re asking, Woodrow Wilson, for another blast from you!

 

Underwood and Underwood

A blast that shall shake foundations and stir the souls of men

Till they see their petty meanness for what it is again,

Till they realize, once and forever, that woman is half the race,

To retard whose rights and progress is to take up the Kaiser’s pace;

‘her, God bless her, is dead,

I crack at my Senator’s head. \ -
"0”?" What _b10?d my 110?”: Is to fall in step with the Boches—denying humanity’s right—
he)‘ and the" kmd mu“ 90- So we’re looking to you, Woodrow Wilson, we’re looking to you to fight!

We came when you asked us, gladly, you called us and we’ve come,
Now, we’re calling to you (from the trenches) to stand by our women at home!

'5—-g0 with the rest of their kind—
0 of those who are blind.
’da'w" 0f right, All that thinkin’ that comes Out of books, Sir, ain’t as clear and as rapid an’ free
’ believe that "light is 71.9,“- As what we get fightin’ the Germans—You can take that from Bunkie an’ me—
An’ every man’s Bunkie I know, Sir, if he’s worth space to sit out of hell,
Has told me to sign up for him, Sir, for he’d have the same yarn to tell.

ir, but women’s been fed up on that;

iir, an’ Weeks an’ Simmons, stand pat.

:in’t extra fillin’ fer snacks)— So the boys out here just asked me to put it up to you

' while totin’ their own and our packs. To lead that fight for freedom. Good bye, Sir, now I’m through

 

132

The Woman Citizen

Women for a Patriotic Vote

Both Republican and Democratic Conventions in South Dakota have passed
strong resolutions endorsing Woman Sufrage Amendments, State and Federal

u HE completion of democracy at home

may depend upon your patriotism when
the vote on the Susan B. Anthony Amendment
is taken.”

This was the message sent Senator Penrose
by the suffragists of Pennsylvania. Probably
the shortest message ever sent Senator Pen-
rose concerning a momentous measure, is the
way the press refers to it.

In a telegram to Senators Knox and Pen-'
rose, the Pennsylvania Woman Suffrage Asso—
ciation, called attention to the fact that the
association represents 150,000 enrolled mem-
bers, and added:

“ Favorable action is urged upon you because
the passage of the measure is necessary to the
success of America’s war program, and in jus-
tice to the women of Pennsylvania who de-
serve the same recognition that has been ac-
corded the women of other great states and
which has been given to six million women in
England. The submission of the suffrage ques-
tion to the'vdters of Pennsylvania in 1915
showed that 46.3 per cent. of the voters ap-
proved of enfranchising the women, and the
spread of the sentiment is such that it is clearly
your duty to vote favorably upon the measure.”

The part the women of Pennsylvania have
taken in war service was brought out in a let-
ter from the Pittsburgh Suffrage Association to
Senator Knox prior to the expected vote in
the Senate, June 26. The letter read in part:

“Concerning Pennsylvania in particular and
the war work women are doing, may we not
mention the parade of the women war workers
in the Pittsburgh district which featured the
third Liberty Loan campaign? According to
newspaper estimates there were aprpoximately
40,000 women in line, including those working
in plants making war materials, Red Cross
workers; war savings stamp campaigners, Lib-
erty Loan workers and women of the various
divisions of the women’s committee, council of
national defense. Of course, these women
were only a comparatively small representative
proportion of those actively engaged in patri-
otic work. Later, the newspapers estimated,
during the Red Cross campaign, that a similar
number of women demonstrated by another
parade the thousands engaged in this work of
mercy. .

“In connection with the last Liberty Loan
campaign we are glad to bring to your attention
the fact that the women of your state, Penn-
sylvania, raised nearly $136,000,000, those of
Allegheny county raising $37,000,000, more than
double their quota, and those of Philadelphia
exceeding $50,000,000.

“ Will you not advise us what stand you will
take?

“\Ve feel it inevitable and many of the
far-seeing men of the country have expressed
the same view to us—that the women of the
United States will be enfranehised. As Penn-
sylvania women. we hope that when the record
of the completion of democracy is written it

 

will not have our Pennsylvania senators re-
corded as opposed to a justice which
parallels all that upwn which our republic is

liascnlf’

URING the recent “drive” for the
Amendment, Tennessee suffragists worked
with a will, characteristic of the old Volunteer
State. The board members of the Tennessee
Suffrage Association, under the able leadership
of Mrs. Leslie Warner, president, went out into
the towns and counties of the state daily, by
motor, trolley and train, holding mass-meetings,
speaking before organizations of all kinds——
Red Cross chapters, Council of Defense meet—
ings, War Conferences, church, civic, literary,
political and philanthropic clubs, securing
protests, resolutions and getting petitions signed.
They bombarded their senators with these, as
well as scores of telegrams, letters and favor-
able editorials from daily papers, sending a
long list to be read, into the Congressional
records, until the Tennessee Senators could
not fail to hear the strong, insistent voice
of Tennessee citizens’ appeal to intrust Ten-
nessee's womanhood with the ballot.

A Governor‘s Opinion

‘(I TAKE pleasure in stating that 1 am

heartily in favor of the proposed suf-

frage amendment to the Federal Constitution.

For several years I have favored equal suf-

frage. Developments in the great world war

have, in my opinion, strongly emphasized both

the justice and the necessity of votes for our

splendid women. Equal rights to all is a mock-
ery unless it includes our women.”

~F. D. GARDNER,
Governor of Missouri.

HE AMERICAN NURSES’ ASSOCIA-

TION in annual convention at Cleveland
in May urged the passage of the Federal Amend-
ment in the following resolution:

“ Resolved, That a message be sent from the
American Nurses’ Association and the National
League of Nursing Education to the President
of the United States, urging him to use his pow-
ers of leadership in behalf of the women of the
country, by bringing the members of the na-
tional legislature to a realization that a democ—
racy cannot consistently discriminate between
the man and woman citizen, and asking him to
see that the right to vote is granted to women.”

HE St. Louis City Democratic Central

Committee has joined the large number
of Democratic organizations suppbrting the
Federal Amendment and urging its immediate
passage. The committee also endorsed rati-
fication of the Amendment by the legislature
of Missouri in 1919. The Missouri Senators,
James A. Reed and Xenophon P. VVilHey, both
Democrats, were informed of the action.

HAT the National Optical Association can

see straight on woman suffrage was shown
by the resolution adopted at its convention in
St. Paul on June 20. The resolution read:

“ Resolved, that the members of the Ameri-
can Optical Association in Convention assem-
bled at St. Paul, go on record as endorsing the
cau'se of \Vomen’s Suffrage, and be it further
resolved, that a’ copy of this resolution be for-
warded to the President of the United States.”

Digitized by GOOSIC

With the Suffrage Hospitals
(Continued from page 129)

of The Woman Citizen, and a dispensary serv-
ice for nearby villages. This will be increased
to a regional hospital for the department
under the charge of the Women’s Oversea Hos-
pitals. It will have flying units for dispensary
work. .

Dr. Mabel Seagrave, of Seattle, Wash., one
of the latest surgeons to leave-America, will
have charge of nose and throat work of which
there is much to be done among the children in
the refugee villages, and Dr. Sophie Nevin, the
dentist, now on the spot, has already a huge
practice. '

Mrs. Brown reports finding 35 patients wait-
ing in Dr. Nevin’s ante room when she went to
see her. Dr. Nevin is probably the first mili-
tary woman dentist, having had the unique ex-
perience of caring for soldiers in the United
States army. When she landed in Bordeaux
she found that her utensils had been side-
tracked. In the meantime, an American regi-
ment quartered within reasonable distance of
the unit had an equipment and no dentist. ., So
Dr. Nevin was borrowed and has been doing
such fine work for the American regiment that
the commanding officer of the army ,camp has
requested that she give regularly three days a
week to the American soldiers.

Mrs. Brown saved her grand coup until the
last. '

Owing to the increasing need for care of gas
patients the French Government has asked for
a new unit of the Women’s Oversea Hospitals,
U. S. A., for first aid work at the front for gas
victims. Mrs. Brown’s return is for the special
purpose of‘selecting the personnel for a 300 bed
hospital for gas patients, the hospital to be
given by the French government, and a daily
maintenance to be paid by them for each patient.
A staff of, at least, fifty members will be needed
for this new hospital which will be a mobile
unit. The gas treatment is simple, and can be
quickly taught to nurses and doctors at Paris.
But as gas hospitals must follow the movements
of the army and keep as near the front lines as
possible, where the patients can be rushed to
them' for help, they.are posts full of danger.

Mrs. Brown reported that the Chateau Ognon
unit would cost about $15,000 for the year. The
Labouheyre increased unit will cost about $100,-
000 for a year’s upkeep, funds for which are
already generously subscribed by the Women’s
Apparel Unit, business women of the garment
trades.

The new gas unit is estimated to cost $75,000
for the year’s work. This will not exceed the
fund asked for by the National American
\Voman Suffrage Association for its hospital
work in France.

As. Mrs. Brown gave her report to the Execu-
tive Committee of the National American
\Voman Suffrage Association and to the Cen-
tral Committee for the hospitals, every person
present lifted her head with a renewed sense of
pride in the splendid attainments of the women
who are representing the suffragists of America
in active service at the war front.

(Continued on page 138)

July 13, 1918

133

Ambassadress of Women

 

 

Professor
Caroline
Furness,
of the
Depart-
ment

of

Vassar
College

THE SMALL WOMAN AND THE GREAT TELESCOPE

HE professorship of astronomy in Vassar
stands to every woman as a symbol of one
of the doors through which women have come
through to new successes. It was here that.
Maria Mitchell made her brilliant record as an
advanced scientist and broke down some male
defenses against the higher education of women.
In all this Stir about new opportunities for
women, the world of to-day is inclined to for-
get those who with all the tides setting dead
against them made their own opportunities.

When girls are trotting about in Government
uniforms, who remembers that Maria Mitchell
was: in the Coast Survey long before she began
inventing comets to blaze her name across the
heavens?

Her father, who, earned the fabulous salary
Of $100 a year in the United States Coast Sur-
ch in addition to $2 a week for teaching school,
believing that girls should have the same chance
for an education as boys, taught his small

daughter, Maria, what he knew about naviga-
tion, as well as coast surveying until she was
able to take her place as his assistant.

It was in October, 1847, that she discovered
the comet that bears her name, and for the dis-
covery of which she received the gold medal
from Frederick VI of Denmark.

In spite of the fact that newspapers were full
of comments about “Miss Mitchell’s Comet,”
she kept on as librarian in Nantucket, compil-
ing the Nautical Almanac every year and writ-
ing for scientific periodicals.

In 1857 she went to England, and was made
much of by Sir John Hershel and Alexander
von Humboldt.

When Vassar College was opened in 1865,
Maria Mitchell‘was given the Chair of Astron-
omy. For another score of years she lived in
Vassar’s observatory, a person of austere hab-
its, and great industry. In 1888, when she
was 70, she resigned her post. and died in 1889.

Astronomy,

“’ I ‘0 the women of Japan,” reads a letter
of introduction which Professor Caro-

V line E. Furness, present head of the Department

of Astronomy, Vassar College, will carry with
her to Japan this summer. This letter is sent from
the millions of women of the National Council
of Women through its president, Mrs. Philip
Moore, and it will be delivered to the Women’s
Patriotic League of Japan, which Dr. Iyenaga
says is the most important women’s organization
in that country. This is not by any means the
only credential Miss Furness will carry. The
Council of Women represents an old established
institution in America, which was effective for
service in the piping times of peace. The
Woman’s Committee of the Council of National
Defense, of which Dr. Anna Howard Shaw is
chairman, speaks with the voice of women
mobilized for service in war. It, too, will send
a greeting to America’s allies, the women of
Japan, by Miss Furness. American women as
citizens, will speak through Mrs. Carrie Chap-
man Catt, president of the National American
Woman Suffrage Association and ,of the Inter-
national W oman Suffrage Alliance.

ROFESSOR FURNESS will carry from

the National Organization of Public Health
Nursing in which Miss Lilian Wald of the
Henry Street Settlement is deeply interested,
with Miss Ella Crandall as spokesman. not only
a friendly word to the women of Japan, but also
a portfolio of information concerning public
health work in this country. Professor Furness
is to use this material with its charts and photo-
graphs to explain American collective methods
of health protection. ,

The American Collegiate Alumnae hopes also
to stimulate a branch in Japan, having many
colleagues in that country among Japanese
women students who have been graduated from
all the women’s colleges of America. In Canada
there is a branch of the American Collegiate
Alumnae and it is expected that Japan will fol-
low the sisterly example of Canada. To this
end the president of the American Collegiate
Alumnae, Dean Lois Mathews of Wisconsin,
sends special greetings by their ambassadress
who is not only representative of the College
Alumnae but of the woman educator in the
woman’s college. These are only a few of the
messages borne by Professor Furness as am-
bassadress at large from women of America to
women of Japan. Alma Mater has bidden her
godspeed with messages from the Vassar
Alumnae of which Miss Helen Kenyon is presi-
dent and from the Vassar undergraduate body
to all girl college students in Japan. Among
the graduates of Vassar in Japan are Princess
Oyama, Baroness Uriu, Nabe Amagasu and
Koto Yamada. To this last the Poughkeepsie
High School adds a cordial second.

The National Association of Principals of
Secondary Schools have shown their desire to
cooperate in spreading the study of internation-
alism in the High Schools of the United States.
The president of this association, Dr. W. D.
Lewis, principal of the W'illiam Penn High
School for Girls, in Philadelphia, has expressed
great interest in the project. In the beginning,
it will take the form of an exchange of letters

between High School pupils in the United States
and Japan. (Continued on page 138)

134

I

Suffrage and Piety

RS. HUMPHREY WARD is a “free

thinker ” in religious matters. Her rem—
iniscences, now appearing, recall the great dis—
pleasure that her once famous novelu“ Robert
Elsmere,” gave to all the orthodox religious
world; and'she tells us how Mr. Gladstone re-
monstrated with her, white with wrath.

An effort has lately been made to stir up
prejudice against woman suffrage at the South
by recalling to public attention Elizabeth Cady
Stanton’s almost forgotten book, “ The Wom-
an’s Bible.” Mrs. Stanton’s theological views
were much the same as Mrs. Ward’s. Our
anti-suffrage friends, true to their habit of in-
sisting upon a double standard of ethics, one
for themselves and another for their oppon-
ents, would never admit that the anti-suffrage
movement ought to be branded as irreligious
because of Mrs. Humphrey Ward. Yet, the
Anti-Suffrage Association never disclaimed re-
sponsibility for “Robert Elsmere,” while the
National American Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion did adopt a resolution that it had no respon-
sibility for “ The Woman's Bible.”

The plain fact is that both the suffrage move-
ment and the anti-suffrage movement have in-
cluded prominent men and women of every
shade of religious opinion, from Roman Cath-
olics to agnostics. There is no more cause for
singling out Mrs. Stanton’s views as typical
than those of the pious Quaker preacher, Lu-
cretia Mott, or the eloquent Methodist preacher,
Dr. Anna Howard Shaw.

The practical question is whether woman suf-
frage has tended to good or evil, in the places
where it prevails. After more than forty years’
experience of municipal woman suffrage in
England, the solid vote of the Bishops and
Archbishops in Parliament was cast in favor
of the recent bill which gave women the Par-
liamentary vote; and in our own enfranchised

States, an overwhelming majority of the min?

isters of all denominations agree that equal suf-
frage has been a good thing. There is also
the indisputable fact that all the liquor and vice
interests are arrayed against the suffrage cause.
It is only the most reactionary and short-

sightcd brand of piety that can wish to line it-
self up with these.

Wanted, All Around Loyalty

LREADY the political pot is beginning, to

boil. We are told by many politicians
that in the coming fall elections there should
be but one issue—the “Americanism” of the
candidates.

We have a mighty war upon our hands, a
war upon the issue of which hangs the destiny
of the world. It is imperative that every can-
didate should be a man or woman of staunch
loyalty. But it is equally important that this
should be an all-around loyalty, which can be
trusted to defend the country not only against
the foe in front, but against the enemies in the
rear. '

According to tradition, there was many years
ago a group of Harvard students who had more
appetite than honesty. When they wanted a
chicken supper, they used to divide their forces.

A. S. B.’s Page

N the nation’s birthday, July 4, the Con-
stitutional Convention bf Arkansas de-
clared for the complete emancipation of women.-
The proposed section for the revised State
Constitution begins:

“ The rights of citizens of this state to vote
and hold og‘ice shall not be denied or abridged
on account of sex. Both male and female citi-
zens of this state shall enjoyequally all civil,
political and religious rights and privileges.”

 

Part of them would take their stand in the
evening in front of some farm house, and sing
college songs. When they had drawn all the
family to the front door to listen, the others
would go through the chicken-house at the back
and help themselves to a few fat fowls. Some
politicians with a most unsavory record for
plundering the people are .now singing the
“Star Spangled Banner ” vociferously for the
express purpose of diverting attention from
their plans to skin the public. The women
should keep an eye upon them. A German spy
or an American prohteer can sing “America”
as loudly as a true patriot.

In the early days of equal suffrage in New
Zealand, crooked politicians and scaly persons
in general were much annoyed because the
women’s vote was governed mostly by 'the char-
acter and record of the candidates. In a letter
to the newspapers, one man complained bitterly
of this unreasonable feminine tendency. He
said: '

“If a man is an incomparable financier, and
a country whose finances are terribly tangled
can employ him, it ought not to matter that he
once stole a horse."

But the women persisted in thinking that a
man who had once stolen a horse might steal
the contents of a treasury.

HE battle between corrupt politics and the

public weal goes on night and day. It
no more lets up in war time than does "the strug-
gle for profits. In fact, it grows keener and
more dangerous in war time, because of the
greater opportunities to put something over on
the people while they are looking another way.
Truly patriotic men and women can no more
afford, because it is war time, to let up on their
end of the fight against corrupt politics and re-
actionary policies than to let up on the tight
against tuberculosis or infant mortality.

The next Congress will have to settle most
momentous issues. It is unspeakably important
that it should be made up of members who
are both honest and clear-sighted. It is not
enough that a candidate should shout against
the Germans. That is an easy thing to do and
it is often done as a blind by those persons
whose motto it is to “prey without ceasing."
Look at the candidate’s record. See to it that
he is not only loyal, but a man of conscience
and courage, and of broad, enlightened views.
Stupidity often works as much harm as dis-
honesty. A man may profess to be an ardent
patriot, and may even believe that he is one,
and yet may make the sort of Congressman or
Legislator, who will vote for measures most
disastrous to the public good.

Generally speaking, a man who has not sense

The Woman Citizen

enough and justice enough to see that woman
suffrage is right, has not sutiicient brains, or
sufliciently modern brains, to be trusted to
make an enlightened decision on other ques-
tions that will come before him. We ought to
demand this as an irreducible minimum.

We want Americanism, but all around Amer-
icanism, the kind that can see and fight against
dangers at home as well as abroad. Not pa-
triotism alone, but intelligent patriotism, is

what we need and must have in order to win
this war.

A Nation of ‘Martyrs

OMEN who are to be voters need to

know what is going on in the world
around them. A great amount of valuable
information is compressed into a book lately
issued by Fleming H. Revell Company,
“Armenia, a Martyr Nation,” by Dr. M.
C.'Gabrielian. It is an historical sketch of the

Armenian people from the earliest times to the
present day.

Of all

the crimes committed during
the great war, the blackest has been the
colossal crime of the Turkish government

against the Armenians, with the connivance and
support of Germany. And the recent events,
terrible as they have been, were only the climax
of centuries of persecution. But the tragic

story is lighted up by many gleams of heroism;
and the women showed their. full share of

courage.

“Miss Corinna Shattuck, the noble American
missionary, was alone in the city of Urfa dur-
ing the massacres (of 1895). She wrote: “It
was apparent that the utmost was done ,by the
officials to protect me; but how willingly I
would have died that thousands of parents
might be spared to their children! It is stated
that 240 persons were saved from the massacre
by her special efforts.”

Again and again beautiful Armenian women-
and girls were oEered their lives if they would
become Mohammetans, but they refused.

All through the history runs the dark thread
of outrage against women. As Dr. J. Lepsius
wrote, in describing the massacres of 1895, not
to be compared for vastness and atrocity to
those of the last few years, “There was no
massacre in which the murder of the men was
not followed by outrage on the women and
girls; no plunder in which they were not offered
for sale, carried on as spoils, exchanged for
horses'and donkeys, or exposed in the slave

r market.”

In the words of Mr. Gladstone, after the
Turkish atrocities committed upon the Bulgar-
ians: *

“That such things should be done once is a.-
damning disgrace to the portion of our race
which did them. That a door should be left
open for their ever-so—barcly possible repetition:
would spread that shame over the whole.”

“I have vowed from the time I began to-
see that woman snfrage could be carried only
through party help, that I never would lend my
influence to either of the two dominant parties-
that did not have a woman su§rage plank on

its platform.” 5. B. A.

Digitized by 600816

July 13, 1918 ,

Opportunities
for Women

AKING the kitchen into business was the
feat performed by Jean Prescott Adams.
She made a name for herself while yet a girl
by starting a box lunch business for her fellow
students in the high school. She carried herself
through the Normal College by this means, then
married, and for a few years devoted herself
to writing on scientific housekeeping. Beginning
as advertising writer for Armour and Company,
she established, and is now director of the
Home Service Department of Armour and
Company, and the author of the Jean Prescott
Adams page in home management which is
syndicated through the press and known to
housekeepers far and wide:

N order to promote unity between Anglo
Saxon nations, the Cecl’Rhodes Scholarships
for men were founded. Sixteen years later,
in order to promote unity between the nations
allied in the world war for democracy, the
Emergency Council on Education, representing
the leading education organizations of the
United States, offered one hundred scholar—
ships to 'French women and the offer has been
accepted by the French Government.

In the space of half a- generation inter-
nationalism has replaced the tie of common
blood, democracy has been broadened to take
in both sexes, and the higher education of our
women of all nations has been accepted with-
out comment, as equally important to genera-
tions yet to come with the higher education of
our men.

N the Grain Growers’ Association, one of

the most powerful organizations of western
Canada, women are entitled to exactly the same
standing as men. For certain purposes, how-
ever, special women’s sections are provided to
do special work. The objects of these sections,
as set forth at the last annual meeting of the
Association are:

“ To establish libraries, literary societies, read-
ing rooms, arrange lectures and to further ex-
tend the knowledge of the members and their
families along social and economic lines, with
a view of elevating the standard of living in
the rural communities.

“ To encourage members to provide suitable
halls and meeting places and properly equip
and furnish the same for the social and educa-
tional benefits of the members.

“ To foster and encourage the co-operative
method of distribution of farm products, and
the supplying of staple commodities.

“ To make farm life more attractive, thereby
keeping the young people on the farm.

“ To beautify the home, the home surround-
ings and the school.

“ To increase the eliiciency of the home-
keeper and raise the ideal of home life and
work. ,

“ To work for better school boards with
women among the trustees. ,

“To ascertain the views of the members of
the Provincial Legislature on questions directly
affecting farm women.

“ To foster and develOp local taste for litera-
ture, music, and the finer things of life.”

Ir— r-n— Vb.

 

MISS EDITH DIEHL

HATEVER else has been demonstrated /

by the incursion of women into the war,
it is proved that they can do farm work. With
every disadvantage of inexperience, muscles not
yet geared to high speed with a pitchfork, and
with all their previous conditions of ~ servitude
to unsuitable clothing, still the woman farmer
has been an ever present help in time of need.

In a Fourth of July parade somewhere in New
Jersey, the Land Army Division carried a ban-
ner saying that it had earned in cash $2,650.
This was after two months of active operation,
in a camp starting with 18 workers and now
booking 75 girls a day to farmers whose orders
are coming in faster than they can be filled.
“What this second year of successful experi-
ment with women on the land has demon-
strated,” says the oliicial bulletin of the Wom-
an’s Land Army of America, “ is the need of
an experiment station where leaders for the
necessary type of farm camp can be trained.”

No sooner did this need become manifest
than W'ellesley College stepped into the breach
and offered its institution for an ofhcers’ train-
ing school in Augustof this year.

The plan of the Wellesley College Training
Camp is to be that of a normal class. It will re-
produce camp conditions in every respect and
give the students experience in problems of unit
organization, camp housing, food, water supply,
sanitation, camp regime, and agricultural prac-
tice, with detailed courses of instruction by ex-
perts in all these subjects. There will be
courses in farm mechanics, including carpentry
and the use of concrete. Standardization in co-
ordinating the size and type of farm implements
with woman’s physique is the central idea.

An outstanding feature of this year’s work
has been a demonstration of willingness to en-
list for farm work on the part of the young
women of the country, but an almost appalling
need of adjustment of means to ends.

Scarcely two camps have met identical condi-
tions. Girls are housed in old farm hOuses, in
tents, in shacks, and in institutions converted
into barracks.

135

A Plattsburg for
the Land Army

N some places the water supply has been a
problem, in others it is drainage or repairs,
and always it is transportation.

The director of the training camp is Miss
Edith Diehl of New York, a former student of
Wellesley, who is well-known as a hand book-
binder, and who, since the beginning of the
war, has been connected with the American
Red Cross as Director of the Auxiliary Work-
room in the New York County Chapter. The
personnel of instruction will consist of experts
from agricultural colleges, from technical
schools for men and women, and from Govern—
ment institutions which are asked to detail
instructors for this service.

155 DIEHL disclaims any intention to

set up an agricultural school, although
some argricultural training will be given. The
model camp will try to meet every problem of a
real camp so as to be able to furnish a definite
basis of type, cost and management for 1919
farm camps.

That this training is to be offered to recruits
from the entire nation makes it of interest to
every branch of the Woman’s Land Army of
America. The cordial cooperation of Miss
Ellen F. Pendleton, president, and of the entire
Board of Trustees of Wellesley, has met with
an enthusiastic response.

At a recent conference of state chairmen held
in New York City, a message of appreciation to
Wellseley authorities was sent on behalf of the
states, by the chairman of the meeting, and
every state chairman has promised, on return-
ing to her state, to send as good a representa-
tion as possible to the training camp so that it
may be a national group.

All women of sound health, who have had
either executive experience or collegiate train-
ing, and who wish to give their services on the
land another year, are eligible for the course,
and it is hoped to start the camp August first
with at least sixty women. The expense to
each recruit will be only $50. The cost of
equipping the camp and underwriting it for a
sufhcient amount to make it a hundred per cent
ehicient, will be borne by the College. Owing
to the necessary limits in size, all those desiring
to register should make application at once to

the Director at Wellesley College, Wellesley,
Mass.

Women Legislators

WOMAN has been elected to the Dutch
A parliament, according to an Exchange
Telegraph dispatch from Amsterdam. The
successful candidate was Miss Grovenweg and
she was chosen on the Socialist Labor ticket.
Under 'the revised constitution of Holland it
is possible for women to hold seats in Parlia-
ment, and according to press dispatches twenty
women were listed as candidates for this honor.

ISS JEANNETTE RANKIN, Represen-
tative from Montana, has announced her
candidacy for the Republican nomination for
the Senate to succeed Senator Walsh, who is a
candidate for re-election in November. The
nominating primaries will be held on August 27.

136

The Woman Citizen

Your Vote“ and the Laws

HE laws under which the voter governs
and is governed are passed in one of four
ways; namely, by local governments; by state
legislative bodies; by initiative and referendum
of the people, and by the Congress of the
United States.
The possibilities of legislation by local ordi—
nance are, as has been pointed out before,
extremely limitedf"

Lawmaking by state legislative bodies is, by
far, the,commonest method. Forty-eight state
legislatures make the vast bulk of our laws.

Lawmaking by the voter, through his vote,
in the citizens’ initiative and referendum, has
been spoken of many times in our articles on
government, as part of the movement toward
direct as opposed to representative government.
South Dakota first, in 1898, provided for the
initiative and referendum. Since then state—
wide initiative and referendum measures have
been passed by Oregon, Nevada, Montana,
Oklahoma, Maine, Missouri, Michigan, Ar-
kansas, Colorado, ‘Arizona, Ohio, California,
Nebraska, W'ashington, North Dakota, Missis-
sippi, Kansas, Utah and Louisiana. New Mex-
ico and Maryland have state-wide referendum,
but no initiative. In addition, the cities of
twenty—two other states have some form of
referendum, in many cases combined with the
initiative. Only in Vermont, Delaware, Rhode
Island and Indiana have no beginnings of
direct legislation been made. The initiative
and referendum does not aim to cover all
lawmaking. Compared with the multitude of
laws on our statute books, passed by our leg-
islatures, we have few “people’s laws.” The
initiative and referendum is essentially a power
of the people held in reserve, by which they
may obtain laws withheld from them by legis-
latures, or recall legislative acts which are un-
pleasing to them.

A certain amount of legislation—a small
amount, for the method is diHicult—is passed
by amendment, to state constitutions, passing
the legislature first, and the vote of the people
afterwards. This is the oldest, but the least
common, form of legislation by referendum.
State' provision for initiative and referendum
itself is alv’vays made in this way.

HE best form of initiative and referendum

amendments provides, first, that on the
petition of a certain number of voters who believe
that a given act of the legislature is unpleasing to
the people, that measure can be placed before
these people’s referendum vote—“ referred ” to
them—and sustained or recalled, in accordance
with their “ yes ” or “no” majority. Second,
if a law fails to pass the legislature it may, by
petition, be placed before the peOple and passed
by them, in spite of the legislature. Third, a
law that has never come before the legislature
can, by motion of the people themselves—their
“ initiative "—be placed, by petition, on the
ballot and passed by their vote alone, without
reference to the legislature. Through this
threefold power of the voters themselves, ac-
cording to one authority, in the forty-four of

our states listed above, “A great body of use-

“—

‘ Edwin S. Potter in Case and Comment, January,
1918.

a By Mary Su’mner Boyd

/

 

ful legislation has been obtained by means of
the initiative, and a considerable number of bad
laws enacted by state or municipal legislative
bodies, have been held up or killed by the voters,
through the referendum."

The last method of legislating, is through
the Congress of the United States. Congress
passes all laws designed strictly to carry out
the powers granted the United States Govern-
ment in its Constitution. Of late years, also
there has been a growing tendency to stretch
the meaning of various clauses of the Consti-
tution, so as to make them cover legislation of
general importance to all the people, or to large
bodies of people as citizens of the United
States, regardless of state lines. This broad-
ening of the scope of the national government

was one of the planks of the Progressive plat-
form, in 1912.

NE of the great problems of legislation in

the United States, is the diversity of state
laws. Some diversity is called for by the
totally different needs of localities which differ
socially and industrially. A considerable
amount of this diversity is, however, due to the
fact that much state legislation is prepared by
men of no special training or capacity for the
task, and is often drawn up in haste. Another
reason for diversity is the fact that when no
model forms are of general acceptance, in draw-
ing up a certain law, some special interest
dominant in a state, can often dictate the terms
of that law. This lack of uniformity, in many
cases, puts one state at a disadvantage with
respect to another. Thus when some of the
N ew England states, after long agitation against
bad conditions, passed decent child labor laws,
the cotton textile industry migrated, to a large
extent, to southern states, where there were
either very rudimentary child labor laws or
none at all.

There have been two methods suggested for
unifying state laws, so that they shall not reflect
local discrimination, but equal justice through-
out the United States. One method has been
educational. In 1892 a body of commissioners
was formed, at the instance of the American
Bar Association, to work for uniform state
laws. Their work was twofold; to draw upon
the best legal ability of the country to frame
those laws which ought to be uniform through-
out the United States, and to push these laws
in the forty-eight state legislatures. The com-
missioners, who are generally appointed by the
legislatures of the‘various states, have made
some progress, but in view of the fact that in
a five—year period, the American Bar Associa-
tion tells us, that no less than 62,014 statutes
are passed by our legislatures, it is evident
that one comparatively small body, working for
this object, cannot make a very great im-
pression. Furthermore, on many subjects of
legislation, the movement for uniform laws
would encounter strong opposition. Business
men in those southern states, for instance, which
were thriving on a textile industry built on
bad child labor laws, would fight a model law
on this subject, tooth and nail.

Digitized by 600816

N those technical matters which will make

the details of business uniform, the uniform
state law movement has made most headway.
Already fifty states and territories have passed
the negotiable instruments act drawn up by the
committee, and forty-one the uniform ware—
house receipts act. and so of other acts in the
commercial or financial field. The committee
has stood behind twenty-seven different acts.
only nine of which were not in these fields, and
these nine have made small progress in the
legislatures. “Acts,” says the secretary of the
commission, “ which the conference has ap-
proved on social matters, have not met with
great favor."

It is in connection with such matters as these.
dealing with human welfare, which special in-
terests in some states may oppose, that the
recent extension of the field of federal legis-
lation is of most importance.

Since the beginning of the Republic, but most
prominently since the years leading up to the
Civil \Var, the states rights issue has existed
between state and nation. With respect to the
negro it was settled in favor of the nation.
Since then it has come up in connection with
proposed federal legislation. Some legislation
covering subjects formerly left to the states.
has been passed under various clauses of the
Constitution, but again and again “states
rights ” prevents other legislation or throws out.
by court decision, laws actually passed.

A law preventing the making of poisonous
phosphorus matches, by imposing a heavy fed-
eral tax, was passed in 1912. This was based

on a decision of the Supreme Court in the so-

called oleomargarine case, to the effect that
“ the taxing power of Congress knows no limits,
except those imposed by the Constitution, and
cannot be restrained because of the results
which may follow from its exercise "—that is
to say, even if the application of this taxing
power results in the regulation of an industry
carried on within a state.

HE Pure Food Law forbade interstate com-

merce in adulterated foods. In 1916 the
National Child Labor Committee secured the
passage of a law forbidding transportation, in
interstate commerce, of the product of the
factory labor of children who were either under
fourteen years of age, or who worked more
than eight hours a day, or whose employment
was performed under certain other bad condi-
tions. This was, in June 1918, declared un-
constitutional by the United States Supreme
Court, on the ground that “the grant of power
to Congress over the subject of interstate com-
merce was to enable it to regulate such com-
merce and not to give it authority to control
the states in their exercise of the police power
over local trade and manufacture.”

This decision came as a setback to those who
are trying to protect the' national welfare by
national legislation. But the halting of social
legislation through national channels is only
temporary. The taxing power can be invoked
as it was to protect workmen working with
dangerous phosphorus, and a law based on this
power, as the oleomargarine case shows, has
chance of passing the review of the court.

(Continued on page 138)

July 13, 1918

137

Journal of a “Y”, Worker -

F anybody had told me I should ever be
I selling soft drinks and cigarettes over a
counter, I shouldn't have believed it, but if you
could only see our ministers and college pro-
fessors worrying themselves sick if they don’t
have cigarettes enough for the men, and rejoic-
ing uproariously over a new shipment of chew-
ing gum, you would be amused. But out here
our one idea is to give the men what they want,
and give it to them in the best way. It would do
your heart good to see how they clamor for hot
chocolate, and would, apparently, rather have
it than all the things they can get in the cafes
down town. I’m sure I could make French
change in my sleep now. If all else fails, I can
run a grocery store when I get home. I am
now occupied in gathering up all the tin boxes
I can get, painting them black, and putting
cubist flowers on them, to keep the things in
that we sell. They will make our shelves won-
derfully gay. Today we have had a great bunch
of lilacs at either end of the counter and butter-
cups in the middle, and everybody was crazy
about them.

I haven’t told you much about the canteen
yet. It’s one of the finest, and splendidly or-
ganized. Now the two women who did all that
are organizing another canteen for the officers,
and have turned this over to us. We have five
women in the kitchen, and Madame Telamon,
the American wife of a French officer here,
sees to all the marketing, and all the necessary
negotiations in French. She’s a very charming
woman and a great help. Her husband was at
one time a professor in Ann Arbor, and is
perfectly delightful. He has been wounded a
time or two, and as he expressed it, at the
hospital, they kept opening him up, and shutting
him up in the same place, until he finally sug-
gested to the doctor, that a button and button-
hole would be much more convenient for every-
body concerned, than so much cutting!

HE hut is very large, really a double one.

In half of it the boys may gather to read,
write or eat at the big tables. The other half is
an auditorium, where there is some sort of pro-
gram every night. The counter where we sell
things is at one end of the first room. We try
to arrange to have one woman on the canteen
all the time, in addition to one or two secre-
taries, and volunteer help at the rush hours.
Miss Thomas and I work on two—hour shifts,
from nine in the morning till eight at night.
For two of those off hours we work about the
building, at various. things, and two hours in
the afternoon we are supposed to rest, but
there are always such interesting things to do at
the canteen, that it’s hard to get away. Already
we have made costumes for theatricals, drawn a
map of the Philippines for a lecture, indexed
books for the library, worked on the bulletin
boards, mended clothes, and a thousand and one
other little things. It’s wonderful fun! Some
hours in the day we have such a long line
waiting for things, that there is no time to get
in a word edgewise. Other times the counter is
freer, and the men have their cup of chocolate,
and talk about everything under the sun, from
wishing they had ice cream sodas, to their
experiences in the trenches, and their girls at
home. They just have to talk to somebody, and
we are the only women here, four of us, to
as many thousand men.

Qualifying for a Grocery Store
By Helen Perry

I’m so glad that I’m with the enlisted men,
though, instead of the officers, as they have so
many more resources in themselves, and don’t
need us half as much. Yesterday a boy came
in who had not talked with an American woman
for almost a year. 'Others have not talked to
them for months. Others have just come from
America, and are having their first siege of
homesickness, with no mail. One man, who has
a brother wounded in the hospital, and has
heard neither from him nor from home for
some time, comes and talks to me, because I
look like his sister. Another hangs around for
some time, and finally tells me, bashfully, in a
stage whisper, that I am losing a hairpin and
they are hard to get over here!

Our chief duty at present, consists of stand-
ing behind a counter, and selling coffee, choco-
late, cigarettes, cookies, toothbrushes, shoe-
strings and the like, to several thousand boys a
day. There are lots of volunteer helpers from
among the nomeommissioned oliicers of the
headquarters staff, who are not very busy.

I wish you could see our Canteen, instead
of just hearing about it. Most of the things
that happen are not interesting, except as you
get them first hand—the stories of the men just
back from the front, the little things that they
like to talk about, 'the pictures of their wives
and sweethearts, and sometimes children, the
things they tell us because they just have totell
a woman, and we happen to be the only ones
handy. Some of the talks I have had already,
perhaps not more than a minute or two long,
have made my coming wonderfully worth while.
It is astonishing how many things you can fit
in with serving chocolate and selling cigarettes!
Sometimes we can get no supplies to sell, and
its hard to have to stand there and refuse
things to boys who have just come in out of
the cold, or who have a long march or drive
before them. But everybody is good—natured,
and you’d be astonished at the nice spirit with
which everybody takes things out here. They
say that one reason that they want a woman on
the Canteen all the time, is because the men
are much more patient and much less profane
if there is a woman around. We are going
to try and have cold drinks as the days get
warmer, but ice and sugar are scarce, and I
don’t know how we’ll come out. Some days I
have so many souvenirs given me, that I rattle
when I walk. I’ve already started bulletin
boards for original sketches and cartoons by
the men themselves and another for verses.
You’d be surprised to see what a lot of really
good stuff we get. And our local talent for
entertainments! It has any college I know
beaten a mile. We not only have a wonderful
band, mandolin clubs, and professional soloists
and musicians, but tightrope walkers, circus
performers, professional actors, artists, to say
nothing of men of scientific and technical train-
ing of various sorts.

We have an entertainment of some sort every
night, either by local or imported talent. It’s
astonishing, the sort of peOple we are constantly
meeting out here. Last week, Judge Lindsay
and Winifred Holt, the Lighthouse person,
both turned up the same day. The last

three evenings we have had lectures by
Dr. Vincent of Minnesota University, by
a Frenchman who visited America with
Joffre and Viviani, and by Dr. Daly of Har-
vard University, who is one of our workers
out at the hospital. The men connected with
our hut are college professors, pastors of promi-
nent churches, business men, chauffeurs, movie
experts, accountants, etc., and most of them are
an unusually fine type of men. We are not
only the central hut here at headquarters, but
the Divisional center for some twenty small
towns and camps surrounding us, so you can
imagine how many intéresting things are con~
stantly happening.

I went, one day this week, to visit the Can-
teen out at the hospital, and theirs is quite a
different problem. The men who come to the
Canteen there are mostly convalescents, and
there are comparatively few of them at a time,
so entertainment is the important thing, singing
and playing with them and for them. The
hospital is in a beautiful site on a hill just

outside the city, with a wonderful view in every
direction.

Being a Sister to Him

66 HOEVER conceived the idea that the

best thing for the welfare of our
boys in France was to get young women from
the homeland into the Y. W. C. A. canteens and
Red Cross Huts had a stroke of genius,” says
Dr. Lambert, surgeon-in—chief of the American
Red Cross in France, in a recent interview in
the New York Times.

He believes that the army order barring out
wives, mothers and daughters is justified by
experience, but he urges a let-down of the
restrictions in the case of the “ sister clause,” as
he believes the brother and sister relationship
to be “ the least emotional of the relationships
that exist between the sexes,” the sisterly, state
of mind the ideal state for a canteen worker
who is to bring cheer to the soldier. He asks

also for young women, and believes the twenty-
five—year lower limit is too high.

To enforce these two clauses, he holds, is to
bar “ the active, vigorous young girls who are

on a par with the active, vigorous young men
in our draft army."

The Y. W. C. A. is calling for more and
more of these women canteen workers. A
thousand are needed. The Y. W. C. A. will as-
sist with transportation and living expenses, but
there is a minimum expense of $500 which must
be borne by the candidate. Address Women’s
Overseas Section, Y. W. C. A., 347 Madison
avenue, New York City.

Won’t Be Fair to Women Until
They Must

HE Davenport, Iowa, School Board has

refused to act upon a petition of the
women teachers in the city schools asking that
they be put on the same wage scale as the men
in the same work. The board’s refusal is based
on the good Teutonic principle that might makes
right. They say too many women can be got
at the present scale to warrant the elimination

of thauble stand d wage.
Digitized by  €

138

 

The Woman’s Department at
our Fifth Avenue 0500
is in charge of
Miss V. D. H. Furman

and is
especially equipped to handle
the accounts of women and
women’s organiatione

anuMBIA
zrnusr
COMPANY

358 FIFTH AVENUE
We are sometimes called the 05cm Suing. Bent

and Institute A Boarding and
teams-rim;- Day School for Girls

High School and College Preparatory Courses. Two
Years of College Work. Special Courses: The Arts.

Journalism. Short Story Writing. Business and Secre-
tarial Training. Kindergarten. Normal Training. Domen-

tie Science. Parliamentary Law.
Mn. Nanette 8. Paul. LL. 8.. President.

Author of "Paul’s Parliamentary Law
and "The Heart of Blackstone"

 

With the Suffrage Hospitals

(Continued from page 132)

OT the least of their pride was in their am-

bassadress. She had stood so high mind-
edly for all the suffragists hold dear. Her work
had been dispatched with diplomacy and an
executive ability which were remarkable. It
was another instance of the splendid equipment
which a training in suffrage organization gives
women. Mrs. Brown had made a national rec-
.ord in the most highly specialized suffrage 0r-
ganization in the United States—the New York
Suffrage Party. Every officer present was con-
scious of a great pride in the oliicial representa-
tive of the National American \Voman Sufo
frage Association to France. It was evident
that the collective strength of the national suf—
fragists had been potent with the French

authorities. The backing of one of the largest
collective forces of womanhood in America had
carried conviction to the French officials that
here was something offered them of such stability
that it could be counted upon. It was evident
between the lines of her simple presentation of
facts that Mrs. Brown’s own personality had
also gone a long way in carrying conviction.
And this has been borne out by every letter re-
ceived at headquarters whether from French
officials or from members of the units.

When writing to advertisers please mention the WOMAN CITIZEN.

Your Vote and the Law
(Continued from page 136)

ALREADY Senator Kenyon has introduced
a bill forbidding the transportation of the
product of child labor through the United States
mails, and an amendment to the Revenue Bill
has been introduced, setting an adult wage as
the minimum for child labor.

If all these fail or seem doubtful of satis-
fying the court, there are other surer ways.
There is the possibility of constitutional amend—
ment, already invoked, to free the negro slave.
One federal law declared unconstitutional has
already been made the subject of a federal
amendment. This is the income tax law, passed
in 1893, thrown out by the Federal Court, and
in 1913 made a part of the United States Con-
stitution in Amendment XVI.

A child labor amendment has been introduced

by Representative Mason. But the amending
process is slow; it holds back legislation needed
by the people. It would seem that, if we must
resort to it, the {best provision for the future of
national social legislation, would be a general
common welfare amendment carrying out the
purpose of the Constitution as stated in its
preamble; namely, “ to provide for the common
welfare.” This would give the Federal Govern-
ment a power equivalent to the police power
of the states, and it would safeguard future
Federal laws from the Supreme Court.
. Senator Owen has pointed out another means
by which laws can be safeguarded from the
court. His bill re-enacting the child labor law
and prohibiting the Supreme Court from in-
validating it, is ably defended by Chief Justice
Walter Clark of North Carolina,’f who points
out that: ’

“ The jurisdiction conferred on the Supreme
Court by the Constitution, Art. III, is small. and
then follows: ‘In all the other cases before
mentioned, the Supreme Court shall have
appellate jurisdiction, both as to law and fact,
with such exceptions and under such regula-
tions as Congress shall make.’ ”

The reconstruction acts were founded on the
principle of Senator Owen’s bill, which was
admitted by the Court itself, as depriving it of
power. Justice Clark shows that the usurpation
of power by the courts, first appearing in the
case of Marbury vs. Madison, was fought by
presidents from Jefferson to Lincoln. It has
led to many unconstitutional decisions, as shown
by such reversals of its own decision, after a
term of years, as the Oregon ten-hour case
last year. _He urges Senator Owen’s method as
more speedy than a Constitutional amendment.

But whatever special clauses in the constitu-
tution, humane federal legislation is technically
based on, the real principle underlying it is
the power of the United States to protect the
common welfare of the nation as a whole. This
was expressed by Justice Holmes in his dissent-
ing opinion on the Federal Child Labor Law,
when he said:

“ The public policy of the United States is
shaped with a view to the benefit of the nation
as a whole. The National Welfare, as under-
stood by Congress, may require a different atti-
tude within its sphere from that of some self-
seeking state. It seems to me entirely consti-
tutional for Congress to enforce its understand-
ing by all the means at its command.”

 

Ht Publle, June 29, 1918.

The Woman Citizen is for sale on newsstands

 

The Woman Citizen

METROPOLITAN
DYE WORKS

-CLEANERS
and DYERS

First Class Work. Reasonable Prices.
Prompt Delivery.

For stores throughout Nun York City. we leltpltnt’ dirutm.

l

 

Ambassadress to Women
(Continued from page 133)

AST summer she was appointed visitor to

the Atlantic division chapters of the Red
Cross in order to give her advice as to the best
methods for carrying on their work. This stim-
ulated her desire, long dormant, to study at
close range the work of women of other lands.
Miss Jane Delano, director of the Bureau of
Nursing of the American Red Cross, has writ—
ten a letter to the Red Cross in Japan to be
carried by Miss Furness.

For many years Miss Furness had been inter-
ested in Japan and is a member of the American
Japan Society. She has thoroughly furnished
her mind with information about the country
she is to study. And in a recent interview the
wife of the Japanese ambassador in Washing-
ton expressed much interest in the object of her
journey.

Many of the organizations which are sending
greetings through Miss Furness to the women
of Japan, have also extended the mission to
China, in the event of her finding it possible to
include that country in her trip.

For this year, Miss Furness will lay aside the
telescope and will devote herself entirely to
international interests, making no effort to pur-
sue astronomical investigations en route.

Her trip will be an entirely voluntary service
to the two countries. It is offered in the intensest
patriotism and in sympathy with the interests
of womanhood everywhere. Professor Furness
is giving her sabbatical year to this enterprise.

One of the first designated stopping places
of Miss Furness’s long trip throughout the
Japanese Empire in the interests of her mission
is to be at the Tokio English School for girls.
where she will be the guest of the headmistress.
Miss Tsuda. She has also accepted an invita-
tion from Baron Kanda, director of the Higher
Commercial School of Tokio, an institution
ranking with the university schools of com—
merce in this country, to deliver a series of ice—
tures on science and education.

Miss Furness was not one of Miss Mitchell’s
pupils, the toga of astronomy professor having
been passed on to her by way of Professor
Mary Whitney.

She was a fellow student with Dr. Katherine
chent Davis around whose college days there
linger pleasant traditions of her interest in
astronomy. One of Dr. Davis’s college nick-
names was “the clondy-night friend,” because
it was only then that she could be lured from
the observatory to mundane interests.

The Woman Citizen hopes to print from time
to time some informal messages from Professor
Furness’s unique mission for the completer
union of the women of Japan and America.

______________.____.—————
rm: WILLIAMS PRINTING COMPANY, saw 1038030

  
  

They Need It In Their Business

Therefore They Subscribe For
The Woman Citizen

‘  'O woman interested in her sex

 can afford to be without this
"  necessary avenue of informa-

 

Legislative Council of Indiana Women
Muncie, Indiana.

 

” I' meetings of our suffrage club.”

Sarah L. Merrill,
Lacoma, N. H.

“ ll ‘mnnmmmmmnummuunmwummmum‘ 1‘ " ‘ WW“ ‘ l i w i i

  In   Do not want to miss one

i I  number of the Woman Citizen.

1  All wbrking suffragists should

have it to keep them in touch

with the general field, and all other

suffragists to make them working ones.

7‘ We have placed it in our city library
 and are to have it in its branches.”

May Brayton Briggs,
Bradford, Mass.

 

  enter my name upon
  your list of subscribers to the
1   I-i="oman Citizen and let my sub-
;3—';* scription begin with the issue
containing a very remarkable chart
showing the status of social legislation
in various states. It seems to me of

great interest and importance."

Gertrude Seymour,

Social Hygiene Division

Commission on Training Camp Activities

War Department,
Washington, D. C.

 
  

 

You Need It Too

 

171 Madison Avenue

 

.—._..__ _ M- - . '_ _._. w

W8 Than Published Prise?-

‘ " neg-man.  .5.

 

E have arranged to supply the books listed below at the special prices

named when sold in combination_ with new subscriptions to the Woman

Citizen. They will be mailed post-paid to any address in the United States.

This is an opportunity to save from twenty to thirty-five per cent on the

' published prices. If you are already a subscriber to the Woman Citizen

and wish to own certain of ,the books, invite your friends to become subscribers to the
magazine at one dollar a year, and have the books of your choice sent to your address.
They will cost you the difference between the full price quoted for each combination
and one dollar. Or subscribe to the magazinefas a gift for a friend and have the book

sent to your address.
Published Combination: Amount

, O n t  e X '76"? a» r ofpgocgk 823?:‘3‘32‘? 0083133333ny
THE PAN—GERMAN PLOT UNMASKED: André Chéradame . . . . . . .. £1.25 $1.85 $.40

“OVER THERE”: Captain R. Hugh Knyvett . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50 2.00 .50

FIGHTING FOR PEACE: Henry van Dyke . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25 1.85- .40

WHY WE ARE AT WAR: Woodrow Wilson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .50 1.35 .15

IN OUR FIRST YEAR OF WAR: Woodrow Wilson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00 1.65 .35

FIGHTING FRANCE: Edith Wharton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00 1.65 .35
THE UNITED STATES AND PAN-GERMANIA: André Chéradame.. 1.00 1.65 .35
GENERAL JOFFRE AND HIS BATTLES: Raymond Recouly (Captain X) 1.25 1.85 .40
ON THE RIGHT OF THE BRITISH LINE: Captain Gilbert Nobbs... 1.25 1.85 .40
WHITE NIGHTS AND OTHER RUSSIAN IMPRESSIONS: Arthur Ruhl 2. 00 2 . 35 .65
A.WAR NURSE’S DIARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..'1.25 1.85 .40
MY WAR DIARY: Madame Waddington . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50 2.00 .50
WITH THE ALLIES: Richard Harding Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25 1.85 .40
THE DESERTER: Richard Harding Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .50 1 35 .15
PRINCIPLES OF AMERICAN DIPLOMACY: John Bassett Moore. .. 2.00 2.35 .65
N 0 V e 1 5
THE EARTHQUAKE: Arthur Train . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50 2.00 .50
CHRISTINE: Alice Cholmondeley. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -1.25 1.85 .40
HIS FAMILY: Ernest Poole . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50 2.00 .50
THE TREE OF HEAVEN: May Sinclair . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.60 2.00 .60
l‘v’Iiscellaneous
YOUR VOTE AND HOW TO USE IT: Mrs. Raymond Brown . . . . . . .. .75 1.50 .25
THE WOMAN VOTER’S MANUAL: S. E. Forman and Marjorie Shuler. . 1.00 1.65 35
MARK TWAIN’S LETTERS, 2 Volumes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4.00 3.75 1.25
OBSERVATION: EVERY MAN HIS OWN UNIVERSITY: R. H. Conwell 1.00 1.65 .35
THE MODERN CITY AND ITS PROBLEMS: Frederic C. Howe. . .. 1.50 2.00 .50
THE HIGH COST OF LIVING: Frederic C. Howe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50 2.00 .50
THE FOOD PROBLEM: Kellogg and Taylor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25 1.85 .40
WAR FRENCH: Colonel C. D. Willcox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .75 1.50 .25

This offer is for a limited period. Send your orders promptly to

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

New York City

W . .
. r: .r. .
AMA: 'k?~‘.‘s.i..='*ii".a‘ r. .- 2:: ass-41.: > . -rrva a n: . I . . . Lt

 

