' ’£&'€§"WWEI§§&miim . . .
.  . ' QMWWWvWWW

,-

 

T“ E: Whom ynu fmish rI-ading this
am: a anew-ant stamp on this
Uw magazine, and It will be
H"  {2'10- handu of nur soldiers or

admixed to proceed overseaeL No

g- .v- ..1‘-y,,,... 7‘ u-i- ..

r2

frankltn 5tmon a (to. i

A Store of Individual Shops 1
Fifth Avenue, 37th and 38th Sts., New York

 

N ew Summer Faslz'iom

Waists and Separate Skirts

At Unusual Price:
For WOMEN and MISSES

_ _-__.___...____..-___..._____._.._

ZOI—Whito French Ba-
tiste Waist, new button back

model. tucked front and back.
pleated collar and cuffs pi
with copen. rose or yel ow

(gigazdie. also in all 

203—Pin - tucked White

ZOI—Organdie Skirt, in
while, all. Copen or orchid.
shir at waist. hemetitched

messes: 7.50

203—White Cotton Gabar-
dine Skirt, shirred top. triple

Batiste Waist, tucked roll rounded a“? kc“ With
collar and tumJan cu“. loops and rl uttons: two-
edged with lace; ribbon P19“ belt b “on 5 
ties at neck and trimmed. o
cutie. 

White ZOS—White Cotton Trico-

 

205—Self Striped
Dimity Waist, white linen
roll collar, cuffs and hand
embroidered front, with

real lrish crochet

tine Skirt (superior. quality).
gathered lop. inset tailored

kets with large pearl
mton and buttonhole; de—

tachable belt.

5.00 4.75

edging.

 

3385l 8: “[0.

Fifth Avenue at 35th Street 1
Established I879 

l

‘ Information About I!
Our 2.00 “AHTAB” ‘
Silk Hosiery 

The 2.00 silk AHTAB stocking is a fine 
heavy stocking, chosen—almost invariably—
by those of our smart customers who prefer
the faultless English type of tailored dress.

It is heavy, handsome, very, very smooth,
with a reinforcement at the heel that ac-
centuates the trim attractiveness of a foot that
is dressed in the low English walking Shoe.

All silk, double reinforcements—a stocking
which has every thoroughbred point. All
desirable street shades.

 

 

 You Never Pay More at Best 3:7;

 

\KI.J\li“-'~'l":'i
i'lu ~il lulu?

\ " SKIRTS
IL \h'.115xl..‘"i ill ‘Il .i:
“I Lrtmth, "Ii {u i.’ |‘-'-

     
  
      
   
     

   

and abroad.

A column for
Committees.

        
     
   
     
   
   
   
   
     

or renewal) to

The Woman Citizen

 

 

the

  

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

171 Madison Avenue

 

 

 

} Prompt
Delivery

Free

1‘. “I lzl‘i'r
HI flu"

1-.

II-

A list of woman’s opportunities.

attention

ORDER IT TODAY

First Aid to Subscribers

Pin a New York draft, Money or Express Order for
$1.00 to this advertisement, fill out the blank below, cut
out and mail both to us for one year’s subscription (new

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

.\'a me . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

Invites Your Cooperation

IT PUBLISHES WEEKLY

Political reports of the woman’s cause at home

Direct news from the National American W’oman
Suli'rage Association’s hospitals in France.

of Vigilance

Address . . . . . . . .' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stalc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

 

New York

 

    
 

 

 

PUBLISHED by the Woman Citizen

Corporation, in the hope

CONTINUING the Woman’s Journal, that it may

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

founded 1870 by Lu Stone and Henry tin rial to
B. Blackw rove a self— e ’tua g memo
C11: 38 t W Y “"8133” de‘ Founded June 2, 1917 rs. Frank es generosity tawzr;

voted to winnin equal rights an espe-
cially to winnfng equal mirage ~ or
women, and published weekly in oston,
Massachusetts, from 1870 to 1917. Con-
also the Woman Voter, and the
National Sudrage News. In succeeding
the National Su rage News, The Woman
Citizen became the omcial organ of the
National American Woman Sufl'r
Association, and as such tries to main-
tain intimate contact between the Asso-
ciation and its two million members
throughout the United States.

the cause of woman sud'rage
faith in women’s irresistible progress.

The directors of the Corporation are
Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, Miss Alice
Stone Blackde Miss Mary, Garrett
Hay, Mrs. Thomas Bucklln ells, and
Mrs. Arthur L. Livermore.

Alice Stone Blackwell is a special contrib-
uting editor.

Rose Young is the editor-in-ehiet.

WM 8 lo
{‘5’ 1.99%“: cm.- W’&

editors.

Published every Saturday by

The WOMAN Cmm CORPORATION
at 171 Madison Avenue, New York

Ten cents a copy; yearly subscription (52 numbers),
81.00. Postage to forei countries iifty cents extra.
Entered at the New ork Post 00cc as Second
Class matter, under the act of March 3, 1879. Copy-
right, 1918, by The Woman Citizen Corporation.

VOL. III JULY 20, 1918 NO. 8

l
3

m.
l

'

are conducting a determined oEensivc
to gain the position held by Georgia in
the Woman Citizen circulation contest.

As a result South Dakota is closing in upon
Georgia’s margin and unless their southern
competitors uncover a few surprises in the
next few days, the westerners declare they will
attain their goal. '

'The coveted position once attained, the
it estern State will find herself pressed by
some hvely rivals—Michigan, Indiana and
Minnesota, for instance—and Georgia will not
give way easily.

Iowa launched an aggressive sign this
week as a means of laying a firm oundatiou
for the ratification campaign. Letters have
gone out to the women of the state advising
them to subscribe for the Woman Citizen as
their “ best helper,” because the Citizen
“ gives the only authentic woman suffrage news
as well as news Of the Women’s Overseas
Hospital Units and woman’s war work. No
suifragist can adord to be without it.”

“ Just finished reading the issue of July 6th.
That map is fine, ‘ Where Government is of
the Peo le,’ ” writes Miss Katherine Dey of
West P ' adelphia.

From Hattie Corline Young, Recording-sec-
retary of the W. C. T. U., of Southern Cali-
fornia, we received the following:

“I fully appreciate the splendid work of
the Woman Citizen, and I consider it a mighty
factor in the accomplishment of securing true
Democracy in America.

SOUTH DAKOTA subscription workers

Surely, I could not well live without
the Woman Citizen.

Mas. A. E. SHELDON,
Pres. N ebr. Fed. Woman’s Clubs.

 

STA TE CIRCULATION CHAIRMEN

Arkansas: Miss Billie Pitney, Little Rock
Conn: Mrs. Bertha T. Voorhorst, Hartford

Indiana: Mrs. Jessie Fremont Croan, Anderson
Iowa: Dr. Ellie McCollum Jones, Webster City
Maine: Mrs. Dora H. York, Augusta
Maryland: Mrs. E. W. Rouse, J r., Baltimore
Mass.: Mrs. R. L. DeNormandie, Boston
Michigan: Mrs. John Waite, Ann Arbor
Minnesota: Mrs. I. E. Rose, St. Paul.
New Hampshire: Mrs. Mary Post, Portsmouth
New Jersey: Mrs. F. H. Colvin, East Orange
North Dakota: Mrs. Katherine L. Brainerd,
Hebron
Rhode Island: Mrs. LeBaron C. Colt, Bristol
South Carolina: Mrs. J. T. Glttman, Columbia.
Tennessee: Mrs. D. J. Kimbrough, Nashville
Texas: Mrs. Helen Moore, Galveston
Virginia: Miss Helen Stockdell, Richmond
West Virginia: Mrs. P. C. McBee, Mor antown
Wisconsin: Mrs. Charles Mott, Milwa ee

 

 

Our Circulation Story

Circulation Contest .

1. A pledge will constitute an entr .

2. No entries will be accepted a ter Decem-
ber '1, 1918.

8. Contest closes January 1, 1919.

4. In case’of a tie for any one premium, the

prize will be awarded to. each alifyin
contestant. qu 8

5. Only actual paid subscriptions will be count-
ed in the awarding of premiums.

\

. First Cash Premium
FIFTY DOLLARS

To the State Association that sends in the
highest number over 200 (paid new subscrib-
ers). The net price per subscription to the
State Association is .70, the .30 to go into the
state, county or local treasury, as may be de-
cided by arrangement between the state and
its branches.

Second Cash Premium
TWENTY-FIVE DOLLARS

To the County Association that sends in the
highest number over 100 (paid new sub-
scribers). These would come through the
State Association, and would help to swell the

state’s total.
Third Cash Premium

A n y w o m a n who
$“djmggilgmgggzé :31: Relative Position of State Leagues in the Woman Citizen’s Circulation Contest: TWENTY-FIVE
the task, or'privnege of G July so. 1 G O July 18th DOLLARS
citizenshi . wish on 1. car 'a . eorgla.
success.” p y 2. Soutlingakota 2. South Dakota. T0 the Local Club that
Mrs. A. D’Arcy Ham- 8. Indiana 3. Indiana. Bend! in the highest
ilton of Auckland, New 4. Iowa 4. Iowa. number over 100 ( d
Zealand, in renewing her 5. Michigan 5. Michigan. nezlsubscribers). ese
subscription writes, “ I 6. Minnesota 6. Minnesota. is: come through the
feel we must keep in 7. New Jersey 7. New Jersey. “11 Association into
touch with the women of 8. New York 8. Massachusetts. the tate Association,
other countries.” That 9. Massachusetts 9. New York. adathenee tothe Woman
is the way progressive 10. Ohio 10. Ohio. . t, at.
women feel the world 11. New Ham shire ll. Wisconsm. _
over, and that is why we 12. Missouri, irginia 12. New Ham shire.
advise all to join the 18. Wisconsin  gillszouri, lrgima. Fourth Cub Premium
ranks of the W0 n 14. Alabama . a ama.
Citizen readers and mp 15. Texas  l'I‘Iexasl. d TWENTY-F IVE
informed on the changes 16. Maryland . ary an . .
in women’s progress here 17. Pennsylvania 17. Pennsylvania. DOLLARS
and abroad. 18. Maine 18. Maine. To the co-operating
Suffrage deveIOpments 19. Louisiana 19. Lomsmna. subscriber who send. in
throughout the world to- 20. Connecticut 20. Connecticut. . the est number over
day present a story of 21, West Virginia 21. West Virgnna. 50. is would be inde-
compelling interest, as 22, south Carolina, Kentucky 22. South Carolina, Kentucky . pendent of state, county
thrilling as any serial 23. Tennessee 23- Tennefisee- and club circulation ac-
novel. From week to 24_ Washington, D. C" Arkansas 24. Washington, D. C., Arkansas. tivlties, would apply to
week this story is told in 25 North Dakota , 25. North Dakota. . state, th‘t do not aka
the pages of the Woman ' . . 26. Rhode Island, Mississippi. up the circul‘aon work
. . 26. Mississippi, Rhode Island
Citizen. 27. Nebraska. in an Mela] wa and
27. Nebraska . Y:
. 28. Washington. would come directly to
R093 LAW GER“: 28‘ ‘vasmngton 29. North Carolina. the WW 0““... The
National Circulation 29' North carouna 30' Vermont 30. Vermont. net price per subscription

Chairman.

is $1.00. No discount.

I D'fgjltlzea 5y   |

144

   

1 iii. Altman & Gin. WW

TRAVEL AND VACATHON OUTFIITS

and the numerous minor requirements to render both the journey
and the sojourn worth while have been provided in
interesting and extensive assortments.

    
     
   
       
       

The activities of the seaside, country sports, or the hours of leisure
have been amply anticipated in apparel typical of
fashionahlle life during the Summer period.

m

mahisnn Avenue-Jim) Animus, New Earl:
within-fourth 5.11121 TELEPHONE 1ooo MURRAY HILL UM-thh strut

  
      

BUILD 22 YOUR PERSONALITY

This is WOMAN’S ERA. Big opportunities

await the woman with Personality.

Are you ready to grasp your opportunity
when it comes? Or do you lack the Person-
ality which will make your social, professional
or business training count for something
above the average?

 

 

We teach you how to develop your Person-

ality so that you will be ready when your
opportunity comes.

WRITE {*OR PARTICULARS  NURSES OUTFITTING ASSOCIATION, Inc.
Correspondence Course or Personal Instruction “ 425 Fifth Avenues New York

 

 

Amend Robertson School of Cultural Arts i
285 West Twelfth Street New York City ' RED CROSS GARMENTS

 

 

 

Send for Catalog

When wridnz to advertisers ulna-e mentbn the I. cam“. , 7 _ J

The Woman Citizen

THE WOMAN’S JOURNAL

A Journal of Democracy
July 20, 1918

 

“ W a shall tight for the things which we have always carried nearest our hearts — for democracy, for (be right of
those who submit to Minority to have a voice in their own government."

Afraid of Women

F ROM east, west, north and south, letters come pouring into OME three or four Senators hold the position of “ boss ” of
our office bearing the inquiry, “ What is the infiuence, their states. They make and unmake Governors, Congress-
‘sinister it must be, behind the attitude of the minority in Congress men and legislatures. For the moment there is an all-controlling
which prevents them from seeing the significance of a declaration machine in their states and they are playing the part of dictator.
of the nation for a democracy at this time, and from taking favor- The vote of women would introduce a menace to the perpetuity
able action on the Federal Amendment?” of that machine, and such men want women to.stay at home and
ask no questions about politics. If their taxes are excessive, it is

2

This inquiry has come from men and from women, from en- ‘
franchised women of many states in the West and from women
all over the country, anxiously, impatiently, indignantly waiting
to learn whether this nation is really sincere in its claims that it is
58de a war 0f l’c’litical liberation Several Senators are not believers in democracy at all. If they
could have their way without injuring their own political futures,

If laws are not enforced
and the laxity threatens the peace and dignity of their homes, it is
none of the women’s business.

theirs to pay and “ not to reason why.’

One reply may be made to all these inquiries. There is no
more sinister influence behind the opposition of the minority than
is found in the fact that each and every one of the men who
hesitates to vote for the Federal Amendment is afraid of women.

they would take the ballot away from working men and give it
back to a landed aristocracy. They have the same distrust of
the “ people ” as has the Kaiser.

. . . . . The records of many interviews, letters and conversations with
In the last analySis, every objection leads to this concluSion. _ . o _

the minority Will be valuable for future psychologists to study.
Certain " WCt ” men Whose campaigns have been financed by We are certain that the most expert analyst of mental operations

“ wet " interests and Whose only hope 0f P0litical Prefanent would arrive at no other conclusion than ours, the minority of the
rests in a continuation of the power of those interests, are afraid Senate is afmid of women.
the women will vote “ dry ” and thus drive them and theirs from

the field. The campaigns of certain other senators have been
supported by manufacturers who see in women suffrage the estab-
lishment of child' labor laws and the general improvement of
women factory workers’ position in the matter of hours, wages
and standards. Several senators hold the opinion of women
which was common a half century ago, and are as unaware that
times and conditions have changed as a dodo.

Yet there are men in the majority of the Senate who once held
some or all of the views held by the minority. They have come
over to the suffrage side sometimes reluctantly, hesitatingly,
doubtingly, but often with the enthusiasm which accompanies
conviction without reservation. So there is not a Senator in the
minority who may not be modern enough to follow the example
of the braver majority.

. . . . Let no sut’fra ists des air of the re resentatives from their
If it is brought to their attention that millions of women are g p P

now compelled to earn their living in the field of labor and that
they need the vote for their own defense, they answer that these
women ought not to be there and if they could have their way
they would drive them back into the homes of long ago and compel
brothers and brothers-in-law to support them while they amuse
themselves with the forgotten distaff.

states. \
Continue to bring before them in every possible manner the

righteousness, the inevitability, the war strategy of a stroke for
democracy at this time for the nation which has set a standard in
the world war, and has announced that “ we fight for democracy.”

C. C. C.

146

Suffrage Land

EFORE the world war began, in only 18 per cent of the
territory of North America were women enfranchised to
any extent.

At present, in 67 per cent of the territory of Continental United
States women have either full, presidential, municipal or primary
suffrage.

And in 73 per cent—almost three-fourths—of the northern
half 'of the western continent, women have a large measure of
suffrage.

The total number of women over 21 in the United States and
Canada is 28,814,856. Of these, at the beginning of the war,
August, 1914, about 14 per cent had the right to vote on any-
thing higher than school, bond or tax questions. Now, 12,935,953,
or 44 per cent, are in areas which have given women the right
to vote on city, state or national questions.

That is to say, four years ago out of all the women of voting
age north of the Mexican border, about one out of every seven
lived in enfranchised territory. Now more than one out of 2%
live in territory where women have been accorded a considerable
degree of citizenship. '

The total number of women of voting age in the whole of
North America from the Isthmus. to the North Pole approxi-
mates 33,600,000. Of these no more than 11 per cent had any
degree of enfranchisement beyond school, bond, or tax, early in
1914. Now 38 per cent may vote on city, state or national
questions.

To recapitulate the progress of woman suffrage in war time is
to show how preeminently it has come to be considered as a
war question that must be settled—and settled affirmatively—in

war time.

“More Trouble Made by Women!”

l I N DER this caption the redoubtable Times presents another
immortal editorial. As a matter of probable fact, suffrage

for women in New York is likely to produce more data on polit-
ical psychology than all the rest of the States put together have
done.

In 1915 and 1917 women in the campaigns of New York
served as watchers. at the polls. They did not approach their
task without preparation. Schools for watchers were held in all
parts of the city and state and all sorts of women, many of those
who worked during the day, attended these schools in the even-
ings to learn thoroughly every detail of the undertaking. In
doing so they were obliged to learn the duties of every election
officer. Five thousand of them served in 1915 and six thousand
of them in 1917. Among the number were public and private
school teachers, members of college faculties, lawyers, doctors,
journalists, clerks, bookkeepers.

There were few among them who were not business women
and accustomed to office details, and the training that the addi-
tional information gained through the Watchers’ Schools gave
them, made them expert election ofiicials. Very many of these
women watchers assisted the officials in making out their reports

The Woman Citizen

for the reason that the officials were unable to do it correctly
themselves. Few women watchers were there who did not emerge
from their watcher’s duty with a firm conviction that very many
of the political weaknesses which have led conservative men and
women to condemn our whole political system have been due to
the low order of mentality and training in men frequently em-
ployed as election ofhcials. The lack of sufiicient training given
before the elections by political parties and frequently sheer
mental incompetence of the men so employed has led to incorrect
returns. N o woman who served as a watcher was there who did
not realize that women serving as election officials would be
giving to the state a far more valuable service than that of a
mere voter. Therefore, all over the state of New York women
are asking to serve as election officials and in most counties are
being gladly accepted.

In Queens county, however, in which lie Long Island City and
a portion of Brooklyn, both Republicans and Democrats are deter-
mined that women shall not serve in these capacities. The women
are insistent, whereupon the Times editorial declared that “ more
The Times agrees that there

is little doubt of the competence of the women to perform these

7

trouble is being made by women.’

tasks and readily arrives at the proper conclusion “ that one
reason (of opposition) is that the men do not want to give up a
highly valued privilege 'which they have monopolized so long that
the thought of losing or dividing it is intensely and intolerably

9

painful to them.’ Even the Times, however, sees danger ahead
“in the threat of the men to strike if any women are appointed
to the new jobs created by an enlarged enrollment. If the neces-
sity to carry it into execution should arise and if the election
should go on just as well as before—or better—another precious
‘ domain ’ would be lost to men forever! ”

Last week the Times gloried in the fact that Elon Brown,
retired Senator, was a “ reactionary ” and regretted his departure,
although his retirement is admittedly in the interests of good
government. Now it decries the effort of women to improve
the machinery of elections in Queens. Although the item has not
publicly entered into the controversy, we wonder whether the
seven and a half dollars per pay paid election officials has some-
thing to do with the stubborn opposition of Republicans and
Democrats.

Meanwhile, suffragists congratulate themselves that all men are

not like some of them.—C.‘C. C.

Protecting Women from Their
Husbands

‘ ‘ 7 OMEN have been protected from marauding males, from
the contamination of politics, from votes and from them-
selves, and all of this by men who are sure they know more about

what women want than any woman can possibly know what she

wants for herself.
On this basis of male omniscience women have been immured in

castles, in cloistered convents and in the sacred precincts of the

Home with a large H.
They have been too good to be at large, too bad to be trusted,

Digitized by 600816

July 20, 1918

too frail to be allowed out of the sight of their husbands and too
dangerous to be permitted near other women’s husbands.

It remains for an othcial of the New York Board of Education
to protect women from their own husbands.

President Arthur E. Somers has opposed the appointment of
Mrs. Florence Stevenson as an assistant teacher of sewing and
cooking in the Far Rockaway High School on the ground that
admitting married women to teaching positions in public schools
may encourage men who can support their wives, not to do so but
to let them go forth as bread winners.

The number and variety of reasons, moral, aesthetic and eco-
nomic, invented by the New York City Board of Education to
prevent mar‘ried women from carrying on the profession of
teacher for which they are fitted, leads the casual observer to
suspect that the board is governed by male prejudice and nothing
less.

The real and the only reason for keeping married women from
filling positions for which they have spent years of professional
training and where they are now clamorously needed, is that the
men on the New York City Board don't want them.

The excuse which has always salved men’s consciences for
paying women less than men are paid, has been their conviction
that all men support families. If it should ever become con-
spicuously evident that women also support families, the double

standard of salaries and positions would go into the discard.

Why Women Want to Vote

HIS year the women of Massachusetts asked their alleged
representatives at Springfield to protect them and their
children by passing laws:

1. To limit the hours of work for women and children under
18 years to 48 a week so that they would have the same protection
that men in public service and on the railroads are now given.

2. To restrict the night work of women and girls in subway
stations for the safeguarding of their health and morals.

3. *To provide I0 additional inspectors for the State Board of
Labor and Industries in order that the existing labor laws for
women and children might be enforced.

4. To permit the Minimum W'age Commission to perform its
work of improving wage conditions for poorly paid girls and
women by allowing them to till vacancies on their own wage
boards; and to post wage decrees in places where women are
employed; and to make employers keep records of hours so that
the Commission can tell whether employees are receiving a living
wage for a full day’s work.

5. To raise the age of working children from I4 to 16 years.
(The Government is asking that children be kept in school as long
as possible that they may be better prepared to serve their
country.)

6. To provide education for all children at work that they may
become better workers and better citizens.

7. To grant aid to mothers with dependent children under 16

 

‘After the Legislature defeated the bill for ten additional inspectors, the
Governor sent a special message asking that the inspectors be appointed. A
bill was then passed providing for live temporary inspectors for one year.

147

years of age so that they may be kept in school instead of being
forced into the mills and factories before they have had suiiicient
training to make them of real value to their country.

8. To provide for a separate session of the Municipal Court to
help in settling family difficulties so that innocent women and
children may be protected from the publicity of the public
sessions.

9. To let women vote on the question of granting cities and
towns license to sell intoxicating liquor.

10. To permit women to serve on boards of health and so help
in making communities clean and wholesome places in which
to live.

II. To raise pay of State House scrub women to 30c. an hour
as a means of aiding them to meet the increasing cost of living.
(A large number of bills were enacted increasing the salaries of
highly paid men ofiicials from one to two thousand dollars a year.)

The Massachusetts Legislature, made up of men elected by men
raters, refused to pass any of these protective laws.

In Memoriam

T a meeting of the Board of Directors of the National
/4 American Woman Sufrage Association, held July 10th,
1918. the following resolution of regret was unanimously passed.

Resolved, That the Board of Directors of the National Ameri-
can Woman Sufrage Association express deep regret at the

John Parrov Michel

and profound gratitude for the fearless assistance he rendered to
the cause of woman sufrage and for the memorable example of
citizenship he has given to our nation.

With the Eyes of Man

C‘IT is not a man’s fault that in viewing- what is called
‘ woman’s sphere ’ he sees with the eyes of a man. For
God and nature created him masculine, and God and nature
appear to have made the soul of each sex a riddle to the other,

loss of

never to be accurately read and never to be understood. And
as I should not like to live in a world where men’s lives were
governed by the misunderstanding will of women, I concede that
women are justified in protesting against being compelled to live
in a world where misunderstanding men dictate to women respect-
ing things that are women’s. The fact that men are prevented
by natural constitution from seeing very far into the soul of
women should make them hesitant to retain and to exercise the
power to regulate the collective lives of women. God and nature
have withheld from men clear vision into the soul of women, but
men should acknowledge that their Creator has endowed men with
reason and with the ability to be just; and reason deduces the
justice of heeding what women collectively say regarding what
should and should not be in woman’s sphere.”—The Radiator.

“ UFFRAGE is coming, just as surely as victory is coming ‘

for the Allies. As President WiISOn so clearly states,
the question is bound up with world democracy, and if the United
States is to maintain its position as the leader in world democracy,

it must have universal suffrag .” Jackson,IMiss., News.

Digitized by  €

148

The Woman Citizen

South Dakota’s Citizenship Measure

66 E look to you

to wage the
finest campaign South
Dakota has ever had.
It is a fight in the cause
of patriotism and there
must -be no stone left
unturned that will bring
victory to the polls No-
vember 5.” This is
practically what the leg-
islators of South Da-
kota told the women of
that state when the just-
ly famous “Amendment
E" was passed in the
special session of the
legislature of that state
in 1918.

Amendment E is
unique, in that it makes
citizenship the basis of
participation in govern-
mental affairs. Without
the knowledge of the suffragists of South Da-
kota, the legislature framed the amendment to
the Woman Suffrage Amendment which makes
it a citizenship bill, totally disregarding that
time-honored phrase “ without regard to sex.”
South Dakota is too much abreast of the spirit
of the times to make anything but citizenship
the basis of the right of suffrage. When Mrs.
John L. Pyle, President of the Universal Fran—
chise League, and the other women of that
body, were told of the action of the Legislature.
they offered to forego the proposed campaign
for the suffrage amendment in order to devote
their energies solely to war service, sure that
South Dakota men would never let a citizenship
measure go down to defeat. But legislators
and other men interested in the measure urged
the women to proceed with their campaign,
holding it to be part of the patriotic work that
confronted the loyal women of the state.

OUTH DAKOTA is a “first paper ” state,

under its present laws, which means that
there are many men in that state enjoying the
full privileges of citizenship and, in some cases,
holding office, though they have only declared
intention of becoming citizens. No longer con-
tent to let this remain, South Dakota's men
and women are using every efiort to make cit-
izenship the requirement for full participation
in governmental affairs.

How South Dakota came to hit upon the
happy union of the suffrage and citizenship
clauses in one amendment is explained by Mrs.
Frank I. Shuler, Corresponding Secretary of
the National American Woman Suffrage Asso—
ciation who, as the chairman of Campaigns and
Surveys for the National body, was recently in
South Dakota.

“A special session of the South Dakota Leg-
islature, convening in 1918 to enact war emer-
gency measures, faced the necessity of correcting
the state’s lax election law which permits men
to vote before they swear allegiance to the
United States. The Legislature, in regular ses-
sion in 1917, had passed a woman suffrage
amendment. These bills both pertained to the
qualifications of voters and therefore had to
be amendments to Article 7 of the Constitution
which defined them.

“ It has. been suggested that the sufi‘rage

 

 

THE FACULTY OF SOUTH DAKOTA’S SUFFRAGE SCHOOL

amendment and the amendment taking the
franchise from aliens not naturalized should
have been submitted as separate propositions
and not included in one amendment. This seems
reasonable but was in fact impossible. With
one amendment to Article 7 already submitted,
any proposed amendment to that amendment
had to be germane to it. If two separate
amendments had been submitted the first would
have defined electors as men and women, with
the necessary qualifications as to age and resi-
dence, who are either citizens or had declared
their intention to become such; the other would
have defined as electors men who were citizens,
either native born or naturalized.

“'If one of the amendments had carried and
the other had failed, the intention of the voters
would of course have been plain and the effect
of the amendment easy to determine, but if both
had carried there would then have been two
definitions as to who should be an elector, each
as conclusive as the other upon the question

 

 

 

 

 

‘5 4"

involved, and the two
so inconsistent that each
would destroy the effect
of the other. It will
thus readily be seen that
the amendment to elimi-
nate the word ‘male’
which had been passed
by the regular session of
the Legislature could
not be amended by one
which ‘ would pertain
only to males. There-
fore, in order to submit
the anti-alien measure.
it was necessary to in-
corporate it in the al-
ready submitted woman
s u f f r a g e amendment.
The amendment to the
amendment was there-

fore passed a n d is
k n o w n as Amend-
ment E.”

Mrs. Shuler is enthusiastic over Amendment
E. “It is a patriotic amendment, It gives the
ballot to American citizens and denies it to the
alien who does not intend to become an Ameri-
can.” Two reasons for its passage stand

. out:

“ First, war involves both men and women.
and women as a necessary industrial force in
government should be invested with the full
rights of citizenship.

“Second, enemy aliens are not willing to
fight for us and therefore they should not be
entrusted to vote for us. It was found in South
Dakota during the draft that many men who
should be a part of the draft could not be in-
ducted into the national army because they had
only declared intention to become citizens. Yet
they had been enjoying rights and privileges
denied the loyal American women of that state.

6 6 0 pass Amendment E will benefit the

women who are sacrificing so much in
this world struggle. It will bring to the immi-
grant a realization of the value of citizenship
and the friendly alien will be willing to wait for
the ballot until he has passed the probation pe-
riod. To pass such an amendment with citizenship
as its basis will show the enemy alien that
America has no place for the man who would
make financial profit out of the country which
he has adopted, while cherishing the ideals of a
despotic. and militaristic government. I believe
that the men of South Dakota will realize they
can best safeguard their homes by giving the
ballot to the women of the state who are whole-
heartedly with their country in its aims and pur-
poses, and by taking political privilege from
men who still admit their loyalty to the
Kaiser."

Governor N orbeck is well known as a cham-
pion of the woman suffrage cause and poli—
ticians and press stand with him in the cam-
paign to make South Dakota’s electorate 100
per cent American. But to make assurance of
support doubly sure the Republican and Demo-
cratic parties of the state at their respective
conventions on July 2 came out unequivocally
for suffrage for the women of that state and of
the nation. It was a glorious day in South
Dakota's suffrage annals.

(Continued on page 158)

July 20, 1918

149

Parties and Primaries

EHIN D the official government by consti-
tutional authorities there exists in the
United States, as in practically all civilized coun-
tries, what might be called an unofficial gottern-
ment by parties. The Constitution gives the
government its form, the parties give it its life.
So thoroughly is party control recognized as the
life of government that the word “ politics,” the
Greek word for government itself, is used to
describe it.

A political party is defined by Professor Macy
as “an agency for co-ordinating and expressing
the general will of the subjects of a large and
pOpulous state.” By Ray“ it is described more
concretely as “a durable organization of indi-
viduals or groups of individuals fluctuating in
personnel and numbers, united by common prin-
ciples or a common policy.”

The political party educates and organizes
public opinion by discussion of public questions.
It does through group action for the voter what
he cannot do alone. It crystalizes the public
opinion it creates or represents in a “ platform,”
a series of “ planks,” or formally expressed de-
mands on government. Only by controlling the
government through holding its offices can the
party carry out its platforms. Therefore, it se-
lects candidates for office and organizes and
hnances campaigns for their election.

This actual control of government by the
party system in order to carry out live social
objects has in the words of Ray “ breathed the
breath of life into the inert governmental organ-
ism." Through politics government grows and
changes with the changing social needs of the
governed.

The party system is as old as the government
of the United States. Under various names the
history of the Republican and Democratic par-
ties is co-extensive with the history of the
United States. Parties are national in origin;
not state but class lines form their limits.

INCE the struggle at the Constitutional Con-
vention between the Federalism of Hamil-
ton and the Democracy of Jefferson 3 funda-
mental governmental issue between parties has
been the scope of the Federal Government.
Around this question the two major parties
were built up. This is the first plank in their
platform. The Federalists, who may be roughly
identified with the later Republicans, believed
in a strong national government based upon
liberal interpretation of the Constitution; the
Democrats, in a strictly circumscribed Federal
Government based upon literal interpretation
of the Constitution. r
The people vs. the favored classes—democracy
in its general sense—has been another govern-
mental issue between Democrats and Republi-
cans. This issue, unlike States Rights, has not
been left to the two major parties. Most minor
parties have made of the people their whole plat-
form, the planks being all of a nature to in-
crease the people’s power. True, some have in-
terpreted the people to be the agricultural
classes, only one-sixth of our population; others
have interpreted them to be the wage earners,
about two-fifths of our population, but few have
represented privilege vs. the common people.
Of strictly governmental planks which in these
minor platforms have aimed to increase the
people's power are those looking toward direct

 

' Introduction to Political Parties.

Part One
By Mary Sumner Boyd

democracy, such as the initiative, referendum
and recall.

Since the life of a nation is dependent on the
livelihood of its people it is not surprising that
the two great parties soon added an economic
issue; indeed, it may be said that States Rights
vs. Federalism had opposing economic bases in
slavery vs. commerce. The purely economic
question on which the great parties differed was
the tariff or tax on imported commodities. The
Republicans stood and stand now for a high
enough tariff to enable the nation to develop its
own “ infant industries " and become self-suffi-
cient. The Democrats oppose this protective
tariff. Looking at the matter from the consum-
ers’, not the manufacturers’, point of view they
advocate such an interchange of commodities
between countries as will keep prices low, and
only sufficient tariff to furnish an income to the
government. “ Tariff for revenue only ” is their
cry. It must be said, however, that for various
reasons, too complex to explain here, in practice
the Democratic revenue tariff has to-day much
the ’same effect on the consumer’s pocketbook
as has the Republican protective tariff. Short
of adopting the British principle of Free Trade
it is difficult to draw tariff lines.

Closely bound up with the tariff is the eco-
nomic question of the trusts or monOpolies. The
Democrats would prevent trusts; the Republi-
cans at first took no action against them, but
later adopted a policy of regulation.

This later policy was adopted at least in part
in response to criticism by the Democrats and
the minor parties. While the party educates
the public, the public on its side educates the
party so that old party issues are pushed into
the background in favor of new. The public
opinion which most effectively educates a party
is that which is organized and expressed in the
platforms of opposition parties. The major par-
ties in power are continually seeking to defend
their records and to commend themselves to the

PARTIES AND
PRIMARIES

Parts One and Two, in this issue and
that of July 27, will be followed by

A SERIES OF ARTICLES
ON THE VARIOUS POLITICAL

PARTIES

telling why each has the best of all pos-
sible platforms. In the August numbers of

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

reasons for voting the Democratic, Re-
publican, Prohibition, Socialist and Na-
tional tickets will be presented by well-
known leaders in eachparty.

This series will begin with an article
on August 3, by Ellis Meredith, Director
of Publicity of the Woman’s Bureau of
the National Democratic Committee.

      
  
 

      
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
      
 

  
 
 

people and secure their votes by adopting new
planks. These they take almost invariably from
other platforms.

Among the principal minor parties in the his—
tory of the United States were the agrarian par-
ties of the Middle West, the Populists, Green-
backers, Free Silverites of the last generation.
The present farmers’ party is the Farmers’ Non-
partisan League founded in North Dakota in
1915, which has now organized in many middle
western states and has recently entered New
York. Among its demands are publicly owned
flour mills, elevators, packing and storage plants,
government control of transportation, prohibi-
tion and woman suffrage. Labor has been rep-
resented in politics by several parties, but the
most vigorous expression of its demands is the
platform of the present Socialist party.

N the presidential campaign of 1912 the Pro-
I gressive party polled over four million votes;
at the last presidential election this party was
amalgamated with the Republican party. From
its platform, many planks of which it shared
with one or another of the other minor parties,
the Republican and Democratic platforms have
borrowed many suggestions. A party which can
in a sense be called successor to the Progressive
party is the National party formed in the spring
of 1917; which also owes a debt to the Socialist
party for its platform. The Prohibition party
stands fifth in the vote it polls.

The organization of political parties in Amer-
ica is, Professor Dealey tells us, the best type of
political organization in the world. At the top
is an executive body called the National Com-
mittee. As a presidential election approaches
this body calls a convention made up of dele-
gates from each state. This convention nomi-
nates the presidential candidate, draws up a plat-
form and appoints a new National Committee
to carry on the presidential campaign. Another
committee carries on congressional campaigns
every two years. The state is organized like the
nation, only whereas the two national commit-
tees are intermittent bodies, the state central
committee made up usually of one delegate
from each county, is permanent keeping the party
business going all the time. For local business
and local elections there are county committees
made up generally of one delegate from each
town and city committee; and city committees
of one from each precinct or election district.
Some county committees are large; the New
York County Committee has many hundred

members.

Thus the general lines of political organiza-
tion are the lines of National, State and local
government. In the control of the party com—
mittees is a perfect machine organized in such
detail that in every precinct each of the two to
four hundred voters is reached during a cam—
paign and every party vote brought out.

A party is in control and can push its policies
when it holds a majority in a legislature. This
gives it the chairmanship and a majority on all
committees which consider bills introduced. It
gives it also the speakership of the House for
the Speaker is elected by majority vote. He has
large control over legislation, for he has power
to give the floor to members in debate, to refer
bills and to make committee appointments.

Digitized by Gofjirtygiéw 158)

150

r___-____

 

0 NE of the needs of the new war-boom
city, the municipality created by the
munition making or ship building plant, is
proper housing. And one of the people who
has helped solve such a problem in war in-
flated Bridgeport, Connecticut, is Miss Marcia
Mead of the firm of Schenck and Mead, 105
\N'est Fortieth Street, Manhattan.

She was the first woman graduate of the
School of Architecture in Columbia Univer-
sity and has specialized on community housing
and town planning. Some of this particularized
training found expression in community homes
on the outskirts of a staid old Colonial Ameri-
can city which has suddenly acquired all the
features of a western boom town.

The same phenomenal growth is turning
Birmingham, Alabama, into an upreaching
town of skyscrapers. Ship-building operations
are writing new housing needs all over the
country.

Things are happening in these war-boom
towns just now, and one would like to know
how these happenings are being met; and espe-
cially how far-sighted women are planning to
overcome difficulties. '

War towns present a spectacular movement
differing from anything the world has ever
seen, a rush of prosperous work with intol-
erable accompaniments.

The speeding up incident to munition mak-
ing has necessitated other speeding up. Allied
industries are going full-steam ahead. Prices
of rents and provisions have taken on the wings
of the aeroplane.

“ The prices here in Bridgeport are some-
thing fierce,” a young Connecticut laborer is
quoted as saying. Although he had only him-
self and his young wife to support he found
that the $20 which should have lasted a week
lasted four days. “ Now there’s only $2.10
left,” he ended dolefully.

And the young husband was only one of
many plaintiffs in the affair of Bridgeport
prices.

“ New York has nothing on us for high

 

TH E GENERAL COURT

The War-Boom City

Housmg 1n Bridgeport
prices," said a woman who kept account of the
high cost of discomfort in Connecticut and
compared it with the Metropolitan expenses of
her brother.

In a careful survey, Women as Munitiou
Workers, Miss Amy Hewes tells something
about what happened in the war-boom town of
Bridgeport when the rush of munition making
struck it; for what happened in Bridgeport was
as unexpected as what happened in Belgium.

Bridgeport was as badly stificd under the
financial depression of 1914 as any other
But its

American city—more so than many.

M‘.‘
I
‘ .'

   

M

l

‘2

km. ._.
_ 
I t!

i

we
.  a
ll cit l

J

I‘M I.
-4m- h: ‘
this“ ‘

. In!“

To every house its own street door

The Woman Citizen

 

Schenck and Head, Architects.

population of a little more than 100,000 be-
gan to speed up in the fall of 1915 and by
the time the 1916 directory was prepared,
the city’s population had increased 37 per cent
over that of 1910.

Millions of dollars were expended in erect-
ing new munition factories and the contagion
of prosperity struck the city.

When prosperity corries in at the factory.
rents go up in the household. This is just as
axiomatic as its prototype about love and pov-
erty. The factory owner profits, the landlord
profits, the merchant profits, but the house-
holder is always about two jumps behind his
rent schedule. For what he gets in advanced
wages must go not only to the landlord but
to the merchant and the railroad and the water
company and the gas corporation, each one of
whom has raised the cost of its own com-
modity. Thus it happens that in Bridgeport.
with work at high speed and wage scales rising
there has been much discomfort and even mis-
ery, because of the general unpreparedness of
such a city for the increase in inhabitants.

The trolley service, adequate for 100,000, be-
came a daily misery to the 140,000 people de—
pendent upon it. Innumerable honking jitncys
jacked up the insufficient transportation, them-
selves insuliicient. The foreign money order
business in the overcrowded local post-office
showed an increase on July 31, 1916, of 88
per cent over the record of the year ending
July 31, 1915.

Money became active. People mortgaged
their homes to take advantage of new business
opportunities. Rents leaped, as houses became
scarce. And in the scale of their rising there
was discomfort for the many, and tragedy for
the unfortunates. A woman 'with six chil-
dren and a sick husband reported rent raised
monthly from $17 to $18; to $19 and two
months later to $24. When a new raise
was threatened she complained to the city
authorities. Another landlord had a crescendo
of prices in seven months from $16 to $20 in
a house where three large families lived with-

July 20, 1918

out bath or wash tubs and with one toilet for
all. Speculators bought up houses where rents
had been $12 and $14 and put them at once
up to $18.

One young married couple, with an income
of $18, is a case cited in Miss Hewes’s survey.
They could not find a flat within their income,
and perched uncomfortably in one room, with
the furniture they had bought for their new
home stacked about them.

Small, cold cottages at the nearby summer
beaches became a final resort for many. Extra
stoves were set up in fiimsy cottages meant for
the torrid zone weather of an American sum—
mer. “ And the frequent snow and ice, the
lack of proper sanitary and heating arrange—
ments and the long car ride to their work, were
not the only drawbacks to healthful home life.
The usual cheap summer amusement places
still flourished and exercised distinctly unde—
sirable influences.”

Old residents suffered from the sudden oust-
ing because of rents. Incoming workers were
almost in worse plight. Like Noah’s dove they
could not find a place to alight.

The multiple dwelling began to' make itself
seen in the town which had been one of indi—
vidual homes on much bepraised tree-lined
streets. The laws for overcrowding were
strained to the breaking point, many families
averaging more than one and one half per-
sons to a room. “Each month it became less
possible to pare down other items to pay the
high rents.” There was less meat, less bread,
less milk.

Clearly something had to be done in Bridge-
port. The civic spirit of the community con-
science was stirring.

6 6 VEN while the city seemed to be asleep,”

says Miss Amy Hewes, “ new ideas were
fermenting. Bridgeport had ceased to be a typ-
ical American industrial city and had become a
unique American civic community.”

It was this new Bridgeport questing for an
adequate remedy for its problems that found
Miss Marcia Mead, architect, and gave her a
chance to work out some plans from a wom-
an's point of view. The Bridgeport Housing
Company, a group of individuals, some of them
manufacturers, some, public-spirited souls who
happened incidentally to be on the Chamber of
Commerce, started on a laboratory method of
working out the housing problem.

No one was sure whether the multiple dwell-
ing, community housing or the detached small
home would work into the swiftest alleviation.
So this adventurous group determined to ex-
periment with all three and await results. It
was a genuine scientific research which was
undertaken, an adventuring into hot-water cen-
tral heating, among other things. The housing
company put up capital like good sports for a
a much needed war measure. If you have
an idea about how to house people in decent
comfort with a fair return on the money in-
vested, go to it,” they said, in effect, to Miss
Mead. Eventually they put $1,000,000 in the
project, and the government is now backing a
vastly larger scheme to house 6,000 people.

Miss Mead’s immediate problem in the Corn
necticut Avenue development was community
housing, a matter in which she has worked out
theories of her own. This plan, covering a
small tract of land, included eighty-seven row
houses of single and two-family type, taking
care of 139 families in apartments ranging from

 

MISS MARCIA MEAD,

An architect who specializes on the housewife’s
need: and has just been elected to the American
Institute of Architects.

two rooms and bath to five rooms and bath.
They were built at an estimated average of
$2,603 per family for building and $449 for land
and development, together with streets, play-
grounds, garden patch. The development occu-
pies approximately one city block and is so laid
out that there is a central playground, an open
plaza for gatherings of adults, garden and
clothes-drying space and intersecting roads and
walks for delivery purposes.

About 60 per cent of the total development
has been equipped with circulating hot water
system supplied from an adjoining power-house.

In connection with this group there are two
stores. One, at least, will be run on a co-
operative basis and will handle all food prod-
ucts which can be distributed through co-
operative buying. The housing company’s ideal
is to make housekeeping easy, and rents as
low as possible. Re.nts range from $15 to $29
for the apartments heated individually by hot
air furnaces. For the portion heated by the
central hot water system a variable charge will
be made on the basis of the number of rooms,
a maximum monthly charge in winter, a mini-
mum charge in summer and an intermediate
charge in spring and fall.

The company will supply a gardener and
repair man, that is if there are gardeners and
repair men extant in these manless United
States.

At present every house is rented and payments
in excess of rent may be applied towards owner-
ship. VVhen any tenant shall have paid in 10
per cent with interest of the cost of any sep-
arate house over and above his rent, the com-
pany will sell the house to this tenant on the
instalment plan. This is especially designed so
that newly married young peOple can begin
saving and still live decently. .

One part of the plan which shows a woman’s
touch is the placing of the children’s play-
ground in the center of the block, away from
all automobiles and easily guarded from the
kitchen windows of the houses. This means an
oversight of the children at play by mothers
at their housework.

151

NOTHER feminine detail is the eEect of
A privacy and individuality. Each tenant has
his individual entrance, front and back, indi-
vidual porch and yard with lighting and ven-
tilation.

The houses are in the main rented to skilled
workmen, clerks and office workers. The
scheme has been worked out on a mildly re-
munerative basis, returning 6 per cent on the
money invested by the housing company. It
was not intended as a speculative venture.

But these are not the only feminine notes
Miss Mead succeeded in interpolating into the
“ Connecticut Development.”

“When homes are being built,” says Miss
Mead, “ the housewife should be consulted;
for the work of taking care of the home falls
to her lot and it is astonishing to what a degree
the plan of the house lightens or complicates
her burdens. The architect should know all
about her particular system of work, the placing
of stove and sink and table and cupboard.”

And then there is the question of light, of
cross-ventilation, wall spacing for furniture,
beloved of the home maker. _

Windows, now! They are a tender pas-
sion with Miss Mead. She says she was even
obliged to curb her ardor for windows to fit
city ordinances. There are no rooms in Miss
Mead’s house without cross-ventilation.

HE woman’s point of view as worked out

by Miss Mead has made its impression
even upon the federal-endowed scheme of
housing.

Woman’s long remonstrance against sinks
and tubs set'too low found a voice at last and
plans accepted by the new and larger Adminis-
tration housing scheme will show higher sinks
and wash tubs. Miss Mead says that she had
no trouble in convincing working men of the
need for changing the sinks after she had taken
the pains and trouble to demonstrate her point.
For that is what she cunningly and skilfully put
through, a ventilation of the defects of the
kitchen arrangements for women which have
been standardized by masculine architects, mas-
culine carpenters, masculine plumbers.

She had two sets of tubs and sinks arranged.
one at standard level, one at her specified level.
She showed the assembled workmen who stood
around in an interested semicircle that in order
to use the low type, even short women must
bend forward at the waist, putting a tiresome
strain on muscles at the small of the back.
She let them try for themselves and see just
how exhausting it would be to bend down to a
low washtub. Then she demonstrated the
hygienic advantage of the high sinks and tubs,
proving that the use of shoulder and arm mus-
cles brought into play when the body is erect
really makes for good health while the stoop-
ing position brings about bodily disorder.

The only real contest over these changes of
levels in working surfaces came, not from
workmen, but from managers who wanted to
install low sinks because they were of standard
make, because nobody had to go through an
arduous process of thinking to adhere to an
established custom, and just natuarlly because
plumbers never had set sinks any other way.
Why are women messing in the business of
plumbers and architects anyway?

However there they are—higher sinks and
tubs in the community housing plan for 139
families achieved by Miss Mead’s own firm,
and assured for 6,000 other people.

152

The Woman Citizen

In Memory of Two Suffragists

N the passing of Miss Mary Curry Desha
Breckinridge the world has lost a true sol-
dier of the Kingdom of Light. In the simple
service held for her at the nurses’ home of
the Presbyterian Hospital in Chicago Jane
Addams well described her as a pioneer woman,
a pioneer missionary of social service.

Born of a famous old Kentucky family, a
sister of Miss Sophonisota Breckinridge, she
early showed her quality. While scarcely more
than a child, with no encouragement from her
family, she took a kindergarten course, because
her people would not consent to her training
for a nurse. She became one of the first kinder-
garten teachers of Lexington, Ky., and also
started a night school, where she and other
volunteers taught poor boys.

In the Spanish war she longed inexpressibly
to go into the hospitals, but again deferred to
the objections of her family. Soon after, how-
ever, she took a nurse’s training, first in New
York, later at the Presbyterian Hospital in Chi-
cago. She then went to the insane hospital at
Elgin, 111., where the first advance was made
in giving to those mentally ill the same skilled
nursing as is given to physical illness. She was
the first trained nurse in the United States to
undertake the care of the insane.

After her service at Elgin she gave herself
for five years to discovering and caring for
persons suffering from tuberculosis, in the poor-
est and most crowded parts of Chicago. Then
she made a survey of the rural. districts in
Michigan, the first undertaken in this country,
following the lead of Canada, and for two
years she set an example on which like surveys
in other states have been modeled.

At the time of the Dayton flood she was one
of the first to the rescue, arriving even before

the flood had gone down, and facing hardship
and danger.

HE was one of the first to answer the call
of France for nurses. She went out with the
unit from Chicago in May, 1915, served at a
base hospital just behind the firing line as long
as the unit stayed, and then joined the Ameri-
can Ambulance at Neuilly-sur-Seine. After the
United States entered the war she went to the
Red Cross hospital in Paris and toiled there,
happy in her work, when she heard that she
might be of help in organizing the Barrow unit.
For that sole purpose she hurried home. There
was a delay in the organization of the unit, and
she started to take a course in anaesthesia at
the Lakeside Hospital in Cleveland so as to
be of more service on her return to France.
But she contracted grippe; and her years of
hardship and overwork had made her unable
to throw it off. Her brother, Desha Breckin-
ridge, writes in the Lexington Herald:
“Something of her spirit may be gleaned
from one incident. Sitting at her bedside, the
cry was forced from my lips: ‘ It’s a bitter price
to pay, Curry!’ Her spirit dashed to her eyes
and drove all semblance of pain away, her tired
face broke into a smile, and she said: ‘No,
Desha! No price is too high to pay to have
helped as many as I have helped in F rance! ’
“It was not a long life—not long enough for
her ever to have done a selfish or a cowardly
thing, ever to have told an untruth, ever to

By Alice Stone Blackwell

have failed to respond to an appeal for help.
But into it was crowded as much of service as
we believe it possible to be crowded into so
few years.”

The memorial resolutions passed by the
gradtrate nurses of Lexington said, in part:

“Her best years were spent in doing good,
in battling against the dominion of human suf-
fering, in behalf of the weak and the poor and
the undefended. Generous of her service, even
unto prodigality, cheerful, helpful, just, in-
spired with enthusiasm for all that was cour-
ageous and clean-minded, friendly, _candid,
modest, uncompromising with wrong, regard-
ing wealth as dross, and public preferment as
unworthy unless embellished by sincerity and
sacrifice, her passing brings a loss to us we
cannot measure; but in that passing leaves an
example that will abide.”

The Lucy Stone Centennial

UGUST 13, 1918, will be the one hundredth

anniversary of Lucy Stone’s birth. The
day is always'celebrated by various local suf-
frage clubs, in different parts of the country;
and sometimes a number of New England suf-
fragists gather from different towns and villages
to hold a special celebration at the farm house
near West Brookfield, Massachusetts, where
Lucy Stone was born. Friends who may have it
in view to make a pilgrimage to the place this
year are asked by the family not to do so, as
particular circumstances make it inconvenient.
Very near that date, the stork is expected to
arrive at the old farm house, bringing a little
great-grand-niece or great-grand-nephew of
Lucy Stone. But many suffrage clubs will, no
doubt, celebrate in their own localities the one
hundredth birthday of the woman who did so
much valiant pioneer work for the cause in the
dark and difficult early days. In the hearts of
those who knew her, the memory of her cour-
age and sweetness will nev‘br die; and to thou-
sands of younger women, the story of her life
has been an inspiration.

Those who cannot get together for a celebra-
tion should celebrate individually by doing some
bit of good suffrage work. That is what would
please her best. Send a contribution to the
suffrage treasury, or write to your Representa-
tive in the Legislature urging the ratification of
the Federal Suffrage Amendment, or write a
letter advocating equal suffrage to your local
paper, or persuade a friend to subscribe for the
Woman Citizen.

To-‘day the cause for which Lucy Stone
worked so long and so unselfishly is touching its
triumph. Let us hope that she and the other
pioneers know it and are glad!

Object to Guardianship

66 HE faith of liberalism is that in the

long run self-government is the best
government. Millions of private persons would
lead more ‘ prosperous ’ lives if they were under
wise care, but that is no argument for putting
half the human race under the guardianship of

people who claim to know what is g00d for
them."

Doesn’t it sound as if the man who said that
were making a speech for woman suffrage ? But

he was not. He was talking in behalf of Home
Rule for Ireland.

The World Moves On

HE fall of the Bastile has been celebrated
this year by all the Allied powers. They
do well to celebrate it. Yet when that event took
place, it was a portent of dismay to almost every
established government in Europe. It typified
the overthrowing of the old order, under which
the people had suffered for so many centuries
without redress. It was the picturesque and
dramatic announcement that submission was
henceforth to be exchanged for active resis-
tance.

The resistance widened and grew. It was
accomplished. by all sorts of excesses—excesses
that were the greater because of the greatness
of the oppression that had gone before. Liberty
was baptized with blood, and, in every monarch-
ial country, those who hated and feared liberty
cried out against the bloodshed, while at the
bottom of their hearts it was not the abuses of
freedom that they feared so much as freedom
itself. Their nerves had stood without a
shudder all the bloodshed and cruelty that had
been committed to keep the people down.

For generations the name of the French Revo-
lution was anathema to all the reactionaries in
all the monarchies of the world. Even in the
United States, up to a few years ago, the anti-
suffragists used to declare, as a taunt, that the
suffrage movement in America was the daughter
of the French Revolution—although Margaret
Brent and Abigail Adams had taken their stand
for freedom before the Bastile fell. To play
the Marseillaise was considered hardly respec-
table. Now it is played as freely and enthusias—
tically as the Star Spangled Banner. The
world now realizes that the great thing was the
birth of liberty, and that the excesses accom-
panying it were of small moment in comparison.
Even the anti-suffragists see it now, if they
happen to live in an Allied country.

It is well that they see it at last. A few years
hence they may also see the inconsistency of
their present attitude. They rejoice in the fall
of the Bastile, though it was followed by the
Reign of Terror; but they object to woman suf-
frage because some unwise women once picketed
the White House. They glory in the French
Revolution, although most of the men who took
part in it were atheists; yet they urge as a
serious objection to equal suffrage that Mrs.
Stanton wrote “The Woman’s Bible! ”

All movements for human freedom are spirit-
ually akin; and clear-sighted people can per-
ceive the relationship, without having to wait to
get a long historical perspective. They can also
distinguish the kernel from the husk, the right—
eous principle from all the excesses and vagaries
that accompany the assertion of it. The true
friends of freedom have long rejoiced in the
French Revolution, and thrilled to the strains of
the Marseillaise. Now even the eyes of the
blind are being opened, and the ears of the deaf
unstopped.

Digitized by 600816

July 20, 1918

 

MRS. SAMUEL CASTLEMAN,
President of the Louisville Eiut'ifrafti;l Association

under whose auspices the Mil ry Ball

was held

Financing The
Kentucky’s Military Ball

N open air fete and officers’ ball was

the characteristically Southern enter-
tainment, given by belles of Kentucky, to
raise the quota for the VVomen’s Oversea
Hospitals, U. S. .-\., pledged by the Louis-
ville \Voman’s Suffrage Association. Old
time Southern patriotism was in evidence,
along with the traditional beauty and grace
and pretty frocks of Kentuckians.

Noticeable. also, were traditional family
names known in Southern history for gen-
erations. The fete. which was gay with
dower-girls and fortune tellers and pretty
venders of cigarettes, was no less splendid
with military men in dress uniforms. The
ball served the double purpose of raising
money for foreign hospitals supported
in France by the National American
“'oman Suffrage Association and bidding
"Godspeed" to the members of the 84th
dixision.

The presence of Brigadier-General
“'ilder and Brigadier-General Devore and
of staE officers, Captain Willis Hale and
Captain Griswold, added to the military
features of the ball, which seemed to ap-
peal especially to officers. Among others promi-
nent in army circles who helped make the ball
a success were Colonel Gibson and Colonel Van
Duyne.

Wisconsin’s Relief Shop

S the result of the management of the Re-

lief Shop at Madison for a week, plus
some personal subscriptions, the Dane County
Equal Suffrage League has sent to the VViscon-
sin fund for the \Vomen's Oversea Hospitals,
U. S. A., a check for $481.75 with the assurance
that some small checks which will follow will
probably bring the total up to $500. The Relief

 

MRS. JOHN GLOVER SOUTH, OF FRANKFORT,

President Kentucky Equal Rights Association

 

 

MRS. SAMUEL C. HENNING, OF LOUISVILLE,

Congressional Chairman of the Kentucky
Association; Chairman of Ticket Selling for the Bal

Shop is a combination of a continuous White
Elephant Sale, Gift Shop and Rummage Sale.
The rent of the shop is donated. Any society
may secure use of the shop for a given length of
time for any patriotic purpose and inherit all
contributions left by societies which formerly
occupied it, leaving for other societies any con-
tributions not sold. The Relief Shop has been
open several days a week for more than a year
and has been the source of large subscrip-
tions for different objects. Mrs. Eugene H.
Byrne is president of the Dane County Equal
Suffrage League. The Oversea Hospitals fund
goes well in Wisconsin, $1,300 having been al-
ready contributed.

Equal R hts

153

 

MRS. EDMUND M. POST, OF PADUCAH.
Chairman of Patronesses Committee for Military Ball

Oversea Hospitals
They Borrowed Soldiers

HE ingenious‘ chairman of the Indi-

ana State Committee for the Wom-
en’s Oversea Hospitals, U. S. A., carried
out a novel plan for the fund raising of
Indiana’s quota pledged to the suffrage
hospitals.

She arranged with the Commandant of
Fort Benjamin Harrison for “ the loan of
fifty soldier boys " of the noted Tenth In-
fantry Regiment. The troops were brought
to Muncie in a special traction car, under
the care of one of Muncie’s boys, Lieuten-
ant Barrett, and were served a bountiful
dinner at the Masonic Temple by the
women of the Eastern Star. A feast they
said they would never forget.

In the evening the boys showed some re-
markable military feats, much to the satis-
faction of the people of the city who had
not seen many of the highly specialized
war manaauvres before. The exhibition
netted $200 for Indiana’s share of the suf-
frage hospitals.

For Weir and Suffrage

HILE pushing heavy political work for-
ward, Tennessee suffragists have found
time to work for the Oversea Hospitals. Four of
the ward organizations of Nashville, Tennessee
gave two card parties, Mrs. John Bardsdale.
Tenth Ward, $79; Mrs. Joseph Fall, Eleventh
Ward; Miss Mary Lipe, Twenty-first Ward;
Miss Matilda Porter, Seventh Ward, $85. The
Memphis, Tennessee, Suffrage League gave an
entertainment for several worthy causes, the
\Vomen's Oversea Hospitals receiving $100 of
the proceeds. With some personal subscrip-
tions, including $25 from Mrs. McVeigh of
Memphis, the association was able to send to
the Overseas. $300, July 1.
(Continued on page 158)

154

 

ELNA MUNCH, M.P.
Her place is in the Danish Parliament

MESSAGE just received at the National

American Woman Sufirage Association
headquarters by Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt,
from Frau Elna Munch, wife of the Danish
Minister of War, gives the names of the nine
women elected to the Danish Parliament.
Those in the upper house, the Landstringet, are
N inna Bang, Social Democrat, Marie Hjelmer,
Radical; Marie Christensen, Olga Kundsen and
Inger Smidt, Liberal.

In the lower house, the Folkthing, Helge
Larsen is the Socialist representative; Mathilde
Hanschultz and Karen Ankerstedt, Conserva-
tives and Frau Elna Munch, Radicals.

Frau Munch, who has been for a long time
leader of the Danish Woman Sunrage Society,
affiliated with the International Suffrage Alli-
ance of which Mrs. Catt is president, is a mem-

New Views
of
Woman’s Place

her of the Copenhagen Town Council. Mrs.
Helga Larsen, a barrister, and Miss Karen
Ankersted are also members of the Copen-
hagen Town Council. Miss Mathilde Han-
schultz is another barrister.

Since Danish women have had full suffrage
they have made swift advances on legislative
questions. In Copenhagen 3. new child labor
law has lately been achieved.

\\'omen have been elected to the three com-
missions to consider rights in the family. And
a stern fight is on to give mothers equal guard-
ianship rights. “ Let no candidate have a single
woman's vote who has not given a clear promise
to support the reform of this law,” said the
Danish ofiicial journal early this Year.

A widow’s pension law has also received at-
tention this year, and the right of women theo-
logical students in the University of Copen-
hagen to enter pulpits is one of the most re-
cent feminist reforms considered in Denmark.

HE first woman Judge of the Juvenile
Court of any city is Kathryn Sellers,
whose nomination as Judge of the Juvenile
Court at \Vashington, D. C., has been sent to
the Senate by the President of the United
States. Miss Sellers is a graduate (1913) an
LL.M. and an LL.D. of \Nashington College
of Law, on whose faculty she is Professor of
International Law. At the time of her appoint-
ment she was Bibliographer and Librarian of
the Carnegie Endowment and connected with
the Department of State in a confidential ca-
pacity at a “dollar a year.”
Miss Sellers is the daughter of the late John
H. Sellers of Marysville, Union County, Ohio.
She is a sister of Captain C. F. Sellers, and

The Woman Citizen

 

JI'DGE KATHRYN SELLERS
Her place is on the Jut'enile court bench

Chairman of the \Vashington College of Law
Auxiliary of the Red Cross, one of the first
Red Cross units organized after the entrance
of the United States into the war.

The position of associate judge in the
juvenile court is held by women in Chicago and
Los Angeles. but Miss Sellers is pioneer as
judge of such a court. This is not the first
time a woman has been urged for this court
in \\'ashington. In 1912 Dr. Ellen Spencer
Mussey, founder and Honorary Dean of \Vash-
ington College of Law. was strongly recom-
mended to fill a vacancy in that court.

Another graduate of \\'ashington College of
Law and a member of its faculty, Florence
Etheridge, has been appointed probate attorney
for the Miami Indians in Oklahoma.

Woman’s Association of Commerce, U. S. A.

HIS week has marked another advance in

woman’s achievements—the second an-

nual Convention of Business Women was held
in Cincinnati July 16 to 19.

More than 300 women from 26 different
states came together for the avowed purpose
of taking counsel respecting the great problems
affecting our nation in this crisis, and particu-
larly those conditions which are so rapidly
changing the economic status of women all
over the world.

Great responsibilities are being placed upon
women now, and it is accounted time to bring
to the attention of the people of this country
America’s greatest asset, the undiscovered abil-
ity of its women. In the past men have glorified
their achievements in the progress of the world,
thus stimulating other men to greater efforts.
In the future women are to do this. Mrs. Rip
Van Winkle is awakening to proclaim herself
to the world. ,

The convention was called by the \Vomen’s
Association of Commerce, U. S. A.,. and its
president, Florence King, expressed the opinion
of thousands of women in her preliminary an-
nouncement of the convention's reason for be-
ing:

“The present is woman’s golden opportunity
for advancement in the business world. The

entrance of women into the industrial world is
of sufficient importance to engage the attention
of the War Department, which recently an-
thorized a statement that equal pay for equal
work done by women filling the places of men
in war industries would be the policy of the
Army Ordnance Department. This affords the
most wonderful opportunity for women to dem-
onstrate their real ability to work shoulder to

shoulder with men. And they are doing it
successfully.”

HE tone of the convention was intensely

patriotic, and these business women have
succeeded in contributing a new war song to
the country. A cash prize for the best song
expressive of the " sentiment of the Twentieth
Century Woman" was awarded to “\‘Voman’s
Day,” written by Mary A. Stern:

Tune: “The Red, [Write and Blue”

America. Queen of all Nations,
Thy daughters bring homage to thee!
\\'e offer our lives as libations
To pour on thy shrine. Liberty!
As shoulder to shoulder advancing,
\\'e march with a song and a cheer,
Toward our goal every eye forward glancing,
The triumph of woman is near!

CHORUS:

Three cheers. woman’s day dawns anew!

Three cheers for our cause just and true!
As shoulder to shoulder advancing

\\'e march ’neath the Red, \\'hite and Blue!

Down the ages there comes softly stealing
The echo of voices in prayer;
\\'e, too. for our victory appealing,
Pray justice may reign everywhere.
For woman her bondage has broken,
As with man in life’s battles she fights; .
Her work and her winnings betoken
That woman is gaining her rights.

CHORUS:

Three cheers, woman's day dawns anew!
Three cheers for our cause just and true!

For woman her bondage has broken,
To march 'neath the Red \Vhite and Blue!

One of the most interesting speakers at th
convention was the Hon. Mary G. Bellamy.
member of the Legislature from the State c
\\'yoming.

Many of the large business houses in ti
United States had representatives at the cor
vention, and several of them sent their mo

(Continued on page 158)

July 20, 1918

155

The Woman Who Saw ItIFirs't

HE ways by which men—and women—
learn the open secrets of God’s ways with
humanity are ever the same. Many men collect
many facts, and record them. Then comes the
seer, waves the quite unmagic wand of the
systematic thinker, and the facts group them-
selves. Then, 10, the Principle.

At ‘Suffrage Headquarters long sat women
with shears, patiently snipping and filing inno-
cent little paragraphs from the daily press, para-
graphs overlooked by the men upon the watch
towers. These watchmen blew loudly their
trumpets, and shouted messages about Eli-i-
ciency Methods and Big Business, what time
etiiciency crept modestly out of the cellar win-
dows and business crawled silently from attic
hatches, and the ofiice force at headquarters
wielded their shears like multiple Fates, and
filled their ever-bulging files.

A woman in Italy, intiamed by her inherited
love of the sea, studies navigation—snip. A
woman in Washington Market makes fame as
a lobster merchant—snap. A batch of wireless
operators, when the Government sighs for more,
mention casually, “ You mibht get the per-
son who taught us. She couldn’t get a license
because of her sex, but all us pupils got ’em "—
snip, snap. Is it aviators that are wanted?
Here is a woman teaching the boys to fly on the
Mexican border. The headquarters’ shears
grew dull; paragraphs accumulated; files bulged.

Then came a woman with red-brown hair
and red-brown eyes, and a systematizing mind.
She emptied those bulging tiles—they are at the
command of any woman—or man—with an or-
derly intellect and an honest heart—and she
waved her wand. Presto, the principle.

But halt! The good teacher fits her teaching
to her pupils. Mrs. Daggett—Did I 'mention
that it was Mrs. Daggett? Her name is Mabel
Potter Daggett, and she wrote aforetime other
tales. both true and True. Mrs. Daggett knows
that from days of old he who merely marshaled
facts and formulated principles generally got
condemned to unpleasant recompense, accord-
ing to the customs of his time. She aspired not
to be a Galileo. So she presented her truth as
a Pageant. In other words, she produced a
Motion Picture, chromatic and bifocal.

EE the Pageant move in her book,
“ Women W'anted.”

Here is a pastor enlisted, and his wife unani-
mously elected by the congregation to his place.

Here the nurses on a hospital ship say
“wounded first,” pass their charges to safety
and go quietly to their death.

In England 60,000 voluntary Red Cross mem—
bers registered to serve under 3,000 trained
nurses within a fortnight of the outbreak of
the war.

In Italy, on the war’s opening, 20,000 soldiers
are released for duty by the service of women
nurses.

In an English hospital a young girl orderly
reports in matter-of-fact tones: “ I have burned
three amputated arms, two legs and a section
of a jaw bone, and have carried one end of
five cofiins to the dead wagon!”

“Thanks,” said the police, when an ambu-
lance arrived, “the ladies have done this job."

“The Scottish \Vomen’s Hospitals are right
behind the armies. Staffed from the surgeons

By Louise Connolly

to the ambulance corps entirely by women, 'they
go out to any part of the war zone where the
need is greatest. Their surgeons have stood at
the operating table a week at a stretch with
only an hour 0r two of sleep each night."

“There were forty-six British women who
shared in the historic retreat of the Serbian
army three hundred miles over the plains of
Kossovo and the mountains of Albania. Men
and cattle perished by the score. But the women
doctors, freezing, starving, sleeping in the
fields, all came through to Scutari.”

“ Here are girl window cleaners with pail and
ladder coming down the Strand wearing khaki.”

“France has 400,000 ‘munitionettes.”’

“In England women clerks number over
100,000.”

“ Katherine Harley lies at rest with the Croix
de Guerre for bravery on her breast out there
at the front of the conflict.”

6 6 HE French Academy out of sev—

enty prizes in 1916 awarded no
lessthan forty-seven to women as most
distinguished examples of military
courage! ”

Read, on page 189 of Mrs. Daggett’s
record, what Sir William Beardmore
says; on page 208, of feminine finance
in France; on page 226, of the romance
in a London city bank; on page 243,
“a look backward in medicine ”; on
page 259, the story of the French Major
Doctor Gerard-Mangin; on page 269.
about Maude Royden, the clergyman.
In fact, read the book.

Mrs. Daggett has a rather genial
sense of humor. “The Englishman
says: ‘Votes for women are really im-
possible, don't you know. Why, if the
British women had voted twelve years
ago, there might not have been any bat-
tleships in 1914, and then where would
England have been today?’ But if the
German women, too, had voted twelve
years ago, have you thought how much
happier the world might be today?”

She occasionally indulges in gentle
but nipping sarcasm, and her facility in
epigram is great. “Every way I turn
I am looking on men with broken bodies
and women with broken hearts.”
“When woman wins, the race wins.”
“Dear lady of yesterday, your woman
movement was militant against the Gov-
ernment‘; this woman movement is militant with
the Government.”

“Women before had to push their way in;
women now are invited in.”

“In a London tube station my startled gaze
encountered a man on his knees scrubbing the
floor and a woman at the window taking tickets."

“ Christian lands unanimously deem it indeli-
cate for a woman to talk to God from a pulpit.”

“Lest we forget, this war was made in the
land where woman's place was in the kitchen.”

“We shall not blot out the Prussian military
ideal until we have effaccd the Prussian ma-
ternity ideal.”

‘ I
'4'
ff

“Khaki is one of the most popular of Gov-
ernment offerings for women’s wear.”

 

As the moving pageant passes, we see its
meaning, nor are we allowed to ignore whence
that meaning gets its sanction.

Mrs. Daggett also doubts not—“ through the
ages one increasing purpose runs.” “This is

not our woman movement. This is His woman
movement.”

“ It is the woman movement against which
all the parliaments of men shall never again
prevail. It is propelled by fearful cosmic forces.
For, 10, the password the feminists have sought
is found. And it is love—not logic!" '

The office force at Headquarters sits faith-
fully clipping and filing. “\Ve don't mean to
be arrogant,” they say, “we know that she had
a reputation and a fountain pen, and an editor,
and a public, and red-brown eyes, before she
met us, and that she went to Europe and studied
the phenomena in their natural habitat, but she
certainly got her vision from our bulging files.
And it is a heart-stirring pageant."

- t

o
‘ o

 l
MABEL POTTER DAGGETT

I N advertising “ Women Wanted,” by Mabel
Potter Daggett, the publishers say that
every woman should read it. Let me amend
this advertisement, and say that every man, also,
should read this book. Let me refer men es-
pecially to Chapter 7, if there are any men still
so benighted as to talk of “ women’s jobs and
men’s jobs.” This chapter is a story of woman’s
progress in the medical profession. -It seems
that the British soldier has been able, in all the
trenches, to get word that the Woman’s Hos-
pital in Endell street is the place to get to when
a man is wounded. “ Women surgeons are less
hasty about cutting 0E arms and legs.”
BEATRICE \VINSOR, ASSISTANT LIBRARIAN or THE
NEWARK PUBLIC LIBRARY.

.. A?“ 

156

The Woman Citizen

The Federal Suffrage Amendment

One More Reason

YEAR ago the question of an amendment
A to the State Constitution extending suf-
f rage to women in Massachusetts was presented
to the Constitutional Convention, then in ses-
sion. The amendment was referred to a com-
mittee for recommendation. After due con-
sideration this committee voted, 9 to 6, to pre-
sent'an adverse report. So much business filled
the days of the Convention that the body ad-
journed, and the report of l the committee was
, placed on the order of business for the next
session. In June of this year, shortly after the
Convention had reassembled, the adverse report
of the committee was accepted. The minority
members of the committee were ready to carry
the fight to the fioor of the Convention last
year, and were prepared to do the same this
summer, but with the Federal Amendment pend-
ing it was deemed wiser by those who were
working for the resolve in the Convention to
make no fight at this time.

Mrs. Charles Sumner Bird, the newly elected
first vice-president and chairman of the Execu-
tive Board of the Massachusetts Woman Suf-
frage Association, commented upon this:

“It is rather unusual, perhaps, to rejoice in
the defeat of any suffrage measure, but it cer-
tainly would have been disastrous at this time,
when we are daily expecting news of the pass-
age of the Susan B. Anthony Amendment by
the United States Senate to have to supplement
a campaign for ratification by our State Legis-
lature of the Federal Amendment with an at-
tempt to win on a referendum an amendment
to the Massachusetts constitution.

_“A year ago, when we asked the Constitu-
tional Convention to present the amendment to
the Constitution of Massachusetts, we did not
realize that Congress would act so quickly, and
we were anxious to leave no stone unturned
which would help toward equal franchise. To-
day we are waiting for the Opportunity
to ask our State Legislature to ratify the action
of Congress and place Massachusetts among the
first in this progressivemovement, as, we are
proud to feel, she always stands in all forward
action.”

For Health’s Sake

ESOLUTIONS favoring adoption of the

Federal Suffrage, the National Prohibi-

tion Amendment and equal pay for women

workers were adopted yesterday by the

\Vomen’s Bureau of Public Health of the

American Osteopathic Association, which re-
cently held its annual convention in Boston.

The resolutions, in part, follow:

Whereas, our country suffers a shortage of
labor through the enlistment of men in the
army, and

Whereas, in time of war it is especially neces-
sary to provide for child welfare, therefore
be it

Resolved, That we discourage the mothers
of young children from entering fields of in-
dustry and encourage public support of such
needy mothers, and that we lend our every ef-
fort to maintain the enforcement of all child
labor laws until all adult labor, both men and
women, is exhausted.

Whereas, our women are being drafted to
fill the ranks left vacant by men who have gone
so valiantly to fight; and

Whereas, they are daily proving that they
can as satisfactorily and as efficiently fill these
positions, therefore be it

Resolved, That we advocate the payment of
the same wage for the performance of the
same work, in order that our working women
may find this world a decent place in which to
live, and rear the future generations without
the sacrifice of health.

Whereas, in the past wars have been fought
upon the undeniable postulate that where all are
created free and equal, taxation without repre-
sentation is unjust and untenable; therefore
be it

Resolved, That we earnestly support the bill
now before Congress to submit the Federal
Suffrage Amendment to the several State Legis-
latures that democracy “ may begin at home."

Texas’s Women Voters

N one town in Texas, Amarillo, there will be
more women than men voting at the Demo-
cratic primaries on July 27. A total of 2,112
women as against 2,072 men registered. In
Palestine also more women than men registered.
It will be remembered that one reason why
Texas women urgently appealed for the vote
now during the war is that so many Texas men
have gone to the front, and while the state does
not permit its soldiers to vote, even when in camp
in Texas, it does permit aliens not fully natural-
ized to vote. Loyal Texas women declare that
wives and mothers of men fighting for their
country would make a better electorate than
men who had not been in this country long
enough to have taken out their naturalization
papers.

Three hundred and sixty thousand Texas
women in all registered at the primaries, suc-
cessfully negotiating six confusing rulings from
the attorney general’s ofiice.

A Strong Plank

HE Republican party of Iowa wrote a
strong Federal amendment plank into its
platform at their annual convention at Des
Moines July 10. The Republicans determined
to put Iowa in the vanguard of states that will
ratify the amendment at the 1919 legislative ses—
sions. The plank reads:

“The Republican party of Iowa reaffirms its
declaration for Equal Suffrage. It urges the
immediate passage of the Federal amendment by
the United States Senate and its ratification by
the state and commends our senators and rep-
resentatives in Congress for their support of
this amendment.” .

The suffrage cause was presented to the Res-
olutions Committee by Miss Anna B. Lawther,
President of the Iowa Equal Suffrage Associa-
tion, who made a brief speech in its behalf.
Others of the suffrage committee appearing be-
fore the Resolutions Committee were Mrs.
James A. Devitt, vice-president of the State
Suffrage Association, Mrs. Frank Dodson, re-
cording secretary of the State Association, and
Mrs. Henry Spaulding, a former executive offi-
cer of the association.

HE Federal suffrage amendment was given
unanimous endorsement by the Demo.
cratic State Central Committee of Arkansas on
July 9th. The following day the Democrats in
state convention endorsed the Federal amend-
ment and wrote a full suffrage plank in the party
platform. Mrs. T. T. Cotnam, Chairman of the
Arkansas Equal Suffrage Central Committee,
was a member of the Resolutions Committee at
the Democratic convention. Miss Josephine
Miller, a member of the staff of organizers of
the National American Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation, was on the platform committee.

ESOLUTIONS of protest against the delay

in the passage of the Federal amendment

by the Senate were passed by the Progress Club

of Oelwein, Iowa, on July 9, about 150 women

being present. An address on suffrage was

made by Miss Anna B. Lawther, President of
the Iowa Equal Suffrage Association.

Words of Wisdom

HE Federal amendment for woman suErage
has gone through the lower house of
Congress by more than a two-thirds vote, and
the expectation is that it will secure the needed
two-thirds in the Senate. The minority who
are still opposing it would do well to ponder
the words spoken by Henry B. Blackwell at a
legislative hearing in Massachusetts on January
18, 1894, in behalf of a pending bill for munici-
pal woman suffrage. After making an argument
along the usual ethical lines on the ground of
justice, ‘Mr. Blackwell said to the legislators:

“ In conclusion, I appeal to you for a moment
as members of political parties. We are all
party men; we ought to be, if we believe in the
principles of our party. Now both parties to-
day are on trial, much more than woman suf-
f rage is on trial. The political result of woman
suffrage, when it comes, will largely depend
upon the political complexion of the vote by
which the Legislature confers it. If an equal
proportion of Democrats and Republicans ex-
tend suffrage to women, as they ought to do—
for it ought to be the unanimous vote of both
parties—then this question would have no par-
ticular party sigificance. Both parties would
gain by it, for both parties would be uplifted.
The spirit of both would be changed by the in-
troduction of the intelligent womanhood of
these parties. But let this great act of justice
be done by the Republicans or let it be done by
the Democrats, the other party opposing. and
the party that does the act of justice will de-
serve to receive and will receive an immense
accession of strength through its action. Some
of you are Republicans, some of you are Demo-
crats, but whichever you be, you owe it to your
party (because you believe that the success of
your party is the success of good government)
to see that you get enough men of your party
to vote for it to prevent its having any political
significance against you." I

These words are as true today as when they
were uttered. Then only a chosen few saw
their truth. Now it is seen by all the men in

Congress except a small and stubborn minor-
itv. A. S. B.

Digitized byicOOSIC

July 20, 1918

Correspondence

Concerning Cottonseed Flour_

To THE EDITOR or THE WOMAN CITIZEN:
I JUST read Mr. Charles Duryea’s request
for information concerning cottonseed flour.

I have used cottonseed flour with very good
result, and will gladly “ pass on ” my knowl-
edge for the benefit of the readers.

Cottonseed flour, or “Allison flour,” as the
product is known commercially, after its in-
ventor, is manufactured by the Schulenburg
Oil Mill, Schulenburg, Texas. It has about
50 per cent protein and 15 per cent fat and
is highly recommended by dieticians on ac-
count of easy assimilation and reconstructive
elements.

The best results in bread-making are ob-
tained if 20 to 30 per cent Allison flour is mixed
with wheat, corn or any other kind of flour

used for bread. The same proportion should

be used in biscuits and muffins. For griddle
cakes equal parts of Allison flour, wheat flour
and corn meal will give excellent results.
Wherever it is used it gives a rich, nutty flavor
and a golden brown color.

The State of Texas has issued two pamphlets,
No. 128 and No. 163, entirely devoted to the
subject of cottonseed flour, and copies can be
obtained by writing the Texas Experiment Sta-
tion, College Station, Texas.

LYDIA ASPEGREN.

Portsmouth, Va.

How Congress Functions

To THE EDITOR or THE WOMAN CITIZEN:

OUR comment in the last issue of the

Woman Citizen that the cooperation of the
“ wilful few " Republicans and the “ wilful
few” Democrats to delay suffrage was “an
amazing sight to the galleries” would seem to
indicate that those amazed are not close stu-
dents of how Congress functions (or fails to
function). As has been pointed out by the Na-
tional Voters’ League, the battles at Washing-
ton between Republicans and Democrats are
mostly sham battles for the benefit of the
regular party voter. When it comes to a water-
power grab or a mineral land grab, or the
defense of Special Privilege, or anything really
important, the tories in Congress, whatever their
party label, pull together, just as they did on
June 27.

May I suggest that every reader of the
lVoman Citizen who is a voter, and every other
reader who will soon be a voter (and that
means all the rest) would do well to subscribe
to the Searchlight on Congress, published by
the National Voters’ League, Woodward Build-
ing, Washington, D. C. The ordinary newspa-
per suppresses much that is significant and
colors what news it does print to suit the preju-
dices and interests of its owners. It utterly
fails to provide the necessary data for an in-
telligent appraisal of the men in Congress and
their value to the nation. I know of no other
source of concentrated, honest, public-spirited
information as to Congress which can compare
with the National Voters’ League. I suspect
that some of the editors of the Woman Citizen
are on its mailing list. I hope they will bring
the National Voters’ League to the favorable
attention of their readers.

Yours very truly,

Waban. Mass. CHARLES H. PORTER.

“ That Zone System ”

T 0 THE EDITOR OF THE WOMAN CITIZEN: I
MAY I say in your columns how glad I

am that Representative Blanton, in his
reply to me, admits the sectionalism in the pro-
posed system of postal rates and has no other
defense than the school boy’s, “ But, Jimmy, he
does it, too!”

However, it is a far cry from sectionalism
in fruit to sectionalism in thought. Unfort-
unate as it is that the people of one state-are
denied the fruits of distant states, that is a
disadvantage unworthy of. mention in the same
paragraph with a sectionalism that keeps each
of the two states from knowing what the other
is thinking.

The Representative is materialistic—and that,
too, at a time when the whole world is strug-

gling to get its feet on higher ground. What

do we gain, though we conquer Mittel Europa,
if we sink to her level of materialism in the
effort? He is asking too great a sacrifice, for
he is asking us to surrender the very secret of
our superior culture. I V

I am pleased, also, that he brings nothing but
more assertion to support that much-vaunted
but unproved claim that the Government is now
losing money on second-class rates.

L. D. BECKWITH,
Atascadero, (really and truly in California).

In Boston Especially!

To THE EDITOR OF THE WOMAN CITIZEN:

N your issue of June 8, 1918, you publish a
I letter from Ursula Clark, Boston, Mass,
and I desire to say that this letter must surely
be a joke, as there should not be one woman
in this whole United States of ours who is so
far behind the times and so unenlightened,
especially in Boston, as to write a letter of this
character.

The lady asks that you discontinue your
paper, but I feel sure that the women of Amer-
ica would immediately send up such a wail of

protest that it would be heard throughout the
land, and even penetrate to Boston.

The Woman Citizen is a help and an inspira-
tion to the women of America and it should
be in every home where thinking people dwell.

You may print this or not, as you see fit,. for
my neighbors know what I think on the subject.

ELIZABETH H. MORLEY.
Little Rock, Arkansas.

A Challenge Challenged

To THE EDITOR OF THE WOMAN CITIZEN:
IN the Woman Citizen for June 8 I noticed
with some amusement a letter from one
who signs herself “Jane Barton.” She chal-
lenges the statement of A. S. B. that “Repub-
lics are less inclined than monarchies to make
wars of aggression,” and pronounces it “ highly
erroneous.”

I wish that “Jane Barton” could be per-
suaded to tell us what kind of yardstick she
uses to measure the more and the less in Roman
and French history. “ Jane ” is very, very
positive, but, alas, she Offers no proof. Like
Juvenal’s imperious woman, she utters her
“ Hoc volo, sic jubeo, sit pro ratione voluntas.”

How interesting it would be to learn what
books of history “ Jane ” reads, and with what
delicate and unerring mental scales she weighs
French aggression under Louis XIV and under

157

 

 

 

The Woman’s Department at
our Fifth Avenue OEce
is in charge of
Mine, V. D. H. Fnrman

and is
especially equipped to handle
the accounts of women and
women’s organizations

COLUMBIA
‘TRUST
COMPANY

358 FIFTH AVENUE
We are eenetineeealled lheOGeiel Salvage Bank

 

M. Jules Grévy! Ah, what a privilege it will
be (if we can persuade “ Jane ”) to learn some—
thing of the processes by which the lady of
Kansas City comes to her decision that A. S.
B.’s “statement is positively false "1

R. M. BEACH.
Bellefonte, Pa. '

Why Are They Less Intelligent?

To THE EDITOR OF THE WOMAN CITIZEN:

NE week after that splendidly constructive
0 special session of the Texas Legislature
granted Texas women their right to vote in the
primaries, it raised the age of protection for
girls from fifteen to eighteen years!

Texas women didn’t have to beseech. The
men knew that they might as well pass it after
they had given women the ballot, so they did it.
It has been twenty to twenty-five years
since it was raised from twelve years to fifteen
years in Texas. I well remember how hard the
W. C. T. U. of Texas worked to get it done and
how the President, Mrs. Helen M. Stoddard,
stayed in Austin almost the entire session in the
interest of that bill, and how the different
Unions assessed themselves to pay her expenses.

All the Texas candidates from constable up
tell us they are suHragists—It’s funny!

ELIZABETH H. POTTER.
Tyler, Texas.

P.S.—People seem unable to understand
about delay of Senate—Sort of puzzled and
mystified. The people have “junked” states
rights when it comes to “ moral amendments,”
and they can’t see why. United States Sena-
tors are less intelligent and perspicacious than
farmers and business men and busy mothers.

158
South Dakota’s Measure

(Continued from page 148)

The suffrage campaign has been a succession
of patriotic endeavors, keeping pace with rou-
tine suffrage work. During the Red Cross
Drive all activities were suspended except those
which directly aided the drive. In due season
came the Fourth of July and the suffragists
joined with a vim in all local demonstrations.
Addresses were made at Chautauquas and pa-
triotic gatherings and thousands were given an
opportunity to learn all about Amendment E.

A suffrage map, showing the gradations of
suffrage in the United States was depicted by
young women marchers in the Sioux Falls
patriotic parade, and this was followed by a
float of the various nations that have enfran-
chised their women. In their midst stood Miss
Columbia asking the same old riddle, Why do
not all women in this democracy have the right
of franchise? Other floats showed why
mothers should have the vote. Banners bearing
quotations from President Wilson and the suf-
frage planks in the political‘ platform were
borne with much pride. Suffrage headquarters
were opened in Sioux Falls on the Fourth and
windows were made gay with suffrage banners

and suffrage slogans.
The climax of suffrage Fourth of July ac-

tivities was scheduled for Ruskin Park, one of
the pleasure resorts of South Dakota. By in—
vitation of the Park management Mrs. Pyle
and Mrs. Albert McMahon, head of the state’s
organization work, were to make an aero-
plane fiight and distribute literature, were
on hand but the big passenger car was in-
capacitated and unable to make the flight. A
smaller plane beautifully decorated, made a
flight with suffrage pennants and streamers fly—
ing in the breeze, above 25,000 persons gath-
ered on the grounds. In the evening Mrs.
McMahon spoke from the grand stand. When
Mrs. Pyle and Mrs. McMahon wrote the Ruskin
Park management for permission to distribute
literature from the aeroplane Sentor R. E.
Dowdell, one of the owners of the Park, replied
saying, “The inventive ingenuity of man has
not, as yet, devised a means af ascension suffi-
cient to carry the cause of Equality to the pin-
nacle on which it should be enthroned but the
management gladly yields to you the aeroplane
for so worthy a purpose."

Another phase of suffrage activity out of
which big results may be expected is the suf-
frage schools which were held in seven of the
principal towns of South Dakota—\Natertown,
Aberdeen, Huron, Pierre, Deadwood, Mitchell,
and Sioux Falls, with trips to nearby towns
where meetings were held and addresses made.
In all, seventeen towns and cities were covered
in the fourteen days, with loyalty banquets and
conferences to fill in spare moments.

The faculty was headed by Mrs. Shuler who
teaches with authority, out of a wide experi-
ence, “ Methods That Succeed " and kindred
topics. Mrs. McMahon talked on Press and
Publicity. Mrs. S. V. Ghrist, vice-president of
the South Dakota Universal Franchise League.
had Amendment E. as her topic.

 

EXAS suffragists are hoping that Annie
Webb Blanton. candidate for State Su-
perintendent of Public Instruction in Texas,
will be elected. as she is well qualified, and was
urged to run by the suffrage forces.

Field Day at SuHrage School

ROVING itself a sure enough educational
institution, the suffrage school of the
W'oman’s Franchise League of Sullivan, In-
diana, celebrated field day the last of June.
There was an out-of—doors program, in which
Mr. Fred F. Bayes, Democratic candidate for
Congress, and others participated.

Decorated automobiles for the field day cele-
bration made the streets of Sullivan gay. Many
of the outdoor speeches were humorous and
held the crowds. In this school Professor Ed-
gar Frazier has conducted classes in “ Public
Speaking," and Mrs. L. J. Cox of Terre Haute
on Parliamentary Law, a subject in which she
is a recognized authority.

The school has specialized on different forms
of public speaking, and one of the urgent mes-
sages of all of the leaders was an admonition
that “sincerity on the part of the speaker is an
urgent necessity.”

A normal class in model organization pro-
voked much interest during the school’s session.
Miss Roberta Slater used as an example of
such organization that of the Minute Women
of Elkhart for war work. This organization
has 350 enlisted for permanent work for the
duration of the war. It has already put through
with success three drives. They were for the
registration of women, child welfare and War
Savings Stamps.

Association of Commerce

(Continued from page 154)

practical women as speakers upon such subjects
as “ A \Voman’s Chance in the Industrial
World,” by Elizabeth Seiger, efficiency expert
from the Elgin \Vatch Co.; “Physically Fit:
100 Per Cent Efficiency," by Dr. Grace Powell
Sitzer, from \Vm. Wrigley Co., of Chicago.

One of the principal topics for discussion at
the convention was “\Vhat Is the Most Im-
portant Work That Business Women Can Do
This Year, and How Shall It Be Done? ”

Parties and Primaries
(Continued from page 149)

Of the forty-eight Legislatures sitting in 1915-
1916, in eighteen the majority was Democratic—
in Louisiana, South Carolina, Mississippi and
Florida the legislature was solidly so; twenty-
hve- had a Republican majority. In three one
house was Republican and one Democratic and
one (Minnesota) was non-partisan}

This analysis shows how not only in National
but in state affairs the two great parties hold
between them today almost absolute sway, the
minor parties serving merely like a Greek
chorus to criticise and admonish.

But control of the legislature is not complete
control. A chief executive of the opposition
can by his veto nullify or at any rate hamper
the crystallizing of party policies into legisla-
tion. Or a judiciary of the other party can
throw out a law passed and approved. The con-
trol of the three parts of government is neces-
sary to make party control complete. Only in
the Southern states does one party (Democratic)
accomplish this with any degree of permanency,

ibut all parties are constantly striving to this

end. It is the very magnitude of this task that
has made the parties so powerful and their or-
ganization so perfect.

 

‘ I do not know the political complexion of Wash-
lugton.

’lghe Woman Citizen

METROPOLITAN
DYE WORKS

CLEANERS
and DYERS

lwll iti>\ Work.

l’rompl lie-liu-rx.

‘ ) '
lxt-a~ui‘..:lilv lri .

.x‘r

 

an! Institute .4 Boarding and
'auml'  Day School for Girls

8 School ondCollocePropnn Courses. '1' 3
Y3. of College Work. Speeiol‘gyunee:1‘ho Arte.

Journnlhm. Short Story Writing. Busine- and 8.0!.-

tu'lllT ' WNorndTrdoianoma-
tie Science. I'll-nectar, Luv.

Mrs. NMEMLLB..Pre-'deot.
Author of "Paul's Parliamentary Luv"
and “The Heart of Block-coon"

 

Financing the Hospitals
(Continued from page 153)

6 6 VERYBODY was so perfectly willing to

give that it ‘was easy to double the
money we started to raise for the Women's
Overseas Hospitals," is the report of Mrs. W.
A. Johnston, of Topeka, the wife of Chief Jus-
tice Johnston of Kansas.

More than $1,000 was raised in two weeks for
the hospitals by a house to house solicitation
and the chairman of the committee says that
“ none of the committee had any trouble in
securing pledges or making collections."

SEND ALL FUNDS FOR THE
\VOMEN’S OVERSEA HOSPITALS, U. S. A.
to the treasurer of the
NATIONAL AMERICAN WOMAN SUFFRAGE
ASSOCIATION
Mas. HENRY WADE ROGERS,

171 Madison Avenue, New York City.

Hurry Call

0 you want to send something to the Na-

tional American \Voman Suffrage Asso-
ciation’s own hospitals, the Women's Oversea
Hospitals, U. S. A.?

If you do, here is a list of what is needed for
the new gas hospital unit: Nightgowns and
wrappers for men.

Cut out garments ready to be made up will be
furnished upon application to headquarters of
the Women's Oversea Hospitals, 171 Madison
Avenue, New York City.

For the Military Hospital at Chateau Ognon,
these things are needed: Socks, towels wash-
cloths, comfort bags.

Fill the bags if you can with cigarettes, choco-
late, tooth brushes, tooth paste, handkerchiefs.
If you cannot fill the bags, send them anyway.
Rubber gloves and large, soft pillows are much
needed everywhere.

If these articles are sent promptly they will
be carried over as part of the personal luggage
of Mrs. Raymond Brown and the new members
going to France with her on her return early
in August. As hand luggage of those crossing
they stand a chance of immediate transportation.

Send before August 5 to the Infirmary 101'
Women and Children, 321 East Fifteenth Street.
New York City, in care of Mrs. George \\'.
Bacon and mark for the “’omen's Oversea

Hos 'tals.
When writing to advertisers please mention the WOMAN. CITIZEN‘
 1n \' u rmsriso counxr. sew roar»:

July 20, 1918

I I w w t‘   112 w H I ‘m A g m m m M: u . ‘ l u. m nmnmlmmmmmnmmlmmlnnnmnmmlmmnmlmmmnmnmmmnnmnnlnmmumnmmnnnmmmnumlmmmmnnmnmmmmnmnnmmmmmmmmmumnnmnmmmuunnmmmmmmlmmmmnmnmmlmmnunmm

  

 

Yesterday the words were
uttered by a Hindu writer of Cal-
cutta, India, who had read the
“Declaration of Independence of
the Women of India" in our issue

of July 6th.

He wanted to tell us the story of
a feminist princess of his country
and to pass on further word of
women's. emancipation in India to
the women of America.

E—
=
.-
.—
—
.—
.—
—E
_
E
E—
-
-
E-
—
‘—
—
.-
=-
=
.-
a
3
.—
_

 you keeping up with
I   the march of women's feet
" I in India, in Armenia, in
Albania, in New Zealand, in Can-
ada and in every other country as
well as at home, as it isbeing told
in our columns from week to week?

  

'1
 . ) .
c f ' _

 

990’s at. + Less Than Published Price?

i. . . ,

lC have arranged to supply the books listed below at the special prices

named when sold in combination with new subscriptions to the Woman

Citizen. They will be mailed post-paid to any address in the United States.

This is an opportunity to save from twenty to thirty-five per cent on the

published prices. If you are already a subscriber to the Woman Citizen

and wish to own certain of the books, invite your friends to become subscribers to the

magazine at one dollar a year, and have the books of your choice sent to your address.

They will cost you the difference between the full price quoted for each combination

and one dollar. Or subscribe to the magazine as a gift for a friend and have the book
sent to your address.

Published Combination: Amount

0 n 12..  ‘2  a r .3353. szscmncmisstzm
THE PAN-GERMAN PLOT UNMASKED: André Chéradame . . . . . . .. .8125 $1.85 8.40
“OVER THERE”: Captain R. Hugh Knyvett . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50 2.00 .50
FIGHTING FOR PEACE: Henry van Dyke . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25 1.85 .40
WHY WE ARE AT WAR: Woodrow Wilson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .50 1.35 .15
IN OUR FIRST YEAR OF WAR: Woodrow Wilson.................. 1.00 1.65 .35
FIGHTING FRANCE: Edith Wharton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00 1.65 ' .35
THE UNITED STATES AND PAN-GERMANIA: André Chéradame.. 1.00 1.65 .35
GENERAL J OFFRE AND HIS BATTLES: Raymond Recouly (Captain X) 1.25 1.85 .40
ON THE RIGHT OF THE BRITISH LINE: Captain Gilbert Nobbs... 1.25 1.85 .40
WHITE NIGHTS AND OTHER RUSSIAN IMPRESSIONS: Arthur Ruhl 2. 00 v 2 . 35 .65
A WAR NURSE’S DIARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25 1.85 .40
MY WAR DIARY: Madame Waddington . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50 2.00 .50
WITH THE ALLIES: Richard Harding Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25 1.85 .40
THE DESERTER: Richard Harding Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .50 l 35 .15
PRINCIPLES OF AMERICAN DIPLOMACY: John Bassett Moore... . 2.00 2.35 .65
. N 0 V C l :5
THE EARTHQUAKE: Arthur Train . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50 2.00 .50
CHRISTINE: Alice Cholmondeley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25 1.85 .40
HIS FAMILY: Ernest Poole . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50 2.00 .50
THE TREE OF HEAVEN: May Sinclair . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.60 2.00 .60
l‘inscclluncous
YOUR VOTE AND HOW TO USE IT: Mrs. Raymond Brown . . . . . . .. .75 1.50 .25
THE WOMAN VOTER’S MANUAL: S. E. Forman and Marjorie Shuler. . 1.00 1.65 35
MARK TWAIN’S LETTERS, 2 Volumes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4.00 3.75 1.25
OBSERVATION: EVERY MAN HIS OWN UNIVERSITY: R. H. Conwell 1.00 1.65 .35
THE MODERN CITY AND ITS PROBLEMS: Frederic C. Howe. . .. 1.50 2.00 .50
THE HIGH COST OF LIVING: Frederic C. Howe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50 2.00 .50
THE FOOD PROBLEM: Kellogg and Taylor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25 1.85 .40
WAR FRENCH: Colonel C. D. Willcox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .75 1.50 .25

This offer is for a limited period. Send your orders promptly to

 .WOMAN “was.

i "
L‘s. ..~—.-.~a~———;~. nag..— .m-“ag- --.-.hr-, 31"! ~- . being. ‘ ~ . . a c 'l — ‘ '-

 

-__J

 

 

