r .- "‘ -x .' “' _ ' . ' ' I '-  1- I. II I I I ‘ I ' I '- - in 
i‘ “In. _ _  . A? u _ w _ __ :- I . . _ _ . a I '15“ a
 .= . “a. . . 

§ 1: €“‘-";15*';2‘.L 7;)??? -_' $311252!" '. " 5.63:? ‘33-‘32 . '1‘} awe-ma _' . 
. ; a :h m. :1— “513.152,;- ~ -  um'wpmwid  ant-smut: Murat-EM”

.r._'N- _ L. ‘
a“!

“'5'”.

'l

rm‘h-«Irmw

't

.a-

 ‘

 

NOTICE: Whnn you much reading this
' .ug'niua: place a arm-cent stamp on th‘w

 mall the: magazine, and it w“! be
u  If: the hands uf' nur soldiers or

paint: destined to proceed overseas. No
I F “.a '- ‘J—’ ' ' #1 ‘u a

..-l—

The Woman Citizei

 

.jj’tanklin Simon 8 Go.

A S tore of Individual Shops .
Fifth Avenue, 37th and 38th Streets, New York

A NEW COAT MODEL

SILK CREPE DE CHINE
BREAKFAST GOWN

For WOMEN and MISSES

No. 31—Silk Crepe de Chine Breakfast Gown, in
pink, light blue, rose, copen or orchid, trimmed with
self color pleated silk chiffon ruffles, self cording at
pockets, below hips, around bottom, long sash ends.

12.75

  

Prompt Delivery Free

Anywhere in the United States
’PHONE 6900 GREELEY

It

A"

, .
.l'
HE!"
. 1'

./

  

 

 
 

Summer Deliveries by Our Own Motors to Long Island
and the Jersey Shore Points.

that 8c (1110.

FIFTH AVENUE AND 35TH STREET
Established 1879

Be Sure that Your Silk Stockings
are Stamped with AH TAB

Stamped with AH TAB means pure silk; means full
fashioned; means fast dye; means strong reinforced
toes; means reinforced garter tops; means elasticity as
yielding as a feather ball, as full of spring as willow.

Stamped with AH TAB means all that a lady’s silk
stocking should be; means all that the Thrift in wise

economy really is.

If you have been trying everywhere for silk stock-
ings that give satisfaction, style, fast color, plus [it
and wear, try AH TAB hosiery JUST ONCE.

  
  
   
   
   
  
  

‘ THE WOMAN CITIZEN

A. National Political Weekly

for Women

BE INFORMED!

Pin a New York draft, Money or
Express Order for $1.00 to this
advertisement, fill out the blank
below, cut out and mail both to
us for one year’s subscription (new
or renewal) to

That is how Amany of our longstanding friends have Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

been formed: they tried it once. Now they never
think of silk hosiery without thinking of AH TAB. Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Three Grades,- Oity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . State . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.35, 1.65, 2.00

To be had only from Best & C 0. THE WOMAN CITIZEN 171 Madison Avenue New York

2% You Never Pay More at Best’ ‘5‘ ”   —-———~——*
When writing to advertisers please mention the WOMAN  by 8 e

 

 

 

h fer victory

C ON'I‘INUING the Woman’s Journal,
founded 1870 by Lucy Stone and Henry
B. Blackde as a weekly newspa de-
voted to winning equal rights an espe-
cially to winning equal suRr or
women, and published weekly in oston,
Massachusetts. from 1870 to 1917. Con-
tinnlng also the Woman Voter, and the
National Suing News. In succeeding
the National Sn age News, The Woman
Citiaen became the oiiicial organ of the
National American Woman Sud'rage
Association, and as such tries to main-
tain intimate contact between the Asso-
ciation and its two million members
throughout the United States.

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

Founded June 2, 1917

Published every Saturday by

The Woman sznN CORPORATION
at 171 Madison Avenue, New York

Ten cents a capy: yearly subscription (52 numbers),
81.00. Postage to forei countries titty cents extra.
Entered at the New ork Post OMce as Second
Class matter, under the act of March 8, 1879. Copy-
right, 1918, by The Woman Citizen Corporation.

VOL. III JUNE 15, 1918 No. 3

 

 

PUBLISHED by the Woman Citizen

Corporation, in the hope that it may

. rove a self- ergétuating memorial to

rs. Frank s generosity toward

the cause of woman suRrage and her
faith in woman’s irresistible progress.

The directors of the Corporation are
Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, Miss Alice
Stone Blackwell, Miss Ms Garrett
Hay, Mrs. Thomas Bucklin ells, and
Mrs. Arthur L. Livermore.

Alice Stone Blackwell is a special contrib-
uting editor.

Bose Young is the editor-in-chief.

M on Whi Mary Sumner Bo
anudr’ 32:: Law]: Geyer are associgt‘d

editors.

\

 

 

Our Circulation Story

UST now suffragists the country over are

keenly on the alert for news of the victory

for the Federal Amendment which is
to launch the series of ratification campaigns
that must be waged and won in three-fourths
of the states before we can count our cam-
paign work hnished.

All signs and rumors make it practically cer-
tain that your state will be in the midst of a
ratification campaign this coming year, and if
you believe in re ess NOW is the time
to prepare. rst step in the preparation
is information, oilicial information,
and this we have in the Woman Citizen.

“ We are very anxious to circulate the
Woman Citizen as widely as possible over the
state, especially during our campaign,” writes
Mrs. John L. Pyle, who is leiiding the South
Dakota camtpaign and feels it is essential to
have an au entic medium of information in
the hands of all her workers. Very much the
same comes from Mrs. T. T. Cotnam, head of
the Arkansas sud’r ts and a veteran cam-
paigner. “ If we co (1 put the Citizen all over
the state it would aid materially in gaining full
suffrage,” is the way Mrs. Cotnam feels about
the matter. Now, what we want is full suf-
frage in all forty-eight states, and what is true
in the case of one state will be found equally
true in those states that still have a part of
the road to travel. The suffrage mail bag
brings proof of this every day.

Mrs. Elizabeth Towne, of Mt. Holyoke,
Massachusetts, writes: “ I cannot do without
the Citizen.”

“The dallying of the Senate and the value
of the late editions of the
Woman Citizen impel me
to renew my subscrip-
tion,” writes Mrs. George
W. Clarke from Des
Moines, and she is only
one of the thousands of
women who are watching
with intense interest for
the news of Victory from
the sufrage front. The
weekly accounts of the
Women’s Oversea HOSP"
tals, stories of the Win-
theWar-Women and the

lon line of war service
won: that stands to the

credit of the sudragists
are also matters of keen
interest to 01111? rgialiers.
‘nd ‘ fromt em ag.
J Nggger do we feel
greater satisfaction than
when we read letters
from circulation chair-
men expressing dissatis-
faction over the standing
of their states in the cir-
culation contest. ‘

Yours for 100,000 new
subscribers!

Ros: Lawnm Garza,

National Circulation

Chairman.

. Georgia
Indiana

. Minnesota
Iowa

. Michigan

. Virginia

. Wisconsin
. Alabama

. Maryland

. Nebraska

1
2
3.
4»
5.
6.
7
8
9
IO
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
I9
20
21
22
23
24

NM
03m

. Vermont

. South Dakota

New Jersey

. New York
. Ohio, Missouri

. New Hampshire

. Massachusetts
. Maine, Texas

. Pennsylvania, Louisiana

. Connecticut

. South Carolina

. West Virginia

. Kentucky, North Dakota, Tennessee
. Mississippi, Arkansas, Rhode Island

. Washington
. North Carolina

“ Through the Woman

Citizen you are doing a

great work for the women
of Amerzca.”
—Mary Dams, Iowa.

 

Stats Circulation Chairmen
Alabama: Miss Mary P. London, Birmingham
Connecticut: Mrs. Bertha Taylor, Voorhorst,

Hartford
Indiana: Mrs. Jessie Fremont Croan, Anderson
Iowa: Dr. Eihe McCollum Jones, Webster City
Louisiana: Mrs. Sherard Brisbane, Baton
Rouge
Maine: Mrs. Dora H. York, Augusta
Maryland: Mrs. Edwin W. Rouse, Jr.
Massachusetts: Mrs. R. L. DeNormandie, Bos-
ton
Michigan: Mrs. John Waite, Ann Arbor
Minnesota: Mrs. I. E. Rose, St. Paul.
New Hampshire: Mrs. Ma Post, Portsmouth
New Jersey: Mrs. F. H. Co vin, East Orange
North Dakota: Mrs. Katherine L. Brainerd,
Hebron
Rhode Island: Mrs. LeBaron C. Colt, Bristol
South Carolina: Mrs. J. T. Gittman, Columbia.
:Texas: Mrs. Helen Moore, Galveston
Virginia: Miss Helen Stockdell, Richmond
West Virginia: Mrs. P. C. McBee, Mor antown
Wisconsin: Mrs. Charles Mott, Milwa ee

Relative Position of State Leagues in the Woman Citizen’s Circulation Contest:
J une 8th

June 1
1. Georgia
. South Dakota
. Indiana
. Minnesota
. Iowa
. Michigan
. New Jersey
. New York.
. Missouri

. Virginia.

. Massachusetts
. Texas
. Maine

. Maryland

. Connecticut

. West Virginia
Washington, D. C.
. South Carolina

gggNNHHHl-IHHHHHH
. yowmqmmpgspwocmqauewte

NJ
OI

. Nebraska
. Washington

. North Carolina
. Vermont

NNN
@405

 

 

. Pennsylvania, Louisiana

. Kentucky, North Dakota, Tennessee
Mississippi, Arkansas, Rhode Island

- Circulation Contest

1. A pledge will constitute an entrfyt.

2. No entries will be accepted a er Decem-
ber 1. I918. ‘

3. Contest closes January 1, 1919.

4-. In case of a tie for any one premium, the

prize will be awarded to each qualifying

contestant.
5. Only actual paid subscriptions willbe count-

ed in the awarding of premiums.

I First Cash Premium
FIFTY DOLLARS

To the State Association that sends in the
highest number over 200 (paid new subscrib-
era). The net price per subscription to the
State Association is .70, the .30 to go into the
state, county or local treasury, as may be de—
cided by arrangement between the state and
its branches. :

‘

Second Cash Premium
TWENTY-FIVE DOLLARS

To the County Association that sends in the
highest number over 100 (paid new sub—
scribers). These would come through the
State Association, and would help to swell the
state’s total.

Third Cash Premium
TWENTY-F IVE
DOLLARS

To the Local Club that
sends in the highest
number over 100 aid
new subscribers). ese
would come through the
Con Association into
the tate Association,
and thence to the Woman
Citizen.

. New Hampshire, Ohio

Fourth Cash Premium
TWENTY-FIVE
DOLLARS

To the co-operating
Subscriber who sends in
the hi best number over
50. would be inde-
pendent of state, county
and club circulation ac-
tivities, would apply to
states that do not take
up the circulation work
in an Mela! way, and
would come directly to,
the Woman Citizen. The
net price per subscription
is $1.00. 0 discount.

l

 

Digitized by 600816

44

'43. Altman & Gin.

TRAVEL AND vacarroN ourrrrs

and the numerous minor requirements to render both the journey
and the sojourn worth while have been provided in

interesting and extensive assortments.

         
      
   
   
 

  

 

The activities oi the seaside, country sports, or the hours of leisure
have been amply anticipated in apparel typical of
fashionable life during the Summer period.

  

mailman Avenue-37ml} Avenue, New gnrk
within-fourth 511721 TELEPHONE rooo MURRAY mu. UM-§fth 511721

  
 
  

First Aid to Subscribers

Pin a New York draft, Money or Express Order for
$1.00 to this advertisement, fill out the blank below, cut
out and mail both to us for one year’s subscription (new
or renewal) to ¢ '

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . State . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

THE WOMAN CITIZEN 171 Madison Avenue New York

 

For three years Americahas
Fought starvation in Belgmrn

Will you Eat less - when
meat-Fats and sugar
that we may still send

Food in ship loads ?

Q

gnu-Io own-El rooo abundant-.4710“

  
      
     
 
    
  

Correct Uniforms for Maids

Ready to Wear

Fulfnrnm . . . . . . . . .from 3.00
(Tap-:- and Collars. .. " .20
Aprons, (Junta, Bonnets

Special PM Cross A ppm-cl
0350 Made to Order

Send More !

 

: my. (Rum-10! B Ill.

liltill.

 
 

When writing to advertisers please mention the WOMAN CITIZEN.

The Woman Citizen

. THE ~ WOMAN’S JOURNAL

A Journal of Democracy

June 15, 1918

“W 9 shall fight for the things whichiwe have always carried nearest our heart: — for democracy, for the right of -
those who submit to authority to have a voice in “their own government."

“To Get\Back Beer” '

ORD from Omaha, N eb., received at the headquarters

of the National American Women Suffrage Association

during the week confirms the statements made by Nebraska suf-

frage leaders that fraudulent petitions were circulated in Neb-

raska, to hold up the presidential woman suffrage bill of the state

by subjecting it to a referendum in order to register the will of

the people. The hearing on this case, which caused much excite-

ment in Nebraska, was carried on all last week and is continuing
through the present week.

At this writing sufficient evidence seems to be in hand to dem-
onstrate to the public just what agencies work with bona fide
anti-suffragists to delay suffrage measures.

A telegram from Elmer E. Thomas of Omaha, Neb., attorney
for the Nebraska Woman Suffrage Association, is sufficiently
revelatory to be quoted in full:

“Suffragists took evidence at Omaha all last week. Exam-

ined a hundred witnesses. Results highly favorable, showing .

much forgery or fraud by Antis. A. O. Barclay’s petitions con-
tain 2,000 names. Eighty witnesses swore names forged thereon.
Orville Pierson, aged 13, swore A. O. Barclay hired him to get
names and certified he procured them himself. Dick Kennedy,
negro, now in jail, had 800 names; testified he could not read or
Write, could not identify own petitions, gave five different ad—
dresses. ]ames Grant secured 900 names, including unnaturalized
foreigners who cannot read or speak English, and alien enemies.
Toldthem it was to get back saloons. Gus Tyler testified Mrs. C.
C. George, vice—president of antis, purports to have witnessed his
Signature, but he never saw her. Small boys obtained hundreds
of names, many illegible and in bad condition. Several hundred
Witnesses will be called. Suffragists confident.”

According to another telegram, from an Omaha newspaper
Woman, the slogan used to grip the imagination of illiterate for-

eigners was “ get back beer.”

It is the sort of tactics reported here that has turned suffra-
gists from the state route forever. Again and again it has been
made evident that sinister forces are able so to manipulate mat-
ters within a state as to defeat the will of the pe0ple on the suf-
frage question. Again and again suffragists have tried to get
this evidence thoroughly sifted in state courts. It is hoped that
the Nebraska case will establish a precedent for an impartial

- weighing of the facts, and it is certain that the facts as already

adduced form the strongest possible argument for the federal
By that route state legislators will pass on the
suffrage question. Nebraska women were given presidential suf-

suffrage route.

frage by Nebraska’s legislators. After all, the legislators of a state
may be more hopefully expected to represent the will of the people
than such agencies as those that got behind the circulation of the

INebraska petitions for a referendum.

World-Wide Significance.

N the telegram sent last week to Leon S. Haas, member of
the state Senate of Louisiana, urging the Legislature of
that state to give its approval to suffrage for women, President
Wilson showed how completely he has become imbued with the
view that America is injured in the world’s“ eyes until she
standardizes her democracy by giving American women the right
of self-government, to the end that the nation may stand forth
before the world as a fair and just exponent of that gOSpel of
democracy which she preaches and fights for. l
“ I hope,” wired the President, “ that you will not think that
I am taking an unwarranted liberty in expressing, my deep in-
terest in the suffrage question before your committee. I cannot
help regarding the settlement of this question as of world-wide
significance and as affording a standard by which to judge our
present interest in the complete establishment of democracy. I
am moved to send you this expression of opinion by a very pro-

found sense of the public inter

Digitized bngOSIQ

46

Full Suffrage for Canada

DROWNED by the roar of cannon on the battlefields of
Europe, a great suffrage victory pealed softly through
Canada the latter part of May. The Canadian suffrage bill,
known as the Government’s Votes for Women bill, a sweeping
national suffrage measure, having passed the House of Com-
mons in the early spring, passed second reading in April, and
third reading in May, receiving the Royal assent at once.

The provisions of the bill entirely rectify the injustices of the
War Time Elections Act which was passed last year. Under
that act, nicknamed the disfranchising act, the voting privi-
lege was limited to women whose immediate male relatives were
in the war. Its enactment was sharply challenged, and Sir
Robert Borden, premier, made haste to assure its critics that if
he were re-elected he would at once sponsor a suffrage bill of
the most sweeping content.

He kept his word, and under the new bill which has now
become law, all women over 21, British, and not disqualified from
voting by race and nationality restrictions of their own provinces.
are enfranchised. For the purposes of the bill a woman is con-
sidered “ British ” if born British and either unmarried or mar-
ried; if foreign—born and married to a Britisher; or foreign-born
and possessed of her own nationalization papers. Wives of alien
enemies cannot vote.

The bill goes a long way toward eliminating from the Canadian

polity the absurdities by virtue of which a woman in almost all

other countries takes off and puts on nationality with her mar— '

riage. It is, moreover, far in advance of Great Britain’s suffrage
act with its unfair age discrimination.

And it should serve as an urgent reminder to the United States
Senators that they owe it to America to place her on a par with
the world leaders of democracy by passing the Federal Suffrage
Amendment. ’

Cambric Needle and Time use

E VERY now and then we pause to say to ourselves: “ Now,
don’t, for goodness sake, claim too much for women.
Over-boasting is as bad as under-valuing, under-paying, over-
Just try
to help get the artificial barriers out of the way and let it go at

that."
And having thus warned ourselves into a state of utterly

working. \Vomen must stand or fall by their merits.

judicial poise, we pick up the paper and read things like this:

“It has been found, according to manufacturers, that women
are proving more accurate than men in the timing of fuses and in
inspection where particularly keen eyesight is required. They
are proving better than men in assembling because of the nimble-
ness of their fingers.”

That did not originate with us, mind you.
the National \Var Board.

“ Studies are being made by the Industrial Service section of

That comes from

The Woman Citizen

the army ordnance department in district plants of conditions
under which women are employed. Suggestions as to employ-
ment, management and health conditions are being passed on to
manufacturers, and women are being assigned to work on drill.
presses, the making and marking of fuses, loading of shells,
assembling of artillery, inspection, drafting, electrical and car-
pentry work.”

But when it comes to a question of woman’s capacity to drop
a slip of paper in a ballot box, really, you know, the strain would
be too awful! '

Woman’s weapon used to be a stiletto, a little sharp dagger
with which she punched holes in linen and filled them in with
tiny stitches. It was her fine-lady task once to mark her linen,
counting two threads this and two that for a diminutive cross-
stitch.

She could thread a cambric needle with a gossamer thread
that would have mended Ariel’s wings or seamed Puck’s girdle.
And people thought it all so useless. '

“This punching holes in cloth and sewing them up again! ”
smiled superior men.

And now it seems that all this training in delicacy of touch
and. sight wa'sn’t wasted. It can be used in making time fuses!

All of which accentuates anew that there are generally, at
least, two roads by which efficiency is acquired, the man’s way
and the woman’s way. Men achieved success in making muni-
Women achieved by
defter fingers and keener eyesight. Both ways seem good. Why
discriminate against either?

tions by heavier muscles than women’s.

Readjusting Election Machinery

EW YORK CITY has already begun the important task
of readjusting its election machinery to accommodate the
large army of women voters who will take part in future city
elections. To that end it is reapportioning election districts and
will add approximately 500 districts to those already established,
machinery sufficient to accommodate the 350,000 or more \‘JOI‘I‘CH
voters who, it is estimated, will take part in the fall elections.
Perhaps the greatest difficulty confronting the Board of lilec-
fions is in obtaining the proper facilities for polling booths.
Women have in many instances objected to barber shops and
other unsuitable places as polling booths, and on the men voters
who have stood discomfort perennially in the matter of polling
places is dawning the hope that improvement is not only possible

but imminent.

Ready

N commenting editorially on the action of the Democratic

State Central Committee of Connecticut in endorsing the
Federal Suffrage Amendment, the Hartford Post says: “ Suf-
frage is coming, coming by Federal Amendment and coming
soon. The country is ready for it. By voting in favor of the
Amendment the Democratic State Central Committee keeps step
with the party.”

Digitized by 600816

June 15, 1918

Hungary’s Determination

GAIN and again come indications that Hungary is trying
to break through the iron ring of the Central Powers.
Her lack of harmony with the Teutons is again manifest in the
resumption of the fight for woman suffrage within her borders.
Prussianism cannot brook anything so democratic as self—govern-
ment for women, and Hungary’s determination to take this for—
ward step in democracy has caused grave anxiety to Kaiser and
Emperor. It was the woman suffrage question which overthrew
the first Wekerle cabinet. Just the same, Wekerle, again
premier, is announcing, according to Budapest dispatches, that
he will move, at the next plenary session of the Hungarian Par-
liament, a resolution returning to the Franchise Bill the clause
relating to woman suffrage.

Methodists in the Vanguard

URTHER explanations reveal the full significance of the
action taken recently by the Methodist Episcopal Church
South with regard to granting full laity rights to women. All
laws of the church have been changed with reference to women
and they will have the same status as men, in the view of Rev.
Forest J. Prettyman, of the executive committee of the commis-
sion on war work of the Methodist Episcopal Church South.
Before the changed laws can be put into practice they must be
ratified by a three-fourths vote of all voting in the annual con-
ferences. This was a ruling of the Bishops to insure the con-
stitutionality of the procedure, a ruling that gave rise to* the
interpretation that the Bishops had vetoed the measure. But
according to Mr. Prettyman, there is no doubt about the con-
ferences seconding the action of the general conference. Women
will then be eligible to all boards, to be trustees, superintendents
of Sunday schools, stewards, Epworth League presidents, and
all other positions held by men.

The Southern Baptists adopted similar measures at their
recent convention held in Hot Springs, Ark.

Is New York Guilty?

AFEW weeks ago a dramatic thing happened. When Gov-
ernor Whitman of New York State was at the Black-
stone Hotel in, Chicago he was waited on by twenty boys of the
Boys’ Brotherhood Republic, who had come to appeal for mercy
for Paul Chapman, sixteen years and three months old, awaiting
the electric chair in Sing Sing death-house. The motto of this
republic is, “ When a kid’s in trouble, we’re in trouble.” And
their question to the Governor was, p“ What is the matter with
New York?
given to a boy of Chapman’s age. We are interested in Chap-
man,” they continued, “ because the boys of Chicago feel that a
boy of his age should live in spite of his misstep. If the state
of New York will allow this boy to be killed, the boys of Illinois
will charge your state 'with murder.”

Here in Chicago no such sentence would ever be

Are the boys of Chicago justified in their charge against New
York state?

47

Paul Chapman seems to be undeniably a criminal, but not
He deliberately entered an apartment
for burglary, butnot for murder.

There is a law in New York State which provides that when
a homicide is committed by a person engaged in the commission
of, or in an attempt to commit, a felony, whether the killing is

undeniably a murderer.

intentional or not, it is murder in the first degree. The extreme
rigor of the law is, however, seldom invoked. Yet it is to be
invoked in New York state—and applied to a boy of sixteen.

Right here rests the justice of the question raised by the
brotherhood in Chicago in behalf of Paul Chapman. Should a
boy of sixteen, held too youngato be financially responsible, held
too young to cast a vote, to enter into business contracts, be made
answerable for his crimes as an adult is answerable? J

Will New York state be guilty of murder if Paul Chapman’s
sentence is not repealed? A

The law of New York state has nothing in it to prevent the
electrocution of any child over seven years of age. Below that
age all children are by. common law everywhere held “ criminally
irresponsible.”

From 7 to I4 they are “ presumably irresponsible,” except in
New York and Minnesota, where by statute law years of
“ dubious discretion ” end at 12. In only one state, Illinois, has
the lower limit of criminal responsibility been raised above 14,
and there it is 17 for boys and 18 for girls, a fact which justifies
the Chicago brotherhood in saying that in Chicago such a sen-
tence as that on Paul Chapman could not have been passed. ‘

Twelve states have done away with capital punishment alto-
gether. So that in 14 states the tragedy of electrocuting a six-

teen-year-old boy could not happen.

HERE are on record in the United States some half dozen
cases only where infants of "‘ dubious years ”—under 14—

I

have been hanged for murder, and these are mainly ancient his-
tory. There is said to have been only one other child of Chap-
man’s age in New York state who suffered the extreme penalty
of murder—in his case by hanging.

Before the movement for Juvenile Courts at the beginning of
the twentieth century, Texas was the only state that protected
the child miscreant over 14. Now all but eight have juvenile
court laws. All except Virginia extend legal protection beyond
I4 years; some to 16, others to 17, 18 and even 19 years. In
only five states having juvenile courts—New York, Indiana,
Iowa, Massachusetts and New Jersey—is the child who has com-
mitted a crime punishable by death expressly excluded from the
protection of these courts and turned over as an adult is to the
criminal courts for punishment.‘ i

In view of the" progress made by other states in protecting
adolescence from the full burden of adult responsibility, it seems
as if New York is at the world’s bar of judgment in the matter
of Paul Chapman’s sentence. ‘

The burden of proof that it is justified in filliping away the
growing demand for the right of a child to be judged as a child
and not as an adult rests upon New York.

Digitized by 600816 *

48

In Active Service

ATRIOTISM and service were the key-

notes of the first annual session of the
Woman Suffrage League of Maryland, at Balti-
more, June 5th. “ When the whole story of
woman’s part in this war is written, the men
who are opposing suffrage for women will hang
their heads in shame, for they will be proved
disloyal to their wives, mothers and sisters,”
said Mrs. J. Ross Thomson, in her address as
president of the Maryland Association. The
suffragists took a just pride in their long list
of war activities as shown in the report of Mrs.
William Milnes Maloy, who is also secretary of
the Woman’s Section, Maryland Council of De-
fense. The report showed that women who
are active in the state suffrage work are lead-
ers on war service committees and divisions.

Practically the full number of delegates was
present, and, with their alternates and a large
number of visitors, formed an enthusiastic au-
dience as reports of legislative work and war
service work were given. It was decided to
leave the plans for the ratification campaign
largely within the hands of the State Board.
Committees to carry on this important part of
the year’s work will be announced later. The
board, by action of the convention, was enlarged
to include all county presidents and the chair-
men of the four city legislative districts. '

A Feature of the evening session of the con-
vention was a review of the laws enacted by
the last state Legislature given by Dr. Horace
E. Flack. ' '

Mrs. J. Ross Thomson, of Garrett Park, was
re-elected president of the League, and will
have on her staff, as vice-president, Mrs. Charles
E. Ellicott, of Baltimore; second vice-president,
Mrs. Mary Alexander, Hagerstown; third vice-
president. Miss Florence Trail, Frederick; re-
cording secretary, Mrs. C. C. Peffer, Baltimore;
corresponding secretary, Mrs. Frank_F. Ramey,
Baltimore ; treasurer, Miss Mary Claire O’Brien,
Baltimore; auditors, Miss Irma .Graham, Salis-
bury, and' Mrs. Thomas J. Linthicum, An-
napolis.

 

IN VAIN!

 

SUCH AN AMUSING LITTLE FELLOW!

On Record

HE Federation of Women’s Clubs of Alle-

gany County, Maryland, took a stand for
equal suffrage at its annual convention held
June 1 at Westernport. Calling attention to the
fact that the question of political equality of
men and women is today a vital problem
throughout the civilized world and to the fact
that the Federal Amendment is now pending
in the Senate the club women endorsed the fol-
lowing:

“ Resolved, That the Allegany County Fed-
eration of Women’s Clubs give the cause of po-
litical equality for men and women its moral
support by recording its earnest belief in the
principle of political equality regardless of

H

SCX.

Americanizing Them

HE Woman Suffrage Party of New York

City is focusing its Americanization work
with foreign born women on those who are
eligible to vote in the next November elections.
This is done to save duplication of effort, as
many organizations are carrying on extensive
Americanization plans along general lines. The
City Party’s program is directed not primarily
at teaching the foreign woman the English lan-
guage but at educating her to grasp, through
her own tongue, a working knowledge of
American institutions, of party principles and
of voting procedure.

For the Soldiers

HE New Jersey Woman Suffrage Asso-

ciation, under whose auspices the Soldiers
Club House at Wrightstown is conducted, have
completed arrangements for enlarging the house
and beautifying the grounds in anticipation of
the summer and to meet the increased attend-
ance at this popular club home. Nearly 4,000
soldiers visited the House during the first two
weeks of May. The new improvements call
for additional rooms, open fireplace in the
dining room, and a large platform on the lawn
where tables will be placed and where dancing
may be enjoyed. Vines and fiowers have
been set out and a number of details added
to the furnishings. Mrs. A. L. S. Doughty, of
Mount Holly, chairman of the Building Com-
mittee, and Miss Helen Lippincott of River-
ton, chairman of the Grounds Committee, have
had general supervision of the work.

The Woman Citizen

Odd Jobs

UTY may lie in the berry fields of the

Ozark Mountains as well as in the
trenches of France, in the view of twenty-five
young women students of the University of
Missouri who went forth to pick the luscious
fruit in the fields near Sarcoxie. The young
women undertook their novel labors in response
to a call for berry pickers to solve a critical
situation due to the shortage of hands.

The Woman’s Council of Defense of Mis-
souri adopted the labor shortage as one of its
particular problems, and it was in answer to
the word that went out from the Council that
women were needed in the berry fields, that
500 women responded.

Mrs. Walter McNab Miller, president of the
Missouri Suffrage Association, and chairman of
the Woman's Committee of the‘National Coun-
cil of Defense for that state, was one of the
women interested in promoting this new ven-
ture. Upon her return from the berry fields
Mrs. Miller is enthusiastic in her report of the
success of the experiment. “ The problem of
seasonal trades is always difficult,” says Mrs.
Miller, “but southwestern fruit counties have
not been in such straits until this year. This
practical illustration of seeing the problem and
coming to solve it speaks well for the univer-
sity girl of the future. One girl said she was
learning more by this experience than in all
the lessons “ she has had in economics and so-
ciology. She is getting her illustrations first
hand."

Mrs. Miller emphasized the fact that it was
not to make money that these young women
went into the fields, but from a patriotic desire
to serve their state in an emergency and be of
practical assistance in saving a valuable cr0p
which was in danger of being destroyed from
lack of pickers.

“ E sure to grow a community row,” is

the slogan of the thousands of men and
women of Mecklenburg County, Virginia, who
have pledged their hearty co-operation to the
Community Canning campaign. Mrs. John T.
Lewis, assistant to the Federal Food Adminis-
trator for the county, and chairman of the
Clarksville Suffrage League, has been in charge
of the work of organizing the county for the
canning drive, thus again giving point to the
statement that suffragists are among the most
active leaders in war service work. With a
scattered population of 22,000 the county has
ordered 2301) cans, according to a recent report
made by Mrs. Lewis. The Red Cross and war
relief societies were asked to raise the funds
necessary to install the canning outfits and the
women and boys and girls of each community
furnish the help. It is expected thousands of
dollars will be turned over to the Red Cross
and War Relief as a result of the sale of the
canned products.

REGON college graduates

what they do as long the country is
at war and women are neerJ r men's work.
Two are planning to go into the mountains.
in forest patrol service, one is to be “bull-
cook ” in a lumber camp and others will enlist
in an agricultural unit. The college is plan-
ning to put every one of its women at useful
work—if they have the will to do it, of which
there seems little doubt from results so far.

don’t care

June 15, 1918

Vox Populi

HERE is no pause in the stream of resolu-
tions and. petitions that pour into the
United States Senate urging the immediate
passage of the Federal Suffrage Amendment.
They represent all sections of the country,

many and varied groups of men and women,
and associations of national influence.

Among scores of resolutions read into the
C ongressional Record on June 3, was one from
the Yearly Meeting of the Religious Society of
Friends, presented by Senator Calder of New
York, which said in part:

“The Yearly Meeting of the Religious Society

of Friends, representing Friends in the states of
New York and eastern New Jersey, in annual

session in New York city, is deeply concerned
that the United States should recognize the
right of women to a voice in her own govern-
ment, particularly at a time like this, when
other nations are enfranchising their women.

“And therefore calls upon the President of
the United States and the Senators from the
states of New York and New Jersey to do all
within their power to urge the immediate pass-
age of the Federal Amendment."

R EPRESENTING directly 20,000 women
voters of Texas and indirectly 500,000
women voters in that state, the Texas Equal
Suffrage Association has entered a vigorous
protest to the Senate against the delay of the
passage of the Amendment. The resolution,
presented by Senator Sheppard, said in part:

“As southern voters we ask Democratic
Senators to register their belief in the equality,
intelligence, and loyalty of American women
by passing at once the Suffrage Amendment.
The nation more than a year ago pledged itself
to democracy both at home and abroad, and we

respectfully ask Congress to redeem this pledge
now.” '

EN ATOR JOHNSON of South Dakota has

presented a number of memorials from the
Universal Franchise League of South Dakota,
clippings from papers of that state, urging the
passage of the Amendment, and resolutions
from several associations of South Dakota.

Senator Lodge has added to the list with peti—
tions from the Equal Suffrage League of New-
ton, Mass., and the College Equal Suffrage
League of Boston, praying for the submission
of the Federal Suffrage Amendment to the
Legislatures of the several states.

The Federated Clubs of the fourth district of
North Dakota and the Women’s Club of New
England, North Dakota, have entered their pro-
tests against the delay in the Senate through
resolutions presented by Senator Gronna.

“ HEREAS, the House of Represen-

tatives has passed the resolution pro-
viding for the national enfranchisement of
women, ands

“WEE  ,{he number of women in indus-
try has increased rapidly since the beginning
of the war, and '

“ WHEREAS, it is clearly evident that the suc-
cess of the army in France will depend in in-
creasing measure upon the work of women in
the war industries, and

“WHEREAS, the right of women to vote will
universally strengthen the women of the coun-

try in helping to solve national industrial prob-
lems; be it

“ RESOLVED that we, the women workers of
Washington in meeting assembled, respectfully
urge the immediate passage of the suffrage
resolution by the Senate."

50 read the resolution passed at a public
meeting of the Washington Committee of the
National ‘Women’s Trade Union League.

ABOR leaders in many parts of the coun-

try and labor organizations have regis-
tered their protest against the delay in the
passage of the Federal Amendment by the
Senate. The Trades and Labor Congress of
Dubuque, Iowa, a staunch supporter of equal
suffrage, recently passed a resolution of protest
and urged the immediate passage of the Amend-
ment. The Teamsters’ Union of Dubuque has
passed a similar resolution of protest, at the
same time reaffirming their belief in equal
suffrage.

\

HE Iowa Association of Nurses at its

annual convention, held May 28 and 29 at
Dubuque, passed a resolution of protest against
the delay in the Senate in the passage of the
Federal Amendment. A protest from such a
body of women at this particular time, the
suffragists believe, should have .weight with
those Senators who continue to stand in the
doubtful or opposed column.

HIO has become a veritable stamping

ground for the passing of resolutions by
national and state organizations endorsing the
Federal Suffrage Amendment.
recorded recently is one from the American
Nurses’ Association, a national organization
representing thousands of nurses which met in
annual session at Cleveland in May.

The Women’s Auxiliary of the Brotherhood
of Locomotive Engineers, in national conven-
tion in Ohio, has also passed a resolution en-‘
dorsing the amendment.

The suffragists of Dayton, by resolution, have
called the attention of the Ohio Senators at
Washington 'to the fact “ that no government
that calls upon its women for their utmost sac-
rifice in a war for democracy can, with justiée,
withhold from these women the symbol of de-
mocracy, the vote.”

Practically every one of the important and
influential papers in Ohio is boosting the amend-
ment. The papers spoken of by Ohioans as
“ Governor Cox’s papers” said editorially:

“The suffragists are hopeful but it appears
that they lack one vote, to insure victory for
their cause.‘ Let us suppose that the necessary
vote is lacking when the vote is called, and that
it shall become necessary on that account to
make it known to the other civilized nations
that the United States continues to deny citi-
zenship to its women. Is it possible to believe
that the senator upon whom responsibility for
such a termination of the contest shall rest can
expect to look back in the future and he sat-
isfied with his record?”

“ HE United States Senate has before it
' a resolution to submit the question to
the various states, and when three-fourths of

Among those.

“=3 .- E.II"-.&»-.5-LE mu- it
{IQ-HE THE 'tJ-TW' “Sth HE H m

HIII‘  our..- ‘.-.-;+_t.c new, ,1- ‘_ _ _ “a.
WHY Fur}; warping “HAW 

FT ‘TH'F {ii i? ‘_-.

 

     

E \. rs. '- e - I" ' -  I -
.Un‘i oliviu‘i'TlLJF'l "I‘D   .' .--'-
low; '3Hlt--'::a:.'lt'u1rn_. _";_:   W4 ._
fix-mu era-Fm :. '  -r'.:"Tije‘- aid-'-
 +. , ';*. ”'
I “ELK slept r1?! '.‘- :(I. _;r)—Jrr._-_'H .  '
! PNEJLL‘uLgt  4 . _‘ ‘ _'  '
l  ' . - .113” I
I,“ , ' ' u}: r
{ff-U1" 
“' .if
_— h . - F. .‘
“ kl“"‘\ ’ IE: 11-"!- :I)- .I
i " “r "'5' tag

 

Am I. 3:»,

Few-.THE'RvuiAE Ems sue.  7"“
ILLUUKW. DUI};- v,-';‘~.k£ ‘HEJ: .-'.~.  ‘ ’-'  ..

_  V ‘. , ,u 1- ‘."- ,

UF “1‘!” Lit". .I'.-'.1 t'TlL I". -- - -_ :_‘ ' '
' I ' I: . .y “I;

. HU-ULIJ- rji- Us R LT
| '-.'«  l‘. .--"~.‘:. .12.

 

    

I, You? \“t‘Uk sEL‘F

APE BI 0M a h I;

-1

t“ '  f"

"  lHLZOixvl—RHHI-"HHR‘
—. e _ _.._  wow E-iY'Ozf-LT.-.t_3'1-*-"—u

 

 

the states approve an amendment to the fed-
eral constitution, woman suffrage will be na-
tion-wide. So the failure of the Senate to
approve the resolution at this time only post-
pones the inevitable for a brief period. Wom-
an's suffrage is just as certain to prevail even-
tually in this country as it is certain social and
economic conditions have changed, making it
a matter of justice that the women be given
the ballot."——Columbus, Ohio, Dispatch.

The American Chocolate Fund

HAT soldiers have a sweet tooth is proven

many times by the letters that come back
from overseas to the American Chocolate
Fund. This Fund was organized for the pur-
pose of sending chocolate from the manufac-
turers through the Red Cross Clearing House
at Paris, to Mrs. Forrest B. Royal, president
of the American Chocolate Fund. “Hardly a
day passes without one or more men coming
into my office, saying they had received word

_ from home that a shipment of candy had been

sent them, and asking me if I can help them
find it. They crave sweets. Chocolate not
only fills the bill, but supplies nourishment in a
concentrated form, which is so essential to sol-
diers in the field.” .

A soldier who has served his country royally
writes: “ At night when in No-Man’s Land on
picket or patrol duty, chocolate is our best
friend. It seems to supply the lack of every-
thing else."

Miss Ida M. Tarbell is the honorary presi-
dent of the organization having the chocolate
fund in charge and Mrs. Arthur Curtis James
is the honorary vice-president. Prominent
women compose the advisory board. Contri-
butions in money or checks should be sent to
Mrs. Archibald, treasurer, 4 West Fifty-seventh
street, New York City.

so
The Traveling

Restaurant

5‘ INNER is served.”
Just on the hour a
lavender-colored automobile
whizzed to the door and a
liveried attendant hurried in
with the container, the con-
tained being in pans of alu-
minum, piled up pyramid
fashion. You have removed
the covers, found all the regu-
lation courses from soup to
dessert, set them on the table,
clapped your hands, and made
your announcement. In return
you pay thiry-iive cents, fifty
cents, or a dollar, according to
your order. Before the at-
tendant leaves youcheck off on
a printed menu the order for
the next evening. Thus is
your food and servant problem
handled by a few stabs of the
pencil. If you are the proud
possessor of a kitchenette, you
can conduce still further to
the satisfaction of the inner man or woman by
little additions of your own to the menu sup-
plied from the lavender-colored automobile.

The lavender-colored car is part of the
American Cooked Food Service, and New York
City’s first station under this service is estab-
lished in quarters on West Seventy-ninth Street,
in a home remodeled for the purpose, and pre-
senting an inviting appearance in a color scheme
of mulberry and white.

On the first Hoor of the house, or station, is
the reception room; then comes the long room,
where the meats and vegetables are cooked and
all the hot dishes prepared. At one side stands
the big, oven-like arrangement for sterilizing
the containers that are brought back from the
patrons. Upstairs is the salad room, and the
muffin room. Crisp, cool lettuce leaves with
circles of green peppers, and little receptacles
for the dressing, are stowed away in one con-
tainer, and in another there is cake; in another,
muffins or gems. Some of the orders were for
two dinners, some three and some four, and so
on. A little later the containers were sent down-
stairs attached to other containers intended for
the same families, and then sent away in the

auto to their destinations.
l

“ 0 they keep hot P” “Do they keep cool?”

“Do you use war flour,” are some of
the rapid-fire questions that come from the
admiring visitors who circle about the table. Just
as a thermos bottle functions, so do the aluminum
containers. As for war regulations, it would
delight‘ the heart of Mr. Hoover to see how war
Hours and war substitutes are used. When
meats or foods that have a certain high per-
centage of fats are ordered for a dinner, no
butter goes with that dinner. The admonition,
“ We must conserve fats,” is obeyed literally.
The American Cooked Food Service essays to
work in close co-operation with the Federal
Food Administration.

One room at the food service station was
fitted up attractively as a dining room, the idea
being to use it as a demonstration room, but
there has been no need of demonstrations. The
idea of the cooked food service was hardly

 

THE COMMUNITY BUTLER
Whose serving tray is a lavender motor car

launched when the orders came as thick and
fast as a June downpour. More than 2000 are
on the waiting list, and more are being added
every day. It was even thought by the pro-
moters of this new venture that visits would
have to be made to the homes and apartment
houses in the neighborhood to introduce the
idea, but so widespread has been the demand
that no visiting has been necessary. It seems
to be filling a long-felt want—a home meal; that
is a home meal prepared without effort to the
housekeeper and at the lowest possible cost for
good values.

HE movement is not a charity or a philan-

thropy. It is a businEss project. incorpor-
ated under the laws of New York. The. earning
power is limited to six per cent, and all excess
profits will be turned back into the business
to react to the benefit of the consumer.

This “patriotic measure in food conserva-
tion,” as it is called by its promoters, is con-
ducted by a board of men and women whose
names are well known among progressive peo-
ple. Miss Jessie H. Bancroft is president of the
board, and Mr. Adolph Lewisohn, vice-presi-
dent. Mrs. William G. Shailer is secretary,
Dr. Belle J. MacDonald is treasurer and Mrs.
Emma Waldron Davis, manager. Acting with
the four officers on the board of directors is
Mrs. Herbert L. Satterlee and Mrs. Edgerton L.
\Vinthrop, Jr. The consulting board, which in-
cludes the names of persons high in the medical
profession, as well as men and women inter-
ested in solving this problem of food and war.
numbers the following: Herbert L. Satterlee.
Mrs. Charles B. Alexander, S. Josephine Baker,
M.D.; George L. Bennett, Henry Dwight
Chapin, M.D.; Frederick S. Crum, Irving
Fisher, Ph.D.; Eugene Lyman Fiske, M.D.;
Mrs. Bertha L. Grimes, Mrs. Ransom S.
Hooker, S. Adolphus Knopf, M.D.; Mgr. M. J.
Lavelle, Graham Lusk, M.D.; Mrs. John E. Mil-
holland, Cyrus C. .Miller, Mrs. Frederick
Nathan, Mrs. Frank K. Perkins. Dr. G. Reese
Satterlee, Mrs. William Pierson Hamilton,
Mrs. Lorillard Spencer, Mrs. Charles H.
Scuff, Miss Kate L. Turner, Dr. C. E. A.

The Woman Citizen

Easy

It would not surprise us very m:
lows in the wake of the changed eq
kitchen, did not emanate from the wt
not going to be any kitchen, not going

In the face of so dire an exigencj

Yet even to a world fretting for
factory, o$ce and field are claiming a
earlier domestic economy. Sentimen
about woman's available productivitg
enough, the fact remains that wont
machinery, waiting on customers, dot
be expected to do the cooking as well

And with the facts in hand the pi

That the solution lies in some s
place of the old-time individual home i
is admitted. All our experiment is 0
Hotels and boarding-houses, cafés and
wanting.

They are not cheap and they at
times toward more communal living,
the modding crowd. He yearns to t
room. Again and again you hear the
food is fairly well cooked, but going

It seems to have taken the shocl
vation to perfect the idea of bringing

But given that impetus, “ a grouj
cance of the food problem and its ft
war has organized the American C m
set your meals down on your own tab
home.

Meantime other groups of peopl
watching with an almost tender solicil
is of supply along this line is indicatt
on the Service’s waiting list.

On this page is set forth in some
rant, for whatever time may show it
to eat.

 

 

_‘

June 15, 1918

Eating

fall the sad sentimentalizing that fol-
:3 that has taken women out of the-
fear that first thing we know there is
may cooking, not going to be any eats.

Iii-eat has its place.

Elm it is growing obvious that shop,
I to an extent never dreamed of in an
tabout the home as you please, talk
a wise economist if you have sense
‘0 are making munitions, operating
at work, plowing,~cannot in fairness

I of an easy way to eat grows sharper.

{communal food service to take the
Ismice, for the city dweller, at least,
that line—and none of it satisfactory.
was have all been tried and all found

usful. With all the tendency of the
mge eater doesn’t enjoy eating in
.the semi-privacy of his own dining-
rtlut the “ service isn’t so bad and the
meals simply kills me.”

If and the dire need of food conser-
Iea's in instead of going out to them.

tmons interested in the social signifi-
Ho the successful prosecution of the
Food Service,” and is undertaking’to
you. with all the feeling and flavor of

rare hunting the easy way to eat are
Some idea of how far ahead demand
the fact that already 2,000 people are

lthe features of this traveling restau-
a‘onh as an answer to the easy way

DIG THE SALAD CONTAINERS

ii: inracidate work room, by way
I 1.:an container, salad comes
might to yostr table

 

 

EASY DISH WASHING
The only kitchen dishes the housewife has to face

Winslow, and Dr. Thomas ,D. Wood.

The station is operated on a scientific basis.
Trained dieticians select the menus and expert
cooks prepare the foods. There is no waste,
and buying in large quantities makes for a lower
cost of product. Also there is a co-ordination
of meals when prepared under the direction of
an expert dietician who takes .the week as her
working unit. Economy commensurate with
good service and adequate results is the stand-
ard aimed at.

66 HIS is primarily a war measure,” said

Miss Jessie H. Bancroft, who is not only
president of the board directing the movement,
but was a leading spirit in its formation and
launching, “ but we expect to continue after this
period of stress and hope to be a potent factor
during the period of adjustment and reconstruc—
tion that must follow. Our fundamental aim at
this time is to keep homes together during the
great draft of women into industry for the war;
to release women for war service work, and at
the same time keep intact the home life.”

This service is designed to reach all groups,
the business and professional woman, the
dweller in the hall bedroom, who longs for
home meals but is without facilities for cooking,
the families on small income who do not have
maid service, the large family where the work
devolves upon the mother, the dweller in the
private home and the highest type of apartment
house.

“ For a long time I thought the centralized or
community kitchen would solve many of the
vexing problems of the housekeeper. I felt the
saving in food waste, in the upkeep of the
individual kitchen together with the saving in
labor, were matters that would combine to
make the movement feasible and practical. I
am happy to say our first station has more than
justified that belief. Since we started I have
been intensely interested in finding how many
persons seemed to have had this idea in mind
and were just waiting to see it put in operation.
Practically every third person seems to have
felt years ago that this was the way to solve
one of the most important of housekeeping
problems. So you see it is not a new thing
after all that we have here. We have crystal-
lized the ideas that have been in the air and
worked them out to a practical solution. Every-

thing at the present tended to make this
~the right time to make the start. There are

unlimited possibilities to this movement, and

51

we do not intend to stop with one
station. Every neighborhood should
have its station, each station being
adjusted to meet the popular de-
mands from that particular neigh-
borhood. Then there is the matter
of the special diet, for invalids, for
persons who must have food pre-
pared in certain ways; the horizon
seems boundless. It will take a little
time but it is by no means unreason-
able to think all this in time will be
included in the cooked food service.
Requests for information in regard
to the station are coming in from a
number of cities anxious to know
how it all works out. Food is an im-
portant problem and plays a tremen-
dous part in the upbuilding of a na-
tion. Surely if ever we needed 100‘
per cent efficiency it is now. We
believe~ we have started the nucleus
of what is to be an extended movement of
lasting and genuine service to the people."

OW just suppose you have been placed on-
the active list at Schuyler Station, and you
decide upon the fifty-cent dinner and wish to
be a regular patron—thefirst thing to do is to-
get a coupon book. Being a regular patron
means that you want service five or more nights
in the week, and for convenience the coupon
book has been arranged, thus simplifying the
payment for each meal. In deciding upon the
fifty-cent dinner you are making the popular
choice. If you are not a regular patron, that
is if you only plan to patronize the station at
intervals, rather far apart, you must pay
seventy-five cents for this same service. The
thirty-hve-cent dinner is served to families of
six or more, and is designed to meet the need
of families with several children. But to return
to a representative menu for the fiftyacent
dinner, and its portion per person. First you
will have soup. very nearly a half pint measure
of it, then a choice of roastbeef or nut loaf.
If you choose the former you will get a piece
of the rare, a piece of well done and a small
piece of fat: that is, unless you have specified
otherwise. If your choice was nut loaf you will
get a square about four inches by an inch or so
in thickness, with tomato sauce. Then come
brown potatoes, one if they are large, two if
not. A moderate-sized ladle of buttered beets,
a similar portion of cauliflower in cream
sauce and salad will follow. The salad will be
two good—sized leaves of head lettuce, with
cream cheese and French dressing. For dessert
you will have a square of cottage pudding with
sauce, or a portion of lemon jelly.

Perhaps you are investing in a dollar dinner.
Then you have a more elaborate menu which
would run about like this: half a grapefruit
with a cherry, olives and radishes, an entrée
of curried codfish, roast beef and browned
potatoes, hot buttered beets, peas, 3 salad of
hearts of lettuce, and a choice of lemon pie or
chocolate blanc mange. Just as for the other
services. the menus for the dollar dinner admit
of variety.

For the thirty-five-cent dinner you would get
the fifty-cent dinner with this change, either
the salad or the dessert course eliminated. Very
soon the thirty-tive-cent dinner is to have a
printed menu all its own as it grows in
popularity. The station is serving lunchenns,
also.

The Woman Citizen

Notes and Comment

The Zone System

HE new zone system for newspaper post-

age, which is soon to go into effect unless
repealed, grows worse the more it is studied.
Increasing the postage on periodicals from 50
to 900 per cent, it is clear on the face of it
that it will kill many papers, and lessen the cir-
culation of all; for when they are forced to put
their prices up, fewer people can afford to take
them.

Professor Linn of Chicago University
pointed out at the Senate hearing the great edu-
cational value of a number of the leading maga-
zines, and how they “ are constantly used in our
schools and colleges all over the country as text
books—used in courses in literature, in compo-
sition, in history, in civics and in science. Hun-
dreds of thousands of copies weekly or monthly
are so employed. There is hardly a big uni-
versity, in the West at any rate there are few
small colleges, which do not employ them in
class room work; and the number of high
schools in which they are used runs into thou-
sands.” Under the proposed system. “the ex-
pense to the students must be much greater,
and so their use will be less and their influ-
ence will be crippled.”

He called attention also to the great amount
of real education given by the magazines:

“You shut off the farm journals, as these
proposed zone rates would shut them off. and
you decrease the productive power of this coun-
try by millions of dollars.

“You shut off the trade journals, and you
decrease the manufacturing power of this coun—
try by many more millions.

“ You shut off the home periodicals and you
shut off agencies that in the last few years have
sent out elaborate, personal, expert, individual
instruction to hundreds of thousands of women
on the care of their homes and their children.

“ Just who would lose out? The small town
people, the country peOple. The cities would
read anyway; but the small towns and the rural
districts depend to a large extent on newspa-
pers and magazines. You shut them out from
the freest possible circulation of ideas, just at
the time when that freest possible circulation is
most essential.

“I say as a college teacher, a man who has
been in the educational profession almost a gen-
eration, that you could hardly stab nearer the
heart of the nation than by stabbing at the coun-
try circulation of newspapers and magazines.
Yet that is exactly where this zone system is
directing the knife.”

The zone system has been considered again
and again, and always condemned. In 1906 a
Joint Commission of Congress on Second Class
matter held voluminous hearings. Its report
said, in part:

“Neither, for reasons almost equally obvious,
is a solution to be found in a zone system of
charges which would artificially restrict the dif-
fusion of the periodical agencies of intelligence.
Apart from the social and political considera-
tions, which to our minds are conclusive, there
are serious administrative difficulties.”

The proposal was again condemned by the
Hughes Commission of 1912 (Charles E.
Hughes, President A. Lawrence Towell of

By Alice Stone Blackwell

Harvard, and Harry Wheeler, President of the
Chicago Chamber of Commerce). They said:

“ The policy of zone rates was pursued in the
early history of our post office and has been
given up in favor of a uniform rate in view of
the larger interests of the nation as a whole. It
would seem to the Commission to be entirely
impracticable to attempt to establish a system of
zone rates for second class matter.”

Yet this is what has been done, by a para-
graph hastily added to a revenue bill at the
eleventh hour, without any general knowledge
of the fact by the public.

It is the culmination of a series of hardships
to which the papers have been subjected; First
the price of news print paper was enormously
increased, owing to an alleged shortage. The
government investigated, and pronounced it to
be a sham shortage; but meanwhile the exor-
bitant rates charged had driven hundreds of
papers out of existence. Ever since, the gov-
ernment has been trying vainly, off and on. to
stop the profiteering on news print paper; and
one periodical after another goes on suspending
publication or consolidating. There are now
large cities with only one morning paper; and
the number of such cases is increasing. It is
important that people should be able to read
both sides of every important question, and it is
growing harder and harder for them to get the
chance. We see in Russia what happens when
people are left uninformed; and we see in Ger-
many the still worse results that follow when
they are systematically misinformed. The zone

rates of postage tend directly to produce such a
result.

Putting Training to Use

T is gratifying to see, in the enfranchised

states, women who were active in the work

for equal suffrage now putting their experience
to use in working for other good things.

“ Why did you name your boy ‘ Reginald Clar-
ence’?” somebody is said to have asked a cer-
tain man. ‘The father answered: “ Because I
wanted him to be a fighter. 1 figure that in
our neighborhood a boy named ‘ Reginald Clar-
ence’ has got to fight.”

The woman suEragists were given. a bad
name, through no fault‘of their own; and for
years they had to fight an uphill battle against
a strong and unscrupulous opposition. It has
developed their powers, and given them insight,
and skill in the best methods of combatting the
forces of evil, almost all of which have been ar-
rayed against equal rights. Now the training
acquired in that long warfare comes in usefully
to enable them to lead in other lights for the
public good.

Too Much States’ Rights

HE waning prestige of the doctrine of

states’ rights has received a severe blow
from the recent decision by the U. S. Supreme
Court that the national child labor law is un-
constitutional. The decision is rcgretted by
practically everyone except exploiters of child
labor. The court was divided five to four. To
the lay mind, is seems especially unfortunate
that an excessive regard for states’ rights on

Digitized by

the part of one aged man should have the power
to condemn thousands of the nation’s children
to physical breakdown and early death.

The war has taught us the need of nationaliz-
ing many things that used to be looked upon as
matters of state or local concern. The child la-
bor decision is so obviously in condict with the
public weal that it should be a lesson to every-
one on the folly of carrying zeal for states’
rightsto an extreme. We hope the lesson may
be heeded by certain U. S. Senators who be-
lieve in woman suffrage, but have been intend-
ing to vote against the Federal Amendment on
states’ rights grounds.

A Swan Song

HE Anti-Suffrage League of England has

disbanded, and the Anti-Sufrage Review
has ceased publication. Its closing issue gives
an account of the final meeting of the Council.
“ Several notable addresses were made,” it says;
and Mrs. Humphry Ward’s is quoted at length.
It may be called her swan song on this par-
ticular topic. She said, in part:

“We have come to take leave of each other
at the end of a long fight. The wave of grati-
tude towards the women of the country for the
work which they had done was, as we all know.
too strong to resist. Well, the past is past, and
we have to look forward to the future; and
in no sense of having been beaten in any way
which really matter: to any individual here;
having fought our good fight, and having been
beaten in a long tight, and on the whole a fair
fight, we must now look forward to the future.
and do the best we can to help our beloved
country."

This assertion that the defeat does not really
matter to any of them hardly squares with the
impassioned declarations which Mrs. Ward and
her friends have been making for years as to
the disastrous results that must follow the
granting of votes to women. Over and over
again they have assured Parliament and the
public that it would mean the ruin of the Brit-
ish Empire. That ought to “matter,” to every
one of them, it might be supposed! The same
lurid predictions were made up to the very end.
Yet, as soon as the light is over, the smoke all
clears away, and the standard-bearer of the op-
position tells her colleagues that their defeat is
no great matter.

It is instructive that after the granting of the
ballot the anti-suffrage associations always dis-
solve. Although they have fervently declared
their conviction that the vast majority of
women are opposed, and have sometimes asked
for a straw referendum by women, yet, just as
soon as the women get a right to vote on the
question with authority, the anti-sutfragists as-
sume that their game is up, and proceed to
throw up the sponge. It is the best thing they
can do; but if the majority of women were
really opposed, the game of the antis would not
be up at all. On the contrary, they would be
in a position to renew it with full assurance
of victory. But they invariably dissolve; and
though in New York they are still keeping up
a feeble pretence of organization, the antis of
the Empire State must soon follow those of

the 361 Empire. IMay they rest in peace!

008 C

June 15, 1918

53

Women in Business

HE \Nomen’s National! Book Association
is a unique organization, founded a few
months ago in the interest of the women who
are engaged in the book-selling business and its
allied lines. Publishers, authors, book buyers
and book sellers—women who have been dem-
onstrating for some time that there is no more
of a sex line in the book business than in the
ballot—are members of the organization which
has grown out of the desire of a number of
women to promote greater efficiency in the
merchandising of books and to give women
their proper place in one of the most important
of the country's industries.

The organization has closed its first season,
having celebrated the occasion at a banquet
whkh was held during the national convention
of the American Booksellers' Association. Sev-
eral hundred men and women, leaders in many
avenues of endeavor which go to make up the
book business, were there in testimony to the
tremendous growth of women’s influence in the
industry—from the time the manuscript leaves
the hands of the author until it is placed in its
finished form in the library of
the reader.

It has not been so long ago
that women first began to hold
positions of importance in the
book-selling world, but those
days have given way to a new
era in which women are join-
ing hands with men in making
a better place for books in the
world. Thirty-eight women at-
tended one of the morning ses-
sions of the American Book-
sellers' Convention, and there
is evidence that the number of
women delegates will be greatly
increased by the time of the
next gathering.

The first year of the “’0-
men's National Book Associa-
tion has been a memorable and
a busy one for the members
of the association. Outstand-
ing features in the associa-
tion’s activities have been the
social functions, with their
formal programs of speakers,
and the monthly gatherings held in the Sunwise
Turn Book Shop, where matters of mutual in-
terest to women booksellers have been threshed
out in informal discussions. There have been
talks on such subjects as advertising, the over-
head expense of book selling, the art of selling
books, the mail-order book business, juvenile
book questions, and numerous other topics vitally
interesting to the book trade. These meetings
have been an open forum for the mutual benefit

of the women who have succeeded in estab- ‘

lishing themselves as bona—fide book sellers.
Unlike many national associations which meet
in disconnected units and are nationl in name
only, the Women’s National Book Association
is national in fact as well as in name. The en-
tire proceedings of these fortnightly meetings
are taken down in shorthand and the transcribed
copies sent broadcast to every member of the
association, permitting them to enjoy a mail-
order participation in the meetings. In this way
distant chapters of the associatibn get the full

MRS. PAULINE C. SHERWOOD

The ,Making of Books

 

benefit of their membership, and, in turn, are
invited to give expression to their own ideas
and make suggestions for the mutual benefit.
of the members of the association.

HE association claims as its natal day No-

vember 13, 1917, when fifteen keen-visioned
women, alert to the opportunities offered women
in the business of merchandising books, met to-
gether and created the national association,
elected ofiicers, and mapped out a busy year’s
work. The officers who have guided the des-
tinies of the association since its inception are:
Mrs. Pauline C. Sherwood, president; Miss
Lulu Jacobs, secretary; Miss H. J. Pfanstiehl,
treasurer. The chairman of the Membership
Committee is Miss E. F. Widman; of the Pub-
licity Committee, Miss Martha Kramer; of the
Entertainment Committee, Miss Madge Jenison.

 

\

MI SS LULU

N o more enthusiastic member of the associa-
tion can be found than Miss Jenison, who, with
Mrs. Mary Mowbray Clark, rules the affairs
of the Sunwise Turn Book Shop, where the
National Association has held many of its meet-
ings. Miss Jenison’s enthusiasm about the ca-
pabilities of women Jin the professional life of
the country and the opportunities presented in
the book trade, together with the inspiration of
the suffrage parade of last year, which marked
another red-letter day on the calendar of
women’s activities, were responsible, in a meas-
ure, for the existence of the association.

“ Miss Jenison says that it was while every

one was planning for the big suffrage parade
last year that I discovered how unorganized
were the women in the book-selling profession.
I wanted to march in a group with‘ members of
my own profession, but I discovered that there
was no such organization. This discovery set
some of us to thinking and planning, and out
of this planning came the Women’s National

Book Association. It was our idea to bring
together in one unit all the allied professions
of the book trade in order that greater scope
and strength might be given the activities of
women engaged in these various professions.
The assdciation can be made to serve as the
mouthpiece and organ of the various units in
all of the matters which are of common interest.

“ There is always a bond of mutual interest
between the members of the 'various professions
engaged in the making and selling of books.

The author, the publisher, the book seller are
mutually interested in the success of each other’s
work, and it is our idea to get all three to-

gether for the discussion and consideration of

common problems and matters of general inter-
est. Our plan‘of keeping each member of the
association in close touch with the work of these
meetings has contributed greatly to the solidar-
ity of the common interests of women in the
book making and selling industry. The re-
quests for membership are coming in so rapidly
that it will not be long before the out-of-town
members will be taking an active part in the
planning of the year’s pro-
grams, though they may be
thousands of miles away. Our
aim is to abolish distance in
the building up of our organi-
zation.

a “ It was decided to make our
programs exclusive women’s
programs for a time, at least,
and we have had many de-
lightful surprises in finding so
many women holding positions
of great responsibility in the
various avenues of our pro-
fession. We hope to bring to
the front women who have
achieved success in the allied
field of books, but who have
been too modest to make known
their achievements. we shall
probably adhere to the rule of
having women speakers for
some time, as a means of
stimulating greater interest in

the work of the asoscia-

JACOBS tion among the members
themselves.

“ HE women are demonstrating that they

can stand by each other, and are devel-
oping a spirit of professional pride which speaks
well for the future of the members of the asso-
ciation. Our book store is a little more than two
years old, and we were the first women in New
York City to open an exclusive book shop; but
women generally have stood by us splendidly. I
must say that in the beginning the publishers
and the men who knew something of the book
business were not encouraging in their esti-
mates of our projects. They all agreed that an
exclusive book shop would hardly pay. We be-
lieved then that a book shop such as ours could
succeed, and we still believe it. But an exclusive
book store must be rightly handled to be a suc-
cess. Book selling is not mere commerce. The
more one understands human nature the better
one is qualified to sell books. If you regard
books as ideas and ideas as equipment, the whole
face of the world changes for book selling.”

54

Building the Hospital Units

By Anne Hirst Curry, Correspondent in France for the Woman Citizen

[Below are German prisoners, building refugee barracks and the hospital which is

to take care of the victims of the last ojensive.

These are the first official photographs

received from the Woman’s Oversea Hospitals unit in southern France.]

T the very edge of a town quaintly French,

grows the first of the Women’s Oversea
Hospitals. German prisoners, stolid, sturdy Teu-
tons, have driven the posts and built-the houses
that will aid the victims of their own frightful-
“ness. The pictures accompanying this article-—
at least the writer hopes they will accompany
it l—show the houses in their first days of.
being. ~

In the few weeks the Unit has been here,
much has been accomplished—how much it
would be necessary to know the obstacles to
appreciate. The co-operation of the
officials has been a joy throughout. The Pre-
fect,—whose position is similar to that of our
State Governor—is keenly interested in the
project and smoothes out suddenly arising dith-
culties with the hand of a magician. The Mayor
of the town itself, who is, by the way, enter-
taining a number of the Unit at his home, sug-
gested that the hospital buildings be located on
grounds belonging to his estate, which has been
done.

Waiting in Paris during the days before we
came here was not easy. For it was not the
Paris our people back home know; but a Paris
cold and damp, rainy and chilled by day,
gloomy and unlit by night; a Paris bombed by
the cannon, sometimes, at intervals of only
fifteen minutes, torn by bombs from the air,
dropped just around the corner, or, perhaps
next dooi', or in the very hotel.

HILE our barracks are being completed,

the members of our Unit are being put
up in such accommodations as the town affords.
Some are at the hotel, several at a hostelry that
was once a monastery, others are at a third home
opened to them- and the rest of the members
at the home of the Mayor himself. Twice a
day we meet at the hotel for luncheon and
dinner. There we report and the most inter-
esting report is, of course, the carpenter’s. She

 

FRENCH OFFICER IN CHARGE OF WORK

is easily the star of this company,—though after
we enter our own barracks it seems safe to pre-
dict the popularity of our dietitian. The bal-
ancing of food rations in this part of the coun-
try will probably require all her skill, for the
sandy soil limits production, and the transpor-
tation of foods, even with our help, is a seri-
ous one.

Meantime, the doctors are already busy. Dr.
Formad and Dr. Gregory have patients in the
village under their care. The one doctor in the

 

GERMAN PRISONERS BUILDING OVERSEA
HOSPITAL IN LABOUHEYRE, FRANCE

vicinity numbers five other towns in his dis-
trict, like the circuit rider of old—so assistance
is welcome. Just Saturday one of our ambu-
lances was used to convey a patient from her
home to the temporary hospital of the village
for an operation. And the gratitude of the
one village doctor was evident.

Barracks for the refugees themselves are
being erected here by the Government,—by
German prisoners, again. And the refugees are
to be quartered among the inhabitants, it seems,
until their barracks are completed.

OMING down we passed hundreds of refu-

gees coming from we know not where and
going to places stranger to them. Pitiful?
Beyond words. Old men and women, younger
women—never young men—little children al-
most by the hordes. Little donkey carts, baby
carriages and small hand carts were used to
convey whatever they had snatched in the rush
of leaving—household goods, sometimes a pic-
ture, a bit of clothing. One company of them
had been traveling for eleven days. Exhausted,
they were far from homes already destroyed by
the enemy, trudging along to experiences un-
tried and difhcult at best, to strange faces and
strange scenes, with no news of son and
brother, no hope of news, no real tomorrow to
look forward to.

Any service, any aid one may give to allevi-
ate such suffering, to ease and smooth the path
for their tired feet—surely it is little enough
for one to do—for France.

Not Like Peace Surgery

“War surgery is not much like peace sur-
gery,” writes Dr. Anna Sholly, from the evacu-
ation hospital at Chateau Ognon, where she and
the other women doctors of her unit of the
Women’s Oversea Hospitals, U. S. A., are serv-
ing with French surgeons.

“I and some other doctors have just finished
working over a man so badly shot up that we
have been picking little pieces of shell out of
.his liver and abdomen. As I write the rain is
coming into our quarters so fast that I have

- picked up my writing materials and moved twice

al ready.”

In St. Paul’s Church, London, in April, there
was a commemoration service for the 350
British nurses who have laid down their lives
during the war.

The Woman Citizen

The Kinship of Perpet-

ual Darkness

ROM Miss Lydia Bushnell Smith of East

River, Conn., comes the story direct to
the Woman Citizen of the “ International Home
School for Blind Officers,” of which she is one
of the promoters.

Miss Smith is living on the Italian Riviera,
where the school will be placed.

This school has for its aim the care and in-
struction of educated soldiers of small means
during a period sutiicient for them to read and
write (by the Braille System), music, etc, in the
hope of insuring to them mental resources for
a future which would otherwise loom blank
and miserable.

The building for the school is loaned by the
Italian Government, and the school has the
hearty approval of Signor Orlando (Prime
Minister of Italy), as well as that of his recent
predecessor, Signor Boselli.

Mr. Thomas Nelson Page writes of it: “ It
certainly should have the good-will and sym-
pathy of all right-thinking persons, and I am
sure will prove a great boon to those unfortu-
nates who have lost their sight in the service
of their country.”

The Princess Colonna di Stigliano, General
and Nobil Donna Caporale, Contessa Manini
and others, are on the Advisory Committee. '

Miss Smith writes: “The school is for the
blind officers of all Allied armies. The work-
ingmen will have their hands trained and in
this way gain mental occupation as well. But
the educated men of small means, who are not
able to have private care and instruction, have
nothing to look forward to but blank misery.
We are hoping to open up vistas for them and
make it possible not only to give them mental
resources but enable them to reproduce litera-
ture for others."

American women in Italy, as in France, are
doing their ultimate bit for the war. “ We have
decided to go without fires that we may have
the more to give to the many suffering,” writes
this correspondent from the chill of a house,
sun-heated only. i

The Army Nurse

HEN war was declared the Army Nurse

Corps had 270 members and 170 re-
serves. Now the-Corps has 10,000, and antici-
pates an enrollment of 24,000 before the end
of the year. Red Cross nurses, members of
the Corps, wear the cross on their caps.

These women will serve with mobile hos-
pital units; will sleep often within sound—and
reach—of the guns by the roadside, with the
same equipment as oHicers in the field—but,
mark you, without the title!

The Press Bureau of the Woman’s Commit-
tee of the Council of National Defense tells
this story from overseas:

“In one of the recent attacks, four nursing
sisters were killed, three while assisting their
patients to greater safety. The fourth was
singing to a man whosemerves had been miser-
ably shattered, and whom the new attack was
driving into a spasm of agony. The bomb
caught her, killing her almost instantly, but
the man for whom she had given her life as
unhesitatingly as ever did soldier on the held
was saved."

June 15, 1918

Your Vote and Your Federal
Government

By Mary Sumner Boyd

HE institutions of local government touch

you as an American citizen at every point
and the laws of the state are the laws of your
social life. But, except when you buy your
stamps or receive your letters, or pay directly
or indirectly its comparatively light taxes, your
life, in time of peace, at least, is touched but
lightly by your federal government.

American Federalism, so called in contra-
distinction to EurOpean centralized govern-
ments, is unique. It is made up of two sover-
eignties, that of the United States, strictly
limited in scope but within its field supreme
over citizens and states alike, and that of the
states, having wide scope in legislation and
many functions but not at any point encroach-
ing upon the field covered by the United
States.

American governments, city, state and nation,
are, again in contrast to most of those of
Europe, founded on written Constitutions.

The simplest of these, because the field of
government is simplest, is the Constitution of
the United States. On its lines as a founda-
tion are modeled the more complex state
governments.

Articles I, II-and III of the Constitution of
the United States describe the frame of gov-
ernment and its powers.

The frame of government is a two-chambered
Congress, an executive (the President, with a
vice-president who is chosen simply in case of
the President’s death) and a Judiciary.

HE main legislative power is in the hands of
Congress. I say “ main ” advisedly because
the executive and judiciary have also a power
over legislation which is becoming increasingly
important.
The legislative powers of Congress cover
(Art. I, See. 8), briefly summarized, taxation,
interstate and foreign commerce, war, army

and navy, money, postofi‘ice territories and—

District of Columbia with (Par. 18) the blanket
power to “make all laws necessary to carry
into effect the powers conferred above.” Bills
to raise money must originate in the lower
house (House of Representatives); the Sen—
ate has the power to impeach federal ofiicials
and to pass upon certain acts of the executive.

Running through all our American govern-
ments is the principle of the division of powers;
this is the reason that governments of city,
state and nation are divided into. three parts.

In the British government the cabinet is

practically part and parcel with the parliament.

while our President and our judiciary are

entirely independent of Congress. At first the
idea was that a governmental machine which
was a unit might easily usurp power. Gradu-
ally it has come to be felt that the legislative
body was the one which could do most dam-
age, not by usurpation but by hasty legisla-

tion, and the theory today is that these checks

and balances will prevent hasty legislation.
This is where the legislativé power of the

other two branches already referred to comes

in. The president’s legislative power consists
in his annual message recommending legis-
lation, in his right to veto legislation, which

can be passed over his head only by a two-
thirds vote, and his power to call special ses-
sions to consider legislation he deems important.
A law being passed by Congress and approved
by the President may be taken by a citizen to
the courts on the ground that it is unconsti-

tutional and will be wiped off the statute books 7

if it is so declared. This power of judicial
legislation is too big a subject to go into here.
It has become one of the most distinctive and
important features of American government,
and though vexatious in some respects it tends
to give permanency and .stability to Our laws.
Besides this the power of the federal judiciary
covers cases involving the relations of the fed-
eral government with states, individuals or
foreign countries. ’

ESIDES his legislative powers the President

has surprisingly broad powers for a democ-
racy (Art. II, Sec. 2 and 3, and Art. I, See. 7,
Par. 2 and 3). His executive work covers the
carrying out of the law, including the admin-
istering of the various business activities of
the federal government. This he does with the
help of his Cabinet made up of the Secretaries
of Treasury, State (Foreign Affairs), War,
Army, Navy, Interior (Territories, Indian
Affairs, etc.), Commerce, Labor, Postoiiice and
the Attorney-General. The President is the
commander-in-chief of the army. In foreign
affairs he is almost supreme,_ though treaties
must be ratified by the Senate. He appoints
ambassadors and consuls with the approval of
the Senate. Nor does his power of appoint-
ment, carrying with it a control of the policies
of appointees, end there, for he chooses his
own Cabinet, the judges of the Supreme Court
and other federal oflicials to the number of at
least 6,000. The President also has a judicial
power, the right to grant pardons or reprieves
to federal prisoners.

This is a simple outline of a fairly simple
government, though a government big enough
to employ some half million ofiicials. The
main body of these oflicials with the excep-
tion of presidential appointees have been, since
the eighties, chosen by civil service examina-
tion; only between five and six hundred fed-
eral officials are elective.

ERE is where the voter comes in, and he

comes in at his best. In state elections he
has many local and state officials to decide
on, the number throughout the country is, as
against the few hundred federal elective offi-
cials. about 100,000. In federal elections the
voter has only-the Senator and Congressman
from his district and the President and Vice-
prcsident. This is what has been called the
ideal “short ballot,” namely few enough offi-
cials in large enough offices so that he may
scrutinize their merits, choose them intelli-
gently and hold them responsible for the way
in which they carry on national affairs.

Elections for the House of Representatives
(“Congressmen”), whose members serve two
years, fall in even years in November, except
in the State of Maine, which votes 3 month
earlier._ There are 435 members of Congress.
apportionment being based on population, not
voters, the United States census being taken

55

every ten years to readjust the apportionment.
Senators serve six years, but every two years
one-third of the membership goes out of
oflice, so there are Senatorial elections in some
states every two years. There are two Sen-
ators from each state, the theory being that
in the House weak states should have equal
power with those strong in population. Until
1913, when the Seventeenth Amendment, pro-
viding for popular election, was added to the
Constitution, Senators were appointed by state
legislatures. The present method of-election
by the people is characteristic of the move-
ment of the last generation toward “direct”
democracy. The only important omcials of
state or nation not now elected directly by the
people are Supreme Court judges, appointed
by the President, and the President himself,
who is chosen by electors chosen by the peOple.
This method of indirect election is cumber-
some, often unrepresentative and sometimes
unfair, and will probably in timevbe changed.
In local and state governments the voter
votes on men and measures. In national mat-
ters. there is no direct legislation. He votes
on no federal laws; these are all passed by
Congress. Nor is there a popular referendum
on amendments to the Constitution, state legis-
latures casting the referendum in this case.

In Italy

“ UR women in Italy,” said Count Y.

Macchi de Celilere before the Contin-
ental Congress of the D. A. R., “had within
their hearts and minds the hereditary tradition
of the struggle for liberty and nationality and
have stepped forward, falling into line with
marvelous efficiency and unanimity, backing the
men in the army from royal palace to peasant’s
home, from hospital to munition plant. They
have undertaken the task of looking after the
soldiers' families, as well as reconstructing and
refitting for useful lives the disabled men, of
giving hands to the fields as well as to the
factory."

Contributions Received During

the Month of May

Reported by Emma W. Rogers, Treasurer, N.

A. W. S. A.
ANNUAL PLEDGES
Lenora C. Scott . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $50.00
Mary and Nannie Lee . . . . . . . . .. 100.00
Carrie C. Catt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 500.00
Illinois Eq. Suit. Assn . . . . . . . . . . 375.00

Mrs. Elon Huntington Hooker. . . 2,000.00
Ohio Woman Suffra e Association 500.00
Arkansas Eq. Sut. en. Committee 62.50
Florence Marshall 50.00

I s o a I I o I n o o o.

 

 

 

Sertrude Watson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100.00
Woman Suf. League Maryland.. 150.00
Mrs. G. w. Nasm ti: . . . . . . . . . .. 25.00
Mrs. Wilbur Brot erton . . . . . . .. 100.00
Missouri E ual Suf. Association. 52.84
Delaware us] But. Association 65.00
Mrs. David O'Neil. .- . . . . . . . . . . . 25.00
Connecticut Woman Suf. Assn. . . 260.00
Mrs. Louis T. Stevenson . . . . . . . . 10.00
Mrs. E. F. Chandler . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.00
Mrs. P. M. Cole . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 10.00
Mary and Nannie Lee . . . . . . . . . . . 100.00
Chicago Equal Suffrage Assoc’n. 625.00
\frs. Everett Colby . . . . . . . . . . . .. 125.00
Mrs. John H. Lewis . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Wisconsin Woman Suf. Assn. . . . 100.00
Mrs. Frank Bethell . . . . . . . . . . . . 100.00
5,5 .
GENERAL DONATIONS s 00 34
Sarah W. Pickering . . . . . . . . . . .. $5.00

iiary 0. Pickering . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.00

lanet E. Richards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.00

iirs. Malcolm McBride . . . . . . . . . . 25.00

Carrie Chapman Catt . . . . . . . . . . . 236.78

Helen Dean La Monte . . . . . . . . .. 10.00

Laura C. Williams . . . . . . . . . . . .. 100.00
Massachusetts Woman Suf. Assn. 600.00
DUES $986.78
Equal Suffrage Party of Geor is. $50.00
Delaware ual Sui. Assoclat on. 11.00
Massachuset 3 Woman Suf. Assn. 500.00
$561.00
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $7,048.12

Digitized by 600816

56

I

Armenian Poems

 

EN DERE D into
“my English verse by
 Alice Stone Black-

well. F or sale for
the benefit of the Ar-
meirian Relief Fund, by
Edward H. Chandler, 3
Loy St., Boston, Mass.,
rice $l .00. ~

HESE poems are
truly Oriental in
the fire of their
. passion and the
splendor of their imagery.
We can better understand
the Song of Solomon after
reading such verses as

these. ’ —Christian W ork.

  

 

 

BOOKS BY
CHARLOTTE PERKINS GILMAN

Peat Paid
IN THIS OUR WORLD one) . sl 25

WOMEN AND ECONO ICS . I 50
CONCERNING CHILDREN . I 25
THE YELLOW WALLPAP . 50
THEHOME . . . . I I0'
HUMAN WORK . . . . . I l0
THE MAN-MADE WORLD . . I I0
WHAT DIANTHA DID . . . I I0
THE CRUX. Cloth . I l0
THE CRUX. Paper 45

MOVING THE MOUNTAIN Z 1 io

Bound Volumee of THE FORERUNNER

Theee volumes are not "Back Number!"
but a eet of Gilmn'e Works. eaeh Volume of
which amounts in bulk of material to four
books of 63.“)0 words each. Price. 8|.50
each poetpaid. except Vol. I. which in $2.50

Full eat—No.00 plus expreeeage

Full eet. with first eia hooke—SIS.00
plus expreeeage

THE CHARLTON COMPANY
160 Broadway, New York

 

Democratic Ideals

A SKETCH OF CLARA BEWICK COLBY

By Olympia Brown

Woman's Suffrage is now so nearly an accom-
plished fact that people are realizing the value of
the work that has been done in its behalf and are
reading ’the lives of those who have worked for
woman’s emaniopation with renewed interest. Mrs.
Colby was one of the most loyal and faithful of the
early workers. The story of her life is most in-

teresting. .
FIFTY GENTS PER COPY
BEND ORDERS T0

Miss Carrie Stebbins, 941 Lake Avenue, Racine,
Wisconsin

“ Instead of Good Day ”

When I reflect on the destiny of women in
all ages and all nations I come to the conclu-
sion that all men ought to say to every woman,
instead of “Good-day," “I beg your pardon ”
for they have been the strong, who have im-
posed their law on the weak.--—Alfred dc Vigny.

 

The Woman Citizen

The BOOk Stall

Awaiting Development

HE American Institute of Social Serv-
ice, aroused against the anti-suffrage
charge that the collapse of Finland and Russia
is in any sense due to the emancipation of
women, is running a series of articles on the
Woman Question in its Studies in Social
Progress. '
The series has not been entered into lightly
or inadvisedly. It is one of solid scholarship,
carried on by Dr. Rudolph M. Binder, pro-

fessor of sociology in N ew York University.
In the preliminary study which has already
appeared, Dr. Binder opens lire at once upon
the idea that the problem of woman is a side

issue concerning a few advanced women only. .

“It is as much a problem for man as it is
for woman, and as much a matter of impor-
tance to society as it is to both of them

In society there are only men and women, and
the way they settle their troubles decides the
fate of the community.”

The advance of woman is implicit in the
principles of Christianity, Dr. Binder believes.
N on-Christian lands have had very little trouble
with the woman question, for they have ignored
it. Woman was put into subjection and kept
there—voila tout.

In Christian lands nothing less than the per—
fect equality of men and women is possible.
“A Christian community cannot afford to with-
hold justice from women because they are co-
heirs with men of the kingdom of God."

Professor Binder’s review of the slow, al-
most amusingly slow, growth of the idea of
equality will be familiar to sulfragists. “Only
gradually,” he says, “did the truth dawn upon
the mind of males that the terms ‘men’ (in
the phrase ‘all men are created equal') was
inclusive, not exclusive, that it stood for human
beings, not for one sex only.” At first “it was

,literally applied to men—white men, then to

black men, eventually to red men, but not to
women.”

' Women have won their own place by their
own prowess is conceded in Dr. Binder’s survey.

“There have always existed at least a few
women of exceptional virility and mentality
who, by sheer force of their ability, have forged
ahead. There is no prejudice strong enough
to keep down real power permanently.” Men
have been amazed in this present war. They
have always been amazed—at the aptitude and
marked ability among women. " Modern
branches of knowledge have demonstrated,”
says this student of sociology, “ that heredity
does not run along sex lines. Girls inherit the
ability of father or mother just as boys do;
or they do not, just as boys do not.”

The summing up of Dr. Binder’s argument
for the perfect political equality of women is
that woman has proved her case as far as abil-
ity, inheritance and etiiciency are concerned.
The world needs the power of women as it
needs all real power. “ There is too little of
it as it is, and society needs all of it.” Where
women have been given political equality no
evil and much good has been recorded. “If
history and present observations are of any
value,” says DT. Binder. “they indicate
that a vast storehouse of talents is waiting for
development through the emancipation of
women.”

About Girls

HE Club Worker, a modest monthly

magazine, has just appeared in new form.
It is published by the National League of \Nom-
en Workers, with headquarters at 35 East
Thirtieth Street, New York city, and is de-
signed to interest those active in club work
for young people—particularly girls—and is
addressed directly to girls themselves.

The May number outlines the aims and ideals
of the organization, which is made up of a
number of state associations formed of non-
sectarian, self-governing, self-supporting clubs.

The Club Worker aims to be not merely
an oliicial organ, but a clearing house for allied
organizations. It will gather and report news
of club work, and spread knowledge valuable
to young people who are striving for some
form of social self-expression.

The editor urges girls in non-essential in-
dustries to shift to war work. An article by
Mabelle S. Blake, supervisor of the New Eng-
land District Committee on Protective Work
for Girls, War Department Commission on
Training Camp Activities, emphasizes the im-
portance of girls’ club work in war-time. Miss
Mary E. Dreier, of the Women's Trade Union
League, writes about \the responsibility and op-
portunities for New York women in relation to
suffrage. Mrs. Henry Ollesheimer, President
of the League, sketches its history. Contri-
butions from the girls’ clubs and state associa-
tions acquaint readers with the practical nature
of the things the League does and stands for.

Jottings
A NEW indication of the awakening of
women in Japan is reported by the

Japanese—American Commercial Weekly. This
is the granting by the Minister of Education
of an application for a woman’s university in
the suburbs of Tokio (at Yodobashimashi).

The principal will be Miss Tetsuko Yasui.

HE National Education Association is

calling on the National Council of De-
fense, the various federal departments, divi-
sions, bureaus, commissions, and committees
“to provide at once a clearing house and co-
ordinating agency for the propaganda and
activities that they wish schools to present;
and asking that a commission of the Asso-
ciation be empowered and directed to prepare
these propagandas in a form suitable for use
in the schools; that this agency be authorized
to arrange these materials in the order of their
priority; and further that the materials whose
priority is thus determined be sent to the proper
educational authorities of each state for final
distribution.” In the interval of waiting the
Colorado schools, whose head is Mary C. C.
Bradford, president of the A. E. A.. are already
recruiting the school children for war work.

HILE the government is calling always

for more nurses the Journal of Nursing

is co-operating ’by carrying on a recruiting

campaign. The May Military Nursing issue

contains in its 150 pages nothing except infor-

mation in regard to war service. most of it
from nurses on the field.

Digitized by 600816

June 15, 1918

The Woman and the Calling

V’EN in the Central Powers there is tes-
timony to a‘ recognition of the changed
economic status of women and the desirability
of doing away with all discrimination against
women in industrial and professional fields. A
writer in the N eues Wiener Journal points out
that
“One of the maxims which hold good be-
cause never subjected to repeated examination
is that which is embodied in the notion that
female labor reduces wages. The notion is true
in so far as the fa'ct of lower wages comes
about through the large and cheaper supply
of women for work. ‘ Away with female labor
that is ruining us ’—this became the slogan of
a struggle for existence, though
achieved any success. Women have worked on
calmly for the lower wages because they would
have found no other employment; and the strug-
gle between the sexes—there is nothing uglier
than the struggle between man and woman,
because by nature they' should love and com-
plement each other—this struggle, I say, be-
came a conflict in the field of pay instead of
a competition in respect of ability. The ex-
traordinary conditions which have now been
going on for years have thrown the man, not
the woman, out of the competition, and it
now appears that the blame for the general re-
duction of wages and salaries does not fall upon
women as such, but at most upon the flooding
of the labor market by the influx of women.
“ Entirely apart from the depreciation of
money, women's incomes have risen consider-
ably since women no longer feel ,that necessity
of underbidding which men imposed upon
them as by a right hereditary to males. The
change becomes most obvious when we take
the men who have remained in their positions
and compare their salaries—increased, to be
sure, but only on account of the general in,-
crease of the cost of living—with the increased
incomes of many women. This change has
come about not only through the lack of work-
ing people; an opportunity has at last been
given to women to develop and to reap the
money value of their ability in many fields that
were formerly closed to them.

“ In this respect all women employed by mer—

cantile firms have had the happiest experiences.~

' Formerly they were engaged in subordinate
ohice work almost exclusively and without any
regard for their abilities. Now many capable
women occupy positions which require inde-
pendent judgment, often even administrative
ability. , The ardently desired change in the
employment of women is at last a fact, and a
salary of 500 to 6m crowns ($100 to $120) a
month is nowadays no rarity fora woman who
before the war earned about 120 crowns ($24),
and who by now, under normal conditions,
A might have been raised to 150 crowns ($30). It
is, indeed, interesting that hardly a single wom-
an oould, in her former position, have attained
such a disproportionate increase in wages as
is now the case. Women often used to be put
into positions that only a man had held, but
without a corresponding wage. But the time
came when all the sentimental considerations
of tradition and custom had to be thrown
overboard.

“Changes for the better which amount to
several thousand crowns a year are not to be set

it never ‘

aside lightly, and managers who released their
old capable women workers on account of Slow
accommodation to the new valuation of female
labor had to pay the new, inexperienced work-
ers the same amounts that they were unwilling
to give to the old employes. Extraordinarin
high are the salaries paid now to capable wom-
en stenographers, who, by the way, are not
nearly so common as people think. The in-
telligent stenographer who can take dictation
and put it through a typewriter rapidly has be-
come the most popular kind of a private sec-
retary. She must discharge a lot of business
requiring intelligence; stenography and type-
writing are only a part of the activity of these
women who earn 500-crowns ($100) a month.

“ It has also happened—we cannot say
whether by chance or as a result of the trend
of the times—that those women in public offices
whose training equals that of their male col-

leagues are on absolutely the same footing with i

the men in regard to both salary and promo-
tion. A woman who teaches in a middle school
can attain to a‘salary of 10,000 crowns ($2,000)
a year, and this salary can be brought up by
private tutoring to a very respectable annual
income. A woman of academic training who
is engaged in the ofiice of some ministry has
the way open to her theoretically to the rank
and perquisites of a court councilor. And in
the professions the constellations are still more
favorable. At the present time Vienna has
women doctors who earn an annual income of
30,000 to 40,000 crowns ($6,000 to $8,000).

“ Employes in exclusively _ feminine occupa-
tions are enjoying the benefits of the present
juncture only in so far as they are receiving
wages that are higher in proportion to the gen-
eral increase in the cost of living. The servant
girl can hardly buy with her wages of 60
crowns ($12) what she formerly obtained for
her monthly income of 20 or 30 crowns ($4
or $6). And the capable seamstress who form-
erly earned 5 crowns ($1) a day does not profit
from the fact that she is now getting 9 crowns
($1.80). But there are women tailors who
now do so-called ‘men’s work’ and who earn,
indeed, disproportionately more than they used
to earn.

“ It looks very much as if the future—not
too far distant, we hope—will see women com-
plaining because the competition of men is re-
ducing wages and salaries. But perhaps the
men will be so proud as to despise this one-
time expedient of the women and let ability
alone decide the competition. In this case, that
which exceptional circumstances have created
might become the normal, namely, that those
who are capable in accomplishment will earn

5 much and the less useful will earn little.

Whether one happens to be a man or a wom-
an ought not to afford a basis of discrimina-
tion.”

Let Georgiana Do It

“The time has come when we do not say,
‘Let George do it’ when certain important
things are to be done. The new idea is to let
Georgiana do it.”—Indianapolis News.

The Woman Citizen is on sale at now:
stands.

57

 

MRS. PHILIP SNOW’DEN. A CANDIDATE FOR
THE BRITISH PARLIAMENT. HER HUSBAND
IS A VVELL-KNO‘VN M. P.

Women .Industrial
Specmlists

HE War Industries Board has just made

public its need for women as employment
managers of war industries either to replace
men called to military service or to meet the
problems of the influx of women workers into
industry after the next draft. To fill these
calls colleges with free tuition have been insti-
tuted under Government supervision for train-
ing women as employment managers.

The first course open to women began in the
University of Rochester, New York, on June 3.
A later class of similar scope will be organ—
ized in Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

The initial course in Rochester was limited
to 25 women who were required to have had
at least a high school education. College
women were preferred. In addition these
women had reached the age of 25 and had
undergone three years of actual industrial ex-
perience.

“ War exigencies,” says the Committee on
Public Information, “will make it necessary
for many factories where the majority of
workers are men to have women employment
managers. Industrial experience proves that
employment problems can best be solved by
having a separate organization in a factory
prepared and equipped to deal with questions
of personnel by themselves. Promptdiscovery
and analysis of unfavorable working conditions

I can only be made by a central employment

bureau. Most of the approved methods of
dealing equitably with the working force have
been devised or brought to notice by the new
type of industrial specialist—the employment
manager. The man or woman who serves in
such a position must have an attractive per-
sonality, broad sympathies and executive ability.
The work usually pays a good salary. Women
who are qualified for it are urged to take the
training courses that are'being offered as a
patriotic duty.” '

 

our Fifth Avenue OEce
is in charge of
Miss V. D. H. Furman
and is
especially equipped to handle
the accounts of women and
women's organizations

I The Woman’s Department at

 

COLUMBIA :
TRUST

COMPANY

 

' 1
l 358 FIFTH AVENUE
like sometimes- called the Official Sufirage Bank

   

METROPOLITAN
DYE WORKS

CLEANERS
and DYERS

First Class Work. Reasonable Prices.
Prompt Delivery.

For stores throughout New York Ciiy, set telephone dinner}.

SUFF RAGE RESTAURANT

3 EAST 38th STREET
NEW YORK

 

Service in War

Premier Lloyd George, writing to the
’VVomen’s Liberal Federation, says of the Brit-
v‘ish women‘and their service in time of war:
"‘I should like to take this opportunity of say-
'ing how much this country 'owes to the unsel-
fish and patriotic efforts of women and I am
confident that their continued co-operation can
be counted on to sustain all efforts to bear all
necessary burdens until the righteous cause for
which we entered the war in 1914 has been
fully realized.”

  
  
   
   

Openings for Women

155 KATE MAHONEY, of Troy, is the

first New York woman to become an ac-
tive candidate for a state office on either of the
major parties. Miss Mahoney is seeking nom-
ination for Secretary of State on the Demo-
cratic ticket.

IRIAM E. CAREY is first divisional

director (A. L. A.) of library work in
camp hospitals, and Marian L. Davies, exam-
iner under the Federal Trade Commission, is
the first woman appointed to help the govern-
ment in its work of price fixing, by making
studies of cost of production in the various
industries.

WOMAN doctor, Dr. Loy McAfee, is a

recent appointment to the Army Medical
Department at Washington, D. C. She is sec-
retary to the Board of Publication of the Sur-
geon General’s ofiice and receives the pay, but
not the title, of first lieutenant. Her interest-
ing work at present is to make a study of war
surgery and medicine and the work done for
reconstructing the wounded. The War Depart-
ment employs also fifty women laboratory
assistants.

EN operators proving unsatisfactory,
General Pershing requested that a

corps of girl telephone operators, who spoke
both French and English, be sent to France.
Out of 7,600 applicants 250 have been chosen.
A woman’s telephone unit of 100, made up of
French girls, or Americans who have lived
in France, reached France two months ago.
One hundred and fifty others are in special
training schools, and there is a reserve force

of 400.

HE British Government, by an order of

March 29, 1917, has provided that in addi-
tion to her pension the widow of a soldier shall
have special financial assistance while under-
going a thirteen-week course of instruction in
the work best suited to her. Thus it is hoped
that the problem of the untrained woman, help-
less to compete in the industrial field, will be
solved. Data has been compiled as to the
training needed and the demand for workers
in various industries, ranging from box making
to dental mechanics or the woman’s trade of
midwifery.

FLYING squadron of girls to save the

crops is reported in the equal suffrage
state of Colorado. Alcyon Robinson, a mem-
ber of the squadron, tells how in the Spring of
1917 the women of the University of Colorado
got an idea and how they carried it out.

“The prospects of a labor shortage,” says
she, “led us to organize with the central
idea of flying‘to the aid of the Colorado
orchardists.

“ By June, women in twenty-four counties
were at work. Their picking average was
125 pounds a day, gooseberries, strawberries
and cherries.” They gave also canning and
drying demonstrations, and worked for the
Red Cross. In one week the Denver Squadron

alone brought in $1.500.

Out of the 1,413,000 British women replacing
men, 67,500 are in banking positions and 94,000
on tramways.

The Woman Citizen

pal” 11181.1th A Boarding and
2101 ti Street. .‘i. “3.

Washington I). C. DOV St'huuf for (This

 

High School and (‘oiege Preparatory Courses. Two
Years UT College “kirk. Six-cull Courses The Arts,
Journalism. Short Story Writing. “trauma-I and nit-Pre-
tarial Training. iiimiurgnrrt-n. Nurtlml 'l'rmmug. linim-s-
tic Selene-e. Parliamean Law
Mrs. Nanette ii. i’aul. LI. LL. President.
Author of "i‘aul's l‘nrilarrwntary Lau- ' T
and "The Heart of Black-smurf

 

  
  

  

A STUDY 01’

0PPORTUNmES FOR WOMEN

INTER

MUNICIPAL CIVIL SERVICE
or m Cm or NEW You

        
    

Pcamenno at

THE INTERCOLLEGIATE BUREAU
- OF OCCUPATIONS

(Annex)
10 West “th Street

For Sale at the ofice of the Bureau
Price Fifty Cents

(Including postage Mtg-nus cents) i

Fashion Notes

HE woman conductor fills the land, not

much wanted by men, if one may judge by
facts, but still in evidence. Rather badly in
evidence, because, during her probation period,
the street car companies have provided her
with attire which is not practical, not becom-
ing, and not tidy. If it was ever designed by
a woman, it must have been by that woman in
the home, who never goes out of it to know
what working on dirty cars will do to slimsy
cotton cloth.

The conductor’s uniform couldn’t look worse
if it were planned by South Sea Island mis-
sionaries as an emergency costume for the F ijis.
Or a penitentiary garb to keep prisoners from

\ forgetting their sins. Or a reminder to orphan
asylum inmates that they are blighted by ofii-
cial charity.

Such is the costume of the conductorette,
saddening an already depressed war landscape.

    
 

New York

  
   
 
 

HE girls of the United States Shipping

Board and Emergency Fleet Corporation
have adopted for summer wear a green and
white gabardine uniform, set off with tan foot
gear and a black tie. They have also banded
together to form the Emergency Fleet Drill
Corps to keep them strong and fit, for, as one
of them says, “They stand behind the calker,
the riveter and the driller in the shipyards,
and behind the Shipping Board itself in the
carrying out of its program.”

T the Green School in Reading (England).

the dress for more than 200 years has
been coal scuttle bonnets, Inverness capes, bib
aprons and green skirts. Under the stress of
war the girls recently appeared in ordinary
clothes.

RENCH women working in munitions
plants now have the right to wear on
their breast the insignia of the lighted brigade.

“Just take your gun and go,
For Ruth can drive the oxen, John,

And I can use the hoe.”
—Popular song of the Civil War.

«980

 

TH! WILLIAMS PRINTING COII’ANY, NEW YORK

June 15, 1918

I l‘ l‘lll“|  “ll  l ill l."l.-‘.l|‘l"l. Ml. l ll ‘ll‘llw

 

  

‘ mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmlmmmunuumumnnnummmmmmmmmnmmmmmmmmmummummummmmmmmlmmnmnnummummmmnmnmuunnuwun:nulllllmmmnmn1umummmmunuumumumnummnuummumummnumuuunuumnmmuumummumummm.w' -‘   '  '- I  w

 

From Women ’3 Point of View

 

 
   

t A V ’7‘ ._

Speaking of The Woman Citizen

consider the Woman Citizen the
most promising paper on the mar-

ket.

It is so intensely up to the
minute that no progressive woman can
afford not 'to take it."

Helen M. Beardsley, Elkhart, Ind.

think I secured these subscriptions
because I was able to read at
our last meeting an article that

interested them regarding the standing

of women physicians in the Army."

Sarah Kendall (M. 13.), Seattle, Wash.

From Men ’8 Point of View

SE]

(C

  
  

RE is my dollar for one year ’s

,7,“ subscription for one of the best

 papers of our time. ” ‘
Howard Leopold, Pottstown, Pa.

  

OUR matchless ‘Woman Citi-
zen,’ which I read with great

I'lvw‘

' 
A p-s

Led interest and benefit weekly.” i3

the way the magazine is referred to by
Editor P. Holm, Collinwood, Tenn.

.1! w mmmuumumummmumluuummulnuumnumm   I

When writing to advertisers please mention the 

 

 

Mu-“ .k ‘ u. u-.“~—_A ___._.41 _

Books atlas Than Published Prices

v ‘ . . *‘wr '-
u '-':uz-‘t-‘ L “ 7...‘ ,L ' 7 -; _". M1532: i"::'&-lei mm)“ _‘

F. have arranged to supply the books listed below at the special prices

named when sold in combination with new subscriptions to the Woman

Citizen. They will be mailed post-paid to any address in the United States.

This is an opportunity to save from twenty to thirty-five per cent on the

published prices. If you are already a subscriber to the Woman Citizen

and wish to own certain of the books, invite your friends to become subscribers to the
magazine at one dollar a year, and have the books of your choice sent to your address.
They will cost you the difference between the full price quoted for each combination
and one dollar. Or subscribe to the magazine as a gift for a friend and have the book

sent to your address.
. Published Combination: Amount

0 n t h e W a 1' $353.. witnesses.
THE PAN-GERMAN PLOT UNMASKED: Andre Cliéradame . . . . . . ...$1.25 $1.85 $.40

“OVER THERE”: Captain R. Hugh Knyvett . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50 2.00 .50

FIGHTING FOR PEACE: Henry van Dyke . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25 1.85 .40

WHY WE ARE AT WAR: Woodrow Wilson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .50 1.35 .15

IN OUR FIRST YEAR OF WAR: Woodrow Wilson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00 1.65 .35

FIGHTING FRANCE: Edith Wharton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00 1.65 .35
THE UNITED STATES AND PAN-GERMANIA: André Chéradame.. 1.00 1.65 .35
GENERAL J OFFRE AND HIS BATTLES: Raymond Recouly (Captain X) 1.25 1.85 .40
ON THE RIGHT OF THE BRITISH LINE: Captain Gilbert Nobbs... 1.25 1.85 .40
WHITE NIGHTS AND OTHER RUSSIAN IMPRESSIONS: Arthur Ruhl 2. 00 2 . 35 .65
A WAR NURSE’S DIARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25 1.85 .40
MY WAR DIARY: Madame Waddington . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50 2. .50
WITH THE ALLIES: Richard Harding Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25 1.85 .40
THE DESERTER: Richard Harding Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .50 1 35 .15
PRINCIPLES OF AMERICAN DIPLOMACY: John Bassett Moore.. .. 2.00 2.35 .65
N 0 v e l 3
THE EARTHQUAKE: Arthur Train . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50 2.00 .50
CHRISTINE: Alice Cholmondeley. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25 1.85 .40
HIS FAMILY: Ernest Poole . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50 2.00 .50
THE TREE OF HEAVEN: May Sinclair . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.60 2.00 .60
Miscellaneous
' YOUR VOTE AND HOW TO USE IT: Mrs. Raymond Brown . . . . . . .. .75 1.50 .25
THE WOMAN VOTER’S MANUAL: S. E. Ferman and Marjorie Shuler. . 1.00 1.65 35
MARK TWAIN’S LETTERS, 2 Volumes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4.00 3.75 1.25
OBSERVATION: EVERY MAN HIS OWN UNIVERSITY: R. H. Conwell 1.00 1.65 .35
THE MODERN CITY AND ITS PROBLEMS: Frederic C. Howe. . .. 1.50 2.00 .50
THE HIGH COST OF LIVING: Frederic C. Howe................... 1.50 2.00 .50
THE FOOD PROBLEM: Kellogg and Taylor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25 1.85 .40
WAR FRENCH: Colonel C. D. Willcox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .75 1.50 .25

This offer is for a limited period. Send your orders promptly to

THE' WOMAN CITIZEN

171 Madison Avenue ’ ew York City

.——.s_~____—_ ._ -_.h._._

WW.-
7 u - . . r .
3 ~ .“a -‘ . ‘.. . ‘ -r " ' ~ ' v I ". .' ' ' V N 0'“ «'1‘ ‘ .
£134? .1: _' a ‘_‘ _v "« Qd "'t‘)¢1_ 1 -';1'--!.;.~_"i__:' 5‘. «LL- -».§".-.;,.._2‘ 5... -‘L. _~;_"-'o_...; -v imam."- ;;  . '>__.-L. A ‘ ' - . ' s- 1 .-.. _ _ i . A 7 - , g

