10 cents a copy
June'8, 1918

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WIN-THE-WAR WOMEN

NO'I'TCR: When you nnlsh reading this

" itzhune place a one-cent stamp on this

‘W'lfe. mall lhe magazlne, and It will b0 l he F

tlatbrd In the hands of our soldiers or 
Hilar- duunsd to pruceed OVerseas. No

M no uddrcsa. A 8 Burleaon.

22 , The Woman Citizel

 

 jfranklin 51mm 3 Go.

I A Store of Individual Shops

Fifth Avenue, 37th and 38th Sta, New York

  

 
   

‘ NEW SUMMER MODELS
Waists and Separate Skirts

For WOMEN and MISSES
at Special Prices

763—Wh1'te Voile was t, pin tucked, roll collar
and tum-back cuffs trimmed with crochet lace 6 
edging, fine pearl buttons. 32 to 44 bust. . °

765—Wh1’te satin-finished Cotton Suede
Skirt, Shirred all around at waist, self-bound

inset pockets crochet button trimmed, wide 6 7 5
belt. Waist 24 to 34 in.; lengths 34 to 42 in. 0

767—TaiIored Sport Waist of white checked
Dimity, with new roll collar, Charvet cuffs and

front trimmed with narrow pleatings. 32 to
44 bust. 

769—Wh1’te Cotton Gabardine Skirt, shirred

top, inset pockets and novel belt pearl button 4 75
trimmed. Waist 24 to 34 in.; lengths 34 to 42 in. 0

Prompt Delivery Free—Anywhere in the United States

 

 

Attention Women

Think of this picture when you
are about to use wheat Hour A

AHTAB Silk Hosiery

(Made expressly for Best & Co.) 

II

Do YOU know the AH TAB hosiery? Many a 
wise shopper has solved the secret of stocking econ- II
omy by knowing that she can depend upon AH TAB II’I
hosiery to wear. I‘

Women of dignity choose AH TAB Hosiery be- _ 1
cause its line even making insures refinement of ap- 
pearance. They come back after one trial because {I
they find that it wears. 'III

I

Women who have achieved smart-ness of dress Ill
try AHTAB Hosiery first, because of its shapeli-
ness—and they can find the shades they wish to I}
wear. They come back for more because the colors U
are satisfying and they find that it wears. 

AHTAB Hosiery in three grades
1.35 1.65 2.00

I
I
I
I

I

I
splendidly made. excellently reinforced, onered in the I
new wanted Summer and shoe top shades. Pure silk, I
absolutely fine, fast dye. extra fine weave, high spliced I
heels and fully fashioned. I
I

I

I

I

 

Sold nowhere else.
"that & 4E0. }
FIFTH AVENUE AT 35TH STREET I YOU don‘t know
NEW YORK ‘ *I what it is to be
I, 11 red "

When writing to advertisers please mention the WOMAN CITIZEN.

‘

CONTINUING the Woman’s Journal,

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

founded 1970 by Lu Stone and Henry
3:31 to winning l"equal $38352“ Founded June 2’ 1917
womenfdnd publighedqgvdeeklsylgd osto: PubHShal every Saturday by

Massachusetts, from 1870 to 1917. Con-
tinuing also the Woman Voter, and the
National Sudra News. In succeeding
the National S rage News,The Woman
Citizen became the omcial organ of the
National American Woman Sudrage
Association, and as such tries to main-
tain intimate contact between the Asso-
ciation and its two million members
throughout the United States.

The WOMAN sznN CORPORATION
at 171 Madison Avenue, New York

Ten cent: a copy; yearly subscription (62 numbers),
cents extra.
ork Post mce as Second
Class matter, under the act of March 3, 1879. Copy-

81.00. Postage to fo

countries fifty
Entered at the New

right, 1918, by The Woman Citizen Corporation.
VOL. HI JUNE’B, 1918

,NO. 2

UBLISHED by the Woman Citizen
Corporation, in the hope that it may
rove a self- er etuating memorial to
rs. Frank e’s generosity toward
the cause of woman sud’rage and her
faith in woman’s irresistible progress.

The directors of the Corporation are
Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, Miss Alice
Stone Blackwell, Miss Ma Garrett
Hay, Mrs. Thomas Bucklin ells, and
Mrs. Arthur L. Livermore.

Alice Stone Blackwell is a special contrib-
uting editor.

Rose Young is the editor-in-chiei’.

Mary 0 en White, Mary Sumner Bo
and Rog: Lawless Geyer are media

editors.

 

 

\Where Is Your State?

T was only natural that every suii’ragist

who has been in the least way instrumental

in making the Woman Citizen circulation
drive a success should feel a pardonable pride
in the editorial announcement in the magazine
last week to the effect that subscription re-
ceipts had sextupled in number since the
Woman Citizen came into existence a car ago
upon the merger of three suErage pub 'cations.
“Fe were proud—all of us—because it meant
that OUR magazine is in a state of healthy
growth, which should make it an increasingly
important factor in the work of enfranchising
all Of the women of America.

There is special significance in a subscrip-
tion list such as ours. Every name on it
stands for a person who has an amrmative
belief in woman’s progress and who is pledging
his or her heart to the cause of even greater
achievements in the future. Every name on
it means that an ardent believer in political
freedom for women is keeping herself abreast
Of these rapidly moving times by taking ad-
vantage of the viewpoint offered by her own
magazine. ~

This is one reason why subscri tion gettin
for the Woman Citizen carries wi it a speci
pleasure for the women out in the field. Get-
ting subscriptions is one way in which every
su ragist can contribute to the success of the

e in which she is an equal partner with
thousands of other sud'ragists. The Woman
Citizen is still far from its full growth, and
there are variouiuplans under way for more
mergers, which increase its strength and
make it vastly more valuable.

“ I like the sample, so
put me down for one
ymr,” wrote a person
who had purchased a

100,000 new subscribers too small a number to
have set as the goal for this campai n?
Rosa Lawmss area,
National Circulation Chairman.

“One Of the best ways to get
education in CltlZCIlShlp is to

read the Woman Citizen.”
A SUBSCRIBER.

 

State Circulation Chairmen

Alabama: Miss Mary P. London, Birmingham

Indiana: Mrs. Jessie Fremont Croan, Anderson

Iowa: Dr. Eme McCollum Jones, Webster City

Louisiana: Mrs. Sherard Brisbane, Baton
Rouge ‘

Maine: Mrs. Dora H. York, Augusta

Maryland: Mrs. Edwin W. Rouse, Jr.

Massachusetts: Mrs. R. L. DeNormandie, Bos-
ton

Michigan: Mrs. John Waite, Ann Arbor

Minnesota: Mrs. I. E. Rose, St. Paul,

New Hampshire: Mrs. Ms Post, Portsmouth

New Jersey: Mrs. F. H. Co vin, East Orange

North Dakota: Mrs. Katherine L. Brainerd,
Hebron

Rhode Island: Mrs. LeBaron C. Colt, Bristol

South Carolina: Mrs. J. T. Gittman, Columbia.

Texas: Mrs. Helen Moore, Galveston

Virginia: Miss Helen Stockdell, Richmond

Relative Position of State Leagues in the Woman Citizen’s Circulation Contest:

cOpy at a newsstand.
We did it with pleasurei 1 Georgia Mail 95“ 1 Georgia June 1
gang; 130:?“ $8,327: r30 2: South Dakota . South Dakota
put down for one year 3- Indiana . Indiana
and we want them quick: 4- Minnesota . Minnesota
1y our drive is speed- 5. New Jersey, Iowa Iowa
' . b t ' - 6. Michigan New Jersey
mg. up, u we are rm 7 Ohio Michi an
“mitignd we wantnto 8- Virginia - New ark
Reports 31123202112) ling; 9- Missouri - Ohio, Missouri
our omce Show that the 10. New Hampshire Virginia .
hot weather has bv no 11. Wisconsin, New York . New Hampshire
means an'ected the circu- 12- Alabama . Wisconsm
1. ' d - ad 81 18. Massachusetts . Alabama
80th:: of 1at}: lett‘iaf-gs my; 14- Maine - MassaChusetts
caved ten of plans per.  gagsylvania, Louisiana, Maryland 'Iéexas
fected bv the writers to -
do considerable work on 17. Connecticut Pennsylvania, Louisiana
behalf of the magazine 18. West Virginia gonnhecélcutr
While spending their va- 19. Kentucky, North Dakota, South 20 “2:; vggit‘l‘i‘:
cations at the various re- . Carolina, Tennessee -
‘0"5- NO one has ert- 20. Mississippi, Arkansas, Rhode Island  ’iNXg‘LIEgoggoggni‘gffg
ten that she must have a - PP : , ‘
. b . 21. Nebraska  Nebraska
:iacation kfromh. in 83:21}; 22. Washington 24' Washington
wag war ’ w m 23. North Carolina 25, North Carolina
c for the mome 0f 24- Vermont 26 Vermont

tbechairmen.
Really, when you stop
to think it over, isn’t

HHHHHHH HH
swseseu5~96wqeseww

Digitized by O . :

West Virginia: Mrs. P. C. McBee, Morgantown
Wisconsin: Mrs. Charles Mott, Milwau ee

Circulation Contest

1. A pledge will constitute an entr .

2. No entries will be accepted a ter Decem-
ber l, 1918. ,

8. Contest closes January 1, 1919.

4. In case of a tie for any one premium, the

prize will be awarded to each qualifying
contestant.

5. Only actual paid subscriptions willbe count-
ed in the awarding of premiums.

\

First Cash Premium
FIFTY DOLLARS

To the State Association that sends in the
highest number over 200 (paid new subscrib-
ers). The net price per subscription to the
State Association is .70, the .30 to go into the
state, county or local treasury, as may be de-
cided by arrangement between the state and
its branches.

Second Cash Premium
TWENTY-FIVE DOLLARS

To the County Association that sends in the
highest number over 100 (paid new sub-
scribers). These would come through the
State Association, and would hel to swell the

state’s to

Third Cash Premium .

TWENTY-F IVE

DOLLARS

To the Local Club that
sends in the highest
number over 100 aid
new subscribers). ese
would come through the
Con Association into
the tate Association,
and thence to the Woman '
Citizen.

Fourth Cash Premium
TWENTY-FIVE

DOLLARS

To the co-operating
Subscriber who sends in
the hi hest number over
50. is would be inde-
pendent of state, county
and club circulation ac-
tivities, would apply to
states that do not take
up the circulation work
in an oiiicial way, and
would come directly to
the Woman Citizen. The
net price per subscription
is $1.00. NO discount.

 

 

WAWW

1 Furs Remodelled and Repaired

Decided price concessions are obtainable by .making arrangements
now, so that the remodeling and repairing can be
attended to during the Summer months.

'

A number of authentic modells, representing the styles to be in vogue
next Autumn and Winter, are ready for inspection.

(Third Floor, Madison Avenue section)

 

waiiisnn ‘Anrnur-Jlifth Anetta», New goth
whiny-fourth Strut . TELEPHONE moo MURRAY HILL arm-arm Strut

 

The ‘ First Aid to Subscribers .
. Pin a New York draft, Money or Express Order for ’
Internatlonal woman Suffrage $1.00 to this advertisement, an out the blank below, cut

out and mail both to us for one year’s subscription (new

Alliance or renewal) to

/

Composed of Twenty-Six Member-Countries   

CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT. President

r
I
i

Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . !
PUBLISHES MONTHLY

Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

  City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. State . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
woman Suffrage NEWS THE WOMAN CITIZEN 171 Madison Avenue New York

(Jus Salim”)

 

 

It assembles the woman suf-
frage news of the world as no I I _ 
I " L“ 'r; ‘- I_. r". ' . _ ii if: '  I
other paper does or can do ' I, .I .. -
~ .I  Jail-on -
. _ _ _ _ .. -MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY- .. ._ _ _ _ _ i 425—5thAve..at38th St, New York I
I
N . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I I
ame {‘3 I
Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ' d I
I

Correct Uniforms for Maids

Ready to “rear

Fnlfnrmn . _ .. .. . iron: 3.00
(ups and ('uiiuru, .. " .‘HI
Apr-HIM, (Hula, Bonnets

I enclose $1.00 for one year’s subscription, beginning month

of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

SIMTS'EI I.”  "'r'  Arr-arr?!
0550 Nlade to Order

The International Woman Suffrage News
New York Office 171 Madison Avenue

' i

 

When writing to advertisers please mention the WOIAN CITlZEN.

“Ah-

 

The Woman Citizen
THE WOMAN’S JOURNAL i

A Journal of Democracy

June 8, 1918

“We shall jigbt for the things which we have always carried nearest our hearts — for democracy. for the. right of
those who submit to authority to have a voice in their own government."

\

The Advantage of Being. Hawaiian

HILE the National American VVoman'Suffrage Associa-

tion’s campaign for the Federal Suffrage Amendment is
going on unendingly, a flank movement begun under its direc-
tion has just been completed whereby the enfranchisement of
Hawaiian women is assured.

On the initiative of Representative Raker, of California, the
Hawaiian suffrage bill, known as House Bill 4665, was passed by
the Lower House under a rules suSpension and without a roll call
on Monday, June 3.

As the bill passed the Senate last September, the only remain-
ing formality, following the House’s action, is the signature of
the President, which will probably have been affixed before this
is read.

The bill, which was passed by both houses without a dissenting

voice, vests in the Legislature of the Territory of Hawaii the'

power to provide that in all elections, authorized to be held by the
organic act of the Territory of Hawaii, female citizens possessing
the same qualificaitons as male citizens shall be entitled 'to vote.
The bill further provides that the Legislature, if it sees fit, can
submit the suffrage question to the voters of the Territory.

As the Hawaiian Legislature has already twice manifested its
sentiment on the subject of suffrage by memorializing Congress
to urge the passage of the bill, it is taken for granted that the
question will be. immediately disposed of in Hawaii by legislative
action.

If the United States Senate will now get into action on the
Federal Suffrage Amendment, it will soon be as well worth while
for an American woman to live on the main land as in one of our
island possessions.

Question and Answer

“BEHIND that line there, you know the line I mean, that
thin line of smoke and ashes and black blood, like a bent
black wire over France! Behind that line they’re at work, day
by day, month after month, building the Empire we never be—
lieved. And it’s damn near done.

darker and darker, it covers up the sky—like a nightmare.

It grows bigger and bigger,

“And we can’t touch them! They couldn’t conceivably hold
that line against us——against the whole world—long enough to
build their incredible empire behind it. And they have.”

This is what the doctor said to Hallett in a short-story, The
Dark H am, by Daniel Wilbur Steele, in the May Atlantic.

It was the doctor’s dark hour, his moment of amazed despond—
ency before the relentless advance of Mitteleuropa, that “vast,
self-sufficient, brutal empire laid down across the path of the
world.” Fierce resentment at its brutality and at its onrush had
seized him.

But Hallett, wounded to the point of death, having given
youth and life in resistance to bestiality and lust of power, had
other eyes.

“Theirs is the kind of Mitteleuropa that’s been done before,”
said he. “We’ve got a vaster and more incredible empire to
build than they. A Mitteleuropa, let us say, of the spirit of man.
No, no, doctor; it’s we that are doing the impossible, holding
that thin line. Germany has dreamed a dream. Black as the pit
of hell,—yes,——but a dream. They’ve seen a vision—a red,
bloody, damned vision—but a vision. They’ve got a programme,
a rehearsed and abominable programme; and they know what
they want and we don’t know what we want. . . . Not once
since those terrible August days have we got down on our naked
knees and prayed for anything more than just to be allowed to
wake up and find it isn’t so. How can we expect with a desire

like that to stand against a positive and a flaming desire?

“ We’ve got to say black or white at last.
swer a question this time with a whole answer.

We’ve got to an-

“ The war began so long ago,” went on Hallett, “ so long be-
fore Saraj'evo,—before Bismarck and the lot of them were be-
gotten. So many, many years of questions put, and half answers
given in return. Questions, questions; questions of a power—
loom in the north counties; of a mill hand’s lodging; questions of
a black man in the Congo; a French cripple in the streets of
Zabern; questions of a girl asking for her vote on a Hyde Park
rostrum—whole questions half-answered, hungry questions half-
fed, mutilated fag-ends of questions piling up and piling up year by
year, decade after decade... . . Listen! There came a time when
it wouldn’t do; wouldn’t do at all. There came a time when the

Digitized by 600816

26

son of all those questions stood up in the world, final, unequivo—
cal, naked, devouring, saying ‘ Now you shall answer me. You
shall look me squarely in the face at last and you shall look at
nothing else; you shall take your hands out of your pockets and
your tongues out of your cheeks, and no matter how long, no
matter what the blood and anguish of it, you shall answer me
now with a whole answer—or perish! ’ ”

“ And what’s the answer? ” the doctor wanted to know. And
Hallett, with vision spiritualized by his own supreme surrender
to his vision, gave him the answer—an answer that is the very
pith and marrow of woman’s struggle for political liberty. Not
just hers, but hers shared with every group and every class who
have had-to go forth to light for a right or justice denied them.

Hallett’s answer to the doctor was the same as that of the girl
on the Hyde Park rostrum, the same as that of the soldiers of
Belgium, the men at Verdun, the men at the Marne. “ It will
said Hallett, “ because it’s a word that’s

’

sound funny to you,’
been worn pretty thin by so much careless handling. It’s ‘ Democ-
racy.’ ”

Democracy, the right of those who submit to authority to have
a voice in their own government!

It may “ sound funny ” to the United States Senators at \Vash-
ington who are obstructing the passage of the Federal Suffrage

Amendment, but we again commend the word to their attention.

Shall We Please the Kaiser?

CC ‘ ‘ IHEN England gave suffrage to women, why was the
news not allowed to be published in Germany?” said
Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, in a recent public address. “ Because
the growth of democracy inside the German Empire is the enemy
that the Kaiser dreads more than he does the armies and navies
of the world. But if the U. S. Senate should defeat the ,Federal
Suffrage Amendment, that news would be published in all the
papers of Germany. If a pronunciamento could go forth that it
should never pass, this would be the most welcome news of all
to the Kaiser.”
Is there any member of the U. S. Senate who is really hanker-
ing just at present to bring joy to the Kaiser’s heart?

' _ A. s. B.

Our Legislators

ALL through these anxious days, the great guns firing in
France have seemed to 'be pounding away at our own

hearts. I
They have been pounding in many lessons. One is the iniquity

of the principle upon which both the German government and '

the American anti-suffragists rely—the doctrine that might makes
right. \Vith the echoes of the guns mingle the echoes of the appeal
addressed to the Reichstag a few months ago by three great
organizations of German women, representing all classes:

“ Up to the present time Germany stands in the lowest rank of

nations as regards women’s rights. During the war the coopera—
tion of the women in public life has unostentatiously grown from

The Woman Citizen

year to year until today the number of women engaged in various
callings in Germany exceeds the number of men. The work they
are doing includes all spheres of male activity. Without them it
would no longer be possible to support the economic life of the

people.
share in the building up and extension of the social order? The

Does not this performance of duty involve the right to

women protest against this lack of political rights, in virtue both
of their work for the community and of their worth as human
beings. In the demand for the democratization of German pub-
lic life, our legislators do not seem even to admit the existence
of women.”

The women’s appeal was turned down with contempt. Do our
Senators want to proclaim to the world that in this matter they

are of one spirit with the Huns?
A. S. B.

The War on the Children

Y the decision of the Supreme Court that the Federal Child
Labor Law is unconstitutional the lines of child protection
which have been built up with infinite patience for a generation
It is as if the National Child Labor Com-
mittee found itself confronted with a new battle of the Marne,

have been penetrated.

and it will meet it undaunted. The fact‘ that an adverse decision
was rendered by a majority of only one member, and that four
out of nine Supreme Court Judges found for an adverse verdict
is unfortunate for public patience since it will be hard for laymen
to believe that another decision might not have had equal consti-
tutional authority.

The main point for consideration is, first of all, that the country
can not afford to be without some such check upon the exploita-
tion of children as the Federal bill offered.

“ We shall have to study the decision and then frame a new

bill which will meet the objections which the court makes,’ says
Professor Samuel M. Lindsay, of Columbia University, vice-
“ It is inconceivable that the 12,000

members of the Child Labor Committee will allow the matter to

chairman of the committee.

lapse. There will be a continuation of the campaign for regula-
tion of child labor as soon as we can reorganize our forces.”
This means, of course, that now when the country needs un-
divided devotion to the prosecution of the war, a strong force
must be deflected to the retaking of ground once held. For the
war makes trebly imperative the protection of the young. And
no one for a moment suspects that either the National Committee.
or the mothers of the country will have their attention deflected
from the imperative needs of the child workers of America.

For America!

HERE is a homely need in American hospitals, especially

in the small hospitals of little cities, for nurses. Not Red

Cross nurses, but plain everyday nurses at the old task of alle- .
viating human misery. Hundreds of them, thousands of them,
are called for. They are wanted in the lower ranks of the pro-

fession to shove up to the top the nurses qualified to go to France.

Digitized by 600816

 

June 8, 1918

For France wants only the best trained, the graduates, third—year
women at least. But if there are not enough first and second
year girls, those already equipped’ will be held back for the civilian
needs of the United States.

Many people have not yet awakened to the fact that the circuit—
riding doctor is becoming a fact in America as well as in France.
Whole counties in the thinly populated sections of the country are
reported by the medical profession as being cared for by one man,
who chases his automobile up hill and down dale, night and day,
to supply the needs of a huge territory.

The shortage in nurses is becoming alarming, and hospital
superintendents say there is no relief in sight. So many girls are

supporting families from which the bread winner has gone to the

front that they cannot afford to give time to an unremunerative‘

nursing job.

W'ho will care for the civilians? ‘

And who will go on caring for the wounded after they leave
the military hospitals? i

Red Cross nurses can’t do it all. And there is no way to get
to be a real Red Cross nurse except by the road of diligence and
discipline. The latest requirements for Red Cross nurses made
public by the Division on Women’s War Work of the Com-
Ability to speak French
fluently; age between 25 and 35; good physical condition and
willingness to serve wherever they may be placed for one year.

Women with brother, father, husband or son in service will
not be taken for France.
nurses’ aids who have had only the short courses in Home Care
of the Sick and First Aid given by the Red Cross. Women now
being sent out as nurses’ aids at the request of the Paris office
of the Red Cross will not be used in American army hospitals.
The intention is to use them in civil work with the French pop-
ulation and the repatriates, and in French hospitals where nurses’
aids have been used since the beginning of the war.

Since all undergraduates can, at best, care only for civilians,
why not fill up the demands for nursing recruits in the hospitals
here and leave shipping space for the best equipped women to go
to France? It may not be romantic to take care of measles and
adenoids and broken legs in America, but it is terribly necessary
to know how to do it as a passport to France?

And the thing that‘makes a good soldier “ out there ” is learn-
ing how over here.

mittee on Public Information are:

Neither will those be taken even as

Omitting Telephone Girls

0 MITTING telephone girls is getting to be habit—a seriously
bad habit.

A certain suffrage headquarters somewhere in America long
cherished in its files a list of gallant deeds done by brave women,
the bulk of them telephone girls.
of special articles for magazines, every one of whom was wont

This file was open to writers

to say, “ Please omit lists of brave deeds done by telephone girls.
They are always risking their lives and there are too many to
count.” '

It begins to look as if telephone girls are expected to risk their

Y temporary defeat.

27

lives not only withoiit recognition, but without recompense. Al?
though the women operators recently sent to France with the
American Expeditionary Force are being placed within twenty?
three miles of the firing line and are subject to all dangers that
follow linemen, engineers and other types of Signal Corps work- ‘
ers, yet, because they are rated as civilian employees and have no
military status, they do not come under the provisions of the War
Risk Insurance Act and. are not entitled to any of its benefits.
This was an oversight, of course, one of the many thousand
instances of the way men omit to reckon women as people until
they see long lines of them swinging into action, when they
wake up and say: “ By Jove, we forgot all about the women.”
According to Mr. Samuel McCune Lindsay, Assistant Secre-
tary of the United States Treasury, the only way that this over-
sight about the telephone girls can be remedied is by an amend-
ment to the War Risk Insurance Act. Such an amendment is

now before Congress. and the War Work Council of the National

' Board of the Young Women’s Christian Association has recently

passed a resolution heartily endorsing it. .

This amendment is not limited to caring for one group of
women war workers, but is drawn up to include persons “ not in
the military or naval forces of the United States rendering
services auxiliary to the conduct of the war, or about to engage in
such services.”

A very direct way for women to prove that they are con-
cerned in the welfare of these girls, who are taking the chances
of war without the protection afforded to their brothers, is to
write and say so to the men in Washington who have this matter
in hand. These men are Senator F. M. Simmons, chairman of
the Finance Committee of the Senate and Hon. Thetus Sims,
chairman of the Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee of
the House of Representatives.

\

The Promise of Women Voters
C‘WE solemnly prornise never to disgrace the arms of our

country.” These are voting women talking now. This
is the war oath of the city of Seattle, V’Vashington.

“ Never to forsake our comrades in the ranks.

“ To fight for the common welfare, alone or with others.

“ To leave our country in a better state than we found it.

“ To obey the magistrate and the laws and defend them against
attack. '

“ To hold in honor the sacred principles of freedom embodied

in the constitution of the United States.”

With Their .Allies

T must be a matter of great satisfaction to the opponents of
I woman suffrage in America to realize that their allies. the
Central Powers, are standing stancth to their anti-suffrage
guns. According to current press reports the long and closely
fought contest for woman suffrage in Hungary has ended in
The Franchise Committee of the Hungarian

Parliament has turned it down by a vote of II to 9.

Digitized by 600816

28

 

MRS. A. B. GRIFFITH, 03" DALLAS
One of the newly elected vice-presidents of the

Dallas Equal Suffrage Association. She has been
prominent in club work for a number of years,
organized the J untor Red Cross and Is actively
interested in child welfare.

HE South Dakota Universal Franchise

League continues happily to combine suf-

f rage campaign activities and war service work.

The League has published a folder, containing

The Star Spangled Banner, America and The

American’s Creed, which they' are distributing
at patriotic gatherings and conventions.

MONG the Minnesota women signing the

suffrage protest to the Senate was Mrs.
A. T. Anderson, who presided'over the meet-
ing when the Minnesota Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation was organized in 1881. Although seventy-
nine years old, Mrs. Anderson is one of the
most ardent of the suffrage war workers, being
especially active in Red Cross work.

HE Suffrage Amendment AllianCe of

Illinois is in readiness to stai't a ratifica-
tion drive as soon as the Federal Suffrage
Amendment shall have passed the Senate.
Catherine Waugh McCulloch, of Evanston, is
chairman of the Alliance, Annie Sargent Bemis,
vice-chairman; Edith Jordan Hall, secretary,
and Georgia A. Keck, treasurer. Mrs. Harold
L. Ickes and Miss Ella Abeel have reCently
been elected to the board to fill two vacancies
and the chairmen of new committees are:
Mrs. Edward T. Lee, Chicago, Americaniza-
tion; Mrs. E. F. Ford, Greenfield, Food Pro-
duction; Mrs. Annette Fitch, Chicago, Thrift;
Miss Garetta Busey, Champaign, Food Con-
servation; Mrs. Mary Onahan Gallery, Chicago,
War Relief. Dr. Anna E. Blount-is chairman

of press work.

HE Connecticut Woman Suffrage Associa-

tion held a Citizenship Conference the last
of May at Hartford. The morning hours were
devoted to a study of the government of Con-
necticut while the other sessions were given to
lectures by Charlotte Perkins Gilman on “ Con-
structive Patriotism”; Mary Taylor Blauvelt
on “ American or German Governmental
Ideals,” and a third on “The Future of De-
mocracy in Russia,” by Prof. C. .E. A. Wins-
low of Yale University. The conference came
as a climax to a series of citizenship classes

WITHIN
THE

ORGANIZATION

conducted by Mrs. Nancy M. Schoonmaker
who, following the conference at Hartford, will
go to New London to conduct classes in citizen-
ship and parliamentary law as a member of the
faculty of Connecticut College.

ATIFICATION campaigns are already

under way in Missouri in anticipation of
the passage of the Federal Suffrage Amend-
ment by the Senate, at an early date. The plan
is to perfect a state-wide organization of the
women so that the matter of the ratification
may be brought to the attention of every man
and woman in the state, and through them the
legislators will be apprised of the wish of the

' state for the early ratification.

The Jackson County Federal Suffrage
Amendment Campaign Committee, which in-
cludes Kansas City, has started an aggressive
campaign on behalf of ratification. Mrs. John
B. White, as chairman of the committee, is
leading the work in Jackson County, assisted by
Mrs. George Hoxie Moffat, as vice-chairman,
Mrs. John Leighty as corresponding secretary,
Mrs. J. F. Binnie as auditor and Mrs. W. B.
Messerly as treasurer.

The women are having the close co-opera-
tion of a men’s advisory board throughout their
campaign work.

ORE than 40,000 Arkansas women par-

ticipated in the state primary held in
that state May 28, according to estimates, the
exact figures not yet being available. This was
the first opportunity Arkansas women have had
to take part in a state-wide primary since they
were granted primary suffrage. Press and
‘politicians agree that they made a highly credit-
able showing. Especially was the women’s vote
a big factor in the nomination of Governor
Brough, the women supporting him not alone
because of his stand for suffrage, but because
his high character made him stand out in high
relief as the man for the place.

All efforts to herd the women’s vote met
with failure. They voted not as a unit but as
individuals and according to their convictions.

The Democratic party of Arkansas has given
signal recognition of the entry of women into
state politics by electing six women to the
Democratic Central Committee of Pulaski
County. The men who placed the women’s
names in nomination made it clear that their
action was taken not because of any request
of the suffragists for political recognition but
because of the splendid service women had‘ren-
dered the state. The women elected to the
Pulaski County Committee include Mrs. T. T.
Cotnam, Chairman of the Arkansas Equal Suf-
frage Central Committee; Mrs. Frank W. Gibb,
Secretary of the Arkansas Equal Suffrage Cen-
tral Committee; Mrs. W. P. Hutton, Chairman
of Literature for the suffrage association; Miss
Josephine Miller, Organizer for the National

 

The Woman Citizen

Harem

MRS. GEORGE DUNNING. or PHILADELPHIA

One of the
fete for the
pftall.

American Woman Suffrage Association; Mrs.
R. P. Allen, and Mrs. James Gray.

A number of counties have elected women
delegates to the Democratic state convention
and in many other ways women are receiving
marked recognition from the Democratic Party.

The Federal Amendment is also receiv'ng
attention in Arkansas. Among the important
associations to endorse the Amendment and
urge its passage is the Arkansas Bar Associa-
tion, which, at its session May 31, called upon
the Senate to pass the Amendment immediately.

rtme movers in the great Philadelng
nent of the Women's Oversea oe-

OUR weeks of service in the field under

the supervision of the State Committee on
Organization is a part of the curriculum re-
quired of all students entering for a course in
the suffrage school to be held under the aus-
pices of the Iowa Equal Suffrage Association
June 25 to 28. By courtesy of Penn College.
Oskaloosa, the school will be held in the col-
lege buildings and the students lodged in the
dormitories. The faculty will include several
members of the state board, some members of
Penn College faculty and possibly one or more
women from out of the state. There will also
be special evening lectures by persons of promi-
nence in various fields of endeavor. The state
suffrage board is anticipating a large attendance
and for that reason are urging early applica-
tions from prospective students.

HE New Jersey Woman Suffrage Asso-

ciation sent out a call to its county and
local branches throughout the state to attend
the Suffrage War Conference held in Newark
on June 7. The subjects for consideration.
the Soldiers’ Club at Wrightstown, the Ameri-
can VVomen’s Oversea Hospitals Unit in
France, Child Welfare Work in New Jersey,
and Woman Suffrage as a War Measure. A
number of prominent speakers were present,
the principal one scheduled being Mrs. Carrie
Chapman Catt, president of both the interna-
tional and national woman suffrage associations.

June 8, 1918

Protest Suffrage Delay

ONTINUED evidence that the delay in the

passage of the Federal Suffrage Amend-
ment on the part of the United States Senate
is arousing a storm of protest from all sections
of the’ country pours into the headquarters of the
National American Woman Suffrage Associa-
tron.

One of the states to take action in this mat-
ter is Minnesota, practically every women’s or-
ganization in the state being represented at a
protest meeting held recently by the Minnesota
Woman Suffrage Association. As a result of
this session, the Minnesota suffragists have
begun a concerted drive to bring together every
political, economic, social, business and religious
organization of the state in a spirited demand
for the immediate passage of the Federal Amend-
ment. This demand will be forwarded to the
two Minnesota Senators, Frank B. Kellogg and
Knute Nelson, both of whom support the
Amendment.

Mississippi suEragists are strenuously en-
gaged in reminding their senators of oft-re-
peated promises to vote for woman suErage
" when the women want it.” They are making
it plain that the women do want it, and that
they want it at once. In one locality alone,
more than 230 new members have been added
to the state suErage body.

Senators Lodge and Weeks of Massachusetts
were urged to place themselves “ in line with
, modern civilization ” at the recent conventicin
of the Massachusetts suffragists who unani-
. mously endorsed the following:

“ Resolved, That we protest against the atti—
tude of the two United States Senators from
Massachusetts in opposing the Amendment,
and we call upon them to place themselves in
line with modern civilization by extending to
American women a right that is now enjoyed
by women in every other part of the English-
speaking world, except in our eastern United
States.” ‘~

The members of the board of directors of the
Chamber of Commerce of Indianapolis, Indi-
ana, with two exceptions, have signed a resolu-
tion urging the passage of the Federal Amend-
ment as an act of justice to the women of the
nation. The resolution read:

“ We urge the President to put the full power
of the Administration behind this Amendment
to secure its immediate passage as a war meas-
ure to the end that justice may be done to the
women of the whole country as soon as pos-
sible, and the waste of time and energy made
necessary by prolonging this struggle for en-
franchisement may cease, and that the prin-
ciples of democracy for which we are avowedly
lighting abroad may be sustained in this coun-
try.”

OVERNOR RUFFIN G. PLEASANT of

Louisiana in a recent message 'to the Gen-
eral Assembly of that state sprung a surprise
when he included among the more important
recommendations one urging the granting of
the franchise to the women of Louisiana. This
action on the part of the chief executive of one
of the most southern of southern states is sig-
nificant of the advanc‘e suffrage has made in

the South.

HE Republican Party of Indiana urged
the immediate passage of the Federal
Suffrage Amendment when in convention at
Indianapolis on May 28th and 29th. The reso-
lution which was endorsed by the convention
body received the unanimous support of the
Resolutions Committee. It read:

“The Republican Party of Indiana reaffirms
its declaration for equal suffrage; it urges the
immediate passage of the Federal Amendment
by the United States Senate and its ratification
by the state, and commends our Senators and
Representatives in Congress for their support
for the measure.”

Senatots New and Watson, who were in at-
tendance at the convention, reaffirmed their
intention of voting for the Amendment when
it shall come up in the Senate.

The Federal Amendment was given further
support by Governor Goodrich in his address
to the convention. “ The question of equal
suffrage has disturbed American politics for
the past twenty years,” said Governor Good-
rich, “ and the women of America are insisting
that the denial to them of the right of suffrage
upon an equal basis with men is contrary to
the spirit of our American institutions.

“ The solution of this question is a matter
for the nation. I believe that the amendnient
now pending in the Senate of the United States
granting equal suffrage to wOmen should be
passed and the question submitted to the sev-
eral states for their consideration. ’

“The approval of the amendment is an act
of tardy justice to American womanhood and
a fair and just recognition of the loyalty, de-
votion and self-sacrifice with which the Ameri-
can women have supported this war in theii
homes, in the factories, in the great war char-
ities, and on the lighting front, and I heartin
approve the action of our Senators and Re-
publican members of Congress in support of the
resolution pending in the Senate.”

The Democratic State Central Committee of
Indiana gave its endorsement to the Federal
Amendment some time ago, and though the
committee has since been reorganized, a major-
ity of the old members were retained. There is
no reason to think the new committee will take
a stand other than the one taken by the old
committee, according to a statement by Fred
Van Nuys, newly appointed chairman of the
Democratic State Committee of Indiana and
himself in favor of the Federal Amendment.

The Democratic State Convention will be
held June 18th and 19th, and the Indiana suf—
fragists have been given every encouragement to
believe the convention will endorse the Federal
Amendment.

HE following resolution was passed at the
annual convention of the Rhode Island
Equal Suffrage Association, held on May 25th,
and was forwarded to U. S. Senator LeBaron
B. Colt, to be presented to the Senate and read
into the record.

Be it resolved, That the Rhode Island Equal
Suffrage Association in convention assembled,
May 25, 1918, protests against the delay in the
passage of the Federal Amendment for Woman
Suffrage, and urges the enactment of the bill

 

29

‘ THE FEDERAL SUFFRAGE
AMENDMENT

KNOWN IN THI

65m Consaass or was Umm STAT-S as
SENATE JOINT RESOLUTION No. 2
and HOUSE JOINT RESOLUTION No. 1

Proposing on Amendment to the Con-
stitution o the United States Confer-
ring upon omen the Right of Sum-age.

Resolved by the senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled (two-thirds
of each House concurring therein), That
the following article he proposed to the
legislatures of the several states as an
amendment to the Constitution of the
United States. which when retitled b
three-fourths of the said iatures. sh
be valid as part of sai Constitution,

namely : “ ARTICLE

" SECTION 1. The right of citizens of the
United States to vote shall not be denied

or abridged by the United States or by any
state on account or sex.

“ Sec. 2. The Con ress shall have power,
by ap ropriate iegis tion, to enforce the
provis ons of this article."

       
   
    
     
 

  

    
     
     
         
   
       
     
       
     
   
       
   
    

Hrs'roar or AMENDMENT '

First introduced in the Senate,
Janua 10, 1878. b Senator A. .A.
Sargen . of Caiiforn a.

Venn UPON IN THE Sexau:

34January 25, 1887, yeas 16, nays

March 19, 1914. yeas 35. nays s4.
Verso UPON m was House:

20ganuary 12, 1915, yeas 174, nays

13ganuary 10, 1918, yeas 274, nays

Victory!
Present Statue:

Ix ran Swarm:
Reported from Committee

September 13,‘ every member of
Committee approving.

0n the calendar.
not fixed.

 
      
   
     
         
     
       
     
    

Date for vote

       

by the Senate of the United States as an imme-
diate and important war measure, and

Be it also resolved, That the war for democ-
racy, for which we are willingly giving our very
best, will be fought in vain, and cannot be
accomplished without the extension of the
franchise to women; therefore,

Be it further resolved, That the women of
Rhode Island, having won Presidential Suf-
frage, as voters, earnestly beg the members of
the Senate of the United States to consider
their responsibility in this matter as national
and international, and, accordingly, we plead
with them to vote in favor of the Federal
Amendment for Woman Suffrage to the end
that a real democracy may be established in
this, our beloved country, at the same time that
we are fighting overseas for a world democracy.

AGNES M. JENKs, President.
MARY M. ANGELL, Rec. Sec.

Oklahoma Press for Suffrage

HE Oklahoma State Press Association

convention at the Editors’ clubhouse,
Medicine Park, May 24 and 25, unanimously
passed this resolution:

" Believing that the time has fully come
when we should extend to our women of this
great state an expression of our fullest confi-
dence in their ability to share with us the
privileges and duties of citizenship, be it re-
solved that we express our belief in woman suf-
frage and pledge our support to the referendum
to be submitted to the voters of Oklahoma at
the general election on November 5, 1918."

Digitized by 600816

30 ' i The Woman Citizen

0 N E WA Y TO GET ETTING women workers to and from 0 A
H O M E A F T E R A their new war tasks is a problem, and  I
one for which, characteristically, there is no .

D A Y I N T H E provision whatsoever. Calling upon women to

F I E L D make bricks with an utter inconsequence about
straw is too common for comment. Women
from Texas to Alaska are running war work
committees without an allotted postage stamp.
They have canteened without a can. They have
conserved, and served themselves with all the
means for doing it. They have formed a vast
army of women to till the land whose main
problem is neither the land nor the women,
nor yet the farmer, but transportation.

And to meet this need, there is not one cent.
There is only the everlasting ingenuity and re-
sourcefulness of women, their readiness to
help, an old Ford car or so, and hard work.

Enter, on wheels, the woman’s motor corps.

In communities where Land Army Camps
are stationed, have sprung up motor corps divi-
sions, not of smartly uniformed girls, whirling
about town in trig little vehicles, but grimily
patriotic women who set their alarm clocks for
five o'clock in the morning and get up in haste
to rush any kind of shabby car bumpety-bump
over a country road in order to deposit overal-
led farmerettes on the farms where they are
to do their eight hours of back-breaking toil.

There is no romance about this, nor any
glamor, nor any uniform, nor yet any hours of
case. It is hard work a-plenty, and yet there
are girls everywhere who belong to such motor
divisions. Girls who might be having a good
time being chauffed about in touring cars of
their own. Regular summer girls, some of
them, who never got up early before in their
lives except on a bet. ,

When one of them was called up the other
day by a society friend, an answering voice over
the telephone came back: “Alice? Oh, Alice

 

Times Photo Service

isn’t here. She’s gone in Mrs. Jones’ car to The Song Of 
get the camp pig.”
The camp pig? BY MARY ELI:
Alice!

A rising young prima donnall

The smell of rich earth, plow up-turn’d,
The starting wheat in its velvet green, the

The white-tail’d [ark with its liquid note,
CAPTAIN BEATRICE MALCOLM TO THE RESCUE. SHE IS

Give me Thy passionate love of these,
SEEING THAT THESE COLLEGE GIRLS ARRIVE AT THE erd tillldie, '
UNION COUNTY FARM CAMP, AT SUMMIT, N. 1., ON J ’ _ .
SCHEDULE TIME i

The golden grain to the harvest white, the
The burning suns in the azure skies, the pe
The black clouds rent by the lightning pale
Give me Thy passionate love of these,

Lord, till I die!

The des’late winds on the browning wastes
The bracing air of steely dawns, the yellow
The corn/ields brown and the bold chipm

Give me Thy passionate love of these,

Lord, till I die!

 

Underwood

June 8, 1918

and Back

 

Underwood

.d Army

[DGEON

rom soft but persisting skies,
wind that the damp earth dries.
'ng buds and the streams afloat,

fall of the firm-bound wheat,
rn-call wild and sweet,
'es whitening every dale,

‘ull weight of the apple trees,
a twinkling breeze,
far triangle of wild-duck hanks,

0 such uses do women come when they are
serving the country with both hands and
all their hearts and borrowed limousines.

In Union County, New Jersey, one can see
them any day carrying a placard on their cars
—a big white cloth poster, impermeable to rain
and dampness, announcing in large letters:
"We are working for the Land Army. Are
You ?” ‘

Because women are resourceful, and will get

- things done with or without money or tools—

witness the uses to which hatpins and hairpins
have been put—they have found comfort in this
sign-carrying device.

Here, say they, is a way to get publicity that
we can’t afford to pay for. For the baby wel-
fare campaign, says an originator of this
scheme, we can hang signs on our machines.
reading: “Weigh your babies every Friday."
For food conservation we can plaster the cars
with “Use 75 per cent of substitute flours,"
“ A Can in Summer Saves a Dinner in Winter.”
What a London bus may do in time of peace, a
private car may do in time of war.

And this invisible motor corps is bent upon
achievement. Endless side lines of usefulness
are being carried on by means of it. It is indic-
ative of the intrepidity of women. It is now
carrying everything from wounded soldiers to
farm camp pigs.' And it is mobilized for serv-
ice all the way up and down by women who
gallantly fare forth' to do great deeds with
small means.

If they cannot fly on the wings of eagles, or
at the wheel of a Pierce-Arrow, they will come
trundling in on a wheelbarrow or a hand car.
The main thing is that they are getting there.

Seeing work to be done.

They are doing it.

31

 

Times Photo Service

THEY HAVE DONEADAY’S
WORK AND WOULD BE GLAD
TO HAVE A LIFT

COMING ’ROUND THE BEND.
THESE GIRLS ARE SERVING AS

LUMBER JACKS

AND GETTING

HOME AssBEST THEY CAN

 

(Ventral New; Photo Sen-ice

32

O Notes and

Growing Warmer

A S the weather grows warmer, the inquiries
are also growing warmer from women all
over the country as to when the U. S. Senate
is going to pass the nation-wide amendment for
woman suffrage. \

We are all hoping for a bumper crop of wheat
to help us and our Allies to win the war; but
the biggest crop of grain ever harvested will be
smaller than the crop of indignation that will
be reaped by the ultra conservatives if they per-i
sist in obstructing this just measure. ,

As the weather grows warmer, wise men
take off their thick underwear.

As the public demand for any reform grows
warmer, it is folly for any man to cling to a
kind of mental attire that is suitable only for
a Siberian winter of prejudice.

Man Power and Woman Patience

“THE Germans have a serious problem in
their man-power, and another in their
woman-patience.” So says the Boston Herald.

The editor meant, no doubt, that both their
man Power and the patience of their women
are in danger of giving out. The patience of
their women has long been a danger to them
in another sense. For centuries, the'over-
submission of women has fostered the despotic
tendencies of German men; and to a greater
or less extent this has been true of the women
in almost all countries.

Women are never going to love men less:
but'some day they will learn that they do not
render a real service to their men folk by al-
lowing their own minds to be dwarfed and
cramped; just as the Chinese wife must fail of
her fullest usefulness to her husband if she
allows her feet to be dwarfed and cramped into
the unnatural shape that he admi’res.

All Candidates Were Patriotic

T their convention the last of May the

Massachusetts suffragists elected to the
first vice—presidency, the woman who was
looked upon as the loyalty candidate par ex—
cellence, Mrs. Charles Sumner Bird.

The first vice-presidency was the office about
which the contest centred, and the election was
unusually exciting, because charges of a lack
of patriotism had been made against two of the
candidates, Mrs. Wenonah Osborne Pinkham
and Mrs. Susan W. FitzGerald. Both of them
denied the accusation, and the friends of both
were indignant over the baseless stories cir-
culated on the subject in the press. Mrs. Pink-
ham gave out the following statement:

“I believe in the Allied cause, and desire its
victory. I honor my flag, and deny the truth of
the stories that I have refused to have it dis-
played. I believe in and warme support the
war aims of President Wilson. I believe in
and support the Red Cross, and if elected I will
carry out to the best of my ability the war
program of the National American Woman
Suffrage Association.”

Letters praising Mrs. Pinkham and her war
work were read from Victor A. Heath, chair-
man of the Boston Committee of Public Safety,
and Major O’Keefe, chairman of its Commit-
tee on Co-ordination of Aid Societies.

Mrs. FitzGerald easily disposed of the main
charge made against her,‘ viz., that she had

 Comment

opposed the Liberty Loan. She said she be-
lieved it would be wise for the government to
raise more money by taxation and less by bor-
rowing, but, as Congress had decided in favor
of the present method, she had advocated the
buying of Liberty Bonds, and her husband had
bought all the Liberty Bonds they could afford.

The charges were fully threshed out in con-
vention. Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, who was
present, said that she had listened attentively
to all the accusations brought against both can-
didates, and had heard nothing that would
carry a pin’s weight as evidence. The Associa-
tion thereupon passed a resolution declaring its
absolute faith in the loyalty of both Mrs. Pink-
ham and Mrs. FitzGerald.

Mrs. Bird's election followed and meets with
general approval. Both Mrs. Pinkham and
Mrs. FitzGerald declared themselves satisfied.
Mrs. Bird has been prominent in patriotic work.
Miss Blackwell was re-elected president unani-
mously.

The annual convention closed with a huge
patriotic meeting at the Boston Opera House.
It was crowded from floor to ceiling and mul-
titudes were turned away. Dr. Anna Howard
Shaw, chairman of the Women’s Committee of
the Council of National Defense, was intro—
duced by Rear Admiral Spencer S. Wood, and
the stirring patriotic addresses made by her
and by Mrs. Catt, with the warm response of
the audience, left no doubt as to the sentiments
of the great gathering.

Men Can Knit Too

VERY now and then the suggestion is

made that men as well as women should
knit for the soldiers, during their spare mo—
ments. Such a thing would not be without pre-
cedent.

Years ago the Hon. Samuel J. Barrows, Na-
tional Prison Commissioner, was a famous
knitter. He was a highly versatile man. He
had been considered the best short-hand re-
porter in New York. When he went out with

Gen. Custer against the Indians, he mastered.

horses that no one else could ride. He could
row and swim and fish, cut down trees and
build a cabin, preach sermons and write poems,
speak strange languages and play many kinds
of games. Among his other accomplishments,
he was an expert knitter, and could do beauti-
ful fancy work. On one of his many trips to
Europe, to study prisons or transact some other
large and important business, he had to wait at
a railroad station. He sat down and pulled out
some dainty knitting, probably meant as a gift
for some friend’s baby, and proceeded to work
at it to while away the time. A circle of for-
eigners gathered around and stared in amaze—
ment at the tall American engaged in this un-
usual work; but he was as calm and imper-
turbable as a June morning.

It would be a real boon to many men to learn
to knit. Mr. Barrows had a friend, a school
principal, who had reached the age limit and
retired. The old man pined for occupation,
and was in danger of sinking into melancholia.
Mr. Barrows taught him to knit; and he be-
came an expert in the art. He made all sorts
of knitted garments as gifts for his friends, and

 

The Woman Citizen

Armenian Poems

ENDERED mm
English verse by
Alice Stone Black-

well. F or sale for

benefit of the Ar-

 

the

menian Relief Fund, by

Edward H. Chandler, 3

£oy St., Boston, Mass,
rice $l .00.

HESE poems are
truly Oriental in
the fire of their
passion and the

splendor of their imagery.

We can better understand

the Song of Solomon after

reading such verses as

these. ’ —Christian W ark.

 

BOOKS BY
CHARLOTTE PERKINS GILMAN
Put Pdd
IN THIS OUR WORLD Vane). SI 25
WOMEN AND ECONO ICS . ISO
CONCERNING CHILDREN . l 25
THE YELLOW WALLPAP . 50
THEHOME......IIO
HUMANWORK.....IIO
THE MANMADE WORLD. ,. : lo
I

WHAT DlANTHA DID . l0
THE CRUX. Cloth IO

45

THECRUX.Paper '. . . .
MOVING THE MOUNTAIN . no

Bound Volume. of THE FORERUNNER

Thou volume. are not "Bock Numbcn"
but a cat of Cilmnn'o Works, each volume of

which amount. in bulk of memorial to four
boob of 63.000 words each. Prion. “.50
each pootpaid. except Vol. I. which in $2.50

Full ut—Sl0.00 plun «pro-op

Full cat. with first six boob-M500
plus “pm:

THE CHARLTON COMPANY
160 Broadway. New York

 

he learned new patterns and stitches, and taught
them to his women acquaintances, who flocked
to him to learn. The amusement and interest
changed the whole color of his life.

How often do we see men feeling awkward
and unhappy at some social function, because
they do not know what to do with their hands.
In Edward Eggleston’s delightful book, "The
Hoosier Schoolmaster,” a sturdy young coun-
tryman fails for a long time in his struggles
to propose to the girl of his choice because he
is so miserably conscious of his hands and feet.
The difliculty is not solved till he takes her for
a sleigh-ride. Then, with his hands occupied
with the reins, and his feet hidden under the
robe, he manages to stammer out a half pro-
posal, which she generously takes as a whole
one, and accepts.

Thousands of women have experienced the
restful influence of knitting. Why should not
the tired business man try it? A. S. B.

June 8, 1918

If Your Babies Were Gassed

HE situation of

the women and
children close to the
lines at such a place
as Toul presents a tragic picture. The pe0ple of
these small villages, which have been bombarded
and gassed, naturally cling to the localities they
know and love. In one village, which had suf-
fered almost complete annihilation from bom-
bardment and in which only a dozen adults were
living out of a population of four or five hun-
dred, the people had crept back, and, with the
help of the soldiers quartered there, had re-
stored in a crude way their little church. The
constant danger in which the civil population
finds itself makes it dihicult to expect much
normality from them. To draw them to safer
places and to get them interested in work that
seems to have some future to it, some perma-
nency, is the splendid work of Prefet Mirman,
of the District of Meurthe-et-Moselle,. '

On July 26, 1917, a telegram came to the
American Fund for French Wounded from
Prefet Mirman saying that 350 children had
suddenly been put into his care and that they
had nothing but a temporary shelter in some old
barracks at Toul, and his need for assistance in
the care of them was acute. Mrs. Isabel Lath-
rop, to whom the telegram had been sent,
brought it at once to Major Murphy, who felt
that the Red Cross must help in such a situation.
In a few hours, eight workers were on their
way to Toul—a doctor, nurse, two aids, a bac-
teriologist, an administrative director, and two
women to take charge of the bedding, clothing
and food. A camionette, loaded with milk and
clothing, started at the same time. The work-
ers arrived at Toul that night. They found the

50 children herded together in an old barrack,
dirty and practically unfurnished, and with no
sanitary appliances or toilet arrangements. The
sick children were crowded in with the well
ones; skin diseases were prevalent and vermin
abounded. It was a sorry sight. Those chil-
dren, 21 of them under one year of age, and the
rest between one and eight years, had been gath-

ered in Toul because the Germans were using

bombs of asphyxiating gas in the villages back
of the lines. The adults can wear the gas masks,
but the little children do not use them success-
fully, and therefore must be moved to places of

By June Richardson Lucas
Of the American Red Cross Children’s Bureau

goat. Some lumber
was brought to the
grounds and other
material to build
swings and see-saws for the children’s recrea-
tions. A trip was taken over the district;
Nancy was visited; the area of the gas danger
made it utterly impracticable to return children
to their homes. Pompey, with its thousands of
children living in caves on account of the
nightly bomb attacks, wanted medical attention
for the children. In fact, the whole district
showed the greatest need of a good beginning
at‘ Toul, a real children’s center, both medically
and in the social welfare work needed in such
circumstances. A real hospital for children in
connection with the dispensary at Luxembourg,
with a stad large enough to permit medical care
and supervision over the whole district by send-
ing the doctors to different towns to hold week-
ly or bi-weekly clinics and bringing back to the
hospital at Toul the cases needing hospital care,
was fhe plan which Prefet Mirman outlined to
the Red Cross. Dr. Lucas decided upon the
adoption of the plan immediately. This hospital
is known as the American Fund for French
Wounded Hospital for Children. It operates
throughout the entire district of Meurthe-et-
Moselle and includes dispensaries and visiting
services, diet kitchens and schools.

T Nancy the-refugee girls are taught sew-
ing and designing of garments. Each girl
makes small models of different outfits, such as
trousseaux and layettes, and these are mounted

in folders with the patterns and dimen-
sions and instructions, so as to be taken
back to their villages later. The old

men and_boys are taught carpentry. All the
furniture made is used at once in the Asile or
stored away to be taken home to their beloved
villages when the war is over. In this way, the
great Prefet seeks to give the poor people of
his district a new hold'upon life, by giving them
the feeling that in spite of all the destruction
around them, in spite of the vanishing of all
they had, they can still accumulate possessions
and not sit, empty-handed, in the wake of fire
and shell. So the work in the district of
Muerthe-et-Moselle offers much'hope. If the
American Red Cross can keep the health of the

33

 

THE BEST 0!" VOTE MAKERS

Woman’s Sphere in

Germany

HE German Metal Workers Trade Union

has recently issued a memorandum on
women in German ammunition plants, which is
published in the Ironmonger. Their number
has been raised from under 250 before the war
to almost 6,000. The conditions reported are
appalling,

Women are employed in all kinds of work,
regardless of their physical fitness. Instances
of superhuman efforts demanded of women,
which have frequently resulted in serious
physical injury, are frequent lifting of shrapnel
shells weighing about 60 pounds, without assist-
ance of any kind, and lifting of projectiles
weighing twenty to seventy-five pounds from
door to breast level. For three marks a day a
woman must perform this exhausting task from
seventy to one hundred times and even more.
Of a steel works- in Upper Silesia it is re-
ported: “Women and girls look like walking
columns of dust—lavatories are frequently not
provided; the women in the foundries are
hollow-eyed and with eyes deeply sunken; their
expression is pathetic; all joy in life is lost.”

‘For the exhausting work of boiler scaling men
are paid extra, but women are not. In the
Krupp works at Duisburg and Essen there is
neither ventilation nor suction apparatus. The
workers themselves have to fix the belts. a

children good and thereby reassure the grown-
ups that their children—all they have left—are

“well cared for, new life will quickly develop
where the old has been blotted out.

safety. The, military authorities try to remove
all the children under eight years of age.

HE Red Cross workers set to work at the

Ins-rm agithq i _.‘. .. _ ..

task of getting new barracks clean, and
the children ready for transfer.

From then, until August 13th, when the Chil-
dren’s Bureau, under Dr. William Palmer Lu-
cas, was established in the Department of Civil
Affairs, the work at Toul went steadily on.
Prefet Mirman fathered it all in his effective
way, the French Government supplied more than
it had agreed to: a purchasing agent, a store-
lceeper, three school teachers, and a French sec-
retary, required by the French Government.
The need for an infirmary being urgent,‘the
government supplied beds, mattresses, tables,
cupboards, pitchers, basins, stoves, etc.,
for a ten-bed infirmary, and also helped to
establish a diet kitchen with full cooking equip-
ment. special milk for babies, and one milking

.‘~ I

 

Mrs. Ernest Thompson Seton, at right, with two

of the Food Lorrlea that belong to the chain of
motor units she has organized to send to France
to war food to the wounded men before they

reach t e hospitals.

dangerous operation for a woman. The work-
ing hours, already long, are further lengthened
by night and Sunday work. Where the forty-
eight—hour week is in force, as in Berlin, over-
time and Sunday work leave little leisure.
Over forty per cent of all the women employes
have a twelve-houn day and less than four
per cent work as short a time as ten hours.
The longest working week is in the government
small arms factory in Danzig, with seventy-
eight hours. In one plant at Dresden girls
have repeatedly worked from 7 a. m. till 11
p. m.. with an interval of one hour, and in
another at Leipzig some women worked
through the whole of Saturday until 2 or
4 a. m. on Sunday—sixteen or eighteen hours
in one shift.

'34

The Woman Citizen

Helping the Hospitals

0$dal Information re W omen’s Oversea Hospitals

HEN‘ the call came to the suffragists all
over the country from the National
American Woman Suffrage Association to sup-
port its “war baby,” the Women’s Oversea
Hospitals, U. S. A., Brooklyn suffragists al—
most immediately opened up a workshop of
their own to supply needed articles for the first
unit sent to France. The workshop is a part
of the war work of the Brooklyn Borough
Woman Suffrage Party whose chairman is Mrs.
E. Edward Dreier. It was wonderfully
equipped with machines and raw materials by
Mrs. George Notman, and the workers have
already supplied gauze compresses, strips, as-
sorted dressings, triangular bandages, amount-
ing to thousands of pieces—besides babies'
clothes and hip length bed packets. After the
unit reached France, and Brooklyn women
heard that bedding was needed, they packed and
sent a linen chest with sheets and pillow cases.
Out of a big check collected by Miss Gar-
rison the Brooklyn suffragists have also pur—
chased a gross of adhesive plaster, a supply of
surgical needles and surgical shears; 24 pack-
ages of sterile catgut; hypodermic outfits; con-
centrated foods, and $46 of rubber sheeting.

HE Equinox Branch of the Surgical Dress-

ing Association, also in Brooklyn, headed by
Mrs. George Orris, a friend of Mrs. Arm-
strong, one of the nurses’ aids who went out
in the first unit, has made a splendid donation
of comfort pads, compresses, and soldiers’ knit-
ted goods which have been shipped from time
to time whenever there was a bit of spare space
in the boxes sent to the front.

In every case of goods sent across care has and Feeding of Children” was in demand Dr.

been taken to select the purchase according to
the most acute needs specified in messages from
the other side. The latest cabled request was
for two bolts of mosquito netting, which.
through the courtesy of a member of the
Women’s Apparel Unit Committee——the latest
unit of the Women's Oversea Hospitals—it was

possible to procure quickly and at the best pos-
sible price.

URIOUS and many are the needs in France.

Concentrated foods are in great demand and

a late request is for paper napkins. Mrs. George

W. Bacon of the supply committee says that

she has been able to cover almost every special

need by means of some designated check. so
as not to draw upon the general funds.

She is only waiting for further instructions
from the other side before laying out a sys-
tematic schedule of supplies for the guidance
of the friends of the hospitals over here. But
of the innumerable private gifts already sent al-
most everything has been of admirable useful-
ness, and has been sent on its way as soon as
possible.

Brooklyn suffragists under Mrs. Notman have
recently found that the nurses and aids are in
need of aprons, and they are now making nurs-
ing aprons. These were furnished originally
by the nurses and aids themselves; but they
have neither time nor opportunity in the rush
of work at the front to replace those which
are used up.

_On hearing that Dr. Emmet Holt’s “Care

. the unit being met.

Holt himself sent six copies to the unit with
his compliments.

A N OTHER friend of the hospitals was found
in Mrs. Edward C. Moen, of New York
City, who has presented the refugee unit with an
assortment of French layeltes copied after the
genuine French peasant’s ideas. All the pieces are
made by hand and the outfit contains odd little
peasant types of baby garments known only to
those who, like Mrs. Moen, have lived a long
time in France. A small piece of French money
is tucked away in each layette. Formerly
Mrs. Moen sent these layettes through Madame
Poincare, a personal friend of her own. \Vith
such cordial, unexpected gifts are the needs of
Mrs. Bacon says that if
personal gifts of this sort are sent to her care
of the Woman’s Infirmary, Fifteenth street and
Livingston place, she will get them on to France
as space in the ships makes it possible to for-
ward them.

But without doubt the greatest of all calls
is that for women doctors.

Women doctors for active service in the Na-
tional American Woman Suffrage Association’s
hospital units in France are in demand. Two
units are now in effective operation, and a nose
and throat surgeon for Labouheyre has been
cabled for. Other women doctors are wanted
to complete the personnel of both units. Appli-
cations sent to the National American Woman
Suffrage Association headquarters for the hos-
pitals, 171 Madison avenue, New" York City,
will receive immediate attention.

The Temperance Orator’s Blunder

SAT the other day in a Church Auditorium,

in a town in which women have no vote,
even in the municipal elections. I was one of
one hundred women plus. There were seven-
teen men present by actual count. The occasion
was a temperance meeting in the “Dry Cam-
paign ” and the special topic, subject, and motto
was: DON’T WASTE YOUR VOTE. A’
very timely warning to the privileged voter.

Every woman present, I believe, felt keenly
the tremendous importance of that distinct note
of warning, but I am certain that she also felt
the ridiculousness of the situation; for the
voters whom the speaker addressed were not
present. It was almost a gruesome fact, hardly
believable, that a man would allow himself to
imagine that unenfranchised women are voters.
He knows better, but he does not know that he
knows better, and therefore his knowledge fails
to advance either temperance or suffrage!

I believe that this is the average attitude of
mind of the usual public speaker on modern
problems in this and other states-where women
are denied the ballot. On the other hand, let
us not forget, and we do not, the great and
good men to whom the cause of suffrage is as
their right arm. This modern reformer does
not ignore us as women, for we are usually his
inspiration and often the bulk of his audience.

By Harriet Lamb Hyde

To be sure there are large mass meetings of
men these days of white heat interest in temo.
perance; but there are other gatherings also,
open to both men and women, and here the
latter appear in no sniall numbers. I think
they come for the reason that they cannot stay
away. Their very life and happiness are in the
balance at this time of decision for or against
the saloon. It is the crisis in the history of

thousands of homes. -

OW the style of exhortation on the part

of this temperance friend on this occasion
was something like this: “Don’t forget to reg-
ister. Let nothing keep you from the polls.
Your opinion won’t sway things unless you
express it by a clean-cut vote.” It was splendid
counsel, which if unheeded could proveitself a
powerful enemy in our loved temperance cause.
It could defeat any Goliath; but it was wasted,
for the present at least, when flung to the vote-
less women of the town of B—.

What can be said of this “ make-believe”
attitude of mind of the usual speakers toward
unenfranchised women? Surely it is an inter-
esting study in psychology. Custom and tradi-
tion have ranked women as non-voters, while
fetters of indifference have held men’s minds in
their mighty grip, until they are unable to think

straight or bravely face the facts. Rather they
just " make-believe” that women have the bal-
lot. It is queer, is it not? and the queerest
part of it is this: that any man as well as any
woman can submit to a condition so ludicrous
and contradictory.
' N this wonderful day, when the subject of
suffrage is not dangerously unpopular in any
state or section of the national life, a larger
frankness and deeper sincerity must come in
public speech concerning it. That note of free-
dom is sometimes heard; and yet the average
platform speaker is lame and halt and blind
and obtuse; for even incidentally, if be but
guessed it, he could edify and delight his hea‘r-
ers by his attitude toward woman’s greater
liberty in the affairs of state. Instead of
“make-believe,” he might well look us friendly
women in the face and say these kindly honest
things, and true things, of those better days so
sure to come, and so soon to come, when the
cause of suffrage as well as of temperance will
be a glorious triumph. Such words would
brighten his speech and they would brighten
also the spirit of thousands of women listening
and waiting and working these long. long years
until their hour should strike the number
twelve.

Digitized by 600816

June 8, 1918

35

Your Vote for Democracy and Efficiency

N preceding articles on state and local gov-

ernments the attempt has been made, not
to advocate reforms, but simply to state facts.
Nevertheless, the description of the Twentieth
Century City must have made it clear that very
practical criticism of governmental forms ex-
ists; that this criticism has had practical re-
sults in some cities, and the new forms of city
government which have resulted have on the
whole worked better than the old. The im—
provement has been, on the one hand; in the
etiiciency of government; on the other, in the
greater dependence of government officials on
,the electorate.

In the beginning of this century there had
been no practical experiments in new ,govern-
mental forms. Some twenty years later be-
tween three and four: hundred cities had made
successful experimentwnd thereby increased
their ediciency and democracy. What was true
of the cities in 1900 is true of the other local
governments, county and state, in 1918; change
and improvement lies in the future.

The county has been called the “dark con-
tinent ”"‘ of American government. Los Angeles
County, California, alone has replaced the old
government of three parts by the commission.
The traditional form of county government has
hardly been touched regardless of what new
local units grew up and encroached on the
county’s functions. In New England its otii-
cials have continued though township develop-
ment has made them of little importance.

OWHERE is the overlapping of oliicials

more noticeable, confusing and wasteful
than in the great city—counties, where the voter
has had to elect and pay for a full set of
county officials whom the city has made either
entirely unnecessary, or to whom it has left so
few functions that their number could have been
cut down, or their work taken over by city
functionaries. New York City completely
covers five counties. New York voters elect,
besides 93 city officials,
county officials. The case of Chicago has al-
ready been referred to. Chicago voters elect
all told no less than 383 national, state, county
and city officers, of whom 251 belong to the
overlapping city and county governments.

There are two serious criticisms of a system
like this. One is its enormous and useless ex-
pense. A well worked out plan which has been
under consideration for consolidating the gov—
ernments of Cook County and Chicago will
save that City, if it is put into effect, about three
and one quarter million dollars a year. The
other criticism is that democracy is only a
theory when the voter is called upon to accom-
plish the impossible task of deciding on the
fitness of so many oliicials. “ The long bal-
lot,” says one authority, “ delivers the voter into
the hands .of the politicians, who patch up a
slate for him.”

Only a handful of cities have abolished county
government. San Francisco has taken steps
toward shortening the county-city ballot by
making its board of county supervisors and its
city government one.

Alameda County (California) has proposed ax

plan which by giving health, police and the like

 

‘ H. S. Gilbertson.

95 supernumerary

By Mary Sumnerf Boyd

 

For the live material in this and the three
preceding articles in this series credit is due
to Equity Magazine, I520 C hestnilt street, Phila-
delphia, “a quarterly review devoted to im-
proved processes of self-government,” which
ought to be in the hands of every conscientious
and intelligent woman voter.)

 

 

functions exclusively to the county, and streets,
public works and the like to the 11 municipali-
ties within its boundaries would cut the com-
bined ballot from 24 to 8 ofiicials.

The cutting out of superfluous county officials
and county functions would be ,one step toward
improved county government. Another would
be giving the county a certain degree of Home
Rule in the carrying on of its necessary func-
tions. Only in Michigan and in a few California
counties is the county allowed any scope in
making its own ordinances or in framing its
own charter without running to a legislature
remote from its particular problems in order
to carry through the smallest detail of legisla-
tion. We have already noted a like handicap
in many cities. .

OR the improvement of state government

the short ballot with its attendant increased
power of appointment by the governor, and his
direct responsibility to the people, is one main
need. The governor was originally appointed by
the legislature but the movement toward democ:
racy of a later generation changed the method
of appointment to election by the people, and
the last fifty years or so have been charac-
terized by a great increase in the” governor's
power.

Nevertheless, as we saw in the chapter on
the state, though chief executive, he is not the
sole responsible executive in the state. Every
state has a list of six or a dozen other execu-
tives—secretary of state, treasurer, etc., who
are responsible only to the electors, and these
electors are burdened with too many elections
to choose wisely.

“What is needed in government,” says one
authority, “is the definite assumption of re-
sponsibility by some one who is visible to the
eye and can be got at.” This is as good a
definition as any of the short ballot—“ some
one otiicial visible to the eye ” instead of a
crowd, any member of which from their very
multitude can escape detection by the voters.

In the governors’ messages to the 1917 legis-
latures the need for greater power and greater
responsibility by the chief executive was ex-
pressed more than once. Said the Governor of
West Virginia, for example, “We never shall
have eliicient government so long as seven in-
dependent otiicials carry on the West Virginia
government with no central control or respon-
sibility.”

So many other suggestions for improving
state government were made in these messages
that the New Republic expressed itself as con-
fident that “we are about to enter an area of
reconstruction and reform comparable to that

through which the municipalities have passed
since 1900." Certain it is that the governor’s
messages were expressive of a general ‘move7
ment that has actually begun, for in 1917,
Illinois passed a Civil Administration Code
which, while leaving the state elective officers—
nothing but constitutional amendment can re-
move them and the present Illinois constitution
is practically unamendable—provided a cabinet
system of government with the governor di-
rectly responsible for the appointment of ten
department ofiicials and their subordinates. This
is a step toward centralizing power and respon—
sibility. Other changes which should give us
governors better fitted to exercise wide respon-
sibility are a longer term and a higher average
of salary.

HE governors’ messages of 1917 made
other suggestions than those touching the
governors’ power. The governor of New
Jersey wanted a state manager, and others

wanted changes in the legislature. The
business manager and commission have
worked well in the cities, but the city's
main function is business; the state’s, as

we have seen, is legislation, and authori-
ties doubt whether the same system would work
as well. At any rate we have no experience to
speak from. Kansas has a business manager
for all its,state institutions, but this is after all
only a small part of the government, so her
experience does not teach us much.

As to changes needed in state legislatures,
it is strongly felt that the two chamber (bica-
meral) legislature, and the three part govern-
ment, is often an obstruction but not a safe-
guard; that the “checks and balances ” pro—
vided by this form of government have been
so used that, as one writer expresses it, “the
grafters get the checks and the public pays the
balances.” The two chambers serve as a means
by which politicians can kill good bills in one
house if not in the other, and the three part
government as a means of shifting respon-
sibility.

HATEVER the final form state legisla-
tures take, what is wanted to start with
in our legislatures is less legislators; long

terms and good pay to raise their stand-
ard

and get more experienced service
from them ; long sessions so that legis-
lators shall give their full time to the

service of the state; less laws and better con-
sidered. \Vhatever executive officers may be
left off the ballot, all legislators should be on
the ballot, because legislation is the foundation
of government and legislators, should be demo-
cratically chosen and subject to the recall. Be-
sides this, the people should have legislative
power through the initiative and referendum.
Already a beginning has been made in this form
of direct government by the people; twenty-two
states had in May, 1918, added some form of
statewide initiative referendum and recall
amendment to their constitutions, and twenty-
two had such laws applying to city ordinances:
Delaware, Indiana, Rhode Island and Vermont
were the only states which had taken no steps
toward direct democracy.

Digitized by 600816

36

. /A-.-!

‘ l _.
m
‘ arr-'1‘.”
I

, The Woman’s Department at
our Fifth Avenue omen
is in charge of
Miss V. D. H. Furman
and is
especially equipped to handle
the accounts of women and
women’s organizations

COLUMBIA
TRUST
COMPANY

358 FIFTH AVENUE
We are sen-em called the OMI Sudrsge Bani

METROPOLITAN
DYE WORKS

CLEANERS
and DYERS

First Class Work. Reasonable Prices.
Prompt Delivery.

For stores throughout New Yolk City. m ieltpl’tnc directory.

SUF F RAGE RESTAURANT

3 EAST 38th STREET
NEW YORK

Democratic Ideals

A SKETCH OF CLARA BEWICK COLBY

By Olympia Brown

Woman’s Suffrage ls now so nearly an accom-
plished fact that people are realizing the value of
the work that has been done In Its behalf and are
reading the llves of those who have worked for
woman's emanlcpatlon with renewed interest. Mrs.
Colby was one or the most loyal and faithful of the
early workers. The story of her life Is mot In-
terestlng.

 

 

FIFI'Y CENTS PER COPY
SEND ORDERS T0

Miss Carrie Stebbins, 941 Lake Avenue, Racine,
Wisconsin

 

The Woman Citizen

Correspondence

The Zone Law

TO THE EDITOR or THE WOMAN CITIZEN:

Would the Woman Citizen kindly advise Mr.
L. D. Beckwith of Atascadero (somewhere in)
California, that no sectionalism is involved in
the fact that citizens of all other states pay a
higher price for the delicious oranges, cherries,
peaches and other incomparable fruits of Cali—
fornia, in proportion to the distance they live
from the orchards. This is likewise true with
respect to coal in the mines, lumber at the native
mills, cattle and sheep on the ranches, auto-
mobiles at the factories, fish and oysters in the
streams, the early vegetables, strawberries and
grape fruit of Florida, the market prices of
commercial centers, and in fact everything that
we daily use and enjoy. It costs the people of
Texas, California and Montana more than it
does the people Of Virginia and Maryland to
see and revel in the resources Of our Congres-
sional Library, our Smithsonian Institute, our
Corcoran Art Gallery, our National Museum,
our National Zoological Park, our Pan-
American Building, our Botanic Gardens and
the numerous other educational opportunities in
\Vashington. But the people of Florida, Texas,
California, Oregon and Maine all enjoy certain
benefits peculiar only to their own localities,
naturally existing because Of the necessary cost
of transportation.

Every protest against the postal zone system
is an argument in favor Of advertising matter
displacing reading matter in all periodicals, and
at the same time making the people of the
United States pay the expense of carrying and
distributing advertising matter. As said be-

_fore the zone law increases only nominally the

postage on reading matter. For instance, from
New York to El Paso, about 2,500 miles, it
merely increases the postage on reading mat-
ter from 1 cent to 1% cents per pound. The
increase is on advertising, viz.: from 1 cent to
3% cents per pound, from New York to El
Paso. To illustrate: The Woman Citizen under
the old law can send 5 copies from New York
to El Paso for 1 cent. Now under the zone
law, if it contained all reading matter, it could
send 5 copies from New York to El Paso for
1% cents or only an increase of postage of
1/20 of a cent per copy, and it can have half
of its issue advertising matter, and still send

3 copies to El Paso for only 2% cents, or less
than % cent per copy. It is the publishers who

.make the profits on advertising. Should they

or the people pay the postage for transporting
this advertising?

Even under the present zone law, our Gov-
ernment will still lose over $50,000,000 every
year in transporting this second-class mail
matter. THOMAS L. BLANTON.

House of Representatives, Washington, D. C.

Equal. Justice After the War

HE following is from the letter of a Lon-

don woman teacher. written February 19.

The consolation is that since the plan was laid

out women have received an effective weapon
with which to fight its injustices—ED.

“I know you will be deeply interested in a

big fight we are having to put up at present

in the Teaching Service in London. I suppose

you have read about the big grant which the
new president of the Board Of Education has
made to local authorities. Its purpose is to
help to build up education after the war, and
one Of his main requests was that a substantial
part of this money should go to the betterment
of teachers’ salaries.

“The London County Council have put be-
fore us for acceptance a scheme of salaries,
and some of its iniquities are as follows: From
a difference of only £1 between increments
for men and women, and £50 in maxima. we
have now £3 difference in increment, and £90
difference in maximum. As you know, 1 ad--
vocate equal pay, but I did not reckon on the
differentiation being actually greater under the
new scheme than under the old. Then a cer-
tain class of headmistresses, called Grade II,
have a maximum below that of an assistant
master. So that a headmistress may be getting
less than an assistant master in her own school.
The men are going to accept the scheme at con-
ference tomorrow. I am one Of the members
of the conference, and you can bet I feel pretty
sick at having to accept this scheme, for we
are outnumbered by the men. Here's a good
joke. however. The National Federation of
Women Teachers has managed to secure the
large hall at the Memorial Hall, Farringdon
street, for a protest meeting at 10 o’clock, Sat-
urday. Conference meets at 10 O'clock, Satur-
day, in the Library of the Memorial Hall. So.
I doubt if the conference members will be able,
to hear themselves speak as the Large Hall is
above the Library. The situation is fine. I am
not going to the conference. I am going to
the protest meeting. I wonder what will come
of the whole business? Of course the London
County Council are exploiting the women be-
cause they think they can get cheap women
labor—More anon ! "

The Spirit of ’76

TO THE EDITOR or rm: WOMAN CITIZEN:

In “\‘Vomen in the Making of America," by
H. Addington Bruce, I find this quotation from
a Philadelphia woman to a British Ofiicer with
whom she was well acquainted: “ I will tell you
what I have done. My only brother I have sent
to the camp with my prayers and blessings. I
am confident he will behave with honor, and
had I twenty sons and brothers they should go.
I have retrenched every superfluous expense in
my table and my family. Tea have I not drank
since the battle of Lexington. And, what I
never did before, I have learned to knit and am
now making stockings of American wool. And
this way do I throw in my mite to the public
good. I know this, that as free I can die but
once and as a slave I shall not be worthy of
life. I have the pleasure to assure you that
these are the sentiments of all my sister Ameri-
cans. They have sacrificed assemblies, parties
of pleasure, tea drinking and finery to that
great spirit of sacrifice that actuates all degrees
of peOple throughout this extensive continent."

ELIZABETH UPHAM YATES.
Hon. President, Rhode Island Equal Suffrage
Association.

The Woman Citizen is for sale on news-
stands.

When writing to advertisers please mention the WOIAN CITIZEN.

June 8, 1918

James Mccreery & 00.

5th Avenue

June Sale

34th Street

“McCREERY QUALITY HOSIERY” ’

 

Several purchases made months ago enable us— to offer these extraordinary economies.

Women’s Silk Hosiery with
lisle tops and soles; full fash-
ioned; Black or White.

Pair 
Women’s Silk Hosiery — all

silk; plain Black also embroid:

. ered novelty clox or instepc in

Black or White.
Pair , 1.95

Women’s Silk Hosiery—
superior quality; fine gauge;

White or Black.
Pair 1.35

Women’s Cotton Hosiery ——
full fashioned; Black or White.

Women’s Silk Hosiery — ex-
cellent values; Black, White or

COlOl‘S  l 36 5

Women ’s Mercerized L i s l e
Hosiery -— full fashioned; fine

gauge; excellent value; Black
or White.

Pair 50c, 6 pairs 2.75

Pair 75c, 6 pairs 4.00

Children’s Full Fashioned White Mercerized Cotton 50:, pair 40c, 6 pairs 1.95

Correspondence

A Challenge

To rm: EDITOR or rm: WOMAN CITIZEN:

In your recent issue of May 11, 1918, there
is an article occurring boldly under the title
of “ Seeds of Dynamite," signed by “ A. S. B.”
It begins with the highly erroneous statement
that :—“ Republics are less inclined than mon-
archies to make wars of aggression.” Evident-
ly the writer, A. S. B., has never studied his—
tory, especially Roman and French history, be-
cause the above statement is positively false and
should be corrected in your next issue.

Kansas City, Mo. JANE BARTON.

Advises Us to Discontinue

To me Eon-on or me WOMAN CITIZEN:

For a long time, now, I have been greatly
exercised over the growth of the woman suf—
frage movement. At first it was small, hardly
bigger than a mouse; but like a mouse it was
alarming, for it gave promise of quite unex-
pected possibilities. Of late it has suddenly
become as big as a mountain, and much as I
shrink from publicity, I feel it my duty to write
you, using all my eloquence in urging you to
discontinue editing and printing your paper the
Woman Citizen. Its effect on public opinion
has been great, and is clearly growing. Already

New York state has gone over, causing chagrin ,

to the best people everywhere, and I hold that
you are largely responsible.

When writing to advertisers please mention the WOHAN CITIZEN.

Digitized by 600816

Of course I can understand how delightfully
pleasant it must be to have the free use of the
editorial “we”; to evolve and marshal from
the inner depths of your sanctum sanctorum
ideas for other women (men don’t read your
paper) to read and talk about. Do you realize
how far-reaching woman’s influence is? Are
you aware how determined some of us are
that politics shall never enter the home?

Have you not yet learned that political ques-
tions are never settled, never meant to be set-
tled but were organized to keep two opposing
parties in Office at the same time? Then, there
are other cogent reasons why you should dis-
continue your paper.

If you are unreasonably unwilling to stop
your paper altogether, I would suggest that
you turn it into an organ for something worth
while, something that will not create dissen-
sions, such as an organ for the promotion of
extracting sunshine out Of cucumbers. Sun-
shine comes within the sphere Of women, and
you might keep a standing column under the
headline “ Cucumbers ” giving in it a series of
lectures on domestic economy.

Surely this is no time for women to be
clamoring for the vote. Look at Russia.

There is a great public meeting Of suf-
fragists now being held in Boston, and I notice
the Press is reporting their speeches respectful-
ly, without the least attempt to ridicule or to be
funny and smart, as was the earlier custom.

 

3‘“ 11191111!" A Boarding and

"i‘éli‘hizm.’is.‘§r Day deouor Girls

High School and College Preparatory Courses. Two
Years of College Work. Special Courses: The Arts.

Journalism. Short Story Writing. Business and Score-
tarial Training. Kindergarten. Normal Training. Domes-
tic Science. Parliamentary Law.

Mrs. Nanette B. Paul. LL. 8.. President.
Author of “Paul's Parliamentary Law"
and “The Heart of Blackstone"

It is this change that causes one so much alarm.
Moreover, state after state in the west, anxious
for sensation, and to show superiority to the
East has allowed women the vote. This, too,
must be stopped, for there are women who do
not want to vote; women who do not know
how to vote; and women. whose votes would
turn some politicians out of oi’rice.

You might as ruthlessly take away a man’s
pipe, or his cups as to take away his Office, espe-
cially if he be a Senator, who has held it a.
long time. .

What do women know about the Interests?
It takes politicians of long experience to under-
stand all the ramifications Of politics. They
would have us remain too sweet and pure to.
attend caucuses and conventions, where the best
interests of the Interests are looked after.

I do hope you’ll be kind enough to print this.
so I can show it to my neighbors.

Boston, Mass. URSULA CLARK.

The Woman Citizen is for sale on news»
stands.

38

OFFICIAL BOARD OF THE

Na tional American Woman Suffrage
Association

BRANCH OF THE INTERNATIONAL
WOMAN SUFFRAGE' ALLIANCE AND OF THE NATIONAL
COUNCIL OF WOMEN

Telephone: 4818 Murray nm
171 Madison Avenue, New York

‘1 

HONORARY PRESIDENT
DR. ANNA HOWARD SHAW

PRESIDENT
MRS. CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT

lST VICE-PRESIDENT

MRS. STANLEY MCCORMICK
MASSACHUSETTS

2ND VICE-PRESIDENT

MISS MARY GARRETT HAY
NEW YORK

3RD VICE-PRESIDENT

MRS. GUILFORD DUDLEY
TENNESSEE

4TH VICE-PRESIDENT

MRS. RAYMOND BROWN
NEW YORK

5TH VICE-PRESIDENT

MRS. HELEN GARDENER
WASHINGTON, D. C.

TREASURER

MRS. HENRY WADE ROGERS
CONNECTICUT

CORRESPONDING SECRETARY

MRS. FRANK J. SHULER
NEW YORK

RECORDING SECRETARY
MRS. HALSEY W. WILSON
NEW YORK

DIRECTORS
MRS. CHARLES H. BROOKS
KANSAS

MRS. T. T. COTN AM
ARKANSAS -

MRS. JAMES LEES LAIDLAW
NEW YORK

MRS. ARTHUR L. LIVERMORE
NEW YORK

MRS. NONIE B. MAHONEY
TEXAS

MISS ESTHER G. OGDEN
NEW YORK

DR. MARY SAFFORD
FLORIDA

MRS. HORACE C. STILWELL
INDIANA

PRESS DEPARTMENT
MISS ROSE YOUNG, Chairman
National Headquarters
CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE

MRS. MAUD WOOD PARK, Chairman

\Vashington Headquarters
1626 Rhode Island Avenue

NATIONAL WOMAN SUFFRAGE
PUBLISHING COMPANY, INC.

MISS ESTHER G. OGDEN, President
/171 Madison Avenue, New York

The Woman Citizen

Openings for Women

ATO SELLS, Commissioner of Indian

Affairs, has appointed Miss Florence
Etheridge, of Miami, Oklahoma, Probate
Attorney, with headquarters at Vinita. Her
appointment is in line with Commissioner Sells’
policy of appointing women to responsible
positions in the Indian Service.

Duties of probate attorneys involve the pro-
tection of the property of minors and incom-
petent Indians and the prosecution of wrong-
doers in the same connection.

Miss Etheridge was for several years em-
ployed in the Probate Division of the Indian
Office at \Vashington, where she demonstrated
unusual ability as a lawyer. She is Vice-

, President of the National Federation of Fed-

eral Employees, and made a vigorous fight
before Congress to prevent the passage of the
Borland Amendment.

Miss Etheridge is a member of the law firm
of Swanson and Etheridge, of Miami.

OMEN voters may have something to

say this year about such family incomes
as these, deemed adequate in 1917 by the Board
of Child \Nelfare of the City of New York
which administers the City \Vidows’ Pension
Fund.

“A study of fifty Widows receiving the al-
lowance, says the annual report of the Board."
the cases being taken at random, show a total
income of $2,704.06 a month for fifty families.
Of this $1,448.48 is contributed by the Board
of Child Welfare in the form of allowances, or
54 per cent.

“ Seven hundred and ninety-nine dollars and
forty-hve cents a month was secured through
other sources, principally the earnings of older
children. This amounted to 30 per cent.

“ Four hundred and fifty-six dollars and
thirteen cents was earned by the mothers,
which is 16 per cent.

“The average income per month of the fifty
families is $54.08 (size of families three to
nine)."

MOVEMENT to fix the minimum wage
for women and minors at $13.30 a week
has been launched in Milwaukee and Madison
according to reports. The plan is said to have

the backing of the Consumers’ League of Wis-

consin, the Central Council of Social Agencies
in Milwaukee and the Wisconsin Federation of
Labor. A hearing before the state industrial
commission will be held at Milwaukee at an
early date. In 1914 it was established by in-

vestigators that $9.50 was a living wage, and
using this as a basis a second investigation was

' made in Milwaukee, the investigators reporting

a 40 per cent inerease in costs since 1914. It
was further reported that 92 per cent of the
women working in Milwaukee are getting under

$13.

HEN the Provost Marshal and his staff

of oHicers are too busy to remember all

of the thousands of rules that govern the draft
regulations they turn to a woman, “ Major
Billy ” W elborn, and the correct information is
forthcoming. “ Major Billy” is not a real-for-
sure major, but a clever young woman from the
South who was christened Wilhelmina, her title
being conferred as a recognition of her ability.

This “ Major” with the fluffy hair andgtgighéd byi ' - ® 

THE WILLIAMS PRINTING COMPAng NEW ronKQSOH _71

 

.eyes is said to be the best authority on the
draft laws in Washington.

N spite of apartment hotels, in spite of me—
chanical improvements that make house-
keeping easy, the Journal of the Association of
Collegiate Alumnae does not believe that the
profession of the housewife is a thing of the
past. ,In a recent issue, Jessie Stevens Hickok
analyzes the economic value of the woman
partner’s work. She believes that her work
must have seven main essentials:

1. She must be a good purchasing agent.

2. She must be a producer of finished prod-
ucts from raw material in food, clothing and
cleanliness.

3. She must know how to conserve family
health.

4. She must keep systematic accounts.

5. She must regulate amusement opportuni-
ties—neither too much nor too little.

6. She must educate in study and play.

7. She must create a home atmosphere.

13,000 Schoolrooms

ANSAS has 105 counties. In .59 of them
women fill the position of county super-
intendents of schools.

The State Board of Education is com-
posed of the state superintendent, the Chancel-
lor of the university, the president of the State
Agricultural College, the president of the State
Normal School and three others appointed by
the Governor. Governor Capper appointed Mjss
Lillian Scott, of Baldwin, as one of these. He
also reappointed Mrs. Cora Wellhouse Bullard
as a member of the state school text book com-
mission.

Women have a prominent part also in the
State Teachers’ Association.

There are 641 cities in Kansas. Of these
10 are of the first class, 77 of the second Class,
and 554 of the third class. No woman is
employed either as superintendent or principal
of the high school in any of the ten Cities of
the first class, but the advance of women to the
higher positions in school management and di-
rection in Kansas is shown in the 554 cities of
the third Class. Seventy-four of these have
chosen women as superintendents, and in 179
women are principals of high schools. There
are 28 county high schools in Kansas. Women
have been Chosen principals of three of these.

There are 15,000 schoolrooms in Kansas;
13,000 of them are presided over by women.

A Southern Victory
HE North Carolina Federation of Women’s
Clubs endorsed equal suffrage at its an-
nual convention at Raleigh on May 30. The
Federation includes a membership of about
5,000 women.

This action by the federated clubs is another
link in the long chain of evidence which testi-
fies to the desire for the franchise on the part
of the women of North Carolina. During the
past few months petitions and resolutions have
poured in upon Congress from North Carolina,
urging the passage of the Federal Amendment.
The Republican Party of North Carolina, at
its state meeting, went on record as favoring
the nting of th franchise to women by the

. @-

 

June 8, 1918

w mmummmmmmnmammalmuiimmnumiuuummmimiummiunmmmmwmumm'. .‘   i  i»    

 

“Just As Good”

may be true of some things
but it is not true of

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

This national political weekly

for women is in a class by
itself and a dollar spent for
a year’s subscription to it is
an investment

“ Try to feel that‘all who work for i

‘ humanity must do it for humanity’s

sake, and they and we and all the
friends must be content if the world
never praises nor thanks therefor.”

SUSAN B. ANTHONY

Digitized by 600816

 

Books at Less Than

 

Published

-\

Prices

{Lyme -

i

F.- have arranged to supply the books listed below at the special prices
named when sold in combination with new subscriptions to the Woman
Citizen. They will be mailed post-paid to any address in the United States.
This is an opportunity to save from twenty to thirty-five per cent on the

published prices.

If you are already a subscriber to the Woman Citizen

and wish to own certain of the books, invite your friendsto become subscribers to the
magazine at one dollar a year, and have the books of your choice sent to your address.
They will cost you the difference between the full price quoted for each combination
and one dollar. Or subscribe to the magazine as a gift for a friend and have the book

sent to your address.

Published (‘nmbinntion :

On the War “"353.
THE PAN-GERMAN PLOT UNMASKED: André Chéradame . . . . . . .. .$1.25

“OVER THERE”: Captain R. Hugh Knyvett . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50

FIGHTING FOR PEACE: Henry van Dyke . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25

WHY WE ARE AT WAR: Woodrow Wilson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .50

IN OUR FIRST YEAR OF WAR: Woodrow Wilson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00

FIGHTING FRANCE: Edith Wharton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00

THE UNITED STATES AND PAN-GERMANIA: André Chéradame.. 1.00
GENERAL J OFFRE AND HIS BATTLES: Raymond Recouly (Captain X) 1 .25
ON THE RIGHT OF THE BRITISH LINE: Captain Gilbert Nobbs... 1.25
WHITE NIGHTS AND OTHER RUSSIAN IMPRESSIONS: Arthur Ruhl 2. 00

A WAR NURSE’S DIARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25
MY WAR DIARY: Madame Waddington . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50
WITH THE ALLIES: Richard Harding Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25

THE DESERTER: Richard Harding Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .50
PRINCIPLES OF AMERICAN DIPLOMACY: John Bassett Moore... . 2.00

N o v e l 5
THE EARTHQUAKE: Arthur Train . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . 1 .50
CHRISTINE: Alice Cholmondeley. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.25
HIS FAMILY: Ernest Poole . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50
THE TREE OF HEAVEN: May Sinclair . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.60
Miscellaneous

YOUR VOTE AND HOW TO USE IT: Mrs. Raymond Brown . . . . . . .. .75
THE WOMAN VOTER’S MANUAL: S. E. Forman and Marjorie Shuler. . 1.00

MARK TWAIN’S LETTERS, 2 Volumes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4.00
OBSERVATION : EVERY MAN HIS OWN UNIVERSITY: R. H. Conwell 1.00
'THE MODERN CITY AND ITS PROBLEMS: Frederic C. Howe... 1.50
THE HIGH COST OF LIVING: Frederic C. Howe....... . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50
THE FOOD PROBLEM: Kellogg and Taylor . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .. 1.25
WAR FRENCH: Colonel C. D. Willcox... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .75

Amount

Subscription Saved on
and Book Combination

$1.85
2.00
1.85
1.35
1.65
1.65

00' oomoo' c:
mmmgmmmgm

Enos

88%8

nerve???
8&888388

$.40
.50
.40
.15
.35
.35
.35
.40
.40
.65
.40
.50
.40
.15
.65

.50
.40
.50
.60

.25
35
1.25
.35
.50
.50
.40
.25

This offer is for a limited period. Send your orders promptly to

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

171 Madison Avenue

 

anm
i 4 ' ' ' ' ' ‘ V ‘v .7. " " if‘"" i '
-W&wwm.m "a: -«J .. ..-. *

 

New York City

_.-__.___

‘EI

