It

'FQS$T*§§¢}§3=3‘-‘1‘ -
gxsgsng A

‘ "‘ t’i 4 {Jim-alrewasrmw

o'J-N

i” “
six-113.9%?“



1:: ig

}

$5

-<  
3%“,
«if...»

_ i
.33"

-. 1.!

W
. 1L5
‘9}

k}

m

Milffililqyl-n

NOTICE: When Ynu finish reading this
magazine plat-e a one-cent stamp on this
mum. mail the magazine, and It will be
{Hand in the hands of our soldiers or

sailors (futian to proceed overseas. No
War. no manna. A S Burlason.

- yaw-2 21.13.95; ligamgkma: a

at! WEI-2“

v __

mwc' " 4W§$WJGE§33

M3511
' |

10

W»!

m. m: “MWAWN 

:cmwm«t::
I5 - .‘ - . uh " '«3. {‘5‘- '
' ' - ' '- . ‘



. ‘- 

'mmwa‘immnm‘emmmmmummfrmum imitbf-iT-LFEWE

:91 m3. r.  r. an 5-; are: :1 :nw_w:'z.m'mwatpmmv wnwakmmva-ixa' rsm'zm m :3me

 $123555 V.‘

.-

1 31753553.
m «may: $322.31 ,

'.u .I.

 

.2 The Woman Citizen

jfrankltn Eimon a Go.

A Store of Individual Shops
Fifth Avenue, 37th and 38th Sts., New York

 

Exclusive Summer M odels

4  I Misses‘ Organdie Dresses
I _ Q  Sizes 14 to 20 Years

At' Special Prices

\

No. l7—Misses’ Organdie Dress, in
white, rose, copen or orchid, trimmed
with hemstitched self ruffles on bands
of white net; net collar, ribbon sash. 

No. l9—Misses’ Organdie Dress, in

white, pink or copen, wide surplice collar

and tum-back cuffs hemstitched and

edged with fold of contrasting color
organdie; shirred top skirt with folds l 4 
piped in color, crushed girdle, large bow. e

HATS and SHOES illustrated, from our shops

Prices upon application

PmmptDelim Tree—Anywhere in the United States
’PHONE 6900 GREELEY

 

 

Buy a Thrift Stamp To-day! War Messages

 & £0. . The Amerilocan People

Fifth Avenue at 35th Street 
Established 1879 '

By
. CARRIE CHAPMAN CATI'
Unseen szferences m

A H TA B Silk Hosiery l; _ ' V will be published serially in
i
5

Bad dyes may look deceivingly well—in new THE WOMAN'CITIZEN

hose. Shoddy weave that breaks into “ lad-
ders ” may look deceivingly well—in new hose.
Reinforcements at the heel may be very poor, yet
look deceivingly well—in new hose. , ‘ l‘

l
J No. l—War Aims
in this issue, will be followed june 29. 5y
l
l

No. Z—The Home Defense

It requires practiced skill to find many such . l
unseen difcrences. Expert eyes can find no
weaknesses in AH TAB silk stockings, because
Experts order their making, and they are per-
fectly done.

 

Reprints in leaflet form now ready
at 5 cents each; 50 cents a dozen,

311 dHTAB silk stockings in three grades: 0" at Cheaper rates for large Orders-
l 1.35 1.05 2.00

NATIONAL WOMAN SUFF RAGE
PUBLISHING COMPANY, Inc.

171 NIADISUN AVENUE, NEW YORK CITY

Fast colors in all three.

Sold exclusively by Best 8: Co.

L 7'7 ' #~A#*

 

“hi
:5
x:
02
<3
"D
u?
9:
R
9..
m
2°.
W.
f“l
W

When writing to advertisers please mention the WOMAN CITIZEN.

___4 if __——- _ —_~

 

 

H CONTINUING the Woman’s Journal,

——-_

founded 1870 by Lu Stone and Henry

B. lackwell,
m3: 1.. mfg?“ {133$ “32'. Founded June 2, 1917
daily to winning equal sufr for

women, and published weekly in oston,
Massachusetts, from 1870 to 1917. Con-
tinuing also the Woman Voter, and the
National Sunrage News. In succeeding
the National Su rage News, The Woman
Citizen became the odicial organ of the
National American Woman Sudrage
Association, and as such tries to main-
tain intimate contact between the Asso-
ciation and its two million members .
throughout the United States.

8

Published every Saturday by

The WOMAN sznN CORPORATION
at 171 Madison Avenue, New York

I THE WOMAN CITIZEN

Ten cents a cOpy; yearly subscription (52 numbers),

81.00. Postageto forei
Entered at the New

countries dity

cents extra.
or]: Post Oiiice as Second

Class matter, under the act of March 3, 1379- COPY“

right, 1918, by The Woman Citizen Corporation.
VOL. III JUNE 22, 1918 NO.

4

UBLISHED by the Woman Citizen
Corporation, in the h0pe that it may
prove a self-K:a etuating memorial to
Mrs. Frank ’s generosity toward
the cause of woman sudrage and her
faith in woman’s irresistible progress.

The directors of the Corporation are
Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, Miss Alice
Stone Blackwell, Miss Mara, Garrett
de, Mrs. Thomas Bucklin ells, and
Mrs. Arthur L. Livermore.

Alice Stone Blackwell is a special contrib-
uting editor.

Bose Young is the editonin-chiet

M 0 on White Mary Sumner Do
an? 110:;l Lawless' Geyer are media's

editors.

 

 

Our Circulation Story,

HE last few weeks have been memorable

‘

in suffrage history.

President Wilson’s reply to the memorial
presented by the women of the Allied coun-
tries in which he reiterated unqualidedly his
previous endorsements of suffrage; the action
of the Louisiana House of Representatives in
passing a suifrage referendum resolution by a
vote Of four to one, and the granting of com-
plete suffrage to the women Of Canada are out-
standing features showing the progress made
by the suErage cause and forecasting the
swiftly approaching day when all American
women will be enfranchised.

Doesn’t it give you a feeling of pride to be
a part of this movement which has grown so
powerful and popular that nations must pause
in the midst of their war work to speed the
granting of political freedom to their women?
And doesn’t it make you feel like doing still
more to hasten the big day for American
women? One of the most important ways in
which every la suffragist can help is to spread
this feeling 0 Optimism, this mutual interest
among her circle Of friends.

You are all agreed, we hope, that the most

emcient method of encouraging the growth of
the suffrage spirit is through the use of the

Official organ—Tho Woman Citizen.

Every new subscriber means another person
deiinitely pledged to the work of pushing the
Federal Amendment.

The circulation contest took on added in-

terest during the week,
South Dakota taking a
big jump which seriously
threatened Georgia’s
lead. It looked for a

Georgia
moment as though both

. South Dakota

“The W'oman Citizen is one
of our most popular maga-

with the reading

—Auce M. Burns, Librarian,
Sullivan, Indiana.

zines
public.”

Stats Circulation Chairmen

Alhbama: Miss Mary P. London, Birmingham

Arkansas: Miss Billie Pitney, Little Rock

Connecticut: Mrs”. Bertha Taylor Voorhorst,

Hartford .

Indiana: Mrs. Jessie Fremont Croan, Anderson

Iowa: Dr. EMe McCollum Jones, Webster City
Baton

Mrs. Sherard Brisbane,

Louisiana:
Rouge

Maine: Mrs. Dora H. York, Augusta '

Maryland: Mrs. Edwin W. Rouse, Jr., Balti-

more

Massachusetts: Mrs. R. L. DeNormandie, Bos-

ton I
Michigan: Mrs. John Waite, Ann Arbor
Minnesota: Mrs. I. E. Rose, St. Paul.

New Hamps

New Jersey: Mrs. F. H. CO n. East Orange

North Dakota: Mrs. Katherine L. Brainerd,

Hebron
Rhode Island: Mrs. LeBaron C. Colt, Bristol

South Carolina: Mrs. J. T. Gittman, Columbia.

Tennessee: Mrs. D. J. Kimbrough, Nashville
,Texas: Mrs. Helen Moore, Galveston
Virginia: Miss Helen Stockdell, Richmond

West Vir
Wisconsin: Mrs. Charles Mott, Milwau ee

June 8th . Georgia

. South Dakota

 

hire: Mrs. Mary .Post, Portsmouth
VI

ginia: Mrs. P. C. McBee, Mor antown

states would engage in a
neck and neck race for
hrst honors. Georgia
workers are making va-
liant efforts to keep their
state in the lead.

Indiana is making
preparation for an in-
tensive subscription drive.
Tennessee and Arkansas
are planning increased
activities under their
new state chairman.
Michigan, Maryland,
West Virginia, Wiscon-
sin and Texls are also
showing unusual signs of
activities which g1 ve
promise of interesting
developments from those
states.

Don’t forget that 100,-
000 goal!

Ross LAqu Guns,
National Circulation

Chairman.

 

sass

. Missouri

. Massachusetts

. Texas

. Maine

. Maryland

. Pennsylvania, Louisiana
. Connecticut

. West Virginia

. Washin
. South

. Kentucky, North Dakota, Tennessee

. Mississippi, Arkansas, Rhode Island

1.
2
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9
10.
11.
12.
13.
14-
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
28
24

. Washington
. North Carolina
. Vermont

Indiana
Minnesota
Iowa
Michigan
New Jersey
New York

New Hampshire, Ohio
Virginia

Wisconsin

Alabama

on, D. C.
arolina

Nebraska

29

. Indiana
. Iowa
. Minnesota

. New Jersey

. Michi an
. New

ork

. Ohio
. Missouri

, Virginia
. Wisconsin
. Alabama

. Massachusetts

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
1 1
12
13
l4
15
16
17.
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28

. Texas
Maryland
. Maine

. Connecticut
. West Virginia

. Nebraska

. Washington

. North Carolina
, Vermont

. New Hampshire

_ l l
-I'-‘Ib‘—.3"-'.‘-_

' highest number over 100

Relative Position of State Leagues in the Woman Citizen’s Circulation Contest:
June 15th

. Pennsylvania, Louisiana

. South Carolina, Kentucky
. Washington, D. C.
. North Dakota, Tennessee

. Mississippi, Arkansas, Rhode Island

 

[Circulation Contest

1. A pledge will constitute an entry

2. NO entries will be accepted a ter Decem-
ber l, 1918.

3. Contest closes January 1, 1919.

4. In case of a tie for any one premium, the
prize will .be awarded to each qualifying
contestant.

5. Only actual paid subscriptions willbe count-
ed in the awarding of premiums. ‘

First Cash Premium
FIFTY DOLLARS

To the State Association that sends in the
highest number over 200 (paid new subscrib-
ers). The net price er subscription to the
State Association is .7 , the .30 to go into the
state, county or local treasury, as may be de-
cided by arrangement between the state and-
its branches.

Second Cash Premium
TWENTY-FIVE DOLLARS

To the County Association that sends in the
(paid new sub-
scribers). These would come through the
State Association, and would help to swell the
state’s total. -

Third Cash Premium

TWENTY-F I VE
DOLLARS

To the Local Club that
sends in the h i g
number over 100 aid
new subscribers). car
would come through the
Coun Association into
the tate Association.
and thence to the Woman
Citizen.

hest

Fourth Cash Premium

TWENTY—F IVE
DOLLARS

To the co-Operating
Subscriber who sends in
the hi est number over
50. is would be inde-
pendent Of state, county
and club circulation ac-
tivities, would apply to
states that do not take
up the circulation work
in an odicial way, and
would come directly to
the Woman Citizen. The
net price per subscription
is $1.00. NO discount.

—
'UV ‘

 

   

71’s. Altman & (1111. NW

TRAVEL AN ID VACATHON OUTFIITS

and the numerous minor requirements to render both the journey
and the sojourn worth while have been provided in

interesting and extensive assortments.

 

   
     
     
            
   

  

The activities of the seaside, country sports, or the hours of leisure
have been amply anticipated in apparel typical of
fashionable lite during the Summer period.

0

WWWMWA--

mahiann Austins-Blink Animus, Nun york
(lilting-fourth Strut Uhtrty-ufth Strut

 

MAM

TELEPHONE 1000 MURRAY HILL

    
 

 

3 Pin a New York draft, Money or Express Order for
l $1.00 to this advertisement, fill out the blank below, out
w out and mail both to us for one year’s subscription (new

f First Aid to Subscribers

or renewal) to

 

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

__BU'LD!J!_Y0UR PERSONALITY  :21;If:IZIIIIICIIZIIlifffiliiilf

This is WOMAN’S ERA. Big opportunities ! :

,await the woman With Personality  THE WOMAN CITIZEN 171 Madison Avenue New York

Are you ready to grasp your opportunity
when it comes? Or do you lack the Person— 1 ‘

 

ality which will make your social, professional
or business training count for something
above the average?

We teach you how to develop your Person-
ality so that you will be ready when your
opportunity comes.

WRITE FOR PARTICULARS

Correspondence Course or Personal Instruction

Amend Robertson School of Cultural Arts
285 West Twelfth Street New York City

 

 

VII

 

 

  

    Qzlzlz‘fh‘tm w -
 s   (117072
I 425—5thAve.,at38thSt.,NewYork I

  
     
    

   
  

   

 

   
          
    
  
 

       
   

   

I I
I I I I I I I I I
“I I I I I I I I I I I
.I I.-
.- Correct Uniforms for Maids I.-
. Ruailyt()\\'ear I I .
I I'hifnrnu.  ....i’rum Hm I
‘Iiilb\1i;il (n-li: r— __ ” _‘_'I|
.- .\[I:'~.'Il—,l.n‘1|~nl lhlilllt‘ih‘ 
I , I I
 13,1. 31:1ch to Order 
I I Fur ‘."I:'-—'—H"' .‘J I
I _ I I
__ I I_I I I I IL I

 

The Woman Citizen

THE WOMAN’S JOURNAL

A Journal of Democracy

June 22, 1918

“ W e shall light for the things which we have always carried nearest our hearts — for dmcracy.[for the right of
those who submit to authority to have a voice in their own government.”

President Wilson to the Women of the World

HEN the President of the

United States in his war
message to Congress April 2,
1917, said we shall “ light to make
the world safe for democracv,” he
uttered an apothegm which rang
round the world. Until then no
one had expressed that thought.

Italy and Portugal:

The nations unexpectedly in-

The White House, Washington, D. C.
To the M emorialists of France, Great Britain, Belgium,

“ HA V E read your message with the deepest interest

I and I welcome the opportunity to say that I agree
without reservation that the full and sincere democratic
reconstruction of the world for which we are striving,
and which we are determined to bring about at any cost,
will not have been completely or adequately attained

The United States, the Presi-
dent, the Congress and the Press,
with their acclaim of “war for
democracy,” introduced a new
and a higher spirit into the world
controversy. Confused thinking
was replaced by a definite objec-
tive.

A standard of aim and ideal was

volved in a life and death strug-
gle had had little time to analyze
causes; they could only compre-
hend that a savage wolf was at
their throats. Two years of war
had clarified the whole world
around situation, and men had
begun to see that whatever had
been the causes which led the
world into the war, the conflict
was rapidly resolving itself into
a clash between systems of gov—
ernment, the rule by kings and the
rule by people.

The President’s happy aphorism
defined in a sentence what all ob-
servers were beginning to under-

until women are admitted to the suffrage, and that only
by that action can the nations of the world realize for the
benefit of future generations the full ideal force of opin-
ion or the full humane forces of action.

“ The services of women during this supreme crisis
of the world’s history have been of the most signal useful-
ness and distinction. The war could not have been fought
without them, or its sacrifices endured. It is high time
that some part of our debt of gratitude to them should
be acknowledged and paid, and the only acknowledgment
they ask is their admission to the sufrage. C an we fustly
refuse it?

“ As for America, it is my earnest hope that the Senate
of the United States will give an unmistakable answer to
this question by passing the sufrage amendment to our
federal constitution before the end of this session. ‘

“ C ordially and sincerely,

lifted on high which put new life,
hope and cheer into a war-weary
world.

Still women did not feel that
they had any part in it at all ex-
cept that of service and sorrow. '

It was a man’s war for man’s
rights.

Then Great Britain compre-
hended and gave the vote to
women, the royal assent being
1918.
Canada followed and gave the

granted on February 6,

vote to women from ocean to
ocean, and from the Arctic snows

to the border line of the United

stand and brought conjectures (Signed)
about the war aims to a speedy
focus. By degrees all the belligerents adopted the saying as a
war maxim.

But something infinitely more important happened when the
United States went to war than giving the world a new slogan.
The President’s cue was picked up by Congress and repeated in a
hundred speeches. It was passed on to the thousands of jour-
nalists waiting with sharpened pencils. In niewspapers, dailies,
weeklies and monthlies, big and small, important and otherwise,
the nation responded to the cue and proclaimed from ocean to
ocean that in truth it was, a war for democracy to which our

people dedicated “ all that we have and all that we are.” .

States, the royal assent being
" VVOODROW VVILSON-H granted on May 23, 1918. Now

Mr. Wilson, in his message to the
women of many nations on June 13, 1918, declares: “ The full
and sincere democratic reconstruction of the world for which we
are striving, and which we are determined to bring about at any
cost, will not have been completely .or adequately attained until
women are admitted to the suffrage.”

The world awaits the action of the United States Senate,
which will come soon. When it gives to the world, by the passage
of the Federal Suffrage Amendment, its pledge of sincerity that
we are in truth “fighting for democracy,” then the women of
all the allied nations will realize that although it may have begun

as a man’s war for the freedom men, it hT resolved itself into

Digitized by  €

66

a war of liberation for humanity. They will know that it is their
war too. They will feel for the first time that when they give
“ all that they have and all that they are ” they do it in the glad
exaltation that women who come after them will share in the
distribution of blessings as they have shared in the distribution
of sacrifices. Great Britain, Canada, the President, the House
of Representatives, the National Committees of all parties have
spoken. The world now waits upon the Senate. Sixty-two Sen-
ators, too, have spoken. Thirty-four are to be heard from. Is
it a man's war or a people’s war; is it for men’s liberty or human
liberty that all the world is in sad travail, gentlemen?

For the answer to this question, the world with bated breath
C. C. C.

awaits.

Women of Europe to President

Wilson

HEN histories of nations are written and the story of the

world’s freedom reaches full measure, June 13, 1918,

will stand forth memorably. It was the day on which an appeal

from the women of the allied nations was presented to the Presi-

dent of the United States. These women called upon him to be

their spokesman, and to “ proclaim the principle of woman suf-
frage one of the fundamental rights of the future.”

In their memorial to the President, the European women who
addressed him, reverted to the unforgettable formulae which he
had declared and urged him to address to “ all humanity” his
recoinmitment to woman suffrage in one of his declarations which
“ resound throughout the world.” The stirring appeal can be read
in full below.

The Memorial to the President
“ Union F rancaise pour le SuErage des Femmes ”
Addresse de la Presidente: Paris, 14, Rue Pierre-Charron

Secretariat: Paris, 53, Rue Scheffer
“ PARIS, February I, 1918.

“ To His Excellency, the President of the United States:

6‘ N the historic message which announced to the world the
1 entry into the struggle of American force and thought, you
declared unforgettable formulae upon which your great Republic
awaits a victory—the right of peoples to self-determination and a
durable peace for generations to come. i
“ The French suffragists and those of the allied countries have
heard your beautiful and strong words and they unite in prayer
to you for the accomplishment of the following resolution:
‘-‘ ‘ Considering that from this war there has come a new inter-
- national right founded upon the right of peoples to self—determi-
nation,
“‘That nothing can be claimed to speak authoritatively in

the name of the people which excludes women from the life of
\

nations,
“ ‘ Considering moreover that women during the actual con-

fiict have shown the value of the social work which they are
capable of performing,

The Woman Citizen

“ ‘ Considering that the participation of wives and mothers in
the suffrage would be the greatest guarantee of the peace to come,
the need that the belligerent countries have of their help in the
present confiict, the sufferings, moral as well as physical, which

. this war has cost them, have given definite proof that no longer,

without iniquity and imprudence, can one refuse to give them
through their vote an infiuence in the undertakings which decide
peace and war,

“ ‘ The women of the allied countries express the wish: that
President Wilson in one of his future messages will proclaim
the principle of woman suffrage one of the fundamental rights
of the future.’

“We have read with emotion in the Woman Citizen, M r.
President, the very profound words which you have spoken in
response to the delegation of women from New York. If we
recite them here it is because they are the same words that we
would ask you to address to all humanity in one of your declara-
tions which resound throughout the world.

“ ‘ It is a struggle which goes deeper and touches more of the
foundation of the organized life of men than any struggle that
has ever taken place before, and no settlement of the questions
that lie on the surface can satisfy a situation which requires that
the questions which lie underneath and at the foundation should
also be settled and settled right. I am free to say that I think
the question of woman suffrage is one of those questions which
lie at the foundation.’

“I beg you to accept, Mr. President, the expression of our
great appreciation. of our American sisters and our profound ad-
miration for the high moral tone of the declarations which you
have uttered in their name. It is this which encourages us to
ask your aid, which will be a powerful influence for woman suf-
frage in the entire world.

“ For the Committee of the Union Francaise pour le Sufrage
des Femmes, and in the name of other National Committees, of
which the list is joined hereto:

“ President, de Witt Schlumberger, Vice-President del
l’Alliance Internationale du Suffrage des Femmes:

“ Vice-President, Jane Misme; Vice-President, Marie Louise
LeVerrier; Secretary, Cecile L. Brunschvicg; Treasurer, Marg
guerite Desavis; Secretary, Marguerite Pichon Landry; Sec-i

retary, Suzanne Grinberg.”

HIS memorial, which was signed by the suffrage associa-
tions of Great Britain, France, Belgium, Italy and Portu-

gal, was carried to the White House by Mrs. Carrie Chapman
Catt, President of the National American \Voman Suffrage

 

Association and of the International Suffrage Alliance. ,

With Mrs. Catt at the White House were Dr. Anna Howardl
Shaw, Honorary President of the National Suffrage Association
and Chairman of the Woman's Committee of the National Conn-
cil of Defense; Mrs. Helen H. Gardener, of \Vashington, vice-
president of the Association; Mrs. Maud Wood Park, of Massa-
chusetts, Chairman of the Association’s Congressional Committee;
Miss Ruth White, of Missouri,, secretary of the Congressional

Digitized by 600816

June 22, 1918

Committee, and Miss Rose Young, director pf the Leslie Bureau
of Suffrage Education, and editor of the Woman Citizen.

After an informal interview thePresident presented to Mrs.
Catt his reply to the memorialists, as given on the preceding page.

It was the first time in the history of the fight for the
Federal SuErage Amendment that the President has publicly indi-
cated his desire for the Senate’s favorable action during the
present session, and suffragists the country over have been heart-'
ened by his renewed advocacy of the passage of the amendment. .

‘ 67

Senate has already passed the bill, and this committee is here

today to consider it.

“In the days of the monarchy, Hawaiian women took great
interest and could be effectively active in politics, Their men
fully appreciate the wisdom, public spirit, and executive ability

Aof women, but since Hawaii became a Territory of the United
States, they have been obliged to take their place beside/their

unenfranchised American sisters.”
The most interesting and amazing thing about the passage of

. the Hawaiian bill is the fact that in both Senate and House the

Suffrage in Hawaii

HE Hawaiian suffrage bill has now passed Senate and >
House and received the President’s signature. The ‘
National American \Voman Suffrage Association, believing that
its mission is to secure the vote for women in any part of the
world over which the Stars and Stripes wave, has sponsored and
aided this bill and counts its passage as another victory to which
its forces have contributed.

The bill provides that the Legislature of Hawaii is
with power ” to do one of two things: either to enfranchise the
women of the Islands by direct stattitory enactment, or to submit
the question of woman suffrage to the voters of the Territory of
Hawaii. In other words, the Congress of the United States
wipes out the provisions of the original ac_t creating the Territory
of Hawaii, which restricted the right to vote to male citizens, and
grants the Legislature of Hawaii authority to take action to ex-
tend the vote to women.

How Hawaii will receive this freedom is best predicted by
Mrs. Benjamin F. Pittman, of Boston, in her address before the
House Committee on Woman Suffrage:

“ hin interest in the Hawaiian suffrage bill, apart from my
deep interest in the enfranchisement of all women, comes, as you
have heard, through my husband’s connection with Hawaii. His
mother, who was Kenole, chieftess of Hilo, was a woman of
great infiuence among her people.

 I refer to this only to show you how I, a stranger and an
American, was in a position to feel the pulse of the Hawaiian
people in regard to the enfranchisement of their women. It was
known in Hawaii that I am greatly interested in this subject, and
almost immediately upon my arrival I was asked to hold suffrage
meetings. I did this, and soon learned that I was in a suffrage
country, and that the suffrage bill had been approved by both the
Republican and Democratic parties. - '

“ It was my privilege to be present at the opening of the legis—
lature, and I was able to interview members of both houses.

Every man to whom I spoke, including the president of the
senate and the speaker of the house, expressed himself as in
favor of the measure. The legislature had passed an over-
whelming vote for woman suffrage, and the Delegate from Hawaii
to Congress had been commissioned to lay the bill before this

body. but there it stopped, as far as they knew. I promised the
I reported to my

¢

‘ vested

women of Hawaii to inquire into the matter.
chief, Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, the president of the National
.\merican W'oman Suffrage Association, with the result that the

‘ bill aroused no hostility. Those gentlemen who never have failed

to see the “ bulwarks of civilization ” tumbling about their ears
whenever and wherever the subject of giving votes to the women
of their own state and nation is raised, sat strangely quiet when
the proposal to grant facilities for action to Hawaii was under
consideration. Not many weeks ago, when Senator Jones. asked
unanimous consent for a vote on the Federal Suffrage Amend-
ment, certain senators arose in wild-eyed alarm to object, and
consent was not given. But these same senators sat calmly silent
when the question of giving votes to women of a different race
was before them, and in neither Senate nor House was a roll call
taken. It is certainly difficult to understand the mental opera-
tions of such senators, but passing that problem to the psychia-
trists, we congratulate the women of Hawaii upon the opening
of the door which leads to their enfranchisement. We venture
to hope that gentlemen of the Polynesian race will be more prompt
than men of the Aryan have been to share their political freedom
with their women.

By this Act the Territory of Hawaii is given an authority no
State in the Union possesses; it can give the vote to its women
by statute without a referendum. The Territory of Alaska was
given such power and its legislature promptly extended the vote
to women as its first act without a dissenting voice. Wyoming
when a territory gave women the vote in 1869 by legislative

enactment. Utah when a territory took similar action, but the

U. S. Congress, aiming to stamp out polygamy, availed itself of
its veto power over territorial legislation and summarily dis-
franchised the women of that territory. Washington Territory
enfranchised its women by legislative enactment, but the saloons
engineered a case up to the State Supreme Court claiming that
the legislature had no power to grant the vote. The Supreme
Court was composed of Judges appointed by the President, and
as Grover Cleveland was then President, they were appointed
from the South, which at that time was very backward in its
education on the question of woman suffrage. The case pre~
cluded the friends of suffrage from carrying it to the U. S.
Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court of the nation never has
passed upon the right of territories to enfranchise women by
legislative enactment.

Arizona’s legislature passed a woman suffrage measure, but
the Governor vetoed it. Hawaii has not only plenty of good ex—
amples to emulate, but Congress has clearly granted its legisla-
ture the right to enfranchise its women by direct legislation.

C. C. C.

Digitized by 600816

The Woman Citizen

“The Back Yard of the .War”

 

Jill- 

Moving into the new barracks of the Women’s Oversea Hospitals,
furniture brought in by a U. 5. Army Camion

Labouheyre, Landes,
May 25, 1918.

E are in our barracks! We are working!
Nothing else matters for the moment.
Gone the French beds, four mattresses high,
that we climbed into at night or took on a
running-jump, skidding across polished floors;
gone the walk in noonday heat along dusty
roads to the Hotel du Midi for luncheon. For
we’re in our barracks now, and oh, so glad to
be!

Down at the edge of the town we are, at the
end of " Main Street.”
are visible through the trees, and until our own
motor road is built we enter through a field
knee-deep in buttercups—they grow a foot high
over here. The personnel barracks are grouped
together, the salle a manger and kitchen. Metres
away by a path through the trees, perched on a
sand hill, stand our Hospital and Administra-
tion Buildings. And in one of these sits your
correspondent on a camp chair with a Corona on
her knees, trying dutifully to disregard the
white clouds tossed like puffballs against the
sky. the clusters of nodding, scarlet poppies
splotching the field outside her window—and
disturbing sounds from the Dispensaire next
door, 'where a youngster’s head is having an
unwelcome and necessary eczema treatment
(it’s the bath that’s unusual, we regret to say).

Yesterday, Marie from the usine in the
village came for her eye-dressing. Making
things that men shoot with is ever a precarious
occupation, and in these times the dangers in-
crease; a drop too little of this, a grain too much
of that, a blaze of flame—and two brown eyes
are bound in bandages for weary weeks after.
One will never be released. And Marie must

return quickly to her work, for two brothers

are soldiers of France; one has been wounded
and returned again to the trenches, the other
is a prisoner of war. Marie and her mother
and the sister with the crooked back wait and
work and hope as is the way ‘of women.

Some of the barracks.

By Anne Hiret Curry,

OEcial Correspondent for the Woman Citizen

Another accident
case arrived yester-
day, a Workman with
a bit of metal in his
eye. Troublesome.
Another workman
with an abscess on
his leg. Opened and
treated. A soldier
with an infected arm,
we’ve caught the poi-
son in time. Nine
patient 5 yesterday
in the dispensaire,
eleven so far to-day
—and it’s just tea-
time now. Gabrielle,
Ia facteure at the sta-
tion here, is one of
several women await-
ing the arrival of our
.. equipment, for spe-
'cial treatment. A lit-
tle son trudges be-
side her, as she hauls
the heavy luggage in
her cart. Blond hair
blows about her face, her strong hands are
eager for work. Since last June, Gabrielle’s
husband has been “absent,” and other women
shake their heads as she pushes her cart down

'- -""" "I u
. h

_ H v

..'__ -' _dngl_r- .

' the road. Gabrielle’s head is high. -She knows

he will come back when the war is done. Some

day she'll be put in a story.

E have committed our first operation!

Last Sunday, on a table hastily fitted,
in a room of the hospital bare of furnishings,
Dr. Formad opened a cervical abscess in a
youngster of live, under chloroform. \Ve almost
framed him as “ Exhibit A.”

And our dentist, Dr. Nevin, has pulled her
first tooth. It, at least, is being jealously
guarded, to be admitted finally to the War Mu-
seum that must surely be
established when Labou-
heyre is a memory.

\Ne were delighted to
welcome Mrs. Raymond
Brown last week, and the
nurses who came with her
——Miss Quaine, Mrs. Olds
and Miss Marple. Mrs.-
Brown spent a few days
with us and will return
later. Miss Marple has
gone to join the other
members of the Unit
at the Military Hos-
pital north of Paris. And

the two others w e r e
promptly established in
their barracks. At this

moment Miss Quain is
attending a Y. M. C. A.
worker in a nearby camp,
and Mrs. Olds sits tailor-
wise on the floor of the

operating room, calmly
painting one of the
tables. ’

broken underbrush surrounding the Labouheyre barracks.
prisoners are carrying in the cook-stove

The attitude of the townspeople when we
visit them in their homes is more cordial than
we could have hoped it might be. Women
physicians, women surgeons, are unheard of
among them; but there is confidence here, and
warm appreciation. It is very cheering. “ You
women are so gentle, so kind," one mother told
us yesterday. They are amazed because we
relieve them quickly. “ Men doctors come and
come again, to-day, to-morrow," they say, “ they
do not help so soon.” \Nhen we realize how
foreign are our methods, it is doubly surprising
that they accept us so trustingly. Here, fresh
air might be a new German gas, so unpopular
is it; we find fever patients laid deep in blank-
ets, on beds backed up against a wall and
draped in heavy curtains, and every window
closed tight. Babies are fed wines and heavy
food. Milk is boiled before being used, that it
will keep longer; Hat bowls of it stand on the
back of stoves, as our negro women steep
their bitter tea. One wonders how it is possible
so many survive, yet they do, and to an old age.

UR hospital beds finally arrived yesterday

morning, and were immediately put into
place. The sound of the hammer is heard on the
air, for our carpenters work at'high speed. Cup-
boards and shelves for the pharmacy; shelves
for the robinet; wardrobes for the patients'
clothing; shelves for linens and other hospital
supplies; tables built against the wall for the
oliice—even stationery and letter files are being
made by our carpenters. Only one room is to
be painted—the operating room—and the mem-
bers are doing that. Bare walls and furniture
remind us hourly that we are indeed camping.

Camping, yes, but camping de lure. Only two
in a room. We sleep in army beds under army
blankets; a table beneath the French window,
two chairs, and our trunks are the only’fur-
nishings. A high shelf at one end has hooks
beneath for clothing, and another shelf holds

 

This is not a wire entanglement in No Man’s Land. It is the un-

German

June 22, 1918

 

C ivitas and Sorosis, two large women’s clubs of New York City, presented‘t'win
ambulances of this type to the Women's Oversea Hospitals, U. S. A.
This is one of them in active service at Labouheyre

wash basins. Again, our carpenters rescue!
Book shelves where desired, pegs for bats, a
shelf for toilet things, solve problems that have
confronted not one of us these many years.

Each of us has provided and made her own,

curtains, but the rooms are bare of ornament,
and are “ to be maintained in a manner as
orderly as possible.”

For we have a Sanitary Officer and Inspec-
tor, part of our Local Board of Health. \Ne
have a Fire Commissioner to protect us from
danger. We have sets of rules, too. And we
make our own beds every morning. Hours are
set for regular duties, and the hours are kept.

HE Government sent an inspector to-day to

see our cantonment, and he was escorted
by no less a personage than the Prefect himself.
They were much interested in the details of con-
struction, and the changes we had made from
the usual plan' of such barracks. Their approval
was good to see. The Prefect is anxiously
awaiting the arrival of the refugees in this
- town, for they are yet quartered among the
.people at the seat of Government in his own

six o’clock,

though, it has
’ cooled again

and double

blankets, plus a

steamer rug
,sometimes, are

in d e e d wel-
come. The sun-
sets would in-
spire a poet,
and painters
must despair
of copying on

Canvas such

lavish splendor

as floods these
skies down in

S o u t h e r 11

France. We

were enter-

tained at one
of the camps
some distance
away recently,
and on the way
back those of
us in the rear
of the ambu-
lance held re-
served seats to a star performance of sunset-
dom that held us almost breathless from one
moment to the next.

That evening, by the way, Elsie Janis had
arrived in that camp, and we were invited to en-
joy her. Miss Janis was even more amusing
than usual, and a thouszgpd boys in khaki stood
behind us in the rain and shouted for just one
more song. The Major had planned that we
come to dinner, too, and perhaps we remember
with almost as much delight the really-white-
bread and maple syrup, jam tarts and honest-
American pie. Our boys are well cared for in
every way—but if mothers and sisters and all
the folks back home could see them enjoy
their food there might be a more resolute ob-
servance of “ -less days ” in the States.

Many of the soldier
boys that pass [

 

through our village
are of the engineer-
ing camps—a fine lot,
too. But impatient?
Eager to be trans-
ferred to something
more like active serv-

   

69

C’est La Guerre!
(Here are bits of a letter from one of the

members of the Women’s Oversea Hospitals,
U. S. A. They show some of the little things
that make life hard in wartime. But they also
show the gallant spirit with which every de-
privation is met.)

“ HAD a perfectly wonderful trip over

and made sev’eral friends. 'Among them
two Red Cross girls, one in Paris and one
just outside helping the refugees. I would like
to have stayed in Paris for a month or two at
least, but of course had to go where I was sent,
this being wartime. I

“Mail from you has not come through until
this week. The loss and delay in the mail ser-
vice is one other of those things one grows to
accept. It is almost the hardest, for so many
misunderstandings must arise from it.

“ It is one of the many adjustments one
must make in these days, and it is not an easy
one. However, ‘ C’est la guerre! '

“Nothing is so welcome as the American
mail! There is a sickening sensation down
inside when it is handed out and there is noth-
ing for me.

“ The night we landed in Bordeaux—no place
for a girl alone. A Mrs. F. and I were taken
care of by a young American who had brought
a big limousine to meet some telephone girls he
had expected who did not arrive. He drove
us to a couple of hotels, but Paris was being
air-raided and cannonaded at that time. All
Bordeaux was full of iieeing women and
children. We made the night train to Paris
just in time and sat up all night. I was lonely
and heartsick, but even at that I loved the
city. Even a gray Paris is still Paris.

“ We are in a land low, flat and sandy, with
pine forests and yellow gorse and purple lilacs
in profusion, miles from the ocean. They
tell us that the heat in summer is terrific.
Picture me with no summer clothes but
three middy blouses. I had thought we would
be in another part of the country where

(Continued on page 77) '

‘.'. small city. He is doing all he can to hasten
1  completion of the refugee barracks, that
'  may be furnished and occupied by the five
’ rhzmdred refugees who will be under our care.

‘

{3 A In the meantime we are busy unpacking and

ice than building
roads and chopping
lumber and running
sawmills can ever be!
In the back yard of
the war, perhaps they
are, and one does see
how they wish they
might be “ out front.”
But somebody’s got
to care for the refu-
gees. It isn’t excit-
ing, and it isn’t
striped with glory.
But it’s service, and
both engineering
camps and the Unit
can read in the papers
who’s where to-day,
even if “to-day” is
last Tuesday week!

 

    

meplies and placing their contents—and three
,rflitnes a day enjoying real food as planned by
. gloat dietitian and prepared by the French maids
"rd-"who cook for us until our own cook arrives
 next week. The long table in the salle a manger
is covered with white oilcloth, and long benches
stand beside it. Until the salle de recreation is

opened for use, the salle a manger is used for
French lessons after luncheon every day.

 

A Labouhcyre wedding. The only young man present is the groom. The
wedding was postponed two months on account of the German drive.
The bride drove a mule cart and brought up the lumber for the refugee

unit of the Women’s Oversea Hospitals

The climate is semi-tropical here. Mornings
are quite cool and damp, but the heat is intense
for several hours in the middle of the day. By

70‘

The Woman Citizen

Who Want the Suffra

With Our Allies
The States

HE Executive Board of the New York

State Woman Suffrage Party has called

the attention of the New York Senators in

Washington to the tremendous backing given

the Federal Amendment over the state, in the
following resolution: '

“ ll'here‘as, information is coming to us con-
tinually from every county in the State, show-
ing the growing popular interest in the for—
tunes of the Woman Suffrage Federal Amend-
ment; and

Whereas, civic, philanthropic, business, labor
and other organizations are daily passing reso-
lutions in favor of the Federal Amendment, ex-
pressing their appreciation to Senator Calder
for the faithful work for the Federal Amend-
ment, and calling upon Senator Wadsworth in
view of the overwhelming decision of the elec-
torate of his State in favor of woman suffrage,
and in view of the overwhelming sentiment
among the new women voters of his State in
favor of this measure; and

Whereas, more than two hundred (200) reso-
lutions have been recorded within the last three
weeks and innumerable others have been
passed; and

Whereas, in their Spring Conventions between
thirty and forty County Organizations of the
Woman Suffrage Party have adopted strong
resolutions of commendation to Senator Calder
and of urgent request to Senator Wadsworth;
and

Whereas, fifty Republican County Commit-
tees have passed resolutions and statements, with
resolutions promised from a number of other
counties, making a total of between fifty and
sixty out of the sixty-two counties of Senator
VVadsworth's own Republican State Organiza-
tion; therefore

Be It Resolved, that our Senators from New
York State may feel that they have an unpre-
cedented backing from the point of view of

‘1'; _c- \
 a ‘5 Ilqylt’
\ I' 1 "1' f', - ‘
TI“ Hr" " \  "-5; _ .e’  l' I
J" "l n ‘  , i
. _: I J \ .. Q be.  _
'  " "-\. .- {3* 
I I. ._.' .. h ‘C l. QQL
it}? ~ " -.  , l
a)“. J \

 

 ‘1 . I '

DEFYING THE LIGHTNING

political organization, social organization, eco-
nomic organization and general public senti-
ment in their work for the Federal Amend-
ment, and we call upon them both to do all
in their power to bring this amendment to an
early and favorable vote in the Senate.”

[-110 has given a comprehensive answer tp
the question, “ Who asks for woman suf-
frage?” stating that the \Vomen’s Christian
Temperance Union, the Ministerial Association
and the men’s Bible classes may be counted al-
most solidly in favor of woman suffrage. It
is well known that the religious and educational
forces of the state are in favor of woman
suffrage.
Other organizations which have recently and
Specifically endorsed the federal amendment
resolution, now pending in the United States

Senate include the following:

Ohio Federation of Labor, Ohio State Grange,
United Mine Workers of Ohio, Ohio Site Tax
League, Ohio Republican Dry Federation, Ohio
Democratic Dry Federation, Ohio Anti Saloon
League, Ohio State Alumni Association, Ohio
State Good Government Club, American Nurses’
Association (meeting in Cleveland), Women’s
Auxiliary Brotherhood of Locomotive En-
gineers (meeting in Cleveland), Franklin Coun-
ty Democratic Executive Committee, Franklin
County Republican Committee, Franklin Coun-
ty Dry Federation, Women’s Council of Akron
(10,000 women), Graduate Nurses Association,
District No. 8, over 400 members (meeting in
Cincinnati), Cleveland Federation of Women’s
Clubs, Cleveland Congress of Mothers, Parent
Teachers Association of Green County,
Altrurian Club, of Troy. all the Bohemian
Sokals (trades unions and benevolent associa-
tion in Cleveland), Youngstown Branch Ameri-
can Alliance for Labor and Democracy, Youngs-
town Kiwanis, Youngstown Rotary Club,
Youngstown Knights of Luther, Youngstown
Chapter Junior Order of American Mechanics,
Cleveland Street Railway Men’s Union, Cleve-
land Carpenter’s Union, No. 105, East End
Chamber of Commerce, Cleveland; East Cleve-
land Good Government Club, Cleveland Board
of Education, Cleveland Lincoln Loyal Associa-
tion, Cleveland Orange Lodge, Women’s Civic
Club, Cleveland Heights, Crawford County
Federation of Women’s Clubs, Van Wert Coun-
ty Federation of Women’s Clubs, Marion
Federation of W'omen’s Clubs, Dick Morris Re-
lief Corp of Galion, Welsh American Women of
Mahoning Valley, West Cairo (Allen county)
Farmer’s Institute, two Polish Organizations in
Cleveland, having 500 members.

What has happened in Ohio has happened in
all the other States.

ISCONSIN women protest against the -

action of the United States Senate in
delaying the vote on the woman suifrage
amendment. They are frank in saying that it
is not fair for a representative body of this
democratic nation to deny action at this time
(Continued on page 76)

Women of the Allied Countries 0
The President of the United Stai
The House of Representatives.

Sixty-two of the United States Set
The National Republican 60mm

The National Democratic Comm

The 2,000,000 organized women i
Sufrage Associhtion.

The 2,500,000 women of the Gene
National Woman’s Trades Union
American Collegiate Alumnae.

American Nurses Association.

National Educational Association
National Convention of Business
Women’s Christian Temperance 1

State legislatures, state political
granges, labor organizations,
and political leaders.

They Also Want

The American Federation of
tion in the world, is now holding
It will be in session for two week
resolutions near the close of the se
the National American W'oman
sidered and passed its resolution at
sufrage amendment immediately.

The Resolution reads.“

“ WHEREAS, The American F
bodies have repeatedly urged upc
the essential justice and economic
and men, and

WHEREAS, The military need.
of men out of industry and wome;

WHEREAS, This substitution
inflicts upon the working people c
cutting down our voting strengtl;
government; therefore, be it

RESOLVED, That the America
tion assembled, considers this injz
mands on behalf of the working p
United States Senate take immedia
of the Nation by passing the Feder.
ing in that-body.”

Samuel Gompers, always a c
deserves gratitude for this early m

June 22, 1918

Federal Amendment P

trope, organized for democracy:

he tVational American Woman

Federation of lVoman’s Clubs.

zgue.

imen.

2n.

rties, organizations, churches,
iness men and women, citizens

1e Amendment

tor, the largest labor organiza-
innual convention in St. Paul.
it is its custom to act upon its
n, but at the earnest request of.
Frage Association, it has con-
7 the Senate to pass the federal

'ation of Labor and its ahiliated‘

ie law makers of this country
d of equal sufrage for women

the country are taking millions
e filling their places, and

oteless women for voting men
e Nation an acute injustice by
d share in the control of our

rderation of Labor, in conven-
e no longer tolerable, and de-
e of the United States that the
:tion to enfranchise the women
afrage Amendment now pend-

lMUEL GOMPERS, Presidenti
friend of the sufrage cause,

71

With Our Allies
{The Editors

“T HE United States Senate should pass

the resolution for a constitutional
amendment for woman suffrage.”

Omaha, Nebraska, News.

“IT is vital that the Anthony amendment
be brought to a vote in the Senate and
passed during the present session.”

Colorado Springs Gazette.

“’ I ‘HE passage of the federal amendment
. . an act of simple justice to the women

of the nation, and in keeping with the demo-
cratic principle of our government.”
Augusta, Georgia, Chronicle.

“THE anti-suffragist is committing a woe-
ful error in denying the country at

large that which the suffrage states have already

acquired—the benefit of the dual vote.”

Richmond, Virginia, Journal.

“ NY clear-visioned observer of affairs

must plainly see the suHrage
question, in the interest of sound public policy,
should have been disposed of long ago.”

Christian Science Monitor.

“ GAIN the Prussian lower house has re-

fused to approve the equal suffrage
provision of the franchise reform bill. But the
Prussians have nothing on the United States
Senate.”—Richmond, (Va) Journal, May 16,
1918.

HE Senate’s “delay is not only
needless but a mistake whose bearings
would be realized later by those responsible
for it. That they do not see the wisdom of
action now shows a lack of political astute-
ness. ”

Indianapolis, Indiana, Star.

“ THER nations involved in a great war
have yet taken time to enfranchise
40,000,000 women . . . within the period of
the war. Certainly this ought to be a reliable
indication of the attitude of leading statesmen
regarding suffrage as a war measure.”
Terre Haute, Indiana, Tribune.

“WILL the Senate kindly take its head

out of the sand? Will it stop to
realize that during the course of the war 40,-
000,000 women have won the ballot and that
America cannot and will not fall behind the
other democratic nations in this advance? ”

Chicago, Illinois, Post.

“ HE Senate should take its stand

promptly without further delay.
With women enfranchised in many states .
why not give it to them in all states and let
all share in the benefits and responsibilities of
government? ”

Nashville, Tennessee, Banner.

“W OMAN suffrage is being fought, not

merely because it is the biggest step
toward democracy. All the Kaisers of
the world from Fargo to Berlin, are against it.
They are against every other movement for
democracy in America.”

Fargo, North Dakota, C ourier—N en's.

“THIS is the day for patriotic action, and
. what so fine as standing by the
women who are doing so much for the boys on
the fighting line. Come, Brothers Hard-
ing and Pomerene, and toe the mark, and lay
up for yourselves treasures in the hearts of the
women. Come on, Senators, we love you too
much to have you flicker now."

Columbus, Ohio, State Journal.

“ HOULD not the women relatives of our

men at the front have the power to
protect their interests at the ballot box at
home? .

“ It is not to the credit of the good sense
or patriotism of the Senators that they \do not
immediately pave the way for . votes for
women. New Jersey’s Senators especially,
should get busy in this connection. . . .There
should be no more delay.”

Trenton, New Jersey, Times.

“T HE conclusion the antis would have the

Senate draw is that a vote
against the pending suffrage amendment would
not be resented. We trust no senator is so
guileless as to adopt that theory. If he is, his
family or friends ought to send for him and
lead him firmly back to where he can be taken
care of. He ought not to be at large and he
is not likely to be at large politically very
long. . . . Equal suffrage, it seems to us,
is certain to come by one route or another
very soon.”

Chicago, Illinois, Tribune.

 

GOOD NIGHT !

72

The Woman Citizen

To All Good Soldiers

UFFRAGISTS and all others engaged in

waging any kind of a good fight may find

inspiration in this collection of letters from a
valiant young French captain.

[“A Soldier Unafraid." Letters by Captain
André Cornet-Auquier, edited and translated,
with an introduction by Theodore Stanton.
Little, Brown 8: Co., Boston.]

W'ritten in the trenches of the Alsatian
front to his family at home, they give us a
graphic picture of the life of the poilus, a fresh
realization of the spirit in which the French
are fighting, and, last but not least, a glimpse
into the heart of a remarkable and lovable man.

Captain André Cornet~Auquier had led his
class at school and college, both in scholarship
and conduct, and was universally beloved.
When the war broke out, he was a young
professor. He soon showed himself a brilliant
soldier, rose from grade to grade, and was
decorated by Joffre, who said of his regiment:
“ With the trdops of the twentieth corps they
are the best I have ever seen.”

He was adored by his men as he had been
by his students. Under his inspiration, they
gained the name of “ the Lions.” He was over-
fiowing, not only with loving kindness, but with
fun, and when hardships weighed heavily, he
went' around playing off jokes, cheering every-
body up and making them laugh. No creature
was too small to share his kindness.

" The other day I found in' an abandoned
house on the firing line, two pretty kittens
whose mother had been killed,” he wrote home.
“ They were thin and could scarcely walk. I
adopted the poor little orphans, fed them with
milk, and now they are perfect pictures of
health and beauty. I brought them here in my
haversack, and one of them made his entry
into this village at the head of the company,
on the shoulder of one of my troopers."

His
parents and sister; and a deep sense of the im-
portance of the cause for which the Allies are
fighting. He said:

“ \Ve labor for tomorrow, in order that there
may be no more wars, no more spilling of
blood, no more killing, no more wounded, no
more mutilated victims; we labor, we whom
our mothers will so weep for, in order that
other mothers may never know these bitter
tears. What are our lives worth, when we think
of the years of happiness and peace of those
Who will follow us?”

An enthusiastic lover of natural beauty, of
poetry and song, he was also sincerely and
deeply religious. “I try every day to make
myself more worthy by asking what Jesus
would have done in my place,” he writes. “ His
physical life was as clean as his intellectual and
spiritual existence,” says the preface. “ He
detested obscene stories, and at twenty-eight
could say of himself, ‘If I am killed, I shall
hand back my body to God as pure as I received
it from him at my birth ’.” There is a touch-
ing story of a girl placed in a situation of much
temptation who appealed to this young officer
for advice and help. She said, “I felt that
you were not like the others.” The pastor who
conducted his funeral said, “He did not admit
that there were two systems of morals, one
for men and another for women "—a truth

letters breathe devoted love for his

By Alice Stone Blackwell

“ Even the smallest human right denied is
large. The fact that the ruling class withhold
this right is prima facie evidence that they deem
it of importance for good or for evil.”—S. B. A.

 

How like most of this is to what is going on
among women in the United States! And yet
there is a difference. The women's papers from
each country have a fiavor of their own, like
the fragrance of different flowers in a garden;
but all of them are flowers unfolding towards
,the sun of freedom.

_‘—‘————T—_ Anti-Feminism and Free Love

which has been perceived by the most high-
minded men of all nationalities.

Theodore Stanton, Elizabeth Cady Stanton’s
eldest son, has rendered a real service in
translating these letters for the American
public. He says that the letters written home
by a multitude of young French soldiers
breathe a splendid spirit.

A Porto Rican Colleague

HE woman' suffrage movement has now

spread to almost every part of the civil-
ized world. One of the pleasant things con-
nected with editing a suffrage paper is the re-
ceipt of periodicals from many different coun-
tries, and printed in many different languages,
all advocating the same cause.

There lies before me as I write a magazine
published in Spanish, at San Juan, Porto Rico,
La Muier del Sigle XX, The Twentieth Cen-
tury Woman. It is edited by Mercedes Sola,
and the name of the founder is given as Ana
Rogue de Duprey. Looking it over, it is in-
teresting to see how many of the same things
are occupying women’s minds in Porto Rico as
in the United States.

The main preoccupation of women, there as
here, is with the children. The leading article
deals with a new law lengthening _the school
year from nine months to ten, and providing
that the public schools shall open on August 5.
The editor says that this law is well meant,
but that its framers did not take account of
the Porto Rican climate. According to her,
July, August and September are months of
overpowering heat, during which the children
cannot study. Many mothers are said to be
seriously alarmed, and the modification of the
law is advocated.

Other articles deal with the work of the
Women’s Committee of the Council of Na-
tional Defense; Mothers’ Day; war notes; con-
gratulations to a city that had gone “ over the
top " with its Liberty Loan; an account of a
meeting of the San Juan committee of the
Women’s League, which passed resolutions of
approval for Doctor Lolita Pinero’s eEorts in
behalf of the sick on Cabras Island, and prom-
ised to help; a report of an organization pro-
viding poor children with a dental clinic, school
doctors and a school lunch; a translation of
President Wilson's pronunciamento on the im-
portance of lessening infant mortality; a story;
a page of news notes; mention of the birth-
day of a much beloved priest and the death of
a much beloved nun; an article on the Infanta
Isabel of Spain; a page of suffrage news; and
an account of a lecture given at the Carnegie
Library by Miss Charlotte A. Perkins, which
is described as containing “a whole volume of
edifying propaganda for woman’s rights.”

HE most prominent anti-suffragist in the

world today is the Kaiser. The most
powerful group of anti-sutfragists is the “ Pots-
dam gang,” who are responsible for the present
devastation of the world.

American anti-suEragists have always been
in bad company. Excellent and well-meaning
as many of them are, in aligning themselves
against equal suffrage, they have had to line
up, perforce, with the liquor and vice interests.
with the exploiters of child labor, with the
men who live by corrupt politics, and with all
the reactionary interests in general. Now they
find themselves lined up also, willy willy, with
the Kaiser and the Prussians.

Another curious combination has come about.
The German government is reported to be! en-
couraging in every way the birth of illegitimate
children, on a colossal scale. Monogamy will
not create cannon-fodder fast enough; so, in or-
der to be ready for future wars, it ‘is said that
polygamy is to be established.

The less honorable among American anti-suf-
fragists have long been trying to convince peo— ~
ple that “ feminism " means free love; and have
pointed with glee, as proof of it, to any for-
eign philosopher or any obscure “ Lottie Mont-
gomery” in this country who wrote in oppo-
sition to the present code of social ethics. Now
here is the great ally of the antis, the world’s
champion anti-feminist, the Kaiser, constituting
himself also the world’s champion promoter of
illegitimacy l

If the Kaiser were a sutfragist, the Ameri-
can opponents of equal rights for women would
claim the fact as conclusive proof that “fern-
‘inism” meant free love, and that all the suf-
frage hosts in America, from Mrs. Catt down,
were consciously or unconsciously, working for
the destruction 'of Christian marriage. But the
anti-suffragists would never admit for a mo-
ment that that rule should work both ways.

Why Waste Women’s Time?

ONTANA has a lively woman in its

legislature, Mrs. Maggie Smith Hath—

away. She is a patriot and is the chairman of

the “Four-minute Men” in her community,

besides doing a great deal of war work. She
writes: ‘

“ How men can refuse to grant to the peo—
ple of the nation a chance to decide the ques-
tion of woman suffrage for themselves, is a
mystery to me and everyone else. Women are
doing their full part in the service of war and
will continue to do it, but if they could be
relieved from the necessity of using energy to
get what is rightfully theirs, they could do
much more. How it happens that any Senator
of the United States can fail to see and realize
this fact, is an enigma to the West."

Digitized by 600816 '

June 22, 1918

73

Women of Illinois “Carry On”

LTHOUGH women of Illinois have won a

large measure of enfranchisement for
themselves, they are not going .to pause until
they have carried on the cause of suffrage to
the enfranchising of every woman in America.
It took several pages of the Congressional
Record of June 7 to chronicle the petitions
and memorials with which Senator James Ham-
ilton Lewis had been charged by his constitu-
ents. Among these were resolutions from the
Chicago Woman’s City Club, expressing the
conviction that the women of the nation now
need the completest political liberty.

“ The franchise in the hands of women means
the development of a large ' group of citizens
for civic righteousness,” these women sub-
mitted, and added that even now in Chicago
women are “ hampered by limitation of their
franchise ” from their proper civic activity.
Believing that women have already demon-
strated their loyalty to the Government and
that the “ crisis of the world now demands that
all their energies be utilized for the good of
the nation ” they urged Senator Lewis to “ con-
tinue his efforts in behalf of the speedy passage
of the Federal Suffrage Amendment.”

HAT the American Republic will not deny

its women the political liberty that mon-
archies have extended “ already to 40,000,003
women enfranchised since the war began,” was
a part of the preamble to a resolution signed by
a‘ most representative group of Chicago women
such as the V’Vomen’s Association of Commerce,
\Nomen’s Press Association, Women’s Pro-
tective Association, Chicago Political Equality
League, Bindery Women’s Union, Women’s
Defenders League, Chicago Woman’s Trade
Union League, National W oman’s Trade Union
League, Daughters of 1918, the Civic Leagues
of the Seventh, Eighteenth, Twenty-third and
Twenty-fifth wards of Chicago. ‘
In their resolution they declared that “ the
country needs the votes of loyal women,”
and urged the immediate passage of the Fed-
eral Amendment. Their plea was also based
on the urgent needs of the country that all
the energies of women “ be released from the
struggle for their own political freedom.”
In adding its voice to the general appeal the
Abraham Lincoln Center, class in religious
study, declared that “ in asking for the passage
of this amendment we are simply asking for
the obvious demands of reason, justice, and
economic efhciency. Delay," they added, “is to
refuse a place in the advance line of civiliza-
tion.” Like the former groups, these pleaders
asked to have it read into the Congressional
Record that the “ Women of Illinois are proud
that they have representing them in Congress
two men who believe that justice and liberty
should be extended to all regardless of sex.”

ANVILLE, Illinois, women massed to-

gether to remind the Senate of the
women, “ mothers and wives, and the great army
of others in the many branches of war work so
necessary to the success of our cause who are
anxiously watching the action of the United
States Senate." Their petition was signed by the
presidents of the Young‘Women's Christian As-
sociation, Woman's Club, Federated Clubs,

Woman’s Military Auxiliary, Civic League, and
by the chairman of food production, Woman’s
Committee, Council of National Defense, by the
presidents of many philanthropies, charities and
chapters for war relief, by the Woman’s
Christian Temperance Union, by the regent of
the Daughters of the American Revolution, by
the deputy United States marshal, and by the
chairman of the committee of women and chil-
dren in industry, Council of’ National Defense.

HE Delavan Woman’s Club, the Alton

Equal Suffrage Association, thanked and
praised both senators for their earnest efforts in
behalf of women. The Executive Board of Gov-
ernors of the Woman’s Association of Com-
merce of the United States of America, meeting
in Chicago on May 20, took occasion to urge the
amendment as did the Federation of Women’s
Clubs of the Thirteenth Congressional district,
the Chicago Women’s Athletic Club, the Wom-
an’s Clubs of Monmouth, of, Dixon, of Engle-
wood, of De Kalb, of Pontiac, of Canton, of
Chicago.

The Women’s Legislative Congress and the
Woman’s Committee of the Council of National
Defense did not fail to remind the Senators
of the war service of women. “ The women of
the United States are mobilizing for war serv-
ice and stand'ready to enter all the activities of
the land,” the Woman’s Council pointed out.

The National Woman’s Party, the Woman’s
Protective Association, the Chicago Equal Suf-
frage Association were all edually urgent, the
last reminding this government of the German
opposition to all democracy and the fear of
woman suffrage by the Central Powers.

“ What Germany fears most is a real democ-
racy,” they stated. “ Suffrage is inevitable;
why delay action any.longer ?”

Church women joined in the general demand,
among them the 500 members of the Women’s
Union of the First Methodist Church of Evans-
ton, the entire congregation of the Fourth
Presbyterian Church of Chicago. The Will-
mette School Teachers and the Galesburg grad-
uate nurses added their voice. One claim
proudly based on service was that of the Chi-
cago Political Equality League. Said they:

“ HEREAS democracy includes all the
' people, men and women;

“ Whereas the democracy of all the world
hangs in the balance;

“Whereas the Government of the United
States needs the full strength and time of
its women for war work;

“ Whereas organized suifragists have shown
great loyalty and devotion to democracy’s
cause by their war efforts;

“Whereas the Chicago Political Equality
League have a record of $582,000 in the
third liberty loan, $30,000 in the first thrift-
stamp campaign, 30,000 garments for allies’
relief, 15,000 surgical dressings, 5,000
knitted garments, 1,(X)O letters to soldiers

\ and sailors; Be it

“Resolved, That the managers of the Chi-
cago Political Equality League appreciate the
great support and inHuence as an Illinois Sen-
ator you have given the Federal suffrage
amendment and earnestly urge you to further
help this amendment to a quick and successful
vote.”

 

Philadelphia I nqut'rcr.

HE WON’T BE HAPPY ’TIL SHE GETS IT

74

The Woman Citizen

War Messages to the American Pe0ple

LL the world around the war
has aroused dormant half-
formed hopes of a democracy yet to
come into a living, active conviction.
Many nations and many millions of
people are resolved to make this the
last world war and they know so bold
an aim can only be accomplished
when systems of government cen-
tered about Kings and Kaisers are
gone forever. Republics do not seek
world empire; they do not wage war
for indemnities and gain; they do
not deal in international intrigue and
fill other lands with paid spies and
plotters. Intelligent people of all
lands are rapidly dividing in conse-
quence into two classes; the progres—
sives who having lost their con-
fidence in Kings, look forward to
representative government. constitu-
tions, elections, votes for the people
as the safest form of government;
and the reactionaries who, afraid of
the people, cling to Kings, edicts.
dictation, -caste, ceremony and a
subservient population. The issue is
growing clearer day by day.
How far the impulse to democracy
has permeated the peoples of the
world no one knows, but that it has gone far

and will go further is proved by overwhelming
evidence“ .

OR more than a century the United States

has been the world leader in democratic
progress. It has pointed the way and “blazed the
trail ” for all the peoples of earth. Our fore-
fathers had the foresight to conceive and to
establish a representative government when
most great men of all nations denounced the
idea as visionary and impractical. They brave-
ly led on, still in combat with world preju-
dice, and made ours the first country to en-
franchise the Jew, the Catholic, the non-land-
holder, the alien, the working man. Our Re-
public gave the theory and also the proof of
its trustworthiness in practice. It demonstrates
that a Republic is a system of “ checks and bal-
ances ” wherein the virtuous, the wise, the tem—
perate neutralize the evil minded, the foolish,
the extremist, and thus not only makes a popu-
lar government safe and sound, but inciden-
tally supplies an educational influence which
uplifts the entire people.

A despairing world would not now turn
with rising hope to the possible transforma-
tions of monarchies into republics as a safe-
guard against world war had'not the United
States lived down the world’s doubts and ob-
jections and offered a proved example.

The United States entered the war because
its ideals were jeopardized. It bore insults
and violations of treaties and witnessed the
undoing of innocent peoples by “ ruthless dep-
redations,” but it did not decide to fight until
it was clear that the war had resolved itself
into a death grapple between the systems of
autocracy and those of democracy.

So. to make the “world safe for democracy,”
to prevent one nation from dictating the insti-
tutions of every other, our Republic went into
the war and entered it, too, with a will to give

military strategist.

ments elsewhere.

man ears.
this time, will Germany get the news? Certainly.
Because the Kaiser is fighting to make the world safe for
autocracy and he knows that its only real menace is
democracy.

By CARRIE CHAPMAN GATT

War Aims

_ “ Find out what your enemy wants you to do and then
don’t do it. Find out what he doesn’t want you to do and
then do it,” is a saying credited to more than one great
What does the Kaiser dread more
than armies or navies? A democratic uprising in Ger-
many which will have no place in its scheme of things.
What will induce such an uprising? The infection which
will reach the Germans through the spread of such move-
The German papers did not print the
news that Great Britain had enfranchised its last class
of men who heretofore had not had the vote, about two
millions in number, and that it had enfranchised its
women, about six million} in number. Why? The Kaiser
had planned to deny “one man one vote ” to Prussian
men and he feared the infectious influence of such news
and the censors suppressed it.
extends the vote to women, will Germany be permitted to
get the news? N 0, not through the ordinary channels,
for no news of the spread of democracy must reach Ger-

I f it refuses to extend the vote to women at
Why?

“all that we have and all that we are,” and to
see it through to its final victory, even though
it shall take a generation.

But what is the democracy for which the
world is battling and‘for which we offer our
man power, our woman power, our money
power, our all? Government of the world by
consent of the individual nations; government
of the nations by consent of the individual
people. Nothing more, never less. The United
States ‘stands for the autonomy of the small
nations, the little peoples that have been the
pawns upon the royal chessboard of Kings for
a thousand years. It stands for their incon—
testable right to govern themselves in their
own way without fear of their neighbors. It
stands for the right of dependent lands to
decide for themselves whether they will be
independent, and, if not, to what larger power
they will choose to be attached. These are
our war aims, our ideals. They are worth
fighting for and worth dying for; the future
peace and welfare of the world depend upon
the result.

All these aims call for votes; there can be
no self-determination of peoples as to their
form of government without votes. Who is
to cast them? The nobility, the landed aris-
tocracy, a few men or the people? Our coun—
try professes to mean “ the people.” But does
it? Is it sincere? Is our own nation governed
by consent of the people? No.

The enfranchisement of women is far more
obviously inevitable today than was the en-
franchisement of the working man a hundred
years ago, yet our Republic has hesitated,
floundered, avoided and evaded the issue while
other nations, apparently of clearer vision and
of braver temper, have seized the banner of
leadership so long borne by our country and
they, not we, are now marching at the head of
the world procession of democracy.

Great Britain and Canada have each en-

When the United States

Digitized by 600816

franchised their women within a year
and have freed their suffrage armies
from the burden of future cam-
paigns, while at the same time they
have given to the world a pledge of
their honesty that they are fighting
democracy’s battle. Great Britain
gave the vote by the same bill to two
millions of men who had never had
the vote before. Years ago Australia
and New Zealand had enfranchised
men and women on equal terms, and
wherever the British flag flies there
is some form of suffrage for women.
The Scandinavian countries, Finland,
Norway, Denmark. Iceland, have al-
ready given universal suffrage to
men and women. The King of
Sweden has recommended and the
majority party has pledged to make
the partial suffrage long enjoyed by
women in that country a complete
suffrage. The King of Belgium has
said that if ever his‘ land is restored,
one of his first acts will be to give
women the vote. The French Cham-
ber of Deputies has promised women
the vote. The Premier of Italy
has eloquently espoused the cause
of suffrage and has pledged his party
to extend women the vote. Processions
of petitions and even street riots in Hun-
gary have demanded the vote for men and women
and it has been partially promised (May 1,1918).
The provincial government of Russia, before
it was overturned by anarchy, included women
in the voting electorate as a matter of course.
The question of votes for women has even
been discussed in the German Reichstag.
These facts are but signs and symptoms of
the widespread change in thought and theory
of government throughout the world. Each
new pronouncement of leaders or parties or
nations for man or woman suffrage stimu-
lates the further extension of democratic feel-
ing everywhere and brings nearer the victory
for the “powers of progress.” No action has
been taken by any allied country since the war
began which has checked or discouraged the
spread of democratic ideals. On the contrary,
after definite promises from the Kaiser of
franchise reform for men, the Prussian Par-
liament (Diet) defeated the proposal on May
2, 1918, by a vote of 235 to 181. It was an act
characteristic of the “forces of darkness.”

HE world expects America to be true to her
ideals, to live ,up to the noble war aims she

has set for herself. “ In all governments truly
republican, men are nothing—principle is every-
thing,” said Daniel Webster. The‘ principle
which has been the mainstay of our progress is
representative government, but ours will only
become representative when all of the people
give consent to the representatives entrusted
with the law-making and law-enforcing power
of the land. The only class left out is women—
graduates of high schools and colleges; mothers
who are to send millions of sons to France;
women who are to pay the war taxes, buy Lib-
erty Bonds and take the places of men in
tion plants, factories and fields, t
(Continued on page 7

 
 
   

i*‘

June 22, 1918

 

James Mccieeiili (:0.

Annual July Sale

Commencing Monday, June 24th

McCREERY “MASTER-MADE” FURNITURE

5th Avenue

34th Street

 

Much Below Regular Prices

 

Animal Summer Clearance

DOMESTIC RUGS

 

At Marked Savings

War Aims

(Continued from page 74)

home which alone makes it possible for the army
in France to fight. Strange exception! Yet
women are already voters over a vast territory

of the world. That they will vote everywhere -

no enlightened person questions. I‘p deny them
the vote longer in any part of this country
makes of our war aims a travesty and a lie.
It 06ers vindication to the German claim that
America pretends to lofty aims but they are
mere talk! . . .

This nation will fight with its back to the
wall for a clear-cut ideal, but the ideal must
have no flaws. Ours has. As a nation we
profess to stand for the annihilation of world
political despotism, but a nation does not think
clearly nor act logically when upon one hand
it declares against the “ Divine Right of Kings ”
and makes war upon the “ King business ” as
an intolerable usurpation of authority, yet on the
other hand maintains the “Divine Right ” of
males to rule over all the people in a land
pledged to self government. By what line of
thinking does an American justify the vote ex-
tended to an illiterate alien after a five years’
residence and deny it to a woman college presi—
dent? Is there any other word'than despotism
which defines the procedure? The despotism on
the right and on the left differ only in degree.
The famed defender of militarism, Treitschke,
said: “ \Ne Germans, who know both Germany
and France, know what suits the Alsatians far

better than that miserable people knows itself.”
Is there an American so lacking in humor that
he fails to see the insufferable impertinence of
that point of View?

. A few days ago a United States Senator
ejaculated “ I’m opposed to giving the vote to
women. We men know far better than they do
themselves what they want.” Treitschke’s twin
soul in the United States Senate dealing with
aims in a war for democracy! May heaven
protect us.r “ To.make us love our country our
country ought to be lovely,” said Edmund
Burke. To make us love our country our coun-
try should be consistent. . . .

The _Kaiser is fighting to make the world
safe for autocracy and he knows that its only
real menace is democracy. The Kaiser stakes his
all on the intimidation of the world through
ruthless might of militarism led by autocracy.‘
Why should our Republic hesitate while meeting
might with might to plant in Germany the seeds
of the only certain force which can permanent-
ly destroy autocrzlcy and militarism—democ-
racy? Great Britain and Canada have given the
pledge of their sincerity in a war for democ-
racy, why should the Great Republic balk?
\\'hat does the Great Republic fear? . . .

“ German men are military slaves and Ger-
man women mere door mats," said an American
man the other day contemptuously. Perhaps
they were yesterday, but what of tomorrow?

Germany is dependent upon her man power at
the front but she is equally dependent upon her
woman power at home. Women doubtless are
fooled by the Kaiser’s carefully guided pub-
licity and believe as do the men that they are
engaged in a war of defense, but there are at
least two millions of German mothers and two
millions of German wives or sweethearts who,
mourning the death of their loved ones, are
asking in the midst of their war wearinesn
whether there is no better way of running a
world than by the murder of war. Send them
a ray of hope and send it now. It will brighten
one day into redemption from military enslave-
ment for the people of Germany and into con-
sequent peace for the world. . . .

Give to the world the final pledge of sin-
cerity in American war aims. Give women of
this land the honor other nations have bestowed
upon theirs. Make democracy triumphant at
home that the Republic may war upon its
treacherous enemy autocracy without a spot on
the national escutcheon. Do it now.

NEXT WEEK
A second war message

will be published in
THE WOMAN CITIZEN.

 

When writing to advertisers please mention the WOMAN CITIZEN.

Digitized by 600816

The Woman Citizen

Vigilance Committees

HEN our' nation went to war the Na-

tional American Woman Suffrage As-
sociation privately urged the appointment by
every State Auxiliary of a Vigilance Commit—
tee which should not be announced to the pub-
lic, but whose function should be keeping a
watch over the work of women called to take
the places of men summoned to the colors, lest
they be subjected to unfair treatment in the
matter of wages, hours and sanitary conditions.
The time has come when every State Auxiliary
should urge each local auxiliary to appoint a
Vigilance Committee of the strongest, most in-
telligent and most fearless wqmen to be found.
This Committee should be publicly named and
its function should be the discovery and the pre-
vention of any and every attempt to exploit,
injure, wrong, or trick women and girls indus-
trially, financially, legally or morally.

A Case in Point

ANY years ago a group of public-spirited
philanthropic persons established a pri-

vate school for the manual training of girls in
the City of New York. It was known as the
Manhattan Trade School and was located in
the heart of the tenement district, where girls
seeking instruction could most easily be reached.
Its managers sought to find the trades needing
workers and then to train girls for those voca-

With

(Continued from page 70)

on a question which is essentially one of
democracy. Women are proving good soldiers
in all the warring countries and the govern-
ments of these countries do not hesitate to
demand their utmost assistance. Several of our
allies have recognized the war work of women
by the enfranchisement of women and others
promise to do so soon. Women of these
United States find it difficult to explain why
a government which rests explicitly upon the
consent of the governed should lag behind
other governments less purely 'democratic, in
its recognition of the rights of women. To argue
that the Senate should not take a few hours
of its valuable time to consider this supremely
important question, is to lack appreciation of
the fundamentals at the basis of this war. As
a matter of fact very little time need be taken
in the Senate for debate. The women of this
state urge that the vote be taken at an early
date and that the legislatures of the states have
a chance to decide whether these United States
follow the lead of their allies or the lead of
their enemies in recognition of women.—
Oshkosh, Wisconsin, Northwestern.

HE New Haven Teachers’ League, with

a membership of 750, passed resolutions
calling upon Senators Brandegee and McLean
of Connecticut to vote for the passage of the
Federal Amendment. Calling attention to the
fact that the public school teachers of this
country are engaged in instructing the youth-
ful minds under their care in all that tends to
make them loyal, patriotic citizens of the future,
capable of upholding the ideals of democracy

tions. Many employers preferred to take un-
trained girls at a pittance, train them into skilled
workers and keep them at a low wage, because
they did not understand their own value.

For years this pioneer institution fought the
economic battle of women, turning out each
year a group of skilled workers, and demanded
a living wage for them. Employers came to
see that both time and money were saved by
the employment of workers previously trained,
and the demand for graduates was much
greater than the school could supply. In course
of events this school was taken over by the City
of New York and incorporated in the public
school system. So great was the demand for
manual instruction that the building set aside
for the purpose was not only overcrowded, but
entirely unable to accommodate the ever-in-
creasing number of applicants. Then the city
built a larger, better equipped building to ac-
commodate 3,000 girls. The call of the nation
for women workers, ever more women to take
the places of men, makes the need of the school
even more imperative than before—yet out of

.the depths comes a torpedo from the submarine

of masculine narrow-mindedness ever lurking
near any improvement in the status, economic,
legal, civil or political, of women.

Supt. Ettinger, of the New York City schools,
has proposed to the Board of Education that it

present this new building to the Federal Gov-
ernment to be used as a hospital for wounded
soldiers. The proposal sounds so brave, gen-
erous, hospitable, and above all, patriotic that
the School Board is alleged to be actually con-
sidering it seriously. But is the robbing of
Sophie and Julia and Mary to pay Samuel, John
and Joe either justice or common sense? Mr.
Ettinger is reputed to be one of those men who
believe women should be trained for domestic
life and then kept there. To him the loss of
manual training to thousands of girls and their
consequent reduction to sweatshop wages is a
matter of small consequence. He has never
stopped to think that among them are many
upon whose slender shoulders, on account of
the draft of a brother or brothers, will fall a
considerable share of the home support. He
hasn’t thought that many a lover will not re-
turn from overseas and that the ’sweetheart
must carry on her own and others' support. It
is said that he is a gentleman whose mind is
closed, idea-tight, to the larger vision of things
where women are concerned. It is hoped the
Board possesses a bigger outlook. So it hap-
pens that the women of New York must insti-
tute a campaign to make New York City and
its School Board see that some alleged patriot-

ism is not patriotism at all, but a body blow at
the real thing. C. C. C.

Our Allies, the States

for which we are fighting, the resolution said
in part:

“ These teachers are called upon to instruct
equally in the duties of citizenship, girls as
well as boys, while unjustly and inconsistently
deprived of a share in the conduct of their
government." \

Record Offers Support to
Suffragists

ESENTING the attitude of United States

Senator Baird in regard to the Federal
Amendment for Woman Suffrage, George L.
Record, Republican candidate for the Senate as
successor to Mr. Baird, has offered the New Jer-
sey Woman Suffrage Association the oppor-
tunity of having speakers, distributing literature
and securing signatures to its Federal Amend-
ment petition at all his public meetings.

The Record Campaign Committee is holding
a series of one hundred meetings throughout
the state. These are regular old-fashioned
political gatherings, held in a tent and with
a free give-and—take of questions and answers
between the speakers and the audience.

The President of the Suffrage Association,
Mrs. E. F. Feickert, says: “We will be glad
to avail ourselves of the opportunity presented
by Mr. Record, and will be equally glad, of
course, to accept similar offers from any of
the other political parties or candidates. The
New Jersey Woman Suffrage Association is
absolutely non-partisan and has only one plank
in its platform, ‘Votes for Women’; but we
gladly welcome the support and helpful co-
operation of all political parties.”

Digitizetiiebj/r@5bgl€

Louisiana for Suffrage

OR the third time within a period of a little

more than a year, the suffrage cause has
scored an important victory in the South with
the passage of a bill by the Louisiana House
and Senate providing for a referendum this
fall upon a state sutfrage amendment. This
measure, which passed the lower house on June
11 by a vote of 80 to 21. was passed by the
Senate on June 18, 29 to 11, almost a three to
one victory.

The Louisiana victory was foreshadowed
some days ago by Governor R. G. Pleasant,
who declared in his address to the legislature
that he believed the time was ripe for the
enfranchisement of the women of the state.

Suffrage Agitation Needed

AXIMILIAN HARDEN, writing in Die

Zukunft deplores the fact that “ there is
no woman suffrage in Germany, and that the
women are silent, not demanding it.

“Never was the opportunity so favorable,”
he says, and adds, that “the best men at the
front follow ballot reform with watchfulness ”
in spite of the assertions of men like Count von
Spee, “ who can not speak for the real soldiers.
He can only speak for the staff, those people
behind the front who are well fed, well paid
and know nothing of the dangers of the front
and talk about the people at the front as ‘front
pigs ’ because they come from the trenches and

 

'l‘ he Woman’s Dopartment at
our Fifth Avenue Woe
is in charge of
Miss V. D. H. Furman
and is

especially equipped to handle
the accounts of women and
women’s organizations I

COLUMBIA
' ! TRUST ~
COMPANY

358 FIFTH AVENUE
Nearest-stileseaIdIhsOGeislSdrspBaal

METROPOLITAN
DYE WORKS

t

 

CLEANERS
and DYERS

iiinl (lass Work. Reamnnlult' Prices.

Prompt Delivery.

l

 

C’Est La Guerre

(Continued from page 69)

it is very damp and chilly. This climate is
about like that of Honolulu.

“ Breakfast we prepare here in our shacks
with solidified alcohol to heat water and George
Washington coffee (at which I turned up my
nose back home) or tea, a couple of slices of
bread and sometimes jam on it. Little fruit,
for that is scarce.

“There is also the process of ‘acclimating’
that each of us is going through. In Paris I
was never warm unless I slept with a hot-water
bottle and piled all the blankets on top of me,
plus my steamer rug and perhaps a coat. Hotel
bedrooms are unheated, and the dampness is so
damp it’s wet. We came from there to this
summer-like climate. Temperature, cold and
general disarrangement of one’s interior are the
rule. Again, ‘it is the war.’ ”

Opportunities for Women
“America, Here Are Your Girls ”

6 6 A MERICA, we give our girls to you,
America, you’ll find them tried and true,

Place your burdens on their shoulders,

They have learned how to serve and share.

America, we pledge our best to you

\Nhere’er our flag unfurls;

And there’s a million others,

Who can keep step with their brothers;
America, here are your girls.”

t t - OMEN are eligible for ship draftsmen

in the Navy Yard service, and
mechanical, marine engine, and boiler drafts-
men in the Navy Department. Another new
opening is that of inspector of undergarments
in the Quartermaster’s Department,” says the
Lyre of Alpha Chi Omega, a woman’s fraternity
magazine.

“ There is an aviation school in San Antonio,
Texas, which makes a specialty of training
girls to fly,” says the Kappa Delta Angelos.
“ The course of instruction, which takes about

six weeks, depending on the weather conditions, ‘

costs about $1,000 and the price of a machine
is about $12,000 at the present time, so that
the average girl cannot afford to fly for the
simple enjoyment there is in it.”

BOUT 50 young business women of Ala-

bama have formed themselves into the
Birmingham Association of Business and Pro-
fessional Women. Its object is to promote and
protect women in industrial and commercial
life and to be ready to act on measures vitally
effecting the business life of the city.

HE Civil Service Reform Association in

annual session in New York City, June
12, voted to admit women to full membership
in the organization. This action, taken for the
first time since the Association was organized
41 years ago, was said to be based on two
motives—the fact that women now have the
vote, thus making their interest equal to that
of the men in Civil Service work, and the-fact
that the Women’s Auxiliary voted to'coalesce
with the men’s organization, if permitted. The
Civil Service Reform Association is especially
interested in the question of equal pay.

A Book of Opportunities

A BOOK which will be revelatory to many
people is the report of the Intercollegiate
Bureau of Occupations, Opportunities for
Women in the Municipal Civil Service of the
City of New York. .

That there has been a steady increase in the
openings for women of late years, is well
known; but that they should occupy so many
civic positions gives food for thought.

There were in 1916 83,397 municipal em-
ployes in New York and, outside of the 18,116
women teachers, 6,180 of these employes were
women.

Some of these held positions of distinction,
such as Dr. Katharine Bement Davis, Commis-
sioner of the Department of Corrections and
later Chairman of the Parole Commission. It
should be noted that hers is the highest salaried
position filled by a woman in the government

of the City of New York.

77

.4 Boarding and
Day School for Girls

perstory Courses. Two
College Work. Special Courses: The Arts.

310‘! 8 Street. N. W”
Washington. D. 0.

High School and College Pre
Years of

Journalism. Short Story Writing. Business and Secre-

tarial Tral . Kindergarten. Normal Traini D
tic Science. rliamentary Law. In. om..-

Mrs. Nanette 8. Paul. LL. 8.. President.
Author of “Paul's Parliamentary Law"
and “The Heart of Blackstone"

 

ononuiijiiiiin WOMEN

MUNICIPAL CIVIL SERVICE
or me CITY or New Your:

Pannisnan B!

THE INTERCOLLEGIATE BUREAU

OF OCCUPATIONS

(AGING!)

19 West 44th Street New York

For Sale at the ofice of the Bureau
Price Fifty Cents

(including postage Jlfty-lee cents)

 

Positions considered by the Bureau as desir-
able include: inspectional, professional and ad-
ministrative fields. 1

Dr. Josephine Baker, of the Child Hygiene
Department, Dr. Ethel Brown, Mercantile In-
spector of the Department of Health, are two
rather notable civil service women. Public
health, food, tenement, and fire prevention, even
weights and measures, and trade waste material
open new inspectional headships to women.

There is an entire field in social service,
which includes charity investigators, attendance,
probation, and recreational ofiicers. Bacterio-
logy even before the war made loud calls upon
women, and the field of psychology, through
Binet tests and the new work for defective
childhood, has engaged the attention of many
women. With the advancing need for shell
shock study, women will be called more and
more into the psychiatrist’s realm.

All the variations of nursing, one of women's
oldest pursuits, have enlisted many recruits.
These were on the cards. Such new ventures
for women as finger-printing, the unfolding pos-
sibilities of diet and pharmacy are more arrest-
ing. Women are making headway also as
statisticians, actuarial clerks, and even as en-
gineers and draughtsmen.

The war will undoubtedly speed up the civil
service positions open to women. This report
should not fail to engage the close attention of
women educators so that they may plan posi-

tions in life for which the girl may profitably be
trained.

The Place of Women

HE New York Herald of June 18 carried
the story that Mrs. William Force Scott
has just been appointed Yonkers’ first police-
woman. Mrs. Scott was the former leader of
the Yonkers mti-sufiragists. Her creed, as
often announced, was that woman’s place is in
the home, and that the privilege of being pro-
tected is more to be desired than the duties and
responsibilities of citizenship. Mrs. Scott will
now have the same powers as a uniformed
policeman.
She will experience what sufiragists have
always proclaimed that woman’s “ place ” is
wherever she is needed.

When writing to advertisers please mention the WOMAN CITIZEN.

Digitized by Google

78

The Woman Citizen

How I Improved My Memory
In One Evening ‘

The Amazing Experience of Victor Jones

“Of course I place you! Mr. Addison

Sims of Seattle.

“If I remember correctly—-and I do re-
member correctly—Mr. Burroughs, the
lumberman, introduced me to you at the
luncheon of the Seattle Rotary Club three
years ago in May. This is a pleasure in-
deed! I haven’t laid eyes on you since
that day. How is the grain business?
And how did that amalgamation work
out?”

The assurance of this speaker—in the
crowded corridor of the Hotel McAlpin—
compelled me to turn and look at him,
though I must say it is not my usual habit
to “listen in” even in a hotel lobby.

“He is David M. Roth, the most famous
memory expert in the United States,” said
my friend Kennedy, answering my ques-
tion before I could get it out. “He will
show you a lot more wonderful things
than that, before the evening is over.”

And he did.

As we went into the banquet room the
toastmaster was introducing a long line
of the guests to Mr. Roth. I got in line
and when it came my turn, Mr. Roth
asked, “What are your initials, Mr. Jones,
_and your business connection and tele-
phone number?" Why he asked this, I
learned later, when he picked out from
the crowd the 60 men he had met two
hours before and called each by name
without a mistake. What is more, he
named each man’s business and telephone
number, for good measure.

I won’t tell you all the other amazing
things this man did except to tell how he
called back, without a minute’s hesitation,
long lists of numbers, bank clearings,
prices, -lot numbers, parcel post rates and
anything else the guests gave him in rapid

order.
assess:

When I met Mr. Roth again—which you
may be sure I did the first chance I got—
he rather bowled me over by saying, in
his quiet, modest way:

“There is nothing miraculous about my
remembering anything I want to remem-
ber, whether it be names, faces, figures,
facts or something I have read in a mag-
azme.

“You can do this just as easily as I do.
Anyone with an average mind can learn
quickly to do exactly the same things
which seem so miraculous when I do them.

“My own memory,” continued Mr. Roth,
“was originally very faulty. Yes it was
—a really poor memory. On meeting a
man I would lose his name in thirty sec-
onds. while now there are probably 10,000
men and women in the United States,

When writing to advertisers please mention the WOMAN  

many of whom I have met but once, whose
names I can call instantly on meeting
them.”

“That is all right for you, Mr. Roth,”
I interrupted, “you have given years to
it. But how about me?”

“Mr. Jones,” he replied, “I can teach
you the secret of a good memory in one
evening. This is not a guess, because I
have done it with thousands of pupils.
In the first of seven simple lessons which
I have prepared for home study, I show
you the basic principle of my whole sys-
tem and you will find it—not hard work
as you might fear—but just like playing
a fascinating game. I will prove it to
you.”

He didn’t have to prove it. His Course
did; I got it the very next day from his
publishers, the Independent Corporation.

When I tackled the first lesson, I sup-
pose I was the most sur rised man in
forty-eight states to fin that I had
learned—in about one hour—how to re-
member a list of one hundred words so
that I could call them off forward and
back without a single mistake. '

That first lesson stuck. And so did the
other six.

Read this letter from C. Louis Allen,
who at 32 years became president of a
million dollar corporation, the Pyrene
Manufacturing Company of New York,
makers of the famous fire extinguisher:

C

“Now that the Roth Memory Course is
finished. I want to tell you how much I
have enjoyed the study of this most fas-
cinating subject. I’sually these courses in-
volve a great deal of drudgery. but this
has been nothing but pure pleasure all the
way through. I have derived much bene-
fit from taking the course of instructions
and feel that I shall continue to strength-
en my memory. That is the best part of
it. I shall be glad of an opportunity to
recommend your work to my friends."

Mr. Allen didn’t put it a bit too strong.

The Roth Course is priceless! I can
absolutely count on my memory now. I
can call the name of most any man I have
met before—-and I am getting better all
the time. I can remember any figures I
wish to remember. Telephone numbers
come to mind instantly, once I have filed
them by Mr. Roth’s easy method. Street
addresses are just as easy.

The old fear of forgetting (you know
what that is) has vanished. I used to be
“scared stiff” on my feet—because I wasn’t
sure. I couldn’t remember what I wanted
to say. -

Now I am sure of myself, and confi-
dent, and “easy as an old shoe” when I
get on my feet at the club, or at a banquet
or in a business meeting, or in any social
gathering.

Perhaps the most enjoyable part of it
all is that I have become a good conversa-
tionalist—and I used to be as silent as a
sphinx when I got into a crowd of people
who knew things.

Now I can call up like a flash of light-
ning most any fact I want right at the
instant I need it most. I used to think a
"hair trigger” memory belonged only to
the prodigy and genius. Now I see that

every man of us has that kind of a mem-
oryhif he only knows how to make it work
rig t.

I tell you it is a wonderful thing, after
groping around in the dark for so many
years to be able to switch the big search-
light on your mind and see instantly every-
thing you want to remember.

This Roth Course will do wonders in
your office.

Since we took it up you never hear any-
one in our office say “I guess” or “I think
it was about so much” or “I forget that
right now” or “I can’t remember” or “I
must look up his name.” Now they are
right there with the answer—like a shot.

Have you ever heard of “Multigraph”
Smith? Real name H. Q. Smith, Division
Manager of the Multigra h Sales Com-

any, Ltd., in Montreal. ere is just a

it 1from a letter of his that I saw last
wee :

“Here is the whole thing in a nutshell:
Mr. Roth has a most remarkable Memory
Course. It is simple, and easy as falling
off a log. Yet with one hour a day of
practice. anyone—I don’t care who he is
-—-ean improve his Memory 100% in :1
week and 1.000% in six months."

My advice to you is don’t wait another
minute. Send to Independent Corporation
for Mr. Roth’s amazing course and see
what a wonderful memory you have got.
Your dividends in increased earning power
will be enormous.

VICTOR JONES

Send No Money

So confident is the Independent Corpora-
tion, the publishers of the Roth Memory
Course, that once you have an opportunity
to see in your own home how easy it is to
double, yes, triple your memory power in
a few short hours, that they are willing to
send the course on free examination.

Don’t send any money. Merely mail the
coupon or write a letter and the complete
course will be sent, all charges prepaid, at
once. If you are not entirely satisfied send
it back any time within five days after you
receive it and you will owe nothing.

On the other hand, if you are as pleased
as are the thousands of other men and
women who have used the course senc’
only $5 in full payment. You take nc
risk and you have everything to gain. sr
mail the coupon now before this remark.
able offer is withdrawn.

FREE EXAMINATION COUPON

jlnhtnzntmt limitation

Division of Business Education. 119 West 40l| St.,New Yer
Publisher: of The Independent (and Harper': like]:ny

Please send me the Roth Memory Course of sevel
lessons. I will either remail the course to ym

within five days after its receipt or send you $5

 

-

Jnne 22, 1918

:3. J al-  ._.  ism-am Em[EWIHIH1nIlilllllllllIll”lIHI[Ill]II[llHlIlllll|Illl"IllllllIll|llIIIIIlllllHIIIIIIHHIW!IIIHIIIIIIIIIII

  

NIHIHHHIIHHIH!|lWIIIIIIIHIIHIIlllllllllllllllllllllllll|llIll!!!l|HIIIIHIHIHHIIIIIIIIIIl[FHIIIIHNIIIlHlllHlfHHllllllllllIllllllHUI!!!“llIIIIIIIHIIIIHIHHIIIHIHIIIIIHI]HIIIIEIIIIHIIIIllIIIIIIIIIIIHIHIHIHIIll|IIIIHIIIIEIHI!lllllllllilllllIIIFHH

From an Eastern Point of View

. j. YORK, White Plains
J "The Citizen is a splendid

 
   
 

:mm: lm im 1mm Jilmnulumnmml IIi.iIIIIIIIIIIllIHIHIIllti«iIhI4l.1i1HIIIIIrIIIIInquww H-‘Iumm

    
    

’   . '7.- paper.”
'2’ Esther S. B. Woodward, M.D. '
Department of Clinics, Office of

Commissioner of Charities,
and Corrections.

 

 

 “I would like to express my
  great appreciation of the
" ' ‘Woman Citizen.’ If there is
anything I can do personally to help its
editors, command me. . . . Wishing
long life and prosperity to your publica-
tion." Matilda B. Maloy.

  LORIDA, Melbourne

"I greatly enjoy the Woman
Citizen. lts diction is fine, its

. ' logic invulnerable and its prin-
c1ple is Justice personified."
(Mrs.) L. A. Pierce.

 

 

-llmlfrhlmil'u In:

From a Western Point of View

. '  INNESOTA, Mentorville

"I have just hnished reading
* n ‘r ' _ your issue of May 18, and if it

samples the rest I want a whole
year of it. Please find a dollar to put me

on your list." C. S. Campbell.

I ' ,' U  hOUTH DAKOTA, Watertown

“May the splendid Woman
 Cltlzen ever grow and in-
‘  crease."

Mary Elizabeth Pidgeon.
" --  _ ALIFORNIA, Palo Alto

I "I enjoy the Woman Citizen
W more than I can express."

(Mrs.) Sylvie G. Thygeson.

1......_-__..__.___.____

uuilwil'm‘i'lWITIIIHHumqummhhihL'i'INIMW I’ll-1mm“"“mml‘m'm'“H
I C]

 

WJ- WW"”-‘W WVW." ’I'J-' mt.

 

imam}th«mm-m'n'mmnwum' mw'.human-w.mm 3.:
I
l
I

Books at] Less Than Published Prices

 

E have arranged to supply the books listed below at the special prices
named when sold in combination with new subscriptions to the Woman
Citizen. They will be mailed post-paid to any address in the United States.
This is an opportunity to save from twenty to thirty-five per cent on the

published prices.

If you are already a subscriber to the Woman Citizen

and wish to own certain of the books, invite your friends to become subscribers to the
magazine at one dollar a year, and have the books of your choice sent to your address.
They will cost you the difference between the full price quoted for each combination

sent to your address.
Price

On the War

of Book
THE PAN-GERMAN PLOT UNMASKED: André Chéradame . . . . . . .. £1.25

“OVER THERE”: Captain R. Hugh Knyvett . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50

FIGHTING FOR PEACE: Henry van Dyke . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25

WHY WE ARE AT WAR: Woodrow Wilson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .50

IN OUR FIRST YEAR OF WAR‘: Woodrow Wilson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00

FIGHTING FRANCE: Edith Wharton.....'. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00

THE UNITED STATES AND PAN-GERMANIA: André Chéradame.. 1.00
GENERAL JOFFRE AND HIS BATTLES: Raymond Reoouly (Captain X) 1.25
ON THE RIGHT OF THE BRITISH LINE: Captain Gilbert Nobbs... 1.25
WHITE NIGHTS AND OTHER RUSSIAN IMPRESSIONS: Arthur Ruhl 2.00

A WAR NURSE’S DIARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25
MY WAR DIARY: Madame Waddington . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50
WITH THE ALLIES: Richard Harding Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25

THE DESERTER: Richard Harding Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .. .50
PRINCIPLES OF AMERICAN DIPLOMACY: John Bassett Moore... . 2.00

N o v e l 8
THE EARTHQUAKE: Arthur Train . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50
CHRISTINE: Alice Cholmondeley. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25
HIS FAMILY: Ernest Poole . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50
THE TREE OF HEAVEN: May Sinclair . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.60
Miscellaneous
YOUR VOTE AND HOW TO USE IT: Mrs. Raymond Brown . . . . . . .. .75
THE WOMAN VOTER’S MANUAL: S. E. Forman and Marjorie Shuler. . 1.00
MARK TWAIN’S LETTERS, 2 Volumes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4.00
OBSERVATION: EVERY MAN HIS OWN UNIVERSITY: R. H. Conwell 1.00
THE MODERN CITY AND ITS PROBLEMS: Frederic C. Howe. . .. 1.50
THE HIGH COST OF LIVING: Frederic C. Howe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50
THE FOOD PROBLEM: Kellogg and Taylor . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25

WAR FRENCH: Colonel C. D. Willcox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Published Combination :

'and one dollar. Or subscribe to the magazine as a gift for a friend and have the book

Amount

Subscription Saved on

and Book Combination

 

$1.85 8.40

2.00 .50

1.85 .40

1.35 .15

1.65 .35

1.65 .35

1.65 .35

1.85 .40

1.85 .40

2.35 .65

1.85 .40

2.00 .50

1.85 .40 I
1 35 .15 ,4
2.35 .65 
2.00 .50

1.85 .40 r
2.00 .50

2.00 .60

1.50 .25

1.65 35

3.75 1.25

1.65 .35

2.00 .50

2.00 .50

1.85 .40

1.50 .25

This offer is for a limited period. Send your orders promptly to

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

171 Madison Avenue

New York City

 

 

