Q
a

\

The Woman Citizen

THE WOMAN’S JOURNAL
A Journal of Democracy

June 1, 1918

“W 0 shall fight for the thing: which we have almays carried nearest our hearts —for democracy. for the right of
those who submit to authority to have a voice in their own government."

The Woman and the Calling

MERICA is watching what Dr. Anna Howard

Shaw calls “ an inspiring spectacle,” the mobiliza-
tion of its women into the nation’s service. No less to
women than to men does the call of the country’s need
bring a thrill.

The Government is calling for women in every bulle-
tin issued from Washington. But before bulletins were
issued, something stronger than governments had iml
pelled women to offer themselves. All the tides of
loyalty were rolling them forward into an army, one and
indivisible, which is to save America.

It does not matter that some of this American army
will be over here and some over there. That some of
it will be made up of men and some of women. Its soli—
darity is a wall to protect the cherished principles of
American democracy.

“ More and more, as the war program progresses,”
says the United States Civil Service Commission, “is
the Government depending upon women to perform the
tremendously increased volume of work in the civil
branches. As men are called to the colors, women must
take their" places and keep the machinery behind the
armed forces moving at the maximum of efficiency.”

Now a new call for men has gone out and women are
slipping one by one into their places. Over night one
finds them in' the elevators of office buildings, in the sur-
face cars and in the subways; in khaki, in overalls.

They have come in haste and the garment of custom
is rent by their hurried coming. Conventions have been
put on awry, or left off.

It is idle to remind oneself that a few women go into
new work from love of adventure, that some even share
men’s roaming spirit after the new and the untried.

It is churlish to make these the outstanding features
of a great movement.

It is no time to be churlish.

And it is useless.
go On just the same.

For the women are called.

Behind the women who have ventured most, and
tasted the thrill of sacrifice and of danger, stands the
solid rank of their sisters, comprehending and sympa-
thetic.

And the last line is only another drawn—up army of
reinforcements, ready to protect the vanguard, closing
up to see fair play. If there are bad conditions surround-
ing the new workers, the watching rearguard must find
a remedy, not an inhibition.

There will be new questions to be settled, and far-
visioned women see it. Men gone to the front will come
home torn and broken, to be gathered into the strong
arms of unbroken women. Young boys whose profes-
sional careers have been lopped will come back to women
who have marched on to professional achievement ready
to take the lead. .

. This is no, condition of women’s seeking. But they
are not blind to it, now that it is here. '

This is no time to stifle women’s forth-faring spirit;
to maintain old and prejudiced barriers. This is a time
for making use of whatever material there is for building
a new civilization which has been. torn down.

America is standing by her fighting sons, giving them
every protection and support. Does America hold her
daughters less priceless than her sons? Is she to give
to the boys in khaki with full hands and hearty cheers,
and accord criticism, scant praise and distrust to the
grimy troop of women who have moved forward in their
rear? .

'W’ill America hold on to the old obstructions for
women? Above all, will she continue to withhold that

political freedom the lack of which has disrupted two
continents?

The mobilization of women will

Would You Be Satisfied?

IF YOU had bought a business with two sources of income in
June of 1917; if in May of 1918 your receipts from one of
these sources was three times what it had been in June of 1917

and your receipts from the other of these sources had sextupled ;
Would you be satisfied?

You wouldn’t if you were the Woman Citizen.

In June of 1917 the Woman Citizen Corporation merged the
subscription and advertising lists of three suffrage journals, lopped
off the dead wood and started in to interest women in a national
weekly that would cover politics from woman’s viewpoint.

Between that date and this the magazine’s receipts from adver-
tising have trebled and the receipts from subscription have sex-
tupled.

Between that date and this we have increased our housing space
until, with the Leslie Suffrage Bureau, we now occupy the whole
fifteenth floor of our building. And we have doubled our force.

Beginning with a sixteen-page magazine without colored cover,
we have added a cover with the two—color process. And we have
changed our type size so that a great deal more matter is pre-
sented in our text pages each issue than was presented in the
beginning.

Our circulation drive is gaining impetus daily.

All which is testimony to success and to growth.

Yet we are not satisfied.

And cheerfully admit that we are never going to be.

During the ensuing year we shall still further enlarge the maga-
zine, add to its program of special features, extend its range of
interests, perfect its format, and increase its circulation.

And June of 1919 will find us still not satisfied and projecting
a further program for the magazine’s development.

Why They Need Military Rank

0 a quite general extent nurses are not saying much about

the bill presented in Congress by Congressman Raker,

from the woman suffrage state of California, which would grant

official rank to American nurses serving in military hospitals. But

they are thinking about it, as was shown in the resolution passed

on May IO by the National Organization of Nurses of the United
States in convention at Cleveland.

One reason for the reticence of the nurses is that the stress put

upon the bill’s urgency is one of reward. Easy popular interest

has been aroused by the phrase, “ Give them the rank they de-

9

serve.’ As a reward for services rendered, nurses are modestly

silent. Let the laity see it through is their characteristic response
to such a point of view, the unwritten ethical code of the nursing
profession being against all personal exploitation.

And that is becoming to the nurses, but it sadly obscures the
real issue—the palpitating need for a rank relative to that of
army men in order to save lives and take away from the military
hospital as many horrors as possible.

Miss Amy Hilliard, superintendent of Bellevue Hospital Train-
ing School, has made this very clear in a recent statement.

--fv-a~qmmn _ ,.. __a____.__? __ v V‘

The Woman Citizen

“ There are now in service 11,842 graduate nurses,” she says,
“ who have been given no recognition for their professional work,
and are neither enlisted nor commissioned. At the present time
they have no control of enlisted men nor of petty officers who
work in the wards supposedly under them. These men owe
allegiance only to their superior officers. The graduate nurse is
in reality an outsider in a military organization, and is helpless to
make changes or improvements in ward conditions which her pro-
fessional knowledge tells her should be made.

“ She has no control of patients, as, if the ward master chooses,
he, by reason of his rank, takes precedence over her.

“ She has no control of ward linen, equipment, utensils, nor of
special diet.

“ When a group of nurses must work under army or navy sur-
geons, the question of rank comes up immediately, and under such
circumstances the petty officers and enlisted men, who have had
no more medical training than an orderly in the city hospital, are
given authority which takes precedence over that of the nurse.

” The bill now pending would create an Army Nurses’ Corps
in the Medical Department, in which the superintendent would
have the rank of major, with six assistant superintendents as cap-
tains. A director of nursing would be appointed for each sep-
arate military force outside the continental limits of the United
States, with assistants of the same rank. Chief nurses would be in
the proportion of one to fifty nurses, and the reserves would hold
the rank of first or second lieutenant. The superintendent or major
would be appointed and removed by the Secretary of War, other
members of the corps by the Surgeon-General. The bill also
contains provisions for promotions and for retirement on pay.”

The nurses’ mark of rank would be the insignia of the Army,
and would necessitate no change in the nurses’ uniform, but, as
one nurse expressed it, “ those two bars on our shoulders would
mean prompt control, when to be without control might mean

disaster or death in emergencies where life itself is hanging on
swift and accurate response to orders.”

Both Are Pleased

POLITICAL leaders who last Saturday. watched the first

enrollment of New York women, for the primaries,
are as pleased as can be with the results.

A prominent

Democrat says:

“ In the Democratic districts
there was a very heavy vote,
and from a purely party stand-
point the day was a most en-
couraging one.”

A prominent Republican
says:

“ In all of the boroughs, and
in Manhattan particularly, I
was pleased from a party point
of view, for in our strong dis-
tricts the women enrolled in

great numbers.”

Digitized by GO 

  

June 1, 1918

Suffrage in Jewish Palestine

HERE will be no need for “ Votes-for-Women ” campaigns

in the new Jewish state that is to be established in Pales-

tine. According to information sent out from Zionist head-
quarters, equal suffrage is accepted as a matter of course by the
pioneers who are reorganizing Jewish communal life to meet the

requirements of national existence.

\Vhen word reached Palestine that, following the British
Declaration in favor of the establishment in that country of a
national Jewish home, a Jewish administrative commission was
on its way to take over the actual government of Jerusalem,
JaH‘a and the Jewish colonies, all of the elements interested
called conferences to facilitate the commission’s work. Equal
suffrage was adopted by the Jewish community of Jaifa and a
number of colonies, and the women took part in all the proceed-
ings of the conferences.

Even before the outbreak of the war equal suffrage had gained

a strong foothold in Palestine; indeed, it has prevailed from the -

very beginnings of the present Jewish colonization during the 805.

It is characteristic also of the Zionist organizations throughout
the world. Women vote at their International Congresses and
at the national conventions as a matter of course.

The way in which many of the younger Jews have revolted
against the traditional idea of the subjection of women is well
described by I. L. Perez, a great Jewish writer of the Nineteenth
Century. One of his sketches depicting Jewish life in Russian
Poland is entitled “ Domestic Happiness.” Chaim, a poor street
porter, is a devout attendant at the synagogue, and has espe-
cially enjoyed a series of lectures on Paradise. But one day the
Rabbi asserts that when a man sits in Paradise his wife is his
footstool. He goes home and says to his
wife:

“ I will not have you be my footstool! I shall bend down to
you, educate you, and make you sit beside me. We will both
sit on one chair, as we are doing now. We are so happy like
this! Do you hear, Hannah? You and I are going to sit to-
gether on one chair. The Almighty must allow it! ” A. S. B.

Chaim is indignant.

Spanish Women Awakening

SPAIN is a country where the woman suffrage movement has
made a very slow advance. But the papers report that at
the recent elections in Spain the women, for the first time, took a
lively interest. For months beforehand they had been eagerly
studying public questions.

The reason is not far to seek. In Spain the war has raised the
cost of living to a point that brings acute distress. Many of the
people are on the brink of actual starvation. When Napoleon
said that women ought not to meddle in politics, a distinguished
Frenchwoman answered: “ Sire, when women are liable to have
their heads cut off, it is natural that they should wish to know
the reason why.” When women find that they and their children
are in danger of death from starvation, they naturally want to
know the reason. There is no such stimulus to inquiry as hun-

ger. The terrible conditions that now prevail throughout 5 large

7

part of the world are making women think as never before.

The women of Spanish America have generally taken as little
interest in politics as the women of Spain; but in South America,
too, there is coming a change. One sign of it is a striking poem
entitled “ Lightning,” by José Santos Chocano of Peru, the greatest
living Spanish-American poet, which may be translated as fol-
lows:

O, ragged mother, holding out thine hand
Forever at the doors, in sorrow deep,

And seeing always bare and empty chests
And human consciences fast locked in sleep!

0, thou that goest gathering in the bag
Of thy sore poverty forevermore

Leavings that in the shipwreck of each day
Follies and vices cast upon the shore!

Daughter art thou to him who went to war,
Marched in the ranks and shed his blood unbought,

Sank down in battle, fell to earth and died—
And no one now remembers that he fought.

Sister art thou to him who fell one day

Among machinery’s teeth, which crush and kill.
The wheels were all indiferent to his fate,

And human hearts were more indiferent still.

Widow art thou of one who at the plough
Died, sunstruck, as he labored on the plain.

Today all eat the bread his wheat has made.
Thou dost not eat it—and he sowed the grain!

Thou art the daughter and the sister poor,
The widow always left with child unborn.
Thou art the mother who of every rag
. Will make a flag, when breaks to-morrow's morn.

Still, as a consolation, in thy womb '
A son of thy dead husband thou dost bear.
A cloud of rags; its thoughts are of the sky,
But of a sky where tempest jills the air.

Thy son will be no gentle cherub fair,

N o honey-cup, no Mayflower soft of bloom.
O, ragged mother! Lo, thou art the cloud,

And thou dost bear the lightning in thy womb!

This poem was written some years before the war; but the
great world conflict has widened and intensified the conditions
that it describes. Among its by—products has been and will be
an immense increase amdng women of interest in public affairs.

A. S. B.

No Interest in Defeat

CC OMAN suffrage will carry in Oklahoma this year. Few
people are taking any interest in the defeat of the
measure giving the ladies the right to vote which is to appear on
the ballot, while the ladies are actively campaigning for it. It
calls to mind the fact that a great many people who have not had
the right to vote should, and will have it when the women of
Oklahoma are enfranchised. Also it suggests the question that
there are many men in Oklahoma who have had the right to vote
who have grossly and ignorantly exercised the privilege. We are
in favor of giving the women what they want. They’ll get it
sooner or later anyway, and we hope to see the amendment grant-
ing them the full suffrage carry by a big whoop, and it will. N 0
change in the political complexion of the state will come of it,
however.”—Haskell County News, McCurtain, Oklahoma.

Digitized by GOOSIC

THE FEDERAL SUFFRAGE
AMENDMENT

KNOWN IN TH!

65TH CONGRESS on Tns UNITED STATls as
SENATE JOINT RESOLUTION No. 2
and HOUSE JOINT RESOLUTION No. 1

Proposing an Amendment to the Con-
stitution o the United States Confer-
rtng upon omen the Right of Suprage.

Resolved by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled (two-thirds
of each House concurring therein), That
the following article be proposed to the
legislatures of the several states as an
amendment to the Comtitution 01' the
United States, which, when ratified
three-fourths of! the said Legislatures sh I
be valid as part of said Constitution,

namely :
“ ARTICLE

“ SECTION 1. The right of citizens of the
United States to vote shall not be denied

or abridged by the United States or by any
state on account of sex.

“ SIC. 2. The Con ess shall have power,

by appropriate legis ation. to enforce the
provisions of this article." .

HISTORY ov- AMINDMINT
First introduced in the Senate,

Januar 10, 1878, b Senator A. A.
Sargen , of California.

VOTED UPON IN THE SENATE:
34January 25, 1887, yeas 16, Days

March 19, 1914. yeas 35, nays 34.
VOTED UPON IN TH! Hausa:

Janua 12, 1915, can 174,
204. W y my.

18ganuary 10, 1918, yeas 274, nays

Victory!
Present Status:

IN Tan SINATD:
Reperted from Committee

September 13, every member of
Committee approving.

On the calendar.

Date for vote
not fixed.

 

Organization News

M ANY county conventions were held by
the New York State Woman Suffrage
Party during the month of May and more are
scheduled for June. They are the conventions

Of Yates, Franklin, Albany, Delaware and On-
tario counties.

—_—

RS. BARTON JENKS has been suc-

. ceeded in the presidency of the Rhode
Island Equal Suffrage Association by Miss
Mary B. Anthony, of Providence. ‘

 

T the annual convention of the Massachu—

setts Woman Suffrage Association, Mrs.
Charles Sumner Byrd was elected to the first
vice-presidency. As such she will be the act-
ing president. Miss Alice Stone Blackwell re-
mains the president of the association.

Honors for Women

M 185 JULIA LATHROP, of Washington,
head of the Children’s Bureau of the

Federal Department Of Labor, was elected
president Of the National Conference Of Social
Workers at the annual convention of the asso-
ciation in Kansas City, May 20.

 

UTGERS COLLEGE for the first time in

its history has awarded a degree to a
woman. Mrs. Mary Mitchell Moore, of Bryn
Mawr, received this honor at the commence-
ment exercises May 21, when she was given the
degree of doctor of philosophy.

The Woman Citizen

Resolved!

N every state in the Union organized bodies
of men and women are protesting at the
Senate’s delay in passing the Federal Suffrage
Amendment. Organized labor,‘ organized reli-
gion, organized education, organized philan-
thropy—all are .going on record with urgent
resolutions. Within the last few days in the

state of Wisconsin alone the following reso-
lutions have been passed:

WHEREAS, In such a crisis as the present,
when we are engaged in a world wide struggle

for democracy, it is fitting, expedient, and .

proper that we should take every precaution to

insure to our own citizens the fullest possible
measure of democracy,"

WHEREAS, Democracy cannot be said to exist
and a sense of justice and fair treatment can-
not be expected to continue so long as a large
percentage of our adult population is excluded

from important political rights on the sole
ground of sex,

AND WHEREAS, the resolution submitting to
the states the question of suffrage for women
has been repeatedly and unnecessarily delayed
by Congress, and is at present being held in a
committee of, the Senate for an unreasonable
period of time,

THERErORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Madison
Federation of Labor respectfully petitions that
the aforesaid amendment shall be brought out
immediately for consideration upon the floor of
the Senate, and that it shall be favorably acted
upon by the members.

J. H. BROWN, President.
, HARRY F. COLLINS, Secretary.

RESOLVED, That we, the members of “ The
Sailors and Soldiers Home Club of the Little
Theater,” protest against the delay in the
United, States Senate in taking the vote on the
woman suffrage amendment, already passed by
the House of Representatives.

We urge the Senate to delay no longer but
to pass the amendment at an early date, not
only in order that the women of these United
States may take a position equal to that of the
women of other nations less fundamentally
democratic than ours, but also to indicate to the
world that thc Senate of the United States is
not lacking in belief in democracy and in the
patriotic ideals and practical services of women.

(Signed) EDITH ADAMS STEWART.

WHEREAS, Women of the countries of our
allies have been enfranchised as a war meas-
ure, and,

WHEREAS, VVOmen of these United States
are every day demonstrating their capacity for
the highest type of citizenship, and,

WHEREAS, The House of Representatives has
passed the amendment to the federal consti-
tution abolishing sex as a requisite for voters,
while the President Of the United States favors
it and leaders in all political parties and all lines
of thought and activity endorse it; therefore

RESOLVED, That we, representatives of The
Milwaukee Teachers’ Association (1400 mem-
bers), at a meeting held at Assembly Room,
First National Bank, on May 22, urge the Sen-
ate to pass the woman suErage amendment
without delay.

JOSEPHINE F. MURPHY, President.
EDITH I. O’NEILL, Secretary.

WHEREAS, The right of citizens to vote should
not be denied or abridged on account of sex;
Be It

RESOLVED, That we, the Woman’s Alliance of
the First Unitarian Church of Milwaukee, urge
upon the Senate of the United States the im-
portance of immediate favorable action by that
honorable body upon the amendment to the
Constitution of the United States, known as the
Susan B. Anthony Amendment.

HARRIET F. RICHARDSON, President;
E. B. KELLOOG,

Mas. CARRIE D. KELLOOO.

Double-dyed Patriotism

ATRIOTISM was the keynote at the re-

cent annual meeting Of the Massachusetts
Woman Suffrage Association in Boston. As
some quite inaccurate reports of the proceed-
ings got into the press, it is worth while to give
a correct account.

On the opening day, I Offered the following
resolution, which was adopted unanimously and
with enthusiasm:

“Resolved, that the delegates of the Massa-
chusetts Woman Suffrage Association, in their
49th annual convention assembled, renew their
pledge of unswerving loyalty to our country in
its great contest with a treacherous and ruth-
less foe. We will give our best efforts to de-
fend it against enemies both foreign and do-
mestic. We will continue and extend our war
work; we will support the Constitution of the
United States and stand solidly behind the great
struggle to make the world safe for democ-
racy, both at home and abroad.”

Not knowing that this resolution was to be
offered, Professor Albert Bushnell Hart of
Harvard also had brought in a resolution de-
claring the Association's loyalty. It was much
longer and more elaborate than the first one,
and went more into detail, but breathed the like
spirit of patriotism. An enthusiastic delegate
proposed that the convention should pass both
resolutions. Other delegates thought such ac-
tion superfluous, holding that the one already
adopted covered the ground. After some dis-
cussion, Professor Hart said that he should be
satisfied with the passage of one section of his
resolution, and the following was then adopted
with practical unanimity, and with warm ap-
plause:

“ Resolved, that we pledge our support of the
armies in the field; of the President and Con-
gress in the Government; Of the workmen and
workwomen engaged in providing the material
of war. According to our opportunity, we
will join in Red Cross and relief work; we will
pay our taxes and buy Liberty bonds; we will
make public addresses; use private influence.
and give the service of heart and soul to the
continuance of the war."

Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, who was present,
said she was reminded of her first visit to Paris.
She and her husband entered a restaurant
where they found two big bowls, containing two
kinds of soup, standing on opposite sides of the
room. The manager said: “Both are good.
Whichever you take you will be satisfied.”
The same might be said of these resolutions.
“You have passed both,” said Mrs. Catt, “so
your patriotism now is beyond cavil.”

A. S. B.

Digitized by 600816

June 1, 1918

Correspondence

To THE EDITOR OF THE WOMAN CITIZEN:

The Woman Citizen demonstrates its fairness
in presenting both sides of an issue. In again
trespassing upon its space, I want it distinctly
understood that I am not at variance with its
principles when I answer the propaganda
against the postal zone law, published by Mr. S.
Keith Evans, Of New York city, on the
eighteenth. He states that the loss alleged to
have been sustained by the Government is an
absurdity, yet at the same time he qualifies his
statement that it cannot be established as a fact
by stating that “ at least it hasn’t been "; and
then he attempts tO brush the whole matter
aside by stating that the Ways and Means Com-
mittee was guessing in asserting the loss figures.

The guessing has not been done by our Com-
mittee, but by the authors and distributors of
the extensive propaganda against this law.

On May 15, 1918, Mr. Walter J. Clayton, a
merchant of El Paso, Texas, wrote me: “I
have a letter from the Review of Reviews Com-
pany warning me that if the postal zone law
goes into effect, we people here will have to
pay five to seven times as much as the subscrib-
ers in Eastern and Northern States, and I
therefore urge you to have this law repealed.”

I am just in receipt of a letter from the Third
Assistant Postmaster-General, dated May 22,
1918, stating: Under the old law the rate on
magazines from New York to both Abilene,
Texas, and El Paso, Texas, is 1 cent per pound.
Under the new zone law, which goes into effect
July 1, 1918, the rate on magazines from New
York to Abilene, Texas, which is in the seventh
zone, will be 1% cents per pound on reading
matter and 3 cents per pound on advertising
matter; and from New York to El Paso, Texas,
which is in the eighth zone, the rate will be 1%
cents per pound on reading matter and 3%
cents per pound on advertising matter.

The latest issue of the Review of Reviews,
May, 1918, weighs exactly 13 ounces, and con-
tains the following: 57 pages Of advertising
matter, 100 pages of reading matter, 10 pages Of
reviews, and then 50 pages more of advertising
matter.

In round numbers, under the old law, it cost
1 cent to send this magazine from New York
to El Paso, which is about 2500 miles. Under
the new zone law it will cost only 2% cents
from New York to El Paso, or only 1% cents

more per issue, which is only 15 cents more per .

year. And if it contained all reading matter,
it would cost only % of a cent more per issue,
or only 3 cents more per year. Hence it can
continue to run over a hundred pages of adver-
tising matter and still have to pay only 15 cents
more per year postage, which if added to the
subscription price would make the subscriber
merely pay $3.15 per year instead of $3. Yet
the Review of Reviews, through this pernicious
propaganda, has caused my intelligent El Paso
constituent to believe that he will have to pay
from five tO seven times as much, to wit: from
$15 to $21 subscription, when all of the extra
postage added to the regular subscription will
make it only $3.15 per year.

I am just in receipt of an urgent letter from
Hon. R. F. Bell, of Houston, Texas, treasurer
Of the Hardwood Jobbers’ Association, stating
that the Pictorial Review is mailing a letter to
all subscribers urging them to have their Sena-

tors and Congressmen repeal this pernicious
law, and I have today received from the Gen-
eral Assembly of the State of Rhode Island a
copy of its Resolution, wherein, in 'One of its
whereases, it states, that we have increased the
postal rates on magazines from 50 to 900 per
cent, and urges a repeal. I am just in receipt
of a letter from Mr. Jesse H. Neal, secretary-
treasurer of the Publishers’ Advisory Board,
200 Fifth Avenue, New York city, “ roasting
me over the coals ” because I have seen fit to
disabuse the minds of my constituents of all Of
these false impressions, and in his mental dis-
comfiture he has forgotten himself far enough
to attempt to scare and bulldoze me by saying:
“ We have received thousands of letters from
Texas citizens who are willing to fight rather
than submit to this unjust, undemocratic and
inequitable provision of the zone postal law,
and I am quite sure that a very large number
of your own constituents feel the same way
about it. In any event, I would be glad to know
whether you desire to modify in any way your
statement that the publishers are grafters.”
Mr. Neal is not acquainted either with my
constituents or their representative. They are
intelligent, progressive citizens, and they
wouldn’t have a representative who "scared."
Now, the Pictorial Review for May, 1918,
lacks just one ounce of weighing 1 pound; the
May, 1918, Ladies’ Home Journal weighs 17%
ounces; the Literary Digest for May 18, 1918,
weighs 10 ounces, and the Woman Citizen for
May 18, 1918, weighs 3 ounces. It is only a
matter of calculation to- ascertain what a very
small additional sum in postage will be charged
under the new zone law. But it does make
publishers pay more for advertising than for
reading matter, which is right and proper.
Why didn’t Mr. Neal and Mr. Evans explain
why it is necessary to concentrate all of the
publishing plants in and around New York?

But he can’t dismiss the great \Nays and
Means Committee with a shrug. ‘Its great
chairman, Hon. Claude Kitchin, is the Demo-
cratic leader of the House, and had our beloved
Speaker accepted the U. S. Senatorship lately
tendered him, would have become Speaker, and
the next ranking member, Hon. Henry T.
Rainey, would have become Democratic leader
of the House. This is 'the Committee which
frames necessary billion—dollar measures. I am
assured both by Chairman Kitchin and Mr.
Rainey that the figures heretofore given by me
are correct, and are based upon evidence care—
fully considered by them, and are not guesses,
and I repeat the figures, viz: Under the old
law our Government has sustained a loss each
year Of $90,000,000 on second-class mail, but
for which it could have gone to a 1 cent letter
postage and still had a surplus. The publisher
received $450,000 for the advertisements alone
in the May, 1917, issue Of the Ladies’ Home
Journal, yet it cost our Government $20,000
more to circulate that one issue than it received
from the publisher; that we sustain an actual
loss of $4,000,000 each year for carrying through
the mails the publications of the Curtis Publish-
ing Company alone. During the last fiscal year
the Government lost $1,516,388 in carrying Col-
lie/s Weekly; $451,044 on the New York Times,
and actually paid to the railroads $80,000 more
than it received for hauling the Outlook. The

9

zone law recoups only a small part Of it. When
we change it we must dig deeper, for it comes
out of the people in taxes.

THOMAS L. BLANTON.

' House of Representatives,
Washington, D. C.

 

Why Does He Not Follow Wilson ?

TO THE EDITOR or rm: WOMAN CITIZEN:

Senator Martin said in the United States
Senate on May 10, “Whenever I am satisfied
that the majority of the white women of Vir-
ginia desire to vote, I will support the pro-
posed constitutional amendment.” He is satis-
fied that the majority of the women of Vir-
ginia do not care to vote, consequently will not
at the present time support this amendment.
He desires a referendum to the women in order
to find out that his conviction that the ma-
jority of all women do not want it is true.

We would like to ask why this method
should be applied to this reform more than to
any other? Was this test ever applied to any
question concerning men? Why this discrimi-
nation in the case Of women?

When Mr. Martin was first made Senator,
did the majority of the men Of Virginia vote
to elect him? Was he not elected by the ma-
jority vote of the men of the Legislature? Did
he refuse to take his seat, because he did not

'know the will of the majority of the men Of

the state concerning his election?

Again, did Senator Martin refuse a few
months back to support the constitutional
amendment for prohibition in Congress be-
cause a majority of the men of Virginia had
not voted for prohibition'when it was referred
to the men of this state? It seems to have been
satisfactory to him that only 94,000 voted for
it, when there were nearly 400,000 white men of
voting age in Virginia who might have had the
privilege if they had wanted it. He only de-
sired, on this question, tO know that the ma-
jority of those who cared enough to go to the
polls, favored it. He only desired to know that
there were many more ‘advocates than
opponents.

Now we would suggest that he apply these
same tests to the suErage movement in Vir—
ginia. He could get his statistics in a short
while if he would give it his “ careful considera-
tion." He would find out that there are many
more advocates than opponents. The suffragists
far outnumber the antis. And if Senator Mar—

1 tin could have his wish for a referendum to

the women, a large majority Of those who care
enough to express their opinion at the polls,
would favor it. There have always been many
more petitioners to the Legislature than re-
monstrants against it.

Are not these tests the fair tests? Are not
these tests the ones which have been applied
to the reforms which men have wanted? The
majority Of men, as well as women, are indif-
ferent to the voting privilege. Only about
80,000 out Of a possible electorate of 400,000
generally cast their ballots. Would Senator
Martin refuse to consider any question favor—
ably until a majority of 400.000 come out for it?

Why this discrimination in the case of women?

Why does not Senator Martin follow his
leader, Woodrow Wilson, in favoring the
amendment as “ a matter of justice to women ”?
MARY POLLARD CLARKE.

Richmond, Va.

Digitized by 600816

The Woman Citizen

10

IStS

Cartoon

 

Bridgeport, Conn. Post

“ SIR WALTER RALEIGH ”

  

 

IN VAIN

1D

A.

WITH LIBERTY

DON’T LET HER

PLE

  

 

MIGHT AS WELL DO Y4
FULLY, MR. 5

    

~L°°KSTOME

.mm.
mm...
Y-
mb
v.1
wk
cm
(I.
mm
In
Te.
“Hm

 

  

A“ WOW“ YOUR

 

 

pie, for the people, may

WERE 5HTTINGALL

 

 

the

parish from

not

 

earth "

Syracuse Post Standard

FATHER GIVES HIS BLESSING

Winsor McGan in Boston Advertiser

INTO THE LIGHT

_.__..— _— A

.' g 0
O ' $
1’
\ ' ’8‘.
‘ is

 

IL I'- (‘4'.

uFHtE.

 

       

Congress should vote
the Federal Amend-

ment

“As an act of right
and justice to the
women of the country

and the world.”
—W00dr0w Wilson

_._\:-'... 11',','r-‘:'"‘.-_.-." .'._‘-
. _1.—"'-‘ _—_—- J . -— - $11!.- .-¢.r-.f‘-1 '-' - L -
_,,_..__I__,_4._ .- '- __-.. _.~- , ; £4; '
_ king 33;... f: __ 3’: :_..r__-I_,_:I__.'_£z_' 7.. V.

a: _ . I.

-'   9:2": ' _ u’w'é'  _ '—~. -
.. ,_ -.‘ .I we. *1 'r‘7-r-_ "7" -
a__.  -  ‘t'1’f'vgrbgf- .53”- -'
'._"._.'.- .  ‘ftL' “-
.-   . K» eiéir‘-‘:‘-J;=-'-z-:r‘:-
,  . _ "“rx’. . m- F- =7

'. EL H—f‘rufaw- ~‘r .1- .
' ..' u-' 1-: A I
'. I “i - o.‘ ‘-

' r

  

  
  

       
   

Philadelphia Ev. Ledger

“BOTH ARE MINE”

ll

Kram-

 

New York World

“ HOME, CHARLES ”

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
    

T H I R T Y - T W 0 NEW

YORK WOMEN WERE

E L E C T E D AS TAM-

MANY HALL LEADERS
ON MAY 7

Leader Charles E. Murphy
is said to have beamed

with smiles. He compli-

politics. I was very much
impressed,” said he.
“ These women are real
They seemed

“SO THIS IS TAMMANY HALL! ”
“I WAS MUCH IMPRESSED”——MURPHY

Eats Out of Her Hand

12

 

MRS. ALMA E. CROOK

Master Plumber and

Paymaster

NCE upon a time automobile men said
0 women could never learn to drive cars
because they were not natural mechanics—
their right elbows were made differently from
a man’s, or something equally pertinent. To-
day, at the front, women are driving big motor
trucks as well as ambulances, and at home
to-day the woman with a tool kit is as familiar
as the woman with a knitting bag.

50 when I heard of a woman who was a
master plumber I was not surprised, but in-
terested. Perhaps I had a vision of cheap
labor in the plumbing business and a possible
reduction in the high cost of the bath-tub.
Anyway, I wanted to meet the woman who
had had the temerity to invade the sacred pre-
cincts of the plumbing trust. She was, I found,
employed on some Government work in Wash-
ington, and I asked for an interview.

In spite of explicit directions it took some
time to locate her, but with the help of an
officer, several workmen, and one or two civil-
ians, I finally found her in one of the wooden
shacks which fringe the Government’s new
buildings. The locality was a beehive of
industry. Buildings in various stages of com-
pletion swarmed with workmen, with officers;
the roads were crowded with trucks; engines
pounded; whistles screamed, and in the midst
of the hurlyburly a cool little woman sat
perched at her desk in the paymaster’s otiice.

I had expected to interview a master plumber,
as I had said. but I soon learned that anything
approaching a static condition was not in the
cool little woman’s line. She was no longer
a master plumber, but paymaster for the plumb-
ing, heating and electrical workers on the job
at Sixth and B streets for the G. F. Cornell
Company. And in spite of her littleness and
an almost girlish quality of youth, her poise
made her position of authority seem a natural
one. I eagerly acquiesced
in her suggestion that we
make a round of the
shops.

 

 

a.-

. take these flanges—see how they are made"

The Woman Citizen

The Woman and the Calling

I discovered that all
the men knew her and
liked her. It was not
surprising, for with a
quick wit and a bub-
bling good humor she
combines an instinc-
tive sympathy and an
admirable tact.

“Only an unusual
woman could h o l d
such an unusual position,” I suggested.

“There is nothing unusual in my being a
mechanic," she laughed. “I was born one.
When I go into a shop I don’t know why
things should be done so, I just know that
they should. It is instinctive. My father kept
a bicycle shop with a side line of hardware.
After school I used to go to the shop to help
him. It was natural for me to take things
apart and put them together again. I tinkered
for the love of it. Then I married. My hus—
band was a successful business man and I
gave up the shop for the home. When my
baby was only a few months old my husband
died suddenly, and I found myself left with
a young baby on my hands and no means of
support, for while my husband had made a
comfortable income we were too young to
have thought of a rainy day. I had his last
week’s salary in my purse and that $75.00 was
all that stood between me and my baby and
want. Of course, I had my father to take
care of me, if I had wanted to be taken care
of, but I wanted to take care of myself.”

Unconsciously the little woman squared her
shoulders.

rules.
trouble.

God’s purposes.
In the

tom, convention.
betn

“ Y father paid the funeral expenses and

I went to work. I got a position in a
little town in Illinois. I didn’t like that little
town and it didn’t like me. It criticised my
clothes. I had rather nice things, but they were
in colors, and the town thought I should go in
mourning. I couldn’t. I didn't have any money
to buy black clothes, I had to wear what I had.
But I stayed on, first with a hardware store,
and then as a nurse. It was a boom town and
there were a lot of young married couples and
all the girl brides were having babies. I have
helped to bring many a baby into the world
while the house was being built. The mother
and. the baby would be snugly covered, but
the doctor and the nurse would have the rain
running down their necks in little rivulets
through leaky canvas. From Illinois I went
to Texas. My first position was with a firm
of mechanical engineers. There was a master
plumber with the company, an Irish genius,
finest master plumber in Texas, but he had
his weakness. I was his assistant and grad-
ually took over more and more of the work.
Finally the company divided its business into
two territories and I had charge of the north-
ern field.”

“ Where did you get your training as a mas-
ter plumber?"

“ Picked most of it up. In the shops one can
learn a lot by watching. Get men interested
in their work and they will tell you all they
know, and if you have a bent for mechanics,
it is easy to absorb what they give out. Now

 

God made the woman.
It’s a dtvtston of labor that tnvttes

Men can’t make rules that come up to

past woman's
has been restricted by man-made law, cus-
To-day under the stress
woman’s capacity is
g urged to the utmost expression, and
where it is all to end nobody knows.
certain it is that see will never again be
allowed to tnterpose as an am at barrier
between the woman and the cal (no.

of war-made necessity

 

 

Man made the I tried to, but as my

acquaintance with ma-
chinery is limited to
my typewriter, fianges
and hydraulic presses,
and acetylene gas for
welding were quite too
much for me. Every
now and then my
guide would stop be-

fore some workman
with a word of praise, or some tactful sugges-
tion, and invariably he listened attentively and
invariably did what she said. The contrast was
striking, the pale, collected, little woman, quietly
effective, and the big burly mechanics, begrimed
and skillful, working in complete harmony. I
mentioned one workman whom I had noticed
particularly paying close attention to her re-
marks. She laughed.

“That man said that he wouldn’t work for
a woman if I came into the shop. When I
left to go to another shop he said he would
leave if I didn’t stay, and he did. When I
came back, he came back. It is all in estab-
lishing a spirit of co-operation. The men and

I work together because we are all interested
in the work.

potential capacity

But

“ ‘ HEN I went with my present em-
ployer I went in at $15.00 a week. I
had just returned to Washington and I had to
establish myself. I found that having been a
master plumber was really against me. The men
didn’t believe that I was a real master plumber,
and were inclined to be wary of my experience.
However, I knew I could make myself useful
in an office at $15.00, even if it were only desk
work. I accepted a job with a construction
company, determined to show that I could make
good. Making good is largely a matter of
stick-to-it-iveness. ’I have never let any job
discourage me, no matter how big the handi—
caps. I have reasoned if the other fellow
could do it, I could do it. Many a time I have
bluf’fed my way through until I could get the
needed experience. If one is willing to work
and is pliable, anybody of average brains can
take care of himself or herself. I have always
been glad of my business training. If more
women understood business there wouldn’t be
so many of them for men to take care of."

“You are everything you ought not to be,”
I objected, “according to the rules.”

“Yes, but you see I didn’t make the rules.
They are man’s rules. My father thinks I am
very masculine because I have succeeded at a
man’s trade. Still I am enough of a woman
to enjoy the home I have made for myself and
my child. There are days when I never want
to see a shop, but if I didn’t go into the shop
I couldn’t keep up the home, so there I am.”

And there she was, ‘Mrs. Alma E. Crook,
master plumber and paymaster.

Talking, she drove a car with such consum-

.mate skill that even my nervousness was lulled

into a peaceful sense of security.

“ Before you go I want you to see my home,”
said the paymaster next. She pointed out a
cosy little cottage where she lived with her
boy. And I couldn't see a bit of difference be-
tween her pride in her home and any house-
keeper’s pride. F. Y.

June 1, 1918

The Woman and the Calling

bbF ROM almost its
first issue Unity
took pains to record
such news as showed
the advance of women
toward freedom and enfranchisement. Every
entrance of woman into the‘then untried fields
of the ministry, the professions, or the college
was hailed with 'delight. In the second issue
we are told that ‘Rev.’ Olympia Brown is
preaching for the Liberals at Racine and gives
good satisfaction.’

“ The first woman architect, the few women
preachers, then appearing in the Universalist
and Unitarian denominations, many of whom
Unity’s Editor helped to ordain, the admission
of twenty-five women students to Harvard Col-
lege on the same terms as men, ‘ wanting abso-
luter nothing but the promise of a diploma
and the appearance of their names in the cata-
logne’ (l) as reported by Thomas Wentworth
Higginson in the American Socialist; their ad-
mission to the Boston Medical Society, a thing
unheard of ten years before; the presence of
fifty-three women students at Ann Arbor and
the testimony of President Angeli that they

 

were ‘not inferior to men in the study of ~

history ’—all these steps are- heralded with
warmest approval and fellowship, though Unity
pauses to repeat one note of warning which will
doubtless provoke a smile from the women of
today. After noting woman’s admission to all
honor examinations at Cambridge, by a vote of
398 to 32, the following advice from the ‘ lead-
ing doctor of Cambridgeshire ’ is quoted:

“ Let not women in general suppose that they,
while working at the same studies as men,
should work at them to the same extent.

About three hours of a woman’s study to four
hours for a man is found on the average to be
a safe proportion.”

“ Vidows and maiden ladies are designed by
Providence for the purpose of giving a tone
to society.”——(Sermon at St. Clement’s (Phila-
delphia) quoted by Unity.)

FROM Unity of November, 1881, come these
sentiments on working women by Dr. Julia
Holmes Smith:

“The mother naturally looks forward to the
time her boys will add to the income of the
family by their own work. No such plan is
considered for the daughters, whom the mother
is conscientiously training for house-keepers.

Why should a woman be grieved be-
cause her daughter as well as her son works for
money. Many a girl who swept, scrubbed,
ironed, etc., is taught to feel she loses caste
when she does easier work for fewer hours
away from home and takes money for it.

“There’s the rub! Women may toil sixteen
hours a day in the seclusion of home, waste
strength in charity work, or have nervous pros—
tration from overwork in society. I . . . No
one says of them: Poor thing! This imper-
tinent pity is reserved for those who toil for
pay.

“ Let us recognize the duty as well as the
right of women to work. It is
high time women held a higher
ambition than to economize the
earnings of father, husband, or

50“.

In a recent issue, “Unity,” celebrating
its fortieth birthday, traces the progress
of women as recorded in its early issues.

 

 

This story of a Wis-
consin legislature of
long ago is reminiscent
of the joke played on
women by a Georgia

legislature no later than 1916:

“ Mrs. Marion  Dudley had been per-
mitted to address the \Nisconsin legislature on
woman suffrage, for a period of an hour and a

half, and her remarks had been pamphleted
by the legislature and a resolution passed, but

the Janesville Gazette assures its readers the
following winter that that action was taken
‘only in a spirit of playfulness ’——a method of
spending its time which seems hardly worthy of
a legislative body.” .

The Woman Sea
Captain

HE Woman Citizen is in receipt of a letter

from the first woman in Italy to gain a
diploma as captain of a merchant-marine ves-
sel. She is Signorina Elisa F. Belluomini, of
Via Reggio, and says she is glad to know of the
Woman Citizen “ since it is a periodical protect-
ing the interests of women." And she “ makes
the observation,” that while it is true that she
has gained a diploma as captain, she is at pres-
ent not able to undertake voyages since her
“ government does not permit women such ad-
venturous careers.” She hopessoon, however,
to make long sea courses. ,

She is not the first woman sea-captain, al-
though hers may be the first official appointment.
Martha’s Vineyard and New Bedford are full
of traditions of wives of sea-captains, who
brought their husbands’ ships safely to port in
years gone by. It is moreover reported that the
woman navigator is a familiar incident in Ha-
waiian coastwise trade. '

According to report, Miss Belluomini passed
the regular examinations as a captain in the
merchant-marine service and qualified for the
post because she just naturally wanted to be a
sailor. She grew up among sea-faring folk and

acquired the same yearning for the sea which’

has made many a lad run away from home. Ob-
durate relatives tried to turn her mind into the
accustomed feminine channels, but they made no
more headway than if she had been a boy.
Finally a sympathetic old captain recom-
mended her to the maritime authorities of Li-
vourne. It has needed a special decree and a
tussle with the mariners’ union to enable Miss
Belloumini to get past the initial difiiculties of
her profession. In spite of the fact that her
progress in the Nautical Institute of Via Reggio
had been phenomenal, and Won her the respect
and assistance of every one of her professors
and fellow students, she still had to face the
stubborn resistance of the organized mariners.
Her perseverance has finally won her a master’s
license in the ocean-going trade and she enters
the profession when submarines and’mines will
add to the perils of the deep. She says: “I
enter sea service at a troubled
period when each day one risks
his life at sea; but I will attempt
to do my best, and shall not be
afraid to die.”

13

MME.
LEONA
BOTCH-
KA-

RE-

VA

 

She‘is the woman who organized Russian women
into a soldier band. known as the Battalion of

Death, in the hope that their example would inspire
the men to fight on. She is now in America en

route to offer her services to France-

By Jessie Pryse Arthur

Down from the tundras and steppes of “New

Russia,”
Borne along by the north wind’s cold breath;

Southward we march ’gainst the war lords of

Prussia, ,
Onward ye! Forward ye! Legion of Death!

Vengeance we seek for the nations polluted,
Ravished, defiled, by the Hun’s fiery breath;
Never say “ Peace ” till his rule is uprooted,

Onward then! Forward then! Legion of
Death!

Shorn from our heads the long locks’ vain
glory, ‘~
Shorn from our hearts are the tendrils of

faith;

Trust in their honor? — a meaningless story!
Onward ye! Forward ye! Legion of Death!

Safety from capture we hold in a vial,
What fear have we of the grave’s icy breath;
We are no strangers to travail and trial,
Onward ' then! Forward then! Legion of
Death!

Long has our blood been shed in life-making,
We have been wounded in giving men breath;

Now shall we shed it in the life taking,
Onward ye! Forward ye! Legion of Death!

See ye! Oh, see ye! the drowned women drift-
ing.
'Clntching their wee babies, pallid in death;
Look ye! The smoke cloud on burned home-
steads lifting, ‘
Onward ye! Forward ye! Legion of Death!

Death to the falsehoods of man-made traditions,
“Woman’s the weakling”! Is that what he
saith?
Death once for all to that craven suspicion,
Onward ye! Forward ye! Legion of Death!

Then, side by side, we will fight with our

brothers,
Yielding our life blood, our youth and our
breath;
Naught can withstand the just wrath of the
Mothers,

Onward ye! Forward ye! Legion of Death!

The Woman Citizen

AMERICANIZING WOMEN VOTERS
“When She Maka Vota”

l4

islature and Congress. Here also
they may receive information about

6‘ A wife she knows how to
cook the spagette an’ maka

the flowers of cloth—alla right. I

maka vota for all my family. I take care gooda
President at Washington. My wife she no
trouble with country. She maka flower of cloth.
All man maka the laugh on her when she maka
vota.” These familiar anti-suffrage sentiments
are among the varied comments the Americani-
zation Committee of the New York State
Woman Suffrage Association meets in its
efforts to prepare the women voters among
the foreign population for their new duties.
This may be the Italian man’s response, some-
times, not often—but it is not the response of
his wife.

Little bright-eyed wife has notions in her
wise head other than the “ spagette” and
“the flower of cloth." Maybe it is the dis—
proportion between the cost of spagette and
the wages one earns for maka the flower that
is responsible for some of her ideas. Anyway
she follows thecommittee to the door and
whispers: “Lady, I go thata school. You tella
me the night. My husband he go out at night,
I wait and I go thata school. He be prouda
when I reada the English. He American citi-
zen. I be little American citizen.”

That is the prideful spirit they are of. These
women may not know who is governor of the
state, nor what a state is, nor yet a governor,
but they know that a new dignity has fallen

l upon them. They have been so long accus-

tomed to being overlooked that it means new
life to them to be wanted, needed, sought out.
“I don’t speak no more with you,” says Mrs.
Willowsky to her neighbor. “I am ashame for
talk with pe0ples like you. Your man he been
in this country ten years an’ he ain’d got his
first papers out already. My husband is a citi-
zen, and you listen what I tell you that you
don’ know maybe—I am a citizen too.”

OWN in one of the Assembly Districts in
New York city soon after the winning of
the vote last November the Suffrage Americani-
zation Committee and the Henry Street Settle-
ment in co—operation gave a First Voters’ Party
for several Election Districts in the direct
neighborhood of the settlement. The list of
registered voters at the last election was used
as a basis of invitation. “We assumed,” said
Miss Esther Lape, secretary of the Americani-
zation Committee, “ that the men were mar-
ried—a fairly safe assumption, as it proved—-
and sent cards to their wives asking them to
come to a first voters’ party. Several hundred
came, most of them non-English speaking
women who had not been in the habit of com-
ing to the settlement, to the Mothers’ Club or to
group gatherings of any kind. For the first
time in their lives they came together as Ameri-
can citizens, and they were very conscious of
their added value to themselves, to their neigh-
bors, and to their husbands in their newly de-
fined citizenship. One of them who had
counted for days upon coming to the party
told of beginning her preparations early in
the evening. The chief part of this preparation
consisted in putting on a long unused article
of dress, and to judge from her own descrip-
tion the process was something between a
ceremony and an operation. '
“When she was about ready to leave her

husband arrived. He was nothing less than
astounded by the unwonted prospect of his
wife’s going out for the evening. She told him
why and where she was going—to the First
Voters’ Party at Henry Street. ‘But how can
you go?’ asked this amiable American. ‘You
are not a citizen.’ ‘You are a citizen?’ she
asked. ‘ Of course,’ he answered. ‘I have my
papers, you know.’ ‘Then,’ said the wife, ‘I
am a citizen, too. I go to the party.’ And she
went.”

WHILE groups of anti-suffragists have
been deploring the fact that the enfran-
chisement of women will mean “an increase in
the ignorant vote,” suffragists, nearer to the
heart of the democratic ideal, see an altogether
different and a more reassuring thing. They
see an opportunity to awaken every citizen, man
and woman, to the realization of America.

The Americanization Committee was formed
as a part of the educational movement within
the New York State Woman Suffrage Party
to prepare women to use their votes intelli-
gently. But very early indeed in the work it
became evident that for foreign-born women,
many thousands of whom are non-English
speaking, and many thousands illiterate, political
education must be preceded by fundamentals.
These fundamentals of Americanization mean
an understanding of American institutions, and
a knowledge of the English language. For al-
though foreign-born men and women may be
shown many things through their own lan-
guage, the fact remains that they must function
as citizens in English because English is the
language of our civic and business life.

The average foreign-born woman in New
York city is not at all interested in the ma-
chinery of voting. She cares little about wards
and election districts and political divisions.
But she knows what any one means who tells
her that the Board of Aldermen are discussing
free lunches and playgrounds, and that they de-
termine the lighting and cleaning of the streets.
She easily follows the well-marked educational
road from the particular to the general, from
the concrete to the abstract.

To get at their public and to follow out
their general plan of work, the Americaniza-
tion Committee is organized in the industrial
towns of the state and in each assembly dis-
trict of the city. On their advisory councils
for the various assembly districts the commit-
tee has secured representatives of all the
agencies 'doing Americanization work in the
districts.

HE general plan of work is everywhere the

same and includes the formation of classes
in the English language and civics in public
schools, settlements and neighborhood houses;
a corps of house-to-house workers; classes in
factories wherever practicable, and the estab-
lishment of information centers.

Forty-five information centers have been es-
tablished in the Borough of Manhattan where
immigrant women, and immigrant men, too, for
that matter, may receive information in citizen-
ship, naturalization, voting, and the most im-
portant matters before governing boards, leg-

Digitized by 600816

war matters, such as drafts, food
restrictions and rationing. Most immigrant
women cannot go far for information, because
of the expense of carfare, if for no other
reason, and those who have sons and brothers
in the army, especially those who read news-
papers scarcely at all, will be more and more
dependent on these centers.

HE Americanization Committee, with the

co-operation of the State Department of
Education. has succeeded in putting through
the New York State Legislature a bill provid-
ing for the training of teachers, both public
school teachers and others, for the teaching of
adult illiterates. The bill carries an appropria-
tion to make it possible to establish training
institutes for teachers both in the state normal
schools and in the various cities of the state.
Miss Mary Dreier, chairman of the State Suf-
frage Party’s Americanization Committee, has
recently explained why the bill’s passage is
important just now.

“ We feel that there are two immediate rea-
sons for urging this bill," she said. “At Yap-
hank alone there are 1.5“) men who
do not speak or understand English. As Secre-
tary Lane pointed out the other day, these
men cannot read the manual of arms, cannot
even understand orders! At the various camps
some effort is being made to teach these men
English. But, in later drafts, they should be
taught before they leave for the camp. With
good teachers, it is possible to give men ‘a
working knowledge ' of English in a short time.

“ There are over 600,000 non-English speak-
ing adults in New York state now, many of
whom are illiterate in any language. Because
of the war, it is now more essential than ever
that the citizens of this and every other state
should be equipped with the English language
and an understanding of American ideals.
Otherwise they cannot keep in touch with or
understand our present national aims.

“ HERE is a second great reason for the
immediate passage and operation of this
bill. There are now at least three hundred thou-
sand women in New York state unable to speak
English, and 225,000 of these are illiterate in
any language. Many of these women may vote
next fall. We cannot teach them to vote in-
dependently and intelligently in a few months.
But ‘a working knowledge’ of English will be
a great step toward independent citizenship for
them. It is the language of our civic and busi-
ness life, and I do not believe we can have
competent American citizens without it.

“Good teachers are the crux of the whole
situation. And everywhere educational authori-
ties admit that teaching adult immigrants is
very different from teaching children and that
the failure in experiments in adult immigrant
education is most often due to the lack of
trained teachers. You can get foreign-born
men and women to public night schools, but
you cannot keep them there unless you have
teachers that understand their needs and their
mature interests, and are trained in methods
of teaching them. As a war measure, and as
a fundamental civic need, we have urged the
passage of this bill.”

June 1, 1918

15

Your Vote and Your State

HE American citizen recognizes two sov-
ereignties, state and nation.
two sovereignties do not divide his allegiance,
for the spheres of state and federal govern-
ment at no point overlap. The federal gov-
ernment will be described in a later article; its
functions are very definite and touch the life
of the citizen scarcely at all. The state govern—
ment touches the life of the citizen, as Beard“
expresses it, “ from the cradle to the grave."

The state, as we saw in earlier chapters,
delegates some of its executive and adminis-
trative powers to local governmental units in-
cluding administration of justice in lower courts,
health, roads, education and the business of
Enancing the local government. How much of
this work is done and paid for by the local
governments can be judged by the fact that
at the last census the governments of the forty-
eight states cost about one hundred and twenty-
5ve million, while the local governments cost
almost one and one-half billion. Thus the de-
tailed work and the bulk of the cost of govern—
ment within the boundaries of the state is not
borne by the state itself, but by its subordinate
units.

Of legislation the reverse is true. All legisla-
tive power remains with the state itself, the
ordinances permitted to local governments being
in most states only those necessary to carry out
the executive and administrative work laid
upon them by state laws.

HE powers and the framework of state gov-

ernments are laid down in written cbnstitu-
tions. From the point of view of democracy
the most important clauses in these constitu-
tions are the suffrage clause which makes the
people, or part of the people, the source of gov-
ernment, and the Bill of Rights which stands

at the beginning of all constitutions, forbidding

encroachments on civil rights, and ensuring to
the people security of life, liberty and property.
State legislation aims to make good this Bill
of Rights and to regulate all life and business.
Woodrow Wilson in “ The State,” groups leg-
islation common to nations under laws required
for the protection of life and property, and
laws which aim to promote the common welfare.
Leaving out the few of his classifications which
lie within the scope of the federal government
the rest serve as a summary of our state laws.
Under the hrst group we have laws designed
to keep order and protect persons and property,
regulate legal relations in the family, regulate
the holding, transmission and interchange of
property, contracts, crime, civil justice, duties,
privileges and relations of citizens. Under the
second we have laws which regulate or provide
for trade and industry, labor, roads and internal
improvements, light and water, sanitation and
health, education, charities, conservation and
sumptuary laws (such as prohibition, etc.).
Not specifically provided for in this list are
the laws which regulate all the details of local
governments, and, in so far as these are covered
by legislation, of state administrative boards
or commissions. For the passing, carrying out
and preserving of these laws, and for doing
the business of the state, the state constitution
provides a three-part government, legislative,

 

’ American- Citizenship.

Yet these'

By Mary Sumner Boyd

executive and judicial, framed like most of the
local governments already described on the
model adopted by the federal government in
1787.

All laws not covered—or not forbidden in the
Bill of Rights for the protection of the people——
by the state constitution and its amendments
are passed by the state legislature. They must
be ratified or vetoed by the governor, the chief
executive officer of the state, and if the gov-
ernor ratifies, they may be declared unconstitu-
tional and wiped off the statute books by the
state supreme court.

Thus the three parts of the government are
relied upon to “ check and balance ” each other
and prevent the passing of hasty legislation.
Furthermore, the legislature is divided into two
parts through both of which a bill must pass
before it goes to the governor, and this it is
claimed is a further check on ill-considered
legislation.

HE government thus roughly outlined, is a
pure representative government, in which
the voter has no part except to choose at the
polls who shall make the laws and who shall
carry them into effect. As we saw in a few
cities, so in a few states the initiative, referen-
dum and recall gives the voter more power than
this over legislation and legislators, but the
almost pure representative form of government
is still characteristic of most of our states.
State legislatures are, as we have seen, made
up of two houses, the upper house or senate, and
the lower, the assembly house of delegates or
house of representatives. Members of both are
apportioned to population and elected by the
voters of fixed districts, a senatorial district
being very much larger than an assembly dis-
trict so that the upper house is smaller than the
lower. In Louisiana, for instance, the senate
has only about a quarter as many members as
the assembly. Minnesota has the largest senate

 

N0 PLACE TO LAND

(62 members), and Delaware the smallest(l7).
The states do not have a common population
basis for representation in their legislatures.
Nevada, with the smallest population in the
Union, has 22 senators, and New York, with
the largest, has 51.

The relative proportions of the two houses
vary. Delaware has 35 assemblymen, or about
double the number of senators; Massachusetts,
3. ratio of 6 to 1. Delaware haS'the smallest
house, and New Hampshire has the largest
(450 members). New York, with 25 times
the population of New Hampshire has only 150
assemblymen. There are, all told, 7,347 mem-
bers of state legislatures in ‘the 48 states, of
whom more than three-fourths sit in the lower
house. Pay for members ranges from $200 a
term (2 years) in New Hampshire, to $3,500 a
session (1 year) in Illinois.

In all states but Mississippi and Alabama,
which set four years, and Massachusetts, New
Jersey and New York, one year, the term of
representatives (or assemblymen) is two years.
Massachusetts has a one-year term for senators,
and the other states are about evenly divided in
setting two or four years for the upper house.
The length of legislative sessions is unlimited
in 16 states; in the rest it ranges from 40 to
90 days, and these sessions are held in all but
8 states biennially. In Alabama and Mississippi
regular sessions are quadrennial, and in New
York, New Jersey, Massachusetts, South Caro-
lina, Rhode Island and Georgia they are annual.

It is estimated that through these legislative
mills each session there pass, taking the 48 ses-
sions together, over 50,000 bills, of which a
third become law. To expedite the disposal
of this vast number of bills, which average
considerably over 1,000 a session, to a state,
both houses are divided into committees to con-
sider bills of certain types. The commonest
committees are ways and means, judiciary,

cities, railroads, education, tax, health, banks,
insurance and rules.

SPEAKER, elected by the house and always
representing the political party of the ma-
jority, presides over the deliberations of the
assembly. The corresponding officer in the sen-
ate, called its president, is in 34 states the lieu-
tenant-governor; in the others. he is elected as
in the assembly. Both houses have a few
functionaries, clerks, sergeant-at-arms, etc.

According to the usual procedure, a bill is
introduced, read and referred to the proper
committee which either reports favorably or
kills it. If reported favorably it is read a
second and a third time, amended and voted
on. If the vote is favorable it is then
sent to the other house where it goes through
the same course.

All bills, except bills for revenue, which must
originate in the lower house, can originate in
either house, and the same bill can be intro-
duced in both houses, independently; a bill
amended in the second house must be returned
to the first for approval. Having passed the
legislature a bill then goes to the governor for
ratification, and if. he vetoes it it must pass
again, in'live states by a three-fifths vote, in 9
by a full majority, and in the rest by a two-

(Continued on page 18)

Digitized by 

 

The Woman’s Department at
our Fifth Avenue OHice

is in charge of
Miss V. D. H. Furman
and is
especially equipped to handle
the accounts of women and
women’s organizations

      
   
   
   
      
  

anuMBIA
' TRUST
COMPANY

358 FIFTH AVENUE
We are sometimes called the Official Sum-age Bani

METROPOLITAN
DYE WORKS

CLEANERS
and DYERS

First Class Work. Reasonable Prices.
Prompt Delivery.

 

  
 

 

 

For stores lhroughoul New York City, wtt‘ telephone dimer):

at“ Institute

810'! B Street. N. W..
Wuhlnnon. D. 0.

Huh' BehoolandColl Pm Courses. ’1'
Year- olCollogoWorh." ngdaTym:ThoAr‘:

A Boarding and
Day School for Girl:

Journalism. Short Story W ting. Bruin-u and Boon-
tarlal Training. Kindergarten. Normal Training. Domes»
tie Sol-nos. Parliamentary Law.

Mn. Nanette B. Paul. LL. 3.. President.

Author of “Paul’s Parliamentary Law"
and "Tho Heart of Mane”

 

A Measure of Justice

HE Oklahoma State Republican Conven-
tion passed a resolution which read as
follows:

“Resolved, that the Republican Party in the
state of Oklahoma, in convention assembled,
reaffirming its faith in government of the peo-
ple, by the peOple, and for the people, favors
the extension of suffrage to women as a meas-
ure of justice to one-half the adult people of

this country.”

The Woman Citizen

Within the Organization

Special Nashville Corrapondence to the Woman Citizen

UFFRAGE in Tennessee has taken on new

life and force since the two wings of the
party amalgamated and elected Mrs. Leslie
Warner, of Nashville, President of the Ten-
nessee Woman Suffrage Association.

Since assuming the obligations of her office,
Mrs. Warner has been a busy woman, for the
work of reorganization has been enormous. It
has, however, been speeded up by Mrs. War—
ner’s announcement that it was her greatest
hope to make the Tennessee Suffrage Associa-
tion a great war machine. Her own determina-
tion has aroused renewed interest and much
patriotic enthusiasm. o

A meeting of the State Board of the Ten-
nessee Woman Suffrage Association was re-
cently held at the Y. W. C. A. Building in
Nashville, at which definite work was outlined
and loyal support pledged to Mrs. Warner in all
her undertakings. Especial interest was mani-
fested in the project of raising Tennessee’s
quota of funds for the VVomen’s Oversea Hos-
pitals.

When the Tennessee Division of the Wom-
an's Committee, Council of National Defense,
was organized nearly a year ago the most active
and forceful work of the organization was
done by Tennessee suffragists, and Mrs. War-
ner was elected vice-president-at-large for the
state. In all the activities of the Woman's
Committee sufiragists have taken and continue
to take an important part. At the recent War
Conference of the Woman’s Committee, Ten-
nessee Division, the first war conference held
in a southern state, Mrs. Warner had the dis-
tinction of introducing Dr. Anna Howard Shaw,
chairman of the Woman’s Committee, the chief
speaker.

The Chairman of the Nashville Division of
the Woman’s Committee, Mrs. James Frazier,
is an ardent suf’fragist who has done construc-
tive work both in behalf of suffrage, war work,
and in the Society of the Fatherless Children
of France. Mrs. Frazier makes evident at all
times that the welfare of children is her chief
hobby, for while still quite a young woman,
noted for her beauty and social graces, she is
the mother of six sturdy young sons and a
dainty little daughter.

EN N ESSEE suffragists have also been ex-

ceedingly active in Red Cross Work. Mrs.
Warner having brought to that work the same
ability that has distinguished her throughout
her career, serves splendidly as a member of
the Red Cross Advisory Board of Tennessee.
Miss Matilda Porter of Nashville, Chairman
of Red Cross and War Work for the Nashville
Woman Suffrage Association, is also Chair-
man of Organization on the State Suffrage
Board. Wednesday is known as suffrage day
at the Red Cross Headquarters and on that day,
and others, Miss Porter serves as an instructor
in making surgical dressings.

A distinguished member of the State Board
of the Tennessee Woman Suffrage Association
is Mrs. Ittie K. Reno. Mrs. Reno is a well
known writer and serves as Chairman of the
Speakers’ Bureau. She was one of the first
women in Nashville to organize a Red Cross
Unit under the name of the Noelton Red Cross
Auxiliary. Mrs. Reno served most acceptably

as Chairman of the Speakers' Bureau for the
Woman’s Committee in Middle Tennessee. So
far as known the women speakers in the regis—
tration and food conservation drives who were
sent out by Mrs. Reno were the only ones in
the state to adhere strictly to the four-minute
speeches designated by the War Council.

The Thrift Stamp Drive in Nashville was
concluded by a Street Carnival and Mrs. Charles
W. Baker, corresponding secretary of Mrs.
Warner’s Board and first vice—chairman of the
Nashville Woman Suffrage Association, to-
gether with Miss Katharine Allan, third vice-
chairman of the Nashville League served as
hostesses at the Suffrage Booth. They were
ably assisted by Mrs. Terry Kimbro, Miss Daisy
Gunn, Mrs. Claud D. Sullivan and Mrs. Eliza-
beth Fry Page. The suffrage parade of the
Capitol Boulevard during the carnival was par-
ticipated in entirely by children dressed in the
costumes of all nations, bearing banners with
the slogan “ Ballots for Both.” The parade
was led by a tiny soldier boy in khaki, a tiny
midshipman and a tiny soldier in French uni-
form.

N the Third Liberty Loan Drive which has

just been concluded, the Nashville Woman
SuErage Association under the leadership of
Mrs. Claud D. Sullivan, assisted by Mrs. W. A.
Overall and others, sold second to the largest
amount of bonds of any woman’s organization
in the city. Mrs. Leslie Warner's personal
contribution to this fund was one of the largest
in the state.

Mrs. Warner is serving, too, as vice-president
of the Fatherless Children of France Society
of Nashville, of which Mrs. Dempsey Weaver
is president. Under the splendid leadership of
these two women, assisted by Miss Frances Pil-
cher, another strong suf’fragist, Nashville and
its vicinity have adopted 1,500 French orphans.

Miss Cornelia Barksdale, recording secre-
tary of the State Board, was ambitious to be
the first Nashville sufiragist to send funds to
the Oversea Hospitals. In fulfillment of this
wish she and her Tenth Ward Suffrage League
gave a delightful card party at the Nashville
Commercial Club, at which the sum of fifty dol-
lars for the hospitals was realized.

Mrs. Warner appeared on the program of
the Tennessee State Federation of Women’s
Clubs which has just closed a patriotic con-
vention at Jackson, Tennessee, presided over by
Mrs. Alexander Caldwell, the state president
of federated clubs. At the convention, Mrs.
Warner spoke forcefully on War Work for
Women and urged especial interest in the Over-
sea Hospitals.

Immediately upon her return, Mrs. Warner
attended a meeting of the suffragists of the
twenty-fifth ward of Nashville, of which Mrs.
Ira P. Jones is chairman. There Mrs. Warner
delivered Mrs. Catt’s recent message on the
Federal Amendment and the twenty-fifth ward
of Nashville was the first in the state to take
official action protesting delay in the ratifica-
tion of the Federal Amendment by the United

States Senate.

The Woman Citizen is one year old to-day.
Time to renew your subscription. ’

When writing to advertisers please mention the WOMAN CITIZEN.

 

June 1,1918

James Mentality & Bo.

Incomparable Values

JUNE. .TOILET GOODS SALE

Commencing Monday, June 2nd

Standard Makes Below Regular Prices

5th Avenue 34th Street

 

With prices advancing on practically all lines of Toilet
Articles, it has required much time and discrimi-
nating buying to make this event possible. Anticipate
your Summer and vacation needs and take advantage of
this unusual opportunity by purchasing a generous supply.

Texas Jubilee

HE Texas Equal Suiirage Association

held its annual gathering the last three  9

days in May at Austin and planned a prO-  S 
gram of intensive work for these coming ,
months. This being the first statewide gather-

ing since Texas was added to the white states H E A I  N
on the suffrage map, the convention was a

Victory Jubilee. A part of the program in- JUNE 1, 1918

eluded institute: for the study of citizenship,
addresses being made by men and women espe-

 

 

cially qualified to take the lead in these matters. LEADING ARTICLES

Governor Hobby, who is credited with having THE OLD AND NEW IN WOMEN’S EDUCATION

initiated and been instrumental in the passage By MARION PARK, of Simmons College '
of some of the most progressive legislation NEW METHODS OF VOCATIONAL TRAINING '

ever written on to the statutes of any state, 7 7 By SUSAN M- KINGBLEY. 0f Bryn Mawr 0011989

was listed as one of the principal speakers at WOMEN AND THE CHILDREN’S BUREAU

By ANNA ROCHESTER

THE VIRGINIA MAN AND THE NEW ERA FOR WOMEN
By Onm LATHAM ‘HATCHEB

the convention. The primary suffrage bill,
under which Texas women enjoy practically

 

full suffrage. had the fun endorsement 0f the Head of the Virginia Bureau of Vocations for Women
governor. WHAT WOMEN ARE DOING WITH POLITICAL POWER
She Hoed; He Voted. By Mns- Egnggnwgmggmm

O  South Carolina suEragist knows that By ELIZABETH ROBBINS PENNELL

it Will be easrer to represent herself at WOMEN IN MODERN MUSIC
the polls than to have her husband represent By HENRY T_ FINCK
her. She called him up at his place of busi- WOMEN AND THE THEATRE
mess the day of the general election and urged By M. C. DABNTON
him to go to vote. He considered that he had REVIEWS
voted in both primaries and he didn’t think it
made any disservice abqut voting in the general A 8m“g3.2;:“assistamsszw‘s‘ .3: miniseries?"- i‘irssimm‘. W the
election and beSldCS his beans needed hoeing reviews of new novels written by women authors.
and he was coming home early to hoe them,
and the only way she could persuade him to go Price 10c. I    $4.00 a Year |
was by offering to hoe the beans for him. She 20 VESEY STREET NEW YORK

is sure that voting isn’t nearly so hard as
hoeing beans.

When writing to advertisers please mention the WOMAN CITIZ

Digitized by 8300816

 

BANKING FOR WOMEN

\

 

You are invited to make your banking
headquarters at any one of our branches
most easily reached from your resi-
dence.

A separate department is maintained for
the convenience of women patrons and
new money furnished.

An account at a branch gives you the
combined convenience of location with
all the resources and facilities available
at the Company’s Main OHice.

Interest is credited monthly on daily bal—
ances subject to check.

. w" . .
A statement show1ng all transactions in

the account, together with canceled
checks, is delivered each month.

Special rates are allowed on time depos-
its or funds awaiting investment.

Safe deposit and storage vaults available
at all ofiices.

Inquiries regarding any department of
our service are welcomed and will re-
ceive prompt response.

UNITED STATES '
MORTGAGE eTRUST COMPANY

MAIN OFFICE
55 Cedar Street

BRANCH BRANCH BRANCH
Broadway at Madison Avenue at 125th Street at
73rd Street 75th Street 8th Avenue

New York

l=:_____—IE

The Woman Citizen

Your Vote and Your State
(Continued from page 15)

thirds vote. Money bills generally require a
larger percentage to pass over the veto.

This veto power of the governor is most im-
portant. Other legislative powers of the gov-
ernor are his messages to the legislature recom-
mending certain legislation; his power to call
special sessions in order to get through certain
legislation which he approves, and his smaller
but still important power to make some of the
rules and regulations for the administrative and
business boards and commissions which have
since the Civil War, become important parts of
the machinery for carrying on the executive
work of state government
. With the exception of Massachusetts and
New Jersey the governor's term is from 2 to 4
years, about half and half in the various states,
the states with newer constitutions tending to
longer terms. New Jersey has three years, and
Massachusetts one year with a strong tendency
to re-elect twice. The governor’s salary runs
from $2,500 in Vermont, to $12,000 in Illinois.

Besides the part he takes in legislation the
governor is charged to execute the law and is
given the power to appoint and remove a num-
ber of executive officials.

OT all executive odicials are appointed by
the governor or controlled by him. The fol-
lowing otlicials are, in addition to legislators and
the governor himself, elected by the voters and
reSponsible to them alone for the way in which
they perform their executive functions: lieu-
tenant-governor, secretary of state, comptroller
or auditor, treasurer, attorney general, and in
most states, superintendent of public instruction.
There are, however, besides these, a list of
about 25 administrative boards or commissions,
some existing in one state, others in another.
the heads of which are in most states appointed
by the governor. Commonest among these
boards are those concerned with labor, agri-
culture, health, banks, insurance, corrections,
charities, roads, public service, tax and con-
servation.

The governor’s executive power, beginning
with the power to carry out the law between
man and man, and as head of the militia to
preserve peace and order in the state, is great
or small, in proportion to how many of the
state executive and administrative otlicials are
appointed by and responsible to him, and how
many elected by the people.

Besides his legislative and executive func-
tions, the governor has one judicial function;
he can pardon state prisoners.

Ambitious Women’s Club

LLINOIS’S new \Vomen’s Athletic Club
I purposes erecting a twelve-story arcade
building with women’s lobbies and a mezzanine
with offices, spacious lobbies and reception
rooms, dining rooms, banquet halls, coffee
shop, tea room, cafeteria, parlors, writing
rooms, libraries, convention hall for meetings,
club rooms for other organizations, studios, ed-
ucational departments for literature, science
and art, gymnasium equipped under the rules
and regulations of the American Athletic Asso-
ciation available for dances, stage facilities for
dramas and concerts, regulation size swimming
pool, Turkish baths, lounging rooms, locker
rooms, individual rest rooms, 200 rooms with

tub and shower baths, unior department and
_ Inursery,‘ mob refrigeration plant,
mm”, o 'ith Tea-Cup Inn.

—"'—__', _. 7 ‘

 

A>i

 

 

New Lingerie
for Summer

at Me Quicheen’s

A wonderful display of French Underwear, Hand-
Embroidered and Lace-trimmed, which we have
just received, is being offered at very special
pnces.

Gowns of sheer Nainsook, dainty Embroidery, some
Lace-trimmed—53.50, 3.75, 4.25, 4.50, 5.50 to 37.50.
Chemises—$1.50, 1.75, 2.25, 2.50, 3.75 up.
Drawers—$1.10, 1.25, 1.75, 2.25, 3.75 up.

Corset Covers—$1.25, 1.50, 2.25, 3.75 up.

Envelope Chemises—$1.75, 2.25, 2.75, 3.75 up.

We also have a variety of dainty Embroidery and Lace-trimmed
Bndal sets of Hand-made Linen and real Val-trimming. Suitable
for the June Bride.

Fine Philippine Lingerie
All on fine Nainsook, very dainty Embroidery,
some with line Val edges.

Gowns—$1.95, 2.50, 2.95, 3.25, 4.25 to 6.75
Envelope Chemises—$2.25, 3.00, 3.75 to 6.75

 

Registered
Trade Mark

Domestic Gowns, Tailored, Embroidered and Lace
trimmed—$1.50, 1.75, 2.25 and 2.95

Fine Crepe Gowns—Picot edge . . . . . $1.25
Envelope Chemises . . . . $1.50, 1.95, 3.25

Specials in Corsets and Brassieres

Gossard Lace-in-front Corsets. A number of hand-
some Broche and Silk Batiste models, incomplete sizes '
only, at greatly reduced prices ranging from $8.50 to
17.50.

A very complete line of regular stock corsets in all sizes
from $2.00 to 25.00.

Felicita Lace-in-back Corsets. New Spring and Sum-
mer models in low bust, short, medium, and long hips

conforming to Fashion’s newest lines. Specially priced
$2.00 to 16.50.

Brassr'eres. We have an assortment of dainty Bras-
sieres so desirable in wearing under sheer Summer ap-
parel, also a complete line of the plainer Bust-Supporters
in fabrics comprising Nets, Cotton Meshes, Linens,
Muslins, and Silk Tricots, in -all sizes, 34 to 46. Prices
75c to $7.50.

Order: by mail given special attention.

i‘    l'n‘i W 1i H M il‘lII""‘ W

Hililllii'ii‘l‘Ill”“l‘i“lii‘i‘l“}!""

James McCutcheon 8: 00., Fifth Ave. and 34th St., New York

  A“ ‘1 i ii “ ii  .l‘l‘i"‘-i“i,‘=l lii ,‘ili'i 1:; j “Huh,  y": l.l;'l'lillili‘llllll '1 ‘

 

An Intelligent Voter is a Good Citizen

IF YOU ARE A WOMAN

your vote to prepare yourself to use it intelligently.

Get

ready in advance by subscribing to

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

The Woman‘s National Political Weekly

I
c and have lately been enfranchised don't wait until it is time to cast

Fifty-two Numbers F..- One 13.11..

All Newsstands. Ten Cents a Copy

This number starts the magazine‘s new year—start your subscription with it

Q THE WOMAN CITIZEN. 171 Madison Avenue, NEW YORK

Digitized by 600816

 

 

Books at Less Than Published  '

 

 

.m

CBS

;
,..
1.59.; .

E have arranged to supply the books listed below at the special prices

named when sold in combination with new subscriptions to the Woman

Citizen. They will be mailed post-paid to any address in the United States.

This is an opportunity to save from twenty to thirty-five per cent on the

published prices. If you are already a subscriber to the Woman Citizen

and wish to own certain of the books, invite your friends to become subscribers to the
magazine at one dollar a year, and have the books of your choice sent to your address.
They will cost you the difference between the full price quoted for. each combination
and one dollar. Or subscribe to the magazine as a gift for a friend and have the book

sent to your address.

Published Combination: Amount

On the War 03333.
THE PAN-GERMAN PLOT UNMASKED: André Chéradame . . . . . . .. .$1.25

“OVER THERE”: Captain R. Hugh Knyvett . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50

FIGHTING FOR PEACE: Henry van Dyke.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25

WHY WE ARE AT WAR: Woodrow Wilson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .50

IN OUR FIRST YEAR OF WAR: Woodrow Wilson . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1.00

FIGHTING FRANCE: Edith Wharton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00

THE UNITED STATES AND PAN-GERMANIA: André Chéradame.. 1.00
GENERAL J OFFRE AND HIS BATTLES: Raymond Recouly (Captain X) 1.25
ON THE RIGHT OF THE BRITISH LINE: Captain Gilbert Nobbs... 1.25
WHITE NIGHTS AND OTHER RUSSIAN IMPRESSIONS: Arthur Ruhl 2.00

A WAR NURSE’S DIARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25
MY WAR DIARY: Madame Waddington . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50
,WITH THE ALLIES: Richard Harding Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25
THE DESERTER: Richard Harding Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .50
PRINCIPLES OF AMERICAN DIPLOMACY: John Bassett Moore.... 2.00
N o v e l 5
THE EARTHQUAKE: Arthur Train . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50
CHRISTINE: Alice Cholmondeley. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25
HIS FAMILY: Ernest Poole . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50
THE TREE OF HEAVEN: May Sinclair . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..'. . . . . .. 1.60
Miscellaneous
YOUR VOTE AND HOW TO USE IT: Mrs. Raymond Brown . . . . . . .. .75
THE WOMAN VOTER’S MANUAL: S. E. Forman and Marjorie Shuler. . 1.00
MARK TWAIN’S LETTERS, 2 Volumes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4.00

OBSERVATION: EVERY MAN HIS OWN UNIVERSITY: R. H. Conwell 1.00
THE MODERN CITY AND ITS PROBLEMS: Frederic C. Howe. . .. 1.50

THE HIGH COST OF LIVING: Frederic C. Howe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.50
THE FOOD PROBLEM: Kellogg and Taylor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.25
WAR FRENCH: Colonel C. D. Willcox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .75

$1.85
2.00
1.85
1.35
1.65
1.65
1.65
1.85

"oooo00
8010101

030300
010101

bboog

NMHN
C001.

OVCNOIO

Hi-ItOtoI—tODHH
@006 can OI
smog °°

Subscription Saved on
and Book Combination

$.40
.50
.40
.15
.35
.35
.35
.40
.40
.65
.40
.50
.40
.15
.65

l

.50
.40
.50
.60

.25
35
1.25
.35
.50
.50
.40
.25

This offer is for a limited period. Send your orders promptly to

THE WOMAN CITIZEN

"171 Madison Avenue

_. m--—‘ ~—_——_—-———-<—-—————_—————.~.u _.. < - ...—----v- “-G». -. ..=-—. . “—

f.‘.._ t u ; . ‘
misnuvs-xmm4

 

New York City

