MIND AND BODY

Vol. 30______November, 1923______________No.	312

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO, NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachussetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as sttond-tlass matter October 1, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 1879-

THE CASE FOR AND AGAINST INTERCOLLEGIATE ATHLETICS FOR WOMEN AND THE SITUATION AS IT STANDS TODAY.

Mable Lee, Director of Physical Education for Women at Beloit College,

Beloit, Wisconsin.

PART I.

The Case For And Against.

Combined opinions of Physical Directors for Women in the leading Colleges and Universities of the United States.

I.	Effect upon Girls.

A. Who make the teams,

a.	Advantages.

1.	In keeping necessary training rules they would acquire habits of hygienic living which should be of great value to them. *

* Read at the meeting of the Middle Western Section of the American Physical Association, Chicago, April 1923.

Digitized by v^ooQle
246

2.	Thru contact with strangers as their guests or as their hostesses they would acquire a training in social values and a broadening of experience which cannot be approximated in playing games with none but home teams.

3.	Thru the greater interest in intercollegiate games they would feel the more keenly defeat and victory so that their instructors would have an opportunity to drive home to them the lessons to be derived from defeat and victory more quickly and more sharply than in the case of intra-mural or inter-class activities.

4.	They would work harder, thereby acquiring better muscular control, co-ordination and increased vigor, also increased mental activity in quickened thought reactions.

5.	They would acquire alertness, initiative, clear thinking, decisiveness, self-discipline to a much greater degree than they would through lesser interest in home activities.

b.	Disadvantages.

1.	They would be apt to get more “physical straining than physical training,” showing the most perhaps in nerve fatigue.

2.	The emotional strain attendant upon competition would be injurious.

3.	There would be ever present the tendency to take an active part in activities during the menstrual period for the sake of the trip and the honor of having played. Also the members of a team who can be the least spared by their team mates would be urged to keep secret their condition so the team would suffer no handicap thru their absence, the desire to play the best players being so much more intense in intercollegiate games than it would ever be in a series of inter-class or intra-mural games.

4.	The intensive training that would come with participation in these activities would lead to the neglect of other school work due to increase of interest in the activitiy or thru physical fatigue from this intensive training which would make the girl unable to give proper attention to the other work.

5.	The one idea to win at any cost would be bound to creep in, bringing in its wake the inevitable qualities of rowdyism, unless the activities and the players themselves are carefully supervised by competent and conscientious instructors.

6.	With the usual rush of college life there is no time that might rightly be given up for the intensive training intercollegiate activities demand.

7.	An undesirable newspaper notoriety would be sure to come to the girls; especially undesirable would be the mention of the fact that certain players are to be out of certain games as is always the case when men players are out for physical disability of any sort.

B. Girls who do not participate in these activities.

a.	Advantages.

1.	None.

b.	Disadvantages.

Digitized by Google
247

1.	They may not set physical straining but would be quite apt to get little physical training thru neglect if the teaching staff had to turn out varsity teams. It seems impossible that the “many” would not suffer neglect for the “few”. No school has sufficient staff or equipment to carry out a correct program for both ,the “many” and the “few.”

2.	The many girls neglected are sure to be the very girls who need the most training for their physical welfare.

3.	They would not have their legitimate share of athletic and department funds spent upon their training, so high would be the expense of intercollegiate teams.

II.	Effect upon Teaching Staff.

a.	Advantages.

1.	With a keener interest felt by the players in intercollegiate activities than in inter-class games, the instructor would be enabled all the more quickly to instill into the girls ideals of true sportsmanship, and the more quickly to drive home to them lessons to be learned from defeat and victory.

2.	The incentive to make intensive study of the game and its possibilities would be greater.

b.	Disadvantages.

1.	It would limit certain instructors’ field of contact to those who would try out for teams, so occupied would be their time with the preparation of varsity teams.

2.	The results of intensive study of the game would reach only the few.

8.	It would seriously curtail their activities in other directions because of the increased time that would be needed for developing school teams.

4.	The work of preparing teams would fall upon the regular teaching staff since it seems improbable and also undesirable that special "coaches” would be engaged by schools to care for this work and this would of necessity mean the neglect of very important work that should be done for the many in order to carry on this work for the few.

5.	The increased expenses necessary for intercollegiate activities would handicap a department in its work in other and every important directions.

6.	Intra-mural and inter-class activities offer the logical way to interest the vast majority in athletics and they would surely suffer if intercollegiate sports would enter the program.

7.	“It breeds a poor type, the ‘coach type' who is not ‘professionally minded’ and does not have the educational attitude toward her work,” says a director who speaks from actual experience with intercollegiate competition.

III.	Effect upon the Activities.

a. Advantages.

1.	Intercollegiate competition would lead to more intensive study of the technique of the game and its possibilities.

Digitized by Google
248

2.	The type of playing demanded of a team prepared for competition would raise the standards of inter-class playing within the school.

b. Disadvantages. (Varsity type in particular.)

1.	It would prevent the adaptation of the game to meet the needs of the average girl since the more intense interest would be in the game the stronger girl could play.

2.	It would limit the number actually playing the game since only a few can be chosen for teams.

3.	It would tend to produce "fans” out of the majority, rather than players.

4.	It would lessen the field of interest in the activity thru a lessening of the number that can be chosen.

5.	The highly undesirable commercialism of men’s athletics would be sure to creep in.

6.	It would tend towards professionalism, a most undesirable thing.

7.	It would produce enemies for the game because of disapproval of the physical strain upon the participants.

8.	The entrance of women into the intercollegiate athletic world would take us still farther away from the goal physical educators seek — the goal of "play for play’s sake” and every one on the field instead of in the grandstand.

V.	Effect upon the Colleges.

a.	Advantages.

1.	It would create a greater interest in the school’s athletics on the part of the outside world.

2.	It would create a greater interest among the students.

b.	Disadvantages to the College.

Quoting one of the leading Physical Directors for Women of the Middle West.

1.	"Men’s athletic departments are struggling now with their difficult situation and are not as yet making much progress. In the present unhealthful state of public and alumni opinion, intercollegiate athletics for women would be subject to the same pressure from the outside as are men’s; i. e., to make the game a good spectacle, to have a highly specialized team, so that it would be worth paying to go to see, and very likely, worth betting on.”

2.	“The handling of gate receipts and other business aspects of intercollegiate competition would tend to develop the director into a business manager rather than an educational expert.”

3.	“The gate receipts themselves would tend to develop extravagance in the department and the tendency to expend a disproportionate amount of money for the training of the few who earn the gate receipts.”

4.	“It would mean a reorganization of the physical education staff as well as its class work so that the intercollegiate squad could be trained separately, questions of eligibility could be passed upon and other intercollegiate matters could be properly dealt with."

5.	"The desire to produce a winning team would tend to make students and faculty alike forget that the game should serve as a

Digitized by v^oosle
249

recreation for its participants as well as for the spectators. It is already a criticism of men’s athletics by English observers that they take them too seriously and magnify their importance, forgetting on the other hand, the spirit of play for play’s sake.”

Quoting a prominent Eastern Director.

6.	“Most of us constantly see ways in which we could do more follow-up work, check up our procedures by more careful records and more study of those that we do keep, see ways of adapting work more carefully to individual needs, of stimulating intelligent effort in posture correction, in health habits, etc. Many of us are compelled to teach larger classes than permit instruction because we have not the floors or the staff to permit of organizing more classes. Under these conditions it is inevitable that attention to intensive competition should curtail the development of our departments in what to me seem more essential directions.”

7.	“My experience at----------------College	where	four hun-

dred students take part in the preliminary competitions and two hundred compete on field day, and where Juniors and Seniors whose sport is entirely voluntary place a team in each of eight different sports on the field, has intensified my belief that a general interest can best be obtained without intercollegiate competition. Our thirty-two different teams in the eight sports bring out this large number because no girl is a member of more than one team.”

V.	Suggestions:

1.	The few sturdy girls in school who might easily have the surplus energy to expend on intercollegiate activities and a great interest in sports as well, could be utilized to advantage as assistant instructors for intra-mural sports. This would give them incentive enough to study the game intensively.

2.	Impromptu* games might satisfy those who demand intercollegiate activities and they might in a measure do away with some of the criticism of matches previously scheduled and practiced for.

3.	The intercollegiate inter-class type of activity is free of a great number of the disadvantages mentioned above and may be free of even more of them if the colleges competing are very close neighbors, hence eliminating travel and absence from classes. It might easily be free of even other disadvantages if the schedules would call for two series of games only a week apart, so that the players who are disqualified for physical reasons for the first series might not be tempted to keep secret their condition and play when they should not, since they know they will have an opportunity to play the following week.

4.	Telegraphic competition in track, archery and rifle shooting which is gaining in popularity is certainly free of most of the disadvantages claimed for the usual form of intercollegiate activities and might well be fostered for the sake of any advantages it may offer.

PART II.

The Situation of Intercollegiate Athletics for Women in Our Colleges Today.

Digitized by v^ooQle
250

Statistics were gathered from questionnaires sent out to the Directors of Departments of Physical Education for Women in the leading colleges and universities of the United States.

Replies to the questionnaires came from colleges from the following twenty-three states:

Arizona

California

Colorado

Florida

Illinois

Virginia

Indiana	Minnesota

Iowa	Missouri

Kansas	Nebraska

Massachusetts	NewYork

Michigan	Ohio

Washington	Wisconsin

Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania South Dakota Vermont

With the exception of certain southern districts that failed to respond to inquiries, the country is quite thoroughly covered by the statistics obtained from the following fifty colleges from the above mentioned twenty-three states:

1.	Barnard College

2.	Beloit College

3.	Boston University

4.	Bryn Mawr College

5.	Bucknell University

6.	Carleton College

7.	Coe College

8.	Florida State College for Women

9.	Grinnell College

10.	Iowa State College

11.	Kansas State Agricultural College

12.	Miami University

13.	Mills College

14.	Milwaukee-Downer College

15.	Mount Holyoke College

16.	Northwestern University

17.	Oberlin College

18.	Oregon Agricultural College

19.	Pomona College

20.	Radcliffe College

21.	Randolph-Macon College

22.	Reed College

23.	Rockford College

24.	Smith College

25.	Swarthmore College

26.	Stanford University

27.	Sweet Briar College

28.	Syracuse University

29.	University of Arizona

30.	University of California

31.	University of Chicago

32.	University of Colorado

33.	University of Illinois

34.	University of Indiana

Digitized by Google
251

36.	University of Iowa

36.	University of Michigan

37.	University of Minnesota

38.	University of Missouri

39.	University of Nebraska

40.	University of Ohio

41.	University of Oklahoma

42.	University of Oregon

43.	University of South Dakota

44.	University of Vermont

45.	University of Washington

46.	University of Wisconsin

47.	Vassar College

48.	Washington State College

49.	Wellesley College

50.	Wells College

I.	Statistics in General.

11	Colleges or 22% have intercollegiate athletics for women.

39 Colleges or 78% do not have intercollegiate athletics for

women.

12	directors or 24% believe they benefit the women physically. 24 directors or 48% believe they do not benefit the women

physically.

2	directors or 4% are in doubt about it.

12 directors or 24% did not express an opinion.

14 directors or 28% believe they benefit the women mental'y.

16 directors or 32% believe they do not benefit the women mentally.

4	directors or 8% are in doubc about it.

16 directors or 32% did not express an opinion.

21 directors or 42% believe they benefit them socially.

14	directors or 28% believe they do not benefit them socially.

5	directors or 8% are in doubt about it.

10	directors or 20% did not express an opinion.

30 directors or 60% believe they harm the participants physically.

6	directors or 12% blieve they do not harm the participants physically.

2	directors or 4% are in doubt.

10 directors or 20% did not express an opinion.

Of the six who believe intercollegiate sports do not harm the women only three are directors in colleges having such activities. One of the other three heartily disapproves on other grounds. Two of these three believe they neither harm nor benefit the girls.

15	directors or 30% believe they harm the women mentally.

15 directors or 30% believe they do not harm the women

mentally.

20 directors or 40% did not express an opinion.

14 directors or 28% believe they harm the women socially.

Digitized by

Google
252

14 directors or 28% believe they do not harm the women socially.

2 directors or 4% are in doubt.

20 directors or 40% did not express an opinion.

2 directors or 4% are ardent advocates of intercollegiate competition.

43 directors or 86% are not ardent advocates of intercollegiate competition.

4 directors or 8% are in doubt.

1	director or 2% did not express an opinion.

Of the two who are ardent advocates, one is the director at a college where they do have intercollegiate activities and one is the director at a college where they do not. Of the four doubtful directors, two have had actual experience to judge by and two have not.

30 directors or 60% take their stand on the basis of actual experience.

8	directors or 16% take their stand on the basis of observation only.

7	directors or 14 % take their stand on the basis of theory

only.

Of the thirty who have had actual experience twenty-eight or 93% are against intercollegiate athletics for women and two or 7% are for them, and of the seven who base their decision upon theory only, all are opposd to intercollegiate activities.

37	directors or 74 % now hold the same views they held 2 or 3 years ago.

9	directors or 18% do not hold the same views they held 2 or 3 years ago.

4 directors or 8 % did not answer the question.

Of the thirty-seven who have not changed their viewpoint, thirty-five or 94 % are against them and two or 6 % are still for them. Of the thirty-seven who nave not changed their views, three reported that these past years have increased their dislike for intercollegiate athletics for women. Of these three one is in a college that has such activities and two are in colleges which do not have such activities; but these two speak from experience. Of the nine who have changed their views all nave changed from approval to disapproval of intercollegiate athletics for women.

38	directors or 76% have assistants who hold the same views they do.

2	directors or 4 % have assistants divided on the subject.

1 director or 2% has an assistant opposed to her views.

9 directors or 18% did not answer.

Of the thirty-eight where the director and assistants hold the same views, thirty-five or 92% of the department staffs are opposed to inter-collegiate athletics for women, two or 5% are doubtful and one favors them. The two colleges with assistants divided on the subject are colleges that do have intercollegiate athletics for women. The one college with the assistant’s wives opposed to that of director does not have intercollegiate athletics for women.
263

In 32 colleges or 64 % Women’s Athletic Assoc, leaders hold the same views as director.

In 6 colleges or 12% Women's Athletic Assoc, leaders do not hold the same views as director.

In 5 colleges or 10% Women’s Athletic Assoc, leaders are divided in their opinions.

In 7 colleges or 14% Women’s Athletic Assoc, leaders do not answer.

In 26 colleges or 52% Women’s Athletic Assoc, leaders are against inter-collegiate.

In 8 colleges or 16% Women's Athletic Assoc, leaders are for intercollegiate competition.

In 9 colleges or 18% Women’s Athletic Assoc, leaders are divided on subject.

In 28 colleges or 56% Women’s Athletic Assoc, leaders and the majority of girls agree.

In 23 colleges or 46% Women’s Athletic Assoc, leaders and the majority of girls and the department agree.

In 2 colleges or 4 % Women’s Athletic Assoc, leaders and the majority of girls disagree. And in both cases leaders and department are against competition and the girls are for it.

In 18 colleges or 36% all the Department staff, Athletic Assoc, leaders and majority of the girls are against intercollegiate athletics for women.

In 3 colleges or 6% all three factions are divided on the subject.

In 2 colleges or 4% all three factions are in favor of intercollegiate athletics for women and of these two, one has such activities and one does not.

II. Statistics on Colleges that Do Have Intercollegiate Athletics for Women.

6 colleges have varsity form of competition.

5	colleges have only inter-class form of competition.

These five find that the “many” do not suffer neglect as a result of these contests, altho three of these five directors say that they would if it were varsity type of competition. Of the six colleges having varsity type, one director says that the many do suffer considerable neglect, one says that chey suffer slight neglect, two contend that they do not suffer ac all from neglect and two say that they do not since they specialize in inter-class competition at home ana their small varsity efforts receive only second place consideration.

In one college they have very limited activities - the director is not an ardent advocate nor are the Women’s Athletic Association leaders nor the majority of girls, but the instructors are divided on the subject. In one college they have competition only with a college in the same town. The director does not approve at all and is very keen about ending it, but she does not feel tree to do so just yet on account of the tradition there. In one college they have

Digitized by v^ooQle
♦Mills College ♦Stanford University Radcliffe College Swarthmore College Sweet Briar College

254

competition only at home with teams that will come to than. The director is not m favor of intercollegiate athletics for women, but the Women’s Athletic Association leaders and girls are.

In four colleges they have no varsity competition - only inter-class intercollegiate competition. In these colleges, the instructors and students do not approve of the varsity type. In one other college they have only inter-class form of competition -Director approves of that but not of the varsity competition although her staff ana the girls are divided on the subject.

In two colleges they have had varsity competition for some years with elaborate schedules and all three factions, directors, instructors and students approve it.

Of these 11 schools 4 are in 3 Eastern States, i. e., Mass., N. Y., Penn.; 6 are in 3 Western States, *. e., Calif., Oregon, Arizona; 1 is in a Southern State, Virginia.

They are as follows:

Arizona University Barnard College Bryn Mawr College ♦California University ♦Oregon Agricultural College ♦Oregon University

(* means no r‘varsity” competition permitted.)

The activities used in intercollegiate competition are as follows in the order of their popularity:

Basketball used for intercollegiate competition in 11 colleges.

Tennis used for intercollegiate competition in 9 colleges.

Hockey used for intercollegiate competition in 7 colleges.

Swimming used for intercollegiate competition in 5 colleges.

Baseball used for intercollegiate competition in 4 colleges.

Archery used for intercollegiate competition in 2 colleges.

Rowing used for intercollegiate competition in 2 colleges.

Handball used for intercollegiate competition in 2 colleges.

Fencing used for intercollegiate competition in 1 college.

The greatest number of activities used in any one college for competition is 7.

The least number of activities used in any one college for competition is 2.

The average number of activities used in any one college for competition is 4.

Five colleges that do not have competition do exchange telegraphic records in track and rifle and archery meets.

III.	Why Some Colleges Do Not Have Intercollegiate Athletics for Women Aside from the Reason that the Directors do not approve of them.

10	directors out of 50 say that the administration does not permit it.

4	directors out of 50 say that the A. C. A. C. W. does not permit it.

5	directors out of 50 say that they are in no way prepared to handle such a situation.

Digitized by v^ooQle
255

1 director out of 50 says that they have no funds to use for such purposes.

6	directors out of 50 say it would interfere with their intramural program.

1	director out of 50 says it would be physically harmful to

girls.

2	directors out of 50 say that commercialism would be sure to enter.

1 director out of 50 says it would interfere with academic work seriously.

1 director out of 50 says “Why should we have f”

In case they ever should enter such activities, these directors would use the same activities for competition that the colleges now competing do use with the addition of bowling, golf and volley ball.

IV. Conclusions:

Intercollegiate Athletics for Women:

1.	Do not exist in the leading colleges of the United States except in a very limited number of schools.

2.	The varsity type of competition (that type in which one team is chosen from the entire college to play against such a team from another college) is found only in a very few Eastern and Southern schools.

3.	The inter-class intercollegiate type of competition (that type in which a team is chosen to represent each of the four classes to play against the corresponding four class teams from another school, (the seniors playing the seniors, the juniors the juniors, etc.) is found exclusively in the far western colleges.

4.	The telegraphic meet (that type of competition in which the two teams hold their contests, each on their home campus and compare records and scores by telegraph) is found almost exclusively in the Middle Western colleges.

5.	There is no tendency at the present on the part of physical directors to change their attitude of disapproval of the varsity type in particular, to one of approval. The large majority of them have been opposed to it for years and are still opposed to it, while on the other hand the few who have changed their views recently have in every case changed from an approval to a disapproval of it.

6.	Of those who have had actual experience with inter-collegiate athletics for women, 93% are opposed to them.

7.	Even those who favor them, claim that they are not ardent advocates with the exception of two, whereas the great majority who are opposed are quite ardent in their opposition.

8.	The directors in a large proportion of these colleges state that their athletic association leaders are also opposed to intercollegiate athletics.

9.	Of the colleges that do have intercollegiate competition . only two directors approve of the varsity type.

Digitized by

Google
256

10.	Of the colleges where the inter-class intercollegiate form of competition exists, all the directors approve of it altno they declare themselves against the varsity type.

11.	The schedules of this form of competition show only a limited number of contests for any one school so that there is actually only a very little of even this type of competition entered upon by the few colleges which do support it.

DIFFERENTIATION OF CURRICULA BETWEEN THE

SEXES.

From the Report of The Consultative Committee Submitted to the British Board of Education.

The education of girls and women has passed thru two stages, and is, perhaps, now entering on a third. Down to 1850, and even later, it was assumed that the education of girls must be different from that of boys, because they belonged to what was regarded as the weaker (or, in a more euphemistic phrase, the gentler) sex. This was the stage of difference based on inequality; it was the stage of feminine accomplishments; it was also tne stage of educational inefficiency. During the next stage, which is perhaps drawing to a close, the cause of efficiency was identified with that of equality, and, in the name of both, educational reformers claim, and sought to secure, that there should be no difference between the education of girls and that of boys. This was the stage of identity based on equality; it was marked, in many respects, by a great advance in efficiency; but if new strength was gained, old and delicate graces were perhaps lost, and the individuality of womanhood was in some respects sacrificed on the austere altar of sex equality.

We may now be entering on a third stage, in which we can afford to recognize that equality does not demand identity, but is compatible with and even depends upon a system of differentiation under which either sex seeks to multiply at a rich interest its own peculiar talents. Dissimilars are not necessarily unequals, and it is possible to conceive an equality of the sexes which is all the truer and richer because it is founded on mutual recognition of differences and the equal cultivation of different capacities. In such a stage there might again be difference, but there would still be equality, and in it we might preserve what was good while discarding what was bad in either of the previous stages. But this third stage, if it should be one of a ready recognition of differences, whenever and wherever they exist, must also be one of a no less ready recognition of similarities at all times and in all places in which they are to be found.

Our inquiry has not imbued us with any conviction that there are clear and ascertained differences between the two sexes on which an educational policy may readily be based. We have encountered a number of facile generalizations about the mental differences between boys and girls; we have found few, if any.

Digitized by v^oosle
257

which we were able to adopt. Again and again we were assured by our witnesses that one boy differed from another, and one girl from another, even more than boys differed from girls; and we could not but notice that a superiority which one witness claimed for boys might be vindicated by the next witness for girls. Men ana women have existed for centuries; but either sex is still a problem to the other—and, indeed, to itself; nor is there any third sex to discriminate dispassionately between the two.

Differences Should Not Be Assumed.

As psychological study develops, and as statistical inquiries and data are multiplied, it may be possible to attain some tangible and valid conclusions. In the meantime it is the part of wisdom neither to assume differences nor to postulate identity, but to leave the field free for both to show themselves. Let boys and girls have a large choice of subjects, and teachers a wide latitude in directing the choice of subjects—such is the policy which we would advocate. It would be fatal, at the present juncture, to prescribe one curriculum for boys and another for girls. We would prescribe as little as possible for either, because we are anxious that both should be free to find and to follow their tastes, and because we desire that the teachers of both should be free to aid and guide the development of their pupils.

It is accordingly a relaxation of requirements and an increase of freedom of choice that we advocate, alike for the period of studies leading directly to the first school examination and for that leading to the second. If such freedom is granted, we look forward to a time of progressive experiment in which teachers will seek with vision and with courage to provide the course and use the methods which will best suit the capacities and the tastes of their pupils. And if progressive experiment is attempted, it will provide naturally and correctly the detailed answer to the question which at present we can only answer by advising that freedom should be given for such experiment.

Aesthetic Capacity Has Been Stunted.

In the second place, we feel that, alike for boys and for girls, there has been a stunting of aesthetic taste and capacity owing to the concentration of attention upon the studies of the dry intellect. Education is not only a preparation for the doing of work; it is also a preparation for the spending of leisure, which, if it is less in amount, is perhaps no less in importance than work. Nothing can conduce more to that right spending of leisure, which means so much for true happiness, than an eliciting and training of the gift of aesthetic appreciation. We believe that boys, no less than girls, would profit if such recognition were given; but recognizing as we do that, whether from tradition or from innate taste, the aesthetic interest is strongly marked in girls, we would urge that the provision of fuller facilities for its development might bring such a liberation and an

Digitized by

Google
258

enhancing of capacity as would affect the whole standard and character of the work done in girls’ schools.

In the next place we desire, in view of the medical and other evidence which we have received, to plead that the pace of education in girls’ schools should be carefully adjusted to the strength and the opportunities for study which may be presumed of the average pupil. We are not arguing that a special consideration should be paid to a "weaker sex,” or that a lower standard of achievement should be expected from girls than that which is expected from boys. Under the same conditions of health, and granted the same freedom from other demands on their time, there is every reason to believe that girls can match the achievements of boys when they enjoy the same training. But the conditions of health are not the same, and the freedom from other demands is much less for girls than it is for boys.

Girls Require Shorter School Hours.

Girls are liable to seasons of lowered vitality, in which nervous fatigue is serious; and they have a part to play in the home and its duties which can hardly be shirked, even if its effects on their studies may be deprecated. If, under such conditions and amid such distractions, the pace of education in girls’ schools were made to keep time with that set in schools for boys, it is obvious that girls would, in effect, be required to do still more than boys in order to remain on a level with them. We have only to state the requirement in order to show its injustice; and in the cause of justice and equality between the sexes we may suggest that, for many girls, a later age for passing examination and, for all girls, a shorter period of school hours, are imperatively necessary.

Finally, we venture to suggest that the increasing esprit de corps in school life and the growing tendency to organize and emphasize all school activities are modem developments which stand in need of criticism and control, more particularly in girls’ schools. The standard of conscientious performance of duty was never higher among teachers than it is to-day; but the very height of the standard of teaching may perhaps involve risks for the taught. The school may displace the family from their affections; and, again, it may check what it is meant to foster—the full and free development of individual initiative and vigor. The special danger of girls’ schools is that they may become excellently organized and conscientiously loyal groups composed of mediocre and uniform units. Conscientiousness is a virtue, but in the world of education it may also be a vice, alike in the teacher and the taught.

Efficiency is a precious thing, but spontaneity is a very precious thing. In the early pioneer days of woman’s education spontaneity and vigor sprang from a constant struggle with difficulties. The passing of those difficulties is itself a difficulty for the present generation. It would seem the saddest of paradoxes if the education of women should lose its vigor in the day of
259

highly trained teachers, all working assiduously, with a vastly improved equipment, among a multitude of textbooks. But we need not anticipate such a paradox. Teachers will do much—very much—for the sake of their pupils; they will give themselves abundantly and unstintingly. But there is a time to withhold as well as a time to give; and as they come to learn its necessity, teachers who can give will know also when and how to withhold. —School Life.

GUIDING GROWTH.

Heniy L. Curtis, Ph. D.

The Greeks made a religion of physical perfection. They said that it was the duty of every man to be an Apollo, of every woman to be a Venus. It is often said that beauty usually means vanity and shallowness, and enervates the character. The opposite is often the case. There are more dispositions that are soured by ugliness than there are spoiled by beauty. Beauty is always an advantage.

Parents are apt to regard beauty as the gift of the gods, with which they are not directly concerned. This is true only in part. Beauty is largely the outward expression of health. It is the bright eye, the clear complexion, the glossy hair, the vivacious expression of body and face. There are always three and often four elements that enter into the moulding of the human figure. These are heredity, physical exercise, food and health habits and often the correction of physical defects.

It is extremely important to the child that he select his parents wisely. In a large way they will determine both his physical and intellectual stature, his vigor, strength and personal appearance. However, training is not absolutely helpless in the presence of heredity even in regard to stature. All the studies that have been made show that the well fed children from the homes of the well-to-do are both taller and heavier than the underfed children of the poor. Systematic physical training at Annapolis is shown to have increased the height of the Naval cadets who were all over eighteen in the beginning, nearly an inch. During the late war there were whole regiments in which there was an average increase in height of nearly an inch during training tho nearly all were over twenty-one years of age.

People often think that growth is a regular matter, representing a certain average increase per week in height and weight from infancy to maturity. This is far from being the case. The rate of growth in height and weight varies thruout the year, and there seems to be a different developing time for every organ in the body. The period of most rapid growth in height is from April to August. The period of most rapid gain in weight is

From a forthcoming book "The Children and the Home."

Digitized by v^ooQle
260

from August to December. There are two periods of rapid gain in both height and weight. These occur at the time of second dentition, usually when the child is about eight years old and the second and most rapid acceleration coming at the beginning of puberty.

Vigorous physical exercise will increase growth; it is absolutely necessary co the rounding out of the figure. Nature has provided for this by planting the play impulse in the heart of the child. Muscles can be kept in a healthy condition only thru exercise. The child is seldom still, but his activities change rapidly, so that he uses first one set of muscles and then another. Up to puberty every child needs at least two hours of vigorous play out of doors every day. It is scarcely possible that ne should have perfect health or the best type of physical development without this. Play alone will not produce a Sampson or a Hercules, but it will produce an individual of great endurance, quickness of response, and abounding health. These are the chief physical requirements of this age of machines. The form must be fashioned while it is growing. All changes are more difficult to effect after puberty.

Probably California is making better provision for the outdoor play life of its children than any other state. It also is producing the finest physical type that the world has ever seen outside of the best days of Greece and Rome.

Physical Examinations.

The school should frequently take stock of children's condition, to know whether they are growing as they should. The greatest incentives to physical training that ever came to this country were the revelations of the draft which showed that about one-third of our young men of the selective ages from twenty-one to thirty-one were unfit for military service on account of physical defects or poor physical development. We should learn early where defects need to be corrected. Every child should have every year or every other year at least, a careful examination by a competent physician. His clothes should be removed, and the parents should be present that they may understand just what is the matter and what if anything needs to be done. There are a number of defects, as spinal curvature and poor eyesight, which grow directly out of the school work. Adenoids may make their appearance or increase at any time. A single examination will not suffice.

There are now fifteen or more states where the schools profess to give a physical examination to each child every year. In nearly all of our city school systems, and in many large factories and industrial concerns this is required of all employees entering the system. Practically all of our large universities examine all their students at entrance. This covers height and weight, the condition of eyes, ears, throat, nose, teeth, heart and lungs.

Digitized by t^ooQle
261

The Removal of Physical Defects.

Many physical defects are outgrown. Sometimes all that is needed to cure flat feet and stooped shoulders is to feed the child better. Vigorous physical exercise and especially athletics will nearly always improve posture. Most minor defects can be corrected by medical gymnastics. But the more serious ones will require a surgeon. The difficulty of the correcting of nearly all physical defects increases with every year that passes before it is done. It is a tragedy that any child should go into life handicapped by some abnormality which is sure to make him sensitive, and to impair his efficiency, when with slight care and expense it might have been corrected.

I recently spent part of a day in the children’s ward of the State University Hospital at Iowa City, Iowa. There were in the orthopedic ward about one hundred fifty children most of whom had had infantile paralysis. Such children have usually been regarded as incurable and allowed to grow up with crooked and withered limbs. However, they are curing or greatly improving more than eighty per cent of these very difficult cases. Club feet, cross eyes, and crooked teeth are now often straightened.

The Army rejected one-third of the men from military service on account of physical defects. Yet these men must make their way in the world, earn a living and support their families. In most positions they will be handicapped by these defects little less than in the Army; for there were always six or seven men behind the line for every man at the front, and modem warfare requires nearly every type of occupation that is found in civil life. The schools should see that children grow up fit for whatever life may demand.

One of the most obvious and remediable defects is the growth in the nasal passages, known as adenoids. Adenoids and enlarged tonsils are a serious handicap. A child with a bad case will usually be found to be much undernourished. He is generally one or two inches shorter than he should be, and often one or two grades behind in school. The adenoids close the nasal passage so that he never gets enuf oxygen to run his brain properly. He tends to be sleepy and indifferent to school work. A bad case may be recognized by the fact that the child usually sleeps with his mouth open and often snores. If he runs or takes part in any vigorous exercise, he always breathes thru his mouth. He is apt to have a drawn and unhappy expression. The operation for removing adenoids and tonsils is a simple one, usually involving little disqualification from school or other work. Unless the case is a mild one or the child below school age, this operation should nearly always be peformed. From such meager statistics as we have it would appear that improvement in school work often follows, tho more often during the second or third year than at once.

While it requires an oculist to measure the various defects of vision, the teacher is quite competent to find out whether or

Digitized by LiOOQle
262

not the child requires glasses. A snellen card can be obtained of a physician or oculist with print of different sizes. The child should put his hand first over one eye, and then over the other and see how far he can read the letters with each eye. Children who need glasses badly often suffer from headache, nervous troubles, and even severe stomach troubles. They will not as a rule study their lessons carefully and are apt to fall behind in their work. But, if the child is only slightly near-sighted, or farsighted, it may be better for him not to wear glasses. The eye has considerable power of accomodation, and the child with glasses is much handicapped in his play.

It is yet easier to test the hearing of children. All that is necessary is an ordinary watch. Let the child tell how far he can hear the tick first with one ear, and then the other. The child’s eyes should be closed, else he is likely to say he can hear it whenever he sees the hand approaching. The watch must be first withdrawn and then brot nearer, to determine at what distance the sound appears and becomes audible in each case. Each ear should be tested separately. A child with defective hearing is under constant nervous strain if he listens. He soon wearies of this, does not hear correctly, and makes unintelligent answers. He is apt to fall behind in his work at school.

For examination of heart and lungs a doctor should be consulted. In New York City where this work has been carefully done, they find about 1 1-2 per cent of the children have lesions of the heart, of sufficient gravity to exclude them from vigorous athletics. There is apparently about one chance in sixty or seventy that a child will nave some trouble of this sort.

There are an enormous number of bad teeth among school children, usually several per child. These teeth often ache, cause bad breath, harbor germs, and poison the whole system from their secretions. They prevent the proper mastication of the food, and often cause the second teeth to come in wrong. In many school systems these teeth are now attended to in dental clinics at the schools. Parents should have the children’s teeth gone over by a dentist at least once a year from the time they enter school.

DEVELOPING FITNESS ON ATHLETIC FIELD REFLECTS AMERICAN NATIONAL CHARACTER.

Why is it that a Walter Hoover, winning the Diamond Sculls in England, a Bill Tilden, enabling the United States to retain world supremacy in tennis or a Benny Leonard, “putting away” all and sundry lightweight opponents in the ring wins the praise of American manhood on every acre of the 48 state maps, while a college athlete, pole vaulting to a new record, racing to victory down a football field, or tossing the last necessary pair of points in a

From "Minnesota Chats.”

Digitized by v^ooQle
263

basketball game finds nearly as many to “pooh-pooh” as to exalt him?

Why is an athletic victory in a contest of international or nationwide importance a cause for undiluted clamors of delight among the very people of whom many mutter “child's play,” “nonsense,” or "why aren’t they helping to support the folks” when teams representing two educational institutions fight it out, chest to chest on a gridiron walled with shrieking partisans?

Ask any man what nation is strongest in athletics. He will tell you, “the United States.” Ask him why the United States is most successful, and he will start making the eagle scream to the echo on the subject of sturdy American manhood, Yankee character, “our pure air, mountains, and great windswept plains.” He loves it. He believes it. He wishes he himself had clipped that last fifth of a second off the latest Olympic record to fall.

Yet, in the face of a universal pride and rejoicing in American athletic accomplishment and manly prowess, are literally thousands who miss few chances to murmur “waste of time,” “loss of money,” or “poppycock” when the contestants in some famous game happen to be college men. Don’t let those whose associations have always been those of the campus tell you this is untrue.

A nation which finds the keenest joy in hunting prowess, in home runs, “Birdies” and bogey scores, in fishing, mountain climbing, yacht racing and rifle matches, is a nation which in its heart of hearts loves all athletics, all fair contests, all true sportsmanship. But it presents as a pet paradox a group who have elected to say that baseball is a man's game, football a trinket; that boxing is a rugged, manly sport, basketball—well, that it flavors of the “rah-rah.” And so on, and so on.

The sons of these men play all the good American games on the playgrounds, in the grade school and high school gymnasiums, in vacant lots and streets, just as they themselves did in boyhood. It is this traditional and universal joining in strenuous, body-building outdoor sport that has made the American man and woman the optimistic, energetic, good natured individuals that they are. And the man who has been an athlete in college will tell you, upon your asking, that no training he ever received did more towards fitting him for life than that he had from his coaches and trainers on the gridiron, or gymnasium floor.

Not only war, so much quoted in health and fitness discussions, but the everyday, persistently present struggle of us all for life, reasonable happiness, and gradual progress teach the value of sound health and sturdy bodies. In the final analysis, the man who can stand the most "grief,” who can fight the longest, who can do just that little bit more than the next man, is the fellow who wins. These are platitudes, perhaps, but so are the need to earn a living, to sleep, eat, and possibly buy a few of life's luxuries.

The struggle for health and physical vigor is conducted the world over, on many planes, after many methods. On the lowest plane is the backward nation into which more enlightened peoples

Digitized by Google
264

send medical missions to eradicate plagues, engineers to build systems that will deliver pure water, diplomatists to protest against the production of body-wasting drugs. These missions are partly altruistic, partly selfish, in that they try to prevent the spread of diseases or moral dangers from the unfortunate nations to the advanced ones. On the next higher plane one might mention, perhaps, nations which realize the need for expert medical knowledge and health supervision, but which have not among their own population the trained scientists who can do the needed thing.

In relatively a few of the strong, occidental nations, there is in addition to high medical knowledge and decent public recognition of the need for sanitary caution, a developing pride in the maintenance of strong, fit bodies. And in this group, none is more fortunate than the United States.

It has been the boast of England that she won Waterloo “upon the football field.” The Scandinavian countries are important world centers of enthusiasm for outdoor sports. The doctrine of individual physical development is fundamental among German ideas. France may show up at a disadvantage in American football and baseball, but in fencing, horsemanship, and other sports of keen skill she is among the world leaders.

In extending and developing its work in physical education and athletics the University of Minnesota is lining up with one of the most important trends in twentieth century life. A nation which has changed its fashions in dress as persistently in the direction of common sense, freedom of motion, and benefit to health as has the United States since 1890 has committed itself beyond retraction to the active life, personal efficiency, and fitness. That the same changes have been world-wide only makes the commentary stronger.

The University of Minnesota students who compete in athletic contests against teams from other state universities are doing more than representing the spirit and will of the state. They are setting an example which is followed in every town of the state by hundreds of hero-worshiping youngsters on the sandlots and play-fields. No news is so eagerly read by American boyhood as the news of high school and college athletic teams. For every Martin-eau, or Ecklund, or Aas there are 10,000 young "copy-cats” racing across the playfields of the state, building the foundations of physical soundness in later life.

Even if it were true that “only eleven play on a football team while the rest look on,” the example of that team to the grade and high school boys of the state would more than warrant it. But opportunity for physical development is being made available to every student, either man or woman, who attends the state university.

Much will be heard this year from the new Gopher Outing Club, established last winter, which is making a drive to have every student name his favorite outdoor sport and take part in groups that will be formed to follow it, whether hockey, skiing, bob-sledding.

Digitized by

Google
265

hiking, skating, snowshoeing, or even snowballing. Also, the department of physical education will conduct its program of interstudent sports on a larger scale than has been tried before. A full time director has been engaged to oversee this work, in which the men who didn’t make the teams, or didn’t try for them, will be given all the chance at athletics the present field and gymnasium facilities afford.

* — — -............................. ........... ♦

The game of “Serve Us” ball was evolved by George L. List-man, who was during the late war a director of physical activities for the Y. M. C. A. in the Army and Navy forces that were encamped and stationed in the New England area.

The game is played with a canvas-covered ball containing a rubber bladder. The ball, when the bladder is inflated, is 20 inches in diameter and weighs about 20 ounces. At the time the game was invented there was no ball available for the game which exactly met the requirements of Mr. Listman. By a process of elimination and experiment he devised the ball now known to athletes in world wide sections as the “Serve Us” ball.

It is a purely recreative competition which may be played by a small number of contestants or by a large number. It is not a game which is complicated, nor does it require specialization, and that is a principal reason why it has been steadily successful. It is a capital stimulative of social spirit and atmosphere and it has proved that it absorbs the attention of the players. That, of course, arouses their interest.

The rules provide for ten contestants on each side, but the game may be played with as few as two players on each side. Thus it becomes a sport which is excellently adapted to the needs of business men when they come together for recreation. The regulations of the game are not complex nor intricate. They are simple and easily understood.

Reference was made especially to business men in order that the amusement feature, devoid of extreme physical and mental exertion, might be prominently brought forth. The game may be played and enjoyed by young men, boys, women and girls. It has all the elements of a restful exercise, in other words, an exercise which is diverting at the same time that it is wholesome and helpful to the body.

It may be added that it is an amusement which is especially suitable for men who employ the larger muscles in heavy work in industries which call for severe and extreme physical effort. It will give elasticity to the flesh tissues and limber and render supple

YMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUN

FRED FOERTSCH, Pittsburg, Pa.

“SERVE US" BALL.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
266

muscles that have become stiffened and set by steady following of a certain daily program. While both young and old are playing the game they will enjoy the zest of competition and the exercise of their wits to achieve points, at the same time that they receive excellent physical benefit without the severe physical endeavor which is demanded from so many games which necessitate hard work to comply with their rules and achieve their points.

The first tryout of “Serve Us” ball was given by the officers of the New Haven Army Hospital. Tentative rules had been drawn up and the many who were interested were present to see how the new game was going to result. Where improvement was necessary it was made, and after the rules were finally agreed upon a test was given at the conference of the Recreation Division of the National War Work Council of the North Eastern Department at Cambridge, Mass. “Serve Us” ball met with favor immediately.

Since then the game has been played with great success at seven national districts, which include the distribution of the forces of the Army and Navy, and all important points at which men of both services are stationed.

After the signing of the armistice "Serve Us” ball began to be taken up at once at industrial plants whose employes had been in the service and who were fond of the new pastime. After work in the evenings and during the noon hour “Serve Us” ball is one of the most popular recreations of the men who have tried it and appreciate it.

It may be played outdoors or indoors. There are three variations to it, and it is possible to play it on any size floor, if a gymnasium or hall is used. An outdoor court may be laid out to the dimensions which are compatible with the extent of the ground area, conforming, of course, to proportionate measurements as they are indicated by the rules.

Official Rules “Serve Us” Ball.

“ Serve Us” bail may be played by men and women, boys and girls.

Rule I—Playing Surface.

Section 1. The playing court shall be rectangular, free from obstructions, not more than 100 feet in length and 60 feet in width.

Sec. 2. The court shall be marked by lines not less than 2 inches in width, the short lines called End Lines, the long lines called Side Lines.

Sec. 3. A line shall be marked parallel to the end lines, 4 feet from the center of the side lines in each court.

Sec. 4. When game is played indoors, on a smaller space, the boundary lines shall be eliminated, using the walls.

Note—On a smaller court the 4-foot lane in the center is only 6 feet long, instead of running the width of the court.

Digitized by Google
267

Rule II—Ball.

The ball shall be round, a rubber bladder covered by a canvas case. It shall be between 59 and 61 inches in circumference, which is about 20 inches in diameter, and weigh between 19 and 22 ounces.

Rule III—Net.

The net shall be at least 6 feet wide and reach from center of side lines on one side to center of side lines on other side. It shall be tightly stretched, level and measure 9 feet from the top to the floor.

Note—Two tennis nets (each 3 feet wide) tied together will answer the purpose. One single court net (36 feet long) or double court nets (42 feet long) may be used.

SPALOINO'S ATHLETIO LIBRARY.

Digitized by L^ooQLe
268

Rule IV—Teams.

Section 1. Teams shall be composed of ten players; if more, equal numbers on a side, one of whom shall act as captain. Seven players can be used on small court.

Sec. 2. Substitutes may take the place of a player by reporting to the Referee.

Rule V—Officials.

Section 1. The officials shall be a Referee and three linesmen. The Referee shall be the superior officer of the game. He (or she) shall decide when a point has been made, when a fault has been made, impose penalties, and shall have power to rule on any points not covered in these rules.

Sec. 2. The Linesmen shall be stationed two at opposite corners of the court and one at the center of the side line. The duties of the Linesman shall be to determine when ball is out, or when foot fault is made by server, or by opponents stationed in 4-foot space in center of court.

Rule VI—Game.

Section 1. The game shall consist of 12 points.

Sec. 2. The captains toss for choice of court or service. The winner of the toss may take either the court or first service, but cannot take both.

Sec. 3. One court shall be known as the Home Court, the other the Opponents’ Court.

Sec. 4. Players shall serve by rotation.

Sec. 5. Catching or holding a ball constitutes a fault. The ball must be clearly batted, with the exception of the server, who may either toss or bat the ball at his option.

Sec. 6. No player shall play the ball twice in succession; either in the air, from the net or from the bounce.

Sec. 7. The ball may be played on the first bounce after the legal service has been made, may be batted by one or both hands, fists, head or shoulders, or any part of the body above the waist.

Sec. 8. The ball shall be put in play by the server, from center behind the end line. The server may toss or bat the ball to a player on his team, who in turn bats to another player on his team, before the ball can be batted over the net.

Note—Ball must be played by two players besides the server before it can be batted over the net (but no more). Bounces not allowed in service and ball must clear net, or fault is called.

Sec. 9. Ball is in bounds when any part touches the line. Ball cannot be played under the net.

Sec. 10. Where no bounds are played the wall surface shall constitute out-of-bounds, but ball may be returned from the wall on first bounce by the player at his option.

Sec. 11. Interference with hanging apparatus or other objects shall not stop play. Ball cannot be played off ceiling.

Digitized by

Google
269

Sec. 12. Point shall be made when team receiving fails to return ball. Fault shall be called when server fails to win a point.

Sec. 13. Server shall continue until his side has made a fault.

Playing The Ball.

Two players from each team shall be placed in their opponents’ court within the 4-foot lane. They may intercept a return ball or pass to their side at their option. An intercepted ball may, however, be recovered either in the air or on a bounce. If opposition players step over the 4-foot line, it constitutes a fault. The opponents can, however, go into the lanes to return ball.

Players in lanes or 6 x 4 space cannot be interfered with by opposing players, neither can the laneman interfere with opponents. Opponents can go into lanes to return ball. They have free use of their side of the court.

Points and errors will be scored by the plays of opposition players for and against, as if they were in their own court.

In rotating they will rotate as if they were in the forward line in their own court, going back to their own side in turn and another player taking the place left vacant.

Note—In a smaller court one player in a lane 6 feet long in the center of the court only is allowed.

Note—The game is for informal work, with no faults for apparatus interference; the players are kept on the move; with the bounce it gives another opportunity for a return; with the opposition in the 4-foot lanes it makes a passing game, as the object is to get the ball past or over the heads of the players who are eager to intercept the pass.

The game can be played by two or four on a side without the opposition players, making an excellent businessman’s game, where only a few are on the floor.

Questions on interpretation of rules, accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelope, should be addressed to George L. Listman, 167 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.

PLAY FOR HEALTH AND HAPPINESS.

By Martin Rodgers, President Alumni Association, Savage School for Physical

Education.

Hello, folks, how’s your happiness? After listening to Miss sing, I’m sure your happiness must be a way up in G. Miss told me just before she went on, how much enjoyment she was going to receive from singing to you. She said it was play and now I am sure it is, too. Did you play today? You’ve heard say, “an apple a day keeps the doctor away" but if you play each day, you can forget the doctor’s telephone number.

In this weather a tennis court may serve you, the golf links may call you, the ocean may appeal to you, or you may like hiking.

Digitized by Google
270

But we can bet you’d not choose this kind of weather to shovel a ton of coal into your cellar. That’s work. And everybody knows the big difference between work and play.

|£ When Father beats the carpet on the roof — that’s work, when he beats the tennis ball — that’s play. Yet he uses the same muscles and more energy but he gets more pleasure, more enjoyment and personal satisfaction from tennis rather than carpet beating. The man who cuts the grass with a scythe or the woman who sweeps the floor with a broom, considers that work. But the man or woman who plays golf, using the very same muscles, would call this play. This brings us to our first point. The things we enjoy doing, the things that give us satisfaction, the things that make us forget ourselves — these things are play. The things we have to do, either for money or for some other ulterior motive — that’s work.

Strange as it may seem, a great many people do not know what play really is. Play is the natural expression of one’s innermost feelings. It is nature's gift at birth to every human being. The growth of a child is symbolic of the growth of the human race. Scientists tell us that every child, girl or boy, plays, because he or she is living over again the life of their cave-man ancestors.

Many, many moons ago, when your great, great, g-g-g-grand-father was a caveman, and had to protect himself from his enemies— before there were policemen — and used a club for this purpose, he chased, fought and hid. He either won or lost — he must have won or else you wouldn’t be listening. He started something in his own heart and mind which he handed down to his great, great g-g-g-grandsons. Today, every live boy plays cops and robbers or prisoners base, modern versions of caveman life. The boy today lives over again the life of his ancestors. This, today, we call an instinct. Whengrandfatherchased and fought, it was work. When the boy chasesandfightsin his games today, it’s play. When the boy goes fishing, it’s play but with our caveman forefathers, it was work.

Now take the girl. When her great, g-g-g-grandmother sat in the cave and crooned a lullaby to a little papoose, she started something that was handed down to her great-great, g-g-g-grand-daugh-ters. Today, every normal healthy, girl plays house with a doll and lives over again, the work and duties of the cave-woman. Today this instinct in the girl is called play.

You might ask further in thinking over the difference between work and play, why it is that your favorite dog romps or your pet Idtten plays.

It is just as much an instinct for the cat or dog to play as it is for the boy or girl. Take your pet kitten for instance. When auntie is sitting in her easy chair, knitting a pair of socks for grandpa, and her ball of yarn falls on the floor, suddenly out springs Tom, pounces on the ball of yarn, claws it, bites it, pounces on it again and plays. This play of kittycat is repeating the life of his great,

Digitized by LjOOQle
271

great, g-g-g-grandfather who in the jungles of Africa was a ferocious tiger. When the tiger pounced upon his prey, clawed it, chewed it, that was work, for it got him food, but when today, kitty pounces on Auntie's ball of yam, — that’s play.

Let’s come back to the boy or girl. Now it's clear to you that the child plays because he or she lives over again, the life of their forefathers.

At the very beginning of the boy’s life, the youngster is absolutely selfish. He wants to grab and keep for himself, everything he sees. A little later, when he is able to walk, he becomes a little less selfish and is willing to share his playthings with his little brother and playmates. Soon, he is able to run. He is now in the “Big Injun” stage. He likes to fight, hunt, hide and may even steal. At this period, he is wildest and most unsocial. However, he soon outgrows this period and evolves into what educators call the “Age of Loyalty.” He may belong to a gang or a club - and forms teams. At any rate he is getting more sociable. He has begun to realize that there are other people in this world beside himself. He has now only just begun to be a useful member of society. Play has done its work.

And the girl. Does she go thru the same stages of growth? She most certainly does. At the beginning, very selfish, no one can play with her rattle or dolls, but filter she will play house with others and share her toys, finally evolving into an unselfish and helpful individual. Play has done its work again.

One thing to remember, however, is that each girl is a distinctive personality — nature’s finest creation for a man to fight for and protect.

Every normal boy and girl has plenty of excess energy because of these old locked up instincts. Let them play. They love it. Let them be happy. Play makes them healthy. It makes them strong. It teaches them team work. It makes them sociable. It teaches them how to give and take. Play teaches them to be fair and square. It makes them brave. It gives them self-control and ability to act independently. They learn sticktoitiveness. It gives them appetite and aids digestion. Play peps up the mind, makes children keen, alert, teaches them to reason, so as to hit the ball where the other fellow isn’t, it teaches them to think quickly, accurately, in, out, around and all over a problem. Play teaches them the business of life.

Just one point, folks. See that the boy and girl play in the proper atmosphere. See that they have competent and understanding instructors.

See that they have plenty of open air play ground. You couldn’t do your children or other folks children, a greater good than to stimulate and encourage more and better playgrounds. Incidentally friends, there are some very interesting books on Play and Recreation, both for children and adults, and I would be happy to send you the names of them if you will write me, care of this station.

Digitized by (^.ooQLe
272

And how about you grown folks? Do play? Can you play? Perhaps you’ve forgotten how! To my mind, the most tragic thing of life is a person who has grown prematurely old — the man or woman who has lost their sense of humor. Usually, such a person has forgotten how to play. Recall your childhood days. Do you remember when you played base-ball in a vacant lot and then went home and saved the pictures of the big leaguers? Remember when you splashed and dove in the 'old swimming hole?' Remember when you played hare and hounds in the woods. Can you recall the first night you spent camping? You sigh and say ‘those were the good old days.' And you girls. Do you remember when you used to dance to the tune of the hurdy-gurdy? Remember when you played ring around the rosy, and the may pole dance; do you recall winning that hoop rolling contest? Remember those days you went on an all day picnic and hike and filled up the old shoe box full of lunch. Those were your happy days. Folks what are your happy days now? Have you a health hobby today.

Yes; that carefree activity of childhood, that spontaneous outpouring of energy, that seemingly careless exuberance, is the real reason why you have a healthy body that now does your bidding for your work of life. Yes you have enthusiasm in your system today, you have tapped the spring of well being and discovered the secret of the joy of life because you played with such abandoa in those kid-life days which are such sweet memories today.

If by any chance you have grown a bit logy or given up your pursuit of happiness thru play, you can still renew your childhood pep by finding your hobby and making your playlife revolve about it.

For business men, golf, tennis, swimming, hand ball, squash; for women tennis, swimming, golf, out-door dancing, croquet, hiking, all of these are athletic hobbies that build for health, happiness and the youthful spirit. Make your hobby something you enjoy doing for itself alone to which you give yourself whole-heartedly and unreservedly. Make your hobby something that is entirely different from what you are doing every work day.

You know what I mean. When Ben ny Leonard boxes, that is his vocation. When he plays golf, that is his avocation. He gets his bread and butter and bit of cake in the squared circle, but he gets fun, freedom and happiness from golf. Take Pearl White. When she dives from the cliff into the rapids below—even tho the villain still pursues her—to her, that’s work, even tho it brings her diamonds and pearls. But when Pearl plays tennis on her Long Island estate, that’s play. And it’s the play that gives her health and happiness.

Take yourself now. Put yourself under the Xray of play. Do you still feel the call on the open road, do you still get a thrill out of a fire engine clanging down the street, do you still getalaugh from the playful antics of Charlie Chaplin or Harold Lloyd? Do you still play with the abandon of the.days of real sport?

If you still play tennis or golf, if you still dance and sing while you’re dancing, you are keeping yourself young. If you still hike

Digitized by v^-ooQle
273

thru the woods and hunt and fish and camp and dream, you still have the song of youth in your heart. If you still get a "kick" from watching the kids in the back lot knock the cover off the ball, you have the spirit of childhood in you, you have retained the secret of knowing how to play. You have nature’s greatest remedy for keeping health and happy, because you’re out of the grandstand and into the game. How’s your happiness now?

DIRECTOR’S CLOG.

Arrangement byMathias Macherey, Assistant Supervisor of Physical Education, Newark, N. J.

Music: "St. Louis Tickle,” by Barney and Seymour.

This dance was arranged for the Physical Directors of the Newark Public Schools, and was performed by them on the occasion of the Eastern District Convencon of the American Physical Education Association, April 21, 1922.

The steps are carefully described. A three right in clogging consists of brushing forward right brushing backward right ana stepping on right foot. Count "and" on the brush forward and backward, count “one” on the step.

A two consists of a tap (“and”) and a step (1).

A four consists of brusning forward right backward, right lightly stepping on right foot accompanied with a transfer of weight to the left foot.

I Step. First Part. Drum Step.

1-3: 2 taps. One three, right, (and one) and step left and right (and two)

Same beginning left (and three and four)

3	threes right left right and two steps left right (5-8)

Repeat all 9-16	8	measures.

Second Part. Buffalo.

1-3: Brush sideward right, brush backward behind left foot, step on right behind left foot, (and one).

1-2: Raise left foot in front of right leg, turn left knee outward, tap with left foot and step on it (and two).

Repeat twice more in same direction 3-6.

1-3; step right and left, (and 7 and 8).

Same opposite.	8	measures.

II	Step. Cross behind, click.

Brush sideward, right brush backward, step right behind left foot (and 1) step sideward step right in front of left, (and two). Swing left leg sideward, hop on right click heels together, left heel higher than right, land in rapid succession on right toes, right heel, left toes, left heel, causing a quick rattling sound (and three), step righc, step left (and four) 3 threes, right left right and step left, step right (5-8).

Same opposite 9-16.

Repeat all 1-16.	16	measures.

Digitized by Google
274

III	Step. Crow toe and, heel polka.

Turn right foot sharply, toes in, brush forward across left foot, on inner edge of front pare of right foot and bring foot forward to heel stand in 4th position (and one) step left, step right (and two). Repeat left and right (3-6).

2	threes left and right (7-8).

Repeat beginning left (9-16).	8 measures.

Repeat with this addition; begin each of the cross brushes with heel raising high and slapping the heel with the corresponding hand (1-16).

8	measures.

IV	Step Pas deBuree—Fall Step.

Brush sideward right brush behind left and step on left foot behind left (and one) step sideward left, step right in front of left (and two). Same opposite (3-4).

Swing right leg diagonally forward right (one) return right swing left leg diagonally forward right (and) return left swing right leg diagonally forward right, (two) return right (5-6).

2 threes left and right (7-8).

Same opposite (9-16).

Repeat all 1-16.	16 measures.

VStep. Wing Step.

Brush sideward right brush backward (and) bend both knees, place right foot behind left resting on upper pare of foot (one).

Hop, swing left leg sideward, return landing on right, placing left foot behind right, sole turnea upward (and two).

Repeat right (and three) jump feet together (4) 3 threes, right (5) left (6) right (7) step left step right (and 8).

Same opposite (9-16).

Repeat all 1-16.	16 measures.

VI Step. Heel Click and Turn.

Swing sideward right, hop left, click heels together, raise arms sideward travel sideward right, return on left, lower arms (and one). Repeat (and two). Step right, turn completely right around with 3 hops, arms diagonally side downward, raise left leg backward (3-4).

1 three left (5) left four right (A four consists of a brush forward right backward right step lightly on right toe and step on left foot, 6.

1 three right (7) left four left (8).

Same opposite (9-16).

Repeat all.	16 measures.

VII.	Rocking.

Fold hands, fingers interlocking, palms down.

Hop left, brush sideward right, brush in front of left foot (and) cross feet, standing on outer edge rock left (one) rock-right (and) rock left (two).

Same opposite (three and four.)

Digitized by v^ooQle
275

3	Hops backward on left foot, right leg raised backward, arms sideward (5 and 6) left three right (7) step left step right (8).

Same opposite (9-16).

Repeat all (1-16).	16	measures.

VIII.	Chuck

Brush sideward right, swing right leg sideward, slide toward right on left foot (and one) repeat left, right, left (2-4) 3 threes, turning right around (5-7) step left, step right (8).

Same opposite (9-16).	16	measures.

Break.

Heel stride stand, (I") step backward right and left (and two) step forward right and lac (and three) jump, land on right, slap down left, arms sideward, (and four).

<>---------------------------------------------------♦

News, notes and comments

<  -------------------------------------------------<>

PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN THE HAWTHORNE WORKS OF THE WESTERN ELECTRIC COMPANY, CHICAGO.

In the New York Times, Ruth I. Stone, director of the Women's Service Dept, is quoted as follows:

Ten years ago the employes of the Western Electric Company of Chicago organized the Hawthorne Club. Any person with three months’ service in the company automatically becomes a member, without financial obligation, and, after three years' service, may hold office in the club. There are now 28,000 members. The President and directors of the club are elected by the members, and these appoint committees which conduct its activities. A woman responsible for the women's recreation is a fixed member of the athletic committee.

On completion in 1921 of the ten-acre athletic field maintained by the company, an effort was made to enlarge the scope of women’s athletics. It was found there was a small group of girls interested in a wide variety of athletics. The problem was how to arouse the interest of a large number. Intensive work for the last year and a half is beginning to show results. There are today organized groups of women competing in fourteen branches of sport.

This growth has been paralleled by the acquisition of constantly improving athletic centres for the teams. A basketball court was rented with an appropriation from the budget for women's activities. In like fashion, a swimming pool at a local high school, an indoor baseball diamond at a settlement house, a running track at another, and accommodations at two of the most spacious bowling alleys in the city were acquired.

"Wherever possible the coaching of the girls has been placed in the hands of experts." Our track squad is handled by one of the foremost teachers of the Illinois Athletic Club. Our basketball sextet is supervised by an employe who starred for the University

Digitized by v^ooQle
276

of Michigan two years ago, and in all the other departments of our program the same attention to proper training has been emphasized . AH of our coaches are volunteers.

“The past six months have seen our girls really waking up to the recreation advantages at their disposal. Bowling proved so popular that we were able to organize not only a strong all-Hawthorne team for competition with the other women’s industrial bodies in or near Chicago, but what proved more interesting to the girls at the plant, we had a keenly waged tournament in which teams were entered from each branch of the works. Before the season had been under way two weeks, the women’s bowling manager was making accommodations for 530 players.

“The rifle team, organized as an experiment, also proved a great success. Coached by three experts who had represented Illinois in the Interstate Civilians’ Tournament in 1922, the team turned out ninety-six potential sharp-shooters, some of whom qualified for the marksman class before the season ended.

“A suggestion for golf lessons at first met with objections, but later proved popular. Painters’ canvas was hung in the restaurant building and one of the employes, a professional, taught the girls how to golf.

“The shop girls took to horseback riding with enthusiasm. There are now 127 girls in the riding club. Tennis proved so popular that it was found necessary to schedule the courts a week ahead. Not only have there been tennis tournaments within the works, but teams of other concerns have been challenged.

“We realize that our efforts to date have been largely those of a pioneer and confined to doing those things that could be most easily organized. In future we shall have a broader program which shall include more noon activities. It is essential, if the girl is to start her afternoon's work with anything like the vigor with which she came to work in the morning, that die leave her bench or desk during the noon hour and get exercise in the open air. I should not recommend vigorous activities like baseball or running, but I believe quoits or croquet would be adequate and popular.

“It is essential that every effort be made to connect the girls with the recreation centre nearest their homes, first, because the company believes the most satisfactory results sire derived when the girls play with groups which sire in no way connected with their work, and, second, because it would be impossible for a compsiny primarily interested in production to equip itself to provide recreation for

9,000	women.

“There is a third phase of the policy for the future. More interest must be taken in girls who are below normal physicsilly. This can be done in siny organization where there is a medical examination or a follow-up of the absentees. It is not the girl who is interested in athletics who requires our care sind supervision, because she will find it for herself; but it is the girl who needs recreation and may be unconscious of the need who should receive our attention.”

Digitized by L^ooQle
277

Mr. A. A. Stagg of the University of Chicago, at the recent laying of the cornerstone of the gymnasium of the Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburg, in his address said that the most important phase of education is the development of character. Education up to a certain point is the training in moral standards. When colleges engaging in intercollegiate contest use unfair practices they are defeating this most important phase of education. Those colleges which are trying to make a short cut to victory by unfair means are doing it at the expense of the souls of their student body. When students are urged by the whole machinery of public opinion, alumni interest and public support, and worked up to a fervor of loyalty in support of a team which is recruited unfairly or composed of men who do not properly represent their institution, the result upon the morals of the student body cannot be otherwise than positively harmful. This is one fundamental wrong which still persists in some of our colleges and hits at the very vitals of wholesome and beneficial intercollegiate sport.

------o-------

The Washington, D. C. Herald says: “Possessing an adequate teaching force for the first time in ten years, Washington public school officials are planning on an extensive physical training program for the coming year. Because of a limited number of teachers available in the past, instruction in physical training has been neglected for academic subjects.

It is the plan of school officials to provide physical supervision for every pupil, so chat their parents can be advised of any defect that might exist.

------o-------

Tobacco smoke is far less deadly in carbon monoxide than gas scientists of the past have alleged.

That is the opinion expressed by three investigators of Pittsburgh before the semi-annual meeting of the American Chemical Society at Milwaukee, Sept. 12.

Investigators in Pittsburgh placed three subjects in a non-ventilated room of 1000 cubic feet capacity. For two hours the subjects smoked cigars, cigarettes, stogies and pipes. The smoke was four to six times more concentrated than would be permitted under ventilated-room conditions, the eyes of the smokers being protected by goggles.

The investigators reported that carbon monoxide saturation of the blood was not greater than 5 per cent, even in two subjects who each inhaled the smoke of twenty cigarettes.

In concluding their report the experts stated the tests showed the concentrated smoke does not enter the lung tissue cell.

------o-------

Interesting results of the training program given this year at the citizens military training camp at Camp McClellan, Anniston, Alabama, in regard to improving the physical condition of the young students have been shown in reports given out by officials of the camp.

Digitized by CjOOQle
278

One hundred and twenty-seven men enrolled at the beginning were found to be underweight or suffering from some minor physical ailment which was not considered serious enough to bar them from the camp. These men were placed in a physical training company and given special attention in the matter of building up physical conditions.

The -average weight of the men was 111 3-4 pounds. At the end of three weeks they showed an average weight of 124 3-4 pounds, having gained 13 pounds or over four pounds a week. Thirty-seven cases of hookworm were entirely cured, correction of posture was given special attention, the average height of the 127 men being increased by three quarters of an inch, while the chest expansion was increased one inch on an average.

In the physical efficiency test at the close of the camp, the 127 men averaged within three points of the other trainees of the C. M. T. C. who had been passed as acceptable physical specimens at the beginning of the training period.

-------o-------

The physical training department of the Arlington, Mass., public schools has been reorganized by the second committee. The work will be extended in the high and junior high schools, and the work in the grade schools will be carried on by the teachers in the various grades.

Ralph C. Henricus, supervisor of physical education, of North Tonawanda, N. Y., has been appointed as physical training supervisor and he will direct the teachers.

-------o------

Dr. W. M. Martin, health specialist, addressed an audience of students and townspeople in Canyon, Texas, on "Physical and Mental Health.”

Dr. Martin is 92 years old, but appears to be about 50. Dr. Martin contends that the business of the public school is to find the greatest ability of the child and then develop it, and that this can only be accomplished when the child is taught to keep his body healthy.

Dr. Martin said: “The time ought to come when it will be a misdemeanor for a school teacher to be sick; when the sick teacher will be arrested and punished for negligence.”

-------o------

Improvement work which has been going on at the University of Texas, Austin, all summer under the direction of the athletic council is nearing completion, and when the 4,000 students who make up the long term quota of the institution arrive in September they will find gymnasium facilities at Texas doubled, and improvements in the methods of carrying on athletics of every kind.

A complete course of physical education is mapped out for the student, in addition to the many forms of voluntary athletics. The compulsory athletics include one year of calisthenics and recreational games as prescribed and directed by the athletic staff. The

Digitized by LjOOQle
279

second year is also compulsory, but the student is allowed to choose the form of athletics which he desires, and he is coached and directed in this.

-------o------

For hospital purposes the heating system should be separate from the ventilating. In very few hospitals have they been found to work well combined. Most of the mechanical systems in America have fallen into disuse. The favorite system of heating is by means of hot water. Certain hospitals are trying out oil as fuel. Small wards should be provided where nephritics and diabetes may be kept particularly warm. Rooms for pneumonia and all tuberculous affections should be provided with cool, fresh air, while patients with certain bronchial and laryngeal affection should be placed in rooms in which the air is moist. — John N. E. Brown, M. D., formerly Superintendent of the Henry Ford Hospital, Detroit, and of the Toronto General Hospital, in The Hospital World.

-------o------

The department of physical education of New York University is offering three courses at the Young Women’s Christian Association, Schermerhorn street, on Tuesday afternoons.

The courses, which will be given both in Manhattan and Brooklyn, are as follows: "Principles of Physical Education," by Josephine Beiderhase, assistant director of physical training: "Methods of Teaching Physical Training in Elementary Schools,” and a course in "High School Dancing.” by Louise Baylis, teacher of physical training in the Wadleigh High School.

The courses are given as preparation for Board of Education examinations for licenses to teach physical training in the public schools.

-------o------

S.	Josephine Baker, M. D., whose report on the ventilation of certain public school buildings in New York City, in connection with respiratory diseases of children, created such a stir in heating and ventilating circles when it appeared a few years ago, has retired from the position as director of the Bureau of Child Hygiene, Department of Health of New York City. Her retirement is due to ill health.

-------o------

The schools of Springfield, Mass., are to be surveyed in the near future. It is hoped that one of the results of the survey will be increased facilities and time for physical education.

-------o------

In an interview given to a reporter of the New York Post Dr. Watson L. Savage, president of the Savage School of Physical Education says:

It was a sad disappointment to my parents, who were very devout Christians, when I announced my decision to study medicine instead of theology. Then a few years later, when I decided to give up prescribing pills and powders and using the surgeon’s knife for the vocation of physical training, in those days largely done by

Digitized by LjOOQle
280

athletes, prize-fighters, retired circus men, and sports, all hope for my usefulness in the world was gone. Such was the general feeling about a teacher of gymnastics or athletics in those days, not only among the laymen but in educational institutions, that almost never was such a man permitted to sit at the faculty table. Those were pioneer days. How different now!

Those of us in this work consider it the most important department in our educational system to-day. Already twenty-eight States have made physical training obligatory in all educational institutions. I claim that the physical educator has the greatest power for good in the school system, even greater than the principal, because he has all the students under his observation and instruction thruout the school or college course. He is with them in their physical struggles, contests, and games, and he gets closer to each one in person and his word on health is law. He should look after the health of the school and set the example of clean living. He should radiate happiness and teach the gospel that the basis of happiness is a sound body only possible by way of a strictly moral, vigorous, balanced life. He also prepares his pupils for the after-struggles in life by the training in the field of conquest, where above all is taught the lesson of fair play and hard work. So we might go on from the child to the man grown up and over the hill. No, I do not regret for a moment my early decisions, and I know of no vocation that is as satisfying as that of physical education.

------o-------

A survey was made recently of the recreational efforts of thirty-five concerns in Chicago with a combined force of 31,000 women workers. It developed, that only five provided athletic facilities and playgrounds and only four maintain vacation camps. Nine have gymnasium work. Seven conduct field meets and six arrange for swimming pools.

------o-------

The National Child Welfare Association, 70 Fifth Ave., is a non-commercial, educational organization devoted to the health, character and educational training of every child. It is supported in part by gifts from individuals who are interested in the welfare offchildren. This is supplemented by money received from the distribution of its educational material, which is sold at the actual cost of production and distribution.

•

The Association has a staff of workers, and special facilities for the preparation of educational poster material relating to all phases and subjects of school work., e. g.

Campaigns for Better Schools School Bond Elections Better School Laws The Visiting Teacher Pupil Recruiting Bulletins Annual Reports

Digitized by
281

School Monographs

Special classroom material

Graphic School Exhibits, etc.

(This service is rendered at cost.)

We have ready for use over fine hundred educational posters that: Attract attention, arouse interest, create a desire, vitalize the school, stimulate thought and educate the pupils. By the simple process of rotation, these "silent teachers” may be shifted from room to room, and school to school, thus effecting a great economy in the plan of visual instruction. We furnish: Ideas, Plans, Suggestions, Information, Programs, Exhibits, Lectures, Demonstrations.

------o------

"The physical education department of the New Haven school system,” says the Times-Leader,” has made a good beginning in its endeavor to improve health, recognizing that gymnastics, although beneficial, do not reach the fundamental errors. The health classes for underweight children conducted by this department have been financed by public and private subscription and we hope in due time to see this work enlarged and carried on by the board of education as a regular curricular activity.

-------o------

From Los Angeles we hear that one of the automobile sales agencies has instituted daily "setting up”exercises for its salesmen. The manager is quoted as saying: Every morning at 8 o’clock, with military formation and precision, the boys who are on the "firing line” of sales efforts, go thru their healthful setting-up exercises as an antidote for sluggish performance and irresistible yawns.

“Almost everybody feels sluggish in the mornings, regardless of whether they have had little sleep or plenty of it.” Consequently we have instituted this morning exercise for the salesmen, and, without exception, all the men declare themselves much better for it. The results show not only in improved physical condition, but in better financial health—their sales and commissions mount in direct ratio to their increased vigor.”

-------o------

At a recent convention of the American Legion held at the Wiers, N. H., Commander Sullivan suggested that more attention be given to the attraction in the Legion along lines of recreation and sport, because if young men could become interested in these things they would eventually and naturally become interested in the more serious work of the organization. The convention adopted a resolution in favor of physical education for school children.

-------o------

"A new system of treatment for infantile paralysis, based on the fact that swimming exercises most of the muscles of the body, and that weight is easier to support in water, is being tried with excellent results, it is announced by the Visiting Nurses’ Association, of Chicago. A tank has been installed at Northwestern Dispensary,. Dearborn and 26th Streets, and experiments are being carried out under the care of Dr. Beveridge H. Moore.”

Digitized by LjOoq le
282

The School Hygiene Review says that the recognition of the importance of the early years will contribute to another much-needed change. If the education of the 5-year-old child is as important as that of the one of 15, what justification is there for expending two and one half times as much for the latter as for the former?	Statis-

tics show that throughout the country the per capita expenditure of the high-school child is two and one-half times that of the elementary child. The face that so small an amount is spent on the elementary schools is the cause for the large number of failures, the amount of retardation, and the consequent early withdrawals from school. There is abundant evidence to show that the later work is poor in large measure because the beginnings have not received adequate attention. If the experiments in preschool education now in progress can aid in securing better facilities for the children in the elementary school they will have rendered a worthy service.

-------o------

A questionnaire was recently sent to fifty active community song leaders of the country, asking them which they considered to be the best songs of American origin now being used in community singing. The results of that questionnaire were tabulated and made public for the first time at the Music Supervisors’ National Conference at Cleveland, Ohio. The complete list of songs is here reproduced, with the songs listed in the order of votes received by each:

America, the Beautiful (Materna)

Old Folks at Home

My Old Kentucky Home

Battle Hymn of the Republic

Old Black Joe

Dixie

America

Star-Spangled Banner Sweet Adeline

Carry Me Back to Old Vinginny There’s a Long, Long Trail Home, Sweet Home Till We Meet Again Working on the Railroad L’il Liza Jane

Columbia, the Gem of the Ocean Sweet Genevieve Good Night, Ladies A Perfect Day

Digitized by Google
283

MISSOURI STARTS PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

Missouri has taken its initial step in physical education for the public schools of the state this year under the direction of Chas. A. Lee, State Superintendent of Schools. Mr. Lee has engaged Dr. Henry S. Curtis of Oberlin, Ohio, as director of this work and he has come to Missouri and is now in the office of Mr. Lee. A very extensive program has been planned which will necessitate Dr. Curtis traveling over the state throughout the year executing the duties of his position.

The physical education law was passed in Missouri by the General Assembly in 1921, but the first appropriation for carrying out the provisions of the act was made by the Legislature in 1923.

Mr. Lee, thinking that the best way to get physical education introduced into the schools is to begin in schools that are preparing teachers, has made the following requirements of Teacher-Training high schools in Missouri:

Every student who takes the teacher training course shall be given a careful physical examination by a competent physician, preferably women by a woman physician and men by a man physician. (These examinations may be given by the State Board of Health.)

Those found to be suffering from incipient tuberculosis, high nervous irritability, deafness, amounting to less than one-third hearing, or bad cases of flat feet or spinal curvature shall be advised against teaching and shall not be granted a certificate to teach unless these defects are remedied.

During the period of training, adenoids and enlarged and diseased tonsils shall as a rule be removed. Those needing glasses shall secure them. Decayed and abscessed teeth shall be given attention.R ound and stooping shoulders, spinal curvature and flat feet shall receive attention.

All students shall be expected during their high school period to review the hygiene work or earlier grades and to have satisfactory courses at least in personal hygiene, home nursing and first aid, and in nutrition.

In all hygiene work the ultimate grading shall be dependent on two factors: the mark made in the theory and on the extent to which the students put in practice the principles involved. However well those principles are mastered unless they are also practised shall not be counted sufficient.

No person who is 25 per cent underweight or 4 per cent overweight shall be granted a certificate to teach unless by special recommendation of the faculty.

All students in teacher training shall be expected to take a period every day in physical training or in the practice of physical training activities with grade children. Provided that where adequate provision cannot be secured for these activities two of the periods may be taken in such activities outside as tennis, swimming, baseball or vigorous forms of physical exercise. Reports on these periods shall be made by students on specially prepared cards.

Digitized by

Google
284

So far as the weather permits physical training activities shall be carried on in the open air.

During rainy or inclement weather the period may be spent in class room games, calisthenics, gymnastics or in special hygiene periods, but when the weather is not below zero, cold shall not be considered a sufficient reason for taking all work indoore.

So for as possible all teacher-training high schools shall provide shower baths. Students shall be expected to change their clothing and take showers for athletics the same as gymnastics.

In the physical examination of the children in New York City one and one-half per cent were found to have lesions of the heart. Heart cases are benefited by mild forms of physical exercise such as walking, aesthetic dancing and playing less vigorous games. Some provision shall be made for the undernourished and others who are not fitted for vigorous forms of physical training.

During the physical training periods all student teachers shall be expected to learn at least two games for each grade of the elementary school and to practice these games with the children on the school grounds. These games may be selected from the classified list in Miss Bancroft’s Book; Games for the Home, School and Gymnasium; George Johnson’s “Education by Plays and Games;” or the State Syllabus of Physical Training for the elementary schools.

All students must learn to play playground baseball, volley ball and dodge ball, (which is best played as a team game with five or ten on a team for a three-minute period,) and either tennis, soccer football, basketball or swimming. In case of these latter activities the students may practice outside and furnish such evidence as the director may require that the work has been mastered.

All students shall themselves try and also conduct with the children the Standard Badge test of the Public School Athletic League and the Playground Association of America. The requirements of these tests can be had from The Russell Sage Foundation, Department of Recreation, 130 E. 22nd Street, New York; The Playground Association of America, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York; or from the Spalding Athletic Library.

The State letter in Athletics shall be given to teacher-training students on the basis of 700 points as follows:

S.	scholarship shall count..............100

E. scholarship shall count..............200

The first Badge Test....................100

Second Badge Test.......................150

Third Badge Test........................200

Tender Foot boy or girl scout...........100

Second-class boy or girl scout..........150

First-class boy or girl scout...........200

Campfire girls wood gatherer............100

Firemaker...............................150

Torch bearer............................200

Sport smaship...........................100

Digitized by Google
285

For performances in baseball, indoor baseball, American or soccer football, basket ball, hockey or track, graded by the physical director as S. 100 points. For making school team in any of these events in which there is a regular series of contest 200 points. For walking 100 miles in not more than ten different walks 100 points.

Out of 1600 possible points the student will thus be expected to secure 700 at any time during his high school course. Of these 100 must be in scholarship and 100 in sportmanship. The student who receives the State letter must be without noticeable physical defects. It is believed chat each of these points will be a decisive advantage to the student as a teacher, and will also give him or her a prestige with students which could be secured in almost no other way. This letter may be granted only on the approval of the state department and, so far as possible, shall be conferred by a member of the department, and will reprseent much the same standard that is required of the Rhodes scholars.

All Teacher-Training High Schools shall provide, by the first of September, 1924, a full time physical director who has had in his preparation for high school teaching not less than ten hours in an approved school or department of physical training, with the understanding that these requirements will be increased each year, so that by September, 1927, the equivalent of 30 hours in physical education will be expected; provided, however, that if the high school has less than two hundred fifty students a part of the time of the physical director may be given to the elementary children, and in systems having less than thirty teachers, he shall also teach one or more classes.	___________________

Working Toward Positive Health.—“Health is something positive, progressive, dynamic. It is not merely a vague and negative state of being which remains after active illness has subsided. It stabilizes and enriches life, and no effort is too great that helps to win it. This is the positive ideal of health which the Women’s Foundation for Health undertakes to teach.” Such a

ijroclamation introduces the foreword of a valuable set of six pamph-ets, entitled the Positive Health Series, prepared and issued by the above foundation in co-operation with the Council of Health and Public Instruction of the American Medical Association, and the Bureau of Social Education of the National Board of the Young Women’s Christian Association.

The Women's Foundation for Health is an incorporated organization whose aim is to correlate the health activities of fifteen national women's organizations into a program of positive health. This set of pamphlets is the response to a demand for a common text to be used and distributed t>y the foundation. The aim is to bring to the individual woman the conviction that a state of health is only normal, and able to be attained.—From the New York Med. Journal, Jan. 17, 1923.

American Education Week is to be observed November 18 to 24. Saturday, November 24th has been designated as "Physical Education Day.” We hope that our readers will use this day,

Digitized by LjOOQie
286

or one of the days of the week, to call particular attention to our work by means of meets or contests of some kind in which all the pupils m a school participate. Let the parents see what their children can do. There is no better way to gain additional support than by bringing out the mass rather than the few specialists.

-------o-------

The New York Times of August 29, brings the following special report from London.

In the current issue of Guy's Hospital Reports an article appears by Dr. J. M. H. Campbell of Guy’s Hospital on the subject of chlorosis, anaemia of young women, which at one period was so prevalent in this and other countries. The interesting fact is adduced thac this disease is rapidly disappearing, both from Europe and America.

This phenomenon has much more than a medical interest, for it is the opinion of the author of the paper that the greater amount of exercise and more ready access of fresh air enjoyed by women today are largely responsible for diminution of this malady, which used to be known as green sickness.

It is pointed out that diminution has been observed in Sweden, France, Finland and in America. In Sweden and Finland the disease diminished rapidly between 1892 and 1902, since when it has diminished more slowly. It has now almost disappeared in America. The change for the better took place about 1900 to 1902. In England it was rather later.

It is said that chlorosis is an exaggeration of a normal condition rather than a disease sut generis. The general health of womanhood throughout the civilized world improved at or about the beginning of the present century. That was a time when the first insistent demands for outdoor life and regular exercise for school girls, and even for grown women, began to be made.

Dr. Campbell does not favor the idea that better feeding is a contributory cause of the improvement nor does he support the theory that this disease is occupational in the sense that it is confined to certain callings. His conclusion is that the disappearance of chlorosis is a very real change, and that it is mainly due to the improved conditions of employment, allowing more opportunity for fresh air and exercise.

He says: “It should be possible to test such an hypothesis by comparing the amount of chlorosis among the class of Turkish women living in close confinement and among the present womtpi of the other Balkan States, where most conditions are fairly similar. Possibly some doctors with experience of the Near East could provide such information, but I have not been able to find it.”

Now comes Dr. Clelia Duell Mosher, medical adviser of women in Stanford University, with the declaration in the Journal of the American Medical Association that American college girls today are larger and stronger than those of thirty years ago. Thousands of measurements in three leading colleges for women, Stanford, Vassar and Smith, establish the increase in height and weight. Physical improvement is assigned to healthful exercise and more hygienic
287

clothing. This change to lighter and looser garments followed on the ever increasing activity of girls in athletic exercises. Fashion was obliged to adapt itself to the altered requirements, and the "voluminous skirt measuring from 9 to 15 feet in diameter, which often weighed as much as seven pounds,” gave way to the modern, abbreviated, light weight garment.

An average increase of an inch and a half is noted in 4,170 girls who have passed through Stanford in thirty years. Vassar reports an increase of an inch and one-fifth in 7,064 students in thirty years. The measurements are confirmed by the records of 10,149 women at Smith in twenty-two years. Better functioning of the bodily organs has been promoted by lighter clothing and physical exercise. Dr. Moseher sums up by saying: "It is time that we cease thinking in terms of the unfitness and weakness of women. This splendid modern woman, grown taller and more vigorous because free from restricting fashions of dress, exercises more and consequently eats more, and has become better fitted to become the mother of fine sons and daughters, the promise of a stronger race.”

All this has interesting corroboration in a report by Guy’s Hospital, in London, printed above.

-------o------

Charlotte Perkins Gilman in August Current History Magazine says that in physical education the change in woman is marked. Definite gymnastic training, that high art by which the ancient Greeks produced the most beautiful bodies the world has ever seen, is out a recent growth in our country. Its application to girls was long resisted, as was every other new advance for them. Yet now every girls’ school and college has its physical training department. The girls’ camps teach all manner of feats of strengt h and the outdoor sports of our young people are shared by both sexes.

There still remain critics and opponents of such training, people who believe in some mysterious disability in the sturdy peasant women of Europe. These critics have never found it un-feminine for a woman to spend her days over a washtub, nor have they noticed that the sturdy peasant women of Europe work in the fields as well as in the house, and are none the less mothers of large families. Neither have they once looked at the other species of females and observed that a mare can run as well as a stallion, a lioness fight as well as a lion.

As a large general fact, it is exactly as good for girls to have physical training as it is for boys and exactly as bad for either of them to have wrong training or to overdo it. We may even admit that girls, lacking the earlier rough-and-tumble play of boys and plunging into new exercises with more nerve than muscle, might more easily go too far and hurt themselves. But against every instance of some school or college girl being hurt we may bring up the list of promising young men who are being crippled and even killed at football, who are dilating their hearts at rowing or running, breaking their fingers at baseball, and succumbing to the too-frequent early breakdown of the athlete.

Digitized by L^ooQle
288

No one contends that the sad record of injury and death to boys and men proves that physical training is bad for than; it only proves unreasonable excess. Meantime the history of some of our women’s colleges shows most favorable results from suitable physical training. A strong, active well-muscled body is a blessing to a woman as much as to a man.

♦ ♦

Does School Work Impair Health? Many events in connection with human life are determined on a chronological basis solely with respect to the age of the individual concerned. In at lease two of these it must seem somewhat strange, on careful consideration, to find that chronological rather than physiologic age has so often been made the basis for features of great importance in human experience. In many states the law carefully defines the age below which children may not leave school to engage in wageearning labor. Thus, the problem of child labor is settled, in

Eractice, on the basis of age, without necessary reference to the iologic or other fitness of the young worker concerned. The minimal standards for children entering employment, as formulated in a report of the Children’s Bureau Conferences in 1919, refers frequently to minimal ages for a variety of employment demanding varying degrees of physical endurance and skill. Everywhere one reads of an age minimum, although a novel addendum is found in the suggestion that a child shall not be allowed to go to work until he has had a physical examination by a public health physician and has been found to be of normal development for a person of his age, and physically fit for the work at which he is to be employed. It will mark a great step in advance when fitness to engage in manual labor or in other sorts of tasks at the end of a normal school life shall be based on the physiologic and mental equipment of the person concerned, as much as on the number of years that have elapsed since his birth.

A second event in which, all too often, years rather than physique and personality seem to be principles guiding to decision, involves the time in life at which children should begin their school work. We have no desire to enter into the debate as to when the preschool days should end. Certain facts in reference to the arguments often advanced deserve, however, to be known. It is frequently stated that the acceleration of the educational process through school attendance may in the long run be detrimental rather than otherwise. In other words, this concerns the question whether it would be better for the health of most children if they were not sent to school when the law says they are old enough to go, but were kept out until they are older. As the views entertained by both physicians and educators have usually represented

F

iHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIEN

D. M. F. KBOGH, M. D.

E

Digitized by Google
289

personal opinions based on unsubstantiated impressions or chance observations, the U. S. Public Health Service has conducted investigations bearing directly on the subject. A study of the school-children in a typical American community has shown that the work of the elementary grades had little, if any, adverse effect on the pupils’ weight. Of the children who entered the schools up to the standard of weight in the fall, remarkably few were underweight in March. This was observed entirely irrespective of the age of the pupil, the underage child making as good a showing as the normal age or overage child. Sterling concludes that parents need not hesitate to send a healthy child to school at the age of 6, which was the entrance age of the school studied. When the investigator regards it as plain that school life, apart from detrimental influences which may exist in the home environment, is not ordinarily a menace to the child’s state of nutrition, good sense seems to be adequately supported by a critical inspection of existing school conditions. Such justified generalizations cannot fail to be a helpful guide to him who may be the chief guide and counselor as well as physician in many families.—Editorial in The Journal A.

Jan. 13, 1923.

Just Like Folks.—Faults of digestion are the commonest causes of acute diseases and faulty foods the source of most structural defects. In other words, ignorance of food and feeding or wilful ignoring of what we know on the subject is at the bottom of the vast majority of human ills which have a physical origin.

We are so used to these digestive and nutritional disturbances that we take them almost as a matter of course, and consider them as a part of the curse of Adam. Wild animals in the wild are but little subject to disease of such origin, but we look upon these as belonging to a different sphere. The experience of managers of zoological gardens does not bear out this “different-from-them” notion. Studies in the Vienna Institute of Anatomy show that privately kept monkeys, as a rule, died from diseases of the digestive organs, while even the zoo must have its dispensary stocked with bismuth, soda mint tablets, pepsin, etc.

Animals which perforce adopt man’s diet, and method of living generally, come to grief, and suffer from the same ills as their illustrious host. This clearly shows that the human animal (which is but a day out of the jungle) is in no way peculiarly prone to nutritive diseases, but is disordered in proportion as his food and feeding are inappropriate. He has simply made a colossal failure along this line. The ignorance of dietetics, by not only the laity but the profession, and the dire results therefrom, is appalling. Within the last month we have heard from the lips of a woman, a college graduate, “I find it is hard to keep babies after you get them. I lost my first one because I did not know how to feed it and I had a fool doctor who could not tell me how,” and from another mother, also a college woman, “We know now that our little boy would be alive if we had not given him the wrong kind of food.” Experience

Digitized by v^ooQle
290

is a sad and expensive teacher and what doth it profit a woman to have spent four years getting a B. S. and then to have the agony of losing a child because she did not know what and when it should eat? '

It is to be hoped that our colleges are beginning to pay some attention to hygiene as well as to Latin and French, ancient history and trigonometry, and that medical schools will some time lay as much stress on dietetics as on pharmacology. A more intimate conception of the facts of evolution needs to be taught, and, in particular, our extremely close relationship in time, as well as in physical character, to our simian friends, for it is all too evident that we can learn much more from them than they from us as to methods of healthy living. We had better begin our studies at once and in earnest. We are finding out how to feed and how not to feed other animals, why not turn the information to further account and apply it to ourselves? The problems are nearly identical and the numan being is presumably as valuable as any inhabitant of the barnyard or of tne zoo.—Editorial:	Med.

Journal, Jan. 17, 1928.

Can Sports Regenerate the Human Race?—It has been frequently assumed that participation in sport, if it became more general, would preserve the human race from physical degeneration; but in recent examinations of draftees, those who were in the habit of engaging in sport activities were not found to be better built or more robust than the others. On the contrary, a large proportion of the devotees of sport were assigned to the deferred class, on account of poor physical development or disturbed heart action. It would seem, therefore, that we have greatly deceived ourselves, when, reacting against the gymnastics of the school and the army, we have maintained that sport and athletics would provide adequate physical training for children and adolescents. Dr. Ruffier, who has for many years studied the problems of physical education, analyzes the causes of this deception. What gives, he says, a special character to the exercise obtained in sport activities is the spirit of competition—the struggle between competitors who are endeavoring to defeat each other. This is, moreover, the view that young people take of sport. Their youthful enthusiasm, their pride, their desire to measure their strength against their fellows, lead them to take part in foot races, bicycle races, boxing matches and football, in which they find an opportunity of asserting their physical superiority. That is exactly why sport is bad for them and why its effect is absolutely nil as far as the regeneration of the race is concerned. Sport may be regarded only as a pleasing means by which those who are strong of muscle can exhibit their great physical qualities. On the other hand, sport can only be the cause of exhaustion, or at least an arrest of development, for children and weak adolescents. In order that a future champion in the Olympic contests may be discovered in a crowd of young men, just think how many must be overtrained. Another disadvantage is that many, too easily con-

Digitized by LjOOQie
291

vinced of their physical inferiority, abandon exercise in all its forms. The main thing, then, is not to train weaklings so that they may become distinguished for their prowess in sport, but to base physical education in the schools and colleges on gymnastics tending toward an all round physical development.—From Paris Letter in The Journal Am. Med. Assoc., March 24,1928.

The Weight of Children.—At present, it would assuredly be a rash venture to attempt to set up what might be called ideal standards of nutrition in children of school age. The child welfare programs involve the acceptance of some index of physiologic well-being, but the experts are not yet in accord as to how the latter shall be formulated. Withouc debating the wisdom or accuracy of the procedure, it must be admitted that the factor most generally used today is the weight of a given child compared with the average weight of children of the same sex, age and height, allowing 7 to 10 per cent deviation from this standard as normal variation. Children below this standard are classed as underweight and presumably as not physically fit. Weight is so easily measured, and its fluctuations can so readily be grasped, that it has naturally been used as a guide to hygienic procedures and corrective measures. The field investigations m child hygiene conducted by the U. S. Public Health Service on nearly 10,000 school children from 6 to 16 years of age, inclusive, in South Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Delaware and New York State indicate some of the militations which the estimate of physical fitness involves. They show that although, on the average, the children of poorer nutrition weigh less than those of better nutrition, weight alone does not seem to be sufficient for determining the nutrition of a given child. In order to pick out individual cases of poor nutrition, a physical examination by a trained physician should supplement physical measurements. The observations of the government experts indicate that the percentage of children who were “fair’- or “poor” in nutrition, as judged from clinical evidence, varied with age, increasing in the 6 to 8 age groups and then declining in succeeding age groups. No significant difference in this respect appeared between boys and girls. The percentage of children who were underweight (10 per cent below) and the percentage who were overweight (20 per cent above), as judged by Wood’s table of weight for sex, age and height, increased as age increased through the fourteenth year for girls and through the sixteenth year for boys. Girls showed a constantly higher percentage of underweight and a consistently higher percentage of overweight than boys. If average weight is to be used as even a rough index of nutrition, it seems that the percentage deviation allowed for normal variation from the average should vary for different sexes and ages rather than be a constant 7 or 10 per cent, as usually employed in school health work.—Current Comment: The Journal of the Am. Med. Assoc., Feb. 17,1923.

Digitized by Google
292

BOOK UVUW1.

"Story Plays”, Louise C. Wright, A. S. Barnes & Co., N. Y., 1923,127 Pages, 6 by 9 inches, illustrated. Price $1.60.

"Story Plays” is a wonderful collection of dramatized activites that has been very carefully thought out by one who no doubt has been in close touch and sympathy with the young child. As a connecting link between the Kindergarten and the School these plays can serve a good purpose in introducing che child, as it were, to formal gymnastics; also, in the low grade backward classes, to stimulate imagination. As daily exercises to take the place of the regular gymnastic lesson they are apt to become very artificial, and thereby lose the purpose for which they were written. Children of the first and second grades (unless very slow and immature) want to play at real things—they begin to outgrow the symbolic stage before they leave the Kindergarten. This is especially true of boys. They want to imitate their older brothers and sisters.

"Story Plays,” if used occasionally to interpret and put life and spirit into a formal exercise (but never to take the place of an active game), will be found most helpful and practical, especially to the teacher who lacks originality and imagination.

Elizabeth O’Neill.

Miss Ethel Perrin for many years supervisor of physical education in the Public Schools of Detroit is now with the American Child Health Association, New York City.

FROM KINDERGARTEN THROUGH HIGH SCHOOL A Complete Seriee of

Physical Training Books

by William A. Stecher.

Comprising

EDUCATIONAL GYMNASTICS, grades 1 to S.

In three separate books (bound in paper) namely.

Book 1. Grades 1 and 2. Net	$0.80

Book 2. Grades S and 4. Net	40

Book S. Grades 8, 6, 7 and 0. Net .80 EDUCATIONAL GYMNASTICS FOR JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS bound in cloth - Net $1.78 EDUCATIONAL GYMNASTICS FOR SENIOR HIGH SCHOOLS bound in cloth - Net $1.38

GAMES AND DANCES.

This is a collection of games for all grades, also of folk and school dances, as well as all phases of work suitable for playgrounds, dubs, associations, etc.

bound In cloth - Net $2.78 TRACK AND FIELD WORK, arranged to help the classroom teacher.

Paper cover - Net $0.80 PHYSICAL TRAINING LESSONS FOR BACKWARD CLASSES Paper cover - Net !

POSTAGE 10 PER CENT ADDITIONAL.

NOTE i Special prices will be made to Boards of Education that wish to adopt any one or all of these books. Order thru

MIND AND BODY,

NEW ULM, MINN.

Digitized by LjOOQle