IJPRARY

'uty of Monts a;.

MIND AND BODY

Vol. 27	JUNE	1920	No.	289

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, MIbil

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah; EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.,

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. 9. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-dass matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

IK-1	—	        II

Qriginal articles and reprint^

M——-...................  —	* — ”1	i\

SCHOOL HYGIENE AND TRAINING FOR CITIZENSHIP*

A Suggested Course of Study in Hygiene For The Public

Schools.

By LAWRENCE AUGUSTUS AVERILL.

Editor of The American Journal of School Hygiene and Head of the Department of School Hygiene and Educational Psychology in the Massachusetts State Normal School at Worcester, Mass.

Good Citizenship the Ultimate Goal of Education. The

aims of education have been variously defined by different writers and theorists of the past and present. The best working definition of education appears, however, to be training for social adjustment, and from this viewpoint the highest test of the public school is to be found in the kind of citizens it turns out. Men's real value is social, not individual; community, not family.

* Reprinted from the American Journal of School Hygiene.

Digitized by <^.ooQLe
106

Democracy means more than a job and a home; it means also citizenship and communal living. It implies co-operation and interdependence; it means freedom under the law; it means altruism and forbearance. Good citizenship in a democracy therefore is positive and progressive.

The ideal of democracy is a somewhat complex one in which popular government, wise leadership, broad institutions, productive activity and a refined national consciousness each finds a place. If our country had yet attained or even approximated this ideal in every respect, the modem agitation for better citizenship would not have been called forth. But our country is the greatest and most gigantic experiment in democracy and true citizenship that the world has ever seen, and it would be inconceivable that an experiment of such magnitude could be checked up in the relatively brief period of time during which the nation has been in existence.

Then too, the experiment is complicated utterly without precedent by the infusion into our body politic of a most cosmopolitan element from other lands and by the consequent admission into our public schools of several hundreds of thousands of children possessed of different ideals, different traditions and different inheritance.

The Hope of Democracy is Vested Unequivocally in the Public School. Our ultimate hope for the safety and dominance of democracy lies now as never before in the public schools. Education for citizenship, for true Americanism, becomes the cry of the hour. If our land is the great melting-pot for alien races our schools must furnish the fuel and energy under the crucible. If there is one institution, one activity, that cannot continue as usual under the stress of the times, that institution is the public school. Not as usual but ten times more than usual must be our gauge. Not the provincialized three R’s, but the socialized three R's. Not the unrelated school but the community school. Not the precept of individualism but of civism.

Side by side, therefore, with the orthodox curricular subjects, and as closely as possible correlated with and related to them the teaching of the duties and responsibilities of citizenship in our public schools becomes a matter of supreme importance if the American type of tomorrow is to be a fitting and honorable successor to the American type of yore. The recent establishment within the United States Bureau of Education of a department of Civic Education, and the initiation on the part of some of our leading states of a training-for-citizenship program are the logical consequents of the pressing need of such training of a nation-wide scope.

Already, therefore, the attention of both educational theorists and practical schoolmen is focusing upon this tremendously important matter. Courses of study are in many places already undergoing significant transformations in order better to emphasize citizenship. In Lawrence, Massachusetts, the so-called "Lawrence Plan” is being carefully worked out under trained educa-

Digitized by CjOOQle
10T

tors, and the results attained are striking. Civics is having a rebirth in the normal schools. School boards and school officials both local, state and federal are scrutinizing carefully the existing courses of study with a view toward replacing the emphasis, for it is a fact that nearly all the subjects of the curriculum are capable of redirection. The time is ripe for this reorganization of the orthodox curricular subjects. The psychological moment is at hand. Away with the formal, the unrelated, the impersonal! Let us have the personal, the communal, the civic emphasis in our school work.

What the Term Civics Really Means. The term civics is a very broad and inclusive one. As ordinarily interpreted in the past it has too often been limited to a study of the problems of local and state government and the rights of citizens under the law. In the present emergency, however, the term must be given its widest interpretation, and be made to include not only a study of man’s rights, but of man’s duties as well. Thus, the fact that a man is cognizant of the law which prohibits spitting upon the sidewalks or in public places does not necessarily imply that he is a good citizen; but it ris a token of eminently good citizenship if that man so appreciates his duty toward his neighbor and toward society as to refrain from spitting overtly upon the walk even when no one chances to be looking. Similarly, it is not necessarily an earnest of good citizenship if a man is aware of the right of suffrage guaranteed him under the law; but it is an evidence of the finest sort of citizenship if that man regards this privilege in the light of a social duty, and never willingly misses an opportunity of going to the polls in the interests of the common weal.

The term civics, then, implies, as we stated above, not only forbearance before the law, but, more positively, it implies a subjective and sympathetic appreciation of the whole range of man’s social relationships with his fellow man. Obedience to law is liberty —and liberty merely; appreciation of law is citizenship. The former means merely freedom from restraint—passivity; the latter means co-operative citizenship—progress.

The Relationship of Hygiene to Civics and Citizenship. One of the great means of attaining true co-operative citizenship is through the proper appreciation of the fundamental principles of hygiene—personal and community. It is the aim of this paper to enumerate these principles—insofar at least as they can be readily incorporated into the work of the public schools.

The term hygiene means health. Health is both personal and community, and as such may well be looked upon as the starting-point of good citizenship. Consequently, hygiene becomes one of the curricular subjects which lends itself most readily and most satisfactorily to the new point of view. It cannot be doubted for a moment that the child who grows up with a health consciousness which has been wisely and broadly cultivated throughout his school life will be for that very reason a citizen with a higher and broader civic consciousness. Just as arithmetic, grammar

Digitized by CjOOQle
108

and history function in maturity, so hygiene will likewise, if properly taught, modify future action and attitudes.

Personal Hygiene and Training in Citizenship. The chronic condition of a person’s health is often a fair index of his value as a citizen. Good health implies good personal habits. Habits are formed only in youth, and chiefly before the middle teens. Everyone knows how difficult it is to break old habits that have fastened upon one in childhood. It follows, therefore, that it becomes one of the supreme duties of the public school—inasmuch as long testing has demonstrated the home to be often negligent in such matters —to foster correct habits of health in the children. Nearly every moment passed in the primary grades is a psychological one for fixing habits, and if the school neglects the opportunity thus offered it will be hindering the advancement of the cause of good citizenship in a very vital way.

Community Hygiene and Training in Citizenship. Neighborhood or community hygiene and sanitation offer one of the finest sources for field work in good citizenship for older children. Community health is a phase of hygiene which has received scant attention in the past, and none thus far in the schools. It is apparent, however, that no one can be a thoroughly good citizen and be at the same time ignorant of some of the great principles underlying the wider aspects of hygiene and sanitation. Here is a field where it is easy to demonstrate to school children in how far we are all our brothers’ keepers. The great lesson of co-operation may be learned here in such a direct way that it can never be forgotten.

Hygiene Teaching in the Past. But if we are to revive and remodel the old physiology as taught in the past there must be something of the nature of a complete revolution accomplished. To continue longer as we have been accustomed to proceed in the past spells disaster. Physiology has long been a subject of study required to be taught in the elementary school, but teachers have almost universally pronounced it a failure as it has ordinarily been taught. And failure it has too often been, partly because the teacher could not get away from the anatomical viewpoint which the text-books were guilty of exploiting; partly because she herself had had little or no training in the subject; and partly because she did not understand the psychological method of approach. Instruction in physiology had become, therefore, a sort of formal drill in the principles of human anatomy, which is of little value to school children. In one schoolroom recently visited—in which the thermometer read 76 F.,—a teacher was found to be expounding from a textbook the intricacies of the lymphatic circulation to a class of boys and girls 12 years of age!

No textbook in physiology ought ever to be found in an elementary school, nor should the word physiology ever be mentioned in anything more than an incidental manner by the teacher. We must shift our emphasis from structure, and perhaps even function, to hygiene, health. It matters little whether a 13-year-old boy knows the scapula from the clavicle, provided he has been

Digitized by LjOOQle
109

trained to stand and sit erect, nor is it vital whether a 10-year-old can describe the structure of his teeth, provided he has formed the habit of keeping them clean. Any instruction beyond the hygiene of an organ—plus enough anatomy to render this knowledge fairly intelligible—has no place in the elementary school.

Alchohol and Tobacco. But little better results, unfortunately, have been achieved in instruction concerning the ill effects of alcohol and tobacco, which is required by statute in most states. It is little use to caution a boy that if he ever uses tobacco in any form he will be a prey to indigestion, chronic dyspepsia and the dread “tobacco heart!” The boy’s values are present, not future; his life is measurable only in terms of the imminent. Nor is it the shrewdest sort of pedagogy which paints lurid pictures of the effects of alcohol upon the tissues, and assures young people that drunkards have highly inflamed mucous membranes all along the alimentary canal! The mysteries of the unseen interior of his body are as unattractive to the practical child as they are invisible.

The End of Hygiene Training is Not Anatomical Knowledge but Dependable Health Habits and Health Attitudes.

The far too common practice of attempting to teach young children under 10 or 12 the physiological effects upon the system of stimulants and narcotics, or facts concerning the structure of the body tissues, or the functions of organs, or the circulation of the blood, or the secretions of the glands, etc., is a waste of time and effort. Yet these are but a few of the topics mentioned in many courses of study for children in the lower grades, and in part often required by the laws of the states. The mind of the child at this age cannot grasp material of this sort. Information must be concrete, definite and simple of comprehension. The point to be emphasized in the teaching of elementary hygiene is not the why in health but the how in health. It is a matter of secondary importance whether the child understands why his nails and teeth and skin should be kept clean; the important thing is that he be aided in the formation of the correct habits of keeping them clean. Similarly, explanations and reasons which depend upon a remote future condition of health or disease are of little consequence to childhood.

Motivation in Hygiene Teaching. This of course does not mean that there ought not to be strong motives to stimulate and encourage the child to form correct habits. On the contrary we must look to our knowledge of child nature to supply us with motives, and cease depending upon what would presumably be sufficient motivation to adults. Such motives are to be found in the child’s natural interests and instincts. (Pride, emulation, imitation, class and group or individual rivalry, activity, approbation, ambition, sportsmanship, etc., etc.) For example, a group of children are far more easily led to strive for better posture in sitting or standing through an appeal to rivalry or pride than through a discussion of the anatomy of the vertebra. Again, the same instincts, if properly appealed to, would more quickly and positively lead a child to keep his nails clean than would a peroration

Digitized by v^ooQle
11«

upon the bacteria that might be harbored under a dirty nail. The writer once knew a boy who experienced a sort of diabolical joy in the knowledge that millions of tiny organisms were growing at the ends of his very fingere! Was it his fault, or his teacher’s, that he not only possessed but secretly took great delight in dirty nails?

The Place of the Textbook. As indicated above, there is no place for the orthodox physiology in the grades. Beginning with the third school year, however, a great deal of supplementary reading may very profitably be introduced. There are already upon the market several series of hygiene readers which meet this need admirably. The Gulick Hygiene Series (Ginn and Co.) and the O’Shea and Kellogg Health Series of Physiology and Hygiene (Macmillan) are but two of many series now obtainable. Briefly, the characteristics of a good reader for the grades may be summed up as follows:—

(1)	Only sufficient physiology and anatomy to render the chief facts of hygiene reasonably comprehensible.

(2)	Emphasis upon health rather than upon disease.

(3)	A simple and interesting diction.

(4)	The psychological method of approach.

(5)	Copious and appealing illustrations.

(6)	Subject matter very concrete and closely related to the everyday life and experiences of the child.

Whatever its good points, however, the supplementary reader cannot of course be relied upon to furnish the major portion of the material for any except the lower grades. At best it should be in grades above the fourth merely a supplement to the course of study followed. It is needless to add that the material read should be studied intensively and be thoroughly worked over in the classroom. The wise teacher will strive constantly also to insure direct applications of the health principles learned from day to day in the habits and attitudes of the children. In this way the knowledge gained tends to pass over more or less immediately into action and so become of more permanent value. This is especially true during the intermediate grades between the third and sixth, inclusive, while the emphasis is still upon personal rather than community hygiene.

A Suggested Course of Study in Hygiene. Following is a brief topical outline of such a course of study in hygiene as needs to be worked out to take the place of the older course in physiology or hygienic physiology, as it has been more recently styled, ordinarily followed in the public schools. It is beside the purpose of this bulletin to present the details of the course, the aim being merely to enumerate the principal topics and relate them psychologically to the interests and age of the child.

Grades 1 and 2. Health hygiene.

Grades 3 and 4. Habit hygiene.

Grades 5 and 6. Home and school hygiene.

Grades 7 and 8. Community hygiene.

Digitized by v^ooQle
Ill

Health Hygiene for Grades 1 and 2.

Ainu. There is no fonrial teaching of hygiene in the first two grades. The aim of the work in these years should be to insure that every child shall form those habits of personal cleanliness that are fundamental to neatness and happiness. Dr. Hoag speaks of this period of life as a time when a child’s habits ought to be reduced as far as possible to an automatic level.

The following personal habits should have become so fixed by the end of the second grade as to give reasonable evidence of permanency:—

(1)	Clean hands, face, ears and skin to start the day with.

(2)	Nails trimmed and in good condition.

(3)	Scalp clean and hair brushed.

(4)	Teeth brushed and mouth in good condition.

(5)	Wearing neat, clean clothing and carrying a clean handkerchief.

Method. The only method required in these grades is a careful morning inspection conducted by the teacher, or by pupils under her direction. Occasional health stories are always valuable if appealingly told.

Motive. Class, room, row or individual rivalry; pride; approbation, etc., etc.

Time. A minimum of 15 minutes a week.

Habit Hygiene for Grades 3 and 4.

Aims. Thi end of hygiene teaching in these grades is the same as in Grades 1 and 2, but with a scope so widened as to include the proper reactions to all the major health-sickness situations in the normal environment of the child.

Following is a list of suggested habits upon which more or less inclusively the attention of third and fourth grade pupils ought to be focused:—

(1)	Proper food habits.

(a)	Good and poor foods at home, for lunch, etc.

(b)	Tea and coffee; tobacco and alcohol.

(c)	Balanced diet.

(d)	Mastication.

(e)	Brushing the teeth.

(f)	The common cup.

(2)	Proper fresh air habits.

(a)	Schoolroom ventilation.

(b)	Foul air in street cars, theatres, stores, etc.

(c)	Breathing habits.

(d)	Outdoor play and sports.

(e)	Sleeping - room ventilation.

(3)	Proper temperature habits.

(a)	Overheated rooms.

(b)	Clothing for summer and winter.

(c)	Colds and why we have them.

(d)	Thermometers and their use.

(4)	Proper posture habits.

(a)	Sitting; standing; working; playing.

Digitized by CaOOQle
112

(5)	Proper exercise habits.

(a)	Exercise and health.

(b)	Exercise and happiness.

(c)	Ideal forms of exercise, such as swimming, rowing, skating, coasting, etc.

(6)	Proper habits of cleanliness.

(a)	Bathing—warm and cold.

(b)	Clean hands and faces.

(c)	Hands away from nostrils and mouth.

(d)	Clean clothing.

Methods. Story-telling, supplementary reading, simple experimentation, occasional inspection; observation.

Motive. Class, row, group or individual rivalry; pride; approbation; curiosity; activity; the soldier interest.

Time. A minimum of 25 minutes a week, dome and School Hygiene for Grades 5 and 6.

Aims. The purpose of the hygiene work in Grades 5 and 6 should be to give the children a wide range of information in matters of every day import to health and efficiency. Among the topics for study and investigation should be included the following:—

(1)	The water supply.

(a)	Sources for school, home and city.

(b)	The common drinking cup; bubblers and fountains.

(2)	Milk.

(a)	Importance of keeping milk clean and cool.

(b)	Milk for the baby.

(c)	Milk as a food.

(d)	Clean milkmen and safe sources of production.

(3)	Selection of food in stores.

(a)	Cold storage of foods: use and abuse.

(b)	Common adulterations and how to detect them.

(c)	Substitutes and equivalents.

(4)	Refrigeration and care of foods in the home.

(a)	Home-made refrigerators, coolers, milk shelters,

window boxes, etc.

(b)	Cleanliness of all food containers.

(5)	Garbage and wastes.

(a)	Garbage buckets and scavenger departments.

(b)	Disposal of waste papers and rubbish in the interests

of fire prevention.

(6)	Sweeping and dusting.

(a)	Hygienic versus non-hygienic methods.

(b)	Floor oils; dust-absorbers; oil dusters and mops;

vacuum sweepers, etc.

(7)	Flies, mosquitoes and other disease-carrying insects.

(a)	Life-history of the fly and mosquito.

(b)	Means of extermination.

(8)	Clean homes, clean yards and clean schools.

(9)	Infectious and contagious diseases.

(a)	The common children’s diseases. (Mumps, measles, colds, etc., etc.) Modes of infection.

Digitized by CjOOQle
113

(b)	How diseases are ordinarily spread. (Simple and

non-technical.)

(c)	Vaccination, and other safeguards and preventatives.

(d)	How to escape “colds” and throat affections during the cold winter months.

(10) Pencils, towels, combs, handkerchiefs, etc.

(a)	Interchanging of books, pencils, etc.; common use of towels; “swappin” gum, etc.

Method. The children in grades 5 and 6 are in the midst of the age of curiosity and dawning social consciousness. The methods of making the work in hygiene in these grades interesting and valuable will be determined accordingly. A little opportunity to observe something of the nature of bacteria should be given them in order that they may learn the more fundamental principles of disease and contagion. Contests in fly and mosquito extermination will prove surprisingly fruitful of results. Some simple experimentation with foods and food preservation will be both interesting and profitable. Time and facilities for experimentation, however, are always lacking in the already overcrowded curriculum of our public schools, and the most practicable methods of giving instruction in matters of health and sanitation will be for this grade, as for the third and fourth, story-telling, extensive observation and reports and wide supplementary reading and discussion. These, if wisely ordered, and directed, may be made to appeal markedly to the elements of a dawning social sympathy and interest in the child.

Motive. The instincts of rivalry, inventiveness, constructiveness and sympathy; the natural social interests; dramatization and group activity will furnish the needful motivation for the work of these grades. The project method will be excellent.

Time. A minimum of 50 minutes a week, with considerable time spent outside of school in observing and collecting data and in carrying out projects.

Community Hygiene for Grades 7 and 8.

Aims. The purpose of the work in hygiene teaching in the two upper grades should be to create in the child a strong and growing interest in the problems of neighborhood sanitation and health. The pupils in these grades have passed fairly beyond the age of individualism into the age of socialism. It is this which affords us a proper orientation for interesting them in the broader problems of citizenship. The emphasis now becomes altruistic, civic, communal.

While obviously the work during the preceding grades has been largely self-centered and individualistic, the child’s mind in this age is opening outward and the time for real constructive work in training for future citizenship is at hand. The earlier instruction in personal hygiene has reached a climax, and the civic sympathy and appreciation burst forth.

While obviously a somewhat different course of study would have to be followed in the country from that applicable to the city,
in general the topics suggested below should all find a prominent place in the hygiene work in Grades 7 and 8:—

(1)	Public markets.

(a)	Cleanliness.

(b)	Condition of foods offered for sale.

(c)	Foods exposed to insects, handling, dust, etc.

(d)	Appearance and habits of clerks.

(2)	Sewage disposal.

(a)	Dangers from sewage improperly reduced.

(b)	Study of local methods.

(c)	Study of ideal methods.

(3)	Garbage disposal.

(a)	Necessity for co-operation on the part of every family.

(b)	Study of local methods.

(4)	Water supply.

(a)	Principles of storing and filtration.

(b)	Trips to local or nearby reservoirs.

(c)	Essentials of a good system.

(d)	House filters.

(e)	Public drinking fountains.

(5)	Boards of health.

(a)	Duties and importance.

(b)	Members of the local board.

(c)	Is it an active or a passive one?

(d)	Necessity for co-operation; individual responsibility

in the health of everyone else.

(6)	The fly problem.

(a)	Its importance.

(b)	Diseases carried by the fly.

(c)	Survey of local stables and other breeding places.

(d)	Methods of extermination.

(e)	Construction of fly-traps.

(f)	The responsibility of the home.

(7)	The mosquito problem.

(a)	Mosquitoes are both a nuisance and a danger.

(b)	The conquest of the mosquito in tropical countries;

in the Canal Zone.

(c)	Survey of local breeding places.

(d)	The responsibility of the home.

(8)	Local disease.

(a)	Study of vital statistics (local) in order to determine

the most prevalent diseases.

(b)	Study of possible common sources of these diseases.

(c)	Crowded and overheated cars, theatres, stores, etc.,

as sources of illness in cold weather.

(d)	The great white plague: the most fatal and disastrous

of all diseases in America. What it is; how to prevent it.

(9)	Hospitals and sanatoria.

(a) Their value to individuals and to society.

Digitized by v^ooQle
115

(b)	Special neighborhood or near-by institutions: tuber-

culosis, isolation, etc.

(c)	Is the number of hospitals and dispensaries adequate

to meet all normal demands locally?

(10)	Industrial and factory hygiene.

(a)	The rights of the workingman to reasonable protec-

tion from disease and accident.

(b)	Survey of local industrial plants and the work they

are doing to conserve the health of their employees.

(11)	Street cleaning and sprinkling and removal of snow.

(a)	Importance to health of street sanitation.

(b)	Improved methods.

(c)	Duty of every abutter of keeping the walks in front

of his home free from snow and ice.

(12)	Public buildings.

(a)	Ventilation, plumbing, etc.

(b)	Safety.

(13)	Dumps.

(a) Surveys and reports of all local dumping tracts.

(14)	Fire protection.

(a)	Dangers from great conflagrations.

(b)	Local preventive facilities.

(c)	Loss through fires during preceding year.

(d)	Importance of building laws, inspection of lighting,

plumbing, etc.

(15)	Parks and playgrounds.

(a)	Value of recreation grounds to a city—both in money

and in health.

(b)	Local surveys.

(16)	Housing conditions.

(a) Overcrowding in poorer sections.

(c)	The right of every family to air and sunshine.

(d)	Dangers lurking in foreign quarters, etc.

Method. The work in hygiene in Grades 7 and 8 is designed to bring home to the pupils—most of whom will never receive further systematic instruction—the great lesson of co-operation in matters pertaining to the public health. To this end, any method which will encourage an attitude of personal responsibility in the pupils should prove an admirable one. Among such methods may be mentioned the local survey of public markets, buildings, theatres, factories, etc.; the study of taxation and the apportionment of its funds to the public health work; trips to near-by reservoirs, filter beds and preserves; the judging of local markets in percentages according to a prearranged scale; the study of local and state vital statistics; the organization of school boards of health, city governments, hospital staffs, etc., and the frequent use of slides, exhibits and other illustrative material. Constant use of the textbook in community hygiene should be provided for, as should also occasional opportunity for a brief study of yeasts and molds as re-

Digitized by Tooele
116

lated forms of bacteria, to the end that the general principles of infection may be the better understood.

Time. A minimum of 50 minutes a week in the classroom.

General Summary. In the preceding course of study, as. outlined, there is necessarily much overlapping from year to year. Real teaching of hygiene to boys and girls is so largely determined by incident and “psychological moments” that any suggested outline of procedure must of necessity lack strict co-ordination and progressiveness. Thus, it would not always be wise to discontinue the regular morning inspections with the beginning of the third grade. Nor would emphasis upon correct habits of posture in grades 3 and 4 result always in such permanent formation of these habits that no subsequent attention would need ever to be paid to them in higher grades. Again, it would be a serious mistake to delay all instruction in the problems of community sanitation until the 7th and 8th grades. The wise teacher will be always on the lookout for the psychological moment for driving home a health truth. For example, if a teacher had planned to devote the first week in March to talks upon the common drinking cup, it would be a great error for her to overlook instances of two or three children drinking from the same dipper in the first week in November. Or again, if her program called for first-aid lessons during the last week of April it would be an equally great mistake for her to permit a boy on the playground to bandage a badly cut finger with a dirty handkerchief two weeks or two days before that date. The time to strike in health matters as in all other situations is when the iron is hot.

Bibliography of Selected References. The following list of books will be found valuable as supplementary readers in hygiene. The writer has indicated in each case the grade or grades to which in his estimation the various texts are best adapted. The list is by no means complete, but each book listed contains much excellent material.

(1)	Brown, Bertha M.

Good Health for Girls and Boys (Health)

152pp. ill. Grades 5 and 6.

(2)	Bussey, George D.

A Manual of Personal Hygiene (Ginn)

156pp. Grades 7 and 8.

(3)	Coleman, Walter M.

A Handbook of the People’s Health (Macmillan)

307pp. ill. Grades 6, 7 and 8.

(4)	Coleman, Walter M.

A Health Primer (Macmillan)

189pp. ill. Grades 3 and 4.

(5)	Conn, H. W.

Introductory Physiology and Hygiene (Silver, Burdett and Co.) 211pp. ill. Grades 5 and 6.

(6)	Gulick Hygiene Series (Ginn and Co.) 6 Vols.

Vol. 1. Good Health. Grades 3 and 4.

(7)	Vol. 2. Emergencies. Grades 4 and 5.

(8)	Vol. 3. Town and City. Grades 7 and 8.

Digitized by v^ooQle
117

(9)	Vol. 4. The Body at Work. Grades 6 and 7.

(10) Vol. 5. Control of Body and Mind. Grades 7 and 8.

(11) Vol. 6. The Body and Its Defenses. Grades 5, 6, and 7.

(12)	Hutchinson, Woods.

Health Series. 2 books (Houghton Mifflin)

Book 1. The Child's Day. 183pp. ill. Grades 2, 3, 4, and 5.

(13)	Book 2. A Handbook of Health.

348pp. ill. Grades 5, 6, and 7.

(14)	Hutchinson, Woods.

Community Hygiene. 310pp. ill. Grades 7 and 8.

(15)	Jones, May Farinholt.

Keep Well Stories for Little Folks. (Lippincott)

140pp. ill. Grades 1,2 and 3.

(16)	O'Shea and Kellogg Health Series. (Macmillan) 4 vols.

Vol. 1. Health Habits. 216pp. ill. Grades 3, 4 and 5.

(17)	Vol. 2. Health and Cleanliness. 301pp. ill. Grades 5 and 6.

(18)	Vol. 3. The Body in Health. 324pp. ill. Grades 7 and 8.

(19)	Vol. 4. Making the Most of Life. 298pp. ill.. Grades 7 and 8.

(20)	Overton, Frank.

General Hygiene. (American Book Co.)

377pp. ill. Grades 5, 6 and 7.

(21)	Overton, Frank.

Personal Hygiene. (American Book Co.)

240pp. ill. Grades 4, 5, and 6.

(22)	Ritchie, John W.

Primer of Sanitation. (World Book Co.)

196pp. ill. Grades 6, 7 and 8.

(23)	Ritchie and Caldwell.

Primer of Hygiene. (World Book Co.)

184pp. ill. Grades 6, 7 and 8.

GIVING CREDIT FOR GYMNASIUM WORK.

By HELEN TAYLOR, East High School, Cinncinnati.

A great deal has been said, of late, about the establishing of physical education upon the same plane as other subjects included in a high school or college curriculum. Great has been the discussion thereof, both pro and con.

In the first place, the dignity and prestige that this department is granted seem to be almost a minus quantity. And the reason for this? To my mind, the chief reason lies in the fact that the laity is ignorant of the nature of physical education. In so many instances, physical education is understood by the masses to mean certain movements of the arms, legs, and body, combined into exercises, and taken so many times to the right, and so many to the left. This seems to be the ultimate boundary of their conception of the subject. Has not every teacher of physical education had the experience of surprising some individual, when mentioning the studying of different subjects which must be mastered before one is equipped to teach this subject, into making a remark

Digitized by t^ooQle
118

such as I received, - “Why! I didn’t know you had to study to be a “gym” teacher, -1 supposed all you had to do was to learn exercises!”

In like manner, we find many people who seem to believe that the one mission of life, which a teacher of physical education is trying to fulfill, is that of developing muscle-men, strong men, acrobats, and the like! The mission of the teacher of physical education is to make individuals more efficient by developing healthier, stronger bodies, and minds, if you please, - and thru the radiation of their own joy and happiness in their work to create happier and saner people. By developing healthier bodies we do not mean the examples of muscle-bound atrocities who appear on the vaudeville stage and with the circus. These are not healthy, normal people, or they would not be there, - for it is by their very frailties that they earn their living. Normality is the key-note which we are trying to strike, - normality of the bodily and mental functions in their proper relationship to each other.

Dr. Woods Hutchinson, in his book, “Civilization and Health”, says, “Children’s minds tend to grow as naturally as their bodies. Take care of their bodies and their minds will take care of themselves.” Isn’t this perfectly true? Haven't physicians realized the very considerable part the body plays upon the mind as well as the mind upon the body? And doesn't the efficiency of each depend one upon the other?

In order to realize his possibilities and his most ultimate efficiency and happiness, an individual must have an integration of mind and body which will keep the whole organism in harmony. This integration is obtained by training the mind and body to work simultaneously, - this is the very stuff of which physical education is made. The mind cannot go to sleep during a gymnastic lesson if the individual is doing satisfactory work, and making an honest effort. I venture to say that there is probably no subject that demands such quick and accurate response as parts of a well-ordered lesson in physical education. This response work is followed by work of a recreative type which rests the mind and tends to create a happier spirit. Psychology tells us that a person is most efficient when the euphoric index, i. e. feeling of well-being and happiness, is highest. In exercising the body, we are sending a more even distribution of blood thruout the organism; relieving congested parts, and promoting a general well-being, from a physiological standpoint. Physical education is a vital part of the general education which every child has the right to enjoy, - it supplements and, by the very nature of the work, puts the individual in a more receptive state, by improving bodily and mental processes. Until within recent years we have been giving out a one-sided and overbalanced education, - and too often, the very goal toward which, and for which our boys and girls have been striving, i. e. the means to give them a happy livelihood, has, on the very eve of the end of "	’	een	snatched	from their outstretched hands, because

Why, then, if these facts are true, you ask, has physical education suffered from low repute? It is because the masses, - nay,

Digitized by <^.ooQle
119

even many doctors, who should, at least, have a working knowledge of physical education, haven't even a conception of what the term means. It is because the eyes of some of our prominent educators are being opened to the merits of this work that physical education is in the process of gaining its rightful place. But the responsibility of gaining for physical education its rightful dignity and prestige rests upon us who are teaching it, - a grave responsibility, it is true, but with it a joy in the domg of it.

Physical education should march hand in hand with any subject included in a high school or college curriculum, - whether that subject be Latin or Greek, - mathematics or astronomy. Instead of being reduced to a Cinderella of the curriculum, it should be a ruling queen, - for without health an education is nil.

Another factor that is being discussed at great length, of late, is the giving of credit for this work. And here there is a very wide diversity of opinion. There are those who feel that it is the acme of foolishness to give credit, and who are of the same opinion as one prominent educator, who said, “We might as well give credit for eating meals as to give credit for physical education!” - implying, I take it, that it requires as little effort. But Mr. Educator, don’t you agree that there are many tempting ways on the road to Good Health that require as much persistence, concentration, thought, and yes, - even time, - as some of the so-called academic work? And have you never experienced, yourself, the effort it sometimes takes to bestir yourself into bodily exercise which you know you should take for your well-being? Or, are you, perchance, one of those, who have never even practiced this subject of physical education which requires as little effort as the eating of meals!

For my part, I believe that the most important lesson, which our public school system can teach, is that of teaching our youth how they may maintain or gain health. And instead of giving physical education the last consideration in a curriculum, as is usually done, a more logical and saner way would be to give physical education the first consideration. I believe the other subjects, instead of suffering, (as is thought would result from this plan), would increase 100 % in value, because there would, in time, under these conditions, be better minds to grasp the subjects.

The period given to physical education is not and never will be one of unalloyed pleasure to all the pupils all the time, - and if credit was given, it would do much toward creating the right spirit not only toward the work, but toward the maintaining of the health in general. And if the public school system could but accomplish that one Herculean task, i. e. of giving the girls and boys the realization of the importance of good health, - if, I say, they could but accomplish this one thing, they would not have existed in vain, - but if, in the very seeking of education, the value of health is underestimated and allowed to be lost, - then it were better that they never had been. On these principles then, - effort, time, and practical use thru out life, not only for self, but for state and country, - would not these factors justify the giving of credit?

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
120

The time has come when we who are teaching physical education must, each one of us, put our shouldrs to the wheel, - and make our work so valuable and so fully felt in the institution to which we belong, that its presence will not only be felt, but be recognized for its true worth. Then will some of our dreams come true, and then shall we feel that we have done our very little humble bit toward making this world a mor,- wholesome and sane, a healthier, and happier place in which to live.

THE NEED OF FIRST AID ORGANIZATION.

The purpose of a First Aid organization should be to instruct men and women to assist those who may be injured, sick or rendered helpless. It promotes good fellowship among its members. It studies causes of accidents and means to prevent their occurence. It enlists individual and public interests in the social betterment and public health of the community. It promotes safety first. The Red Cross shows you how to do this and will help you through its special departments.

The number of accidents can be cut in two by this method of education. This is not a haphazard guess, but the result of extensive experience and observation during the last ten years all over the United States. The observations have been made in industries of every kind, rural communities and in the home. The information obtained is surprising.

There is an accident every 19 seconds. Twenty-eight per cent of all accidents occur in the home. Carelessness in handling the small affairs of life cause so many cuts, bums and splinter punctures which when neglected become infected. The Red Cross has demonstrated that the accident rate among men with knowledge of First Aid and Accident prevention is 75 % less than among uninstructed in the same occupation. For this reason the State Board of Pennsylvania has made the instruction of safety first methods compulsory in the schools of Pennsylvania for next fall. In the meantime it must be taught to adults to make it as effective as it can be. The training of many medical corps men who have gone back into civil life will be of untold value in this way.

What to do before the doctor comes is the central motive of First Aid Instruction. It teaches what not to do as well. Through a misunderstanding of its purpose some few people have opposed this training believing that it advocates active treatment while waiting for the doctor. But this is not so. What is taught is prevention of whatever would injure the patient’s chance of bene-fitting from the doctor’s skill.

Often harmful attention is given by well meaning persons. Unless properly instructed, antiquated methods are often employed with the ever present danger of infection or other increase of injury. Often a life depends upon what is done the first few minutes. A life can be saved by a properly trained person and when there is such a person in the neighborhood, he or she will be the one turned
121

to because recognized as such. The dangers will be escaped because he knows to do and what to prevent.

When groups of people are gotten together in this way, it calls for competition and binds them toegther as progressive citizens and good thinkers. In industries where employees have organized efficient First Aid training they continue the practice because they believe its value to themselves justifies the expense incurred. Consult the nearest Red Cross Chapter. They will be glad to cooperate with you at once.

THE NATIONAL BILL FOR PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

Senator Arthur Capper (Kansas) and Representative Simeon D. Fess (Ohio) have introduced in Congress a bill initiating physical education upon a Nation-wide scale. This measure calls for the appropriation of $10,000,000 from the Federal treasury for the first year, to be distributed to the various States according to school populations. The funds given to the States will help to establish, under independent State control, thorough-going physical education for all children between the ages of six and eighteen years. In order to benefit from the Federal funds, States are required to appropriate a sum equal to the Federal allotment and to establish a comprehensive programme of physical education for all children between the designated ages.

The sponsor for this bill in the Senate is opposed to compulsory military training, but believes that universal physical education in the schools will give the youth of the country most of the practical benefits claimed for military training, and will also help the girls of the United States.

Representative Fess, who is chairman of the Committee on Education in the House, is an advocate of military training insofar as concerns the effect upon the individual participating, but is unable to reconcile himself to the great expense which would be incurred this year if such a policy were carried out. Mr. Fess is supporting the bill on the ground of economy, therefore, and also because he realizes that universal physical training will help to correet the defects found during the draft examinations.

As explained by the chairman of the House Committee on Education, the bill is drafted along the lines of similar Federal aid legislation, except that it places its administration under the Bureau of Education.

The National Physical Education Service, which is supporting the bill, points out that each State designates the authority to cooperate with the Federal Government in administering the law. State autonomy is preserved, each State administering independently the Federal funds received. This Service also emphasizes the fact that rural health conditions show the need of health supervision and instruction in healthful living for the boys and girls on the farms, and that the National plan for physical education creates no new and expensive machinery. The bill, which is not arbitrary in any of its provisions, does not demand the physical examina-

Digitized by t^ooQie
122

tion of children, but permits the State to decide whether it will be necessary.

THE CHICAGO P. E. CONFERENCE.

The Seventh Annual Conference of the Middle West Society of physical education held at Chicago, April 22-24, was one of the best attended in the history of the Middle West Society, more than eight hundred visitors having registered. Four hundred of these, however, were Normal School students.

A pleasing and novel venture of the Convention was a program given on the opening night Thursday, April 22, by the five different normal schools of Physical Education of Chicago. The dominant features of this demonstration were the artistically and logically arranged pyramids of groups of two, three and more individuals as end and center pieces for groupings on the floor and on different apparatus, by Mr. Hoffer of the Y. M. C. A. Training School, the Swedish and Danish Day’s Orders and the dancing. Mr. Hoffer in a very brief period showed the many possibilities inherent in these types of groupings.

We in the Middle West Society are evidently still in the grip of advocates of systems of physical education. Two of the Normal Schools presented the Swedish Days Order and one the Danish Day’s Order. Let us hope that we will soon have the day's order based upon Science, contributed by scientists of all nationalities and thus eliminating forever this or that particular day's order.

Dancing in costumes worthy of the Follies filled a large part of the program. The work was well done and beautiful, though one may ask whether we are not going too far in this direction in Normal School work, and whether the students graduating from such institutions really have a pedagogical basis for teaching dancing, with a knowledge of correct adaptation of dances to the various age gropus. Demonstrations along this line would probably have been more interesting to the teachers of physical education than mere expert technique and beautiful dances.

At the Friday morning meeting Mr. William P. Bowen of Yp-silanti, Mich., spoke on “Fundamental Essentials in Physical Education,” touching in a general way, upon time, space, equipment, material etc., in all of which the fundamentals have not yet been thoroughly worked out. Mr. Bowen was followed by a series of ten minute addresses on the trend of

Athletics—Major J. L. Griffith, Illinois University.

Gymnastics—Miss Lydia Clark, Illinois State Normal Univ.

Swimming—Mr. Thomas Robinson, Northwestern Univ.

Health Examinations and Health Instruction—Dr. D. B. Reed.

Play and Physical Recreation—T. J. Smergalsky.

Dancing—Mrs. Madeline Burtner Hazlitt, Chicago Normal.

Dr. Elsom of Wisconsin followed, presenting some interesting stereoptican views on the Physiotheraphy work performed by him, and his assistants in the Army.

Digitized by LjOOQle
123

Friday afternoon was devoted to section meetings. Only the Public School Section and the Y. M. C. A. Section presented prepared programs.

At the Public School Section Dr. Maroney spoke on the “Standardization of Physical Education” and Dr. Prohasky of Chicago on the “Use of the Clinic in Physical Education Departments as a Means for Combating Malnutrition and Under-Development”. Dr. Maroney spoke of the obligation of teachers in physical education to assume the same responsibility as other members of the faculties, in their respective schools and interest themselves in other activities besides those they are teaching. Furthermore, he insisted that the handling of the work by the teachers ought to be such as to add joy and pleasure to the lesson, insisting that formal work should be taught informally. The personality of the teacher becomes a very important part here. The first thing pupils need when they enter the Gymnasium is activity, eliminating all such needless things as roll calls and dressing. Dr. Maroney was followed by Miss Perrin, Miss Clark, Miss Snively and Miss Hale, in brief discussions, in which the need of concrete work in standardization was empahsized, particularly along the lines of grading, of physical education measurements, nomenclature, medical inspection and material for indoor and outdoor work.

The most important part of the program was presented Saturday morning. Unfortunately this meeting was very poorly attended. Dr. Reed made a very interesting report of the New York Convention. Dr. Crampton read a paper from Mr. Caulkins calling attention to the Fess-Capper Bill introduced in Congress and gave some good suggestions how to interest your own community and your State in order to get effective legislation. Dr. McCurdy spoke on the problems relating to personal efficiency. He pointed out the importance of viewing it from a structural or anatomical aspect, considering the weight and height relationship as well as the organic development before puberty and following puberty, and the physiological differences, with reference to the composition of the blood and the rate of metabolism at different ages and in both sexes.

On the whole the meeting might be considered quite successful, although one could expect that for such occasions all speakers selected for the program should realize the need of preparing papers conscientiously, giving concrete and valuable advice and opinion rather than speaking in generalities.—(£7. R.)

ANNUALCONFERENCEON PUBLIC HEALTH LEGISLATION.

Held under the auspices of ike Council on Health and Public Instruction of the American Medical Association, March 4, 1920.

Summary by DR. D. M. F. Krogh.

At this meeting the necessity of health education in the public schools was emphasized. To reach the public at large the children

Digitized by kjOOQle
124

must be taught, who will carry the lesson to their parents, and thru them the community will be reached. Various views were expressed in regard to whose function it is to conduct the teaching of health. Some emphasized that municipal authorities are responsible, others called attention to the state and federal departments being responsible.

Dr. John Sundwall, Minneapolis, said: A university health service is concerned with physically sound students—both in the attainment of positive health and in the continuance of this health during the academic and postacademic life. Related activities of a university health service are: protection of the sound student from communicable diseases; detection, isolation, and provision for the treatment and care of all students suffering from communicable diseases; advice, treatment and, when necessary, care of all students who are ill; early detection and correction, so far as possible, of beginning bodily disorders, such as the degenerative diseases, and correction, so far as possible, of defects in subnormals by advice regarding proper exercise and right living and, when advisable, by treatment. These objects are reached through the personal division of a university health service. The division of sanitation must concern itself with sanitary conditions both on and off the campus. Campus buildings, rooming houses and boarding houses must be inspected and regulated so far as possible. Finally, the health service should accentuate the required hygiene instruction by practical application to student life, and by additional educational methods, such as bulletins, posters and placards relative to health promotion and disease prevention, “patent medicines,” etc,; and by use of the student daily paper and other publications in dissemination of health information. Through properly conducted work in physical education, through a required hygiene course, through health services and through medical schools and schools of public health, our colleges and universities can educate the citizens and train the health leaders of our country, thus assuring for the future the national health and vigor fundamental to national security, growth and permanence.

Dr. Charles F. Bolduan, Washington, D. C., in part said: There is a limitation to the activities of the federal authorities. We should devote a great deal of attention to health .education among school-children and adults, but should not concentrate on children alone. Childhood impressions are very lasting. A large part of our program should deal with the education of schoolchildren so far as the work of the federal departments is concerned, and this field will come largely under the United States Bureau of Education, a department of the interior. The Public Health Service should be a national clearing house for all matters relating to public health education, and should maintain a supply depot in which can be collected pamphlets, exhibits, etc.

Dr. Haven Emerson, New York, said: In order to carry out education, one must have something to say and some one to say it to, and a susceptibility or receptivity in the audience appropriate to the matter in hand. Certain groups may always be considered

Digitized by CjOOQle
125

as educable in health subjects:	children	because of their age;

mothers because of their children, and the sick and their immediate associates because of their temporary need. Beyond school age, the interest in health for most adult is a negative quality and cannot be relied on to provide an audience for the written or spoken word, except under pressure of fear, selfishness in self-protection, or self-interest in the betterment of employees.

In the United States, with rare exceptions, health education cannot be applied to the population of whole states without risk of inappropriateness, because of the striking dissimilarity in geologic, geographic, racial, educational, occupational and morbidity setting of the groups to be reached. Health is personal. Health education must be personal, as nearly as conditions permit,. The nearer the government is to the lives of the people, the stronger will be public interest in the quality of its public servants. Without health education a community is ill served by its civil government. The municipal government is entitled to the strength which public interest will give to its health administration. The public is entitled to the kind of information which is as nearly personal and appropriate to the local unit, the household, the family, as can be attained. Health education is and must always be a function of municipal health departments.

Dr. Burton D. Meyers, Bloomington, Ind., reported as follows: We organized a department of hygiene in the Indiana University last year under the auspices or support of the United States government. We have had a required course for freshmen for about ten years, and it has been of tremendous value in developing better health conditions. We require those training for the teaching profession to take lectures in hygiene and work in physical training.

Dr. John M. Dodson, Chicago, remarked: As to the question of rejections in our selective service experience, retired to by Dr. Sundwall, I do not think the percentage of rejections when analyzed at all demonstrates that we are a degenerate nation physically. On the whole, it was a respectable showing. While it is true that many of the cases of rejection were due to lack of proper hygiene and sanitation, if we had only had universal military training, or universal physical culture which goes with military training, we should have escaped most of these fallacies.

As chairman of the Subcommittee on Health Problems in Education, co-operating with the National Education Association,

I feel that our hope for the future largely lies in the education of the young. Personal hygiene is a matter of habit. Habits are formed early, and once formed they are not easily broken or changed. Therefore, our hope for the future and for permanent good lies in the education of the, children and the inculcation in them of proper habits. For this reason I think one of the most worthy things that this Council on Health and Public Instruction has ever done was when, at the Los Angeles session in 1911, it approached the great body of public school teachers in this country (the National Education Association) and enlisted their keenest interest in health problems in the public schools.

Digitized by v^ooQle
126

The general trend of opinion seemed to be that Federal, State and Municipal authorities each have their special function. But, we have had the experience that one very often depends on the other. Frequently it is found that there is no one who starts the wheel or ball rolling. During the past few years much good has been accomplished by the Interdepartmental Bureau of Hygiene thru the distribution of pamphlets and circulars of an educational character. What is needed is a clear cut aim, a purpose. Suggestions from Federal and State authorities can only be carried out or can only become effective, if Municpal Boards of Education employ a director of hygiene whose function would particularly be to co-operate with the department of medical inspection, the department of physical training, and the department of public welfare, where such exists, and who would have charge of all teaching of hygiene and as much physiology as may be necessary to teach hygiene properly, and no more. Instead of a physical training department cities should have a department of physical education, which includes hygiene by its very name. The director of physical education would be the head of the department; the department of hygiene' should be a sub-department of the department of physical education. In rural districts there should be a county superintendent of physical education and hygiene, who would be an associate to the county school superintendent. The state should have a superintendent of public welfare in its department of public instruction. The U. S. Bureau of Education needs a specially trained man for physical welfare work.______

GEORGE BROSIUS, M. S. C.

A few historical reminiscences of the man whose entire life was devoted to the cause of physical education in the American Gymnastic Union, beginning as a pupil and advancing to an expert gymnast and teacher of remarkable natural force and ability.

By A Student of One of His Normal Classes.

George Brosius was born on the 9th day of September, 1839, in Lancaster, Pennsylvania and he died on the 17th day of March, 1920, in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. In 1854 Brosius entered the Junior class of the Milwaukee Turnverein and there started his remarkable career as a practical advocate of our great cause of Physical Education in America. This career was interrupted only once in his life and that was during the Civil War. It is a nistorical fact that when President Lincoln called for volunteers to save the Union, the members of the Gymnastic Union, called “Turners,” were among the first to offer their services. George Brosius enlisted in the Ninth Wisconsin Regiment of Volunteers in September, 1861, as a private. In 1863 he was made lieutenant and assigned to the 35th Wisconsin, and in May, 1864, resigned from the army. After returning to Milwaukee he was made physical director of the Turnverein Milwaukee which position he retained up to 1914 with the exception of two years, during which he was called to New York City as director of Physical Education in the Central Turnverein, at that time the largest in America. Although very

Digitized by kjOOQle
127

successful in his work in New York, his attachment to Milwaukee and its people, among whom were thousands of his pupils, brought him baek and he stayed in his beloved city to the end. Before leaving for the east he had also been the physical director of Engel-man’s private school, later the German-English Academy, and had introduced physical training in the public schools of Milwaukee in 1875, being supervisor of this work until 1883.

George Brosius was without a doubt the most successful physical director and prize winner of his time. His great natural talent as teacher, his ambition for and his pride in his work, his excellent example as a demonstrator, his love for order and discipline, his talent in inventing and arranging great artistic and spectacular exhibition features, his strong moral character, his friendliness to everybody, and last but not least his neatness in dress and appearance made him the idol of his pupils. It is therefore not surprising that his good work made friends for him everywhere. His classes and teams in his Tumverein as well as in the numerous state, national and international tournaments during his career, won the most coveted prizes and made for him an international reputation. The pinnacle of his success was undoubtedly reached when he undertook to select a team of members of the Milwaukee Turnverein, seven in number, to compete in an international gymnastic tournament in Frankfort-on-the-Main, Germany, in 1880, bringing home the 2nd, 3rd, 5th, 6th, 13th and 21st individual prizes from among thousands of the best European Turners to the great amazement of the Germans, and the utmost joy of the members of the American Gymnastic Union. The enthusiasm created by this success made not only a lasting impression in Europe, but it roused the members of the eastern societies to such a pitch that after landing in New York, it took Mr. Brosius and his team over two weeks, to get home to Milwaukee, the team being feted, banqueted and honored in all of the larger cities from Boston to Milwaukee.

But the most valuable and lasting service rendered by George Brosius for the cause of physical education, not alone for the American Gymnastic Union, but for the country at large, was his enthusiastic, untiring and efficient work as director of the Union’s Normal College of Physical Education in Milwaukee, beginning in 1875 and ending in 1899. Sixteen classes of young students were trained and educated as physical directors during that time, and sent out to the Turnvereins m all parts of the United States. Mr. Brosius was at that time the highest and best recognized authority in the Union and most of the applications for physical directors came to him, and many of the new graduates were placed by him with a kind, but strict direction to go and make good as true apostles in the great cause of Physical Education.

Whatever George Brosius lacked in educational qualifications, (having had no opportunity for a higher education) he doubly made up in his genuine enthusiasm, sincerity and true devotion to the cause of physical education of the good old type. Never was there a teacher that could work his students harder and and not lose

Digitized by UjOOQle
128

their good will, nor was there ever one that could inspire his students more for the cause of physical education than could this Master of our profession. Many of the graduates of these classes became very successful physical directors and those of a progressive nature branched out into public school work and medical service. Two of these graduates are today directors of Normal Schools of Physical Education, one is at the head of the physical training department at West Point Military Academy, sixteen worked their way up to directors and supervisors of physical education in the public schools in some of the largest cities of our country, and others are still enthusiastic workers for the cause in public schools, gymnastic societies, athletic clubs, and playgrounds. I dare say every one of them still has an appreciative reverence for this exceptional man whose inspiration was the foundation of their later successful career.

With the passing of George Brosius, one of the best known, most loved, and highly honored physical directors of the older type in the American Gymnastic Union has gone. After celebrating his fiftieth anniversary as a teacher and director of physical education in 1914, at the age of 75 years, he ended his eventful career with a beautiful and artistically prepared exhibition of physical activities by the various classes of the Milwaukee Tumverein. Honored at that time as no man in our profession was ever honored before, and with many valuable tokens of remembrance by his pupils and by gymnastic associations of America and Europe, he retired to private life.

Although with us no more, the memory of his great work and his personality is indelibly inscribed in the history of the American Gymnastic Union and in the hearts of his pupils.

TIME ALLOTMENT FOR PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

By EDITH L. HILDERBRANT, Harvey, 111.

The work in physical education, including the time to dress in uniform and to redress for the succeeding recitation, properly covers eighty minutes, one hour of which may most profitably be used for theory and practice. The latter amount is the least time per day that should be devoted to physical education.

Under “Theory,” which should occupy about twenty minutes of the period daily, may be considered:

1.	The principles underlying physical education.

2.	Hygiene: personal, public, occupational,'sex, social, etc.

3.	Elementary anatomy, physiology, and (until adequate time is provided for it elsewhere in the school curriculum) elementary psychology.

4.	First Aid.

5.	Technical points regarding games and other physical activities; for example, the game of hockey may best be be taught by playing it first upon the blackboard.

NOTE: The period in the class room should afford inspiration to do excellent work on the floor, track or field. Lantern talks

Digitized by Google
129

and moving pictures may be used to good advantage in giving much of the instruction outlined above.

The following schedule, patterned after a “Sample arrangement of double gymnasium periods in a high school schedule,” prepared by Dr. J. H. McCurdy, and published in the October, 1918, issue of the “American Physical Education Review,” shows a desirable arrangement of classes in a high school of medium size, which has shower accommodations and a cafeteria. The regular class periods are forty minutes in length, two being combined to afford sufficient time for physical education, and one, the fifth, being elastic to give opportunity for two lunch periods.

This schedule is arranged for eight classes of approximately fifty pupils each. Four hundred pupils can, according to this plan, receive daily, forty minutes of active exercise in the gymnasium, plus twenty minutes of instruction bearing upon the theory of physical education. The eighth class, if there is one, will find it necessaiy to meet after dismissal, as indicated, but the disadvantage of so doing will be more than offset by the fact that this class will approach nearest the ideal time of day for taking recreation. Two teach 3rs can readily manage the work outlined above. The need for a class-room is obvious.

Where a swimming-pool, two swimming instructors, and an extra classroom or auditorium, are available, an additional four hundred pupils per day can be given “Theory” and exercise (swimming) on a schedule similar to the one used for work in the gymnasium. Two classes may be combined for the theory work on days when moving pictures, or other effective means for instructing large groups, are employed. At the close of the twenty-minute period, one class may, on alternate days, pass to the gymnasium and the other to the pool, and vice versa. In the few localities where outdoor play space and fair weather can be counted upon, provisions might be made for still another 400. A school of from 400 to 800 pupils, that has no pool, should have two gymnasiums, one for the girls and one for the boys. Even though plenty of indoor space is provided, the physical training classes should take their exercise out of doors whenever conditions permit.

The order of classes given here is obviously arbitrary. It might be most advantageous to have Sophomores, Juniors or Seniors earliest in the day. Besides, it is impracticable to divide or separate all the students into groups according to their year in high school. Some Sophomores may be capable of doing Junior work, whereas certain Juniors may not be capable of doing Sophomore work. Moreover, some phases of training may profitably be undertaken by some groups, and not by others. Physical fitness is an important determining factor. Usually, the number of Freshmen greatly exceeds the number of pupils in any of the other years. It would probably be advisable in many high schools of small or medium size, to combine the Juniors and Seniors, and to divide the Freshmen into two groups.

If the curriculum does not allow eighty minutes for physical education each day, but allows this amount of time on alternate

Digitized by LjOOQle
Sj~u>

*Jei A <* H^ rt

fazz

Q

o°T

0*

T

t •/<>

j£*

f IT  r : X. o II f.l4-/o		\ O */	
t		r	
cL	£ -f. A-	As	
to‘	Vo '	/* ’	

k7S2%a



2L



*rJ%:z



w Jt~vr

T\< < ^

*> r Jifr- */y

*»' f



£> l/a «.<-«

4*>*

f+ *





>fA. A/....

I ^ Jrr. v.

^r/'Jzz

’JL

1 ^ 7^ z.

’feTjfea,

.«.

JLo'tf





€

V* *

71 vv^.:^

1 ^ r- Jfe^/y

/Lt <r« h r- /* pu V.

2

TF'’- f^/«. ^

/*; , «r< /. ^ ' ^ iS^ ^y ----------------/-

/*' /

2.

A-/J

/¥

U

/✓

->‘~

-V*

3

>r~

/yVX

1	^GRbX*

^ ctt^Ay



z.



iy

4"

____I

tf»

SCHEDULE II SHOWING TIME ALLLOTMENT FOR PHYSICAL ED

6U.~£

tu~t«

A, */’...-,

*T

%—-

V

y&zz,

(b*7 u &

I

	.1 O	7<‘ -? £
		
/t//	/o'	J1 o'

"t





%

> « /« /. - |, //-. /y

A.

IT

1;*o~ /o: if*



7

t £	£i* * + •+.<	. *),
to1	J.O*	to'

<L



\*	**«y	$tzJ~

or

/q;30~	f/:2L

Jl0r

/y*	>.*%y	Jji^

_//_2£-

J^UU^





JZ* »•«

JfT

ic^zt

Digitized by ^ooQle
HON IN a SCHOOL DAY CONSISTING OF 40-MINUTE periods

r	^

- '* *r - '*-*-





1*



. ^"H—^

TION IN A SCHOOL DAY CONSISTING OF 60-MINUTE periods

jp1

n. Sf- >_i££-

1?..





'>■7

*«







Z-

u ^



3o'j



/O

xrz:

I-!*?

7p,r5fcjr





f\**./7

PC'

Z* «- C Vo'



7j^- e~ / *.

<► r -SZ-«.>/y



/✓'

f//.

*V« ~ ^

Vo'

7p—

		,i.
	-±1	!•'

4 • •

1 t"~ --aae





j+'

lo~

2+

•-L •. «v^l

*■}





el		/)
//'	Jo>	//

.^U^J jLty

*r

_Z.iT- ^>jy

fy^j^tz^ jfev

<&.y.

a

pytiz^^yGoogle
Digitized by ^.ooQle
133

days instead, it would be advisable for groups of Freshmen and of upper classmen to take turn about in the use of the gymnasium and swimming pool, each class taking exercise at a prescribed hour, Monday, Wednesday and Friday of one week and Monday and Wednesday of the next. Another class might use the same time on the remaining days. In some schools it has been necessary to alternate physical training and music or drawing in a similar manner. An honest effort should be made, however, to approach the ideal of one hour a day for physical education.

The fifth period in this schedule permits about one-half of the students in the high school to have lunch before the fifth period work begins. The other half eat after their exercise or recitation. The time allowed for theory and for dressing for floor work prevents the taking of strenuous exercise immediately after lunch. The eighteen minutes allowed for re-dressing and for passing to the lunchroom prevents injurious results that might be caused by eating too soon after vigorous exercise has been performed.

In schools where there are no showers, or too few to accommodate a class, the time allowed on this schedule for the shower may be used to good advantage for exercises. A brisk dry-rub is an effective substitute for the shower. The four minutes which regularly intervene between successive class periods would, in the physical training classes, automatically fall into the time alloted to exercise. The four-minute interval during which the gymnasium is free between classes permits of the early entrance of each class for floor work.

Page 125 gives a schedule suited to a curriculum having supervised study, with class periods sixty minutes in length. See Schedule I.

In schools in which two hours of the day can be devoted to physical education, as would occur where the work could be given only two or three times a week, the same system of overlapping, in reference to the physical education periods, that was used in the first schedule, might be employed here. This schedule is made out, however, on the plan of teaching theory once or twice a week and giving exercise daily. Much of the instruction in hygiene can be given in rapid-fire talks while the class is in position on the floor. So likewise can knowledge of technique in the various activities, the different movements or plays being (demonstrated by the teacher and designated pupils.

No allowance is made here for the use of showers. Where they are available, adjustment will need to be made in the program. As above, a four-minute intermission is allowed between classes. The same number of classes including the same number of pupils can be accommodated. A double schedule involving swimming can be run, provided there are the requisite facilities and instructors. The lunch period alternates with the work of the fifth period.

In schools where a ninety-minute supervised study plan is in use, a somewhat different arrangement of classes is necessary. See Schedule III.

Five minutes out of the ninety are allowed between classes.

Digitized by v^ooQle
134

The first recitation and study periods of the second hour group are separated by the physical education period. The fourth and fifth groups, because of time required for lunch, lose the second and third study periods, resi>ectively. To arrange for an interval between the two lunch periods, in schools where that is desirable, the amount of time devoted to exercise in the fourth and fifth period physical training classes may be increased. Other classes meeting between 11:30 and 12:65 might use twenty minutes of the ninety for lunch and the remainder of the time, counting out intermissions, for thirty-minute recitation and study periods. Only six classes in physical training can, according to this schedule, be accommodated each day during the regular school hours. This plan affords a longer period of time for exercise than either of the others does.

Every school has peculiar conditions which must be considered in making its schedule. Careful planning is necessary in order to warrant the fullest benefits possible from physical education. Attention must be given to grouping pupils according to physiological age, proficiency and physical efficiency. Individual corrective work is required by some. Proper facilities and sufficient teachers should be procured. In most schools, the need of the hour is an increase in the time allotment for physical education.

I >■	—	I	—	-	   ll

Physiology and hygienP

A	D.	M.	F.	KROGH,	M.	D.

a	'	"	in	i	A

VALUE OF PHYSICAL EXERCISES IN AFTER-TREATMENT OF INTERNAL DISEASES.

Original article in Muenchener Medizinische	Munich,	Nov., 1919.

Quincke emphazise the great value of graduated physical exercises in the after-treatment not only of diseases affecting the joints and muscles but also in pleuritis, enteroptosis, chronic constipation, and in practically all internal diseases. Only a few patients need special exercises adapted to their peculiar condition, but all convalescents will make more rapid and surer progress toward health if they are required regularly to go through such setting-up drills as are in use in the army and in the gymnasiums. Of course, the amount and the character of the exercise will depend on the condition of the convalescent. The first exercises after recovery and after rising from a sick bed should be taken alone, but after convalescents have partially recovered their strength there is added value in exercises carried out in groups or classes. Such exercises not only restore a normal blood circulation, but they are needed to give control of bodily movements, for long confinement to the bed will often have impaired the motor apparatus.—Abstract from “The Journal" Am. Med. Assoc., April 10, 1920.

Digitized by LjOOQLe
136

LACK OF KNOWLEDGE OF HEALTH LAWS BLAMED FORT-POOR PHYSICAL CONDITION.

Children in Philadelphia’s “polite neighborhoods” suffer from mal-nutrition quite as much as those in the slum districts, experts declared recently at a meeting of the Philadelphia Child Welfare Association in the Mayor’s reception room, City Hall.

Mayor J. Hampton Moore opened the conference and commended the activities of the association as worthy of the support of public and private organizations.

“Lack of knowledge, not lack of food, nor money to buy food,, accounts for the under-nourished, emaciated, nervous children who drift to the children’s courts,” said Mrs. Frederick Schoff,, chairman, reviewing conditions that affect children in Philadelphia.

"The well-to-do mother often neglects her children through ignorance of health laws; she does not know how to guard their health.”

There are more under-nourished children on the Lake Shore Drive, lined with the homes of Chicago millionaires, Mrs. Ira Couch Wood, director of the McCormick Memorial Fund of Chicago, told the welfare workers, than there are in the stockyard slums.

"We made a survey of 10,000 typical children,” said Mrs. Wood. “They came from all parts of the city, rich and poor. We found that 40 per cent of them had been retarded a year,J or more in growth. We also found, to our surprise, that only 16 per cent of them came from the foreign bom families around the stock-yards, and 63 per cent of them came from the University of Chicago neighborhood and similar districts. Not a few of them came from the ‘gold coast,' or Lake Shore Drive.

“In our efforts to have children cultured and well educated we sometimes neglect their bodes. They become nervous, irresponsible, a prey to evil influences. Life in the American family is too stimulating—children are pushed on at too rapid a pace.

“The peasants from Europe seem to be of a sounder race. Perhaps that accounts for the small percentage of undernourished children we found among even the poor families.

“The American child sometimes deceives the school nurse because American clothes put up a great front. A smart bow of pink ribbon or a pretty ruffle round the neck makes a little girl look very sweet, but a thorough physical examination would show her to be misshapen, emaciated and nervous.”

A careful physical examination of every child attending the public schools was recommended by Mrs. Wood.—From Philadelphia Daily Paper.

Care of Eyes.—To read or study when tired or drowsy is to strain the eyes to a dangerous degree. Avoid evening study whenever possible. If you are using your eyes by artificial lights be sure the light does not shine directly into the eyes, and try to have it come from behind and to the left side so as to avoid the harmful glare. Never sit with the gas or electric light directly in

Digitized by Google
136

front of you. If electric light is used, the bulbs should be wholly or partly frosted. The best form of artificial illumination for the eyes is the so-called indirect system, where the light is reflected from the ceiling and walls of the room in a soft glow and where all glare is entirely hidden by an opaque shield.—W. M. Carhart, Pub. Health, Michigan, September, 1919.

The average dietary is more likely to be deficient in iron than in the other elements mentioned. The data indicate that milk and other dairy products supply the greatest percentage of calcium; vegetables and grain products, the greatest percentage of iron; and dairy qnd grain products, the greatest amount of phosphorus, and in each case at the lowest cost.—From an Editorial in “The Journal”	Am. Med. Assoc., Feb. 21, 1920.

Children's Year:	Looking	Backward	and	Forward.—

In thirty-eight states the Children’s Year child welfare committees have planned to “carry on” with the co-operation of the Children’s Bureau; in thirty states child hygiene divisions have been established, and in sixteen states child welfare commissions have been appointed. The end of Children’s Year was marked by an international child welfare conference in Washington, at which minimum standards were drawn up, discussed in eight regional conferences throughout the country, and put into final form by an advisory committee formed for that purpose. These standards cover the fundamental needs of maternity and infant care; of the pre-school and school child; of the child in need of special care; of the child at work; and of the economic and social bases for these standards. The standards for the protection of maternity and infancy are already crystallized in the Sheppard-Towner maternity bill now in Congress. This bill would make available to all mothers public health nurses, accessible hospital care and medical attention; consultation centers; teaching and practical demonstration in hygiene of maternity and infancy, and the household arts essential to the well-being of mother and child. One hundred and thirty-four children’s health centers were established in fifteen states; in nine other states they were reported by the actual number not given.

An idea has been developed by Miss Rice, a teacher in the Sixth grade of the Sherman school, Cincinnati, 0., by which the health crusade is made an interesting competitive game. Miss Rice’s experiment is with a “nutrition” class—composed of children who seemed anaemic and under-nourished. “As a part of their instruction in mathematics, the children have been made to utilize their own body weights and measurements in the computation of the percentage of gain or loss in weight, according to height and age.” “The children themselves make the notations at regular intervals upon the classroom weight record chart posted on the wall. The surprising result has been that Miss Rice’s pupils are taking a

Digitized by CaOOQle
137

lively interest in their own physical well-being. The children have begun to realize that, in order to bring their weight up to normal and maintain it, they must have the proper amount and kinds of food, plenty of fresh air, day and night, wholesome exercise, must keep clean, and have sufficient sleep. It is a ‘game' that appeals to them, and the competition is keen as to who shall show the greatest improvement when the monthly tests are made.”

Public Health Organization.—Professor Winslow* of Yale in an illuminating vice presidential address before the American Association for the advancement of Science at St. Louis, forecast the future of the movement for greater accomplishment in the domain of public health by thus defining its scope:

Public health is the science and art of preventing disease, prolonging life, and promoting physical health and efficiency through organized community efforts for the sanitation of the environment, the control of community infections, the education of the individual in principles of personal hygiene, the organization of medical and nursing service for the early diagnosis and preventive treatment of disease, and the development of the social machinery which will insure to every individual in the community a standard of living adequate for the maintenance of health.

•Winslow, C. E. A.: The Untitled Fields of Public Health, Science 61; 23 Jan. 9 1920.

Principles of Hygiene.—One of the main principles of hygiene is to bring about a consistent common-sense observance by individuals and communities of cleanly methods of living to prevent the erupted matter from the bodies of infected persons from being conveyed to and becoming “dangerous dirt” in the bodies of other persons. Another important matter is the establishment and maintenance of conditions in respect to air, water, food, exercise, and sleep, which tend to fortify individuals with vigorous health and the power to overcome invasion of the body by “dangerous dirt.”—L. L. Lumsden, “Rural Hygiene,” Public Health Rep., Nov. 7, 1919.

Health and Education.—A very significant trend in education during the past few years is shown in the recognition that health is fundamental to sound intellectual development and that the rigid regulation of all things pertaining to the hygiene of students is indispensable. Generally speaking, there is serious economic and academic loss year after year in our schools, colleges, and universities, due to lassitude, indisposition, illness, and epidemics among students, all more or less preventable.—John Sundwall, Pub. Health Rep., Nov. 7, 1919.

Digitized by boogie
(______N OTES AND COMMENT^ j

In the Maryland School Bulletin of February we find a very complete description of the Spring Athletics for all the schools in the state, in the form of a report of the special committee on athletics appointed by the state superintendent of schools. All persons interested in state wide athletics, and in methods of conducting such should write to the state department of Education, Baltimore, Md., for the February 1920 issue of the School Bulletin.

Summer sessions of physical education schools are more in evidence this year than ever before. And the indications are that there will be a larger attendance at each school than ever before. This is perfectly natural. Every teacher knows that unless one goes to some school and gets in touch with the more modem developments that either dry rot has already set in or that decay is not far off. In physical training work like in medicine one soon gets into such a deep rut that unless one seeks a different environment and hears and sees different things the end is a “hopaless back number.” We hope that every reader of “Mind and Body” who has not formed the summer session habit will make an honest endeavor to attend some session this summer. There are many good schools who advertise their courses. Stlect one that will give you a “jolt”, one that will give you something different than what you have been doing during the school year. The result should be a better teacher getting larger returns upon the money invested.

DENVER CLAIMS THE LONGEST GOLF COURSE IN THE

COUNTRY.

Denver advances the claim for the longest golf course in the United States, if not in the world. The new municipal links there, recently completed, measures 6,767 yards and occupies only eighty acres of ground, forty of which belong to the State of Colorado. It is remarkable also because of the great number of bunkers and traps. There are 98 bunkers, traps and other hazards. The course is typically Western, there being little grass in the fairways. Greens are of oiled sand. It was necessary to remove forty-five buildings, a farm, a dairy, a brickyard, a dumping ground ana part of a race track in order to build the course. The Shackamaxon links at Westfield, N. J., one of the longest in the metropolitan district, measures an even 6,500 yards.

The growing interest of women in athletics was exemplified recently by sixty women runners taking part in a race at Antony, France, Department of the Seine. The distance was two and one-eight miles and was covered by the winner in 16. min. 47 sec.

Digitized by t^ooQle
139

BOOK REVIEWS.

Physical Reconstruction and Orthopedies by Harry E. Stewart, M. D. 240 pages 6 by 9 inches fully illustrated. Published by Paul B. Hoeber, New York, Price $3.75.

Dr. Stewart after years of teaching in medical and orthopedic gymnastics at the New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics became captain in the medical corps of U. S. army during the war. In this book he gives the result of his varied experience. Most of the 14 chapters present material that will be of great value not only to such teachers as must conduct reconstruction work, but also to the regular physical training teacher. The author even takes up such questions as competitive athletics and its relation to health. The book should be of great value to all teachers.

A Philosophy of Play by Luther H. Gulick, M. D. 291 pages, 5 1-2 by 7 1-2 inches. Published by the Association Press, 347 Madison Ave., New York City. Price $1.60.

In this posthumous book of Dr. Gulick’s we have gathered in a convenient form all those ideas of the author that relate to play and to its significance as an educational means. It will not be necessary for us to call the attention of our readers to the value of anything written by Dr. Gulick. The book should be in the hands of not only teachers of physical education, but of all teachers.

Notice to subscribers who bind their copies of Mind and Body: The present volume, No. 27, began with the April issue. Volume 26 included March issue this year because September and October numbers, 1919, were combined. There will be a July number this year—and hereafter—to bring the number of issues in each volume up to ten, as before, since the September and October numbers will be combined each year.

The July number will be issued about the middle of June. Those who are changing their addresses before that time should notify us so that the July number may not go astray. Notice of change should reach us not later than June 10. We can not duplicate copies lost thru failure to notify of change. State also what address is to be used next fall if you know now. Help us to give you better service by keeping us fully informed. Special Notice: If any copies are missing from your files, better order now. Our stock df back numbers is being rapidly thinned out by the fast increasing list of physical training workers who order the volumes of previous years. If we have any that you need or want, order now. Some issues of very recent date are already exhausted.

At any time a copy fails to reach you on or before the first of the month it is a good plan to investigate. Don’t wait a week or a month or two. Make inquiry of your postman and if he can not produce it send us a postal card. We will locate the copy or send another provided complaint is promptly made.

Mind and Body Publishing Co.,

New Ulm, Minnesota.

Digitized by VjOOQle
140

Answering an inquiry from a subscriber we will say that if any one desires printed matter relating to universal military training they can secure this from the American Union Against Militarism, 203 Westory Bldg. Washington, D. C., for the price of 25 cents.

FOR OUR MUTUAL BENEFIT.

Mind and Body has for many years been issued at a price that has barely sustained the publication, leaving no margin of profit for any of those who have labored ceaselessly for its advancement. We have wished to give teachers and other subscribers a reliable journal of information in the line of physical training, at a price so moderate that all could easily afford to continue as subscribers year after year, no matter how much living costs might rise, but today we are facing a situation that must be met without hesitation and it takes money to meet it. The paper market is so alarming that we must at once take steps to secure a sufficient stock to insure a continued supply for several months. We can not buy it without the cash to pa yfor it on delivery, such is the demand that only cash will secure it. We are therefore placing our order at once and as an inducement to all our subscribers to help us thru we are making a special offer to each one to secure his subscription in advance by ordering a renewal at this time at the present price of $1.50 per year. This offer is good for only one month. The price of Mind and Body becomes $2.00 on June 1, 1920, just about the time this issue reaches subscribers. To all subscribers who send their renewals before July 1, 1920, the price will be $1.50 for one year, $3.00 for two years, $4.50 for three years. This special rate will be good for just one month and renewals must be sent direct to the publisher in order to secure this rate. If sent thru an agent, a payment of $1.50 will buy just one-half a year's subscription because the agent leaves us only $1.00 for our share. There is no good reason for sending renewals thru an agent. Send direct to the publishers and let them have the entire amount to use in building up the magazine instead of forcing them to pay out one-third of your money as a commission. Renew today and renew direct!

Digitized by U^ooQle


141

43

A THLETICC

EMANUEL HAUG, New York City ^ iji	—— mil  ......  -	——a

At the Olympic Games now being held at Antwerp, the U. S. Hocky Seven defeated the Swiss team by a score of 29 to 0.

In the figure skating contest for women Miss There Wald of Boston, Mass., was third, the Misses Tulin and Norin, both of Sweden, being first and second respectively.

At the University of Pennsylvania Relay Carnival held on Franklin Field April 30 and May 1 the following events are worthy of note:

The Pentathlon consisting of 1500 meters Run, Discus Throw, Javelin Throw; Broad Jump and 200 meters Dash were won by

E.	Bradley, Kansas, with 13 points having finished as follows:

1500 Meters..........4th

Discus ..............3rd

Javelin .............2nd

Broad Jump...........2nd

200 Meters...........2nd

The International Intercollegiate Three-Mile Race was won by G. T. Nightingale of New Hampshire State College in 14 min. 56 sec. E. A. Montague of Oxford University, England, was second.

A new World’s Record was made in the 440 yd. Hurdles. John Watt of Cornell covered the distance in 54 1-5 sec., beating the former record of 54 3-5 sec. made by Harry Hillman at the Olympic Games in St. Louis in 1904.

The Two -Mile College Relay Championship of America was won by the Oxford-Cambridge Team of England in 7 min. 50 2-5 sec., making a New World's Record. The previous record of 7.53 was made by the Irish American A. C. of New York in 1910. The English team ran in the following order: Tattham, Stallard, Milligan and Rudd. Rudd’s time for the last relay was 1.54 3-5. Illinois, Pennsylvania and Cornell finished as named. The margin of victory was about 40 yd.

Automobile racing has gained a strong hold on the sport-loving Argentineans, as is evidenced by the recent 218 mile race from Rosarto to Santa Fe and return under the auspices of the Gymnasium and Fencing Club of Rosarto. J. Mansoero, driving an American car, led from start to finish covering the distance over rough roads in 5 hours, 6 min. and 25 sec.

A 26 inning Baseball Game in the National League was played by the Brooklyn and Boston Teams May 1st at Boston before a

Digitized by Google
142

crowd of only 2500. The game was called then on account of darkness with the score 1—1, after Cadore (Brooklyn) and Oeschger (Boston) pitched for 3 hours 20 min.

Previous long games were:

24 innings Sept. 1, 19Q6, Philadelphia Athletics vs. Boston Americans 4-0.

22 innings Aug. 22, 1917, Brooklyn (N) vs. Pittsburg (N)

6-5.

This year’s performance tied the record for all professional baseball, as the Decatur and Bloomington Clubs of the three I League went 26 innings in May 1909, Decatur winning 2-1.

GREATEST LONG DISTANCE RUNNER OF ALL TIMES.

Athletes everywhere are preparing for the Olympic games, which will be held this summer m Belgium. The Marathon runners are in full training for that strenuous race, the stellar event of the games, which requires long and careful preparation.

Which calls to mind the feats of Mensen Ernst, the greatest endurance runner that ever lived. I speak of this man because he seems to be entirely forgotten. I have never heard his name mentioned, although there are books written about this iron man of Norway whose marvellous cross-country running is unapproached by man or beast.

Here is a brief account of his career. Note his records carefully and remember that it is doubtful if the man lives to-day who can run 100 miles in one day, let alone average 125 miles a day for two weeks, as Ernst did.

Mensen Ernst, was bom in 1799 in Bergen, Norway, and went to London in 1820, after having been a sailor on East Indian traders for some years. He entered the then popular ’cross-country races being held in England and made good from the start. He ran races between London and cities in the north of England, and after some years was considered unbeatable. He also ran races on the continent and astonished people everywhere by his speed and endurance.

In 1832 British sportsmen arranged a race for him from Paris to Moscow. There was heavy betting on his time between the different places of control on the route. He started from Paris June 11 and arrived in Moscow June 25, having covered 1,625 miles at an average of 125 miles a day and swimming across thirteen big rivers on his way. He surprised even his most ardent admirers by the remarkable performance.

In 1833 he ran from Munich, Bavaria, to Nauplia, in southern Greece, from June 6 to June 30, a distance of 2,060 miles across rough and hilly country, averaging eighty-six miles a day.

He was engaged as courier by the British East India Company for some time and in 1836 he took an important message to Lord Auckland, then governor in Calcutta. He started from Constantinople and returned with the reply, having covered a distance

Digitized by LjOOQle
149

of 5,625 miles across Anatolia, Persia, Afghanistan, and northern India and back in fifty-nine days, averaging ninety-five miles a. day.

In 1843 he joined a British expedition to Africa and died of fever the same year in Egypt. An account of his life was published^ by Rieck in Leipzig in 1844.

SWIMMING EFFICIENCY TESTS CINCINNATI SCHOOLS..

High School Boys.

Pupils who are not able to swim when entering high school' and learn during the year will take Test I, but may take higher tests if they desire. Pupils who learn to swim before coming to school must take Test II. Pupils who have taken Test II, must-take Test III. Pupils who have taken Test III, must take Test

IV.	To become members of the Red Cross Life Saving corps. Pupils of class "C” and “D” may take Junior Red Cross test. Pupils of class “A” and “B” may take Senior Red Cross test. No-one may take all tests in one year.

Test I.

1.	Dive and swim breast stroke 150 feet.

2.	Dive and swim on back 50 feet.

3.	Straight front dive for form.

Test II.

1.	Dive and swim 20 minutes—free style.

2 A. Dive and swim breast stroke 200 feet.

B.	Dive and swim over arm side stroke 200 feet.

C.	Dive and swim crawl stroke 200 feet.

3.	Surface dive and pick up 10 lb. weight from bottom of pool carrying said weight 50 feet by swimming on back and using legs only, arms being used to hold weight.

Test III.

1.	Dive and swim 30 minutes—free style.

2.	Swim one length of pool under water.

3.	Life saving demonstrations by towing persons of their own weight one length of the pool each of the following methods:

A.	Head-carry using two hands and swimming on back.

B.	Under-arm-carry using two hands and swimming on back..

C.	Across-shoulder carry using one arm side stroke.

D.	Using breast stroke, hand of rescued on shoulders.

E.	Show in the water three methods of releasing themselves from people in peril of drowning grasped by:

Wrist hold.

Front neck hold.

Back neck hold.

F.	Demonstrate the Schaefer method of performing artificial respiration.

Test IV.

American Red Cross Life Saving Corps test.

Digitized by LjOOQle
144

Elementary Schools.

Pupils over twelve years old who have learned to swim during the school year may take either Test I or II. Pupils under twelve will take Test I, but may take the higher test if they desire. Pup ils over twelve who learned to swim before beginning of school year must take Test II. Pupils who have taken Test II, must take Test

III.	No one may take all tests in one year. These tests may be taken by any pupil of any public school. A silver button is provided for those completing the test.

Test I. (Boys.)

1.	Dive or jump and swim 50 feet—free style.

2.	Dive or jump and swim length of pool—breast stroke.

3.	From a stand swim one-half the length of pool on back, turn and swim back to starting point—free style.

4.	Straight front dive for form.

Test II. (Boys)

1.	Dive and swim 100 feet—free style.

2.	Dive and swim two pool lengths—using side stroke.

3.	Dive and swim two pool lengths—breast stroke.

4.	From stand, carry a brick using two hands and swimming on back 30 feet.

5.	Swim 30 feet carrying a brick on hip using one arm side stroke.

6.	Dive for object in deepest part of pool—three trials.

Test III. (Boys)

1.	Dive and swim 15 minutes—free style.

2.	Back dive and swim three pool lengths—different stroke each length.

3.	Swim 30 feet under water.

4.	Surface dive and pick up 10 lb. weight from bottom of pool carrying said weight across the pool—deep end.

6.	Life saving demonstration by towing persons of their own weight 30 feet each of the following methods:

A. Head-carry using two hands and swimming on back.

B. Under-arm-carry using two hands swimming on baick.

C.	Across-shoulder-carry using one arm side stroke.

D.	Using breast stroke, hands of rescued on shoulders.

E.	Show in the water three methods of releasing themselves from grasp of people in peril of drowning:

From wrist hold.

From front neck hold.

From back neck hold.

F.	Demonstrate the Schaefer method of performing artificial respiration.

All those passing Test III, Section 6, will become members of the Junior Red Cross Life Saving corps.

NOTE: A silver button is furnished for others completing the tests. A star is punched in the button for each test taken.

Digitized by U^ooQle
145

High School Tests for Beginners (Girls).

To be taken during the first year by pupils who learn to swim after entering high school.

1.	Coast width of pool. Swim breast stroke 40 feet. Swim on back 16 feet. Bubble ten times. Jump into deep water, or

The following tests may be taken by any pupil of high school age in the order given; it is preferable to take one each year. A silver badge with a star for each test taken will be awarded pupils completing the test.

1.	Swim 5 minutes. Demonstrate Schaefer Method of Resuscitation. Breast stroke carry 40 feet. Break front-strangle; back-strangle and wrist hold—(toes touching). Push off swim 40 feet in 30 seconds.

2.	Swim 10 minutes. Swim width of plunge underwater. Demonstrate head carry 40 feet. One stroke for form. Dive and swim 60 feet in 30 seconds.

3.	Swim 20 minutes. Demonstrate 3 carries. Two strokes for form. Dive for form. Retrieve any land object (weight about 15 lbs.) from 6 ft. water. Jump in dressed, swim 40 feet. (Dress— skirt, tennis shoes, open-in-front middy.) Dive—swim 80 feet in 30 seconds.

4.	Swim 30 minutes. Three strokes for form. Dive and pick coin from bottom. Demonstrate 4 carries.

Break 3 holds, deep water. Dive, swim 100 feet in 30 seconds,

or

5.	Red Cross Life Saving Test for Women and Girls. Awards diploma, 25 cents. Bathing Suit emblem, 50 cents. Tests must be taken before examiners. Swim over-dressed in skirt, blouse, shoes, 20 yards, 20 points. Disrobe while swimming and continue 80 yards, 25 points. Retrieve object in 6 to 8 ft. of water, 25 points. Demonstrate three release methods (water) 15 points. Demonstrate four rescue methods (water), 15 points. Total 100 points.

Elementary School Tests for Girls.

These tests may be taken by any pupil attending an elementary public school. A silver badge with a star for each test taken is awarded to each pupil completing the test.

1.	From stand, swim 40 feet breast stroke. Dive and swim 40 feet, free style. From stand, swim across pool (shallow end) return and swim any stroke. Front dive for form.

2.	From stand, swim 120 feet—free style. Swim side stroke for form, 40 feet. Demonstrate breast stroke—carry 40 feet. Dive for form. Demonstrate Schaefer Method of Resuscitation.

3.	Swim 15 minutes—free style. Swim three pool lengths— different stroke each length. Demonstrate breast stroke and head carry 30 feet. Retrieve an object, weight 10 lbs., from 6 feet of water. Jump in dressed, swim 40 feet, remove dress, swim 40 feet. (Dress—skirt, tennis shoes, open-in-front middy.) Break front-strangle, back-strangle and wrist hold—toes touching. Three dives for form.

Digitized by CjOOQle
146

RAISING HEALTH STANDARDS.

An interesting experiment has recently been tried at Grinnell 'tlowa) College in the department of Physical Education for Women. A special attempt has been made to create a greater interest in individual health standards, and to this end an efficiency contest has been held.

The plan which has been used is as follows: Special physical examinations were given to all who desired to enter the contest, ■and honors were awarded according to the following table:

Grip strength in both hands.... 30 kilos............... 2	Honors

Strength of back............... 80 Kilos............... 2	Honors

Lung capacity.................200 cu. in............... 2	Honors

Chest expansion ................ 3.34	in............... 2	Honors

Depth of chest .................. 10	mm............... 2	Honors

Feet examination.................grade A	  2	Honors

Posture test.....................grade A	  5	Honors

•Gymnasium work..................grade A	  3	Honors

Correct wieght within 5 pounds for height and age...... 2	Honors

A total of 12 honors gives a black chevron to be worn on middy sleeve. A total of 15 Honors gives two chevrons, one black and ■one scarlet. A total of 20 Honors gives a scarlet and black star. If upon examination at the end of the year, the star is retained, a point toward pin, emblem or sweater is awarded.

One hundred twenty-one have taken the examinations, and •of this number fifty-four won ten or more honors, thirteen won two chevrons, and twenty won one chevron. The pride with which these chevrons are worn, and the attempts made by every girl to increase her number of honors, indicates the splendid enthusiasm with which the plan has been received.

Another way through which a better health consciousness is being developed is the hygiene point plan. A hygiene point may be obtained by following these regulations for three consecutive months:

1.	Sleeping from “lights out” until 6:30 in the morning.

2.	Abstaining from eating between meals, except fruit or crackers, and attending no “spreads”.

3.	Wearing no high heels except on dress occasions.

4.	Not missing classes on account of illness.

Points received are counted toward those necessary in winning Honor G pins, emblems, sweaters, and blankets. The earnestness -with which many girls have practiced self-denial in living up to the hygiene points, has been fine. A marked improvement in health has been reported by those who have conscientiously kept the re-•quirements.

The six day bicycle race held in Madison Square Garden last March was won by the Goullet - Magin team which covered a distance of 2379 miles and 2 laps. The record is held by Dupuy - Egg, this pair having covered 2626 miles in 1916.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
147

On Wednesday evening March 24, in the fencing room of the New York Turn Verein a contest with foils for the Women’s Championship of the United States was held. The contestants were Mrs. C. H. Vorhees (former champion) of the Fencer’s Club and the Misses Elsie Muecke, Marie Jauering, Sophie Luehrman, Alice Glienke and Adeline Gehrig of the New York Turn Verein.

The result was the winning of four bouts each by Mrs. Vorhees, Miss Glienke and Miss Gehrig. The Olympic Games Rules stipulate that in such a case the competitor who has been touched the least number of times be declared the winner. Miss Gehrig who was touched but eleven times was declared winner and Champion Fencer of the United States. Miss Glienke with 13 touches was second and Mrs. Vorhees with 16 was third.

Both winner and runner up are members of the Ladies’ Class of the New York Turn Verein under the able instruction of Charles Koch, the veteran fencing master.

The Amateur Basket Ball Championship of the United States was won by the New York University quintet last month at Atlanta, Ga. by defeating Rutgers College 49 to 24.

Walker Smith of Cornell University recently created a new record for the 70 yd. High Hurdles (indoor) by covering the distance in 9 1-5 sec., 1-5 sec. faster than the previous record.

After a lapse of six years the Dual Track and Field meet between Oxford and Cambridge, England, was resumed this year resulting in a victory for Oxford with 5 1-2 points to 4 1-2 for Cambridge, first places alone counting at one point each. Two American Rhodes Scholars were instrumental in bringing victory to Oxford. They are H. S. White formerly of Bowdoin College, who won the running high jump with a leap of 5 ft. 7 in. and L. J. Feather, University of Utah, who won the hammer throw, covering a distance of 100 ft. 11 in.

Cambridge (England) University defeated Oxford in their annual boat race this year by about four lengths in 21 min. 11 sec. for a distance of 4 1-4 miles. Since the inauguration of these dual meets in 1841 Oxford won 38, Cambridge 29 and dead heat 1. The fastest time was made by Oxford in 1911, covering the distance in 18 min. 29 sec.

“Red” Parkhurst riding a Harley - Davidson motorcycle recently established many world’s records at Daytona Beach, Florida. The course was accurately measured and certified, and Parkhurst in all his trials was timed by the Warner Electric Timing Device. The new records are:

1 kilometer 19.98 sec. rate 111.98 miles per hour.

1	mile 32.45 sec. rate 110.94 miles per hour.

2	miles 1 min. 5.82 sec. rate 109.39 miles per hour.

5	miles 2 min. 46.88 sec. rate 107.86 miles per hour.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
148

|»	——	■	—	I

Gymnasium and playgrount^v

FRED FOERTSCH, Pittsburg, Pa.	JL/

■	—HI

PASS FOOTBALL.

With the exception of codifying the rules, and making definite instructions as to the size of the field and the duration of play, no originality is claimed for the following game. It is a game that we have seen played with keen enjoyment about the streets and parks of New York. Having experimented with it in our outdoor work at the high school, we have come to the conclusion that it is a very valuable addition to the few vigorous competitive games that may be used on the playfield. It is a running, kicking, passing game; and for want of a better name we have called it —PASS FOOTBALL.

The Field.

Any rectangular field having minimum dimensions of 25 by 60 yards. An ideal field would be 50 by 100 yards. The end lines of the field are known as goal lines. Goal posts shall be placed in the center of each goal line. Posts are 18 feet apart and have a horizontal crossbar 10 feet from the ground. This is similar to the goal posts in football. If a soccer field is used then the regular soccer posts may be used. The posts are 8 yards apart with the cross-bar 8 feet above the ground.

The Ball.

The regulation football is used.

Players.

Two Teams; as many as 20 boys may be used on a side altho 10 seems to be the best number. Each player is given a number, and he kicks in the order of his number for his side.

Duration of the Game.

The duration of the game shall be 40 minutes, divided into two parts of 20 minutes each, with a rest of 5 minutes between the halves. Official.

A referee who makes all decisions.

Definitions.

A Place Kick is a kick at the ball while it is on the ground in the center of the field. (This kick is used only in starting the game and after a goal has been made.)

A Free Kick (Punt)- is made by dropping the ball from the hands and kicking it while it is in the air.

A Drop Kick is made by dropping the ball from the hand or hands and kicking it the moment it rises from the ground after the bounce.

The Game.

The game is played by two teams. The purpose of each team is to score as many goals as possible. This is done in two ways: by carrying the ball over the opponents’ goal line for a touchdown; by kicking the ball over the opponents’ cross-bar.

Digitized by LjOOQle
149

The winner of the toss shall have the choice of goals or kickoff. Goals shall be changed at the beginning of the second half.

After a goal has been made the losing side shall kick off.

At the change of goals at half time the ball shall be kicked off by the opposite team from that which originally kicked off.

The game is started by a place kick (from the center of the field), the opponents being not closer than 10 yards, from the ball; nor may a player on either side pass the center of the field of play until the ball has been kicked. If this is violated the place kick is taken over again.

After the place kick (kickoff) the ball cannot be played by the side having had the kick until it is played by the opponents. The opponents may play the ball in the following ways:

a)	If the ball is touched by a player while it is in the air or rolling on the ground it is dead at the spot where so touched and put in play by a free kick at the spot where it was touched.

b)	If the ball is caught while in the air the player runs with the ball, trying to make a touch-down. Progress is stopped when the runner is touched by a player of the opposite side. The ball is put in play by a free kick. Players will naturally try to tag the one with the ball, and all on the side of the one with the ball will try to give interference. All interference that is not deliberate roughness is permissable.

c)	The player catching the ball may, if he so elects, make a forward, lateral or rear pass. If successful the ball is “carried on” similarly to the initial play.

The ball may be passed an unlimited number of times.

If the ball is missed and touches the ground, it is put in play by a free kick at the place where it was originally missed.

If the ball is touched by the opposing side while in the air it is put in play by a free kick at the place where it was originally touched.

If it is intercepted, the player so intercepting the ball puts it in play for his side either by running with the ball as mentioned above, by passing it, or by declaring “free kick”—in which case he takes a free kick at the spot where the pass was intercepted.

The point to note is this: that the sides alternate kicking no matter what plays are made; touching the ball, running or passing. The one exception is when a pass is intercepted by a player of the side last kicking.

The ball thus alternates up and down the field until it is carried across the opponents’ goal line, when a goal is made.

It is always optional with the kicker whether a free kick or a drop kick shall be taken. Whenever a drop kick is made and the ball clears the cross-bar and touches the ground, a goal is scored.

Note: If the ball is caught by the opposing side after it clears the bar no goal is scored and the ball is put in play by a free kick from underneath the bar by the an opponent. This refers to a ball caught by a player behind a goal line.

Whenever the ball goes over the side line because of a kick, it is put in play with a free kick at the place where it left the field of

Digitized by Google
160

play. If the ball is thrown over a side line it is put in play by a free kick at the spot from which the ball was thrown.

GENERAL SUGGESTIONS FOR GYMNASTIC LESSONS.

By F. W. MARONEY, M. D., .State Dept., Trenton, N. J.

1.	—In mixed classes, place the boys in the front and the girls in

the rear, or have the boys on one side of the room and the girls on the other.

2.	—Have at least one girl and one boy leader in every room. Give

the leaders special instructions. Selection of leaders. Election of the leaders. Assign exercises to be taught, to several children. Have the children occasionally propose the exercise they prefer doing.

3.	—Put monograph lesson on the blackboard.

1.—Backward lowering of the trunk should always be done slowly. Head exercises should be executed slowly. Avoid any backward bending which accentuates the normal curve of the lower back. That is, avoid the sway back position.

5. —Breathing exercises are of great value and should	vigorous

exercise. Every pupil should practice the West Point breathing and know why it is the best form of breathing.

6.	—Have the pupils remove coats and sweaters for schoolroom

gymnastics and also for the out-of-door exercising when the weather is of such a nature that it can be done safely.

7.	—Gymnasium suits should be worn iwhenever possible. The

physical training teacher should dress so as to be an example for his pupils. No boy will get the maximum benefit from his exercises if he is permitted to wear a stiff linen collar, a sweater, a vest, or a jacket as a part of his attire. Any girl who wears corsets and high-heeled shoes during her exercise period, will be hampered in her work, will fail to get the proper exercise spirit, and will, as a rule, accept the exercise period as an unnecessary hardship. It is a duty we owe the children to ever strive for conditions which will make our work of the highest value, without unnecessarily antagonizing either public opinion or boards of education.

8.	—It is not advisable to make the exercising too strenuous. We

will not go far wrong if we accept Professor Roberts’ advice, to the effect that the physical training should be SAFE-SHORT BENEFICIAL - PLEASING:.

9.	—In many well-organized school systems neither the men nor the

women physical training teachers ever appear in the school corridors or classrooms in their gymnasium suits. By following this rule, they help elevate the dignity of their positions.

10.—The physical training teacher should be a health-supervisor in every sense of the term. He should understand the general principles underlying medical inspection, dental inspection, sanitation, and school hygiene, so as to conduct his work in a way that will insure the best results for pupils and teachers

Digitized by Google
161

alike. He should ever strive to raise the standards of the physical training profession by principle and by example.

1.	—The lesson should always begin with some lively form of run-

ning, dancing, skipping exercises, or free play, to satisfy the desire for motion which the children should associate with their physical training, and to cause the blood to flow in increased quantities to the exercising muscles, thereby relieving the congestion of the blood in the brain. The beginning exercises of the lesson should be recreative in type.

2.	—Marching tactics should follow. They have an esthetic and

a disciplinary value. The cadence of 120 steps per minute will insure an active form of exercise.

3.	—Free exercises with or without the use of dumb-bells, Indian

clubs, reeds, rings, poles, or wands should be taught in an energetic, inspiring manner. Select a few beneficial exercises and use them until you obtain the results you are working for.

4.	—Apparatus work adds to the interest of the lesson. The average

child desires to have his courage, skill, quickness, endurance, and strength tested, and we can do all this with the use of apparatus.

5.	—Athletics. It is our duty to teach the correct form and exe-

cution of running, walking, jumping, vaulting, hurdling, throwing, etc., to all the pupils. We should emphasize mass athletics and the participation of the entire student body in the athletic program.

6.—Dancing. Boys will respond to vigorous dancing steps (gymnastic dancing) but will ordinarily resent the technique essential for the cultivation of grace, ease, poise, and skillful interpretation which is so much a part of the girl’s nature. Folk dance teams to represent rooms, grades, or entire schools offer an incentive for healthy competition.

8.—Corrective Gymnastics. There should be at least two corrective exercises in every lesson. Calling the attention of the pupils to the corrective exercises as such, and briefly explaining the desired muscle tone to correct remedial defects and faulty posture will do much to vitalize this part of the lesson.

8.—Games. “Many children do not know how to play - God’s method of teaching a child how to work.

Games and play promote physical vigor, obedience, fair play, quick response, respect for rules, courtesy, honesty, and a spirit of co-operation.”—Dr. Kendall’s Letter of July, 1917. All normal children want to play and we should always have a game in the lesson. Teachers occasionally punish a class, for tardiness or some breach of discipline, by not permitting them to have their game. This is wrong and such procedures will never help to popularize our physical training work.

Lesson Suggestions.
152

9.—Teach the children to “mark time march” in a way that will insure healthful exercise, rather than shuffling of the feet. Have the knees well raised and the toes pointed. Have the head up, chin in, chest high, and shoulders back. Impress upon them the dignity and grace of good posture.

10.—If your exercise calls for two movements, count one, two; one, two; until you wish to command “halt”. Avoid counting up to eight and then back to one. If you are governing the rhythm of the exercise with your voice, don’t clap your hands at the same time. Many teachers get excellent results by establishing the rhythm with either hands or voice and then by commanding “class continue.” They stop commanding for the rhythmic execution, (the pupils doing the exercise in silence except for the teacher’s suggestions, corrections, or words of praise).

DUMBELL DRILL.

Arranged by MAY S. LUKERT, and LOUISE S. DEBUS, Philadelphia, Pa.

Music:—“Autumn Days.”

Composer:—Charles Lindsay.

Two counts for each movement.

GROUP I.

1 - a) Stride left forward and raise arms forward - 1 -	2. 1	M.

b)	Bend left knee and carry arms sideward - 3	-	4.....1	M.

c)	Reverse - 5 - 6................................... 1	M.

d)	Replace left foot and lower arms - 7 - 8.......... 1	M.

Repeat right, left and right.......................12	M.

Total..........................................16	M.

2 - a) Stride left sideward and raise arms sideward bells

vertical) - 1 - 2.................................. 1	M.

b)	Bend left knee, raise left arm upward to a half circle

over head and place right arm rear of	body - 3 - 4. 1	M.

c)	Reverse - 5 - 6.................................. 1	M.

d)	Replace left foot and lower	arms	- 7	- 8..... 1	M.

Repeat right, left and right.......................12	M.

Total..............................................16	M.

3	- a) Stride left backward and raise arms forward -1 - 2. 1	M.

b)	Bend left knee and carry arms sideward and lower

them backward downward - 3 - 4...................... 1	M.

c)	Reverse - 5 - 6.................................... 1	M.

d)	Replace left foot and lower arms - 7 - 8........... 1	M.

Repeat right, left and right...........................12	M.

Total.....................................16	M.

4	- a) Raise heels and raise arms sideupward -1 - 2. 1	M.

b)	Bend knees and lower arms forward - 3 - 4.... 1	M.

c)	Reverse-5-6.................................. 1	M.

Digitized by CjOOQle
153

d)	Lower heels and lower arms side-downward - 7 - 8. 1	M.

Repeat right, left and right.....................12	M.

Total.........................................16	M.

GROUP II.

1 - a) Lunge left forward and raise arms forward -1-2... 1	M.

b)	Lower trunk forward and carry arms sideward - 3 - 4.... 1	M.

c)	Reverse-5-6...................................... 1	M.

d)	Replace left foot and lower arms - 7 - 8......... 1	M.

Repeat right, left and right......................12	M.

Total..........................................16	M.

2 - a) Lunge left sideward and raise arms sideward -1 - 2.. 1	M.

b)	Bend trunk right, raise left arm to a half circle, over

head and right arm rear of body - 3 - 4............. 1	M.

c)	Reverse - 5 - 6 ................................... 1	M.

d)	Replace left foot and lower arms - 7 - 8........... 1	M.

Repeat right, left and right........................12	M.

Total.........................................16	M.

3	- a) Lunge left backward and raise arms foreupward -1 - 2 1 M.

b)	Bend upper trunk backward and lower arms sidedown-

ward and backward - 3 - 4...................... 1	M.

c) Reverse - 5 - 6................................ 1	M.

d)	Replace left foot and lower arms foredownward -7-8 1 M.

Repeat right, left and right.................. 12	M.

Total...........................................16	M.

4	- a) Bend knees deep, touching floor with bells -1 - 2.  1	M.

b)	Straighten legs backward to a support-lying frontways

-3-4................................................ 1	M.

c)	Turn trunk left raising left arm sideward - 5 - 6.. 1	M.

d)	Return trunk and replace left bell - 7 - 8......... 1	M.

e)	Repeat c) - d) right 9-12.......................... 2	M.

f)	Bend knees to a squat stand - 13 - 14.............. 1	M.

g)	Straighten to a stand - 15 -16..................... 1	M.

Repeat the exercise................................. 8	M.

Total.....................................16	M.

GROUP III.

1 - a) Raise left knee forward and raise arms forward 1-2.... 1 M.

b)	Straighten left knee, place left foot and arm circle

left forward, striking bells	together	- 3 - 4. 1	M.

c)	Reverse - 5 - 6............................... 1	M.

d)	Lower left knee and lower	arms - 7	- 8... 1	M.

Repeat right, left and right..................12	M.

Total........................................16	M.

2 - a) Raise left knee forward and raise arms sideward -1 - 2 1 M.

b)	Straighten left knee, place left foot sideward swinging

Digitized by Google
154

C)

d)

3 - a)

b)

c)

d)

4 - a)

b)

c)

d)

e)

f)

right arm upward and to the left, striking bells - 3 - 4.. 1 M.

Reverse-5-6.................................. 1	M.

Lower left knee and lower arms - 7 - 8.... 1	M.

Repeat right, left and right.................12	M.

Total....................................16	M.

Raise left knee forward and raise arms foreupward

-1-2........................................ 1	M.

Straighten left knee, place left foot backward and swing arms sidedownward and backward striking bells - 3 - 4 1 M.

Reverse-5-6................................. 1	M.

Lower left knee and lower arms foredownward - 7 - 8 .. 1 M. Repeat right, left and right................12	M.

Total..........................................16	M.

Jump to a side stride stand and bend arms for thrust

-1-2................................................ 1	M.

Bend trunk forward and thrust left arm forward

striking floor with bell -3-4....................... 1	M.

Bend left arm with thrusting right arm forward

striking floor - 5 - 6.............................. 1	M.

Repeat c) striking floor left, right and left .7-12. 3	M.

Straighten trunk with bending left arm for thrust

13-14............................................... 1	M.

Jump closing heels and lowering arms -15 -16........ 1	M.

Repeat ............................................. 8	M.

Total ........................................16	M.

There will be one more issue of Mind and Body before the end of the school year. If you should be changing your address before June 15 tell us where to send the next copy.

Newark Normal School for Physical Education and Hygiene Offers

A TWO YEAR NORMAL COURSE in the Theory and Practice of Physical Education and Hygiene.

Mid-year High School graduates may enter February 1st.

For catalogue and particulars write to

HENRY PANZER, Director 182-186 William Street, Newark, New Jersey

PHYSICAL TRAINING TEACHERS' BUREAU

OF THE

AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION

41S-419 E. Michigan St., INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

OOMTSTENT TEACHERS OF PHYSICAL TRAINING RECOMMENDED TO SCHOOL OFFICERS AND ASSOCIATIONS FREE OF CHARGE OWiNn la teHtead to ptdarteof	•* tfca Net—I OMUea

Digitized by Tooele