MIND AND BODY

Vol. 35	DECEMBER, 192S No.	373

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO, NEW ULM. MINN. EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Qriginal articles and reprint§

THE STORY OF THE CHRISTMAS SEAL

By Helena L. Williams

Every year millions of Christmas seals are sold in this country to control and prevent tuberculosis. They have become a symbol of the great war that is being waged against an ancient, preventable disease. But in 1904 the Chiistmas seal originated in a small way to give a chance for health to a group of tuberculous children in a foreign country.

In that year a children’s hospital was needed in Copenhagen, Denmark. A postal clerk in that city named Einar Holboell heard of this and conceived the idea that stamps, especially designed to decorate Christmas letters and packages, could be made to finance the cost of the building. His enthusiasm won for him the endorsement of the Danish royal family, and the first Christmas seal was designed and placed on sale in the post offices. The good citizens of Denmark purchased enough of them to insure for the sick children the best medical and nursing care available.

A pioneer in the field of social service in America received a letter from his mother country bearing one of the bright-colored little stamps. His name was Jacob Riis and, his curiosity aroused

Digitized by

Google
250

by this new decoration, he inquired about its purpose. The possibilities of its use in the United States impressed him. _ He wrote an article that was published in the “Outlook” in which he described what the stamp had achieved in Denmark.

In that article, Miss Emily P. Bissell of Wilmington, Delaware, found the solution of her own problem; namely, how to raise $3,000 for a tuberculosis pavilion in her state. She organized the first sale of Christmas seals in the United States and as a result the pavilion was built. In 1908, Miss Bissell was able to induce the authorities of the American Red Cross to undertake a nation-wide sale of tuberculosis Christmas stamps. Women’s clubs, religious bodies and local Red Cross chapters assisted in the campaign. From then on until 1920 the Red Cross conducted the sale of the seals.

From 1907 to 1910 the National Tuberculosis Association had been organizing its warfare against the disease with the support of foremost scientists, but with little funds. To strengthen the organization’s work, the American Red Cross joined with it in the Christmas seal sale. The partnership between these two great welfare bodies lasted for ten years. Then, in 1920, it was dissolved because the American Red Cross desired to continue its annual Roll Call, begun in the years of the Great War, and it did not wish to appeal to the public for funds twice a year. Since that time only tne double-barred cross, emblem of the tuberculosis movement, has appeared on Christmas seals.

Through the power of the Christmas seal, state after state was gradually organized to attack tuberculosis with a scientific program. The state organizations entered the larger cities and counties and formed local associations. Together, led by the national body, they have brought into existence nearly all of the present-day community machinery for combatting tuberculosis.

The little stamps help to control the sources of infection especially to children, to educate everyone in health habits and to prevent economic loss due to the death of producers. This year the National Tuberculosis Association and its affiliated organizations will hold the twenty-first sale of Christmas seals throughout the country.

FIFTEENTH RECREATION CONGRESS TAKES STOCK OF AMERICA’S PLAY

How America may hold to the real joys of living in this machine age, using her vast material prosperity wisely to enrich life, was the problem that confronted the Fifteenth Annual Congress of the Playground and Recreation Association of America which met in Atlantic City, October 1-6. Several of the principal speakers sounded the note that, unless we rescue the spirit of spontaneous play, our national health and character is endangered.

“Only in America would a national conference on recreation be necessary, “said A. Edward Newton of Philadelphia, retired

Digitized by Google
251

manufacturer and author. “Work has become second nature to us since the time when our ancestors came over with an axe in one hand, a gun in the other and a bible in the other, to work and to pray. We work because we have never taught ourselves to play. ’ He declared that we do not breed well-rounded men in this country and chided American business men for working too much and continuing to work after they have more money than they can wisely spend. “When captains of industry drop in the harness,” he said, “Corporals and second lieutenants take their places and do the jobs better.”

Cities are now the safest places in which to rear children, because they have assumed more systematically and promptly than the rural sections and small towns the responsibility of directing the play of the young, was the opinion of Dr. Ralph Sockman of Madison Avenue M. E. Church, New York City. “The home can no longer be trusted to provide adequately for the play life of the child,” he asserted. "The change in family conditions has largely destroyed one of the old normal centers of recreation. Not only is this true in the city where homes exist in a congestion which smothers natural activities, but the small town and rural home have also been affected by the speed and restlessness of modem life. Many a household gives more attention to the garage whereby parents can get away from home than to the activities of library and living room, whereby children are kept at home.”

The task of directing America’s play is becoming more pressing than the task of directing America’s work, according to Dr. Sockman. "Multitudes of us have lost the art of entertaining ourselves. We feel ourselves in a vacuum when left alone. We need to develop a more active attitude toward amateur entertaining rather tnan a passive observance of professionalized amusement.”

Joseph Lee of Boston pointed out that the only escape from the weignt of material things which are dissipating personality today must come through more things—such tangible facilities as parks and beaches, recreation leaders and play materials which call forth constructive effort.

William Butterworth, President of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States, addressing the Congress on the economic values of recreation, said that industry is generally alive today to the relation of parks and other recreation facilities to labor turnover and the contentment and efficiency of employees. He cited a “tale of two cities,” one of which lost an industry because it provided opportunity only for commercialized amusements; another which was chosen as the site for a new factory from many other cities offering as good transportation and labor facilities, because it had provided best for public recreation.

He stated that parks and other public recreation facilities increase land values, a point which was stressed by speakers in other sessions. Jay Downer, chief engineer of the Westchester

Digitized by LjOOQle
252

County, New York, Park Commission, asserted that the rise in total valuation of property in Westchester since the establishment of the Park system has been sufficient to meet the carrying and sinking fund charges of more than-$47,000,000 in bonds issued for park purposes. John Nolen, city planner, emphasized the need for reserving play space in advance of the settlement of a neighborhood.

Modem merchandising methods must be employed to sell municipal recreation to the public, advised C. E. Brewer, Detroit's recreation superintendent. Pointing out that it is not enough merely to provide opportunities for sports and other recreations, he urged that every taxpayer and public official be educated in the extent of the play program and be invited to participate. Building up a strong public sentiment and demand for recreation activities is also the surest way to keep a municipal recreation system free of politics, said W. C. Batchelor of Pittsburgh.

The full-time use of school buildings, churches, industrial plants and other gymnasiums and auditoriums for community recreation was urged in meetings on buildings as recreation facilities. “The church that does not provide a seven-day-a-week ministry ought to be taxed for the room it takes up,” asserted Elbert M. Conover, director of the Bureau of Architecture of the Methodist Episcopal Church. “By closing their doors throughout the week, churches too often tell the young people more loudly than in words to go to the devil for their good times. A gymnasium and other rooms for recreation and fellowship in a church are just as important for sound religious development as the prayer meeting room.”

As much as forty percent of the area of public parks should be set aside for active play, in the opinion of many landscape architects and superintendents of recreation, who attended the Congress. John J. Downing, supervisor of recreation, Brooklyn, New York, contended that many of the large parks in our cities should be re-designed and developed for a wider range of active use. Even small neighborhood parks developed as beauty spots are not affording satisfactory use unless portions of them are set aside and equipped for the games and sports of children, he maintained. Dr. George D. Strayer of Columbia University advocated as the minimum play area to be provided in connection with an elementary school, five acres; a junior high school, ten acres; a senior high school, twenty acres.

Children’s own desires and tendencies in play are the best guide in choosing playground equipment and materials, was the concensus of opinion. “Get the child’s viewpoint,” advised Charles H. English, executive secretary of the Playground Association of Philadelphia. “Children like simple playthings to which they have contributed a part,” he announced as the result of a study involving 16,000 school children in Chicago.

A budget for 1929 of $380,358, more than a thousand dollars a day, was adopted for the Playground and Recreation Association of America. More than five thousand communities last year

Digitized by CjOOQle
253

turned to the Association’s correspondence and consultation service for advice in all phases of recreation work, said Joseph Lee, President, explaining an item of $31,000 for this work. It was stated that $40,000 would be allotted to research and publications, $43,600 to the National Recreation School in New York City, $23,000 to field service in colored communities and $175,000 to direct field service in communities.

A nation-wide study of community music activities, the first of its kind was announced as a new undertaking of the Association. By making complete inventory of resources for amateur music in America, the study will form a basis for field service, stated Augustus D. Zanzig, former lecturer on music at Harvard University, who will direct the study. The aim is “to provide opportunities for everyone to find as much delight and nourishment of spirit as he or she can through music, especially through actually participating in it.”

THE USE OF RESPIRATORY TESTS AND THE MEASUREMENT OF RESPIRATORY EFFICIENCY IN PHYSICAL

TRAINING.

By Dr. Alfred A. Mumford, England.

The great burden imposed on the community by the acceptance of responsibility for looking after all its sick and impoverished members in various ways has involved the necessity of securing a high degree of efficiency, physical and otherwise, among those who are willing and able to find opportunity for work, if the State is to remain solvent. In securing the efficiency of workers, physical training during childhood can and does take a very large place.

In connection with physical training and efficiency certain physiological tests related to the power of the circulation of blood and character of respiration have recently come into use. Unfortunately the full significance of these tests and the degree of variation among different individuals is only imperfectly understood. They have, however, proved of considerable value when included in routine medical examinations of members of the Royal Air Force, and they have been examined in some detail by Dr. Lucy Cripps among women undergoing special courses of training at the Chelsea College of Physical Education and among students at the Bedford College, and among a number of women civil servants employed at Somerset House. Dr. Cripps sought to discover the degree of variation to be found in the response to various test3, and found that this was so wide that they could not be used singly for trustworthy prediction of physical fitness among the groups she examined.

The general conclusion derived from Dr. Cripps’ studies will probably be that such tests can only properly be used in relation

Digitized by LjOOQle
254

to ordinary medical examination and by those who know what other factors have to be taken into consideration in estimating their significance.

Surgeon Commander Horace B. Hill, R.N., of the school of Physical and Recreational Training, Portsmouth, arrived at a somewhat similar conclusion with reference to the use of certain semi-medical exercises by certain gymnastic instructors, particularly those exercises known as deflective, depleting or calming, which imply that after violent exercise the rate of recovery can be conveniently and usefully hastened by special respiratory movements. The faults of teaching to which Dr. Hill has drawn attention appear to be the natural result of imperfect training and powers of observation among certain instructors, but it must be admitted that the relationship of breathing to physical training is still only partially understood.

The idea that deep breathing could calm the action of the heart appears to be derived from the fact that the diaphragm contains large venous channels between its fibres, and that when the fibres contract, the blood is squeezed forward and this process helps to maintain the blood stream into and through the heart. The diaphragm is indeed “a heart behind the heart.” We use this power to great advantage in yawning and sighing and to some extent in singing and in laughing. It would, however, be unwise to assume that diaphragmatic contraction by itself, without reference to posture or other conditions of blood distribution, should be relied on to facilitate recovery after effort.

As Dr. Hill observes, the essential element of recovery after severe exertion is the recumbent posture and cessation of all muscular work, a process naturally adopted by long distance runners who have put forth great physical efforts. After minor physical exertion it is probably better to let the cardio-respiratory system calm itself down naturally and not to attempt any forced breathing. If the exercise has been severe or the day is hot, then a sitting position may be desirable.

It is a little more difficult to follow Dr. Hill’s condemnation of arm movements in relation to breathing exercises. Perhaps in routine work, pure breathing exercises have little or no value since the range and character of the breathing is largely determined by the nature of the particular exercise indulged in. Without that exercise the high range of breathing is meaningless. In remedial work, however, as in subjects who suffer from nasal catarrh, adenoids, etc., and who have contracted bad habits of breathing, formal breathing exercises may be necessary. In cases of arrested heart disease also, remedial and developmental exercises may also be needed, but this must be under special medical supervision.

We seem to be in urgent need of much clearer ideas about the subject of Physical Fitness and Efficiency. This can only come when we realize that just as there are many forms of physical activity such as field sports and athletics and there are diverse conditions under which strenuous work is taken, e.g., in mines,

Digitized by

Google
255

submarines, swinging, flying, so there should be many tests of physical fitness to meet these conditions. Increase of physiological knowledge as to the power of the body to adapt itself to various conditions is as necessary as increased study of the relation of the special form of physical exercise to the ultimate use of such exercise. The "healthy man or woman" exists mainly in our imagination. He presents himself in such widely different forms in real life that we cannot find a composite portrait of him.

REFERENCES.

“The Application of the Air Force Physical Efficiency Tests to Men and Women,” Dr. Lucy Cripps. Medical Research Council, 1924.

“Reputations of Physical Exercises and Tests," by Surgeon Commander H. B. Hill. Journal of Royal Naval Medical Service* October, 1926.

PROFESSIONALISM IN SCHOOL ATHLETICS

By Karl E. Whinnery, Principal High School, Sandusky, Ohio..

A resolution to restate and reemphasize my views on professionalism in athletics was strengthened by an article by Hey-wood Broun, entitled “Simon-Pure Athletics,” which appeared in the March number of “The Forum.” His attitude is one that is becoming quite general among people outside the schools who are thinking about interscholastic athletics. His opening sentences state his attitude: “If the ruling athletic bodies of this country should decide to sweep away all distinction between amateur and professional at half-past nine tomorrow morning, do you believe that civilization would crumble? I doubt if comets might be expected to flame in the eastern sky or tall mountains to bow their heads in shame. Indeed, it is my notion that life would go on much the same. Strict and searching examinations reveal the fact that a Simon-pure amateur can hardly survive in this country, publicity being what it is. At least no man can rise to the top in any form of athletic competition without profiting financially by his prowess.”

This is what I had to say at the Northeastern meeting: I will have a lot to say about the colleges. This may seem not to be our problem, but the main reason for enforcing our amateur rules seems to be to protect boys for college athletics.

During the twenty years I have been connected with athletics as a player, a coach, and a high school administrator, professionalism has been looked upon as the dreadful dragon in the situation. The reason for this attitude is easy to explain. During this period the battle against crooked athletics was started, and has been waged almost continuously. At first the professional was a real

Eroblem. One of the first things to be done in cleaning up ath-stics was to get rid of the man who came to school during an

Digitized by LjOOQle
256

athletic season for the money he could get out of it. Certainly the welfare of educational institutions demanded the elimination of such a practice. The one-year residence rule was passed in the colleges and was the most effective thing that could have been done. However, a long list of rules on professionalism has developed both in high school and colleges. Read them over to see how numerous and complicated they are.

I have had a feeling for a long time that scholastic athletics would not be injured in the least if all of these rules were done away with. I have been a little cautious about making such a statement in public for fear of being misunderstood. During the last couple of years I have talked to enough men in private about it and have found enough agreeing with me to know that I would have some support.

In the first place, these rules are difficult to interpret. They are the cause of many controversies. It is hard to prove anything if we do get a clue. Boys can break some of these rules without realizing it, even though they have been told about them. They may break them before becoming interested in high school athletics. After all, is it such a terribly wrong thing if they do break them? Do our athletics suffer so much if these rules are violated? In high school, to some extent, and to a great extent in colleges, they are violated and all kinds of tricks are resorted to to avoid detection. The resulting trickery is worse than the offense.

Tken, we have had so many ridiculous workings of these rules. We have the college football player who was declared ineligible because he taught swimming during the summer. We heard about the high school boys in another state who were declared ineligible for taking part in a baseball game against a big league team in an exhibition game. In the cases mentioned above the boys were finally declared eligible after missing several games. Who can see any justice at all in disqualifying boys on such grounds? There are many other examples as unreasonable as these. In many cases when violation is proved the penalty is eventually removed. Why have such rules? I think we are placing the emphasis in the wrong place. Back in the early days the money player and the undesirable were synonymous. We still cling to our opposition to the man who plays for money. Much of this opposition was wrong from the beginning. It wasn’t the boy who had played for money who was causing the trouble. The seriousness lay in the fact that he was being paid by the college to play and that he went to school solely to be in athletics. Whatever improvement there is, has been accomplished not by barring professionals, but by the residence rule and by bringing pressure on schools who buy athletes. There are probably as many who are technically professionals playing in colleges now as ever before.

My idea for further cleaning up athletics would be, first, to do away with all rules against professionals, thus eliminating all hypocrisy connected with it. Stop worrying about how boys
257

make their money. Very likely, if they were allowed to make money in athletics during the summer, there would be less cause for the fake jobs during the school year.

My second plan for further improvement would be to deal severely with any school holding out any financial inducement whatever to a player. Here let me say that I do not believe there is any effective way to prevent alumni from paying the way of athletes to schools. We all know cases of boys who are not athletes being sent through college this way. We can hardly say that the athlete cannot have this privilege. Progress has been made by appealing to the college not to offer inducements, and I believe still more can be made.

The third, and most effective way, to better the situation is to increase the residence requirements and to be more strict in the enforcement of scholastic and character requirements. Take colleges first. They should have a residence minimum of two years and higher scholastic requirements. If a boy were to go to college for two years, keep his work up, and behave in a manner creditable to the school, it would be a demonstration that he is there because he wants to get an education. If he meets these requirements, let him take part in athletics regardless of whether he is a professional golfer, boxer, football player, a chauffeur, newspaper man, farmer, or making his living by any other decent means.

In the high school we should drop all rules on professionalism—most of the violations are petty anyway—and insist on a high scholastic record and a high grade of conduct. The trouble we have in high school athletics does not come from professionals. It comes from poorly enforced scholastic rules and from winking at poor conduct of players because they are players. Our high schools would do well to insist on rule Number Nine,—“Any player who is under penalty of discipline, or whose character or conduct is such as to reflect discredit upon the school, is not eligible.”

Of course we should have the rule that a boy while playing on a school team should not play on an outside team, but that would seem almost unnecessary. No coach would care to have a boy who was thus dividing his energy.

There is much confusion in the minds of the public as to the distinction between amateurs and professionals. Is a writer of sport articles who is paid several times what they are worth because they are written by a great athlete, a professional? Is the college boy, who works for a concern during the summer and gets much more than his work justifies because he plays on the baseball team, still an amateur? Is the college boy, who is paid several times what he is worth clerking, washing dishes, et cetera, because he is a good football player, any more entitled to represent the school than one who goes out and makes his money as a professional player? The public seems to think quite well of many of our professional atnletes. The professional and the amateur mix peaceably in golf, but in tennis or college athletics they are poison to each other. Looking back to my college days, I

Digitized by L^ooQle
258

can recall several boys who beat the rule against the professional. They were fine fellows and are making good today. It always has been done and always will be done. These are some of the situations that make this uncompromising attitude toward the professional look ridiculous.

This story was related to me recently. A boy in one of our

Ijrominent colleges had been making seven or eight hundred dol-ars a summer playing baseball since he had left high school. His mother was a widow. He gave her all he made and also worked during his time in college. He could not play college baseball, although he was by far the best player in school. Here was an ambitious young man, a good student, and a credit to the school every way, and yet he could not represent it in athletics. I cannot see any justice in such a situation. I believe that if this thing is thought through it will be found that what troubles we have are not with boys who have commercialized their athletic ability; but it is with the schools which offer financial inducement to boys who are interested in athletics rather than in an education, and with schools which overlook scholastic and character short-comings in order to keep boys on a team.

Do away with all rules on professionalism and thus eliminate a lot of hypocrisy, misunderstanding, quibbling, and futile attempts at enforcement. Boycott schools that make any financial offers to boys. If a boy meets rigid scholastic requirements, is a decent citizen in his school, and has demonstrated that he is really going to school for a serious purpose, let him represent it in athletics regardless of his athletic history.

“ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION FOR HIGH SCHOOL BOYS.”

By Herman Seibert, Bayonne, N. J.

Organization and administration are not two separate, distinct and disassociated phases in education. They function hand in hand; they function simultaneously and are an interwoven whole wherever a smooth-running, worthwhile, purposeful program is found. This is true of all education but particularly of physical education. While this is the situation in general, it is better in this presentation to consider organization as organization alone, and administration as administration, because of the greater ease in obtaining a clearer understanding of each.

Organization includes many things. To me it includes the gymnasium, the athletic field, corrective work, physical examinations, the teaching of hygiene, first aid, locker rooms, pools and showers, and, as is customary in many high schools of to-day, it includes efficiency tests which are either of the gymnastic or the athletic type involving tests on the various apparatus, or of the latter type, embracing springing, jumping, throwing, etc. This

Digitized by v^ooQle
259

classification is not a hard and fast one; there are many overlappings to be found. A consideration of the gymnasium brings to mind at once, periods, programs, classes, equipment, costumes, and so on.

When thinking of the gymnasium, the size, location of, and number, one for boys another for girls and an additional smaller gymnasium or room for corrective work, should be kept in mind. Also the preeminent part that physical examinations hold in the teaching of physical education. Examination by the doctor, which I will discuss in detail later; Careful advice and suggestions as to the treatment prescribed; Close observation by the teacher of every individual boy in his charge. Organic defects noted, remedial defects given special attention, and exercises to correct these defects so far as it is in the power of the teacher. Formation of special groups for those having similar defects and receiving specific similar exercises. Finally—Continued attention to the individual whose condition owing to a physical defect in build, structure or organic deficiency demands special supervision.

Physical education taught five days a week for every pupil in forty-five minute periods appears to me to be the end toward which all should strive. Many schools already have such a program, but there are many more who unfortunately have no opportunity for securing such a generous allotment of time. Because of this, some of our children are being given opportunities far in excess of others.

Education never can be standardized, by reason of variation in teachers, equipment and also by the difference in appropriations for educational purposes in the various communities, or by the legislature. Still it seems possible through a process of well advised talks and suggestions, as well as through education of the public at large, to arrive at some point where all children will eventually be given a liberal time allotment for physical education. In this way our profession will be brought to a higher plane, with better and more satisfactory results to the majority of our men of tomorrow.

I hesitate in the presentation of a typical program. What a typical program is, what it embodies, why it is typical, and if so, whether it is of any value or not are moot questions. Let us rather consider a modern up-to-date program including all available materials bearing upon progress in our field, in the light of suggestions toward the rounding out of programs already proven satisfactory to our particular needs. I am speaking now of programs in the narrow sense of subject matter and materials for class work.

It is generally agreed that formal work has its place on the daily program, although the quality and quantity of this type of exercise as now used is by no means the same in any two localities. The rhythmic repetitions of arm, leg and trunk exercises are formal and have great value; so have jogging, marching, tactics, gymnastic dancing and some of our simpler forms of dancing for boys. May we not include also, in the formal exer-
260

cises, group participation in the great American games of football, baseball, soccer, basketball with their powerful interest stimuli, even at the sacrifice of exactness and degree? This does not mean however, a changing of formal work as it has been conducted in the past. I mention it merely to show that even in formal work there is a possibility of developing a certain individuality in students; individuality in resourcefulness, in self-reliance and in achievement.

In apparatus work we have the prime means for developing individuality together with the element of co-operation, since it is necessary for students to assist each other continually, especially during the learning stages. And so far as we are concerned, the learning stages are never over so long as there are students in our schools. The need for and the value of apparatus work is apparent to all, and while we are thoroughly in sympathy with its place in our daily class program, we can defeat our pur-

Eose of building up bodily musculature, growth and development y an injudicious choice of apparatus, by poor selection of exercises, and by too strenuous work on any one piece of apparatus for the sake of perfection. Next it is well to keep in mind the thought that growing boys have highly developed hanging and climbing tendencies, and that the apparatus that supplies this form of activity is highly desirable not only to satisfy their wants and desires, but also because structurally it is the most sound piece of apparatus for them. Too much parallel bar and horse work, other than the teaching of supports and the various vaults, surely has no marked beneficial effect upon the shoulder girdle of the growing youth.

No program can be complete, no lesson satisfactory, which does not arouse and maintain a certain spirit in boys, and which does not in some way include the sport element. Group games, team games, class games in which large numbers on each team participate, afford immense satisfaction. To rub elbows with any and all in the quiet moments and again in the highly excited periods during competition is a source of high spirit and sound sportsmanship; it is a preparation for the sterner competition that is to come, the competition of life. In even greater degree does an athletic program work toward the same end. Here the competition is more marked and more difficult, likewise the effort is greater. You have only to see the competitors aligned at the start of a dash, or grouped about a jumping pit, to realize that athletics is very real and very vital to our high school boys. There are so many ways of using athletics, and there is such a great variety to be found in them, that to overlook this phase of activity in our program would be a step backward.

A type of program, to be progressive, might well include the essentials of our formal work as it has been taught in the past. It might also have a very definite place for apparatus work, with the proviso that great care and judgment be used in the selection of the right pieces of apparatus for growing boys, and the proper grading and selection of beneficial exercises on such apparatus.

Digitized by i^ooQle
261

The group games and certain team games suitable for high school boys, also the athletic features should have their definite places in our work.

In the course of a week, with five periods of physical education of forty-five minutes, this program can be, and in some of our schools is being carried out with regular rotation of activity. With this wealth of material to draw from a graded program for an entire term can be worked out, including a “rotation plan" that makes it possible for every able-bodied healthy boy to engage extensively in every activity. It is possible to work out schemes which include graded formal work, tactics, apparatus work, gymnastic dancing and such other appropriate dances for boys as The Sailors Horn Pipe, the Irish Lilt, as well as the now popular

1'igs and clogs. Football, baseball, and basketball; work on ropes, lorizontal bar, ladders, stall-bars, buck, sidehorse, long horse, all with limitations; plain and obstacle relay races, dodgeball, base ball pitching at a target, modified forms of football and of basketball, tumbling, stunts, wrestling, boxing, high and broad jumping, all within the four walls of the gymnasium. The size of the class and the size of the gymnasium of course are to some extent controlling factors and obviously may necessitate a change in the operation of a program.

It is best to organize a large mass of pupils (considering now the group or class) into something that is practical for all intents and purposes by sub-grouping. The possibility here is to have a few large divisions with smaller groupings or squads within the larger divisions.

Taking for example a rectangular gynmasium and dividing this in half across the length and breadth, there are created four divisions. In each division we shall assume there are 4 squads of six or eight boys. In all there are then sixteen squads working on four different pieces of apparatus, or in four forms of athletics etc., each squad rotating within its division. Another possibility is a division into an appropriate number of squads, regardless of size, to suit the activity assigned, as for example having ten groups or squads and to assign to each a special activity. This would be a good plan where multiple equipment is lacking. And so the subdivision of a whole class into groups, large or small, few or many, to answer best the situation and condition at hand, would be the most practical and workable means in a homogeneous progressive up-to-date program. Still another practical plan is one in which either the whole or half the class, depending on the size, works in a group on any four pieces of apparatus (such as four pairs of rings, four ladders, bucks, and so on) and the exercises on these are done by count and direction of the teacher.

The matter of ventilating a gymnasium is important, as also is the lighting by natural rather than artificial means. There is no doubt that many eyes have been impaired by poorly lighted gymnasiums. However these items are so well understood, that

Digitized by floosie
262

it is unneccessary to go into detail. After all, the gymnasium is merely a man-made place for practical purposes and is not by any means an ideal place for carrying out a health program, nor is it a substitute for the great out-of-doors.

To have boys in gym costume has its advantages; to me it seems the proper procedure. There is no doubt that where gym suits are worn, not only a freedom for exercise is created, but from the hygienic viewpoint a gym suit is essential to the health of the boy. It creates also a feeling of uniformity and pride in the neatness of appearance. The hygienic value of changing from a suit wet with perspiration to a clean and diy suit is not to be overlooked. All of these advantages are valid reasons for having boys wear gymnasium costumes, consisting of trunks, jersey and gym shoes. Of course there are some disadvantages, as for instance, the element of time needed for a change of costumes, inadequate dressing facilities, insufficient lockers, proper drying space for wet suit, towels, etc. All of these points enter into the problem, as does also the matter of expense to the student.

As has been said before, the best place for a modem physical education program is out-of-doors, in the school yard, the school playground, athletic field or campus. There is no sound reason why the identical indoor program cannot, with but few changes, be applied out-of-doors with correspondingly greater beneficial results. Such change would no doubt minimize apparatus work, but the game and athletic content might more than make up for any such loss. In addition the advantage of the sun’s rays, the invigorating effect of the elements, the feeling of freedom from enclosing walls make for a buoyancy, a raising of spirit that have a far reaching beneficial effect.

(Continued Next Month)

PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND MENTAL ACCOMPLISHMENT.

A Translation of the Essential Parts of Each Chapter, by William A.

Stecher.

(Continued from last month)

Chapter IV. Physical Training and its Immediate Effect Upon Mental Accomplishment.

A.	Former Researches.

Mosso, the Italian physiologist, is always quoted in the literature of fatigue, as he appears to be the first one, in his experiments on fatigue to speak of the effects of physical training upon subsequent mental accomplishment. Others, following the method of Mosso appear to arrive at the same conclusion, that is, that

Digitized by
263

bodily exercise unfavorably influences mental work, but each investigation places the effect of such work differently in the scale. In the following table the subject that in different experiments caused most fatigue is placed uppermost, the other subjects follow in their order of effect.

KEMSIES	WAGNER	GRIESBACH	VANNOD
Gymnastics	Mathematics	Latin	Mathematics
Mathematics	Latin	Greek	Latin
Other languages	Greek	Mathematics	Greek
Religion	Gymnastics	French	French
German	History	History	German
Natural History	Geography	Geography	Italian
Geography	Arithmetic	German	English
History	German	Religion	Singing
Singing	French	Gymnastics	Gymnastics
Drawing	Natural Hist  Drawing  Religion	Drawing	Handwork

In his researches upon the effect of a long walk to school, Dr, Oker-Blom of Helsingfors, found (as a by-product) that play and a lively form of physical training increased mental efficiency, while-complicated gymnastic work decreased it.

A critical examination shows that all the previous experiments have been made either on only one person, or with one type of physical work, like chinning, or walking, or bending a finger in an ergograph, or breathing, or raising an iron dumbbell with the foot, etc., that is with types of work that have nothing to do with a real physical training lesson.

The problem, therefore, is to measure the effect of regular physical training work upon the mental accomplishments in the other regular subjects of a school day. The methods should be as follows, a) mass work should be used, b) the effect of physical training during different hours of the school day must be determined, c) the effect of age upon accomplishment under varying conditions must be ascertained, d) the effect of the different types of work and of different methods of presentation must be studied.

B. New Experiments and Their Results.

In his controlled experiments, Dr. Sippel worked as follows:

In the physical training work his aim was to give to his pupils work adapted to their age and requirements, the exercises being of a type that would strengthen the body and that at the same time would arouse joyful feelings in his pupils. He aimed for increased results that were based upon individual effort. He encouraged exercises of courage undertaken volitionally. On the other hand he tried to guard the over-zealous against dangers to health through over-indulgence. Joy and enthusiasm of the pupils were his guides in aims and methods.

Dr. Sippel says that it is imperative to call attention to the points named above because the spirit and the temper of a class

Digitized by
264

are of significant importance in gaining results. His gymnasium lesson began with tactics and free exercises, followed by work on apparatus. Then came either jumping or a game, followed by quieting exercises in the open air. During the lesson the windows were opened as wide as was compatible with the temperature and state of weather. School periods lasted 45 minutes, of which 10 minutes were lost through change of clothing. The period devoted to work, therefore, was 35 minutes. The first, third and fifth school periods were devoted to physical training. The age of the pupils in the experimental classes ranged from 10 to 13 years. Over one third of the pupils lived so far from school that street cars and the railroad had to be used by them. The experiments, consisting of additions and of memory exercises, were conducted during January, February and March, 10 minutes being devoted to this mental work, five minutes at the beginning and five minutes at the close of every physical training lesson.

The author, in thirty-five pages containing 24 graphs and numerous tables then shows the outcome of the experiments in problems of addition. His findings and conclusions are as follows:

1)	The averages show that after a physical training lesson there is an increased mental accomplishment by all grades of pupils in both quality and in quantity.

2)	The increase in quantity is greatest after the first period of the school day, and least after the fifth period.

3)	The peak of the quantity increase in regular school work is after the second school period, but even this is raised slightly through a physical training lesson.

4)	The number of addition computations is smaller during the morning than at noon.

5)	The first gymnasium period gives the greatest stimulus; the stimulus is less after the third period and still less after the fifth. But, even after the fifth period about three fourths of the pupils are favorably benefitted in their mental accomplishment by a preceding physical training lesson.

The next part of the book is devoted to the results of the memory tests. In his book Dr. Sippel describes the various tests that he tried and the three types finally used by him. These were based upon model tests used in the psychological laboratory of the German University for Physical Education.

The next 27 pages present the results of these memory tests in the form of graphs and tables. They show, also, two types of physical training lessons that were used during the experiments. These lessons are accompanied by remarks like the following: because of the closing exercises (jumping over a buck that had a medicine ball on top of it) the pupils arrived in the class room tired, but in good spirits; the pupils, although tired, appeared fresh as a result of the ball game played out of doors.

The outcome of the memory tests before and after a physical training lesson shows that the mental accomplishment of about 70 per cent of the pupils was raised.

Digitized by CjOOQle
265

The third test consisted of the crossing out of the vowel “e” when this occurred in definitely located parts of long lines of consonants and vowels. The next 12 pages of the book, by means of graphs and tables, show the results of these tests. The outcome is similar to that described in the preceding two tests.

Dr. Sippel thereupon investigated the fatigue curve of a complete school morning. This showed that the peak of mental accomplishment lies at the end of the third penod of school work. If the fourth and fifth periods consist of mental work there is a steady decline. If, however, the fourth period is a gymnastic period, there is a regular, although slight, rise in mental accomplishment at the fifth period.

The author asks: How is this phenomenon to be explained? The generally .accepted physiological explanation of fatigue is as follows: mental work consumes energy and produces fatigue: physical work (following mental work) also consumes energy and increases the fatigue already present; mental work (following physical work) therefore, must be less.

Sippel now calls attention to those previous controlled experiments that support this deduction. But, he says, my experiments also were, conducted under controlled conditions. The questions to decide appear to be: Were the types of physical work used in the different experiments of sufficient resemblance that the results are comparable? Is bodily exercise of any kind physical training?

Sippel says that it is a great error to compare the results of the two types of work; physical training and muscular work are two entirely different things. In a consideration and evaluation of their effect it becomes necessary to keep in view not only the physical and the physiological results, but also the mental, the psychological reactions. There is a profound difference between muscular work and playful physical activity. If somebody chops wood to earn money he performs muscular work. If, however, he chops wood as an expression of an urge for bodily exercise he is playing. If somebody writes a newspaper report because he neeeds the money he is performing mental work. If, however, as an expression of an inner urge he composes a poem or writes a novel, he is creating, he is playing.

In previous experiments the persons used by the experimenters looked upon the tasks they had to perform as work. It makes no difference if this work consisted of walking, or mountain climbing, or the bending of a finger (in Mosso’s experiments), or in other types of muscular activity. It was work that had to be done.

A physical training lesson, on the other hand, arouses different feelings in those persons used for experimental purposes. To them the exercises are not work, but opportunities to indulge in playful physical activity; to indulge in purposeful physical accomplishments. Joy is the real criterion when comparing the two types of activity. It would be a mistake to assume that in the results of the recent experiments we have before us an excep-

Digitized by

Google
266

tion to a natural law, a miracle. Physical training uses energy and creates fatigue. The fatigue, however, is by no means so large as that produced by physical work.

Another reason for the refreshing results of a physical training lesson is to be found in the need of children for muscular activity to counteract the effect of muscular inactivity in other types of school work.

All teachers know how often it appears impossible to accomplish any mental work during the last school periods. Then, the closing bell rings, and on the way out of the building the fatigue that was apparent in the schoolroom appears to decrease, and on the playground it has vanished altogether. I therefore believe that real fatigue is not the cause of diminished mental work during the final hours of the schoolday. According to my observations the decrease in accomplishment as early as the third school period, even by robust pupils, is not caused by fatigue in its physiological sense, but is based upon fatigue in its psychological meaning. It is not a question of inability to do; it is the result of a disposition not to do any more work. This disposition not to exert oneself must not be looked upon as a sign of an evil will. It appears to be more the result of an inner check upon, the energy, in consequence of which the working ability that is present has no chance to express itself. What, then, are these inner checks or impediments? To answer this question it is necessary to know the natural tendencies and aspirations of children. A prominent sign present in the young pupils used for experimental purposes is the urge for bodily exertion, an urge seldom understood by adults. This urge for physical expression is limited by schoolwork; it is restricted by the demands of seatwork; by the order demanded in a school. As a means of compensation the child shifts its position, wiggles and squirms, slides forward, etc. Many teachers look upon such manifestations as signs of disrespect, while in reality they merely are the efforts of nature to help herself. These substitutes, however, in no wise satisfy the hunger for bodily exercise. As a result the pupils lose interest, inner checks or hindrances are formed. The results of this state appear like real fatigue, which, however, is not present, or at least is not present in large quantity. These checks, obstructions, hindrances, are eliminated by the satisfaction created by abundant physical exertion.

Some teachers realize this state of affairs and often allow their pupils to rise and stretch themselves, or they give them a few minutes of recess. They know that after even such a slight intermission their pupils are in a better mental state than before.

This also is an explanation of the favorable results produced by the physical training work conducted during school recess by Lobsien and by Mahler. The results of our own work should be interpreted in the same manner.

Physiological results like increased oxygen supply, an increased circulation, an equalization of the blood supply in compressed areas of the body may have helped to produce the results.

Digitized by

Google
267

The major part of the results, however, according to my observation is due to psychological workings, to the elimination of inner checks and to the joy created by physical training work.

I should like to have it understood that I am not of the opinion that physical training work removes fatigue. Real fatigue can not be removed by the best physical training lesson. This can be removed only in the first place by sufficient sleep, and in the second place by food.

The information acquired by my experiments can be summed up as follows: Physical training satisfies the urge for muscular exertion felt by the young, and it removes the inner checks that arise because of the necessity to keep quiet and not move the limbs; an urge for muscular exertion that never is dormant in a healthy body. The adult also feels this, but probably not in as strong a measure. If we have sat at a desk for a long time, then, with a feeling of certainty that we have struck the right thing, we rise and stretch—and feel that our discomfort disappears, that new success appears.

4.	Supplements and Sources

Early in our discussion when the aims of the undertaking were being considered, it was pointed out that many problems would have to be solved before a final solution of the main problem could be looked for; particular attention was called to the fact that it would be impossible to solve all difficulties at once.

The present, enlarged, researches are to be viewed as efforts pointing the direction in which at some future time perhaps all these questions may be answered. What is necessary is first a continuance of experiments so as to increase the mass of material gathered from identical viewpoints, and second a broadening of the researches so as to include many allied fields.

In order to make it easier to follow in the paths of my own work I shall try to explain doubtful points, point out insufficiencies, and call attention to difficulties and probabilities arising during researches of this character.

I wish to call attention to the fact that in the addition problems I have disregarded the increase due to practice. Former experiments had shown that the peak of accomplishment was reached after six trials. With many pupils there is a retrogression after this time. The falling off is caused, apparently, by a reluctance to continue such hard mental work, resulting often in a very large decrease in the average. ((Many adults used for experimental purposes did not even attempt these tasks, declaring that they could not accomplish such work). A tendency of this kind would open the way for extraordinary differences in results caused by uncommon mental states.

I wish also to call attention to the fact that the relatively small increases after physical training lessons may be due to a

Precaution that I took in order not to create “tendency-results”.

often saw after a lesson in science that the boys slumped in their seats. In order not to gain poor results because of such

Digitized by

Google
268

mental indisposition I always had the pupils rise, stretch them* selves and be seated in an upright position. Even if I do not believe that these relief measures have the effect of physical training exercises, I feel that the work-disposition was influenced favorably thereby, that the output was higher, and that the difference between the first and tne second trial was less than it would have been without this relief measure.

Objections might be made against the trials after Gym. III. and Gym. IV., because these periods follow recesses of 20 and 15 minutes. As recesses undoubtedly have a restorative value, the increased mental output might with perfect propriety be credited to the recessses instead of the physical training lesson. The first part of these tests were conducted therefore not at the close of the second and fourth school periods, but at the beginning of the third and fifth. The restorative value of the recess period was included thereby in the tests. The increased output must therefore be credited to the influence of the physical training lessons.

Much may be said about the memory tests. In future experiments they should approximate actual conditions closer than it was possible for me to produce. The results of the most modem physchological researches must be utilized in outlining future experiments. The small number of tests, caused by the conditions under which the experiments were conducted, is a real defect of the present experiment. My criticism of the cancellation tests I have given when speaking of these.

Only a continuance of such researches can produce the classification that is necessary in order that individual schools are not overburdened by the experiments, and also that due regard may be paid to the differences in schools. The organization of a large school, like the one at which I conducted my experiments, precludes the possibility of getting more time in a specified school term. Even with the greatest care, the disturbances caused by the tenor of the whole experiment are such, and they occur so often, that they are bound to produce undesirable delays in the other school subjects.

Care should be taken not to over-emphasize the getting of mass results in really valuable experiments and tests. One constantly hears of well meant proposals that have the fault that they can not be carried out under existing school conditions. Note— The author now speaks of the many things that would be valuable if only the teacher had time to do them. He says that for each teacher there is a wide field of research in the simple and reliable tests of physical accomplishments in ordinary, generally used exercises. His suggestions for such exercises are half-yearly tests in the following events: running 50 meters, 100 meters and 400 meters, broadjump, highjump, baseball far-throw, shot put, chinning. Then he asks for a composite evaluation of these events, and concludes by asking for height and weight of pupils. The chapter ends by a statement that inaccurate measurements are worse than none; that there is only one way to gain accurate

Digitized by (^.ooQle
269

information and so help in creating constructive ideals, and that is by getting accurately attained facts.

Concluding Chapters.

Chapter V., in six pages, speaks of the desirability of a daily gymnasium period.* The author thinks that such a period should be from 30 to 45 minutes. He is against the so-called double gym periods for children if these are to be used solely for physical training work. He also is against the movement to have all academic work during the morning and the physical training and athletic work afternoons.

In the last chapter (VI.) he speaks of physical training for adults, calling attention to several researches undertaken to ascertain the effects of such work upon adults. The results of the experiments were as follows: Athletic exertion creates great fatigue in the untrained and decreases mental accomplishment. A wisely planned course in physical training, however, decreases the bad results, and if such exercises are continued over a long period they increase mental accomplishment considerably. Such exercises, however, always must be interesting; they must not be looked upon as work.

According to my conception, says the author, sport and competitive games, beside their specific physical effect, are of special significance relative to the psychic effects. Sport and the fighting games, like the games of children are a satisfying solvent for those inner restraints of the combative adult that are the result of a repressed fighting spirit.

It is only in this sense that the wonderful liberating effects of a game can be understood, an activity during which one has thoroughly exhausted himself physically and psychically. And I am not certain but that the old Grecian custom of swinging the arms vigorously and of shouting while running was not based on a deep conception of its fitness.

Only in this manner is it possible to understand the effect of many sports, for which psychology has not found a satisfactory explanation. Thousands, who because of strenuous vocational mental work are forced to take a vacation, go to the mountains. There they find bodily, mental and psychic vigor not by inaction, but by the strenuous muscular exercise involved in mountain climbing. This physical work according to psychological reasoning was performed while in a state of mental exhaustion; as such it would demand weeks of time for readjustment and recovery. But the reverse is the case; all of these persons return with renewed bodily and mental vigor. In the struggle with the dangers of the mountains, or of the sea, they found a solvent for all the thousands of nagging things and for the many vexations and annoyances, that, because of modern decorum and propriety, are continually being suppressed.

The physical combat during a game of football, the combat during a hurdle-race—they signify psychic freedom. It is not immaterial, therefore, what kind of physical training work is un-

Digitized by CjOOQle
270

dertaken by the adult; because this should be an expression of his innermost desires and needs.

Real physical training is a psychic expression, comparable to real language, or poetry—physical training exercises are prototypes of experiences!

Physical training is not a onesided physical activity; its form is a vessel, a vehicle—exactly like the mental form is a vehicle— for the soul!

(The book ends with 12 pages of references embracing 234 authors, touching the main phases of the experiments. Other authors are mentioned in the footnotes on many pages.)

EUROPEAN OBSERVATIONS, IMPRESSIONS AND EXPERIENCES

By A. E. Kindervater

Traveling with a group of physical educators connected with public and private schools in America and Canada through five different countries of Europe, the reader may readily guess the chief aim of this party. Besides an outlook over the field of physical education in the schools of these five countries, an additional attraction was available in our line of work by the immense demonstration of physical activities in Switzerland, Holland and Germany.

A. ENGLAND

Through previous arrangements with the school authorities of London our party had the opportunity of visiting three different types of schools in the world’s largest city.

The London Polytechnic School for boys and girls of high school age. Here Arts and Trades of all types are taught during the day and evening. The school is located in a densely populated part of the city and has no open spaces for out-door physical activities. The school is provided with one medium-sized, but well equipped gymnasium, and right close to that a like-sized and equipped swimming pool. We observed the work of a man teacher in gymnasium exercises with two classes of boys—one of high school and the other of intermediate school age.

The activities demonstrated were well selected and graded to fit the age and ability of the students and did not differ much from such as are practiced in our home schools. The novelty of lessons consisted in the practical organization of the classes in teams, according to height and physical ability, and in the clever application of the lesson material by the very efficient teacher. The changes between activities were made rapidly and very precisely, the teams vieing with each other more.

The work of the entire lesson was strictly formal, except a game at the close. Every exercise was taken by the order or command of the teacher. No such freedom as doing what you like best.

Digitized by AjOOQle
271

the rule here being to do what is best for you and you do it when you are told. What we found especially commendable in these demonstrations of the physical training work was the clever and systematic arrangements of the lesson material in short series with quick and novel changes fropi one to the other. The interest and joy of the students in this work was constantly kept alive. Every boy was busy every minute of the 45 minute period.

A novel scheme worth imitating was the color distinction between the teams in the shape of a ribbon used as a sash worn across the shoulder during the entire lesson, each team wearing a different color. In all team competition this color scheme-is a great help in detecting the winners and in stimulating the interest and joy of the participants. The swimming pool is well equipped for diving, with spring boards at various heights, also with goals for water games. All students are taught to swim and dive by a very strict but efficient teacher. The rule prevails that the students alternate gymnastics and swimming once per week. Besides the gymnastic and swimming period per week in school the students are taken out to the public play-grounds for competitive games and light athletics with teams from other schools.

The South Hickney Central was the next school visited. The socalled Central Schools in London are similar to the Junior High or Intermediate Schools of our country. We found the above school provided with three places for physical education work, and observed three classes. One class of girls in the Assembly room directed by a woman teacher, one class of boys in a. medium sized gymnasium and two teams of girls playing one of their games in the school yard.

The selected and higher grade pupils in this school were easily recognized in the work demonstrated. As the course of study in physical education is provided by the Council of Education of London and specifies the activities and the time for their application, we naturally find the same type of work for the same grade taken up in all schools at the same time. The lesson demonstrated by the class of girls was much like the work in our intermediate schools. The class organization in teams and the lesson program was much like that of the boys mentioned above, rhythmic activities, including English folk dances and indoor games predominating. A significant feature of this class was their modest and neat uniform, consisting of black blouses, short black skirts, long black stockings, and large white turn down collars.

A most commendable feature of all classes observed was the attention given to good posture and correct carriage.

The boys' work in the gymnasium under the direction of a very efficient and snappy man teacher was similar to that observed in the Polytechnic School and splendidly presented. The game demonstrated in the school yard by two teams of girls was new to us but resembled our basket ball.

Digitized by CjOOQle
272

The Blundell Elementary School for boys located in a district of London’s poor people was the third type of school visited. Here we found a building with no indoor provision for physical training. All classes take their setting up exercises, races and games in a moderate sized school yard. The surface of this yard is made of asphaltum, has a good drainage, is easily kept clean and seems perfectly safe for play activities. The regular teachers in this school are men who teach all subjects of the curriculum including physical training. All of the work demonstrated to us by primary and middle grade classes was similar to such in our home schools excepting some typical English games adapted to local conditions. The organization and administration was based on the official regulations of the Educational Council. All work was strictly formal and the discipline rigid, but the children showed much pleasure in their work. The plan of supervising this physical training work is also similar to that in our local schools, and we have there, as here, the demand for more supervisors.

The impression received, through my observations of the practical work in these three schools and my inspection of the official syllabus convinces me of the fact that the English educators strongly favor a methodical and thorough training for an allround physical development of their pupils before having them enter any specialized single events for maximum achievements.

B.	FRANCE

In Paris our party did not get the opportunity of observing any work in our profession or line, therefore our time was given to sightseeing and a study of the architectural beauty and historic importance of the many buildings and places of interest in this beautiful city and its neighborhood.

In a special trip to the War Zone we visited such well known places as Chateau Thierry, Belleau Woods, and the city of Rheims with its famous Cathedral so much commented upon. We found and paid due reverence to the 650 American boys of the Second Division resting in eternal peace at a well kept cemetery near Belleau Woods. Large cemeteries of the English, French, Italian and German armies tell a sad story of the World struggle in this part of France.

C.	SWITZERLAND

The country of scenic beauty, high mountains, good cheese and free people was our party’s third objective, the professional and main attraction being the National Gymnastic and Athletic Tournament of the Swiss Federation of Gymnastic (Turner) Societies held in the beautiful city of Lucem.

As these National Tournaments in physical activities express the love and pride of the Swiss people in keeping their men physically fit, these Tournaments have become real festivals of and by .the people.

The city of Lucem having the honor of being the host lor the 59th festival was dressed up in her finest regalia. On

Digitized by L^ooQle
273

house tops, from windows, telephone and electric light posts, the red flag with the white cross was waving welcome to all incoming participants and guests.

The outstanding features of this great Tournament may be outlined as follows:

The field for all of the required activities and its equipment.

This field was located within easy reach by street car, adequately equipped with all necessary apparatus, track and field facilities and wrestling places. All timing for the running events was by electric clocks. During our presence these clocks worked perfectly, most likely due to the fact of being Swiss clocks.

The entire field was divided into numerous smaller spaces roped off and equipped for the activities scheduled for them. A large grandstand, tents for use in case of rain, dressing rooms, field hospital, restaurants and refreshment places were provided.

Activities required of participants.

(a)	Team work on apparatus, athletics, and free exercises.

(b)	Individual exercises of the highest grade on three apparatus, called artistic gymnastics.

(c)	Light Athletics in two groups:

First group: Broad jump, shot put, high jump, discus throw, 100 meter dash and 100 meter hurdles.

Second group: Spear throw, pole vault, hurl ball and 800 meter run.

(d)	Swiss National Sports consisting of:

Weight lifting, broad jump, putting a stone, one free exercise, far-high jump and wrestling Swiss style.

(e)	For the senior class of men over 40 years of age:

One self chosen exercise on any one of the standard apparatus. One self-prepared setting-up exercise and a high jump.

Teams of individuals entering for competition in any one of the above groups of activities have to take all of them in order to qualify for a reward.

Number of participants entered:

(a) 831 teams totaling	20,000	men

(b) Individuals	22,311

Imagine the 22,311 men each one covering the specified number of activities in three days time. This mass of work could only be accomplished by perfect organization and according to a strictly working time schedule. To the credit of the management it was done. In order to give every participant time and space for his work many had to occupy the field at the same time. The many different activities by teams and individuals going on at the same time from 5:30 A. M. to 8:00 P. M. could easily be compared to a three ring circus. The wonderful and high grade work shown by teams and individuals proved to us the interest, will power ana enthusiasm these men posess for keeping physically fit up to a ripe age.

Digitized by CaOOQle
274

A mass drill of specially prepared setting up exercises by 1300 picked men.

A grand parade of all participants in their official uniform through the main streets of the city.

The Festival Play especially written for the festival and participated in by 800 persons, acting out the history of Switzerland in a most patriotic way.

The distributidn of awards to the winning teams and individuals in the various contests. All of these mass activities caused the gathering of immense numbers of people and created great enthusiasm.

D. HOLLAND

The city of Amsterdam, sometimes called the Venice of the North, with its 700 canals, 400 bridges over these canals, old time buildings, its immesne diamond-cutting Industry and at the present time holding the attention of the athletic world with the Olympic games was the fourth goal of our party. It was our good fortune to have fine seats reserved in the great Stadium for three afternoons and to be present on the opening day. The program of exercises for the first day was well arranged and most impressively conducted. The great Stadium with its 400 meter running track,—two covered grand stands (opposite each other) one of them provided with boxes for the Royal family—and a claimed seating capacity for 40,000 persons, made the impression of being in perfect condition for this high-class world’s tournament. Two military bands, a male chorus of 1200 singers and two official speakers were provided for the opening program. The first impressive act of the program was the entrance of the the 44 participating Nations in alphabetic order, France having stayed out on account of a misunderstanding with one of the officials in charge. The representatives of each Nation, led by their country’s flag and a banner giving their country’s name, marched in single file, two’s or fours according to their numbers. Each delegation was dressed alike, some in military uniforms, others in their National costumes, and the rest in civilian clothes of a like cut, color and white straw-hats. All marched in good form and lively step. The participating girls, some very gaily dressed, marched in front of the men in their group. After passing around the track once, receiving the enthusiastic applause of the assembled spectators, each delegation filed across the field in succession, taking position side by side and facing the Royal Grand stand. While standing here, a short introductory address by the chairman of the local Olympic Committee, Baron Schim-melpfenick, started the oratory. After this the Prince Regent of Holland was introduced and he delivered a short address of welcome. The twelve hundred singers accompanied by two bands now gave the audience a great musical treat with some patriotic songs. Following this a long address was delivered by Reverend Dr. DeVisser explaining the efforts of the local committee and
275

the sacrifices of the Amsterdam citizens in making the necessary preparations, and lastly referred to the ethical and historic values

the original Olympic games. As all addresses were delivered in the Dutch language the majority of the audience lost out. Although the loud speaker reached the ear, the speech failed to reach the brain. The most impressive act of the afternoon consisted of all active participants taking the Olympic Oath. This oath, demanding good sportsmanship in every contest by every participant, was recited by the prominent football player Harry Denis, and repeated by all representatives, with the right hand up and face turned toward heaven. At this moment every person in the immense stadium stood silent and uncovered. Now the Olympic flag—with its five interlaced circles,—meaning the five continents of the globe—being united here, was raised to the top of the main flag pole and the ninth Olympiade was officially opened.

After this ceremony the Nations marched out in the order they had entered, again receiving the plaudits of the 40,000 rooters, and the opening program was over.

Our party having reservations for two more afternoons had the pleasure of witnessing the following most exciting events:

1.	The hundred meter dash for men—final

2.	The hundred meter dash for women.

3.	The hammer throw for men—final

4.	The four hundred meter hurdles for men—final

5.	The eight hundred meter run for men.

6.	The 110 meter hurdles for men.

7.	The 5000 meter run for men.

8.	The two hundred meter dash for men.

9.	The running broad jump for men.

10.	The discus throw for women—final.

11.	The eight hundred meter run for women—final.

12.	The one hundred meter dash for women—final.

(A complete list of the winners in all events will follow).

All of the above events were most strenuously competed for and the finish in each caused tremendous excitement, naturally so, by the rooters of the winning nation. The feeling in general, about the winners, expressed by this immense audience, gathered here from the five continents of the globe—was always fair and inpartial, an indication that justly conducted athletics will make a splendid teacher in good sportsmanship.

It certainly was a most exciting moment for the spectators to watch the struggle in the finishes of close races by men or women in perfect condition. Good sportsmanship, determination, alacrity, endurance, and technique are tested to the limit in every event and every inch of the contestant is on trial.

The most impressive and inspiring ceremony after the finals in any event was the announcement of the three winners. After the announcer called the number of the participants, in Dutch,

Digitized by LjOOQle
276

German, and English, and their places l-2-3-(which the score board indicated at the same time) the band played the National hymn of the first winner's country, and the flag of this country was raised above the score board in his honor. Everybody in the stadium stood with bared head and saluted. The flags of the countries winning 2nd and 3rd place went up when called by the announcer, directly following the first. The greatest excitement and enthusiasm prevailed when at the finish of one event the three flags representing the same country were raised. This honor given to a winner and his country upon an occasion of this high type is well worth all the time, effort and expense necessary for the preparation. The total participation in the 9th Olym-piade consisted of 767 men and 121 women representing 45 nationalities.

Entrance of the Nations at Olympic Stadium

E.	GERMANY

The visits of our party in Germany were confined to the following three cities:

(1)	Bonn on the Rhine

(2)	Cologne on the Rhine

(3)	Berlin, the capital of Germany.

The main reasons for making this selection will be explained in the remainder of my story.

(1)	In Bonn, the beautiful little city on the Rhine, was the ancient university in which many of the former royal families had

Digitized by LjOOQle
277

their boys educated. That in part attracted our attention. Also the well known Victoria Bathing and swimming pools, in which we had the opportunity to observe a very clever woman instructor teach a group of girls very efficiently how' to overcome fear in water. Bonn is furthermore the birth-place of the great composer and musician, Ludwig Beethoven for whom the citizens of that city and many other music loving people of other cities and countries have created a Beethoven Museum in the house of his birth, which is practically complete in the collection of everything connected with his life. Thousands of music loving tourists and admirers of the great musician stop here on their journey to visit this grand old home.

My dear old friend, Dr. Ferd. A. Schmidt, for over thirty years the outstanding authority on the Physiology of Exercise, is a highly respected and honorary citizen of Bonn. He takes great pride in the Beethoven Museum, being chairman of the board of directors. Through Dr. Schmidt’s kind assistance in conducting our party through the museum containing many relics of the great composer we received much valuable and interesting information.

Many of the older members of the American Physical Education Association will recall the time when Dr. Schmidt was induced to come to us and deliver his original lectures on the Physiology of Exercise during the St. Louis World’s Fair and the Olympic Games, in 1904.

Dr. Schmidt, although 76 years old, is hale and hearty. On his 76th birthday the city of Bonn honored him by raising the national colors on city hall and by presenting him with a wreath of flowers. I spent a most enjoyable forenoon with Dr. and Mrs. Schmidt in their charming old home. (Note by editor: Dr. Schmidt, many years ago was made an honorary member of the American Physical Education Association.)

(2)	Cologne, the oldest and largest city on the Rhine, with its ancient historic cathedral and many other places of great interest was at this time the main attraction for our party.

It was here that the Great Gymnastic and Athletic Tournament of the German Gymnastic Federation called “Deutsche Tumerschaft” was celebrated. As these tournaments take place only once in five years it was our special privilege to be here at this time. In order to give you an idea of the immense proportion of this so-called gymnastic festival, I only need to mention the number of active participants in the numerous competitive and exhibition features scheduled, on the five day program.

30,000	men and 12,000 women in teams and as individuals competed with each other in a friendly contest of activities developing strength, speed, agility, endurance and courage. Each one of these participants had to meet fixed requirements in at least six and up to 12 events, and was obliged to take a medical examination, to receive recognition for a prize. It is not specialists in single activities for maximum efficiency that this association

Digitized by

Google
Pictures Taken at Cologne

Digitized by

Google
279

of 1,500,000 members in Germany aims for; it is the all-round training, physical, mental, and ethical development of their boys, girls, men, and women that the organization stands for.

In his address of welcome the vice chairman of the association Dr. Neuendorf, member of the National Council of Education in Berlin made the shortest but most accurate comparison between the two immense demonstrations of physical achievement going on in the world at this time; namely the Olympic Games at Amsterdam and the German Gymnastic Festival at Cologne. He said, “The Olympic Games with a participation of 769 men and 121 women representing 45 Nations is a demonstration in physical achievement of the few for record performances.” Whereas, the German Gymnastic Festival, with its 42,000 active participants all of one nation, means the demonstration of physical achievement by the masses for ACCORD. RECORD and ACCORD, are the two words that tell the whole story.

The preparations made by the citizens of Cologne for this immense festival were complete in every detail. The athletic field consisted of a level piece of ground at least five blocks square. It was provided with four complete stadiums, three large play fields for competitive and exhibition games, a hundred meter swimming pool, numerous tent-covered sheds, for use in case of rain and one local meadow large enough for 30,000 men lined up in open order. This meadow was faced by an immense grandstand and closed elevated terraces upon which a new monument in the shape of an obelisk encircled by many flags, was erected by the citizens of Cologne in honor of Friederich Ludwig Jahn, the founder and originator of outdoor play and gymnastic exercises in Germany, one hundred fifty years ago. This field was used for many mass demonstrations of gymnastic work and it was here that the most impressive patriotic act of the entire festival took place when 30,000 men and 12,000 women executed a mass drill of specially prepared health exercises in the rhythm of classic music. When at the close of this drill, thousands of flags and banners were dipped and an oral prayer recited by the

42,000	participants in honor of their fallen comrades during the World War and a cry for peace in the world went up to heaven you may imagine the feeling of the hundred thousands of spectators present.

All of the above named places for the practical work were adequately equipped with the necessary appliances, provided with grandstands, bleacher seats and all necessary conveniences.

The spirit and enthusiasm of the citizens for this festival and its meaning, was amply expressed by the profuse decorations of their streets, houses, public buildings and many bridges thru-out the entire city. As there were up to 300,000 visitors in the city to be housed and taken care of during the festival, the capac-city and hospitality of all homes had to be taxed to the limit. All families with spare rooms took in guests. Many members of the American Gymnastic Union from all parts of our country had crossed the ocean to be present at this memorial festival.

Digitized by

Google
280

At the official reception given to these American members and their ladies, by the local committee, staged in one of Cologne’s ancient buildings called Gruezenich, built in the 14th century and having the finest hall in the city, I had the pleasure of meeting many of my colleagues and friends of both countries. The ceremonies were most impressive, cordial and brotherly, which at once made us feel at home and welcome. A class of 40 men and 38 women, representing the American Gymnastic Union under the leadership of Mr. Emil Rath, the director of the Union’s Normal College, located in Indianapolis, Indiana, was given the opportunity on one of the afternoons in one of the stadiums on the athletic field to demonstrate the work taught at that school. The activities shown consisted of high class and beautifully arranged health drills, American folk dances and a real American basket ball game. The stadium was filled with at least 10,000 people who gave the performers high recognition, and we American spectators were highly pleased with our boys and girls.

Other professional opportunities, besides the competitive events, scheduled for this immense number of men and women in all types of physical exercises, games and sports going on in all stadiums and play field at the same time, for four days, consisted of the exhibition and contest work shown by pupils of the schools of Cologne and neighboring towns. Wonderful work in all types of physical activities, with students in mass drills, or in teams under student leadership was demonstrated to our great satisfaction. One additional valuable opportunity was given us in witnessing the performance of a new type of rhythmic physical education becoming prominent in Germany, demonstrated by a class of young women from the socalled Bode School in Hanover. This new idea of combined music and motion in an artistic form is becoming very popular in Germany and one of its advocates conducted a course in it at the Columbia University during this summer. In closing my story of experiences in Cologne it remains to mention at least two additional features of importance connected with this great demonstration of physical education.

Both were of a high patriotic nature and showed the ethical and heroic side of the German people in their endeavor to keep physically fit, for the protection of their fatherland in the time of need. The one was a patriotic play entitled “Das Feuer Am Rhein” (“The Fire On The Rhein”), depicting the love of the German people for this, their largest river, and the historic battles fought with other nations trying to take it away from them. The other was the monster parade of all the active participants in their gymnastic uniform and all visitors dressed alike in some uniform clothing. Wonderfully decorated floats depicting the history of Cologne and that of the gymnastic movement in Germany were prominent in this parade. 200,000 men and women marched in this parade covering the main part of the city and all reached the festival grounds without a hitch in the stipulated time.

Digitized by CjOOQle
281

Before our party disbanded in Berlin we had the opportunity to visit two Colleges of Physical Education there, which gave us much information. The one called Hochschule Fuer Leibes-Ue-bungen (University of Physical Education) is conducted by the German government and is the most complete school of its kind I know of. The other called Laban’s School of artistic, dramatic, rhythmic activities is more for stage use than for the gymnasium.

As space will not permit going into details here I shall come back to this at some later time.

COMPLETE RESULTS OF OLYMPIC GAMES MEN’S EVENTS:

SHOT-PUT: Kuck (America) won; Brix (America) second; Hirschfield (Germany) third. Distance 15 m. 87.

HIGH JUMP: King (America) won; Hedges (America) second; Menard third. Height: 1 m. 94

10.000-	METERS: Nurmi (Finland) won; Ritola (Finland) second; Wide (Sweden) third. Time: 30 m. 18 4-5 s.

THROWING THE HAMMER: O’Callaghan (Ireland) won; Skold (Sweden) second; Black (America) third. Distance 51 m. 39.

400-METERS HURDLE: Lord Burghley (England) won; Cuhel (America) second; Taylor (America) third. Time: 53 2-5 s.

100-METERS: Williams (Canada) won; London (England) second; Lammers (Germany) third. Time: 10 4-5 s.

800-METERS: Lowe (England) won; Byhlen (Sweden) second; Engelhard (Germany) third. Time lm. 50 4-5 s.

BROAD JUMP: Hamm (America) won; Cator (Haiti) second; Bates (America) third. Length: 7 m. 73.

POLE VAULT: Carr (America) won; Droegmuller (America) second; McGinnes (America) third. Height: 4 m. 20

DISCUS: Houser (America) won; Kivi (Finland) second; Corson (America) third. Distance: 47 m. 32.

110-METER HURDLE: Atkinson (South Africa) won; Anderson (America) second; Collier (America) third. Time 14 4-5 s.

200-METERS: Williams (Canada) won; Rangely (Great Britain) second; Scholtz (America) third. Time 21 4-5 s.

1,500-METERS: Larva (Finland) won; Ladoumegue (France second; Purje (Finland) third. Time 3 m. 53 1-5 s.

JAVELIN: Lindquist (Sweden) won; Myrrah (Finland) second; Szepes (Hungary) third. Distance: 66 m. 60.

5.000-	METERS: Rittola (Finland) won; Nurmi (Finland) second; Wide (Sweden) third. Time: 14 m. 38 s.

400-METERS: Marbuti (America) won; Ball (Canada) second; Buchner (Germany) third. Time: 47 4-5 s.

3.000-	METERS Steeplechase: Loukila (Finland) won; Nurmi (Finland) second; Anderson (Finland) third. Time: 9 m. 21 4-5 s.

PENTATHLON: Thofeld (Sweden) won; Lindman (Sweden) second; Kahl (Germany) third.

Digitized by L^ooQie
282

400-METER RELAY: America, won; Germany, second; Great Britain, third. Time: 41 s.

1,600-METER RELAY: America, won; Germany, second; Canada, third. Time: 3 m. 14 1-6 s.

MARATHON: El Ouafi (France) won; Plaza (Chili) second; Marttelin (Finland) third. Time: 2 h. 32 m. 57 s.

WOMEN’S EVENTS:

100-METERS: Robinson (America) won; Rosenfield (Canada) second; Smith (Canada) third. Time: 12 1-5 s.

DISCUS: Konopacka (Poland) won; Copeland (America) second; Svedberg (Sweden) third. Distance: 39 m. 17.

800-METERS: Radke (Germany) won; Hitomi (Japan) second; Gentzel (Sweden) third. Time: 2 m. 16 4-5 s.

HIGH JUMP: Catherwood (Canada) won; Gisolf (Holland) second; Wiley (America) third. Height: 1 m. 56.

400-METER RELAY: Canada, won; America, second; Germany, third. Time: 48 2-5 s. -

Health education notes

< -- - ■<>

JUVENILE RHEUMATISM

Dr. Reginald Miller, honorary secretary of the British Medical Association Subcommittee on Rheumatism and Heart Disease in Children, said that juvenile rheumatism was massed among the children of the poor. It was not due to case to case infection but seemed to be an environmental disease. So close was the relation with tonsillar disease that it appeared that the environmental factors must to some extent work by producing infected tonsils. There was a particular connection with damp dwellings.

The Causation

Sir Humphry Rolleston said that the term "rheumatic diseases" was convenient, if umbrella-like, as it included those acute and chronic infections, rheumatic fever and the rheumatoid groups. At one end of the scale was acute rheumatic fever, remarkably amenable to salicylates; at the other end was ostear-thritis, largely if not entirely a degenerative disease and not responding to salicylates. Between these two was a train of gradual transitions. The characteristic lesion of rheumatic fever was the formation of nodules, large in the subcutaneous tissues, sub-miliary in the heart. Subcutaneous nodules had often been found in rheumatoid arthritis and ostearthritis, but nodules had not been found in the heart. Fibrositis, the nonarthritic form of chronic rheumatism, was also accompanied by nodule formation. The streptococcal causation of acute rheumatism had steadily gained ground. It might be argued that the various members of

Digitized by LaOOQle
283

the family of rheumatic diseases were streptococcal in origin and that their clinical differences depended on variations in the seed “and inborn or acquired differences in the soil,” namely, the constitutional, metabolic and endocrine factors.

Prevention

Dr. R. L. J. Llewellyn insisted on maintenance of the functional efficiency of the skin, which was best achieved by hydrotherapy with alternating applications of hot and cold water to the skin surface. “Our climate will not adapt itself to us and we must therefore adapt ourselves to it. Our people need hardening, not coddling.” A national cult of skin hygiene and hydrotherapy should be initiated.

Treatment of Acute Rheumatism in Childhood

Dr. F. J. Poynton did not believe in sodium salicylate for young children with acute rheumatic carditis. He used neocin-chophen. It was never followed by the depression and possible death from coma that might occur if salicylate was pushed.

Vaccines

Sir William Willcox found that the virulent cases of rheumatic fever so common thirty years ago did not now occur to anything like the same extent, which he attributed largely to the development of school hygiene. In chronic rheumatism, vaccines should not be given until after the fullest clinical investigation and the treatment of any foci of infection. They were contraindicated when sensitization to the toxins of infection existed; also if there were associated exophthalmic goiter. They were of value in chronic rheumatism when any gross focus of infection had been removed and the toxic process was being carried on by the chronic infection of a mucous surface with its accompanying glandular tissue. Stock streptococcal vaccines were far inferior to autogenous vaccines.

THE NUTRIENT MERITS OF POTATO PROTEIN

As the potato may yield from twenty to thirty times the weight of wheat, barley or oats, its importance as a food supply in densely peopled regions is apparent. Next to corn it is our greatest food plant, and outside the com belt it is without a rival in North America, Europe or Asia. An economist has remarked that if need be the potato may revolutionize the economic status of a great section of central North America from central Ohio to the forests of the Ontario highlands, and from Newfoundland to Michigan, Manitoba, Alberta and Alaska. He adds that if at any time any one fears the early approach of serious food shortage, let him consider the potato ana take comfort. This article of food is second only to wheat in the number of times a year that it is eaten in America, and in Europe it probably stands first. Analysis shows that it is close to wheat in actual food

Digitized by Google
284

value, but it contains so much water that four times as much potato as wheat must be eaten in order to obtain the same amount of nourishment.

Perhaps these tubers, sometimes called “spuds,” have not acquired the dietary reputation to which their nutritive properties entitle them. The fuel value of the potato is as well utilized as that of most foods. The credit of whatever excellence it may possess is usually attributed to the starch content. Potatoes, are, of course, predominantly a carbohydrate food, but the evidence is becoming more conclusive that the protein in the tubers, small though it may be in quantity, is by no means of inferior value. Hindhede and his co-workers in Denmark reported their ability to live over long periods of time on a diet in which the nitrogen was derived solely from whole potato. One person partook without detriment of a diet of between 4*^ and 9 pounds of potatoes daily, with some vegetable margarine, during nearly 300 days. This has led a physiologist to remark somewhat facetiously: “What could be more simple than stocking the cellar with coal, potatoes, and a tub of margarine! Who then would worry about the complexities of modern life?”

The large scale natural experiments of potato-eating nations seem to establish the high value of potato protein. However, there are today experimental methods that permit the biologic evaluation of proteins on the basis of prolonged tests on suitable animals. The satisfactory value of tuberin, the globulin of potato has been established anew by Kon at the Biochemical Laboratory in Cambridge, England. Furthermore, Kon and Klein, working in the State School of Hygiene at Warsaw, Poland, have described an experiment in which two adults, a man and a woman, lived for a period of 167 days in nitrogen equilibrium and in good health on a diet in which the nitrogen was almost solely derived from the potato. The daily nitrogen intake was on the average 5.7 Gm. for the man and 3.8 Gm. for the woman. Necessarily the daily intake of potatoes (which was supplemented with fats and a few fruits) was large. The digestion seems to have been excellent throughout the experiment and both subjects felt well. It is reported, moreover, that they did not tire of the uniform potato diet and that there was no craving for change. It is said that deficiency diseases are not common where the potato enters liberally into the diet. Such favorable reports give renewed assurance that the popular tuber is truly endowed with nutrient merits alike “for man and beast.”

HEART STRAIN

In this age of excessive activities and of the vogue for competitive athletics, not only in athletic associations, universities colleges and preparatory schools for both sexes but also in high schools and even in grammar schools, the athletic heart and heart strain are subjects of constant interest. Recently the Kahns have emphasized anew that the circulation and the heart can

Digitized by L^ooQle
285

stand strain without harm if the person has been trained to gradually increasing labor or athletic work. But the heart must rest for a considerable period after such exertion before the exertion is renewed, even when the person has been trained to violent effort, else cardiac strain will occur. If the strain is too frequently repeated or too prolonged, even in a trained athlete, feats of strength and endurance will cause respiratory and circulatory injury. The greatest strain in athletics occurs in rowing, running and fast bicycle riding, and collapse with acute cardiac enlargement not infrequently ensues during these tests, even when the person has been long trained. In early adolescence, when the heart has not become inured to labor or when the heart has been injured by some previous infection or previous cardiac strain, the organ will be more susceptible to acute injury from competitive athletics.

Insidious chronic infection may weaken the heart muscle and predispose it to strain from overwork. Tuberculosis, syphilis and the excessive use of tobacco and alcohol can cause weakening of the heart muscle, and in some cases of the aorta. Infection of the tonsils with Streptococcus hemolyticus can cause subacute inflammations in the heart of the rheumatic type as well as typical acute rheumatism and rheumatic endocarditis. Focal infection at the roots of the teeth with Streptococcus nonhemolyticus ( viridans) can cause insidious as well as at times acute bacterial disturbance of the heart. Deaver of Philadelphia believes that chronic appendicitis is a frequent cause of secondary infection.

The Kahns note that cardiac strain may occur with exertion following acute illness or during anemia, or after fatigue or prolonged grief with insufficient sleep. Even when a person is used to a laborious occupation, an excessive strain, as from lifting, especially in an uncomfortable position, may cause heart injury. Persons over 40 years of age are liable to heart strain from any excessive unusual work. This is especially true of men who may have been athletic when young but who have been in occupations that do not cause much muscle exercise and who suddenly do hard lifting, rapid stair climbing or mountain climbing. Severe athletic work and long hard labor have generally caused hypertrophy of the heart muscle, especially the left ventricle, and have been shown to predispose to aortic injury, perhaps with sclerosis. These tissues do not well stand serious illness, injuries, operations, and especially pneumonia. Athletes have long been determined to be imperfect insurance risks.

A frequent associate of aortic strain as noted by these inves-gators is a tendency to atheromatous deposits around the orifices of the coronary arteries. When insufficiency of the circulation in a coronary artery takes place, the heart is injured and acute anginal attacks are likely to develop.

Excessive aortic pressure from strenuous labor or strenuous athletics or from prolonged high blood pressure, though compensated for a long time by left ventricle hypertrophy, may, from

Digitized by i^ooQle
286

some sudden strain, cause acute dilatation of this ventricle, insufficiency of the mitral valve, and consequent great prostration. Often with proper rest and treatment the ventricle contracts and the mitral valve again becomes sufficient. Sudden excessive aortic strain in man, as they also note by experiments on animals, can cause serious harm to the aortic valve, as well as rupture of an injured aorta. Indeed, even the ventricle may rupture.

In acute heart strain the symptoms develop almost immediately and the patient collapses. In chronic heart strain acute symptoms may not occur, but the cardiac disability develops insidiously. Often pain or ache in the region of the heart becomes apparent, and is generally increased by any, sometimes moderate, muscular effort. A feeling of weakness occurs, sometimes dizziness on first arising, or especially on quickly rising from the reclining position, often accompanied by dyspnea. Cardiac asthma may develop. The heart often becomes irregular; the coronary circulation especially may be interfered with, and there may be palpitation. Of course if decompensation occurs the usual symptoms develop. The immediate physical signs, besides the prostration, are generally a rapid, feeble pulse, more or less irregular, rapid heart action, and often dyspnea. The vital capacity is reduced, and there may be tender spots around the left lower chest almost typical of intercostal nerve tenderness.

There can be no question of the seriousness of this condition. If acute, the rest period must be prolonged, and when there is temporary total disability these clinicians think a year is not too long for rest and medical care, if the recovery is to be permanent. Fortunately, the majority of these acute attacks of heart strain are soon over, and with proper care the heart may return to its apparently normal strength; but any excessive strenuosity must be prevented. Such hearts are again easily strained, and the disability may become permanent.

Young growing boys and girls should be prevented from excessive athletics. More mature youths should De examined as to cardiac strength before they are allowed to enter athletic teams, and then should be frequently examined following athletic tests to note how well the circulation is withstanding the strain. Older persons, before taking up rapid walking, hill climbing, mountain climbing, rowing, tennis or golf, where the sport is strenuous, should be carefully examined as to the condition of the heart, arteries, blood pressure and kidney function. The unavoidable strenuosities of the present era promote cardiac tire, and the tendency to excessive play, even excessive dancing adds to that tire.

The Adult Cripple

Extracts from address by Archer O’Reilly, M. D. St. Louis. There is much interest in the problem of the crippled child, and in most states much is being done for his care and education. The crippled child of today is the adult cripple of tomorrow, and

Digitized by <^.ooQle
287

everything that is done to restore him lessens the problem of the adult cripple. This activity is an encouraging sign of an awakening interest on the part of the nation in regard to its responsibility for its cripples.

Crippled children are always objects of sympathy and the public is easily aroused to support any measure for their relief. Adult cripples, on the other hand, may arouse sympathy as individuals, but as a class they are regarded as accidents of life, to be helped if possible, or supported at public or private expense when adequate means of treatment are lacking. The cripple as an economic responsibility is receiving considerable attention from state and federal governments and much advance has been made in vocational rehabilitation, but the public must be aroused to the problem before we can hope that it will be solved.

The crippled child, the adult crippled by disease, and the ever increasing number of industrial and public accident cases supply us with the yearly quota of adult cripples. That this

Suota is large is shown by numerous statistics. A bulletin of the forth Dakota Rehabilitation Service says, “It is a striking fact that there are more accidents each year in industry resulting in total or partial disability than resulted from American participation in tne recent war. There were 3,800 leg and arm amputations in the American forces. There occur yearly approximately

14,000	amputations as a result of accidents," and these are mostly industrial. Edgar F. Allen, president of the International Society for Crippled Children, estimates that there are 500,000 cripples in the United States under 21 years of age. The federal Board of Vocational Education estimates that each year 50,000 are added to the army of disabled in need of vocational rehabilitation; this does not include patients unfit for rehabilitation, but does include those disabled from disease.

The adult cripple is an orthopedic problem. The orthopedic surgeon must see that the disabled person is made as nearly normal as possible, so that he may be given the best opportunity for a happy and useful life.

The patient must be under the care of men trained in the treatment of crippling diseases and accidents. At present, too many patients are seen with needless disability as a result of unskilled treatment. Ungers and joints are permanently stiffened because the attending physician did not know the importance, or the technic, of mobilization; there are weeks or months of unnecessary idleness while motion is being restored to needlessly stiff joints, or while unnecessary deformities are being corrected. Industry must be taught that, in the long run, skilled advice is cheap, both from a humanitarian point of view, and especially from an economic one. Adequate facilities for treatment are necessary for good results.

Digitized by AjOOQle
288

Knock Knee and Flat Foot

Statistics compiled from the draft during the recent World War have been often quoted, and have thrown much light upon remediable conditions in persons of the draft age in the United States and elsewhere.

This great emergency revealed the large number of men unfit for mental or physical strain who were yet able to plod along doing their daily civilian tasks. The number of countries with a republican form of government has increased since War. Government then, on the whole, is better for the average man since this calamity. If the Health of the population of America improves along the lines indicated to be necessary by draft figures, another benefit from the War will be established. However, there is no assurance that this is occurring.

“Among the first million men to be mobilized during the World War, one rachitic deformity, flat foot, was found to be practically as frequent (one Jiundred and seventy per thousand) as all other diseases and deformities combined (one hundred and eighty per thousand.)”

Recent statistics from colleges and naval recruiting stations indicate a prevalence of flat foot still in the population today. Examination of school children in Oregon showed that less than ten per cent were entirely free from it.

There is a prevalence of rickets among the young and adult population today. Medical photographs of children with rickets usually show flat foot. Hess believes that associated with the boney deformities of rickets there is generally a marked laxity of the ligaments of the knee joint and bones of the foot, which is conducive to flat foot and knock knee but that rickets is not the sole cause of flat foot.

The conditions are, according to Moore of Portland, Oregon, intimately related to rickets. Moore shows photographs of two puppies, litter mates, one rachitic through diet and the other by diet normal. The rachitic animal had notably enlarged and angular epihyses and flattened feet upon which he unresistingly sank. The normal dog was more on his toes. Rickets in the puppy results in a looseness of joints of the knees and bones of the foot as may be shown roentgenographically. When weight is imposed upon these, the condition in the knees results in genu valgum, or knock knee; in the feet, in the fallen arch.

Roentgenograms of children with rickets exhibit a comparable condition, improper apposition of the bones in the knees permit-ing a decided lateral mobility. In early rickets, Moore believes, the weight of the body causes the joint lines at the knee to form an acute angle instead of being parallel. Lateral mobility at the knee, which is often the first sign of leg rickets in children, may be measured and corrected, in many instances, by orthopedic appliances.

The skeletal signs of rickets appear in the various bones at the time of their most rapid growth. “Consequently the chief

Digitized by
289

manifestations during the first six months of life are in the flat bones of the chest as in costomalacia, rosary, and Harrison’s groove; during the second year, in the extremities as enlarged epiphyses, genu valgum or varum and pes planus.”

Foot and knee deformities should occur less frequently if well established knowledge of the anti-rachitic regime in childhood were applied.—Southern Medical Journal.

Monotony Best For Children

Some time ago Bertrand Russell, the celebrated English philosopher, came over to the United States to tell us a few things in his opinion good for us to know—at so many dollars per picture. In an interview given out in New York soon after his arrival, Mr. Russell propounded one idea that observing people readily acknowledge as an important fact. Mr. Russell advised monotony and placidity especially in the education of all children. He said that the efforts of many parents in trying to provide variety and excitement for young children was one of the worst things that could be done for the children. He pointed out that children are much happier in engaging in their own quiet routine. He said that this “love of monotony is deep-rooted in every animal and is the basis of man’s love of home.” He went on to say in his lecture that people believe in homes because they love uniformity, and that a child quickly reacts to any change in the monotony and uniformity of a well ordered daily routine and is easy to impress with fear and anxiety when anything happens to break this orderly round of its existence.

Parents and teachers would do well to listen to the philosophy taught by Mr. Russell. One of the great causes of malnutrition among children today, as pointed out by all students of the subject, is the intense emotional strain. This is often thoroughly established at home, even before the school age is reached, making it more important to prevent such a departure from the normal requirements in the training of each child. Small children can play when not interrupted in their own back yards for hours at a time in their sand piles or with their little playhouses. They can repeat this day after day for months and months. They go to each day’s play with just as much zeal as any adult goes to begin his day’s work in the morning. Such habits make for normal standards of health and peace of mind and should be by all means encouraged and protected by parents until the child is well on toward his adolescent years.

Consultation Centers for Children Difficult to Manage.

At a meeting held in Utrecht, a society was formed in the Netherlands for the creation of consultation centers for children difficult to manage. The society plans to achieve its proposes by (1) the maintenance of consultation centers; (2) the establish-

Digitized by CjOOQle
290

ment of instruction centers for the poor in localities where there are no established consultation bureaus; (3) the studying of general relevant questions; (4) the distribution of tracts, and instruction given to the working class. This year the society proposes the creation of a central bureau of information, which will collect data on the existence of facilities that the Netherlands offers for the attainment of the purpose mentioned; the institution of an inquiry in the interest of the plans proposed, and the creation of a special division of social work for the small towns and the rural districts.

Spray Painting Hazards.—Wherever workers are employed within buildings, booths or other indoor or enclosed spaces in spray coating with materials containing benzene or lead in the form of paints or lacquers, or silicious material in vitreous enamel or similar coatings, whether with or without exhaust ventilation or the use of respirators or masks provision should be made for systematic routine medical examination for the detection of early symptoms of absorption of poison or of silicosis. It is recommended by the Smyths that such operatives be given a physical exami-tion previous to or within one month of employment, in order to obtain a record of their physical condition for comparison with later examinations. Persons spraying compounds containing lead or benzene should be subjected to reexamination at least once every six months, which should include the making of white and red blood cell counts, differential white counts, hemoglobin determinations and stippled cell counts. Persons spraying silicious materials should be examined, with a roentgen-ray examination of their chests, at least once every two years. No person should perform the work of an interior spray-painting operator with paints containing lead or benzene if the results of an examination of his blood show any evidence of a disturbance that would be aggravated by ex:-

Kosure to lead or benzene, or if there is any evidence of lead or enzene absorption.

Curvature of Spine Treatment.—For rachitic deviations in the run-about age, Scheuermann advises the horizontal position or special treatment immediately together with antirachitic treatment; for paralytic deviations, special treatment. In school age poor posture calls for school gymnastics, rest, exercises at home, treatment of possible anemia, and observations; static (congenital) scoliosis, a raised shoe and observation; aggravated rachitic scoliosis and paralytic scoliosis, special treatment. For kyphosis and juvenile kyphoscoliosis at puberty, rest, possibly bandaging, followed later by gymnastic treatment, are indicated. An aggravation of these conditions in adults requires bandaging and gymnastic treatment. He emphasizes the fact that in curvature of the spine only active gymnastic treatment is of lasting value.

Treatment of Eczema.—A dry skin is vulnerable to excessive use of water, especially of soap and water. Such a skin can be made much more tolerant by greasing lightly with cold cream as often

Digitized by v^.ooQle
291

as necessary to keep it soft and pliable. Of course, such a patient should avoid tne excessive use of soap and water and, when soap is necessary, should use a bland toilet soap; that means any of the reputable toilet soaps which are not medicated or different from ordinary soap. After eczema develops it should be frequently greased with a bland ointment, such as cold cream or zinc oxide ointment. There is probably more to the case than is implied in the question. If it is simply an irritant eczema there are probably other irritants which are at fault as well as water; but, assuming that the case is simply one in which a dry skin is irritated by water, the treatment outlined is sufficient.

Muscle Strain from Working with Bent Back as Cause of Backache.—Chronic pain in the sacral region is, Miiller asserts, at least as frequent in men as in women. It is caused almost always by working habitually with the back bent and results from strain of the gluteal and back musculature.

Physical Training in Japan.—Recent statistics in the death rate among pupils in Japanese schools showed that the rate was on an increase and had reached 9 per cent. Tuberculosis was the highest cause of deaths among school children. A commission appointed by the national education authorities to study this grave economic situation came to the conclusion that because of insufficient exercise the youth of Japan lacks vitality.

Based upon this sensational conclusion the minister of the interior has decided to set aside a large sum of money for physical training in schools, and by suitable means to encourage the pupils to participate in physical training, sport and play.

Children’s Avenues in Tokyo.—The children in Tokyo are in danger from playing in the streets, among moving cars or motors, and more than 2,500 victims were reported last year. The municipal authorities are making every effort to establish more parks for them but, as proper sites cannot easily be obtained, it is decided that 200 children’s avenues shall be established in the city, wherein traffic is to be stopped in order to allow children to play from 1 to 5 p. m. after school every day.

Increasing Height of the Japanese.—The physical examination for compulsory military service in Japan, which every Japanese of enlistment age must undergo enables us to see how the height and other characteristics of the young Japanese change from year to year. According to the report from the Northeastern Imperial University, height increased 3.3 cm. on an average during the past thirty-four years, that is, from 1892 to 1926.

BOOK REVIEWS “Physical Education for the Second Grade” by William A. Ocker. Clothbound, 37 pages, Price $1.40. Published by A.

S.	Barnes and Company, New York.

This book, like its predecessor by the same author, is arranged in eighteen lessons in the form of a course of study. It is so used in the Indianapolis Public Schools.

Digitized by LjOOQie
292

The contents include action stories, gymnasium games, mimetic exercises, rhythmics, and song games. The rhythmic steps are arranged in a sequence and increase in difficulty as the lessons progress.

Teachers who are seeking new material of this kind will do well to obtain a copy of this book.

“Outlines in Health Education for Women” by Gertrude Bilhuber and Isabelle Post, published by A. S. Barnes and Company, New York, 1927. Clothbound, 192 pages, 6”x 9”, price $2.00.

This book was designed as a help to teachers and to post-high school women students. The outlines were planned for a course extending over a period of thirty-four weeks with two meetings of the class each week.

Each outline is followed by suggested questions for discussion, and by references. These questions furnish excellent material not only for health conferences and hygiene classes but also for debate and research in English, science and social science classes. If the work in these subjects could be arranged to coincide where the subject-matter rubs shoulders, the close correlation would undoubtedly amplify the significance of the problem.

The subject of health education is approached from the public health viewpoint with particular emphasis laid on social and mental hygiene. For teachers, the suggested outlines are good, for students, it could not replace a text beccause it outlines information which they do not possess.

There is no apparent reason for the arrangement of the sequence of the outlines. The book begins with an historical survey of the progress of medicine during the history of man. For the student of medicine, that may be a logical starting point, but for a student of health education it seems a negative approach. Although there is some attempt at grouping the outlines on mental health and racial health, the outlines on personal and community hygiene are not grouped. The consideration of community hygiene before personal hygiene is contrary to the interests of the student. However, rearrangement to permit any desired continuity is possible and such rearrangement is suggested by the authors.

The bibliography includes books, magazine articles and pamphlets. The last named are published by various social, commercial and educational organizations. These references are good for two reasons: 1) the writers represented are those who have contributed decidedly worthwhile health education material, and 2) most of the publications have not yet reached their tenth birthday. We do not always look to the infants to lead us, but in personal and public health work the viewpoint has undergone such rapid change that pre-war publications do not express the attitude that is popular today.

In Appendix 5 there are listed the leading health education journals that are published in the United States. The other ap-

Digitized by LjOOQ ie
293

pendices are devoted to: - 1) a section for parents concerning symptoms of physical disorders in children; 2) forms for histories, physical records and minimal examinations for girls and women at various ages; 3) the University of Michigan Health Service form; and 4) a list of the names and addresses of organizations in the United States which promote health work.

Rhea O. Baker.

“Apparatus and Tumbling Exercises,” by Leopold Zwarg For Boys and Men in High Schools, Colleges, Clubs and Playgrounds. Clothbound, 316 pages. Price $4.00. Published by J. J. MeVey, Philadelphia.

This book by the author of “Apparatus Work for Boys and and Girls” is undoubtedly the best of its kind printed in our language. Years of experience as a teacher of physical education and as a first class performer on the gymnastic apparatus have made Mr. Zwarg eminently fit to write such a contribution to our literature.

The book contains progressively ‘arranged lessons for tumbling, horizontal bar, parallel bars, side and long horse, buck, vaulting box, rings, climbing poles and ropes, and illustrations of pyramids. In addition to this there is extremely valuable information concerning principles and methods of teaching, administration, nomenclature, guide for leaders, management of a gymnastic meet, guide for competitors, judging of competitive apparatus exercises, and A. A. U., Eastern Intercollegiate Gymnastic League, and American Gymnastic Union rules.

A wealth of diagrams and tables and no less than 475 excellent photographic illustrations have been used in making this book the outstanding work of its kind.

We cannot praise it too highly.

Grover W. Mueller.

“Physical Education Activities for High School Girls,”

by the Staff of the Department of Physical Education for Women, University of Michigan. Clothbound, 322 pages. Illus-strated with 54 engravings. Price $3.50. Lea and Febiger, Philadelphia.

Teachers will find this book on physical education activities for high school girls very interesting. It contains a considerable amount of information concerning many phases of physical education including games, dances, rhythmical activities, tumbling, tennis strokes and tests, courses in swimming, canoeing, archery, golf, and a point system of awards. Apparatus work and gymnastics receive no more than mere mention. Many good references are given.

The authors divide physical activity into five classifications according to strenuousness. The importance of assigning the proper exercises to meet the needs of each girl is emphasized. The needs of the girls are to be determined by physical and medical examinations.

Digitized by tjOOQle
294

This is a good book for use by teachers or camp councillors who wish a source of all-round activity material to augment a program already organized.

Louise Reichelt and Martha Gable.

“Fundamental Gymnastics" by Niels Bukh, Emily R. Andrews, and Karen Vesterdal, published by E. P. Dutton Co., New York City, 1928. Clothbound, 122 pages, price $2.00.

This book is an attempt to meet the increasing demand for further knowledge of Niels Bukh’s program of fundamental gymnastics. It includes a translation of Mr. Bukh’s second Danish edition of Fundamental Gymnastics and considerable discussion of the objectives, values, and characteristics of this type of physical education. As a further elaboration upon Bukh’s second edition, two chapters have been added dealing with teaching meth-thods, progression, and adaptation. In Chapter V, the names of starting positions have been simplified so that they are now more easily understood and usable. Chapter IX of the second edition entitled “Jumping, Vaulting, and Agility Exercises” has been rearranged and expanded in this book under the title of “Self Testing Activities”. At the end of the book are tables of exercises based on the subject matter of the book.

This little volume includes all that the second edition offers and presents it in a much more interesting and useful way. In addition, it includes new chapters which should be of value to any teacher teaching this phase of physical education. The work of these two disciples of Bukh is a credit to their teacher and a service to those in the physical education teaching profession.

John C. Kieffer.

• ►------------------------------------------------—-------■-

News, notes and comments

. ■■■ ■ - ■ — ■ ■	i>

50,000 Persons Enjoy Bowling in Philadelphia

Fifty thousand bowling enthusiasts are engaging in matches each week in Philadelphia and the vicinity. The great majority of the fans are enrolled in leagues, made up of quintets of men and women, who compete on the public alleys. They find in the pastime a splendid means of keeping fit.

Philadelphia has 568 public alleys, This city and suburbs, including South Jersey points, present 781 alleys. It is estimated rentals and equipment cost $1,000,000.

Environment is in a measure responsible for the boom. The ideal arrangements of the palatial centers and the friendly atmosphere prevailing have attracted hundreds of enthusiasts.

Tossing a sixteen pound sphere down the glistening alleys and watching the ball as it revolves and hits the tenpins, standing in pyramid formation sixty-three feet away, gives a thrill which has gripped young and old, male and female in a wave of popular enthisiasm.—Public ledger.

Digitized by
295

WRESTLING IN INDIA

An account was published in the Times of March 2nd, of modem wrestling in India, which includes a description of the ceremonial acts preceding a bout. In most places each wrestler “breathes a silent prayer, then touches the sand three times and lifts some of it to his brow, after which he leaps up and down in the open, slapping his thighs with resounding smacks. Some only perform this ritual just before their own bout; others go with the party from their own wrestling school and worship in unison. The experts go through an immense amount of preliminaries, even after the formal shaking of hands. They do a press-up to improve their own muscles, and a squat or two to relax their legs, and smack their biceps before facing each other in crouching positions, left hand on thigh and right hand outstretched to grip. Whenever, however, the spectators are expecting a start, they get up, walk around the ring, and face again with right hand on thigh and left out. The crowd will not stand such nonsense from beginners, who are expected to get on with it quickly; but the great men refuse to be hustled. The battle is not over until both shoulders are touched down, and it is surprising how wriggles and contortions will extricate a man.”—Reprint from * Man.”

WRESTLING IN KOLOGIA

Writing in the January-June (1927) issue of the Journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute, Mr. E. D. Emley thus describes the manner in which wrestling is conducted in this little known area of the country over which Great Britain has some control:

“By far the most popular game amongst the Turkana is wrestling ( akiliaka,) but not wrestling as we know it. The main rule of the game appears to be that one must keep one’s fingers clasped behind one’s adversary’s back the whole time, until one is able to throw him over by sheer strength.

“The struggle commences by each throwing his arms around the other’s body, and interlacing his fingers behind the other’s back.

“The first move is to try to throw one’s adversary from a standing position, by bending his head back until his knees give under him. If this method fails, each moves his feet back till the opponents are leaning to each other chest to chest. After much struggling, the fight generally ends in one of the parties throwing one leg forward and lifting the other clean off his feet, when a quick motion sideways will hurl the loser on his back. It is not necessary to hold a man down, the mere fact of his having lost control of his feet giving the other the victory. Tripping is allowed and considered a sign of exceptional skill.”

The above description suggests a primitive form of the Westmorland and Cumberland style without, of course, its finer points.

Digitized by

Google
BUY

CHRISTMAS SEALS

VV/OULD you buy Christmas ” Seals if you knew that in twenty years the death-rate from tuberculosis had been cut in half—a saving of more than 125,000 lives in the year 1928 alone?

Then "Buy Christmas Seals,” for they are fighting tuberculosis every day of the year.

Christmas Seals give protection to your friends, to your family—and to you!

THE NATIONAL, STATE, AND LOCAL TUBERCULOSIS ASSOCIATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES