Vol. 12.

DECEMBER, 1905.

No. 142

Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conny

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

WM. A. STECHER, Physical Director, Public Schools, Indianapolis, Ind. DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760— 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

THE FIRST INTRODUCTION OF THE JAHN GYMNASTICS INTO AMERICA (1825-30).

By FRED EUGENE LEONARD, Oberlin College.

IV.

ALTHOUGH he passed a year in the English metropolis, supporting himself by private instruction in German and Italian at six shillings a lesson, Lieber’s thoughts were soon turned from this uncertain means of livelihood to the possibility of a career in the United States. As early as August his diary contains this entry: “Mrs. Austin, the authoress, introduced me to Mr. Bentham, and to Mr. [John] Neal, an American; so perhaps I may go to America.” On September 29 he writes: “Dr. Thiarks informs me that Mr. Bond of Boston is looking out for a teacher of gymnastics. Mr. Bond calls and confirms this in case Mr. Buck should not accept.” The American Journal of Education for November of that year (1826. Vol. I, pp. 699-701) quotes as follows from “a recent letter of our literary countryman Mr. Neal, who has taken a very active part in aiding the interests of Prof. Voelker’s establishment in London, and to whose attention we have been repeat-

Digitized by
-282-

«dly indebted for intelligence on gymnastics:” 4You know my zeal about gymnastics. I have been heartily engaged for above a year in the study and practice of them in every variety; and under a hope that I may be of use to my countrymen. I have found three men who I am told are qualified, almost beyond example, for teachers. I enclose you the proposals and the certificate of one, who was a chief personage with professor Jahn himself.’

Proposals of Dr. Francis Lieber: “1) Dr. Lieber proposes to establish a gymnasium; the apparatus and the ground necessary are to be furnished him. 2) That Dr. Lieber has a free passage from England to America. 3) That 800 dollars* be guaranteed to Dr. Lieber for the first year. 4) That if 1,000 dollars be given in the first year Dr. Lieber will take Mr. A. Baur, student of theology, with him to America, to assist in teaching, which will be very advantageous to the pupils, as Mr. Baur presided over the Gymnasium at Tubingen, and was several years under Dr. Jahn in the central institution at Berlin. Dr. Lieber thinks that Mr. Baur would accompany him to America if there were for future time any prospect of employment as teacher of gymnastics or as a protestant minister; but as Dr. Lieber only suggests the possibility of Mr. Baur going to America, he would like to know the decision in both cases. If there are given 1,000 dollars to Dr. Lieber Mr. Baur wants only free passage to America. 5) Dr. Lieber also proposes to establish a Swimming School, the materials and place must be furnished him, and he will pay interest upon the capital so advanced, by instalments, until he has paid the principal. 6) That Dr. Lieber is not to pay any interest upon the expenses for erecting the Gymnasium.”

The certificate of Professor Jahn:	“Francis Lieber, Doctor in

Philosophy, has during several successive years, both in summer and winter, gone through the whole course of gymnastic exercises in the gymnasium over which I, the undersigned, presided; he has also accompanied me in several pedestrian excursions, among others in 1817 to the Island of Riigen, and in 1818 to the Riesen mountains, on which travels we visited many Prussian gymnasiums. Having found him of good moral behavior, ingenious and clever, and being a good leader and teacher of gymnastics, I thought it right as early as the year 1817 to propose him to the government of the Rhenish Provinces at Aix la Chapelle for the situation of a teacher of gymnastic exercises. Beloved by the young scholars, esteemed and respected by those of the same or a more advanced age than himself, he was elected a member of the committee which was intended to represent the society of ‘Turners* and to promote the art generally, with a view as well to the art itself as to morals and science. At the time when Dr. Lieber was daily with me he zealously adhered to those eternal maxims of truth, duty, and liberty which form the only basis of the progress of human kind. The journeys which he

* Note by Mr. Neal: “This will be a matter for negotiation. I have told Dr. Lieber that if he is employed he will be supported respectably, and I named 800 dollars as being pretty sure. I should mention that Dr. L. speaks English very well—so as to be quite intelligible to everybody; and that he teaches not only Gymnastics, as they are usually taught, but swimming, riding, and fencing.”

Digitized by t^ooQie
* 283-

has since performed through Germany, Switzerland, to France, Italy, and Greece, have no doubt still farther formed his understanding and enlarged his mind; but on this point I cannot judge from ray own knowledge, having since lost sight of him although he lives in my rettlUection. At the request of Dr. Lieber I have given this testimonial, stamped according to law, written with my own hand, with my seal affixed and certified by the municipality of my present abode. Freiburg on the Unstrut, in the^ Prussian Duchy of Saxony. August 1st, 1826. (Signed) Frederick Louis Jahn, Doctor in Philosophy.”

“In addition to the above,” the Editor of the Journal concludes, “Dr. Lieber has a very satisfactory certificate from Major General Pfuel, who invented the new method of teaching to swim and established the Prussian Military Swimming Schools. It may be proper to add that Dr. Lieber is known and approved by Dr. Follen, Professor [!] of civil law in Harvard University and Superintendent of the gymnasium in Boston.”

April 13, 1827, in response to an invitation just received, Lieber wrote accepting a position as Follen’s successor at the Boston Gymnasium, and agreeing to establish a swimming school in that city. June 20 of the same year he landed in New York City, and proceeded at once to the scene of his new duties. The Boston Medical Intelligencer of July 3 (Vol. V, p. 118) announces his arrival “to take charge of the gymnasium in Washington Garden and to open a swimming school;” and an advertisement in the same journal, dated July 14, gives notice that “Dr. Lieber’s Swimming School, situate on the north side of the Mill Dam,* will be opened for the reception of pupils on Wednesday next, 18th inst. Terms of admission, ten dollars for the season [four months], payable in advance. . . Dr. L. teaches on the system of M. Pfuel, General in the Prussian Army, who introduced it in the regiments of Prussia and in many of the first cities of the kingdom, namely, Berlin, Coblenz, Breslau, Konigsberg, etc. A swimming school on the same system is now established in London, under the direction of another Prussian officer. . . The school will be open daily, from half past five o’clock in the morning till one, and from four o’clock in the afternoon till eight. . .”

The swimming school seems to have proved a successful venture from the start, and was still in existence at least as late as the season of 1S32, for Lieber’s diary contains this entry under date of August 4 of that year; “Swam in the swimming school with Mr. Audubon, the ornithologist, who has just returned from Florida, where he shot birds and painted for his large work.” A writer in the American Annals of Education and Instruction for July, 1833 (Vol. Ill, pp. 311-317), in the course of an article on “Swimming as a Branch of Physical Education,” refers to the Boston school as one “which has been in operation several seasons, and is. I believe, a place of considerable resort. I have visited, and observed the method of conducting it.” And again,

# According to the Intelligencer of August 7 it lay “a little north of the Western Avenue,” and Lieber himself, in a letter to his parents, describes the location as “on the bay, which is surrounded by hills, little towns, woods, and part of Boston itself.”

Digitized by
—284—

. farther on, he speaks of the “more than two hundred . . that attended last summer . . .” The popularity of the gymnasium, on the other hand, soon waned. From a sketch of the life of William Bentley Fowle contained in Barnard’s American Journal of Education for 1861 (Vol. X, p. 607) we learn that about four hundred gentlemen attended at the opening term. Mr. Fowle was chosen treasurer, and was in fact the chief executive officer. When Dr. Follen resigned Dr. Lieber was invited over from London; but no talent could keep the gymnasium alive after the novelty had ceased, and some of the gymnasts had been caricatured in the print shops. The institution lingered about two years, when, only about four gymnasts remaining, Mr. Fowle closed its accounts.”

Lieber’s own ideas regarding the nature and means of physical training are preserved for us in two articles contributed by him to the American Journal of Education of August, 1827 (Vol. II, pp. 487-491), and the American Quarterly Review of March, 1828 (Vol. Ill, pp. 126-150). The former, which gives his views concerning the exercises suitable for girls and women, is a review of Signor Voarino’s “A Treatise on Calisthenic Exercises, arranged for the Private Tuition of Ladies” (London, 1827); and of Gustavus Hamilton’s “The Elements of Gymnastics, for Boys, and of Calisthenics, for Young Ladies” (London, 1827). The latter article, starting out as a review of Beck’s “Treatise on Gymnasticks” (Northampton, Mass., 1828), contains a historical sketch of physical training as practised among the Greeks and Romans, during the Middle Ages, and in modern times; he then proceeds to outline two courses of exercises, “of which the first, we think, should be practised till the age of sixteen or seventeen years, and then give place to the second,” discusses the benefits of the public gymnasium and how these may be brought within the reach of the different classes in a community, directs attention to the good results which might follow from gymnastic festivals, and after adding a few paragraphs on medical gymnastics concludes with strong commendation of swimming as an exercise.

Beck left the Round Hill school in 1830, to take pai tin establishing another boys’ school, in Phillipstown, on the Hudson River opposite West Point. Two years later he was elected “University Professor of Latin, and Permanent Tutor,” in Harvard University, and for eighteen years discharged the duties of that position in a manner which won the respect and affectionate regard of pupils and colleagues. .He belonged to several important learned societies, and in 1865 received from the University the degree of LL.D. Upon resigning his chair, and until his death, which occurred suddenly on March 19, 1866. he was occupied with literary pursuits and classical studies, and also held various offices of public trust, representing Cambridge for two years in the State Legislature. Early in 1827 he had married Miss Louisa A. Henshaw, of Northampton. She died in 1830, and the following year he married her sister. Bancroft, too, had withdrawn from the school at Northampton in 1830. For some years longer, in the face of financial losses and in spite of failing health, Cogswell struggled to maintain its efficiency. September 16, 1832, he writes: “The truth is, the cause of sound education is losing ground; every institution in this neighborhood which purported to follow in our track has either sunk in the west, or

Digitized by

Google
-285-

becn converted into some miserable manual labor affair.” And December 8, 1833; ‘‘Every year I remain at Round Hill makes me poorer and more in debt. . . My own bad calculations drew me into expenditures for the school beyond what my means could sustain and have kept me in constant embarrassment and uneasiness.” In the spring of 1834 he finally gave up the attempt, and after two years at the head of a boys’ school near Raleigh, North Carolina, turned his back forever on a profession in which he had been in man}' ways singularly successful. He was later instrumental in rousing the interest of Mr. John Jacob Astor in plans for a great public library, and from May, 1848, till the end of 1861 was Superintendent of the Astor Library in New York City. He died in Cambridge November 26, 1871.

Follen, as we have seen, resigned his position at the Boston gymnasium early in the summer of 1827; the title “Superintendent of the Gymnasium” at Harvard is given him only in the catalogue for 1827-28, which also contains the last reference to “gymnastick exercises.” Finding no suitable textbooks in existence he had at once undertaken the preparation of a German reader for his classes, following this with a grammar which ran through many editions. Professor Ticknor wrote of him in 1826: “Our German teacher. Dr. Follen . . is a fine felfow, an excellent scholar, and teaches German admirably. . . He is a modest, thorough, faithful German scholar, who will do good among us.” August 21, J828, the Corporation of Harvard College appointed him “Instructor in Ethics and in Civil and Ecclesiastical History” in the Theological School, in addition to his work in the College. Two years later he received a five-year appointment as Professor of the German Language and Literature, three friends having guaranteed a portion of his salary for that period. The professorship was not renewed in 1835, and his connection with the University came to an end. September 15, 1828, he had married Miss Eliza Lee Cabot (1787-1860) of Boston, at one time a popular writer, who afterwards became his biographer. In the summer of 1833 he became interested in the Anti-slavery Society which had been formed the year previous in Boston—his wife was also a staunch abolitionist—and soon joined it, assisting later in the formation of a similar society in Cambridge, and at one time serving as a manager of the Massachusetts Society. As early as the win ter of 1826-27 he formed the acquaintance of Dr. William Ellery Channing, and decided to prepare himself for the ministry with the assistance of that distinguished Unitarian clergyman. July 28, 1828, having delivered a sermon before the Boston Association of Ministers, he was regularly admitted as a candidate, although not ordained till October 30, 1836, and besides acting as supply in various churches was engaged for longer periods by the First Unitarian Church in New York City (from October of 1836 until May of 1838) and by a parish in East Lexington, near Boston (after May of 1839). On January 13, 1840, three days after completing a well-attended course of six lectures on German literature under the auspices of the Merchants’ Library Association of New York, he left that city for Boston on the steamboat “Lexington.” About fifty miles out, on the Sound, the vessel caught fire, and Follen, together with all but four of the crew and passengers, met his death. The Christina Examiner for

Digitized by
-286-

March, 1840, contained a Memorial Discourse by William E. Channing, and another was delivered in Boston before the Massachusetts Antislavery Society by Samuel May. One of Whittier’s “Miscellaneous Poems” bears the name “Follen.” Charles Sumner, who had been his pupil, wrote to a friend, “Dr. Follen is gone; able, virtuou§, learned, good, with a heart throbbing to all that is honest ard humane;” and Dr. Channing “said of him that he was, on the whole, the best man he had ever known.”

The career of Francis Lieber in the United States was more notable than those of either of his compatriots. A testimonial from Niebuhr, and his own force of intellect and character, secured him at once a very cordial reception on this side of the Atlantic, and upon the recommendation of the same distinguished patron a half-dozen leading periodicals in Germany appointed him American correspondent. At the close of his first season at the swimming school he turned with great energy to literary labors, and soon made up his mind to edit an encyclopaedia, modeled after the seventh edition of the Brockhaus “Conversations-Lexicon” and in part a translation of that famous German work, but adapted to English readers and supplied with numerous additional articles by distinguished American contributors. June 18, 1828, he writes: “I am going to Philadelphia to see Carey, Lea, and Carey about the publication of the Conservations-Lexicon. The directors of the gymnasium have given me a three-months vacation without my asking for it, in order to allow me to attend to private business. I shall go to Baltimore, Washington, and Richmond, and give an account of my journey in my letters to the ‘Allgemeine Zeitung.’ ” The first volume of the new “Encyclopaedia Americana” appeared in 1829, and the thirteenth and last in 1833. It proved a successful venture financially and brought him also the acquaintance of prominent men in all parts of the country. September 1, 1833, he writes: “Letter from Nicholas Biddle of Philadelphia, in the name of the trustees of the Girard Fund, charging me to draw up the plan for the college. It is an important diarge, and I enter upon it with what I might call a pious feeling.” The same month he moved his family—on September 21, 1829, he had married Miss Matilda Oppen-heim, whom he met during the year in England—from Boston to Philadelphia, and by October 19th had finished the draft of a constitution for Girard College. June 5, 1835, he was unanimously elected Professor ot History and Political Economy in South Carolina College, at Columbia. The twenty-one years of service at that institution which followed gave opportunity for the completion of three works which form the basis of his fame—the “Political Ethics,” “Legal and Political Hermeneutics,” and “Civil Liberty and Self-Government.” May 18, 1857, he was elected Professor of History and Political Science in Columbia College, New York, but later, in July of 1865, transferred by the trustees to the chair of Constitutional History and Public Law in the Law School. Here he continued in active service until his sudden death, October 2, 1872. During the Civil War his advice on matters of public and international law was repeatedly sought by leading statesmen. His “Guerrilla Parties Considered in reference to the Laws and Usages of War” (1862) was prepared at the request of General Halleck, and by President Lincoln he

Digitized by VjOOQle
—287—

was charged with drawing up the ‘‘Instructions for the Government of Armies of the United States in the Field,” published by the War Department in April, 1863 (General Orders No. 100). As a publicist he rose to the very highest rank.	(To be continued.)

THE NECESSITY FOR THE ANNUAL SYSTEMATIC EXAMINATION OF SCHOOL CHILDREN S EYES, EARS, NOSES AND THROATS BY SCHOOL TEACHERS.*

By FRANK ALLPORT, M. D , Chicago, 111.

THERE are in the United States over fifteen million school children, ten million of whom are suffering from some eye, ear, nose or throat defect, which if relieved will place them in much better condition to undergo life’s struggles, and to achieve a measurable degree of that success which produces self-respecting citizenship, and relieves the state, county or town of burdensome pauperism. No flight of fancy is required to transform the defective child into the non-supporting '‘ne’er do well,” the wandering and menacing tramp, or the idle, pleasure-seeking and misery-finding prostitute. The evolution is natural and consequential, and stands as enduring monument to the benignity of education. A child whose educational progress is embarrassed or almost stopped by reason of physical defects may soon acquire a loathing for education and all that education represents, and the seeds of idleness and irresponsibility thus being sown, may, unless energetically and tactfully controlled, either by parental or surrounding influences, fructify and produce a personality ripe for sinister inoculation. If, therefore, the state can eliminate, control or migitate the existence of such physical defects in children, and by its parental supervision place such children in a position of reasonable equality with their healthy companions, thus affording them fair opportunites for educational progress, its duties become unmistakably clear, and its investment of public funds for the consummation of such designs a laudable measure of unquestionable economies. If the direct causes of criminality and pauperism could be accurately ascertained, I will venture the opinion that the prevailing etiological factors would be physical defectiveness and social surroundings. If, therefore, either of these can be even materially mitigated, a distinct impression would be made upon criminal and pauper annals, and the problem would become one to be worthily considered by the economist, philanthropist and sociologist. The improving of either physical defects or social surroundings in adult life is a problem of almost hopeless perplexity, while if these foes to racial prosperity be attacked in the budding periods of human existence, the difficulties are immeasurably mitigated.

Concerning the last of these mundane misfortunes, or the social surroundings of individuals, this paper will have nothing to say, but as a medical man, I am intensely interested in the second proposition refer-

*Rcad before the Indiana Board of Health School held at Indianapolis, December 16 and 17, 1903, and reprinted from The Medical and Surgical Monitor, Indianapolis, Ind., February, 1904.

igitized bp
-288-

ring to physical defectiveness, and I sincerely believe that if the relie v-able bodily abnormalities of children could be eliminated a mighty factor encouraging idleness, poverty and crime, to say nothing of human suffering, would be driven forcefully to obscurity.

“Prevention is better than cure,” is an old adage, and is nowhere more truthfully exemplified than in the subject under consideration. The adage might be somewhat altered to read, “Prevention is possible a thousand times, while cure is possible but once,” and still not strav far from the truth. So true is this that almost all great reform and philanthropic movements tending toward the physical, mental, moral and sociological uplifting of humanity are surely and inevitably endeavoring to grapple with the subject in the earliest years of childhood, before the withering andj decadent breath of human degeneration has rendered upward and improving conditions well-nigh impossible.

Perhaps nothing more surely indicates the nobility and unselfishness of the medical profession than its recognition of these principles, and its bcneficient work in the direction of preventive hygiene and medicine. Its best efforts are directed toward the elimination of disease, thus presenting the only instance in professional or commercial life where strenuous efforts are made to destroy one's own income. While it would be most interesting and instructive to dwell upon the various bodily infirmities of children that militate against their intellectual, moral and sociological advancement, the space allotted for this paper is all too short to permit of such a digression. The title of my paper indicates that I have come to speak to you upon those ocular and aural defects which deter or prevent the afflicted child from acquiring those educational advantages which properly equip him for the great battle of life, the struggle for existence.

Come with me to the clinic and see a poor child of perhaps some foreign extraction. Notice its attenuated form, its pinched countenance, its bloodless, ill-nourished appearance, its unintelligent, unresponsive aspect, all indicating insufficient nutrition before and after birth, and general lack of proper food, air, care and hygiene during the brief span of its miserable existence.

Examine its eyes with your test-types and ophthalmoscope, and you will perhaps find myopia or hypermetropia of enormous degrees, or a congenital cataract; either doubtless due to pre- and post-natal starvation and general neglect. Place this child in a school where physical defects are unrecognized and watch the results. He is unable to see distinctly, and headaches, pain and general discomfiture follow all his efforts of study. He cannot even see the blackboards and charts, printed books are indistinct or seen with much effort, the faces of his teacher and comrades are blurred; he does not know what is the matter, but he finds it impossible to keep pace with his fellows, and he acquires a hatred for school; his endeavor to acquire an education becomes abortive; he falls behind his class, becomes discouraged and truant, finally gives up the effort, joins the ranks of street gamins, develops criminal tendencies, is sent to a reformatory that does not reform, and may easily end his life in the penitentiary or on the gallows.

Pass from this defrauded child to another of similar miserable


-289-

appearance, but with an unusually stupid countenance, produced from enlarged tonsils or adenoid tumors in the throat, which prevent proper nasal breathing, and cause him to keep his mouth open in order to breathe. Eventually he becomes deaf, either through obstructive and catarrhal influences or on account of chronic middle-ear suppuration, which is an actual and constant menace to his life. His general open-mouthed, unintelligent countenance, coupled with deafness, lead him to be considered stupid, if not idiotic, an impression which is daily strengh-ened by his poor educational progress, impossible to overcome, through his unfortunate physical infirmities. Eventually he, .likewise, neglects his studies, hates his school, becomes a street habitue, idle and dissipated, and may easily terminate his existence amid crime and its consequences. These are no fancy pictures which I have painted in lurid hues for your delectation, to point the moral of my theme. They are true, living, breathing, pulsating facts that must be familiar to every student of hygiene, criminology, or sociology. If education is worth anything in the broadest sense, and if it passes beyond the borders of dilettantism into the broad realms of those influences which stand for human uplift, then it should reach down, down to the very dregs and bottom of the social scale, and pull up the most unfortunate of the human race, and place them on a par with their fellow-men. You and I both know that education will perform this great evolutionary process, and I claim that it is the iaalienable, in-born right of every citizen of this great, magnificent republic to be placed in a position where an education may be acquired. I also claim that in as much as we must look to education to solve many of the criminological and sociological problems of the day, and that the more knowledge is diffused throughout the length and breadth of this land, the happier and better will the land become; that it is a distinct, moral and economic duty of the state to see that educational advantages are afforded wherever such conditions are anywise possible. I further believe that wherever obstructions exist blocking the way toward educational acquirements, they should, as far as possible, be dissipated by those guardians of the public welfare having such matters in charge. I believe that public school officials should maintain a strict surveillance over the physical as well as over the intellectual and moral welfare of those children committed to their charge. A large portion of a child’s life is spent in school, and teachers should, and believe do, take a sincere and watchful interest in the bodily condition of their pupils. The necessity of such observation is the more accentuated, because a large proportion of such children come from homes of ignoranc, filth and vice, where mothers and fathers apparently care but little for their offspring, and evidently desire to shirk all possible moral responsibility. Under such circumstances the burden should fall upon the shoulders of the state authorities, both medical and educational, whose best endeavors should be taxed in vicariously officiating as both father and mother to those unfortunates whose earthly advent has been signalized by distress from birth to older years.

While it is not my intention to unduly magnify or exaggarate the importance of any particular physical defect, and its baneful influence in hindering educational acquirements, I believe it safe and conservative to

Digitized by t^rOOQle
—290—

declare that aside from mental capacity, nothing is so essential to intellectual progress as sight and hearing, and of these the former must claim the principal position. It is therefore to these two functions of special sense that particular reference will be made in this paper, and while I will not burden you with a large and formitable array of statistical truths are now so well understood as to render recapitulation unnecessary. I will trespass upon your time and patience for a brief space of time in order to clarify in your minds and the minds of others the history and motives for the tests, a detailed description of which will be given toward the close of this article.

The examination of school children's eyes by regularly appointed ophthalmologists is no novelty. It has been done many times by numerous workers, and conspicuously by Cohn of Germany, and Riseley of Phiadelphia. The plan of ocular inspection by ophthalmologists, however, while ideal in theory, possesses the disatvantages of the great and unnecessary expenditure of public funds and the inevitable production of much professional friction. Concerning the first objection it must be apparent that competent medical men could hardly devote such large amounts of time to annual investigations of this nature, which would practically consume the time of several men in large cities, without at least some compensation, which would necessarily add materially to the school budget, and certainly uncompetent men would be undesirable. Relating to the second objection bearing on the production of professional disturbance and friction,-should one or several ophthalmologists be selected to personally examine all the public school children in a given city, it can only be said that such condition would be but natural and human. The power thus placed in the hands of one man, or several men, would be enormous, and the opportunities for personal aggrandizement and gain, professionally and financially, so great that but few men could successfully withstand the temptation. It seems uneccessary to dwell at length upon this point, but to physicians who understand such matters throughout their devious and diverging pathways, the objections to the plan of personal inspection of all scholars by practicing physicians seem almost unsurmountable. I. therefore, Feb. 6, 1895, in a paper read before the Minnesota Academy of Medicine, proposed a plan for the annual systematic examination of school children’s eyes by school teachers, which was shortly after placed in operation in the public schools in Minneapolis, St. Paul and other Minnesota cities. Dec. 30, 1897, I read a paper before the Associated Minnesota School Boards, in St. Paul, in which I proposed that not only the eyes of school children should be annually examined by school teachers, but that the ear, nose and throat should be also examined through the agency of a few simple, pointed and pregnant questions and observations. This paper was supplemented by another, which I read April 9, 1898, before the Chicago Teachers’ Club, in which I introduced a new testing card, combining in convenient form not only the Snellen test letters, but also minute and explicit directions to teachers as to how the tests may be made. The salient features of the test are that they shall be systematically performed each fall by school teachers.

I say “systematically performed,” because they should be made as

Digitized by

Google
—291—

regulary as any other school function, as otherwise their efficacy is almost lost. Many teachers imagine themselves to be enacting their complete duty when they maintain a general supervision of their pupils’ ocular and aural conditions, observe palpable defects and occasionally refer their pupils to certain medical advisers. This is good as far as it goes, but it is totally inadequate as a substitute for carefully arranged questions that, when answered, will disclose the existence of ninety per cent, of serious eye, ear, nose and throat diseases. The occasional superficial and unsystematic observation of pupils’ eyes and cars cannot be safely substituted for thorough, stereotyped tests that have been thoughtfully and intelligently framed for the detection of disease; and yet many ignorant but well-meaning teachers feel that comprehensive annual tests are entirely unnecessary, forgetting the fact that while conspicuous departures from health may be evident to a casual observer, many serious but hidden conditions are only detected by minute and careful examinations. Beside this, unless the tests are distinctly expected from each teacher, many children will escape thoughtful observation of even the most limited character, for while most teachers take a deep interest in their scholars and conscientiously endeavor to promote their interests in every way, intellectually, morally and physically, still teachers are frequently seen who regard their profession lightly and endeavor to get through each day’s work with as little personal effort as possible. Under such circumstances, it is certainly too much to expect that much time will be given to the investigation of the physical condition of pupils, and the child is, therefore, nearly as much neglected or subjected to nearly the same degree of lack of intelligent supervision as can be found in many of the squalid homes of public school children. The tests, therefore, should be uniform and systematic, and should annually include all pupils above the first grade, as it has been found impossible to satisfactorily examine quite young children. Some teachers have the impression that a child needs only one examination, but inasmuch as eye, ear, nose and throat diseases may develop from year to year in previously pefectly healthy children, it is essential that each annual test shall include all children above the first grade. The tests should be made early in the fall of the year, and should become an integral part of the regular school curriculum. By making the tests shortly after the opening of the fall term, the physical condition of pupils is early ascertained, and steps can be taken toward the* correction of any abnormalities. Should parents be warned of the presence of physical defects in their children and fail to act upon such warning, the teacher will have ample opportunity to counsel child and parent concerning the necessity of a medical consultation, which would hardly be possible if the tests are posponert till the close of school in the spring of the year. Besides this the fall tests will have the advantage of enabling the teacher to co-operate with the physician, in the execution of his advice, and to observe the results of treatment in the afflicted children.

Some objections have been raised to the examinations being made by school teachers, some feeling that parents would object, others that teachers are incompetent, and still others that it is an unjust task upon the time and energy of the teachers. Concerning the first of these

Digitized by LjOOQle
-292-

objections: its triviality is almost sufficient for its dismissal, and it need only be said that the tasks are absolutely harmless and painless, that no instruments or appliances are used, and that the child is practically not even touched during the examination. Should any child or parent object, however, acquiescence to their wishes should be observed, as compulsion is undesirable, and clashing with parental authority should always, if possible, be avoided. Concerning the incompetency of teachers, I have only to say that anyone who is competent to be a teacher can make the tests with perfect ease. They are absolutely simple and uncomplicated, consisting of such questions as “Does the pupil habitually suffer from inflamed lids or eyes?” “Is the pupil probably ‘cross-eyed’?” “Does the pupil fail to read a majority of the letters in the number XX (20) line of the Snellen’s test types with either eye?” “Does matter (pus) or foul odor proceed from either ear?” “Does the pupil fail to hear an ordinary voice at twenty feet in a quiet room?” etc., etc. The ascertaining of simple facts of this nature does not require a medical education and can be easily compassed by anyone of ordinary intelligence and tact, and strange as it may appear, correct replies to the nine questions specified in the examination instruction will disclose the existence of at least ninety per cent, of serious eye, ear, nose and throat diseases. For instance, the question, “Does the pupil fail to read a majority of the letters in the number XX (20) line of the Snellen’s test types with either eye?” will disclose the existence of myopia and many cases of hypermetropia and astigmatism. It will also detect cataract, corneal opacities, optic neuritis and atrophy, many diseases of the vitreous, retina and choroid, etc., etc. The question, “Does the pupil habitually suffer from inflamed lids or eyes?” will detect inflammatory diseases of the cornea, conjunctiva, lids, sclera, iris, etc., etc. The question, “Does the pupil fail to hear an ordinary voice at twenty feet in a quiet room?” detects all forms of deafness, whether due to ear-wax, catarrh, labyrinthine or middle ear disease, etc. The question, “Is the pupil an habitual mouth breather discloses turbinated and septum diseases, polypi, adenoids, enlarged tonsils, etc.

It will therefore be seen that notwithstanding the extreme simplicity of the questions, they are most comprehensive in their character, and are capable oi detecting a vast majority of serious eye, ear, nose and throat diseases, and while the teacher cannot and should not attempt to make a diagnosis of the pupil’s malady, she will at least know that something is wrong, and this is quite sufficient; the physician consulted will do the rest. In some case abnormal condition is disclosed by the tests the teacher sends the parent a card of warning, stating that some disease is believed to exist, which is not only unfortunate for the child, but will retard the progress of education, and advising the parent to consult the family physician or some specialist, either at the office or free dispensary. It will thus be seen that there is absolutely no reason why an intelligent teacher should feel at all incompetent to make these tests, and it is earnestly hoped that this objection will be now relegated to obscurity.	(To	be	concluded.)

J3P* ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for you or for your friends
-293-

ATHLETES AND COLLEGES.

HE suit which has been brought by a student of De Pauw Univer-

sity against a professor of that institution for pay for services as an athlete is interesting. The student asserts that he went to the university under a contract with Prof. Stephenson. This contract provided that the young man, whose name is Scobey, was to receive his expenses in college in consideration of playing on the football team. Prof. Stephenson is the athletic director of the college and, of course, it is a question, first, whether he made such a contract as he is alleged to have made, and, second, whether he had authority to make any such contract. Another question is as to the effect of the employment of Scobey, if he were employed, on the relation of De Pauw University with the college association of which it has been and is a member.

The incident illustrates a condition in our American colleges which is prevalent to a greater extent than many trustful and trusting parents think. The case against this particular institution is anything but the truth that Scobey was hired to play. Let us assume that De Pauw is eminently free from stain and even from suspicion. Scobey’s allegations are used here simply because the kind of bargain which he alleges to have made is actually made by many American colleges, and such contracts have been made by some New England colleges.

We speak with knowledge, and we are convinced that the evil is great enough and 'widely enough spread to warrant a crusade against it. The sad truth is that college athletics, meaning intercollegiate athletics, is to most of students, to some professors and to nearly all athletic directors, the chief reason for existence of these institutions. To say that this state of things has not injuriously affected the scholarship of the average college student is to say what is palpably untrue. When college faculties are asked for information as to the effect of athletics upon scholarship, many professors will reply that the athletes are improved by reason of the enforcement of the rule that they must maintain a certain stand in their studies or leave the team or crew of which they are members. It seems to be assumed that the college athlete is likely to be a dull fellow or an incorrigible idler, although there are some brilliant and many notable exceptions, and that anything which forces him to study at all is just so much gain. Therefore, if he will study the more in order to remain on the team, so much is gained. The flicker of intellectual light in dark places, however, is far from being a general illumination, and the increasing tendency to regard educational institutions as primarily athletic training schools is bound to produce an ill effect on our intellectual development; in fact, the bad influence of intercollegiate athletics is already perceived in the ordinary speech of the average college student.

The dominance of athletics has led, it would be flattery to say insensibly, to practices such as have been charged against the unfortunate director of athletics of De Pauw University. Colleges whose financial success depend in an important degree upon the income they receive from their students are tempted to increase the number of these by securing an attractive list of athletic conquests. It has been proved

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-294-

more than once that athletic championship does not greatly increase the attendance at a college, but nevertheless it continues to be the practice to advertise athletic attractions. Nothing could be more vulgar; nothing could be more degrading to so-called intellectual institutions. Athletics, instead of being a stimulus to mental work, as college sport ought to be, thus becomes inimical to real cultivation. As we have already said, the language of the bleachers, and notably of the baseball field, has materially impaired the English speech of American students; a college nine is now as adept as the ordinary professional nine in the vernacular of ignorance, and the “Cuban Giants” are not without the intellectual comradeship of some so-called educated young men.

In many of our colleges the day when the athletic contest was sport has gone by; it has become a business. Games are played professionally by many young men who do not receive money, and who would scorn to be paid for playing on the teams. The professional spirit, however, is the evil of the practice of the things which the rules against professionalism forbid, and that is common to almost all college teams. The business of athletics is the worst in which a young man of high ambition can become interested, for if the body is habitually put above the mind the mind will eventually assume the inferior place in which its foolish proprietor places it. The young men who are on the teams of colleges always, or almost always, put the body above the mind. Their athletic duties are of the first importance; their intellectual duties are secondary. An athlete will run the chances of a failure in his course, will even risk his degree, if his studies, or his classroom exercises, including examinations, interfere with the tasks set him on the field. Tasks they are; no longer are they games or diversions. The contests and the practice for them have become the principal events of the student’s life. The spirit bred of this sort of thing is a professional spirit. Sport has gone out of fashion, and the business of football, baseball and rowing has taken its place. This intercollegiate athleticism is on a par with the business of professional baseball, just as the latter is in the class with the business of circus riding. The mere fact that pay is given in the one and not to the other is detail; the important fact is that the spirit of gaining a victory at all hazards, which in the case of the nominal professional means justifying his salary, has come to be the dominating spirit of college athletes and of college sport. Wholesome sport is not only admirable, but ennobling, for it stimulates truth and fair play, and therefore breeds a love of absolute justice; but sport from which is absent the old sentiment, “may the best man win,” is not only not wholesome, but the spirit of victory at all hazards tempts to tricks, to evasions of the rules, to the.taking of advantage of means to an end which real sportsmen must condemn as unsportsmanlike.

Most New England colleges, as colleges, are free from the taint which must be upon those that help this sort of thing. A majority of the students of these colleges are free from at least a conscious adoption of this bad spirit; but so prevalent is it, notwithstanding the fine exceptions, that it is actually fostered by colleges themselves. There are colleges which hold out allurements to promising athletic schoolboys. They offer them free rooms. They lodge them without cost to them,

Digitized by

Google
-295-

in their most luxurious dormitories. They give to them money, left to the institutions to he used in aid of poor and deserving scholars, and whenever this is done the poor and deserving scholars will be cheated. One college is known to lay aside some parts of its scholarship funds to be given to athletes, and the distribution is made not by the college authorities, but by the student authorities of athletics. The athletes of the preparatory schools know of this. Some of them are possessed of the idea that all colleges engage in the unholy work, and thus they often expose the guilty institutions by their correspondence with the innocent, saying, as they do, to better the terms offered them by inviting bids. The faculties of colleges, even of some not especially inclined to the athletie side, make athletes concessions which they do not make to other students who ask for exceptional treatment because they arc engaged in intellectual tasks outside of their college studies. The athlete is relieved from attendance on recitations and lectures a certain number of times a week in order that he may practice, a privilege, that would not be granted to the intercollegiate debater or to the editors of the college publications. In a word, one of the difficulties in the way of putting down the too obstreperous spirit of athlethicism is often the sympathy of faculties and other college authorities with it. The educational leaders are too often guilty of non-intellectual influence, and reform thus becomes difficult. It may be worth while to consider—bold suggestion though it be—whether parents and guardians might not take up this subject with some advantage to the cause of education and of cultivation.—Boston Herai d.

MEDICINE.

By W. H. KINNICUTT, M. D.

Inquiries are already being made at the office as to the best “spring medicine” for individual use. It is strange how people persist in the idea of maintaining health by the use of medicine.

Medicine is not given to maintain health, it is to meet an emergency and to correct temporarily disturbed functions. Taken when the body is normal medicine makes it abnormal; the difficulty in prescribing is in determining upon the specific disturbance necessary to correct and in counteracting that in the system.

Spring languor is largely due to the increased clothing and eating in cold weather, and its unfitness during the days when the frost is coming out of the ground. The circulation needs to be stimulated in the natural way, the body to be awakened. It is the reflection or the close of hibernation among animals, when they arouse themselves and hustle for something to eat.

You don’t bear any of the people who have been exercising regularly, complaining of “spring fever.”

The gymnasium contains the medicine that nineteen twentieths of the people need—there are still three months of gymnasium season for those who cannot get out-of-door exercises.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
—296—

A/VnP ftND BODY.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.

Published Monthly.

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

Mil■wt-n kee, Wlacgnatn

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

STANDARDIZATION OF ENTRANCE EXAMINATIONS

AND CURRICULA AT THE NORMAL SCHOOLS OF GYMNASTICS IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

AT its meeting, held April 18th, 1905, at New York, the Normal School Section of the A. P. E., with all the principal Normal Schools represented by delegates, the following qualifications were adopted, representing the minimum requirements for admission to all normal schools of gymnastics:

(a)	Mental qualifications:

1.	Graduation from a public high school having a four years’ graded course of instruction, the fact of such graduation to be proved by submitting the original diploma and a certificate of standing in the studies of the senior year signed by the principal of the school issuing the diploma.

2.	The equivalent of a high school education. This equiqalent is to be established by an examination conducted by the principal of a high school of above description.

(b)	Physical qualifications:

1. Age: men from twenty to thirtj'-five years, women from eighteen to forty years.

2. Stature: neither too great excess over, nor too great deficiency below, the average height of cither sex is desirable.

3.	Health: good health to be required and proved by a physical examination such as imposed by high class life insurance companies.

4.	Deformity or serious physical defect should not be present.

(c)	Moral qualifications:

Moral fitness for the calling of a teacher of physical education is to be established b> the testimonial of at least two people of recognized standing in the community of the applicant. These must not be relatives of the candidate.

(1d) Gymnastic qualifications:

A fair gymnastic or athletic proficiency is necessary.

(e) Each candidate shall be subject to a probation of one month as a farther proof that he possesses all the above requirements. Neither candidate nor school is during this period of probation to assume any financial or other obligations to the other party.

We perfectly approve these requirements, with the exception that we cannot see any reason why men and women should be treated differently in reference to age at time of admission. We also would like to see the provision “A fair gymnastic or athletic profficiency is necessary” more clearly defined. As it stands now it allows of a great latitude in its interpretation.

However, this concordance loses much of its importance through the

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

Digitized by

Google
-297-

fact that as far as we know all principal normal schools require just these entrance qualifications already, with the exception of the Normal School of the Turnerbund, which demands these qualifications for its pupils in the full normal course, but imposes different requirements for that class of students who strive only for the diploma of “teacher of a gymnastic society'1 (Turn-Verein).

A m ich more important atm seems to us the adoption of a uniform curriculum.

This would naturally presuppose a uniform duration of the course in the different schools.

Since the requirements in such fundamental branches as pedagogy, history of gymnastics, anatomy, physiology, anthropometry, hygiene, etc., must remain the same with the different systems, a uniform demand as to the minimum number of lessons required in those branches could be established.

Theory and practice of gymnastics and methodology, subjects which vary at the different schools, could easily be brought to a standard that would make it possible to adopt a conform schedule at least as far as duration of instruction is concerned.

Such standardization would have the inestimable value of suggesting a combination of the normal schools concerned, an association that could secure recognition from the various state school authorities. It requires little thinking to foresee the consequences of a move of this kind.

The medical colleges have preceded us in exactly the same way. In order to be recognized by the state boards and to secure certain vital privileges for their graduates they resorted to standardization.

Here, like there, the fundamental branches must be valued alike, for the Allopath as for the Homeopath.

Whether or not we shall ever be able to arrange for such ideal conditions remains to be seen.

But if we wish to be recognized in full we must convince school authorities that we distinguish ourselves from others by a standard of admission and a uniform curriculum that beyond question enables our graduates to teach our subject in all the schools and colleges of the country.

Our graduate must, in a general educational sense, be the equal of his colleagues on the faculty of the school on which he teaches. Otherwise he and his subject will be considered of inferior quality.

It goes without saying that the teachers of such normal school of gymnastics are to have the necessary educational qualifications without which the scheme would never be successful. Not every teacher of gymnastics, no matter how he excells in his particular sphere, would necessarily be a desired person.

We shall gladly offer our columns to anyone who wishes to express his opinion on this subject.

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—The date of the Gymnastic Festival ot the Deutsche Turnerschaft, which was to take place in July 1907, was changed to July 1908. Frankfurt-on-the-Main is the city selected.

—“Physical Training,” the official organ of the Physical Directors Society of the Y. M. C. A. of America, after being discontinued for several years, will henceforth resume its monthly appearance for ten months of the year. Subscription price one dollar. Dr. George J. Fisher is the editor.

Digitized by tjOOQle
-298-

PLAY IN EDUCATION.

THE INDEPENDENT has for years persistently advocated the doctrine of play as an educative force. We agree with Dr. Hutchinson that play is a provision of nature, intended to bring out not only physical but moral and intellectual strength. He insists that exercise is literally “the mother of the brain.” Every play, that is worth the name, “develops not merely strength, endurance and sweetness, but also alertness, quickness of response, coolness, balance, wariness, and judgment that is both sure and swift.” Nothing is more important about a home than provision for sports and games; and this is surely equally important where children are grouped together in schools. The ingenuity of children will go a long way to provide for their instincts, but those in authority have an obligation that cannot be avoided. We imagine that athletic games have been a natural upgrowth of the educative demands of the children. Most of the games train the hands and the eye as well as directly the brain. Some children get play by working in the garden plots, and ethers can find nothing more attractive than the use of tools. Again, other children are naturally marine biologists, preferring the frog pond to an athletic field. While these are paddling in the water others are quite as devoted to trapezes and jumping bars. Dr. Hutchinson assures us that children who are allowed to play until seven or eight years of age, or even ten, and then enter school, overtake those who enter two or three years earlier. “Give a child normal surroundings,” says another writer, “and he is pretty sure to learn to use his brain wisely—very much as he learns to use his legs and arms wisely.”

It is with intense satisfaction that “77ie Independent” notes the progress made during the last two or three years in all our large cities along this line, of more playgrounds, and the adoption of play in the curriculum. Two years ago Professor Zueblin published a list of twenty-six hundred parks in American cities—a list that has now probably gone quite beyond the three thousand mark. The death rate decreases in proportion to the number of these breathing spaces and playgrounds. Boston has a park system clear around the city, while New York has multiplied small grounds in congested districts. Chicago has forty thousand acres in an outside system, and has rivaled New York in small reserves, scattered about the heart of the city. In many of these grounds meals are served, at about cost price, while tennis and ball games are enjoyed at the cost of a nominal sum. McKinley Park has an open air swimming pool, nearly an acre in extent. This is surrounded with beautiful shrubbery, coming close down to the water, and a fine beach for the bathers. Two thousand five hundred persons often use this pool in a single day. Every one of these bathers passes through a corridor of shower baths, all of which, to the number of thirty or forty, play on him, making it a certainty that, however grimy he may be, he will get a thorough cleansing. All is free—a gift to cleanliness and health. For small children there is a shallow pool, of about one acre, where they may paddle about and enjoy themselves, while at the same time being cleansed. Fourteen more parks in the same city are to be furnished

Digitized by

Google
-299-

before long with all the advantages of the McKinley Park, besides gymnasia and other methods of play and exercise.

A feature of all these parks, in Boston, jn Chicago, and in New York, as also in Philadelphia, Cleveland and elsewhere1; is that they become social centers. There is nothing that brings the people together so cordially as a means of enjoyment. It is desirable to foster this result and control it. Chicago projects, as central features of each park, a gymnasium for men, a gymnasium for women, plunging pools and swimming pools. Then there will be a restaurant and public library. Associated with these will be club rooms and social halls. It is not yet certain that these will include lectures, music, art exhibitions, and much more that is centering at public schools. But clearly any one may observe that, as the schools are working outward, to include more games and more of the social forces, so the park system is reaching school-ward, and becoming a part of the public educational scheme. Play and study or body and mind development are correlated.

Naturally we turn to the resolutions recently passed by the New York Board of Education. These express, in our judgment, an instinctive appreciation of the drift of events, and the needs not only of our schools but the people in general—more play and more rest. One of these resolutions insists that the play space in connection with public schools is insufficient, and requests the city authorities, when establishing playgrounds, to make them contiguous, so far as possible, to the school buildings. The struggle to reduce the hours of study has been settled by retaining five hours, but extending recreation periods to cover one and one-half hours. This is to reduce the hours of book study to three and a half, while it does not yield to the clamor which would turn children loose after these three and a half hours have been used up. It adopts play into the curriculum; gives to it about one-third of the day’s exercises, while placing this training of the body and mind together, under the supervision of teachers. Taken into connection with manual training, which is rapidly becoming an accepted part of American school life, we are reaching the Greek idea that education consists in a full development of the whole child. It is in reality only carrying Froebelism to its broadest generalization. The whole of ideal school life is after all only a kindergarten, expanded, and flexible to the needs of older children.

The effect on after life can hardly be measured, when every American man and woman shall find the body and the mind educated to a correlated work. It has been well said that “he who helps a boy to become a strong man and a good man, at the same time makes a contribution of the finest class to the welfare of the community and the nation.” There is unquestionably less hoodlumism, vandalism and rowdyism where children have learned, on playgrounds, to observe the strict rules of games, and to recognize an opponent’s rights. It must not be overlooked for a moment that we are not discussing undirected or misdirected play, liable to run into quarreling and a gaming habit, but regulated play, under the observation of qualified directors.

—April the 16th 1906 has been fixed for the beginning of the Olympian Games at Athens, Greece.

Digitized by L^ooQLe
-300-

OBJECTIONS TO FOOTBALL.

PUBLICITY, DANGER, ABSORPTION OF THE MIND, “HEROES OF THE FIELD,” INTERCOLLEGIATE ENMITY AND TRICKERY INSTANCED.

FOOTBALL and its place in college life are discussed at great length by President Eliot in his annual report, which appeared recently; his general conclusion appearing to be that unless the conduct of the sport is materially changed, it must be dropped from the field of university activities. He says in part:

“The game of football has become seriously injurious to rational academic life in American schools and colleges, and it is time that the public, especially the educated public, should understand and take into consideration the objections to this game.

“Some of the lesser objections to the game are its extreme publicity, the large proportion of injuries among the players, the absorption of the undergraduate mind in the subject for two months and the disproportionate exaltation of the football hero in the college world. The crude and vociferous criticism, blame and praise, which fall to the lot of the football player, can be of no possible advantage to any young man, at the opening of his active life; on the contrary, they keep before him an untrustworthy and unwholesome standard of public approval and disapproval.

“Some danger attends almost all of the manly sports, and taking their risks makes part of the interest in them; but the risks of football are exaggerated and unreasonable. In a well managed college where men physically unfit for football are prevented from playing the game the risk of death on the football field within four years is not so great as the risk in riding horseback, driving an automobile or boating or yachting, if these sports are followed for years. Nevertheless, many serious injuries occur which are apparently recovered from in good measure, but which are likely to prove a handicap to the victim in later life.

“The distraction from proper collegiate pursuits of multitudes of undergraduates during a football season has become a familiar phenomenon; but it is, nevertheless, a mortifying one. The football hero is useful in a society of young men if he illustrates generous strength and leads a clean life; but his merits of body and mind are not of the most promising sort for future service out in the world. The alert, nimble, wiry, tough body is, for professional or business purposes in future life, a better one than his; and the mental qualities of the big, brawny athlete are almost certain to be inferior to those of the slighter, quicker-witted men whose moral ideas are at least as high as his.

“The state of mutual distrust and hostility between colleges, which all too frequently football creates, is another of the lesser evils. This distrust is publicly manifested in humiliating ways, as when a member of the opposing team or an official of the game puts his ear close to the mouth of the trainer who has run out from the side lines to wash the face of a prostrate player. The precautions taken against trickery, like armor and padding against hurts, show what the game has come to be.

Digitized by t^ooQle
-301-

“The carrying into elaborate and highly artificial practice the enfeebling theory that no team can do its best except in the presence of hosts of applauding friends is still another of the lesser evils of football. Worse preparation for the real struggles and contests of life can hardly be imagined. The orator, advocate, preacher, surgeon, engineer, banker, tradesman, craftsman, admiral, general and stateman who cannot do his best except in the presence of a sympathetic crowd is distinctly a second-class man.

MAIN OBJECTION TO THE GAME LIES AGAINST ITS MORAL QUALITY.

“None of these things, however, enter into the main objection to the game, for the main objection lies against its moral quality.

“As developed in this country under fierce intercollegiate competition, it has become a game in which the actions of the individul players can often be entirely concealed, not only from the mass of the spectators on the benches, but from the nearer observers on the side lines, and even from the umpire who gets as near as possible to the combatants. The game is played under established and recognized rules; but the uniform enforcement of these rules is impossible, and violations of the rules are in many respects highly profitable toward victory.

“Thus coaching from the side lines, off-side play, holding, and disabling opponents by kneeling and kicking, and by heavy blows on the head and particularly about eyes, nose and jaw, are unquestionably profitable toward victory; and no means have been found of preventing these violations of rules by both coaches and players.

“Some players, to be sure, are never guilty of them, and some are only guilty of them when they lose their tempers; but others are habitually guilty of them. The rules forbid unnecessary roughness in play, but there is wide latitude in the construction of roughness. To strike a player with the clenched fist is unnecessary roughness; to give him a blow equaly severe with the base of the open hand is not unnecessary roughness. Even in perfectly visible cases of violatipn of the rules the game officials often fail to punish the offenders; particularly, if an offender on one side can be set off by anjoflfender on the other, and both allowed to remain in the game.

“The common justification offered for these hateful conditions is that football i9 a fight; and that its strategy and ethics are those of war. One may resort, therefore, in football to every ruse, strategem and deceit which would be justifiable in actual fighting. The weaker man is the legitimate prey of the stronger. If a man, by repeated blows about the head and particularly on the jaw, has been visibly dazed, he is the man to attack in the next onset. As a corollary to this princible. it is justifiable for a player who is in good order to pretend that he is seriously hurt, in order that he may draw the opponent’s attack to the wrong place.

THESE RULES JUSTIFIABLE IN CONSUMMATE SAVAGERY CALLED WAR.

“These rules of action are all justifiable and even necessary in the consummate savagery called war, in which the immediate object is to kill and disable as many of the enemy as possible. But there is no

Digitized by L.ooQle
—302-

justification for such methods in manly sport or game between friends. They are essentially ungenerous, and no sport is wholesome in which ungenerous and mean acts, which easily escape detection, contribute to victory, wheather such acts be occasional and incidental, or habitual.

“The general public that witnesses with delight these combats can seldom see or understand these concealed and subtle evils of the game. They witness with pleasurable excitement a combat which displays courage, fortitude and a spirit of self-sacrificing co-operation in the players on each side. The respectable people who attend football games —collegians, graduates and others—do not prefer to witness injuries, violations of the rules, quarrels and penalties.

“On the contrary, they always prefer to see skilful, vigorous playing, uninterrupted by such repulsive incidents. The responsible heads of secondary schools do not wish to have their pupils taught by college athletes that skill in breaking the rules without being detected is essential to success in playing football. The average college player had much rather play fair than foul. The players have not devised or enjoyed the stupid methods of training which impair the physical condition of most of them before the important games take place.

“What then are the sources of the grave evils in this sport? They are: the immoderate desire to win intercollegiate games; the frequent collisions in masses which make foul play invisible; the profit from violations of rules; the misleading assimilation of the game to war as regards its strategy and its ethics.

DO FOOTBALL VICTORIES HELP COLLEGE GROWTH AND REPUTATION?

“On the question, whether or not football victories do, as a matte** of fact, contribute to the growth and reputation of a college or university, there are evidently two opinions. But if a college or university is primarily a place for training men for honorable, generous, and efficient service to the community at large, there ought not to be more than one opinion on the question whether a game, played under the actual conditions of football, and with the barbarous ethics of warfare, can be a useful element in the training of young men for such high service.

“The essential thing for university youth to learn is the difference between practicing generously a liberal art and driving a trade or winning a fight, no matter how. Civilization has been long in possession of much higher ethics than those of war, and experience has abundantly proved that the highest efficiency for service and the finest sort of courage in individual men may be accompanied by, and indeed spring from, unvarying generosity, gentleness, and good will.”

SALUTE DTJE TO GERMAN GIRLS.

Among the odd official decisions is that of the Prussian railway administration on a point of etiquette advanced by a stationmaster on the lower Rhine, who asked for a ruling as to whether the young women subordinates in his office should not recognize him first on the street instead of waiting to be saluted according to the prevailing custom. The government directed the station-master to salute first. The principal of the Girls’ High School at Saarbruecken was authorized to forbid the young women to wear corsets during gymnastic exercises. The government authorized their rigid prohibition.

Digitized by

Google
—303—

SAVING SKATERS FROM DROWNING.

HE daily papers, with appalling regularity, have been chronicling

the deaths of persons who have broken through the ice on bay, river or lake.

A little timely advice and a few suggestions may serve to protect one from danger, and even result in the saving of life. They are the observations of an expert.

Skating, that highly invigorating and exhilarating exercise, like almost all healthful outdoor sports and pastimes, has its element of danger.

The dangers, however, may be avoided by the exercise of a little care or judgment, or, when they are fairly met, may be overcome by a few common sense suggestions.

In the first place, a skater should be very careful in venturing upon the ice unless it were sufficiently strong to bear the weight, and watch the increase of numbers that he or she may retire before danger ensues.

Should a person suddenly come upon “rotten ice,” do not stop, but pass over it as rapidly as possible.

If one falls upon such ice, roll lengthwise toward the firmer part, without attempting to stand or walk upon it. By doing this you will distribute your weight over a considerable surface.

As a matter of protection, when skating where there is apt to be danger of falling through the ice, it would be well to carry a stick or pole, which may prove of inestimable value in an emergency. A stick i9 excellent company when gliding over the ice, and it has proven on hundreds of occasions an efficient life-preserver.

Should the skater fall into a hole, he should extend his pole or stick across it and hold until assistance arrives. If he should have no.stick he may extend his arms horizontally across the edge of the ice until a rope can be thrown to him or a plank extended.

Many persons have exhausted themselves and then sunk and been drowned through their futile efforts to clamber up on the ice.

To those who may wish to rescue a drowning person in the ice a plank is most serviceable. Even though the ice be desperately thin, a man with presence of mind may be able to make a great distance over it by the proper use of a plank, and, if he should fall into the water, the buoyant plank would make an excellent life preserver.

In getting upon the ice from the water it is, of course, necessary to remain collected. Don't struggle frantically to clamber up on the ice. Select some spot where the ice is strongest, and, after taking a firm hold, call for assistance. If there be no one at hand to render help, get your body in a horizontal position as close to the service as possible and impel yourself forward vigorously. In this way you may be able to slide over the edge and on to the ice where it is stronger and make your way seal-fashion to safety. This is the most practical method known when one is in extreme danger, and the results have been most satisfactory.	*

Another method, but one* which is scarcely of value to any but expert swimmers of cool head, is to turn the back to the edge of the

Digitized by

Google
ice, get a firm hold with the hands and slide over upon the back upon the surface of the ice. Then roll to safety.

As soon as possible the wet clothing should be removed, and, if suffering from the cold, a spoonful of brandy in a glass of hot water should be administered. Rub thoroughly dry, exciting a lively circulation of the blood, and then go to bed.

Frost-bite frequently results from a sudden and involuntary bath in the winter, a plunge through the ice, as well as from exposure to severe cold. The vitality of the parts effected is reduced to a very low point, loses its color and becomes blue or purple. For its treatment reaction should be brought about gradually by friction.

Place the affected person in a room without fire and avoid heat. Rub the part with snow or other cold application and administer brandy and water in small quantities.

If a person be insensible from the cold he must be kept away from the heat. Remove the clothing and rub thoroughly with snow or cloths rung out in cold water. Continue the friction, especially to the extremities, until signs of recovery appear. Artificial respiration, too, may be necessary. Give brandy and beef tea in small doses.

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne, Ind., Public Schools.

(Continued. >

A CLASS DRILL, division work on the apparatus and closing with the game “Wrestling Circle/’ As a preliminary a short run of about three minutes, during which time alternate with raising lower legs (high) backw.; extended legs forvv.; knees raised forw. and running with crossing legs alt. in front, each a given number of times (say 16 to 24 steps) with a brief interval of ordinary running between each change of exercise.

After each member has been provided with a pair of Indian clubs, form a front line and count off to fours, then form ranks of fours forw.

1.	obi. and open order forw. as follows:	Nos.	3,	2	and	1	in	their

respective order turn 1. face, file around No. 4 and form in front of the latter to three steps distance between the members of each rank (Fig. I), then turn 1. (r.J face with the shorter members standing in front (Fig. II).

TTT

T t T

t + *1* T

h h h h

Digitized by C.ooQle
O QD ^	Ci	C\	4*	vC	to	M	00	Ci.01

-305-

INDIAN CLUB DRILL AND CALISTHENICS.

Clubs forw. to starting pos.—raise!

Note.—In starting the arm circles, extend the arms upw. instead of sidew. from the shoulders so that a % arm circle may be executed instead of a Vt or %.

Continuous arm and hand circling.

1.	14 arm circle outw. 1.—1! % hand circle outw. 1. behind 1. shoulder—2! Repeat 6 or 8 times.

2.	^4 arm circle outw. r.—1! ^4 hand circle outw. r. behind r. shoulder—2! Repeat 6 or 8 times.

3.	^4 double arm circle outw.—1! ^4 double hand circle outw. behind shoulders—2! Repeat 6 or S times.

Same as ex. 1, but inw.

»*	it (i ^	“

»*	<« (< 3	». «.

^4 double arm circle to the 1.—1! double hand circle to the 1. behind shoulders—2!

^4 double arm circle to the r.—1!	double hand circle to the r. be-

hind shoulders—2!

Place clubs on floor, take one step backw. and two sidew. 1.—1, 6! CALISTHENICS.

Arms backw.—fold!

Lower to squat rest (deep kneebending)—1! Extend 1. leg sidew.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4-! Same r.—5, 8! Arms—down!

Hands on hips—place!

Bend trunk forw. and backw. alt.—1,4! Arms—down!

Hands backw.—grasp!

Lunge forw. 1. and r. alt.—1,4! Same sidew. 1. and r. alt.—1,4! Same backw. 1. and r. alt.—1,4! Arms—down !

Stride pos. outw. and place hands behind head—jump!

Bend trunk sidew. 1. and r. alt.—1,4! Pos.—jump!

Hands on hips—place!

a)	Straddle jump outw. and return in lively rhythm 8 or 10 times.

b)	Cross-straddle jump (forw. 1., backw. r. and vice versa)—1,4! 8 or 10 times. Arms—down!

Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise arms forw. overh. in four counts; exhale and lower arms in one count. Repeat 5 or 6 times.

Return to Indian Clubs by taking two steps sidew. r. and one forw., then grasp the same and raise to starting pos.

Repeat ex. 1, then add 14 hand circle outw. in front of thighs on the 3rd count and continue the arm circle in the same direction to starting pos.—4!

As ex. 9, but r.—1,4!

“	“	9,	“	both	outw.—1,4!

Digitized by
-306—

10.	As ex. 9, but inw. 1.—1, 4!

11.	14	44	9,	“	44 r.-l, 4!

12.	44	44	9,	44	both inw.-l,4!

13.	44	44	7,	and	continue as under ex.	9—1,4!

14	««	g,	“	9-1,4!

Clubs—lower 1

Class turn 1. face and close order to a front line as in the original pos. before opening the same.

R. face, march forw. and deposit the clubs, then form divisions and march to assigned places for apparatus work.

First Division: Low horizontal bar and window-jump.

Second	44	Window-jump and low horizontal bar.

Third	44	High parallel bars and flying rings (low).

Fourth.	44	Flying rings (low) and high parallel bars.

Change places. Division 1 with 2, and 3 with 4.

First Division.—Low Horizontal Bar (height about 4 feet).

In front side stand, hands in ordinary grasp—

1.	Jump to front rest and % circle r. with 1. leg to free front rest and immediately flank vault 1.

2.	Jump to front rest and % circle 1. with 1. leg to free front rest and immediately rear vault 1.

3.	Jump to front rest and V2 circle r. with 1. leg to cross-straddle rest and immediately add scissors sidew. r., then sidew. 1. and screw dismount 1. with % turn 1. to cross-stand (r. side toward bar).

4.	Jump to front rest and % circle r. with both legs to front side stand; same opposite; then front hip circle backw. twice (around the bar) to free front rest and backw. down to front side stand.

r>. A short run, jump upw., then extend forw. downw. obi. to long swing, raise ankles to bar and kip to front rest; front hip cij-clc forw. (once around the bar), continue the turn to hand balance; after a brief rest in the latter pos. turn over forw. to real side stand.

6.	An exercise free for all.

Note.—Execute the first three movements 1. and r.

Change place with the second division for window-jump.

First Division.— Windo w-Jump.

The jumping standards to be placed as for high-jump. Two small ropes (or cross bars) may be used, one placed above the other, or one long rope may rest on the upper pegs, then passed down on the one side under the lower and over the other at the same height on the other standard.

Start the lower bar (or rope) at about two feet six inches and the upper one at six feet. After every jump of all the members move the standards nearer, raise the lower bar (or rope) and lower the upper each one inch. This order to continue until the space is too small to clear. Attempt to clear a space of 25 inches square as a final.

1.	Spring off of 1. (or r.) foot, swing both legs (well flexed) and arras forw. with the head lowered in the flight, landing in the half bent-knee pos..

Digitized by

Google
-307-

2.	Spring off of both feet and dive through the space, landing on the hands, and somersault forw. on the mat.

Second Division.— Window-Tump.

Same as first division.—

Change place with first division on the low horizontal bar.

Second Division.—Low Horizontal Bar (height 4 feet).

In front side stand, hands in ordinary grasp, then jump to front rest and—

1.	4A circle r. with 1. leg to front side stand; same opposite; again jump to free front rest, underswing and down.

2.	14 circle 1. with 1. leg to front side stand; same opposite; again jump to free front rest, underswing with turn 1. to front side stand.

3.	Jump to free front rest and immediately front hip circle backw. to front side stand; again front rest; 14 circle r. with 1. leg to front side stand and immediately flank vault 1.

4.	Jump to free front rest and immediately front hip circle forw., then lower to front side stand; again front rest, 14 circle 1. with 1. leg to front side stand and immediately rear vault 1.

5.	Jump to free front rest, front hip circle backw., drop-swing, ankles to bar, kip to front rest and fiank vault 1.

6.	Jump to free front rest, drop-swing, ankles to bar, kip to front rest, front hip circle forw. to rear vault 1.

7.	An exercise free for all.

Note.—Execute all movements 1. and r.

The third and fourth divisions execute the same movements. The third to begin on the high parallel bars and the fourth on the flying rings.

High Parallel Bars.

A short run and jump to upper arm hang in the center of the bars precedes the first four exercises and—

1. Swing forw. and backw.; at the end of the second forw. swing spread both legs wide over bars to rear lying pos., then rise to straddle seat, rear vault dismount sidew. 1.

2.	Swing as exercise 1, then flex thighs over body, lower on r. bar in front of r. hand to outside cross-seat (1. knee bent, r. leg extended downw.), rear vault dismount sidew. 1. with Vi turn r. to front side stand.

3.	Swing, and at the end of the second backw. swing spread both legs wide sidew. to front lying pos.; pull up to straddle seat behind hands; change grasp of 1. hand to inside grasp, screw dismount backw. r. with V2 turn r. to cross-stand.

4.	Swing, and at the end of the second backw. swing pull up to straddle seat behind hands; swing both legs backw. to front leaning rest, then travel forw., the hands moving alternately and feet sliding to far end, then straddle dismount forw. to rear cross-stand.

In rear cross-stand at far end of the bars, with hands in outside grasp—
-308-

5.	% turn over backw. to straddle seat behind the hands; swing both legs backw. to front leaning rest; lower to hammock-hang and again pull up to front leaning rest; swing forw. and backw., then straddle vault forw. to rear cross-stand.

6.	Swing as in exercise 1, at the end of the second forw. swing Vl turn over backw. to straddle seat behind the hands; raise both legs backw., swing forw. to outside cross-seat in front of r. hand; then M turn 1. to front leaning rest, and flank, vault 1. (r.).

7.	An exercise free for all.

Note.—Execute all exercises 1. and r. whenever possible.

Flying Rings (height 4 feet).

Outside grasp.—

1.	Jump upw., raise both legs forw. and lower to front hang stand; bend arms and raise 1. leg forw. upw. obi.; extend arms and lower leg; same opposite and return. Repeat 1. and r.t then pull up to starting pos.

2.	Same as ex. 1, but sidew. 1. twice. Same r. twice.

3.	Jump to dip rest; raise knees forw.; lower; again raise knees and lower the same; down.

4.	Jump to dip rest; extend arms to rest; raise knees forw.; extend legs forw.; lower extended legs; repeat raising knees, extending legs forw. and lowering the same; bend arms to dip rest; down.

5.	% turn over backw. to rear hang stand and return to starting pos. Repeat twice.

6.	As ex. 7, to hang stand, then rjse and untwist the shoulders to starting pos. Repeat once.

7.	Lower backw. to hang stand, then circle body r. four or five times.

8.	As ex. 5, but 1.

9.	An exercise free for all.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus, then form four small circles and within the same place four lar^e Indian clubs about IV2 feet apart, forming an open square for “Wrestling Circle,” or “Poison Stick” as termed by some directors. By pushing and pulling the participants endeavor to cause one of the members to upset one or more clubs. Who ever throws down a club, or releases the grasp of the r. hand twice, retires. This continues until onlj* one (the winner) remains. The winner of each circle to remove the clubs. After conclusion of the game form a front line for dismissal.	(To	be	continued.)

HOW TO GET THE BEST RESULTS FROM EXERCISE.

By H. HAMNET.

a«u members are continuously inquiring what exercise or regime will prove the most effective for their several ailments. We try to localize the advice so as to be more effective. But after all is said and done, there is nothing half as wholesome and lasting as the use of common sense. A code of exercises, or a regime of living and dieting, will never put to rout the effects of improper hours of sleep, overeating or the effects of the use of tobacco. Men whose tailors have to take their waist girth in two jumps are almost invariably enourmous eaters and most reluctant to give up the habit. We scarcely ever suffer from the lack of food, but the amount eaten usually exceeds the demand and leaves the so-called “hearty eater” in an unfit condition to enjoy living

Digitized by VjOOQle
-309-

properly or to the best physically. Drink less coffee, more water, and this between meals. Drop the “smoke” before you exhibit symptoms of tobacco heart. If your stomach is deranged or your breath offensive, decrease the size of your meal by one-third. Be regular in sleeping habits. Don’t forget to give the pure air opportunity of entering the uttermost parts of your lungs. Breathe deep; hold your chest forward and up; chest out (in front and not behind); head up; chin ill. When sitting sit up straight. When walking move with an air of determination and with elasticity of step. Observe these fundamental rules, and then exercise and bathing will give you maximum results.

EXERCISE FOR BRAIN WORKERS.

iplan who uses his brain vigorously and to good results is doing what is good for his health. A man like the late Herbert Spencer, for example, would hardly have lived so long as he did, had he not been constantly occupied in a great and progressive intellectual work. My remembrance is that he took next to no physical exercise; but he had established regularity in all his doings; and regularity, based upon the suggestions of experience, is one of the first requisites for health. Arthur Balfour, the British Prime Minister, was an ailing and weary young man in 1873; but a physician who was himself an owner of brains, and who had studied a great many patients, and drawn deductions from the data which they furnished him, perceived that the trouble with Balfour was that he had a great and powerful intelligence, and that it was wearing his body out because it was not given adequate employment. Much against Balfour’s will, he drove him into politics, and Balfour began to freshen up at once, and the energy which the government of the Commons developed in him prompted him to take up physical exercise as well; so that today, at the age of six£y odd, he is not only one of the ablest statesmen living, but he is four times the man physically that he would otherwise have been.

Tyndall, the great companion of Huxley in science, was a climber of the Alps, and Leslie Stephen was, I think, a president of the Alpine Club. There was an exhilaration for them in the successful exercise of their minds on high subjects that led them to attack high mountains with their legs. Our own Emerson, originally of delicate constitution, lived to a great age, in uniform sound health; his body was stimulated, as it were, by the noble example of his mind.

But the mind inadequately or unsuitably employed, or active only by fits and starts, irregularly and dispersedly, does not conduce toward health but rather the contrary. And when the exercise of the brain is connected with gieat anxieties and uncertainties the bodily health is sapped at its vital sources, and the best system of exercise and hygiene, even if the eminent trust magnate or financier could be persuaded to adopt it, would not avail him much. Or he tries the health cure too late; and we see the dreary spectacle of a man richer than Croesus paddling miserably about his back lawn, barefoot, in a desperate struggle to restore to his digestive apparatus what his brain robbed it of, while he thought only .of robbing other men of their happiness and independence.

I get letters from many brain workers—school teachers and persons engaged in minor mental occupations, not absorbing or uplifting enough to kindle ambition, and not of a nature to be regarded as a suitable life-work—who find themselves failing in health and temper, and wish to know if there is any relief and comfort to be gained from exercise. Such people would no doubt be improved by bodily activities which would result in producing every day a reasonable degree of physical fatigue. Their first care should be to regulate and systematize everything; to make a program and stick to it. And, for them even more than for others, it is important that most of their physical work should be taken out of doors. Golf and cricket are good for them, because the^ not only send them in the open air, among green fields and trees, into sunshine and showers, but also because they exercise lungs and heart, liver and stomach, and at the same take the mind away from the hygienic object of the exercise, by directing it to the game. Tennis is also good, if it be practiced in moderation; but if it be played too long at a time, or with too much anxiety to win, it taxes the nerves too much for health.

Digitized by tjOOQle


The love and pursuit of sport for sport's sake should* eepeoaftp eastern the scholar-athlete. There is a robustness and hardihood to be gotten fhmr OKfc door activities which can never come to an equal degree from indoor exercise, though the latter may increase muscular strength to anjr extent. But it cannot be too often said that muscular strength, and health, are not necessarily synonymous; and the former may very often impair the latter.

The general rules of health are simple enough. At least once, and. if possible, twice a day, the body should be made by exercise to perspire freely. This perspiration should be followed by a quick but. thorough bath and rubbing dry. The amount of exercise which each individual should take may be fairly gauged by the soundness of the sleep at night. Sound sleep while you do sleep is more important than the number of hours you set apart for sleep; six hours hard at it is better than eight hours of interrupted dozing. The question of diet is easily solved nowadays; there is good and digestible food to be had, and the chief thing to remember is not to eat too much even of the best. The vital forces of the body should not be used up in the effort to digest what is put into the stomach and to eliminate what is superfluous and it will be found that the weight of the body, and its condition of good nourishment, are by no means dependent on the amount of food eaten. We may gain weight on a light diet and lose it on a heavy one. In the case of light diseases it may be advisable to stop eating for a day; but at all times drink as much pure water, without ice. as you can conveniently swallow, being careful never to eat and trink together; for there is no question that to do this enfeebles the digestive powers.

Finally, get all the fresh air, both by night and by day, that you can by any means obtain, and breathe it deep into your lungs. The best way to insure this is either by running, by quick walking up hill or by some such strenuous game as handball; but you should also cultivate voluntary deep breathing at ail times; it can be made a habit as much as chewing gum. This is the simple life, from the physical standpoint; it is within the reach of any brain worker, and the quality of what he does with his brain will be improved by the faithfulness and energy with which he does the work of his body.—Julian Hawthorne} in New York American.

CATCHING COLD.

long ebttortal in a valued exchange on the subject of colds and coughs. G?* cautioning people against the risks of catching cold, omits the most important caution of all, and that is against sitting in the draft. It dwells upon the necessity of long walks, pure air, not too heavy clothing, or covering for the bed, but not a word against sitting in drafts, which is the cause of more colds than anything else.

A door ajar or a window slightly open, through which the air stirs briskly, gives a person a cold before he is aware of the danger. The next thing, he has a slight fever or a dry throat and wonders where he caught “that cold.” It is not cold weather that gives one a cold; it is subjecting oneself to its changing influences. The equilibrium of the circulation is up90t, the capillaries are obstructed, fever intervenes, and the cold hangs on.

In preventing a cold, one should inhale fresh air, wear moderate clothing, take regular exercise, keep the feet dry, and the room not too warm.

Some things that everybody should avoid, are thick throat wraps, heavy woolens, overheated rooms and every sort of coddling clothing or other device. These things make one’s physical condition tender, whereas he should harden himself by practice against the cruel weather.—Exchange.

THIS MEANS YOU!

We will send “MIND AND BODY” free to you for one year on receiot of $4-00 for 4 new subscribers.

Digitized by
-311-

DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK.

EXAMINATION FOR LICENSE AS TEACHER OF PHYSICAL TRAINING IN ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.

New York, November 1, 1905.

A written examination for license as teacher of physical training in elementary schools will be conducted by the Board of Examiners on Thursday, Dec. 7, 1905, commencing at 9.20 A. M., at the Hall of the Board of Education. Park Avenue and 59th Street, Manhattan. An oral and practical examination will be given on Friday, December 8. The oral examination will include a practical test with a class in physical training, as well as individual performance. Applicants should provide themselves with gymnasium suits for use in the practical tests.

No person wfll be eligible for this license whose age on December 7, 1905, is under twenty-one or over forty-one ^ears. Under this provision an applicant will be regarded as eligible up to and including the day preceding his forty-first birthday.

Each applicant must have the following qualifications:

(a) Graduation from a satisfactory high school or institution of equal or higher rank, or an equivalent academic training, or passing of an academic examination; (6) the completion of a satisfactory course of professional training of at least two years in physical training; (c) three years’experience in teaching physical training, which three years must not include the two years devoted to professional training; or six years’ experience as a class teacher teaching physical training a satisfactQry portion of the time, which six years may be inclusive of the years devoted to professional training.

The written examination will be upon (a) applied anatomy, physiology and hygiene; (b) history and literature of systems of physical education; (c) gymnastic games and athletic sports; (d) the principles and the practice of physical training, including principles of education, methods of instruction and class management.

In the written and oral answers to examination questions, applicants must give evidence of ability to use the English language correctly.

All documents submitted as evidence of scholarship, training or experience must be originals, and must be accompanied by duplicate copies. The filing of such documents irf optional. No diplomas will be received, except in cases where the institution is no longer in existence.

A certificate of physical fitness made after examination by one of the physicians of the Board of Education will be required in case of each applicant. For applicants from a distance of 75 miles or more, the physical examination will be held on December 7; for all other applicants a special call will be issued. No person will be licenced who has not been vaccinated within eight years, unless the examining physician recommends otherwise.

The licenses issued under these regulations hold for a period of one year, and may be renewed for two successive years, without examination, in case the work of the holder is satisfactory. At the close of the third year of continuous successful service, the City Superintendent may make the license permanent.

Applications to enter the examination should be filed prior to November 24, 1905. Blank forms for the purpose may be obtained by addressing Room 419 of this office.

Note.—The examination will begin promptly at the time stated above, and no Applicant who is late will be allowed to enter the examination hall.

William H. Maxwell, City Superintendent of Schools.

BOOK REVIEW.

(All ike book» mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.)

—Are the College Girls of the West Physically Stronger than those of the East ? For Professor Magee has tabulated the physical vigor of the feminine student of the University of California, and finds that she is not only taller, but stronger and heavier than the Eastern girl of the same age.

Digitized by C.ooQle
“Comparing the measurements of the average University of California girl student with those taken at Wellesley,” declares Professor Magee, “we find that the native California girl surpasses her Eastern sister in the matter of general symmetrical development. It is agreed that the climate is more responsible than any other factor in bringing about these results. California girls indulge in much more outdoor exercise than those of the Eastern states. The Wellesley's girl strength is rated at 200.6 pounds; that of the California girl at 341.6 pounds. The Raphael standard type «>f womanhood would have a lung capacity of 159.8 cubic inches; her height being 5 feet 5 inches. The California girl, whose average height is nearly two inches less, has a lung capacity of precisely the same volume, which is about ten cuhic inches more than the lung capacity of the Wellesley girl.”—The School and College World in The Outing Magazine for December.

GAMES FOR SCHOOLS AND GYMNASIA. By W. C. SCHAEFER. Milwaukee, 1900. Freidenker Publishing Co. pp. 36; Bound half cloth. Price 60c.—The scarcity of text books on movement games for the girls and boys in our American public and private schools has long been felt as a grievous want. Of German books on the movement games there has never been a lack, but the English litterature was devoid of any acceptable collections of such games. Mr. Schaefer has undertaken the task to collaborate such a book with great insight and circumspection. The games are conspicuously arranged under different headings from sound pedagogical points of view and well classified for girls and boys. No teacher of our public, private, and gymnastic schools having Anglo-American pupils under his or her care can afford to be without this book. It embodies moral and physical as well as intellectual elements and is sure to attract the attention of every progressive pedagogue.



MIND AND BODY

A JOURNAL

DEVOTED TO PHYSICAL CULTURE

PUBLISHD MONTHLY.

SUBSCRIPTION PRICE. SI.OO PBR ANNUM.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING COMPANY

HER OLD HU1LDINO

MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN.

XXJJJ3£XXXXX4144MM}M±

Digitized by LjOOQle
>utuut>umuuutmt

NEW HAVEN NORMAL SCHOOL

OF GYMNASTICS

(Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics) E. H. ARNOLD, M. D., Director.

Offers

A	Two Years' Course of Prepa-

ration for Teachers of Gymnastics,

A Post Graduate Course Massage and Medical Gymnastics.

A Summer Course German Gymnastics, Fencing, Gilbert Dancing, etc.

For Catalogues, Terms, etc., apply to

E. H. ARNOLD,

307 York St.,

New Haven, Conn.

rrrrrrrrr¥rrrr¥*Tr¥Y¥rrirr¥

nora mm mo: urn

NORMAL SCHOOL OF GYMNASTICS.

558-568 BROADWAY

MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN

For illustrated catalog, giving full particulars, address GEORGE WITTICH, Director.

Complete Volumes

—----- —OF-------

“9TWI <L <ftoV

75 Cents. Bd. $1.25.

Postage paid.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Building,

Milwaukee, Wis. WVVWV TTWVTTTTT WVTV WTV

Marching Calisthenics anil Fancy Steps

FOR THE

<3&GYMNASIUM.=gs

BY

GERTRUDE WILLIAMS-LUNDGREN,

Formerly Physical Director of Kansas State Agricultural College and or the Young Women's Christian Association of Burlington, Iowa.

Graduate of the Burnham Normal School of Physical Education. PRICE, 50 CENTS.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

Digitized by

Google


Jt|

PLAYGROUNDAPPARATU:

NEW CATALOG-JUST OUT!

WRITE FOR IT!

NARRAGANSETT MACHINE CO. » —si^GYMNASIUM OUTFITTERS®^—

PROVIDENCE, R. I., U. S. A.

We want and recommend

PHYSICAL DIRECTORS

Athletic Coaches, and Teacheis, for high-grade positions in all parts of the United States. We have filled vacancies in some of the largest universities, colleges, secondary schools, etc., in the country, at salaries ranging from $800 to $2,000 a year. If you would accept promotion, we can help you.

No advance fee required. Free service to employers. Write us to-day.

THE PHYSICAL TRAINING TEACHERS’ BUREAU,

212 S. Second Street, Rockford, 111.

Jacob Willig

MANUFACTURER OF

Gymnasium, Athletic and Sporting Goods,

71 W. Washington St., CHICAGO, ILL.

Apparatus of all Descriptions. Equipping Gymnasiums a Specialty j

Digitized by

Google