MIND AND BODY

Vol. 32	APRIL,	1925	No.	338

PUBLISHED BT MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO. NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D.	M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

c.ditorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 h. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

entered ai second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at Nevo , Minnesota, under the Act of March J, 1870.

SCOTTISH MOTHERS AND CHILDREN

A voluminous report entitled "Scottish Mothers and Children” was prepared by Dr. W. Leslie Mackenzie and published a few years ago by the Carnegie United Kingdom Trust, Dumfermline, Scotland. Many parts of the report are extremely interesting to teachers as will be seen by the following extracts:

The report says: "population will increase, streets will multiply, villages and towns will grow. But in this development let there be a decent regard for the need of more space in the houses, more variety, more beauty, more clean and safe playing-spaces where overdriven mothers will wish to place their young children, if only for an hour.”

The chapter on Day Nurseries contains the following:	"Of

the day nurseries visited, some are well provided with gardens; others are gardenless. A day nursery without the means of placing the children in the open air, either on balconies or in gardens, is one of the least desirable of institutions. Of those visited several were open to this criticism. But there is a criticism even more

♦Extract* by William A. Stecher,

Digitized by kjOOQle
482

fundamental; it has been found that, in many places, the ideal is to keep the young children sitting, correctly clothed, and still. As a means of generating rickets, nothing could be better. If there is one thing that the very young children need more than another it is constant activity of muscle. Anything that restricts the movement of a child is physiologically bad. The very young children do, of course, need much sleep; but this is not the point criticised. The criticism is levelled against the care of the children emerging into the toddler state or actually arrived there. To be kept in a still room, sitting, or’bored to death by the monotony, is the least and worst service that any child can receive. Unfortunately, few day nurseries without access to the open air, either by balcony or otherwise, can provide the necessary stimulus. With fair justice, it has been said of these close nurseries that, if the children could be kept from being run over, they would be better in the gutter. It is necessary to put this point forcibly; because our inspection proves that the cleanliness, quietness, prettiness, and cosmetic effects generally are apt to take the first place in the minds of the attendants; the children’s physiological demands for activity tend to take the second place. Wherever the conditions made it possible to keep the children in the light and under the stimulus of fresh air, the whole spirit of the nursery service was different.

1.	The Toddlers’ Playground. “In Edinburgh,” so I wrote a few months ago, “the Local Authority has made an important experiment in a new direction. So long as a working mother has an infant to nurse, a house to keeb and a husband to feed, the toddler at home is certain to be a serious handicap on her domestic acti' ities. To remove this handicap in the overpressed homes, the city of Edinburgh, through its staff of health visitors, has established a Toddlers’ Playground. Admission to the playground is conditional: First, there must be a baby at home needing nursing; second, the mother must undertake to prepare the school children properly for school and to prepare the toddler for transference to the playground; third, she must maintain a reasonable standard of tidiness in the home. With the school children at school and the toddler in his superintended playground, the mother is enabled to attend both to her baby and to the preparation of the midday meal. In time for the midday meal the toddler is taken home, and has the rest of the day to look forward to his next visit to the playground. The equipment of the play-ground is of the simplest: sufficient open space, with the usual infant properties of sand, rocking-horses, etc., and an open-air shelter for the rainy days. Even in the conditions of our Edinburgh climate, the experiment has succeeded in every respect. The homes are stimulated to maintain a better standard, the mother's energies are economised, the baby receives more attention, the toddler has improved not merely in habits, but materially in health. One test of the health improvement has been noted by the medical man in attendance. It is that the ‘running noses,’ so commonly incidental to the life of the children, have spontaneously disap-

Digitized by Google
483

peared. From this fact, many important inferences could be drawn; but one broad inference is enough, namely, that the stimulus of the cool air, the process of preparation for the playground, the transference to it, the two hours’ occupation of it and the transference home, all result in a generalised improvement of nutrition and a toning up of the whole tissues.

"The playground is in charge of a skilled and paid attendant. It is gaining in popularity every week. Wherever the idea has been mentioned elsewhere in Scotland, it has met with warm acceptance. The Edinburgh experiment with the toddlers was the result of a suggestion by Dr. A. K. Chalmers that experiments should be made with an open-air creche. The idea is certain to spread, and, as the equipment and staffing are so simple, the tod-lers’ playground may well become an ordinary adjunct of every working-class street. The essential function of the playground is to enable the overladen nursing mother to get relief for a couple hours from the too exacting demands of toadlerism.”

At the end of six months the superintendent was able to record many little improvements in the habits of the children and in the conditions of their homes. At first the attendance was a difficulty, sometimes because the infant was not ready at the hour, sometimes because there was no person to take it to the playground but in time the attendance grew steady, a sign that the playground had become a functional part of the home. The health of the children improved. Mothers told of extraordinary differences, mentally and physically, in their children. “The listless, apathetic, voiceless child has been turned into a bright, romping, talkative urchin who is beginning to see that life is worth living after all. I get quite long conversations out of little mites now that once sat in a silent heap on the floor.”

2.	Housing and the Toddlers. The toddlers’ playground does two things: it relieves the overburdened mother and tones up the badly-housed child. The mother needs the relief; the child needs the stimulus. Of the two, perhaps the stimulus to the child is the more important. The general relation of housing to infant health, we have already seen. But our data did not bring out in isolation another important fact, namely, the relation of housing to the health of children aged two or three. Dr. Brownlee, Statistician to the Medical Research Committee, has dealt with this point in an article contributed to the Sunday Observer of July 8th 1917. He says:-

‘Termanent cleanliness is impossible with overcrowding. The conditions are unstable (that is, in an area where the houses are new), and though at the beginning the prospects look favorable, the seeds of decay are already sown and the due crop will be reaped. It is not, however, in the first year of life that the greatest strain comes. Children are most depressed by unhealthy surroundings between the ages of two and three. This is uniformly observed phenomenon. It is in the country districts of England that the best conditions for the upbringing of healthy children are observed. Taking the death-rate in these districts as a stand-

Digitized by

Google
484

ard, and taking Salford as an example of an opposite nature, it is found that, while during the decade 1891-1900 the infant mortality was twice that of the country districts, the death-rate between the ages of two and three years was four times that of the country districts. There is thus a progressive deterioration of health, showing its greatest influence at this later age, and also showing how much chronic poisoning takes place in unhealthy surroundings.”

These conclusions are based on a special analysis of figures. The substance of Dr. Brownlee's argument is that, so long as the houses are new and clean they attract good tenants, who attend well to their children. The infantile death-rate may then be low. When the houses become chronically dirty, only bad tenants occupy them and then the children suffer from chronic poisoning. But this is most obvious not among the infants on the breast, but among those that have emerged into the toddler stage. This striking inference suggests that the toddlers’ playground is fundamentally essential to the health of the children that occupy the crowded quarters of every city. The open-air playground is the counteractive to the poisonous house. It is not a perfect counteractive; but it is an unmediate relief to the child and, indirectly, it leads to the uncrowding and cleansing of the houses. Where the toddler is kept clean, the house will not remain long dirty. But, on the small scale hitherto common, the playgrounds affect only individual mothers and individual houses. This is not enough. Every main block of houses should have its toddlers’ playground. If the playground is to have its full effect, it must be near the house, easy of access, and superintended with skill. It then becomes a day-camp for physical education.

3.	The Toddlers’ Need for Play. To a large extent the kindergartens are simply toddler’s playgrounds. But they are not conducted quite from the same standpoint. The kindergarten necessarily works by a specialised system of educational ideas. Its primary purpose is education. Education is not excluded from the toddlers’ playground; but the primary purpose is to establish the children in vigorous health. The toddlers’ playground is simply a special form of day nursery; but the specialisation is justified. For children from one to three, a playground of this type is a physiological necessity. Dr. Brownlee gives the reason.

If it is asked why the toddler cannot play with other children, the answer is clear. The child of one to three needs protection in his play. To leave him to children older than himself is to expose him to risks that cannot be controlled. Yet, on occasion, nothing is more beautiful than the tender care that the children of five or six spend on their brothers or sisters of one, or two, or three. To leave the toddler to play by himself is to impair his development. To secure to him the highest physiological value of play, he must be placed in the charge of a skilled and sympathetic person. It is then that the toddlers’ playground becomes a centre at once of health and of education. It has a reflex effort on the toddler’s family. The appeal of the toddler for home conditions

Digitized by

Google
485

equal to those of his playground is too subtle to be resisted. The playground standardises the home. It also develops in the child the physical conditions for education. It takes him away for the moment from the rigid mechanism of pavements, dark stone stairs, and packed immobilising rooms. It gets him into the movement of flowing Nature. He can spend his strength against a yielding resistance. He feels the turf elastic under his feet. He can sink in the sand; he can heap it into heaps; he can dig it into trenches, build castles of it, destroy mountains of it, and begin again forever to dig and build and destroy. He learns to touch soft things softly. He lightens to the light. He flushes to the wind, he leans to it, he fights it, he flies before it, he learns its many voices. If there are flowers, he sees them in their colors. If there are trees, he learns them by their branches. If there are birds, he knows them by their songs. For all the rich hour or two, he misses none of the responses in the subtle ritual of Nature.

4.	Evolution of the Play Centre. All these institutions for the day-care of children are interrelated. The creche, originally intended as a waiting-place for the babies of nursing mothers at work elsewhere, has grown into the day nursery. The day nursery, in its turn, has become, in part, an institution for the day-care of children even where the mothers stay at home. Out of the day nursery has sprung the outdoor toddlers’ playground, specially designed to meet the physiological needs of children at the early walking stage. Meanwhile, the play centre had developed on a consideration scale among children of the school ages. It arose out of the demand for some cleaner and safer play space than the streets. In part it was fostered by the fact that, in many cases, the mothers of school children did not return home until long after school hours, and a safe place had to be found for both the older children and the younger.

In the toddler's playground, as we have seen, the growing organism of the child finds some factors necessary to its development. In the play center for older children the principle is tne same. Thus all the institutions named—creche, day nursery, toddlers’ playground, play centre, children’s garden, and all the equivalent institutions for the day-care of children—cease to be bound by fragmentary ideas of economic necessity and become stages or elements in the provision of the right physical environment for the growing children. It is no longer necessary to justify them on the ground that the mother when she goes to work must have a place to leave her child or a person with whom she can leave it. On the general grounds of health, it is now accepted that a house in a street is not enough for the healthy growth of a child. The house must be supplemented by open spaces where children of all ages can find their appropriate playgrounds, equipped according to the wants of the particular age. In many statutes, the need for space around houses is fully recognised as a part of general sanitation. But it is not yet clearly recognised anywhere that without easily accessible places for children a house fails to fulfill the true functions of a home.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
486

To verify this is easy. If, any summer afternoon or evening, you choose to walk in the old or congested areas of Edinburgh or Glasgow—to name but these two—you always find scores of children playing on the street. They are of all ages, from the infant leaning against its mother’s knees at the doorstep, or rolling on the pavement, to the self-sufficient child arranging his own games. Every stage of toddlerism is there—sitting, or bending, or tumbling, or rolling; the toddler of two, just able to bend slowly down without flopping on his face, takes his place among the toddlers of three, who can bend or keep erect at will. He, again, mixes with the extoddler of four, or the relative senior of five and over. By these makers of the future the street, or the close, or the court, or the stair is transfigured into a land of sport and adventure. For generations the instincts of the children have been showing us the way: lightless stairs, dirty streets, dirty courts, every form of restriction on the movements of children—these are the answers of our citiesi Even where little courts have been taken in hand by Open Spaces Committees, the courts are prettily decorated with green grass, or rockery flowers, or little gravelled walks and then locked off from the children. This is a statement of fact. Repeatedly, we have gone through areas of Edinburgh where open spaces nave been railed in and made to turn green, Dut, except on special fete days, they are shut off from the children's use. The net effect is simply to improve the neighboring property and to limit still further the too limited spaces for the children. This futile result can easily be prevented, and, in the free kindergartens of Edinburgh, it is effectively prevented. But it remains true that many of the spaces however pretty they look amid the picturesque piles of ancient slums, are strictly protected from the only persons to whom they could be of real hygienic value. Into some of the green strips of the city, the children enter at their peril: they are “trespassers.”

5.	Revolt Against Mechanism of the Street.. It may, then, be taken as established that the steadily increasing demand for more open spaces easy of access to children has its roots in sound physiological instincts. It is part of the general revolt against the regulated mechanism of the streets. The open country hardly needs a policeman; the city street cannot be kept clear without one. The open country is freedom; the street is regulation. If men are to live in cities, regulation is necessary to keep the individual safe and to make relative freedom possible. But the regulation of the streets means innumerable restrictions on personal activity. Every restriction means a special adjustment of individual effort. Every adjustment means choice, repression of impulse, deliberate action. The external regulation of the street produces an internal regulation of the individual. When the external regulation drops, the inner censor of actions goes off duty and the repressed energies instantly re-assert themselves.

If you would test this watch a large school at play hour. The moment the bell rings, all restraint disappears; every duty ceases; there is an instant return to individual freedom. Within seconds.

Digitized by Google
487

the playground is a world of organized game group. The children are in another and an older world. They yield to their re-assertive instincts and restore to the organism its free poise of function, so correcting the bias of over-discipline. But in the end discipline gains rather than loses; for the diffused vigor generated in the re-assertions of play restores initiative and makes the next lesson easy.

What is true of the school on the small scale is true of the city on the large scale. The restraints are less obvious, but equally real; the revulsion is perhaps even greater. For, unlike school, which is an affair of hours per day, the city always means an exacting life of weeks, or months and the joy of relief from it is necessarily greater and more diffused. If you doubt the inference, watch the doings of five hundred children when they go from the city to the country. It is only then that you can realize how much the hourly supervision, the mechanical restraints, the restrictions of activity, the want of the free light and the free air, the over-stimulation by noise and company, all count for in the growth of the child. These facts alone prove that—in the marshalled streets, the poorly lit courts, the dark lanes, the dangerous stairs, the dark and dirty lobbies, the crowded tenements—our great cities have, for one reason or another, failed to secure one primary condition of wholesome nurture, a safe, clean, inviting place where the children can play in freedom to their heart’s content.

6.	Play Centers and Town Planning. On the large scale, this criticism has asserted itself in the town planning movement. But to the student of child life, the unfitness of many city environments for the upbringing of children has long been placed beyond the need for argument. The play centre movement is only one phase of the criticism of our cities. This movement, starting more or less accidentally from the demonstrated needs of the slum-housed poor, is now seen to rest on the fundamentals of physiology and to take its social value from the fundamentals of biology. At every stage a child needs play to keep it individually fit for the day’s duty. Equally it needs play to keep up its proper pace in growth. Physiologically, he must keep well if he is to live; biologically, he must live if he is to continue the race. Fitness and survival go together. It would be interesting to continue the argument right into the heart of the many theories of plav; but, for our purpose, this is not necessary. One argument is beyond controversy; the streets are too dangerous for young children. It follows that special play spaces, indoor and outdoor, are primary factors in the promotion of child nurture. The play centre, therefore, is neither a pretty fancy to promote the aesthetic study of the English country dances, nor a “fad” of the physical education “cranks”. It is an essential counteractive to the debasing housing that has come to us through the too rapid concentration of people in ill-planned cities.

It is in the poor quartersthat the play centre ismost wanted, because it is in the poorer quarters of the cities that, by economic selection, the housing is least fitted for human habitation. In the better

Digitized by

Google
48$

quarters the need for the play centre has created itself in a thousand ways; but even in the better quarters the belief in the health value of open spaces is still feeble and uninformed. It has taken a long campaign of agitation to break some of the ancient habits of street-making and to force the average citizen to consider the hygiene of the street as a factor in the life of a family. How far behind we are in solving the real problem of the street—traffic, safety, amenity, health—-The Report by the Royal Commission on Housing (Scotland) shows in overwhelming detail. This is the larger case; the play cento’ is the smallest. To purge our great cities of their congested plague-spots will take the efforts of years. The play centers can be provided at once.

7.	Conclusion. Possibly, the grants now available from the Scotch Education Department may place the play centres in a better financial position. But, it is clear that, if the play centre has the genuine health value I have tried to indicate, it cannot be left any longer to the chances of individual interest and individual generosity. It must pass into its place as an essential educational institution like the ordinary day school. The experiments made by enthusiastic and skilled people have proved the case. From every standpoint, whether we think of the overburdened home, or the ill-nurtured child, or the over-crowding of the tenements, or the overbuilding of the areas, the argument for more places is overwhelming, and the special plea for the children's play centre is unanswerable. The play centre is a biological necessity. It means for the swiftly growing child, staying power, versatility, civilization of habit, companionship of contemporaries, spontaneous organization of conduct, development of free personality in co-operation with others equally free. It is the first step in citizenship. It is learning “to play the game”.

FINICKINESS AND FOOD

SUGGESTIONS FOR TRAINING CHILDREN TO GOOD

FOOD HABITS

Lucy A. Case, Nutrition Specialist, Extension Service, Oregon Agricultural College

There are four children in a certain middle-western family. They are all very much alive and have ideas of their own, but at the dining table they take things as they come and eat everything that is set before them.

The parents have insisted from the first that each child shall clear his plate before leaving the table. Only small servings of food are placed before them, as it is much easier to give a second helping than to meet the results of allowing a child to fail to clear his plate. On one occasion little Helen, two years of age, left the greater part of her spinach at dinner. No scene occurred,

’Reprinted in part from "Child Health

Digitized by

Google
489

however. The children’s eating is discussed very little in then-presence, it being taken as a matter of course that they will eat as they should.

On this particular day, dessert was passed to all but Helen, no remarks being necessary. She sat through the dessert, silent and unrelenting, and was taken down when the meal was over. The rejected spinach was put into a small dish and set away in the ice-box. A t supper time this same spinach was reheated, and placed alone on Helen's plate. She came to the table, hungry from fresh air play, and ate the spinach without a word on either side. The rest of the meal was then served to her and she enjoyed the family gathering in the usual happy way. No scene or demonstration was made of this incident!. Not an eye stared at the little girl as she sat down to the warmed over spinach. Everyone started his supper in the usual way, and Helen ate hers. She has been eating spinach ever sinee.

In this family the meal is made a regular family event. No one takes his seat until all have arrived, and everyone sits out the full meal. Children often do not eat well, because they are too busy to eat. They do not wish to take the time from exciting play or interesting story books to come and eat. If the meal is made an event, and they are not allowed to bolt their food and slip out they will be more likely to eat as they should.

Regularity of eating habits is a very important factor in getting a child to eat heartily at meal time. Far too many children are given cookies, cake, and bread with jam between meals. And who has not seen children on tip-toe at candy counters spending their pennies for sweets at all hours of the day? Sugar and sweets are very satisfying to the-appetite. Who would, be enthusiastic over a dish of creamed carrots half an hour after enjoying a bag of chocolate creams? One successful mother reports of ner children as follows: “They are allowed to eat candy directly after meals, and seldom ask for a lunch between meals. For the parents insist that they eat what is prepared for them, and enough of it to last till the next meal.” After the age of two years, three meals a day, with no lunches between meals is generally a good rule in getting children to like what is good for them. A certain city mother found it necessary to send her boy out to play with this sign hung from his neck: “Please do not feed my child.”

Just as sweets between meals take away the appetite, so also do any highly seasoned foods spoil the enjoyment of the simple flavor of plain bread and butter as well as other simple flavors. Their sense of taste is usually keener than that of adults and they will be just as happy with simple foods as with highly seasoned foods if they do not know the latter. A child can be made to understand that certain foods are for adults, and that he may have them when he is grown-up. A certain mother reserves cake and pie as a special treat for her school girls on occasions when they stay home and keep house while she is away. Oh these days they are also allowed to eat white bread,

Digitized by t^ooQle
490

Learning by Example

The force of example is a very important factor in training children to good food habits. Johnny wants to be tali and strong like father. If father doesn’t eat beets, why should Johnny eat them? Thus reasons the child. If father eats all of the good wholesome foods, Johnny will be more likely to eat them. Many mothers say that their children’s “finickiness” in regard to foods is inherited. “Mary just can’t take milk. I couldn’t either when I was a girl and my mother never could stand it.” What example has been set for this girl? It is likely that tastes and distastes for food are not inherited but are often the result of imitation, conscious or unconscious. As one mother says, “What is good for the children won’t hurt Pa and it won't hurt Ma.” If meals for the whole family are planned to include the simple wholesome foods that we want the children to eat, and if the adults partake of these foods, it will be a much easier proposition to train the children to good food habits.

Closely related to imitation is the force of suggestion. Suggestions should be positive, not negative. It is assumed that everyone in the family likes and eats all foods served. There is as little talk as possible about foods. When a suggestion is necessary, it is such a one as this: “Johnny is going to drink his milk,” rather than, “Don’t you like your milk, Johnny?” Confident assurance in the voice is an important factor in suggestion. A child is quick to sense any doubt that you may have, and he will quickly refuse if he sees that you fear he may refuse. At a recent mother’s gathering and for the entertainment of the group one mother told of her daughter’s dislike for certain foods in the presence of the girl. This incident strengthened those dislikes. A good rule is never to talk of dislikes in the presence of children.

Use Firmness without Crossness

In this connection the importance of emotional control should be mentioned. There is great difference between firmness and crossness. It is often difficult to control one’s emotion in dealing with children who seem stubborn, but a calm cool firmness will bring better results than a display of anger.

One mother writes, “I find that all I need to do to get more vegetables, fruit and milk used, is to put them on the table and offer a small bribe of some sort.” The use of rewards may not seem the best way of getting children to eat as they should, but it has been used effectively in many cases. Having the child’s favorite dessert at the same meal at which a new vegetable is served, is often an effective way of adding the vegetable to the diet. The dessert should be withheld until the vegetable has been eaten.

Punishment seems necessary at times in training some children. A certain child of two refused to eat her tomatoes one day at dinner, and was quite noisy in repeatedly asking for the jelly which had been withheld until the tomatoes were eaten. Finally the mother told her that she woqld have to go upstairs if she persisted.

Digitized by

Google
491

This did not stop the fussing, so the mother lifted her in her arms and started upstairs with her. Half way up the stairs the child cried, “Matoes, Mother. Matoes, Mother.” She was brought down to the table again and ate her tomatoes without further trouble.

Different methods o# persuasion must be used with different children, and at different ages. It is much easier to train a child from infancy than to break in an older child. Most of us like foods to which we have been accustomed from early childhood, and it is important to accustom children in infancy to all of the flavors which are wholesome for them. New flavors should be introduced gradually. For example, a few drops of water in which carrots have been cooked can be added to tne drinking water of the six-months-old infant. More is added the next time and the amount increased gradually so that the child finds nothing new about puree of carrot at the age of seven months. The bottle of cow’s milk is used to supplement breast feeding in weaning and to gradually accustom the child to the new food. New foods are given grudgingly in small amounts at first, and the idea given that it is a great privilege to taste of them. Tastes are repeated often, until finally the new food has been added to the dietary. The following rule may not be a pleasant commentary on human nature, but it is generally effective in introducing new foods to the family, that if you prepare only a small amount of any food, everybody

will want some of it.

✓ •

A great deal of good is being accomplished at school in training children to good food habits. The health lesson, the supervised hot school lunch, and the daily health record are all effective means of training. By these means the healthy child is featured. Rivalry, is created among the children to see which can become the most healthy, and ways and means to this end are eagerly adopted. The eating of tomato soup at the school lunch becomes a popular thing to children who may have many times refused to even taste it at home. Boys can be appealed to from the standpoint of athletic prowess and muscular strength, and girls can be reached by the appeal to strength and beauty. One mother writes, “I had one girl who would never eat carrots until that vegetable song came out about how carrots make you pretty and then this vegetable talk, and now she’s a lover of carrots both cooked and raw.” .Another writes, “One child who would not give up coffee was told, by his big sister that he’d be a runt if he did not quit. He quit right away and drinks milk now.”

How To Learn to Like Milk

The following suggestions for getting children to take milk have been found useful: Let them drink it through straws or macaroni; give the child a separate little pitcher and cup; use a bowl with a story picture in the bottom; break up bread in the milk; flavor the milk with vanilla and sugar, fruit juice and sugar, cocoa or chocolate epd sugar, malted milk or vanilla and egg;

Digitized by

Google
492

use milk on other food. Be sure the milk is always sweet and of good flavor.

A great deal can be accomplished in feeding children correctly by mil co-operation between the parents. Both must understand before meals what is desired, and one must support the other in handling problems as they arise. All ^lults in the family should pull together and good results can be obtained.

When you consent, consent gladly.

When you refuse, refuse finally.

When you punish, punish good-naturedly.

Commend often. Scold never.

ATHLETICS AND CONDUCT

Henry S. Curtis.

A few years ago I was giving a course at the Harvard Summer School and sat at table next to one of the instructors in ethics. He asked me what work I was giving and I said I was giving a course in play. He remarked he guessed his subject and mine were about as far apart as possible. I said, “No, I have the practical side of your job”.

We are coming to realize that a knowledge of principles does not guarantee that these principles are going to be adhered to. Mere knowledge often has little influence upon conduct. I have known men who came from uncultured families to college to acquire an A. B. and afterwards an M. A. and still continue to say, “I done it, or “done done it” or “I ain’t done it”. Today we are paying less attention to the principles of formal grammar and are trying to get children to speak correctly from the beginning.

We have discovered also that the knowledge of physiology and the principles of nutrition often have little effect upon our way of living. There are many college graduates who still eat hot biscuits and fried meat two or three times a day, despite the teaching of physiology. We are beginning to put the emphasis upon the formation of health habits rather than on the teaching of physiology.

Not every person who knows that it is wrong to lie always tells the truth. These habits are formed in the active side of life long before the business period begins. All of us have seen boys and girls playing croquet and slyly rolling the ball along with foot or skirt in front of the wicket. The boy or girl who has formed the habit of cheating in play has formed a habit that is apt to go with him into adult life. Probably there never was a person who cheated in business who had not cheated thousands of times before in games.

Athletics has a direct relationship to personal virtue. Dean Briggs of Harvard says the greatest safe-guard to the morals of Harvard students had been football. It was this social reason primarily that made athletics compulsory in the preparatory and

Digitized by

Google
493

public schools of England. According to the statistics of the Cleveland survey and the surveys of several other cities about 75 per cent of all delinquency grows out of the misuse of leisure time. The greatest safe-guard we can throw around our boys and girls is to give than interests that dominate these leisure moments. Temptations of sex lie very near the surface with most of us. When other interests are in abeyance and our work is done, they are apt to make their appearance.

The muscles are the organs of the will. A strong will is usually associated with strong muscles and a flabby will with flabby muscles. The habit of instant decision and instant action upon the decision, which is absolutely necessary in such games as baseball, football or basketball is the best possible training for dealing with temptations of all kinds. “In temptation, he who hesitates is lost.”

Athletics lead to weariness and sound sleep at night. They are in a way a vicarious expression of the same fundamental emotions which may appear otherwise in vice.

Play and athletics lead to acquaintanceship, friendship and social accountability. Plato says in the Republic, that none of us would be very trustworthy if we were invisibile, but a person who is in a community where he is not known is practically invisible. He is not answerable to public opinion.

There is a third series of fundamental habits and mental attitudes which may be described under the name of sportsmanship. Sportsmanship is the direct descendant in modem life of chivalry. In the middle ages chivalry stood for four things, truthfulness, courage, courtesy and loyality.

Chivalry was undoubtedly the most effective method of teaching truthfulness that the world has ever seen. It was effective because of its code of honor and the demands of the order. When Fitz James comes upon Roderick Dhu on the mountain side, the latter springs up and says,

"Thy name and purpose, Saxon stand,”

“A stranger!” “What doth thou require?”

“Rest ana a guide and food and fire.”

“Art thou a friend to Roderick?” "No.”

"Thou darest not call thyself a foe?”

“I dare to him and all the band,

He call to aid his murderous hand.”

Would any other code have led a man surrounded by enemies who seek his life to make such a declaration?

DeBois Guilbert says to Rebecca at Torquilstone, “Many a law, many a commandment have I broken, but my word, never.”

It is true that sportsmanship, as it has been in this country, has not always taught truthfulness effectively. Men have sometimes lied about eligibility, and players have played under assumed names. This is because athletics with us have been under the control of the student body and they have not always realized just what sportsmanship is.

Digitized by t^ooQle
494

A second ideal of chivalry was courage. Athletics today is probably the most effective method we have of teaching courage, determination, manliness, grit and all those qualities which we speak of as virile.

We have much over emphasized the idea of winning. The training which comes to him who smiles in the midst of defeat is no less important. Not all the battles of lifeate victories. There is no other training in that Spartan spirit that fights on to the end in the midst of defeat like being a member of a losing football or basketball team.

Another virtue taught by chivalry was loyalty. The team game is the great school of loyalty everywhere. There is no other loyality in modem life so intense as the loyalty of the members of the team to the team and the school. There is generally little loyalty in the school where there is no athletics.

But chivalry stood fundamentally for courtesy as well, Sportsmanship is today the school of the gentlemen in England. They say if you can train a fellow so he will be a gentlemen to the end of a football game, he will be a gentleman all the rest of his life. This ought to be no less true in this country and everywhere that men of right ideals are in charge of athletics.

On the other hand, there is probably no other force that is quite so demoralizing as the coach who is hired to win games and who seeks to win at any cost, who teaches his men that it* is all right to cheat if you don’t get caught at it and who does not realize the social and moral principles involved.

We are just sending out to all the high schools in the state of Missouri these rules of sportsmanship which we are asking the principals to frame and put in every high school.

“The first rule of sportsmanship is courtesy to your opponents, be a gentleman or lady and treat your opponents as gentlemen or ladies.”

“The second rule of sportsmanship is to play the game according to the rules, to play fair.”

“The third rule of sportsmanship is to abide by the decisions of the umpire or referee without remarks or heckling.”

“The fourth rule of sportsmanship is to be a courageous loser and not to lose heart when the score goes against you. Play your best to the end. Have grit.”

“The fifth rule of sportsmanship is to be a modest winner, not to boast of your victories or ‘rub it in’. Cheer your opponents.”

“Spectators should appreciate the good plays of opponents as well as the home team. Show courtesy to opponents as well as support the team. Take pride in the spirit wnich the school exhibits.”

Where there is good sportsmanship between contestants it leads to friendship and not emnity.

“When the One Great Scorer comes,

To write against your name He writes—not that you won or lost.

But how you played the game.”

Digitized by Google
495

The greatest difficulty is always with the spectators. Parents should take an interest in this matter and see that good sports* manship is praised and bad sportsmanship censured, that the grandstand is not continually demanding of players a type of play which violates all the standards of our civilization.

DOES PHYSICAL EDUCATION ACCOMPLISH ALL WE

CLAIM?

A Report by Theo. A. Gross, Chairman of Publicity.

At a recent meeting of the Physical Educators Club of Chicago, the above was the chief topic of discussion. Mr. V. K. Brown, Superintendent of Sports, for the South Parks, Chicago, speaking on the subject “Making Our Service Prove Itself” said in part. “Many phases of our National life are continually being subjected to scientific analysis and research, to ascertain tne best methods of procedure. Business, medicine, education, sanitation, and many other phafees of life, which are of common interest to all are studied with a view to eliminating guess work and adopting practices that are universally accepted as correct procedure. Other phases of our American life are still conducted upon principles baaed chiefly on precedent tradition or general belief, and not upon any measured or scientifically proved basis, and our scheme of Physical Education and Recreation is one of these.

“The time must come, said Mr. Brown, when we Physical Educators will be called upon to prove our claims of the value of Physical Education by some sort of scientific analysis that will leave no room for doubt. The medical profession, for example, can prove by figures and records of results, the value of its treatment for certain diseases. Can we similarly prove that foot ball, wrestling, is giving a definite value in our Physical Education scheme? Business can prove by definite results and records of losses and successes, that certain business practices must be observed in order to survive. Can we show by definite and substantiating figures whether formal gymnastics is better than games; whether swimming has more, or less value than tennis?

“We must also determine what is our objective? Is it health? Is it character building? Or, is it moral and social development? If all, what are their relative values? We must, sooner or later, solve these questions definitely upon a scientific analysis, if physical education is to take its place with the other professions.

“Some steps have already been taken in this direction, said Mr. Brown, the South Parks have recently held a preferential recreation election in which the patrons of the South Park centers, were asked to state their first, second, and third choice of more than 130 different activities, including team games, sports, handcraft, club organization, et cetera. 38,000 ballots were collected, and the tabulation of returns is being made with a view to enlarging the service. Some interesting facts have already been disclosed,

Digitized by

Google
496

but because of carelessness, or indifference in making the choice in some instances, and the general lack of definiteness in choices made by children who might like one thing best one day and something else the next, not much definite value can be placed on this first attempt. It is the intention of the South Park Commissioners to have this repeated for five years and by a re-check and more experienced handling, it is believed that this will be a very valuable means of improving the service.

“Similar statistics are being ascertained in other cities and by the National Playground Association of America in an effort to analyse and place upon a scientific basis the recreational work of the country.

Mr. Harry Keeler, Principal of the Lindblom High School, Chicago, speaking along the same lines said: “Education after all is development of a sense of responsibility, responsibility develops personality, personality is conduct in action. To develop a personality that will super-induce good conduct is the opportunity of the Physical Educator. Yours is not fundamentally a health program, as I see it, said Mr. Keeler. Your purpose is not to develop star performers, nor fundamentally to develop skillful achievement m athletics, but to develop good personality and make for good conduct in the game of life.

“We Americans play all sports, and the real value lies in “making the team.” In trying to do this we learn many lessons in character building and good conduct, the value of sleep and rest, of proper food, the importance of fresh air, learning the rules. These all have a tendency to develop habits that make for good conduct. Knowing the rules is as valuable a thing in the game of life as it is in the game of foot ball; to teach to play for the love of the game is important. “I would feel sorry for Mr. Stokes if his lawyer did not love his game, or for a patient undergoing a critical operation if his doctor did not love his game”, said Mr. Keeler.

“I need not go into detail, but merely wish to cite the case of Merkle and Evers in the world’s base ball series some years ago. Evers won the world’s pennant for the Cubs, and incidentally about $3700. for each player of the National League, because he knew the rules. Teaching a boy to know the rules in the game of life is our wonderful opportunity, said Mr. Keeler in concluding.

Mr. Robert E. Maysaek, taking the affirmative in the question “Should High School Athletes Be Limited To One Sport Only Each Semester?” said: “It would lessen the danger of overtraining, would involve more pupils taking part, and be helpful to the small schools”. Foot ball practice for two or three hours each day, with the hard work in the games at the end of the week, is too great a strain on the vitality of a player to be carried on into basket ball. The player should be permitted to engage in informal activities, but not permitted to play on any major sport team until the next semester. The small school especially, that has a limited number of athletes to draw upon is quite apt to use the same athletes in too many major sports, and should be subjected to the limitation rule to prevent danger of overtraining.

Digitized by CjOOQle
497

Dr. H. J. Fausel, taking the negative side of the question, said: “Football, more than any other major sport, develops all parts of the body, and really is a preparation and hardening process that fits the athlete for basket ball. Foot ball is not as great a physical strain as we are inclined to believe; not as strenuous as track athletics, or swimming, because in foot ball there is much opportunity for rest between plays. It is played out of doors, and, therefore, strengthens the respiratory organs, increases appetite, and is an exercise that is upbuilding, rather than a vitality draining activity, and it may with impunity be followed by the faster and more energy consuming activity, such as basket ball.

“The limitation rule does not, as a rule, limit, because the foot ball player, if not permitted to go into basket ball for his school, will in most cases play on outside teams where the supervision, officiating, and general environment are apt to be inferior, and where he will play more games than he would be permitted to play on the school team.

No action was taken on the question by the meeting: “both win.”

COACH ROCKNE’S ADVICE*

Coming from Knute Rockne, coach of the champion Notre Dame university football team and leading gridiron strategist, the statement that “we must not take our football too seriously” is indeed refreshing.

Mr. Rockne is a professional coach. His livelihood is at stake in the success or failure of his coaching work.

Yet, with an intelligence and a perspective that some of us lack, he warns us that college football must not be allowed to acquire a place in collegiate activities “where it detracts from the main idea of a college—education.”

Mr. Rockne tells us that, after all, football is but a game. He sees it as a means of determining how much iron a boy has in his backbone; as a means of developing alertness in an emergency; as a means of strengthening the body for the more important battles when college days are over.

To this end he encourages every boy at Notre Dame to get into a football suit and to take part in the school’s inter-college games. Hundreds of young men are getting the benefit of this system instead of the selected few.of the university squad.

"Too many are prone to place an almost life and death importance on the outcome of the game,” he told his Minnesota audience. “That is not right. The spirit should be one of exhilaration, not gloating, in victory; and of sportsmanship, not hatred, in defeat.”

Note by Editor.

•The above editorial appearing in the Minneapolis Tribune is so sane that we wish to bring it to the attention of all readers of Mind and Body.—Editor,

Digitized by

Google
498

Educators in Minnesota, and elsewhere, have tried to bring this point home in the past and too many football enthusiasts have regarded the advice as the viewpoint of the bookish pedagogue.

But it will be a sadly unenlightened fan, be he student or outsider, who accuses Knute Rockne of being a Pollyanna. He is a fighter and he coaches fighting teams. His faith in brains over brawn on the football field has revolutionized the game.

It is to be hoped that Mr. Rockne’s advice will be thoroughly digested by football lovers everywhere. Somehow the 1924 football season left a rather unpleasant taste in the mouth of saner devotees of the game.

Colleges everywhere seemed to be competing to see which could build the largest stadium, employ the highest priced coach and attract the greatest crowds. Institutions where there is a sad lack of adequate buildings for classrooms were paying too much attention to getting money for football stadiums.

The thing that has always characterized American college football—fairness in victory or defeat—seemed to be lacking. The coach who could turn in nothing but victories was a God. The coach who did not was an Islamite.

Yale, Harvard, and Princeton have realized this and placed a maximum of $8,000 as the salaiy to be paid coaches. A $25,000 football coach and a $15,000 president in a university was rightly declared to be ridiculous.

Inter-collegiate football is a splendid sport and has a rightful place in the activities of our educational institutions, but that place is well down in the curriculum.

When Knute Rockne brings his squad to Minneapolis next fall we sincerely hope that Bill Spaulding and his Gophers give him a sound drubbing. But if this delightful dream does not materialize we as sincerely trust that the Maroon and Gold sup-

Eorters will remember that it was “just a game” and will be as ig in defeat as in victory.—Minneapolis Tribune.

HYGIENE FOR ADOLESCENTS

An Address Given by H. Crichton Miller, M. A., M. D., at University College,

London.

It is desirable to approach this problem from the evolutionary point of view. Kipling has described man as “an imperfectly denatured animal.” The denatured part of the human being is his spirit; the natural part of him is his body. It is with this part with which the physical educator is chiefly taken up. We are evolving from the beast to the god. Instincts are slowly giving way *

* From • Physical Education" England.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
499

to ideals as the dynamic force of our lives. The question is, “How far can our physical training serve the ‘idealist’ goal we have before us?”

Educationalists seek an artificial simplification of life by means of generalisations. Thus, the physical training expert is likely to maintain that every adolescent requires Physical Training. This may come near to being a valid generalisation, yet I cannot accept it without reservation. For instance, The Narcissan is a youth who is in love with himself. He gets his name from the mythological character Narcissus, who, seeing in a pool the reflection of his own person, was straightway infatuated by it. If you wish to read a perfect description of the Narcissan turn to a novel published some ten or more years ago, the Poor Blind, by H. H. Bashford. The Narcissan is already amply taken up with his own body. He has to learn to detach his love from himself, and in this task he is not likely to find help from mere Physical Training.

The adolescent is largely taken up with the challenge of life as it is unfolded to him. It may be regarded from three standpoints:—

First, there is the human herd; he has to gain a place in it. He longs to assert himself, and to this end physical prowess can make a considerable contribution. In a future age—still very distant and hypothetical—social status will depend entirely on intellectual and character factors. To-day this is by no means the case. Brawn counts in the adolescent world, although brain may count more in certain adult spheres. The adolescent with some physical infirmity or disability is certain to suffer from a sense of inferiority, and for this he will try to compensate in other ways. If he has other qualities—wit, art, intellect, charm—he may attain to his place in the herd with little effort. If not, he will compensate in an over-determined way for his physical inferiority. This tendency is recognised in the popular belief that small people tend to be consequential.

In the emotional development of the adolescent confidence and diffidence from a physical point of view are of great importance. There are men to-day whose whole characters have been distorted in adolescence because they happened to be weaklings and never could attain to any sense of physical security. For the weakling I suggest that a training in Ju-Jitsu is the most valuable thing, given his need for feeling secure.

There is another type of adolescent who demands special consideration. I mean the youth with a definite streak of cruelty in his make up. Don’t imagine that physical training is going to make him kindlier. It won’t. I would cut that boy out of the physical Training Class and set him to do chess problems—or something equally unconnected with muscle-development.

In connection with this last type and also the Narcissan I should like to refer to the Team spirit and the Gladiatorial spirit. Remember the great superiority for all adolescents of Team Games over other games. Also I hope you will do your best to check

Digitized by

Google
500

this gladiatorial spirit which is creeping into all our sports. There is too much tendency to do our athletics by proxy today and to call ourselves “sportsmen” because we watch League Football or County Cricket.

The second standpoint from which we may regard the demand which life makes on the adult, is that of the external forces of nature. The adolescent requires, even more than the adult, to feel that he has ample physical resources with which to meet an emergency. Take the behavior in a boat of the boy who is a good swimmer and the boy who can’t swim. The difference lies in the consciousness of being ready to cope with nature, and so in many difficult situations the “fight or flight” mechanism of our bodies acts just as it does with our four-footed ancestors. Self-confidence means emotional poise and emotional poise produces through this mechanism, just those physical conditions most favorable for an emergency.

The third angle from which the adolescent may regard the demand of life, is that of the internal focus of nature. The adolescent is conscious—it may be dimly, it maybe with violent intensity— of the sexual forces beginning to assert themselves within his system. It used to be treated in a very severe way. Masters told boys that sex was all impure, they were adjured to take cold baths and play more football, lest the dread leprosy should attack them. Let us bring newer and saner views to bear on this very important question. Make the boys feel in the first place that they can ask any question at all with absolute confidence and no danger of being snubbed or laughed at. Stimulate their curiosity. Answer all their questions frankly. Make them understand that the pro-creative function is a great trust and that as honorable trustees they have to conserve the function. Make them understand how Physical Training can help to this end. Do not, above all, threaten them with dire ultimate results of their own puerile failings, or you may do their characters great harm.

Finally remember that inadequacy of any kind tends to produce a compensatory phantasy. There are some physical disabilities that can be remedied and others that cannot. To the former we must apply means of correction; [to the latter we must make a mental adjustment. If we retreat into a phantasy evasion of the infirmity to which we ought to adjust, we are missing Life’s challenge at a. point where it should mean most to us.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN SPECIAL CLASSES PHILADELPHIA

In those classes that contain mentally retarded children the work in physical education will be found in the Handbook of Lessons for Mentally Retarded Pupils. In classes made up altogether of children 6f normal mentality the regular grade course of study should bemused.

Digitized by L^ooQie
601

The time allotment is a daily thirty (SO) minute period, except where otherwise noted. The time division of a 30 minute period (regular grade work) is as follows:-

Tactics ...................................... 3	minutes

Free Exercises................................ 5	minutes

Games and Track and Field	Events.............17	minutes

Movement of Class to and from Yard.............5	minutes

In classes corresponding to grades above 4A grade the pupils should be divided into teams and records kept of performances in Track and Field Events. Principals should order Form P E 20, 21, and 22-Captain Sheets-upon which to record the results made in these events.

Three main points to be remembered are:-

1.	All lessons are to be given in the yard under the direction of the teacher esxcept that during inclement weather the basement, corridor or room may be used.

2.	The *same command for the same exercise is to be used invariably.

3.	The lesson begins when the teacher calls attention to the fact that the pupils are to have a physical training lesson.

Detailed Information For Teachers Of:-

1.	Backward Classes. The division for a lesson is as follows:

Movement of Class to and from Yard.............5	minutes

Part 1 (Vigorous Rhythmic Work)...........3	to	5	minutes

Part 2 (Response Work)....................2	to	3	minutes

Part 3 (Games and Track and Field Events).15 to 20 minutes

Part 3 should always consist of two or more activities. The pupil in this type class loses interest in a prolonged game or Track and Field Event, the chief activity for that period should therefore be followed by one or more activities of a different type; e. g., Overhead Ball Throw, 12 to 15 minutes; Race, 3 minutes; Follow the Leader, 2 minutes.

2.	Disciplinary Classes—Emphasis should be placed upon vigorous and antagonistic games and other events. Chinning aim other “Stunts” on the horizontal bar should be done from time to time.

3.	Restoration Classes—The time allotment is 2 thirty (30) minute periods per week divided as follows :-

Tactics and Free Exercises.....................6	minutes

Games and Track and Field Events......................21	minutes

Movement of Class to and from Yard.....................3	minutes

4.	Orthopedic Classes—No physical training work is to be given these classes except work having the approval of the medical supervisor.

6. Nutrition Classes—The material and length of the different parts of the lesson will depend upon the physical condition

Digitized by

Google
&02

of the pupil. Children who are tired, languid, and disinclined to exercise should be excused. All competitive running and vigorous games should be eliminated.

6.	Nutrition-Tuberculous Classes—No physical training work is to be given to these classes.

7.	Sight-Saving Classes, Deaf Classes—The amount and type of work must be determined by the physical condition and especially the nature of the particular handicap of the pupil.

SOFTENED WATER

L. A. Schwan, Fort Wayne, Ind.

Next to the air we breathe and the food we eat, nothing has a greater influence on our health than the water we use daily, externally as well as internally. It is for this reason that science is largely concerned with matters of water purification and kindred subjects. Research work is being done in all parts of the country with a view to guard the people from diseases which may have their origin in contaminated water.

In the light of this research work and its revelations, it is but natural that the cistern, which in 65 per cent of the territory of the United States constitutes the only source of soft water, should be found, in many places to be an actual menace to health. Hard water supplies, which in most cases are municipally controlled, are watched with commendable vigilance, which generally is sufficient to protect them from contamination. Chemists and bacteriologists who have analyzed samples of cistern water have found germs in astounding numbers. They have found germs of typhoid fever, germs that induce diseases of the skin like ring worm and barber’s itch, and germs that beget other diseases and ailments. Still, there remains the fact that soft water is to be desired in many ways. If science has found the cistern to be a menace to health in many cases, science should do something to provide a suitable water supply for general use. And now this has been done. The mechanical water softener, which utilizes the available hard water supply that is used for cooking and drinking and which is, of necessity, kept pure and clean, has been invented to aid in the elimination of water-borne diseases, and to provide a supply of pure soft water for both external and internal use.

Some one has said “Cleanliness is next to Godliness”. He may have spoken facetiously, but I am inclined to think he must have been sincere, for when we think of the difference between cleanliness and filth, we must think, substantially, of the difference between health and disease. If physical training work, whether it be carried on in our Y. M. C. A., the Turnverein, the Sokol organizations or in our schools, colleges and private clubs, can induce or promote the gospel of cleanliness, of body as well as of mind, then that work nas accomplished one of its most important purposes and is pre-eminently worth while. Physical cleanliness is

Digitized by

Google
503

not to be thought of as merely a condition of the body. Everything about us must be clean. All filth and dirt must be eliminated. Our buildings must be kept clean as well as our bodies. The physical director in a Y. M. C. A., athletic club or other institution should be anxious to show a physical department that is immaculately clean; the shower baths, the natatorium, the swimming pool.

Through years of experience, it has been definitely and conclusively proven that cleaning with soft water is highly desirable, both from the standpoint of superior results and conservation of energy. It is essential that the water we use for bathing the body, for drinking, as well as for general purposes should be clean and pure. Hard water, which generally is clean and pure and therefore suitable for drinking, is not adaptable to cleaning purposes. When lime in the hard water and fat in the soap combine, curd is formed, and this curd, a gummy insoluble substance, leaves a film on everything washed in it. That film is deposited on the body just as it is left in linens, on dishes, glassware, floors, anything on which it is used. On the body, however, the film has an especially detrimental effect, for it has a tendency to clog up the pores and materially affect the proper functioning of the perspiratory system.

We know it to be a physiological fact that we breathe through our skin and that closed up pores prevent this breathing and elimination. A coating, miscroscopic in its consistency, is formed by the hard water. This is true of the skin as it is of the tile in the natatorium. You cannot see it with the naked eye, but you can tell by comparison.

From my personal experience, I cannot speak too enthusiastically of the desirable results obtained from the use of soft water. We are using soft water throughout our physical department at the present time, and it is much appreciated by the membership. In fact, some of our members, with the best kina of baths at home, come to the Y. M. C. A. to bathe because of the soft water. When I refer to soft water, I do not mean merely rain water, which is not, correctly speaking, soft water at all, but I mean mechanically softened water, water that is softened by what is known as the base-exchange process. The testimonies of our members would cover many pages, but their main point is the exhilaration experienced and the sense of cleanliness. We use as much as 40,-000 gallons of soft water daily, and our water softening equipment takes care of that supply nicely, always assuring us plenty of soft water. Washing with hard water does not give you the feeling of cleanliness that washing with soft water does. Washing with hard water gives one the sensation of a contraction and hardness of the skin. If these facts are true, and experience and scientific research has demonstrated that they are true, then hard water most certainly affects our physical well being.

Ordinary soap used with hard water does not produce sufficient lather to really act as a cleanser. We may be sure then, if we use a soap that really produces sufficient lather when used with hard water, that we are using a soap which is harsh and which perhaps is "heavily loaded" with chemicals which are placed there

Digitized by

Google
504

to act as “water softeners,” and which often include free caustic alkali. Be assured too, that when you rub this soap onto the skin you are applying these chemicals, which induce chapping and roughness of the skin. It is obvious that those engaged in physical training work and athletics should pay particular attention to the care of the body. The athlete, wno has built up and developed his body through years of systematic training and unceasing effort, does not want to lay himself open to disease, often induced by contaminated water.

So much for cleanliness. While I cannot say that soft water increases a person’s speed, it is a fact that Johnny Weismuller, Bobbie Skelton and Miss Sybil Bauer broke several world’s swimming records in the pool at the Fort Wayne Y. M. C. A. These star performers spoke very highly of the water in our pool. It is not exaggeration to say that real soft water, and by this I mean soft water of such remarkable quality as that obtained from our mechanical or base-exchange softener, is a distinct and highly valued asset of our Y. M. C. A. at Fort Wayne.

The effects upon human beings caused by humidity or lack of humidity in the air they breathe, may be treated from two angles, that of comfort and that of health. As a basis for this treatment it must be emphasized that air of high relative humidity prevents loss of heat by evaporation (a process of heat convection), while it aids the flow of heat by conduction (the thermal conductivity of moist air being high compared to that of dry air). The opposite effects are shown Dy air of low relative humidity.

From the standpoint of comfort the result of high relative humidity is to make high air temperatures seem higher, low air temperatures seem lower than they actually are. As air temperatures approach nearer that of the body, the conduction of neat from tne body decreases even when the moist air favors that conduction. Should air temperatures equal to body temperature, or above it, be experienced the moist air will favor conduction of heat to the body. Under both conditions the only means for heat loss from the body is by evaporation and high relative humidity hinders that process. So the high temperatures seem higher when the air is moist. As air temperatures recede below that of the body, the tendency toward conduction of heat from the body increases. At low air temperatures this loss of heat from the body by conduction through moist air is much greater than the amount of heat which the moist air keeps in the body by preventing evaporation. So the low temperatures seem lower when the air is moist.

On the other hand the effect of low relative humidity on comfort is to make high air temperatures seem lower and low air tem-

HUMIDIFICATION OF AIR FOR BREATHING

Reid Davies.

Digitized by
506

peratures seem higher than they actually are. At high temperatures the dry air aids dissipation of body heat by. evaporation and so makes the temperatures seem lower. At low temperatures the dry air favors retention of body heat by preventing conduction and so makes the temperatures seem higher.

From the standpoint of health the question of what constitutes a proper degree of humidity, depends upon various conditions. In the first place, humidity is not generally considered independently in therapeutics, but always in connection with temperature. In the second place the combination of high temperature and high relative humidity is one which favors growth of the micro-organisms that cause many forms of disease, while it also favors the growth of the body cells whose function is the combatting of these parasites. And the opposite conditions of low temperature and low relative humidity, which tend to hinder parasite development, also serve to reduce the resistance of body cells to parasitic attack. Somewhere between these extremes lies the optimum combination for each ailment and this has to be chosen with regard to the particular needs of each disease and often with regard to the stage of the malady and the reserve strength of the invalid.

Variety of Air Conditions Needed in Curing Disease

In cold, dry climates there is less danger of fevers, digestive and nervous ailments, and pulmonary tuberculosis can be checked and frequently cured, but these conditions favor pneumonia which is uncommon in warm, moist climates where the former diseases are particularly virulent. Bronchitis, catarrh, and rheumatism which thrive at the expense of the patient in air that is cold and damp, often yield quickly to treatment in a warm, dry climate. It must be understood that purity of the air has a large bearing in the cure of most diseases and that determination of favorable air conditions is but one part of a complete course of treatment. However, that one part is of large importance and it is easy to imagine in a general hospital of considerable size, the simultaneous need for a wide variety of conditions combining air temperature and relative humidity.

Under normal conditions of temperature and humidity and during good health, the mucous membranes of the nose form a humidifying apparatus which serves to impart to inhaled air a sufficient supply of humidity before that air reaches the pharynx on its passage to the lungs. But when the relative humidity is too low (and when the air is inhaled through the mouth) this nasal humidifier is not able to supply the required amount of evaporation. In some nasal affections there is excessive discharge of moisture and for such ailments a dry air is desirable. When there is a deficient flow of moisture, as in other nasal diseases, there is need for a damp air for breathing.

Even in the case of a normal person in good health the humidity requirements vary to some extent. When doing active work a low relative humidity aids rapid evaporation of perspiration, and so helps to more rapid dissipation of body heat. Under con-

Digitized by

Google
506

ditions of combined high temperature and high relative humidity, continuous active work becomes impossible, but these same conditions experienced in the taking of a vapor bath, often prove both pleasant and beneficial.—Heating and Ventilating Magazine.

EPARTMENT OF EDUCATIONAL HYGIEN

LAWRENCE AUGUSTUS AVERILL

The number of states having physical education laws has grown from eleven to thirty-three in the past six years, according to the annual report of the Playground and Recreation Association of America, just issued. Since 1918 the National Physical Education Service of the Association, organized at the request of more than twenty national bodies interested in health, has been working constantly to promote state legislation for physical education and to help states in working out and administering physical education programs when they are established. As a result, literally millions of school children have been given an opportunity to take part in health-building play and physical activities. Last year the Association’s physical fitness tests for boys and girls were conducted in 391 cities, badges being awarded to children who qualified. The requests for help in solving problems of play and recreation received by the Association’s Correspondence and Consultation Bureau numbered 19,000. Many were from small towns and rural districts, which are said to be hungering for information on the development of recreation activities. Thirty foreign countries sought help in play and recreation through the correspondence service, while visitors from China, Japan, England, Russia, Canada and Mexico called at the Association’s New York headquarters for advice and information. From Denmark have come requests for a number of copies of the Association’s new handcraft book. The field service of the Association points to 318 cities in which it was instrumental in obtaining an enlargement and enrichment of local recreation program during 1924. In one city the number of playgrounds was increased from five to fourteen; in another, seven acres in a real estate subdivision were set aside for play purposes and a private group were inspired to purchase a sixteen acre tract and donate it to the city for a play and athletic field.

"What Every Teacher Should Know About the Health of Her Pupils” is the title of the latest health bulletin (No. 18) by James F. Rogers, M. D., published by the U. S. Bureau of Education. The bulletin contains 24 pages of very suggestive material bearing on this important subject. The following introduction gives the spirit and general viewpoint of the pamphlet:-

The human body is a machine through which the mind works. Every exhibition of mental activity is accompanied by physical

Digitized by

Google
607

activity, and the quality and quantity of mental work depend as certainly upon tne condition of the machine by which it is exhibited as do the quantity and quality of work produced by any less complex man-made mechanism with the working of which we are familiar.

These mind-body machines of ours vary with heredity in their original capacity for work, just as one type of automobile differs from another ; but it would be foolish to expect any automobile to do its best with a flat tire, or when supplied with little oil and inferior gasoline. It is just as absurd for a teacher to expect his best school work from a child who has defective sense organs, who is badly fed, insufficiently rested, or who is depressed by other faulty conditions or by disease. There are children who are normally bright and those who are naturally dull, but both the bright and the dull do finer and more persistent mental work when they are most fit.

It is unfair to the child if he is not put in bis best possible working condition, for likewise he will derive less benefit from his schooling.

It is unfair to other pupils who are held back by the slower progress of children who, if put in good order, would do better work.

It is a waste of energy on the part of the teacher who must labor with dull tools that could be sharpened to a degree.

It is a waste of public funds to permit teachers to work with pupils who can not profit as much by her efforts as might be the case if their bodily condition were improved.

In a word, it is a waste of time and money, for all concerned, not to see that every little human machine is given an overhauling upon his entrance to school, put in his best possible condition, and inspected from day to day thereafter to make sure that he does not lapse from that condition, or because of the development of acute diease become unfit for work or a menace to his fellows.

It would be absurd for a teacher of the violin not to instruct his pupils as to the mechanism of his instrument and as to when it is out of time, and the time is not far distant when the training school for teachers will include as a fundamental in its curriculum the close observation of the physical traits of the instruments with which they are to work. The material to be studied is always at hand in the pupils of the training school, and such a course of physical examination may well supplement the didactic work in physiology and hygiene which it will serve to bring home to the student in a practical way. Nor does it require a long and laborious schooling to prepare the teacher in such physical apprais-ment. If nice distinctions were to be made in physical examinations or decisions as to the treatment of diseases or defects, such would be the case, but these are not in the domain of the teacher but are left to the physician or dentist.

While her powers of observation will be sharpened more rapidly by good training, the teacher, with the help of such directions as are herewith offered, can do effective work.

Digitized by

Google
60S

It has been the good fortune of theTwriterJto teach medical students, normal-school pupils, and young teachers in methods of physical examination; ana, notwithkanamg (the time that had been spent by the first group in the previous study of anatomy and physiology, the teachers and normal students acquired the technique of examination as readily as did the first group, and their proficiency was truly gratifying.

Until the advent of the school nurse, health programs in rural Massachusetts were very inadequate. In many towns medical inspection was the only feature, though some towns made provision for oral, hygiene. Fairhaven, Falmouth, and several other towns have done splendid health work in the schools for more than a-decade. Eighty towns of less than 5,000 population have been conducting dental clinics for one or more years. Some had traveling clinics operating under the auspices of farm bureaus, while others were conducted in cooperation with municipal authorities, nursing associations, or branches of the American Red Cross.

Since the enactment of legislation requiring the employment of school nurses in all towns, improvement has been marked. Nutrition and dental work are promoted, weighing and measuring are done in practically all towns, and during the past year many towns have served milk to grade pupils during the morning session. The muse helps the school physician with the annual physical examination and makes independent inspection of pupils and buildings. She visits the homes of pupils and confers with parents in regard to health problems. A recent investigation by the State Department of Education shows that fully 99 per cent of the pupils attending public schools in Massachusetts are receiving the benefit of school nursing service.

The human scrap heap is the despair of the American municipality. It is composed of criminals, invalids, ignorant workers, paupers, degenerates, loafers.

We are beyond the age when this scrap heap of failures can be charged to the individuals which make it up.

It is not a scrap heap of failures but of failure—the failure of the state to protect children—the pitiful waste in the manufacture of citizens from babes.

Child welfare is not a fad or a philanthropy. It is the highest form of business and yields the richest returns to the state.—

George Fitch, San Francisco Chronicle.

The United States Public Health Service has recently published a report of their findings of defective vision among a large group of children examined for physical defects in general. Dr. Taliafero Clark, who is in charge of Field Investigations in Child Hygiene, directed and supervived the work, and the report was compiled by Selwyn D. Collins, Associate Statistician of the Service.

The examinations, carried on in certain eastern localities, included 9,245 native white children between the ages of six and

Digitized by

Google
609

sixteen in Spartanburg, South Carolina, and nearby villages; Frederick County, Maryland; New Castle County, Delaware and Nassau County, New York together with 2,535 white children in Cecil County, Maryland.

The results of the tests were merely for visual acuity made with standard test type, so that only the manifest deficiencies were recorded. Even with these simple tests, however, but 63 per cent were found to be normal in both eyes. Moderate defects were present in 27 per cent of the children, while as high as 10 per cent had vision as low as 5-10 of standard vision or less in one or both eyes. Even among the older children, those between fourteen and sixteen years of age, but 23 per cent of those needing glasses were wearing them. Of the children having 5-10 vision—one-half of standard vision—-or less, and there were 925 in this group, only 10.9 per cent had been fitted with any kind of correction. Even more deplorable is the fact that only 22 per cent of those with vision as low as 3-10 or less in both eyes were wearing glasses, and of those with 3-10 vision or less in one eye accompanied by normal vision in the other, as few as 10 per cent were wearing glasses to help along the poor eye.

Is it remarkable that these children appear dull and slow in grasping their lessons? The school authorities and parents must have been unaware of the condition in many of these cases, or surely they would not have expected the children to overcome so great a handicap in their school life. Yet the situation is representative of that to be found throughout the entire country.

It rests with the schools to endeavor to eliminate this state of affairs. Regular periodic eye examinations at least once each year would detect the manifest defects. The efforts of school authorities should then be directed toward impressing the parents with the seriousness of neglected visual defects, so that all children requiring glasses would be fitted with corrective lenses.

It must also be remembered that glasses alone will not bring about the desired results. As many contributing causes to eye-strain as possible should be weeded out, thereby permitting the minimum amount of faulty vision to exist. Care should be taken to provide the best possible school-room lighting, both natural and artificial. Light from the windows should be controlled by shades and the finish on the desk tops dull to avoid unnecessary glare. Blackboards should be placed so that they receive a good light— never between nor under windows. Among the primary precautions is the use of proper book type. All school books should have large, clear type on dull paper.

If these measures are taken to eliminate eye-strain, together with regular periodic eye examinations, a big step will have been taken toward the conservation of the eyesight of our future citizens.

Remember: The Editor of this Department is planning to devote his portion of the June issue exclusively to a review of re-

Digitized by

Google
510

cent books published in the general field of Educational Hygiene. Books intended for review must be in his hands by April 15, if possible. Address: Dr. Lawrence Augustus Averill, Worcester, Massachusetts.

♦---------------------------------------*

j (Gymnasium and playgroun J)

■■ -■ ♦ HOP SCOTCH GOLF

The old fashioned Hop Scotch Court, marked off in squares, on which a chip or block of wood is kicked until a foul is made, has been augmented by a newer style of hopping game known as Hop Scotch Golf, because the course resembles a miniature golf links.

Place nine or more "holes” in a circle about 25 feet in diameter (or use a Promotion Ball Court). The holes (about 4 inches in diameter) may be either drawn with chalk on the cement pavement (or may be made by sinking the lids of baking powder cans or old pie tins in the turf of your back yard). Choose a particular spot, perhaps a post, or wall, for your starting point from which to kick off the chip.

3

o

4	2

o	o

5	1

o o

6	9

o	o

7	8

o	o

Each circle is numbered from 1 upward. The first player kicks his chip, hopping all the while, and with as few "strokes” as possible, tries to put the chip into the first hole. After he has succeeded the next player does likewise. Every player must keep track of the number of strokes that it took him to make the first hole. After all players have made the first hole, the first player tries for the second hole; then the others try in succession. The object is to make each hole in a few "strokes,” and so to go over the whole course in as few “strokes” as possible. If more than four persons play it is wise to open up anotner course. A person may even play the game alone, trying to break the record for the neighborhood.

Digitized by

Google
611

AN OLD FASHIONED COUPLE DANCE

Rowena Dish man, Jacksonville, Fla.

A couple dance usable for small children.

Music—“Menuet a L’Antique” by Paderewski. Play first 24m. Omit over to Coda. Play from Coda to end of music. To make dance longer repeat each figure twice. Three counts to a measure.

Costumes. Same type as used in Colonial days. Girl— Long skirt with hoop a few inches from bottom. Puffs over hips. Tight bodice, no sleeves. Wide lace collar. Boy—Knee breeches with buckles on sides, slippers with big buckles. Dress coat, lace around bottom of sleeves. Big white jabot.

The Dance

Introduction-Girl enters from left. Boy from right. Each take 12 steps forward, meeting in center back of stage. Girl beginning with left foot. Boy with right foot. (12 counts)...4m.

Step 1.

(a)	Boy step to right on right foot(counts 1,2,3)........ lm.

(b)	Close left foot to right foot (counts 1,2,3)..........lm.

(c)	Boy bow, placing right hand to chest (counts 1,2,3)..lm.

(d)	Extend right hand and help girl up (counts 1,2,3)....lm.

During the last four measures, girl point right foot forward,

petite rond de jambe to fourth rear, kneel on right knee. Sit back on right foot and straighten left knee. Fan face and look at boy demurely. Take boy’s hand and stand up. (4m.)

Step II.

(a)	Each take 6 steps in a little individual circle, girl to right,

Boy to L. (6 counts)..................................2m.

(b)	Catch right hands, walk 6 steps around each other

(6 counts)........................................... 2m.

(c)	Raise right hands high, boy stands still, girl takes 6 steps

turning in place under raised arms (6 counts.) .......2m.

(d)	Catch left hands and walk around each other (6 counts) ..2m.

Step III

During this step boy stands still and looks at girl.

(a)	Girl walk away from boy and arabesque on right foot,

arms lateral (6 counts)...............................2m.

(b)	Girl walk back to partner (6 counts)..................2m.

(c)	Face partners and both step towards front of stage

(3 counts)....................................;......lm.

(d)	Girl place left foot behind right foot and curtsy, right

arm low in first, left arm high in fifth. Boy place heels together and bow (3 counts)...........................lm.

(e)	Repeat (c) and (d) in opposite direction (6 counts) ..2m.

Step IV

During entire step both face audience. Put inside arms around each other. Boy keeps outside hand out to side. Girl holds fan under chin.

Digitized by uooQle
512

(a)	Both point right foot to front, (count 1). Bend left knee and put right heel in front of left ankle (counts 2,3) ..........................................................lm.

(b)	Repeat (a).........................................  lm.

(c)	Walk forward three steps forward. Right, left, right,

(counts 1,2,3)........................................lm.

(d)	Place left behind right and curtsy (counts 1,2,3)....lm.

(e)	Repeat all step beginning left, right, left.........12m.

Step V

(a)	Turn away from partner, girl step right left and arabes-

que on right, arms carried up lateral, and look at boy (counts 1, 2, 3,)....................................lm.

During last measure boy turn away from partner step left, right and arabesque on left arms carried up lateral and look at girl.

(b)	Both face forward and travel to back of stage (counts

1,	2, 3).............................................lm.

(c)	Face partners. Girl stand on left foot with right knee

bent, arms crossed. Boy places heels together arms at sides.............................................lm.

(d) Repeat (b).........................................lm.

End dance with pose.

Girl kneel on right knee and straighten left knee. Boy stand in back with weight on left foot. Catcn right hands and left hands. Look at each other., .......................................2m.

ENTR’ ACTE GAVOTTE.

A Field Day Dance For Elementary School Girls

Janet B. Walter and S. J. Judelsohn, Philadelphia

Music. “Entr’ Acte Gavotte” E. Gillet, Victor Record 19143 Formation. Eight couples in flank circle formation, facing to move anti-clockwise, No. 1 on the right, No. 2 on the left. Introduction (8 measures)

Partners facing, inside hands joined and arms raised sideward, outside foot placed sideward—hold. On the last two notes step sideward on the outside foot, place inside foot in rear and curtsey. Part 1 (16 measures)

A.	1. Place inside foot forward and backward, 1 measure, and

change step forward, 1 measure; facing partner two glides sideward, 1 measure; a full turn outward in two steps, lmeas-sure.

2.	Repeat 1, opposite, 4 measures.

B.	Repeat A. finishing with feet together. 8 measures.

Part II (21 measures)

A. 1. Partner No. 1, four short running steps forward in line of progression (arms obliquely sidedownward), as though running fromxpartner, 1 measure; Part 2, four short

Digitized by

Google
613

running steps forward pursuing No. 1 who stands in place with knuckles on hips, 1 measure.

2.	Repeat 1, 2 measures.

3.	No. 1 circles outward with 6 small running steps in place, raising right arm overhead, and finishes with stamp left, while No. 2 stands in place, with knuckles on hips, 2 measures.

4.	No. 2 circles outward with 6 small running steps in place, raising left arm overhead, and finishes with two stamps, while No. 1 stands in place,- 2 measures.- .

B. 1, 2, 3. Repeat 1, 2, and 3 of A, 6 measures;

4. No. 2 (right arm around No. IVwaist) turns No. 1 in a circle left with 8 running steps, 2 measures; 8 running steps forward, 2 measures; 4 running steps backward, 1 measure; step on the inside foot and hold, finishing in same position as at start of dance. On the last two notes step sideward on the outside foot, place the other foot in rear and curtsey, 2 measures.

Part III (16 measures)

Repeat Part 1.

Part IV (48 measures)

A.	1. Partners join left hands (right arms sideward) and turn

in a circle left, with 8 walking steps, 4 measures; all face center of circle, join hands and walk 4 steps forward, (raising joined hands upward), 2 measures, and 4 steps backward lowering arms, 2 measures.

2.	Repeat 1, 8 measures.

B.	1. Step on right foot crossing front of left, step on left, step

on right crossing front of left and swing left leg sideward, 2 measures; same opposite, 2 measures.

2.	Repeat 1, 4 measures.

3.	Release hands, step on right foot crossing front of left, step on left, balance hop right, left arm overhead, 2 measures; same opposite, 2 measures; three steps backward and hold, 2 measures; pirouette left, waving arms forward and sideward, step forward on left foot, transfer weight to right foot, 2 measures.

C.	Repeat A, 16 measures.

D.	No. 2 steps front of and faces No. 1. Step on left foot, step on right rear of left, balance hop left, arms sideward, 2 measures; repeat opposite, 2 measures; partners circle back to back in 8 running steps, arms sideward, finishing in position taken at start of dance and hold, 2 measures: on last two notes step on outer foot, placing inside foot in rear and curtsey, 2 measures.

Part V (16 measures)

Repeat Part I.

Part VI (21 measures)

Repeat Part II.

Digitized by
HU

Part VII (16 measures)

A.	Repeat A of Part I, 8 measures.

B.	1. Place inside foot forward and backward, 1 measure; and

change step forward, 1 measure; facing partner, two glides sideward, 1 measure, a full turn outward in two steps,

1	measure.

2.	Place outside foot forward and backward, 1 measure, change step forward, 1 measure; eight small running steps backward; face partner; step on inside foot and hold, curtsey right, step on left and hold the position as at start of dance,

2	measures.

A FIELD DAY DRILL FOR ELEMENTARY SCHOOL BOYS

Janet B. Walter and S. J. Judelsohn, Philadelphia

Music “Keeping Step with the Union,” Sousa. Victor Record No. 18929.

Formation: Each school may have a group of any multiple of four from 16 to 32, arranged in fours, the taller boys on the right. They will march forward in closed ranks, and upon command open ranks left sideward in 12 counts.

Introduction (8 counts.)

Hold position, 1-8.

Part I (64 counts)

A.	1. Raise arms sideupward, 1-2; lower sideward, 3-4; reverse

5-6; return 7-8.

2.	Raise arms foreupward, 1-2; lower forward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

3.	As 1, 1-8.

4.	As 2, 1-8.

B.	1. Stride left sideward and raise arms sideupward, 1-2; low-

er sideward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6, return, 7-8.

2.	Stride left forward and raise arms foreupward, 1-2; lower forward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

3.	As	1 of B,	but	stride right	sideward,	1-8.

4.	As	2 of B,	but	stride right	forward,	1-8.

Part II (64 counts)

A.	1. Stride left sideward and raise arms sideward, 1-2; swing

left arm down, across and up (3-4 arm circle outward), 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

2.	Raise arms foreupward, 1-2; bend trunk foredownward and swing arms foredownward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

3.	As	1, but	opposite, 1-8.

4.	As	2, 1-8.

B.	1. Lunge left sideward and raise arms sideward, 1-2; swing

left arm down, across and up (3-4 arm circle outward), 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

Digitized by
515

2.	Jump to side stride and raise arms foreupward, 1-2; bend trank foredownward and swing arms foredown ward, 8-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

3.	As 1, but opposite, 1-8.

4.	As 2, 1-8 (bend arms to thrust on count 7).

Part III (64 counts)

A.	1. Stride left sideward and thrust upward, 1-2; turn trunk

left and Iowa: arms forward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

2.	Three arm circles outward, 1-6; bend arms to thrust, 7-8.

3.	As 1, but to the right, 1-8.

4.	As 2, 1-8.

B.	1. 2, 3. as 1, 2, 3, of A 1-24

4.	3 1-2 arm circles outward, finishing with hands at sides,

1-8.

Part IV (48 counts)

1.	Four steps in place, 1-4; close ranks through forward, 5-8; 4 steps forward, 9-12; 4 steps in place, 13-16.

2.	Full wheel left, 1-16.

3^ Four steps in place, 1-4; 4 steps backward, 5-8; open ranks marching forward, 9-12; 4 steps in place, 13-16, bending arms to thrust on count 15.

Part V (32 counts)

1.	Lunge left sideward and thrust upward, 1-2; turn trunk left and lower arms forward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

2.	Three arm circles outward, 1-6; bend arms to thrust, 7-8.

3.	As 1, but to the right, 1-8.

4.	3 1-2 arm circles outward, finish with hands at sides, 1-8.

Part VI (48 counts)

As Part IV.

Part VII (32 counts)

1.	Lunge left sideward and thrust upward, 1-2; turn trunk left, bend trunk forward, and swing arms foredownward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

2.	Three arm circles outward, 1-6; bend arms to thrust, 7-8.

3.	As 1, but to the right, 1-8.

4.	3 1-2 arm circles outward, finish with hands at sides, 1-8.

Digitized by LaOOQle
616

♦	■	-	—	■■	—i -----»

Fysiology and hygien

D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.

♦ ' ■■ — 1 ' ----------------- 1 ■ ♦

Outdoor Sports and the Heart. Dr. H. Herxheimer reviews the recent literature on measurements of the heart in participants in outdoor sports. The heart remains practically unchanged when the effort is short and long intervals are interposed, for example, in heavy athletics, short runs, short swims, rugby, fencing and boxing. The musculature of the body increases in size. Contrary to this, the muscles do not hypertrophy, while the heart becomes enlarged, in all sports requiring a prolonged exertion, such as Marathon runs, skiing, cycling and rowing. Experimental and clinical findings indicate that the increased size of the heart in these instances is due rather to hypertrophy than to dilation. Soon after the training is discontinued (in rats in eight days, according to Secher), the heart returns to the previous size. Therefore he believes that the hypertrophy is harmless.

From an article in Klinische Wockenschrift, Berlin.

SOURCE OF ENERGY IN MUSCULAR WORK

Graham Lusk, New York: Evidence tends to refute the opinions of A. V. Hill and Meyerhof, that carbohydrate is the only souce of energy in muscular work. From studies of the res-

Eiratory exchange in phlorhizinized animals, the conclusion must e drawn that fats may be used directly in furnishing energy for muscular work.

The Phsyiology of Massage. The systematic manipulation of the body surface by the hands in movements of stroking, pinching, kneading and striking is not a recent discoveiy. Massage was employed therapeutically by the priests of ancient Egypt and of India. The Greeks were familiar with such manipulations and through them the Romans adopted similar procedures. McKenzie* recalls that massage has had its eras of popularity and its seasons of neglect: popularity usually due to the personality and skill of an operator or school of operators, and neglect following its indiscriminate use by unskilled persons. According to McKenzie, its recognition as a therapeutic agent has been delayed by the failure to distinguish between true massage and unskilled rubbing that merely requires muscular strength, a certain manual dexterity, and good will. The proper practice of massage requires a special art. It differs radically from active exercise in its capacity to modify the condition of the muscular tissue without latiguing or even employing the will power of the patient.

* McKenzie, R. T.: Exercise in Education and Medicine, Philadelphia, W. B. Saunders Company, 1909.

Digitized by Tooele
617

The physiology of massage, the understanding of precisely what functions the kneading of muscles affects in the organism, is closely related to the physiology of muscular exercise in general. It has been demonstrated, for instance, that the acid-base equilibrium may undergo striking changes if the exercise is vigorous; and these may occur often in the daily life of any active, healthy person. Barn, and his associates have observed the increase in the concentration of lactic acid after heavy work. This is sufficient to reduce the arterial carbon dioxid tension, and the reaction of both arterial and venous blood becomes less alkaline. The carbon dioxid combining capacity is greatly decreased. The degree of change varies considerably in different normal persons. The phenomena in general thus are characteristic of acidosis. The greater respiration during exercise and the attendant lowering of the carbon dioxid tension of the blood tend to oppose the effect of lactic acid on its reaction, but are not great enough, as a rule, for preventing the occurrence of some temporary acidosis or to cause an immediate return to normal when the muscular activity ceases.

A recent report by Pemberton2, Cajori and Crouter3 of the Presbyterian Hospital, Philadelphia, indicates that the form of “passive” muscular exercise represented by massage of voluntary muscles, even though vigorous, is not accompanied by the evidences of lactic acid production and acidosis that attend, relatively mild active exercise of short duration. Nor does it bring about the loss of acid and the alkalosis that characterize therapeutic exposure of the body to external heat. The latter procedure, carried out in various ways, such as “bakes,” hydrotherapy, vapor baths and mud baths, results in the familiar profuse perspiration. It has been pointed out that there occur also a heightened circulation, increased pulmonary ventilation, increased percentage saturation of the venous blood with oxygen resulting from increased blood flow an increase in the alkalinity of the blood, and alkaline urine, and a change in the reaction of the sweat from its initial point to a reaction less acid or more alkaline. These changes in reaction are brought about by a loss of acid from the body, chiefly carbon dioxid, through the lungs, urine and sweat in the order of magnitude named, which results in a relative excess of alkali. This excess of akali alters the reaction of the blood and is then eliminated through the urine and sweat, producing the swing toward the alkaline range in the fluids mentioned.

1.	Barr, D. P.; Minwich, H. E., and Green, R. P.: Studies in the Physiology of Muscular Exercise, I, Changes in Acid-Base Equilibrium Following Short Periods of Vigorous Muscular Exercise, J. Biol. Chem. 56:495 (March) 1923.

2.	Pemberton, Ralph; Cajori F. .A., snd Crouter, C. Y.: The Physilogic Effect of Massage, J. A. M. A. 83: 1761 (Nov. 29) 1924.

3.	Cajori, F. A.; Crouter, C. Y., and Pemberton, Ralph: Effect of Therapeutic Application of External Heat on Acid-Base Equilibrium of the Body, J. Biol. Chem. 67:217 (Aug.) 1923.

Digitized by v^ooQle
518

As the possible therapeutic effects of massage cannot be ex-

1>lained on the basis of the phenomena of either acidosis or alka-osis with their attendant consequences, its physiologic reactions must be sought in other than such chemical manifestations. The Philadelphia investigators suggest that whatever benefits arise may be referable to changes in the blood supply, especially the capillary circulation. Recent studies, notably those of Krogh of Copenhagen, have tended to bring the hitherto unexpected capacities of the capillary bed for expansion into new prominence. Pressure or manipulation may actually lead to capillaiy dilatation. The freedom from development of acidotic conditions after massage, according to Pemberton, Cajori and Crouter, probably explains the application of this sort of manipulation to exercised, fatigued and even injured muscle. If massage produced additional amounts of lactic acid, the benefits to overexercised muscles would be difficult of explanation. Experience, they add, has shown that massage, in the form of a vigorous rub-down, has a definite value to both human beings and horses after exercise. Lacking any further addition of lactic acid, the changes thus induced m the local blood supply permit, presumably, a more rapid removal of that already present.

Editorial: The Journal, Med. Assoc. Jan.

Perfect Standards—Man has been seeking the ideal test of human perfection for a long, long time. The ancient Egyptians hit upon one by some mysterious process. They took the length of the middle finger as the unit, and standardized the head into so many finger lengths, the trunk into so many, the legs and the feet into so many, the breadth of shoulders in the same way. The Greek artists elaborated similar tests of physical perfection. Dttrer and other great artists of the middle and later ages spent much time and effort in the same direction.

More strictly along health lines, the earlier enthusiasts in physical education in this country tried, by the study of measurements and tests of a large body of youth, to establish a standard to which they hoped, and more or less believed, all the rest of humanity could be approximated. Later, by adding, subtracting, multiplying or dividing various measurements, they tried to establish a vital index—a coefficient which would show, at a glance, just where a man stood with regard to physical function. These vital indices all proved to be will-o’-the-wisps.

The recent search for nutrition standards is, to a considerable extent, a repetition of this running after a hard and fast ideal, and the results are likely to be much the same. Not less than a dozen standards have been worked out in Europe and in this country. None of them agree; all approximate an average, but that is about as far as they get. After all, while weighing and measuring are a lesson and a stimulus to the person weighed and measured, we are not justified in making of them more than they deserve. Variations from the average may not, on the whole, be good, but they

Digitized by

Google
519

occur normally and to a wide degree; moreover, variation has been at the bottom of evolution.

After all, are we not making too much of weighing and measuring, and not enough of malnutrition? The best and most far-reaching practice would seem to be to see that a child is free from disease or hampering defect; that he receive a diet which contains all that he ought to have, in quantity as well as quality; that his feeding and other habits are what they should be; that he have ample rest and exercise and a normal mental atmosphere. Every child is deserving of these and under such conditions will reach his acme of growth and development, even if he falls more than ten per cent: below the average weight for his height, has a low pelidisi an unsatisfactory Bernhardt index, or what not.—Editorial Med. Journal and Record, New York.

Light And The Blood Platelets. The recognized possibilites of heliotherapy, notably in rickets and surgical tuberculosis, have naturally aroused curiosity as to the mechanism through which the radiations produce their effects. The rays themselves can at best penetrate only a short distance through the surface layers of the body. It seems most likely, therefore, that the ultimate benefits are due in the last analysis to intermediate factors for which the radiations are more directly responsible. It has been argued recently, for example, that the ultraviolet radiations, which cause large amounts of calcium and phosphorus to be retained in the organisms of rachitic infants, affect absorption from the intest-tine. As a direct action on the intestine or its contents seems out of the question with rays that penetrate the skin to a depth of not more than 1 mm., one must assume that, as a result of the action of the ultraviolet rays on the skin or on the blood in the capillaries of the skin, the physical or chemical condition of the blood is in some way altered.

In studying the effects of light on the organism, Cramer and Drew of London found that animals kept in a dark room since birth do not show any obvious signs of ill health. They grow approximately at the same rate as those kept in well lighted rooms and fed on the same diet. Nevertheless, they do differ from the normal and the difference manifests itself morphologically by an abnormally low number of blood platelets. Exposure of the animals to radiation from a mercury vapor lamp was followed by an augmentation of the platelet count. Light, therefore, seems to have a stimulating effect on the formation of blood platelets. This was further verified by the effects of light on rats suffering from a deficiency of vitamim A, in which there is likewise a thrombopenia.

So long as the function of the platelets remains uncertain, the ultimate influence of a factor, such as light, which somehow promotes the production of these blood components, cannot be decided. Cramer and Drew are of the opinion that the blood platelets represent a defensive mechanism against bacterial infection. On this hypothesis, the advantage to the organism could

Digitized by

Google
520

easily be conjectured. Light is not the sole factor that determines the production of platelets. It is interesting to note that in cases of experimentally produced deficiency of vitamin A, for which there is some evidence of a diminished bactericidal power in the body, light tends to delay, though it does not prevent, the onset of some of the pathologic symptoms. Park, for instance, has reported that sunlight and fresh air may delay the development of xerophthalmia in rats kept on a deficient diet. If the platelets are formed in some internal organ, the photosynthetic effect must he very indirect. Cramer and Drew are more inclined to the view that these blood cells are formed by the endothelial cells of the blood vessels and lymphatics. On this basis, the described effect of light might be attributed to a local stimulating effect of the rays on the endothelial cells of the peripheral vessels. .—Editorial: The Journal, Am. Med. Assoc.

Some Factors Promoting Health. Charitable institutions arc not usually looked on as models for the formulation of plans or proposals irtvolving hygienic reforms. There is a widespread belief that children, for example, who are under institutional management in orphanages and elsewhere are likely to suffer with respect to their rate of growth, nutritional condition and the incidence of disease. It would not be difficult to present evidence in support of this conclusion. Extreme generalizations, like extreme standardization, however, are all too often unwarranted. With respect to the health and growth of adolescents, this fact has recently been emphasized by a report of Holt and Fales* of New York on the growth and general condition of the boys and girls in a semi-charitable home and school for poor children in that city. The inmates were housed in the heart of a business section, cut off from that generous supply of light and fresh air so widely lauded. There they lived and played and studied during all but a few weeks of each year; yet, a careful survey showed that, despite the enforced restrictions of the environment and the admittedly simple regimen, strikingly good health and nutrition were maintained. The distribution of nutrients in the limited dietary showed considerable deviation from what the “experts” might designate as the optimum; yet health and digestion remained excellent and —most important—the gains in weight were satisfactoiy. In commenting on the outcome, Holt and Fales emphasize the important but often overlooked consideration that a wide deviation from prescribed standards may be consistent with health, provided certain essentials in the diet are furnished, and regularity of habits is maintained. Physicians and parents will do well to note the factors that contributed, even under supposedly unideal conditions, to a succesisful outcome; They were adiiidged to be (1) regularity in habits of eating and in sleep, rest ana exercise; (2) a liberal but simple diet, and (3) freedom from contact infections.

Current Comment. The Journal A. M. A.

•Holt, L. E., and Fales, H. L.: Observations on the Health and Growth of Children in an Institution, Am. J. Dis. Child 26t 1 (July) 1928.

Digitized by

Google
i>2i

■ •*- ---- -------------------------------------

News, notes and comments

♦ ------ --------------------

During the recent session of the Wisconsin legislature a discussion was set by the committee in Education and Public Wel-far on the “Barker bill” relating to the elimination of courses of physical education in rural schools.

(The number of “straws” are increasing that show the direction the wind is blowing in certain quarters. It will not do to be too complacent, and to assume that the idea of universal physical education is being accepted everywhere without any dissention. Editor.)

At the February meeting of the Board of Education of Chicago, Mr. E. C. Delaporte was appointed as director of physical education, succeeding Mr. Henry Suder who retired last year.

The National Amateur Athletic Federation.

The objectives of the Federation as stated by its president, Col. Henry Breckenridge are as follows:

“From the first the Federation has been actuated by only one motive. To serve the Nation. The chosen field of this service is physical education, wholesome recreation and amateur athletics. The call of this field is indeed to build sound bodies for the boyhood and girlhood, the manhood and womanhood of the country. But it is much more than that. The watchwords of the Federation might well be “Sound Bodies, Brave Hearts and Chivalrous Spirits.” We do not seek the creation of sound bodies as an end in itself, but because a sound body should be the vehicle of a sound mind, and the instrument of a chivalrous spirit in the performance of the tasks of life and the clean and patriotic service to the community ^nd country. Physical prowess, in and of itself, is not necessarily a beneficient end. The gladiator of Rome was the acme of physical efficiency, but his accomplishment was to aid in debauching an entire populace. We are not partisans of the exploitation of the young manhood and the young womanhood of our people as a commmerical enterprise on the athletic field in the name of amateur sport. We are concerned with building up the bodies of the rank and file of the people, with stimulating wholesale recreation and inculcating the ideals of sound sportsmanship. We believe that the field of recreation and play is a fertile field for sowing the seeds of good citizenship. It is there we can teach honesty, fair dealing, teamwork, self sacrifice, modesty, patience, courage and the chivalrous spirit of appreciation of the virtues of our fellowmen, irrespective of riches or poverty, creed

Digitized by

Google
622

or race. It is in the true spirit of sport that class barriers break down, racial and religious differences are forgotten, and hatreds disappear. We are not enlisted in a contest for power but in a campaign for service."

To the above Major John L. Griffith, the secretary of the Federation adds:

Would it not be well at this time if Colonel Breckenridge’s statement were again broadcasted through colleges, Y. M. C. A'.s, Playgrounds and the other individual groups by the Unit members of the Federation calling attention to the following things?

First: The Federation was not organized to control sports but to develop and safeguard athletics.

Second: The Federation is not concerned that the champions who have been developed by the Unit members of the Federation shall be given more competition but rather that the millions of boys who are not now enrolled in athletic activities are given training.

Third: The Federation believes, in athletic competition both for the brilliant performers and also^for those who will never become champions. The institutions which compose our various unit members have built stadia, swimming pools and field houses where great championship contests are held. It is well that this phase of athletics has been developed. The Federation however is concerned that more gymnasia, more playing fields, more tennis courts and more swimming pools shall be constructed.

Some persons have not understood the functions of the Federation. Should we not explain that fifteen national organizations interested in amateur athletics have of their own accord formed a Conference so that they may unitedly work together in developing and safeguarding athletics? Certainly no one can object to that program.

What are others doing? In Progressive Physical Education this country doubtlessly is marching in first rank. Unrestricted by old traditions she has adopted from the old European systems everything she deemed best and fit to her. In Europe, however, the old systems are gradually being altered, and newer thoughts are being advanced. In Germany, especially, this is true. It has been realized that the older Turner system was too one-sided, and as a result of this it is being re-organized to meet present conditions. Since the war considerable investigation has been carried out by various organizations in Germany. Chief among these groups is the Deutsche Hochschule fuer Leibesuebungen. (University for Physical Education) which represents the most modem trend of thought in the physical training world. Special attention has been paid to the correlation of the sociological and anthropo-metrical observations, which result in the adapting of physical education to the needs of the people.

The Youth Movement of Central Europe is of vital interest to those who desire to see an expression of the new spirit among the

Digitized by

Google
623

newer generation. This movement too, is an object of permanent attention in the Deutsche Hochschule fuer Leibesuebungen, Therefore, we can call the latter the very centre of all these new movements in Germany.

At the present time we are, in conjunction with the North German Lloyd Student trips, organizing a visit to this centre of the most progressive movement in education, where courses wilfbe arranged to meet the individual needs of American students. This is an exceptional opportunity to observe this development in company with a group who have a similar interest. The desire for this trip arose amongst a group of people who conversed with, and attended talks given by, a former student of the Deutsche Hochschule fuer Leibesuebungen, who has grown up in the Youth Movement.

The cost of the trip will be reduced to a minimum. The trip can be made to fit in with tours that are being arranged by the North German Lloyd. For this trip there will be accommodations on the S. S. Muenchen leaving New York on June 30 and sailing West from Bremen August 29. Just as good accommodations can be given on S. S. Bremen leaving Bremen August 15. The details of the trip, costs etc., will gladly be given to those interested. For further information kindly communicate at once with Friedr. 0. Kegel, 2016 Green Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

Arthur L. Mortensen

South Philadelphia High-School-Boys Department of Physical Education.

Philadelphia, Pa.

Health education is assured a prominent place in the school curricula of the future. Judging from the eighty-nine public, parochial, and private schools that have enrolled in the School Health Program study being conducted by the American Child Health Association the importance of health education is being emphasized. Schools as remote as the Virgin Islands have been heard from, and St. Thomas Junior High School, located on our Island possessions, has enrolled in the contest and will submit a program of the health work that is being carried on among its pupils. Besides the classification of schools entering the contest much interest has also been created by the geographical distribution of these schools. Twenty-eight states and the District of Columbia are represented in the enrollment.

In promoting this study the American Child Health Association aims primarily to gather all valuable data developing from health programs being directed by individual schools. The achievements and suggestions offered by the schools submitting programs wil be published in a report to serve as a source material for other schools in the country that need advice and assistance. The committee will announce the three winning schools at the beginning of the school year in September. The Association is offering one thousand dollars to be divided among the three schools contributing the most valuable programs. This award is to be used to further the health program of the school.

Digitized by

Google
624

*The salient points on which the committee will make their recommendations are: 1-Health Training and Instructions (the development of good health habits, desirable attitudes and practical health knowledge). 2-Hygienic Arrangement and Administration of the School Program for the Pupil and Teacher; 3-Phy-sicpl Training Program; 4-Hygiene of tne School Plant. The schools have been entered under a code number in order that the committee may rate the schools with unbiased opinion.

Members of the judging committee are: Dr. Otis W. Caldwell, Director of Lincoln School, Teachers’ College, New York City; Mrs. Henrietta Calvin, Director, Division of Home Economics, Board of Public Education, Philadelphia, Pa; W. S. Deffenbaugh, Chief, City Schools Division, Bureau of Education, Washington, D. C.; Dr. Clark W. Hetherington, Professor of Physical Education, New York University; Dr. Josephine Kenyon, New York City; Dr. John D. McCarthy, Health Consultant, New York City High Schools; Jay B. Nash, Director of Physical Education, Oakland Public Schools, Oakland, Calif.; Miss Sara M. Sturdevant, Associate Professor of Education, Teachers’ College, Columbia University; and Miss Florence E. Winchell, Head of Home Eco-omics Department, New York State College for Teachers, Albany, N. Y.

On February 16th the House of Representatives of the State of Idaho passed a bill requiring the teaching of physical education in the high schools of the state.

During Februaiy Mr. Randall D. Warden director of physical education in Newark, N. J. was the guest of honor at a banquet arranged by his assistants to commemorate his twentieth year of service in the schools of Newark. During the evening Mr. Warden was presented with a gold combination watch and stop watch.

AN IMPORTANT INNOVATION

In the Journal of the Ohio State Teachers Association we find the following:

At a meeting in Columbus, Ohio, on January 18, the State Board of Control of the Ohio School Athletic Association unanimously elected H. R. Townsend, principal of the high school at Hamilton, to be the first commissioner of high school athletics for the state. Mr. Townsend’s contract is for a term of three years, beginning September 1, 1925. at an annual salary of $5,000. He will maintain an office in Columbus, and will make that city his place of residence.

The board considered a large number of applicants most of whom made personal application. Doubtless many of these men could have filled the position creditably. Before making a selection, the sentiment of the board seemed to favor a schoolman, preferably a high school principal, who would view athletics primarily from

Digitized by

Google
525

the educational standpoint; a man of unquestionable character whose personality and leadership would likely command the confidence and respect of the schoolmen of the state; a scholar, whose study and research might make some real contributions to the solution of athletic problems; a man with a sense of justice and good common sense, sympathetic but fearless; one who knew athletics; and, other things being equal, an Ohio man who was somewhat familiar with local problems. It was because Mr. Townsend, in the opinion of the board, possessed this combination of qualifications in a more harmonious degree than any of the other applicants that he was offered the position.

Being a new position, it is difficult to state definitely and in detail what Mr. Townsend’s duties as commissioner will be. The board views Mr. Townsend as an executive with authority and responsibility; not as a figure-head and not as a dictator. He stands between the Board of Control and the management of high school athletics in much the same way that a superintendent stands between his board of education and the mangement of the schools. He will be the executive to carry out in detail the policies approved by the board and ultimately by the constituent membership of the association. He should initiate and recommend policies for the board’s approval.

The possibilities of the position are almost without limit. The success or failure of this experiment within the next three years means much to Mr. Townsend; it means more to the cause of high school athletics.

"National Dances of Ireland’’, containing twenty-five traditional Irish Dances collected from original sources in Ireland by J. M. Lang, edited and described by Elizabeth Burchenal, B. A. A cloth bound volume 9 1-2” x 12 1-4”, with 136 pages. A. S. Barnes & Co., publishers. Price $3.00.

The dances described are figure dances classified as Round, Square and Long Dances and one Dance for Three. There is an “explanatory text” in which the fundamental steps and figures are described. Following are the descriptions of each dance, with piano music for each. Diagrams and pictures accompany the descriptions so that there is no difficulty in interpreting.

Miss Burchenal's books of Folk Dances are so familiar to teachers that it seems only necessary to announce another. These Irish dances ought to have a particular appeal in America because of the part the Irish have played in its history. This book would be of great service to playground, club and recreation leaders.	B.	Walter

“Blood Pressure” Cause, Effect and Remedy by Lewellys F. Barker M. D. and Norman B. Cole, M. D. Published by D. Appleton and Company, New York, 1924.	154 pages (inc. glos-

sary), 5x7 1-2 inches, bound in cloth, $1.25.

In the preface the authors state, “The non-medical man is concerned because he is learning that the development of high

Digitized by

Google
526

blood pressure is a process rather than a disease; that symptoms develop rather late in its course; and that the preventive measures must, therefore, be taken early.”

The foregoing statement sums up adequately the purpose of the book. It is the concern of every intelligent person in this age of preventive impetus to know more than a smattering about his body and its hygiene. One of the most insidious of the ailments that afflict our imperfect bodies is increasing high blood pressure. In exposing the causes, the authors consider systematically the organs involved, the nervous control of those organs, and their part in the whole complex cycle of hypertension.

The psychic factors are considered and in the first chapter fear and anxiety are especially condemned as pernicious and provocative.

“Normal” blood pressure comes in for its justly deserved criticism and range of blood pressure is substituted. It is hardly believable that many think that the blood pressure of an office worker twenty-five years of age and of a pugilist of like age should be the same. But such superstitions and many much worse still persist.

Heredity as an important factor in tendency toward high or low blood pressure is considered very interestingly on pages 78, 114 and 116. We would like to hear more at some later date about the peculiarities of those two common types, the “asthenic habitus” and the “habitus apoplecticus”.

The author quotes aptly from unknown source that “man is physically as well as metaphysically a thing of shreds and patches borrowed unequally from good and bad ancestors and is therefore a misfit from the start.”

Chapter VII on Cardio-Vascular-Renal Complications resulting from, or concomitant with, high blood pressure deserves special attention. Improper living certainly exerts a vicious influence on this “Tripod of life”.

In the concluding chapter “What to Do” the vast importance of personal hygiene is adequately demonstrated. Even the relative values of games and self-imposed calisthenics as forms of muscular expression are considered, showing the authors are physicians in the broad sense.

“Blood Pressure” we consider an excellently written and printed book, with a minimum of technical terminology which recommends it to all progressive men and women looking for physical betterment and perpetuation of precious life. — H. L. Conrad.

“Costuming A Play”. Inter-Theatre Arts Handbook- by Elizabeth B. Grimball and Rhea Wells, Published by the Century Company. Price $3.00. 6 by 9 inches, 133 pages, and contains a number of costume plates.

This book of costuming is a very practical book for any producer of plays or pageants. It contains valuable information, given in clear and concise form, for which one might have to search through many volumes.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
527

From the chapter on general costuming it proceeds to chapters on color, light, dyeing and materials. The later chapters take up in detail, with illustrations, costumes of different periods and countries, giving lists of plays and characters for which the costumes may be used. Directions are given for making the costumes and for the selection of materials most suitable and effective.

This is the kind of book that amateur producers in schools, colleges, church organizations, community and recreation work will find invaluable and for which they doubtless have been looking for some time.

J. B. Walter.

The following clipping from BARRON’S shows that there are several ways of catching "Suckers.”

Strong Man in Finance Most financial tnen are familiar with the features of Alois P. Swoboda, strong man and physical-culture expert, through their frequent appearance in magazine advertising pages. It came as a surprise to many, however, to learn recently that Mr. Swoboda was also a mining magnate. As a side line, he has been studying mining for more than twenty years. To quote his own words he has "a tremendous thirst for knowledge.” Now at last the benefit of all this study is to be given to the world for Mr. Swoboda is developing a mine which should produce "at least six hundred million dollars.”

With unparalleled generosity the strong man is not reserving the development of this great property for himself or even a select group. To more than nalf-a-million former pupils, Swobodians, ne has offered the opportunity of participating in the enterprise. The extent of this generosity may be realized in the light of Mr. Swoboda’s statement that “anyone owning five hundred shares”—at five dollars each-—"can figure on being relieved for all time from worry, work, anxiety and limitation.” The financial district will watch with interest the progress of the versatile Mr. Swoboda in enlarging not only muscles but pocket-books.

PIGS NEED SUNSHINE

Pigs, as well as babies, need plenty of sunlight, says “Hygeia.” Three University of Wisconsin professors recently conducted some experiments which prove that sunshine prevents the rickets, or rheumatism, common among hogs in the northern states.

Some of the pigs were placed in dark pens and the others in light. The dark pens were not really dark but were protected from the direct rays of the sun. They had outdoor runways but the runways were protected by a composition roofing from the sun’s rays.

At the end of six months, the pigs that had occupied the light pen were heavier, healthier and under microscopic examination were found to have bones more regular in structure. The other

Digitized by

Google
528

group of pigs stiffened until they could hardly walk and were much thinner and less healthy in general.

Yellow com, too, has an influence on the growth of hogs, since it is rich in the vitamin, the lack of which causes rickets. White com contains less of the antirachitic vitamin.

It is especially necessary, the Wisconsin professors declare, that pigs fed on white com get plenty of light.

At a recent meeting of the Teachers Council of New York City a motion was passed to demand the repeal of the Welsh law, providing for strenuous physical training work suggesting that the law might be modified to exempt such school systems as that of New York from the operation of the law. New York maintains regular physical training departments.

A committee was appointed to represent the council in Albany in an effort to get the law repealed. It is composed of Miss Helen A. McKeon, Timothy D. Poucher, William J. McAuliffe and William Rabenart.

BOOK REVIEWS

“Exercises on Apparatus, Tumbling and Stunts” by W. J. Wittich and H. C. Reuter. 110 pages, 6 by 9 inches, fully illustrated. Published by A. S. Barnes and Company, New York. Price $2.00.

The book is a comprehensive collection of stunts on apparatus and on the ground. The splendid illustrations will help teachers and students in understanding the descriptions. While the exercises are written primarily for older boys and men, who are in the higher schools, and in colleges, teachers, nevertheless, will find in the book many valuable exercises for younger boys and also for girls. A correct nomenclature adds to the value of the publication. The book is recommended to all teachers.

Mental Measurement in Educational and Vocational Guidance by John M. Brewer and others. 46 pages, 6 by 9 inches, paper cover. Published as Number 10 Harvard Bulletins in Education, Cambridge, Mass.

The importance of measurements in all types of educational work is receiving greater recognition, and this well written and logically arranged pamphlet is an endeavor to lay before educators what has been done and what is being done in the fields of Educational Guidance and of Vocational Guidance.

Wide awake teachers of physical education, especially those in Junior and Senior High Schools will find valuable viewpoints not only so far as "guidance” is concerned, but also so far as measurements in physical education are concerned.

W. A. Stecher.

Digitized by LaOOQle
Palmer, Dr. Geo. T.,—A Preliminary Report in a Survey of Child Health Activities in 86 Cities.. .390

Performance of a Warm Air Furnace with Anthracite and Bituminous Coal by A. P. Kratz........326

Physical Education in the Light of Modern Psychology, by Dr. George E. Dawson...............170

Physical Efficiency Tests for Girls and Women, by Agnes R. Wayman.......................... 407

Physical and Mental Development, by Thomas Neill............................................ 61

Physical Education and the Home, by Mrs. Drury W. Cooper....................................312

Philadelphia Public Schools Field Day....................................................... 78

Physiology and Hygiene....................................................41-91-229-264-328-470

Place of Physical Education in the School...................................................396

Point System in Physical Education, The, by Wm. E. Baldwin..................................203

Posture Work and Health Education, by Bessie L. Barnes......................................363

Posture a Cause and a Remedy in Enteroptosis, by William Gilbert Anderson, M. Sc., M. D.y

Dr. P. H...........................................................................446

Program of Convention of the Eastern District Section of the American Physical Education

Association, Rochester, N. Y.......................................................478

Preliminary Report on a Survey of Child Health Activities in 86 Cities, A, by Geo. T. Palmer,

Dr. P. H...........................................................................390

Problem of the Difficult ChUd, The, by G. R. Gordon, M. D. R. C. P......................... 153

Psychologic Effects of Tobacco Smoking...................................................... 41

Radiant Teacher. The, by Carrol D. Champlin.................................................245

Relation of Weight to Height, The by^J. F. Rogers........................................... 17

Revised Rules for Elementary Soccer, by Albert Nathan.......................................368

Rogers, J. F.,—The Relation of Weight to Height............................................. 17

Schoolhouse Standardization, by Frank Irvinjj Cooper........................................ 65

Schrader, Carl L.—Objectives ahd Compromises, Past and Future.............................. 108

School Health Work in Worcester, Maas., by Helen M. Johnson.................................380

Sherrill, Charles Hitchcock, Veteran Athlete Compares Track Athletics of Today and 30 Years

Ago ............................................................................... 12

Shall Children Gain by Pounds or Inches?....................................................233

Shuttle Ball Relay..........................................................................465

Sibley, Katherine,—First Report the Sub-committee on Track and Field Athletics for Girls..165

Slifer, George, B.,—How Long Does It Take to Learn Swimming?................................886

Special Work, Board of Public Education, Philadelphia Division of Physical Education, by Wm.

A Stecher .........................................................................837

Stecher, Wm. A., Competition as a Factor in Moral Education.................................193

Stecher, Wm. A.,—Athletics Gone Wild........................................................ 49

Stecher, Wm. A.,—Games Variations...........................................................278

Stecher Wm. A.,--Special Work, Board of Public Education, Philadelphia Division of Physical

Education .........................................................................337

Stecher, Wm. A.,—U. S. Army Physical Efficiency Tests.......................................289

Sparks, Edwin Erie, A Pernicious Fallacy.................................................... 18

Sports and Breatnlessness...................................................................231

Stunt Drfllh. by Otto A. Wurl...............................................................130

Study of the Physical Ability of Mentally Retarded Children, A, by Samuel J. Judersohn....	296

Striking Disease at the Source..............................................................834

Story of the Eighth Olympiade, by Jess T. Hopkins...........................................437

Summary of the Principles Developed and the Points Emphasized at the 1924 Health Education

Conference ..................................................................  318-364

Suggestions for Teaching Swimming to Girls and Boys of School Age, by Genevieve Jones.......271

Sundwall, John, Ph. D., M. D.,—Constructive Health Activities in Public Schools.............264

Sunlight and Medicine....................................................................... 43

Swimming Values, by Grace A. Thomas.........................................................179

The Athletic Situation in High Schools, by William H. Geer................................ 97

The Daily Physical Training Hour in the Public Schools of Germany, by Dr. L. Hoeflmayer...262

The Darker Half of the Year and Nutrition, by H. J. Geretenberger, M. D.,.................433

The Effect of Exercise on the Menstrual Function and Child Bearing........................241

The Harmonious Development of Man, Three Articles by a Swedich Gymnast, G. deLafrete, and

“The Man in the Street”..........................................................223

The Merit Grouping Plan, by Reinhold W. Goll............................................... 1

The Nutritive Stimulus....................................................................184

The Point System in Physical Education, by Wm. E. Baldwin.................................203

The Problem of the Difficult Child, by G. R. Gordon, M. D. R. C. P........................153

The Radiant Teacher, by Carroll D. Champlin...............................................245

The Relation of Weight to Height, by J. F. Rogers......................................... 17

The Teaching of Hockey to Girls, by D. H. Cook, M. D......................................357

The 1924 Health Education Conference......................................................250

Thomas, John M.—Why I Believe in Footabll.................................................179

Thomas, Giace A.,—Swimming Values.........................................................179

Thompson, Nelson S.,—Where We Are At In Piesent Day Ventilating Practice..................451

Towse, Anna B.,—Child Health Workers Meet in Kansas City..................................346

U. S. Army Physical Efficiency Tests, by Wm. A. Stecher

289

Veteran Athlete Compares Track Athletics of To-day and 30 Years Ago, by Charles Hitchcock

Sherrill .................................................................................... 12

Volley Base Ball, by Rosalie Keen.....................................................................464

Water Push Bail, by B. E. Wiggins.......................................................... 73

Wayman, Agnes, R., Physical Efficiency Tests for Girls and Women...........................407

Water Plays and Pageants Help Swimming Grow by W. Z. E. Longfellow.........................322

Walter, Janet B., and S. J. Judelaohn,—Marsovia Waltx, A Field Day Dance for Junior High

School Girls .................................................................... 465

Waltei, Janet B., and S. J. Judelsohn, A Field Day Drill for Junior High School Boys ......467

Welfare Work and Physical Education, by Raphael Goldstein.................................. 65

Digitized by c.ooole
Where We Are at in Present-Day Ventilating Practice, by Nelson S. Thompson.............451

Why I Believe in Football, by John M. Thomas...........................................179

What Kind of Patriotism Do You Teach?................................................... 9

Wiggins, B. E., Water Push Ball......................................................   73

Woman and Sport .......................................................................417

Wurl, Otto A., Stunt Drill.............................................................130

Zohn, Dr. Willard,—Basket End Ball.....................................................273

Zwarg, L., Formal and Informal Work in Physical Education..............................208

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT, CIRCULATION, ETC., Required by the Act of Congress of August 24, 1912, of MIND AND BODY, published monthly at New Ulm, Minn., for April 1,1925.

STATE OF MINNESOTA,

County of Brown, ss.

Before me, a Notary Public in and for the State and county aforesaid, personally appeared Albert Steinhauser, who, having been duly affirmed according to law, deposes and says that he is one of tha owners of MIND AND BODY and that the following is, to the best of his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, management, etc., of the aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above caption, required by the Act of August 24, 1912, embodied in section 443, Postal Laws and Regulations.

1.	That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, managing editor, and business managers are:

PUBLISHER:—Mind and Body Publishing Company, New Ulm, Minn. EDITOR—Wm. A. Stecher, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Philadelphia, Pa. MANAGING EDITOR:—Wm. A. Stecher, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Philadelphia, Pa.

BUSINESS MANAGERS:—A. Steinhauser, H. Payne Steinhauser, New Ulm, Minn.

2.	That the owners are:	Wm.	A.	Stecher, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Phila-

delphia, Pa.; Albeit Steinhauser, New Ulm, Minn.; H. Payne Steinhauser, New Ulm, Minn.

3.	That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders owning or holding 1 per cent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: NONE.

4.	That the two paragiaphs next above, giving the names of the owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain not only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear upon the books of the company but also, in cases where the stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is given; also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing affiant’s full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner; and this affiant has no reason to believe that any other person, association, or corporation has any interest direct or indirect in the said stock, bonds, oi other securities than as so stated by him.

ALBERT STEINHAUSER, Owner.

Affirmed and subscribed before me this 4th day of April 1925.

A. L. GAG,

Notary Public, Brown County, Minn, (My commission expiles November 1, 1925.)

Digitized by CjOOQle