MIND AND BODY

DECEMBER, 1909.

m 16.

No 184

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD, Bos*on Athletic Assn., Boston, Mass.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STF.CHER, 120 Pomona St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wi».

THE THEORY AND PRACTICE OF ATHLETICS AT THE MILITARY ACADEMY, WEST POINT, N. Y.

By Captain Herman J. Koehler, U. S. Army, 1909.

That the Military Academy is credited with being the first American institution to take the physical welfare of its student body into consideration , and the last of the important ones to venture into the field of intercollegiate athletics, are facts not generally known.

From the beginning almost, the records, such as are at hand, say since 181?', the Academy has been uninterruptedly concerned for the physical side of its cadets, and though the means of the physical training of those early days probably consisted entirely of military drills, fencing, and cross-country walking and such regulations pertaining to general hygiene as could he controlled by the authorities, they did not fail of their object hut contributed in a marked degree to the physical uplift of the then Corps of Cadets.

Military drills, especially when military proficiency in the prescribed evolutions only is aimed at, are not considered a very important factor in physical education by many of the leading exponents of the present time, yet the authorities of the time of which this is written understood how these drills might be made to serve a double purpose by laying particular stress upon the physical exertion that could be induced by them.

From what can he gleaned from the references made to this subject in essays, letters and reports of that time, they actually proved themselves a decided factor in assisting cadets to master the mental tax placed upon them by the curriculum.

It is to be regretted that these references treat the subject so sparingly and in such a general manner. Many of the details that would now be of much interest are lacking:, and we are compelled to base our judgment of the efficacy of the methods then in vogue entirely upon the effect they had upon the product by what that product accomplished after leaving the Academy. At other institutions this would present a problem of almost impossible solution, but as a more or less complete record is kept on file here of the services of nearly every graduate, it

Digitized by LaOOQLe
—2'.*0—

becomes a mere question of reference from which very accurate deductions may be made. As these records prove that the graduates of the Academy of those days were equal, without exception almost, to all demands made upon them, it must naturally be concluded that the training they received served its every purpose.

With admirable foresight, the successive authorities succeeded in keeping abreast of the requirements of rational training by establishing a balance between mental and physical effort that more than any other factor assured a product which as a class has few, if any, equals and no superiors, in general completeness, mentally, morally and physically.

At the time when the introduction of athletic competitions with teams representing other institutions was first broached, the curriculum was probably more ambitious than at any other previous period, and in order that the balance referred to might be maintained, a very complete and thorough course of compulsory physical training, constructed with a special view to meet the requirements and conditions peculiar to this institution, was strictly adhered to, and the fact that the Academy's product, in spite of the increased mental requirements, did not suffer by comparison with that of any previous time should in a large measure be attributed to no other cause.

Since the beginning the aim of the Academy has been the development of the very highest possible standard of general excellence of the mass of its students, rather than that of a few. And as such a standard is obtainable only by special efforts directed toward those of average ability, and those of even less than average ability, rather than toward those of superior endowments, it is not at all remarkable that an institution with the traditions of this should he slow to incorporate any element in its methods of training that is so diametrically opposed to the principles of these methods as competitive athletics are, when winning is made their chief object.

The value of athletics when shorn of this objectionable feature and when indulged in bv large numbers for the sake of the benefits that result from them, rather than for the mere sake of winning at any cost, was freely acknowledged.

Under existing conditions the value of intercollegiate athletic competitions, ‘ from an educational standpoint, was however seriously questioned. The success of these competitions, then as now, was not generally determined by the benefits that accrued to the participants through them, but as stated before, by the ability to win; which made it necessary to restrict participation in these competitions to a relatively limited number of students who were selected because of superior physical attributes, to the exclusion of those less favored, who under rational conditions, it would seem, were much more in need of this special attention, training and the resultant benefits.

It was also contended that so long as winning was made the chief and apparently the only object of these competitions, the individual needs of the competitors would be taken into consideration onlv so far as they affected the chances of the success of the team of which they are

Digitized by v^ooQle
-291-

members, and this it was held would in many instances result in actual injury by inducing an individual to over-exert himself.

Furthermore, there was nothing to be accomplished, in the opinion of the authorities^ by their incorporation or introduction that was not being accomplished in a much more thorough and satisfactory • manner, ' so far as the mass was concerned, by the compulsory course of physical training, that aimed to do for the body what the mental training did for the mind; i. e., the greatest good to the greatest number.

Then, too, the effect upon the product of the Academy of such a radical departure from the traditional balance between mental and physical effort, then nearly a century old, had to be seriously considered, and this added to the fear that the time required for study would be encroached upon, deterred the authorities from making the venture for many years.

Constant importuning on the part of the young element amongst the officers stationed at the Academy; the oft expressed desire of cadets to be permitted to spend their hours of recreation in indulgence in the various forms of competitive intercollegiate contests, and the growing interest attached to such athletics at other usually conservative institutions, finally persuaded the Academic Board to recede from its position and by way of experiment to sanction the introduction of this form of athletics in a very modest and restricted form.

This experiment was keenly and critically observed by the custodians of the Academy’s traditions, the Academic Board, and the deductions drawn from it may be summed up as follows:

1.	That where as much importance is attached to the physical training of the individual student by means of a compulsory course in gymnastics, etc., as there is at the Academy, athletics may be safely indulged in.

2.	That they may be made a valuable adjunct to this training by bringing out qualities in the individual that even he himself was not aware of, and that under ordinary circumstances might never have been disclosed.

3.	That under proper direction they instil a desire for regulated, wholesome sport and pastime, the success of which is dependent upon physical fitness; thus proving themselves a splendid incentive to clean, hygienic living.

4.	That by serving as a vent for the exurberance of youth, which without this opportunity to relieve itself, is apt to spend itself in a much less profitable manner, they become a powerful aid to discipline.

5.	That they enhance the value of the product of the Academy to the service, by assisting in the development of those physical attributes upon which more than anything else the success of an officer’s career is dependent.

6.	That the danger of infringing upon the time devoted to academic or military duties is minimized by the fact that it requires less time for cadets to become proficient in the various sports than it does students of other institutions, because of their usual good physical condition.

7.	That the authorities being empowered to set athletics a hard

Digitized by i^-ooQle
—292—

and fast limit, that of actual benefit to the institution and the individual, all danger of undue license on the one hand and over-indulgence on the other is obviated.

8.	And, finally, that under proper encouragement and control,

' such as can be put into force here, athletics can be made the pastime of the many rather than the serious business of the few, while the evils, the prostitution of the ethics of athletics, the spirit to win at all hazards, # that was rapidly becoming the dominant object of college athletics, and that served only to defeat their purpose from an educational point of view, could be made impossible.

These deductions have been accepted as the tenets of competitive athletics at the Academy, and in spite of all that has or may be said of them, by way of criticism by those who have been misled by the almost limitless license given athletics at other institutions, the fact remains that these tenets are responsible for having placed competitive athletics here upon a plane that is undoubtedly at least the equal of the best attained at anv other institution. And so long as they are conscientiously adhered to they will continue to prove themselves no mean factor in the development of a higher, more complete and a more substantial standard of scholarship, in its broadest sense. A standard in which superior mental ability is backed up by physical vigor: a balance of brains and brawn, the one the willing and capable servant of the other; a condition in short that inspires men to dare because of the consciousness of the ability to do.	(To be concluded.)

TO MUCH FANCY DANCING.

By C. F. Weege, M D., Chicago Public Schools.

In a recent number of the Educational Bi-Monthly issued by the Chicago Normal School an essay begins with the following sentence: “*Tis not a soul, ?tis not a body we are training, but a man, and we must not divide him,” and the closing sentence reads:	“Stiff,	formal exer-

cises with apparatus, which in themselves are uninteresting and mechanical and which tend to develop muscular power alone, have practically no place in the primary grades.”

Most of our opponents are such not because they see the superiority of fancy, and so-called aesthetical movements, but because they have not the faintest idea what our system of gymnastics is like. They very often know very little of fancy dancing and nothing of gymnastics. They always come forth with that stale argument about stiff, formal, angular gymnastics. I challenge them to point out to me anything stiff and angular about our work. They all labor under the false impression that exercises which show and require muscular strength are stiff and angular.

I have never received an impression of stiff and angular work from the demonstration of an advanced class in gvmnastic work. True, a beginner will act stiff and awkward on the apparatus, or at any work in the gymnasium. But how about the dancers? Does anybody mean to

Digitized by L^ooQle
say that the beginners there do not act stiffly and awkwardly? Just as a dancing teacher endeavors to grind off the sharp corners and round and smooth off the performance, so do we. We also try to smooth out the kinks and endeavor to have the pupils execute exercises with grace and beauty. Our aim is to develop the ability to perform the greatest amount of work with the least expenditure of energy. Does not grace imply strength, and a well-timed, well-balanced use of it? To use strength to its best advantage, to use no more than necessary, but enough to gain the desired end, is to be graceful. Pie who is strong and graceful certainly shows a far greater degree of development than he who excels in an exhibition of fancy dancing but lacks the necessary power for harder work. Not in artificial, affected combinations, but in simple pleasant successions of steps lies the educational and psychological benefit of dancing steps. Let him who is an artist in this line and especially endowed for it continue to whirl in the mazes of fancy dances, but give to the child a simple, easily understood line of steps. Even in the ballroom the fancy creations do not last long. We always go back to our old stand-bys, the waltz and two-step. Let us in physical training save the masterpieces of dancing masters for state occasions, and then let ns not overdo it.

We are always craving for and demanding a return to simple life. We see the havoc that an overloaded curriculum has worked in our schools, and yet we find persons that want to throw aside an ideal system that gives a child joy and recreation as well as physical and mental development. Would anyone dare say that for a mentallv overstrained people an extra demand on the nervous energy is a prophylactic or a cure? A fancy dance, naturallv. nrnkes a hit; it is a pleasant sight, but our schools are not theaters. Our children should be held too sacred to serve in this respect. No sane system of gvmnantics neglects fanev steps. T dare say our results compare very favorably with those of the dancers. Jnd we have this great superiority that our work is a result of pedagogical, scientific teaching, while the dances are the result of drilling. A poor teacher indeed is one who does not make good use of fancy steps in physical training, but much poorer is he who sees in fancy dancing the panacea for physical development.

Let us compare the psychological value of classical dances and gymnastics. The most obvious result in dancing is the developing of rhythm. ATo one can deny that a more suitable means for developing rhythm could hardly be found. But even the advantage of rhythm has its limit. Rhythmical movements require much less nervous energy, I may say much les> conscious mental effort than the non-rhythmical, but they also demand less will power. The pupil’s nerve impulse always travels in the path of least resistance. But ought we not also be able to leave the paths of least resistance and occasionally go crosswise and contrary to habits and acquired trends? Is it not the unexpected, the unforeseen in life that so often proves disastrous? Is it not on such occasions that the mind wins out that is able to seize quickly the new opening? Does real life not demonstrate time and again that that over-rhytlimical being—John Dewey calls them wishi washi characters—that is not able

Digitized by L^OOQle
-294

to control his innate or acquired tendencies goes down to defeat and must make room for the quick-acting, ready-for-all-emergencies individual? If our road through life were plainly mapped out, if we were positive that no obstructions would hamper our progress we certainly would do well to go on with the least expenditure of energy and thus prolong and make easy our weary travel towards the other end. But this not being the case, we ought to have some means for preparing us for trouble, and gymnastics with all its branches offers us these educational opportunities. “Look out Jimmie, you missed the round!” He came down the ladder so rhythmically that he was unconscious of his being fifteen feet above the floor, he was almost asleep, the movement requiring so little energy. Well Jimmie had to cast aside his happy-go-lucky spirit and make a quick, unrhythmical almost stiff and angular grasp to save himself from coming in unexpected contact with one of the obstructions in his path. But Jimmie was up to the occasion, he had attended gymnastics too long to be caught in his progress by a misstep. Unforeseens similar to the above are numerous in the gymnasium. True, off and on, a blue mark is the sign of inattention or carelessness. But better a blue mark in childhood than a serious accident when Jimmie has become a James and can not afford to have his way blocked by an obstacle that with a little education he might easily have overcome. The work on the apparatus is such as to train the child to overcome difficulties. Even in first and second grades the teacher has the training for alertness and presence of mind in view, and accidents in the first grades are almost unknown. Rousseau wanted the child be let alone until it was twelve years old to fit it for the future. He thought it would prepare the child to take care of itself by getting all the bumps and by running into all the snags common to childhood. In gymnastics, preparation for the future is also our aim, with this great difference that we train the child to be on the lookout for bumps and to avoid the snags before it strikes them. We spare the child some of the unpleasant experiences of learning, and we lead and guide it to equip itself with the power to be always on guard, and ever ready for emergencies.

Observe the spontaneity the children display in apparatus work. They are not always set agoing by the tune of the piano nor the teacher's command. Due to the interest they have in the wwk they act purely on their own motives. The motor ctie for action lies entirely within * themselves. They do what is best under the circumstances without being prompted. Some of our exercises are specific in this respect. For instance, while swinging on horizontal bar, rings or ladders, we release one hand and quickly re-grasp. Or in running the pupil must jump over obstacles placed in his track, for lower grades over heights of eight to eighteen inches; for the upper grades we include bucks, side horse or hurdle, or pupils halt on signal and quickly take some given position. In these exercises we deliberately break the rhythm to see how quickly the pupil will respend. In exercises of the above character a quick eye, an alert arm or foot, above all presence of mind, accurate judgment and quick decision followed by immediate action are necessary. He who hesitates is lost. On the apparatus he will be unable to hold

Digitized by kjOOQie
—29.1—

himself and in the running and jumping exercises he will be in the way of those following. The samst picture in life will reveal the unsuccessful ones going down to defeat crowded out and pushed aside by those seeking the sam$ goal. Success in both cases does not depend on development of rhythm, not on the ability of following the path of least resistance, but on an alert mind in co-oirlination with a powerful body to judge and to act with determination.

Another much used argument for dancing steps is their aesthetieal importance. Here is a girl of eight, well -built, sparkling eves and rosy cheeks.* When she laughs, which she often does, one stops to admire the happy being who possesses the heavbnly gift of bursting out into hearty expression of joy and merriment. 'She runs, hops and jumps on her way to school. In the gymnasium she selects the highest ladder to climb. To get a good high swing on the rings, only her taller friends or the teacher of gymnastics are asked to give her a start. In fancy steps, if the teacher does not spend too much time on it, she puts heart and soul into the work, every movement is natural and show's life and energy. In the games (as one of my friends puts it) she plays with a vengeance. She comes home from the gymnasium with an appetite that makes mamma and papa smile. Are the motions of this girl unaesthet-ical? Surely not.	The foregoing is not merely a fantastic picture.

Every teacher of gymnastics who understands his business can prove its reality.

Graceful natural movements coupled with strength and endurance and a happy, free pleasant disposition are the highest forms of aesthetics. Or does aesthetics mean unnatural, affected poises coupled with a solemn, dignified state of mind. I think the longer wre preserve_ childhood in children the more human, and the more aesthetieal are our results.

(To be concluded.)

ELEMENTS OF STRENGTH AND WEAKNESS IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION AS TAUGHT IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

By George Wittich,

Director of Physical Education, Public Schools, Milwaukee, Wis.

(Concluded.)

CALISTHENICS.—Cut-and-dried “calisthenics” in the classroom, especially when the commands are read off a card or out of a book by the class-teacher in a monotonous tone of voice; when the exercises have the same time-measure throughout, and wrhen the wdiole lesson is executed in the same place without any diversion whatsoever, are not much better than the drill.

CORRECTIVE EXERCISES.—Corrective exercises are an absolute necessity to the schoolchild at the present time. The maximum contraction of the participating muscles exercises a slow and powerful traction on the skeleton. They are free exercises, pure and simple; the peculiar manner in which they are executed and the adaption of them to the afflicted parts of the body has given them this specific name.

Digitized by L.OOQ le
That is the extent of their usefulness; they are of no further value. Their influence on the circulation and respiration is of minor import, owing to the fact that they are not executed in a quick rhythm. Since they are effective only when the child’s mind and attention are concentrated intensely on this work, they are followed by mental fatigue. There is neither joy nor pleasure associated with them, and hence they imply rather hard work for the pupils if called for regularly and exclusively as physical training. When so administered, corrective exercises necessarily become a weakness in physical training.

ATHLETICS AND PLAY.—Field- and track-work and games are the most natural forms of physical exercises. For this reason, as well as for their freedom from restraint, in connection with the fact that each form offers the pupils, young and old, something to strive for, with ample allowance for individuality and ability, they appeal to the pupil’s mind. But even they cannot constitute a complete system of physical training (although some persons claim that much for them) because they lack a sufficient degree of the very necessary limitations, and the self-adjusting and polishing influence of scientifically arranged formal physical training.

The most rational forms of athletics were the forms used by primitive man in gaining a subsistence. They assumed a more refined character in the training of the Greeks, but they are just as inadequate to replace the presentday system of physical training as would be the Greek of 2,500 years ago to our *p re sent environment.

The advantages of play in general are many. The influence of all running games on heart and lung action is excellent and the enjoyment and pleasure which they create are, in the true sense of the word, “sunshine upon the child’s mind”; they lack, however, the real strengthgiving features. Combative games emphasize this element much better, hut they disregard rhythmical breathing, owing to the often fixed condition of the muscles of the thorax. They do, however, bring out the manlv character as well as dexterity and are therefore mainly designed for the boys.

Throwing and catching games, such as ball and bean-bag games are an excellent means of promoting judgment in vision and accuracy of arm motion, and can be classified into two groups: (11 those combined with running, and (2) those without running. All games lack corrective features and the refining influence of formal work.

Jumping and vaulting are splendidly adapted for promoting physical skill; weight-events develop strength but should be taken up carefully as they are apt to lead to an abnormal development.

Although the character-forming, ethical, and social values of these exercises are great when properly conducted and progressively applied, yet they lack that wholesome educational influence which can be brought out only by the true teacher during class-work.

The desire for beauty of form is also more readily satisfied during class-work in dancing-steps combined with graceful trunk- and arm-exercises, in club-swinging, free exercises executed in divided order, and apparatus-work executed in good form than through games and athletics.

Digitized by NjOOQie
- 297-

We have not yet reached that stage where aesthetical good form is considered an essential factor in athletics, that* is to say, where athletics is only a ineans to an educational end and no longer an end in itself.

* Steadiness of hand, eye, and foot, and the utmost accuracy of motion in all conditions and positions of the body are qualities of immense value and can be acquired only through a wholesome combination of play, athletics, and scientifically planned, methodically arranged, and accurately executed formal work.

Ethically the influence of play and athletics, when carried on exclusively as physical training, may become really unwholesome. The spirit which is thereby fostered at times gives rise to offense and rudeness and often develops an abominable spirit of caste.

Athletics and games possess few corrective qualities and since "specialism” is generally invogue in America, much harm is often done through athletics. For these reasons games and athletics, if resorted to exclusively as physical training, are also elements of weakness.

Every one of the exercises enumerated under "Exercises whose effects are onesided,” excepting drills, are valuable and absolutely necessary units of a correctly arranged day’s order; they must, however, be applied at the proper time and with a view to a correct proportion of the allotted time to their effects. When applied in this manner, these same exercises become "elements of strength.”

FIRST UNIT.—Since the child is held in a sitting posture a long time, stimulating the circulation and respiration through half-automatic exercises of quickness, that will at the same time relieve the mind of the nervous strain of study, should be the first unit of the lesson. Where only ten to fifteen minutes are allowed daily for physical exercises, this can best be accomplished by the following types, of one to two minutes duration:

1.	Rising and resuming sitting position in quick succession with or without facing and arm-positions.

2.	Quick alternate raising of knees.

3.	Hopping on one or both feet with pendent leg in various positions.

4.	Running on or from place.

5.	Skipping or galloping forward or sideward in same manneT as running from place.

Since the classroom is the last place to be resorted to for such exercises, for obvious reasons, exercises under 4 and 5 should be either continued into the corridor and hall, or, better still, out of doors wherever this is practicable. In the latter case leg-exercises should be progressively added to the running, hopping, and skipping. Only the rhythmical contractions of the larger muscles accompanied by the naturally resulting deeper respiration, and the moderate vibration of the whole body as brought by running and hopping, will result in a thorough oxygenation of the blood and a wholesome stifnulation of the nervous system.

SECOND UNIT.—Tactics of one to three minutes’ duration should

Digitized by kjOOQie
-298-

follow for the purpose of restoring normal circulation and respiration and to insure good carriage of body and correct walking-step.

The simple forward, sideward, and backward step with or without facing, the marching of the open class, will suffice for the classroom, but, together with the wheeling of ranks, forming of members, and the evolutions of the open column, may be reserved for the hall and yard.

THIRD UNIT.—Corrective and other free exercises. Corrective, balance, and arm-exercises, with or without leg- and trunk-exercises, with or without hand apparatus in standing and walking, of four to eight minutes’ duration should follow for the purpose of correcting faulty postures, developing general control, skill, and strength. To the ordinary corrective exercises of the muscles of the back, shoulders, and neck, the backward bending over the back of the seat with or without arm-movements, in sitting, should be added as a valuable adjunct.

I also wish to emphasize the importance of embodying into wand-exercises that peculiar resistance manifested by the arms toward one another or by both arms toward the trunk.

Club-swinging is commendable in the higher grades on account of the strengthening influence of the arm circles on the muscles of the shoulder-girdle and on the other auxiliary respiratory muscles. The arm and hand circles are also excellent for promoting the skill of the whole arm and of the fore-arm in particular.

Intermediate exercises of a less formal nature should be interposed between the exercises of this unit to break the monotony of the work and to animate the pupils to better effort. In the classroom the various forms of stepping, and facing, also reeling of arms with or without variations, now and then exercises in kneeling on the seat, and vaulting over the seat, with or without turns, will serve.

FOURTH UNIT.—Athletics and combative games. Nothing in the line of athletics can be done in the classroom: we must confine ourselves to exercise at the desks and to the most simple forms of combative exercises. Two or three minutes of this kind of work will do. Lying supported, front or rearways, with extended arms on desks, with or without exercises of the head, trunk, and- legs, and vaulting over the seat, will have to take the place of athletics in the classroom. Of combative games, “hand pulling and pushing with both hands,” or with one, over the seat, can be used in all rooms, while “Bull in the Ring,” “Fox and the Chicks,” “Rooster Fight,” and “Poison Snake” can be made use of in those rooms which accomodate two to three divisions of four to six pupils in the front or rear of the room. In the hall all combative games can be practiced, and in the yard they may be executed on alternate days in alternation with the simplest forms of athletics.

FIFTH UNIT.—Games. When pupils are dismissed from physical training with flushed cheeks and eyes beaming with joy, they have undoubtedly enjoyed their work. This is the condition for which we must strive. Just the contrary is the case after a lesson that proved to be a bore to them or which has taxed their mental capacity.

Some of the suitable classroom games, besides the above-mentioned combative games, are:

Digitized by L^OOQle
-299-

1.	Kising and resuming seats with or without variations as a competitive game.

2.	The various running, skipping, and hopping, competitive games, up and down the aisles, with or without carrying objects and writing numerals, letters or words on the front or rear blackboards.

3.	Transferring objects such as erasers, bean-bags, or rulers in sitting, standing, and running.

If a hall or a yard is available and the allotted time be long enough, the more valuable running, skipping, and hopping games with or without the use of dumbbells, clubs, and short jumping-ropes, in addition to the simpler games with the small and large ball, particularly those that employ a whole class and are regulated by a few simple rules, should be used.

I am opposed to all games in the curriculum of out grades that keep busy but few pupils, and also to those that are made intricate by an endless number of possible plays with a multiplicity of rules. Our children need running-games, which do not necessitate lengthy preparations of grounds, and do not offer opportunities for foul play.

Games closely allied with modern athletics should not be tolerated in the grade curriculum, because the impressicnable, immature minds of the pupils of these classes are easily led into wrong channels.

This day’s order has stood the test of time and has achieved all that is claimed in its favor; namely, education and training of the physical and psychical faculties of the child in conformity with pedagogical laws and hygienic conditions with the best use made of the scanty allowance of time.

Equally important as the above-enumerated points are the ability and preparatory training of the teaching-force, the allotted time and the location, equipment, and size of the places set for the physical' exercises.

As long as the necessity of the training of the physical faculties of, the young is not recognized by those authorities in whose hands education is placed, as long as this branch of education is not considered of equal value with the training of the mental faculties of the young, the funds which are set aside for physical training will naturally be in accordance with the place given this department in the curriculum.

The scanty allowance of funds for the department of physical education in many commonwealths will not suffice to engage the necessary number of trained instructors and in consequence the actual teaching must be executed by the class teachers.

I have found that the training of the students at many of our state normal schools in the branches of theory, methodology, and practice of physical training is not only wholly inadequate and insufficient for a healthy development of the department of physical education, but also wholly insufficient to enable the students to present physical training in an intelligent manner. These are two of the weakest points in our present system of education and we should exercise all possible pressure to bring about a change for the better.

The question of the allotted time for physical exercises is also one of vital importance. As long as the public-school curriculum is as ex-

Digitized by L.OOQ le
- *‘.00—

tensive and as crowded and as one-sided as it is in many cities this present day, our recommendations and our plea for more attention to and for more time for physical exercises will be useless or will, at least, meet with resistance.

The scanty allowance of time for physical training, the use of the classroom for the exercises and the lack of attention to physical training in the state normal schools are also points of weakness in our school system.

THE FLAGELLANTS.

By Hans Ballin. Translated from the German bv M. W.

In Milwaukee last summer, I visited the Public Library building which is dedicated to Art and Science. Such institutions help to spread the good and to reduce evil influences.—By the purchase of Karl Marr’s masterpiece, the Flagellants, wealth here rightly applied has erected a lasting monument to Milwaukee’s most famous son.

I gazed upon the picture of the strange procession, amazed and thoughtful. How the artist has succeeded in representing this painful aspect of Christian teaching! How horrible it is! These perverted ideas of the relation of body and soul prevailed not only for a short time, hut have continued to the present time. The vivid contrast between happy human nature and this distorted condition is clearly brought to mind by the two boys in the foreground to the right, who frightened, run away. Very likely their merry games were interrupted by the procession. So through the ages the happy people have fled from this unnaturalness and continue to do so. The evil spirit is still abroad, which teaches the severance of soul and Tody and demands that both shall not be happy in this life. The procession of the Flagellants is endless even in our day.

The picture of today’s reality is more horrible than Karl Harr’s. The people do not scourge their bared bodies with spiked lead balls as these misguided fanatics did—the world is too far advanced for that— but they allow their bodies to be slowdy tortured by a most unnatural mode of life, which a high civilization has thrust upon them. I do not see in reality, as in the picture, religious fanaticism expressed in their faces—the times are too enlightened—but I see sorrow and want written on the faces of the aged young, as they leave the haunts of modem torture. T see on the lighted streets at night, the paint and powder, which covers youth and virtue and bitter joy; in the narrow and dirty streets, I see poverty’s fearful existence. Close your eyes to this, if you will, the Flagellants were only the professed members of a religious sect, the people, the happy people fled from them and danced on the lea. To-day w'e all are tortured by our mode of living, which wre know to he wrong. In the present social condition the opposite elements cannot he harmonized, consciously not in religious frenzy, man is in the procession of the modem Flagellants.

Is our mode of life such as a rich or wealthy man would arrange it, if he knew' how? It surely is not. But this would not be a true picture,

Digitized by booQle
-301-

because the rich do not know how to live and then they constitute a small minority of the civilized world. The mode of living of the majority of mankind is not a matter of choice, but is imposed upon them by present social conditions. A free communion with nature is never considered by either of them. An everlasting feverish activity of body and mind is required from day to day, so that neither one nor the other can find the much needed, healthful rest. Man has so adjusted himself to modern social life, that he is not conscious of the difference and does not seem to realize how unnatural a life he is leading. Without envy he sees the mountaineer climb the heights, shouting his joy to the valley below, with compassion he sees the farmer follow the plow, baring his breast to the wind of the morning. With fear he sees the weather-beaten fisherman step into his swaying boat, defying wind and waves. Unmoved he looks upon these few surviving members of the human family who still live near and with nature and he returns to the brick-built cities.

As a person who has been in a room filled with impure air knows not how foul it is until he has been out in the fresh air and returns to the impure, so people do not realize what a narrow and hemmed-in life they lead and how far removed they are from the true mode of living. If they knew, if they had but once experienced how different body and mind feel in communion with nature in field and meadow, on hill and in the valley, on lake and ocean, if they had felt their strength increase in God’s great-out-of-doors, they would feel more keenly the scourge as it cuts deeply into their flesh.

Last summer I left the city and breathed deeply the pure air of the woods, climbed hill and mountain, bathed and swam in the cool waters of the lake and forgot for the time being, the stone pavement and the dusty streets of the city. And then, after I returned “home”, I gazed upon Karl Marr’s Flagellants. Pity seized me, not for the unfortunate of other days, no, but for the poor and unfortunate in the dusty, smoky brick-built cities, who carry the miseries and diseases of the present through life and transmit them to their progeny. And I would fain flee, as those two hoys in the picture, and call and shout, and induce other boys and girls to run with me, away, away from the procession of the Flagellants.

PUBLIC SCHOOLS OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK. Report of Committee on “Coaches for High School Athletics”

With the rapid advancement of interest in all athletic sports owing to the work of the P. S. A. L. comes a most serious question, that is, how can we best secure the services of teachers to act as coaches (for the organized games) who are not only willing to give up the large amount of time in so-called “after school” hours, but who are also capable of coaching teams of a “PREP. SCHOOL” standing. It goes without saying that it is an easy matter to find plenty of teachers who are willing and anxious to volunteer their service any reasonably apportioned amount

Digitized by foozle
- 302-

of time in one or two afternoons a week, for supervising purposes, but the number who are willing to put in every afternoon and all day every Saturday for a season of 12 to 15 weeks, and who at the same time have had actual experience playing on COLLEGE or PREP. SCHOOL teams is a very limited one. The qualifications for such a position are most stringent. The grammar school teacher who “knows the game” can coach the average team sufficiently well without that technical knowledge of the game and without the actual experience in the game which is positively necessary for a coach who handles from 40 to 100 boys of high school age every season.

With this condition in mind the High School Games Committee at the meeting in December, 1908, appointed a committee to report on the situation and suggest some remedy. The vast importance if not necessity of organized athletic work is vouched for in the various annual reports of the City Superintendent the purchase and maintenance of the Athletic fields show the tendency of this work and the fact that during the school year ending June, 1909, over 300,000 school children have taken part in organized athletics in New York City shows it to be no passing fad.

The Committee appointed as stated above canvassed the High Schools of the city to ascertain how many teachers, while carrying on the regular program of the school, were also engaged in the work. The table below is a resume of this canvass, and among the important points tabulated are the following: During year 1908, 134 High School men spent a total of 14,170 hours in athletic coaching (this number does not include these teachers who spent time in arranging, managing, and attending to the “business of athletics” but the actual coaching requiring professional training.

It is a matter of record that a college-prepared foot ball or base ball coach demands from $300 to $1500 for a season’s services (10 weeks). Nearly all of our private schools and at least two of the public High Schools of New York have been obliged during recent years to engage a “professional” coach on account of the conditions mentioned above. It was also ascertained in the canvass that over 5000 boys in the city were members of their respective High School Athletic Associations, and that the attendance at athletic contests between the schools ranged from SO to over 10,000 (a football game held at Washington Park, Brooklyn, certifying to that number).

This work obviously cannot be classed with that of volunteering to supervise a playground together with a large number of other teachers, and hence the committee has suggested that the only wav to secure the efficient services necessary is, as would be done in the business world, “pay for it”. The following is quoted from the report as submitted at the meeting of the High School Games Committee, June, 1909:

“To divide the athletic activities into two classes as per table, viz: into Major and Minor Activities. The Majors to be Football, Baseball, Track, and Basketball; and others Minors. To ask the Board to empower the Director of Physical Training to appoint upon recommendation of the Principals of the respective High Schools teachers to act as coaches for Major Athletic Activities at the following salary schedule:

Digitized by v^ooQle
-303-

Football.........$20.00	per	week.	Salary	season	not	to	exceed	10	weeks.

Baseball......... 20.00	“	“	“	“	“	“	“	10

TRACK—Indoor........ 10.00	“	“	“	“	“	“	“	15	“

“ —Outdoor........ 15.00	“	“	*“	“	“	“	“	10	“

basketball....... 10.00	“	“	“	“	“	“	“	15	“

CONDENSED TABLE

SHOWING THE NUMBER OF MEN AND HOURS SPENT IN VOLUNTARY ATHLETIC COACHING IN THE HIGH SCHOOLS IN NEW YORK CITY DURING THE YEAR 1908.

“Major” Sports includes Football, Baseball, Track Athletics and

Basketball

“Minor” Sports includes the other activities recognized by the P. S. A.

L., viz.: Tennis, Swimming, Rowing, Skating, Shooting, Soccer

' All work done “outside of school hours”

SCHOOL8	Major		Minor		Total	
	Men	Hours	Men	Hours	Men	Hours
Boys High		5	760	5	270	10	1030
Bryant		3	350	3	140	6	490
Commerce..		8	1270	5	860	13	1630
Commercial		7	1020	5	840	12	1860
Curtis		8	370	4	175	7	565
De Witt Clinton		7	1020	6	340	18	1360
Eastern District		4	440	1	60	5	500
Erasmus..;..		8	1270	4	165	12	1435
Flushing				4	495	4	190	8	685
Manual Training			8	1220	5	325	13	1545
Morris		6	862	4	353	10	1250
Jamaica		3	205	.	..	3	205
Newtown		4	500	1	50	5	550
8tuyvesant		6	820	2	70	8	890
Townsend		6	620	8	90	9	710
Totals				82	11222	52	2948	134	14170

Digitized by Google
A TABLE SHOWING THE NUMBER OF MEN AND HOURS SPENT BY HIGH SCHOOL MEN DURING YEAR 1908 IN ATHLETIC COACH ING IN THE ACTIVITIES RECOGNIZED BY THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS ATHLETIC LEAGUE COACHING ALL DONE OUTSIDE OF SCHOOL HOURS

MAJOR SPORTS																	MINOR		SPORTS							
Schools	Football		Baseball		Track		Basketball		Total		Tennis		Swimming		Rowing		Skating		Shooting		Soccer		Total		Total Major and Minor	
	MKN	nouns	MEN	HOURS	MEN	HOURS	MEnJ HOURS		MEN	HOURS	MEN	HOURS	MEN	H0UR8	MEN	HOURS	MEN	HOURS	MEN	HOURS	MEN	HOURS	MEN	HOURS	MKN	HOURS
Boys High		1	ICO	1	140	2	340	1	120	5	760	1	50	1	20			1	20	1	100	1	80	5	270	10	1030
Bryant				1	80	1	150	1	120	3	350			1	20			1	20	1	100			3	140	6	490
Commerce		3	480	2	400	2	240	1	150	8	1270	1	30	1	60	1	70			1	120	1	80	5	360	13	1630
Commercial		2	300	2	300	2	300	1	120	7	1020	1	50	1	20			1	20	1	120	1	100	5	340	12	1360
Curtis		1	120	1	130	1	120			3	370	1	60	1	20					1	75	1	40	4	175	7	565
De Witt CliDton. . .	2	300	2	300	2	300	1	120	7	1020	1	50	1	20	1	75	1	20	1	75	1	100	6	340	13	1360
Eastern District. ..	1	100	1	100	1	120	1	120	4	440	1	60											1	60	5	600
Erasmus		3	450	2	300	2	400	1	120	8	1270	1	50	1	20			1	20	1	75			4	165	12	1435
Flushing		1	80	1	170	1	125	1	120	4	495	1	50	1	20			1	20			1	100	4	190	8	685
Manual Training ..	3	450	2	300	2	350	1	120	8	1220	1	50	1	30			1	20	1	125	1	100	5	325	13	1545
Morris		2	300	2	312	1	160	1	90	6	862	1	65			1	80			1	100	1	108	4	353	10	1250
Jamaica				1	95	1	20	1	90	3	205															3	205
Newtown		1	100	1	150	1	50	1	100	4	500	1	50											1	50	5	550
Stuyvesant		2	300	2	300	1	100	1	120	6	820	1	50	1	20									2	70	8	890
Townsend Harris..	2	200	2	200	1	100	1	120	6	620	1	50	1	20			1	20					3	90	9	710

JJ

0°

o

O

Total Men and Hours for the Major Sports: 88 Men and 11888 Honrs

Total Men and Honrs for the Minor Sports : 58 Men and £948 Hours

Total Men and Hours for the Major and Minor Sports: — 184 Men and 14,170 Honrs

Digitized by
-305-

HOOP EXERCISES FOR EXHIBITIONS.

By Emil Rath, Indianapolis, Itid.

Arranged for 12. 24, 36 etc. girls from 12 to 14 years of age. Waltz music. The hoop consists of a strip of rattan, about 7 or IV2 feet in length and about % of an inch in diameter, whose ends are firmly inserted in two grips, such as are generally used on girls’ jumping ropes.

FORMATION.

The class is formed in an open column of open ranks of threes.

Rank IV	No. 1. T	No. 2. T	No. 3. T
Rank III	T	T	T
Rank II	T	T	T
Rank I	T	T	T

The class stands in the resting position with the hoop lowered forward to the floor. An introduction of 16 measures is played and during the last 4 measures the class assumes the starting position (hands in front of shoulders and hoop vertical) in the following manner :

Raise arms forw., hoop vertical, 13th measure.

Carry arms sidew., 14th measure.

Raise arms upw., 15th measure.

Bend arms to starting position, 16th measure and begin immediately.

GROUP I.

Exercise 1.

Measures

a)	Place 1. foot forw., straighten arms forw., hands together,

hoop vertical ......................................................   1

b)	Bend r. knee, place 1. loot sidew. and carry arms sidew.......	2

c)	Repeat a and b. 3—4 measures. From position b.

d)	Bend arms and y2 circle of hoop forw. and step over with 1. foot 5

e)	Raise r. heel (and lower) and y2 circle of hoop forw. (raise

hoop) to starting	position ......................................... 6

f)	Repeat d and e. 7—8 measures. (Replace r. foot on 8th meas.)

Same right ..................................................... 9—16

Repeat 1. and r....................................................17—32

Exercise 2.

a)	Place 1. foot sidew., str. arms sidew. 1. (r. hand front of 1.

shoulder), hoop vertical ............................................. 1

b)	Bend r. knee, place 1. foot rear of right, and carry arms

sidew. r.............................................................. 2

c)	Repeat a and b. 3—4 measures. From position b.

d)	Repeat d, e and f of exercise 1, moving sidew. 1., r. foot crossing in rear. 5—8 measures. (Replace r. foot on 8th meas.)

Same right ..................................................... 9—16

Repeat 1. and r....................................................17—32

Exercise 3.

a) Place 1. foot backw. and straighten arms forw., hoop vertical..	1

b) Bend r. knee, place 1. foot forw. and carry arms sidew............... 2

Digitized by v^ooQle
—306—

c)	Repeat a and b. 3—4 measures. From position b.

d)	Bend arms and % circle of hoop backw. and step over with

1.	foot .................................................... 5

e)	liaise r. foot and y2 circle of hoop backw. to starting position 6

f) Repeat d and e .............................................. 7—8

Same right .................................................... 9—16

Repeat 1. and r.................................................17—32

Exercise 4.

a)	Place 1. foot sidew. and straighten arms sidew., hoop vertical	1

b)	Place 1. foot forw. and carry arms forw., hands together....	2

c)	Bend right knee, place 1. foot backw. and lower arms obi.

side-down w.................................................. .3

d)	Return to starting position .....................................  4

e)	Circle hoop forw. four times with jumping over hoop, 1. foot

leading ..................................................... 5—8

Same right .................................................. 9—16

Repeat. 1. and r. ...........................................17—52

GROUP II.

Exercise 5.

a)	Lunge forw. 1. and straighten arms obi. back-downw., hoop vert.	1

b)	Str. 1., bend r. knee and raise arms fore-upw., hoop vert...	2

c) Repeat a and b. 3—4 measures. From position b.

d) Circle hoop forw. four times with jumping over, 1. foot leading, finishing last jump on both feet (in place)................ 5—8

Without returning to starting pos. repeat right.............. 9—16

Repeat 1. and r.................................................17—32

Exercise 6.

a)	Lunge sidew. 1. and straighten arms sidew. r., 1. hand in front

of r. shoulder, hoop vertical ...................................   1

b)	Str. 1., bend r. knee and carry arms forw. crossing hoop r. half

forw. to form loop, hoop remains vertical.......................... 2

c)	Repeat a and b. 3—4 measures. From pos. b uncross hoop and

d)	Circle hoop forw. four times with jumping over, 1. foot leading,

moving sidew. 1., r. foot crossing in rear, finish on both feet..	5—8

Without returning to starting pos. repeat right................. 9—16

Repeat 1. and r.................................................17—32

Exercise 7.

a)	Lunge backw. 1. and straighten arms forw., crossing hoop as in

b of exercise 6 with 1. half forw.................................. 1

b)	Str. 1., bend r. knee and raise arms obi. fore-upw.,hoop vert.,

remaining crossed ................................................. 2

c)	Repeat a and b. 3—4 measures. From pos. b, uncross hoop and

d)	y$ turn 1., circle hoop forw. four times with jumping over,

1.	foot leading (in place), and finishing last jump on both feet

with turn r.................................................. 5—8

Without returning to starting pos. repeat right.............. 9—16

Repeat 1. and r..............................................17—32

Digitized by

Google
-307-

Exercise 8.	*

a)	Lunge obi. forw. 1. and straighten 1. arm obi. fore-upw., r. hand

front of 1. shoulder, hoop vertical .............................. 1

b)	Str. 1., bend r. knee, lower trunk forw. (obi. left), cross arms, 1.

arm on top, r. remaining and hoop placed on shoulders........	2

c)	Repeat a and b. 3—4 measures. From pos. b uncross arms and

d)	Circle hoop forw. four times with jumping over, 1. foot leading, turn 1. with each jump and finishing on both feet. .. .	5—8

Without returning to starting pos. repeat right.............. 9—

Repeat 1. and r................................................17—

GROUP III.

Exercise 9.

a)	Circle hoop forw., jump over 1., swing r. leg forw. and hop on

1. foot (hop on the last count of the measure) ..............

b)	The same jumping over r. and swinging 1. leg forw...........

c)	Repeat a and b. 3—4 measures. Without returning to starting pos., 1. leg being forw.

d)	Lunge forw. 1., straighten arms obi. fore-upw. and cross hoop

as in a of exercise 7 .........................................

e)	Str. 1., bend r. knee, lower trunk forw. and lower arms downw.,

hoop (crossed) on shoulders ...................................

f)	Same as pos. d ...............................................

g)	Return to starting pos........................................

Same right ................................................. 9-

Repeat 1. and r.............................................17-

k.

Exercise 10.

No. 2 of rank I	
No. 1 and 8 “	“ II
No. 2	“ III
No. 1 and 3 “	“ IV
No. 1 and 3 “	“ I
No. 2 “	II
No. 1 and 3 “	“ III
No. 2	“ IV
Hal	

Kneel 1. and straighten arms forw., hoop crossed and remain 7 meas. Rising to starting position on .

? Encircle No. 2 ) ) of rank I 1. f Encircle No. 2 ( of rank III 1. )

With change step (waltz step) circling hoop forw. and jumping over on the first count of each meas.

Ho. 2 Ho.3

RankH

Rankll

Rank H

Rank I

8

8

'/

Digitized by t^ooQle

W Oi QO 35 Ox	*0	^	6SC5
—308—

{Those that encircled kneel 1. ; those that kneeled encircle 1. ;

Nos. 2 of ranks I and III beginning with Y2 turn 1. and encircling No. 2 behind them ........................................ lb

Repeat A and B, kneeling and encircling right....................17—32

Exercise 11.

a-b-c) Kepeat a, b and c of exercise 9, swing the leg forw. in front

of opposite leg, adding a slight turn of body 1. and r......... 1—1

Without returning to starting pos., 1. leg being forw.

d)	Lunge sidew. 1. and straighten arms	sidew., hoop vert............. 5

e)	Str. 1., bend r. knee and bend	trunk	sidew.	1., arms	remain....	6

f)	Str. r., bend 1. knee and bend	trunk	sidew.	r., arms	remain. ...	7

g)	Return to starting pos............................................ 8

Same right .................................................... 9—16

Repeat 1. and r................................................17—32

Exercise 12.

Nos. 2 of ranks II and III repeat a, b and c oi exercise 11 continuously ....................................................... 24

The remainder encircle them 1. in large circle with same step as

in exercise 10 ................................................   24

Closing with a grouping ........................................25—32



v'  r  /  r	S	\  \  \  V  V  I
r  4		•O'1,  I  1
\r  V	-	<  A
		' 1

In circling hoop forward as well as in crossing the hoop the wooden handle should be held loosely in the hand, permitting it to turn, or it will be twisted from the hoop. It will not be difficult to arrange grouping (32 m.) after each group of exercises as the hoops readily lend themselves to pretty poses.

—May I say how pleased I am to notice the broad spirit which pervades your articles. I trust the time is not far distant when many of the so-called systems will be submerged and the good that is in most of them adapted to the benefit of all.	C.	B.	Powter,	Montreal,	Canada.

Digitized by C^ooQle
Published Monthly,

Misp ftND BODY. ^

$ab«eripMoa Price, $ 1.00 per Year.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

Trmm, WUoonaln.

•T Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, W.s Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, iao Pomona St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—THE NEXT MEETING of the Playground Association of America will be held at Rochester, New York, June 7th to 10th. In this connection we wish to call attention to the interesting article on Children’s Street Gaines by Percy Grant reprinted in this issue. Studies of this kind help to clear the atmosphere of much misconception and also of much cant. Rev. Grant advocates instruction in play and supervision up to the age of thirteen or fourteen. We believe that this instruction and supervision should go up much higher. Much of the trouble now experienced in “reforming” football and basketball is the result of allowing these games to grow along lines that appeal to the spectator and that have little regard for the player. Teachers advocating a 3ane policy in the great games and sports indulged in today by our college, highschool and grammarschool youth have a rather hard time of it. If they do not see the “characterbuilding” and “moral forces” in games having iules that can not or will not eliminate deliberate attempts at maining or disabling one’s oppenents there is dissatisfaction. This is also the case if they uphold highly organized games, and try to educate schoolmen to see their high educative values.

We do not see how this state of affairs is ever to change much to the better until the professors and teachers of physical training in the higher schools get together and convince the officers of their institutions that these sports ought to be regulated by teachers and by men whose main object is not to have a fast or fierce game because of the entrancepaying spectator. If the object of games is to satisfy the spectator why not be candid enough to say so. Look at the efforts, for instance, made recently to reform basketball. Can we find much of a pedagogical thought back of the stand taken by the official rules committee? Was the thought of the effect of the game upon the player ever foremost in their minds during the deliberation? If a slugging game is wanted why not say so. A game having no restrictions and which will eventually allow most players to pile up on one and perhaps break his neck will surely appeal to the instincts of many spectators and prove to be a great money-maker. But then let us be honest and say that this is what we want.

We would rather have a prize fight called a prize fight. You then pay your money to see a game advertised under its right name. But we also have many who fear that revised rules will produce effeminate players. We have often wondered how it came that during the civil

Digitized by C^ooQie
-310-

war we had hundreds of thousands brave men on each side who had never seen or heard of football, baseball, basketball etc. Has such a change come over us during the last generation or two that we must get our courage by games that appeal to brute strength more than to skill? We wonder how many of our readers were fortunate enough to see the games of association football played bv our English visitors during the last month. Those who saw these exhibitions of skill were certainly delighted to witness a masterly presentation of a wonderful manly game. Instead of a swarm of padded warriors ready for a fight one saw a groun of players clad nearly as lightlv as track or field athletes. And instead of the mass plays of manv against one or a few, it was always an open olav. We do not mean to sav that no underhand tricks could be indulged in this game. Tt it a fast game with swiftlv varying opportunities for both teams, and if there has been anv “dirty” coaching it is bound to have many opportunities to be put into effect. But the nl«v is so open that with very few exceptions every movement of every plav^r can be seen. And as for skill, Rugby football can stand no comparison with it.

Whenever a number of deaths occur on account of the brutality of Rugby football interested parties have reports circulated through flip sporting pages of some sensation-loving dailies calling attention to t^p number of fatalities in other games. Recentlv it has been baseball thqf is singled out, and we are told that there are as manv baseball fatalities as by Rugby. These statisticians entirely overlook the fact that ba^hali is played by manv more people than Rugby and that its season is at least Iwice as long. Then, again, the character of the accidents in each is entirely different. Tn baseball a plaver may be unable to get 'nit o? the way of a batted ball. But in Rugbv it is a halfdozen plavers intentionally piling up on one or more lving below. Or it is some one making a flying tackle of a runner with the express intention of making him fall. Here it is by personal contact, bv the fighting of a number of players against one or more that the accident results.

We repeat, reforms in our great games can be brought about only when the professors and teachers of physical education at our higher schools take a determined stand and convince their superiors that sports and games are an essential part of phvsical education and as such must be regulated by them and be under their direct supervision.

Tn its stand taken on the sports and games of girls the Playground Association of America has done a distinct service wlmse <mod effects will be fayreaching. If this Association can and will bring ahrfnt enlightenment among the powers in our colleges and higher schools its service to physical education will be still greater.

—THE ESPECIAL ATTENTION* of our readers is called to the report of the New York Schools committee on “Coaches for High School Athletics” printed in this issue. The investigation undertaken by this committee is timely and should bring speedy recognition to that evergrowing group of men who during their own time, outside of school hours, coach teams and individuals in the interest of clean sport.

Digitized by Google
—311—

The man who lets the boys take care of themselves while he attends “extension lectures’" or goes to night school, thereby eventually getting his degree (and an increase in salary), has an unquestioned right to do so. But if all men in the high schools (and also an increasingly greater number of men and women in the grammar grades) thought likewise, our boys’ sports would be in a sorry condition. It is, therefore, only just that teachers who devote their free time to advancing the physical and moral efficiency of their pupils should receive a salary for this work. We hope that our New York friends will succeed in their endeavors.

—FOOTBALL AS A RECOGNIZED SPORT by the official heads of New York public schools has been abolished.

Action looking toward the elimination of this branch of sport in the schools was taken November 18th by the Board of Superintendents of New York public schools.

The action is more sweeping than any that has yet been taken against the game, as it included in its effect the abolition of the game at a large number of institutions. This important resolution was made by Dr. William H. Maxwell, Superintendent of Schools, who is Chairman of the board; Gustave Straubenmuller, Edward B. Shallow, Thomas S. O’Brien, Andrew W. Edson, Clarence E. Meleney, John H. Wateh, and John H. Haaren, all of whom are assistants to Dr. Maxwell.

—IN A SPECIAL DISPATCH from Chicago to the “Ledger” of Philadelphia we find the following and want to call especial attention to the figures relating to highschool pupils.

Chicago, Nov. 21.—Football has claimed a toll of 30 lives and 216 injuries during the present season, according to figures compiled by the Record Herald to-day. This is the largest number of deaths recorded in nine years, according to the figures, which have been kept since 1901.

The 30 deaths include 8 college players, 20 high school boys and 2 members of athletic clubs. The injuries were divided among 171 from colleges, 40 from high school players and 5 from athletic clubs.

Twenty-five suffered internal injuries, 19 dislocated ankles, 19 concussion of the brain and 19 fractured ribs. Fifteen legs and 9 arms were broken, while 12 collarbones were cracked. There were 15 cases of torn ligaments and 13 fractured shoulders,

At the same time the “Cincinnati Enquirer” writes editorially as follows:

ENFORCE THE LAWS AGAINST KILLING.

“Butchered to make a Roman holiday” was the fate of many of the bravest of the foes of Rome.

Barbarians they were called by the civilized of Rome who witnessed their deaths in the arena.

We, of America, the educated classes, the professors, the tutors, and the eminently respectable and super-refined gentlemen who compose the Boards of Trustees of our leading institutions of learning, spare the out-

Digitized by LjOOQle
-312-

side barbarians and cater to the amusement of the populace by permitting the weekly slaughter of our own children in the deadly game of football. ♦

Saturday last produced the usual list of killed and injured.

One of the brightest youths of Virginia lies dead in the capitol of the nation and one of Ohio’s sons, with a fractured skull, is reported sinking to the grave in a Cleveland hospital.

Our humanitarians gasp with horror at the brutalities of the bull fight in Spain, and societies against cruelty to animals are doing excellent work in every large city of our country, but when are our people to be aroused against this pastime of the professors which imperils the lives of every player engaged and is nothing more or less than organized killing.

A negro who in a game of craps or a drunken orgy kills or wounds a companion in Washington is hustled to prison, with a speedy hearing and a sentence of long duration or short shrift upon the scaffold. A prize fight would result in the arrest and punishment of all the principals, aiders and abettors.

Yet a prize fight is no more brutal than the game of football as now played; not nearly so dangerous; not so deadly; but while the victims are borne to the undertaker’s or to the hospitals, the survivors of football go back to their studies until the next call for killing, and their aiders, trainers and prompters resume their work of educating the young men of America.

\t is high time that societies for the preservation of human life enforce the laws of the land against this evil, and that those who permit such degrading and deadly exhibitions of brute force be made personally responsible for the crimes committed.

GYMNASTIC AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

By EMANUEL HAUG, 507 West 158th St., New York.

-ARMY AND NAVY RETIRE FROM FENCING TOURNEY. Covers of fencing will not have an opportunity this year of seeing West Point in the annual intercollegiate tourney. The cadets have withdrawn from the competition and with them the midshipmen of Annapolis. As a result neither branch of the service will be represented in the intercollegiate meet this year. Neither the Army nor the Navy has withdrawn from the intercollegiate association despite their desertion from the fencing ranks of that body.

The reason for the withdrawal of WestPoint andAnnapolis from intercollegiate fencing circles is obvious. For some time past dissatisfaction has been caused by the great superiority of the cadets and the middies in fencing. The other colleges have held that inasmuch as fencing is an important branch of instruction at both Government institutions the college teams were at a considerable disat-vantage.

Hereafter West Point and Annapolis will compete against each other in fencing. As a result of the bloodless break between the Army-Navy combination and the college men it is probable some kind of an arrangement will be made by West Point and Annapolis to further the interests of sport at both institutions. Consequently there is considerable talk at both places favoring the establishment of a firmer athletic alliance between the Army and Navy.

Representatives of West Point and Annapolis will likely meet in the near future to talk over the advisibility of forming such an alliance in the various

Digitized by L^ooQie
-313-

branches of sport. If an agreement is entered into it will cover football, baseball, fencing, gymnastics, wrestling, basketball and other minor sports. Such a move would not mean that West Point and the Navy would break with the intercollegiate association. It would merely mean a closer athletic bond between the two branches of the service.

—IN VIEW OP THE FACT that that there has recently been so much criticism against Athletics in the High Schools throughout the country, see the address of President Slocum in the October number of “Mind and Body”, the following extract of an address by Judge R. C. Drummond of Auburn N. Y. delivered before the University Convocation at its closing session Oct. 30, 1809 at Albany, N. Y. will be of great interest to those interested in High School Athletics. He says: “It is the football field, the diamond, the track,” he said, “against the party, the dance, the pool parlor, and the saloon. It is the open air and sturdiness of every sort against steam heat and cigarette smoke, and general disintegration.”

He regretted the tendency to decry athletics, especially those of a competitive nature. He argued that “the view is foolish, because it is so contrary to everything else taught in both society, business, and schools. What do we teach boys and girls for in anything except that they may ‘win’—win bread and butter, homes, success, the respect of their fellows, honor among men?

“These things should be won honorably, of course, and so should match games: but it is no more difficult to teach the importance of winning honorably in athletic competition than it is in the struggle of life. But attention should be called to this important fact; namely, that all too frequently is it thought proper to teach a young man how to extract a dollar from another man’s possessions, whether it be by a polite form of grafting or by other dubious means, by a pandering to luxurious or degraded tastes, for instance: or to teach him—for it amounts to this—that it is praiseworthy to exercise the arts of an effete old-world aristocracy, to effect knowledge where he has none, or to conceive and carry out many dark devices of big business’ bred in the cigarette smoke of a back office ; but it seems to be considered wrong for a jtoung man to engage in an honorable contest of physical strength with others, where all is in the open, and flesh comes in contact with flesh, and the blood stirs in the healthful exaltation of doing deeds and gaining fame for school, for college, for ‘alma master’—for something besides one’s self alone. It is from such things as these that courage comes, and a sense of honor and the spirit of self-sacrifice; and if this republic needs more sorely other things than these I should like to know what they are.

“If you do not permit them to enjoy the benefits of such a system as I am advocating, you will find them playing cards and pool, you must expect to see them drinking beer, and smoking cigarettes to excess, and you know that you will be driven to distraction in your schools by the demoralizing influence of social dissipation in and out of school. Calf love will be rampant. Callow passions will run their riotous course through recitation, study hour, and the ‘quiet hours at home’—what mockery! Flirtations in the halls, on the stairs, on the way home, on the way to school, canoeing parties, ‘high school’ dancing parties, sleigh rides, straw rides, moonlight excursions, and all other sickening things you know about as well as I, will be doing their deadly work—and you will have nothing to take their place or to effect a cure. I respectfully recommend an organized official system of athletics. This may not eradicate the evil, so disheartening and destructive to health and morals in the complaisance of the average American parent; but athletics will do much.”

-IN THE NEW YORK 23 ST. Y. M. C. A. GYMNASIUM on Wednesday Evening, December 15, beginning at 7:30 o’clock, one hundred intermediates and boys will run a twenty-five mile relay, each member running one-quarter mile. In other branches of Greater New York Young Men’s Christian Associations similar groups will be running the same distance at the same time. Reports will be telephoned so that all present will be informed of the progress of the other competing teams. The branch with the fastest team will be awarded the Championship of Greater New York. Fresno, California, Salt Lake City, Utah, Cleveland, Ohio, and other cities have been invited to compete at the same time. There will be a larger number of boys competing in this event than ever before engaged in a single athletic contest.

Digitized by L^ooQle
-314-

PLAY AND PLAYGROUNDS.

CHILDREN’S STREET GAMES.

By Percy Stickney Grant, Rector Church of the Ascension, New York.

Several years ago, when I was a member of a New England school committee, T had occasion to notice the street games of children. With the sports of the boys I was, of course, familiar, and could dimly recall a remote past when I had been pressed into service for “London Bridge5* and “Sally Water.” But when, as “a school committeeman,” I observed the ring games of children, I was dismayed at their doggerel, their inanity, their vulgarity. These characteristics, I thought, might he local. Accordingly, I collected the games that the school children liked best to play from two or three cities. Afterwards, I discovered a volume called Games and Song3 of American Children, which contained many more plays than I had collected and gave a historical account of them. Their lineage, in some cases, confirmed and explained my dislike.

I have put together my findings in the matter, hoping to prove to parents, teachers and school boards that the street games of children undermine the influence of the schoolroom. This could be stopped if children up to the age of thirteen or fourteen had instruction in proper games, and supervision at their play.

“One may best judge of ihen,” said Coleridge, “by their pleasures —man’s pleasures—children, books, friends, nature, the muses,—0! these deceive not.” The same may be said of children’s pleasures, which not only disclose their tastes and preferences, but have besides a formative influence on the mind and character. The vagrant street games should be abandoned in order to repress the inferior side of a chilcPs nature, and to prevent a superior child from receiving, through the unnoticed game, an evil training.

Although the educational value, of play is a commonplace, let us glance at the substantial authority that underlies the theory. Philosophers from the time of Plato have thought that a child could best be taught when study had the form of play. The Latin word for school and sport was the same—ludus. Froebel’s kindergarten originated with the idea that the spontaneous education of childhood was derived from its games, and consequently, in order to develop a perfect educational system, that childish sports must be systematized and developed. The correctness of this theory has been demonstrated by the success of the kindergarten system and kindred methods of teaching. Stanley Hall says:

“Play exercises many atavistic and rudimentary functions, a number of which will abort before maturity, but which live themselves out in play like the tadpole’s tail that must be both developed and used as a stimulus to the growth of legs which will otherwise never mature.... The best index and guide to the stated activities of adults in past ages is found in the instinctive, untaught and non-imitative plays of children

Digitized by LjOOQ le
-315-

which are the most spontaneous and exact expressions of their motor needs.. In play every form and movement is instinct with heredity— this is why the heart of youth goes out into play as into nothing else, as if in it men remembered' a lost paradise. This is why, unlike gymnastics, play has as much soul as body, and also why it so makes for unity of body and soul that the proverb, “Man is whole only when he plays”, suggests that the purest days are those that enlist both alike.... Thus understood, play is the ideal type of exercise for the young, most favorable for growth and most self-regulating in both kind and amount.”*

If a young man were asked to name the leading influence of his early life, he would be more likely to recall the moulding power of sports than of lesson and teachers. The training of the eye and hand, the compulsion of self-restraint and of honesty, the sense of fellowship which proceeds from such boys* sports as marbles, tops, prisoners’ base, not to speak of baseball and football, have a greater effect upon character than the first studies of childhood.

What games do children play? Their games are partly imitations of what they see around them, but are largely traditional, handed down from generation to generation. Children play school by the hour and some I have known to play church—one holding forth as preacher to his companions, seated about as congregation. Walter Pater, when a boy, liked to play at being bishop. Italian children make pretty processions like those they watch in church functions on holy days. St. Theresa, when a child, played at being a nun. Spanish boys of today play at bull-fighting. American boys can be seen, in city slums and in village streets, playing at “drunken-man,” reeling to and fro, falling helplessly upon the sidewalk and being carried off by companions who assume the role of policemen. Nietzsche^ as school boy at Naumberg, loved to play at tournament and the game of chivalry and military games.

A friend of mine once visited a famous yacht builder in Narra-gansett Bay. As he approached the house, he discovered to his horror that the small children of the family were on the roof of the house playing at a game which he learned afterward they called “launching the ship.” It consisted in letting down the baby in a basket from a skylight to the eves of the house and pulling it back again. This was the version, rendered by adventurous children, of a sight very familiar and dear to them, the launching of yachts from their father’s shipyard.

The following paragraph was cut from the New York “Tribune”:

“Lockport, New York, July 2, 1906.—Lewis Jordey, seven years old, was hanged to death by several playmates last night at Barkers, nine miles north of this city. The children, who were playing hangman, placed a rope around the neck of Jordey who stood on a box, and then tied the rope to the limb of a tree. The box was kicked out from under the boy. His struggles frightened his playmates and they ran away. An adult happened on the scene and cut the rope. He was unconscious and before medical attention could be summoned was dead.”

* Stanley Hall, Adolescence, vol. I, p. 202, 203.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-nn-

Manj children, however, neither have inventiveness or imitative-ness, nor do they receive games handed down by tradition. Miss Octavia Hill found among the London poor that the children did not play games, because they knew none to play. A recent writer about the social life of Jerusalem mentioned the absence of games among the young girls of that city. Undoubtedly the same thing is true of many parts of the world.

The games played by children not yet in their teens divide themselves easily into those for girls and those for boys. While girls and boys, under some circumstances, have plays in common, yet in general boys play tops or marbles or baseball, and the girls play ring games accompanied by verses which they sing. This difference between boys and girls appears to be in favor of a greater individualism on the part of the boy, and a collectiveness on the part of the girl. His games are competitive, boy against boy or side against side. Her games are mostly in unison—impossible without a group where all take an equal interest and uncompetitive share. While the games of boys are fewer than they need to be, and could be very much enlarged by a little inventiveness and a little borrowing by one nation from another, they are, on the whole, valuable and manly. The games for girls, however, are for the most part miserable and ought to be changed.

Many of the games of young girls are not only bad in themselves, but they employ the truest method of study, viz., repetition and review, more enthusiastically in the street sport than in the school study. Memory in childhood is ready to receive and tenacious to hold. The endless repetition of doggerel, which accompanies the playing of games morning, noon, and night, grafts vulgarities into plastic minds with greater force than teachers can inculcate culture. The amatory chorus is a characteristic of these games, many of which are love games, pure ✓ and simple. Games that permit children to show affection for each other have, no. doubt, a commendable side, but the character of the sentiment is so often silly that on the whole the mind of the child receives false ideas about human relationships, or it is directed at too early an age to thoughts and feelings wdiich it should know nothing about.

"Water, water, wild flowers,

Growing up so high.

We are all young ladies,

And we are sure to die,

Excepting...............

She is so fond of flowers,

Fie! fie! fie! for shame! •

Turn your hack and tell your beau’s name.

The vulgarity of these games is very marked. The opening lines of one game are as follows:	*

Come all you young men in your evil ways,

And sow your wdld oats in your youthful days.

This version is from Virginia, but the New York and New England variation is hardly superior:

Digitized by booQle
-317-

Come all you old maids in your sinful ways.

What would the woman suffragists say of this street lesson?

When I was a young lady, ’twas this way and that way.

The words accompanied by a coquettish arm motion.

When I was a woman, etc., ’twas this way and that way.

The words accompanied by scrubbing gestures.

When I was an old lady, etc., ’twas this way and that way.

All make as if to take snuff.

Marriage is treated most cavalierly. In the games described above, the gestures imagined to be appropriate for these words:

When I was married it was this way and that way, were those of rudeness, contempt and violence.

Longfellow, Bryant and Tennyson in the school sessions are replaced by nameless rhymsters out of school. The verses below which sound like echoes from a sailors’ boarding house are specimens:

(Bing with girl in center.)

Jack-a-needle, Jack-a-needle,

I sew with my needle,

And when I get married This sample I’ll show.

Fll go into the “garding,”

And stay there Till morning,

And whistle to Katie,

Dear Katie, come near.

Last night when we parted I felt broken hearted.

Take an arm, my dear,

Take an arm, my dear,

Take an arm, my dear,

Farewell!

Here stand up two fine ladies, lads,

Who they are I do not know.

If they wish to wed or marry.

Let them answer yes or no.

Now they’re joined in love and friendship,

Love and serve them while you’re here,

Hug and kiss and say you love them,

As long as they remain your dears.

The needle’s eye it doth comply;

It carries the tape so true.

It has caught many a smiling lass,

And now it has caught you.

Oh! she dresses so neat,

And kisses so sweet;

We do intend before we part,

To see this couple meet.

Digitized by v^»ooQle
-318-

One objection to most imitative games is that they do not give a picture of life today, but are inherited from other times, when they were representative and had spontaneous existence.

The life of other days described in some of the games was undoubtedly less refined in outward expression, if not essentially coarser than that of today. “That relic of pagan days, Hallowe’en,” says Koos, “from the serious concerns of men, has become the glee of prankish children, and in ‘Eeny-meeny-miny-mo/ of the playground, lives on some incantation that once made spirits obey and men tremble.”*

The forms of things endure long after their ideas are dead ceremonies, dramatic presentments of life. So it is with games, the spirit and meaning of some old-time pomp, ceremony, or high amusement has died and the thin forms—like ghosts—still haunt the world and get a sort of second life at the hands of the young and ignorant.

Moreover, a large number of games played now by little children were invented for, and originally played by young people in their teens or much older. Tag was a favorite game with the maids of honor in Queen Elizabeth’s time; while young men and maidens of Old England reveled in the round and kissing games that now are relegated to the nursery. Think of children from four to twelve years of age, playing games devised originally for the sportive cavaliers, who sat on the stage of Shakespeare’s theater, or who spoke their minds in the coarse conversation of the plays of the seventeenth century.

Dr. Stanley Hall’s panegyric of the instinctive plays of children is somewhat theoretical. I do not know what an “instinctive, untaught and non-imitative play” is. Children love self-created theatrics and cast themselves for all sorts of imaginary roles. But the plays that we see in our streets are taught, for the most part, or are imitated. The absence of games in some countries shows that “the instinct“ is not invariable. At any rate, I do not believe in leaving children to inferior atavistic tendencies when better tendencies can be induced; nor do I believe that these tendencies, when healthfully shown, should be expressed in wornout forms from coarser times. “Play is the ideal exercise for the young.” Yes, but let us discriminate in the ethical influence of different forms of play.

The games of children should be taught and supervised as much as their studies. “All games which reflect civilized life and sentiment are to be encouraged to the neglect of the lower type of games.”**

The games of different nations should be studied in order to discover the best. Why should we not also invent new games? Why could not the teaching of these valuable sports be a part of the school work? By putting all the games of children on an educational basis, and by giving them official oversight, we could prevent the destructive effects that out-of-school play now has upon the carefully applied and psychological methods of the school session.	The	Survey.

* Social Psychology, page 143.

** H. M. Stanley, Educational Review, June, 1896.

Digitized by Google
-319-

BALL GAMES.

*	By S. Y. Gillan.

The ball is the first “gift” in the kindergarten and is the most persistent tool employed in games throughout the years of childhood, youth and manhood. Marbles, billiards, golf and croquet are forms of ball games; so also bowling. The various games of ball played by boys at school in the past generation are an interesting study. A few of them are here noted which were common among schoolboys in the western states thirty to fifty years ago.

Taken in the order of complexity, the simplest games begin soon after the little fellow learns to bounce the ball and catch it, a game which is usually supplanted soon by the game of catching the ball when tossed from one person to another. Another solitaire ball game is that in which the player throws the ball against the side of a house or other dead-wall and catches it on the rebound. A slight advance on this is where the ball is hit with a bat as it rebounds from the wall. Up to this point the games are so simple that they seem to have no specific names, though when two play at the last mentioned game, using a bat, it was sometimes known as barn ball.

When two players were engaged, a game known as “flip-up” sometimes called “sky-ball” was played. One boy took the bat, or “paddle,” as it was sometimes called because of its flat form, and tossing the ball up gently with one hand, siezed the bat in both hands and struck it upward, sending it as nearly vertical as possible. If the other player caught it as it came down, he took the bat until “caught out.” A group of boys often played “flip-up” with one bat and one ball. This is probably the simplest bat and ball game, for it requires only two players; but there were three other games somewhat simpler in that no bat was used; they required a group of players. One was called “hat ball.” The players put their hats on the ground in a row and all stood around them, each near his own hat; one boy took the ball and dropped it into one of the hats, after making various deceptive passes and motions as if to drop it. As soon as the ball fell all the players except the owner of the hat into which it fell ran in all directions away from the hats. If the player thus designated could seize the ball and hit some one, he maintained his posititon in the game; if the one whom he hit could hit another he also held his place, but the one who missed was out and took up his hat; he was then the dropper of the ball for the next game.

The second of what may be called the single group games was called “sock-about.” All the players kept within certain narrow limits, and one would hit another as hard as possible with the ball; the one hit would pick it up and hit another and so on. Any one who missed must step out of the game, or if the ball was caught, the one throwing it was said to be “caught out” and must stand apart for that game the same as if he had missed. Sometimes two balls, rarely three, were used, and then the game was more exciting and caused enough dodging, jumping and moving about to make it a good game for cold weather.

When organization, system and the competition of rival sides were.

Digitized by t^ooQie
—320—

applied to “sock-about,” it became “bull-pen” Two boys would “choose up,“ deciding the first choice by flipping a “paddle” (bat), one side of which had been spit on to designate it, the choice being “wet or dry,” and two out of three deciding. Or it was sometimes decided by throwing a stick (held Jn a vertical position) from the hand of one boy to that of another, who caught it; then the first would grasp it just above the hand of the one who held it, the onfc having the lower grip letting go and taking hold above the hand of the other; thus they alternated to the top, and the one having the last grip had the choice. Sometimes the same method of deciding the first choice was used in the schoolroom on Friday afternoon when we chose sides for a spelling match; then a pointer, sometimes the stove poker or broom handle, occasionally the master’s switch was tossed from hand to hand. This was always more dramatic and hence more satisfactory than the tame and colorless method of having the leaders guess at what page of a book the teacher held his finger, an innovation which came later. But to return to the “bull-pen.”

After the sides were chosen, the leaders would then “toss up for bases.” Bases were marked, usually not more than six in number and never less than four, in form of a hexagon or of a square surrounding a space of about four or five rods square; this was the “pen.” The side winning the choice would occupy the bases, one player on each; if there were more players than bases a few would wait on the outside till the others were “out.” All the other side were “bulls” and occupied the center in a jumping, plunging, jostling, dodging, bellowing group. Those on the bases threw the ball from one to another; if one failed to catch it he was not out, but the ball became “cold”; it must go once around to become “hot,” and then it might be thrown across the “pen” in any direction, back and forth between any two players. And now any one catching the ball might hit a “bull.” If the “bull” caught the ball, the baseman was caught out, otherwise the “bull” must hit a base-man or he was out. If the basemen “broke up” the other side, the bulls must all go back and begin again; but if the basemen got out first the sides changed places. It is evident that when the basemen were reduced to a number less than the number of bases the “bulls” had the advantage of a vacant corner in which to congregate; but at that stage of the game the basemen were allowed to “run the bases,” that is a player catching a “hot” ball might run to an adjoining vacant base near which the bulls were huddled, and throw from there. When the basemen were reduced to one, the last stage of the game was “smuggling.” The last baseman choosing a companion, the best marksman in throwing a ball, would retire a little ways from the “pen” and returning each would hold his hand under his coat; the “bulls” could only guess which one held the ball: these two would then “run the bases” until the one holding the ball found a good opportunity to hit a “bull.” When either one of the two smugglers missed or was “caught out,” or was hit, the game turned.

Of course the ball used was not the hard, heavy, regulation baseball of to-day. It was usually made of woolen yarn wound tight around a little ball of rubber and sometimes covered with cloth or leather. The

Digitized by booQle
—;*i* i —

core was sometimes made of strips of cloth with a lead bullet in the center to give it sufficient weight; in any case the balls were home-made, band-made, boy-made.

Meanwhile, will any old boys who remember other ball games of thirty to fifty years ago please write us about them, stating when and where they were in vogue; and will country school teachers now teaching report whether any of the games mentioned are still played, and if so where and with what variations from the descriptions given.

Am. Journal of Education.

Some Reflections on the Failure of the Modern City to Provide Recreation for Young Girls.

Bv Jane Addams, Hull House, Chicago.

Nothing is more certain than that each generation longs for a reassurance as to the value and charm of life, and is secretly afraid lest it lose its sense of the youth of the earth. This is doubtless one reason it so passionately cherishes its poets and artists as those who have been able to explore for themselves and to reveal to others, the perpetual springs of life’s self-renewal.

And yet in spite of popular education, the- average man cannot obtain this desired reassurance through literature, nor yet through glimpses of earth and sky. It can come to him only through the chance embodiment of joy and youth which life itself may throw in his way. It is doubtless true that for the mass of men, the message is never so unchallenged and so invincible as when embodied in youth itself, never so poignant and appealing as when seen in a young girl. One generation after another has depended upon its young to provide it with gaiety and enthusiasm, to persuade it that living is a pleasure, until men everywhere have anxiously promoted channels through which this wine of life might flow, and he preserved for their delight. The classical city, provided for play with careful solicitude, building the theater as it built the market place and the temple, and it came to anticipate the highest utterances of the poet at those moments when the sense of pleasure released the national life. In the medieval city the knights held their tourneys, the guilds their pageants, the people their dances, and the church made festival for its most cherished saints with gay street processions. Only in the modern industrial city have men concluded that it is no longer necessary for the municipality to provide for the insatiable desire for play, and they have therefore entered upon a most dangerous and difficult experiment.

Unhappily this experiment of failing to make adequate provision for play is being tried just at the moment that modern industry has gathered together multitudes of eager young creatures from all quarters of the earth as a labor supply for the countless factories and workshops, unen which the present industrial city is based. In the United States alone, 3,000.000 of these are young women. Never before in civilization have such numbers of girls been suddenly released from the

Digitized by v^»ooQle


protection of the home and permitted to walk unattended^ upon city streets and to work under alien roofs: for the first time they are being prized more for their labor power than for their innocence, their tender beauty, their ephemeral gaiety. Society cares more for the products they manufacture than for their immemorial ability to knead over the bread of life and reaffirm the charm of existence.

This stupid experiment of organizing work and failing to organize play, has of course, brought about a fine revenge. This love of pleasure will not be denied, and when no adequate provision is made for its expression, it turns into all sorts of malignant and vicious appetites. Seeing these we, the middle-aged, grow quite distracted and resort to all sorts of restrictive measures. We even try to dam up the sweet fountain itself because we are affrighted by these turgid streams. But although we vex ourselves with restrictive measures and complain of their futility, we do not see that the city itself has failed in its obligations in the matter, and that the root of the difficulty is due to the fact that the modern city has turned over to commercialism practically all the provisions for public recreation. We need only to look about us to perceive that quite as one set of men have organized the young people into industrial enterprises in order to profit from their toil, so another set of men and also women. I am sorry to say, have entered the neglected field of recreation and have organized enterprises which make profit out of their invincible love of pleasure.

In every city arise so-called “places,”-—“gin-palaces” they are called in fiction,—in Chicago we euphemistically say merely “places,”—in which alcohol is dispensed, not to allay thirst, but, pretending to stimulate gaiety, it is sold solely in order to empty pockets. Huge dance halls are opened to which hundreds of young people are attracted, standing wistfully outside a roped circle, for within it five cents will procure for five minutes the sense of allurement and intoxication which is sold in lieu of innocent pleasure. These coarse and illicit merrymakings remind one of the unrestrained jollities of Restoration London and they are indeed their direct descendants, properly commercialized of course, still confusing joy with lust, and gaiety with debauchery. Since the soldiers of Cromwell shut up the people’s playhouses and destroyed their pleasure fields, the Anglo Saxon city has turned over the provision for public recreation to the most evil-minded and the most unscrupulous members of the community. We see thousands of girls walking up and down the streets on a pleasant evening with no chance to catch a sight of pleasure even in such an unsatisfactory manner as looking through a lighted window, save as these lurid places provide it. Apparently the modern city sees in these girls only two possibilities, both of them commercial:	first,	a	chance	to utilize by day their new and tender labor

power in its factories and shops, and then another chance in the evening to extract from them their petty wages, by pandering to their love of pleasure.

As these overworked girls stream along the street, it is easy to see only the self-conscious walk, the giggling speech, the preposterous clothing. And yet through the huge hat with its wilderness of feathers, the

Digitized by v^-ooQle
-323 -

girl announces to the world that she is here. She demands attention to the fact of her existence, she states that she is ready to live, to take her immemorial place in the world. We are quite accustomed to this bragging announcement on the part of the boy. When he restlessly looks upon the world as a theater for his self-assertive exploits, the city makes haste to provide him with an athletic field where he may safely demonstrate that he is braver at jumping and climbing than any other boy on the street.

But we are much less successful in making city provisions for the girl's needs, and slow to realize that while there is someting of the mating season in both demonstrations, there is also much more. The most precious moment in human development comes when the young creature asserts that he is unlike any other human being, and has an individual contribution to make to the world. It is this variation from the established type which is at the root of all change, it is the only possible basis for progress, all that keeps life from growing stale and repetitious. It is as if our eyes were holden to the mystic beauty, the redemptive joy, the civic pride which these multitudes of young girls might supply to our dingy town.

Is it only the artists who really see these young creatures as they are, the artists who are themselves endowed with immortal youth, who recognize through the headstrong follies but a record of youth's divine impatience with the world's inheritance of materialism and dullness: who see through all the tawdry adornment and cheap merrymaking a determination that the romance and joy of life shall not miserably perish upon our city streets, but shall be perpetually revived and reassured. Which one of Raphael’s great contemporaries said.—Leonardo himself, was it not,—that Genius alone can paint the child? Is it our disregard of the artists’ message which makes us so blind and so stupid, or are we so under the influence of our “zeit-geist” that we can detect only commercial values in the young as well as in the old? Certain it is that because the modem city allows the money maker to minister to youth’s unfailing demand for pleasure it too often sends the boy to gambling and drinking in order to find his adventure, and drives the girl into all sorts of absurd and obscure expression, when she endeavors to voice her love and yearning towards the world in which she forecast* her destiny.

The young creatures themselves piteously look all about them in order to find an adequate means of expression for their most precious message. Perhaps you. will permit me to illustrate:	One	day	a	serious

young man came to Hull House with his pretty young sister who, he explained, wanted to go somewhere every single evening, although she could only give the flimsy excuse that “the flat was too little and too stuffy to stay in." In the difficult role of older brother, he had done his best, stating that he had taken her “to all the missions that he could find, that she had a chance to listen to some awful good sermons and to some elegant hvmns, but that some wav she did not seem to care for the society of the best Christian people."

The little sister reddened painfully under this cruel indictment and could offer no word of excuse, but a curious thing happened to me.

Digitized by v^ooQie
24

Perhaps it was the phrase, “best Christian people/' perhaps it was the charming colors in her blushing cheeks and her swimming eyes, but certain it is, that instantly and vividly there appeared to my mind a delicately tinted piece of wall in a Roman catacomb where the early Christians, through a dozen devices of spring flowers, skipping lambs and a shepherd tenderly guiding the young, had indelibly written down that the Christian message is one of inexpressible joy. Who is responsible for forgetting this message delivered by the “best Christian people" two thousand years ago? Who is to blame that the lambs, the little ewe lambs, have been so caught upon the brambles?

Already some American cities are making a beginning. Boston has its municipal gymnasiums, cricket fields and golf grounds. Chicago has seventeen parks with playing fields, gymnasiums and baths, which at present enroll thousands of young women and girls. These same parks are provided with beautiful halls which are used for many purposes, rent free, and are given over to any band of young people who wish to conduct dancing parties subject to city supervision and chaperonnge. Many social clubs have deserted neighboring saloon halls for these municipal drawing rooms, beautifully decorated with growing plants supplied by the park green houses, and flooded with electric lights supplied by the park power house. Tn the saloon hfills the young people were obliged to “pass monev freely over the bar," and in order to make the most of the occasion, they usually staved until morning. The economic necessity itself would override the counsels of the more temperate, and the thrifty doorkeeper would not insist upon invitations but would take in anyone who had the “price of a ticket." The free rent in the nark hall, the good food in the nark restaurant supplied at cost, have made possible three parties closing at eleven o'clock instead of one party breaking up at daylight, too often in disorder.

Is not this an argument that the disorder, the drinking, the late hours, the lack of decorum, are directly traceable to the commercial enterprise which administers to pleasure in order to drag it into excess because excess is more profitable? We have no business thus to commercialize pleasure. Tt is as monstrous as is the attempt to commercialize art! Tt is intolerable that the citv does not more rapidlv take over this function of making provision for pleasure. Almost instant success attends the first efforts of the city in making municipal provision for recreation. Hundreds of Chicago citizens will always remember a long summer day in one of our lar^e playing fields, which was filled during the morning with groups of little children romping through the kindergarten games; in the afternoon with young men and girls contending in sports, and the evening light made gay by the bright colored garments of Italians. Lithuanians, Norwegians, and a dozen other nationalities reproducing their old dances and festivals for the pleasure of the more stolid Americans. These old forms of dancing which have been worked out in many lands and through long experience, safeguard unwary and dangerous expressions and yet afford a vehicle through which the joy of youth may flow. Their forms are indeed those which lie at the basis of all good breeding, forms which at once express and restrain.

Digitized by

Google
-325-

urge forward and set limits. Thousands of city girls who are being taught at the small parks, are there equipped with a technique through which they may express their insatiable desire for gaiety and motion. Are these parks but a forecast of what the commercial city may yet see accomplished through playground associations, and through a dozen other agencies which are springing up in every city in America, as they already are found in the huge towns of Scotland and England?

Let us cherish these experiments as the most precious beginnings of an attempt to supply the recreational needs of our industrial cities. The discovery of the labor power of young girls was to our age like the discovery of a new natural resource. In utilizing it thus ruthlessly we are not only irf danger of quenching the divine fire of youth, but we are imperiling our civilization itself if in the moment of its most pronounced materialism we dry up the very sources of romance, of variety, of joy which these charming creatures have always given to the world.

To fail to provide for the recreation of young girls is not only to deprive all of them of their natural form of expression and to subject some of them to the overwhelming temptation of illicit and soul-destroying pleasures, but it furthermore pushes society back into dreariness and into a scepticism of life's value, that shadow which lurks only around the corner for most of us,—it deprives us of the warmth and reassurance which we sorely need and to which we are justly entitled.

Charities.

Good Yard Games for Cold Weather.

The fact that the cold weather is now upon us need not be construed to mean that all organized play should cease in our schoolyards. It simply means that such forms of play must be chosen that keep the players busy and in strong action. Here are a number of old games that answer these requirements, that need no apparatus and that may be played anywhere, by boys and girls.

BOGEY MAY. (Black Man.)

A player, chosen as Bogey Man, stands at one end of the yard, the other players stand at the opposite end. The Bogey Man calls, “Are you afraid of the Bogey Man?*’ The others answer, “No,” and run, trying to pass him and reach the opposite end of the yard. The Bogey Man tags or catches one or two and they go with him to his side of the yard, and play as Bogey Men. The play is repeated until all the runners are caught by the Bogey Man and his helpers. The last one caught begins a new game.

LAME GOOSE.

The one playing the goose takes his place at one corner of the yard, called “home.” After three running steps he must hop on one foot and tag one of the other players who are running about. When one is tagged, and so becomes goose, he is chased by the other pi avers, who strike him with knotted handkerchiefs, until he is “home.” Should the goose in his attempts to tag a player put both feet on the ground he also is chased home by the other players.

Digitized by Google


BREAK THROUGH. (Bear in the Ring.)

A number of players join hands and form a circle, the bear-pit. One of their number, previously selected as the bear, wanders about on the inside, attempting to get out by testing the bars. The b$ar may break through the bars by placing his weight on the grasped hands, or jump over or crawl under the same. If he breaks through and escapes, the keepers give chase, the one catching him in turn becoming bear.

FOX AND CHICKENS. (Hawk and Chickens.)

Divide the class into ranks of sevens. Six, representing the chickens, stand behind one another, catching around each other’s waists; the one in front with outspread arms (wings) shoos off the fox (the seventh pupil), who runs around the first one and tries to tag the last one in the rank. The other six players try to keep out of reach of the fox. When the last player is tagged the one at the head becomes fox.

NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

SARGENT NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

The school opened on Oct. 7th with a record breaking freshmen class. It is a gratifying fact that the number of college graduates taking up this work is constantly growing.

A reception was tendered the freshmen by the two upper classes.

The upper classes are playing Soccer football and hockey and a series of match games are to be played ere the indoor work begins.

Two high school classes have been added to the model school, which makes seven graded classes with two lessons each week. Thus the facilities for practice teaching have been greatly increased.

The seniors have 4 days a week in the children’s hospital where they do. clinical work under Dr. Lovett.

Dr. Sargent delivered a lecture at Mass. Institute of Technology during the month of October.

Practically all of last year’s graduates were placed.

A n interesting letter was received from Miss Yarian ’04. who accepted a responsible position in Paris, France.

Dr. Lovett, the eminent specialist on spinal curvature delivered a lecture to the two upper classes.

The school has acquired a reflectroscope which will be used extensively with the various lectures.

Dr. Sargent will spend'considerable time this winter in writing. Two of his articles appeared recently in Putnam’s Magazine, one in Sept., the other in October.

Digitized by v^ooQle
—327-

NOB MAL COLLEGE, N. A. GYMNASTIC UNION, INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

Mr. Emil Rath, the new President from the “Smoky City,” has made a splendid start in the gymnasium and lecture rooms. Under his proficient direction the class is looking forward to a splendid showing when the much dreaded examinations come.

Practice teaching in the Turnverein classes, conducted by Mr. Rath, has begun in earnest and the seniors are getting their first glimpse of the trials and tribulations of a teacher. They are also given a chance twice a week to teach the members of their own class.

Dr. Robert Fischer is conducting the college class on a tour of observations in physical training in the public schools of Indianapolis.

Great progress has been made and much enthusiasm is shown in the swimming classes this year. The second year students have become quite proficient as teachers of the juniors, under the supervision of Mr. Hugo Fischer, the instructor. The trudgeon and the crawl strokes have been successfully mastered by some of the co-eds.

One of the new attractions added to the school is the women’s rest room. It is tastefully furnished in mission. The girls have raided their own rooms to add to the effectiveness and comfort of the rest room. Dr. Fischer’s one, lonely office pillow has been pressed in service and is the object of a tug-of-war in the rush for the sanitary cots. A rest room has long been needed and it serves as a cozy nook and a restful retreat after the day’s work.

The students, chaperoned by Mr. and Mrs. Rath, attended the Schiller celebration and banquet as guests of the Socialer Turnverein Wednesday, Nov. 10. Professor Robert Nix presided, and as toastmaster called attention to many interesting facts concerning Schiller, his position in literature, his life and his works. Among the speakers were Mr. Peter Scherer and Mr. Theodore Stempfel of the faculty.

One of the recent visitors to the college was Professor Karl J. Kroh, our former dean and President, who was enthusiastically greeted with a rousing class yell by his old pupils, the class of 1910. He also was the recipient of many hearty, good wishes for success in his new career.

Gladys R. Dixon, Secretary, class 1910.

BOOK REVIEW.

—SUMMARY OF REPORT ON NATIONAL VITALITY. There is now ready for distribution the report of the exhaustive investigation made at the request of President Roosevelt by Professor Irving Fisher, President of the Committee of One Hundred on National Health and member of the Conservation Commission. The work was carried on with the advice and assistance of medical and statistical experts. The conclusions are surprising and may be summarized briefly as follows: First, the average American lifetime is shorter than that of other foremost nations and could be lengthened fully a third. Half this

Digitized by L^ooQie
—328-

improvement could be effected simply through purer air, purer water and purer milk.

Second, the possible gains in reducing mortality among infants and young children would be even greater.

Third, the money saving to the nation as a result a decreasing mortality and sickness could be more that one billion five hundred millions of dollars per annum.

Fourth, the remedies include a competent national department of health.

The Metropolitan Life Insurance Company has inaugurated a Bureau of Co-operation which will undertake at once active work to arouse its policy holders to the possibilities. Other insurance companies have under consideration active participation in the movement to conserve human life.

When we consider that, through needless death and illness, our nation squanders every year a sum equal to the entire value of the great steel trust, we see the necessity of immediate action by the national government.

Single copies can be had for $1.00 (3 copies for $2.00) by applying to the “Committee of One Hundred,” Drawer No. 45, New Haven, Conn.

—“HARPER’S OUTDOOR BOOK FOR BOYS” by Joseph H. Adams. 381 pages, 5%x8 inches, illustrated, published by Harper and Brothers, New York. Mailing price, $1.95.

This is one of the best books for boys we have ever seen, giving clear and easily understood descriptions of how the things dear to a boys heart like windmills, kites of all kinds, aeroplanes, aquariums, ice-boats, tree-huts, houses, wagons, engines etc. etc. are to be made. Then, also, camplife, trapping, fishing, boating, and all out-door sports are dealt with in detail and all things are fully illustrated. Playgrounds and recreation centers that have introduced some of the simpler forms of handwork will find in this book much useful information and many ideas that can be put to practical use. The book can be recommended heartilv to parents, teachers and live boys. To be had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

—“GYMNASTIC DANCING” bv William J. Davison. 123 pages, 5x7 inches, published by the Young Men’s Christian Association Press, New York. Mailing price, $1.10.

This is a compilation of simple dancing steps as well as of complete dances as used by the author in his own classes and with the classes at Silver Bay. Beginning with suggestions to teachers as to the necessity of knowing personally what one is going to teach the book next takes up the question of music and nomenclature. Then follow descriptions of the fundamental steps and, later, a number of complete dances. An introduction by Dr. William Burdick gives a good insight into the nature and uses of dancing. The book will be a valuable aid to teachers needing help along these lines. To be had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by CjO( le