MIND AND BODY

VoL II_	M«y» 1924 _____No.	3>»

PUBLISHED BY MIND}AND BODY PUBLISHING CO. NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane. Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, /p/d, at the postoffice at New Ulm% Minnesota, under the Act of March J, 1879.

ATHLETICS GONE WILD.

By, William A. Stecher.

Friends of athletics for all boys and girls must view recent developments in high school athletics with strange feelings. It appears that in certain sections of the country commercial interests have discovered the value of high school basketball and football as money producers. It has been found possible, by means of skill-fuHv used newspaper propaganda, to influence the “sporting” spirit of thousands of “loyal” adherants of some local high school, or thousands of "loyal ’ citizens of some amusement-poor city. The result is undreamed of revenue in basketball. A further result in certain cities is a mob rule that will not allow the local team to lose. Several universities also, under the guide of fostering athletics have found it highly profitable to exploit the high school boy. Gate receipts appear to determine the value of an athletic activity. If one is naive enough to believe the newspapers, this all is done to foster “athletics for all- boys.” Any one who has his eyes open must see that the rfesult. as a rule, is disastrous to many of the boys. What weight, for instance, has physical health, or moral

Digitized by LjOOQle
50

health when thousands of dollars are at stake? The promoters are in the game for all the money it will bring to them. No thought as a rule is given to the boy. Not only the boy is lowered to the plane of furnishing sport for a betting-mad or loyalty-mad, crowd. The referees also are tampered with. It is an open secret that in some cities and in some schools and colleges certain men are barred as referees. They are barred because they are fearless, because they decide plays according to the rules of the game, and dot according to the interests of “champion” teams or of “invincible” browbeating coaches.

During the last year the high school girls, and the girls in business, or in factories have also been discovered by some pro-

•	motors. Naturally a girl clad in a track suit or a one piece swimming suit is quite a drawing card with thousands. If “correctly” ,pro-

•	moted there should be at least as much money in the exhibition ^of

*	girls as in the playing of boys. And so, under the slogan of “athletics

. for all girls,” we shall soon have meets or games for girls only.

♦	Widely advertised "unbeaten” teams, conspicuously showing all

*	their physical beauty in newspaper cuts should be revenue producers of no mean quality.

So it may be proper to pause and ask: Where are we going?' Will school men and women allow sport promoters to use our boys and girls for mercenary ends? Will they allow unscrupulous coaches to use our pupils as pawns in a game for selfish glory? Will they allow sporting writers to determine what is best for the physical and moral education of their pupils? Or, will they have backbone enough to stand for athletics for educational ends, even if a weak-kneed school principal who knows better, or a local editor who does not know better, but who needs enlightenment, even if both these powers are against them? Will they have grit enough to stand for what is right even if faced with the probability of looking for a new position because of their adherence to education principles?

It might be better to prohibit interschool sports for a time than to have the present tendency develop to such an extent that the aroused parents of our boys and girls will be forced to intervene and tell us what they think of the type of athletics found in certain cities.

Note: The following are a few of the facts leading to the expression voiced in the above article. Names of cities, of institutions and of individuals are omitted purposely, as the aim of the article is to call attention to questionable developments and not to attack cities, institutions or individuals.

1.	During a basketball game a principal of one of the contesting schools was mobbed when he stepped on the court to upheld the official.

2.	In a basketball tournament a team from a distant dty was compelled to play six games in six days, four at 10 o'clock fct night, one at 11 o’clock, and one at 4 o’clock.

Digitized by

Google
51

3.	A coach of a team representing a university refused to play a team on its court if a certain official, of reputable standing, were used.

4.	In the National Basketball Tournament at Chicago, there were boys from most every state. What about their regular school wprk during the tournament?

' 5. In a state championship basket ball tournament a team withdrew from the finals because it would not play its opponent on a court in the county in which the opponent was located, and because the team was allowed no voice in the selection of officials.

6.	A high school football team from Michigan played a team in Pennsylvania. The gate receipts were a little less than $10,000. The guarantee to the visiting team was $3,000.

7.	During a football game between two high schools in the same vicinity, it was necessary toward the end of the game to maneuver the visiting team to the side of the field, where motor cars with running motors were stationed, so that when the referee blew his whistle at the end of the game, the team could get away without being mobbed.

CHARACTER BUILDING THRU THE ADAPTATION OF SCHOOL CURRICULA.

By Oliver P. Cornman, Associate Superintendent of Schools, Philadelphia.

More than two score years ago, Alexander Bain, in a most, discriminating analysis of the problem of moral education, directed attention to the fact that “morality is in the situation of the mother tongue, - it is imbibed from innumerable sources of which the school does not even rank as one of the chief.” The greater part of the discipline of life is not, in Bain’s view, teaching, as such, but that which is imposed by our relationships with our fellows in society, -“the evil and the good that we experience at the hands of others are the forces for keeping us in the orbit of duty.”

More modernly and more broadly stated, that which one brings into the world and that which is added and subtracted by experience are the elements that go to the determination of conduct. Inborn tendencies and the forces of the environment all play their parts. The relative importance in the final result of breed and posture, nature and nurture, heredity and environment, native endowment and training, or however we may phrase it, has been an age-old subject of debate. No matter which of these factors we may, by reason of temperament or by training, be inclined to emphasize, we must concede a great, if not supreme, importance to the influence of the school. As Bain points out, with the logical acumen that characterizes his analysis, the teacher “/or his own ends enforces and cultivates obedience, punctuality, truthfulness, fair dealing, * •

I------ ------

• Read at "Schoolmen's Week" University of Pennsylvania, April 11W|# 19(4.

Digitized by v^i ooQle
52

courteous and considerate behavior, and whatever else belongs to the working of a school, and thereby leaves upon the minds of his pupils genuine moral impressions, without even proposing su^h as an end,” and he adds, with penetrating insight, “moreover, if the teacher has the consummation of tact that makes the pupils to any degree in love with the work so as to make them submit with cheerful and willing minds to any needful restraints, and to render them on the whole well disposed to himself and to each other, he is a moral instructor of a high order, whether he means it or not."

Now that is the tribute of a keen, hard-headed Scotch philosopher to the value of the moral effect of good teaching, even tho it be directed merely to intellectual ends. The gifted teacher was' the saving grace of the deadly dull, monotonous, and narrow curriculum of the period in which he wrote, - a curriculum in which the subject matter was everything, the needs of the individual pupil nothing, and a period in which the acquiring of some skill m the use of the tools of know ledge, and the memorization of more or less useful collections of facts were the be-all and the end-all of the schools of that day. It was a period, moreover, in which the "doctrine of effort” and that of the “discipline of difficulties” held full sway, and, even at that, they were stressed almost solely in the interests of intellectual attainments. Character building, as we think of it today, hardly entered into the educational scheme at all.

These ideals and procedures we*e so pedagogically insanitary from the modern mental hygiene point-of-view that they stood as obstacles to the development of character when they did not actually contribute to its dete ioiaticn. It was only “the overwhelming tendency of the individual to assume the moral type of the race” under the other educative influences of life experiences that saved society from moral disaster.

The school of a.generation ago and up to comparatively recent times (however much it prated of character formation as its aim), in the uniformity of its curriculum, the formal discipline of its procedure, and its failure to minister to individual needs, fell far short of its possibilities as an effective determinant in the character development of its pupils.

In Philadelphia a generation ago, to take this city as a concrete instance, all pupils wrere put thru the same course from first grade thru tohigrh school graduation, and tho the “doctrine of interest'" was beginning to have its inf uence for good, the work was in general a barren, mechanical, mexoriter grind, without adequate appeal to the child’s varied interests and without regard to the different needs of the sexes nor to individual difference in aptitudes and abilities, - a condition of affairs under which discipline was almost of necessity harsh, self-expression of the pupil was held in abeyance or actively suppressed, under which also cases of “problem children” multiplied and maladjustment to school and consequent distaste for it contributed greatly to startingly large figures of retardation and elimination.

In this connection, a tabulation of enrollment statistics by grades from 1900 to date bears interesting testimony. Examina-

Digitized by L,ooQle
63

tion of this table discloses that in 1900 there were more than 35,000 pupils in the first grades of the city’s schools, while the recent count shows somewhat more than 34,000, - an actual decrease of nearly 1000 pupils or approximately 3%. During the same time the twelfth grade or graduating class of high school increased by nearly 3000 pupils or more than 715%, junior high school grades (7-8-9) increased nearly 300% and senior high school grade (10-11-12) nearly 500%. Comparing the grades (1 to 6) covered by compulsory attendance requirements with the remaining six (7 to 12), the enrollment of the first group increased 35% while the higher grades increased 326%, nearly 10 times as fast. During this period the population of the city increased about 50%.

What is the significance of these extraordinary figures? They mean that the lower grades (in the first decade, at least, of that period) were jammed with large numbers of pupils failing to make normal progress under a regime not properly adapted to their interests, abilities, or needs, this retardation resulting in elimination before the higher grades were reached. The later impressive gains in the higher grades were coincident with improvements in the course, including recognition of differences in interests of boys and girls by the provision of mechanical arts opportunities for boys and home economic courses for girls in the elementary schools, the differentiation of courses with increased flexibility thru electives in the higher schools, and still later provision for better study and care of the adolescent pupil under the favorable conditions offered by the junior high school type of organization.

/long with these changes in the curriculum, which it has been possible to sketch only in these brief and general terms, have gone revision of the subject-matter of the content subjects of the curriculum better to meet the interests and needs of the pupils, the extension of industrial arts work to the lower grades, the transformation of the fact study of physiology and hygiene and of the formal gymnastics of physical education into a program of health education and games. In this program, which may serve as a concrete illustration of the revolutionary change in spirit and procedure in the schools, emphasis is placed upon formation of health habits, promotion of physical effi :ieney, the recreation of body and mind thru games, sports, field days of all sorts, and, in general, upon the joy of healthful, socialized school community activities in which rivalry with one’s self to reach certain attainable (age-aim) standards, and friendly emulation in intra school and inter school contests with others in which sportsmanlike conduct is made fundamental, all play their parts. The cumulative effect of these activities upon the development of interests, ideals of behavior, emotional control, and natural response does more to control conduct than reams of preachment, presenting, as they do. life situations, molding Behavior, and assisting effectively in etablishing the hierarchy or habits constituting character.

Equally important changes have taken place in the content and methods used in the case of other subjects which lend themselves to individual self-expression, such as music, art education, literature,

Digitized by Google
64

dramatics. The work is planned with conscious and constant refer*-ence to the ends these may serve in promoting the worthy use of leisure time; truly patriotic citizenship; prudent, just, and generous eonduct in human relationships.

Flexible types of organization are worked out whereby special rosters may be carried by individuals to serve their peculiar talents or supply better their deficiencies, and the benefits of "grouping by abilities" are being tried out to further adapt the educative process to individual requirements. Even with all these special adaptations to mitigate the recognized evils of mass education, the situation is not completely met. There are those who by reason of physical, mental or environmental handicaps deviate so* far from the normal that separate schools ana classes must be established for their benefit with still further modification of curricula and methods. While these pupils are being accorded the educational opportunity which is their due, the opportunities of the pupils of the regular class, relieved of their hampering presence, are greatly multiplied.

This elaborate provision for individual variations and adaptation of curricula to serve them establishes sanitary conditions of mental hygiene that not only prevent school delinquency but promote development of good character in meeting the life situations of the microcosm of society which the school presents. The joy of successful accomplishment raises the tide of life while the sense of repeated failure correspondingly lowers it. The able pupil, attacking problems that keep him on his toes (without swinging him off his feet), problems which appeal to his interests and in whose solution he finds the keen pleasure of mastery, is building up a moral fibre that in a future time of need of courageous decision may assist in sustaining the “tonic thrill of the muscles of the soul” (as James expresses it) necessary to carry the day; the backward boy properly classified with his equals may also secure the pleasure of success or even of leadership in his group, whereas, in other company, he may develop an inferiority complex as weakening to the character as it is depressing to the spirit.

The Training School at Vineland, which has accomplished so much in the field of special education, has as its motto "Happiness first, all else follows." This has become in effect, if not by conscious avowal, the motivating principle of the modem school. The Shakespearian picture of “the whinning schoolboy, with his satchel, and shining morning face, creeping like snail unwillingly to school" is completely reversed by the boy of today who goes bounding to school to meet his fellows and participate in the activities of the day and, not infrequently, lingers so long at the end of the day over the projects in which he is absorbed, that he has to be shooed out of the building to give the janitor a chance to do his work.

This explains, in large measure, the extraordinary growth of school population in the higher grades referred to above, for, ir. the last analysis, the desire of the child (after compulsory school-age is passed) to continue or discontinue school is the prime factor in the matter. The continuance of the pupils in such droves is not because they are under a soft or easy regime. On the contra^'.

Digitized by v^-ooQle
55

they are more intensively engaged in school work than ever before, ana, inasmuch as their school experiences, in the words of Dewey, "are life rather than preparation for life," it enlists their attention, their earnest endeavor, their desire to progress, and in their many-sided activities is found the nutriment for that character growth which is an essential aim of education.

The growth in school enrollment, especially in the higher and more expensive grades, in a ratio so much greater than the growth of the city population, coupled with the depreciation of the dollar as compared with its pre-war purchasing power, has resulteo in increased financial burdens that have led in some quarters to demands for reductions of expenditures, usually by curtailment of some of the best elements of the modem school program. These demands should be met by frank recognition of the outstanding paradox of educational work that increased efficiency is an element m a beneficient (not vicious) circle whereby gross expenditures are bound to increase. The returns which do not show on the books of boards of education are reaped later by the state in the higher quality of citizenship which its schools have developed. A day’s schooling for a pupil in Philadelphia, with all that that implies, costs less than 40 cents, an amount insufficient to purchase a simple meal for him. In what other field of human enterprise can so much be gotten at so small a price?

The education furnished is indeed worth all and much more than it costs. The expression of its value by Emerson—succinct, brilliant, lofty, incontrovertible—might well be emblazoned upon a banner for the inspiration of the workers in this field: “The greatest enterprise in the world for splendor, for extent is the upbuilding of a man."

WELFARE WORK AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION.*

By Raphael Goldstein, Philadelphia.

To the layman who is not acquainted with the work you are doing and with our welfare work, it would seem rather strange to have a representative of a life insurance company address this Dody of men and women. He could not and would not understand how an insurance man could tell you anything of interest, except to talk you into insuring your lives. And while this was true of the insurance business years ago, so much so that a business man once came out of his private office all excited and told his clerks that an insurance policy just saved his life, and when all the clerks looked up wondering and one of them ventured to ask him just what he

* Address by Mr. Raphael Goldstein, Manager of the Metropolitaa Ufe Insurance Company and Chairman of their Welfare Committee fe Philadelphia, delivered at the Annual Conference of the Physical Education Association held at the Central High School, Philadelphia, March 29, 199*.

Digitized by L^ooQLe
56

meant, bis answer was: "I just signed an application for insurance and it saved me from being talked to death.”1

While it is true that originally the sole purpose of Life Insurance Companies was to write life insurance and accumulate large surpluses, a great change has been brought about within the last 20 years in their attitude to the public. This finally resulted in the mutualization of practically every stock life insurance company and in the apportionment of dividends to policy-holders annually when earned. The greatest innovation, the most important change, took place about 15 years ago when the largest life insurance company, which I am privileged to represent, undertook to lengthen life among its Industrial policy-holders by carrying on organized health work among them. The result was that while the mortality among this group, on account of its general environment and economic conditions, had always been higher than in the general population, a reduction in mortality has been brought about. This, as I will show you later, demonstrates beyond a doubt the value of health education and preventive medicine in the saving of human life.

And because you ladies and gentlemen have charge of the physical education of the boys and girls of high school age, because you have the responsibility of directing the physical development of these boys and girls to better enable them to fight life’s battles, it is very apparent that there is a community of interest between the work you are doing and our welfare work.

That our Company fully realizes and appreciates th9 importance of the school teachers and what they can do in health education is proven by our appropriating $25,000 for 50 scholarships of $500 each to be awanled to elementary school teachers doing most in health education among their pupils during the school year 1923-1924. In order that our motive and purpose may not be misconstrued or misunderstood, we turned over the entire matter to the American Child Health Association and they have charge of the contest thru local committees. Your director of Physical Education, Mr. W. A. Stecher, is Chairman of the committee in this city and you will be interested to know that twenty-three teachers in Philadelphia have entered the contest.

You will better realize the extent of our welfare activities when 1 tell you that our free nursing service covers over 4000 cities, and that since the introduction of the service, our nurses made about 19 mill:on visits, all without any charge whatsoever to our Industrial policy-holders, by this term I mean those who pay their premiums weekly.

In our efforts to educate the people in sanitation, hygiene, and prevention of disease, we distributed over three hundred million pieces of health literature, covering practically every disease. The pamphlets are attractively made up and are written in plain English, easily understood. Not only do our pamphlets tell people how to take care of their health, but they also teach the wive3 what food is cheapest and at the same time, most nutritious.

Digitized by
67

Otir* booklet “The Child” tells the mother how to take care of herself andthte child from the time of its birth, and our booklet “The Heal th jbf' the Worker” tells the father how to guard against dangers iii the1 factory and shop and how to avoid them.

I should also mention our agents who make weekly calls for the collection of 'memiums. Covering as they practically do, every city, town anq-village, they offer the best means of bringing home to the; people the importance of any movement for community betterment. They co-operate with Health Officers and other state and' city officials, also with social and civic agencies in any movement to' improve health conditions. The results of these activities and of the welfare work among our own policyholders were that the mortality improvement among the Industrial policyholders has been considerably greater than in the Registration area of the United States. Measured in terms of human lives, our reduction in mortality since 1911 meant a saving of nearly 53,000 lives, 5333 of them at the age period between 15 and 24, and you will recall what I said before, that these are the same people among whom the mortality before we undertook our health sendee was always higher than among the general population.

There has also been, I am glad to say, a material improvement in the country at large in the last two decades due to improved sanitary and living conditions and to a better understanding by the people of the laws of Hygiene and preventive medicine.

That education along these lines has brought about splendid results can best be seen by the practical elimination of Typhoid Fever, which in 1923 had a mortality rate of only a fraction over 5 per 100,000 population. This is a reduction of 77 1-2% in the last 12 years, and the outlook for its being entirely eliminated in the future is very good. There has been a reduction of mortality among children, ages 1 to 14, of 35% since 1911.

The most marvelous progress, however, has been made in the fight against Tuberculosis, the death rate in the general population of the United States showing a reduction of 50% in 20 years. In 1901 the Registration area showed a death rate of 189.8 per 100,000, the death rate in 1921 dropped to 94.2.

It is rather difficult to realize, what this really means; what this represents in the saving of human lives. It means - that 100,000 fewer persons die each year from Tuberculosis in this country. Think of it, all these human lives saved from one disease alone.

Do we need any further proof of what health education can do? The decline in Typhoid Fever has proven what sanitation can do and the reduction in Tuberculosis mortality has shown what preventive medicine can accomplish.

But with all the progress and improvement, there is much more to be done, especially when we bear in mind the results of the examinations in the army draft in 1917, when 1-3 of the men between ages 21 and 31, the most vigorous period of life, were rejected as being unfit, and that of all those examined between the ages 18 to 45 more than 50% were in need of medical care of some kind.

Digitized by
58

I believe you will agree with me that most of them never suspected that there was anything the matter with them, and very few realized the importance of doing something to correct their defects.

Take our own experience. In the Ordinary Department, where we issue policies from $1000 to a quarter of a million on one life, and where the medical examination is'miore rigid than for smaller amounts, a re-examination later of 17;000 policy-holders by the Life Extension Institute revealed a surprising .number of defects and impairments. In fact 2C% had-some form or other of heart trouble, these very same people who "not many years before had passed a thorough medical examination’ and were found to be in perfect health. But here is the most important point, these men having been advised by the Life Extension Bureau what to do applied the necessary remedies with the' result that the death rate among them was 28% lower than among the other insured in the same class who did not avail themselves of the periodic free health examinations which we offer.

If this holds true of the policy-holders of the more well-to-do class where a large percentage consists of business men and professional people whose living conditions are favorable, what must the situation be among the great mass of the working people of this country, whose economic condition deprives them of the chance to take care of their health until they are compelled to, and often at times when it is too late?

The civic, social and welfare workers are doing what they can to help these people. The Health Departments are doing their share to enforce health laws. The state and city authorities are introducing sanitary improvements as rapidly as possible, being limited only by the resources of their municipalities.

The greatest work, however, the building up of a real foundation can, to my mind, be done best thru the schools. And the most effective results, I think, can be obtained among the boys and girls of the High Schools.

Of course, health education should be, and to a certain extent is, a part of the curriculum of the elementary schools, but the children in these schools are mostly too young to realize the importance of the subject; and also fail to retain many of the things they learn.

Then again, the young men and women of the University and College age are too serious and become totally absorbed in the main subject for which they are preparing. With the exception of a few who are taking part in the athletic activities, they lose sight of the importance and need of systematic health education and knowledge.

The boys and girls of the high schools, on the other hand, are more responsive and more receptive. They should, therefore, be given instruction in personal hygiene, in the prevention of disease, m the importance of developing the body as well as the mind; also in the need of sanitary improvements in their respective communities.

They should know the value of periodic medical examination for the purpose of correcting defects and impairments, which if

Digitized by

Google
59

taken in time, will prevent more serious troubles. This is so well brought out in one of our health pamphlets: A wise engineer does not drive his machinery constantly without period surveys to detect and guard against trouble, and a man will not drive his automobile even one season without assuring himself that the brakes were holding, and that cylinders and bearings were working. He prefers repair expenses to the risk of total loss. And yet, in an engine, the worn-out parts can be replaced, but no amount of time and money can replace the worn-out parts of the human mechanism.

Your pupils should know the value of vaccination against smallpox and inoculation against diphtheria. They should be taught that instruction in physical exercise alone is not sufficient, but that they must also learn the importance of bodily care, cleanliness, sanitary living, clean thinking, control of the senses and of the passions. They should be taught that just as you cannot violate the law of the land without punishment, you cannot violate the laws of nature without suffering nature’s penalty.

You, as their teachers, have a great responsibility in the development of the boys and girls of today who will be the men and women of tomorrow. This great country of ours will grow, progress and develop to the extent that its men and women grow and develop. I am sure that so long as we continue the system of free education to all, so long as we can enlist in our schools the services of loyal and devoted men and women teachers, our country’s future is safe.

BACKYARD BATTLEFIELDS.*

Backyard Battlefields is the title of an article by Edward M. Barrows in the October Survey (mid-monthly) - of interest to all community and neighborhood workers. In it Mr. Barrows emphasizes the need for making neighborhood conflicts function for the common good. The article - a very human document based on long experience in neighborhood work - reflects the statesmanship which the worker must have who would deal successfully with individuals and groups in their varied relationships in a neighborhood.

A few extracts from the article follow:

“No one ever organizes a neighborhood. It has done that by itself long before the would-be organizer appears. His function is to understand that organization and make it work to his own ends— if he can. When he tries to do so, he promply encounters the factional spirit — the real basis of the neighborhood’s self-organized life.

“Neighborhoods are always storm centers of factions and frictions, hatreds and loves, treasons, stratagems and spoils. People do not need to be taught to work together. They know how. They do need leadership in learning to use this inborn social instinct to some purpose, for the factional spirit undirected works in its own contentious way. Half. an hour’s clothesline gossip can spoil

* Bulletin No. 976 Playground and Recreation Aasn.

Digitized by LjOOQle
60

more onganiiation plane1 than. a dozen national conferences can devise in a year. The factional spirit works on people's emotions, while the reformers are waiting time trying to reach their common-sense. polks live with friends and enemies, not ideas; their neighborhood standing depends, on whom they know, not what they think. The worker who sees beneath the surface of these controversies finds that they reveal many hidden currents of neighboorhood life— currents W hic h will undermine his own plans if he does not take them into account.	1

“The first thing a neighborhood worker must learn is that most people.are either leaders or followers in their everyday social relations. Once he accepts that fact and learns deliberately to use it, he has a key to m any doors of neighborhood life.

“Conflict can do what suppression never does. “Fight it out!” is a tetter slogan than “Don’t quarrel.” The danger lies not in the battle, ttit in leaving the battle half finished, with nothing but destruction to show for it. Thru its conflicts a neighboorhood finds its strength; also its greatest needs.

“There are certain churches, certain families, certain clubs, that are always factional rallying points. The initiative of any of these groups automatically arcuses opposition from others who nave traditionally fought them; right or wrong has little to do with the matte”.

“While all neighboorhood cliques work definitely thru certain leaders, there will always be found leaders who are powerful, tho they represent nothing but themselves, and generally use their power for personal ends. These people must often be influenced personally, the method depending, of course, upon the pe-sonality of the organiser. Yet there are some exaggerated egos which cannot bee hanged, and these ave gene ally hostile to any new power in a neighborhood. It is the only way they know of insisting on their own importance in this changing world.

“It is seldom that the real nature of a neighborhood faction is apparent. Usually it is concealed behind, some temporary issue over which the factions take sides. This fact is perpetually misleading professional organi;ers, who believe that by glossing over a passing contention they have brought about harmony. A mere difference of opinion rarely affects the real neighborhood line-up.

“The neighborhood worker whose aims are constructive must deal with the neighborhood line-up in its most dangerous aspects. To ignore it is to be no longer a leader but, in the eyes of the neighborhood, a timid onlooker. Yet the perils of an unconsidered partisanship are great; and still worse is an insincere partisanship lor policy’s sake, for this is sure to be detected.

“The solution lies in a frank identification of oneself writh the neighborhood, standing squarely and boldly for one’s point of view. Roughly speaking, the neighboorhood worker must be a faction in himself, joining interest or taking issue as his own vision dictates. He must never forget his position as the administrator of the neighborhood’s common interests, nor permit his sympathies to be exploited to any factional purpose. This requires an even more delicate

Digitized by UjOOQle
61

balance than that of a mayor, or a governor or a President of the United States who is, or should be, in a similar predicament mu h of the time. Yet no other course is possible if one is to be a really constructive power.

“You cannot organize factions out of a community. When an organizer claims to nave done so it is a fair indication that he has never even discovered the line-up of his own neighborhood. But the factional spirit can be made to work for the good of the community; men and women can be helped in learning how to work thru their innate loyalties toward something bigger than faction. This takes time, tact and endless study of the complex cross-currents of neighborhhod life. But there is no other way.”

PHYSICAL AND MENTAL DEVELOPMENT.

Thomas Neill, Cleveland, O.

Subject

A study in measuring the ability of students in relation to various forms of instruction in physical education. I have limited this work to an attempt to measure the accuracy and quickness of mental reactions. In other words, to measure the development of a student’s mental ability to concentrate and respond accurately to complex dir actions.

Introduction

Biologists tell us that certain brain areas are developed only thru motor activities. In a recent publication, “The relation of motor activities to health and education,” by the late Doctor F. E. Leonard, Professor of Hygiene and Physical Education at Oberlin College. Obariin, Ohio, it is stated that:

“Physical activities are necessary for the fullest mental development of the individual.”

“The development of physical poise results in a corresponding development of mental poise.

"Play, games, and athletic sports, altho their value can hardly be exaggerated, are no more able to take the place of formal gymnastics than are popular magazines, pictures, snows, and the public library, able to serve as a substitute for the orderly discipline of the school and college.’■J'"

Perhaps it is safe in assuming that ability to concentrate on a given material, and accuracy of mental and physical response to given stimuli are the outstanding featu-es of mental and physical poise. I have attempted to measu-e this development in relation to various types of instruction in physical education.

(This paper is a res ;It of a stud/ in the correlation of mental and phy-sical development at Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio. The report was presented before the Ohio Educational Conference, and before the Cleveland Educational Research Club.)

Digitized by kjOOQle
62

Material

The material used in measuring is the direction part of the Alpha Army Intelligence Test and the three hardest problems of the direction part of the Myers’ Mental Measure.

To make the nature of the test clear, I will give the directions for several of the problems. In taking the test, “Attention” means “Pencils UP!”. No marks are made until the word “Go!” is given. At the word “Halt!”, you cease marking and raise your pencils.

PROBLEM I.

Material: A row of five circles.

Directions: Look at the circles of one. When I say “Go,” but not before, make a cross in the first circle, and a number one in the third circle. “Go!” (Allow not over 5 seconds.)

PROBLEM VIII.

Material: Three circles and the three words, Military, Gun, Camp.

Directions: Notice the three circles and the three words. When I say “Go!”, make in the first circle the first letter of the first word; in the second circle, the first letter of the second word; and in the third circle, the last letter of the third word. "Go!” (Allow not over 10 seconds.)

PROBLEM X.

Material: A narrow rectangle divided into five unequal parts.

Directions: Look at ten. Notice that the drawing is divided into five parts. When I say “Go!”, put a 2 or a 3 in each of the two largest parts, and any number between 4 and 7 in the part next in size to the smallest part. “Go!'' (Allow not over 15 seconds.)

PROBLEM XV.

Material: A row of six circles.

Directions: Look at 15. Notice the row of circles. When I say “Go!” draw a line from the first circle to the last circle that shall pass below the second and fourth circles, and above the third and fifth circles. Make a cross in the first circle, a cross above the fourth circle, and anything but a cross in the last circle. “Go!” (Allow not over 20 seconds.)

From the nature of this test, it is plainly evident that the mental ability to concentrate and to respond accurately to given stimuli a~e necessary for the correct solution of the problem.

In a sense the directions for this test are similar to the directions necessary in formal gymnastics. However, in this test, the directions are longer and more complicated, and do not require a corresponding physical coordination. Also, it may be safe in assuming that in athletic training, concentration to direction is almost entirely a matter of physical poise, or ability to control one’s body. Granting this to be the case, an increase in the student's mental ability to concentrate and respond correctly to given stimuli due to various forms of instruction in physical education, would seem to prove definitely that such mental ability was developed thru the acquiring of physical poise, or the ability to control one’s body.

Digitized by Google
63

Groups

This test was given to four groups of men. The first test was given to all four groups at the beginning of the first semester. The second test was given the last week of the first semester. The four groups are as follows:

first Group: One hundred and sixteen (116) Adelbert Freshmen who took the regular course in physical education thruout the semester. This course consisted of marching tactics, calisthenics, apparatus work, and organized leagues of teams participating in indoor baseball, volley ball, and basketball.

Second Group: Twenty-one (21) Adelbert Freshmen who had no previous athletic experience and were given instructions and competition in football, basketball, wrestling, and boxing thruout the semester. These men were given no fonnal gymnasium work.

Third Group: Nineteen (19) Adelbert Freshmen, who had high school athletic experience, and were given the same course as group two. These men made up the regular freshman football squad.

(The above groups took their work in physical education under the man who gave the tests.)

Fourth Group: Forty-eight (48) Pharmacy School freshmen who had no organized form of physical educaiton activities.

Method of Scoring

The results of the first test were checked to determine the number of times each problem was missed. The number of points scored by each problem is in proportion to the number of times said problem was missed on the first test. Thus the number of points scored for various problems varied from 1 to 22. This gave a possible score of 134 points for the entire test.

I believe that this method of scoring is more accurate than scoring the same number of points for each problem, irrespective of the difficulty of solution of said problem.

Table of First And Second Test Averagesl

Assuming that this test is an accurate measurement, cf the individual’s ability to concentrate and to respond accurately to-given stiiruli, training which results in an increase in this ability of the individual is a valuable asset. A valuable asset, for it seems to me, that the majority of us are required to concentrate and respond accurately to directions from others the greater part of our lives.

High S. 1st Test 2nd Test Increase in Average Average Average Po'nts Per Cent.

Regular course -116 85.72 Athletic Instruction No H. S. Exper-		43.78	68.92	25.14	57.4
lence 21 	  Athletic Instruction With H. S. Ex-		83.	41.	61.33	20.33	49.5
perience 19 	  No Ph. Ed. Activi-	.84.31	48.68	54.95	6.26	13
ties 48 		.88.51	46.9	50.6  Digitized by	3.7  Google	7.9
64

Group one: The men who took the regular course in physical education, show an increase of 57.4% as compared to an increase of 49.5% for group two, 13% for group three, and 7,9% for group four.

Let us give our attention to a comparison of the results of group one and two. Let us assume that tne difference ip percent of increase is due to two causes: 1st, that the directions tor formal gymnasium work require a greater mental concentration than for athletic instruction: 2nd, that the variety cf physical coordination possible in formal gymnastics far outnumber those possible in athletic training.

Comparing groups two and three: Both took the same work thruout the semester. Group two were men of no high school athletic experience, while group three were men with high school athletic experience. Let us assume that the great difference in percent of increase is due to two reasons: 1st, men with no previous athletic experience show greater enthusiasm and keenness for athletic instruction than men who were trained high school athletes: second, that the training given to men of group three due to their high school training, had very little effect on their mental reaction. You will notice that on the first test group three scored the highest averages. This is not warranted by their high school scholastic averages. I believe this is due to the development of mental and physical poise thru high school athletic training. .Assuming such to be the case, the average increase for group three must be attributed to familiartiy with their instructor, the material used, and other campus influence.

Group four showed an increase of 7.9%. These men have no organized form of physical education activities, and met the man who gave the test only at the times the tests were given. However, this group ranked second highest on the first test, probably due to the facts that the first test was given three weeks after the beginning of the semester, and that they rank first in high school scholastic averages.

General Conclusions

Let us assume; 1st, that the groups to which the tests were given are representative college groups; 2nd, that this test is an accurate measurement of a student’s mental ability to concentrate and respond accurately to given stimuli; 3rd, that the percentage of increase for group two, men taking the course in athletic training and who had no previous athletic experience, is due almost entirely to development of ability to control of one’s body; 4th. that, the increase for group one, men taking the regular course in physical education, is due in a slightly lesser degree to the same reason. Granting these assumptions, the results proved definitely then that development of one's ability to control his body is directly responsible for an increase in his mental ability to concentrate and respond accurately to given stimuli.

Is it worth while for Directors of Physical Education to be thinking of means of measuring the mental and moral development we claim due to Physical Education? Doe3 such mental develop-

Digitized by LjOOQle
65

ment, as shown by this report, carry over into scholastic subjects? Prom the nature of our work, are we not in a position to determine accurately the results of the formation of wrong associations to given directions? In other words, to check up the reoccurance of the same wrong response to a given direction by the same individual? Secondary Findings

Table No. 1—Table showing correlation of high school averages and average points scored on the first test.

No.	Grade	Test	Average

22	Above G +	50. 1

29	G +	47.69

54	G	46.6

26	G-	40.5

25	F & below	33.5

Table No. 2—Table showing correlation of first semester collegiate averages at Adelbert and second test averages.

No.	Grade	Test	Average

15	G t & Above	86.4

16	G	69.

14	G -	73.4

33	Fx	66.

25	F	67.1

27	F -	62.1

27	Below F-	55.8

Table No. 3—Table showing point and percentage increase of groups determined by their average scholastic standing for the past semester.

Increase

No. Grade	1st Test	2nd Test Aver.		Aver.
	Aver.	Aver.	Pts.	Per Cent.
46 G & above	46.7	71.5	24.8	53.
58 F	45.2	67.4	22.2	49.1
52 Below F	38.8	58.1	19.3	57.1
Conclusions for the last table, or No. 3.				

This table would indicate that the percent of increase is practically the same irrespective of whether the student is among the upper, middle, or lower third in scholastic rating. The conclusion is, that a course in physical education enables a student to develop his mental ability to concentrate and respond accurately to given stimuli, regardless of his ability in other subjects.

SCHOOLHOUSE STANDARDIZATION.

Resume of an Address by Frank Irving Cooper, Boston.

At the June meeting of the National Education Association, Section in School Hygiene, Frank Irving Cooper, the Boston architect, Chairman of the Committee on Schoolhouse Standardization and Planning, discussed some of the Problems in hygiene involved in schoolhouse construction. It was a story of unscientific, un-

Digitized by CjOOQle
66

coordinated work, of school buildings planned without much knowledge of principles, and developed in each section without much reference to the experience of other sections.

Mr. Cooper spoke of the important relationships of the school building to the health of the pupil. He called attention to the necessity of clean, airy, well lighted structures, which will create an atmosphere of healthfulness and cheer, which must influence every thought and word of the child in this, the formative period of his life.

An illustration of some of the conditions that exist, Mr. Cooper

Ke the figures secured by his committee with reference to the ting of existing school rooms. Great irregularities have been found in this vital feature, rooms presenting intense lighting near the windows and comparative darkness back in the room. Room A has on a rainy day an illumination of 17.5 foot candles near the window and 1.2, at a remote desk which is in use. A minimum standard has been adopted by illuminating engineers for lighting of such rooms, namely 6-foot candles, and it is evident that this room falls within the danger limit. Room E on a clear day has 10-foot candles near the window and 2.3 at a distant desk, while still another room proved to have only half a candle at the remote desk on a rainy day, Such conditions are ruinous to the child’s eyesight, yet they have heretofore passed unchallenged if not unnoticed.

A very striking discrepancy was pointed out by Mr. Cooper in the lack of uniformity in ventilation methods. Here there is the relief that skilled men are planning, yet the various states are wide apart in their legal requirements and farther apart in the actual provision made. It is true that the states that have paid attention to the matter at all have adopted practically the same requirement for the number of cubic feet of air furnished, but no consideration has been paid to the efficiency of different systems of ventilation, and apparently little to ensure construction up to the standard. Massachusetts sets the pace, and the duct area—which may be taken for a general measure of the amount of ventilation—is from 3 to 6 percent of the total floor area. In discussing this matter Mr. Cooper complimented the Massachusetts building inspectors, and commented on the low duct areas in most states which must fail to provide for the children the life-giving, fresh air that they are entitled to in their many hours at school.

“In no department of the school building," said Mr. Cooper, in touching upon another general lack of hygienic consideration in school buildings, "is there less uniformity than in that pertaining to sanitation. Most large cities have regulations, but the larger political divisions, the states, have not realized the terrible significance of the lack of direct control over adequate arrangements for the privacy of the school children.” Thee are but five states that have any regulations with reference to the number of toilets for a school building, and only one that considers the space require-

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
67

ments. The number of toilets is fairly constant in the states that have any regulation, altho Wisconsin requires one-fifth less toilets for the boys than do the other states. Massachusetts alone has gone into the matter scientifically, and suited its regulations to the mathematics of the matter.

Mr. Cooper spoke further concerning the surprising lack of rooms providing modem hygienic conditions. In 1212 of the school buildings tabulated by his committee, 16 have no provision for special rooms for women teachers, emergency rooms, rooms for physicians; 40 buildings have a room for the teachers, but lack the other requirments, ana only 18 school buildings have a room for the school physician.

In closing Mr. Cooper emphasized the need that exists for a new specialist in the form of a consulting school architect, who could prove to be a clearing house of information concerning school buildings, and could supplement the skill of the local architect with the technical skill of an expert on the requirements of school construction.

Reprinted from American School Hygiene Review.

EPARTMENT OF EDUCATIONAL HYGIEN

LAWRENCE AUGUSTUS AVERILL

A study to determine the degree to which physicians and nutrition workers can safely trust the weight tables ordinarily used in selecting undernourished children, recently completed by Louis I. Dublin, Statistician of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and John C. Gebhart, director of the department of social welfare of the New York Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor, has just been published in pamphlet form*by the latter organization from its office at 105 East 22nd Street, New York. Eight charts illustrate the salient features of the text.

The movement for improving the nutrition of children has been extensively developed during recent years on the assumption that the weight of the child was a very safe guide by which the nutrition worker could in the first instance single out those who needed attention. Many physicians and nutrition workers have, however, found difficulties and discrepancies from time to time which tended to indicate that all was not well with the method.

The material at the disposal of Messrs. Dublin and Gebhart consisted of the examination records of 1878 boys and 2169 girls under the care of the Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor in its health work among the Italians in the Mulberry district of New York City. The Association was careful to place

Digitized by LjOOQle
68

this work under the direction of a prominent pediatrician, Dr. L. C. Schroeder, who examined the apparently well children coming under the observation of the health center. The doctor's diagnosis of defective nutrition was based on the picture of the whole child and not on weight and height alone. Such items as the state of musculature, the lustre of the eyes, the color and bearing of the children, their posture, and the relative amount of subcutaneous fat were all taken into account in assessing the child’s nutrition. In addition, the physical measurements of height and weight were given careful consideration in relation to the child’s age.

It was found that 77.2 per cent of the boys ana 67.1 per cent of the girls who were actually undernourished, would have been missed entirely, if reliance had been placed solely on the standard weight tables with the 7 per cent limit of underweight. The table using the ten per cent limit would have caused to be overlooked 89.8 per cent of the undernourished boys and 81.8 per cent of the undernourished girls.

In the case of well-nourished children, the tables operated in closer agreement with actual conditions, as was shown by the fact that 97.6 per cent of all the boys and 94.5 per cent of all the girls who were found by the doctor’s examination to be well nourished, would also have been so selected by the standard weight tables.

The worst results in the operation of the standard weight tables were apparent among the youngest children. Under age 6, only the smallest number of undernourished boys would have been selected by the weight tables. At age 3, for instance, as few as 7 per cent of the total number of children found by the physician actually to be undernourished, would have been selected under the 7 per cent table, and at age 5, less than 2 per cent by the 20 per cent limit table. The figures for the girls were somewhat better, although they, too, were quite low. The survey continues:

“The trouble with the use of tne standard weight tables in finding children in neea of nutritional care is not that those singled out are badly chosen but rather that not enough of them who are truly malnourished are found by this method. Underweight is a sharp enough index of malnutrition, but it does not cut off a big enough segment of those who should be included.’’

"Such physical signs, ’ the survey concludes, “as poor color, indifference to studies, lack of appetite, readiness to fatigue; all of these are good indications of the possibility of malnutrition. These children may well be and often are of good weight, as we have found, but it is they who make up the great bulk of the cases which, on careful examination, show defects of nutrition. By combining all of these methods, it is possible that the majority of the cases requiring care will be selectea.’’

Parents and teachers are beginning to realize the importance of attending to health needs of children before they are old enough to go to school. They are learning that if the foundations of physical and mental health are laid during the pre-school period, much of the remedial work that now constitutes the major part of school health work in many localities will be unnecessary, says the United

Digitized by v^.ooQle
69

States Bureau of Education, announcing a reading course for parents, entitled “Pathways to Health.” This course suggests about 40 recent books covering a few of the fundamentals of child health in a form easily understood. Among the topics treated are: How to judge the child’s physical condition, the school lunch, the pre-school child, sex and health, and community responsibility. Applications for this course should be addressed to the United States Bureau of Education, Washington, D. C.

Public-school health authorities supervise the health of boys and girls who work in the mills of New Bedford, Mass., and attend a continuation school one-half day a week, according to a statement issued by the Bureau of Education. These children receive health instruction at the continuation school and are weighed once a month. A group of these children were compared with an elementary-school group of similar age and educational qualifications, and it was found that as a rule the working child was less likely to be underweight than the school child. About 35 per cent of the school children were underweight and about 26 per cent of the working children. From this study, Dr. Hugh Grant Rowell, lecturer in physical education at Teachers College, Columbia University, concludes that the average child of 14 or 15 may work at a carefully selected job without term, if the examining physicians perform their duties properly and the public health authonties cooperate with the continuation school in studying the children’s physical condition and physical possibilities.

To enable every school child in Virginia to be weighed regularly, the State department of education, the State department of health, and the Virginia Tuberculosis Association are making efforts to have scales placed in every school in the State. The Cooperative Education Association of Virginia has provided many scales as a step in meeting this need.

To teachers of elementary schools the American Child Health Association is offering 50 scholarships for study during the school year 1924-25. Fifty teachers will receive $500 each for study of health education problems.

This set of scholarships, the second of its sort issued by the association, has a threefold purpose: To create an interest in health education, to raise the health standards of every child and every family in the United States, and to find and tram teacher leaders. Throughout the country there are teachers working over health education problems who need stimulation and encouragement.

Excellence in health education will determine the scholarship awards. The work of each teacher is to be measured through her plans, her children’s work, and her children’s health. As health education in its ideal form must cany over into everyday life the proper health habits, this last measuring rod for each contestant is the most important. All the posters and plays and exercise books done by the boys and girls themselves, all the methods and devices employed by the teacher, will be considered.

A number of conditions control the awards. In the first place the offer is made to teachers in cities having a population of 50,000

Digitized by UjOOQle
70

or more. Exception is made of States having no cities of such population. A satisfactory number of applicants in each city must agree to form a local competing group. Only teachers of the first nine grades are eligible for scholarship, which will be awarded on the basis of several .consecutive months’ work, ending not later than May 15,1924. Scholarships may be used for summer school courses at accredited teacher-training centers in the summer of 1924 or for work in accredited colleges, universities, and normal schools during the school year 1924-25.

A local committee on awards will choose from the local group of competing teachers the three contestants who in the opinion of the committee have done the best work. These three names will be submitted to the committee on awards of the American Child Health Association as a basis for final choice. In each of the thirty or more competing cities contest work has already begun and scholarship applicants are enthusiastically drawing up their best plans.

In an extremely interesting article in the School Review for December, 1923, Mata Roman, of the University High School, University of Chicago, describes some of the work done by a nutrition class in that school. The class comprised 20 junior and senior girls, each one of whom carried on some approved project in nutrition. One child kept an accurate and detailed account of all the expenditures for food in her home over a period of two months, analyzing and comparing them with standards and studying them with reference to the protein, mineral and vitamin needs of her particular family. She concluded that her parents were eating too much meat, not enough cereals, and just about the proper amounts of dairy products, fruit and vegetables. Another student made a survey of the health habits of her 4-year-old sister, weighing her daily and keeping accurate records of the food she ate, the time she slept, and the exercise she took. Two considerably over-weight pupils set to work determining the caloric values of certain foods, with a view of controlling their own diets in order to bring about a gradual and harmless reduction in their weights. Two other ambitious students actually conducted a nutrition experiment on two young rats of the same age and size, feeding one of them on crackers and water and the other on crackers and milk, and keeping a chart of their respective growth and health symptoms over the period of the investigation-26 days. At the conclusion of the feeding experiment, they chloroformed the rats and removed their skeletons, finding that the one fed on crackers and water was decidedly rachitic, showed lack of growth and calcification, and had an inferior muscular equipment. Papers summarizing the findings were presented. Two students induced polyneuritis in a pair of pigeons by feeding them polished rice and water, and then brought about their speedy recovery by feeding them whole grain and yeast, keeping careful records and writing up their results. Five girls made a survey of the lunches eaten by tne girls in the lunchroom and the candy bought by them during a single day, establishing the food values carefully and tabulating their results graphically.

Digitized by
71

Abou Ben Adhem! May Mata Roman’s tribe increase! Teaching like this may even yet salvage high school instruction generally, and keep the study of nygiene in particular from the rocks.

According to official statements made to the Eyesight Conservation Council by state departments of education and health, only 4,-227,702 school children out of the total enrollment of 24,000,000 received eye sight tests in 1923. Ths day is apparently not yet when every child can start life with an equal opportunity, so far at least as visual acuity is concerned. Simple tests reveal the fact that 25% of the school children in the United States have manifest defects of vision and symptoms of eyestrain, the reported percentages varying all the way from 3.5% to 58%. An index of the worthlessness of many of the tests as given is indicated by the fact that a city in New Jersey reported only 3.5% of 42,586 school children with corrected and uncorrected vision defects, while a city in New York reported 40% of 17,000 school children with such corrected and uncorrected defects. These discrepancies indicate the need for some uniform and standard method for testing eyesight by school authorities if the results attained are to be of any striking significance, and if statistics derived are to be of any dependability.

The Education Section of the National Safety Council has just issued a manual on safety education. Comprising some 100 pages, the little book is designed as an introduction to safety education, which would seem to be a timely topic for our schools. With 20,000 children of school age being killed by accident each year, with an annual automobile death toll of 15,000 people, and with a fire loss measured in 14,000 lives and $300,000,000 worth of property, the school must come to the rescue and organize a definite accident

Erevention course that will help to check this frightful wastage of uman life and property. Admitting that safety is not a subject for separate class work, the authors of this manual endeavor to enumerate and exemplify certain general principles which may be applied to the regular class work of the elementary and intermediate school. Typical games illustrating proper safety first habits, dramatizations, poster work, language exercises, etc., are suggested as helps to the teacher. Hints are given for correlating the work in history, civics and physical training with safety topics. The organization of school safety departments, like the Safety Patrols of the Elizabeth (N. J.) public schools, is recommended, and suggested topics for safety lessons are presented. The latter portion of the manual is devoted to classified safety-first procedures and sensible directions looking toward the avoidance of accidents in all common situations of childhood. Teachers will find the manual very valuable indeed. It may be procured from the National Safety Council, Chicago, 111., at a cost of thirty cents.

The National Health Council has launched a campaign for periodic health examinations. Coincident with this, the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company has produced an excellent motion picture

Digitized by Google
72

entitled “Working for Dear Life,” which they are prepared to send free, except for transportation charges, to health associations and other organizations desiring it.

HEALTH DEMONSTRATIONS.

Some city or county in one of eleven far western states is to be awarded the fourth in the series of five-year child health demonstrations conducted by the Child Health Demonstration Committee, associated with the American Child Health Association for the supervision of the Commonwealth Fund Program.

The city or county must be between 20,000 and 75,000 population and be located in one of the following states: Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah, Washington or Wyoming.

The city or county winning the award will be given assistance by the Child Health Demonstration Committee in safe guarding the life and health of its mothers and children. The community in the Pacific Coast or Rocky Mountain states to be awarded this five year demonstration will take a conspicuous place in the national child health program now underway.

This announcement was made in the Child Health Magazine today by Barry C. Smith, general director of the Commonwealth Fund and chairman of the Child Health Demonstration Committee.

The Committee is already conducting three demonstrations: one at Fargo, N. D. in the middle west, another in Rutherford County, Tennessee, in the rural areas of the South, and the third in Athens, Georgia, designed to meet typical urban problems in the South.

The Committee trusts that the establishment of a demonstration in a city or county of the Far West will aid in the development of a health plan for the children of that community in a similar way. The proposed demonstration, it is hoped, may be of indirect help to those promoting the cause of child health in that entire area.

Any city or county in these states with a population between 20,000 and 75,000 will be eligible for consideration. The selection of the center will be based upon a careful review of the whole health situation and the needs of the community. But the paramount consideration in making the choice will be the sincerity of the community’s desire to develop a complete and rounded child health plan for the community as a whole.

The readiness shown by citizens and public officials to assume early and increasing responsibility, financial and otherwise, for the demonstration, will De one of the tangible evidences of the probable success of the undertaking.

The demonstration will be worked out with the utmost care. It will include all matters related to child health. The proper safeguards for. both mother and child before the infant is bom, at childbirth, and afterwards, and follow-up care to bring the new citizen

Digitized by v^-ooQle
73

safely through his most dangerous age, will be one part of the program. The neglected period between babyhood and school age will be another. Stress will be laid upon teaching school children the necessity of being healthy in order to enjoy tneir games as well as to advance in their education. The development of health habits and the correction of physical defects will also be considered essentials. The community’s responsibility for providing a safe supply of milk, wholesome living conditions, playgrounds and other necessities for the growth of its children are other factors which will be emphasized in the community program to build up the health of its children.

The Child Health Demonstration Committee, believing that the community itself must play a leading part in the demonstration, will direct its own efforts toward assisting rather than dictating. The physicians in the community will be looked to for guidance in the matters of health supervision and persons needing medical treatment will be referred to them. Similarly, to the teachers in the public schools and the parents will fall the real task of educating the children in health ideals and habits. Cooperation of public officials, health workers and citizens will be essential for the success of this community venture in the building of physically sound citizens. The development of initiative and self-reliance on the part of the children themselves will be a vital item.

The Child Health Demonstration Committee is a joint Committee of the Commonwealth Fund, whose liberal grant makes possible this program, and of the American Child Health Association.—Address 370-7th Ave., New York City.

*------------------------------------------------+

G YMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUN D

*------------------------------------------------

WATER PUSH BALL.

By B. E. Wiggins, Columbus, O.

A brief.history: This game was originated and formed a part of the aquatic program at Camp Kewaukee, Weld, Maine in the summer of 1922. It is now a part of the Columbus (Ohio) interscholastic swimming program conducted by the Physical Education Department of the public schools each year.

The game may be played in an indoor or outdoor tank or, in open water. In the latter case, the end boundary lines should be formed by rafts or large moored craft, and the side lines by wood or cork “float lines,” or, boats in fixed positions.

Ball: The ball shall be a regulation cage-ball or its equivalent, and fully inflated. No substance other than a water proofing material shall be applied to its surface.

Digitized by CjOOQle
74

Players: Six players shall constitute a team, namely, center forward, right and left forwards, right and left guards and one goal keeper, respectively. The center forward should be the speediest swimmer on the team.

Time of game: There shall be two five (5) minute halves and a rest period between halves of ten minutes. In the case of junior and less expert swimmers, it is advisable to reduce the time of halves to three minutes each.	out:	(1)	When the ball is

Eut in the center after goal is made; (2) when the ball is out of ounds (the defined ends and sides of the playing area); (3) when a player is exhausted, or the replacement of any player is made;

(4)	when there is a stoppage of the game due to misinterpretation of the rules; (5) when the ball is placed on the 10 ft. line after a penalty. In no case shall time be taken out for a substitution exceeding one (1) minute in each half.

Ball out of bounds: When the ball leaves the area of play at the sides, one player from each team shall start its progress; (2) when the ball leaves the area of play at the end boundaries, except in the case of a fair goal, it shall be placed in the water ten (10) feet from the goal line and one player on each team shall start its progress. Note: The referee or an inspector replaces the ball in fair territory in all instances.

A fair goal: When the ball is pressed against the end boundaries, the limits of which shall be the entire length of said boundaries. A fair goal shall count two (2) points, whether scored by the offensive or defensive side (the latter by error), and shall be scored for the team whose goal it is. Note: Own goal in all cases means the one being striven for.

Fouls and penalties:	(1)	Kicking,	or	striking	the	ball with

the closed fist—Penalty. The ball shall be placed in the possession of the opposing side ten feet from the goal line. (2) Tackling or forcing under the water any player who is not touching the ball— Penalty, one point shall be awarded to the team so fouled. (3) Throwing the ball (it must be pushed while on the surface)— Penalty, the ball shall be placed on the ten foot line in the possession of the side fouled. (4) Fouls committed within the 10 foot and goal lines—Penalty, one point shall be awarded the team so fouled. Unnecessary roughness shall be penalized by ejection from the game of the offending player or players; or, an award of two points to the team fouled. The goal keeper only shall be privileged to cling to any supporting object (end boundaries) during the game.

The Referee shall be the sole judge of all infractions of the rules, and shall be in supreme authority during the progress of the game.

At the beginning of the game, after each goal is made and at the start of the second half, the players of each team shall start from their respective ends of the playing area. If the score is a tie at the end of the regular playing time, extra periods of one minute shall be played until the tie is broken. The Referee shall put the ball in play in the center at the beginning of each half, and after each fair goal is scored.

Digitized by LjOOQle
75

Officials: There shall be one referee; two inspectors; one or more timekeepers; and one scorer. The inspectors shall assist the referee but have no authority to render any final decisions. The official timer’s whistle or gun shall determine the actual playing time of all games.

CIRCUIT GYMNASTIC FESTIVAL FORT WAYNE, IND., JUNE 12 to 15, 1924.

Arranged by Henry Meyer, Fort Wayne, Ind.

Mass Drill for the Women’s Classes.

Reed Exercises.

The exercises will be performed in circle formation, from 12 to 24 ladies will be in one circle. Each society will form one or more circles according to the number of participants. Smaller groups will be combined into one circle.

The participants will line up in couples for the mass drill. They will march to the circle and move, in the circle in clockwise direction.

The reeds will be carried in starting position, arms bent, hands at width and height of shoulders. All exercises will begin from the starting position. The reeds should be decorated with a red paper rose on each side of the reed, the same to be about 24 inches from each end. Each society must bring its own reeds.

Music, "Berlin Echoes." By Paul Lincke.

Introduction 4 measures or 8 counts. The couples swing inward during introduction, forming a angle circle, arms straightened sideward. All exercises begin with the left foot.

Exercise One—20 Measures.

a.	With a slight turn left, skip forward 16 counts, arms sideward—1-16!

b.	Face inward, march forward four steps, and four steps on place, straightening arms gradually fore upward—17-24! Four steps backward, lowering arms sideward, and four steps on place with returning arms to starting position—25-32!

c.	Step left sideward, straighten arms sideward—33-34! Cross step right backward inward, bend both knees lower trunk forward, and arms obliquely fore-downward, reed to a loop in line with arms—35-36! Return movements—37-40!

Exercise Two—32 Measures.

a.	With a slight turn left, polka hop forward, arms sideward— 1-16!

b.	Face inward, circle rded forward and hop over the same, left foot leading—17-18! Repeat—19-20!

c.	One-half turn left in four steps on place—21-24!

d.	Repeat b and c—25-32! During the hopping remain facing outward! Repeat a, b, c, and d—33-64!

Digitized by v^ooQle
76

Exercise Three—32 Measures.

Face inward.

a.	Rise on toes, straighten arms upward, reed to a loop^-1-2! Lower heels, lower trunk forward and arms sideward, reed vertical— 3-4! Return movements—5-8!

b.	One-fourth turn left, stride left sideward and straighten arms sideward—9-1G! Bend trunk left, and raise arms upward, reed to a loop—11-12! Return movements—13-16!

c.	and d. Repeat a and b to the right—17-32! Repeat a, b, c, and d—33-64!

Exercise Four—32 Measures.

a.	Repeat a of exercise one—1-16!

b.	Face inward, circle reed forward and hop over same, left foot leading—17-18! Repeat—19-20!

c.	Three gallop hops left sideward, cross right foot backward inward, arms sideward-—21-24!

d.	Repeat b and c right—25-32!

Repeat a, b, c, and d—33-64!

Exercise Five—32 Measures.

Face inward.

a.	Lunge left forward, straighten arms obliquely fore-upward, reed to a loop-^-1-2! Bend trunk backward and lower arms sideward, reed vertical—3-4! Return movements—5-8!

b.	Place left foot forward and straighten arms upward—9-10! Place left foot far backward, bend right knee, lower trunk forward and arms obliquely side-downward, hands touching ground, reed vertical—11-12! Return movements—13-16!

c.	Repeat a and b right—17-32!

d.	Repeat a, b, and c—33-64!

Start the music from the beginning again.

Interlude—4 Measures.

March on place eight steps with a whole turn left, straighten arms sideward on the last four steps.

Exercise Six—20 Measures.

a.	Repeat a of exercise one—1-16.

b.	March forward four steps in same direction as the skipping and return arms to starting position—17-20. Four steps on place with a 1-2 turn left—21-24! Four steps forward—25-28! Four steps on place with facing inward—29-32!

c.	Step left sideward and straighten arms sideward—33-34! Cross step right forward inward, rise on toes and raise arms upward, reed to a loop—35-36! Return movements—37-40!

Exercise Seven—32 Measures.

a.	With a slight turn left and arms in sideward position, polka hop forward with prefixed leg exercises.

Place left foot forward—1! Raise left lower leg in front of right knee—2! Polka hop left forward—3-4! Right—5-8!

b,	c, and d, repeat b, c, and d of exercise two—17-32!

Digitized by C^ooQle
77

Exercise Eight—32 Measures.

Face inward.

a.	Lunge left forward and straighten arms forward—1-2! Straighten left knee, raise right leg forward and arms upward—3-4! Return—5-8!

b.	Place left foot sideward and straighten arms sideward— 9-10! Turn trunk left, bend right arm, right hand in front of left shoulder, reed to a loop on the left side—11-12! Return movements -13-16!

c.	and d. Repeat a and b to the right—17-32! Repeat a, b, c and d—33-64!

Mass Exercises for the Senior Men’s Classes.

Dumbbell Exercises.

Music, “Old Faithful,” by Abe Holzmann.

Introduction four measures or eight counts.

Play all parts only once. Omit the second part of page four of the piano copy. The first group will finish with the last measure of page five. Play the introduction again for an intermission between the two groups. Play the whole piece as before for the second group.

In lining up for the mass drill, both dumbbells will be carried in the right hand. The columns of ranks of fours will open ranks to the left by marching forward. File one begins on one, file two on three, file three on five and file four remains on place. All face to the front on seven and eight.

Take one dumbbell in each hand upon command.

Position of Dumbbells.

The knuckles will be outward in the forward, upward and backward position, and backward in the sideward position of the arms unless otherwise stated.

Group One.

Exercise One.

Rise on toes and raise arms fore-upward—1-2! Lower heels, raise left leg backward, and swing arms fore-down and backward— 3-4! Return movements—5-8! Right—9-16! Repeat all—17-32!

Exercise Two.

Lunge left sideward and raise arms sideward—1-2! Lower trunk forward, move arms forward and click dumbbells, knuckles forward—3-4! Return movements—5-8!	Right—9-16!	Repeat

all—17-32!

Exercise Three.

Stride left forward and raise arms sideward—1-2! Bend trunk left, raise arms upward and click dumbbells, knuckles backward— 3-4! Return movements—5-8! Right —9-16! Repeat all—17-32!

Exercise Four.

Lunge left obliquely fore-outward and raise arms in same direction obliquely fore-upward—1-2! Turn head right and swing arms downward and to right sideward position—3-4! Return movements—5-8! Right—9-16! Repeat all—17r32!

Digitized by LjOOQle
78

Exercise Five.

A.	Four steps forward, one-half turn left in four steps on place and repeat all—1-16!

B.	Raise arms sideward—1-2! Lower trunk forward and click dumbbells, knuckles upward—3-4! Return movements—5-8! Repeat—9-16!

Exercise Six.

Repeat exercise five.

Group Two.

Exercise One.

Rise on toes and raise arms fore-upward—1-2! Lower heels, bend upper trunk backward and lower arms sideward, knuckles downward —3-4! Return movements—5-8! Repeat three times—9-32!

Exercise Two.

Lunge left sideward and bend arms to strike—1-2! Turn trunk left and strike arms sideward—3-4! Return movements—5—8 Right—9-16! Repeat all—17-32!

Exercise Three.

Lunge left forward and raise arms fore-upward—1-2! Lower trunk forward and swing arms fore-downward, dumbbells touching floor—3-4! Return movements—5-8! Right—9-16! Repeat all—■ 17-32!

Exercise Four.

Lunge left oblique, fore-outward, raise left arm in same direction obliquely fore-upward, right arm opposite downward—1-2! One-half turn right on the heels, change knee bending, change to opposite arm position and bend right arm, right forearm and knuckles towards forehead—3-4! Return movements—5-8! Right—9-16! Repeat all—17-32!

Exercise Five.

A.	Two closing steps left sideward, one-half turn left in four steps on place and repeat all—1-16!

B.	Raise arms sideward—1-2! Lower head backward, raise arms upward and click dumbbells, knuckles backward—3-4! Return movements—5-8! Repeat—9-16!

Exercise Six.

Repeat exercise five.

PHILADELPHIA PUBLIC SCHOOLS FIELD DAY.

Mass Exercises For Class B and Class C.

Each school may have a group of any multiple of four from 16 to 32, arranged in fours, the taller boys on the right. They will march forward in closed ranks, and upon command, open ranks left sideward in 12 counts.

Music.—"Our Director March”—Bigelow.	Victor Record

No. 35204.

Note.—In all arm circles the movements must be continuous.

INTRODUCTION. (8 counts)

Stand at attention.

Digitized by v^-ooQle
79

PART I. (64 counts)

A

1.	Raise arms sideward, 1-2; upward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

2.	Two steps left sideward, 1-4; jump to side stride, 5; return, 6; jump to side stride, 7; return, 8.

3.	Repeat 1, 1-8.

4.	Face right and, beginning right, march three steps forward, facing front on count 4,1-4; 4 steps in place, 5-8.

B

Repeat A, opposite (32 counts).

PART II. (64 counts)

A

1.	Swing arms foreupward, 1-2; bend trunk foredown ward, and swing arms downward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

2.	Hop twice on left foot, 1-2; hop twice on right foot, 3-4; three cuts sideward, 5-7; close right to left, 8. (Note.—The opposite leg should be raised sideward during the hops).

3.	Repeat 1, 1-8.

4.	Repeat 2, opposite, 1-8.

B

Repeat A, 1-32.

INTERLUDE. (20 counts)

1.	Stand at attention, 1-4.

2.	Face left, bend knees deeply and place hands on floor (squat stand), 1-2; straighten legs, backward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return 7-8.

3.	Repeat 2, but face right, and on the last count bend arms to thrust, 1-8.

PART III. (128 counts)

A

1.	Stride left sideward, 1-2; turn trunk left and thrust forward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

2.	Three arm circles outward, 1-6; bend arms to thrust, 7-8.

3.	Repeat 1, opposite, 1-8.

4.	Three arm circles inward, 1-6; bend arms to thrust, 7-8.

B

Repeat A. 1-32.

C

1.	Lunge left sideward, 1-2; turn trunk left and thrust forward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

2.	Three arm circles outward, 1-6; bend arms to thrust, 7-8.

3.	Repeat 1 opposite, 1-8.

4.	Three arm circles inward, 1-6; bend arms to thrust, 7-8.

D

1-2-3. Repeat 1, 2, 3, of Part C. 24 counts.

4.	Three and one-half arm circles inward, finishing with hands at sides 1-8

INTRODUCTION. (8 counts)

Stand at attention.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
80

PART IV. (32 counts)

1.	Jump to side stride and raise arms sideward, 1-2; raise arms upward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

2.	Two steps left sideward, 1-4; jump to side stride, 5; return, 6; jump to side stride, 7; return, 8.

3.	Repeat 1, 1-8.

4.	Face right and, beginning right, march three steps forward, facing front on count 4,1-4; four steps in place, 5-8.

PART V. (32 counts)

1.	Lunge left forward and swing arms foreupward, 1-2; bend trunk foredown ward, and swing arms downward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

2.	Hop twice on left foot, 1-2; hop twice on right foot, 3-4; three cuts sideward, 5-7; close right to left, 8. (The opposite leg should be raised sideward during the hops).

3.	Repeat 1, opposite, 1-8.

4.	Repeat 2, opposite, 1-8.

INTERLUDE. (20 counts)

1.	Stand at attention, 1-4.

2.	Face left, bend knees deeply, and place hands on floor (squat stand), 1-2; straighten legs backward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

3.	Repeat 2, but face right, and on last count, bend arms to thrust, 1-8.

PART VI. (64 counts)

A

1.	Lunge left sideward, 1-2; turn trunk left, bend foredownward, and thrust downward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

2.	Three arm circles outward, 1-6; bend arms to thrust, 7-8.

3.	Repeat 1, opposite, 1-8.

4.	Three arm circles inward, 1-6; bend arms to thrust, 7-8.

B

1-2-3. Repeat 1, 2, 3, of preceding part (part VI-A). 24 counts.

4.	Three and one-half arm circles inward, finishing with hands at sides, 1-8.

Two Dances.

A dance for girls of Class A, “The Jolly Crowd.”

A dance for girls of Class B and Class C, “April Smiles.” The dances will be competitive and will be performed before judges in the morning.

All schools will perform the dances en masse in the afternoon. It is necessary for a school to take part in the afternoon in order to have the points made in the morning count towards the school score. No fancy costumes will be allowed.

DANCE FOR CLASS A

Music.—“In the Bam”—Lindsay. Victor Record No. 17557.

Formation.—Each school may have a group of any multiple of four, from 16 to 32, arranged in fours, the taller ones on the right.

Digitized by CjOOQle
81

They will march forward in closed ranks, and, upon command, will open ranks in 12 counts, raising the arms sideward on the last count.

PART I. (8 measures)

1.	Place the left foot forward, left arm forward, right arm sideward: place left foot backward, left arm overhead, right arm sideward (1 measure); change step left forward, anns sideward (1 measure) When placing left foot forward, slightly bend trunk forward; when placing left foot backward tun head right. 2 measures

2.	Repeat the above opposite, but while performing the change step, face left about and place knuckle3 on hips. 2 measures

3	& 4. Repeat 1 and 2	4	measures

PART II. (16 measures)

1.	Quarter turn left and beginning left, three steps forward and

place the right foot forward.	2	measures

With a half turn right, repeat opposite.	2	measures

2.	Repeat 1.	4	measures

3 & 4. Repeat 1 and 2, but when placing the foot forward, bend the

other knee, slightly bend the trunk forward and raise the arms sideward.	8	measures

PART III. (8 measures)

Repeat Part I.

PART IV. (16 measures)

1.	Step and leap left sideward (1 measure); place the right foot for-

ward and backward (1 measure).	2	measures

2. Repeat 1, opposite.	2	measures

3 & 4. Repeat 1 and 2.	4	measures

5.	Step and leap left sideward, arms sideward (1 measure); place

the right foot forward, right arm forward; place the right foot backward, right arm overhead (1 measure).	2	measures

6.	Repeat 5 opposite.	2	measures

7 & 8. Repeat 5 and 6.	4	measures

PART V. (8 measures)

Repeat Part I.

PART VI. (16 measures)

Repeat Part II.

PART VII. (8 measures)

Repeat Part I.

Dance For Classes B and C

Music.—"April Smiles”—Depret. Victor Record No. 19)34. Formation.—Each school may have a group of any multiple of four, from 16 to 32, arranged in fours, the taller ones on the right. They will march forward in closed ranks and upon command will open ranks left sideward in 12 counts.

PART 1. (48 measures)

A

1.	Balance hop, right forward, left arm overhead, right arm sideward, 1 measure; swing hop left backward, right arm forward, left arm sideward, 1 measure. Repeat; 2 measures. 4 measures

Digitized by

Google
3.

4.

5.

6.

1.

2.

3.

1.

2.

3.

82

Rear cross step right sideward (right, left, right), arms sideward, and curtsey, left arm forward.	4	measures

Repeat 1, opposite..	4	measures

Step left sideward, step on right foot in rear of left, arms sideward, pirouette left, wave arms forward and sideward, balance hop left forward, both arms overhead.	4	measures

Polka obliquely right forward (swinging straight leg forward on first count) right armforward, left arm sideward, 2 measures; repeat opposite, 2 measures.	4	measures

Three step turn right sideward, arms sideward, forward, sideward, and place left foot in rear, left arm overhead. 4 measures

Repeat A opposite.

PART

B

II.

24 measures

(32 measures)

A

Stamp right (facing right and raising left leg as in balance hop) and hold, 1 measure; hop twice right, completing turn right, 1 measure. The right arm is high over head and the left arm sideward. Balance step left sideward, right arm forward; right sideward, left arm forward (2 measures). The balance step is to be done with a leaping movement on the first count and with opposite foot placed in front.	4	measures

Repeat 1, opposite.	4	measures

Two glides right sideward, arms sideward (2 measures); three step turn right, arms forward and sideward, and swing left leg forward, left arm forward (2 measures).	4	measures

Repeat 3 opposite	4	measures

B

Repeat A.	16	measures

PART III. (32 measures)

A

Balance hop right forward, left arm overhead, right arm sideward, 1 measure; swing hop left backward, left arm sideward, right arm forward, 1 measure; step right foot rear of left, step left sideward, step right foot front of left, arms sideward, 2 measures.	4	measures

Repeat 1 opposite.	4	measures

Swing hop right forward, left arm forward,	right	arm sideward,

1 measure; swing hop left forward, right arm forward, left arm sideward, 1 measure; swing hop right forward, 1 measure; swing hop left forward, 1 measure.	4	measures

Three steps backward, arms sideward,	and	point	left foot forward, left arm forward.	4	measures

B

Repeat A opposite.	16	measures

PART IV. (32 measures)

A

Step and curtsey right sideward, arms sideward on step, left arm forward on curtsey, 2 measures; repeat opposite, 2 measures.	4	measures

Digitized by Google
83

2. Three step turn right, arms sideward, forward, sideward, 2 measures; place left foot in rear of right and hold left arm over

head, 2	measures.	4	measures

8.	Repeat	1, opposite.	4	measures

4.	Repeat	2, opposite.	4	measures

B

Repeat	A	16	measures

PART V. (48 measures)

Repeat	Part I.	48	measures

News, notes and comments

NEW OFFER OF HARMON FOUNDATION.

On several occasions the National Playgrounds Association has sent out information regarding the activities of the Harmon Foundation in helping communities secure land for playground purposes. Mr. Harmon whose gifts of play land, a community ouilding and auditoriums have already amounted to nearly a quarter of a million dollars is now making a new offer which will mean that fifty communities may have playgrounds.

The conditions under which this offer is made have been developed with a view toward immediate and future need, the assurance of local cooperation in development, maintenance and use, and the educational value of the pnnciples on which the Harmon Foundation is working that the gift of land is “the gift eternal.” The conditions are as follows:

The communities which may take advantage of this offer must have more than 3,000 population and must have advanced in growth at least 30% since 1900. Not more than $2,000 will be given for a play field in a single locality. The land must not cost more than $1,000 an acre and the minimum tract will include two acres of level and easily accessible land, convenient to all it purposes to serve. The land, which is to be known permanently as Harmon Field, must be used in perpetuity for playgrounds and other recreational purposes. No buildings are. to be erected on the property except such as will make for better play and sport standards. The grounds are to be open to all, without regard to race, creed or color (except reasonable racial restriction in the South where the Foundation is providing play fields for colored children).

All applications must be endorsed by the Mayor or the President of the Board of Education and contain a resolution by the proper officials to equip and properly maintain the play field as an asset in the community. Formal application blanks together with the detailed requirements will be furnished upon request. Communities wishing to make application for a play field should first send for the formal application blank which provides for the care-

Digitized by
84

ful appraisal of the land in question by two disinterested appraisers, evidence that an option has or can.be secured for a sufficient length of time to consummate the purchase arrangements and assurance that the title of property is free of all encumbrances or can be made so on or before taking title. Conveyance will preferably be made to the Board of Education. Application forms and other information about the offer will be sent only upon written request to Harmon Foundation, Inc., 140 Nassau Street, New York City. The closing date of the offer is July 1, 1924.

-------o-------

Three state interscholastic swimming records were established at the fourth annual meet of the New Jersey State Interscholastic Association held at the Central Y. M. C. A. pool, Trenton, N. J., on March 8. Kerr of Lawrenceville, set a mark of 1 minute, 20 4-5 seconds in the 100 yard breast stroke, replacing a record of one minute 26 1-5 seconds set by Lutz of Montclair. Turner, Atlantic City, set a mark of 59 3-5 in the 100 yard free style replacing a mark of 60 3-5 set by Hawkins of Lawrenceville. Scherer, of Atlantic City, established a record of 32 4-5 for the 50-yard back-stroke displacing a record of 36 seconds set by Atkinson of Rutgers Prep. The last-named was shut out in his heat. Atlantic City won the state and high school title honor, while Lawrenceville captured the prep school honors.

-----—o--------

The question of keeping concrete swimming pools in good condition is uppermost in the minds of many athletic managers and directors. The following statement prepared by an expert and appearing in the “Oval,” the house organ of the Du Pont paint and varnish lines, gives some interesting data on this subject. Under the heading “Painting Concrete Swimming Pools,” the author says:

“The success of a job of this kind depends more on the correct application of the paint than on the paint itself. One of the essentials is plenty of time to permit the different coats to dry properly and the final coat to dry hard.

“First, the surface should be thoroughly cleaned. Grease should be removed by washing with gasoline, and dirt by washing with soap and water. The surface must be thoroly dry before the first coat is applied, in order to permit the proper penetration of the paint.

“The first coat should be white enamel undercoat, thinned with elastic wall primer if the surface is of a porous nature, and with turpentine if the surface is hard and non-porous. It is essential to get good adhesion in the first coat.

“The second coat of white enamel undercoat should be applied as found in the container.

“If the surface is rough, a third and fourth coat of white enamel undercoat is advisable. The coating, when completed, must be continuous so that there are no breaks in the film whatever, which would permit water to get back into the concrete and later force the paint away.

Digitized by v^ooQle
85

“Thejobto be finished should be given two coats of bath' tub . and refrigerator enahiel.

“If the different coats are given sufficient time to dry, the procedure as outlined will produce as satisfactory a coating as anything that can be offered for painting concrete surfaces which come; in contact with water.

“The three prime essentials are:

1.	Dry surface.

2.	Plenty of time for the different coats to dry.

8. The finished job must he an impermeable unbroken coat, so as not to permit water to get back into the concrete.

ANNUAL HEALTH EDUCATION CONFERENCE.

At the invitation of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, a working conference in Health Education is to te held June 23—28 at Cambridge, Massachusetts. Ite conference called by the Health Education Division of the /merican Child Health /sso-ciation will te limited to 100. Registration must te made in advance. /ddress Emma Eolfinger, 370 Seventh Avenue, New York City.

In the Brooklyn Eagle we find the following amusing sat'rical notes by Nunnally Johnson.

Of recent the newsstands have teen displaying an astonishing number of magazines dedicated to physical culture. It is possible, of course, that their growing popularity is due in part, at least, to their illustrations, which any high-minded person knows are used as evidence of the benefits to te gained, from tending over 20 times every morning and not to show Miss Olga Gulch, of 23456 /ddison blvd., Topeka, Kan., secretary and treasurer of the Topeka (Kan.) Girls' Running and Jumping / ssoriation. in her chemise.

But as one who has never yet assigned a wicked motive to a fellowman, it is my belief that in this case the purpose of these magazines is actually, as stated, to spread the gospel of fexing the biceps. They are directly in accord with this generation’s madness to make people better, mentally and physically, whether they wish it or not. /nd if tomorrow a law should te passed compelling every man between 18 and 45 to bend over 20 times each morning, there would be no record of my having swooned with surprise.

Physical culture is, of course, foolish. The best that the cult promises is the possibility of looking like Myron Oknist, of 5432 Steele ave., Sacramento, Cal., whose photograph on page 56 shows him in a tiger skin.There are few sane men who would like to look like Myron. His muscles are large, to be sure, and he looks capable of much work—but, as somebody has so graphically put it, who wants to be capable of much work?

The fundamental fault, tho, is that physical culture involves discomforts that none but the balmy can find tolerable. It involves sweating, which nobody favors. Quite often it necessitates getting

Digitized by L^ooQle
86

dirty, which in turn necessitates bathing, which in turn necessitates dressing, which everybody knows is a bother. Furthermore, among married people it involves discord.

One of the precepts of the physical culturist is that all of the windows shall be thrown open during the night. Anybody who is or has ever been married is aware of the difficulty of forcing one’s wife to get up and close the windows in the morning. She is unreasonable, four times out of five. She insists that the husband get up, and the room as cold as Greenland! Time is wasted as they argue and debate over it, time that might well be spent in sitting down somewhere and resting, time that might even be spent in sleep. The day wears on. The husband is late to work, all because she doesn’t see reason. Perhaps he loses his job. He can’t get another. She runs away with a slicker from Manhattan. He starves to death. The slicker deserts the wife. In remorse she goes into the Boro Hall subway station after midnight and determines to stay there, without food or drink, until the next train for Pennsylvania ave. comes along. And so she starves to death, too.

Camp Healthy Opens October 1.—Camp Healthy, a tuberculosis preventorium, will be dedicated, October 1, by the tuberculosis committee of the Philadelphia Health Council. In it fifty undernourished children taken from homes in which tuberculosis has appeared will be cared for the year round. Boys and girls from 6 to 12 years old will be given the most advanced care and treatment, designed to guard them against lung troubles. Camp Healthy will be the winter successor of Camp Happy at Brown’s Farms. The dormitories will be heated, but in their waking hours the children will be in the open air. An open air school will be a feature of the center, and even in the coldest weather the children, warmly clad, will be taught in the open.

That the rise in the cost of attending college is caused by increase in the fixed charges such as tuition, board, room, and fees rather than by increase in the amount spent by students for books and supplies, dues, contributions, recreation, and incidentals is the conclusion reached by the St. Louis branch of the American Association of University Women, which has made an investigation of the expenses of women college students at more than 100 representative colleges. This investigation was undertaken as an aid to prospective college students, to parents, to educational and vocational counselors, to administrators of scholarships and loan funds, and to others who need to budget as closely as possible the expense of college for women.

The committee which made the survey collected information from 114 colleges. They made a study of “catalogue expense,” covering the fixed charges as set by the college authorities and of of “extra-catalogue expense,” covering all other expenses of the school year except clothing and railroad fare. These two important items were omitted from the tables because the cost of these de-

Digitized by v^.ooQle
87

pends upon the individual students and not upon conditions at the colleges. The average catalogue expense for tne institutions studied was $486.04. The average extra-catalogue expense was $160.25.

Budapest, Hungary, March 1.—The Assembly has approved a compulsory physical culture bill. The measure also provides for the establishment of a national stadium and a sports fund, to be financed by a levy of 8 per cent on all sporting events.

In the New York Public Health Nurse we find the following: The American Legion is right in urging that all our school children be taught health and strength. Only about one child in ten gets that training now. Physical education is one of the best factors in human betterment, but some other things come first. While the Legion resolution was in the news, housing investigations in New York City proved that high rents there were depriving hordes of school children of both food and sleep. Countless parents cannot pay the sky-high rent and buy enough food. With twelve people in a three-room flat, children cannot get enough sleep. Thousands of them are short on weight, some of them as much as seventeen pounds, the average being about six. Six pounds is much too big a percentage of a child’s weight to be lost with safety. Food ana shelter are the absolute rock-bottom needs of a growing child’s life. If our biggest and richest cities cannot make children’s food and shelter possible, then wise parents will move. A child-robbing city is hell.

It always is a helpful sign when teachers begin to question the results of their teaching, when they begin to wonder if perhaps the procession has passed by and they never have become aware of this fact. The consequence of such self-inspection with its resultant awakening may be seen in the greatly increased attendance in extra mural courses given by universities. In all cities where such courses are given the attendance on the part of teachers is very large. The same may be said about the attendance at summer schools. Here also one finds the teachers who want to keep in line with the newer developments in education as a whole or in their particular field. There are ftw teachers who could not be benefited by a summer course, because in no other line of work can a person become a back number so soon as in teaching.

Because of the emphasis being placed in certain school systems upon the acquirement of a degree, there has arisen, in certain places, a criticism that finds its expression in the term “credit hunters.'' While it may be true that some teachers are impelled to take college courses because of the “credits” that such courses give them, this is not true of the great majority. They feel that the pursuit of higher courses in education makes them better teachers, teachers with a broader outlook upon life, therefore better teachers in their respective fields, be this English, History, Home E:onomics, or Physical Education. And even the “credit chasers” are benefited

Google
88

culturally. If they want it o? not* by coming In contact with people (teatter8 and students) who are.on a somewhat higher plane of life than they.

The 28rd Year Ecck of the "National Society for the Study of Education” which was discussed at the Chicago meeting of the superintendents’department of the N. E. A.,m many pages in-dicatcs^tfcat.ihyeical education, in its broadest sense, is coming to be recognized as an essential feature in education. If the training of teachers of physical education is broad and thorough, if such teachers have the social vision and the moral backbone necessary for leaders in the newer education that appears to be imminent, then they will,, at cnee, he'placed in pcsiticns cf responsibility. It appears wise, therefore, that teachers who have not "brushed up” for several years by attendance either of extra mural courses or of summer schools should seriously put the question to themselves, "Has the procession gone by and I didn’t know it?”

The Eye Sight Conservation Council of America, Times Building, New York City is continually publishing little folders on Sight Saving that should he of value to all teachers of hygiene. Such teachers should write and ask for copies of the bulletins issued by the council. Some of the council s publications may be had free of charge. For the larger publications a nominal charge of a few cents is made to cover the cost of printing and postage.

Small toddlers, net yet ready for school, and babies in the Hell’s Kitchen District, New York, are to have a playground, where, until the Children’s Aid Society purchased the land, were tenements like those frem which the players themselves will come.

“After a child reaches the age of five, he has many opportunities given him, but from the time that he is no longer classed as an infant until the day he enters kindergarten, he is left largely to *just grow.’ It is not safe for him to play unwatched on the street and so he spends most of his time in his tenement home,” is a statement of the reason why the society is spending about $300,000 to begin this project. Mothers of the neighborhood are to be told about the center and encouiaged to bring or send their children; if they cannot come, arrangements will he made to call for the children. There will he sand piles—-and the sand will be washed often to keep it clean for the tots—swings, the wherewithal for playground games, and a leader to start the fun. At noon a lunch of the tight kind of feed will he served, and milk and cod liver oil in between times to keep away malnutrition and rickets. School girls will take over the playground for the little tots from three in the afterncon until nine at night. Mothers, gathered in groups to sew, chat, and watch their babies will be told how to take care of their childien, and in this way a check will be kept on children who need medical attention, which can be given in the clinics of the Society. And even in wet weather the playground is to give its frequenters a place to play, since part of the grounds will be glassed over. (Hygeia, June, 1923.)

Digitized by v^ooQle
89

la the “Surrey” of December 15th we find the following interesting comment.

Niels Bukh and his Danish exponents of gymnastics, folk dancing and folk singing have come and gone—leaving behind a significant question. America is reputed to be greatly interested in education, in physical education and in athletics. Bukh has been called by competent European authorities “the present day's greatest discoverer in the physical education worldhe was heralded in America as the “Walter Camp of Denmark" (a not altogether accurate analogy); he offered a demonstration which, merely as a show, was called by one sophisticated person “the finest thing ever seen in New York.” Yet, for all these facts, his tour of the East and Middle West was a financial failure, however much it may have accomplished educationally. In but two cities, New York and Chicago, where Danish societies supported him whole-heartedly, did the demonstration draw paying houses. Everywhere else, the story is one of a gradually mounting deficit. Why should this have been the case?

The Billboard, magazine of theatrical interests, said after the demonstration at the Town Hall, New York, in September: “The program thruout was given with such grace and rhythmic charm as to evoke repeated, long and enthusiastic applause." But one difficulty seems to have been that the program could not be classified. It was not “vaudeville," tho reporters tried in several cities to make it just that. It was not a “follies,” tho lurid newspaper accounts told what would happen to the “follies” girls who would be foolish enough to compete with these Danish “Venuses” in beauty. It lacked the customary, decadent appeal to sex, tho in one city efforts were made to match the champion Danish girl with the prize "bathing beauty" of that part of the country.

One explanation of the outcome may be found in an attitude which the renorters attributed to Bukh. Pressed to express his opinions on all sorts of things, he is quoted as saying:

Woman has assumed the truth of the time-worn bromide that “beauty is only skin deep;” hence, she spends hours before her mirror applying cosmetics. She should be spending that time giving herself the physical education she needs. America is at present composed of a race of women who are trying to reduce. They eat with blind fear and continue to grow fat. The secret of beauty does not lie in any fad. It is based on three things: suppleness or grace; strength; and a perfect co-ordination of mind and body. These three things can only be secured by exercise, in quantity and quality rightly applied.

Such opinions are, of course, fatal to the box office. We Americans do not spend our money to find out how we can exert ourselves into beauty, or quality, or excellence. When we spend money we want to pet something for it. Neils Bukh gave us no short cut to glory. Excellent things cannot be bought, he seems to have been say.ng; they can be achieved only with labor. But we Americans know better: else, what’s the use of having money?

Digitized by

Google
90

One of the encouraging signs of the times is the fad. that aa increasing number of persons and newspapers are not afraid to speak openly on such a dangerous (and to many persons forbidden) topic as prohibition. The following is from the Buffalo, N. Y. Courier of Dec. 28:

Some 400 years before the Christian era the Sophists flourished in Athens. Socrates disliked them and berated them because they not only were specious reasoners, but took pay for teaching their methods.

A modern sage could find a similar target in our new school of Sophists—the drys of the type of Wayne B. Wheeler. On Christmas eve. Mr. Wheeler accredited prohibition with practically all tiie blessings we enjoy. Some of the blessings which have accumulated in “four years of sober industry,” are: “A cut in the death rate that saved 873,000 Jives;” “a decrease in the rate of preventable illness equivalent to 1,747,950 persons continuously ill for one year;” a reduction in the rate of arrests for drunkenness equivalent to “4,000,000 fewer in the four years;” elimination of intemperance as a cause of poverty and a decrease in the penal ratio “resulting in 20,000 fewer persons being committed;” an addition of “over $1,-000,000,000” to the nation's savings accounts and “over $11,000,000,-000” to new life insurance policies in 1923.

In the last paragraph of his statement Mr. Wheeler, as an afterthought, says prohibition “was not unaided in creating these benefits,” but one assumes that whatever aid was given was immaterial. The big thing was Volsteadism. Science gets no credit for the lowered death rate, tho Dr. O. R. Moody of the University of California, has just been telling us that “compulsory physical education, baby clinics, child welfare work, and adult ‘well clinics’ ” are promoting a better race. Wealth made from the war has had nothing to do with the material prosperity of the country, tho the war business gavie this country the biggest trade balance any nation ever had. Education has had nothing to do with the asserted decrease in arrests for drunkenness and the lessening of poverty, tho education always has been upheld as the one sure means for developing an enlightened society.

Now that Mr. Wheeler has presented such an attractive picture of the United States in the Volstead age, perhaps he will give us a similar one of other countries where prohibition exists, for example, Turkey.► And, while he is about it, why not tell us how all these material blessings come from prohibition while at the same time we make no progress, so the churchmen lament, in spiritual things? Surely Mr. Wheeler is not going to let the country believe that the new Sophists can not explain away the crime wave, religious and racial hatred, the asserted decline of the American hones aad all our other troubles.
91

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIEN

D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.

Systematic Physical Exercise.—Bier declares that we are far behind the ancient Greeks in the hygiene of the body. For over a thousand years in Greece gymnastics was regarded as of supreme importance for the welfare of the state as well as of the individual, from the hygienic, military and medical standpoints, for art and even for religion. But, Bier adds, it was the naked body that was trained. The word gymnasium is from	"naked.”	The

importance of exposing the whole body is only just beginning to dawn on modern civilization, and physicians must be the leaders here. They cannot be leaders unless they have practical, firsthand knowledge, and he urges medical men to attend the graduate summer course in gymnastics offered to physicians by the German College for Physical Training. Bier adds that the fact that physicians are so ignorant of the first principles of gymnastics is demonstrated again and again by the certificates they sign to release from compulsory physic al training the very young people who need it most. In the graduate course to which he refers, the physicians will be trained in running, jumping, swimming, massaging each other, etc. It will be a strenuous two weeks, he admits, but the science of systematic exercise needs scientific research. The study of physiology would be far more fruitful if done on young people systematically exercising instead of on frogs and rabbits. (The course of training was held as outlined and was attended by fifty-three physicians.)—Muenchener medizinische Wochenschrift, Munich, July 7, 1922, 69, No. 27.—Abstract from the Journal Am. Med. Assoc., Oct. 7,1921.

Value of Respiratory Exercises. C. B. Heald.—Respiratory exercises, according to Heald, are only of real value (1) if the exact nature of the abnormality it is desired to remove is known and if the abnormality presents no insuperable mechanical obstruction to improvement; (2) if a measure of this abnormality has been secured and if the progresss of treatment is checked and followed by remeasuring; (3) if the treatment is able to combine and utilize knowledge of electrotherapeutics, massage, and remedial exercises so that accurate and detailed prescriptions may be drawn up based on a sound knowledge of the errors of each individual case.—Lancet London, Aug. 19, 1922, 2, No. 5164.

Camp for Malnourished Children.—A camp for 200 undernourished children, taken from the rural districts of the states (Penna.) was opened last summer on the grounds of the state sanatorium, Hamburg. The children were fed and given exercises and rest periods, until they were in normal physical condition for attendance at the fall school term. More than 600 applications

Digitized by LjOoq le
92

were received from physicians, nurses and school teachers, requesting that undernourished children under their care might be admitted to the camp.

Hygiene Board	Discontinued.—The	Interdepartmental

Social Hygiene Board recently went out of existence with the ending of the fiscal year. No appropriation for its continuation had been made. A bill has been introduced authorizing the Department of Justice to take over the work of the board, but no action has yet been taken on this bill.

Study in Physical Training.—Physical training methods in District of Columbia high and junior high schools will be studied by a committee appointed by Supt. Frank W. Ballou, suoe*intendent of the public Schools. The members are: Charles Hart, Robert A. Maurer and Capt. A. C. Newman.

Fencing Position Extension for Scoliosis.—C. Boeder’s illustrations show the excellent results realized in grave right dorsal, plus left lumbar scoliosis, for example, the child seated on the left V ut-tcc k, the left knee flexed. The right leg is extended backward, the left arm extended forward and upward, the position like that in fencing. Tbe left arm, the trunk and the right leg form a straight line at an angle, with the floor, of about 45 degrees. Openings in the plaster east allow the passage of broad bands for traction from opposite sides. The results in the thirty cases in which this method has been applied for about a month are said to have been infinitely better than with the Abbott method.—Paris Medical, July 15,1922, 12, No. 28.

The Demand for Vitamins.—Thus the British Med. Jour. in its current issue: In spite of the fact that ordinary fresh foods are the simplest, cheapest and richest sources of vitamins, the public apparently demands to be supplied with vitamins in the form of medicinal products.

The public "demands” vitamins in pill form! Why? For the same reason that the public, lay or medical, demands many things today that it does not need—because the whole trend of modem advertising is toward creating demands, rather than supplying needs. Vitamin concentrates are being “demanded” by the public because shrewd and forward-looking "patent medicine” exploiters are using all the subtle arts of modem advertising to convince the public that it is in serious danger of vitamin starvation, and that the only hope lies in buying these alleged concentrates to make up a hypothetical deficiency. It seems inconceivable that a rational man would pay a tremendously high price for certain food factors which am already present in his ordinary diet. But he will; and advertising is the reason. Adve'tising campaigns such as these of the vitamins constitute a vicious circle; an artificial demand is created and then the manufacture excuses his business on the ground that he is merely supplying a demand!
93

As our British contemporary says, “ordinary fresh foods are the simplest, cheapest, and richest sources of vitamins.” — Current Comment: The Journal Am. Med. Assoc., March IS, 1922.

Correlation of Efficiency Tests. —Preliminary Report William Finkelstein and Jesse F. Williams, A. B., M. I)., New York. This is an age of functional tests and measurements. The time has passed when fifty or more anthropometric determinations of size are made in the physical examination of one subject. Instead, the efforts to secure data on the functioning power of the human organism are becoming increasingly more numerous.

The tests that have attracted the most attention are the tests of circulatory efficiency and of physical efficiency. In the former, the proposals cf Cramptcn. Fester, Barringer and Schneider have been favorably received. While these tests are still sub they have given encouraging results in some places. In the physical efficiency group, the recent test proposed by Dr. Sargent has awakened conside-able interest because of its simplicity and the apparent soundness of the principle involved.

The question was raised concerning the possible correlation between a cardiac efficiency test and a physical efficiency test. It was asked, “Why should not cardiac efficiency express itself in terirs of physical efficiency?” Surely, the oppesite would be true. If the heart is not efficient, the inadequate circulation would be expressed in ten: s of defic ient oxygenation of tissues, deficient waste removal, and hence in general physical unfitness.

It was proposed to examine a group with a cardio-vasculaf test and a physical efficiency test. For this purpose, fifty males we*e se’ected. This greup v&iied in age from 11 to 36 years, in height from 4 feet 6 inches (137 cm.) to 6 feet (183 cm.), and in weight from 75 to 200 pounds (34 to 91 kg.). The tests chosen for the experiment we*e the Schneider rating of cardiovascular efficiency and the Sargent test of a man.

Summary.

1.	The*e is a very definite correlation between the Schneider cardiovascular test and the.Sargent physical test. This correlation is not perfect (perfect correlation—1), but is high for such diverse tests. The wide age range of the group tested gives only a limited distribution of any one age, and hence repetition of the experiment with more homogeneous groups is needed to verify the obtained coefficient.

2.	The high correlation shows that cardiac efficiency is probably a good indication of general physical efficiency.

3.	It will probably be necessary to revise the Schneider teet to allow for the normal variation in pulse rate in the age ranges before and during adolescence.

4.	The Schpeider test, was evolved on adults. Its applicability to adolescents and.preadolescents remains to be determined.

5.	It has h<?t.heeri determined whether the same correlation holds for femalesl-^Abstracfedfrom Original Article in The ! Am. Med. Assoc.,. May J3, 1922.

Digitized by
94

Physical Therapy And Hydrotherapy.—.Another group of activities designed to arouse the dormant interest is known as physical therapy. Our instructors gather a number of patients in a class where wand drills, passing the medicine ball and even simple folk dancing are practiced. It is surprising to see how much improvement can be secured in a group of awkward, indifferent per? sons when they are led by a tactful and forceful instructor. The same instructors are expert in massage and other types of physical manipulation which are available lor patients who suffer from rheumatic troubles, malnutrition and certain other physical disorders.

Great benefit can be derived from the skillful use of baths and douches. Some such apparatus is now available and will be added to, with the growth of the institution at Byberry. Specialists in this line are being provided. The prolonged bath is used in the mental hospitals of all countries as a means of calming the disturbed. Douches are useful to stimulate the circulation and give a feeling of well-being and comfort which is a striking lack in many of our patients, particularly the sad and anxious.—Abstracted from an article in "Monthly Bulletin The Department of Public Health, Phila., Pa., Dec. 1921 on ‘What Philadelphia is Doing for its Mental Cases.’ ”

Preventing Diseases of Adult Life.—Dr. F. L. Fisk urges that preventive, or rather constructive, medicine should be more thoroly taught in medical schools. Every graduate in medicine should be equipped not only to make a fundamental physical survey, regardless of his interest in any specialty, but he should be saturated with these fundamental principles which will stimulate him to more enthusiastic cooperation with the demand on the part of the general public for physical inspection and counsel on how to live. Not only schoolchildren, but adults, require to be educated on the value of periodic physical overhauling and hygienic measures, as well as prompt medical, surgical or dental treatment for the correction of defects. The life insurance companies can afford to extend to their policyholders this privilege of periodic physical examinations without charge, as the resultant lower death rate will undoubtedly defray the cost, and the medical profession can afford to cooperate in making these examinations on a moderate basis of cost, inasmuch as the results will be wholly in the interest •f scientific medicine. Fisk also urges the creation of a national department of health to coordinate all activities for physical education of schoolchildren and related measures.—Complete article in the New York State Journal of Medicine, December 1921, 21 No. 12.

Mental Hygiene is Individualization.—Mental hygiene iheans individualization above everything. It aims to give free play to the development of the personality. This does not mean that each individual is to have his own way without regard to others. Oh the contrary, free play of personality for all promotes harmony and smooth action, for the well adjusted individual knows how to

'vu, •

Digitized by

Google
95

get on in his environment. The conflicts and distresses that arise among individuals can usually be traced to personality detests.— M. C. Jarrett. Hospital Social Service 36 : 364 (May) 1921.

. physical Education in Relation to Military Service. -The minister of War has decided to take advantage of the operations of the exemption boards in connection with the examining of the class of 1,922, to determine to what extent the physical training that the young men examined, may have received in civilian life influences the physical effectiveness of the contingent. Up to the present time, during the course of the examinations conducted by the exemption boards, aside from information in regard to height, weight and chest measurement, notes have been taken on certain indications to show whether candidates are adapted or not to various branches of the service, with a view to assigning them to the services for which they are best fitted. Hereafter, in order to have an exact record of the amount of physical training that recruits have received, they will be questioned individually by the recruiting officers to ascertain whether they have had any systematic physical training and whether they have participated in any forms of sport. The statistical findings secured in this manner will make it possible to compare the physical development of those who have had previous physical education with that of those who have not had such train-ing.^ From Paris letter to The Journal Med. Assoc., Peb. 11, 1922.

On Saturday, April 19, 1924 the Indiana-Kentucky Association of the A. A. U. held its first Marathon Race, covering the regulation distance. I examined the runners as is required by the rules. At the last minute the thought came to my mind to percuss the heart and take the blood pressure as well, and repeat the examination after the race. I was extremely busy Saturday afternoon, and therefore could examine the winner only. The results were as follows:

Before the race.		After the race.
72	Pulse 					 .		98
135	Systolic Blood Pressure . .		120
100	Diostolic Blood Pressure ...			92

After the race the right side of the heart was about 11-2 inches larger than before (percussion). The apex beat moved out about .1 inch; ,

If you wish you may publish this report in Mind and Body. To me this is an eye-opener. I, for one stand ready to condemn competition of this character. The winner of the race lives out of town, and I may never see him again. I really would like to examine him in about a month to determine the condition of his heart. I wish I could have examined all the runners in this manner. —Carl Bi Sputh, M. D.

Digitized by v^. ooQle
96

“Track and Field Athletics:" A Guide to Athletes; A Manual for Coaches; A Text Book for Normal. Students of Physical Training. 163 pages, 51-2” x 9”, cloth bound, by Albert B. Wegener, published by A. S. Barnes and Company, of New York. Price $2.00.

This book is all that the author claims it to be. It is profuse with good cuts and illustrations. The technique and illustrations of the track and field events are alone worth several times the price of the book. It is unfortunate that with all bis care theauthor should have failed to bring up to date a few of the efficiency test requirements in Chapter IX. In a reprint this should be remedied.

The book is warmly recommended to all who are seeking guidance in any form of athletics.	Philip G. Lewis.

Rawlings No. 5 RX Official Intercollegiate Football

Time to Order Rawlings Foot Ball Equipment!

Football days will soon be around, and farsighted coaches, directors and educators are ordering Rawlings- Football, Basketball, and other Equipment now. They want the superior Rawlings quality. For honest service and durability; for Utmost in workmanship and fine materials, Rawlings Athletic Equipment is unequalled. Ask your dealer, or write direct for latest Catalog.

RAWLINGo MANUFACTURING

COMPANY 2301 Lucas Are.	St*	Louis,	Mo,

INTERNATIONAL Y. M. C. A. COLLEGE SUMMER SESSION—June 30-Auguet 1,1£24

PHYSICAL ELL CAT1CN AND ATHLETIC COACHING School of Coaching

Football by Roper of Princeton.

Baseball by Derry of Springfield.

Track by Otto of Springfield.

Basketball by Otto of Springfield.

Swimming, Soccer, Eojing, ’Wrestling.

School of Gymnastics. Tactics, Calisthenics, Dancing, Apparatus Games and Practice Teaching.

Y. M. C. A. Directcrs. A graded fovr year course befan in 1923 leading to a certificate. First and second year work offered in 1924. ' Public School Directors. A graded lour year course began in 1923 leading to a Certi. ca e. Pirst and second year work ofiered in 1924. Theoretical Cot res in Anatomy, Physiology, Hygiene, Physical Diagnosis, Anthropometry etc. of an intensive, double period character giving fi 11 credit toward the Bachelor’s and Master’* Degree in Physical Education.

Information and Bulletin.

Address ELMER BERRY, Director Summer School. Springfield, Massachusetts.