Vol. 39

MIND AND BODY

FEBRUARY 1933	No.	410

Visual Aids to Health Education.

Howard L. Conrad, B. S. in Ed., Ed. M. Supervisor of Physical and Health Education, Philadelphia Public Schools, Lecturer in Hygiene, Temple University

EDITORS NOTE:—This is the second in a series of three articles on visual aids by Mr. Conrad. The third article will deal with Gross and Microscopic Specimens and Class Excursions and will appear in the next issue of Mind and Body.

II.	Films, Charts, and Posters as Visual Aids

A.	Films

J. J. Weber in his thorough and scholarly dissertation “Visual Aids in Education”* tests the following values of films:

a.	“The first and most obvious contribution of the film is that it provides realistic imagery which enables the pupils to give meaning to the facts presented to' them verbally”.

b.	The second contribution is better organization of subject matter as presented by the good educational film. The continuity of the film aids considerably in accomplishing this coordination and subordination of facts and inferences.

c.	The third contribution is the increased interest and enjoyment present in the film-motivated lesson. Weber says, “This much is certain; films tend to make verbal instruction more interesting; and, as interest is the oil in the learning motor, the entire classroom performance is more satisfying all around”.

Certain phases of health education can be made as dry and as valueless as a handful of desert sand by a teacher who simply talks, assigns readings, and lists terms. Teachers of geography, history, and science have long realized the excellent aid that films supply in picturing real living situations in a class room remote from real experiences. The early efforts of health education films were, at times, feeble, obvious, and lacking in story interest. They consisted of health habit preachment through the usual exaggeration of the ‘evil effects’ attendant on the non-observance of those habits. Some of them were fairly satisfactory for the primary grades; but there was a distinct lack of scientific and instructional films for the junior and senior high school pupil. But within the last few years there has been released a group of

*Mimeotyped edition, Valparaiso University 1929, Copyright 1930.

Digitized by

Google
29U

highly satisfactory films for these grade levels. Films demonstrating first aid procedures; films shoving the structure, function, and care of the various organs and special senses; and films depicting the solution of problems in community hygiene and disease prevention have been welcomed enthusiastically by the progressive teachers of health education. These films are, as a whole, scientifically sound and pedag-gically organized; virtues that were lacking, heretofore, in many instances.

There are by common agreement, three ways in which a film can be used in any gi/en lesson.

a.	As a pre-view of the topic in the approach to the lesson after a certain amount of ‘mental set’ has been established.

b.	As a means of presenting new material; supplemented where necessary with explanations and pivotal questions.

c.	As a summary of review of the topic which has been discussed or ‘developed’; thus strengthening the ‘bonds’ formed in the verbal presentation as well as providing new aspects and correcting misconceptions.

Weber thinks that the film is best used at the beginning of the topic or lesson. He says that “human beings think more easily from pictures into language than from language into pictures”. My own opinion is that in most cases there is considerable anti-climax in proceeding from a film to a discussional development. With most teachers, I am afraid that there would be a let-down in pupil interest if the film were shown first. We may grant the picture-to-language sequence as being psychol'gical-ly sound but pedagogically precarious. Satisfactory atmosphere for the lesson in question can be built up by other visual aids; e. g., blackboard illustrations and posters, while the more absorbing and interesting motion picture is reserved for the body or conclusion of the lesson.

The procedure that must be avoided is the one in which the film is projected without adequate preparation; and followed by cursory or haphazard discussion. Quoting Weber again, “The film can be as innocuous and sterile as the actual experience or equally as stimulating and fertile, depending largely upon the ingenuity of the teacher.” Of course, it is the teacher who is responsible for the effectiveness of all instruction. In selecting films* suitable for use in health education classes the following criteria may be of some help:

a.	Is the subject matter presented in an unbiased and scientific manner?

b.	Is there enough real learning accomplished through the film to justify its use?

c.	Are the characters and situations depicted reasonably natural?

d.	If humor is introduced, does it occur to such an extent that the serious purpose of the film is lost sight of?

*A list of films may be secured gratis from the National Health Council, 370 Seventh Ave., New York City.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
291

e.	Is the photography satisfactory or will possible eye-strain result from the projection?

f.	In the scenes of vital importance, is there sufficient duration of exposure for class comprehension?

g.	Is the health knowledge conveyed through the film sufficiently stimulating to exert an influence on the health practices, attitude, and skills of the pupils?

B.	Charts

Charts, as visual aids, are either printed and lithographed preparations supplied by the school board; or home-made affairs constructed by the pupils or the teacher. In selecting commercial charts illustrating anatomical, physiological, or hygienic phases of health education, care should be taken to see that they are suitable for the school grades in which they are to be used. Natural color should be employed wherever possible; and, if contrast is necessary, the exaggeration should be conservative. This type of chart, if handled properly, is vrell known to be of great value in making verbal instruction realistic. These charts are great time-savers insofar as they reduce the necessity of making complex colored blackboard sketches.

I have seen recently some excellent teacher-made charts of such organs as the heart, eye, and ear mounted on inexpensive paper shades. They were drawn in colors and admirably served the purpose of the more pretentious lithographed chart. One junior high school class made, as a project, a flat cardboard mannikin designed to reveal the position and proportion of the abdominal and thoracic viscera. A better understanding of the care of these organs would be a logical outcome from such a project.

C.	Posters.

Posters comprise a universal visual aid that can be made and employed in all grades. Their popularity is great. Topics suitable for posters are too numerous to begin mentioning. In fact, it is difficult to consider a single phase of health education that cannot be aided by the use of timely posters. Various welfare organizations, health associations, and dairy councils stand ready to supply teachers with colorful posters. Poster making is of such importance that practically all courses in Art Education provide opportunity and instruction in this activity. The classroom, the school bulletin-board, the lunchrooms and other places have proven suitable for the exhibition of posters. The following precautions should be employed in exhibiting posters:

1.	They should be relevant to a certain current ‘drive' or school enterprise.

2.	Only good work should be exhibited and overcrowding should be avoided.

3.	They should not be left to hang long enough to accumulate dust and become familiar ‘land marks’.

Digitized by Google
292

Importance of Physical Fitness to Aviators

Resume of a paper presented by Dr. E. H. Padden* before a meeting of the National Safety Council in Washington, D. C.

Aviation, in its role of a lusty new industry, has made and is continuing to make valuable contributions in data of the physical status of man. Likewise aviation is demanding physical fitness of all who engage in its flying phases.

A survey of the accidents to flyers in the "World War impressed graphically the relation of physical fitness and efficiency, for it was revealed that in the Royal Air Force alone a far greater number of crashes occurred from non-combat sources than resulted from combat. Naturally, structural failures in the inefficiently built aircraft contributed a material percentage of the non-combat accidents, but a far greater number could be attributed only to the individual condition of the pilots themselves. This survey indicated clearly that an efficient pilot should be in proper physical condition, that flying had certain peculiar requirements which aviators had to comply with or risk trouble.

A special medical board was created at that time to study more closely the pilot, constituting the first step taken in the direction of formulating a special branch of aviation medicine, since grown to be a definitely recognized factor in modern medicine. Special attention was paid to the prospective pilot’s nervous system with the multiplicity of sensory and motor reflexes related to flying.

Subsequently there was created a division of the medical forces in the Army and Navy, especially concerned with the examination and care of military flying personnel. A separate school of aviation medicine was organized and is now maintained at Randolph Field, Texas. It has kept steadily abreast of the progress of aviation, and only its graduates are employed for the inspection and treatment of air corps members.

When the Aeronautics Branch of the Department of Commerce was created to regulate civil aeronautics in the United States, a periodic physical examination was instituted once a year for private flyers and semi-annually for those pilots engaged in commercial air transportation.

United Air Lines, whose divisions have flown fifty million miles to rank as the largest air transport system in the world* commissioned the writer in 1928 to investigate the importance of physical well-being to the company's pilots and the desirability of examinations more frequent than the semi-annual inspection specified by the government. A system of thirty-day physical examinations was proved to be efficacious with the result that the

*Dr. Padden is flight surgeon for United Air Lines, world’s largest air transport operator, flying mail-passenger-expresa planes between New York and the Pacific Coast, Chicago and the Southwest, and Seattle and San Diego.

Digitized by LaOOQle
293

practice is now in effect over the company’s entire airway network, which includes the New York-Chicago-Pacific coast, the Chicago-Southwest and the Seattle-San Diego routes.

The objective of the thirty-day physical examination is greater than the elimination of accidents caused by physical inefficiency of pilots. That is an important phase of course, but an additional and significant point is that of prolonging the longevity of the flying personnel.

While it cannot be said that flying is detrimental to health, there are certain stresses imposed upon the special senses and the central nervous system of the pilot that are not commonly encountered in ground occupations. This special demand is no different from that seen in any specialized occupation.

Particular attention is paid to the three special senses, so pertinent in the flying demands. Not only is good vision a prime requisite of the efficient pilot, but just as important is equal and flexible extrinsic eye ball muscles. This is apparent when one considers that the pilot has not oiily the two horizontal planes to watch, but in addition the vertical planes with every possible degree of rotation which lie therein.

Good flying requires an exactness in the estimation of distances and space not essential in many other occupations. These well-nigh perfect eyes do not become inefficient abruptly. The onset of any imbalance is gradual, so the periodic examination detects the slow change and therapeutic exercises and other steps are taken to restore proper vision before serious consequences may occur. The contractile power of the lens commonly experienced between distant vision and close work is of paramount importance to the pilot.

The special sense of equilibria so intimately associated with the middle ear is of just as much importance as that of sight. Hearing is important, but not as vitally so as that division of the middle ear devoted entirely to equilibria. The influence of atmospheric pressure, particularly the cases where changes of altitude from ten or twelve thousand to sea level are not uncommon, produces a trauma on the Eustachian Tube which demands occasional attention.

Focal infections are prone to influence and affect those various special senses and for that reason special attention is paid to the teeth, gums, throat, bowels and all the usual abodes of infective foci.

Some form of exercise is insisted upon and the efforts expended in obtaining active exercise repay more than ordinary dividends in the increased tonicity and the efficiency of a normally functioning bowel.

Aviation medicine is primarily a preventive medicine, and during the several years of its enforcement on United Air Lines, its benefits have been forcibly demonstrated by the increasingly efficient operations records of the company.—	from

Times and Long Island Med. Journal.

Digitized by LjOOQle
294

Natural Gymnastics

By Maria Ebner, Real gymnasium d. V. Doblinger Made hen Mittel Schule, Vienna, XIX.

Is it correct to use the word “natural” in close connection with gymnastics? Are not gymnastics in any case something artificial? Nobody now-a-days could seriously think that it is possible to leave the growth of children entirely to nature. Our life-conditions are too remote from nature, even a glance at our peasants or other people living in the country, not to mention the millions living in towns, well convinces us that they live under conditions far from natural. To mention only one thing, the asphalted roads, which prevent us from walking bare-footed. There are many more reasons why we have to wear shoes, but we must realise at the same time that the practice induces many kinds of foot troubles. It is the same with numerous other things civilisation has forced upon us. “Natural” therefore only means, that all education and therefore all gymnastics should be learnt from nature.

Ci ilised life is in many ways dangerous for the body and its development. One of the tasks of school gymnastics therefore is to help to counter-act bodily suffering brought about by unsuitable conditions. We have to work against muscular weakness, faults in posture, bad breathing and other conditions, so that it seems we cannot talk at all about natural movement. One thing we can do is to find a means, in our case movement, which fellows natural laws. A child who has been brought up on artificial food, whose feet have always been encased in shoes, whose home conditions have been so limiting that the free movements necessary to a growing child have been debarred, will never regain its normal abilities, despite all efforts at school age through artificial movements.

If we wish to found a system of gymnastics on natural laws, we must endeavor to discover, first of all, how nature works in order to develop a natural human being. We therefore go back as far as possible and start with the little child. The crying of a baby is natural lung gymnastics and with the growing cnild we find an instinct for movement. To walk slowly already seems unnatural to a healthy child; we usually find it running or jumping. A small child, learning to walk, first works very hard; the movements although we like them, seem to be rather awkward, but the longer the child practises the more free does the walking become, and in the end the walking or running of an unspoiled child seems beautiful to us. There is always one thing we can notice from the beginning. Even if the child’s first attempts seem to be difficult and awkward, they are never geometrical movements, which start suddenly or are abruptly stopped.

So	we have found out two important things about natural movements. First, a movement is always done with a certain

Digitized by LjOOQle
295

aim, whether it be to do or to express something. Second, a movement is beautiful when it is done with the least possible amount of energy. We have almost lost the eye for this beauty in movement. It certainly might be fun sometimes to walk on our hands, but it is not really anything important to learn. To give another example. We certainly can train a dog to walk on its hind legs and to beg for sugar, but the important thing in the deg’s education will probably be to develop other qualifies, such as running, jumping, scenting, etc. It is the same with a child’s education. What we have to develop are the qualities which are natural to a human being. As we are living in unnatural conditions, we are obliged sometimes to work with unnatural exercises, but it should always be present to our mind that we either are doing corrective work which roust be looked upon as a kind of medicine or that we wish to lead up to natural exercises such as jumping, climbing, etc.

The next question is, how can school or school gymnastics help to preserve or regain natural movement. Looking at small children, just entering school, they have more or less the possibility of moving quite naturally: they like to move and they do not mind if they are watched.. This usually lasts up to the age of 10-12. Then most of them lose the freedom and beauty of their movements. Th.- movements become awkward and still more awkward if the children know that they are watched. This last observation gives us the key for this phenomenon. Up to about twelve the children move absolutely unconsciously, without thought or realisati'n; the movement is either aiming at some thing or is absolutely expressive of a momentary state of mind. We can sometimes see children dancing just out of pure joy of life, a sight charming and beautiful. At the time of puberty the children lose this possibility of consciousless living and life becomes a big question mark. This problematic state is a condition of mind and body. The great and difficult task of this age is now to replace instinct by intellectual means. With restrictions, this also refers to movement. The movements which up to now have been unconscious and beautiful only regain their beauty through consciousness.

To recapitulate, in a person’s natural development we have three different states which give different tasks to natural gymnastics.

[a]	The age up to about twelve, where we have to avoid

everything which might destroy the natural movement.

[b]	. The age of puberty, where we have to form movement

consciously.

[c]	. The gymnastics for the grown-up in which we have

to preserve natural movement and to counteract the harm of civilised life.

[a]. If a child is growing up under happy circumstances and has freedom and space to move in, it chooses and always finds some new tasks, some new exercises. It might climb trees,, climb or jump over an obstacle, or jump as far as a certain
296

point, etc. The child will try it over and over again till it succeeds. This shows two different things. It gives a hint as to what sort of exercises a child of this age needs and it indicates a second and very important matter. The child will try to work at the same thing till it can do it and then go on to a more difficult task. This is how all work for children should be arranged. A child never should go on to a more difficult task till it has learned to do the easier one, otherwise the child will never arrive at the fullest extent of its working capabilities.

A child also likes finding its own way of doing a thing, it does not want to be pressed to the final result. The important thing for a child is not only the final result, but also the way to achieve it. In school gymnastics we have to do the choosing which otherwise a child would do for itself. This gives us a great responsibility. The best and safest thing to do [for this age] is to choose the exercises from natural movements, such as we see animals perform, running, jumping, climbing, pulling, pushing, lifting and carrying objects, etc. To choose any form of artificial exercises or any movements which are supposed to be done in a certain style would be a very bad and harmful procedure. The amount of physical exertion in all of these exercises can be quite large, especially as the physiological conditions of this age are far better than of the next stage. I only mention the favourable relation of the size of the heart to*the diameter of the veins. Quite strenuous exercises can be given therefore, but never lasting for a long period. Exercises of long duration are unsuited to both the mental and the physical state.

It is typical at this age that the children try to find a solution for a certain problem. They do not work much with their intellect. They strive to discover the solution, mostly by practical trial. This practical way of discovery is not less valuable than an intellectual way, and is undoubtedly characteristic of the period. The majority of the exercises should present a problem to which the children must find their own personal and best solution. Work ought to be done from pure joy of movement without much measuring of effects, especially as, left alone, the children will not arrive at measurable or like solutions. It is a difficult thing for grown-up people not to have a certain aim in mind. The one thing to do, therefore, is to remain open-minded and not to preconceive a particular solution, since there are probably others—all equally good.

It is sometimes necessary to do different movements as a kind of corrective. In this age children usually possess the imagination to do certain things if a suggestion is given them. For example, turn a big wheel, cut wood, etc. But these things should only be done as long as the children find pleasure in acting them. The older children grow the more they take notice consciously of outside things and if they are told then to pull a rope, they desire to have a real rope to pull. Their power of imagination is no longer strong enough to replace the real, and therefore the movement is not natural any longer, it becomes
297

artificial, thought out. All this applies to freestanding exercises and likewise to apparatus work, because the latter must be chosen from the same point of view. For instance, if we wish the pupils to jump over a box, we must leave the problem of how it needs be effected to them, and not insist upon a certain form or style.

If it is perhaps a difficult thing to find these new exercises, it probably is still more difficult to. teach them. Orders in this age ought to be given in a conversational and not in a commanding manner. It seems more natural, and it certainly is a better impulse for a natural movement, to tell a child to “Kneel down and put your hands on the floor,” than to say “In prone kneeling—down ” In the fust case the child gives a less tense attention to the teacher. The teacher should also try to avoid demonstrating exercises, as the keen child, especially, will try to copy them as exactly as possible and is therefore prevented from finding its individual and natural movement. It is quite a different thing if the teacher works simultaneously with a class.

When it comes to helping children to find a good movement by corrections, great care has to be exercised. Only major and obvious faults should be corrected, like standing with feet out-turned to a right angle, breathing through the mouth, etc. Many of the other things which sometimes seem awkward, disappear when the child has found a good way of doing an exercise. Cer tainly no corrections should ever destroy the child’s joy in movement—the natural joy of performing physical exercise. A gymnastic lesson should always be a time full of joy and happiness. In review, children up to about twelve should get physical exercise in the form of physical problems and they must be free to find their own best way of doing them. It is the child’s age for play, hence correction should only be given in playlike form.

[b]. The second state in the child’s development is the age of puberty. Now the teacher’s task is much more arduous. The children largely lose the possibility of free movement. Both their state of mind and their physical development make movement so much more difficult for them. Only to mention one thing—the lengths of the limbs are changing. In a way the child has to relearn its movements and it feels fatigue readily and often. Commonly, two types of children are observable at this age. Those who are feeling tired and have lost the joy of moving, which was so dominant in the younger child, and others who need much exercise but have lost nearly all their power of control and desire to learn. The difficult task is now to arouse the interest of both groups. To start from an intellectual point of view is very often a great help. The first and important thing is to show the value of natural and good movement in order to make the children wish to work for their physical betterment. Children of this age have already great power of understanding. Some points would be: value for general health—preparation for manual work—high attainment in sport—means of artistic expression—and many more. The more or less stressing

Digitized by CjOOQle
298

of the several points depends on the varying characters of the children. It certainly is one of the most difficult tasks.

The work in this age should be two-fold. The really serious practices and the application of the acquired skilfulness, by playing games or practising activities in the open air, skiing, swimming, rock climbing etc. It is very important that the children should realise a connection between the serious, perhaps sometimes less interesting, practising of fundamental movements and the usefulness of these for application in real life. The open air practice is also important for gaining touch with Nature.

The method of work with small children and children in the age of adolescence is very different. In childhood different tasks are put before the children and they have to find their own best solution. This applies to work in the gymnasium as well as to any open air work in the swimming bath. It is the same in the learning of other matters. The child does not think; it tries, and by collecting experiences acquires greater skilfulness. The grown-up has the possibility of imagining movements and therefore can shorten the experimental steps. He first thinks over the best way of doing things and then may be able to do them at the first attempt. Usually in adults both methods of learning physical accomplishments are combined.

In the age of adolescence often the only way of helping young people through this difficult age is by training physical ability through the intellect. To give an example—in athletics we may use technical exercises. This is the intellectual way of learning movement^. We learn them in parts, until we are able to combine these, but we may not have accomplished the task before the whole movement has been co-ordinated and automatised, or, to use a better term, vitalised. Adolescents frequently have the impression that there is nothing for them to learn in the old exercises, as those of walking, running, etc. It is therefore important to teach them new exercises, for instance, a new jump or some new apparatus work. With these exercises the teacher usually has to ask for a certain style in the exercise and the way of learning is quite different from that in childhood.

In most cases it is advisable to eliminate a certain part of a movement and make the practice conscious. For example, a certain swing, say, has to be practised. The pupil tries to realise how the swing starts, develops momentum through gravitation, then gets slower and eventually comes to a dead point where strength must be applied to extend the range of the swing. The important aim of such practice therefore, is not the result but the movement itself, which becomes controlled and conscious. Once learned, the new movement has to be practised till it has become automatic or vitalised, and is, indeed, very part of the person who performs it. It is perfectly clear that this method of doing physical exercise is not only a physical but an intellectual task and demands a high amount of concentration. Hence the work which has preceded the gymnastic lesson must be considered
299

and the programme so arranged that it will balance with the work in the preceding school lesson.

In this period of adolescence it is no longer sufficient to put a physical problem before the pupil and be satisfied with any kind of solution. It is important now to find the best solution: not only to find it, but to be able to obtain it, which may require hard personal work. It is personal work because each individual moves in a different way, and although the solution may be common in some respects, it will vary in others. The main task will be to lead the pupils, consciously, up to natural movement, to make them realise that natural movement means an absolutely balanced movement, to show them what helps to get natural movement and what destroys it. There will be many exercises in the work in order to show details, as in moving forward where the bodily weight has to be controlled. Besides these exercises which help us to realise and learn details in movement, there must be others which unite and co-ordinate theso details.

Quite a number of appropriate exercises permit of measurement; to measure is not the important matter, but the pupil needs a proof that he or she is progressing in physical ability. Thus, by measurement we can show that a person has improved in high jumping. It is not the increase in height that concerns, but the fact that physical education helps to increase physical possibilities. All the final performances, as in high jumping, only show the result of physical education. To exceed a certain height requires more than mere practice: the whole body must be trained and exeicised. The child’s jumping is play-like—for sheer joy—it lives in the present; the adolescent desires to work with a certain aim—lives for the future and looks for progress. The physical education in adolescence is not play-like: it is practice for the whole human being—body, intellect and spirit.

As many different kinds of physical activity as possible should be practised in this age, but at least one should be in the open air. By doing gymnastics in a gymnasium one is easily tempted to make two faults. Strong fatigue may arise from using too much strength in an exercise, or sometimes the opposite fault may happen, there is too much relaxation. In open air exercises like skiing, swimming, etc., these faults become obvious immediately. There is a second reason. It is rather difficult to invent indoor exercises for older pupils who have reached a certain standard, yet which still include a task for which the pupils have to work. The danger is the substituting of more and more artificial exercises. In outdoor exercises, as skiing or skating, the increasing difficulty is provided naturally.

The corrective work with adolescents is of high importance. Serious faults, such as breathing through the mouth or standing with toes turned out too widely should not be corrected repeatedly. Instead, these faults, once realised, must be left to the pri vate effort of the pupil. The amount of correction also depends on the state of mental fatigue of the pupils. The best moment for correction therefore needs to be chosen very carefully: it is
3UU

usually when a fault stops further progress. As the young people often already suffer from feelings of inferiority, any discouraging correction must be carefully avoided.

As the most difficult task for the teacher is to learn to cognise faults, a suitable gymnastic dress for the pupils is one of the chief aids, especially as human eyes have not, unfortunately, the power of penetration like X rays. It is also important that the pupils themselves should learn to observe. Just as the whole work should be built up in gradually increasing difficulty, the corrective work should be arranged in similar manner. Physical education can help young people to realise that only steady and serious^ work produces progress, and this cognition, applied to intellectual work, v ill be a lasting educational benefit.

[c.] There is little now to be said about the work with adults. If they have had a regular and good physical education, the task will but be to proceed along the same lines, perhaps with special care of the corrective work, in order to counteract faults acquired by vocational work. But work with adolescents should have already anticipated this. If one is concerned with adults who have never had much physical education, the work is nearly the same as with adolescents. A very important job to be considered in all stages is that the lessons must be joyful and have enough recreational activity. The spirit of a gymnastic class should always be a very happy one. Indeed, the chief characteristic of any kind of work in physical education is enjoyment.—School Hy. and Phys. Edu.

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL WOMEN'S SPORT COMMITTEE, A.A.U.

From the answers returned to 850 questionnaires mailed, the National Women’s Sports Committee present the following data, figures, and recommendations.

In the 232 answers, 107 are from individuals who have held either Olympic or National honors [dating back to 1912], or who have broken World Records. Eighty .of them are married with 79 children. As the majority are young girls not yet old enough to be married, the above percentage favorably bears out the statement, “competitive athletics do not have a harmful effect upon child birth.”

These girls have gone into sports because of health, recreation or natural ability, the encouragement of family, friends, and coaches, or for the business training necessary for athletic teaching. They believe in the competitive spirit [216 united] because it creates sportsmanship of a high standard, a stimulus and a challenge improving skill, and because it is an incentive to regular, healthful training which produces the highest type effort for patience, team spirit, leadership, and mental resourcefulness.

One hundred and forty two have made it a. rule to sleep at least nine hours a night, while 125 have omitted sweets, starches.

Digitized by v^ooQle
301

and fried or rich foods from their diets. Regular hours for meals, with no eating between, have been observed. It is most interesting to note, in view of present day habits, that 203 of these girls do not smoke while in training. In spite of what might be called sacrifices, all but five are certain that their athletic training has been well worth while.

In their own words, they have insured health, enjoyed travel and inter-national friendships; they have learned to ‘always finish the race,’ regardless of winning or losing, and they have carried over into later life the importance of the team over the individual.

Two hundred and nine have found their physical condition improved in developed and co-ordinated muscles, increased endurance and resistance to disease, better breathing and blood circulation, fewer doctor's bills, and more energy with steadied nerves.

One hundred and eighty six have competed during menses as against 41 who did not. Of this former number, 178 have experienced no harmful results, while 24 complained of cramps, irregular periods, and lassitude. Other troubles which the competitors do not particularly attribute to athletic competition are sinus infections, ear trouble, nervous strain, colds, anemia, rheumatism, and an enlarged heart. These answers have been doubly checked and, in each case, the competitor states she “has had no illness that can be traced to athletics,” or “a physician has pronounced me perfect in physical condition within the past six months.”

In the matter of coaching, 90 were trained by men, 42 by women, and 91 had both men and women. When it comes to an indicated expression, 125 prefer men, 48 women, 21 are satisfied with either, while 21 think it depends upon the ability and personality of the coach. There is little doubt that these figures would be substantially changed if the A.A.U. could rely upon a corps of efficient women for this work.

The chaperonage of young girls who appear before the public is an important question, and the A.A.U. may be congratulated upon the fact that 203 have at all times been in charge of an older woman. Two hundred and eleven do, or would, enthusiastically favor competition for their daughters under proper supervision, and in moderation. Two would enter them only in swimming events, and two are not satisfied with athletic conditions as they exist today.

Under the guidance of the A.A.U., one of the largest unions in the world, thousands of young girls of all nationalities, and from all classes of society, have been developed and protected in athletic competition. There are yet, however, many conditions which might be improved. The Committee therefore respectfully recommends to the Rules Committee of the A.A.U. a careful revision of rules for women’s sports, with an even greater insistence, than in the past, upon their enforcement as finally drafted. The following suggestions are offered:

Digitized by ^.ooQle
302

1.	More women included upon committees.

2.	No long jumping, distance running, or snot-puts for girls under 18. [English rule.]

3.	Limitation for number of events entered into one day. [Canadian rule.]

4.	Greater stress put upon the necessity of physical examination at regular intervals.

5.	Special investigation of the conditions under which the girls play basket ball. Rules governing private individuals, and business firms, who organize and sponsor girls' basket ball teams should be drafted, and enforced.

6.	Sleeves omitted from jerseys, with insistence of robe when not in active competition.

To the Olympic Committee:

1.	Cnaracter, rather than politics, to be considered in the appointment of a man coach, a woman coach, and a woman chaperon. None of these to be in any way affiliated with one, or more, particular groups of contestants.

2.	Limitations of number of events entered into by one person.

Finally, the Committee urges an extended program on the part of the A.A.U. which will educate the public as well as the competitors in the ideals of amateurism. For negative reasons only, the ideal is in danger of being submerged in the physical victory. Concerted action of all those interested is imperative to safeguard and maintain its high standards. Youth is impressionable, and inspiration should come through school days. A great and unusual opportunity waits before the officials of the

A.A.U. in the training of our future citizens.

Mrs. Richard S. Folsom, Chairman, Chicago, 111.

Body and Soul Relationships in ^Physical Education.

Translated by Ernest Thoma, Cincinnati, Ohio.

An interesting chapter in “Die Frau,” by Dr. Eugen Matthias, is entitled “Von der Koerper-seele”. Briefly he points to the extremes between which various systems of gymnastics have placed their foundations, one, the purely functional muscle exercise, without regard for other values or the deeper needs of the individual; the other an equally one-sided emphasis upon the psychical values, believing an anatomical, physiological and biological foundation quite superfluous, yes, even harmful. Examining the claims of the extremists he asks: “Are these contrasts really necessary? Is pure body culture really only a physically directed, intellectualized muscle-control? Are cramped muscles really a hindrance to the free flow of the creative phantasy? Does this phantasy really flow through the body as an essential to sound

Digitized by LaOOQle
3u3

rhythm? Does every emotion demand physical expression? Is the suppression of the intellect and the will prerequisite to the free flow of the phantasy and can the originally inherent creative productivity of man be reestablished by submergance into sub-consciousness?”

Physical and Psychical.

The author proceeds to answer these questions in the light of present day knowledge and with a view to establish the possibilities of his “fundamental gymnastics for women”. He develops his subject to the following statement: “So we have two potentials to deal with, the instinctive and the individual, or, as Klages says, the ‘It and the I’, opposing one another, the “it” as the physical being, the “I” as the conscious, thinking, feeling and willful mentality.”

Then he further sums up the proposition thus: Do relations exist between the “It” and the “I”? Of what nature? Are they so close that we must agree with Bode when he says “All things emotional demand expression in bodily motion and every supres-sion is poison to the soul.” Analyzing the situation, he points out the following known facts:

1.	The activity and secretions of various endocrine glands have a definite relationship to psychical stresses and are more active in women than in men.

2.	Emotions, like muscular exercise, affect the circulation. The distribution of blood favors the head and the external muscula-tive in ideas of physical activity as well as in activity itself and also in emotions of a pleasant nature, while unpleasant emotions cause a congestion of the internal organs, especially the abdominal, with a relative anaemia of the brain and muscles. This fact indicates that only from exercises accompanied by pleasant emotions may we expect the maximum of benefit. In this connection it is significant that usually with the performance of physical exercise an exhilarating effect, a pleasant feeling is soon created. The congestion in the liver, with its accompanying nervous tension is relieved with resulting buoyancy of spirit. There is a mutual exchange of cause and effect between the physical and the emotional, certain emotions causing certain physiological changes and certain physiological conditions causing certain emotions.

3.	Maximum physical performances are possible only under the stimulus of extraordinary emotional excitement. There is an increased gland activity, an increased infusion of adrenalin and of reserve red corpuscles from the spleen into the circulation, prerequisites to maximal muscular performance.

4.	As to whether cramped muscles hinder the free flow of the creative phantasy, Professor Matthias says that research fails to reveal any proof that creative genius and muscle work have any relation. They are widely separated realms.

5.	Relative to the statement that the creative imagination can become active only when the intellect and the will are submerged, and that for this reason, gymnastics, if they are to aid the

Digitized by

Google
3u4

creative imagination, must consist of movements guided solely by emotion and not by the intellect or the will, he concludes his remarks with these statements: The creative act is an act of great effort. It is the awakening of a thought, perhaps dreamily born, the grasping and conquering of the same and developing it to a full tangible reality. Even this thought, at first dream like, develops sufficiently to culminate in creation, only by continuous willful effort. So we rest assured that, when we do exercises guided by conscious intellect and directed consequently by the will, we are not disturbing the latent creative forces, but that, to the contrary, such exercising of the will and training of the intellect constitute helpful preliminary work. It is a fallacy to expect a development of creative energy from dreamily executed physical exercises.

Expression vs. Suppression

In answer to Bode’s statement that “all things emotional demand expression in bodily motion and every suppression is poison to the soul,” the Professor says, “If this is so, then we may bury all those values we know as self-control, intellectual guidance and self-discipline. There should be a limit to self-expression.” The fact that some do not betray their feelings visibly is neither proof nor indication that they are not affected as deeply as others. Furthermore, the expression of emotions by bodily movement is not a matter for everyone. Comparatively few have this capacity to a marked degree. Here, too, it may be said, “Many are called, but few are chosen,” and much passing for genius, is only acquired. For the genuine artist, however, we have frank admiratipn.

So finally Professor Matthias belie es he has indicated the limitations of his fundamental gymnastics for women, which he sums up thus:

a.	Our fundamental gymnastics is purposeful. It strives to satisfy that inherent desire for physical activity. In this sense it is rational, but it does not stop at purely anatomical-movement elements, but goes deeper and satisfies the entire organic demands.

b.	It is consistent with the most recently established facts in innervation or, we may say, impulse physiology.

c.	Where possible we try to give our movements such forms as will satisfy the sense of beauty in form and posture.

In the fulfillment of these fundamental principles we hope to induce a flow from the physical to the psychical, we hope for a freeing of tne spirit of joy a loosening up of the tenseness, a transition into joyousness and from there to a happy, liL-con-firming optimism.

But a new people we can not and will not create. Of tnis we are clearly conscious, that the problem of the soul, inherent in each individual breast, the emotional ebb and flow and strife engendered by the relationship of “I and you”, is, in the last analysis, not physical and can only be solved by the “mind-soul”. However, organically planned gymnastics will create for this, bodily and physically, a stronger hold; of this we are positive and glad. —The Discobolus.
305

CANCER, ITS CURE AND PREVENTION

By George T. Pack, M. D.

[New York	btate Department oj Health	Radio Talk]

What is cancer? Cancer is a lawless growth of body cells, which if unchecked, will destroy life.

Cancer is on the increase. One of every eight women and one of every eleven men, who reach the age of 35/ are destined to die of cancer. The yearly deaths from cancer in this country equal the total deaths of Americans in the World War. Annually, more people die of cancer than are killed by railroads, street cars, automobiles, fires, drowning, mining accidents, machinery, poisons, homicides, suicides, combined.

Unfortunately cancer is no respector of persons and frequently destroys individuals previously healthy and vigorous. Such persons are too prone to disregard early symptoms. Frequently, they pay no attention to slight irritations unless they cause pain, persistent discomfort or noticeably interfere with bodily functions. Would that all such conditions be attended by warning of injury, such as acute pains. Then perhaps, the physicians would be consulted as early as in appendicitis.

Almost every food constituent at some time or other has been blamed as a cause of cancer. The quantity of food rather than the particular type of food eaten is perhaps important, because cancer is more common among corpulent persons than_ among those underweight. It is the gastric athlete who digs his grave with his teeth.

Cancer is not contagious; it is not a germ disease. There is no danger to anyone constantly in close proximity to a cancerous person. The cancer patient should not be isolated or ostracized.

There are certain conditions of the tissues which predispose to cancer, termed precancerous. A precancerous condition is not cancer, but it is rich in cancerous possibilities. The onset of cancer is not sudden; it is usually a slow insidious development. Precancerous conditions should be removed and .their causes avoided, because of their possibilities for harm.

Some of the cancers which can be cured, providing diagnosis is made early and appropriate treatment instituted without delay are cancers of the skin, lip, mouth, cheek, antrum, tongue, pharynx, larynx, stomach, large intestine, rectum, breast, uterus, bladder, kidney, ovary, testis, bone. All cancers are not equally dangerous. Thus certain bone tumors grow rapidly, spread early to other parts of the body and are extremely difficult to cure, whereas other bone tumors are quite amenable to early treatment. When a patient has been treated for a cancer and afterwards remains well and apparently free from the disease for five years, it may be assumed that a cure has been accomplisned. _

The agents used in the treatment of cancer are not universally applicable to all varieties. Some cancers are best treated by radium alone, others by surgery alone, still others by the proper

Digitized by (^.ooQle
306

combinations of x-rays, radium and surgery. Occasionally patients insist on radium treatments for cancer which can only be cured by surgical excision, other patients are much opposed to the use of radium because it was unsuccessful in the case of a triend or relative. Tne answer to tnese controversies, is tnat cancer can be cured by different metnods of treatment, but usually for any one variety of cancer the type of treatment is well conceived and planned.

Cancer will diminish when adults in apparent good health demand of the doctor a periodic examination, which shall serve as a true inventory of all organs affected by cancer, [skin, mouth, digestive tract, genital organs as the uterus, breast, rectum] when observation and direct examination of these organs shall be permitted and expected as indispensable parts of these examinations; when discovery of a suspicious condition shall stimulate the patient to seek immediate and skilled medical advice; and when you, as patients are willing to go at least yearly to your physician for such examination. Early diagnosis means a higher percentage of cancer cures.

The Twentieth Hole in Golf

LeGrand Kerr, M.D., F.A.A.P., Consulting Physician to the Methodist Episcopal Hospital and Rockaway Beach Hospital and Alexis Tice Mays, M.D. Chief of Cardiac Clinic and Assistant Attending Physician, Long Island College Hospital; Clinical Assistant, Cardiac Clinic, Polyclinic Hospital.

A banker hurried through his morning duties to join a foursome. Early in a close, exciting game his “old indigestion” bothered him. This was not a new complaint, but he considered it of little moment because he had just eaten heartily. _ At the 16th hole “the indigestion” had returned, and at this time was more severe as he walked up grade. “Digestive” tablets did not give the usual relief. Teeing off, he could not maintain the rapid gait of his friends. It was embarrassing to slow down but it relieved the pain. An unusual, intense perspiration was attributed to the heat. He completed the 18th hole in discomfort. That evening, after dinner, he felt fatigued and prostrated. Too exhausted to eat; too tired to speak; too nervous to sleep; he had to forego his evening activities. This case is typical of many: he was playing the twentieth hole.

The twentieth hole in golf is usually played in the quiet of the home or in bed, but may be started on the g^lf course. It does not necessarily follow the nineteenth hole, which may be omitted entirely, but it is the part of the game played, as a rule, several hours after the eighteenth hole. The technique of play is entirely different from that of any other hole. The stance is different; in fact, there is no stance. In its place is substituted a

Digitized by L^ooQle
307

reclining position with relaxation that is more complete than at any other period of the game.

The twentieth hole is by far the most important of any in the game, for it not alone affects one’s score in subsequent games of golf but is a determining factor in the game of Life. Not uncommonly it determines whether that will be three score years and ten, or less.

There is no question of the increasing popularity of golf as a sport and a recreation. Neither is there any question that the game has a morbidity and a mortality that are not commonly recognized as such. Men are often made ill by over indulgence in the game and, in not a few instances, an early and unnecessary fatality has occurred because the game was played well but not wisely. How frequently we hear the statement: “I think I played a little too much g~>lf yesterday; I do not feel so good to-day” or “Some days I feel all right after eighteen holes and then again, the last few holes tire me out.” It rarely occurs to the individual to ask himself, how, when and where he played the game..

But what possible difference could that make, as to when, how and where? Well, these are the facts. The great majority of persistent and consistent players of the game are those over the age of forty years. The man between forty and fifty years is probably at the height of his responsibilities and capabilities. Whether he is willing to admit it or not, the responsibilities may increase but the capability tends markedly to decrease, particularly upon the merely physical side. Therefore, the participation in keen competition; in business or in the game of g If; the prolongation of physical effort or the sustaining of unusual physical effort for a shorter period becomes a factor of no small concern to the individual approaching or over the age of fifty years. Many such individuals unthinkingly accomplish what for them is over-exertion, although they may not reccgnize it as such. More frequently, the chief complaint is overtire and a lack of desire for the usual meal. This may occur some hours after the unusual or prolonged effort and, not uncommonly, the added symptom of slight abdominal discomfort has been wrongly attributed to so-called “indigestion.”

The golfer has at least a good reason for continuing his game; the game is a direct challenge to his self control. But self control involves more than mere confidence in his ability to do an easy job well; to relax to the point of enjoyment and not to take the game and the individual score too seriously. We all take g~>lf more or less seriously; our most enjoyable games are those in which we made our lowest scores or one or more fine or unusual shots. Deliberately broken clubs, jarred tempers and repeated threats to give up the game all evidence the fact that we take the game seriously. We would not continue to play if we did not. Self control involves the selection of a suitable course to play upon so that the proper relaxation of mind which contributes so much to the benefits and the joys of the game

Digitized by LjOOQle
308

while actual play is on may be followed by healthful relaxation of the body and the heart muscle after the game has been completed.

Now, acute cardiac strain from overexertion may leave the heart permanently crippled or may accentuate degenerative changes. If persisted in it commonly leads to enlargements of the heart and changes in the arteries which lead again to early degenerative changes in the circulatory system. It is common enough for men to be careful in the preparation for their game on the morrow. It is common enough to find the player foregoing that extra cocktail or insisting upon an early to bed principle, because he must be in condition for to-morrow's competition. How seldom, however, do we find a man as cautious about what may happen several hours after his game. It is the main purpose of this communication to lead all golfers of middle age and over to a careful consideration of their capacity for the game to the end that they may enjoy it indefinitely.

Now frankly, what occurs when extra holes are played beyond the capacity of the particular individual? Or when a much smaller number of holes are played on a course that is not nearly flat and requires frequent efforts to climb elevations and walk relatively long distances over hard or rough fairways? The player experiences a sensation of shortness of breath; a consciousness that effort is being made which is not comfortable. This is a most important warning if it occurs after exercise or exertion. Breathlessness is one of the commonest and earliest symptoms of heart disease. It should not, however, be misinterpreted as there is also a normal amount of incapacity. For instance, it is normal to become out of breath after climbing three or four flights of steps, or from walking upgrade 250 to 300 yards. If the same individual becomes gradually or suddenly restricted to one or two flights of stairs or upgrade for 75 to 100 yards, this indicates lessened response to effort, and is a symptom of disease. Accompanying this dyspnea, heavy beating or rapid beating, sometimes called “fluttering” by the patient, may be felt with anything more than ordinary exertion. Sensations such as fullness, heaviness, smothering, pressure, tightness, constriction, choking or dull ache, may also occur due to heart disease.

Anginal pains due to heart disease are commonly misinterpreted and mistaken for a so-called “indigestion. ” “muscle strain,” or “a cold in the chest.” Because of this misconstruction the individual continues to exert himself against nature’s signal of danger. Finally he either slowly or suddenly meets with the terrifying and excruciating attack, caused by obstruction or occlusion of the blood supply in one of the coronary arteries and in its branches. This severs the circulation to that part of the heart supplied by the artery, producing an ischemic or deficient area that can no longer function without nourishment. These warnings should be investigated by a physician to ascertain if the heart is at fault. The location of such discomfort is immense-

Digitized by Google
309

ly important. If due to angina it is felt beneath or close to the sternal borders in the great majority of cases, Unfortunately, the pain in some cases of angina is felt in the epigastrium and sometimes in the region of the shoulder or back, in the arms, or possibly in the neck region. To make the diagnosis more difficult and misleading, it may only be felt in the right shoulder, or the right arm region.

The pain or discomfort may remain localized, or, as in the majority of cases, it radiates to either the shoulder, neck, or down the arm to the fingers [usually the ring and little fingers]. In 75 per cent of the cases the pain is felt in the left extremity.

An attack of discomfort or pain due to angina pectoris seldom comes after prolonged rest. Exertion is the common exciting factor, although excitement may be a predominating cause. It not uncommonly occurs during the period of relaxation which follows overexertion and overtire. It is not uncommon to read an account of a man who has undergone some unusual, or prolonged physical exertion, followed by a more or less heavy meal and several hours later by sudden death. So golf mortality is something that cannot be neglected.

We have found that the influence of emotion and excessive use of tobacco can cause pain or discomfort in the region of the heart and the laity, particularly, are inclined to give little thought to these as a cause for their “ill feelings.”

Obese individuals, especially those with large and protuberant abdomens, seek exercise for loss of weight, and often turn to golf. With displacement of the diaphragm upwards the heart rotates on its long axis, and is displaced upwards and to the left. By this change of position, the larger blood vessels at the base of the heart tend to become narrowed or kinked. This lessens the blood supply. The heart muscle is supplied by coronary arteries which fill in diastole. Exertion and excitement cause an increase of the heart rate, which shortens the diastolic phase of the cardiac cycle, lessening the amount of blood supply. It is more apt to affect those individuals who already have more or less narrowed or sclerotic blood vessels, adding greatly to the lessened amount of blood supply* even in the absence of exertion or excitement.

Golf is a great game; so is life. Both require concentration and relaxation. Keep the head down in Golf and keep the heart up in Life. No two individuals are exactly alike; therefore # one may play the game on as long and as hard a course as one likes, but watch out for the danger signals if approaching or past middle life. At the first signs of danger, shorten the game or change the course. There is quite as much competition, skill and companionship on the short course as on the longer one; and often more of real comfort and health. Nine holes on a long, hard course may be too much; eighteen or more on a flat, easy course may be safe for the same individual.

Some have been advised to give up golf, but, before that is decided, it is only fair that one’s physician should be told what

Digitized by t^ooQle
310

kind and length of course one plays and to what extent it taxes one’s endurance. Not unmindful of the many tragic diasters and the ill-health induced by over-exertion in this fascinating game, we feel compelled to warn the golfer to play the game safely, within his individual capacity — Reprint jrom	Times

Long Island Med. Journal.

HEREDITARY BLINDNESS

The August 1932 issue of the Journal of Heredity contains a very interesting article on hereditary blindness by Lewis E. Cariss. He states “The question of the reduction or elimination of the number of persons blind from heredity is perhaps the most perplexing problem of the movement for the prevention of blindness—much more complicated than the reduction of blindness from such other causes as trachoma, accidents, ophthalmia, neonatorum, etc. As a matter of fact, such activities as society may undertake to bring about a reduction of blindness from this cause must of necessity be a part of a larger eugenics program”.

Mr. Cariss, after giving the reduction in the number of blind from inheritable causes its proper setting in the whole problem of heredity insofar as that problem affects the future welfare of the human race, gives particular consideration to each of the types of hereditary blindness, reminds us of the difference between congenital and hereditary blindness, warns against the still common assumption that an acquired physical characteristic can be inherited, and then presents the following table:

TABLE I.—Incidence of Blindness in the Children of the

Blind *

Total Affected Normal % Affected Disease	Families	Children	Children	Children	Children

I. Albinism 		13	60	23	37	
II. Aniridia and Colomba					
Iridis 		72	199	147	52	73.8
III. Anophthal and Microph					
thal		’ 48	117	87	30	74.4
IV. Atrophy of Optic Nerve	150	506	312	194	61..6
V. Cataract	.		404	1446	836	610	57 ..8
VI. Ectopia Lentis 		64	212	155	57	73 ..1
VII. Family Degen. of the					
Cornea 		32	114	62	52	54..4
VIII. Glaucoma 		58	194	109	85	56..2
IX. Megalophthalmus 		8	28	21	7	
X. Nystagmus...		30	107	66	41	61 ..7
XI. Ophthalmoplegia and					
Ptosis 		39	145	94	51	64„8
XII. Retinitis Pigmentosa ..	286	1027	611	416	59 _5
Total—All Diseases „ ... 1204		4155	2523	1632	60.8

*Based on table appearing on page 38 of "The Marriage of the Blind from the Standpoint of a Physician,” by Dr. C. Loeb.

Digitized by LiOOQle
MIND AND BODY

Vol.39	FEBRUARY,	1933	No.	410

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE Emil Rath, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

Carl L. Schrader, Boston, Massachusetts.

James E. Rogers, Director National Physical Education Service, National Recreation Asso., New York.

Grover W. Mueller, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.,

Editorial communications are to be sent to GROVER W. MUELLER, Editor, 504 Administration Bldg., Parkway at 21st St. Philadelphia, Pa.

Subscription payments should be made to Mind & Body, New Ulm, Minn.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Editorial Comment

The Associated Press reports that the Southern Conference, during its meeting in January, charged that flagrant recruiting and subsidization of athletes, together with low scholastic standards, exist in Southern colleges and asked for an investigation and drastic steps to prohibit such practices. This is a hopeful sign and we congratulate the Conference on the action which has been taken. It is in line with the ‘cleaning up' process which has been under way for some time in other sections of the country.

With all due respect for intercollegiate athletics, and we believe they serve valuable ends and should be fostered, they should not make it possible for a student who is unsatisfactory in his scholastic work to remain in college. We can see no reason why there should be two standards, one for athletes and another for non-athletes.

In an interesting article in the January issue of Mind and Body, James E. Rogers named five criteria in the job of putting physical education into education during the next ten years. With the thought that a discussion on each of these five criteria would be valuable at this time, Mr. Rogers has agreed to prepare a series of articles, the first of which appears on other pages of this issue. Intelligent and earnest thought cn these vital topics and appropriate action by the members of our profession will go far in discouraging losses to physical education in these days of retrenchment in education, and will prepare the way for further healthy expansion of our work when more favorable economic conditions permit.

A fortune awaits him who develops an all-weather playground surface which is suitable for school yards and for all other relatively small play areas.

Digitized by OjOOQle
Such a surface must be fairly soft and elastic and quite flat; at the same time it must be durable. The original cost and the maintenance must be reasonably low.

The most valuable contribution in this connection which has come to our notice is the study made by the National Recreation Association on “Surfacing of Playgrounds? and. other spprt facilities. This report contains most if not all the available technical information on the subject.

Education in Physical Education.

By James Edward Rogers, Director, National Physical Education Service.

1.	Development Of A Well Organized, Balanced, Worth-

while Program.

There are five criteria essential to the job of putting education into physical education, viz., [1] development of well organized, balanced, worthwhile programs, [2] a graded program, [3] a program based upon individual needs, [4] a program based upon educational procedures, and [5] a program that gains definite achievement and results. This is the first paper of a series of five and discusses the need for well organized, balanced, worthwhile programs.

Superintendents and principals expect of the physical education teacher, as they do of teachers of other subjects in the curriculum, a well organized period of activity or recitation. This is what they are paid for—to do a good full job and to do it well. For years other teachers have organized and systematized their work so that the educational administrator knows definitely the progress that is being made daily, weekly and monthly. It is convenient for the other teachers to start their session immediately after the bell rings and they can get forty minutes of recitation out of the forty-five minute period. However, because of the lack of organization in some places, the superintendent and principal comment that when it comes to the physical education program he is lucky if he gets a twenty minute period of recitation or activity.

The physical educator, however, works under many handicaps as compared to the other teachers. He has the problem of preparing for the class work-in the undressing, dressing and showers preceding and following the period. All.of this takes time; therefore the great need that these preliminaries to the class work be highly systematized so that they are done smoothly and rapidly. In many cities a definite time limit is set for all this. In some places five minutes is assigned to getting dressed, on the floor and ready for rollcall, and ten minutes is allotted for dressing, shower and back for the next recitation. This means fifteen minutes out of a forty-five minute period, or only thirty minutes for actual work. Counting the pauses—e. g., roll-call—there is still another five or seven minutes taken up in the preparation of the program. Hence we see the need for program

Digitized by L^ooQle
313

planning and time saving devices. If we are to actually have thirty minutes of constructive activity this matter of organizing the class routine and getting into session immediately is of much importance.

In order to save time in many cities they are doing away with the old fashioned rollcall by name. Some cities have a system of rollcall by squads and squad leaders. I saw a rollcall of over one hundred boys taken in fifteen seconds—more time was saved for the activities. This is done in two ways; [1] by squads with numbers or colors, or by spots on the floor. Another device being used in Somerville, Massachusetts, and Binghamton, New York, is by each boy putting a numbered brass check on a board as he enters the gymnasium. There are one hundred brass checks running from one to one hundred. A class leader is in charge at the door so no time is wasted in a rollcall and yet a rollcall is efficiently taken.

In brief, because of the time necessary for dressing, undressing and getting ready for class work, it is highly necessary if we are to actually have twenty-five minutes of recitation by everybody that a definite time schedule be arranged. After all, twenty-five or thirty minutes of activity is but a small amount of time when it is considered that the average high school has only three periods a week and only two of these are for activities, the other one being for hygiene.

So our first problem is to so time our preliminaries that we get at least a thirty-minute recitation of actual activities. The second problem is that during these thirty minutes a few boys will not have most of the activity while the greater number simply stand around or wait for others to perform. A principal said that he recently put speedometers on the ankles of boys in the classes. Some got as much as ten minutes of activities and some five. The program was not arranged so that all the boys were busy. In a class of eighty boys there were only two mats— hence one mat for forty boys. At the time the first boy did his head stand the last boy had thirty-nine ahead of him to wait his turn just to do a head stand. It is the same way in regard to apparatus work; there is a long line of waiting boys ready to do their turn. Because of the shortness of time and the limited time allotment of two recitations a week it is necessary to develop organized programs that will invite participation by all.

Over the country in many places we have well organized daily, weekly and monthly programs that would meet the approbation of our critics. However, there are still places where there is poor organization and the work is conducted in a haphazard, loosely arranged way, and where much time is wasted.

One of the most frequent criticisms by educational administrators when we ask for more time allotment, better facilities and other requisites for doing our job well is that the work is not worth more time; that too much time is already wasted; that we repeat the same things over and over again; that a few get all the activities and many stand about on the side lines.

Digitized by LjOOQLC
314

That is, they reply that if we will develop a well organized, worth while program of thirty minutes of balanced activities reaching all the boys and girls,, then they will give us recognition and better facilities.

Perhaps the best way to develop this topic is to relate an actual experience that illustrates the two types of programs and how superintendents and principals react. Superintendents and principals can help us very much because they are the people who put physical education into education and give us the means by which we can do our job of putting education into physical education. The best way to get their active cooperation and good will is by producing organized programs. So this is our first job.

Some years ago I was asked by a superintendent in a city of about 200,000 to make recommendations as to how he could improve his physical education program. There was a staff of about forty people but there was no head—hence there was no common pull. The teachers in the elementary schools did not know what the teachers in the junior and senior high schools were doing and vice versa. There was no common program that carried the boy and girl of the first grade through the twelfth grade. There were no staff meetings, no esprit de corps, no common budget. The superintendent therefore knew something was wrong. I recommended that he have a city director at a decent salary. He felt that he could not ask his board of education for more money, saying that the program was not worth it. He made statements and illustrations such as, [1] that a lot of time was wasted, [2] that he was lucky if he got a twenty-minute actual recitation during the forty-five minute period, [3] that he had observed a few of the boys got most of the activity and the average boy was lucky if he got much. He looked at his watch and said, “It is now the seventh period”. His office was in the high school building and he said, “I bet you that right now the boys in the gyro are shooting baskets _ at their own free will and that the coach is off in the corner reading the sports edition of what Babe Ruth is doing”. We visited the gymnasium, and it was true.

Now here was a superintendent anxious to do something but naturally hesitated to go before his board of education and ask for a salary of $5,000 for a city director for just such a program. He said he could not justify it educationally nor would his conscience permit him to do it. I then described to him some of the fine programs I had observed over the country that were well organized, well balanced and which included 100% participation for an active twenty-five or thirty minute period. He was much interested, said he would like to see such a program and that he would consider an appointment of a city director on that basis.

We then went to a big city. Unfortunately in a new high school with a new gymnasium and fine facilities we saw exactly what he was talking about. I can’t describe in detail what

Digitized by Google
315

happened, but this in general is what took place. The bell had rung—we were in the gymnasium. In five minutes a boy came in and stood around; then three more boys came in, took up a basketball and began to throw it at each other. Others wandered in—some played tag, some stood around. Most of them waited— They were waiting for the slow “undresser”. Finally after a nine minute wait the last boy who had held up the class straggled in. They were lined up ten minutes after the bell rang. Then there was a count-off of the number of seventy-two. Then followed a rollcall. This all took time. At the end of the rollcall it was thirteen minutes since the period began, since the bell rang, and nothing had happened. Then there were open order instructions and finally the class was ready for work. Then followed five minutes of calisthenics—they were not fundamental, big body, corrective, posture exercises. The director called for two mats for seventy-two boys and divided them into two columns of thirty-six and then followed the next ten minutes, each boy getting one stunt on the mat. Then followed about five or six minutes of mongrel volley ball; then the shower, and the class work was over. The superintendent was greatly disappointed— so was I. So was the city director of the big city. The superintendent said, “I won't buy that”.

We then visited in the same city the oldest high school that had poor facilities and one gymnasium with an enrollment of forty-five hundred students; hence all the physical education classes had an enrollment of one hundred or more. The gymnasium was an old one. It had twenty-five pillars holding a running track. I presume necessity was the mother of invention. That may be true but the physical education teacher was a born organizer—he had to be if he was to handle this situation with one gymnasium for forty-five hundred students and over one hundred at every class—so he got busy and organized. Get this. When the first boy came into the gymnasium he didn’t stand and wander around, but immediately shot over to one corner and began to throw a ball at a target and mark his score on a bulletin board. The other boys who came in went to other corners where apparatus was set up for other achievement standards, to take up the slack between when the quick undresser and the slow undresser came in. Every boy was responsible every two weeks for participation in four different skills. There was a whole battery of neuro-muscular skills running throughout the year. The papers were kept and made a part of the record for promotion and credit, so there was every incentive for the boy getting into the gym quickly. Eight minutes after the bell rang every one had been on their spot on the floor. One hundred and sixteen boys present were divided into squads of twelve with four adjutants at the head of the class who quickly took a rollcall in fifteen seconds. Squads of twelve were also organized into color groups of twenty-four. Because of the smallness of the gymnasium and the largeness of the class it was almost impossible to move the boys about. So at the end of eight and
316

one-half minutes after the bell rang this man was ready with one hundred and sixteen boys for his activity program.

He firet put them all through big, running, limbering up, breathing, mimetic stunts. Secondly, he followed this with five minutes of big muscle, corrective, posture exercises. He was an internationalist. He gave some German, Swedish and Danish movements. They were vigorous and well done, such as the bicycle trudgeon. Then followed tumbling and mat stunts. Every twelve boys had a mat—six on a side under a squad leader—so in the next five minutes every boy participated in a half dozen exercises such as wrestling, chicken fighting, etc. The mats were quickly and quietly put away. Then followed about eight minutes of fine well organized games such as soccer kick, played by “color teams” each of which consisted of two squads. There were actually twenty-eight minutes of worthwhile activities for each of one hundred and sixteen boys.

It is needless to say that the superintendent was greatly impressed. He said, “If you can get me a physical educator who is an organizer such as this man, I will recommend a city director to my board of education”. So our first job, in order to put education into physical education, is to so time and organize our program that we will make it possible for all the boys and girls to participate in worthwhile activities for a full period of at least twenty-five minutes of recitation.

DANGER’S DEFEAT.

Written by the pupils of the 5B grade in the Hartranft School, Philadelphia, under the guidance of the teacher, Gladys W. Metzen.

Characters:

1.	Danger

2.	Safety Teaching.

3.	School Children.

4.	Play Leaders.

5.	Safety Patrol Members.

Scene I A street near the Hartranft School.

Scene II The Hartranft Schoolyard.

Scene I

Danger and Safety Teaching are arguing.

Danger: “You have been saying. Safety Teaching, how well children obey your Safety Rules. I don’t believe it. I don’t believe that there is a group of children who are always careful.”

Safety Teaching; “Oh, yes. Danger. There are children who remember me. I am thinking of the children of one school in particular, the Hartranft children. They know the meaning of Safety First.”

Danger: “Those children are simply fooling you, Safety Teaching. No doubt, they sit quietly in school and listen very po-

Digitized by t^ooQle
317

litely, but when they are out alone, they forget all you have taught them. Then those children listen to me.” Safety Teaching: “I still think you are wrong. Danger. I’ll wager anything that the Rartranft children are true to me.”

Danger: “I’ll take you on. Will you agree to let me have full sway with those children today? Do you promise to keep still today, and just let me talk to them? I will prove that they will listen to me, and forget all you have told them.”

Safety Teaching: “I agree, but I believe that this test of them will show that those children are true to my teachings.” Danger: “We shall see. Quiet, Safety Teaching. Here comes a Hartranft girl now. She is waving to her friend on the other side of the street. I shall whisper to her.”

[Danger and Safety Training move to the back of the stage. Two girls enter.]

Danger: [in a low, yet distinct voice] “Little girl, you see your friend on the other side of the street? Why net run over to her? Why walk all the way down to the corner? Don’t waste time looking for machines.”

Girl: “Hello, Mary. I’m coming over.”

Mary: “Oh, no. Not now. There is something coming. I’ll meet you at the corner. Cross the street there.”

Girl: “All right.”

Safety Teaching: “You heard that. Danger?”

Danger: "That was a girl. Here come some boys on their way to school. They are always ready for fun, whether it is dangerous or not. [Calls in a low tone] Boy, boy, suggest to your friends that you hop this truck coming down the street. What fun you will have. Bow much faster you will get to school ”

First Boy: “Say, fellows. Let’s hop this truck. Its going our way.”

Second Boy: “No. Why take a chance of being hurt?”

First Boy: “We shall get to school faster.”

Second Boy: “Yes, but you may not get there at all. Come on, it’s safer to walk. You remember Officer Broomhead, who talked to us in Assembly, the other day. What do you suppose he would say if he saw us hopping a truck?”

First Boy: “You are right. It’s better to be safe than sorry.” [Boys go off].

Safety Teaching: “That is another defeat for you, Danger.” Danger: “Wait. There are more boys coming. One has a new football. I’ll speak to him. [Calls] Arrange to meet your friends after school to play football. What glorious fun you will have playing in the street.”

Boy [with football]: “I’m glad you like my new football. Meet me on Marshall Street after school, and we‘11 have a game.” Another Boy: “It’stoo dangerous in the street. Let’s walk to a Playground or play on a lot.”

Digitized by CjOOQle
318

Boy [with football]: “But Marshall Street is nearer.”

Other Boy: “We can have more fun in a Playground. There is more room and we won’t have to worry about traffic.”

Boy [with football]: “All right, then.”

Safety Teachings: “Now, do you believe, that the Hartranft children do not merely listen, but remember and follow my teachings?”

Danger: “I don’t give up yet. Let us go to your precious Hartranft School. I’d like to talk to more of the children.” Safety Teachings: “Let us go at recess time.”

Scene II

Safety Teaching and Danger enter. A few children stand in groups talking.

Safety Teaching: “Here we are in the Hartranft Schoolyard.” [Several children walk along, eating fruit. One child drops peel on ground.]

Safety Patrol Member: [running up to girl] “You are dropping orange peel on the ground. Someone may slip on it. Let’s pick it up and put it in the can. [Children pick up peel] [Two boys begin fighting. Play leader runs up to them].

Play Leader: “What are you two doing here? Our class is having a game of dodge-ball. They need your help. Come on. [Boys go off] [Two girls enter].

First girl: “When I get on the swings, today, I’m going to stand. I can go up faster and higher.”

Second girl: “What would be the use in doing that? A Play Leader would tell you to get off, as soon as you stood up.” [Children walk off].

Danger: [to two boys who have been talking to each other] “Dare your friend to climb up on the Fire-escape railing. Tell him he is a coward if he won’t do it.”

Boy: “I dare you to climb up on the Fire-escape railing. I’ll bet you’re afraid to do it.”

Second Boy: “Sure I’ll do it. I’m not afraid.”

Play Leader: “It would be foolish, not brave to try that. Did you forget that your class is having the Giant Stride today? Go over and get in line.”

Safety Teaching: “You see, Danger in the Hartranft School, the cnildren are kept busy working and playing in a safe way. They have no time for you.”

Danger: “Wait. There goes the bell. Now is my chance. When the children are going up the Fire-escape, some of them will be careless or push, [calls in low tone] Children, keep on talking. Nudge the boy ahead of you. Turn around. [Children who have formed lines get restless. They stop when Safety Patrol boys speak.]

Safety Patrol Member: “Safety First means that you should stop talking on the Fire-escape. You may attract some one’s attention if you speak. That child may not look where he is going and may fall.”

Digitized by CjOOQle
319

Second Safety Patrol Member: “Safety First means one hand on the railing and the other hand at your side. Help keep the children, in front of and back of you, safe.”

Danger: [angrily to Safety Teaching] “I give up. This is no place for me.” [Goes off].

Safety Teaching: [laughing] “I told you so. Danger. The Hartranft children remember what I tell them. They will not be fooled by you.”

Health Education Notes.

Raw vs. Heated Milk.—The American Journal of Public Health states that the report from the U. S. Public Health Service of a group of workers headed by Leslie C. Frank is reassuring and of great value in the campaign wnicn is going on everywhere for the pasteurization of market milk. A study carried on with 3,700 children in 39 cities in 10 states shows that “The growth promoting capacity of healed milk plus the supplementary diet received by the average American child 10 months to 6 years is not measurably less than the growth-promoting capacity of raw milk plus the supplementary diet.” Furthermore, “the advocates of pasteurization can go ahead with a clear conscience in their work that they are not in any way injuring the health prospects of children, but are on the other hand, protecting them against tuberculosis, intestinal disorders, and all other diseases which are transmitted through milk.”

Increase In Heart Disease?—In an article appearing in

J.	Prev. Med., July 1932, Bolduan and Bolduan suggest that the alleged “appalling increase” in heart disease is more apparent than real. They state there is much opinion but little real scientific evidence. On the basis of their analysis of the basic data as given in the death certificates in New York City they point out the sources of errors; also that the pathological changes and etiological factors of heart disease are not to be limited to the heart itself, but include also the arteries and kidneys, from which fact the term cardio-arterio-renal system has evolved. While admitting the registered increase in heart disease in New York it is shown that there is a fairly corresponding decrease in apo-

Elexy, Bright’s disease, and deaths from senility. The authors elieve the registered increase in death rate from heart disease is largely, if not wholly, fictitious, and that statistics based on these alone are fallacious, since those assigned to apoplexy, arterial and kidney diseases, and senility must be taken into account.

Infant Mortality Among Negroes in New York City.—

Although reduction in infant mortality in New York City has been great, it is still almost double that among the population of the city as a whole. In tuberculous disease, it is about 4 times the city rate.—Weekly Bull.	City Dept. Health.

Digitized by CjOOQle
320

Incidence of Cancer and Certain Occupations.—There seems to be a definite relationship between the incidence of cancer and certain occupations: [1] Work in tar, pitch, and bitumen briguettes; [2] Work in mineral oil or paraffin or in any compound, product or residue of either of these products; [3] Work in arsenic; [4] Work in X-rays and radium; [5] Work in mines, e. g., the lung affection of Saxon miners called “Bergkrankheit”; [6] Chimney sweeps’ work; [7] Work in anilin dyeworks.—Am. Journal Public Health.

Salmon Oil In Treatment Of Infantile Rickets.—Eliot, Nelson, Souther and Cary report in the J. A. M. A., Sept. 1932, that “it may in general be said that the salmon oil used in the present study was probably a more potent antirachitic agent than the average cod liver oil and compared very favorably in the rapidity of its action with viosterol. Like cod liver oil, salmon - oil, especially that from the more highly colored species, has the advantage of providing vitamin A in addition to vitamin D. It also provides an apparently easily digested fat, and from the limited experience of this investigation would seem to be well taken and well tolerated.”

Caries in Children’s Teeth.—The findings resulting from a long time investigation conducted upon 400 children in three institutions are thought to justify the conclusion that the potent factor in retarding the development of caries in fully, or nearly fully calcified teeth is vitamin D.—Am. Journal Public Health.

College Students Will Average Three Colds A Year.—-

Students going to college last autumn might have expected about three colds each between then and the following March, and those at California and Tulane probably would have just as many as those at Harvard or Chicago.

Statistics to support this conclusion have been made public by the United States Public Health Service, The Associated Press reports. The figures show also that the students probably will have nearly twice as many colds as their fathers, mothers and small sisters and brothers who stay at home, but are less likely to have such serious diseases as influenza and pneumonia.

Climate, the study shows, has little or no effect on colds. Head colds, moreover, reach their peak not in the cold months of winter but during the comparatively mild weather of autumn. Influenza, one of the most dreaded of the more serious respiratory epidemic diseases allied to the common cold, stages its “big push” in the winter and spring months. Colds reach their minimum between the middle of July and the middle of August.—New York Times.—

School Health: Gleanings From The Last Annual Meeting of The American Public Health Asso.—In a recent study by Dr. Franzen of the American Child Health Association,

Digitized by CjOOQle
321

only 50 per cent of children 7 or more per cent underweight were actually malnourished. This is only a little worse than bare chance.

Out of 100 cases of malnourishment only 4 were detected by the teacher. Height-weight tables detect only 12 per cent of the malnourished.

Teachers were only 13 per cent efficient in detecting dental defects, and only 15 per cent efficient in detecting severe vision defects.

The teacher’s usefulness in school health work has not been exploited—her knowledge about the health of children needs to be used more by health workers. Where the school nurse has discussed a child with his teacher beforehand her home visit is much more effective. Closer cooperation between teacher and nurse improves school health work.

Dr. Phair of Toronto found in an extensive survey that school nursing staff did not materially aid the control of communicable disease in a community, and that school health services in which public health nurses worked alone appeared to be just as effective as when the services were headed up hy school physicians.

Health and Happiness.—“You will want health, not merely because it frees you from pain but because it brings happiness. . . While personal happiness may not be a goal in itself, there are few who do not desire happiness, for with it the mind and body seem to be able to attune themselves to life, and living seems most worth while.” In “Training for Athletics and Health,” a serial by Alfred E. Parker, beginning in the January issue of Hygeia, Mr. Parker addresses himself to those whose bodies are underdeveloped, to those athletes who want to know how to keep in training, and particularly to the thousands of average American boys who are deeply concerned about building a healthy body.

Posture Affects Not Only Appearance But Health.—“Posture means not only the position in which the child holds himself and walks about, but also the effect which that position has on all the child’s internal organs, making them work in a healthy fashion if the posture is good and interfering with their healthy working if it is poor.”

Dr. Royal S. Baynes, who explains in Hygeia that posture is more than an external expression of beauty, maintains in his article, entitled "The Runabout—Posture and the Preschool Child,” that with proper food before and after the child’s birth, an abundance of exercise through opportunity for free bodily movement, and proper guidance the runabout child will gain excellent and lasting results in formulating good habits in posture.

Twenty-five Ribs.—Dr. T. D. Stewart reported recently that Smithsonian Institution has found that the “lost rib” is coming back among some of the Eskimos. The male of the species seems

Digitized by v^ooQle
322

at last to be getting back that extra rib that Adam is said to have lost when Eve was created. The Eskimos who were under observation have twenty-five ribs instead of the twenty-four found in the usual run of Homo Sapiens.	$

The Institution declared that the return of the twenty-fifth rib apparently indicates that evolution is still at work in the human race. This discovery seems to show also that the human body is not as stabilized as scientists had thought.

News, Notes and Comments.

38TH ANNUAL CONVENTION OF THE AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION.

To be held in Louisville, Kentucky, April 25-29.

Louisville is already making elaborate plans for the American Physical Education Convention, April 25-29, 1933 and is looking for a larger attendance than ever. The Convention program giving detailed information of all activities starting Tuesday morning and ending Saturday at noon will be published later.

All day Tuesday and on Wednesday morning, April 25 and 26, visits to schools and other places of interest in and around Louisville will be conducted by the local committee.	4|

The Convention officially starts Wednesday noon and ends Friday night, thus giving a full week-end to visit historic places in and around Louisville. Excursions are being planned to Mammoth Cave, the Old Kentucky Home, Shakertown, Har-rodsburg, Lexington, and other points of interest in the Blue Grass region. For those wishing to remain in the City historic Churchill Downs will offer quite an attraction.

The City Recreation Department, the Turners, Y. M. C. A., Y. W. C. A., and many school groups will hold a number of demonstrations which will provide much that is interesting and valuable to teachers in the field of Health and Physical Education.

The Convention is only two months off and it is not too early for teachers to make plans now. Make your real Spring vacation a trip to the convention in Louisville, April 25-29, 1933. Hotel reservations may be made at any time.

What—American Physical Education Association Convention.

When—April 25-29, 1933.

Where—Louisville, Kentucky. Headquarters—Brown Hotel.

—S. V. Noe, Chairman,

Publicity Committee.

The Center Jump In Basketball.—Ever since the proposal to eliminate the center jump in basketball was first made, opinion has been divided as to the desirability of such a change in the rules. Of considerable interest, therefore, is a study on this

Digitized by CjOOQle
323

subject made by John W. Bunn and published in the Athletic Journal. The following summary is given by the author.

"The foregoing data seem to indicate:

1.	That there are certain advantages to the team which controls the tip.

2.	That aggressiveness is a greater factor than the tip, in determining which team snail gain possession of the ball after the tip, and that possession is the more important factor.

3.	That the elimination of the tip has little influence on the final outcome of the game.

4.	That the elimination of the tip reduces the number and extent of tne delays during the game so that the ball is actually in play a greater length of time. In one case reported on this additional time amounted to almost five minutes.

5.	That the elimination of the tip does not change the relative time that each team has possession of the ball.

6.	That roughness at the tip-off is directly in relation to roughness of play in all other departments of the game.”

Artificial Respiration for the Surgical Clinic.----W. W.

Babcock [American Journal of burgery, 17:221, August, 1932] notes that the usual methods of artificial respiration are not well adapted to use in the operating room. For over twenty years, he has used a method of thoracic compression which has proved effective in most cases. The patient’s arms are extended alongside the head; a large pad is placed in the abdominal wound; the operator stands on the right side facing the patient, clasps his hands together over the manubrium, with elbows and forearms coapting the lateral thoracic walls. Pressure is made with hands, forearms, and elbows back, down and in, aided by the weight of the body; this produces expiration, and inspiration results as the pressure is sharply released. When this method fails, mouth to mouth insufflation is used, rather than oxygen-carbon dioxide, in order to avoid any loss of time “to make sure that the machine is properly delivering only pure oxygen and carbon dioxide in the right proportions.” In threatening respiratory failure, before respirations have ceased, the inhalation of 10 per cent, carbon dioxide in oxygen is “a powerful stimulus.”

Factory Building Made Into Club.—Converting a 3-story building in Philadelphia into an athletic and social club, about 100 young men, most of whom are unemployed, have finally obtained a place to spend their enforced leisure in pursuit of wholesome recreation. The club, although operated entirely by members, has the cooperation of the Playgrounds Association of Philadelphia.

The building will be equipped for pool, table tennis, card playing, boxing, wrestling, volleyball, and basketball. A lounging room will also be provided. A membership fee of 25 cents a month is expected to take care of expenses.

Digitized by

Google
324

Pepper Ball.

John E. Boyd.

The alert teacher frequently requests games to accommodate the personnel of the entire class and in which both sexes may play to a mutual advantage. The following game is designed to cover such a need. The name Pepper Ball is suggestive of the constant alertness and quickness to act, which are vital to the successful conduct of the game. Though body contacts in the course of the game have been purposely avoided, the element of opposition [always inherently interesting] is provided.

Object of the game. The object of the game is for a player to advance the ball through an opposing line to a player on his team’s advanced line and so to forward the progress of the ball until a goal has been scored. The opposing team of course seeks to intercept the ball and in its turn advance the ball in the direction necessary for a scoring play.

Number of players. The game is best played with multiples of six; i. e., six lines of an equal number of players.

Size of Court. The ideal playing court allows for eight feet of space between the lines and four feet between players on the line. This in the usual cemented school yard represents about two blocks and one block of cement respectively. The goal lines should be placed about four feet beyond the last lines of defense. The dimensions of such a court for 36 players are approximately 54 feet by 25 feet.

Layout of game and Diagram

A	e • p * r
t »	
?	M \ j * w
X	9 1 »0 M If
	N O t * *
•>	it 1C IM1 H
	

Playing regulationsl At the start of the game the referee signals for the opponents from the middle lines who are to step to center and jump for the ball. Each player at the tap-off tries to direct the ball to his own line. Immediately after the tap-off these players return to their positions in the lines and the ball is in play. After each scoring play the ball is again brought to center and two new opponents are designated by the referee to jump at the tap-off.

Digitized by LjOOQle
325

The players may shift laterally along the line to block an attempted pass through the line, but the order of alignment must not be changed. No forward or backward movement is allowed to any player except one step [the other foot remaining in proximity to the line] so that a dead ball may be reached.

The player who has the ball and finds no suitable opening in the opposing line through which he can successfully pass, may in his turn pass the ball laterally to a player in his own line and thus nullify the effect of the blocking shift which his opponent has instigated.

A legal pass requires that both hands be on the ball at the moment of passing [the push pass is recommended]. The ball must pass through the line at hip height or lower. Any variation of this constitutes a foul.

A player may not delay in passing the ball. No player may hold on to or feint with the ball beyond the count of three. He either must attempt to pass through his opponent’s line or pass laterally to a player in his own line. However, only one lateral pass may be used by the line in such a play. The player receiving the lateral pass must attempt to pass through.

A ball out of bounds is recovered by the end player of the line nearest to the point where the ball passes out of bounds. The referee designates who this is. The player recovers and passes the ball from the place of recovery into his line and play is immediately resumed.

Scoring Play. A scoring play is made when the ball is successfully passed through the opponent’s last line of defense [within bounds] and crosses the goal line.

Fouls. Fouls are summarized as follows:

1.	A ball which travels through the line above the legal height [hip high]

2.	A player changing his order of alignment

3.	A player stepping out of line [forward or backward]

4.	Kicking or batting the ball. The ball must be definitely recovered and passed on by the player's two hands.

Penalty for any of the above four violations: The ball is awarded to the opponents on their foremost line.

5.	Delay in passing the ball.

6.	Failure to pass the ball through the line after receiving a lateral pass.

Penalty for these two violations: The ball is awarded to the opposing line.

Suggestions as to playing: mixed groups:

1.	Alternate boys and girls on the line.

2.	The two end lines at each end of the court may be solidly boys or girls respectively, while the two middle lines alternate boys and girls.

3.	When everyone in the middle group has competed in the tap-off, a progression of lines may be made and thus bring different opposing lines to the center for the opening plays.

Digitized by Google
Dances Representing Periods in American

History

One of the outstanding demonstration numbers in the Philadelphia Convention, A. P. E. A., was a group of six dances representing some period in American history. The first three dances in that group, Indian, Colonial, and Cowboy, were printed in previous issues. The “Early Twentieth Century Dance” which follows on this page is the fourth in the group. The final two dances will appear in the March and April issues.

EARLY TWENTIETH CENTURY DANCE.

[Scarf Dance]

Arranged by Isabel S. Seguine

Music—Valse Entr* Acte from “Coppelia” by Leo Delibes. Published by Theodore Presser Co., Philadelphia, Pa.

Units—The dance is arranged for 56 girls divided into 5 units as follows:

1.	Four units of 12 girls

2.	One unit of 8 girls

Audience—Audience is seated on all four sides.

Designation of units in the description of the dance

1.	The units composed of 12 girls each will be referred to as “Corner Units”.

The dance steps and figures for each of these units are the same. [See Diagram I]

2.	The unit composed of 8 girls performs in the center of the floor and will be

referred to as the “Center Unit”. [See Diagram I]

Note:—For each strain of the music the dance steps of the “Corner Units” will be given first. This will be followed by the description of the steps for the “Center Unit”.

Scarfs

The girls composing the “Corner Units” each have a scarf of light material The scarfs are 2 yards in length.

For the “Center Unit” there are only 4 scarfs—each scarf is handled by two girls.

PART I

[Entrance Steps]

The first 12 measures of [2-4 music] introduction are omitted. The dance begins with the waltz tempo.

A. Steps for Corner Units [First 32 measures of waltz tempo]

The units form in their respective corners, numbers 1, 2, 3, forming the last rank, numbers 10, 11, 12 the first ranks. [See Diagramll].

Note: The girls in each Corner Unit are numbered from 1 to 12.

Nos. 1, 2, 3 enter in front rank formation on first 8 Measures.

Nos. 4, 5, 6 enter in front rank formation on second 8 Measures

Digitized by v^ooQle
327

Nos. 7, 8, 9 enter in front rank formation on third 8 Measures.

Nos. 10, 11, 12 enter in front rank formation on fourth 8 Measures. 1. The ranks begin successively, Nos. 1, 2, 3 starting by moving forward between the files [See Diagram II], with the following

steps:

a.	Step-hop right forward, left knee raised high in front, right arm forward with left arm backward [scarf stretched out

between the hands] ..................................... 1	Measure

b.	An accented waltz step	forward beginning left ........ 1	Measure

c.	Repeat a. and b. twice	.....................4	Measures

d.	Drop on the right foot [flat] with deep knee bending [counts 1-2] rise on the ball of right foot raising left knee forward

[count 3] .............................................. 1	Measure

e.	Drop on the left foot [flat]	with knee bending ....... 1	Measure

2. Numbers 4, 5, and 6 begin with entrance steps described above under 1.,-—[a.-e.] while Numbers 1, 2, and 3 continue with the following steps:

a. Two full turns right, high on the toes with small shuffling

steps moving slightly backward. The head is held back

with the arms held foreupward and outward ...........  4	Measures

b.	Bend trunk forward, swinging right arm to left and over head carrying scarf back of shoulders [Numbers 4, 5, and 6 pass through the first rank. Numbers 1, 2, and 3 becoming

- the leading rank] .................................... 2	Measures

c.	Run backward with 8 small steps, carrying scarf from back

to front over head ................................... 2	Measures

3 Numbers 7, 8, and 9 begin with entrance steps described under

1—	[a.-e.l while Numbers 1, 2, and 3 and Numbers 4, 5, and 6 continue with steps described under 2.—[a.-c.]

Note:—Numbers 7, 8, and 9 have now passed through the preceding two ranks and are now in front....................... 8	Measures

4.	Numbers 10, 11, and 12 begin with entrance steps described under 1—[a.-e.] passing through the other ranks to the front, while the latter ranks continue with the steps described under

2— [a.-c.] ............................................... 8	Measures

Note:—At the close of this part the first rank has again moved

backward to its original place near the entrance while all the other ranks have resumed tin relative positions they had at the start.

Total ..............................................32	Measures

B. Center Unit

The eight girls of the center unit remain at the entrances [two at each entrance] and wait until the corner units have completed the steps for the first 32 measures.

PART II

A. Steps for Corner Units

Note:—The first 32 measures of waltz tempo are repeated for this part.

1.	All move forward toward the center with the following steps:

Digitized by v^ooQle
328

a.	Step right [counts 1, 2], close left [count 3]	  1	Measure

b.	Step balance position right forward with trunk turned right and arms swung obliquely forward-outward and upward

[scarf in front of body] ................................ 1	Measure

c.	Repeat a.-b. left, right, and left ...................... 6	Measures

2.	Numbers 3, 6, 9, and 12 spin right with stuffing steps with arms swung foreupward [scarf over head];

In the mean time numbers 1 and 2, Numbers 4 and 5, Numbers 7 and 8, Numbers 10 and 11 face each other forming 4 couples with the right hands joined shoulder high and execute a mill-wheel right in 4 waltz steps....................... 4	Measures

3.	Numbers 1, 4, 7, and 10 spin right with stuffing steps with arms swung foreupward [scarf over head];

In the mean time, Numbers 2 and 3, Numbers 5 and 6, Numbers 8 and 9, Numbers 11 and 12 face each other forming 4 coupler with the left hands joined shoulder high and execute a mill-wheel left in 4 waltz steps ......................... 4	Measures

4.	Repeat 1. of this part, all moving sideward away from the

Center Unit .............................................  8	Measures

5.	Repeat 2. of this part for 6 measures ................... 6	Measures

6.	Then all swing scarfs to front of body as	..

a.	Numbers 2, 3, and 6 face each other and move toward each other in 2 waltz steps forming a trio

b.	Numbers 1, 4, and 5; Numbers 8, 9, and 12; and Numbers

7, 10, and 11 form trios likewise ...................  2	Measures

[See Diagram III]	------------

Total ............................................ 32	Measures

B. Steps for Center Unit

The following steps are executed during the 32 measures described above under Part II—A for the Corner Units.

Note:—In the description, Number 1 is the girl on the left while Number 2 is the girl on the right.

The couples enter with inner arms around each other's waist, outer hands holding scarf high. Each couple enters from a separate corner moving along the outside boundary turning in at the middle of the boundary line toward

the center of the floor. [See Diagram IV]

1.	The entrance steps are as follows: Large glide balance hop on outer foot [3 counts] and running steps forward on inner, outer,

and inner foot [3 counts]............................... 2	Measures

2.	Repeat 1. twice ....................................... 4	Measures

3.	Step forward on outer foot [counts 1, 2] rise on ball of outer foot [count 3], drop on inner foot [flat] with deep knee bending

[counts 4, 5, 6] ....................................... 2	Measures

Note:—This should bring each couple to the middle ot the boundary line.

4.	With the inner arms still clasped around each other's waist and scarf held high with outer hands, both execute 8 waltz steps at the same time wheeling left backward [counter clockwise]. With the first waltz step the trunks are bent forward,

with the second the trunks are bent backward, and continue .. 8 Measures

5.	Couples now move forward away from boundary line toward

Digitized by LjOOQle
329

center with step described under 1, 2, 3 above, forming a large

square. [See Diagram V] ................................... 8	Measures

6.	Releasing inner arms Number 1 [girl on left] takes waltz step turn outward [from partner] still holding scarf with left hand

[4-4 turn] ................................................ 2	Measures

7.	Then Number 2 does same as Number 1 but opposite ............2	Measures

Note:—This increases distance between partners but the formation remains the same [See Diagram VI]

8. Number 1 moves directly to center of square with 4 waltz steps while Number 2 moves slightly sideward keeping in line with Number 1 to form a star wheel formation. [See Diagram VII] .................................................. 4	Measures

Total .......................................  32	Measures

PART III

A. Steps for Corner Units

Note:—This part of the music has only 16 measures which must be repeated to make 32 measures for this part of the dance.

In circles of threes formed in Diagram III. Neighbor’s hands are grasped shoulder high, scarfs hanging in front. The circles move clockwise with the

following steps:

1.	Two accented waltz steps forward [clockwise in a circle] .. 2	Measures

2.	Step forward on right foot [counts 1, 2], rise on ball of right

foot raising left knee forward [count 3] ................... 1	Measure

3.	Drop on left foot [flat] with deep knee bending........... 1	Measure

4.	Repeat 1, 2, and 3 ....................................... 4	Measures

5.	Release hands [holding to scarf] and turn right away from center and step right forward [counts 1, 2], close left [count 3], balance on right foot, left leg high backward and swing scarf

forward and obliquely foreupward [counts 4, 5, 6] .......... 2	Measures

6.	Turn left [1-2 turn facing center] and repeat 5 toward center,

beginning left ...............-...........................   2	Measures

7.	Repeat 5 and 6 ..........................................  4	Measures

8.	Repeat from the beginning 1 to 6 and the first two measures

of 7......................................................  14	Measures

9.	Facing outward [standing on right foot], circle trunk to left and carry right arm to the left and continuing circle over

head ....................................................... 2	Measures

Total .............................................32 Measures

B. Steps for Center Unit

Number 1 is facing outward, Number 2 facing inward. The scarf is held at all four corners, flat and extended between the two members of each couple.

1.	Holding tight to scarf it is thrown upward so that the air holds it up in the center. The trunk and head are held backward;

the elbows are slightly bent ............................ 1 Measure

2. Let scarf drift downward ................................ 1 Measure

3. Repeat 1 and 2 .......................................... 2 Measures

4.	Number 1 drops right corner of scarf holding left corner while Number 2 drops left corner holding right comer. In this posi-

Digitized by

Google
WAM«n I



330

DtAftMfi TTIjp-3

1

0>*»*AM me

< X

\r O H





y >

SNC *

^ Corner

V X * V X

X

y

y

<F y y

y y r

mr%

y

> y

S y

Digitized by boogie
331

tion they exchange places moving in a semi-circle [counter clockwise] with 4 large waltz steps ............................ 4	Measures

5.	Repeat 1 to 4 ................................................ 8	Measures

6.	Repeat 1 to 4 but in opposite direction, moving clockwise in

semi-circle .................................................... 8	Measures

7.	Repeat 6 returning to original positions as shown in Diagram

VII ............................................................ 8	Measures

Total .........y..........................32	Measures

INTERLUDE

A. Steps for Cornier Units

1.	With arms high over head, scarf back of shoulder, spin right

with stuffing steps ......................................  2	Measures

2.	Repeat 1, but spin left .................................. 2	Measures

3.	Numbers 2, 5, 8, and 11 run to center of the group and join

right hands, forming a star, while the others spin right... 2	Measures

4.	Numbers 6, 4, 9, and 7 run to center joining right hands to the

left hands of Numbers 2, 5, 11, and 8 respectively while Numbers 1, 3, 10, and 12 spin left ........................... 2	Measures

5.	Numbers 3, 1, 10, and 12 run to center facing counter clockwise joining leftrhands with the left hands of Numbers 6, 4, 9,

and 7 respectively ........................................ 2	Measures

Note:—While the girls are running to these positions the scarfs are swung to the front, carrying the left arm back of head and back of shoulder again.

6.	The final position is held [See Diagram VIII] ............ 2	Measures

Total .................................................12	Measures

B. Steps for Center Unit

Number 2 girl on outside [See Diagram VII] kneels left, facing center and holding scarf high in right hand.

Number 1 on inside moves in a circle [clockwise] outward and around Number 2. Number 1 must be far enough removed from Number 2 to^make the scarf float.

1.	Number 1 encircles partner Number 2 with 5 running steps and

a short pause ............................................... 2	Measures

2.	Number 1 repeats steps of preceding 2 measures, which brings

her half way around her partner ............................. 2	Measures

3.	Number 1 continues with small running steps, completing the circle and passing on to the next Number 2 on the right [See

Diagram £X] ...............................................   3	Measures

4.	Number 1 now presents her end of the scarf to her neighboring Number 2.................................................... 1	Measure

5.	Number 1 now waltzes back to her original place in the center 2	Measures

6.	Number l's turn in place with two waltz steps and finally face the center, all joining hands and spreading out in a circle of four while Number 2*8 each holding the end of a scarf in each

hand, rise slowly to a stand ........................... 2	Measures

Total ............................................12	Measures

Digitized by L.ooQle
332

PART IV

A. Steps for Corner Units

In star formation—See Diagram VIII.

1.	Outside girls Numbers 1, 3, 12, and 10 move counter clockwise around the outside of the star formed by the inner 8 girls with the following steps.

a.	Glide balance hop right forward, right arm obliquely foreup-ward left arm backward, scarf over head, followed by an

accented waltz...........................................2	Measures

b. Repeat a three times ................................... 6	Measures

Note:—This should bring the girls half way around the circle,

c.	With the above 8 measures just decribed, the 8 girls forming the star wheel execute six accented waltz steps forward in a star wheel beginning right [6 measures]; then step right forward [counts 1, 2] rise on ball of right foot with raising left knee forward [count 3], drop flat on left foot with deep knee bending [counts 4, 6]— ................................. 2	Measures

2.	Numbers 1, 10, 12, and 3 now join their left hands with the left hands of Numbers 9, 6, 4, and 7 respectively and each couple so formed moves in a mill wheel counter clockwise in 8 waltz steps.

During this time the 4 girls in the center Numbers 2, 8, 5, and 11 join hands in a circle and spin [stuffing step left sideward] in a circle going clockwise ........................ 8	Measures

Note:—All should finish at the point where this part began.

[See Diagram X].

3.	Repeat the steps under 1.—a, b, c........................ 8	Measures

Note:—This should bring all girls back to their original positions.

[See Diagram VIII].

4.	The center girls Numbers 2, 5, 8, and 11 release hands and spin on the toes [individually] turning right while the outer couples execute mill wheel [counter clockwise] in 4 waltz

steps .....................................................4	Measures

5.	Numbers 1 and 4, 7 and 10, 9 and 12, 3 and 6 in couples turn and waltz directly away from the center, while the center girls Numbers 2, 8, 5, and 11 run away from the center to places

between the couples .......................................4	Measures

Note:—The couples finish facing outward, while Numbers 2, 8, 5, and 11 face inward. [See Diagram XI]

B. Steps for the Center Unit

Note:—The description of the steps for Number l’s and those for Number 2's are given separately below for the full 32 measures.

1. Number l's are in the center forming a circle with hands grasped.

Without releasing hands they face left into a flank circle and

a.	Two waltz steps forward moving clockwise in a circle ...2	Measures

b.	Step forward on left foot [counts 1, 2] rise on ball of foot

[count 3] ............................................. 1	Measure

c.	Drop flat on right foot with deep knee bending ........ 1	Measure

d.	Repeat [a, b, c] .......................................4	Measures

e.	Facing center, pull away from center leaning back and ere-

Digitized by v^.ooQle
333

cute small stuffing steps to the left until each has reached

her original place ..................................... 4	Measures

f.	Step right forward to center into balance position left leg backward, with arms raised foreupward high [hands are

joined] .........................-...................... 1	Measure

g.	Step left backward, close right ....................... 1	Measure

h.	Repeat f ............................................. 1	Measure

i.	Release hands, turn left about on right foot and drop on left foot flat, knees bent, arms extended sideward [all have

their backs to the center] ............................  1	Measure

j.	Rise and before next measure begins, transfer weight on to right foot and step left forward [counts 1, 2], close right [count 3], step left forward into balance position [counts 4,

5], hop [count 6] ...................................... 2	Measures

k.	Face right about on left foot and repeat j. beginning right

and moving toward center...............................  2	Measures

l.	All raise right arms to center grasping hands forming a star, then star-wheel clockwise in 4 waltz steps forward [return

to starting point] ..................................... 4	Measures

m.	Number l's now leave the center and with waltz steps move toward the Number 2's to whom the Number l’s ends of the scarfs were given. The Number l’s take their ends of the

scarfs in their right hands ............................ 4	Measures

n.	Number 2*s now execute a waltz turn right [two waltz steps]

winding the scarf about the body ....................... 2	Measures

o.	Number l’s now do the same as Number 2*s in n. above,

but waltz turn left into the scarf ..................... 2	Measures

Total ...............................................32

2. Number 2 holds the end of her own scarf with the right hand

and the end of the scarf of girl Number 2 on her left in the

left hand. The arms are well extended sideward.

With the following step all Number 2’s move counter clockwise

around their circle:

a.	Two waltz steps forward, right and left ............... 2

b.	Step right forward [counts 1, 2] rise on ball of right foot

[count 3], drop flat on the left foot with deep knee bending [counts 4, 5, 6]	......................................   2

c.	Repeat a. and b.	three	times ........................ 12

d.	All kneel right facing center, with arms extended obliquely

sideupward, then bend trunk forward swinging the arms with scarf foredownward to the floor ........................ 2

e.	Raise trunk and bend it backward swinging arms upward

and backward............................................ 2

f.	Repeat d. and e....................................... 4

g.	Rise slowly putting weight on the left foot, right foot slack

at the side, at the same time changing the end of the scarf from the right hand into the left hand ...................... 4

h.	Number 2 now waltzes into the scarf as described in 1.—n.

above ...................................................2

i.	Number 2 now remains stationary [with scarf about body]

Measures

Measures

Measures

Measures

Measures

Measures

Measures

Measures

Measures

Digitized by LjOOQle
334

while number 1 waltzes into the scarf

2 Measures

Total

PART V.

32

A. Steps for the Corner Units

Couples are facing outward, Numbers 2, 5, 8, and 11 are facing the center of the circle [See Diagram XI]. Scarfs are held behind shoulders.

1. All take a waltz balance step forward, bending trunk forward

and swinging the scarfs upward and foredownward ....... 1

2.	All take a waltz balance step backward raising trunk and

swinging scarfs foreupward and backward ............... 1

3.	Repeat 1. and 2........................................ 2

4. Numbers 2, 5, 8, and 11 move toward center with step balance right forward [counts 1-3], waltz step left forward [counts 4-6], step balance right forward [counts 7-9,] drop on left foot with knee bending [counts 10-12];

At the same time the outside girls [in couples] face each other and then with 1-4 turn right, step right forward [counts 1-2], close left [count 3], step balance right forward [counts 4-6] then 1-2 turn left they repeat the same in the opposite direction

beginning left [counts 7 to 12] ...................... 4

5. Numbers 2, 5, 8, and 11 repeat steps under No. 1, No. 2, and No. 3 while the members of the outside couples face outward and repeat the same outward ............................ 4

6. Center girls now face outward and move outward with step balance hop right forward and waltz step, and repeat while Numbers 2, 8, 5, and 11 get into line with Numbers 8, 12, 1, and 4 to form two lines [the members of these two lines facing each other]; they do this with step right [count 1-2], close left [count 3], step balance right [counts 4, 5, 6] and then each spins one spin left with stuffing steps [See Diagram XII] for

the final formation .........................................4

Total ................................................16

B. Steps for Center Unit

Couples are in square formation facing the center. The members of the couples have their inner arms around each other’s waist, their outer hands are holding the ends of the scarf, the scarf being held around the couple from the rear. [See Diagram XIII]

1.	All begin with outer feet and take a waltz balance step for-

ward toward the center and one backward away from the center and then repeat ....................................... 4

2.	Now couples 1 and 3 [See Diagram XIII] cross the center and exchange places [passing left shoulders] with step balance hop outer foot and a waltz step inner foot and repeat

At the same time couples 2 and 4 spin right in place [wheel-

ing around center with small stuffing steps on the toes ......... 4

3. All repeat 1......................................................4

Digitized by

Google

Measures

Measure

Measure

Measures

Measures

Measures

Measures

Measures

Measures

Measures

Measures
335

4. Repeat 2. but couples numbers 2 and 4 exchange places while

couples 1 and 3 spin in place ......................... 4	Measures

Total ............................................16	Measures

PART VI

[Finale]

A. Steps for the Corner Units

Starting positions for members are indicated in Diagram XII.

1.	Numbers 3, 6, and 7, 10 execute waltz balance step forward, backward, forward, and backward beginning with right foot, the scarfs being carried forward with the forward step and back ward with the backward step.

At the same time the two lines Numbers 2, 9, 12, 8 and Numbers 5, 1, 4, 11 execute the same steps as Numbers 3, 6, and 7, 10 beginning with waltz balance toward the center ..... 4	Measures

2.	Numbers 3, 6 and 7, 10 do the same as described above in 1. except to start with balance backward toward center

At the same time the two lines Numbers 2, 9, 12, 8 and Numbers 5, 1, 4, 11 exchange places [passing through] with step

balance hop right forward and a waltz step, and repeat..... 4	Measures

3. All spin right with small stuffing steps and finish facing the

center ...........-........................................ 2	Measures

4.	Numbers 4, 11, 7, 10, 8 spin into final position indicated in Diagram XIV [during measures 11 and 12 of the music] and assume the final pose standing on the toes with feet together, arms extended diagonally upward and outward over head, palms upward with scarf back of shoulders, and trunk

inclined backward............................................. 2	Measures

5.	Numbers 5, 6, 9 begin spinning on measures 13 and 14 of the music and assume the final position in Diagram XIV standing with weight on the right foot and left leg raised backward, left arm foreupward and right arm backward, scarf back of body....

Numbers 1, 12 also begin spinning on measures 13 and 14 of the music and take the following pose: kneel right, scarf back of shoulders, arms held obliquely sideupward and backward, head held downward.

Numbers 2 and 3 also move on measures 13 and 14, spin for two measures and move to final position assuming a sitting position by extending right leg backward, at the same time kneeling left with the right leg back; left hand rests on the

floor, right arm is upward, scarf is back of shoulders ...4	Measures

Note:—All can take plenty of time to assume the final positions being in place at the end of the 16th measure 6. All hold final pose .....................................2	Measures

Total ............................................12	Measure

B. Steps for CenteV Unit

1. All spin left [couples executing wheeling around the center] and finish in star wheel formation with Number 1 of each couple in the center and Number 2 of each couple on the outside .... 6	Measures

Digitized by LaOOQle
336

2.	Number 1 executes two waltz steps turning out of the scarf .... 2

3.	Number 2 executes two waltz steps turning in toward center

of wheel .................................................. 2

4.	The members of the couples now face each other, the scarf being held in both hands between them.

Number 1 takes waltz balance step right and left sideward while Number 2 takes balance step left and right sideward.. 2

5.	Both throw the scarf up into the air and let it float downward 2

6.	Number 1 releases scarf [Number 2 taking it] and spins to

center with arms raised diagonally upward and outward, palms up while Number 2 grasps the scarf—the center of the long side with the right hand, and spins in place right, holding the scarf high over head moving gradually toward the center ... 2

7.	Final Pose

a.	All Number l’s face the center, weight on left foot, right leg raised backward. Neighbors’ hands are grasped. Pull away from center with trunk bent backward.

b.	All number 2*s take a three step turn toward the center

group finishing with weight on left foot, right leg backward, scarf in back of head with arms extended diagonally fore-upward and outward ...................................... 2

Measures

Measures

Measures

Measures

Measures

Measures

Total

18 Measures

COSTUMES FOR SCARF DANCE

A.	Color Scheme

Costume	Scarf

Center	Unit	Tangerine	Nile green

Corner Units

.	Nos.	1,	6, 7	and	12	Nile green	Tangerine

'-'Nos.	2,	5, 8	and 11	Tangerine	Blue green

Nos.	3,	4, 9	and	10	Maize Yellow	Nile green

B.	Scarfs

Those used by center group are of Nile green voile 40 inches wide and 4 yards long. Each scarf is carried by two girls.

Those used by corner groups are of varied colored voiles, each 40 inches wide and 2 yards long. Each girl carries her own scarf.

C.	Costumes

White elastic is used for foundation belt at normal waistline.

Each skirt consists of 2 squares of material. A hole is cut in the center of each for the waist. These squares are so hung from the elastic belt that the points of the under square and the top square alternate. Straight edges of skirt should come to knees; points will thus hang slightly below knees.

A tight bodice is used for the foundation waist. Two strips are draped over the front and back and hung from the shoulder straps, so as to give a cowl neck effect. Enough material is allowed on either side beyond the shoulder straps to hang down in a cascade. These over-draped pieces also hang below waistline to form a peplum, and are held in at the waist by a belt of the selvage removed from edges. Shoulder straps are made from the selvage also.

No shoes or stockings are worn.

Digitized by L^ooQle