PUBLISHED MONTHLY.—SUBSCRIPTION PRICE, $1.00 PER YEAR.

Vol. 10.	OCTOBER, 1903.	No. 116
		

Eoitorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Geneseo State Normal School, Geneseo, N. Y.

HERMANN O. DREISEL, Chicago High Schools, Chicago, 111.

DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee. Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

THE BIOLOGICAL ASPECTS OF ATHLETIC SPECIALIZATION.

By LUTHER HALSEY GULICK, M. D., Director of Physical Training in Public Schools, New York City. (From American Physical Education Review.)

WE cannot understand the relation of specialization to physical training without discussing first its place in the whole biological scale. Specialization is the root of all evolution. It is only in proportion as the lowest forms of animal and vegetable life begin to set apart the cells for distinct activities that they rise in the scale of efficiency and intelligence. Certain groups of cells being segregated to do special actions acquire far more skill in such actions than is otherwise possible. This is much to the advantage of the organism as a whole. Thus we find a constantly increasing spesialization going on in the human individual. When we examine the adult human body, we find a high degree of specialization. The white blood corpuscles appear to be in much the same condition that the undifferentiated protoplasm that forms the background of the race is in. But other tissues are made up of cells that have become so highly differentiated from these forms that it is with difficulty they are recognized. The contractile function has

Digitized by ^ooQle
been specialized by certain groups of cells. In securing this greater efficiency in contracting ability, the other physiological functions of undifferentiated protoplasm have been largely lost, and even in the contractile tissues there has been specialization, in the muscles of voluntary contraction, in the involuntary muscles, and in the branched muscled cells of the heart. Similarly, the cells have been specialized for the supporting tissues, the bones and ligaments, and all the finer structure that ramifies through the body and holds it in place; the cells that have been differentiated for the nutritive tissues that make the digestive juices, the blood glands, the skin, then the co-ordinating tissues, the wonderful organization of the brain, spinal cord and sympathetic nervous system. In all of these we find merely the highly specialized cells; even in the long, white fibres of nerve that run from the cord to the foot, there is but a single cell that has stretched itself out in a minute fibre spanning this distance, an irritation of one end being transferred immediately to the other end. This is a specialization of the conductive function. The brain has been so highly specialized that the parts cannot produce. A brain cell once damaged cannot be replaced by a multiplication of other cells. In the case of the skin the opposite is true; the specialization has not been so extreme that the reproductive function has been lost. In some of the other tissues the reproductive element remains, so that losses can be made good, but it is a general rule that if a tissue is exceedingly specialized along a single direction, its other functions, including that of reproduction, have gone. Then, again, a certain group of cells in the body has been set apart for the purpose of retaining all the physiological processes of the characteristics of the race, and an elaborate neuro-muscular and glandular apparatus arranged to handle them. These are the reproductive cells.

Thus, it will be seen that the whole development of the individual has been related to specialization, and that the development of intelligence, of feeling, and of the will has been related to specialization. It is idle, then, to attempt to built up individuals upon any other hypothesis than that of specialization.

We come now, not to the discussion of the relation of the cells of the individual to the whole, but to the relation of the individual to the social group of which he is a part. Is it true that that which has gone on in the individual, the differentiation of the minute elements of which he is composed, obtains in the larger group—the social organism ? We do not need to go far into the study of either history or sociology to see that the same law holds true. We must go far back in history io find the time when there is not specialization, when every family is complete in itself and needs nothing from the others. Individuals are soon specialized for certain functions. Soon we have the warrior specialized to defend the tribe, or to secure supplies by conquering neighbors, and then we have the individuals specialized with reference to trading and the conveying of products that are usually made at one place to others, and we have the merchant and trading group; so even in savage societ y we find a considerable degree of specialization that corresponds ns. exactly to the idividual as a whole as the cells do in the individual. We find individuals having particular abilities set aside by the com-

Digitized by o.ooQle
—203—

munity for the exercise of that ability. Persons having such ability are able to do the work better than those not having the ability, and thu9 they are compelled to do something else, and the whole progress of society, the whole evolution of the social organism, is related to this specialization of the individual and his ability to do given things with greater and greater perfection. This obtains in the world of scholarship, religion, letters and war. In every department in which advance is being made, men have devoted themselves to smaller problems, to work to which they have been both adapted by education and heredity, and are doing it with increased perfection, so that specialization is a fundamental condition of the whole progress of the race.

Let us turn again to the specialization in the individual, and observe the effects of attempting to build without specialization in the parts of the body. Let us endeavor to have the left arm as strong, as skillful in every way as the right arm. The practice that is now given to perfecting the right arm in penmanship, in playing the violin, in working with machinery, and in all directions that demand skill, must now be divided by two, in order that the left arm shall be equally well trained. Even this would not accomplish the end in the present stage of evolution, because in most men the neural apparatus of the left side of the body does not have the tendency to its organization that the right-hand side does. If we should succeed in our endeavor to perfect the left hand correspondingly to the right, it would be at the cost of a large degree of skill on the part of the right hand, and at what gain ? The individual as a whole is not more healthy, he is not more efficient; he has two members, both members able to do the same thing, and yet he has need but for one of them at the same time; it is then a waste. So we find nature is economical and endeavors to make her practice useful, and does not waste time in perfecting the left side of the body to do work for which she has specialized the right side. This illustration must suffice to indicate the limitations of the desire for allround training.

The whole evolution movement of the day appears to be in the same direction, being towards specialization. It used to be thought that a man should take the whole of a college course, and should then begin to specialize, the college course being related not to any particular line of thinking, but all-round culture or training. The modem elective system, beginning with having electives in the senior year, has been adopted, until the whole college course is elective, and the modern college is far removed in ideals from the old college. Men are expected to specialize upon certain branches of interest, and we are already commencing to see specialization coming into our high schools. We see commercial courses, classical courses, and scientific courses, and even in these courses special electives offer. There are some who view these specializations as that which will militate against the efficiency of the individual. They think that, while it may be true that it will result in more perfect machinery for doing given work, it cannot fail to reduce the standards of manhood and womanhood.

What are the limits of this specialization? What principles underlie the relation of symmetry, harmony and specialization? Let us turn

Digitized by v^ooQie
again to specialization in simple form, as we observe it in the cell. When this specialization goes on, we find one function being increased in efficiency, but we never find that the nutritive ability of the cell is interfered with. We find that the cell has to have its food in special form prepared by other cells, but the ability to convert inert matter into living protoplasm must be retained by every cell that continues to live, and the highest degree of specialization is intimately concerned with this fundamental organic requirement for life. We find this same fundamental organic need conserved in the specialization of the individual as a whole. When in the evolution of the modem city the nutritive ability of an individual is interfered with by the excessive specialization, then we find the decay and dissolution of the group involved rapid and certain, but any degree of specialization that dos not violate this fundamental condition of nutrition does not seem to be at variance with the b st needs of the organism as a whole.

In what way can specialization interfere with the nutritive ability, the metabolic ability of the individual, the ability to convert food into active, highly endowed protoplasm? In what ways may specialization interfere with this fundamental nutritive ability of the organism ? If it interferes with the respiration, so that the blood is not kept free from carbon dioxide and thoroughly oxygenated, we have a common case of interference with the nutrition. The tissues of the body rapidly degenerate because not supplied sufficiently with oxygen. Thus specialization which leads to the breathing of bad air, or to positions of the thorax interfering with respiration, has violated our fundamental condition. Those specializations which interfere with the circulation by producing hypertrophy of the heart, or irregular heart such as we find where it is compelled to work under pressure, is another form of specialization that violates our fundamental condition. Where the energy of the system is drafted off to such an extent through muscular channels that the more fundamental centers that have to do with organic life are deficient in power, a condition of asthenia supervenes that is not to be tolerated. This we often find in individuals who have over-trained. Where these fundamental conditions are conserved, where the specialization does not come into interfere with respiration, circulation, digestion, nor the control of organic life through the nervous system, we believe specialization to be not only harmless, but eminently desirable.

Bodily symmetry is not so desirable as bodily harmony. The body is symmetrical when the two halves are precisely alike in form and function. This we never find; even the two sides of the face are different: the two sides of the brain are different; the limbs are never precisely alike, and in function they vary from one another even more than they do in structure.. The most perfect statues are non symmetrical. Figures of faces in which the two sides are made exactly alike appear to be lifeless. Differentiation even here has its fundamental place. Harmony is where the different parts are properly related ti one another so as to produce a whole in which every part is exactly adapted to perfect co-operation with every other part. This we regard as the highest ideal.

If one attempts to judge any form of athletics with reference to this
-205-

standard, one must ask first, Does it violate any of the fundamental conditions of organic life? Or, to put it positively and more fairly, Does it favor the fundamental conditions, the fundamental necessities of respiration, circulation, nutrition, and nerve action ? If it favors these it is useful from a physical standpoint. If at the same time it interests the individual, it is probably useful from a psychical standpoint. It is a matter of comparative indifference that a man should always jump from the left foot, or that he should always do the wolf vault to the right and the dank vault to the left. These things do not interfere with the organic conditions of life, and they do favor the contraction and relaxation of muscle which we have seen to be associated with healthful living. To make the left arm equal in measurements to the right may not even please the aesthetic sense; it certainly is but little related to health and vigor, but to put the thorax in the condition where the heart and lungs will operate the most freely is a matter of the greatest importance. To keep the spine in that position in which the abnormal organs shall all be maintained in normal position is also of great concern, and yet in the past years we have given far more attention to the mere matter of equalizing muscular measurements or muscular strengths, and but secondary attention to the larger matters that are related to the somatic life of the individual.

DISCUSSION.

Eliza M. Mosher, M. D.:

I have listened to the excellent paper of Dr. Gulick with pleasure. I cannot think, however, that there is much opportunity for differentiation in gymnasium work during the early years of student life. The body surely must first acquire equalized development, and this can only come from “all-round work.”

It is a fact that in no person are the halves of the trunk and face symmetrical. This is largely due to the awkward habit of standing on one and the same foot with the other thrown outward, and from sitting with the pelvis rolled to one and the same side habitually rather than to unequal muscular activity.

I like Dr. Gulick’s distinction between symmetry and harmony, and agree with him that it is more important to acquire and maintain the latter than the former.

I recall the figure of a young man at Michigan University who spent most of his time while in the gymnasium upon the trunk and arm work, and at the end of four years he had acquired a trunk quite out of harmony with his lower extremities. I presume it did not interfere with health, although it did with bodily harmony.

Dr. T. D. Wood:

I was much interested in the first part of the paper in the suggestion of the analygv between the relation of the organic cells to the organism, and of the individual to society. I venture this in addition to what Dr. Gulick stated, that the important thing in the relation is analogy rather than similarity* or exact correspondence. That is, between the relation of the cellls to the organism and of the human individual to society their are a great many interesting and valuable
analogies. They both have a biological basis, but they are different in many of their aspects and characteristics.

It seems to me of the greatest importance that as students of physical education and of education and of life in general we should know all that we can about the biological foundation of life and the facts and principles of biology, and then we should be careful not to apply these principles too directly or too mechanically to the problems of human life; but the more we know about biology the more careful we will be in the applications that we make. It is significant that the sociologist, the historian, and educators in many lines are to-day applying so man}’ figures and similes and analogies from biological science, but these we frequently have to interpret because the application mav be considerably different in one case from what it is in another.

Dr. Gulick suggests that there would be a waste if there were a development different from that which is in harmony with the process of evolution. We must distinguish between the process of evolution, which is unconscious and impersonal, and that part of evolution which we may call artificial evolution working through human knowledge and human thought, and there is nothing more interesting to-day than the modifications of or the additions to, or better yet perhaps, the cooperation with this natural process of organic evolution which is possible for intelligent and thoughtful human beings. We may, in conscious human effort, run directly across or against these natural, instinctive and unconscious processes, these laws effecting plants and animals as well as man ; or we may in our processes of education co-operate with them and obtain better results. We have no more interesting problem than that of understanding the process of evolution so perfectly that we may work in harmony with it; that we contribute something which human thought and human intelligence may add to this natural process, and it shall not be interference, but co-operation.

With reference to specialization; this is a very perplexing problem. The tendency of the world is to specialize. Success in most lines comes through specialization and is the law of organic life from the beginning. On the other hand the tendency of unbalanced specialization is to diminish power and capacity, more especially the tendency to human specialization which is not immediately balanced, or corrected by the natural process of evolution expressed through the process of natural selection, and there are tendencies in our modern life which make for a one-sided development without proper balance or compensation. It is neither bilateral symmetry nor functional harmony.

This practical thought occurs to me: Certainly those who receive the benefit from physical education which is desirable should be able because of this training, in the long run, to specialize more perfectly and more efficiently. I believe, however, that they will be able to specialize in that way if in the main the process of physical education has been broad and symmetrical and harmonious.

It is evident that many of the activities in the gymnasium as well as the class room must be special, but there is a principle which must be obeved, and that is, that specialization along one line shall be balanced by specialization along another so as to produce in the pro-
-207-

cess of specialization, before the individual goes out into the world, before the struggle in society, a certain condition of harmony, of equilibrium and compensation which is very important. We may specialize in our process of physical education so as to produce a one-sided organism. We may specialize on the other hand in such a way as to increase power and to produce symmetry of a broader and more efficient tvpe.

We should preserve and improve our symmetry of mechanical structure where in the structure of the organism there is originally a corresponding bilateral structure. To preserve this means economy. It means economy of power, but where we have to do with function rather than structure we must seek for harmony and balance and compensation and power rather than any other form of symmetry alone. If the individual has to use the head for balast so as to keep the bod}' straight (and this is so in some cases of assymmetry of the skeleton), there will be less power to use for other things, there will be less of this balance of power which will be accomplished by the mechanical structures, there will have to be more conscious and unconscious effort to keep the center of gravity over the base and the individual will use up muscular power and nerve force which might be used for other things more worth while, and the head will be less free to do many of the things of which it is capable, and for that reason it is worth while to have, from the foundation up, just as perfect structural symmetry as possible, and to express through this mechanism as much functional harmony and organic power as education can make possible.

Jakob Bolin:

Permit me to say that this is probably, inageneral way, the most interesting paper ever presented to this body. Is opens up a wide vista, and should give us all considerable material for thought.

It is particularly interesting to me, because, by a somewhat different line of reasoning, I have arrived at somewhat the same conclusions as those of Dr. Gulick, though I am probably not willing to go quite so far as he.

Dr. Mosher will probably remember my assertions of last summer as to energy misspent in endeavors to conquer slight scolioses. The fact is, as far as I have been able to observe, that practically no spine exists in which we may not, by careful observation, detect a habitual lateral deviation with concomitant torsion. Similar asymmetry is manifested in the pelvis and the extremities without any noticeable interference with the individual’s general health or vigor. When I see this; when I remember that the well marked asymmetry of the most important internal organs, lungs, heart, kidney, stomach, and liver, is a result of slow phylogenetic development from perfect symmetry; when I find prominent evolutionists pointing out that there is a steadily growing tendency in the same direction in other organs usually considered bilaterally symmetrical (the degeneracy of the right breast and the greater susceptibility to temperature changes in the left than in the right hand may serve as examples); when finally my own personal observations, though insufficient to be made the basis of positive assertions,

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-208-

have proven to my own satisfaction that there is a very much greater bilateral asymmetry than is commonly recognized (I believe, for instance, that the persistent motor disturbances in infantile paralysis are more frequent and more extensive in the left leg than in the right, and that pronation and abduction are more common in the left foot than in the right); when I see all this, I come to the conclusion that man is gradually evolving in more and more bilateral asymmetry. If this be true, and we set it as our goal to develop perfectly symmetrical individuals, we misspend our energy and are doomed to failure, because we run counter to nature. I have always felt, in a more or less indefinitite way, that much of the training for bilateral symmetry has been without value. I have always abhorred ambidexterity in writing and drawing. The same feeling, though less pronounced, I have for the endeavors of gymnasts to secure equal girths of the arms.

Like Dr. Gulick, I am consequentlv of the belief that a certain amount of specialization is not only permissible, but imperatively demanded of us if we are to follow nature. Like him, I am unwilling to take the full step by saying that our pupils should be allowed to exercise asymmetrically in all the directions in which they feel inclination to do so. Like him, I might perhaps be willing to set the limit between what is permissible and what should be prohibited at the point where any of the vital functions, which make for vigor, is interfered with. But to make this admission is by no means sufficient for us as practical teachers. We must recognize the difficulty, not to say the impossibility, of pointing out exactly where the interference begins. As I have already said, I deprecate too great efforts to prevent or cure the mildest forms of scoliosis. They injure nobody. We all have them. But I deprecate still more such unilateral exercices which tend to develop curvatures. Even if a slight scoliosis is a normal phenomenon (and a great many men of prominence have believed that), and even if the racial development tends to emphasize it, we have to consider that racial development is a slow process and if it at any time be hurried by artificial means, serious injury is generally brought to a great number of individuals thereby. We can not afford to do anything which will cause asymmetry to grow; we must be the conservative agents guarding the individuals against the cruelty of nature.

Specialization bscomes more and more necessary for our success. But, as Dr. Gulick has pointed out, specialization has its limitation, and there is a point before which it cannot be begun if the best results are to follow. In order to become a successful specialist, a physician for instance will need a broad fundamental training. Otherwise he will very likely become a one-idea crank. I am sorry to see an ever-increasing tendency to specialization in even our lower institutions of learning. We all know that certain evils come from specialization. Surrounded by an atmosphere which is saturated with thoughts in a certain direction or on a certain topic we cannot but become somewhat narrowed. Brought up in an atmosphere of Swedish gymnastics, it is for instance only with the utmost difficulty that I can understand the attitude of those who unlike me see the main object in our work in a direct mental training. And they of course reciprocate by being astonished at my

Digitized by CaOOQLe
-209-

stupidity. We see the same thing in religion, in politics, and everywhere else; consequently specialization has its dangers. Can we avoid them in our work? Only by making the specialization follow after a broad foundation of unspecialized work has first been laid. And I believe that we as gymnastic teachers have not as yet gone far astray in this regard. I believe that the very great majority of us have warred against too early specialization.

What benefits can we expect from specialization, which we do not receive from non-specialized work? Given the same amount of activity in both methods, I suppose there is nobody who would expect any better hygienic result from the former than from the latter. Many of us will tend the other way. But we will no doubt be told that the premiss is only hypothetical, not actual. That specialization brings with it greater success in a definite direction, greater ability, and consequently greater interest. The greater interest will bring greater activity and consequently greater benefits. All that is t rue. Specialization is an interest creator. But only for the specialists. It is a murderer of interest in those who are not specialists. It appeals to classes and scorns the masses. But it is these latter for whom we should work first and foremost. It does not much concern us whether a man jumps an inch or two higher than another. It does concern us materially whether we can induce one or a hundred to try jumping.

The long and short of my remarks then is simply this: I believe in specialization to a certain extent. I believe that there are those who ran mad on the subject of bilateral training for instance. But I believe that the specialization must necessarily come late in the courses we offer. I believe it has practically no place in gymnastics proper, in the formal fundamental training. I believe it may be defended and perhaps promoted in the applied forms of physical training—the athletics and the sports. Even then I believe we must look upon ourselves as agents whose duty it is to stand guard against to rapid specializing tendency of modern civilization.

Dr. C. Ward Crampton:

There is one feature of athletic specialization that appears to me to bear most forcibly upon the conditions of evolution, that is, that the victorious advance of nature by the means of evolution is one of wholesale murder and its path is strewn with victims. These are they who are unfortunate enough to be slightly or considerably out of line to vary, to be specialized or rather over-specialized in some particular feature or faculty to such an extent as to render them unfit to sucess-fully combat with environmental conditions and to be particularly easy victims for our Mother Nature’s pruning.

It is a statistically demonstrated law that the most variable from the “type” are the most vulnerable, unless the line of variation is such as to fit them the better for gradually changing environmental conditions. This applies directly to our work; conditions are changing in the close pressed life of to-day; “brains” count as never before; actual strength and mere vitality (save as they subserve mental vigor) are at a discount. We must not therefore develop strength as a prime object

Digitized by Google
but simply as a means of subserving the most useful function; our work is not to start up a side issue of physically specialized bodies, but simply to keep in line with the direction of evolution and conserve the function that gives the greatest general effectiveness, namely,—brain.

It is seldom that any of us keep strictly within the limits of this ideal; we go beyond it every day in allowing those within our care to progress more in the line of gymnastics or athletics than the actual culture of health and strength for the purpose of increasing brain effectiveness demands. We let them spend far more time and effort in the pursuit of health, yet realizing as we do the danger of going beyond ideal limits we do so with a clear conscience because the stimulus of play and the stimulus of competition are so valuable that they are too effective weapons to lie idle. Nor, as Dr. Gulick’s paper has so ably presented, are we to be alarmed at overstepping the ideal limit, for specialization until it reaches a very considerable degree is not sufficiently dangerous to deter us from employing it.

There is a point in athletic specialization up to which we may allow those under our care to go, making use of this stimulus to gain for them the conservative benefits of the exercise but beyond which we may not go with impunity, for we will allow the development of a comparatively useless function at the expense of a series of vitally important ones.

This is what happens when we develop a Marathon runner or a crack horizontal-bar performer; this costs too much; this is pernicious over-specialization ; this is almost a parallel condition that we see in the “idiot savants” where nature has spent all her force in developing a minor faculty at the expense of all the more important ones. This is the danger extreme and one I believe is fortunately infrequently reached under our hands and is only one of the many important points that Dr. Gulick’s paper has brought up.

Dr. GeO. Meylan:

It was in Dr. Gulick’s paper that I first got the idea of the difference between symmetry and harmony. I think that is one of the best distinctions that has been made in our work. As I compare the work of the physical trainers of twenty and thirty years ago with the work done to-day I think it can best be explained by that difference. They worked primarily for symmetry &nd we work primarly for harmony, giving due place and recognition to the question of vitality. This whole topic I think is one of the fundamentals in our work and I have been delighted with the paper and discussion.

Dr. Gulick said in closing:—I believe that the major part of our problem is to get people to exercise at all. It is not as if every one was ready to exercise and we had merely to determine the best form of exercise. Most people do not exercise. It is not a question so much of the precise best form of exercise; it is a question as to whether we can get them to exercise at all. It is only on this ground that I would advise my own little pamphlet entitled “Exercises for Busy Men.” It is superficial, imperfect, and inadequate as compared with gymnasium work, but it is far better than nothing and men who are using it are
-211—

accomplishing more than if they took no exercise at all. So the point of my paper is unintelligible excepting upon the basis of considering the maintenance of interest.

I am surprised at my own lack of clearness. The mental state in » which I was when I wrote the paper assumed certain things which I did not convey to you. I assumed general all-round physical training.

I assumed that in addition to that, boys in high school and college particularly and the Y. M. C. A. wanted to do pole vault and mile run, and business men wanted to bowl and other people wanted to ride a bicycle and other people wanted to swim, and was trying to formulate some principle by which we could say where the line should be drawn with these individuals. Where shall we say, “Stop, you had better not go on ; you had better give up the exercises?” If I can get a business man to bowl, although I know he bowls with his left hand, I would rather have him bowl than to take no exercise. I would rather have him not bowl when he violates the fundamental condition which 1 have already mentioned.

EXERCISE FOR THE LAZY.

“/CULTURE” has been cultivated until many people are a little sick of Vy it. At present “physical culture” is producing or supposed to be producing a great crop. There are many varieties of both species. In these easy times you can be indoctrinated in both cultures by mail. It must be admitted that the physical kind seems to be pursued with the more enthusiasm. Thousands of well-to-do persons use the Turkish bath and “physical culture” as a sort of penance for their sins of high living. Fat men seek to recover the waist of youth. Lean and hungry Cassiuses would they were fatter and rush into wild exercise. Oldish men try to spruce up their muscles and soften their arteries. Most of us train by proxy and show our sound athletic instinct by yelling at football and football games or betting on horses. But we have our periods of sternness and fanaticism. We plan seasons of diet. We forsake punch and take up the punching back. We join athletic clubs. We hire instructors in athletics. We forswear smokiug for weeks; so eager are we to encourage our lungs. We buy tickets to a course of boxing lessons und usually tire of them after we have been knocked into our original limpness a few times.

We throw out our chests and take deep breaths with a solemnity that makes the beholders grin. With little wands in our hands we take or start on long walks, not without pithy comment from appreciative small boys. We pledge ourselves to exercise a half hour before breakfast and a half hour before going to bed; and the strongest-willed of us sometimes keep that pledge for a whole month. We subscribe to gymnasiums and soon learn to keep away from them. We cluster our rooms with mysterious and complicated apparatus which we are always falling over. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. In the end the sluggishness of the remote unicellular organisms w’e are thought to spring from asserts its sway. Satan knocks out the good resolutions. There is a place for a mug or a glass in many comfortable modern

Digitized by tjOOQle
—212—

lounging chairs in athletic clubs. Smoking is the nurse of the philosophic mind. There is no joy” but calm. Who wants to be a great, hulking athlete, a gladiator? So fades our dream.

If we have a little more persistence and do exercise ourselves into good trim, we fall just as surely in time. The ascetic life is tiresome. We relaspe into beefiness and softness. Our exercise is usually spasmodic. We rush into too much and soon fall away into little. But no amount of experience cools our ardor. Next summer or next fall at the latest we are going to take a course of “systematic” exercise. We mean it in earnest, this time. Lawn tennis is for boys. Golf grows wearisome. We must and will have a system of exercise and improve immeasurably our own system thereby.

The perennial seeker of efcercise will find comfort in an article written for American Medicine by a physician to whose intelligence that journal certifies. He has convinced himself by “prolonged observation” that the mighty muscles of the professional athlete or blacksmith “are not only unnecessary to men whose occupation requires no high degree of muscular development, but are absolutely injurious.” The athlete is adding to the capacity and demands of his stomach when he is piling up muscle. When he leaves off exercise he ought to cut off the increased allowance of food which has been necessary to him, but he doesn’t, and so gets “visceral degeneracy,” which is a good deal worse for him than “muscular degeneracy.” Often he cannot endure a sedentary life. Thus:

“One of the greatest pugilists that America ever produced, lohn Dwyer of Brooklyn, quit his regular occupation to enter a counting room—he died within a year of tuberculosis. The explanation of this case was simple enough: the immense lungs which were necessarily an advantage in the prize ring fell into disuse in the counting room. Disuse meant degeneration, and degeneration meant a lack of resistance of which tubercle bacillus was not slow to take advantage. I have had under my personal observation several lesser lights among professional athletes in whom a similar result occurred from the cessation of training.”

The training habit is as hard to break, if the physician is to be believed, as the alcohol habit:

“On several occasions when I have been compelled to cease training for one reason or another, it has required many months for my system to become adapted to the new conditions.”

Let the would-be athlete who has no perseverance remember the case of John Dwyer apd be consoled a little. It is considerable better to be lazy than to be dead; and undertraining is more comfortable than overtraining. What kind of exercise shall we take? “Moderate,” says tfye writer in American Medicine. The prescription is not very valuable. Most of us are constitutionally incapable of taking exercise regularly or of beginning it moderately. We begin violently and end quickly. And yvhat is “moderate” exercise? We know a philosopher who for thirty years has tried to take “moderate” exercise. After many experiments he has come to this conclusion: “Keep a pair of dumbbells, a pair of Indian clubs in a conspicuous position in your bedroom. Exeicise by their“ suggestion.” This seems to be a hypnotic or Christian Science method. At any rate, it has the merit of moderation.—N. Y. Suq.
-213-

X X ^	■■	Published Monthly.

Ate ftND BODY. FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.	"WlaicoaajBlaa..

«“ Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

THE WORLD S FAIR AND PHYSICAL TRAINING.

IN several of our former issues we protested against the predominance of athletics over educational gymnastics as preliminarily announced in the early programs. We felt it our duty to call the attention of the authorities, who seemed to pay little attention to this feature, to the importance of school-gymnastics.

Now, however, we are pleased to find ourselves mistaken, inasmuch as we learn that full representation is secured for every phase of the training of the body.

During the recent A. A. U. Field Day we had the pleasure of meeting Mr. James E. Sullivan, the director of the St. Louis Olympian Games. He assured us that everything is being done to bring forth an exposition of scientific physical training as well as a demonstration of the athletic standard of the present day, the like of which the world has never seen before.

Mr. Sullivan, a most amiable gentleman and an enthusiastic worker, is full of confidence and seems to be just the man to carry out what he promises. He is broad-minded and well posted as to what is done in this branch of work in this country.

Let us all try and make the affair a success in order to stimulate the interest of the public and prove to the school authorities the value and necessity of “Mens sana in corpore sano.”

Just when going to press we received the following communication: “Secretary J. E. Sullivan returned yesterday from St. Louis where he went to attend the meeting of the Physical Training Experts to arrange the physical training program for the World’s Fair. The meeting was attended by Dr. Luther Halsey Gulick of the New York Public School System of Physical Training, George W. Ehler of the Chicago Y. M. C. A., A. 15. Kindervater and William E. Stecher, representing the North American Gymnastic Union, of St. Louis, Dr. Hetherington of the Missouri University, and E. J. Sullivan, representing the Athletic Clubs.

It is the intention to have this part of the Olympic games broad and to cover the educational and scientific phases of the subject as adequately as is the competitive part already outlined. Dr. Gulick has been in correspondence with all the members of the physical training committees and his report embodies the important suggestions that have been received from them. It has been decided to present a comprehensive view of the practical side of physical training by a series of fxhjbitions:

Digitized by v^ooQle
—214-

1.	Ot school gymnastics by classes from various grades of public schools, showing the German, Swedish and other methods.

2.	An exhibition of school games as conducted in the schoolroom by grades, the school games that are practiced in school yards, the various gymnastic games, as practiced in the many gymnasiums in this and other countries, for persons of all ages.

3.	Gymnastics as applied to the training of soldiers will have a prominent place.

4.	The methods pursued by the great gymnastic organizations of the country; the North American Gymnastic Union, the Young Men’s Christian Association, and similar organizations will be fully exploited, also an exihibition of popular Swedish gymnastics. It was also decided to secure a representative exhibition by means of photographs, charts, diagrams, catalogues, circulars, programs, etc.

Exhibits under this head will be sought for from those nations where physical training in the schools is under the national government, including Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Germany, Italy, Austria, France, Switzerland, Japan and others. American cities which conduct physical training as a part of their school system will be invited to make exhibits, among others, St. Louis, Chicago, Columbus, Kansas City, Denver, Milwaukee, St. Paul, Pittsburg, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Buffalo, New York, Boston, Toronto and Montreal.

All associations which make a specialty of physical training will be invited to make an exhibit under this head, including the Amateur Athletic Union, the Canadian Amateur Athletic Union, the North American Gymnastic Union, the Young Men’s Christian Association, colleges. Preparatory schools, grammar schools, high schools, churches, social settlement organizations, Young Women’s Christian Associations. Hebrew Young Men’s Association, the athletic organizations of all foreign countries will be invited. Exhibits will also be sought concerning the play-ground movement in this and other countries. It has also been decided to secure a complete exhibit of physical training textbooks, scientific apparatus for the use in examining the body and anthropometrical material, charts, photographs, etc. Plans of gymnasiums, play-grounds athletic fields. All normal schools of physical training of this and other countries will be invited to make full exhibits of their work, courses, equipments and publications.

A feature of the program as submitted, which caused the most interest and enthusiasm when presented and which it is believed will prove to be one of the most important events of the whole season’s program is that concerning a series of conventions, lectures and popular adresses. It is believed that this will result in a great forward step in the cause of physical training. It has never before been possible to make such a presentation as is here contemplated, and many years will pass before such another opportunity occurs. The following bodies will be invited to hold conventions:

The American Physical Association, Physical Directors Society of the Young Men’s Christian Associations, College Physical Directors Society, Society of Secondary Schools, Physical Directors, North American Gymnastic Union Physical Directors, Public School Physical Directors and the American School of Hygiene Association.

The unique feature of these, however, will consist of the World’s Olympic Lecture Course, under which the following topics will be

Digitized by Google
—2 IS—

treated in a series of lectures by the greatest authorities in the world. This list will include the following:

History of physical training, psychologic and sociologic aspects of physical training, physical training of truants, defectives and delinquents, the physiology of exercise, gymnastic therapeutics, the management of athletic contests, dancing for schools, theory and practice of school gymnastics, theory and practice of school games, anthropometry methods, school hygiene, pedagogy of physical training, the adaptation of physical exercise to the condition of modern life, the organization and administration of physical training, divergent effects of uniform physical training upon different individuals.

. A matter of public general interest is the proposed course of the popular adresses which will include the following topics:

The influence of manly sports on the people.

The moral phase of athletics.

The place of physical training in education.

The development of the city as related to the health of the children.

The play of city children.

New conditions of our civilization which make physical training necessary.

Dr. Luther Halsey Gulick stated yesterday in explanation of this program that no such opportunity had been given for the exploitation of the scientific and educational aspects of physical training in connection with any other world’s fair or any other great meeting; that never before has there been a possibility of a combination of one great meeting of competitive sports with a scientific discussion of their place or influence, that at no one time or place have as many attractions been given to draw together the world’s authorities on all phases of this important and rapidly rising subject. It is aimed to center all the technical and scientific phases of the subject into the month of August, closing the period of special interest to those professionally engaged in the subject with the superb spectacle of the Olympic Games.

—The Physical Directors Society of the Young Men’s Christian Associations of North America was organized in connection with the conference held by that body of men at Lakewood, N. Y. This marks an advanced step on the part of the physical directors of the Y. M. C. A. of the country. The organization will serve to place the work on a more scientific basis, to unify the system and character of the work and promote research.

There are some six hundred organizations in the country representing 120,000 young men using the physical department of the Association of this country alone.

The officers of the new society are Mr. George W. Ehler of Chicago, president; Dr. Wm. H. Kinnicutt of Cleveland, vice-president; Dr. George J. Fisher of Brooklyn, N. Y., secretary-treasurer. These with Dr. H. L. Chadwick of Philadelphia, Wm. H. Ball of Springfield, Mass., and John Crocker of Toronto, Canada, form the executive committee.

Standing committees were appointed on anthropometry, research, competitive athletics, bibliography, related physical work, etc. etc.

Digitized by Caooole
-216-

RECESSES AND PHYSICAL EXERCISE.

From Official Bulletin, Cincinnati Public Schools.

NOTHING is gained by the schooling if the body suffers. Physical, mental and moral health should be the outcome of education. Much more than is being done might be accomplished for the sanitary development of the young. The hygienic conditions of school houses and school rooms, while vastly superior to those of former times, are not always of the best in regards to ventilation, light and heating. Frequently more children are crowded in a room than can be properly accommodated, and even basement rooms are set aside as class-rooms from sheer necessity. Whatever can be done to counteract the evil effects of unsatisfactory surroundings and unfavorable conditions should be done without stint or hesitation. The best work of teacher and pupils presupposes comfort. Without it there is waste of energy and of purpose.

There should be more frequently a relaxation from the intense and continued mental application, be that through change of work, through change of position or light gymnastics, or through periods of rest, the latter preferably out of doors Happily the old-fashioned straight-jacket way of sitting is not now regarded as the desirable attitude of the child. Teachers have abandoned the custom of having pupils remain in order with hands folded behind head or on top of head, and the habit of a little child to swing its legs is not looked upon any more as an unpardonable sin. Due regard is being paid to the selection and arrangement of the desks and seats in the school room. Where adjustable desks are out of the question, a few higher or lower desks serve to accomplish in the main the purpose of the adjustable forms. It is next to criminality to keep a child for any considerable time in a desk either too high or too. low, no matter what question of rank in class may come into play.

It has been found practical to increase the number of intermissions and recesses, shortening, if necessary the length of each one, and also to allow a few minutes of rest, possibly with permission to talk at the expiration of every hour. With younger children more frequent recesses will guard against the tendency to leave the room during lessons and furthermore in a measure prevent the drowsiness and sluggishness, so often noted as the results of the unaccustomed confinement to the school-room and the desk.

Many teachers will esteem it a privilege to be with their classes on the playground during recesses, directing their sports and showing by their interestedness a feeling af sympathy.

In large schools with classes of young and older pupils experience has proven the wisdom of arranging the recesses for the upper grades so as not to conflict with the time set apart for the lower grades. Thus, especially in narrow yards and corridors more space and elbow .room is secured for the little ones and the danger of accidents in crowds is minimized.

The lessons in physical exercise and a faithful observance of the directions there given will also tend to counter-balance the wear and tear

Digitized by t^ooQle
-217-

of purely intellectual work. Not as if gymnastics were no work, on the contrary. But it is work which calls into activity entirely different powers and functions than study, recitation or constructive manual work.

Gymnastics is as important and as much an integral part of schooling and school duty as any one of the other branches taught. The various exercises, mapped out in the course of study, should receive attention and should receive systematic attention at the proper time and for the proper length of time, not carried out one day and postponend on the following, because something else happens to be in the way.

Wherever and whenever possible, the exercising should be done either in the open air or in the corridors or halls, here always with the windows opened. No true teacher underestimates the pedagogical importance of physical training, of which promptness, precision, alertness, activity and obedient attention are both ends and means.

Much good results from the many games and plays, designed for younger and older children. Exercising both body and mind, calling for quickness of action, readiness of perception and subordination of self, they should be encouraged and cultivated at all stages of school life.

HEALTH FOOD.

A new fad has struck the American people and has struck it hard* viz. the consumption of prepared, patent or so-called health foods-Two cities are particularly prominent in the productions of the stuffs, Minneapolis and Battle Creek. They are being lavishly advertised in newspapers and monthly magazines, on billboards, bv elaborate window displays and free exhibitions. Physicians, inquiring into the diet of their patients, meet constantly the statement that they eat this, that or the other health food. The claims made for them by the manufacturers are extravagant. Each one is extolled as the ideal nutrient, predigested, hence especially suited to the dispeptic, containing particularly ingredients needed by the various tissues and organs. The more extravagant the claim, the more bewildering the language of the circulars, the more readily the public swallows the stuff and pays a good round price for it. It is hard to see, how these foods can contain ingredients and virtues that are not found in the orignal grain from which they are made. The falsity of the claims is shown bv a series of experiments made by Dr. Harry Snyder, professor of chemistry in the agricultural department of the University of Minnesota. He found that in fact many of these health foods are deficient in important ingredients. They are inferior in proteids, carbohydrates and as calorifaeients to the common white patent flour. It must be interesting to physicians to know that the patent roller-process flour is also superior in nutritive value to graham and entire wheat flour. Bread made from them, in the order named, give percentages of energy: 90.1; 80.7; 85.5; and is digested in the following proportions: 82, 58, 76 per cent. From the fine flour bran, shorts, germ, etc., are excluded and they do not contain digestible nutrients. Many of the flaky foods in use now are made from

Digitized by i^ooQle
-218-

inferior wheat and contain less than ordinary food values. Of grape nuts, claimed to be “condensed food” of which one ounce is sufficient for an ordinary meal, it is said that it may be prepared by toasting dry bread, rolling it and adding syrup or brown sugar. In fact, the food is almost valueless. Likewise shredded whole wheat biscuits fall below the mark. Computed by their price and food value ordinary flour would be worth $25 a barrel. Other articles do not show up better under scientific analysis than the two named. Really the only advantage which can properly be conceded to them is that they are easily and quickly prepared for the table. And that is a very questionable advantage, for a proper amount of cooking is necessary to make cereals wholesome food.

The whole business of the manufacture and sale of health foods is more or less of a fraud. The people are made to pay exorbitant prices for articles which fall below the values claimed for them. Physicians ought to make themselves familiar with the matter and advise patrons to stick to plain white bread and the oldfashioned oatmeal, which furnish more nutritive value than the new-fangled things.

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne Public Schools.

(Continued. 1

A CLASS DRILL, division work on the apparatus and closing with the game “Foot-in-the-Ring.” As a preliminary a short run of about three minutes, during which time the leader is to lead the class in various directions as countering 1. and r. alternately, obliquety. etc. Gymnastic tactics.

After receiving wands form ranks of fours (or sixes) from a flank line by marching sidew.; the remainder follow in successive order after four (or six) steps and continue to march sidew. until the locality for the execution of the drill has been reached; then halt and order: “Front—face!”

The rows open sidew. 1. (r.) in successive order after two steps to full distance by turning to the 1. upon the first step and again turning to the front upon the last step, all halting simultaneously.

WAND DRILL.

Wand forw. to starting pos.—lower!

1. a) Raise heels and raise wand forw\— 1! Pos.—2!

b) Bend knees “	“	“	“	overh.—1! Pos.—2!

c) a and b alternately—1, 4!

Wand in front of shoulders—raise!

2. a) Raise 1. and r. lower leg backw. and stretch arms upw.—1! Pos.—2!

b) Raise 1. and r. knee forw and stretch arms forw.—1!	Pos.—21

3» a) Raise wand overh.—1 ! Bend trunk forw. and lower wand be-

I hind shoulders—2 ! As 1 —5 ! Pos.—4 !

Digitized by C.ooQle
-219-

b)	Raise wand overh. and lower behind shoulders—1! Bend trunk backw. and stretch arms upw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4!

c)	a and b alternately in alternate rows. As: Rows 1, 3 and 5 start with a, then b—1 to 8! Rows 2, 4 and 6 start with b> then a—1 to 8!

4.	a) Bendknee-step forw. 1, and raise wand forw. to vertical pos., 1.

hand upw., r. downw-1! Pos.—2! Same r.—3, 4! b) Bendknee-step sidew. 1. and raise wand sidew. 1., r. hand behind the neck (the wand above the arm)—1 ! Pos.—2! Same r.—3, 4!

5.	a) Bend knees and raise wand forw.—1! Pos.—2! Lunge forw.

obi. to the 1. and raise wand forw. upw. obi. to the 1., r. hand in front of 1. shoulder—3! Pos.—4!

b)	Same as a, r.—1, 4!

c)	a and b alternately—1 to 8!

In place—rest! Or some variety of gymnastic tactics.

Wand in front of shoulders—raise!

6.	Turn trunk to the 1. and r. alternately and stretch arms forw.l to4!

7.	a) Bendknee-step backw. 1. and raise wand upw. 1.—1! Pos.—2!

Lunge sidew. 1. and raise wand in front of shoulders, 1. arm bent over r.—3 ! Pos.—4!

b)	Same as a, r.—1, 4!

c)	a and b alternately—1 to 8!

S.	a) Stride pos. sidew. 1. and raise wand sidew. 1.—1! Bend 1. knee, bend trunk sidew. 1., swing wand downw. and upw. r., 1. hand in front of r. shoulder—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4!

b)	Same as a, r.—1, 4!

c)	a and b alternately—1 to 8!

D. a) Lunge sidew. 1. and place wand around the 1. hip (wand to point forw. obi. to the 1., the center of the same resting on the hip) —1! Pos.—2! Cross-bendkee-step backw. 1. and raise wand sidew. r. to high diagonal pos. (r. arm s^dew., 1. arm upw.)—3! Pos.—4!

b)	Same as a, r.—T—4!

c)	a and b alternately—1 to 8!

10.	Breathing exercise:—Inhale slowly and raise wand overh. in four counts; exhale and lower wand behind hips in one count. Return in reverse order.

Wand at r. shoulder—carry! 1, 2!

Close order to the r. by marching forw. Fours (or sixes) Vi wheel 1. (r.) to a front line, then 1. (r.) face, march forw., deposit the wands and march to assigned places on the apparatus.

First Division: High horizontal bar and high-jump.

Second	41	High-jump and	high horizontal bar.

Third	“	Side horse and	climbing poles (two).

Fourth	“	Climbing poles	(two) and side horse.

Change places:—Division 1 with 2 and 3 with 4.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-220-

First Division .—High Horizontal Bar.

Jump to straight arm hang, ordinary grasp.

1.	Swing, at front swing squat with extended 1. leg between hands and swing up forw. to eross-rest mill-swing); V2 circlel. with the r. leg to rear rest; drop backw., squat forw. with both legs, ankles to bar and kip to straight arm rest; underswing, and down.

Combined grasp (1. reverse and r. ordinary).

2.	Swing, etc., same as exercise 1, to cross rest; Y2 turn and circle r. leg over bar, transferring grasp of r. hand on farther side of the bar to front rest, immediately add drop-kip to free front rest, then free front circle backw., and down to front side stand.

H.	Swing and kip to free front rest, immediately add front circle backw. to straight arm hang, swing forw. squat backw. and swing upw. to holding both legs at r. angle above bar; drop backw., squat forw. to underswing, and down.

Ordinary grasp, hands about eight to ten inches apart.

4.	Swing, at front swing raise legs upw. and pass under the bar (squatting) and swing up to straddle seat on outside of the hands ; drop backw., pass both legs forw. under bar (squatting), ankles to bar and kip to front rest: front circle forw. and continue swing to hand balance; squat vault forw.

Ordinary grasp.

5.	Swing and pull up at back swing to free front rest; drop-kip to free front rest; front circle forw.; then front circle backw. to straight arm hang, at front swing squat backw. and swing up over bar (both legs at r. angle), and down to rear side stand.

6.	An exercise free for all.

Change place with the 2nd division for high-jump.

Second Division.—High-Jump.

Change place with the 1st division for high horizontal bar.

Second Division.—High Horizontal Bar.

Jump to straight arm hang, ordinary grasp.

I.	Swing, at front swing raise both legs, ankles to bar and kip to free front rest, then front circle backw., underswing, and down.

2.	Swing and kip to front rest; front circle forw. to front rest; swing off backw. to straight arm hang; at front swing V2 turn 1. (releasing grasp of r. hand and regrasping on farther side of the bar to ordinary; swing forw. and kip to front rest, immediately change grasp of 1. hand to ordinary, then underswing, and down.

3.	Raise both legs (slowly) ankles to bar; squat backw. and lower legs to back hang; tui'n and squat forw.; extend legs upw. and front circle backw. to front rest; lower backw. to straight arm hang, and down.

4.	Raise both legs, ankles to bar, then front circle backw. to front rest; V2 circle r. with 1. leg, then V2 circle 1. with r. leg to rear rest;
-221-

lower backw. to back hang, legs apw., then continue the lowering backw. with extended hips to back hang (legs downw.), and down.

-?>. Pull up to dip rest 1., then with r. arm and extend both arms to front rest; front circle forw. (slowly), ankles to bar; squat backw. and lower legs to back hang; release grasp of 1. hand, then % turn and regrasp bar; down. Same opposite.

*6. Raise both legs, ankles to bar; squat backw. and extend legs upw. to back hang; pull up over bar (rear circle forw.) to rear rest; % turn backw. with extended hips, and down. )Swing off backw.)

7.	An exercise free for all.

Change place with the 1st division for high-jump.

Third and fourth divisions execute the same movements. The third begins on the side horse and the fourth on the climbing poles.

Side Horse.

All exercises start from position of front rest.

1.	Vfe circle r. with 1. leg to cross rest; V2 circle 1. with r. leg and M turn 1. to cross-stand. (Screw dismount 1.)

2. V2 circle r. with 1. leg to cross rest; V2 circle !. with r. leg and V2 turn 1. to front rest (r. hand on neck); down and immediately stride-jump sidew. r. over neck (1. leg circles over neck) to side stand.

3.	As ex. 1, with 1. leg; screw mount 1. on neck; raise both legs forw., swing backw. to free rest, and down.

4.	As ex. 3. to screw mount; back scissors; swing legs backw., and dismount forw.

5.	As ex. 3, to screw mount on neck, but only with V2 turn instead of % to cross rest; V* circle r. with 1. leg and % turn r. to cross-stand.

*>. An exercise free for all.

Note:—All movements to be executed 1. and r.

Climbing Poles (two).

1.	Jump to straight arm hang; raise knees forw.; lower knees; down. Repeat.

2.	Jump to straight arm hang; raise knees and V2 turn backw. (knees between hands); turn forw. and lower knees; down. Repeat.

3.	As ex. 2, but place insteps above hands and flex back to bird’s nest; return, and down. Repeat.

4.	As ex. 3, but extend 1. leg backw., return, and down. Repeat.

5.	Same as 4, but extend r. leg backw., etc.

6.	As ex. 2, continue the turn and extend legs downw. to back hang; return, and down. Repeat.

7.	Jump to straight arm hang and climbing pos. around 1. pole, then climb upw. to upper end, both hands to move simultaneously, and return, down.

8.	Same as ex. 3, with climbing pos. around r. pole.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and form a front line. Describe two small circles on the floor for “Foot-in-the-Ring.” Start with the first and last members of the class. After all have had their turn clap hands once and break rank.

(To be continued.)

Digitized by Tooele
—222—

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—The classes and other visitors from America to the Nuremberg (Germany) Turnfest have safely returned to their homes. Mr. Henry Suder, the leader of the “Bundes-Riege,” as well as his colleagues and the members of the different classes are full of enthusiasm over what they saw.

It is to be expected that the North-American Turnerhund will profit by the object lesson. The different classes and their leaders were enthusiastically banqueted upon their arrival home.

—For the second time in recent years a Wisconsin branch of the A. A. A. P. E. was organized this spring at Madison, Wis. Dr. Elsom of Madison, Mr. Geo. Wittich and Miss E. Shrieves of Milwaukee among others were instrumental in reviving the society and, from what we can see, are on the best way of making the organization a success. On Friday, Sept. 25th, the first public meeting was held in the Aula of the Milwaukee Normal School. The program was universally interesting and of unusual importance. The good attendance from all classes of people evinced due appreciation of the move.

We expect to reproduce some of the papers read in our next issue.

—The Muegge Institute of St. Louis, at the head of which are our well-known friends, Messrs. Aug. Muegge and Wm. Stecher, send us their new well illustrated announcement for the coming year. The “Institute” is continuously enlarging its scope and comprises now a department for gymnastics, swimming and dancing.

—The Burnham Gymnasium of Milwaukee issues a new prospectus for the year 1903—1904..

Outside of instructions for ladies’ and children’s classes, Miss Burnham’s school of physical training includes a two-year’s course for normal students.

WORLD S BEST RECORDS.

RUNNING.

ioo Yds.—94-5 sec.: H. M. Johnson, J. H. Maybury, H. Bethune. *o 3-5 sec.: A. F. Duffy, aao Yds.—21 4-5 sec.: H. Hutchins, C. G. Wood. *21 1-5 sec.: B. J. Wefers.

440 Yds.—48^ sec.: R. Buttery. *47 sec.: (straightaway) 47 4-5 (curved track): M. W. Long. 880 Yds.—1:53*4 min.: F. Hewitt. *1:53 2-5 min.: C. H. Kilpatrick.

One Mile—4:12^ min.: W. G. George. *4:15 3-5 min.: T. P. Conneff.

Two Miles—*9 32 1-5 min.; W. D. Day.

*120 Yd. Hurdle Race—15 1-5 sec.: A. C. Kraenzlein.

*220 Yd. Hurdle Race—23 3-5 sec.: A. C. Kraenzlein.

WEIGHT THROWING.

12 !b Hammer Throw—183 ft. 6 in.: Thomas Carroll. *184 ft. 1 in.: J. R. DeWitt. 16 lb Hammer Throw—*171 ft. 9 in.: John Flanagan.

12 lb Shot Put—*55 ft. 2 in.: G. R. Gray.

16 lb Shot Put—*47 ft.: G. R. Gray.

Discus Hurling—*120 ft. 7 3-4 in.: M. J Sheridan.

JUMPING.

Standing High lump— 5 ft. 8*4 in.: T. F. Kearney. *5 ft. 5*4 in.: R. C. Ewery.

Running High Jump—6 ft. 8*4 in.: R. H. Baker. *6 ft. 5 5-8 in.: M. F. Sweeney. Standing Broad Jump—14 ft. 5*4 in.: G. W. Hamilton. *11 ft. 3 in.: R. C. Ewery.

Three Standing Broad Jumps—41 ft. 2 in.: P. J. Griffin. *38 ft. 7^ in.: R. C. Ewry. Hop-Step-Jump (S.)—37 ft. »4 in.: J. F. Hartnett. '30 ft. 3 in.: j. Cosgrove. Hop-Step-Jump (R.)—48 ft. 8 in.: T. Burrows. *48 ft. 6 in.: E. J. Bloss.

Running Broad Jump—26 ft. 7 in.: L. A. Carpenter. '24 ft. 7J4 in.: M. Prinstein.

Pole \ ault—*11 ft. 10*4 in.: R. G. Clapp.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-22:s-

N^TATION.

50 Yd. Swim—* 126 1-5 sec.: J. H. Derbyshire.

100 Yd. Swim—*1 min.: T. Meadham. sao Yd. Swim—*2:34 4-5 min.: J. H. Derbyshire and F. C. V. Lane.

440 Yd. Swim—*5:43 1-5 min.: J. H. Tyers.

880 Yd. Swim—12:07^ min.: J. Nuttall.

One Mile Swim—25:13 2-5 min.: J. A. Jarvis.

Swimming Under Water—113 yds. 1 ft.: J. Finney. Plunging—*82 ft.: W. Taylor.

CANOE PADDLING.

One Mile—9 min. 29 sec.: A. F. Mackendrick.

1

ROWING.

J^-Mde—*57 seconds: E. Hediey. jJ-Mile—*3:08 1-5 min.:	E. Hediey.

One Mile—4:28 min.: J. Stanbury.

Two Miles—*9:19)$ mm.: Yale Freshmen Crew Five Miles—30:44^ min.: Four-oared Crew.

SKATING.

100 Yds.—*9 sec : E. Davidson

220 Yds.—*17 4-5 sec.: H. Davidson, J. F. Donahue.

440 Yds.—*28 1-5 sec.: N. Baptie.

880 Yds.—*1 min. 2-5 sec.: N. Baptie, K. Pander. One Mile—*2:41 1-5 min.: O. Rudd.

* Amateur.

ANNUAL FIELD DAY OF THE AMATEUR ATHLETIC

UNION.

Pilroaultee was this year’s peer in the performances of the junior-athletes who annually compete for the A. A. A. U. championships. The contests took place on the Wisconsin State Fair grounds and during the progress of the State Fair.

On account of heavy rains during the first days of the fair the ground was soft and muddy. This accounts for the somewhat poor results. The East and West divided honors pretty evenly. The arrangements were perfect in every way.

RESULTS OF THE JUNIOR EVENTS.

SCORE BY POINTS.

Milwaukee Athletic Club......................... 36

University of Chicago........................... 32

Central V. M. C. A. of Chicago.................. 20

Greater New York A. A.............................-	t3

First Regiment. Chicago...—.......................-	12

New York A. C.................................... 5

Montreal Athletic Association.................... 5

Crescent A. C. I...............................   1

Gdmpany E, St. Louis..................    -......—-	1

Unattached athletics.........................  -	1

120 yard hurdles____

too yard dash.......-

Mile run.. .........

440 yard run...........

Pole vault..........

Shot put..—.........

SSoyard run.........-

no yard dash........

Discus throw........

220 yard hurdles......

Hammer throw.

High jump .... .....

Broad jump..........

Two mile ran.—......

$6 pound weight.....

Totals................

►	2.	?	Z	;	!■<	I	f)	g	I

;	I	p	>	i'	p	>	r	>	8.

I	j	>	>	3	{	p	|	P	j

36 32 20 13 12 5 5 1	1	1

1 ao yard high hurdles—L. C. Bailey, Cen. Y. M. C. A., won; J. Wengierski, Cen. Y. M. C. A., second ; F. Soradakia, M. A. C., third. Time, :2i 3-5.

too yard dash—Percival Molson, M. A. A. A., won; George Poage. M. A. C., second: L. B. Stevens, M. A. C., third. Time, :n 1-5.

Mile run—James Lightbody, U. of C., won ; Henry Buechler, Cen. Y. M. C A., second; George B. Rudolph, Co. E, First Reg., St. Louis, third. Time, 5:32 4*5-

Discus throw—Fred Speik, U. of C., first ; 109 feet two inches: Hany Webster, First Reg., second ; E. E. Parry, U. of C., third.

Putting 1 (ground shot—L. E. J. Feuerbach, N. Y. A. C., won, 41 feet; W. R. Maxwell, U. of C., second, 37 feet 6% inches: G. Williamson, E. D. H. S., third, 34 feet 3# inches.

High jump—Otto Kaecke, First Reg., 5 feet 6 inches^ won ; George Poage, M. A. C., 5 feet 4 inches, second* Pole vault R. Norris, C. Y. M. C. A., won, 19 feet; E. Miller, U. of C., second, 9 feet 6 inches; F. Martin, First Reg., third, 9 feet.

440 yard dash—F. C. Waller, M. A. C\, won ; J. R. Pettit, First Reg. A. A., second. Time, 1:01 4-5.

Broad jump—Edward Hart, M. A C., 19 feet 7 inches, won . J. Wengierski, Cen. Y. M. C. A., 19 feet finches, second; Robert Romuender, 18 feet io*^ inches, third.

220 hurdles—George Poage, M. A. C., only starter. Time, :33 3-5.

220 yard dash—Lawson Robertson, G. N Y. I., A. A., won: lister Stevens, M. A. C., second: J. Wengierski, C. Y. M. C. A., third. Time, :24 4-5.

Hammer throw—Fred Long, M. C. A., 132 feet 3 inches, won ; E. E. Parry, U. of C., 125 feet 11 inches second: R. Maxwell, U. of C., 116 feci (>% inches, third.

880 yard run—Charles Bacon, G. N. Y. 1. A. A , won; M. L. Cahill, U. ofC., second; E. C. Hart, M. A. C., third. Time, 2:31 4-5.

Two mile run—Edgar McEachron, M. A. C , won ; Harvey Cohn, G. N. Y. A. A., second. Time, 12:14 4-5.

^6 wound weight—R. W. Maxwe.l, U. of C., 26 feet 1% inches, won ; E. E. Parry, U ofC., 21 feet, second

Digitized by


	Gymnasium.
w	Outfitters. *•

----------(3-37"r3Q.n.a-stic

iippaiatus.

Xuoclrexs.

UPla^g'xovLxa.d.

^.ppa,xsit“a.s-Bo-wlixxg* ,A-ll@3re-^-xxtlxxopoxxxotxic nmr	^.ppa-xatuLs.

/J| \	WRITE FOR CATALOG’".

'/1	NARRAGAKSETT MACHINE CO.,

________________PROVIDENCE,	R. I., U. S. A.

Summer Training m gymnastics.

The Chautauqua Schoo of Physical Education

opens its term of > eeks on July 6th, 1903.

The Work of the School includes

A Normal Course of Three Terms,

A Course in Medical Gymnastics,

A Course in Athletics,

Courses in Almost Every Approved Form of Exercise.

Send for a circular to _________Jay	W. SEAVER. M. D.. Yale University, New Haven, Conn.

Normal School of Physical Training,

MILWAUKEE, WIS.

^Two Year’s Course in Theory and Practiced

NINTH SEASON.

---Fall term begins October 7th, / 903..

For circulars address:

STELLA M. BURNHAM, Director.

Digitized by (^.ooQle