MIND AND BODY

Vol. 19.	NOYEMBEB,	1912.	No.	213

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis. Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa,

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 73 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis,

PARLIAMENT OF HEALTH.

To speak in terms of chemistry, what will be the precipitate in “our United States” of the Fifteenth International Congress of Hygiene and Demography, which has been in session in Washington? Previous congresses have not been without results in the countries in which they have met and in the world at large. They have brought about improved methods of public hygiene and have spread information concerning health. Thus the third congress, meeting in Paris in 1878, was followed by sanitary reforms, conspicuously in Paris itself.* The death rate of Italian cities began to decline soon after the fourth congress, at Turin, which marked the beginning of municipal hygiene in Italy. The Federal Bureau of Health of Switzerland owes its foundation to the fifth meeting at Geneva in 1882. The seventh congress, held at Vienna in 1887, led to the demolition of Vienna’s over-crowded tenements, the construction of healthful dwellings, the introduction of a pure water supply, and eventually to the complete transformation of the city. The era of legislation for the health of wage-earners, in which .England still holds leadership, is said to date from the ninth gathering of this body in London in 1891.

The launching of special reforms in the city or country in which the congress happens to be meeting is not, of course, its first object. Nevertheless, it was hoped to use this fifteenth meeting, the first ever held outside of Europe, as a* leverage for lifting permanently into the public mind several matters of elementary importance. One of these related to the Panama Canal. While our accomplishments in sanita-r tion on the isthmus give us just cause for pride,** the future success and value of the canal as an international thoroughfare depend largely on the continuance of work now going on. The present congress, it was thought, provided a timely opportunity to convince the world of this, as well as to exhibit the methods and results of our sanitary efforts in the Canal Zone. For this reason it was especially unfortu-

*Sec the monthly Bulletin of the Department of Health of the City of New York,. August, 1912 ; page 193.

#*See Sanitation on the Isthmus, by James Ten Broeck Bowles, page 41.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
— 266 —

nate that Colonel W. C. Gorgas, “the man who made the Canal Zone habitable/’ was prevented from attending the gathering and from delivering his scheduled address by the failure of the United States Congress at its last session to appropriate any money for traveling expenses for him and other officials. Dr. J. A. Le Prince of the Canal Com- ^ mission was on hand, however, to describe the new methods discovered and now in use for waging war on malaria.

Another reform which it has been hoped the congress would accelerate has to do with vital statistics, in which the United States with its meagre registration area has lagged far behind European countries.

With much that was familiar there was much also in the week’s discussion that, to many at least, took on the character of discovery or of information made public for the first time. The newspaper dispatches make it obvious that by no means the least service rendered by the gathering will be the wide discussion among laymen of more or less technical medical knowledge which, nevertheless, has its direct bearing on healthful living from day to day. That typhus fever has been traced to the louse as carrier, and that measles are ordinarily communicated, not by the scaling off of dried particles of skin, but by the fine spray thrown out in the act of sneezing or coughing, are types of this sort of medical learning which found a place in the press dispatches.

Specific conditions were held up to the public by expert hands in ways that made clear the danger ahead unless timely precautions are taken. Thus, T. Ivennard Thompson, vice-president of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, in illustration of his statement that caisson disease is often due not so much to work in compressed air as to work in foul atmospheres, called attention to the deposits of sewage in the Harlem River near New York. During the construction of the Harlem River tunnel, said Mr. Thompson, men complained of the “bends” when passing through the foul mud in the bottom of the stream. Tests that were made showed very clearly that the tides are not carrying all the sewage; a black putrid mud of offensive smell Settles on the bottoms of the Harlem, Hudson and East Rivers. Here, said Mr. Thompson, lay the hot bed of an epidemic. “It would even be dangerous to pump the water to put out fires,” he continued, “as so much foul mud would thus be scattered over the city to dry and spread as dust.”

Another condition, quite as potent for evil, though less local in nature, was pointed out by Dr. George Reid, health officer of Stafford, England. Dr. Reid recently conducted an inquiry for the Home Office Department of the English government which, among other objects, sought to determine more accurately the effect, if any, of the labor of married women on infant mortality. The twelve months’ life history of 5,000 infants born in families of the artisan class in the pottery towns of north Staffordshire was studied. The infant mortality among the class of working mothers was found to exceed that among the housewives by 43 per cent. By a shift in the statistical classifications it was found that the mortality among infants partly artificially fed exceeded that of the naturally fed class by 79 per cent, that those wholly artificially fed exceeded the breast fed babies by 157.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 267 —

The discussion of course went further than the mere pointing out of evils. As a step toward their elimination, there was call for a na«* tional board of health, and for a training school, something like West Point, where young men intending, for instance, to make railroading their life work may be trained to an efficiency that would lessen the number of accidents in travel. Dr. Charles G. Kerley of New York argued for a commission or committee by which the state should exercise more complete authority over every child. “It is only by such means,” he said, “that we will ever solve many of the urgent problems before us. Prophylaxis against crime, degeneracy and general worthlessness are in the hands of the public for the signal betterment of the race.”

At times the more familiar arguments dealing with hygiene, vocational disease and work accidents thus cleared away to make room for a sharp pronouncement or two on the subject of eugenics.

Dr. Kerley offered entire agreement with the persons who, he said, “had declared that if two infants, one born in a palace and one in a hovel, both in fair physical condition, were exchanged on the day of birth, each would work out his destiny along the lines of his environment. The child of the hovel would grow up to the palace and the offspring of the palace would remain on the level of the hovel. Character indicates the individual. Heredity has but little influence in determining character. Character above all things else is the product of environment.”

Confining himself to the problems of brain, as distinct from character development. Dr. L. F. Barker of Johns Hopkins University laid emphasis on sound heredity as the condition precedent of a good mind. “Only a minority of the public know,” said Dr. Barker, “that the kind ef mind an individual has depends on the inborn qualities of brain he inherits and the influences which act upon it afterwards.” “By a campaign for mental hygiene,” he declared again, “is meant a systematic attempt to secure human brains, so naturally endowed and nurtured that people will think, feel and a.ct better than they do now.”

Agreement among experts is proverbially an unusual thing, yet resolutions were adopted approving the suggestion that an international ■committee be appointed to bring about uniformity in methods of classification of the different organisms of the colon bacilli, which causes typhoid fever; that occupational diseases be reported in uniform manner by international agreement; that greater uniformity be obtained In the reports of the medical departments of the navies of the world -as to the causes of disability or death; that an international agreement be made on the manner of collecting reports of marriages, births, •deaths and divorces, and that such reports, made to confirm to a uniform standard, be published periodically; that a commission be appointed to bring about uniformity in criminal statistics and that the permanent international committee of the congress be instructed to establish a permanent bureau for future congresses. It was decided that such a bureau shall be established in the immediate future, to be located atJSThe Hague.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 268 —

NOTES ON HEATING OF SWIMMING POOLS.

> Interesting experiences in connection with the heating of swimming pools were related by several speakers at the recent meeting of ihe heating engineers* society in the discussion of a paper on this subject, presented by Cesar Teran (published in last month’s issue). Among the speakers was Theodore Weinshank, who described a unique method! lie had adopted for this purpose with success.

“While it may be true/* said Mr. Weinshank, “that there is no-sure theoretical method of predetermination of loss of heat from the water in a swimming pool, still the conditions which tend to govern -this loss are more or less a fixed basis of calculation, viz., the construction of the pool, the location of the pool in the building, the irequency with which the pool is in use and the average number of people using the pool every 24 hours. It has been our experience that the average loss of heat is from 2° to 5° F. and never more than 6° in 24 hours.

The pool described in the paper can be considered a comparatively ppiall one, gs the average size of swimming pools is about 20 ft. by 60 ft., with an average depth of 6 ft. The cubical contents of the pool described is 3,534 cu. ft., and to fill and empty this pool requires .10 hrs. and 5 hrs. respectively. This is too long a period for the average pool to be out of service. I have in mind particularly Y.

C. A. buildings and other semi-public buildings where the pools are required to be accessible continuously.

We were called upon to design a heating apparatus for a swimming pool to meet the last named requirements. The time limit given ns was 3 hrs. to fill and 2 hrs. to empty the pool, and the filling and emptying were to be done at night. The pool in question was 22 ft. by 60 ft., with an average water depth of 6 ft., or containing about

450,000	lbs. of water.

In designing the equipment we did not use any intermediate apparatus but heated the water by means of steam injection while the pool was being filled.

Referring to Fig. 1, the water Was admitted to the pool at point A, about 4 ft. from the bottom, in the middle of the end wall at the deepest end, through a 4-in. supply from the city mains under pressure through a filter. The arrangement of steam and water inlet is as shown in Fig. 2. The arrangement at point when used for .filling the pool, was not with the intention of filling the pool with water of the desired temperature. The amount of steam used at point A was governed by a temperature of the incoming water and the rate at which it was desired to fill the pool.

After filling the pool, the valves at point A are closed and then valves B and C are opened and steam admitted at points E, E, 18 id. from the top of the water level. The arrangement of the connections at E, E, are the same as at point A. The admission of steam at E, E, causes a circulation of water through the entire length of the pool and causes the colder water to flow through, inlets D, D, upwards. By these means, we are able to bring up the temperature of the water to the desired point within a very short time.	1 ^

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 269 —

' FIG. 1—PIPE ARRANGEMENT FOR, HEATING A SWIMMING POOL

BY INJECTION OF STEAM.

With this design, the time limit required for heating the pool controls the boiler capacity. For example: to heat a pool 22 ft. x 60 ft. x 6 ft. from a temperature of 55° to 75° F., would require about 9,000,000 !B. T. U. If this amount of heat is to be imparted to the water in 3 hrs., it would require about 90 H. P. This was the case in connection with the pool mentioned ab.ve.

A Member: How about noise?

Mr. Weinshank: We did have noise when pipes E, E, were about 6 in. below the surface of the water. The velocity of the steam would push the water inward. We lowered the pipe about 18 in. and that overcame the difficulty.

We have installations of a similar character where cast-iron boilers under low pressure are used with good results for supplying the steam to the pool.

FIG. 2 DETAIL OF STEAM AND WATER INLET.

Digitized by v^ooQle
•— 270 —

It is stated that steam is not considered a good medium, as it will impart a peculiar odor to the water, due, perhaps, to the presence of oil in the boiler. Our experience, however, has been to the contrary.

Mr. Teran: Concerning the use of steam to heat the water, the boilers that we used were cast-iron boilers; I have an objection to feeding these boilers continuously with fresh water, as they are likely to crack. If you have wrought-iron boilers of course you can use steam.

Manufacturers of filters prefer to filter the water after it is heated on the ground that they can filter it better that way. As to the high, temperature of the water used, the water is introduced at the bottom, as I stated, and no steam rises to the surface.

Mr. W. M. Mackay: I have had considerable experience with cast-iron boilers and I do not know of a single case of boilers cracking, after being filled with water, so long as the‘water was maintained at the proper level. I have known cases of both wrought-iron and cast-iron and steel boilers being cracked where the water was removed and fresh water turned in. I do not think cast-iron boilers will go to pieces because water is turned into them when they are generating steam.

President E. P. Bolton: In planning swimming pools, I have used, for the supply of cold and tempered water, branch pipes provided with nozzles buried in the lower end of the pool, fed by a cross header laid in a trench, provided with removable perforated lids and used as a drain for the solid materials which find their way to the bottom of the pool; the trench being connected to a small sump chamber built into the wall of the pool. With this arrangement it is very easy to remove the foul materials that gather in the lower part of such pools, which is largely made up of fine hair from the body and is rather difficult to get rid of, except by thorough washing down of the surface. A channel is formed down one of the side walls on the lower end of the pool which extends down into the sump, and a suction pipe is extended down into the bottom of the sump, so that the very last drop of water can be drawn away from the floor of the pool.

Hot or cold pipes can be extended down the same chase or channel into the pipe in the trench which crosses the lower end of the pool, and thus hot or cold water, or both, may be supplied. Ho difficulty has been found in introducing the hottest water in that manner, even while bathers have been in the pool, because it is distributed through the nozzles and becomes thoroughly mixed with the water in the pool before it strikes the person of the bather.

Mr. A. M. Feldman: I do not see why the author was afraid of injecting steam into the water of the swimming pool. If it is not a high pressure plant, there will be no oil in the boiler.

President Bolton: This may be due to the use of a compound in the boiler affecting the character of the condensed steam.

Mr. Feldman: I do not see why the water should be filtered after it is heated. It should be filtered before being heated so that no sedi* ment would be carried over into the heater.—“Heating Magazine.”

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 271 —

Portland, Oreg., Oct. 11th, 1912.

To the Editor of Mind and Body

Sir:—I have just received “Mind and Body” for October and notice with interest the two articles on swimming. I agree with Mr. James Boyle as to the quickest, easiest, and most natural method of teaching a beginner how to swim. I believe that the majority of those who teach swimming do so with these points in view: First, to teach the pupil self reliance and self control in the water; Second, to teach the pupil the stroke that is easiest and most natural for him to learn. (And I believe, ninety-nine times out of a hundred it will be the dog paddle, or motions similar to it.)

As to the method of teaching the strokes: It seems absurd to teach pupils any kind of a stroke while they are standing up. It is much easier and simpler to teach pupils while in a prone position on a bench or stool. I know that the crawl stroke cannot be taught in the upright position. I have seen pupils who had mastered their strokes on land perfectly, who, on getting into the water, lost all their sense of co-ordination.

Experience has taught me that I can teach from three to, six pupils to swim the dog paddle in the same time it would take to teach the breast stroke to one pupil. The dog paddle does not need any preliminary land drill. Start the pupil in the water. First put the wings around the waist, then have him stoop over till his hands touch the bottom of the tank or some support at the shallow end of the tank. Then have him straighten his legs out behind him. Let him rest on the wings in this position for a minute to let him know he will be held up by the wings. Then ask him to take his hands off the bottom of the tank or the support and hold them a little away from his chin, and then tell him to strike out and swim, not showing him how. The position of the body in the water is practically the same as in the breast stroke, except in the latter the thighs are ffrawn up and are at about right angles to the body and it is readily seen that they resist the water,—or else we are blind.

If the pupils are apt or if they are nervous, they will show it there, and the way a pupil tries to swim will determine what stroke is best for him. Nine times out of ten the pupil will pull and claw the water.

Then have the pupil try it all over again, this time instructing him what to do: First, lie in the water with body straight, but not stiff. Then show him how to move his hands and arms/ keeping feet still. Let him paddle around that way until he has mastered the stroke well enough to bring in the kick. Second, In teaching the kick, have pupil place hands on support or bottom of tank, legs straight and just under water, muscles relaxed so when they kick alternately up and down the feet will come out of the water and the pupil will know that his feet are up and working. The kick should be made from the knees. Third, Breathing. The constant alternate movements of the arms as they are pulling and pushing down on the water will* keep the head above water enough to allow the pupil to breathe freely through the mouth.

Digitized by
— 272 —

Not so with the breast stroke. In this, when the pupil is recovering on the arm stroke and there is not sufficient leg kick, the head will bob under water and when pupil takes another stroke the head will come up again, and so on,, hampering the breathing through the mouth which we know is detrimental. It is necessary to breathe through the mouth if one wishes to keep up and swim long distances or even for a comfortable swim, and we know how uncomfortable it feels vhen we breathe through the nose and have to take a* little water with the air from sprays and splashes.

What is true of the breast stroke as regards breathing is not true, however, of the crawl. For the body as it is being turned and twisted . from side to side brings the mouth up out of the water so the pupil can breathe as freely and as often as he. pleases. And it will not take him any longer to learn to breathe properly than it will to learn the movements of the arms and legs.

When it comes to speed swimming, then the head should be lowered if one wishes to make good progress. Then, of course, breathing is a little more difficult, but when one does breathe it is good and deep.

It is easier to learn the crawl from the dog paddle than the breast stroke. The dog paddle and crawl stroke are. the same, only the former is simpler. The leg kicks are the same and the arm movements, except in the crawl the arms are raised out of the water and on entering the water they are brought a little out to the side and farther back than in the dog paddle. I, for one, am convinced that the crawl, trud-geon, and side strokes can be taught and learned easier from the dog paddle.

I know this to be a fact,—that it is easier for a person to learn the breast stroke after mastering the dog paddle than it is to learn the dog paddle after learning the breast stroke. I have never seen ft person who has fallen into the water who did not proceed to try to walk or climb out the best way he knew how. Not once have I seen a person try to swim out with the breast stroke. This is the reason I believe that the dog paddle is more natural than the frog method. A-gain,—we cannot expect to get very far if we imitate the frog, because the frog swims entirely with its hind legs and feet. I am more in favor of imitating the duck, which I am sure does not use the breast stroke and seems to get along rather well.

The hygenic value of both strokes is very good. However, the crawl and trudgeon bring more muscle into play and insure a better development of all the body than does the breast stroke which emphasizes the muscles of the shoulders, chest and upper part of the back.

I think we are all agreed on the fact that muscular effort with short periods of rest is more beneficial than muscular effort under a continual strain. I am just as positive that a person swimming the breast stroke, short or long distances, as hard as he can, will be as tired as the person who swims any other stroke. The crawl is not meant for long distance swimming.

As to the Anthropologists,—the literature on swimming of ancient times, even their paintings and carvings show that they used an over-arm stroke in those days similar to our crawl of to-day.

Digitized by Google
— 273 —

As ter facts and figures.—This summer I taught over two hundred hoys to swim, using the dog paddle. All but five swam the length of our tank (sixty feet) at their third lesson. The five swam the length at fourth, fifth, and sixth lesson. Two of those boys swam sixty yards' and taught two other boys to swim sixty feet. Then swimming one hundred yards themselves, thus entitling them to the Leaders’ button*

At the city playgrounds swimming pools, the instructor at one of the pools was teaching the dog paddle while the instructor at the other pool taught preferably the breast stroke. The instructor teaching the dog paddle taught two to the other’s one, and that, mind you, without the wings.

In my own judgment, I honestly believe that the dog paddle is the stroke to teach beginners. When once they have gained confidence with using this stroke, they can then very readily learn any other stroke they wish.	Yours	very	sincerely,

H. T. SMITH,

Assistant Physical Work Director, Y. M. C. A., Portland, Oreg.

About the only reason many people have for not sleeping out-ofdoors is that they fear for their comfort; they cannot understand how it would be possible to sleep outside of four walls in winter and keep warm at the same time. A few have tried it and have not been warha because they observed inadequate precautions to keep cold out and the

■Comforter?

Blankets Cotton

-Second mattress or -Paper [blankets sheets

-Mattress

-Springs

---------------------------

warmth in. The fact is that if it is gone about in the right way more comfort is to be derived from sleeping out-of-doors than in. It will grow on one as a delightful habit that will , soon be difficult to forego.

It is of prime importance to have plenty of protection from the cold underneath for the fact that more cold comes from below than from above, the lack of which bit of knowledge has made it unpleasant for more than one. A mountain of comforters on top will not suffice to keep one snugly warm if there is not enough “insulation” under the body.

This cut gives an admirable design of an admirably made bed to-keep one comfortable in the coldest of weather. If with this, one uses' good cotton-nap sheets, and blankets large enough to tuck in well at the bottom and sides, and to cover the shoulders well, there should be no trouble.



Digitized by {^.ooQle
— 274 —	    '	-1,

LAWN-TENNIS DRILL.*

Arranged by Jos. Cermak, Gymnastic Instructor at Medill High School,

Chicago, 111.

This "drill” was originally arranged for 8 girls, but with some changes it may be used for 16, 24 or 32 girls.

Parts I., II., III. and IV. are divided into exercises A and B. In -parts I., II. and III. exercises A contain slow movements, most of the positions being held during four counts. In exercises B the same or 'similar movements with the raquet are combined with lively "fancy steps.” In part IV. A and B most of the exercises are in two counts (1-2).

Each combination of 16 counts is divided into four quarters as follows: 1. a) b) c) d) first quarter; 2. a) b) c) d) second quarter; 3. a)

b)	c) d) third quarter; and 4. a) b) c) d) fourth quarter.

Each letter (a, b, c, d) represents "one count,” or one y± note. If the participants are	to remain in a	certain position through b)	c)	and

•d,)	this means, that	the position is	to be held 4 counts (1—4);	if	the

position is marked a) b) it means "two counts” (1—2).

, Starting position: Heels closed, raquet in the left hand, in front oi the body, right hand placed on the rim. (Fig. 1.)

- ENTRANCE MARCH.

1.	The girls carrying the raquets in the starting position, march on the stage in single file.

2.	Mark time 8	counts, and on	the 5th count face front.

3.	March forward, and on the	7th and 8th counts y2 turn	to	the

right (rear march). The. turn is executed as follows: On the 7th count point the left foot forward, on the 8th count y2 turn to the right on the toes. This brings the left foot to a "point position” in rear; then on the 1st count the same foot steps forward (opposite direction).

4.	March forward (to the rear) and on the 7th and 8th count repeat the same turn to the right. (After this turn mark time 8 counts.)

5.	First "rank of twos” (from the left end) 8 steps forward and then wheel to the right (8 steps.) Second rank of twos six steps forward, wheel to the right and 2 steps forward. Third rank of twos four steps forward, wheel to the right and then 4 steps forward. Fourth rank of twos 2 steps forward, wheel to the right and 6 steps forward. (On the 16th count all are in one line again.) (Fig. 1.)

6. Mark time 6 counts. On the 7th and 8th count execute y2 turn to the right and mark time 8 counts.

* This drill was performed by eight ladies from Chicago at the Bohemian International Gymnastic Festival recently celebrated in Prague, Bohemia.

Digitized by Google
— 275 —

7.	Repeat exercise 5, but the “rank of twos” from the right end starts with 8 steps forward. (Fig. 2.)

8.	After closing on the 16th count mark time 6 counts, y2 turn to the right on 7 and 8 and again mark time 8 counts.

For the following exercises count off as follows: 1, 2, 3, 4, 4, 3, 2, 1,

9.	Number one 4 steps forward and on the 4th count face outward (left end face left, right end face right.) Number two, 3 steps forward, *4 turn outward and one step forward. Number three, two steps forward face outward and again two steps forward.. Number four, one step forward, *4 turn outward and 3 steps forward (Fig. 3.) This change must be executed in 4 counts.

(Note: The even numbers, two and four, execute the *4 turn on the ball of the right foot, and after the turn, step off in the new direction with the left foot. Odd numbers, one and three, execute the turn on the left foot and step off in the new direction with the right.)

10.	The ranks of four.% ^heel outward (left to the left, right to the right.) Exercise 9 and* 10*16 counts.

11.	Repeat exercise' 9 and 10, so as to bring the participants back to their original places.

12.	Left rank of “fours” wheel to the right (16 counts.) At the same time the right fours march forward 4 steps, ranks of twos % wheel to the right, 4 steps forward and again the twos wheel to the right (16 counts.) (Fig. 4.)

13.	Repeat exercise 12., but the left rank of fours wheels to the left and the right fours march 4 steps forward, y2 wheel by twos to the left, 4 steps forward and finish with y2 wheel by twos to the left (16 counts.)

14.	Ranks of fours 14 wheel backward 4 * counts and mark time 4 counts. (Fig. 5.)

15.	Ranks of twos 14 wheel forward 2 counts and mark time from 3. to 8. (Fig. 6.)

16.	Ranks of twos two y2 wheels outward, the right twos right and and left, and the left twos left and right, 8 counts. (Fig. 7.)

17.	The outer member of each rank 2 steps sideward outward (4 counts) front one step forward, rear one step backward, and halt. The pupils now stand in “open order” and are ready for the exercises.

y

/

-r4-

Digitized by Google
— 276 —

PAET I.

EXERCISE A.

Music: “Yankee Doodle. . ”

1.	a) Lunge left sideward, swing the raquet downward and to a posi-

tion sideward obliquely upward, right arm extended sideward, obliquely downward. (Fig. 2.)

b)	c) d) Remain in position.

2.	a) Stride left backward inward, turn trunk left, and by a downward

swing, bring the raquet to the 1st position, lean slightly backward, the eyes turned to the left. (Fig. 3.)

b)	c) d) Remain in position.

3.	a) Stride gracefully to the right, turn the trunk right, raise the

left leg backward outward, knee bent, and by a downward swing bring the raquet behind the left shoulder. The right arm is raised forward obliquely upward, elbow and wrist slightly bent. (Fig. 4.)

b)	c) d) Remain.

4.	a) Transfer the weight of the body on the left foot, raise the right

leg sideward, knee straight and the toes extended, at the same time swing the raquet sideward and downward, bj Close the heels by replacing the right foot, at the same time the raquet, by a gentle toss, lands in the right hand, the left hand is placed on the rim. (Like fig. 1., but raquet in the right hand).

c)	d) Remain.

Repeat exercises 1, 2, 3, and 4, to the opposite side.

Digitized by LaOOQle
— 277 —

1 a)

b)

c)

d)

2. a)

b)

c)

d)

3. a)

b) 4. a)

b)

c)

i

EXERCISE B.

Swing the raquet downward and upward to an oblique position, extend the right arm sideward obliquely downward, bring the weight of the body gracefully on the left foot, like in a “Mercury” or an “Arabesque” step, raise right foot backward, knee bent (Fig. 5.)

Hop on the left foot, raquet, right arm and right foot remain in position.

Swing the raquet downward to a position in front of body, place the right hand on the rim, transfer the weight of the body on the right foot, swing the left leg forward outward, knee bent, eyes turned to the left (Fig. 6.)

Hop on the right foot, “throw” the left foot, raquet remaining in position.

Step with the left foot backward inward on toes, and make a quick, tiny step sideward with the right foot, (rear cross step left in double-quick time, that is, step rear left and sideward right in one count, or during *4 note). (Fig. 7.)

Repeat exercise 2. a).

Repeat exercise 2. a).

Repeat exercise 2. a).

Bring the weight of the body on the right foot, raise left foot backw., knee bent, and swing the raquet from starting position downward and over the left shoulder. (Position the same as fig. 4. but stand on toes.)

c)	d) Three hops in place on the toes of the right foot.

Transfer weight on the left foot, and raise right foot forward outward, at the same time swing the raquet from left shoulder sideward and downward.

Hop on the left foot, “throw” with the right, raquet at the same time lands in the right hand.

d)	Transfer weight on the right foot, and hop on the same on. d). On c) swing the left foot outward with a “throw” and on d) close to the right.

Repeat exercises 1, 2, 3, and 4, to the opposite side.

Remark: Change the raquet from right to the left hand by a gentle toss, that is, the raquet leaves left hand before it lands in

Digitized by
— 278 —

the right. Music for this part is repeated first part twice for exercise A., and chorus twice for exercise A.

PART II.

Music: “Marching through Georgia.”

EXERCISE A.

1.	a) Lunge forward left, raquet to the right backward, (height of hip)

right arm extended backward hand on the rim (Fig. 8.)

b)	c) d) Remain.

2.	a) Lunge forward right, raquet over the left shoulder, right arm

raised forward obliquely upward, elbow and wrist slightly bent. (Fig. 9.)

b)	c) d) Remain.

3.	a) Swing the raquet forward (as if striking the ball) and by con-

tinuous movement backward on the left side of body. (Like A flank arm circle forward).

b)	Half turn to the left, the raquet, by a continuous movement reaches the vertical position.

c)	The raquet on the third count, by a continuous movement, drops behind the right shoulder. (Fig. 10.)

d)	Remain.

4.	a) Stride forward right and on the ball of the right foot execute

a half turn to the right. With the stride again swing the raquet forward and downward on the left side of the body. ;

b)	After completing the half turn on the right foot, stride (backward left, the raquet, by a continuous movement lands behind the left shoulder. (Fig. 11.) The picture here should show feet in a cross-stride position, with the left foot in rear. ‘

c)	Swing the raquet sideward-aaid downward, and at the some time

raise right foot slightly forward.	-i

d)	The raquet lands in the right hand, and at the same time close

heels.	|

Repeat exercises 1, 2, 3, and 4, to the opposite side.

EXERCISE B, .

1.	a) Step gracefully, forward Vft on the toes, head thrown slightly backward, right leg raised backward outward, knee and ankle bent (like in the “Mercury” or “Arabesque” step).. Raquet in the same position as in exercise A. 1. a) b) c) d). (Fig. 12.)

Digitized by LaOOQle
-279-

b)	Hop in place on the left foot, raquet and right foot remaining in position.

c)	Transfer the weight of the body on the right foot, raise the left leg forward, knee bent, toes extended, and at the same time swing the raquet downward and to a position obliquely upward, (imitating the “back-hand stroke”). The right hand is placed on the hip. (Fig. 13.)

d)	Hop in place on the right foot, with a gentle “throw” of the left foot, the raquet remaining in position.

2.	a) Transfer the weight on the left foot, bend left arm, raquet behind the left shoulder, turn trunk to the left, raise right leg forward inward, knee bent, toes extended, eyes turned to the front. (Fig. 14.)

b) Hop forward on the left foot and “throw” with the right.

c) Step forward on the right foot, raise the left foot forward inward, turn the trunk to the right and swing the raquet from the left shoulder over the right shoulder, eyes turned to the front. (Fig. 15.)

d)	Hop forward on the right foot and “throw” left, the raquet remaining in position.

3.	a) From the position described in exercise 2. c) and d) step backward left, and swing the raquet from right shoulder backward left on the left side of the body (the raquet practically follows the left - foot.)

b)	With a hop on the left foot execute a quick y> turn to the left, swing the right foot forward, the raquet, which with the turn reached the highest point in a vertical position, drops behind the right shoulder. (Fig. 16.) (By an oversight our model is pictured with the raquet in the right hand and behind the left shoulder. The raquet should be in the left hand and behind the right shoulder.)

c)	Step forward on the right foot, the raquet and right arm remaining in position.

d)	With a hop on the right foot, execute a quick y> turn to the left, “throw” the left foot, and at the same time swing the raquet from the right shoulder downward and over the left shoulder.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 280 —

4.	a) Transfer the weight on the left foot, and at the same time swing the raquet from the left shoulder sideward and downward.

. b) Hop on the left foot, "throw” the right, and the raquet lands in the right hand.

c)	Transfer the weight on the right foot, raise the left foot, forward outward.

<d) With a hop on the right close heels with the left foot. Repeat .exercise 1, 2, 3, and 4, to the opposite side.

Remarks: Exercise B. a) resembles the step called "Mercury” or "Arabesque.” In the exercises B. 3. a) b) and c) the movement of the raquet is continuous, that is forward, backward on the left side of the body, upward to the highest point from which position it drops behind the right shoulder. See, that the movements of the raquet resemble the "strokes” used in tennis.

(To be continued.)

REED DRILL FOR GIRLS.

Suitable for Closing Day Exercises,

By HENRY SUDER.

The reed is carried with both hands and is raised over the head, the hands in line and a little below the shoulders.

PART I.

1.	a) Raise reed forward obliquely upward and place left foot forward

at 1—2.

b)	Lower reed forward obliquely downward, place left foot backward with bending of right knee and bend trunk slightly at 3—4.

c)	Return to position a) at 5—6.

d)	Return to starting position at 7—8 (two counts for each movement.)

Repeat, but place right foot, 9—16 counts.

2.	a) Lower reed forward obliquely downward and place left foot back-

ward at 1—2.

b)	Raise reed and drop it backward (arms bent) place left foot forward and bend right knee at 3—4.

c)	Return to position a) at 5—6.

Digitized by CjOOQle
d)	Return to starting position at 7—8.

Repeat, but place right foot, 9—16 counts.

3.	a) Waltz-step sideways left and right (in place) 1—8 counts.

b)	Swing reed downward in a circle and hop oyer same (skip,) left and right alternately with raising of lower leg backward 1—8 counts.

4.	Like exercise three.

f>. a) Raise reed sideways left, left hand on hip, right arm above head and place right foot sideways.

b)	Move reed to the right, right hand on hip, left arm over head, bend trunk sideways right, cross right foot backward and bend left knee.

c)	Return to position a).

d)	Return to starting position 1—8 counts.

Repeat but vice versa 9—16 counts.

•6. a) Lower reed forward obliquely to the left and place right foot sideways.

b)	Raise and twist reed, form a loop forward obliquely to the right, turn trunk right, cross right foot backward and bend left knee.

c)	Return to position a).

d)	Return to starting position.

7.	a) Waltz-step forward and backward each 1—4 counts—1—8 counts, b) Swing reed downward in a circle and hop over same (skip), left and right alternately with raising of foot forward 1—8 counts. ■8. Like exercise seven.

Pose.

PART II.

Divide the class in files I and II.

1.	a) Raise reed forward obliquely upward, turn trunk outward and

raise inner foot backward; remain in position (balance) 1—8 counts.

b) Repeat, but vice versa 9—16 counts.

2.	a) Lower reed forward obliquely downward and lunge forward o*

bliquely outward at 1—2.

b)	Raise reed and drop it backward (arms bent) and kneel right at 3—-4.

c)	Return to position a) at 5—6.

d)	Return to starting position at 7—8 counts.

Repeat, but vice versa 9—16 counts.

3. a) No. 1 circle left (pass in front) around No. 2 with change step.

No. 2 twist reed (loop) to the left, left arm forward obliquely upward, trunk turned left, cross left foot backward, knee bent, eyes towards loop and remain in position 1—8 counts, b) Like a), but No. 2 circle and No. 1 poses; 9—16 counts.

4.	Swing reed downward in a circle and hop over same (skip) alternately with 14 turn left continually executed (lower leg backward), 1—16 counts.

5.	a) Raise reed sideways outward, inner hand on hip, outer arm over

head, bend trunk sideways outward and raise inner. foot sideways, (balance) and remain 1—8 counts.

Digitized by Google
282 —

b) Repeat, but vice versa 9—16 counts.

6.	a) Move arms sideways and lunge sideways outward.

b)	Twist reed (loop) turn trunk outward and kneel on inner knee. *

c)	Return to position a).

d)	Return to starting position 1—8 counts.

Repeat, but vice versa 9—16 counts.

7.	a) Move arms sideways, No. 2 face about (Hands of Nos. 1 and 2

touch) and with change step, circle (wheel) 1—8 counts, b) Both face about and repeat 1—8 counts.

8.	Like exercise 4, but turn right and raise leg forward.

Pose.

REMARKS:	Practice	all	exercises in 1—16 counts. In exercise

three Part II, in order to move the loop to the left, the forefinger should be placed through the loop.

SHADOWS SCHOTTISCHE.

..... Music:	Any	Schottische.

By AGNES BURNS FERGUSON and IRENE RABER.

Formation:—In couples, inner hands joined, outer hands on hips.

I.	Begin with right foot. Point in 4th position in front, 1. Point in 2nd position, 2. Point in 5th position in rear and bend the knees, 3. Replace, 4.

II.	Repeat I. beginning with left foot. Point left in 4th position in front, 1. Point in 2nd position, 2. Point in 5th position in rear and bend knees, 3. Replace, 4.

III.	Step with right foot to side, 1. Cross left foot in rear, 2.

Right foot to side, 3. Cross	left foot in	rear,	4. Right foot to side

and hold, 5 and 6. Point left	in 4th position in front and hold, 7	and 8.

IV.	Repeat III., beginning with left foot. Step with left foot

to side, 1. Cross right foot	in rear, 2.	Left	foot to side, 3.	Cross

right foot in rear, 4. Left	foot to side	and	hold, 5 and 6.	Point

right foot in the 4th position in	front and	hold,	7 and 8.

V.	Step forward on right	foot, 1.	Slide	left foot up	behind,

right in 5th position and bend	knees, 2.	Step	back on left	foot, 3.

Point right foot in 4th position in front, 4.

VI.	Repeat V.

VII.	Beginning with the outer foot (partners facing each other), elide forward with the outer foot, 1. Slide inner foot up to outer toot, 2. Step forward on outer foot, 3. Hop on outer foot having inner foot slightly bent and the point slightly raised in rear, 4.

VIII.	Repeat VII., beginning with inner foot (partners back to back), slide inner foot forward, 1. Slide outer foot up to inner foot, 2. Step forward on inner foot, 3. Hop on inner foot with outside leg Blightly bent and the point slightly raised in rear, 4.

g IX. Repeat VII. P

X. Repeat VIII.

Repeat from the beginning.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

NOBMAL COLLEGE OF THE N. A. G. U., INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

The Students' Alliance, which this year has a membership of 65, the largest in the history of the school, elected the following officers: President, Alex. A. Harwick; Vice-President, Elsa K. Hein; Secretary, Lawrence H. Molis; Treasurer, John A. Schwarz; Tumwart, Grover W. Mueller.

At class meetings the following officers were elected:	Senior

Class:—President, Lawrence H. Molis; Vice-President, Flora M. Bugh; Secretary, George W. Lipps; Treasurer, Gustav Heinemann.

Freshmen Class:—President, Walter A. Cox; Vice-President, Margaret Metzger; Secretary, Gertrude Krug; Treasurer, Carl Hein.

The opening Kommers at the German House was attended by all the men, and by a majority of the faculty and the board of trustees of the Normal College. Interesting and instructive talks were given by members of the faculty, those by Dr. Edgar F. Kiser on “Clean Living" and Dr. John E. Morris on sexual hygiene being worthy of special mention. Favorite College songs w’ere sung, and the affair was conceded to have been the most successful ever held at the school.

The ladies, who number 33 this year, have organized, and meet occasionally for a pleasant time. At their first meeting a number of sociable games were played.

The Fourth Annual Conservation Congress which met in Indianapolis, Oct. 1st to 4th, was attended by the students. They listened to many instructive addresses on Sane Living and Hygiene. On Oct. 4th the senior class gave an hour's exhibition, consisting of tactics, free exercises, gymnastic dancing, apparatus work, gymnastic games, song games, and esthetic dancing, at the State Capitol before delegates and visitors to the congress.

Great rivalry exists between the senior and the freshmen class over indoor baseball. A series of these games has been arranged. The opening game on Oct. 12th resulted in a victory for the seniors, by a score of 27 to 23. Batteries:—seniors, Nohr, Harwick, and Mueller; freshmen, Varrelmann, Hoin, and Cox.

With the largest enrollment in its history, and with the students and faculty working harmoniously together everything indicates that this will be the most successful year.

Alex A. Harwick, Becorder.

—-Prophylaxis of Pulmonary Tuberculosis.—Loeffler calls attention to the frequency of a mechanical and functional lack of proportion in the chest and lungs of certain children and young people, which gives cause for suspicion of tuberculosis. Time reveals that this is a mistake, but the conditions favor infection and every effort should be made to help the child to outgrow them. Breathing exercises are especially useful, and outdoor play.—Medizinische Klinik, Berlin.— Journ. A. M. A.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
MlSP

™ Published Month*?.

ftND BODY -^r

PREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.

Price, $1.00 per Year. Forclgi $1.25.

V Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.f c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to WM, A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—BEGINNING WITH JULY of this year “The American Turner” with Mr. Hans Ballin as its editor is being issued by the Freidenker Publishing Company of Milwaukee, Wis. This new publication will be to the Non-German reading members of the Tumerbund what the “Tumzeitung” is to the balance.

> News from the societies of the Bund, articles'on the ethical as well as on the technical aims of the Tumerbund, historical sketches of prominent members, reports of district and national Tumfeste, etc. will make the publication of value not only to the younger generation of Turners, but also to many readers of Mind and Body. It is the intention of the publishers to make a semi-monthly of the “American Turner” as soon as the number of subscribers justifies this move. The price of the publication is $1.00 per year.

—IN A RECENT ISSUE of The Survey, Dr. Maximilian Grosz-mann reports as follows on the meetings of the American Federation for Sex Hygiene which were held in Atlantic City early in June.

The first part of the program dealt with methods of teaching sex hygiene to children; and the two papers on the subject, one by Dean Balliet of the New York University of Pedagogy on sex instruction as determined by age, and the other by Dr. Edward Jackson of Denver, supplemented each other. They agreed that the delicate problem must be dealt with differently for the different ages. Two main suggestions were: First, that the curiosity of children in sex matters arising naturally at different ages must be satisfied by truthful answers, with this understanding, however, that there is no need of telling them more, than that involved in direct answers to specific questions. Even the young child wonders about its own origin, but will be satisfied wheii told that it grew from its mother. The relation of the sexes need not be alluded to then; it will need to be explained only as the time of the consciousness of sex approaches—that is, in the prepubertal yeara. Warning against venereal infection can be postponed until the adolescent age. Second, the speakers agreed that this teaching must in every instance be preparatory to each stage of development in the child; in other words, it should be given before the critical stage is reached so as to forestall wrong ideas or evil tendencies. In addition every effort should be made for the proper physical and character training so that the child may have a sound body, controlled by his will, and have the ability of self-direction and self-denial.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
— 285 —

In that way he will meet the new physical and emotional dangers and temptations with knowledge and strength.

In the second part of the session Assistant Health Officer, Dr, Snow of California, gave an interesting talk on the difficulties of regulating the spread of venereal infection. He detailed the three different methods employed by three different cities in California in dealing with vice. In Los Angeles an effort is being made to stamp out prostitution entirely. In San Francisco it is more or less officially segregated and supervised. In Sacramento a system of reporting cases of venereal infection has been introduced, which gives the local health board an opportunity to follow up the sources of these infections, to place the women under treatment, and to placard the premises with warnings a-gadnst infection to’ possible frequenters. The Sacramento plan was particularly interesting because it does not treat the women as transgressors, but as patients.

A paper by Dr. Ernest J. Lederle, health commissioner of New York City, described the plan for reporting venereal diseases which went into effect in New York City on May 1.

The final address was made by Dr. Talbot Williams, the new head of the School of Journalism of Columbia University. He showed that when all was said it must be admitted that vice was much more boldly rampant thirty and forty years ago than it is now, and that the modem, scientific, and moral methods of attack are certainly bringing about a regeneration. He showed further that the main weapon in this fight will be that idealism which sanctifies love.

It was generally emphasized that the fight against vice is also in a great measure a social problem. Better wages and living conditions, so that early marriages would be possible to young men, and so that young women would not be tempted to add to their starvation wages by the wages of sin, it was brought out, would go a great way towards eradicating prostitution.

—IN LINE WITH THE FOREGOING is the following report which shows that New England churchmen also favor sex education.

At the recent convention of Episcopalians of Massachusetts, held in Boston, the report of the committee on morals dealt straight from the shoulder with regard to the sex education of children. An excerpt from the report which was unanimously adopted follows:

“We call upon parents to feel their sacred responsibility for judicious instruction of children as to sex and the relation of personal purity to health and happiness. Mothers especially should instruct their daughters, for young women aTe strangely ignorant in these matters. They should teil their daughters the fearful risk they undergo if they marry men who have led immoral lives. Parents should know the companions of their children, especially the young men with whom their daughters are acquainted.”

—A SIGNIFICANT RESOLUTION among many adopted at the Third Annual Conference of Mayors and municipal officials of the state of New York held at Utica, N. Y., June 10, 11, and 12, declared that,

Digitized by Google
— 286 —

"without seriously interfering with the present observance of Sunday, we favor Sunday concerts in the parks, out-of-door games and other reasonable facilities for healthful recreation.”

—AMONG THE REPORTS submitted at their recent meeting by the various committees of the American Institute of Criminal Law and Criminology says "The Survey” those of general interest were on prison labor, the sterilization of certain classes of criminals and compensation to the dependents of convicts. The report on the latter subject advocates such compensation and deplores the fact that in the various states it has been merged with the problems of family desertion, prison labor and prison discipline.

The primary motive of the committee on compensation to the dependents of convicts, says the report, centers in the condition and want of the families of convicts because the state, in the administration of its criminal laws, has deprived them of their means of support, regardless of whether the imprisonment be for desertion and non-support, or for any other crime. And the committee believes that on that primary consideration the fact that the convict behaves himself or not, or the fact that the prison management produces profits or not, has but little bearing. The question involves, directly, general considerations of economy in preventive criminal administration. An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. The convict's wife is a better citizen if the community establishes a substantial bond of sympathy and helpfulness, rather than leaving her dependent upon and subject to a criminal husband. The convict's child must be educated against inherited criminal tendencies, and aerainst the influence of criminal environments. On a broad estimate, it will cost less to support all the needy families of convicts in the state than it does to send a single murderer to the penitentiary.

The subcommittee on prison labor, whose report was written by E. Stagg Whitin, has this to say on the general subject:

The economic progress in prison labor shown in recent legislation is toward more efficient production by the elimination of the profits of the lessee; more economical distribution of the products by the institution of a preferred market, where the profits of the middleman are e-liminated, in place of the unfair* competition with the products of free labor in the open market; and finally the curtailment of the slave system by the provision for wages and choice of occupation for the man in penal servitude;

The report of the committee on sterilization brings together an array of cases gathered from various sources, which tend to show the effect of heredity on criminality, feeble-mindedness, epilepsy, alcoholism and other forms of unfitness. The report notes unexpected idiosyn-cracies in some of the cases, and deplores our ignorance of the laws of heredity. On the whole the committee favors sterilization practiced with the safeguards provided by laws of the type which failed to pass the Wisconsin legislature last year. It gives a summary of laws now existing in eight states, and recommends the compiling of genealogies of our institutional charges, the establishing of chairs of eugenics in

Digitized by LaOOQle
— 287 —

the various universities and the establishing of at least one laboratory for mental diseases in each state.

—THE CHAUTAUQUA SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION is making a change in its financial control that will be of interest to all Chautauquans and to many who, while they have never been at Chautauqua, are still interested in the work that the school has done for teachers of physical training.

The School of Physical Education, with its buildings and equipment, now becomes the property of the Chautauqua Institution and will be conducted as the other departments, so as to secure a general uniformity in method. The-change of ownership and control will not materially affect the school, as the Institution has been thoroughly in sympathy with the plans and ideals that have developed the school to its present extent. As an earnest of their intent to continue the general policies of the school, the Institution has engaged. Dr. Seaver to act as director.

NOMENCLATURE OF APPARATUS EXERCISES.

Compiled by EMIL RATH, Normal College, N. A. G. U., Indianapolis, Ind.

ACTIVITIES COMMON TO THE HANG AND SUPPORT.

1.	Handspringing.

a)	Handhopping. (Hangeln, Stuetzeln.) Is practiced in place and from place with one or alternate hands. It consists of momentarily raising one hand at a time and regrasping. It is designated as:

Handhopping left in place.

Alternate handhopping in place.

(No.) Handhops left (right) forward (backward or sideward).

Alternate handhopping forward (backward or sideward) is termed traveling.

b)	Hand jumping (Hangzucken, Stuetzhuepfen) is also practiced in and from place and is performed by suddenly flexing bbth elbows, raising both hands momentarily, and then regrasping. Directions: Forward, backward and sideward.

Handhopping and handjumping are executed with various appropriate grips. In the support the elbow flexion is followed by a sudden extension producing the jump.

2.	Changing grips.

From one of the grips given under “Forms of Grips” designated as a starting position the hands may change grips singly, alternately, or simultaneously. With the last execution a hand jump is necessary and this should be stated.

Example: From an upper grip, change left hand to under grip, and return right; or, with a hand jump change both hands to under grip and return.

3.	Bend arms to the

Bent arm hang; bent arm support; elbow hand hang, or elbow

Digitized by
— 288 —

hang; elbow support; upper arm hand hang, or upper arm hang. (See hangs).

With the last two exercises from the straight arm hang the arm is placed over the apparatus.

4.	a) Knee raising forward and fore-upward. (Knieheben.)

The execution is similar to that of free exercises. It is performed singly, alternately (two methods, in succession and linked), and simultaneously.

Examples:

Knee-raising left (right) forward, or fore-upward, and lower it; alternate knee-raising left and right forward; linked knee raising left and right forward; double knee raising forward.

b) Squatting.

In the support the knee raising fore-upward may be followed by passing the feet over the grasped surface and then extending the legs. It is usually done in one rapid movement and is termed squatting.

Examples:

Squat forward or backward left (right); squat forward or backward with both legs. The same exercises may be done in the hang by passing the feet under the grasped surface after a turnover backward into an inverted hang.

5.	a) Legswinging and leg raising forward, fore-upward and sideward. (Spreizen, Beinheben.)

This resembles the previous exercises in modes of execution and is similar in performance to the description given under free exercises. When both legs are raised forward in the hanging position it is called the balance-hang (Schwebestuetz). Singly and alternately these exercises are also performed backward. The double leg-swing is termed the short swing.

b) Straddling. From an inverted hang the straddle forward is executed by passing the extended leg underneath the grasped surface and outside of the arms. The straddle forward in the support is executed by passing the legs over the grasped surface outside of the arms.

The legs also may be straddled in the balance-hang or balance-support. Exercises under 4 and 5 may be arranged as sequences of three or more movements.

6.	The short swing fore-backward and sideward. The extended legs are swung back and forth or sideward left and right, the activity confining itself largely to the hips. The fore-backward swing increases in difficulty as the legs are swung forward to the horizontal and above it. It is mostly performed in a hanging position.

In the circle-swing of both legs the movement takes place chiefly in the waist. The extended legs are firmly pressed together and swung in a circle to the left or right. The exercise is started by describing u small circle on the floor with the feet and constantly increasing it. It is performed only in the hang. Circling of both legs in the support on the horse somewhat resembles it.

7.	Bodyswings. They consist of a pendulum-like motion of the swinging body with the hands on a fixed point as in the hang, or with the shoulders as the fixed point, as in the support (generally on the

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 289 —

parallel bars). They are named according to the direction in which the .gymnast is swinging:—

a) Foreswing (Vorschwung), b) Backswing (Rueckschwung), and ~c) Sideswing (Seitschwnng). d) The intermediate swing (Zwischen-schwung) consists of a fore- and backswing, or vice versa, joining two parts of an exercise. (Parallel bars.)

8.	Turns about the length axis.

a)	The hang-turn (Hangkehre).

b)	The support-turn (Stuetzkehre).

It consists of a half turn left or right around the length axis. Combined with either the forward or backward swing it is termed swingturn. The grips taken during this exercise must be designated before starting, likewise the arm about which the turn is made if one hand retains the grip.

9.	Turns about the breadth axis.

a)	The turnover (Ueberdrehen).

The turnover backward from the hang (the forward being seldom used) may be performed with hips and knees bent, hips bent, and with a straight body and terminates in one of the positions described under Various Hangs.” It consists of a quarter or half turn about the breadth axis depending upon the final position to be assumed which must, of course, be named. The 3-4 and 1-1 turn are also, used to ■obtain certain positions.

Examples:

Turnover backward with hips bent to the inverted hang.

The turnover forward occurs most frequently in the support. It Is performed as the previous turnover and leads to the inverted positions described under “Stands on the Apparatus.”

Example:

Turnover forward, hips and knees bent, and straighten into the shoulder stand left.

b)	The lever.

The extended body is raised or lowered to the horizontal position.

It is designated as a lever frontways, rearways or sideways depending upon the surface of the body which is turned toward the apparatus and requires a % turn about the breadth axis from the hang or support.

10.	In the hang-lying, hang-stand, support-lying, and support-stand positions appropriate exercises may be selected from the foregoing. Some of the arm and leg exercises are particularly suitable. Exercises of the head and trunk may also be added.

11.	Many of the described exercises may also be performed in the bent-arm hang and support; also in the inverted and derived hangs.

ACTIVITIES LEADING FROM HANG TO SUPPORT.

1.	Kipping. From an inverted hang frontways, upper grip (mixed or under grip), with hips bent and the feet close to the bar (for convenience the execution on the horizontal bar will be described) the hips are suddenly and vigorously straightened and the arms drawn forces

Digitized by LjOOQle
— 290 —

fully to the body so that it rises to a support or free support position. The legs from ankles to hips should glide along the bar. The kipp may be performed from different ways of starting but the inverted hang with bent hips must always be obtained in order to get a forceful thrust of the legs. It is practiced:

a)	On the shoulder or head high bar from running under the bar and thoroughly extending, even overextending the body to an arched position and then suddenly bending the hips to the inverted hang.

b)	Prom sudden hip flexion after arching at the end of the forward swing on the high bar. Swing-kipp. (Schwungkippe.)

c)	Prom falling backward from the support to the inverted hang. Fall-kipp. (Fallkippe.)

d)	As a), but from swinging forward with bent hips instead of running forward. Glide-kipp. (Schleifkippe.)

The pendulum motion of the body in the inverted hang must not be checked. There are two modes of execution:

1.	By keeping the feet close to the bar and permitting the hips to swing considerably forward beyond a vertical line from the bar.

2.	By swinging the feet about a foot or more from the bar in the direction of the body swing and with it when in the inverted hang.

On the high horizontal bar the turn-kipp (Drehkippe) is performed:

1.	From swinging with mixed grip and making a half turn left about the right arm (if the right hand has under grip) either at the fend of the back-swing or during the back-swing.

2.	From swinging with upper grip and executing a half turn right about the right arm either at the end of the back swing or during the back swing.

The regrasping hand may grasp either with upper or lower grip. The kipp rearways is performed from the inverted hang rearways with bent hips and upper grip and leads to the support rearways. It is also-executed from a swing in the hang rearways (usually with upper grip). The slightly bent hips are raised to the bar at the end of the back ewing and forcibly extended.

On the parallel bars it is executed as:

a)	The upper-arm swing-kipp (Oberarmschwungkippe.)

b)	The upper-arm fall-kipp (Oberarmfallkippe.)

c)	The hand-hang fall-kipp (Handhangfallkippe.)

d)	The glide-kipp (Schleifkippe.)

In the upper-arm kipps the body turns over backward until the trunk is about horizontal and slightly above the bars with the hips bent and the legs extended. From this position the hips are forcefully straightened so that the body will rise to the support*. In the hand-hang and glide-kipp ah inner grip must be taken; otherwise the execution resembles that on the horizontal bar. The kipp is also performed on the rings.

The term kipp has been adopted from the German. Whereas there are many apparatus terms that admit of fluent translation, there are some for which it is difficult to find an English equivalent. Furthermore, while some German apparatus terms may not be verbally adaptable in the English language because of their peculiar sound, a num-

Digitized by ^ooQle
— 291 —

her of them do not suffer from this. The word kipp is one of them and, as it has come to be nationally used in gymnastic work, there is no reason why it should not be adapted. It is one of the technical terms that does not describe the activity, even in the German language, and must base its adaptation upon the general use that it already enjoys. -

2.	Stemming. The extended body is lifted from the hanging position to the support by the activity of the arms without making any turns about its breadth axis. On the high horizontal bar it is practiced as:

a)	The pull-stem (Zugstemme). It is performed slowly and begins from a hang with upper grip. The arms are bent and then alternately (or simultaneously) moved over the bar to the bent arm support, from which they are slowly straightened to the regular support. The tendency to bend the hips and thrust the head forward should eventually be overcome. Execution with mixed or under grip increases the difficulty of the exercise. The execution from the hang rearways with upper grip is extremely difficult.

b)	The shortswing-stem (Ruckstemme). From the hang or with the jump to the hang with upper grip (mixed or under grip) the forebackward short swing is executed (once or a number of times), and as the feet swing forward, the trunk moving at the same time in the opposite direction, a sudden vigorous pull of the arms followed by a force-ible pressing movement as the shoulders rise above the bar brings the body to the straight arm support. It may, through practice, be executed with straight arms.

c)	The swing-stem (Sehwungstemme). From the long swing with upper grip (mixed or under grip) the body rises to the straight arm support at the end of the backswing through a forceful pull of the arms. Increasing the amplitude of the swing simplifies the exercise.

Adding a half turn to these described stems gives rise to:

d)	The turn pull-stem, performed with a mixed grip, without or with crossed arms, and making a half turn about the arm of the hand grasping with the under grip.

e)	The turn shortswing-stem, which is performed similarly to the previous exercise (d), but differs from the regular shortswing stem, the body rising as the feet swing backward instead of forward. The turn takes place at the end of the forward swing of the trunk.

f)	The turnswing-stem. With a vigorous forward swing the body performs a half turn and rises to the support frontways releasing and regrasping either in succession or simultaneously. It is executed in the following ways:

1.	From an upper grip with the arms crossed.

2.	From a mixed grip with arms crossed, with a half turn to the side of the hand grasping with upper grip. The arms uncross as the turn is made.

3.	As 1) without the arms crossed (Drehschwungstemme).

4.	As 2) without the arms crossed (Muenchener Drehschwungstemme).

Digitized by v^,ooQle
— 292 —

A half turn is executed to the opposite side of the hand with the under grip. This turn is made under the arm of the hand haying under grip; it is not released.

In some of these it is necessary to release both hands either in succession or simultaneously; in others only one hand need he released. The grip to be taken when re-grasping must be indicated. . No. 4 is easiest performed from an underswing with half turn. The swing-stem may also be executed from a hang rearways with upper grip.

On the parallel bars “stemming” is performed as a

a)	Forward swing-stem. The extended body rises from the upper arm hang to the straight arm support with the forward swing.

b)	Backward swing-stem, in which the body rises at the end of or with the backward swing to the straight arm support.

Various stems may also be done on the rings.

MILWAUKEE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

George Wittich, Director of Physical Training.

ANNOUNCEMENT OF RESULTS OF EVENTS OF THE MILWAUKEE PUBLIC SCHOOLS AT FIELD MEET OF THE 7th AND 8th GRADES,

June 8th, 1912.

Shuttle Relay Race of the boys ; 20 boys to each team, 29 teams = 580 boys. Distance 2000 yds. Best time 37th st. school, 8 min. 59 1|5 sec.

Shuttle Relay Race of the girls ; 20 girls to each team, 28 teams = 560 girls. Distance 1500 yds. Best time Cass St. school, 3 min. 13 1|5 sec.

1400 boys and girls of the 7th and 8th grades qualified in the tryouts of the throwing of the basket ball and the broad jump at the various schools. Of this number 1100 competed in the dash at the Field Meet, of which number 900 qualified de spite the fact that the requirements for girls were raised in the dash.

A comparison of the results of this year’s Field Meet with those of last year’s shows a remarkable progress.

The time of the Boys* and Girls’ Relay Races, for example, was reduced 16 and 24 3|5 seconds respectively, which is the result of the training the pupil a have received out of doors during the two months preceding the Meet. Upon inquiry I have learned that the pupils who were engaged in these exercises were benefited by them very much. The excellent physical condition of the pupils on June 8th verifies this statement.

The total-participation of pupils on Field Day was as follows:

Calisthenic Drill 4300 Dash	1100

Relay Races	1140	,

6540

HIGH SCHOOL RESULTS AT THE FIELD MEET ON JUNE 1, 1912.

The required number of contestants of each school in the class competition Was 40 boys and 35 girls.

The class contests consisted of the following two groups of exercises.

Group of events for boys :

(a)	Free exercises with the wand.

(b)	120 yds. low hurdles (5 hurdles)

(c)	Running broad jump.

(d)	Shot put.

. (e) Shuttle relay race 120 yds.

GROUP OF EVENTS FOR GIRLS :

(a)	Free exercises with one club.

(b)	85 yds. low hurdles (4- 20“ hurdles)

Digitized by LaOOQle
— 293 —

(c)	Standing broad jump

(d)	Throwing the 4 lb. hurl ball.

(e)	Shuttle relay race (85 yds.)

The four schools were represented as follows:

North Division High by 36 boys and 35 girls = 71 students East	“	44	23	“	“	15	“	=	38

South	44	44	40	44	44	35	44	=	75

West	44	44	36	44	44	35	44	=	71

Total 135	44	44	120	44	255

The boys and girls of the East Division High and the boys of the West and5 North Division High schools were not eligible because they appeared in smaller numbers than the the requirements demanded.

In the competition of classes, where the exercises of each individual are measured and then changed to points to determine the standing of a class, the methods must be simple. The following example is an illustration of the method which was used on June 1.

BOYS. Broadjump :	10	ft.	equal	1	point; each 1|2 ft. farther, 1 point more ;

15 ft., 11 points ; 19 1|2 ft. — 20 points.

Shotput: 17 ft. - 1 point; each ft. farther 1 point more; 36 ft. - 20 points. Hurdles: 22 3|5 sec. - 1 point; each 2|5 sec. less 1 point more; 15 sec. - 20 points.

GIRLS. Broad Jump ; 3 ft. -1 point; each 3 inches more 1 point more ; 7 ft. 9 in. - 20 points.

Hurlball: 13 ft. 1 point, each 3 ft. more 1 point more ; 70 ft. - 20 points. Hurdles : 20 2|5 sec. 1 point; each 2|5 sec. less 1 point more; 13 sec. -20 points.

In judging the free exercises and the relay race, the work of the class as a whole was considered on the basis of 20 points as the maximum.

The result of the class competition in points:

BOYS. Wand Exercises. Relay.			Shotput.	Broadjump. Hurdles.		Total.
S. D. H. S.	17.5	18	7.57%	8.89	14.17	66.13
W. D. H. S.	17.12	20	8.02	10.13	16.44	71.71
N. D. H. S.	17.5	16	7.16	8.67	13.80	63.13
E. D. H. S.	16.	17	5.86	8.43	12.13	59.62
GIRLS.	Club Exercises. Relay. Hurlball.			Broadjump. Hurdles.		Total.
N. D. H. S.	18.8	20	10.68	12.34	10.06	71.50
S. D. H. S.	12.	15	10.60	11.82	9.28	58.70
W. D. H. S.	14.25	15	10 02	10.50	8.02	57.79
E. D. H. S.	11.25		9.86	10.60	9.	40.71

The prizes, cups, were awarded to the boys of the South Division and the girls of the North Division High schools.

A comparison of these results With those of last year show a decided improvement in the runs on part of both boys and girls, and in the throwing of the hurlball on the part of the girls. In the shot put the bo\'s of this year are weaker than those of last, which is due, most likely to the lighter weight of many boys of this year’s class as compared with that of the boys of last year.

The judges of calisthenics reported an improvement in posture and executive of some of the classes.

of points in Boys:	the following groups of Shotput. Broadjump.		events: Hurdles.	Total.
No. 81	36‘ 944	18‘	14% sec.	57 points 56 44
86	35* 2“	18‘ 6“	15% “ •	
. 5	31‘	18‘ 4“	15% 44	51 44
112	27* 1044	18‘ 10“	15	49 44
14	30* 244	16‘ 6“	14% “	48 44
63	28‘	17‘ 744	15% “	47 44

Digitized by Google
— 294 —

Girls:	Hurlball.	Broadjump. Hardies.	Total.
No. 36	58‘	V 15 sec.	48 points.
107	55‘	V 15% “	45 “
38	46‘	7‘ 5“ 15% “	44 “
77	58‘	6‘ 9“ 16% “	43 “
112	49‘	6‘ 3“ 15	42 “

EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS AND PHYSIOLOGIC AND HYGIENIC NOTES OF INTEREST.

By D. M. FEED. KROGH, M. D.

—Blood-Corpuscles, Old and Young. Precisely as epithelial cells are generated when they have been damaged or destroyed, so, it is well known, the red blood-cells can be replaced after they have been lost through hemorrhage or disintegration by various hemolytic agencies. The renewal of the cellular elements of the blood in different types of anemia is a fact of common experience. Is there any physiologic difference, however, between the young and the old red corpuscles? The morphologist at times can discern structural peculiarities in the erythrocytes which may lead him to ascribe developmental changes to them. But even under conditions in which no visible inequalities or perversions of structure are discemable there is chemical evidence that “new” blood is unlike “old” blood. Morawitz and his pupils have noted an increased consumption of oxygen by the blood in anemia in contrast with the blood of healthy persons; and this feature has even been used to estimate the degree of regeneration which is taking place. Dr. Snapper of Groeningen, Holland, has used the resistance of the red corpuscles of different bloods as an index of physiologic variations. Comparing the behavior of the corpuscles from blood after hemorrhage with that obtained beforehand, he has observed that the newly formed cells are less easily hemolyzed than the older ones. The young corpuscles formed in the reparation of the anemia are more resistant in this sense. There is, furthermore, some evidence that new red cells can be formed from the components of older ones which have suffered destruction in the vascular system itself. In such cases the resistance of the cells to hypotonic salt solutions may increase despite the lack of change in the number of the cells present, and if one may judge by the phenomena here noted, the reparation of blood-cells may quite exceed the actual loss experienced. This is in accord with a familiar principle in pathology. Loss of blood occasions not merely a restitution for what has been removed, but also acts as a stimulus to the hematopoietic system whereby there are formed far more than enough new cells to replace the loss.—Journal Am. JMed. Assoc.

—The Origin and Nature of Life. The British Association for the Advancement of Science has held its eighty-second annual meeting at Dundee. The attendance numbered £,379, including 1,200 visitors. President Schaefer delivered an address on the origin and nature of life. He said that recent advances have shown the dividing line be-

Digitized by ^.ooQle
— 295 —

tween and inanimate matter to be less sharp than has been supposed. Living beings are governed by laws indentical with those which govern inanimate matter. The most obvious manifestation of life is spontaneous movement, but physicists have shown that precisely similar movements occur in non-living substances. The movements of oil drops, of organic and inorganic mixtures, and even of mercury globules are indistinguishable from those termed “ameboid.” The chemistry and physics of the living organism and of nitrogenous colloids are essentially similar. Protoplasm always takes the form of a colloid solution in which the colloids are associated with crystalloids (electropltes). Enclosing the living substance thus constituted is a film permitting diffusion between the colloid solution constituting the protoplasm and the circumambient medium. Other similar films or membranes occur in the interior of the protoplasm. These films have specific characters, favoring the diffusion of special kinds of material. The changes produced under these conditions, associated with those caused by active chemical agents formed within the protoplasm and known as enzymes, effect assimilation and dissimilation. Similar changes can be produced outside the body (in vitro) by purely chemical and physical methods.

Since the initial processes and final results in the transformation of material in a living body are the same as they Would be on the assumption that the changes are brought about in confirmity with the laws of chemistry and physics, it may be concluded that all the changes in living substances are brought about by ordinary chemical and physical forces. The contention that growth and reproduction are characteristic of life is wrong. Crystals grow and multiply and reproduce their like, given a supply of the requisite pabulum. Even such a complicated process as karyokinesis can be imitated with solutions of sodium chlorid containing a suspension of carbon particles, which arrange themselves under the influence of the movements of the electrolytes'. The researches of Loeb show that the fertilization of the egg can no longer be regarded as the result of living matter brought to it by the spermatozoon, since it can be produced by a similar chemical reagent.

The elements composing living substance are few, and when the chemist succeeds in building up the colloid compound which they form, it will without doubt exhibit the phenomena which we call life. The evolutionary process is continuous and shows no gap at any part of its course. This points to the conclusion that life must have been produced by a gradual change from lifeless material on the borderland between animate and inanimate. The last place to look for such change is in hermetically sealed flasks; we should look for it under natural conditions. There is no valid reason for the belief that at some previous period the earth was more favorably circumstanced than now for the production of life. If living matter has been evolved from lifeless in the past, its evolution is possible in the present and the future. At first, it must be life of a far simpler character than any that has yet been observed, so that, if we are able to detect the material, we shall be uncertain whether to call it animate cr inanimate. Probably we

Digitized by LaOOQLe
— 296 —

shall not be able to visualize it after we have become convinced of its^ existence.—London Letter to the Joum. A. M. A.

—Public Health Work Among Labor Unions. The State Department of Health is planning to enlist the co-operation of labor unions throughout the State in its work of diminishing the prevalence and mortality of disease, and Commissioner Porter has appointed Mr. Michael J. O'Brien, the well-known labor leader of Rochester, as-special representative of the Department to advance this work by visiting labor organizations throughout the State and arousing their interest in preventing communicable diseases, and avoiding the special diseases and accidents incident to their occupations.

When Mr. O'Brien visits the labor organizations and explains what-the State Department wants to do for men and women and what it wants them to do for their own sake and for the sake of their families,, he will at the same time make arrangements for a meeting of the organizations to be addressed by one of the special lecturers of the State Department of Health.—Monthly Bulletin, Hew York State Department of Health.

—Treatment of Flat Foot.—A treatment suitable, with but slight modification, for all cases of static foot trouble (flat foot), from the-early cases which are often described as “weak ankles" to the most severe cases where there is old-standing structural change is what Roth claims for his method. The treatment consists of: (1) attention to-footwear; (2) attention to position in standing and walking; and (3)* regular daily exercises. Whether boots or shoes are worn, whether they button or lace, they must be the shape of the feet. The inner side of the boot, where the big toe lies, is kept straight, so that the end! of the boot is opposite the big toe, and not opposite the second or third toe. This is to ensure that the big toe is not pushed out against the-other toes and has plenty of room in which to act. The soles should be a sixth to a fourth of an inch thick, the heels, broad, an inch or less in height.

If the degree of flat foot be anything more than the merest trace,, mechanical means are utilized to throw the weight of the body, distributed down the leg, slightly outside the center of the ankle-joint. This is effected by thickening the sole and heel of each boot along its inner side by %, %, or y2 inch, the amount depending on the severity" of the case; the worse the case the greater the thickening. The additional leather is in the form of a wedge, with its base to the inside and its apex to the outside of the foot, so that the extra thickness on th$ inside fades aff to nothing on the outside. Hot only does it fade a-way outward toward the outside, but situated about an inch behind the tip.

The patient must always stand on both feet with the toes slightly turned in and the heels slightly turned out. He must never stand with the toes turned out, or on one foot to rest the other. Every now and then he must raise the heels just clear of the ground,'that is, stand oh

Digitized by ^.ooQle
— 297 —

the toes sufficiently to bring all the muscles of the foot into action. ^Whenever the feet begin to ache he should do this. In addition, he should stand with the feet very slightly turned over on their outer border. He must walk with the feet pointing straight forward, never with the feet turned out. If the feet are hurting, he must walk all the lime very slightly on tip-toe, that is, with the heels off the ground. It is a good plan while indoors to walk on tip-toe all the time.

The exercises, to be done the first thing every morning, preferably with the shoes off, are two in number:	1. Standing, alternately heels

Taising and toes raising. The exercise is repeated fifty to one hundred -times. 2. Sitting on one chair, with the foot projecting over the edge of another, the calf of the leg resting on the seat. Keeping the knee still, the foot is slowly circumducted to its full extent in all directions, down, in, up, out, fifty times; then down, out, up, in, fifty times. This treatment is said to remove the pain and discomfort of flat foot. As regards deformity it cures the slight cases, improves the moderate, and prevents the severe ones from getting worse. Even stiff and apparently hopelessly deformed feet get much more supple after a few months of this regime.—P. B. Both, M. D. in London Lancet.—J. A M. A.

The Mental Factor in Functional Diseases—The general practitioner should have in mind the mental factor in the many forms of symptom-complexes under his care He should further bear in mind that at least 75 per cent, of the patients that come to him for treatment are psychopathic in character, psychosomatics or psychoneurotics in one form or another. The general practitioner should learn to diagnose the psychic origin of many a symptom-complex apparently physical in its manifestations. Not only will the patient benefit by a medical scientific treatment, but there will be less occasion for the many mystical, occult cults, Christian Science, New Thought, as well as prize-fighter treatments, absurd food cures, quasi-scientific and pseudo-hygienic doctors and mental healers who, like poisonous weeds, have overrun our country from ocean to ocean and threaten to undermine the health and to deteriorate the intelligence of. the nation.—Sidis in Archives of Diagnosi.

—Oiled or TJnoiled Floors. The school authorities in Birmingham, England, have been conducting some experiments for the purpose of determining the best way to overcome the dust nuisance in school rooms. Here are the results:

The number of colonies of bacteria developed from air of rooms with unoiled floors before agitation of the floors was 31, as compared with 20 for rooms with oiled floors, an excess for unoiled floors of 55 per cent.

The number of colonies of bacteria developed from air of rooms with unoiled floors after agitation of the floors was 100, as compared with 28 for rooms with oiled floors, an excess for unoiled floors of 257 per cent, or nearly four times greater than for oiled floors

Oiled floors after agitation showed an average of 40 per cent increase in the bacterial colonies, while unoiled floors after agitation

Digitized by VjOOQle
— 298 —

Showed an increase of 222.6 per cent.—The Am. Journ. of Clinical Medicine.

—Defects of Vision and Hearing in School Children. During the months of May and June there were made in all the schools in villages and rural districts throughout the State of New York, tests of the eyesight and hearing of the pupils, the examinations being made by the school teachers following printed instructions issued by the State Department of Health, the results being recorded on forms provided by the Department. Where defects of vision or hearing were discovered, parents were notified and it was suggested that the pupil be given skilled attention by a physician or the health officer. In cities examinations of this character are usually made by trained medical inspectors; the State Department of Health does not pretend that the work of the teachers in the country schools is as accurate or thorough, but it is the best that is available at present and is far better than nothing. To what extent defects of vision and hearing can exist unknown to the victmi or its associates is evidenced by the fact in two schools in this State a pupil was found to be totally blind in one eye, without the children or their parents or teachers being aware that they did not enjoy perfect vision.-—Monthly Bulletin, New York State Department of Health.

—Health For Sale. One of the most interesting and important papers presented before the Fourth National Conservation Congress,, which met last week in Indianapolis, was written, not by a physician or a sanitarian, but by a business man, Mr. E. E. Rittenhouse, of the* Equitable Life Assurance Company. An abstract of his address appears-in Society proceedings in this issue. Mr. Rittenhouse, in the opening paragraphs of this address, recognized the crucial point in the present situation. He said:	“It takes money to carry on a great educational

movement and it takes money to conduct a public health service. The war between preventable disease and death is, therefore, a struggle between the dollar and the death-rate.” These words should be placed before every citizen, for his instruction and as a warning. With our present-day knowledge of disease, good health is a commodity which can be bought, if our cities, counties and states are willing to pay the* price. For $1.50 per capita per year, any community can practically banish those diseases which we now have the means of preventing and can greatly reduce the number of deaths from all causes. One dollar and a half per year! .Not quite half a cent a day to save life from destruction by known causes! Three cents a week, twelve and one-half cents a month, to protect each man, woman and child from disease* which we know how to prevent and which we know will exact a toll of many lives during the next year and all succeeding years until proper preventive methods are inagurated! A pitiably small sum, one thinks. Yet how much are our most advanced commonwealths spending for this purpose? Pennsylvania heads the list with 48 cents per capita, per annum; Arkansas, at the bottom, does not spend a cent; New York spends 1.7 cents; Massachusetts, 4.2 cents; Indiana, 1.8 cents; and so

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 299 —

on. In 1911, fifty of the largest American cities with a total preventable death-list of 117,724, spent an average of 30 cents per capita to prevent disease, and $1.65 per capita to prevent fires. If we could have in every city as good a sanitary service as we now have fire protection, many lives that are now needlessly sacrificed could be saved. The people can have such protection if they want it and if they will pay for it. Safety from disease can be obtained just as we obtain safety from fire and from thieves. Health can be secured if society will foot the bill.—Editor. J. A. M. A.

—Philadelphia’s New Open-Air School.—The open-air school of the Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Tuberculosis began its sessions September 9, on the roof of the Lighthouse, a social center at . 152 West Lehigh Avenue. Twenty pupils have thus far enrolled.

—To Teach Children Health Methods.—Lectures on practical health and hygiene will be given to 15,000 school children of Philadelphia during the year under the auspices of the Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Tuberculosis. The lectures began September 11 and are given by Dr. Howard L. Fussell.

—Physical Sins. Perhaps nothing will so much hasten the time when body and mind will both be adequately cared for as a diffusion of the belief that the preservation of health is a duty. Few seem conscious that there is such a thing as physical morality. Men’s habitual words and acts imply the idea that they are at liberty to treat their bodies as they please. Disorders entailed by disobedience to nature’s dictates they regard simply as grievances, not as the effect of a course of conduct more or less flagitious. Though the evil consequences inflicted upon their dependents and on future generations are often as great as those caused by crime, yet they do not think themselves in any degree a criminal. It is true that in the case of drunkeness, the visciousness of a bodily transgression is recognized, but none appear to infer that if the bodily transgression is vicious, so, too, is every bodily transgression. The fact is that all breaches of the laws of health are physical sins. When this is generally recognized, then, and per^ haps not till then, will the physical training of the young receive deserved attention.—“Health.”—London.

—Enlightened Selfishness. Under this title, the Philadelphia North American discusses the work of the Equitable Life Assurance-Society for the conservation of life and health. After commenting on the loss of 1,600 human beings in the wreck of the Titanic and contrasting this loss with the certain loss of 9,000 lives every year in Philadelphia through preventable diseases, the North American says: “The business of the Equitable Life Assurance Society is to insure lives. Higher death-rate means loss of revenue and reduction of profits. So, with enlightened selfishness, the Equitable is endeavoring to stimulate interest in the problems of health and sanitation. The Equitable

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 300 —

wants people to avoid illness and to enjoy length of days. With the Equitable, it isn’t merely a humane interest. It is strictly business. *To the Equitable, saving lives means saving money, and yet this is not any more true of a life-insurance society than it is of the community. Every life has a money value to society. A definite economic loss is suffered every time an individual, who might have been saved, dies. A city is rated according to the number of its citizens willing and able to make a living. . . . The enlightened selfishness of powerful financial interests like the Equitable is a hopeful sign. . . . There is no influence that holds out more hope for progress than enlightened selfishness.” The North American is right. It is the economic appeal of the health conservation movement which is encouraging. Purely moral -qauses win support slowly. But a cause which is both moral and e-•conomic cannot fail to win, as soon as these two facts are recognized.

—Joum. A. M. A.

—Popular Pamphlets on Health Topics. The necessity of giving people information on the questions relating to health and prevention •of disease has evidently been accepted by the various organizations working for the public good. The practical and concrete character of most of the material for public distribution is noticeable and commendable. Two excellent examples have recently been issued. One, i'What Children Should Eat,” is issued in the cause of child welfare. It is an attractively arranged and well-printed little pamphlet of ^wenty-four pages, containing information for the mother or nurse on "Why Children Should Eat,” "How Children Should Eat,” What Children Should Eat,” "What Children Should Not Eat,” "When Children Should Eat” and "How Much Children Should Eat.” It also contains -chapters on "How to Choose Food for Children,” "How to Prepare Food for Children,” "How to Prepare Food for Illness,” "What Food •Children Should Eat When 111,” "What Food is Needed in Special Piseases,” etc. The paragraphs are short and concise, and the directions are easily understood. Another is an artistic pamphlet entitled. "The Child,” printed and distributed by the Metropolitan Life-Insur-4mce Company for the use of its policy-holders. It contains chapters •on "The Home,” "Preparing for the Baby,” "The Baby Up to One Year,” "The Run-About Baby,” "The Child of School Age ” "The Sick Child” and a final chapter on "Emergencies.” The preparation and •distribution of these two pamphlets, and of similar educational jnaterial is most commendable. The present tendency toward wider knowledge on health matters cannot fail to produce a marked effect in £ few years.—Journ. A. M. A.

—Teaching Tuberculous Children on Hospital Roof.—The elementary schools committee voted to have a school room on the roof of the Long Island College Hospital for tuberculous children. Forty boys and girls will make up the class to start with; food and clothing will be furnished them so that they can endure the severest weather. Roosevelt Hospital expects to offer the use of its roof for a class of this de-

Digitized by t^ooQle
— 301 —

ascription. Five other roof classes will be established in Brooklyn this-fall. This will be the first instance in which a public school has been joined to a hospital so that the children may receive medical attention every day.—Journ. A. M. A.

—To Stimulate Defective Children.—William H. Maxwell, superintendent of schools, has decided to ask the Board of Education to sanction an experiment in electrifying a school room for the purpose of stimulating mentally defective children. The plan used will be that of Nikola Tesla, who has tried the plan in Stockholm. The electrical apparatus is installed in the walls of the room and is so hidden that neither the children nor the teacher are aware of its presence. In order to test the efficiency of this plan, about fifty deficient children will be instructed in an electrified room, while the same number of defective children will be used as controls.—Journ. A. M. A.

—Influencing the Spine by Breathing Exercises.—Mesnard, in “Archives G6n6rale de M6decine,” Paris, says that the tonic effect of breathing exercises'is an important factor in treatment of a spinal affection, but that the direct mechanical effect is even more important. Adenoids or pleural or pulmonary lesions, by obstructing the functioning of the air passages, are liable to induce deformity of the chest and spine. On the other hand, deformity of the latter may interfere with the respiration. Fevf physicians, he remarks, realize the danger of loss of balance in the trunk as a remote effect of pleurisy in a child, and few appreciate the importance of systematic breathing exercises to restore normal balance after removal of adenoids. The brathing is generally defective with scoliosis, and asymmetrical, and breathing exercises adapted to correct the asymmetry are often surprisingly useful in aiding in the straightening of the spine. The breathing exercises also help to loosen up the vertebral articulations and restore the normal shape to the cheat. The respiration should be of the costal type, and the patient should be trained to this preliminary to the wearing of an orthopedic corset.—Journ. A. M. A.

—The North American Gymnastic Union at its bi-ennial convention held at Indianapolis, Ind., June last, has gone on record favoring the establishment of a National Bureau of Health as set forth in the Owen bill now before Congress.

BOOK REVIEW.

—THE MYSTERIES OF LIFE SERIES by Isabelle Thompson Smart, M. D. Published by the Fink and Wagualls Company, New York. The series consists of four little 4 by: 6 inches each of approximately 110 pages. The net price of each book is 75 cents, the price of the set of four is $2.50.

As the question of sex hygiene is becoming more prominent the •number of books to be used for the instruction of children and adole-

Digitized by (^.ooQle
— 302 —

scents increases. The four books by Dr. Smart— No. 1. “What a mother should tell her little girl;” No. 2. “What a mother should tell her daughter;” No. 3. “What a father should tell his little boy;” and No. 4. What a father should tell his son”— are among the layout published on this subject and can be recommended to teachers and parents.

—“THE WAY WITH THE NERVES” by Joseph Collins, M. D. Physician to the Neurological Institute, New York. 313 pages, 5 by 8 inches. Published by G. P. Putnam’s Sons, New York and London. Mailing price, $1.60.

The letters which go to make up this book were first published in the “Medical Record,” “I have attempted in these letters” says Dr. Collins “to set forth in simple language an account of the commoner nervous and mental diseases, and to discuss briefly some of the questions which the neurologist is often asked to answer.” There are eighteen chapters, on such topics as Sick Headache, Hysteria, the Moderate Drinker, Ennui, the Repressed Emotional Woman, the Idle Well-to-do Young Man, Youthful Errors and Nervousness, Jealousy, Dipsomania. In each chapter there is a brief introduction characterizing some ailment; then a letter from a patient, or some friend of a patient, describing symptoms fully; and finally a reply by the physician, commenting on the symptoms and giving advice.

The book will be of value in giving to the headers a better understanding of many of the people with whom they daily come in contact.

—“THE GIRL THAT GOES WRONG” by Reginald Wright Kaufman. 226 pages, 5 by 8 inches. Published by Moffat, Yard and Company, New York. Mailing price, $1.35.

In this book Mr. Kaufman in each chapter tells the story of a girl who went wrong. While each one appears to have gone wrong from a different cause, it appears that the real reasons why most of the girls became prostitutes were economic, ones, and not the depravity of the girls. To the intelligent reader the book will throw many illuminating lights on the white slave problem.

—“DER MODERNE TANZ” (THE MODERN DANCE) by Ernst Schur. 122 pages, 7y2 by 9% inches, 16 full-page halftone illustrations mounted on olive-green card board as inserts. Published by Gustav Lammers, Munich, Bavaria, Germany.

The endeavor to give to some of the recently developed rhythmic movements the dignity and grace of the ancient dance finds an enthusiastic and well qualified champion in Mr. Schur. In “Der Moderne Tanz” he discourses on the dance as a form of art, treating successively the form and the psychology of dancing, the body and its drapery. Beginning with Isadora Duncan and her sister, the author characterizes the dancing of the two Sacchetto, Gertrude Barrison, Ruth St. Denis, the three Wiesenthals, ending with a description of the modem Russian

Digitized by Google
— 303 —

ballet with a Pawlowa and an Eduardowa. What each has striven to do, what each has accomplished and where some have failed is portrayed in the words of a sympathetic master of the subject. It is to be deplored that the author had no opportunity to study the effect of the art of the late Mr. Gilbert upon dancing, upon modern rhythmic expression among us.

By means of appropriate type, paper and binding the publisher has succeeded in giving an artistic touch to a book which will be a source of pleasure as well as of information to its purchasers.

—“HEREDITY IN RELATION TO EUGENICS” by Charles Benedict Davenport. 298 pages, 6 by 9 inches, with many charts and illustrations. Published by Henry Holt and Company, New York. Mailing price, $2.20.

In chapter I. the author says “Eugenics is the science of the improvement of the human race by better breeding...............Man is an

organism—an animal; the laws of improvement of com and of race horses hold true for him also. Unless people accept this simple truth and let it influence marriage selection, human progress will cease. Eugenics has reference to offspring. The success of a marriage from the standpoint of eugenics is pleasured by the number of disease-resistant, cultivable offspring that come from it.”

In nine chapters the author explains the methods followed by the science of Eugenics and their application in solving specific problems relating to the transmission of various human traits and the susceptibilities to different diseases.

With its *vast amount of accurate information the book unquestionably will be the best textbook on the question of Eugenics for many years to come. It is warmly recommended to all teachers.

Normal School of Physical Education.

Two years9 course in preparation for teachers of Physical Training. Large and modern gymnasium. Wellequipped laboratories of Anatomy, Biology, Zoology, and Physiology in connection with School of Medicine. Model School for Practice teaching. Best instructors and lecturers. Send for catalog and full information.

RUSSELL H. CONWELL, President.

TEMPLE UNIVERSITY Philadelphia, Pa*

Digitized by
Statement of the Ownership, Management, Circulation, Etc.*

of MIND AND BODY, published monthly, at Milwaukee, Wis., required by the Act of August 24, 1912.

NAME.	POST-OFFICE	ADDRESS.

Editor,	William Stecher,	.Philadelphia, Pa.

Business Manager,

Theo. Fritz,	Milwaukee,	Wis.

Publisher,

Freidenker Publishing	Co.,	Milwaukee,	Wis.

Owners :

Theo. Fritz	Milwaukee, Wis.
Carl Doerflinger Estate	Milwaukee, Wis.
Emily Schroeter	Milwaukee, Wis.
Mrs. M. Boppe-Podrasnik	Upland, Calif.
Hy. Harnischfeger	Milwaukee, Wis.
G. Bossert	Milwaukee, Wis.
Chr. Preusser, deseased	Milwaukee, Wis.
Carl F. Ringer	Milwaukee, Wis.
Mrs. E. H. Neymann	New York City.
C. Vonnegut, deseased	Indianapolis, Ind.
Ch. Spiehr	iSauk City, Wis.
Otto Bodemer	
Stephan Marx	Detroit, Mich.
A. Walther	New York City.
F. Hemker	West Salem, Wis.
H. Sander A. Scheffer	^ West Salem, Wis.
D. Sandmann	
Mrs. M. Joerger	Santa Clara, Calif.
E. Edelheim	
S. R. Urbino	
Mrs. Wm. Frankfurt	Milwaukee, Wis.
Mrs. Karl F. Heinzen	Boston, Mass.
Mrs. L. Prang	Boston, Mass.'
Dr. R. C. Teschan	Milwaukee, Wis.

Known bondholders, mortgages, and other security holders, holding 1 per cent, or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or othei securities:

Magd. Boppe-Podrasnik,	Upland, Calif.

Mary Harnischfeger,	Milwaukee, Wis.

r '	'•	q	i;,'.	-=	i	i	•	THEQ. ERITZ*' Se^rrl^pd Tpeas.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this 4th day • of October .1912.

Aug. Brauer, Notary Public, (SEAL)	County	Milwaukee, State of Wisconsin.

Successful Drills and Marched

...BY..

GERTRUDE WILLIAMS-LUNDGREN,

Formerly Physical Director of the Kansas State Agricultural College,

And For 11 years „ - .	,

Physical Director of the Burlington, la., Ypung Women’s Christian Association

PRICE, 50 CENTS.

* ’	’*•	^	*r	•	*	•*"=.

Freidenker Publishing Co., Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by ^.ooQle