MIND AND BODY

Vol. 23.	FEBRUARY,	1917	No.	256

Published By THE TURNER PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Minn.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah. EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Turner Publishing Company, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered at the Postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota as second class mail matter.

					1
					

INTUITION,

By GEORGE VAN N. DEARBORN, M. D.,

Sargent Normal School, Cambridge.

If one may trust for scientific purposes one’s general experience at first hand, and the common and wide experience of numerous life-observers who write fiction at second hand, there is now no acceptable reason for denying that this popular concept, intuition, is a live one and a real, worthy therefore of at least brief scientific discussion. Some bolder psychologists would go further, and maintain that obviously intuition is more characteristically feminine than masculine. In the light of certain modern behavioristic trends in psychology and of our new more exact knowledge of the ‘subconscious,’ intuition takes on a new and an important interest.

It has been pointed out that there are in the present mind of philosophy at least three more or less distinct concepts labelled ‘intuition.'' First (now for the most part ‘of only historic interest’) is the intuition of unlearned primary truth, the familiar ‘immediate knowledge of first and fundamental truths.’ I need only point out

Digitized by t^ooQle
434

as we pass that this ‘immediacy’ of knowledge of Reid was due solely to the blank darkness of subsensory associations, especially inferences, which only now, with the mind as it really is coming slowly into its own, we are beginning to explain and to understand. As a pretender at least to ‘common sense,’ we may be very sure that Thomas Reid, keen analyst of his day’s advances, would be today eager to accept the modem attitude toward these hidden reasoning powers of mind that have ‘attained.’

A second concept of intuition is that pragmatic notion used much in common thought and speech which we here shall try superficially at least, to analyze and then to orient: insight into foresight.

A third use of the term is the partly metaphysical usage of Bergson—‘instinct become disinterested,’ discursive thought by v which, although intending it at first only for Its explanation, we shall finally control our behavior. Here again we see the hint of things that are to be better understood forthwith, that keen appreciation of the essential identity of soul and behavior; of perception, recognition, intuition, and bodily movement of some mode; which indicates as well at least as anything else the prophetic wisdom of the James-Bergson attitude:—heaven not only ‘the vision of fulfilled desire’ but of the bodily processes of reaching it. So far as space and time are concerned, of course Bergson’s ‘intuition’ goes further and suggests logical subtleties in imagination at least quite too far away from the mortal behavior of the average student to come within our present scope, interesting metaphysically as it is. But so far as Bergson’s notion of perception is concerned, basis of reasoning, yet somatic to its core, intuition as known, for example, to the average ‘lady reporter’ gets not a little clarification. Recognition and even perception means more than psycho-motor adaptation,—and that more is a germ of our intuition; appreciation no longer conscious of its afferent neurility at all, ‘instinct become disinterested’ indeed.

Nor is a fourth use of the term intuition, seldom heard and more or less inaccurate, any further away from the basal sense-root of insight, namely as insight in regard to the future, especially an evil future: presentiment, foreboding. Its occasional use in this special sense suggests the generality of the term’s employment among the people, but otherwise for us has no interest now.

Thus we may note that intuition means in fact, as it does in etymology, practically the same as insight, or at least is insight— insight; namely, into situations ejective, objective, or sometimes subjective, and of course into any combination of the three. I am content to rest with the simple figurative concept insight as a working definition of intuition until analysis of the elemental processes involved shall have extended the connotation of the process and so made our ‘insight’ more satisfying as a definition. Epi-grammatically, one might say it was insight into foresight. One may say then that intuition is immediate knowledge of or insight into ejective, objective, and subjective processes or situations, this

Digitized by v^ooQie
435

insight involving at least the four following kinds of psychophysical event.

In the briefest possible terms, too concise to be thoroughly scientific, it seems that intuition perhaps has as its inherent character a fourfold nature: I, a delicate and sometimes ill-realized affect anentthe intuited situation. II, a more or less accurate process of comparison and inference usually not at all consciously appreciated. Ill, comprehension of - the situation, often with much acuteness and with far-reaching wisdom. And, IV, an effective instinct to trust the impression thus presented in the mind, the instinct in the adult being already long habitual.

In such a formulation we may distinguish a number of named mental processes obvious or closely and certainly implied and implicated beneath a figurative surface: A, keen perception, perhaps by all the senses simultaneously, implying sensitive receptors, and afferent centers and adequate sense-training inherited or personally acquired. B, delicate emotional mechanism with little starting-inertia and a minimum of muscular or glandular gross action, the ‘soma’ of the affect involved being largely neural, —as is the case with all long-inhibited feelings. C, awareness of the emotional aroma, however subtle, and D, appreciation, more or less consciously, that it has significance. E, an attempt to understand this significance; which promptly leads to a process of comparison, G, a judgment coming from the comparison (based on the nature of likeness and unlikeness),* and H, a more or less unconscious mysterious human mental process that we term inference. I, an integration of the affect and the reasoning process into, J, a conscious tendency to the understanding of the factors of the situation, however novel or complex so long as rational (including caprice) and not materialistically fortuitous; here life-experience comes in to aid the intuitive process greatly and we find the penetrating ‘woman of the world’ of fiction. K, the product of this complex fabrication (in the etymological sense!), however new or unfamiliar, is unconsciously believed in as wisdom from the soul’s deeps, an instinct which involves, L, a feeling of self-confidence. This leads in its turn to M, a conscious and most gratifying product, and the woman knows and understands something which is of use to her, and often to others, in the conduct of a difficult Life, something which may protect her or hers, something oftentimes which makes her naked momentary intuition of more real worth than the male’s most labored and extended mental toil of thought.

Such an ‘analysis’ as this of a mental action into thirteen elementary parts is of course purely artificial and withal in part arbitrary, and therefore must be taken (if indeed taken at all), as only a further amount of description of the total action as possibly

* An experimental study of likeness and unlikeness was reported by the writer in the Journal of Philosophy, Psychology, and Scientific Methods, 1910, 7, 57-64. Its evidence speaks for a dynamic correlate of judgments of this kind and one more or less appreciable.

Digitized by v^ooQle
436

it is. But the process of the insight as a whole cannot, I believe, escape analysis into at least the four processes numbered above. Let us examine them.

I.	The emotion (affect) concerned is liable to be any one of

many to which the human dynamism is liable; in ‘The Influence of Joy’ I have listed about eighty feelings which in theory might thus serve to direct and to energize the behavior of the intuiter toward the related situation. Sturt in his ‘Principles of Understanding’ (1915) emphasizes sympathy as the emotion germane to this relationship: “One common cause of slowness of judgment is defect of sympathy. A man often fails to understand other people because his interests are different from theirs. .	.	The

quick-wittedness of women in dealing with a personal situation is mainly due to their power of ready sympathy.” But there is a danger that the natural chivalry of most writers will designate as womanly sympathy what scientifically would more properly be denoted affective interest in general. On this supposition jealousy, curiosity, fear, anger, hate, even in short any dynamic, that is affective, reaction is adequate to attract, direct, and hold the intuiter’s energy toward and into the about-to-be-intuited situation. In a broad sense of appreciation (rather than that narrow one of kindly sympathy) we may well accept sympathy as the dynamic and kinetic starter of our quadruplex intuitive process. Beneath it clearly enough is human interest in the concatenation which living forever implies, by whatever precise affective name we handle it. It alone furnishes to intuition the vis a ter go, the impulse, which realizes it. But the dynamism of hate is at least equal to that of love.

II.	The process oj comparison and then of inference, substantially the essense of reasoning, has for intuition no special interest other than the circumstance that in intuition the process is at once quick, accurate, and wholly subconscious; yet that seems to be adequate reason why it should interest descriptive and explanatory psychology. Reasoning is a basal mode of mental activity existing in its essence everywhere; and always typical of the truest relationship of the ego and its effective environment, at least in those stages of this relationship when‘instinct in truth has become ‘disinterested,’ as Bergson says, ‘and capable of reflection.’ It is “formal logic” that has made reasoning unpopular; but thought must be libelled no longer as somewhat too recondite for scientific discussion, for it conceals in a mass of dialectical chaff grain too real, too dynamic, and always too important to longer remain lost. And logic will be hateful no longer than whatever length of time the dynamic theory shall require for the statement of the kinetic relationship of ego and environment in terms that all may understand. From the dynamic viewpoint the psychology of thought is seen to be still alive,and not merely Medieval and Scholastic. *

* See, for example, the writer’s “How to Learn Easily’’ (Little, Brown & Co., 1916), especially the fifth chapter. To set forth somewhat more in detail the kinesthetic aspects of ideation is a task already begun.

Digitized by LjOOQle
437

III.	The comprehension of the intuited situation, our third intuitional component, cannot be dismissed so curtly, for it in-vplves not only a suggestion of the intuitive relationship, but a brief connotation of the concept 'situation' which we have so often already employed.

The term comprehension is a fit one here, for it should mean for our present use just what etymologically it ought to mean— a taking-together, an understanding of some integration in its parts as well as in its wholeness. The integrated parts in this intuitional process are of the same derivation and of the same general nature as the factors of understanding elsewhere. Sense-impressions, often marvellously subtle, from without, percepts, stores of concepts within, memory 'fringes' of experience first- or secondhand, innate tendencies to integrate or to analyze, kinesthetic 'vestigia' serving as cues to imitative interpretation—all that undescribed, but inherently describable, vast complex of conscious and subsensory mentality which expresses for us the meaning of behavior, be it in ourselves primarily or in others. The clever 'clairvoyant' of today, the Stone-Age priest of old, Hans the horse, 'Sherlock Holmes' all had this comprehension clear because these intelligible elements to them were explicit, and symbolic of meaning. For business purposes the emotion need not be obvious, indeed may be conspicuous by its absence in the hackneyed 'palmist' and the kind of comprehenders whom she typifies.

But what does one mean by the intuited 'situation'? Inasmuch as intuition has no assignable limit of range or acuity it certainly were illogical to limit, either, the situation which the process explains. On this basis I propose to simply denote situation (here as elsewhere, wherever in short, reality is in relation with consciousness) as any appreciable relationship whatever, ejective, objective, or subjective, so long as not irrational, and including, therefore, pure caprice. By irrational we can mean only fortuitous in the metaphysical sense, but to attempt justification here is quite inexpedient, since the mutual bounds of chance and rationality, of chaos and cosmos, no man can pretend to set, and less and less may he pretend to do so with the advancement of learning and of insight into nature.

As any appreciable relationship whatever, then, in the rational world, 'situation' is delightfully simple to denote, but obviously only because it is inexpressibly and unimaginably too various and too complex oftentimes for words to justify at all. And this viewpoint really needs no justification as long as kinesthetic vestigia supplemented by other immediate sensorial data can serve as cues to the beginning of the intuitional performance; for thus long even the human mind will consciously and subconsciously realize its environment more or less fully.

But of course a considerable proportion of actual intuitions or intuitive actions in our civilized human experience deal with a narrower range cf situations, namely with those primarily ejective: intuition most often ‘sizes up' some person's relationship to his environment either at a particular time and circumstance or else

Digitized by LjOOQle
438

in general, as a habit. In the former case the intuiter would learn, by intuiting, what the person would do next, and the series of his behavior; while in the latter case the inquiry relates to that person’s character. And here one sees part of the biologic answer to the question why women and girls are the expert intuiters among humans; obviously to protect them automatically from the strenuous and often unimaginative and therefore ‘selfish’ male. Indeed, it were not easy to overevaluate intuition in this respect to young women, sometimes and in some circumstances so irresistibly seductive and yet so helpless and so liable to irreparable harm. A common, the most common, intuitional ‘situation’ is, then, human nature and its behavior, and, most specifically common of all, men’s characters in biologic relation to the intuiter, when women’s characters are a necessary part of this complex but theoretically simple sexual, biologic situation.

IV.	An effective instinct to trust one’s intuitions was our fourth

factor. It is plain that without this the rest were futile, and it is just as plain that endless generations of experience (say 30,000 of them?) have long since made this trust a coherent part of the mental process we are attempting to elucidate. This mind-confidence, so conspicuous in strongly feminine women and girls, which makes them trust their “feelings,” their intuitions, their inspirations, impressions, over-soul, or whatever else it be termed at times, is perhaps best made obvious to males by observing how frequently it is essentially lacking in themselves. Men trained by intense need and vocational practice to making quick judgments, be they trivial or be they important, do acquire a degree of true intuition. Frequently, too, male bluster pretends a true quick choice when in reality the pronouncement comes ‘by chance,’ at random—or else by true intuition. But, on the other hand, many men—those, e. g., of ‘judicial temperament’; those intelligent enough to know the supreme value of subconscious consideration; and those upon whom rests as a burden the responsibilities of life and death and happiness and woe—realize perfectly well that they must not trust their impulsive judgments too implicitly, for too frequently are they irretrievably wrong. And, if we cut out of our observational experience all cases of pure male obstinacy and bluff, with might to make it seem right, how much stronger is the proposition that men usually do not have this ‘effective instinct to trust’ their impressions which is so vital a factor of intuition.

With these four indispensable components of intuition in our minds ‘on approval,’ we would like next to examine into the physiologic aspects of this type of behavior. But we will not do so, at least not at this time. Here it is enough to point out that the behavior of the intuiter is that of enthusiastic intellectual emotion, of thought, of inward attention vivified by some feeling wholly acceptable and pleasing to the subject. The characteristic outpouring of adrenin, the characteristic heart-rate, blood-pressure, breath-rate of intuition we do not as yet know.

By way of a moment’s respite, of restful change of focus, let

Digitized by CjOOQle
439

us consider here that in general it is one of the “silent mysteries" of mind, why psychology does not more rapidly study the often practically important tertiary sexual characteristics. It is possible that some would insist that there are none,—none, at least, worth their valuable time and effort; that this bottomless crevasse of sex which so completely divides the entire living world in all other respects into two opposed yet complementary halves, does not extend into the peaceful animistic realm of mind. For my part, however, I do not believe it, for I see a forbiddingly large fraction removed from the human nature which we psychologists crave to understand, were sexual mental differences entirely smoothed out. At any rate, the present remarks depend upon the presupposition that feminine intuition is a fact in need of study, together with its implications, and one of the most obvious and most important of the tertiary sexual characters, another of the complementary— aspects of the sexes so much exploited by the phrenologists. yet vitally important because so true. Havelock Ellis has set the pace—who follows in his train?

If the reader glance back over our intuitional analysis, it is conspicuous that a constant element of the ‘situation’ always implicated is the interrelated character of something or other, good or bad, trivial or momentous, living or non-living. Character, as Fichte and Royce and Emerson and wisdom in general tell us, is inherently purpose:

“... , perseverance, dear my lord,

Keeps honour bright: to have done is to hang

Quite out of fashion like a rusty mail

In monumental mockery.”

(‘Troilius and Cressida,’ III, III.)

Simple purpose, then, perseverence, and the rest, stand for much of the situation with which we deal; and at the base of intuition stands solid and strong the appreciation of motivity, an interpretation of human purpose, an habitual and therefore automatic tendency to put one’s self in another’s place, to make his problem seem as much one’s very own as if it were so. Oftentimes, of course, the situation involves the motivation of numerous persons, not alone of one, or the comprehension even of a whole ‘social consciousness’ itself. The quintessence of the process seems to be most usually an appreciation of motivity, of primal cause, but more typically when in others than when in one’s self.

With Professor Warren’s acute analysis of purpose so recently before us (see -the Journal of Philosophy, Psychology, and Scientific Methods, Jan. and Feb., 1916) it would be perhaps superfluous to further seek the introspectible factors of motivity, for the two problems purpose and motivity certainly widely overlap. ‘Forethought (anticipation); assent; potency-feeling; the self-notion; and the sense of fitness, are the five parts discovered by this observer in purposiveness. The assent, potency-feeling, and the sense of fitness are declared kinesthetic, and yet incidental; while forethought, 'the most characteristic factor, is an idea or image which carries with.

Digitized by t^ooQle
440

it a reference to the future ... a real biological phenomenon’ when kinetic; and the sense of fitness is a ‘judgment that the experience corresponds’ to the anticipation—‘a factor very characteristic of purposive experiences.’ So far we may follow, but when it is stated that purposive activity (and this alone concerns us in intuition) ‘is characterized by only two of the factors noticed in the conscious experience’, namely preparation and adaptation, we have to express dissent, and wonderment as to how the adaptation is brought about else than by ‘assent’, the ‘potency-feeling’, and the ‘self-notion’, each clearly kinesthetic. Without these, the ‘entelechy’, so properly condemned by Warren, seems actually inevitable in the adaptive process.

Intuition, then, seems to the present writer to involve the appreciation by the intuiter of the potential purposive activity of the intuitee, the very essence of which activity is given to the former in ill-appreciated adaptive, that is kinesthetic, terms.

The intuiter feels in short the action, the behavior which the other’s attitude toward his environment properly demands on his part. Then without realizing it clearly, she takes it for granted that the natural activity will eventuate—usually without error, as her long ancestral experience has found and, down the ages, made innate. Women, no more than men, have clairvoyant powers, the ability to read motives and thoughts, etc., on any basis whatever other than that of their own personal or inherited experience. And this experience, so far as related to activity, certainly seems adaptive, that is, in its psychologic aspect predominantly motor and kinesthetic. The very essence of conscious adaptation psychologically is plainly kinesthesia, just as the essence of intuition seems to be adaptation in its potential phases in someone else.

This kinesthetic criterion on which a person may intuitively grasp an ejective’ situation would seem in part to account for the emotional tone in the recognition, and still more surely for the understanding of its* personal nature,—two of the four suggested factors of intuition. Interpretation is wholly blind to us save on the kinesthetic basis, as the writer has tried to show in some notes already printed on kinesthesia. Thus intuition stands not only for exteroceptive perception, but, in a still more intensive way, for proprioceptive sensitivity and appreciation. Kinesthesia is the very warp of all perception with the varied woof or ‘filler’ coming from the other senses and their ‘centers.’ Thus the modem dynamic explanation of behavior cannot possibly be ignored in any discussion of intuition, any more than the thoughtful physicist who is read up to date can slight the kinesthetic origin of our racial mind’s concept of energy, force, and work. Philip,* by correlating with Newton’s laws of motion, has already sho^vn how far-reaching is this relationship into our basis for every ‘situation’ not purely metaphysical—if any such, indeed; there be as one purely metaphysical.

* A. Philip, “The Dynamic Foundations of Knowledge,” London, 1913.

Digitized by LjOOQle
441

Again, then, it must be noted that the intuitive capability, like all others like and unlike, depends absolutely for descriptive psychology on the dynamic relations symbolized and indexed by kinesthesia. the dynamic mental warp of our behavior-fabric. It is interpretation in terms of the known and in a manner much as Royce improved on Tarde in regard to imitation. It alone makes intelligible whence an intuitess derives her awareness of expending energy, of stress and strain and shear, of causality, of a whole causal series, out yonder in that situation which she so quickly, quietly, but keenly evaluates. She is able to put herself in the other's place and to feel what that other feels and to know what that other unerringly (barring caprice) will do, only because personal or inherited experience of such dynamic/situations has given her an insight, as certain to her as daylight, into the kinetic series of events that must come forth. On any other known basis than this, the dynamic or kinetic basis empiricized as kinesthesia, dynamic index to our souls of our effective environment, the complex intuitive process has no meaning simply because it has no substance other than one too esoteric for science to discuss.

William McDougall in his "Body and Mind" is certainly rather ingenious in his arguments that meanings are independent of the action of the neuro-musculo-glandular co-ordinations. Yet it seems to the present writer ample refutation of such an unscientific presumption to remind all and sundry that the only conceivable means by which these meanings as psychograms ever could have become explicit in the mind is through the perception-process, elaborated by central association. Perception and association partly are bodily actions. Moreover, it is undeniable that these bodily neural actions persist, constitute the dynamic framework, so to say, of the active mind, and must be repeated, overrun, whenever a meaning, however subtle, suffuses the personality. These things are at the very heart of our understanding of behavior; as a neo-animist the writer, for one, does not wish to do else than to explain and to-accept them.

Objective perception, perception of objects, with their recognition, meaning, and other relations get their actual start in the comprehension of including situations. Objects have no forced connection with our minds at all save as they represent for these minds and for behavior something with meaning, real meaning, use—save, in short, as they are interpretable in terms of our own activity. Sturt has made this really important matter as explicit as possible in his recent treatise on the understanding already referred to:	"It is important to notice," he says, "that in the order

of mental development (phylenic and ontogenic), purpose and cognition of situation come before the recognition of distinct objects, i. e., before the apprehension of persons and things. To a superficial observer the order is reversed. .	.	Animals	and	even

men living under purely natural conditions, notice only those objects which they can use." Then Sturt illustrates by suggesting the contrasts in the behavior-reaction of a caterpillar, of a kitten, and of an author toward a fountain pen. "WTe may conclude,

Digitized by
442

then, that creatures of the lowest intelligence cannot be said to recognize objects but rather to perceive objective systems or situations corresponding to the purposes whereby they seek satisfaction of their desires” (p. 203).

While this probably is as true in general as it is important and keen when applied to the phylenic. animal range, it apparently is not observable in the actual human mind as a dominant principle of action. In fact, if I can adequately judge from the protocols so far received of an experimental study (in progress) into the psychology of meaning, there is a distinct, but perhaps not large, correlation between efficient intelligence, in a broad practical sense at least, and the tendency to apperceive meaning as active hehaiior, as action rather than as objects proper unrelated to activity. This empirical attitude toward meaning is most obvious in a comparison of morons with normals, but, unless I misread my experimental ' results so far, it is also discernible in comparing thoughtless (‘shallow") normals with those who by habit think into the real relations and into the dynamic essentials of things. Meaning is for some nonexistent in a given character or situation; for others its essence is some object; for others its import is its action on behavior; for still others its meaning is frankly only its active relationship to an active environment. Humans of low intelligence" apparently may not be said to 'perceive objective systems or situations corresponding to the purposes whereby they seek satisfaction of their desires" or anything else, for if they perceive anything at all that is denotable, it appears to be uncompromising objects, stark and passive, relatively unrelated to themselves or to the remainder of the always energetic environment. Lack of intuition obviously comes in here—lack of insight into the purpose and the realest meaning of things. The implication of these above considerations for our notion of intuition meets the reader’s understanding face to face.

From several angles, then, we may presume it demonstrable that the entire intuitional affair, save its product, is one of the highest possible intelligence and at the same time characteristically subconscious. In fact, no better example is at hand than this, of this common association in mental activity of keen intelligence and absence of conscious process. If we think, with Miinsterberg for example, of the soul as ‘a system of purposes which remains identical with itself in developing its potential acts as real experiences’ we have in intuition, as almost nowhere else, a typical example of soul-activity. On such animistic basis, shall we reject the existence of psychological subconsciousness? Here if anywhere is that meaning which lends causal connection to unconscious intelligent associations.

It certainly is something outside the range of physiology and of neurology—and therefore within the range of mind—that one person can by processes of reason and of feeling often wholly unconscious comprehend a situation characteristically spiritual in another person’s mind,—a motivation-reaction of that second person to his environment. Why do a few still let a matter of

Digitized by LjOOQie
443

arbitrary definition refuse to events as clearly spiritual as this the adjective mental?

Psychology surely has and need have no fear of losing its scientific identity, of being gulped down and digested by physiology or by neurology, when so laige a horde of problems plainly mental and evidently causal like this one press upon it in a crowd for immediate solution. Physiology here, in such a case as intuition, has not much satisfaction to offer that will convince the unprejudiced. Physiology certainly offers for study, and ultimate understanding perhaps, the mechanism of so recondite a common experience, but it does not offer—nor can it ever, it seems to me—that unexplained remainder by which woman’s sensitive keenness and woman’s sympathy leap the restrictions of even the human nervous system, of the musculature, of adrenin, of energy vitalizing the stupendous cortex of the human brain and giving it these unique capacities. And what of it, if part of this spiritual process is in the dark? Is it material, neural, because of that? If not then material, is it not mental? Nor is the true believer in the propriety of terming subconscious processes distinctly mental, going to consent much longer to be ruled out of court as a proper student of psychology on the trite old argument that psychical succession offers 'no causality’ to the uniformity-seeking mind of the scientist. The new soul is certainly coming back and the new soul means something! An 'asymptotic regress toward a pure subject of knowledge’ no longer, the 'inner’ purposiveness and the 'outer’ activity are joining hands joyfully in full sight of the unlearned man, who bids them glad welcome in the positive hope at last that these two made one will helo him to really understand himself—if not his God.

Intuition, then, and the comprehension of a total situation of whatsoever kind, involving motive which intuition implies, is in a way and in a degree a real criterion of real intelligence in its most significant values. From this deep way of looking at the matter, the feminine mind is more evolved, more inteUigenlf in short, than is the mind of the male. Obtuseness stands for abnormality or for relative lowness of human grade; intuition for a high degree of that which mind is especially meant to serve—the safeguarding and the furtherance of the individual. From such considerations it would appear that intuition deserves far more study and consideration than thus far it has received.

Its abnormal conditions, especially its derangement or its lack, have not received at the hands of the test-systems the attention which they inherently deserve. In my intimate blood-pressure work with mental defectives I have had an excellent opportunity to compare 'psyche’ and 'soma’: the more subtle phases and aspects of mind proper with the familiar conditions of muscle, circulation, respiration, motor control, automatism, etc., which 'underlie’ us as humans in common with the brutes. Passivity merging into obtusemess is conspicuous. The contrast between the fine active physique of a middle-aged Negro farm-hand and his 6.6 yr. point-scale intelligence, as shown not only in his hemobarogram but in

Digitized by v^ooQle
444

his social (extero-aeliive) behavior, is an instr uctive thin? for several interests. There is ob\ious a lack of the subconscious associative niceties; the term astuteness does not pertain: that natural eagerness to finish and do something else is commonly lacking: extraneous and future comprehension, planning, purpose, are not there. The childish men and women exhibit no intuition and no curiosity as to the reason why I work so intimately with them for an hour or less, but they show plainly enough sometimes all the intuition that a six-year normal girl exhibits that the soft silk and rubber cuff of the pressure-gauge may hurt them. In one instance a woman 42 years old, 1.6 years Yerkes scale, burst into tears as she felt the unfamiliar constriction-sensation in her arm. Mental defectives, especially female, have intuitions surely enough, but they are of that simplicity of ‘situation1 that they merge into the most basal of the emotions—intuitions in a sense, carnalized and made hereditary by thousands of generations of continual activity, reduced so that the ‘situation' has resolved itself into the relatively simple ‘object' of the emotion, usually its occasion.

We come then to another sanction for discussing intuition: it is a criterion of the practical reason, of human sanity. We have failed above to be intelligible if it is not now obvious that the general practical intelligence of any animal, brute or human, has a valid index or criterion in that animal’s ‘intuition’; and so too for the lower ranges of the human intellect and the intelligence deranged. Here, in fine, is a definite criterion of mental normality. The writer has already briefly discussed this in an earlier article from which two paragraphs may be quoted by way of reiteration:

“In attempting to define the difference between normal and abnormal mind we have come as a final criterion to something at least theoretically more satisfactory than either of the preceding considerations. It emphasizes anew the both vulgar and classic opposition between the common and the egotistic good, between altruistic benevolence and selfishness. As an individual and with only individual responsibilities and duties the deranged man’s conduct may be as satisfactory and complete as that of one classed empirically as sane. His nutrition may be as good, his form as sleek and comely, his strength normal, and his body to all appearances, perhaps even microscopic, wholly sound. Even the mental aspect of his organism may possess all the requisites of proper function—good sleep, clear ideas, memory unimpaired, imagination very likely better than the average, sensations and feelings, normal and, be it emphasized, conscience wholly clear. With all of these and what they imply, with soul and body in evidently proper order, a man or woman may yet be the most dangerous of lunatics, the maddest of the mad. But turning to the vast social consciousness of which this willing subject is part, inquiring in what degree of harmony this person’s life-purposes stand therewith, and the discrepancy at once is seen, his lack, the nature of his inward dissonance, the reason for his life none too much confined. Humanity’s consciousness, too, has purposes and plans, and they proceed inevitably to their grand fulfillment. It is because the

Digitized by ooQle
445

purposes of his suspected person (and whether free agent or automaton matters not here) run counter to this evolutionary current, that unavoidably he is overwhelmed and forced beneath and drowned. Neither anatomical nor physiological nor psychological nor yet personal, in a sense, is the deranged subject's defect, but it is sociological and against the evolving purpose of the race. Any given case may, of course, be defective in each of these respects, as most are in some of them, but the defect essential to abnormality certainly finds its place relating far outside the individual in the complex intention of the race, _ be that intention moral or unmoral, racial or cosmologic, ill or good. This is the one unrelative standard by which all vital subjects may be judged. To be insane is to be out of tune, not with the laws of psychology or of physiology, nor yet of the state, but with a broader and more essential tendency— the purpose of the world, it may be of the universe.

“To this conclusion not metaphysics alone, but also empirical science points. Reason is the aspect of mind which men in general have deemed the highest and most dignified power of soul, be it called by whatever particular name. It is that endowment by which certain species, or certainly one species, of the animal kingdom understands the most real nature of things and their relations— the meaning of the ceaseless life of change in which all our experience is passed. Reason is the just comprehension of cause and effect, or common sense. Now only a part of the accepted varieties of insanity imply disturbance of this, the crowning power of mind. Mania, for example, is only an unusual hurrying of the psychophysical action of the higher animals, involving as essential no disturbance other than one of a temporal sort. Melancholia is, on the other hand, the reverse of this, a slowing of the life, a too long continuance of painful thoughts. Dementia paralytica is more of a bodily disease than the two just mentioned, and epilepsy, dementia, idiocy, even more. It is in paranoia that we see a loss of reason in the technical sense of the word, for it is a disease characterized by a confusion of the relations of cause and effect quite as much as by the systematization of delusions based thereon. Here is a state of mind wherein the meanings and purposes of things are deranged, a general disturbance obtaining in the egotism of the subject leading him into greatly wrong relations with himself, with things, and with society at large. This is the typical instance of mental abnormality where is seen at once perverted psychic action and a basal disagreement with the racial plan.*”

Of this out-of-tuneness, of this fundamental disharmony or discord with the social values, there is not a more accurate nor a conciser concept than intuition. It expresses more in a small space, this 'word-handle' of a general idea, than any other that may be found, perhaps, explanatory of the practical effective unreason of man, and that too without betraying the necessary individualism of a valid philosophy; and this thing some other criteria

* Psychol. Rev., 1898, 5, 506-510.

Digitized by v^ooQle
446

of mental abnormality cannot do. Were we somehow less dependent than we are on our spiritual environment, this intuitional criterion would be less representative. But as it is, as we are, intuition expresses very much, for it suggests directly that appreciation of the basal life-relationships, causal, rational, social as well as psychologically personal, on which alone our whole important concept of abnormality has any modicum of meaning.

It can be practically applied as a criterion, as a test, far more elaborate than Healy’s pictorial completion device; which however is clearly along this line. Class study by means of a questionary given to normal students and collegians would soon develop data which would test a student’s native intelligence somewhat better at least than the absurd agonies in algebra over which so many discourageable boys and girls are just now worrying. But tests are outside our present situation.

Incidentally it should rejoice every man and boy that the biologic source of our very being, womanhood, undoubtedly is the richer of the two sexes in this intuition, this useful measure of our common human always yet divine intelligence. Is not this richness a criterion in a way, of woman’s superior intelligence?—not perhaps to politically govern in this world which is still one of might and maddening terrors of force and blood, but in all of those more permanent and less savage aspects of mentality which will watch our earth ‘grow cold.’ Yes, even at a risk of supplying ammunition to the suffragettes, the writer for one must maintain that the intelligence of the human female, tested by some of the most basal and certain tests in any ‘system’, is the psychical superior of men. If the general scientific recognition of this interesting fact come late, it is largely because the criteria of superiority have been below the proper human ideal. When at last skill shall have replaced strength, the general recognition will have come, and a new chapter be written in psychology.

A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS.

In “A Daughter of the Gods” in which Anette Kellerman is the heroine, William Fox is presenting to the American people a photo-play which is of special interest to teachers of physical training.

The play is a fairy tale which pictures the adventures of a fairy princess in her efforts to assist her prince and it teaches its lesson of the value and the importance of physical education both by direct teaching and by the most powerful suggestion.

In a scene in gnomeland there is the direct assertion that these busy little men know the importance of exercising vigorously in the early hours of the morning and the audience is shown in the play the vigorous setting-up drill which these little actors perform daily. The details of this drill are clearly portrayed and its value is impressed with special emphasis upon children, who are quick to imitate what they see in the theatre.

The indirect teaching of this photo-play is even more powerful

Digitized by Google
447

because it reaches not only the children but also the men and women who view this film. The Princess Anitia goes through a remarkable series of adventures on land and in water and only her extraordinary physical development enables her to survive. These adventures include numerous diving and swimming feats in which Miss Keller-man’s skill in this art enables her to foil her enemies and save her life, fencing bouts which enable her to protect herself, running tests, dancing exhibitions, etc.

Throughout the entire film there runs the exquisite picture of a highly developed efficient human being which makes an appeal not only to the artistic temperament of every member of the audience but also impresses upon each man, woman and child what can be accomplished by a physically perfect woman.

It is said that President Woodrow Wilson viewed this photoplay on his first wedding anniversary because of its artistic beauty. Every schoolboy and every schoolgirl should endeavor to see it because of its valuable lesson in physical education. And every teacher of physical training should view this film to analyze the elements of its appeal, and to be able to perform his professional duty intelligently in recommending.

Leonard Felix Fuld.

THAT ACROBATIC INSTINCT

H. DARNELL BRITTEN, Lorain, Ohio.*

Nature has endowed us with five senses, touch, taste, smell, hearing and sight. There is, however, a sixth sense that we can acquire, provided that we have not celebrated the thirtieth anniversary of our birth, and that is called the “Acrobatic Sense” or instinct, for the want of a better term.

What is this acrobatic instinct? If we manage to get hold of one of those animals that make our nights hideous, and, holding him by the four paws (so that his back is nearest the ground), we release him, he will always alight right-side-up and walk or run nonchalently away. This is the acrobatic instinct, pure and simple, or the ability to end a fall in the right way instead of the usual way.

During the evolutionary process from the worm stage to the present state of man, accomplishments have been added or diminished according to just what he needed. During the prehistoric age, man had to be nimble in order to escape a rock flung at him by his neighbor; or to escape being devoured by some antediluvian animal, he would take tremendous jumps and land in a running position so as to lose no time, for those days were the days of the survival of the fittest. Man has naturally lost this acrobatic instinct and yet he could very, well use it in getting off trolley cars, crossing a busy street, or in an emergency.

* Instructor in Tumbling at the Harvard Summer School for Physical Education, 1911-1915. Instructor in Gymnastics, Eastern Association School, 1916. Author of “Elementary and Intermediate Tumbling” published in “Mind, and Body.”

Digitized by LiOOQle
448

If we acquire this acrobatic instinct before reaching the age of thirty, it will remain with us for the rest of our days. Of course, old age will prevent one from turning somersaults, even those who could do so in their youth, but with the latter, it would mean a lack of agility, and not of ability. I believe it was Shakespeare who said that "Time is a leveler of all things".

How can we acquire this acrobatic instinct? By learning to fall. How can we learn to fall? By trying to master a hand spring-or a cart-wheel, a front or back somersault, or any of the numerous turns and twists that come under the head of Tumbling. If you find it impossible to accomplish anything in the nature of Tumbling after a fair trial, you can be consoled with the fact that you have learned to fall, which is quite an art in itself.

It is not the idea of the writer in this short article to attempt a description of any one figure in Tumbling, but rather to convey in general terms the apparatus necessary for learning the various turns.

For the beginner, mats of double thickness should be used. After becoming adept, a thin mat is better because it does not decrease the natural spring of the body. An apparatus called the "Tumbling Mechanic'' is also very good, and, with beginners, is almost indispensable. This consists of a stout leather belt (which is buckled around the waist of the beginner,) to the sides of which are attached (by means of line snaps) ropes, extending to the ceiling and running thru parallel pulleys about twenty feet apart and thence to the floor, in order that the instructor may be enabled, from the rear, to hold the pupil a sufficient height in the air until the latter has completed a turn. As the learner becomes more proficient, the ropes are not held so tightly, and as the performer gains confidence, the tumbling mechanic is eventually taken off, only to be used again in the trying of a more difficult figure.

A large mat rolled up, and placed upon another mat is a good substitute for the tumbling belt in learning simple forward handsprings or even a forward somersault. These figures are preceded by a short run, and the turn or spring is tried over the rolled-up mat. This, of course, eliminates a "bump"; that is, if you alight upon the rolled-up mat.

A word about shoes. A thin, light, buck-skin slipper is very good for the reason that it gives the foot a better purchase on the mat, or allows the prehensile qualities of the toes greater freedom than the ordinary heavy rubber-soled shoe that is commonly worn in our gymnasiums.

"Tumbling is one of the best of all round exercises"—(Dr. Tait McKenzie, Director of Physical Education, University of Pennsylvania). Unlike apparatus exercises on the parallel or horizontal bars it places the responsibility of getting back to mother earth solely upon the performer. All the large muscle groups are brought into play, no matter how simple the turn or roll-over may be. There is no danger of becoming 'muscle-bound' or over-developed in tumbling. The movements are performed with a free action of the muscles and there is an indescribable joy to be found in the "feel" of your Acrobatic Instinct in sailing thru the air while performing k back somersault.

That is, provided you land right-side-up.

Digitized by Google
449

ORGANIZED RECREATION *

WARREN DUNHAM FOSTER, Department Editor, “Youth’s Companion,”

Boston, Mass.

No better demonstration of my subject could have been arranged than the music we have just had. In any plan for organizing recreation, music must play an important part. Here we thousands have been singing together the common hymn of our common country. Singing together in the solemn joy of the singing has tended to weld our many thousands of individual minds into one great community mind. That welding is the task of organized recreation—to create the community mind. I am going to tell you how one town made this community state of mind its own, and, by do doing, organized its recreation. Perhaps I should better say that, by organizing its recreation, it made this state of mind its own. The two go hand in hand.

This town—Homewood is a good name for it— had real community pride, not community bumptiousness. Homewood said, “Home-wood is a good town, but can make itself a much better town by organizing its recreational life.” Homewood admitted without argument that all boys and girls—and their fathers and mothers--are entitled to the joy of life. It admitted that having a wholesome good time is a social, not an individual matter. Homewood knew that it was under bond to humanity to see that every one of its children had that sort of carefully planned play that would carry him victorious thru the struggle of life.

Homewood knew that the organization of recreation is a highly specialized profession. In it, competence must be supreme over incompetence. Homewood looked about for that one of its institutions that would lead in organizing its recreation. Homewood realized that all the people and all their institutions had to be back of its attempt to organize its recreation. In its search for leadership, Homewood came upon the one institution that represents all the people, is paid fer by all the people, the one institution that has within it more trained leadership than all the others put together. So it was the Homewood schools that organized Homewood recreation. And almost everywhere else it will be the school, the one all-embracing democratic institution, that will perform this task.

Perhaps you teachers are tired of being told of new tasks that only you can carry. You will be told of more in the future than you have been told of in the past. Until the sunset of all time, it will be you teachers who will lead in the fight to socialize humanity. You cannot educate man unless you socialize him. Men and women who are not trained in soul and mind to labor together efficiently for the common good are not educated. You do not educate a lad until you give him the will and the means to devote himself to the well-being of the common run of plain folks. The educated man

* Read at the Meeting of the National Education Association, July, New York City.

Digitized by ooQle
450

is the man who can do heartily and well for the joy of the doing.

Organized recreation is the doing together of that which gives joy in the doing. It is primarily unselfish, co-operative. Tom Sawyer helped Homewood get its working definition. Tom made the whitewashing of Aunt Polly’s fence the most desirable thing in the eyes of his boy friends. I he whitewashing was well done because the whitewashes took joy in the whitewashing, even to the strip for good measure along the ground. Homewood remembered that work is effective in so far as it takes on the great characteristic of play—joy in the doing. The Homewood school man began his task by taking account of stock. He found that the need was knowledge of what to do and how to do it. Homewood had most of the play machinery that it needed. Much of it was in the wrong hands, in the hands of those who were using it for selfish, not community ends.

Then, knowing conditions, the Homewood school adopted a recreation platform for Homewood. Senator Depew has likened the platform of a political party to that of a car. “You do not stand on it; you use it as a means of entrance.” So Homewood used its recreation platform as a means of entrance into a thoroly socialized community life. Homewood combined the parts of its recreational program into a living organism that put Homewood life upon an efficient co-operative basis.

1. The Community Center—Everything in organized recreation focuses at the community center, -the most vital factor in every recreation program. Homewood followed L. J. Hanifan’s definition: “The coming together'of a group of people for social intercourse, intelligent stimulus, and constructive plans of common interest constitutes a community center.” A community center is an idea, not a place.

Homewood soon learned that it is not what you do nor where you do it but how you do it that brings success. Your center must be the very embodiment of neighborliness. At the same time you must manage each activity with precision and skill. The center will not manage itself. Its technique is highly specialized. Home-wood school men mastered it because they open-mindedly set themselves to do so and hired the best professional help.

The motion picture, used for community service, brought Homewood people to the centers and there gave them something very much worth while. Homewood’s motion pictures competed successfully with commercial theaters, yet presented nothing which was not in harmony with the dignity of the school and in furtherance of its broad educational purposes. Just plain folks discovered that the motion picture takes everywhere to them, that it destroys for them the otherwise galling limitations of time, space, and circumstances. It give them not pictures but actual transcripts of life as it is and life as they want it to be. Do we wonder that over night the motion picture has become a great teacher? Or perhaps the great teacher? That we hail it as the greatest aid to education since the invention of printing?

In Homewood nothing was wrong with the motion picture.

Digitized by booQle
451

Something was decidedly wrong with the hands that had seized upon it. The Homewood school had left the motion picture to the commercial amusement interests instead of putting it to work for educational and social ends. At last, however, the school made its alliance with the motion picture. It had found that schools, women’s clubs, and churches everywhere are presenting recreational motion pictures for community service. In its own community centers and schools Homewood is now using the best in drama, literature, science, and travel. Young folks and old come to be entertained—as is their right—and stay to be entertained and educated. Homewood finds that good motion pictures cost money, but that its people are more than willing to pay for what they get.

I	cannot go into detail, for Dr. Johnson has given me a topic as limitless as the power of the motion picture. The brief statement of what Boston, Springfield, and other cities have done and what you can do is told in a leaflet that you can secure free from Eva Whiting White, director, Department of Extended Use of Public Schools, School Committee, Boston.

2.	Special-Day Festivals.—All Homewood comes together to celebrate special-day festivals that piomote good-fellowship, encourage intelligent co-operation, develop local leadership, and relate constructively to the life of Homewood.

The fall “get-together” occasion is a community fair, tied right into the life of the people. Homewood had always said that the farming country round about was part of the town, but the farmers never believed this statement until this community fair was held. The fair makes the growing of good potatoes and the baking of excellent bread a matter of community interest and pride. The community fair gilds the common tasks of daily life. That gilding, you know, is recreation: the putting of joy into the doing.

3.	Music.—Homewood uses music as the great welding and socializing force of its community life. Homewood realizes that music is the only art that is within the reach of the trained and untrained alike. Homewood makes community music accomplish as much for community solidarity as did the singing school beloved of its grandfathers.

Homewood paid attention to the example of a near-by village, the leaders of which had tried again and again to form a successful co-operative onion-selling society. The farmers were unable to do business together. Then they organized a singing society. They sang together for the fun of singing together, not for the music they produced. They acquired the habit of doing things together efficiently. A successful co-operative onion-selling organization was the inevitable result.

4.	Cluls in Agriculture and Home Economics.—The Homewood boys’ corn clubs teach the farmers of today and tomorrow how to grow more and better corn. More important, however, they teach farmers of today and tomorrow how to do worth-while things together for the joy of the doing, not for cash prizes.

The canning clubs perform great service in conserving tomatoes that otherwise would go to waste. The greatest product they con-

Digitized by v^ooQie
452

serve, however, is the girlhood of today and the womanhood of tomorrow. In the districts about Homewood, the canning club made the first effective attack upon the lonely monotony of rural feminine life. And making rural feminine life happy again is the first prerequisite to the solution of our greatest American problem—the rural problem.

In Homewood, mothers' clubs, millinery clubs, cooking clubs, manual-training clubs, and half a dozen other different kinds, put the spirit of co-operative fun into the teaching of utilitarian subjects. The girls invite their fathers and mothers and brothers and other girls' brothers to simple school feasts of their own preparing. The schoolhouses take the place of many a questionable resort as a meeting-place for the young men and women of Homewood. Their fathers and mothers, too, have learned that the school really belongs to the people after all. When the time comes for action upon the school budget, the city government is liberal in its appropriation. The politicians do not care about education, but the people do, because of Homewood's organization of recreation. Indeed, Homewood's organized recreation is not very popular with the politicians because it has transferred title to Homewood from them to the plain folks.

The parent Chautauqua Institution is an excellent example of the successful mixing of school work and recreation, much to the added effectiveness of each.

5.	Co-operation with Outside Agencies.—In Homewood, the Boy Scouts, Campfire Girls, Audubon Society, Knights of King Arthur and a half a dozen other organizations are useful. No one of them tries to answer the whole recreational need of the community. Homewood makes each one much more useful, however, by binding it up into the whole community enterprise.

6.	Drama and Folk-play.—Homewood gives simple dramas really its own. Homewood knows that the drama has no substitute as the free and natural mode of expression for the passions, longings, and ideals of the people. Careful and intelligent planning put drama and folk-play actually at work in the daily life of Homewood.

7.	Athletics and Playground.—I have told Homewood's story backward. Homewood began its organization of recreation with athletics and the playground, really the most unimportant part of its community enterprise. In Homewood, as everywhere else, many people thought that recreation is confined to the athletic field and playground. Homewood was wise, however, in proceeding from the definite, physically tangible playground to the much more important but less easily sensed recreational undertakings that I have outlined. In Homewood, no child has to walk more than a half-mile to reach a playground. In addition to regular physical training instruction in the schools, Homewood teaches every child games for playground and home use. Athletics are for all. The emphasis falls upon teamwork, not upon individual competition.

The corn-club boy near Homewood who raises more corn than his father has become a useful community institution. Just as use-

Digitized by GjOOQie
453

ful, however, is the working farmer of forty whose record in the pole vault at a county meet is better than that of his son.

After Homewood had experienced briefly with volunteer direction, it hired a professionally trained supervisor. At first Home-wood worried about the cost, but it soon found that, altho recreation costs money and a lot of it, recreational enterprises ultimately come very near paying their way. Money is not the important factor. The best steel equipment is expensive, but the apparatus for the first country playground in which I had a hand cost $7.40. Since that time, however, we have not been so needlessly reckless in spending money for country playgrounds.

If you really want to know how to build a country playground with brains instead of money, and if you want a copy of Homewcod’s recreation program, write to either the United States Bureau of Education, Washington, or to the Extension Department of the The Yovih’s	Companion, Boston, Mass., for a copy of Neighborhood

Play, published jointly by. the United States Bureau of Education and The Youth’s Companion. The booklet is theoretically out of print, but I have hidden a few thousand copies which will be available to you as long as the supply lasts.

You may be interested to know, in passing, that more than half a hundred of America’s leading authorities co-operated to formulate this simple recreation program of Homewood. Before its publication in The Youth’s Companion for April 8, 1915, it was tried out in several typical communities. Later it was developed by the Recreation Committee of the Southern Conference for Education and Industry. I have been told of literally hundreds of communities that have adopted all or a part of this simple Homewood recreation program. There is not anything new in it. It is merely a simple formulation of principles and methods that are obvious—or should be.

Probably you have been saying, “Homewood has confused recreation and life.’’ You are right. Homewood has confused recreation and life. That is why Homewood has made its recreational life efficient and its community life efficient. No more than education is recreation a thing apart from life. Recreation is life itself, for without it life will not go on.

There are thousands of Homewoods. This simple recreation program is transforming community life everywhere. When you have this recreational program, or a large part of it, read into the life of your community, you will have it started well on its way toward the millenium.

Why? Because the efficient operation of these principles inevitably makes for the right state of mind—community mind. Organized recreation is doing something together for the joy of the doing. Organized recreation is that which puts zip, fire, force spirit, elan, driving power, organization, co-operation, into the community.

Digitized by LjOoq ie
454

FLAG DRILL.

Given in Connection With The

INDIANA CONTENNIAL CELEBRATION By Public School Children of Indianapolis under the Direction ~of Dr. W. A. Ocker, Director of Physical Education.

Formation of Pupils in Rear of Field.

Twenty two columns in ranks of fours, each column consisting of one hundred ranks or four-hundred pupils.

Boys and girls in alternate files (rows), the girl standing onThe left side of the boy.

Marching to Position For Exercising.

Upon signal (first pistol shot) all pupils march 'fin place”.

Upon second pistol shot all pupils march forward in column and ranks of fours, gradually taking distance of four feet between ranks (front to rear) while marching forward to position.

Upon third pistol shot "open ranks sideward left” until each file (row) reaches its respective line drawn on the field with lime.

Position of Flags.

While marching forward to position and while opening ranks BOTH flags are carried on the right shoulder, the staffs of the flags at an angle of about 60 degrees.

Starting Position.

Flags vertically in front of shoulders, one in each hand.

Raise flags to starting position as follows:

Salute with left hand..............................1 - 2

Straighten left arm sideward.......................3 - 4

Left hand in front of right shoulder and grasp one flag 5-6

Raise both flags to starting position...............7	-	8

Return flags to shoulders (at end of exercises) as follows:

Place both flags on right shoulder....................1-2

Straighten left arm sideward (without flag)........3 - 4

Salute with left hand..............................5-6

Lower left arm.....................................7- 8

Music.

"Spirit of Independence”, by Abe Holzmann, published by Jerome H. Rennick & Co., New York City. Sheet music for the piano can be bought at 10 cent stores.

Play "Introduction” of four measures and repeat same. During the repetition the pupils salute and take starting position.

For First Group of Drill:

16 measures ...........................for	1st	exercise

Repeat same .......................... for	2nd	exercise

32 measures .................... for	3rd	&	4th	exercises

For INTERMISSION between groups play "TRIO” once (16 measures or 32 counts)

For Second Group of Drill:

32 measures ......................1st	and	2nd	exercises

Repeat same ......................3rd	and	4th	exercises

For INTERMISSION play TRIO as above (page 4).

Digitized by CjOOQle
455

For Third Group of Drill:

Music for the third group is the same as for the first group. Omit the introduction.

GROUP I.

Exercise 1.

(a)	Straighten arms upward........................ 1-2

(b)	Move arms sideward......................... 3-4

(c)	Return to “a”...............................   5-6

(d)	Starting position ,........................ 7-8

Repeat three (3) times......................... 9 -32

Exercise 2.

(a)	Straighten arms sideward.....................  1-2

(b)	Move arms forward.......................... 3-4

(c)	Return to “a”.............................. 5-6

(d)	Starting position.......................... 7-8

Repeat three (3) times......................... 9 -32

Exercise 3.

(a)	Straighten arms forward.................... 1-2

(b)	Raise arms to obliquely-si de-up ward...... 3 - 4

(c)	Return to “a”.............................. 5-6

(d)	Starting position.......................... 7-8

Repeat three (3) times......................... 9 -32

Exercise 4.

Exercises one (1) and two (2) in “divided order”, i. e. Boys repeat exercise one and girls repeat exercise 2, boys and girls exercising simultaneously. INTERMISSION of 32 counts or 16 measures of music. GROUP II.

Exercise 1.

(a) Place left foot forward and straighten arms

upward................................... 1-2

(b)	Lunge left forward and move arms sideward... 3-4

(c)	Return to “a”............................. 5-6

(d)	Starting position............................ 7-8

(e-h) Same right............................... 9 -16

Repeat “a to h”................................17 -32

Exercise 2.

Place left foot forward and straighten arms

sideward ..................................  1-2

Lunge left forward and move arms forward.... 3-4

Return to “a”.................................. 5-6

Starting position.............................. 7-8

(e-h) Same right................................ 9 -16

Repeat “a to h”................................17 -32

Exercise 3.

Place left foot forward and straighten arms

forward ..............................       1-2

Lunge left forward and raise arms obliquely-

side-upward................................. 3-4

Return to “a”............................ 5- 6

Starting position............................. 7-8.

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

Digitized by
FLAG DRILL—1NDI

(e-h) Same right................................ 9	-	16

Repeat “a to h”.................................17	-	32

Exercise 4.

Exercises one (1) and two (2) of this group in “divided order”, i. e. the boys repeat exercise 1, and the girls repeat exercise 2.

INTERMISSION of 32 counts, or 16 measures of music.

GROUP III.

Exercise 1.

(a)	Lunge left forward and straighten both arms

obliquely-fore-upward....................... 1-2

(b)	Turn trunk to the right (feet firm) and swing

right arm downward 3-4 of a circle to form letter “Y”.................................  3-4

(c)	Return to “a”...............................  5-6

(d)	Starting position............................ 7-8

(e-h) Same right, i. e. beginning with the right foot. 9 -16 Repeat “a to h”................................17 -32

Exercise 2.

(a)	Lunge left sideward and straighten both arms

obliquely-left-side-upward .................. 1-2

(b) Bend trunk left and swing both arms downward

Digitized by LjOOQle
NA CENTENNIAL

3-4 of a circle to position obliquely-right-side-

upward................................... 3-4

(c)	Return to “a”.............................. 5-6

(d)	Starting position............................ 7-8

(e-h) Same right............................... 9 -16

Repeat “a to h”................................17 -32

Exercise 3.

(a)	Lunge left backward and straighten arms ob-

liquely-side-upward........................ 1-2

(b)	Bend trunk backward and swing both arms

downward a complete (4-4) circle to same arm position as in “a”; lower head backward and look at flags........................ 3-4

(c)	Return to “a” by reversing the arm swing, i. e.

beginning upward .......................... 5-6

(d)	Starting position..........................7 -8

(e-h) Same right............................... 9 -16

Repeat “a to h”................................17 -32

Exercise 4.

Exercise 2 in divided order, the boys repeat the entire exercise of 32 counts as written above; the girls take the same exercise but begin with the right foot and straighten arms to the right (exercise “e-h” then “a-b”).

Digitized by LjOOQle
INDIANA CENTENNIAL

FLOATS OF THE NORMAL COLLEGE, N. A. G. U., INDIANAPOLIS IND.

FLOAT NO. 1. NATIONAL FLAG

FLOAT NO. 2. PYRAMIDS AND APPARATUS EXERCISES.
INDIANA CENTENNIAL

FLOATS OF THE NORMAL COLLEGE, N. A. G. U., INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

FLOAT NO. 3. SHOWED DIFFERENT GAMES AND PLAYS.

FLOAT NO. 4. STUDENTS WITH SIGNS SHOWING DIFFERENT DEPARTMENTS.
INDIANA CENTENNIAL

FLOATS OF.THE NORMAL COLLEGE, N. A. G. U., INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

FLOAT NO. 5. SHOWED RYTHMIC WORK.

AtHitncs.

FENCING

SWIMMING

FLOAT NO. 6. SHOWED VARIOUS ATHLETIC EVENTS.

itized by GOOgle
A RATIONAL PHYSICAL EDUCATION.*

By GEO. W. EHLER, C. E., Madison, Wis.

A Rational Physical Education for public schools is one that:

1.	Aims at the obvious needs of children,

2.	Uses activities best suited to the child's motor mechanism,

3.	Is adapted to the conditions of the schools,

4.	Is in harmony with accepted educational principles, and

5.	Can be conducted by the regular t3achers with a minimum of supervision.

1.	Obvious Needs.

While communicable diseases have come largely under the control of medical science in recent years and the general death rate for the nation has been steadily decreasing, yet the actual span of life is not increasing.

Many infants live a few years who formerly died in the first few months after birth. But - a decreasing percentage of adults are living beyond 40, the age of greatest productive value. In England and Wales the death rate is decreasing beyond 40 as well as below it ind the span of life is getting longer.

Organic diseases - disease of heart, blood vessels, kidneys, lervous system, are increasing at an accelerating rate and have been :or the last 35 years. Mortality from heart disease is now as great as from tuberculosis, the deadliest of all diseases heretofore.

U. S. Death Rates per 100,000 Population Heart Diseases and

Tuberculosis.

190

180

170

I60>

150

140'

130

* Read before the Kansas State Teachers’ Ass’n. Topeka, Kan., Nov. 10, 1916.-

Digitized by Google
462

These conditions point to a failure of the organs of vitality at the most critical period of maturity, to resist strains imposed by civilization in America. This may arise from several causes-the strains may be too great no matter what other factors of strength or weakness there may be; the conditions of work or living may be unfavorable - unhygienic, insanitary; the American stock may be actually deteriorating through the neutralizing of the forces of natural selection by the protective measures thrown about the weak, the helpless, the sub-normal, the ab-normal, or the crosssing of poor stock with good stock and the violation of the principles of eugenics; or there may be failure to realize inherited vital capacity through neglect to ensure full development of power during the years of growth and education. The result of this latter may be quite as fatal to mature efficiency of. life, as a pathologic condition of any sort.

While the relation of activity to the development of the structure and function of the human organism always has been known to the scientist and even the layman, little consideration has been given in recent literature to the virtual disappearance of vigorous muscular activity from the lives of growing boys and girls, though much stress has been laid upon the revolution that the substitution of steam and electricity for muscle has made in the lives of men and women.

Teachers and physicians are aware of the inactivity of the child in the school room. It is taken for granted that he is fully active outside the school.

Surveys in Ipswich, Mass., Providence, R. I., Toledo, Cleveland, Detroit, Milwaukee, Kansas City, show that on the average children -out of school are occupied as follows:

Working........... 9 per	cent

Playing...........40 per	cent

Loafing...........44 per	cent

“Going Somewhere” 7 per	cent

But the statement is made that about one-half of the “play” is mere fooling. In other words not more than two out of every five school children out of school are engaged in any activity that by any rational standard can be considered as worth while for the promotion -of vigor and vitality.

The testimony of thousands of children in St. Louis, Madison, Wisconsin, Springfield, Illinois and other places as to what they actually do in work and play confirms the conclusions of the statement above and proves beyond cavil that “softness” and not “hardness”, “weakness” and not “vigor,” “passivity” and not “activity,” are the dominant characteristics of children’s work and play today. These lead to national degeneracy, not to vitality and power.

Dr. Terman in his “Hygiene of the Schoolchild” shows that during the school year, there is a damaging effect upon appetite, digestion, metabolism, the constitution of the blood and a profound impairment of nervous co-ordination. He states that “some of the worst consequences are either deferred or else are not apparent to common observation.”

The hygienic or preventive aspect of this problem seems to be

Digitized by t^ooQle
LOS ANQELES STATE NORMAL SCHOOf

463

receiving substantial consideration through wide-spread adoption of Medical Inspection.

Constructive educational measures have yet to he established. School Physical Education in most school systems has no real vital worth-while program that is solving this problem in any measurable degree. Here is one great need.

For many years there has been an evident increase in the proportion of hoys and girls brought into court and committed to correctional and reform institutions for delinquencies of various sorts. This has been correlated with the decrease in the active play life of children under the influences of modern city, small town and country conditions of life. It is most apparent in congested districts.

Mr. Allan Burns, several years ago, showed that the provision of a well organized, all the year round recreation program in a community, tended positively to reduce the juvenile delinquency within a certain limited radius from the center of activities.

The national game of professional baseball is projecting its influence into the remotest districts of the nation. Some form of the game is the dominant play activity of boys everywhere. Seven out of ten boys in St. Louis and Springfield, 111. state that they play “ball” or “baseball” regularly or frequently. That the example of this game as played by professional and semi-amateur clubs is conducive to high ideals of sportsmanly conduct would hardly be argued by any one. 1 hat its influence on the emotional life of all boys is very profound and that under ordinary city and country conditions it has a definite effect upon character, not of a constructive nature, cannot be successfully denied. The evidence is plain to any unprejudiced observer.

Here then is another obvious and great need a form of activity and a method of organization and administration that will contribute directly to the moulding of the child's emotional attitudes, guide the expression of his instinctive impulses and develop habits of feeling and action that will form the basis of a sound moral character.

The i rcgram that serves these two great aims - the development of organic power and the socialization of the play impulses, will serve all subsidiary aims r,nd require a content of activity that will provide for the fullest development of the entire organism and all its functions.

II.	A Rational Content.

In the adaption of each species of animals to the conditions of life under which it has had to exist, the living organism has come to consist of a combination of certain mechanisms operating in particu-ar ways that have been most suitable for the adjustment of the species to its environment. The cat for instance has a mechanism for springing, climbing and clawing and a stealthy, sly temperament adapted to lying in wait to catch its prey unawares. Its chief pleasures come from the performance of those particular activities for which its mechanism is adapted. The kitten in its kittenish activities plays only as it can, - in accordance with the nature and functions of its mechanism. Through those activities it develops into a mature cat.

Digitized by Google
464

So with man. To get his good, to save his life, to construct shelter, to catch a mate, to escape his enemy, to protect and raise a family, to associate and live with his kind, to co-operate and fight and work with his group successfully, has resulted in the selection and perpetuation of a group of mechanisms fitted to function through a wide range of ways most suitable to coping with those, situations that nature imposed upon him. The whole mechanism - muscles, nerves, bones, viscera, is desigred for the production and expenditure of tremendous amounts of energy and the performance of the many and complex movements involved in hunting, chasing, fleeing, fighting, building and their auxiliary activities.

This mechanism and its functions were developed through situations that were matters of life and death. They involved the whole gamut of pleasure and pain, of joy and sorrow. Movement and feeling, motion and emotion, structure and function were inextricably spun together in the experience.

Man’s greatest pleasure and deepest joys come from the experiences that are involved in the repetition of these race old activities. The natural play of his children follow faithfully these “action patterns” that have been woven into the very tissue of his being. Through the ages that have gone maturity has been wrought out of childhood through these activities of runnine, jumping, climbing, throwing, striking, organized in infinite combination in the traditional social fighting play of childhood and adolescence.

These are the “natural” movements of man. Through them he was fashioned. They are as potent today as ever for the development of the highest and most efficient structure and function.

* Cannon and Crile have shown us that the human mechanism in all its parts works to the best advantage and with greatest value to its highest development when it is caused to react to situations most like those under which it was evolved. We thus have the support of the most recent physiology as well as psychology for the selection of the “natural” activities of man as the content of a rational curriculum designed to promote the development of physical and moral vitality.

III.	School Conditions.

The physical training program in most cities has followed a traditional form, established nearly a century ago to meet certain conditions of the school environment that are characteristic of most schools even to this day, namely - the school room with its fixed desks, a small fraction of time and untrained teachers. Formalized calisthenics or free exercises has been the only answer of most physical educators to this proposition. However, any other answer must take cognizance of these same conditions wherever they exist. A rational physical training must not demand conditions that cannot be provided. It will seek not only a better answer to the conditions named, but it will also endeavor to discover whether there may not be factors *

* Cannon - Bodily Changes in Pain, Hunger, Fear and Rage. Crile - Man-An Adaptive Mechanism.

Digitized by ^ooQle
465

in the environment that have heretofore been uneonsidered, the utilization of which may be found entirely feasible. It will also seek, by realizing the possibilities of present conditions to their full limit, to develop a public and an official sentiment that will bring in time the conditions necessary to the best interests of the children and therefore of the community and the nation.

In the first place, so long as the school room must be used (which should never be when a better place is available) the aim of the activities should be confined to the simplest and most important that can be realized, i. e. - the neutralization of school room inactivity. This required the use of trunk bendings and twistings, thigh and leg flexions and vigorous aim movements, all related not to so-called “educational” ends but to the promotion of circulation, respiration and the energizing of the nervous system. So far as possible the movements will approximate the familiar movements of every day life and play, but under the conditions the form must give precedence to the content and that must be determined absolutely by the purposes named. Whatever subsidiary aims can be accomplished without sacrificing the primary ones, is permissible.

The use of frequent “stretching” periods of one or two minutes is valuable supplementary work that is possible in any school room.

It is entirely feasible in fair weather to conduct these activities out of doors. Cold weather is no bar, except when the temperature is*extreme. A quick march to the yard, a dash around the building and back to the room - two minutes thus are worth ten minutes of typical free exercises. The regular period spent in the yard is worth infinitely more than the same time indoors.

The recess can be utilized for the organization of certain simple but vigorous games. As a rule the school yard is too small to permit the activity of all the pupils at the same time. Dividing the school into groups of suitable size, each having a separate period for recess solves this difficulty. Proper arrangement of the program of the classes indoors will reduce to a minimum the annoyance from noise by the classes outdoors, and after the novelty wears off the annoyance will disappear. This is not ideal, but it is practical and many principals arid teachers have demonstrated its value.

Additional opportunities can be provided by using fifteen to twenty minutes before school in the morning. Fifteen minutes are always available at noon. After school thirty to ninety minutes can be had.

Nine times out of ten, except in large cities, the street or road provides valuable additional outdoor space for track events and running games. Even in congested New York it has been found possible to divert traffic on some streets at certain hours, thus largely increasing the play area. A St. Louis High School finds a vacant lot a block away, and the street alongside it, fair substitutes for a good indoor gymnasium at certain seasons. A grammar school in a large city uses a vacant lot across a busy street and another two blocks away with success. Two other grammar schools by excellent management and thus utilizing their opportunities, have 35 per cent of all their pupils regularly every day in worth-while play.

Digitized by AjOOQie
466

The secret here lies in the converse to a statement made by a principal in criticism of a physical training department. He said, “they are more concerned with obstacles than with opportunities.”

IV.	One or Two Principles.

A rational physical education rejects the general principle of “formal discipline.” Prevalent drill methods in calisthenics, gymnastics and marching proceed upon the idea that performing movements to command, with many repetitions to secure class uniformity, and with strict attention to the details of form, has great value in developing order, discipline, self control, accuracy, skill, alertness, quick mental response, attention, subordination and a class or democratic spirit. It is assumed that whatever the pupil gains in these qualities thru the practice of “formal gymnastics, etc.” will be “carried over” by him and made to function generally in other situations. The assumption is erroneous in the first place, in that some of these qualities are not developed at all in this manner, and in the second place, those that are actually developed will only function in the same or similar situations to those in which they were trained, and such situations are the exception and not the rule in the child’s daily life outside of school. Furthermore, there are other school processes that are of even greater influence in regard to many of these qualities.*

This subject deserves and requires much more time and space than we can give to it here.

Note just one thing. This method of physical training was not designed in the first place to serve any such list of aims but to meet certain definite physical conditions. Educational values have been ascribed to it in self defense by those who have been exclusively trained in its technique and who have been ignorant of the real child and of nature’s most effectual educational methods. For instance, and this is important, the “response to command” is a military method. It is essentially an extension of the relation of master and servant, carried to its logical conclusion it promotes the monarchistic ideal, not the democratic. Compulsion, not consent, is the animating principle. It is entirely devoid of the spirit of team play and of strong initiative with co-operative efficiency.

A rational physical education will utilize the situations that children tend to create themselves, it will set up situations that are similar to, or contain the same factors as the daily life situations of the child. He will then endeavor to guide the reactions of the individual and of the group into “action patterns” that will fit the situations that arise outside the school walls, and lead to the establishment of desirable habits of behavior - physical, mental, emotional.

The daily play and work of children furnish the observant teacher with a multitude of such “situations,” adaptable to the aims and methods here suggested.

V.	What Grade Teachers Can Co.

The technique of this newer method and the special technique of the various activities are yet to be effectively formulated, but this

* See Notes and Comments, this issue, page 476.

Digitized by LjOOQie
467

need not stand in the way of a start in the right direction, nor be a reason for continuing along the wrong road. There is an abundance of paaterial. Technique can be acquired by persistent study and practice. The essential factors are organization and leadership. Every school .ought to have a principal and one or more teachers who have the capacity for these.

The activities should include among others the following:

FALL—Climbing (fences, trees ladders), prisoners’ base, hare & hounds, field hockey (or shinny), soccer-football, class jumping;

WINTER—Handball, volley ball, basketball, skating, coasting, snowballing, class chinning;

SPRING—Dodgeball, longball, playground ball, baseball, tennis, track and field events, swimming, class running.

These can all be organized for serial competition under a plan to be suggested later that will ensure every pupil participating. There may be correlated with these the activities of the boy scouts, the girl scouts and the camp fire girls and including week end outings, hikes and camping, summer tramps and camps, shooting with sling, bow and arrow, and rifle.

Associated with the conduct of these activities and the training and preparation for the contests are the opportunities for correlating worth while courses in personal and public hygiene, ethics and morals. These have been recognized before, and in New York City a definite curriculum correlating physical training, hygiene and athletics is in effect.

Another possibility as yet unrecognized or at least not worked out in any practical way, so far as known to the speaker, is the correlation of these activities with various academic subjects such as history, ancient and modern, literature, civics, social manners and customs. There is a rich unworked field here, the cultivation of which would return large values in the vitalization of these subjects to many boys and girls now with little or no interest in them.

The organization of competition in connection with these same activities offers another opportunity for correlation, promotion of interest, “influencing the environment” and the development of impelling motives that would have immense value for both the intellectual, the social and the moral purposes of the school.

Management and a continuing interest are to be secured by the organization of the grammar grade pupils into two or more clubs, each having an equal number of boys and of girls and of the pupils of each grade.

The division of the pupils in the first instance is to be effected through the usual methods of choosing sides. Start with the selection of the requisite number of captains elected from the eighth grade by the entire body of pupils. Have these captains divide the pupils who desire to participate by choosing alternately. Constitute a steering committee in each club of the captain and three or four others. Have this committee assign leaders from among the eighth grade to each of the other grammar grades, including at least the fifth grade. These leaders are to divide the pupils in these grades between the clubs by lot unless their athletic ability is known, in

Digitized by LjOOQie
468

which case they should be chosen alternately. It is important to have the clubs pretty evenly balanced. After the first year new pupils coming up from the fourth grade or from other schools may be assigned by lot, unless a pupil expresses a strong perference for one * club or the other. Natural groupings should be permitted so far as practicable in deference to Gidding’s principle of “the consciousness of kind.”

Club organizations including constitution and by-laws, officers, committees, rules of eligibility, discipline and all the other details, should be worked out largely by the pupils themselves with the advice and aid of the principal and teachers. Local conditions must largely govern the general procedure in determining the particular form of organization to be adopted. The co-operation of parents and school alumni should be utilized, but should not be permitted to divert the organization from its primary aim which is to realize as fully as possible in the lives of all the pupils the physical, mental and social values of the hunting, chasing and fighting games. This of course does not exclude correlated and supplementary aims, but these must not interfere with the development of physical and moral vitality.

The schedule should fit the natural seasons and divisions of the school year and include activities appropriate to the season. More than one activity should be running in each season so that differences of interest may be satisfied.

The schedule will provide for the playing of match games between the various teams of each division at least twice a week and also for the daily practice of each team and player in the technique of the game he is engaged in.

Having decided on the activities that are to be conducted, the pupils will be divided into teams for the sports they have elected. For most sports boys should play with boys, and girls with girls. In some games mixed teams are possible and desirable. So far as practicable the two clubs should have equal numbers of boys in the same sport in the same grade. These should be divided into a first and second, or more teams, as the number of pupils and the requirements of the game may make necessary, allowing for one or more substitutes on each team. These teams should be permanent throughout the season. *

The so-called “formal” physical training of the school should be directly correlated with the games of the season and very largely constitute the “training” of all the players. It should include drill in the technique of the essential movements characteristic of the various games, such as the “start” in the sprint, the “approach” in the “take off” in the jump, “shooting”, “dribbling” and “passing” in basketball and soccer, and the like, and supplementary activities for developing weak or deficient strength, wind or skill. The insistence on “good form” here as a prerequisite to efficient performance in the contest, will provide the best possible training in “good posture” correlated with an impelling motive.

The teachers and the captains will be the corps of “trainers,” Each captain should be heldjresponsible for his own team as to their

Digitized by AjOOQle
469

training, conduct and scholarship. ■ Through him the teachers should be kept in intimate touch with every pupil. The inestimable value of such a relation is apparent.

Scoring in these contests should be as simple as possible. Some system of scoring is necessary, the type is immaterial. The scores should be posted daily in every room and on special bulletin boards in the hallways. This is vital to the maintenance of interest and is a practical guide for principal, teachers and captains in pointing out weak places that may need special attention.

Awards, prizes and trophies constitute an important problem but one fraught with considerable latent trouble for the unwary. Medals and other awards having tangible value should be avoided as far as possible. . Giving sweaters, articles of clothing and the like should be tabooed. The aim should be to make the simple record of attainment the chief reward. Careful cultivation of the right attitude in this respect is important. Bronze buttons, cloth insignia on a coat sleeve, one’s name posted on an “honor roll,” are more than ample and easily established as a tradition.

Chief emphasis should be on the team and the club honor rather than the individual’s achievement, though this latter wisely used is a powerful incentive to worthy effort. A tablet erected each year on the school wall reciting the club achievements in the various tournaments will satisfy every desire and will grow in interest and value each year. The ceremonies that may be built up around the awarding of trophies and emblems from time to time, may easily be made the occasion of driving home valuable personal and group lessons in fair play, “honor”, courtesy to opponents and officials, “playing the game,” training for the game of life, loyalty, patriotism.

This scheme has in mind primarily the interests of all the pupils of the school. It is not influenced by consideration of interscholastic contests. They are not excluded frcm a school by this plan but may be conducted in harmony with it, if the leadership is wise and powerful and able to stand against the overpowering influence of the “spectator” interest and the demand for “winning” teams. Interscholastic games have a definite social value and constitute the most powerful influence so far devised for integrating the social consciousness of the school group. They develop a great force that can be utilized as a valuable educational agency for advancing the social and moral development of the whole group. They may become a positive influence for evil if uncontrolled or wrongly led.

A program of interscholastic sport should not be entered upon without careful counting of the cost ar.d providing against loss to the general body of pupils. Certainly no interscholastic events should be engaged in where such participation excludes any considerable number of pupils from the benefits of such a scheme as outlined above, nor at all until there is reasonably adequate provision for a majority of all the pupils.

Once established, the suspicion of the pupils overcome, and their confidence established, for the leader or teacher or principal it will be a problem of leadership and guidance and not of promotion. The essential factor in the administration of this scheme is the leadership

Digitized by booQle
470

Everything else is subordinate to that. Weakness here is fatal. This plan has quite as great if not greater possibilities of going wrong, as of going right. As Joseph Lee says: “In play we are not fooling with surface phenomena but are dealing with the high explosives of human character.” We cannot, however, deal with this problem here. We mention it only as a caution. This plan will not operate itself. Adult leadership is more indispensable here than in any other phase of educational endeavor.

Summary.

1.	A rational Physical Education aims at the development of

organic and moral vitality - the most obvious unmet needs of American youth today for which physical activity offers the best remedy.	,

2.	Its content will be chiefly the natural instinctive movements of man because these are in harmony with the normal functioning of the child’s mechanism and best adapted to secure the fullest development of its inherited capacities and powers.

3.	It will be more concerned with the possibilities than the obstacles of the school environment. In the “waste” minutes before school, at recess, noon time and after school it will find time, and in the neighborhood of most school buildings will discover space, to accomplish much now considered impossible.

4.	It discards an obsolete pedagogy, conforms its methods to the nature and interest of the child and seeks the development of "“action patterns” that will function in the normal life of the child outside the school.

5.	By placing emphasis upon the organization and management of the pupil’s instinctive activities largely by themselves it puts a premium upon leadership rather than instruction by the teacher, upon the one hand, and promotes self control, initiative and co-operation by the pupils, on the other hand, a situation pregnant with educational values of large import to the development of a democratic spirit, community esprit de corps, and national vitality and efficiency.

Digitized by Google
471

O.... -n —	      ■■	   ■	 -	f	.Q

J QYOflNASIUH AND PLAYGROUND j

O	  -... "	o

GUSTAV J. BRAUN, Shortridge High School, Indianapolis, Ind.

A TYPICAL GYMNASTIC LESSON.

(Lasting 25 minutes for girls from 8—10 years.)

A.	Gymnastic Dancing in Polka Rhythm. Formation: Column of front couples with inner hands grasped, shoulder high. Repeat all exercises 8—10 times.

Change Step With Tactic Exercises.

Counts

1- Four change steps forward and eight skip steps forward.........—16

2-	Four change steps forward and four glides left and four glides

right forward ...............................................—16

3-	Four change steps forward and eight glides left (right) side-

ward in a ring. (To form a ring face partner and grasp partners hands, keeping	arms straight.)..........................—16

4-	Four change steps with knee raising and number one (on the

left) encircle number two (on the right) in eight skip steps passing in front, number two (on the right) marches in place eight steps ............................................—16

5-	Four change steps forward and number one encircle number

two in eight glides left sideward passing in front (the one that encircles faces the other)...................................—16

6-	(Grasp hands in front chain lock) Four change steps forward

and a whole wheel left (right) in eight skip steps.............—16

B. Free Exercises In Open Order.

(Two part combined exercises.)

1-	Bend knees deep and raise arms sideward - 1. Return-2. (Exercises of knee bending will quickly bring the circulation to normal after the hopping exercises.

2-	Place left foot sideward, bend opposite knee, and swing arms sideward - 1. Retum-2. Same to the right.

3-	Hands in front of shoulders as starting position. Bend upper trunk backward and straighten arms sideward -1. Return-2, (this exercise should only be taken on command.)

4-	Raise left knee forward and arms sideward - raise. Lower. (This is a balancing exercise and should be taken on command only the command being long drawn out). Same to the right.

5-	Side stride stand as starting position. Lower trunk forward and place hands in front of shoulders - 1. Return-2.

6-	Side stride stand as starting position. Turn trunk left and swing arms side-up-ward - 1. Return-2. Same right.

7-	Four jumps in place -1-4. Four jumps forward - 5-8. Four jumps backward - !'-12. Four jumps in place - 13-16. Repeat.

8-	Inhale with raising upper trunk backward and arms sideward -Inhale. Exhale.

Digitized by v^ooQle
472

C.	Apparatus Work.

(Parallel Bar, hip high, four girls on one bar, a bar for every 16 girls). In the support stand frontways with the upper grip.

All these exercises should be repeated about 6-8 times. The girls get into the support stand by taking two steps backward.

1-	Bend knees - 1 straighten - 2.

2-	Swing left knee forward - 1. Return and swing right knee forward -. This is executed in linked movement.

3-	Swing left leg sideward (backward) - 1 Return - 2. Same to the right.

4-	Raise heels - 1 Bend knees - 2 Return 3- 4.

5-	Raise heels - 1. Bend knees deep - 2. Return 3-4.

6-	Bend knees-1. Straighten knees and swing left leg sideward. 2 Return 3-4. Same to the right.

A FOUR YEARS' COURSE OF STUDY IN PHYSICAL TRAINING FOR BOYS' AND GIRLS' HIGH SCHOOLS.

(Concluded)

FOURTH YEAR'S WORK (For Girls)

I.	Tactics.

A.	General Tactics.

Review the tactics of the preceding grades. Combine alternations in marching and running.

B.	Special Tactics.

Review the tactics of the soldier, the squad and the company.

II.	Free Exercises.

The essential exercises are the same as indicated for the first year.

Co-ordinations.

(a)	Review the co-ordinations of the preceding grades.

(b)	Club-swinging.

1.	Alternate, sets of swings in eight or sixteen counts with marching a similar number of counts, (a) marching forward and backward, (b) marching sideward to and fro,

(c)	marching in a square.

2.	Sets of exercises arranged to music.

III.	Rhythmic Steps.

A.	Marching Steps.

(1)	Alternate marching in common time with running; and with

fast time.

(2)	Combined arm and leg movements while marching.

B.	Dancing Steps.

(a)	Social dancing.

(b)	Appropriate original aesthetic dances for school plays,

operettas, etc.

IV.	Games. Track and Field Work. Miscellaneous

Activities.

A. Games.

1.	Develop the finer points of the team games of the preceding

grades.

2.	At times review the essential vigorous gymnastic games.

Digitized by C^ooQle
473

B.	Track and Field Events.

Review previous events. Increase endurance runs to 5 minutes.

C.	Miscellaneous Activities.

1. See the remarks under this heading in the first year’s work. Keep track of the girls who do not lead a natural outdoor life; encourage them to do so.

V.	Apparatus Work.

Review the apparatus work of the lower grades.

Side Horse.

Review the work of the preceding grades.

Swinging Rings.

Jump-high:—Leg and trunk exercises. Raise knees and turnover backward, jump off backward. Short swing to a half turn-over with straight legs, lower the legs slowly. Hip-circle left and right. Pendulum swing with leg movements.

Head-high:—Arm, leg and trunk exercises. Bent-arm swing, short swing, raise knees to a complete turnover, jump off backward. Bent-arm hang short swing and turn over backward with straight legs, jump off backward.

Chest-high:—Arm, leg and trunk exercises. Sink slowly to a hang-stand sideways, circle left (right). Jump to a hang-stand frontways, bend arms, then straighten one arm sideward (forward). Jump to a hang-stand frontways, jump and raise both knees to a turn-over backward, return with a jump.

Poles and Ropes.

See work of first year.

Horizontal Ladder, also Boom.

Review the exercises of the preceding grades.

Vertical	Ijidder.

Review the exercises of the preceding grades.

Oblique Ladder.

See work of the first year.

Balance Beam.

Review the exercises of the preceding grades. On the low beam, walk, run, or hop in various ways with two- and three-count leg exercises.

Chest-high:—Front vault; flank vault with half and quarter turns; rear vault.

Giant Stride.

Review the exercises of the preceding grades. Flying jump over a rope; also with turns.

Traveling Rings.

See work of the first year.

There have been a number of requests lately for copies of “Theory Of Fencing With The Foil” by Geo. Heintz, Sr, The book is out of print but if enough orders are received to make a new edition possible at 25 cents each, it will be reprinted shortly. Anyone desiring copies please send notice to office of publication of Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minn.

Digitized by Google
PHYSIOLOGY AND HYOIBNI

O.	' ..—■	'	      '	■	  o

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D., Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

RELATIVE VALUES IN PUBLIC HEALTH WORK.

Not how many dollars to spend but how to spend the dollars you have for public health activities is the subject of a recently issued pamphlet on “Relative Values in Public Health Work.” The author is Franz Schneider, Jr., sanitarian of the Department of Surveys and Exhibits, Russell Sage Foundation, who has conducted public health surveys of Newark, Springfield, 111., Topeka, Atlanta, and other cities.

Given some 1,400,000 deaths annually in continental United States, of which one in four or even one in three are from preventable causes, the problem of the public health officer is to so spend the city’s health funds as to prevent these losses so far as is possible. The health officials “must decide what parts of the losses are preventable, and must determine how the greatest return in prevention can be obtained with the money available. This is the problem of relative values in public health work.”

The actual situation confronting American health officers is that “with the scanty funds now at their disposal, and the great variation in effectiveness of different activities, the most careful discrimination must be exercised in making up the department’s program. A bad distribution of funds means lives lost, and the responsibility, a heavy one, falls on the administrative official.” The author quotes Professor George C. Whipple as saying, “this is one of the greatest questions that a sanitarian can consider. It is today the most important of all hygienic problems because it comprehends all others.”

The discussion cannot well be condensed from the already concise presentation in this ten-page pamphlet. It is offered as a basis for the discussion of health budgets by officials and citizens who seek the highest returns on the city’s investment in terms of deaths prevented. Among the tests applied are the damage done by the preventable diseases, their preventability, cost of prevention, and communicability — small pox, for example, “must be suppressed immediately upon appearance, -almost without regard to cost.”

Social workers as well as heavy taxpayers and all other citizens will be aided by this pamphlet in studying local health expenditures.

Relative Values in Public Health Work. By Franz Schneider, Jr., New York:	Department	of	Surveys	and	Exhibits,	Russell Sage Foundation.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
475

Salt in the Diet.—Mungo Park, the traveler, describes his own feelings on long-continued salt want as follows:	“I	found

the scarcity of salt actually painful. The continued subsistence on nothing but vegetable food produced finally a desire for salt so painful that it can hardly be described.” We are not familiar with any prolonged experiments with salt-free diets on man. But persons on ordinary diets who have gone for a long time without sodium chlorid complain in general of lack of appetite (owing to the unpalatability of the food), and of some vague or general bodily distress—a condition similar to that induced by monotonous and incomplete diets.—A. J. Carlson, Control of Hunger in Health and Disease.

Reorganization of Physical Education in Public Instruction.—A commission has just been instituted at the ministry of the interior for the purpose of studying the reorganisation of physical education in public instruction. Among the members of this commission are Drs. Gilbert and Weiss, professors of the Faculte de Medicine de Paris, and Henri Mery, Albert Mathieu and Mosny, physicians at the hospitals of Paris. — From Paris Letter to the Journal A. M.A.

Many experiments have been undertaken to satisfy the medical mind regarding what most people outside our profession have always taken for granted—namely, that “colds” are “catching.” That they are catching no one now doubts. It is recognized by those who have the management of sanatoria for consumptives, that one of the great disadvantages attending the visits of friends is that “colds” are introduced, much to the detriment of the patients. Of course, every lady knows that “sniffy” people are as well avoided when social functions are on hand, and now a serious question is being asked—namely, should a doctor visit his patient when suffering from “cold”? In the ordinary daily life of those who go out into the world and take their chance of all infections, who ride in trains and omnibuses, and even go to church, the opportunities of infection are so many that it is probable that one more is of no moment. But to the chronic invalid, shut off rigorously from external influences, the visit of a catarrhal person may undoubtedly be productive of injurious results.—“HeaUh"—London.

Cleanliness of the teeth plays an important part in the asepsis of the mouth. By regular and frequent brushing of the teeth with a good, fairly stiff toothbrush and a simple tooth powder or tooth paste, the accumulation of tartar on and between the teeth may be to' some extent prevented. In conjunction with this brushing of the teeth, gargling with a mouth wash will aid in cleaning the mouth. Equally if not more important in the care of the teeth is the periodic visit two or three times a year to a dentist, that tartar may be removed, that caries of the teeth may be early treated, and that the condition of the gums may be noted and pus pockets early discovered.—“Therapeutics” Journ. A. M. A.

Digitized by LjOOQie
O'

476

O

NOTES AND OOMENTS

O '' I ......	   I	"I II -o

We do not think that it is wise to let some of the statements 'by Wm. Ehler in his article in this issue pass as they now stand without comment. They may be misleading to many earnest ^teachers whose experiences appear to be different.

Many psychologists will tell you that the “carrying over” or “not carrying over” depends almost entirely upon the manner ; in which such material is presented.

If a teacher places an “ideal” before the pupils even the much maligned and little understood calisthenics can be made to function as a means of inculcating or training a social spirit, quick reaction, alertness, etc., etc.,

If Mr. Ehler means that those teachers are on the wrong track who present this material as some grade teachers present their history, or arithmetic, we agree with him. But all of us who have worked in schools for some time look upon many of the types of work we are forced to use as “substitutes”. As soon as the conditions (weather, yard space, equipment) allow the use of the “originals”, that is the so-called “natural” activities, no one claiming the title of teacher will present “substitutes” to his class.

If we are to look upon Mr. Ehler’s paper as being another strong protest against a dry and formal presentation of physical education activities we will gladly second it, as we can recall some teachers who would so formalize a game as to kill all interest in it. But this should not be used as an argument against the game, but against the teacher. From personal experience we know that ; some teachers can create a real desire for calisthenics, while others would make even a relay race monotonous.

. Rejoinder to comments by the Editor on The Hunting, Fighting and Chasing Games. By George W. Ehler.—I thank the Editor for his comments upon my article and the opportunity he has courteously given me to present the following rejoinder at the same time. I am glad also of the opportunity I am given to enlarge somewhat upon the part of the article referred to, as it was impossible to give it adequate treatment before and while this is still true, yet one or two points can be somewhat better illuminated.

My paper was aimed at the “content” of the prevailing physical education program, rather than at the method of presentation, therefore, while I am in entire accord with the points made by the Editor in his last paragraph, I cannot agree that the object of the . article is to make “another strong protest against a dry and formal presentation.”

I am glad to have his editorial endorsement of the doctrine that “many of the types of work” in general use are “substitutes”. .1 seriously doubt, however, that “all of us who have worked in

Digitized by t^ooQle
477

schools for some time" look upon many of these activities as substitutes. Close contact with many directors and teachers in recent months discloses a decided change of attitude in some quarters, but many of us continue to have the same attitude toward “drill” and “discipline” and “alertness” and “quick response” and “democracy” that we find characteristic of the proponents of military training in the schools who seem to be having their day in certain “educational” centers at present.

I	must differ radically with the Editor as to the educational' values of calisthenics even with an “ideal” held up by an excellent teacher; likewise as to the doctrine of “carrying over”. Space and time forbid treating these at all adequately here. The following is limited and partial. I disclaim all inferences from things-left untreated.

The “social spirit” engendered in the simultaneous performance ' of movements by many persons promotes personal self-effacement and a group consciousness of a highly suggestible nature easily dominated by a wise leader. Dancing and singing are much more • powerful media for arousing this “social spirit”. It leads logically to anarchy or monarchy. It is an essential factor of military drill.

“Alertness” in calisthenics means ability to pay attention to the teacher’s commands and to quickly interpret them. It is measured in part by the correctness of the pupil’s response and in part by the “quick reaction”.

The “situation” under school conditions - practically a fixed*' environment, involves

(a)	the “preparatory” command - statement of what is; to be done, - a “warning signal”,

(b)	a “pause” - time for the pupil to interpret the command and to “get set”,

(c)	the command of “execution” - the “starting signal”), followed by the instant performance of the prescribed move-ment.

Practice leads to a high degree of “alertness” and “quick reaction” in respect to the particular movements practised and the particular commands used. The practice period is shortened and the final result is heightened in proportion to the “	” that

the teacher is able to inject into the activity.

But-of what value is it? The “situations” of daily life include neither this “situation” nor its “elements” once in a thousand! times. The other 999 “situations” contain no “teacher”, no “preparatory warning”, usually no “pause”. The “situation” develops1 suddenly in a constantly changing environment. Motor adjustment must usually follow immediately, - “reflexly”, on the development of the “situation”. Training in “response to command”,/ the method in calisthenics for developing “alertness” and “quick-reaction”, has relatively little, if any, value for this.

To the extent that calisthenic activities develop muscular strength and power to energize muscle fiber and the correlated physiological functions, they cultivate powers of value that “carry
478

■over” and function in the daily life of the individual, for the elements involved are identical in both situations. But the“alert-ness” and “quick reaction” required in daily life “situations” depend upon training in “situations” having identical psychic elements. This is vital. Calisthenics are devoid of such elements.

The following quotations from Thorndike, the chief authority -on the psychological questions under discussion, are apropos here. They are from his “Psychology of Learning”.

Page 358 and 359-“. . a change in one function alters any other only in so far as the two functions have as factors identical elements. ... By identical elements are meant mental processes which have the same cell action in the brain as their physical correlate.”

Page 423-“Since much of the general value of a special training is from the content rather than the form, and since the two cannot be separated in actual learning the content of a study is of prime importance in determining its disciplinary value.”

Page 431 (from Heck p. 198)-“Abilities should be developed in school only by means of those elements of subject-matter and method that are common to the most valuable phases of the outside environment.”

Editor’s second remarks.—We are glad to present Mr. Ehler’s objections to some of our remarks. When we first read Thorndike we were much disturbed by the almost hopeless outlook presented by him regarding the influence of improvement in one mental function upon the efficiency of other functions. Thorndike on page 425 in the volume quoted by Mr. Ehler says: “It will be obvious from these quotations that, as was stated at the beginning of the chapter, the psychologists’ expectations of general mental discipline have shrunk to decidedly modest dimensions”. When, then, in this chapter the author shows that the old view of a general carrying over was wrong, he issues the following warning (on pages 364 and 365) “A survey of experimental results is now needed perhaps as much to prevent the opposite superstition; for, apparently, some careless thinkers have rushed from the belief in total general training to the belief that training is totally specialized”.

In the introductory sentences on page 350 Thorndike states: ‘ the bonds whose strengthening and weakening constitute the changes in condition of mental functions in a man are not utterly independent of the rest, but are related to form the obvious dynamic unity which the intellect, character, taste and skill of any one man displays. What happens to any one bond makes differences to other bonds in the same man that it does not make to those bonds in a different man”. That means that some things will affect one man that will not similarly affect another.

On page 358 in inquiring into the question of “to what extent and how the improvement of one function alters another” the author says “a change in one function alters any other only in so far as the two functions have as factors indentical elements”...

Digitized by L,ooQle
479

"chief among such identical elements of practical importance in education are associations including ideas about aims and ideas of method and general principles, and associations involving elementary facts of experience such as length, color, number, which are repeated again and again in differing combinations”. Thorndike then goes on to say, "By identical elements are meant mental processes which have the same cell action in the brain as their physical correlate. It is of course often not possible to tell just what features of two mental abilities are thus identical.”

This, then, brings us to the question: Can a skillful teacher supply identical psychic elements in calisthenics, ideas of the value of the work, of aims, etc. which will produce the cell action in the brain that we would like to produce? From our own experiences as a teacher, and later as a pupil we will say yes, although we have only empirical knowledge and no scientific facts. Why shouldn't a skillful teacher present calisthenics to his pupils as- a means to improve one's health, as valuable training for baseball, as a method to become a better soldier, etc., etc. and so supply situations that have the same psychic elements? It is this that we meant in our last paragraph. Some teachers will kill all the "content” there is in competitive forms of physical education while a skillful teacher will supply it even to calisthenics. And, finally, even less skillful teachers who understand their psychology might derive some comfort from Thorndike when on page 423 he says: "To study the distasteful that is known to be useful is of much greater disciplinary value than to study the merely distasteful.”

La Crosse Normal School of Physical Ed.

The La Crosse Normal School of Physical Education as well as the State Board of Normal Regents through the death of regent, William F. Wolfe, has lost a friend and interested co-worker whose place cannot be filled easily. The sad event following so closely upon the resignation of Dr. C. B. Sputh as director of our department has dast a gloom over us that will be hard to dispel.

A permanent successor to Dr. Sputh has not been chosen. Until such a one be chosen Mr. Gustave G. Heineman, the present assistant, will act as head. Mr. Walter Wittich, Jr. of Milwaukee, now engaged in school work at Sheboygan has been chosen as Mr. Heineman's assistant.

P. F. Schmidt, Reporter.

The next convention of the American Physical Education Association will be held at Pittsburg, Pa. during the week preceding Easter, on April 5, 6 and 7th. Many interesting papers will be presented both at the general and the sectional meetings. In our next issue we will print the complete program.

Digitized by CjOOQle
480

SOME GOOD AND SIMPLE DEVICES.

Readers are requested to send us descriptions of any devices that they have found useful in this work. While it is comparatively simple to conduct activities in well equipped gymnasiums or recreation rooms it is a wellknown fact that teachers often are confronted by conditions that are far from ideal. The question then is: what shall I do to keep the crowd busy and interested?

A Cheap Ball.

Teachers often are at their wits’ end when they have ten to twenty boys full of life in a room that has no play equipment and that does not lend itself to vigorous games of the ordinary type. At such times I have one of the boys get a few newspapers. These I roll up into a ball, keeping its shape by tieing a string around it, or putting a few rubber bands around it. This gives one a very serviceable ball that may be used to play a number of games; for instance Baseball (batting the ball with the flat hand), Volleyball, using a string in place of a net, Guess Who?, Battleball, etc.

BOOK REVIEW.

“Personal Health” by William Brady, M. D. 407 pages 5 1-2 by 8 inches. Published by W. B. Saunders Company, Philadelphia and London. Price $1.50.

The sub-title of this volumne “A Doctor Book for Discriminating People” accurately describes the book so far as the mass of its contents is concerned. What it does not say is that this is one of the best books that has been published recently on personal health. It will be of great value to every one, and should be in the hands of every teacher. It also is a good book to place in the hands of any one needing sound advice on personal health habits.

“The Prevention of Disease’” by Kenelm Winslow, M. D. 348 pages 51-2 by 8 inches, illustrated. Published by W. B. Saunders Company, Philadelphia and London. Price $1.75. '

This book is a practical guide for the layman, giving him briefly the means to avoid the various diseases described. The chapters on diet, exercise, tea, coffee, and alcohol are of special interest, as is that on the prevention of cancer. There are chapters on the prevention of malaria, colds, constipation, obesity, nervous disorders, tuberculosis, diseases of childhood and of middle age. To physical educators a chapter on the prevention of deformities will will be of special interest, while the chapter on sexual hygiene and the prevention of sexual diseases will be of general interest. The book is warmly recommended as an important addition to one’s professional library.

Digitized by v^ooQle