Editorial Committee : KARL KROH, cook co. normal school, Englewood, Chicago, III.

Wm.Stecher, Sec’v. of the Technical Committee of the n. a. gtmnaetic union, Cor. 3rd a Cheetnut St’8, St.Louis,Mo.

The Seventeenth Biennial Convention of the North American Gvmnastic Union.

(17. Bundestagsatzung.)

LOUISVILLE, KY., June 21 to 24, 1896.

By F. W. D.

THE delegates convened for the first time on Saturday, June 21, at the Turner Hall where they were welcomed with the sympathetic and enthusiastic greeting of the Committee ofReception and by the speaker of the local turner society, whereupon the guests partook of an animated banquet spread for them by the ladies of the local gymnastic society. The transactions proper commenced Sunday, June 22, at 10 A. M. After a lengthy, well-delivered address, the president of the Gymnastic Union, Henry Braun, of St. Louis, called the meeting to order. The ■election of temporary officers for the present convention resulted as follows: Temporary Speaker, Christ. Stoettner of New Jersey; Temp. Secretary, H. J. Hadlich of Minnesota.'

The Committee on Credentials, after an hour’s hard work, reported the presence of 145 certified delegates representing 27 of the total of 32 Circuits, into which the United States has been divided, with authority to cast 382 votes.

When the Committee for the Nomination of Permanent Officers reported, the election resulted as follows :

First Speaker—Adolf Georg, Indiana.

Second Speaker—C. G. Rathmann, St. Louis.

First Secretary—0. Jansen, Cleveland.

Second Secretary—Otto Dietz, Southern Central.

Third Secretary—C. Retzer, St. Louis.

Digitized by UjOOQle
■—86—

Shortly after the new officers were installed the morning session was adjourned.

In the afternoon session the permanent committees were elected, in accordance with the recommendation of the Commitee on. Nomination, as follows :

Committee on Constitution and Platform : C. Hermann Boppe, Wisconsin ; Martin Moll, New England ; Albert Currlin, Pacific; Henry Vollmer, Upper Mississippi ; Hugo Muench, St. Louis ; Jacob Heintz, New York; Theo. Stempfel, Indiana; Franz Seubert, Long Island; Wm. Wartmann, Pittsburg; Wm. Voigt, Lake Erie; Fred. Bertsch, Ohio, and Georg H. L. Haar, Philadelphia.

Committee on General Business of the National Gymnastic Union : Heinrich Huhn, North Pacific ; Louis Weide, New York ; Karl Herzog, New England ; Fred. Detmers, South California; Karl J. Doerr, St. Louis ; Bernhard Froehlich, Ohio ; Max Stern, Indiana ; Jul. Vahl-teich, Chicago ; Gus. Schweppendick, Long Island ; Henry Bloedel, Pittsburg; Phil. Andres, Nebraska, and Ed. Lischer, Upper Mississippi.

Committee on the Official Organ and “Mind and Body” : Christ. Stoettner, Philadelphia ; Wm. Drechsler, St. Louis ; Ernst Wil-kom, Indiana ; Wm. Kaiser, Pittsburg ; Joel Steinberg, Ohio ; Christ. Schaefer, Rocky Mountain, and John Heuler, Missouri Valley.

Committee on the Normal School of Gymnastics : H. Suder, Indiana; Emil Groener, Chicago; W. Reuter, Upper Mississippi; Dr. Karl Zapp, Lake Erie ; F. B. Huehting, Wisconsin ; Oscar Scheer, Pittsburg ; Franz A. Deck, Long Island ; Fred. Bock, Wisconsin ; Hermann Arnold, Connecticut; David Osterheld, St. Louis, and Max Hempel, St. Louis.

Committee on Practical Gymnastics :	Alvin Kindervater, St.

Louis ; Gustav Schlaefli, Wisconsin ; Hermann Groth, Pittsburg ; Tob. Sigel, Lake Erie ; G. Wittich, St. Louis ; Wm. Kopp, Chicago ; Otto Schmidt, Indiana ; Rob. Wetzlau, Central Illinois ; Gustav Eckstein, Ohio ; Chas. Enders, Indiana ; L. Hilfer, St. Louis, and G. Pfeiffer, Chicago.

Committee on Ethical Work : G. Donald, Upper Mississippi ;

F.	Vonnegut, Indiana; Ed. Deuss, Chicago; Chas. Sommer, St. Louis; Ernst Herklotz, Pittsburg; C. L. Sucksdorf, Upper Mississippi, and Alfred Herholz, Ohio.

Committee on Complaints and Appeals : John Meinhard, West New York ; Georg Ruckhold, St. Louis ; Julius Herre, Philadelphia ; J.

S.	Spiegel, Central New York ; John Ohlweiler, Central Illinois ; K. J. Koehler, Wisconsin, and Ed. Kaufmann, Upper Mississippi.

Committee on Examination of Accounts : Fred. Goetz, Indiana ; Jul. Bode, Wisconsin ; H. Roth, Missouri Valley ; Carl Adelmann, St. Louis, and G. Roth, Pittsburg.

Committee on the Columbian World’s Fair : Conrad Hibbeler, Chicago ; Gust. Kuestermann, Wisconsin; B. C. Georgi, Ohio; Carl Bergfried, Kansas, and Henry F. Giere, Indiana.

The Convention then adjourned to the next day at 9 A. M. The evening found the delegates, however, again assembled, though for other transactions ; an evening sociable had been arranged in Phoenix



Digitized by C.ooQle
-87-

Hill Park in honor of the guests. Gymnastic exercises of various kinds, performed by the children’s classes and by the male and female adult classes, interwoven with lampion marches and counter-marches, and followed by an address of Mr. Emil v. Schleinitz, Editor of the “Louisville Anzeiger,” made the entertainment a grand success. Mayor Todd of the City of Louisville in an able speech offered the delegates the freedom of the city.

On Monday, June 22, under an oppressive high temperature which neither soda water nor the celebrated Kentucky “Temperance Drops” could sufficiently abate, the delegates went to the work proper. The various committees submitted their reports by turns.

The Committee on Rules and Regulations recommended that Cushing’s Parliamentary Manual be adopted as the guide in the conduct of the transactions of this meeting ; that no delegate should be entitled to address the house more than twice nor ever longer than five minutes on the same subject; that the mover of a resolution should have the right to close the debate on the same, etc.

The Committee on General Business recommended for next meeting place (two years hence) either Brooklyn or Cincinnati; that the Executive Board should remain in St. Louis, etc. Before the convention took up the election of the next meeting place Peoria and San Francisco came additionally in nomination. The votes stood as follows : San Francisco 213, Brooklyn 120, Peoria 48, and Cincinnati

1.	The choice of San Francisco was then made unanimous.

In reference to the question of locating the new headquarters for the next term of the Executive Board the delegates were at first equally divided in their sentiments. The Ohio, Chicago, Lake Erie and Wisconsin Circuits were added to the list. The vote, however, showed St. Louis to be far ahead of all other competitors. 218 votes stood for St. Louis, 58 for Ohio, 58 for Chicago, 3 for Lake Erie, and 2 for Wisconsin. St. Louis has held the honor as seat of the Executive Board for 18 years in succession and may well be proud of this testimony of confidence which the delegates voluntarily bestowed on the members of that circuit.

Other recommendations of the Committee on General Business were unanimously agreed to.

The Committee on the Columbian World's Fair recommended a vote of thanks to the Narragansett Machine Company for its liberal permission granted to the North American Gymnastic Union for the gratis use of its exhibited gymnastic apparatus during their exercises at the World’s Fair.

Turner Hartung proposed to present his World’s Fair Diploma and Medal to the Convention which generous offer, however, was declined with thanks.

The report of the Committee on the Normal School of Gymnastics at Milwaukee gave rise to a prolonged discussion, in the course of which a resolution was submitted to arrange a course of gymnastic instruction for Anglo-American teachers of gymnastics, to be completed in one year. While the German-American students were forced to pass through a two years’ course of instruction at this institution, the proposed innovation found few supporters and was abandoned. Another

Digitized by CjOOQle
-88-

feature of this committee’s report was the recommendation, to hold on to the present two years’ course for all students of the Normal School of Gymnastics. A. number of delegates favored a reduction to one year. The debate was lengthy and exhaustive, and the outcome was a compromise proposed by Turner C. Hermann Boppe of Wisconsin to the following effect :

“The course of instruction shall extend through two }rears, provided the attendance by September 1897 will show no insufficiency' of students. Should the number of students not increase by that time, the course shall be reduced to one year and no new course shall be arranged for the year 1897—98. The matter in such emergency is to be decided by the Directors of the Normal School with the concurrence of the Executive Board.”

The discussion gave evidence that every member present was heartily impressed with the necessity of progressing with the spirit of the age and of the thorough and scientific training of the future teachers of gymnastics in this country. At the same time the need of having some member of the faculty of the Normal School of Gymnastics present at these biennial conventions of the North American Gymnastic Union made itself unpleasantly felt, and a proposition to make the technical leader of that institution an ex-officio member of these conventions found expression through Turner Boppe.

From the report of the Committee for Ethical Work is to be mentioned the recommendation that the officers of each circuit should engage suitable lecturers for the edification, enlightenment and furtherance of intellectual progress in the several turner societies, the expense to be borne by the individual societies and the circuits jointly. Another recommendation treated of the necessity of establishing juvenile libraries in the turning schools and of encouraging their use by the children of the members. Moreover, the Committee on Mental Progress should continue to send out suitable themes for debates in the several societies and the daughters and wives of turners should be urged to attend, and participate, in all such debates and gymnastic tournaments.

The Committee on Examination of the Accounts reported that it found all books and accounts in the best order, but that former students of the normal school who had received stipends from the Union’s treasury were too slow in repaying their quota.

Without any further discussion or debate the recommendation of the Committee on the Official Organ, the “Amerikanische Turnzeitung,” which should be continued as such organ, was adopted. “Mind and Body,” the organ in the English tongue, was also heartily endorsed, and the members and societies exhorted to subscribe for it and to urge other individuals and societies to become readers and subscribers.

These are the proceedings of most importance of the second day.

In our next revue of the proceedings we shall enter upon all points pertaining to the Normal School and to the regulations of the General Tournaments in an extensive manner. Of all other resolutions passed by the convention only the most important shall be mentioned.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-89-

GYMNASTIC SOCIABLE EVENINGS.

FROM the “Schweizerische Turnzeitung” we gather the following summary of remarks on the above topic and though unwilling to confess our assent to the entire critique in general we wish to suggest that in many instances and localities the critique is well founded :

The season offering the gymnastic societies the most numerous occasions for a display of their accomplishments and of the benefits of physical education is now passed once more. Of such occasions there have been a great number during the past winter. Many societies have enrolled in their lists a great proportion of passive members, men that in their younger years were active turners and continued faithfully with their society, though as paying and affiliated patrons of the gymnastic art only. But beside these there is a considerable number of those who became members only for the purpose of enjoying the progressive and specifically advanced mode of thinking and of participating in the social and political life of the society in general. It has thus become an ingredient part of the duties of these societies to contribute something especially adapted for this latter class of members whenever a sociable evening was provided. But these sociable evening-entertainments during winter are not the only occasions that draw the gymnastic societies before the public. There are turner festivals in summer as well ; there are pleasure trips, early morning excursions to beautiful alpine resorts, mountain or hill sprints, and other festivities of a general character m which the turner societies, from a kind of sympathetic sentiment, are expected to take part. All these sociable entertainments require a constant application of time and work on the part of the active members and involve a considerable expense. The “Bummelkasse” (inofficial treasury for the active members devoted to sociable purposes only) is to be filled from time to time for emergencies, and somehow or other the hard working and enthusiastically liberal turners are from time to time on the lookout for the wherewithal to replenish it. Thus is happens that gymnastic exhibitions with paid admissions are arranged.

The preliminary work of the active members in drill and exercise is sometimes surprisingly exacting. The exhibition takes place. If we attend one of these entertainments, we may notice the following features: There is a “Singing Section”; it wants to show its skill in vocal music not less than in gymnastics. Its part in the program is mostly of such prominence as would do honor to a regular singing societ\\ so difficult and exacting are the pieces which their leader thought it a duty to select for the purpose. You are sometimes in doubt whether you are in the presence of a turning vocal club or of a singing turner club. Then you are witnessing wand exercises, successively or alternately following one another as the arrangement committee thought fit to distribute them. A fine orchestra accompanies the different evolutions and fills up the intervals with the sweet strains of the best music. Everything passes off most pleasantly and the gymnasts are overwhelmed with praise and glory for their brave performance. The next piece may be some purely intellectual entertainment, some couplets sung by an individual member of the humoristic character, or

Digitized by
-90-

a comical duet, or a quartette, or perhaps a shorter or longer dramatic piece. Our turners, full of enthusiasm, take a hand in everything; the}’’ act the characters of students, of artists, of ministers of state, in verse and prose, with music and without. And they never lack applause. The next piece on the program may be the climax of the gymnastic entertainment, select gymnastic exercises ; gigantic pyramids they build from groups of 40 to 50 turners. Who would not bestow praise for such liberal exertions ? But the end is not yet. There follows the production of an orchestra formed of active and passive members, producing some favorite musical children’s symphony, and at all events one or the other of the following exhibitory feats : a war-dance, a harvest frolic, a fisher, vigne or Indian festival. Nor must we forget the one requisite to make up a perfect circus : either a Hercules raising huge weights, or various clowns, the musical sort included, and the stupid butler. It is an old saying, Who offers a variety will give each some satisfaction. And every spectator leaves the entertainment, contented at least with the fraction devoted to his particular fancy; those who were not present at the exhibition can read the praises of the society in every newspaper.

What shall we say to this type of performances ? Perhaps they are to be considered only as a necessary evil, necessary because they are intended to attract and engage the favor of the visitors who willingly contribute their admission fees to the society’s exigencies.

It cannot be contended that well arranged and executed exhibitions do not enhance the respect and reputation of gymnastic culture ; the public needs still to be educated to fully appreciate the blessings of physical training. And it is a trite observation that most people are not so accessible to dry argumentation and stilted oratory as they are to empirical sensations which convince and amuse at the same time.

Moreover, young people are apt to catch the enthusiastic fire more easily where they see a chance for themselves to excel, than where they are simply told naked truths without practical exemplifications, and where these gymnastic exhibitions are given in the service of general humane purposes, as is often the case, we are willing to overlook much that does not exactly agree with our ideas of correctness and with stringent limitation.

Nevertheless it is opportune from time to time to apply our earnest critique to them, and the watchful eye of those that think highly of the gymnastic branch of physical education should never be blindfolded or biassed by secondary considerations.

In the first place as regards the program. It is of importance to distinguish between exhibitions offered by the societies to their own members, and those which are given to the public at large.

In the former class the humoristic and the pleasurable is of necessity entitled to representation. If all sorts of gymnastic and equilibristic feats are brought out there by individuals or by groups, nothing can be objected in earnest.

But when exhibitions are given before the multitude, it should be a general rule not to be violated that pieces conveying the false impression as though a turner society were the natural recruiting field for

Digitized by CjOOQle
-91-

circuses and shows, be dropped from the program. There is no dispute about the general feature of such exhibitions; they are and ought to be representations of gymnastic accomplishments ; but too often these are crowded out of all proportion by an excess of vocal and instrumental music and shallow dramatic pieces.

Every exhibition requires a careful preparation lest the spectators lose their interest in it; it is exactly the gymnastic pieces that unavoidably absorb the greatest part of the time of preliminary drill ; without special drill success is never certain. A circumspect instructor is apt to avoid a vast evil. He will select his program in conformance to the skill and ability of his men and set about the preparatory work in proper time. But he may never be able to totally avoid the appointment of a number of special gymnastic evening sessions immediately prior to the day set for the exhibition, in which nothing but the program pieces are practiced. And this feature is a sore in the eye of the lover of genuine turning. It is this interruption of the regular course of instruction that calls for critique.

But there is another evil connected with it. Such preparatory evenings take away a considerable fraction of the time that was, by higher authorities, set apart for other purposes. For weeks in succession a special evening has to be set off for this work, sometimes a Sunday evening is added besides, and alongside of these special turning evenings there are special singing evenings and dramatic evenings. Very frequently the members return home late and this is especially the case where after the gymnastic sessions the members sit up together for a couple of minutes for a friendly chat. The consequence is that the masters with whom the young members are apprenticed become dissatisfied. The pater familias, too, is of the opinion that his son of 16 or 17 had better be at home than at the turner hall when the clock strikes 10; he may feel inclined to make the turning society responsible for such irregularity. And the praise that he liberally though unwillingly intunes for the blessings of physical education is rather dearly bought. Contrariwise the parents who wish their sons to devote some of their free evenings to professional self-improvement and will consequently never permit their sons to spend late hours away from their fire-side, will neither permit them to become members of turning societies. You may put me down as one who sees things too black ; but these are words that echo the complaints of parents who made them.

Thus we see that these exhibitions are fraught with evils and drawbacks both for the societies and for the individual members. The regular course of instruction is being interrupted for a greater or lesser length of time ; the members are being preoccupied with preliminaries and the societies lose on one side the affection of parents, while they may possibly gain in affection with the active members.

But with all these attending evils we would not deprive the gymnastic societies of these exhibitions; our intention is merely to see the evils reasonably reduced. And here we propose in the first place to set these exhibitions at greater intervals. It is hardly necessary to have them winter after winter. Should the turning societies deem that they cannot do without them lest thejr fall short of recruits, let them try if by

Digitized by C^ooQle
-92-

annual public opening exercises without any paid admissions, they cannot enthuse some of the young men to become members. Will anybody claim that pure gymnastics without this exhibitory feature cannot preserve the integrity of the gymnastic body at large ?

In the second place let the program not be overloaded. No turner should exert himself beyond his ability nor above his reasonably allotted free time against his own best interests.

In the third place, the dignity of gymnastic education and the attention due to its proper limits require that from the performances, at such exhibitions for the public at large, all and every one of the pieces of the program be excluded which suggest that turning and circus enter-tainments are subserving the same ends.

Arranged from this standpoint we may consent to these winter-entertainments of our turning societies with less reluctance and with more good feeling than we occasionally are constrained to manifest ; if we neglect the above objections or attempt to override them, let us beware that the blessings of physical culture be not jeopardized more than a good will, an exemplary tact and common sense will justify.

PROFESSIONALISM IN COLLEGE ATHLETICS.

By EDWARD LUEHR, M. D.

IN a former paper it was my purpose to set forth the absolute necessity of physical exercise as the only means of preserving unimpaired the vitality and physical strength of the race under the conditions called into being by modern industrial life. My present paper intends to treat of a phase in college athletics that must be deprecated by all friends of true athletics. I refer to the spirit of professionalism which prevades college athletics at the present time. And by the term professionalism in athletics I mean that spirit which regards excellence in athletics as the primary object of a university training, that sentiment which looks upon athletics as the alpha and omega of university life, and which subordinates to an entirely secondary importance what holds in popular opinion the first and foremost place in a university education, namely proficiency in the letters and sciences.

The colleges have recognized the value and necessity of physical training. Well-equipped, well-ventilated, roomy gymnasiums are now the rule at each. Colleges are now no longer content with turning out hollow-chested, pale-cheeked young A. M.'s. The physical man receives attention as well as the intellectual. “Mens sana in corpore sano” has become the accepted educational principle e\erywhere.

But with this growth of athletics has come the growth of the spirit of professionalism, the spirit which dominates the prize ring. Athletics is indulged in not from the primary motive of conserving the physical health and vigor, but with a view of excelling. Athletics is entered into not as a thing good per se, but as a means to attain public notoriety. It has come to such a pass that the primary aim of all institutions for higher education is obscured by the prominence of athletics. The successful foot-ball or base-ball player, the knotty, brawny, sinewy young

A

Digitized by

Google
-93-

man who can put shot the farthest or excels in any field-day exercise, receives greater attention, is made more of than the student who excels in literary or scientific work. The avenue to college distinction lies through excellence in athletics.

But excellence in this field means necessarily a neglect of work in the letters or sciences. Take, for instance, the foot-ball eleven. A match game is to be played. For a week or two the excitement is more or less intense, growing intenser as the day of the. game approaches. The players not alone, but those students also who are easily lead away by enthusiasm and excitement, are good for little in the work demanded in their regular studies. The team is in daily practice. Their minds are in that work and no other. Finally the game takes place. Leaving out of consideration the effects of the disappointment in a defeat, or of the elation in a triumph, it is safe to say that the reaction alone of the sustained strain, through which they have passed, unfits the student for a further week of good work in the class-room. But there is not alone the single games,—each college team is required to make a tour of the league for a series of games. This generally takes a week, during which time they are absent from the class altogether, and during which time class-room work receives no attention whatever. It will be clear, therefore, that athletics in these instances takes more than its legitimate time and receives more than its legitimate amount of attention. The true, in fact the only, legitimate raison d'etre of a college or university, supported by public taxation, is then lost sight of. No public moneys can legitimately be employed to train a few athletes. I say “a few,” because a few only are reached. If the people of Wisconsin knew how thoroughly the professional spirit prevails in athletics at the State University, it may well be doubted whether public moneys would be so readily forthcoming as they have been in support of the great university. What is true of the Wisconsin University is equally true of most other colleges and universities, perhaps even to a greater extent in many.

But this is not all. This spirit of professionalism carries with it a feeling of rivalry between individuals or cliques. Men want to get on the foot-ball or base-ball team. Wire pulling results. It is inevitable* The players finally chosen are not infrequently the result of favoritism and log-rolling, as much as a reward of excellence as a player. Now, I contend that this is all wrong. Any system that is productive of such results is a system not fit to have a place in any college or university training. I believe in athletics. I hold that physical exercises, while in the pursuit of intellectual training, can be neglected only at the risk of an early physical break-down. But exercises for physical well-being, not for success and eclat in athletic sports, should be the guiding principle. Physical exercise under the direction of trained and skilled instructors is what is needed. Those college or university presidents who encourage professionalism are guilty of the same fundamental mistake that those were guilty of who awarded prizes and honors for merit in literary or scientific work. It is well known that competition for a prize, in a few weeks, narrowed down to two or three naturally bright and mentally strong students. The rest became apathetic and indifferent. Thus the offering of a prize stimulated those who needed no such stimulant,

Digitized by

)

Google
while it discouraged and rendered indifferent the majority, whom to spur on it was originally offered. The few who remained to compete lost sight of the true object of their training. They began to look upon the prize as the object to be worked for, not of the good of education in itself. It thus vitiated entirely the student’s ideal of his training.

It is precisely the same in the athletic sports now cultivated at all colleges and universities. Only a few can achieve the distinction and honors heaped upon the successful athlete. These are necessarily the strong and robust, the very ones who stand less in need of physical culture than the ones endowed with a more delicate constitution.

But the evil does not stop here. When the athlete has completed his prescribed four years’ course he receives his diploma as well as the student who has been in the class-room every day. As far as the world is concerned, the student who has distinguished himself at nothing but short-stop or half-back, is indistinguishable, as far as evidence of having obtained a university education is concerned, from the student whose excellence in letters or science is pre-eminent. If athletics is to be continued as at present, a special diploma should be issued to athletes, showing in what they are proficient. As it stands now, a university diploma does not necessarily mean proficiency in anything except athletics.

Athletics is necessary. It may perhaps be better to run it as it is run now, rather than not have it at all. But intelligent criticism should be directed against the abuses of the system, not the system itself. These, it would seem, ought to be capable of being remedied. Colleges and universities must see that, or the people may refuse to pay taxes any longer for a training that benefits only a comparatively few.

Revival of the Olympic Games; Is it Wise?

From “The Medical News,” N. Y.

In spite of the many broktn bones and disfigured faces, to say nothing of the many fatal accidents that have attended the game of foot-ball in recent years, the popularity of athlet c contests seems steadily on the increase. From the simple and healthy competition of class rivalry m * ur colleges, the spirit of emulation spead to intercollegiate games, in which the champiors of the individual colleges met to contend with all the tremendous energy and fury of mortal combat. To this spiut of rivalry has gradually been a ’ded the incentive of international contests of more or less celebrity, such as the Henley regatta and the international athletics. And out of these arose finally the idea of leviving the old Olympic games.

This idea, or.ce conceived, needtd no arguments to bring conviction to the athletic world. It appealed irresistibly to the lovers of many sports. The very name O'ympia brings before the imag nation forms of classic heroes who met their opponents in the arena in honorable, manly contest and carried off the palm of victory amid the plaudits of the assembled thousands. Nor can we resist the con/iction that the ambition thus aroused to gain the coveted prize was the me^ns of bringing the human form divine to its highest development, and that in the ancient Greek we have the ideal perfection of that physical beauty.

i

Digitized by CjOOQle
-95-

The result of the suggestion was that in April last an international contest, known as the Revival of the Olympic Games, was held in the ancient stadium at Athens. Ten of the leading nations of the earth were represented, and we as Americans were justly proud of the fact that the United States carried off more prizes than any other nation. We exulted in the success of our champions, and proclaimed the glories of the Olympic games in- reviving the spirit of chivalry, awakening national pride, and consolidating peace and friendship among nations. We rejoice, too, in the stimulus thus given to athletic sports, and the cultivation of physical prowess and vigor.

This is all very well in its way, but the question arises, What is the effect of all this training and effort on the individual contestant? What does the physiologist say ? Is it true that these benefits are all obtained only by the sacrifice of him who takes the palm ?

“The Hospital,199 in an editorial on the physiologic ccst of a boat-race, suggested by the recent Oxford-Cambridge race, says:

“Speaking as judicially as is possible, a physiologist cannot but express the conviction that every man in the two boats, except, perhajs, the two coxswains, must have been, to some extent, injured. In a definite number of cases, the injuiy is lifelong to individuals; and in every race every man can hardly fail to be more or less of a sufferer for a longer or shorter time. Such is the game, and such is the candle."

These arguments do not apply to all athletic games to the same degree, for in none of them, except perhaps the long-distance run, is the physiological strain kept continuously at the highest possible pitch of tension for so long a time. But the disastrous effects of overtraining and the supreme effort of the contest apply with equal force to all.

Train as systematically, as methodically,.as scientifically, as he may, the supreme moment of the final struggle is, as a rule, too great a strain for the heart or the blood-vessel, and the record-breaker then and there too often puts the seal of a shortened existence upon his life. The records of insurance companies show that a surprisingly large percentage of ihe college athletes—the heavyweights of the football team, the sprinteis in the lace, or the stroke oars of the crews—have a weakened heart or a diseased kidney, or both.

Recognizing, then, the fact that the contest is deleterious to those who take the active part, is it fair to encourage the college athlete to enter the lists and take upon himself these risks? These games are restricted to amateurs, and amateur athletes, in this country at least, are to be found almost exclusively among college students. The amateur is not like the professional, who has no ambition m life beyond his athletic prowess. The contest, to him, is but an incident in his preparatory career. If this training and this experience fitted him the better to meet the demands of his future career, it would certainly be a desirable preparation; but the average college athlete sooner or later enters one of the professions, and has nothing in his daily life to keep his overdeveloped muscular system and his overtaxed heart and kidney in condition. He is less able to meet the ntrvous wear and tear of a sedentary life than his more equally balanced, but less athletic comrade.

From the standpoint of the physiologist, it must be conceded that the college athlete is too young and immature to subject the functions of nerve and muscle and heart to the strain of a contest where so much is at stake as the world’s record, the medal, and the palm of a great international contest ljke the Olympic Games.

[;. ■

Digitized by

Google
THE FOOT TRAVELLER.

rKANZ AST.

3=J—'' * - f ~ff

1/ u u

On foot I

1 On foot I gai - ly take my way, Hur rah, hur-rah, hur • rah! O’er

J-vU—R



moun - tains bare, and meadows gay, Hur-rah, hur-rah, hur-rah I	And

Is - n	m/-

^n=jiy^iM^s£



°	L	L

i/	U

he who is not of my mind,An-oth - er trav -’ling mate may find, He



			PV—1		:p=i=fi=ffl=F=p=^=(
		i		J • r--1-	

, can - not go with me. He can - not go with me, Hur-rah, hur-

E,m=>d^i

^__

j=--



|-6* * 1	K—T'	M  >T U ! 1 K J	=3=	, -3 > I j—#=	
pg f ■ -i r-f i-l  rah, tral la la la	-I  la	Hur-rah, Hur-rah, Tral	la la la
R f f	f	f £	r .?
zZ# . r. r ' * 'V-			

		X	! J' ! f» i n „ » .  ^	if -*=	*——R-A 4~=-^-n	
	X r-~	-*—*—0 • -#—* 0 j-R—i~rr  Sr—p r^Sr p—r—^	-i-J-lp.. _ .!-U
la,	hur • rah	hur - rah, hur-rah, hurrah! Tra la	la la la.
	hurrah, hurrah,		
Tr*-			££ r- „  p ■ 0 “1	 •; V H
	_r i	j	... ^ a: 	¥A\—	

Digitized by

Google
-97-

2	No snail-paced friend I want, not I,

Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah !

At every step to pause and sigh, Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah !

No gloomy man to scowl and groan, And over others’ sins make moan,

I’d rather trudge alone,

I’d rather trudge alone.

3	Foot travel to the gay is sweet,

Hurrah, hurrali, hurrah !

But heavy hearts make heavy feet, Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah !

The man who loves the sunshine bright, And never peeps behind for night, That is the man for me.

That is the man for me.

Translated from the German.

48T REMARK. We present this indeed lovely song for the purpose of seeing it used not only for marching but also for roundel purposes.

SUMMER COURSE OF 1896, N. A. G. U.

On Friday, July 17, the students of the Summer Course of the North American Gymnastic Union, at Milwaukee, assembled at the Normal School of Gymnastics to form a permanent organization under the above title. Its aim is social and intellectual intercourse. For temporary speaker was elected Anton Leibold and for temporary secretary A. Oppenheimer. The election of permanent officers took place on Monday, July 21 as follows: First Speaker, Dr. Bois; Second Speaker, Anton Leibold ; Recording Secretary Adolf Oppenheimer; Corr. Secretary, Miss Bella R. Quisenberrv ; Treasurer, S. Whittington.

The meetings are to be held twice each week, Tuesdays and Fridays. “Mind and Body” was chosen the organ of the new organization and all of the professors of the faculty were elected honorary members.

MIND f AND I BODY.

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

‘Wlacoaa.alaa—

Subscription Price, 5	*	$1.00 per Year-

43” Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee,. Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class-Matter.

ANNOUNCEMENT!

Notice is hereby given that Mr. Hans Ballin has retired from the editorship of “Mind and Body”. We are indebted to him and hereby express our thanks for his faithful editorial work and for his energetic agitation. His successor as editor is Dr. F. Pfister of Milwaukee, formerly and for years a practical teacher of gymnastics. He will occupy his position with the next issue of this magazine.

‘ The Publishers.

REMARKS AND COMMENTS.

As Mr. Hans Ballin has resigned as editor of “Mind and Body,,r Mr. F. W. Dodel had charge of the editorial work of this issue (July number).

The Summer Course for Physical Training, which was opened at the Normal School of Gymnastics at Milwaukee, Wis., June 29, is attended by twenty-eight ladies and gentlemen from all parts of the Union, an increase of seven compared with the attendance of last year. The object of the North American Turnerbund, under whose auspices the school is being conducted, is to pave the way for the



Digitized by kjOOQle
-98-

general introduction of German gymnastics and the enterprise was not originated for sake of profit ; on the contrary, in involves a large •expense, with which the treasury is burdened.

Although the course is short, the scope of instruction extends over the whole field of auxiliary studies required for the education of competent teachers of gymnastics. The students go through a full course of ■exercises under the direction of Geo. Wittich of St. Louis, embracing tactics, free gymnastics, exercises with and on apparatus, field sports and games. After each class instruction, the students are required to note the exercises gone through with and enlarge upon them in the form of an essay which may serve them as a manual in the future. Ferd. Froehlich gives instruction in Fencing, Wrestling and Boxing, and Prof. George Heintz, Sr., instruction in Fencing. Lectures are delivered by Director Emil Dapprich, on Anatomy and Physiologj' ; by Dr. Franz Pfister, on Orthopedic Gymnastics and Massage, Anthropometry ; by Prof. Hans Ballin of Car-bondale, on History of Gymnastics; by Dr. Carl Zapp of Cleveland, on Systems and Methods of Gymnastics, Applied Physiolog\T and Hygiene; by Dr. Carl Krohn of Champaign, 111., on Psychology.

Instruction in Gymnastics is given in the forenoon, and is witnessed by a number of ladies and gentlemen, the gallery being reserved for spectators. The class is composed of ladies and gentlemen, the majority being teachers in public schools or institutions, which shows a growing interest in German gymnastics among the educators in this country, a fact upon which the North American Turnerbund can be congratulated. The names of those

attending the summer course are : Dr. H. B. Boice, director of Normal School,. Trenton, N. J.; N. Whittington, teacher of mathematics, Normal School, Carbondale, 111.; Mr. Crippen, teacher, Institute for the Blind, Jacksonville, 111.; B. Riemer, teacher, Carlstadt, N. J.; K. Hack-erich, gymnastic teacher, Minneapolis, Minn.; Adolph Oppenheimer, director of Normal School, Moline, 111.; A. Leibold, director of gymnastics, Columbus, 0.; A. Heibel, director of physical training, Peoria, 111.; W. Mauthe, director of physical training, Danville, 111.; R. Krohn, gymnastic teacher, Portland, Ore.;

E.	Beck, teacher of Caledonia Athletic Club, Philadelphia ; G. Steffen, director of physical training of Chicago Public Schools; M. Ruches, teacher of Columbia Turner Societ}r, Philadelphia ; F. Finkeldey, teacher of gymnastics, Camden, N. J.; F. W. Burkhardt, teacher ot gymnastics of Young Men’s Christian Association, Buffalo, N. Y., and the Messrs. Stuehrk, Tell City, Ind.; Wimers of Chattanooga, Tenn.; Rauschenbach of Paterson, N. J.,

0.	Mauthe of Milwaukee, Wis.

The ladies, besides a young lady attending the course solely for the promotion of her health, are Miss Belle R. Hughes, director of physical training of the Young Women’s Christian Association, Des Moines, la.; Miss J. Evans, teacher of gymnastics, Normal School of West Superior, Wis.; Miss Quisenberry, teacher of elocution, Trinidad, Colo.; Miss D. Roberts, assistant gymnastic teacher, St. Louis, Mo.; Miss A. Witter, teacher of physical training, St. Louis ; Miss M. Witter, teacher, St. Louis ; Miss E. Condit, teacher, Columbus, 0., and Mrs. H. Osterheld, Indianapolis, Ind.

The condensed report of the 17th

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-99-

Convention of the North American Gymnastic Union at Louisville, Kj., part of which is contained in this issue, will be of some interest to those of our readers who are not members. The platform and fundamental resolutions, in which the aspirations and polity of the Gymnastic Union are embodied, are naturally interesting documents by themselves, and can be ordered from the “Freidenker Publishing Co.” at 10 cts. a copy. They represent the body spiritual of this Union and advance or remain stationarjr all along with the spirit of the time. If the advocates of woman suffrage try once more or twice, nobody need be surprised at a different result. Conservatism will give way to progress, whenever progressive ideas are demonstrably just and practical; and we have no doubt that many fears entertained this year by some delegates and most of the arguments brought forth shall have vanished by the time when the next convention will take place.

What characterizes this Convention as a truly representative assembly of the turners is the spontaneous expression of their convictions, fearless and unmindful of what the world will say of them. There is no speculative ring of Providence-moulders, who by cabal and barter, which we are wont to witness in other legislative bodies, councils and political conventions, impose on their constituents a cut and dried platform. Let ever so many delegates be conservative and look backward instead of forward, there is that in them, which calls forth our undiminished respect and admiration — true manhood and fidelity to their convictions. Vivat, floreat, crescat !

The National Educational Association held their annual meeting this year at Buffalo, N. Y., from July 7th to 11th. The Department of Physical Education, whose officers were: President, R. Anna Morris, Cleveland, 0.; Vice-President, Ed. F. Herrmanns, Denver, Colo., and Secretary, Nettie D. Kimberlain, Detroit, Mich., had arranged the following program:

WEDNESDAY, July 8th, 3 o’clock P. M.

Clas£ Exeicises in Swedish Gymnastics. Directed by Miss Adella F. Fay, Supervisor of Physical Training, Buffalo, N. Y.—President’s Address, by R. Anna Morris, Supervisor of Physical Training, Cleveland, O.—“The Life of Man in every Part has Need of Harmony and Rhythm. By Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler, Columbia University, New York City—Physical Deterioration Resulting from School Life. Cause. Remedy. By Dr. J. H. Kellogg, Battle Creek, Mich. — Discussion. By Dr. W. G. Anderson, Yale University.—General Discussion.	Physical Training as a

Factor in Character Building. By James L. Hughes, Inspector of Schools, Toronto, Ont.—Discussion. By Buel T. Davis, Supt. of Schools, Winona, Minn.— General Discussion.—Business.	Appointment of

Committees.

THURSDAY, July 9., 3 o’clock P. M.

Class Exercises in eclectic Gymnastics. Directed by Miss Annie M. Somerville, High School, Buffalo N. Y. —Educational Value of Body Culture. By Dr. G. Stanley Hall, Clark University, Worcester, Mass.— Should we have Military Training in the Schools? By Dr. D. A. Sargent, Hemenway Gymnasium, Harvard College, Cambridge, Mass.—Discussion.	By Mrs.

Frances W. Leiter, Supt. Physical Culture Department W. G. T. U., Mansfield, O.—General Discussion. Led by J. N. Wilkinson, State Normal School, Emporia, Kas.—The Nervous Force of the Teacher. By Dr. Mara L. Pratt, Medical Director, Durant Gymnasium, Boston, Mass.—Business. Reports of Committees. Election of Officers.

The number of Summer Schools for Physical Training is, according to “The Gymnasium,” on the decrease rather than on the increase. Only the most proficient of them having vitality enough in them to attract a sufficient number of students. The following schools may be enumerated as having come off victorious in the survival of the fittest:

1.	The Harvard University Physical Department, Friday July 3d— Saturday August 8th. Fees: Full course $50.00; Theory only $25. Apply to Director Dr. D. A. Sargent, Cambridge, Mass.

Digitized by kjOOQle
—100—

2.	The Chautauqua School of Physical Education, July 13 to Aug. 22d. Fees : Junior Normal Course $30: Senior $40; Theory alone $15; Practice $20. Apply to Dr. Jay W. Seaver, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.

3.	The Summer School of Physical Training under the Auspices of the North American Gymnastic Union, in Milwaukee, Wis., June 29th to Aug. 8th. The only summer-school in the West. Fees: Regular Course $25. Full Special Course $30; Separate Branches: Fencing $15; Wrestling $10; Boxing $10; Swimming $10. Apply to Wm. A. Steeher, 3d & Chestnut St., St. Louis, Mo.

4.	The Vanderbilt University Sum-

mer-School for Higher Physical Culture, July 6th to Aug. 17th at Monteagle, Tenn. Fees:	Normal

Course:	$30; Men’s Class $5;

Women’s Class $5; Boys $2 to $3. Apply to Jas. T. Gwathmev, M. D. Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tenn.

5.	The Silver Lake School of Physical Training, Wyoming Co., N. Y., held in Connection with the Silber Lake Assembly and Summer University at Silver Lake. July 21st to Aug. 17th. Fees: For all Classes $15. Floor Work only $10. Apply to Prof. B. B. Brown, Silver Lake Assembly, N. Y.

6.	The Martha's Vineyard Summer-School, Mass. July 13th to Aug. 14th. Fee: $15. Apply to Miss Hope W. Narey or Dr. Mara L. Pratt, Directors of Durant Gymnasium, Boston.

7.	Chicago and Cook Co. Summer-School, at Englewood, 111. July 13th to Aug. 3rd. Apply to K. Kroh, Cook Co. Normal School, Station “0”, Chicago, 111.

7.	The Y. M. C. A. Western Secre-torial Institute, holds a Summer-School lor Physical Directors at

Lake Geneva, Wis., from July 15th to August 15th and a Physical Directors’ Conference from July 15th to 25th. Apply to Mr. John W. Hansel, 709 Association Building, Chicago.

9. The American Institute of Normal Methods (Swedish Gymnastics) at Brown University, Providence, R. J. Apply to A. A. Silver, Jr., 110—112 Boylston Str., Boston.

Murder by Measles.—Measles is one of the most contagious of children diseases. Few escape having an attack in early life. Few mothers take any care to keep their children from exposure. Some go so far as to expose them purposely, so they may not have the disease in advanced life, when the danger is greater. A medical writer in the London Lancet thinks the same care should be taken to guard children against measles as against scarlatina, and diphtheria, etc. The death rate is not so large, of course, but many die, and others receive injury to the eyes and bronchial tract which may continue a long time and do much harm. He calls it murder by measles when health authorities do not close the schools during an epidemic as they do for other contagious diseases, and also when parents do not take equal care and caution* to guard their children from unnecessary exposure.

Lombroso, in a lecture before the teachers of Turin, expressed his conviction that the systematic study of the characteristics of school children, physical and mental, would bring about a genuine revolution in the prophylaxis of crime. He pointed out that the inclinations of the child are almost the same as of the adult rascal, but usually disappear

Digitized by <^.ooQle
-101-

:as age advances. In some instances, however, these characteristics are conspicuous and continue to be more prominent, in which case there .are associated physical peculiarities; .and it is in th€ detection and pointing out of these possible criminals of the future that Lombroso thinks the teacher can do so much truly useful work.

From the Twentieth Year Book of the New York State Reformatory at Elmira for 1895, the receipt of which we hereby acknowledge, we learn that during the year the gymnasium has been more closely associated with the general workings of the Reformatory and its various departments than in the past. “In .addition to being an adjunct to the hospital, co-operating in the work of the various schools of letters and trades, a place of renovation and betterment of those who become shopworn, or in whom exist temporary contra-indications for employment in the several industries carried on, it has included in its operation all new men during the time past in the awkward squad. The increased beneficial results accruing to the men from exercise in the open air and sunlight, together with diversory features, was most gratifying and suggestive of increased employment the coming year.” The year-book contains a number of excellent illustrations in half tone of wand-drill and pole exercises, executed by the convicts, and of tables of anthropometric measurements. “There has been some criticism in the past as to a gymnasium having a place in the working of a penal institution ; and in view of comment arising from what has been said relative to outdoor games, it should be said the gymnasium and athletics are em-

ployed in the case of certain physically and mentally defective ones— not for purposes of amusement and diversion, per se, though incidentally they may act as such, but rather as a means in the development of increased susceptibility to the educational work of the Reformatory, mental, moral and spiritual, through which is sought to establish a habit of industry and right-living in the free world. The fact is thoroughly appreciated that gymnasium work and out-door games will not alone operate to correct vicious practices and criminal acts that have extended through a series of years, but are simply a part of the means employed in the reformative plan of treatment to confer stability of purpose and aim and secure accomplishment upon a higher plane than obtained prior to sentence to the Reformatory.” In our opinion the authorities of the Elmira Reformatory act not only in the right direction, but in the only direction that promises success, and it is gratifying to learn that physical culture is being made now as important a part of their reformatory treatment as is mental.

The proposition originating in the Central Committee for Popular and Juvenile Sport in Germany to institute a National Festival for German Athletics and Sport which is to recur every 3—5 years and whose permanent location shall be at Leipzig, Saxony, is meeting with a determined opposition on the part of the German gymnastic brotherhood. We think, they are in the right. Gymnastics has an educational importance for the whole nation, which is of unspeakably more ethical value than all the various kinds of athletics and sport taken together can ever possibly



Digitized by tjOOQle
-102-

have. The latter are for the few, they are the caviar for the select ; gymnastics is for the people at large, it is the home roasted sirloin for the masses. There is no possibility that the proposed festivals arranged under the guidance and direction of athletes would ever benefit as much either the German gymnasts or those that are devoted to sport, as do the present gymnastic tournaments. Gymnastics sunk its roots into the hearts of the people and therefrom it derives its vitality ; it is nursed with the sentiments of patriotism and a kind of religio-political devotion ; sport and athletics are the products of differentiated and too often degenerated emulation ; their excrescences are obtrusive and accompanied with many evils. They live on the applause and praise of the few biases whose interest is antagonistic to that of the masses. Sport and athletics are aristocratic, gymnastics is democratic ; the former may be preferred by the nobility and the wealthy, the latter is favored by the masses and workers.

The great success, which the Olympian Games at Athens are held to have been, induced the Committee of Arrangement to continue these festivities at Athens at intervals of four years. It had been formerly resolved to hold the Olympian Games every fourth year in a different European city. The new resolution is intended to shorten the intervals to two years, i. e., every fourth year in Athens as in 1898, 1902, etc., and at the intervening even years 1900, 1904, etc., in different western cities.

Up to date about 500 teachers in the elementary schools of the United Kingdom have entered for and suc-

ceeded in obtaining the new diploma recently issued by the British College of Physical Education. The candidates are expected to pass both in theory and practice, and an idea of the questions asked will be gathered from the following, these being the questions given at a recent examination :

1.	Describe the phenomenon of breathing..

2.	What part ofl food stuffs is taken up during physical exercise ?

3.	Describe the advantages and disadvantages of the use of music with physical exercises.

4.	Describe some of the advantages of physical exercises for girls.

The standard of work in many elementary schools has, by means of these diplomas, been raised considerably. Hitherto, in most schools, the work has been of the trashy* rubbishing order, but as the candidates coming up for the diploma must work on some recognized system there are already signs of a decided change for the better.

The Bicycle and What It Is Doing. —The little two wheeled insignificant looking bicycle seems to be changing the habits of many people far more easily and quickly than any preaching, or moral instruction has been able to do. The doctor in the past has found it difficult to get his patients to exercise enough or rightly. He has said to them over and over again that “the wise for cure on exercise depend,” but they have answered with a cry for more pills and powders. The little wheel comes along and men and maidens take to it as the duck takes to-water and thus the need for pills and powders grow less and less, and the doctor suffers in purse.

The anti-tobacco reformer tells his young friends not to smoke.

Digitized by v^-ooQLe
-103-

that it is a filthy habit, but they go on smoking all the same, until they get a wheel. Then, except in rare cases, he does not want to smoke, and the result is, in 1895 something like 70,000,000 cigars less were made than the previous year. The wheel did much to diminish the demand.

The temperance reformer tells the young to abstain. He, paints in glowing language the evils of drink but few hear his voice. Fortunately, however, a devotee of the wheel cannot ride either in safety or well it he uses intoxicating liquors, and so he goes without his beer and wine. The wheel was the cause.

Mrs. Bloomer tried in vain to induce women to abandon corsets and wear a short dress, to save her from many ills. She got few followers. The wheel makes dress reform a necessity. All praise then to the wheel, for the good which it has done and is likely to do.

It may be claimed that its use does harm in many ways, it hurts the watch trade, says the jeweler ; it is ruining the theatres, say the . managers ; it keeps young men and women from churches and Sunday school, says the preacher ; some men go so far as to say men will buy a wheel and let an honest debt go unpaid ; may be so, this should not be.

“And then, too, accidents happen, riders of both sexes overdo and harm themselves.” All very true, but in time we shall adapt ourselves to its use and then the harm will be reduced to a minimum. The doctor will find other work which will renumerate him, the parson will reach the young in different and perhaps better ways, the watchmaker will make bicycles and the jeweler sell them, and all will go well again, until something comes

along more attractive than any bicycle.—A flying machine perhaps* and then there will have to be a new adjustment and so on as long as life lasts and progress continues.

The bicycle having proved faithful in a few things claimed for it at the start, has now been recognized as a municipal and social ruler over many things. It has lifted the companionship of the sexes from the unhealthy plane of sofa flirtation and moonlight toyings, rapt contemplations and inane gossipings, stuffing-parties, card and ballroom dissipations, etc., up to something better, which really enlists the mutual and independent activities of both body and soul.

Some of the coveted and preferred gallantry, so-called, of the past* has been shown to be a rather uncomplimentary reminder of supposed weak bodies and minds.

The wheel woman is not likely to prefer the attentions of a lisping dude or a small-talk specialist, or even of a physically undeveloped man. True manliness is at a premium now.

How the wheel is exposing the “immodesties” which are “conventional” in swell society, and assisting the true modesties which are suppressed under a false and unintelligent standard of social etiquette !

If you want any book on physical training, write to the publishers of “Mind and Body,” and if possible they will furnish it for you.

■flmeriliamrdjer „£urner«3{afenl)et“.

PRICE: 25 CENTS.

FRE1DENKER PUBLISHING C(J.y 468 East Water St.,

Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by C.ooQle

r
-104-

ATHLETICS * AND * SPORTS.

J. S. Johnson, on the Bordeaux track succeeded in creating a European record for cycling, his time for the flying mile being 1 Min. 46 4-5 sec. At Catford, England, Simpson and Plain turned out lor a 50 mile Cycle Chain Match, a great concourse of spectators being present. Simpson covered the 50 mile3 in the world’s record time of 1 hour 42 min. 42 1-5 sec.

This has been the month of most of the Circuit Tournaments of the North American Gymnastic Union. No doubt many of our readers, intentionally or accidentally, have been witnesses of the •work accomplished in one or the other section of this country as well as of the enthusiastic love manifested in the population at large for physical education We hope to see the time, when every school m this republic devotes part of( the daily school hours to this most efficient of national blessings, which educators as well as philosophers are appreciating more and more.

That Cycling has been making extraordinary progress in France of late is a matter on which no doubt can be entertained. When the tax on velocipedes was started three years ago their number was estimated at 120,000. Last year that total was exactly doubled, so when the estimates for 1896 were drawn up officials deemed themselves justified in the calculation that they might reckon an additional 40,000, making a total of 288,000. It now transpires that even in their sanguine hope the authorities were considerably short of the* mark, as the grand total this year will attain the figure of 322,000 machines, or 202,000 more than were taxed when the measure was adopted in 1893. The tax per annum amounts to 10 frcs ($2.00).

A big demonstration of the best methods of saving life, and resuscitation of the apparently drowned, was given in the West India Docks, London, on June 27., in the presence of some 10,000 people, by the Life-Saving Society. Thirteen teams took part in the display, including several from Metropolitan schools, while one was sent from the girls’ section of the Coburg-Road School, Miss Edith S. Willey taking charge of the team. Included in the programme were the half mile amateur swimming

championship of England, and the national diving competition, both of which proved extremely interesting. A grand display of somersault diving was also given by Mr. 0. Hagborg, M. A., of Upsala University, whose marvellous feats from the high board, nearly 50 feet above the water, were loudly applauded.

The bicycle glare is a fixed, glassy, goggle-eyed stare, which was admirably illustrated in a recent number of “Punch”, and it is said to arise from the gaze being concentrated straight ahead to look out for such dangers as a stray brickbat, a flock of sheep, or that supreme terror of the gentle cyclist, the harmless domestic cow. The bicycle hand is chiefly notable for its size, its beauty having disappeared before the blighting contact of the cycle handles. According to a contemporary, “the roots of the fingers get spread out, and the knuckles where the fingers join the hands become portentously enlarged while the flesh of the palm opposite the thumb gets flattened, with the result that the hand is broadened and squared.” If this state of things continues, our young ladies will soon vie with the village blacksmith in being the roud possessors of “large and sinewy-ands,” and we shall sigh in vain for the touch of the vanished hand. In fact now that ladies are becoming au fait in the use of spanners and kindred instruments, the hand is much more likely to be a varnished one.

Cycling is not the only sport that boasts its special ailment, there is the Indian Club shoulder, the elbow that owes its idiopathy to an excess of golf or tennis, and also that latest horror, the football rash. But, being of a merciful disposition, we will not further harrow the feelings of the long-suffering reader.

The new cup of the English Football Association has been won by Sheffield Wednesday, who beat Wolverhampton Wanderers by 2 goals to 1. It is estimated that 55,000 people witnessed the match, which took place in the grounds of the Crystal Palace, London. A curious incident happened in connection with the late cup. Aston Villa, who were the holders, lent the cup to an enterprising jeweler in Birmingham for exhibition in his window. But one morning, when the shop was opened, the cup was non est, and has not been heard of since.

Digitized by taOOQle