MIND AND BODY

Vol. 15.	DECEMBER,	1908.	No.	174

Editorial Committee :

WILLI AM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Cincinnati, O.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa„

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 120 Pomona St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wi*

CHRONOLOGIC AND ANATOMIC AGE IN EARLY LIFE*

Bv Thomas Morgan Rotch, M.D., Boston.

Up to the present time the age of an individual has been computed by years. This rule will probably always hold good in all civilized communities from a legal point of view. When, however, the question of age is brought to bear on our school systems, whether in classifying and grading children as to tfyeir studies, or in pitting them against each other in athletic sports, it becomes a very serious question as to whether chronologic age is a wise division during the formative period of early life. Again, when the important question of child labor is brought before us, and we have to determine at what age a child should be allowed to work, and what the- degree of that work should be according to the chronologic age, the decision becomes momentous and we can at once see that a chronologic division for this purpose is not only insufficient, but clearly pernicious. It behooves us then to look at the question of age in early life, first, from a chronologic point of view manifestly legal; second, as regards athletics, manifestly anatomic; third, educational as regards school grades, manifestly physiologic, and anatomic; fourth, child labor, manifestly a combination of chronologic, physiologic and anatomic conditions.

Legal chronologic age does not enter into this discussion.

Anatomic age must be carefully studied before school grades and child-labor can be dealt with intelligently. From a medical point of view the physiologic and anatomic conditions can for the present be considered as one, since at this point of the discussion we can consider the normal physiologic development of the various functions as correspond-1

—* Read in the Section on Diseases of children of the Americad Medical Association, at the Fifty-ninth Annual Session, held at Chicago, June, 1908, The article is here abbreviated by the omission of part of the text and eleven of the illustrations. The complete article appears in the Transactions of the Sections and in author’s reprints*

Digitized by L^ooQle
-282-

ing to and keeping pace with the normal anatomic development. I wish it to be understood, however, that this supposition is merely preliminary to some work which I expect to carry out later on this subject, namely, whether it is true that deductions made from a physiologic standpoint can be properly used when compared with anatomic conditions.

Having determined what the anatomic growth is at different stages of development during the growing period, we can then apply this knowledge to the broad questions of education and of child labor.

The question at once presents itself as to the best method for determining the normal anatomic development from birth to perhaps fourteen years, and expressing it in as small intervening periods as is possible and practical by means of our present anatomic knowledge. This anatomic knowledge, however, should represent the different stages of living anatom}', rather than depend on the results obtained from studying dead anatomic conditions. As our knowledge advances the anatomic intervals will become shorter and shorter. There is no doubt that, in accordance with a somewhat extended study which I have made on the subject during the last two years, I have acquired sufficiently reliable data to make a much closer estimation of age from an anatomic point of view than could possibly be acquired from a chronologic. I believe that in the future we shall .determine age, whether for gymnastics, athletic sports, kindergarten, school or child-labor, by means of anatomic conditions rather than by chronologic periods.

As an instance of the unreliability of chronologic age can be cited the term “puberty,” a physiologic condition which is supposed to occur at a certain chronologic age. According to Crampton’s admirable work on this subject, the age at which puberty in a group of children of the same chronologic age and of either sex is attained as expressed by years is fallacious, and indeed practically so variable as to amount to nothing.

Groups of boys of the same age and in the same grade in school, their grades being determined by their years of age, were found to vary perhaps by a year or a year and a half, not only in their height, weight, strength, and in the eruption of their permanent cuspids and second molars, but also in their being bright, moderately bright or dull.

With these results of Crampton before us it is manifestly absurd to place children of the same chronologic age necessarily in the same grade at school and therefore some more practical classification should be sought for if children are to be intelligently dealt with during their-senool years.

In the study regarding the eruption of the teeth in about one thousand elementary-school boys from ten to fifteen years of age it was found that the appearance of the teeth had but a slight relation to the actual chronologic age.

If an anatomic classification can be made it will make no difference in its practical application whether the individual child is healthy or unhealthy, normal or abnormal, is of one race or another, or of one physical parentage or another, except so far as boys and girls can be

Digitized by
-283-

separated normally in their anatomic development. That is, with such an anatomic classification we can practically work out our problems of child life, irrespective of whether the individuals are boys or girls and whether the girls menstruate early or late. This anatomic classification also is clearly valuable for the purpose of adapting children from birtli to adolescence to their proper healthy surroundings and to a life suited to their individual strength and capacity. In order to study this question, namely, how to determine the normal conditions of young human beings from birth to thirteen of fourteen years of age, certain preliminary investigations are necessary.

With this end in view I have had about two hundred children, who, according to our previous ideas, should be considered normal in the different years of life, examined carefully.

It was noted whether the child was bright or dull mentally, its

Fig. 3.—Hand representing Group C in which three of the carpal bones and the radius have appeared. This hand, and also nhe one representing Group B shows the epiphysis of the metacarpal bones and of the first phalanges very plainly’
— '84-

general condition as to looks, its various functions, its appetite, and what diseases, if any, it had previous to the time of the examination. Its age was noted; at what time it sat and stood alone; a record of its weight and height was made; if a girl, whether the menses had appeared, at what age, at what intervals and with what regularity; also at what age the mammae began to develop and their present condition. The circumference of the head was noted, and also any information which could be obtained as to the closure of the fontanelles, and at what time the first dentition began, whether the temporary teeth had appeared at regular intervals, when the second dentition began, and whether it was being carried on regularly. A Roentgenograph was then taken of the carpal bones and the child was classified and placed in the division to which the bones of its wrist corresponded. Roentgenographs were taken only of children who were shown by examination to be presumably normal in their development.

In order to classify the different periods of early life on an anatomic basis which will be of practical use in gymnastics, athletics and in school and for questions relating to child l$bor, it is evident that some reliable anatomic standard, chosen to represent the entire physical development, should be found. It is also important that such an anatomic standard should be feadily obtained and should be determined in the living child with the least degree of complexity and in the most simple form possible. In the study of about five hundred healthy children at the Children’s Hospital by means of the Roentgen method, our Roentgenologist, I)r. A. W. George, found that the most practical and reliable index of development was represented by the hand and wrist. It is true that various changes which progressively take place in the development of the shoulder, elbow, knee and ankle are perhaps somewhat finer than those of the wrist, but for the purpose of obtaining a practical and rapid knowledge of the progressive normal changes occuring at different periods of child life they do not compare with what can be accurately acquired in a few minutes from the wrist and hand. It has therefore occured to me that a careful study of the normal and anatomic conditions- present in the bones of the hand and wrist during different stages of their development would best aid in classifying the different periods of child life, and having formulated such a classification we could then practically apply it to the many physical and educational problems that confront us.

In making this classification it must be understood that I am no: dealing with stages of development as represented by years, but that^ my divisions are placed under letters; that is, having taken perhaps ten or twelve children of each age chronologically I have then placed them under their respective stages of anatomic development as shown by the wrist, designating these stages by A, B, C, D, and so forth. I have then used these different stages for purposes of grading for kindergarten, for school, for athletics and for child labor.

In making up these alphabetical groups I have arbitrarily assumed
— 285—

that the carpal bones and the lower epiphyses of the radius and ulna, according as they develop early or late, can represent each alphabetical division. I have-also assumed that none of these bones are normally present at birth. Also assuming that the os magnum and unciform bones appear in the first year, I have placed this group of cases under A. Under B, I have grouped those hands which show the presence of the lower epiphysis of the radius in addition to the bones present in Group A; under C those which show the presence of the cuneiform bone, in addition to those in common with A and B. The heads of the metacarpal bones and the epiphyses of the first phalanges at this period can be used as controls of this Group C. Still under these arbi-

Fig. 5.—Hand representing Group E; shows five of the carpal bones, in addition to the epiphysis of the radius. The fifth bone as it appears is still quite small and is possibly somewhat smaller than what an absolute normal stage of development would show, and it is a question whether we are dealing with the scaphoid or trapezium. The reproduction is about 5|6 actual size.

Digitized by
—2S« -

trary divisions I have continued to place groups which successively show the presence of the semilunar and trapezium bones, with the second and fourth terminal phalanges as controls of this group and have then introduced as additional groups those which show the scaphoid, the trapezoid, the lower epiphyses of the ulna and the pisiform bones. These primary divisions are shown in Table 1. This table can be used as a key by which we can determine under which alphabetical division an especial case should be placed. It is fortunate that the carpal bones and the lower epiphyses of the radius and ulna furnish a'progressive series of anatomic developments year by year, so that only in unusual cases will it be necessary to refer to the other epiphyses of the skeleton for corroboration.

In persuing this investigation I have allowed for what appeared to be marked variations from the normal development and have made my divisions irrespective of these deviations by grouping those cases together which are manifestly in about the same stage of development in the large majority of cases. The divisions which I have made may subsequently have to be changed as further investigations are carried out in this line of study. In order, however, to formulate and start what I believe in the future will be found to be of great aid to us in dealing with .the early years of life, both anatomic and physiologic, it is necessary to begin by arbitrarily suggesting these groups of classification as they appeared to my eye to show uniformity. Some rather interesting observations in this connection have already come under my notice. For instance, a hand may be long or short, broad or narrow, and yet the Roentgenographs will show that they may have the same degree of anatomic development, showing also that they should be classed together in one group, and that in making up this group we can not be guided, except in a limited degree, by the external appearance of the hands.

I have also noted in my study of these two hundred cases that a large hand, with large bones, as shown by the Roentgen picture, does not necessarily imply advanced development, for the development of these large bones need not necessarily be great. I have noted also that the normal appearances shown in Roentgenographs of the hands of boys and girls do not materially differ. Also to be noted is that the left hand does not show any material difference in development from that of the right hand; also that in all probability it will be found that many of the statements which have been made in the past in the different anatomies, and which are the results of investigations on dead anatomic subjects will be proved eventually to #be incorrect when subjected to the more exact observations which can be carried out on the living subject.

Notably one of these discrepancies is that while in a number of anatomies, both English, French and German, the lower epiphysis of the ulna has been placed as early as two and one-half years, three years, four years and five years, yet the appearance of this epiphysis in my
-287-

Table 1.—Development of Carpal Bones and Lower Epithyses of Radius

and Ulna.*

Fig. Age in y

1.	Girl....... Va

2.	Girl.....

3.	Girl....... 2%

4.	Boy........ WA

5.	Girl...... 3y2

6.	Girl.... oi/2

7.	Girl..... 6i/6

8.	Girl..... 6

9.	Girl..... 63/4

10.	Girl..... 81/4

11.	Girl........HU

12. Girl.........12%

13. Boy........131/2

ears.	A.

Os Magnum, unciform.

B.

Os Magnum, unciform, lower epiptnsis of radius.

C.

Os magnum, unciform, radius, cuneiform.

D.

Os magnum, unciform, radius, cuneiform, semilunar.

E.

Os magnum, unciform, radius, cuneiform, semilunar, trapezium or scaphoid.

F.

Os magnum, unciform, radius, cuneiform, semilunar, trapezium, scaphoid.

G.

Os magnum, unciform, radius, cuneiform, semilunar, trapezium, scaphoid, trapezoid.

H.

Os magnum, unciform, radius, cuneiform, semilunar, trapezoid, lower epiphysis of nlna.

X.

Same as Group H as to number of bones, but much more advanced in developmeni.

J*

Same as Group 1 but more advanced in development.

K.

Same as Group J, but pisiform bone appears just under the cuneiform, and all the carpal bones and epiphyses are much more massed and further advanced in development.

L.

Same as Group K, but much more advanced in development; pisiform bone appears plainly at lower end of cuneiform.

M.

Very much more advanced in development than L and the pisiform bone almost as large as the cuneiform. All the bones of the wrist are much more developed than in any previous group.

two hundred cases was found to be very rare before the sixth year, and that it usually began to appear in my Group H, in which children were from six to seven years old. It is also to be noted that while the development of the pisiform bone has been found to occur normally as early as the tenth year, and according to Porier the eighth year, yet in none of my cases have I found it before the twelfth year, except in one case in which it occured as an anomalous variation in the eighth year. I have also noted that the appearance and development of the heads of the metacarpal bones are not especially satisfactory so far as classification is concerned, and should therefore be used more as controls in cases in which the development of the wrist is not sufficiently conclusive.	\

* Only three of the thirteen illustrations corresponding to the thirteen stages of growth here indicated, are shown. But these are clear enough to show the great changes.

Digitized by Google
ln order to represent practically this classification we should have pictures which represent the development of the special group before us, and using these for comparison determine an individual child’s anatomic age. I have prepared these pictures, choosing them as representative of their especial group. If this system of grading children proves to be correct and useful, it is very evident that, except legally, we should no longer think in years and months, but in normal anatomic classes, A, B, C, D, and so forth. We should also remember that all our physiologic knowledge should be brought to bear on this subject, using it in conjunction with our anatomic knowledge and as a control on our anatomic; also that in doubtful cases the development of other

Fig. 10.—Hand representing Group J: shows a still further development as to size and massing together than is shown in Gronp I.
-280-

parts of the skeleton, such as the shoulder, elbow, hip, ankle and foot, should be used as c6ntrols. We might indeed say that it is the sum total of all our physiologic knowledge, plus our knowledge of the development of the entire skeleton and the different organs, which tell us how to solve the many problems of ekrly life.

These groups, of course, d’epend on my ^individual observation of such cases as have been shown to represent the majority of normal conditions rather than variations.

All the Roentgenographs of this series were taken by my RoenD genologic assistant. Dr. Benjamin E. Wood, to whom I return thanks for his aid in classification'and in many other ways.

That the regulation of questions concerning the physical and mental care of the early years of life should, be'more under the control of the medical profession than is now the case becomes manifest when we consider what an intimate knowledge of medical subjects is required to understand these conditions fully and what advanced medical training is needed fully to grasp these questions and to treat them intelligently. Surely it is one of the gravest duties of physicians fo turn their attention to all these subjects connected with children, and not to leave them to be worked out by the laity, who, although doing their best as educators to d.eal with these questions, can not accomplish that for which they are not fitted by long years of physiologic study.

It is the educator’s place to see to it that the vital principles in connection with child life, a knowledge of which is part of the physician’s life-work, are carried out in their endeavor to place educational questions on a rational basis.	•

Such- being our manifest duty any means by which we can judge in the readiest way of the physical and mental conditions of the individual, and in this sense care for and treat him personally according to his individual needs, should be adopted, since it is productive of much harm to group certain individuals rigidly as we are now doing in the same ^ay as, for example, we would group a herd of mixed cattle.

If it is decided that by the Roent/en method applied to the hand young human beings can be classified as individuals it becomes a simple matter for the state or city by means of a Roentgen ray apparatus to make, for the purpose of classification, a preliminary examination by which physical conditions and the usually correlating brain vigor can bis classified, for this can easily be done in an individual in less than a minute.

By classifying young children according to their anatomic age rather than by stated chronologic ages, we do away with chronologic rules, and by grouping the children according to the similarity of their physical conditions we avoid overstrain of both body and mind by protecting them from competition with their stronger and more vigorous companions of equal chronologic age.

To those who ask what is to be done with the precocious and bright children who are intellectually superior to their companions of equal

Digitized by CjOOQle
290-

chronologie age I would say that I do not believe that these bright children are, as a rule, being dealt with as they should be and as is best for their future welfare. Both parents and teachers wish to stimulate bright children in their studies and to have them graded with groups of children who are older and are better fitted physically to undergo school life without overstrain. According to the physician’s point of view these children should not be allowed to be advanced on account of their mental brightness, but, on the contrary, should be kept out of doors as much as possible, and special attention should be paid to their physical development until such development has shown the normal conditions requisite for health.

As to the comparatively stupid children who present a normal or even more than normal physical development as shown by the Boentgen examination, they should be allowed to find their level in a lower grade and no great anxiety in regard to them need be felt.

In regard to gymnastics and to athletics many a boy or girl could by careful anatomic grading be saved from the reactive debility which so often arises from the overstrain of a physical handicap. From my investigations with the Boentgen ray on the carpal bones and epiphyses of the wrist in both boys and girls, it is very evident that when twenty boys or twenty girls are taken at random, except that they are all ten j^ears old*chronologically, if we pit ten of these individuals against the other ten, either in football or in basketball, (We are afraid the doctor has little knowledge of modern physical training methods if he imagines football or	basketball to be gymnastic games for \en	year	old	children.

£d.) we are	running the risk of pitting in a contest of	strength	ten indi-

viduals who may be only nine or nine and one-half years old anatomically against ten who may be ten and one-half or eleven years old. Such a ten and one-half or eleven years old. Such a variation as this is often found when we classify chronologically instead of using the anatomic standard.

Finally, in regard to the question of child labor, it is certainly the duty of physicians to join hand in hand with educational, state and city authorities to prevent children from being allowed to work excepting under certain physical conditions.

I have	already shown pretty conclusively that a child	too	undeveloped to be	subjected to the strain of constant labor	may	be,	so far as

chronologic age is concerned, of the age demanded by the law for child labor, especially in factories. These laws of * chronologic age differ in different states, and in some of the states there is not much to be found fault with in respect to the law. In others, however, the law permits children to begin work in the factories at entirely too early an age.

I shall not discuss this question of child labor very much in detail, as it is too broad a subject to become more than a slight part of a general paper, but there are certain facts connected with the determination of the child’s physical condition which should manifestly be referred to here. In the first place, we know that a child may be only
-291-

eleven years old and yet look as though it were twelve or thirteeri. In like manner, in my investigations, I have found that a child may be thirteen years old and yet only have the normal anatomic development of eight years. This means that although it has the age of a child which would, according to the laws of certain states, allow it to work in the factories, yet really it is absolutely unfitted to do so. It may be said, of course, that these cases are rare, but it is very important to detect them when they present themselves; that is, the individual should be examined to see whether physically and physiologically he or she is fitted for work in the factories or elsewhere, and reliance should not be placed on chronologic age, for it has been clearly shown that chronologic age may commonly differ by a year or a year and a half from anatomic age.

Another question also comes up. The employment of children under legal age is not always the fault of those who employ the children in the factories or elsewhere, as the responsibility often rests in the hands of the parents themselves. For instance, if a girl is tall and looks older than she really is, the parents are often inclined to wish to make her earn wages for the support of the general household. Under these circumstances over and over again they will say that the child is as old as she looks and not tell the truth about her actual age. Again, often among the poorer classes in the south, the parents do not}always know exactly how old one of their children is, as they may have forgotten. This not infrequently happens. Under these circumstances, how is the state law to be carried out justly when it is so handicapped by the lack of veracity and the ignorance of the parents, confirmed under certain circumstances by the outward appearance of the individual child? Manifestly, we should have some standard which does not depend on veracity, intelligence, memory, greed, or external appearances. This standard can be attained by means of the Roentgen method, which always tells the truth and is an open book to those who have learned to read its language. The very simplicity of the method—merely to have a child for half a minute put its hand on a table, and have this hand pictured by the Roentgen ray on a plate without harm and without the slightest danger—the technic being carried out by one who is skilled in the subject—must recommend it to all intelligent educators and state officials, as well as to physicians who know how important an aid to our medical armamentarium is the Roentgen method of examination.

It would seem that the influence of the medical profession should be brought to bear more than it ever has before on this subject, and as a safeguard to the health of the children throughout the states, to appoint a commission composed of those who, bv their training as physicians, and as caretakers of early life, should inform the state at what degree of development it is safe to allow child labor to begin.

Of course a much furthey study of the carpal bones and of the epiphyses of the radius and ulna must be made until we have arrived at a definite conclusion as to what are to be considered and can be recognized as variations or anomalies. This, however, I believe is possible

Digitized by Google
— 292—

if a number of Roentgenologists and physicians throughout the country pay attention to this anatomic question.

In bringing before the medical profession this idea of using the Roentgen method for physical and mental classification, I wish it to be understood that I am merely asking it to endorse and educators to make trial of what seems, by a very careful study of the conditions connected with this subject, a probable means of doing justice to young human beings and of living up to our adult responsibility toward an otherwise unprotected period of life.

I have had to make arbitrary divisions, and these divisions should be studied and careful work of verification or refutation carried out on these lines. Such wrork, however, I believe to be worthy of trial, as, if successful, it simplifies the whole question of the guidance of child life, and wards off the dangers resulting from our present ill-advised management of the whole subject.

CONCLUSIONS.

1.	A standard of development should be adopted in the interest of athletic and educational reform, and also to aid in the protection of child life.

2.	This standard should be one which is reliable, and one which in that sense wall be superior to what we can learn from parents and guardians concerning the age of the child.

'3. We should investigate physiologic and anatomic conditions in our quest for a reliable standard of development.

4.	Physiologic development probably corresponds to anatomic development.

5.	A standard based on anatomic development is more simple than one based on physiologic development, and is less liable to be mistaken for anomalous conditions and variations.

6.	The normal anatomy of the wrist is the best part of the skeleton to use as a standard index.

7.	I therefore offer as an anatomic index the different stages of development of the carpal bones and the lower epiphysis of the radius and ulna.

8. If such an index can be perfected it is the duty of pediatricians to give their time, thought and influence to work out and perfect such a classification as I have indicated.

9.	We should learn to think in divisions sqch as are represented by A, B, C, D. and not in months and years.

Jourh. Am. Med. Assn.

New Haven, Conn., November 1908.

Dear Sirs:—Your publication deserves and I wish it the utmost success and prosperity.

Yours trulv,

LOUIS LEYERZAPF.
-293-

NEUROMUSCULAR COORDINATIONS HAVING EDUCATIONAL VALUE.*

By Luther H. Gulick. M. D., New York.

This paper does not treat of the entire subject of muscular exercise. It aims only at one of the specific objects of exercise. In order to define the subject it may be well to state the four headings under which we are accustomed to classify the major objects for which muscular exercise is taken, namely:

(1)	Medical excercise. Under this heading come orthopaedic exercises, exercises to develop cardiac power, the reeducation and development of a paralyzed member or of a tabetic, etc.

(2)	Organic of hygienic exercise, the general purpose being to increase the general functions of the body, such as circulation, respiration, digestion. This is ordinairly spoken of as “general exercise,” '

(3)	General neuromuscular exercise. This consists of the' bringing to complete function those general neuromuscular coordinations that are desirable for the individual to possess.

(4)	Special neuromuscular exercise, which may be needed for some specific activity or occupation, such as playing the piano, typewriting, playing billiards, handwriting.

This classification does not include those forms of exercise that are taken incidentally in the earning of one’s daily bread or in the pursuit of happiness.

This paper relates, then, exclusively to the third heading, namely, general neuromuscular education. It aims specifically to answer the following questions:	Are	there	any neuromuscular coordinations which

exceed in value from the pedagogical standpoint any other coordinations? Or, to state the question in a different way, have neuromuscular coordinations an equal value from the educational standpoint? If they have not equal value, which coordinations are the most important, and what are the criteria by which wTe can select the coordinations that are the most important?

I aqi not referring to that training by which the individual is equipped for specific acts that may be necessary during later life, such as playing the violin, writing, using tools, or any specific acts whatever. I am referring to a general basis of education.

It is only in recent years that students have given us the neurological data which support the findings of experience in our answfer to this question. One of the best studies is the brilliant one of Hughlings Jackson, writh his three level theory of epilepsy in its relation to cord and brain. Frederick Burke, in his notable study entitled From Fundamental to Accessory in the Development of the Nervous System and of Movements, formulated and defended with brilliancy one of the essential theses, namely, that in the development of the human being the different parts of the nervous system come to function in a more or less

* From the New York Med. Journal.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-294-

definite sequence, those of a more fundamental character antedating those of a more accessory character. We must not forget the brilliant work of Clouston on the Neuroses of Development.

Before attempting to answer the question it may be advantageous to illustrate in-a concrete way the nature of the problems involved.

It is conceivable that an individual might be trained to operate the muscles which control the eyes independently. Would such specialized discipline be of advantage or disadvantage to the individual? It is possible, by some means of suitably -prepared gymnastic exercises, fo train the individual so that he can coordinate movements which to the untrained are entirely impossible, for example, to move the arms in opposite circles. I may move my right arm at the shoulder joint, involving, of course, scapula movements through various right angled positions. It is an exceedingly simple matter to have the left arm do these movements at the same time and in the same way as they are done by the right arm. It is possible to train the individual so that the identical movements shall be involved, but one arm with a movement behind the other, the completed series being finished by the leading arm one count or one movement ahead. The children’s trick of patting the abdomen and rubbing the top of the head, and then attempting to change the movements of each hand suddenly, so that the hand that was patting commences to rub and the hand that was rubbing begins to pat, illustrates another exceedingly simple coordination which it is difficult for the person who has not learned it to do.

Some years ago a large volume was written, describing a new system of gymnastics by De Laspe, the fundamental assumption of which was that it was simpler to move one joint than to move two. Therefore, every child should be trained to use each joint of body in all ways possible. He should then begin to use each joint of the body in all possible combinations with every other single joint of the body. After these two joint coordinations in all possible relations had been accomplished, he should then proceed to train his neuromuscular apparatus so that three joints might be used at once in all possible relations to each other. This process was to be kept up until the individual could do anything with his body of which it was capable. A few illustrations are given at the back part of the large work, showing the kind of movement that would be involved by the pure chance combinations or permutations of movements involved in seventeen joints at once. They remind one slightly of an individual during an epileptic seizure, that is, the. movements were absolutely unrelated to each other.

In the light of this book, I would restate the question as follows: Are there any neuromuscular coordinations which tend more strongly than do any other neuromuscular coordinations toward a wholesome' development not only of body control, but of the central organ of body control—the nervous system? Are there movements that serve better than others to bring about that growth of tangential fibres which Flechsig has shown to be related to intelligence, and to that relation of

Digitized by Google
'	-2951-

dendrite to axon and synapses that promote or afford the basis for wholesome living?

An analysis of the muscular movements made by a child immediately after birth indicates definite and useful coordinations already functioning with a considerable degree of perfection. Breathing is suddenly established. This in itself is an exceedingly complex act, involving constant readjustment with the different positions of the body, the' relations of the spine to the ribs, and the ribs to the abdominal wall, which vary with the changes in abdominal pressure which are due to gravity. Breathing in the horizontal, prone position is not an identical act with breathing in the vertical position. In any position it is a most highly complex series of acts. We find this neuromuscular mechanism ready to use upon the birth of the child.

The hand, actuated as it is by forty muscles, moving twenty-seven joints, functions vigorously as a whole; and since Robinson called our attention to the fact. I presume that all of us have demonstrated for ourselves the high degree of grasping ability that is present in the harrd*of the newborn child. Sucking and swallowing are acts involving coordinations of muscular groups that are not closely related anatomically.

The child lies on his back and kicks, breathes, and cries. All of this means that there arc thousands of neuromuscular coordinations all ready to use. The coordinations involving the use of the eyes are not perfect at birth, but it takes a relatively small degree of practice—I do not, of course, refer to conscious practice—to develop that control which results in the coordinated action of the eyes. Eye movements as related to neck movements are quickly acquired. The muscles controlling individual vertebrae are never isolated so as to be actuated bv the individual, but they can be used serially, as shown by many individuals who have acquired the power to bend in any part of the spine without bending any other part, or to bend with a wavelike motion, the centre of motion extending from one end of the spine to the other.

Standing erect involves most delicate and constant adjustment of nearly all the muscles of the legs, trunk, and neck. While in this position, the movement of one arm forward makes it necessary for the individual to readjust his balance, thereby compelling readjustment of' tension from all the groups of muscles involved. In running, jumping, throwing, striking, and in all of the large body activities, practically all ; the muscles function. They function rather automatically, not as a*ito- , matically as does the heart nor as automatically as the process of ’ breathing, but they function automatically in the sense that the individual does not think of the muscle, of the part to be used, but thinks of the object to be accomplished. It is a physiological unit which is working.

An examination of the great variety of neuromuscular coordina- . tions that children learn in their ordinary unguided daily play indicates that the fundamental fact with reference to the progressive coordination of these successive sets of movements is physiological and not anatomical,; ‘

Digitized by V.ooQle
—296—

The body is serving its function with reference to accomplishing given results. This is done by throwing into action successively coordinations which are more or less automatic. Those acts which are “ready to use’* that are done at birth are performed without anything more than the .preliminary movements, made by the child during gestation.. They require, some of them, no practice, others, very little. The older the child becomes, the more complete the repertoire of coordinations becomes, the less are the coordinations ready to use, and hence the more is practice necessary. If we view the body as a functional unit it simplifies the case.

* That study of anatomy which consists of merely a knowledge of the different systems is superficial and unreal as compared with that knowledge of anatomy which sees muscles, ligaments, and bones as having been developed by having to do specific acts. The act is the fundamental thing which determines the structure rather than the reverse. It is because the hand had to bring the object to the mouth of the individual, for example, that we may account for the insertion of the biceps on the radius rather than on the ulna. Insertion on the ulna would have -given*the,biceps a far greater power as a flexor of the forearm, but one of the particular acts for which the biceps is adapted and which, perhaps, we may assume was one of the acts which helped to produce it, was that act by which the individual reached for an object with the hand prone and grasped it, then bringing it to the mouth, supinated the hand, in order that the palm might bring its contents to the mouth. So the biceps was attached in such a way as to flex the forearm upon the upper arm, at the same time that it was acting as a supinator.

This very clumsy illustration of the priority of use is one that I should carry over into the neurological field, did the space limits of a paper permit.

Let us turn now from muscular acts for physical ends to those muscular coordinations which are done for psychic purposes—the expression of anger, fear, hope, and so on. These demand complexity of co^rdi^ati^n^ following,,,and , flowing into each other, never being twice exactly alike, for the conditions which arouse the emotions vary, and the expressive acts of the emotion itself vary correspodingly. A set of such incomprehensibly complex series of coordinations as is involved in the muscles of the face, those of the throat, of the hands, of the back, deniands the genius of art to portray—coordinations involving not -iq^pp}£ the., neqrompscular, but the neuroglandular. involving the . intestinal Tract, as Mosso has shown, the bladder, and probably alL the , organs of. the body. The whole.body expresses the emotion. It is;a unitary physiological act, rather than one which is built up by the laborious construction of adding one joint movement to another.

Most of the activities of modern life are built up of those neuromuscular coordinations which have in former times been useful to the race, that is, bv great biological units. Even in such technical accomplishments as playing the piano or the violin, using the t}q>ewriter,

Digitized by
-297-

riding a bicycle, and using the scalpel, we are using racially old movements almost entirely. That which is purely new constitutes but an incidental part, although, of course, a necessary part of the total act. Even here the combination is one of physiological units or wholes, rather that of individual muscles or individual joints; that is, it is a physiological association as contrasted with an anatomical association of muscular activities.

Turning now to the functioning of the body with reference to psychic states, the feelings which actuate us to-day differ in their objects to some extent from those which actuated us during the prehistoric days of man’s life; but we cannot conceive of the fundamental psychic or emotional states as having changed. The study of the stock market is a new thing to think about or to feel about, but it is with the same old emotions of love, hate, fear, ambition, desire, in wonderfully com-plev ways, that we get the modern phenomenon; that is, here again we are using certain fundamental, unitary acts as contrasted writh incidental or isolated mental faculties. The emotions themselves are fundamentally old, even though their application be to new things.

The way in which these emotions take their form in the body is also unchanged, and is the same among all the peoples of all the earth. We speak of thinking and willing, old complex acts—remaining essentially the same, even though we apply them to new things Thinking in so far as it is motor is associated with the rehearsal of those muscular acts thought of. These are at bottom racially old neuromuscular coordinations. For example, even in such a complex matter as viewing a landscape we form our judgment of distance by eye movements.

I might go on and show how the reconstruction of our conception of the education of the body from one of associating anatomical groups to viewing it as a physiological whole is at present reconstructing psychology. It is but recently that we have ceased to hear of a faculty of attention, a faculty of memory, of will, and the like; whereas we now know that there are as many different kinds of attention as there are different kinds of things to give attention to, and that there are as many different kinds of memory as there are different kinds of things to remember. With this crumbling of the faculty psychology there has fallen that theory of education which has aimed to train each faculty by itself and then adjust it to the other faculties. This is precisely the fate of that conception of physical education which aimed to train each muscle or joint and then coordinate it with the others.

Thus we find a violent contrast between that which is logical and that which is pedagogical. It is logical to build up muscular movements, but we find it to be against the whole tendency of children. We find that normal children learn the successive acts involved in plays and games with ease, that feeble minded children may be measured in their feeble mindedness pretty accurately by the extent to which they have learned those neuromuscular coordinations that have been common to our kind. We cannot think of man becoming fundamentally
—298—

different with reference to the relation of structure and function than he is now. He will continue to live a life of love, of hope, of fear, of desire, as he is living now; and he will express these old emotions in ways which are intelligible now. Therefore, for the child to learn his plays and games, his running, jumping, striking—all that play which involves skill of hand, coordination of eye and hand—is fundamental with reference to his psychic activity, for he functions as a whole. It may be true that the time will come when man may no longer need to run or even to walk, but we cannot conceive of a time coming when the adult man will not need to have learned to walk when he was at the proper age, because of the bearings of this upon his neuromuscular system. His failing to learn to walk might be to his nervous development somewhat as the cutting off of a tadpole’s tail is to its subsequent development, or better, the omission of the gillslits in the human embryo. Adult man has no use for gillslits, but if the gillslits were lacking in the embryo, the blood circulation in man could not have developed in its present form.

Thus we see that not merely general neuromuscular coordinations should be taught to children, but specific ones, highly complex ones, racially old ones. To do the opposite tends towards the breaking down of the structure that has been built up through all the ages. To train the eyes to move independently would be to move away from sanity and wholesomeness. It would tend to break up that coordination of impressions and the unity of that act which we regard as visual thinking.

These coordinations are historically old. They are the kind of movements that have meant success. They are the kind of movements because of which our forefathers survived. The man who could run and jump and throw was better fitted to survive than the man who could not do these things with an equal degree of skill. Upon this basis the whole emotional and intellectual life is built. This accounts to some extent for the fact that the kinds of coordinations of which I have spoken—athletic sports, plays, and games—are interesting to children as formal gymnastics are not interesting. (See Notes and Comments. Ed.)

Thus, true physical' education is not to be accomplished by the teaching of segregated muscular movements, but by the orderly development of increasingly complex movements which are racially old, which involve good posture of the body, which train the individual to express predominantly emotions consistent with modern life. These movements are to be expressed in terms of physiological acts to be accomplished, certain wholes, rather than as anatomical parts to be moved.

I have tried to show:

1,	The unitary character of our neuromuscular as well as other acts;

2,	that they exist in racially old combinations;

3,	that we inherit these coordinations, or at least a strong tendency toward them;

i

Digitized by CaOOQle
-299-

4,	that mental, moral, ethical, social life is built on these.

We should therefore in our physical instruction educate:

1,	In physiological units;

2,	Toward racially old and inherited tendencies.

This paper is already so long that I can suggest what should be discussed under the general heading of the nature of the curriculum through which the child should be led.

This consists first of the unguided plays of babyhood. During this period no instruction is necessary. Opportunity for free activity, rolling, kicking, and the like, is enough. The impulse within the child will lead him to perfect such mechanisms as are then developing. Following these come the games and sports of childhood. Here the child needs help. In old communities, suitable games are passed on from generation to generatioi of child life without adult aid; but in a country like ours, particularly in our great cities, made up largely of peoples from different villages, these play traditions are lost. They need to be restored to children by skillful teaching; not by formal instruction, but by that informal leadership which the well equipped adult can give.

The old rhythmical movements which have been found among all the primitive peoples and in all civilizations have crystallized in the dance. These folk dances express in extraordinarily complete form man's history—the sowing of grain in the spring, the reaping in the fall, the chase. In fact, all of man's life has been portrayed and crystallized in these art forms, which we in America have allowed to die. They must be resurrected and given again to the children as part of their birthright, as a fundamental part of their education—not merely muscular education, \wt emotional education, for in these great plays and games of the world it is the whole individual that is called into activity. In this fact lies their extraordinary interest and value.

It is true that because of the school desk with its deforming tendencies we need to have special exercises that shall tend to overcome these deforming effects; but aside from this, the general curriculum of neuromuscular activities involved in physical education should be that based upon the physiological unit type found in the plays, dances, and games referred to.

—ONE OF THE MOST INTERESTING ARTICLES that have appeared recently is the “Anatomic Age" by Dr. — Rotch which we reprint in this issue. Dr. Campton in his Physiologic Age has opened the way for a more certain method of judging the normal status of pre-and postpubescent high school boys. Dr. Rotch by his investigations shows us that the anatomic age, judged by the presence and development of the bones, may not coincide at all-with the chronologic age. He believes, however, that the anatomic and the physiologic age coincide. The article is worthy of close study by all teachers.

Digitized by
Mind

ftND BODY. ^

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

ZbCU-ctraLviJEM, ‘Wlaconain.

Or Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, iao Pomona St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Po*t Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—SPEAKING OF OPEN AIR SCHOOLS an exchange says that considerable interest has been shown by American educators in accounts of the open-air schools established in the ancient duchy of the Abruzzi, in Italy, for the benefit of the rustic inhabitants. It is a mere coincidence that from a double motive the city of Boston is at the same time beginning to give instruction in the open air to the sickly or anemic children of the poor. The shepherds of the Abruzzi are a robust and hearty race. Their deficiency is intellectual; not physical. On the other hand, the children of the slums are too often unfortunate in both respects.

The Boston experiment is designed chiefly to rescue children of this class from danger of consumption. There is a. camp on Parker Hill, to which boys and girls predisposed to tuberculosis are sent in summer. When the vacation period ends, instead of being returned at once to the close and enervating atmosphere of city school rooms, they are to be taught in the camp until the coming of cold weather renders it impracticable. It has even been suggested that airy, half-open pavilions could be constructed which would be servicable ,as sanitary schoolrooms throughout the winter.

At present children from comparatively long distances flock daily to the. school camp, which is said to occupy a site elevated, healthful and beautiful. In the intervals of instruction they play on the thick turf and under wide-spreading trees, and are encouraged to study nature from nature's own pages, or to learn simple gardening. Under these conditions, both body and mind are expected to have a wholesome growth. All this seems to hark back to the idea of the ancients in combining mental and physical training under outdoor influences in the gymnasia. But the advocates of the system contend that if it be persevered in and widely adopted, it ought surely to mean the turning of multitudes of warped young lives to something like sound and normal efficiency.

—THE ECONOMIC VALUE to the country of a general raising of the average health came up for discussion in the Governors' Conference at the White House in May. Dr. George M. Kober in his speech on the “Conservation of Life and Health by Improved Water Supply"

Digitized by Google
- 301-

at the Conference presented figures which showed that the decrease in the “vital assets” of the country through typhoid fever in a single year is more than $350,000,000. Typhoid is spread by polluted water largely, so that the death rate from this disease can be directly reduced by the purification of city drinking water. Dr. Kober quoted statistics to show that the increased value of the water to the city of Albany, where the typhoid fever rate was reduced from 104 in 100,000 to 26 by an efficient filtration plant, amounts to $475,000 a year, of which $350,000 may be considered a real increase to the vital assets of the city* Census Bureau figures show that the average annual death rate from typhoid in cities with contaminated water supplies was reduced from 69.4 per 100,000 to 19.8 by the substitution of pure supplies.

Dr. Kober cited estimates showing that the average length of human life in the sixteenth century was between 18 and 20 years, and that at the close of the eighteenth century it was a little more than 30, while to-dav it is between 38 and 40—indeed, the span of life since 1880 has been lengthened about six years.

—REFERRING TO “NEURO-MUSCITLAR COORDIlSTATIOlSrS ” which we reprint elsewhere in this month's edition, we will say that when we asked Dr. Gulick for permission to present his article to our readers we said that he must have had bad experiences with some of his teachers. In giving his consent to print, he replied: “My opinions about gymnastics have been formed far more by observing the results which have been secured by others, than by watching my own.”

-If Dr. Gulick's position as given in his article is correct, and if-formal gymnastics are not interesting to children, and if the only way in which correct neuro-muscular coordinations that have a true phyletic or race value are to be gained is by athletic sports, plays and games, then it is time for us to ask if our normal schools for physical training had not better face left about and seek for different aims than those that at present seem before them. Let us ask, what is understood by formal gymnastics as this is interpreted not only by all recognized schools of physical training of the present day, but also by those grand teachers of long ago, by Gutsmuths, Jahn and Spiess? It consists of tactics, free gymnastics, exercises on fixed apparatus, field work, dancing and games. These different forms of exercise should all be treated as integral parts of an all-sided system of physical training. Each has its own separate mission to fulfil in formal gymnastics. It has been left to some misguided teachers here in America to pick out one or two of the different parts of formal work and to introduce these into some of our schools as complete systems of physical training. The parts selected have usually been introduced because schoolboards were told that gymnastics could be performed in any classroom and needed but a few minutes per day. And it' is astonishing to see the self-satisfaction of some teachers who because five, ten or fifteen minutes are daily devoted to some form of formal work in the classroom imagine that the physical

Digitized by CjOOQle
—302 -

demands of a normal child have been met. Now, if the work presented, has not been arranged by some expert who thoroughly understands the transitory stage of this situation, and if the work is “administered” by a non-sympathetic class-teacher then the sooner we turn to something else the better. This again is true if the success of formal gymnastics is to be judged by the effects gained by teachers who subject their pupils to the mental and physical tortures of some highly prized drill. We have seen some of these drills repeated year after year. But let us not confuse the effects of such work with the results obtained by rational methods under normal conditions. Neither let us imagine that in the hands of incompetent teachers those forms of neuro-muscular coordination spoken of by Dr. Gulick may not become as monotonous as perhaps some highly lauded wand drill or scarfdrill composed before the civil war. We have seen some misguided teachers ol‘ physical “culture” (we nearly said torture) try to make some of our American boys and girls believe that because the “Clodhopper Dance” suited the people of a restricted district in some backwoods of Germany this dance was needed by them in order that they may express their emotions in motor form. As we have said elsewhere:	We have seen agitations of aesthetic

dancing, competitive athletics for unripe boys, competitive folkdancing for girls, and also of games as the embodiment of true body training sweep over us, and we often wonder what will come next. If only our experimenters would have had the good fortune to grow up under the guidance of a true teacher of gymnastics, and had experienced the thrill of satisfaction and joy which a formal lesson taught by a competent teacher gives to every participant, we would have more stability in our efforts, and aims to give to our boys and girls such opportunities for body training as their nature demands. Our aims in this direction must be three fold. First, we must have more better trained teachers. The time has passed when a six weeks summer course in physical training, or a four years course leading to an M. D. will give us the teachers we need. These are the unhappy persons who still need and ieach drills. Second, in schools we must not be satisfied with fifteen minutes per day in classrooms. It will be a long time until every school has at least one gymnasium and special teachers of gymnastics. But all schools have yards (the few exceptions, in one or two large cities must not mislead us), and it must be our endeavor to use these at every free period for those parts of formal gymnastics that can not be taken care of at other times.

Lastly, we must lead our pupils to make intelligent use of public playgrounds, baths, skating rinks, parks, camps, etc. An intelligent and systematic employment of all these facilities, we take it, is what progressive teachers understand under formal gymnastics, i. e. conscious body training, in its best sense.

•—SOCCEB FOOTBALL, as a fall and winter game for boys in highschools and the upper grammar grades is rapidly taking its due place

Digitized by CjOOQle
—303—

\

as an admirable game for developing endurance without having the objectionable features of Rugby football. In order to give beginners and younger boys a simpler game, the department of physical education of Philadelphia has worked out a set of rules according to which a lively game can be played even in fair-sized schoolyards, and which do not violate the spirit of the completed game. Soccer game No. 1 printed in this issue presents the eleifients of the game, and nothing learned while practising this game need be unlearned when taking up a higher form of the game. We request those of our readers who would like to introduce Soccer football to try these simple rules during this month. Next month we will print the second stage, Soccer game No. 2, and the month after the whole game, Soccer No. 3. By following this procedure .it will be comparatively easy to teach this admirable outdoor game, which may be played with safety even on frozen or snow-covered ground.

SOME INEXPENSIVE PLAYGROUND APPARATUS.

A paper, read at the Playground Congress, New York, by E. H. Arnold, M. D.

The financing of a public movement of any magnitude is always a serious problem. Especial difficulty attends this problem if the movement sets in fairly sudden and unprepared, and makes rapid progress. The playground movement has been, and is of this latter sort. It has come over us like a thief in the night, and its progress has been all that could be desired. Whatever may be the urgency of any public movement rapid progress is not always attended with happy results. Many mistakes born of inexperience, which at times prove costly not only in a financial sense often accompany fast growth. The playground movement is in* itself a fairly costly one. While the ground and the direction and supervision may be the main items of expense, equipment and maintenance, never-the-less.cost considerable. It is with the idea of diminishing as well the cost of first equipment as that of maintaining a playground that I wish to bring before you a few examples of inexpensive playground apparatus or contrivances. Before attempting the description of a few of such contrivances, which I wish to serve as types, and upon which no doubt many of you can improve, we should first make it clear to ourselves what constitutes an inexpensive apparatus.

An apparatus is inexpensive if it can be installed at little cost. In general it may be said that such apparatus as are manufactured enmasse, can be gotten cheapest from dealers. An apparatus which is out of the ordinary and which, therefore, has to be made to order is cheaper if home made. Apparatus which though it can be gotten ready-made from the manufacturer or dealer, but which costs a great deal to erect or adapt to a special location, would be cheaper home made. The cost of apparatus which is bulky and heavv is considerably increased bv boxing and crating, and by freight. It therefore in a great many instances will

Digitized by t^ooQle
-304-

prove to be cheaper home made. The apparatus which I am about to describe can all be home made. What is more important, nearly all of them may be made and installed by pupils and attendants of the playgrounds themselves. Eight here may I be permitted a little seeming digression from my subject? In all localities where manual training is taught in the common schools or public schools, or in playgrounds or recreation centres no better use can be mhde of the energies of the pupils in these branches than to have them make and set up playground apparatus. A new interest in their manual training and the playground may thus be awakened, or, where it is already present, stimulated in the pupils. Such use of manual training would make a great many apparatus that lend themselves to manufacture by young people much, less expensive than they now are. Once more T claim it as a distinct advantage of the apparatus to be described, that they can readily be made in such manner.

The second item in the expense of playground apparatus is their maintenance. Such apparatus as are durable, that will stand use and even abuse, and all kinds of weather can be maintained at little expense. The apparatus of which I am going to speak are well nigh indestructible, I have known one to be in place forty years, how long it had been there before I ldfew it, I can only surmise, but I have reason to believe that it had been there forty or fifty years, and from its present condition, I judge that it will be good for forty or fifty years to come. An apparatus is further inexpensive if it can be used by several players at once.

Several of the ones I am going to make you acquainted with are of that nature. Again an apparatus is inexpensive if it may be used for different kinds of play and exercises.

Looked at from these different standpoints several of these contrivances are ideal. Comparisons are odious, but I can not refrain from drawing your attention to the limited use that can be made of a manufactured teeter swing with a seat on each end. While I well understand the great necessity, of swinging for children, and their great liking for it, yet I must still insist that I can imagine the opportunity for swinging provided by playground apparatus that can be used for many other play purposes. In figuring out the expensivness of an apparatus the amount of supervision and direction that play on and with it needs is an item which must not be forgotten. If in play your contrivance needs little or no direction, and the same amount of supervision it must be inexpensive from that standpoint.

The last but not least of the expense items of a playground apparatus must be its intrinsic value as a toy or plaything. The play of children on and with it must be spontaneous. It must appeal to the imagination of the child so strongly that new forms of use must be constantly found by the child itself in using it. Like a great many very highly developed and specialized toys, some playground apparatus leave the child nothing to do. It is more of a machine than an apparatus. This is a decided short-coming. Such apparatus or contrivances are
—305—

expensive at any cost, for they have no intrinsic value. Once more I will call your attention to the great suggestion which is inherent in the devices of which I shall speak which fairly challenge a child to make use of them. Before introducing you to these simple contrivances 1 will say what is, no doubt, needless to say in your presence, that they are not inventions of mine, and that I do not know who invented them. I doubt whether they were ever invented by anyone. I think they always were and always will be. I have known them from childhood up. I played on them for ten years, always enjoyed them, and the increase of gymnastic ability rather encouraged than discouraged their use. They stood on a magnificent playground which had been used as such for the better part of two centuries in a school which it was my good fortune to attend as a boy, namely Franke’s Stiftungen at Halle, where they had been in use long before my time, and where I found them still in use when I last visited there two years ago. I have something of an idea that they antedate Jahn’s endeavors, and that they are relics, if not bodily at least as an idea of Gutsmuth's. They have at least age to recommend them. They have been thoroughly tried and not found wanting. They are no experiment.

They appealed to all pupils of the institution in their play, and, wonderful as it may seem, we did play at that time, long before anyone thought of a playground movement in Europe or this country, and a great deal that is nowadays being said and done in the playground movement makes me feel like a Rip Van Winkle awaking after fifty years of sleep. When I say they appealed to all of us, I mean they appealed to children, youth, and young men, ranging in age from six to twenty-one and twenty-two years, or as our venerable rector would have it, when officially addressing us in the -chapel, “children, youth and young gentlemen.”

I regard them therefore as having stood the test of time in a greaf many ways. Some of them have been practically indestructible, and remain in the same shape as they were. From what I saw of their use two years ago they claim the interest of the children and youth of today as much as they did ours forty years ago.

While I will admit that youths of different climes and countries play differently T may say, from the interest that was displayed in these apparatus by the foreigners attending our school that I am quite sure that they will appeal to the children of almost any country. They may be used for. organized plays or for formal instruction. On the other hand they also lend- thenrselfes ihtrdilv to undirected individual or solitary play of children. Their use is attended by practically no danger, and they, therefore, need no supervision. Once properly installed they need no care, or practically none. They never get out of order. They are never insecure, and always ready for use.

Now to the description of these truly wonderful apparatus and contrivances, and I am afraid their simplicity will disappoint quite a number of you.	I

Digitized

by Google
-306-

The first one is the jumping pit. An excavation ten or more feet long, three or more feet deep at one of the narrow sides, running from this depth diagonally upward to the upper edge at the other narrow end. The sides of this pit are made secure by stout planks properly prepared to withstand moisture. The ground around is well evened up. The bottom of the pit is free from stones, and sanded in with at least six inches, if possible more, of good clean sand. In this pit babes may enjoy the sand play. Deep jumping from the sides at various heights into the sand is enjoyed by smaller children. For broad jumping, standing and running it is excellent. The first attempts at pole vaulting may be made from the edge of this pit. With some assistance tumbling may be done from the edges into the pit.

The second is the balancing tree. A large and perfectly straight tree freed of the bark and rounded off, it should be fifty or more feet long. It is supported by two or three wooden feet, one at the extreme thick end, £he other one sufficiently far from the thinner end to allow this thinner end free play to swing. At the thicker end the tree may be two or more feet in diameter. It tapers to an end four to six inches in diameter which is free to swing. The tree is so supported that at its thicker end, its upper edge would be ’ three to three and one-half feet from the ground. The tree is then placed securely.on its feet so that its long axis is horizontal. This tree, as its name implies, gives a chance for balancing exercises on a broad end steady, and also on a more and more narrow surface which sways and swings. It may be used for deep jumping, for vaults of all kinds, l’n the more solid parts of the tree holes may be drilled, pommels may be fastened on it, then we have all the purposes of a horse or saddle boom. Children may ride on it astride, may swing on the movable part, and should in that position find great enjoyment.	%

The hillock, a small elevation on the playground from two to five feet high, from three to six feet wide at the base, tapering off towards the top, well covered with turf. Deep jumping, high jumping, hurdling may be done on, and off, and over this. Pole vaulting may he taught from off it. It gives opportunity to the much enjoying frolic rolling of children. In winter when it is covered with snow it gives a fine start for the sled. It invites war games for the possession of the top of it.

The climbing tree, a straight tree no less than thirty feet high, made smooth, but not necessarily altogether even is securely implanted. Its top is protected by a platform sufficiently wide not to allow its edge to be grasped by the climber. While this apparatus serves climbing primarily and only, until the ingenuity of the child makes it the center for other games, it furthers that type of climbing which is the normal and natural one, and which can be practised only on trees, and for which the gymnasium climbing pole gives no chance at all.

The jumping stairs, wooden stairs of ordinary construction leading with ten or twelve steps to a height of from six to eight feet either to

Digitized by C^ooQle
-307-

a platform or better, a stairs of the same type leading down on the other side of the platform. If this is clad in on sides by boards, and a door cut in, it may be made the receptacle for all kinds of hand playground apparatus. This stairs is surrounded on all four sides with sand, of at least six inch depth. Anyone who has ever watched the great fondness of children for jumping from stairs will know that the installment of this apparatus is only half complete before the children are beginning to make use of it for broad, high and deep jumping. It may once more be used to start pole vaulting. Some tumbling may be done from it. On the solid side of it targets may be painted. The sand around it gives a good place for the sand play of small children, but also for a free bout of the friendly wrestling of boys.

These apparatus cost but little to install, are well nigh indestructible, cost therefore little or nothing for repairs. They take little space, lend themselves to a thousand and one uses at the hands of the playground instructor, and what is still better, they suggest as many uses to the child himself.

EXERCISES ON THE MAT.

By PHILIP G. LEWIS, Philadelphia, Pa.

In most gymnasiums there is quite a demand for mat work, especially such as can be given to children as well as to untrained adults. This kind of work appeals to most everyone at sometime or other in his life. My experience along these lines has led me to give to my pupils the following exercises, which I have found most intereseting and successful. These exercises can be given to boys and girls, also to men and women, and even to participants in business men’s classes.

EXERCISE NO. 1—ROLL OVER FORWARD.—Stand with the toes touching the end of the mat, feet apart (straddle), bend forward, place the hands on the mat about a foot from the end and as far apart as the shoulders. Then let the body fall forward, pulling the head well under and pushing off with the feet, rolling over forward (on the back of the head and shoulders) coming up onto the feet.

Now try this a. few times with a little more push off with the feet until you can come up to a stand easily.

EXERCISE NO. 2.—Same as . No. 1, except the feet are together at the start (unless otherwise stated in the following exercises the feet will be together in rolling over forward).

EXERCISE NO. 3.—Roll over forward. While rolling, grasp the shins (just below the knees), come up to a stand with the hands down at the sides.	•

EXERCISE NO. 4.—Roll over forward, grasping the shins, coming up to a stand with hands on the hips.

Now try this exercise, coming up to stand with arms folded.

EXERCISE NO. 5.—Roll over forward. While rolling, cross the legs at the ankles (left in front), come to a stand, legs remaining crossed.

Now try the same exercise with the right leg in front.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-308-

EXERCISE NO. 6.—Roll over forward, the leg- crossed at the ankles (left in front), grasping the knees. Keep the head well under. Come up to a stand and at the same time make a half turn to the right (you will then be facing in the opposite direction to that which you were when you started).

Now try the same exercise with the right in front and make a half turn left.

EXERCISE NO. 7.—ROLL OYER FORWARD WITHOUT THE USE OF THE HANDS. Stand with the left foot about eighteen to twenty-four inches in front of the right, the arms raised forward slightly. Bend forward, holding the head well under and pushing off with the feet, landing on the back of the shoulders. Come up to a stand, (left foot in front as at the start).

Then try the same exercise with the arms folded in front, or hands on hips, or grasping the ankles, or holding the arms sideward.

EXERCISE NO. 8.—Roll over forward, the legs crossed at the ankles (left in front). Come up to a stand and execute a half turn right, then immediately roll over forward, grasping the shins and come to a stand (you will be facing in the opposite direction to that'which you were when you started but you will be standing in the same place).

EXERCISE NO. 9,—Roll over forward, crossing legs at the ankles (left in front). Grasp the knees and make a half turn right, while coming to a stand, then immediately roll over forward, crossing legs at the ankles (right in front), grasp the shins, execute a half turn left, coming to a stand in the same place and facing the direction as at the start.

EXERCISE NO. 10.—A succession of rolls forward, using the hands to assist.

EXERCISE NO. 11.—A succession of rolls forward without use of the hands.

EXERCISE NO. 12.—A succession of rolls forward,holding the ankles.

EXERCISE NO. 13.—A succession of rolls forward, grasping the shins.

EXERCISE NO. 14.—A succession of rolls forward, the legs crossed at the ankles and executing a half turn after each roll.

EXERCISE NO. 15.—Roll forward; roll forward, grasping the shins and then roll forward without use of the hands.

EXERCISE NO. 16.—Stand on the end of the mat on either the left or the.rjgftt leg. Roll forward,, coming up to a stand on one leg (as at the start), the hands on the hips.

This exercise can be used in combination with most of the proceeding exercises.

(To be continued in the next number.)

—John Hughes, aged 68 years, an old time pedestrian, recently covered 50 miles in 10 hours along the streets of New York City.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-309-

SOCCER FOOT BALL.

SIMPLIFIED FORM l.-SUITABLE FOR YOUNG BOYS. AND GIRLS

| COM. swt !

CENTR1 U»flt

KICK-OFF

t

u

2

Gor\v. uiweT

CO*L APACC.

r-------------r

The field for a match game.—The field should he between 50 and 75 yds. wide and between 100 and 150 yds. long, divided into two equal parts by a line through the centre, see diagram.

Goals.—The goals shall be the middle third of the end lines, to be marked by stakes, posts (or by caps, coats, etc.).

Players.—Any number of players can play on a team, but care must be taken that too many do not try to play the ball at the same time.

Object of the game.—The object of the game is to kick the football (an assocj&tion football) over the middle third of the line at the end of the field (known as the goal). At no time must the ball be touched with the hands or arms.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-310-

Scoring a goal.—A goal is scored when the ball has been kicked over the goal (the middle third of the end line). A goal counts one point. The team scoring the greatest number of goals in the game is the winner.

Time of game.—The game is played in two halves of from ten to twenty minutes each, with an intermission of from five to ten minutes.

Choice of goals and kick off.—The choice of goals is made by the toss of a coin, the winner choosing the goals and the loser getting the kick-off. Goals are changed between the halves.

Kick-off; also free kick.—The ball is placed on the ground and the player gets a kick at the ball without any interference. No other player shall be within five yards of the ball until the ball has been kicked.

Starting the game.—The game is started by a kick-off. The referee (who has full control of the game) places the ball on the centre line in the middle of the field. The side losing the toss kicks the ball toward their opponents5 goal. No other player shall be within 5 yards of the ball when it is kicked, nor shall any player cross the centre of the ground until the ball has been kicked off (shoidd this happen the kick must be taken over).

Out of bounds.—The ball is “out of bounds55 when it has passed outside the field of play (the lines on the sides are called “touch lines55 and the lines on the ends are called the “goal lines55). To again put the ball into play a player on the opposite side to that which caused the ball to go out of bounds, stands on the line at the point where it went out, then throws the ball, with both hands, over his head into the field of play. He cannot again play the ball until it has been played by another player.

Fouls.—Fouls are called for pushing, tripping, charging, unnecessary roughness and purposely touching the ball with the hands or arms.

Penalty for fouling.—In case of a foul the Hall is given to the opposite side at the point where the ball was at the time the foul was made. 1 The ball is placed on the ground and a free kick is given.

Officials.—The officials shall be a referee who has full charge of the game, two linesmen (one for each side of the field) and a timekeeper who also acts as score-keeper.

* * *

Note: These rules were revised November 1908, bv the Department of Physical Education of the Board of Public Education, Philadelphia. Suggestions for improvements are invited.

Emma E. Walton, Hans Baffin, Philip G. Lewis,

Committee.

—Another long distance Relay Race was recently held by the Y. M. C. A.5s of Mass. The distance covered was 5-L miles from Providence, R. I., to Boston, Mass. 115 boys took part in the race. The distance was covered in 5 hours and 4 minutes.

Digitized by

Google
-311-

NOTES FROM THE BOSTON NORMAL SCHOOL OF GYMNASTICS.

The following appointments from the class of 1908 have been made:	Alice

Miller Allen, to the Low and Haywood School, Stamford, Ct.; Alice Ames Ballard, to Miss Barstow’s School, Kansas City. Mo.; Dorothy Carter to Havergal College, Toronto, Ont.; Constance Frances Caverly to the Bryn Mawr School, Baltimore; Lydia Albertine Clark to the Birmingham School, Birmingham, Pa.; Lulu Clements, Public Schools, Muncie, Ind.; Grace Marion Clifford to the New England Sanitarium, Melrose, Mass.; Helefn1 Adelaide Cook, Public Schools, Rochester, N. Y ; Helen Ldlian Duncan to the Woman’s Christian Association, Dayton, O ; Faith Chandler Green to Ogontz School, Ogontz, Pa.; Marguerite Mallard Hussey to the Young Woman’s Christian Association, Springfield, O.; Alice Eachus Ingram to George School, Pa.; Elizabeth Andrews Jones, Home for Deaf Childretr. Baltimore; Margaret Kreutz to the Young Women’s Christian Association, Cleveland, O. ; Ethel May Manchester, Public Schools. Rochester,

N.	Y. ; Annie McClintock, Public Schools. Gloucester, Mass.; Olivia Milne to the High School for Girls, Philadelphia ; Gretchen Osterhoudt to the State Normal School, Bridgewater, Mass.; Marianna Packer to the Public Schools, Montclair, N. J.; Margaret Ellen Page to the Presbyterian College, Charlotte, N. C.; Helen Pettengill, Public Schools, Springfield, Mass.; Emma Kellog Pierce to the State School for Feeble Minded Women, Vineland, N. J.; Lura Robinson, Bessemer Park Playground, Chicago ; Rebecca Merithew Ross to Agnes Scott College, Decatur. Ga.; Marguerite Lavinia Taylor to the Young Women’s Christian Association, Pittsburg; Nancy Ellicott Tomlinsen to All Saints’ School, Sioux Falls, S. D.; Barbara Whittemore to the Public Schools, Yonkers, N. Y.

Ethel Perrin (1892) has been appointed Director of Physical Training in the Cent raj High School, Detroit, Micln

Class of 1893: Edith Louise'Hill Has been appointed to the directorship in .the Rhode Island State Normal School at Providence; Marv Moseley to the Public Schools of New York City; Harriet Noyes Randall M. D., House Officer, Memorial Hospital, Worcester, Mass ; Florence Percey Salisbury is married to Mr. George Franklin Dodd Jr., East Orange, N. J.

Mr. Ernst Hermann (1895) has accepted a position as Director of Physical Training, Public Schools, Quincy, Mass.

Blanche Ross (1899) is married to Lieutenant Frederic Fraser Black of the 11th U. S. Infantr}’.

Class of 1900: Jennie Isom Gannett. Instructor in Physical Training West Roxbury High School. Boston, substitute for Catherine Bigelow (1896), who is studying at ChicagoUniversity; Susanne Avery Look, Director of Physical Training, Miss Knox’s School. Briarcliff Manor, N. Y.

Nellie G. Dolan (1901) Assistant, Dorchester High School, Boston.

Class of 1902: Caroline Agatha Baxter. Miss Velton’s School, New York City; Hester Helen Chaplin, The Ossing School Ossiiig’ N. Y.

Class of 1903: Majorie Bouve, Instructor in Physical Training, High School, East Boston; Helen E. Hollrngworth, Physical Director, Y.‘W. C. A., Portland, Maine; Marion Bromley Newton lias a year’s leave of absence from the Rochester (N. Y.) schools, for stu<Jv and travel in Europe.

Class of 1904: Marion Hall Bates is doing graduate work in the School; Ikrtba May Bell, Director of Phvsical Training, State Normal and Industrial ♦School, Gi^eftfeboro, N. C.; Anna 'Mary Lincoln/mrirrifrd to Mr. Orvilte' William .Kellogg, Malone, N. Y.; Ethel Brown Power, student at Simmons College, Boston ; Ellen Agnes Whalen, Instructor in Physical Training, Girls’ High School of Practical Arts, Boston, and Assistant, South Boston High School.

Class of I90o: Florence Catherine Bacon, Assistant in Gymnastics and Instructor in Hookey and Archery, Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass.; Gertrude Bleeker Carrier, in the Office of Dr. Robert W. Lovett. Boston ; Celia Mason Choate, Director of Physical Training, Bates College, Lewiston, Maine; Elizabeth Lucy Dunnican, in the Office of Dr. Hoke, Atlanta, Ga.; Beatrice Wilson Eves married to Mr. Arnold J. Hackett, Solon Springs, Wise.; Martha McCol-lister married to Mr. Harry McIntyre Sinclair; Ruth Nottage, travelling in Europe; Mary Foljett Perkips married to Mr. Jackson Palmer, West Newton,

Digitized by

Google
-312-

Mass.; Laura Post B. L., Instructor in the Rarlcliffe College Gymnasium ; Alice Saiter married to Mr. Frank Purcell Emison, Vincennes, Ind.;

Class of 1906; Alga May Beck, Assistant Secretary, The Woman’s Christian Association, Da\ton, 0 ; Caroline Louise Critliett, Instructor in Physical Train-ing, the High School, Medford Mass.; Louise Manning Howe, Kent Place School, Summit, NV J.; Myra Spencer Logan, 'Miss. Knox’s SchpoJ, Lakewood, N. J.; Strausie McCaslin married to Dr. Allen Carrington Hutcheson Kasliing, China;

Class of 1907; Eleanor Southgage Davis, Director ol Physical Training, Public Schools, Gloucester, Mass.; Elizabeth Dickerson, Director of Physical Training, Milwaukee Downer College, Milwaukee, Wise.; Ina Elfeeit Edmunds. Assistant Physical Instructor, Young Women's Christian Association, Detroit, Mich.; Mary Lawrence Ervin, private work, Portsmouth, Va.; Elizabeth Johnston, Instructor in Physical Training, School of Education, Chicago University, Chicago; Alice Maude Montgomery, travelling in Europe; Ruth Woodhull Smith, Direct -of Physical Training. State Normal School, Montclair, N. J.; Edna Lois Williams, Instructor in Gymnastics, Horace Mann High School, Teachers’ College, New York.

Special Students; Ella Stevers (1903) Physical Director, Young Women’s Christian Aseociation, Los Angeles, Cal.; Elizabeth Marion Crouch, (1904) Physical Director, Young Women’s Christian Association, Binghamton, N. Y.; Annie Louise Flanders (1906), St Faith’s House, Philadelphia.

TEMPLE UNIVERSITY NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL {EDUCATION, PHILADELPHIA.

The Normal School has the largest entering class in the history of the University, the Junior Class numbering 22, of whom 11 are men.

The Annual Reception to the Juniors by the Seniors on Halloween was most successfully carried out and the Gymnasium was very effectively decorated for the occasion.

The women students have been putting in most of their outdoor work on Field Hockey and the men on Football and several have made the University Team.

The Girls Basket Ball Team won their first game of the season and bid fair to repeat their record of last year with a straight list of victories.

The seniors are all doing outside work with gymnasium classes in and about the city.

A new locker room has been built for the Normal Men and is to Be fitted with full length steel combination lockers. .

We offer $1.00 Dash for Nos. 1,2,0,24 and 140;

One years Subscription for No. 114, 115, 116, 153 and 154, and One half years Subscription for Nos. 157, 158.159, 169 and 170 of MIND & BODY

MIND AND BODY

Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

\

Digitized by uooQle
-313-

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Cincinnati, Ohio. fContinuedA

A Lesson for Seniors (age 18 to 30 years.)

A Class Drill, squad work on the apparatus and closing with the game “Dodge Ball” in a circle. A preliminary run precedes the floor work and light gymnastic tactics.

After receiving wands stand in front formation. Fours right in successive order after four counts, the first four (head of class) beginning. March forw.; column 1. to center; march down the center to location for the drill. Ranks open order outw.; the inner members turn outw. march forw. four steps by passing in front of the outer members; then about face on 5 and 6; all grasp upper end of wand with 1. hand on 7 and lower the wand forw. to starting pos. and halt with r. foot on 8

WAND DRILL. (5 !b.)

1.	Raise heels and raise wand in front of shoulders (i. e. bend arms upw,)—1! Bend knees and stretch arms forw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4!

2.	Toetouch forw. 1. and raise wand forw.—1! Bendkneestep sidew. 1. (i. e. place 1. foot sidew., bend r. knee.) place 1. hand on hip and bend r. arm overh.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1,4! Alt.—1, 8!

3.	Bend knees and place wand behind shoulders—1! Stretch knees bend trunk forw. and stretch arms forw. (arms in line with the trunk)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4!

. R. hafid on hip, grasp wand in the center with 1. hand (wand in vert pos.) and forw.—raise!

4.	Pronate and supinate forearm 8 to 12 times. Transfer wand to r. hand, 1. hand on hip and repeat the exercise.

Hold the wand in the same manner as under ex. 4, but arm to thrust—bend!

5.	Raise 1. leg forw. and thrust 1. arm forw.—1! Pos.—2! Same sidew.— 3! Pos.—4! Repeat on r. side—1, 4!

Wand forw. to starting pos.—lower!

6.	Jump to stride pos. outw. and raise wand forw. upw. (overh.)—1! Turn trunk to the 1., move r. arm forw. and 1. backw.—2! As 1—2! Pos.—4! Same r.—1, 4! Or—5, 8!

Close ranks in reverse order to that of opening the same. Upon the first step all carry the wand at r. shoulders and with the second step lower the 1. arm.

Intermediate exercise.—March forw. four steps—1, 4! Fours 1. march 5, 8! L. about face in four steps—9, 12! Repeat three times—13, 48! Same opposite—1, 48! Repeat once. Repeat all while running.

Open ranks in the same manner as before—1, 8!

7.	L. face on r. heel, stride pos. forw. 1. and raise wand forw. upw.—1! Kneel on r. knee, lower wand forw. 1. and place r. hand under 1. shoulder—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1, 4!

8.	One eighth turn 1. (V2 1. face,) lunge backw. 1., raise 1. arm backw. downw. obi., r. hand in front of 1. shoulder—1! Transfer weight

Digitized by U.ooQle
—3 14—

to r. leg, stretch 1. knee, raise 1. leg backw., and V2 circle with tlie

1.	arm (through the upw. direction,) to forw. upw. obi.—2 As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.-l, 4!

9.	Bend knees and raise wand in front of shoulders—1! Stretch knees, bend trunk backw. and stretch arms upw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4-!

10.	Crosstoetouch backw. 1. and raise wand sidew. r.—1! Lunge sidew. 1., move wand downw., then sidew upw. obi. to the 1.—2! Bend trunk sidew. 1., move wand downw., then upw. r., 1. hand in front of r. shoulder (r. arm in line with the upper part of trunk and r. leg)—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1, 4!

NOTE.—Try in double count for each movement.

11.	Jump to stride pos. outw. and raise wand forw. upw.—1! Jump to stride pos. inw. 1. leg crossed in front and lower wand behind hips—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Repeat with r. leg crossed in front— 5, 8! Repeat all in lively rhythm 8 to 12 times.

12. Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise wand forw. upw.—1, 4f Exhale slowly and lower wand forw. to starting pos.—5, 8! Repeat several times.

Close ranks in reverse order to that of opening the same. Fours 1. to front formation, then 1. face!

March forw. and deposit wands.

Form divisions (squads) for apparatus work and march to the assigned places.

First Division.—Long horse.

Second	“	High horizontal ladder.

Third	“	High parallel bars.

Fourth	“	Window-jump.

Change peaces. Division 1 with 2 and 3 with 4.

First Division. Long Horse.

A short run precedes all exercises.

1.	Jump	up	and	roll over forw. to crossriding	seat	on	the	neck,	place

hands	in front	of thighs and raise both legs	backw.	to	a front lean-

ing rest; straddle dismount forw.

2.	Scissors mount forw. (V2 turn 1. or r.) to a front leaning rest; rear vault 1. over croup with Y2 turn r.

3.	Straddle vault f rw. place both hands on croup, then on neck, in rapid succession.

4.	Squat vault forw. placing hands as in ex. 3.

5.	As ex.	3,	but	only place hands on neck.

^ u u	4.	14	“ * »< a it *<

7.	Roll over forw. to back crosstand.

NOTE.—Place both hands on saddle so that the roll over occurs on the neck of the horse*

8.	Jump to hand balance on the neck and turn over forw. to back crosstand.

NOTE.—The leader of the squad should stand ready to offer assistance for exercises 7 and 8J

9.	An exercise free for all if time permits.

Change place with the second division on the high horizontal ladder

Digitized by CjOOQle
—^>15—

First Division.—High Horizontal Ladder.

i

In front crosshang, hands in outside grasp on the beams.—

1.	Travel forw. to farther end with both knees raised forw., then down.

2.	As ex. 1, but with inside grasp.

3.	As ex. 1, but with both legs raised forw.

In crosshang with outside grasp of hands on beams, flex thighs over trunk (knees stretched.)—

4.	Travel forw. to farther end, then down.

5.	to 8. Repeat exercises 1, 2; 3 and 4 in crosshang backw. and travel backw.

Hang and grasp as under ex. 1.—

9. Travel forw. by moving both hands forw. simultaneously.

10.	As ex. 9, but with inside grasp.

11.	As ex. 9, but hands in ordinary grasp on the rounds and both legs spread wide sidew.

12.	An exercise free for all.

Second Division. High Horizontal Ladder.

In front crosshang, hands iu outside grasp on one (1. or r.) beam.—

1.	Travel forw. to farther end, moving the hands alternately.

2.	As ex. 1, but add raising the 1. and r. leg forw. with 1. and r. hand resp.

3.	As ex. 1, but pull up (bend both arms) with 1. and r. hand advancing.

4.	As ex. 1, but move both hands simultaneously.

5.	“	“	4, “	“	“	“	“	with	every	forw. swing.

6.	to 10. Repeat exercises 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 in back crosshang and and travel backw.

In back side hang, hands in reverse grasp, on the farther beam.—

11. Pull up raise both legs upw. with stretched knees and turn over backw. to front leaning rest on both beams; place hands alt. to ordinary grasp (on rear beam) close to thighs to a front rest; lower backw. slowly to full stretch of arms and both legs raised forw. to r. angle; lower legs and down.

Change places with the first division on the long horse.

Second Division. Long Horse.

A short run precedes all exercises.

1.	Jump up, hands momentarily on croup, circle r. with 1. leg over croup and Vi turn 1. to front side stand at saddle; flank vault forw. r. (over neck.)

2.	Jump up, hands momentarily on croup, circle 1. with r. leg and Vi turn r. to front side stand at neck; jump up to free front rest and Vz circle 1. with r. leg, then dismount sidew. 1. and Vi turn r. to front crosstand.

3.	Jump t<* momentary stand in the saddle; free jump forw. over neck with legs spread wide sidew. and arms raised forw. upw. in the flight to back crosstand.

Digitized by LaOOQle
—316—

4.	Jump to momentary stand on the croup, leap forw. with hands on the neck, straddle vault dismount forw. and V2 turn 1.

T>. Free jump to stand on the croup; leap forw. with hands on the neck and squat vault dismount forw.

6.	Squat vault forw. to crossriding seat in the saddle (the hands to be lifted quickly while squatting and then placed behind the thighs;) place hands on neck and raise both legs backw. to front leaning-rest; scissors dismount backw. (V2 turn 1. or r.) to front crosstand.

7.	Roll over forw. to crossriding seat on neck; raise both legs and arms forw. momentarily, then place hands on neck simultaneously, raise both legs bgickw. to free front rest and scissors dismount backw. to front crosstand and add rear vault r. or 1. over neck.

8.	An exercise free for all.

Third and Fourth divisions execute the same exercises. The third to begin on the high parallel bars and the fourth the window-jump,x then change places.

High Parallel Bars.

A short run precedes all exercises.

1’ Jump to upper arm hang in the middle of the bars, swing forw., then backw. and spread legs wide over the bars (resting on arms and thighs ;) close legs, intermediate swing and down.

2.	As ex. 1, but pull up at the end of the backw. swing to straddle seat behind the hands; raise both legs backw. to front leaning rest; travel forw. to end and straddle dismount forw.

NOTE.—The leader to offer aid if necessary, when dismount to her place.

3.	As ex. 1, to resting on arms and thighs; lower to hammockhang; pull up to front leaning rest; swing forw. and rear vault over r. bar.

4.	Jump to upper arm hang in the middle of the bars, swing forw., flex thighs over trunk and upstart (kips) to straddle seat in front of hands; raise both legs forw., swing backw. and front vault 1. or r.

5.	As ex. 4, but instead pf straddle seat, lower to outside crosseat in front of r. hand; Vi turn 1. to front leaning rest; place r foot on the farther bar; dismount forw.

6.	As ex. 4, to straddle seat; % turn over backw. slowly, keep the legs spread wide during the first half turn, then quickly bend the knees, spread the thighs very wide and place the heels under the bars for support and complete the turn with placing the hands behind thighs; raise both legs forw., swing backw. and lower to outside crosseat behind the 1. haqd on r. thigh (1. leg extended ;) front vault dismount sidew. r. over both bars.

7.	An exercise free for all.

Window-Jump.

The jump standards to be placed as for high-jump. Two small ropes or cross bars may be used, one placed above the other, or one long rope to rest on the upper pegs, then passed down the one side under the lower peg and over the other at the same height on the other standard.

Start the lower bar, or rope, at about two feet six inches and the upper one at six feet. After every jump of the division move the standards nearer, raise the lower bar (or rope) and lower the upper each one inch.

Digitized by Google

J
-317-

This order to continue until the space is too small to clear. Attempt to clear a space of 25 inches square as a final.

1.	Spring off of 1. (or r.) foot, swing both legs (well flexed) and arms forw. with the head lowered to a half bent-knee pos.

2.	Spring off of both feet and dive through the space, landing on the hands and somersault forw. on the mat.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and prepare for the game “Dodge Ball” in a circle. After conclusion of the game dismiss.

(To be continued.)

EXTRACTS FROM EUROPEAN PERIODICALS.

By CARL L. SCHRADER.

STATISTICS OF THE DEUTSCHE TURNERSCHAFT.

Dr. Ruehl, secretary of the organization, reports 8157 societies with a total membership of 847,999 as against 7787 societies with a membership of 808,525 in the previous year. The junior membership increased from a total of 131,057 to 139,409.

GYMNASTICS AS A MEANS TOWARD SOUND PHYSICAL CONDITION IN ADVANCED YEARS.

One of the most inspiring scenes at the recent gymnastic festival at Frankfort, was the exhibition of the older men, the oldest of whom was 76 years of age. They were divided into about thirty classes, and truly remarkable were their performances. There were upstarts and uprises, yes, even turn-uprises on the horizontal bar were seen and all performed with an ease and grace, which suggested a training in physical, pleasurable activities during youth which seemed to be an ideal and lasting one. This should be an object lesson to those of our American teachers who believe that only athletics, or dancing, or games are true means of body culture.

ITALIAN NEWS AND A PHYSIOLOGISTS VERDICT ON MODERN SPORT.

The interest in sport in Italy, which has practically been dead, has experienced a remarkable awakening, due undoubtedly to recent success in international automobile races. Tha belief seems to gain ground that Italy some day will take the lead in the culture of sport, as much so as it has lead Europe during two decades in the culture of the mind. These brave hopes have again received new fuel through the great success of Italian cavalry men during the Concours hippique and through the Marathon runner Durando. Much praise is therefore due the great physiologist Angelo Mosso for his courage of stating in the midst of this enthusiasm the worthlessness of such performances for the body training of the masses.

Prof. Mosso says that it is of just as little value to mankind to raise runners who can run 15 km. in an hour as it is to raise giants

Digitized by VjOOQle
-318-

2 meter tall. A system which trains individuals to record performers can never be considered as a rational means of gradually bettering and improving the physical conditions of the great masses. This aim can only be reached by such physical education which lies outside the realm of competition for championships, and which strives to develop the normal elements rather than the abnormal ones, with its spectacular but unproductive characteristics. The immense sums now spent to promote competetive sport might better find use for a broader but less conspicuous purpose.

INTERNATIONAL MILITARY SPORTS IN CHINA.

A competition was held among the troups of the various nations stationed in Tientsin. The main event was 30 km. march in heavy marching order. 67 men entered, distributed among the different nationalities as follows:	30 Germans, 22 Frenchmen, 9 Japanese and

six Englishmen. The Frenchmen and Japs were picked as winners, but the winners crossed the tape in the following order: Heidschmidt, Germany, 3 hours 18 M. 20 Sec.; Paetsch, Germany, 3 h. 18 M. 22 Sec.; Wolf, Germany, 3 h. 20 M. 22 Sec. Then followed a Jap, then an Englishman and then again three Germans. The Frenchmen won in bayonette fencing and on horizontal bars (swinging exercises), England took first place in tug of war, Germany further first place in high jumping, pole vaulting and horizontal bar (strength exercises).

A SUGGESTION FOR CREATING PLAYGROUNDS IN CITIES

FREE OF COST.

At a joint meeting of many societies held in a suburb of Berlin the imperial building inspector in speaking of the tendencies of the present building and ground speculation, presented a plan whereby the demand for playgrounds in the heart of the city can be met without direct cost. The plan is this: That one twentieth of a building lot be reserved for a playground and that as compensation the owner be granted the priv-elege of covering one twentieth more of the remaining lot than the law now permits. These reserved pieces of land are then to be joined in the middle of a house block to serve as a playground.

The city of Koenigsberg has already a similar plan in operation. Such plan offers the great advantage of creating many playgrounds and besides keep the children more in the neighborhoods of their homes, from where they may be watched.

AN OPINION ON THE OLYMPIC GAMES.

The London correspondent of the Journal de Geneve writes:	“The

evident result of the Olympic games seems to have been the creating of hatred and dissatisfaction among sporting organizations and among the participating nations/5 He suggests that the 4th Olympiade be the last one.

Digitized by L^ooQle
-319-

ATHLETICS AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

Compiled by EMANUEL HAUG. New York.

A NEW RECORD ON THE PARALLEL BARS. John N. Wood-side at the meet of the Holy Trinity Athletic Association made a new record for the dip on the parallel bars, dipping sixty times, the old record being fifty-eight times.

—When the Amateur Athletic Union of the U. S. meets in annual session one of the most important features of the meeting, aside from the election of President and other officers, will be the consideration of new world’s records claimed to have been made during, the outdoor season of 1908. 'While the season has not been so prolific of new marks as some of the former years, the performances which the A. A. U. delegates will be confronted with were decidedly sensational and will be favorably acted upon. Full details as to records allowed by the A. A. IT. will appear in the next number of Mind and Body.

—DURANDO TO RACE IN THIS COUNTRY. Arrangements to bring Pietri Durando the European who broke down when he nearly had won the Marathon Race held in London last August at the Olympic games to this country have been completed. Efforts are being made to induce John Hayes the winner of the Marathon to meet the foreigner in another race. Longboat the Indian Runner and Shrubb the English runner are also booked to meet Durando.

—The Marathon Swim and the championship of Greater Boston was recently won by Miss Mary T. McDonough of South Boston in 20 minutes and 20 seconds. The distance was three-quarters of a mile. Among the competitors was a girl of 14 years and her mother aged 50 years. The daughter was compelled to give up soon, but amid the plandits and the shrieking of the whistles the mother finished in eighth place.

—John F. Davidson made a high jump of 3 ft. 10 in. on roller skates recently at the Metropolitan Roller Skating Rink in New York.

—Fred Bellarsr of the New York Athletic Club won the Senior National Cross Country Run of the A. A. .IT. on Saturday, Nov. 14 in New York. The distance was 6miles and was covered by Bellars in 34 minutes 15 3/5 seconds. J. J. Joyce of the Irish American Athletic Club finished second, about 350 yds. behind Bellars.

Jimmy Lee of the Boston Athletic Assn, won the Junior National Cross Country Run the same day and over the same course. His time was 36 minutes 18 4/5 seconds.

Trinity Club, Brooktyn, won the club trophy with 78 points.

Digitized by v^,ooQle
30th National Gymnastic Festival

OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION (N. A. T. B.)

JUNE, 19th TO 27th, 1909, AT CINCINNATI.

General Offices at North Cincinnati Turn Verein, Vine and Daniels Sts.

OFFICIAL, BULLETIN NO. 1

Cincinnati, November 5th, 1808.

To all of the Societies and Turners in general of the North American x

Gymnastic Union:

Gut Heil!

The General Committee having charge of the arrangements of the next National Festival of the North American Gymnastic Union, have decided to issue and send out Official Bulletins from time to time to Turner Societies, Turners in general and all others who may be interested throughout the United States, giving the details and arrangements pertaining to what we hope will be the greatest event in the history of the Union.

“THE FESTIVAL IN CINCINNATI IN 1909”

The Place: CINCINNATI “The Queen of the West.” The Time: JUNE 19 TO 27, 1909, Both Inclusive.

A HEARTY WELCOME AND A SPLENDID ENTERTAINMENT.—It will be the aim of the Committee to extend a hearty welcome to every visiting Turner and all friends that may come with him, and with that end in view, the Committee respectfully requests that it be informed of the time of arrival of all visitors, including the name of the railroad.

LADY TURNERS AND VISITORS.—It is the desire of the Committee that all visiting Turners bring with them their wives, mothers, or sisters, as the case may be. A program will be arranged for them, the details of which will be presented in our subsequent bulletins, and will include visits to the famous Rook-wood Pottery, the Zoological Gardens, Ft. Thomas, and other places of interest in and around Cincinnati.

THE PROGRAM.—The entire program for the Festival is now in the course of preparation, and will be printed for your information in our next bulletin. For the present the Committee only desires to state that it will endeavor to make it the best in the history of the Union, including many new features and novelties, and we are quite sure will leave such an impression on all of the visi-tors, that one need only to mention to them the name of Cincinnati, at any time in the future, to bring to their minds the most pleasant of recollections.

THE CAMPUS.—What is known as the “Carthage Fair Grounds” has been selected for the Campus and Fest Platz. No more beautiful site could have been secured anywhere. Over $30,000 will be expended in additional improvements. The Athletic field is now in the course of construction. It will be as level as a floor, all newly sodded and will surpass any Athletic Field in the United States-Extensions will be made to the Grand Stands, improved sanitary conditions will be provided for, including all toilet facilities, and the whole campus will be beautifully illuminated during the whole Festival.

REDUCED RAILROAD RATES.—The Committee has already taken up the question of securing reduced Railroad Rates with the following Associations: Central Passenger Association; Western Passenger Association; Trunk Line Association; Southeastern Passenger Association; New England Passenger Association.

Corespondence already had indicates that proper rates will be secured from all these Associations, which will be fully set forth in one of the succeeding bulletins and as soon as possible.

HOTELS AND ACCOMMODATIONS.—A Special Committee has been appointed to look after hotel rates and accommodations. Assurance can be given at this time that there will be no increase in hotel rates and no overcrowding of rooms. In the next bulletin a list of hotels and their respective locations will be submitted, giving price per day, both American and European plans.

WATCH FOR THE' NEXT BULLETIN.—It will contain a number of new and novel announcements. The most important of all: “THE WOODS IN THE HEART OF THE CITY.” (Details Later.)

The Committee is anxious to have the correct address of every Turnverein and the proper person to-whom mail should be addressed. Please do so at once.

For information of all kinds, address, General Committee, Tuinfest i909,CNorth Cincinnati Turn-halle,. Cincinnati.

Issued by the order of the General Committee.

AUG. HERRMANN, Chairman.	ADAM BENUS, Treasurer.

HENRY HOEFLE, Vice Chairman. GEO. F. DIETERLE.

GUSTAVE CLEMENS. Secretary. GEO. A. SINGER.

ERNST VON BARGEN, Fin. Sec’ty. N. C. SEUSS, Technical Director.
theTEMPLE university

NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

RUSSELL H. CONNELL, Pres.

Offers a two years' course in preparation for teachers of Physical Training. Large and modern gymnasiuin. Hospital clinics in massage and corrective gymnastics.

Well equipped laboratories for Histology and Physiology. Competent instructors and lecturers. Model School for Practice Teaching.’ 10^ For catalogue and full information address

THE TEMPLE UNIVERSITY, Philadelphia, Pa.

\____________________£________PRANK W. WHITE, M. D , Dean

We need you for importand positions in all parts of the United States. Let us put you in a better position than you can secure through your personal efforts. The University of Michigan, University of Wisconsin, Ohio State University, Purdue University, and many other great educational institutions have secured instructors through us. It will be to your interest to register now. Send for complete information.

The Specialists’ Educational Bureau

(Formerly the Physical Training Teachers’ Bureau, Rockford, Illinois,) WEBSTER GROVES STATION, ST. LOUIS, MO.

THE NEW HAVEN NORMAL SCHOOL

OF GYMNASTICS

OFFERS

A Two Years’ Course of Preparation for Teachers of Physical Training, Course of Massage and Medical Gymnastics.

Summer Courses in Gymnastics and Athletics.

For Catalogues, Terms, etc., apply to E. H. ARNOLD, M. D., Director, 307 York St.,

New Haven, Conn.



^TLOVSfe

Complete Volumes

For Sale.

Eighty-eight wooden lockers,

double tier, 12“xl24‘x36u, ventilated door, good condition, good bargain.

Postage paid.

FREIDENKEB PUBLISHING CO.,

c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wla. I

ERLE V. PAINTER,

Y. M. C. A.,

Knoxville, Tenn.
NARRAGANSETT MACHINE CO.

f	V	.	.	.	'

PROVIDENCE, R.I., U.S.A.

Write for Catalogs.

NORMAL COLLEGE § NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION,

415-419 East Michigan Street, Indianapolis, Ind.

KARL J. KROH, President .	The	oldest	American institution for the education of

~	teachers of physical training. Established 1861; reorganized

i	1868.	Conducted	at	New	York,	Chicago,	and Milwaukee,

1868-1889; at Indianapolis, 1889-1891;' at Milwaukee, 1891-1907. Removed to Indianapolis and incorporated in Indiana,

” 1907>

Courses open to high school graduates who are physically sound and welt formed: One-year course, leading to certification as Teacher of Physical Training for Gymnastic Societies. Two-year course, leading to the title of Graduate In Gymnastics (G. G.). Pour-year course, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in Gymnastics (B. S. G.). Graduate courses, leading to the degree of Master of Science in Gymnastics (M. S. G.). The College also offers an elementary one-year course, which is open to male students that have attained a high degree of proficiency in gymnastics and are well versed in German, but do not meet the 7eqnirernents for matriculation.

For illustrated catalogue, address Normal College N. A. G. U., 415—419 E. Michigan St.. Indianapolis, Ind.

I

200 Indoor and Outdoor Gymnastic Games.

Maria Grey,

-—-—-	Prio«,	TOt,

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.