MIND AND BODY

Vol. 34	JANUARY, 1928 No.	365

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO.. NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Original articles and reprint^

HOW CAN A CITY RECREATION SYSTEM INCREASE THE SUM TOTAL OF UNORGANIZED INDIVIDUAL AND SMALL GROUP PLAY AND RECREATION?

By Jay B. Nash, Assoc. Professor of Physical Education, New York University.

This morning I am going to outline on the board the problems which I am to discuss so that we may better visualize the task we have in the stimulation of the individual and the unorganized group in the community.

Many of you will not agree with me and the fact that I may happen to become vigorous does not mean that I expect everybody to believe as I do.

If there is a germ of an idea in what I have to say, you are certainly welcome to it.

I am going to take these cross sections as representing the ages in the community. First, I am going to begin at zero and end at six. In that age today, which is the pre-school age, including the kindergarten age, there are approximately 16 million children. About 15 million are below the age of five and about

•Read at the National Recreation Congress, Memphis, Tenn.

Digitized byXjCJOyLC
338

one million or a little less in kindergartens. That means 16 million children of this age are confronted with the modern conditions that civilization has thrown around them.

Before I go ahead, I want to say a word or two about those little children.

We pride ourselves today upon being an unsentimental people; that we look hard facts in the face and decide issues on the basis of the fact; that we are a practical group of Yankee people over here. When I begin to think of the situation in regard to the little children of this country, when I begin to think of the situation that involves itself in the situation of that boy trapped in a cave in Kentucky a short time ago; who owned the cave and probably went in there to explore it in order that he might make some money out of it, and then found himself trapped for 21 days while headlines in the papers carried the drama of that boy trapped in that cave, and the state department sent down their people from the mining bureaus of the state, and the state militia came, and a regiment of U. S. regulars, and people from the U. S. Department of Mines—and all in all about $150,000 was spent in trying to rescue that one citizen of this country— I do not regret that any amount of money was spent even though the boy’s life had passed out before they reached him, but in spite of that situation and the sentimentality of one life, you and I are facing today a situation where last year 2580 little children were killed playing in the streets of America.

Ladies and gentlemen, you see no headlines in the papers, you have seen nothing done so far as adults are concerned in many of our cities for these sixteen million children who are below the age of six. Are we going to stand by and absolutely say that the toll is going to be as heavy as we are paying today? That is our first question.

I am going to outline to you today three administrative problems that it seems to me face our communities and I will divide them into several parts.

I am going to take the age from six to twelve, or the elementary school age, which numbers about eighteen million children that are under compulsory education, ranging from six to eight or ten months in the public schools of this country.

I will go next and take the junior high school situation which as you know approximates about five million children, and then take the senior high school age of a little over two million. Probably today that is nearer three million because of the great growth of the high school movement.

Just over this group, I am going to take the next three years and the next three years, which probably represent largely the university and college groups, and in those two there are approximately 700,000 people enrolled.

Now let me take that diagram and draw a diagram something of this type. It will give to you the public school age of America. These people who are in this group are the people who are

Digitized by VjOO^lC
339

in some way or other coming under the influence of public education in this country.

Now in that school age we have three problems. The first problem is the problem of school hours—nine to three or three-thirty. May I say to you that the best schools of America are in session less than half the days of the year.

We have another problem facing us there, the problem of this extra time from 3:15 or 3:30 on school days which represents approximately the time or almost the time that is actually spent in school activity.

May I designate this to be the time of vacations and holiday, in which the school is not in session at all.

Another problem is how to organize that group of children, which as you see represents something like forty million.

The first is the home problem, without question, and the next is the problem of how school must be considered and how that is going to be done.

And over all this, covering this whole situation up here, and coming down into the home, encircling this whole plan is the community problem.

There we have our three administrative problems; First, the problem of the small child; second the problem of the school age child, and third the problem of the individual who has passed beyond the range of the home as a child and beyond the range of school.

I cannot see how we are going to face those problems without facing those three situations, those three groups. Whatever our feeling is about how it shall be organized, we must face those facts.

What is the function of a playground department? What is the function of a recreation department in stimulating individual play, individual activity and group activity in that whole situation? How can we do it? What is our responsibility? How can we help along?

I am going to take first the home problem. What can we do today to face this problem of play for the small child? Are we going to have playgrounds to reach every small child?

My definite feeling is this: I am not going to give you theories as far as I am concerned, but what I think is absolutely a fact. That is the play of the small child up to the age of six, and even up to the age of eight, is going to be solved around the home or it will not be solved.

Theoretically we may sit in a swivel chair and talk about the child of three or four walking to a public playground, but from the standpoint of the public playground we are not nursery people. We cannot take care of children of that age on our playgrounds.

There is not a person in this room, and I doubt whether there are very many in America, who would be willing to have their children of that age go two or three blocks to a public playground. Then what are we going to do? igitizedbyGoc
340

In the smaller communities that is a very simple problem' The mother gets out with her children and this enables the children to play and run under her supervision. But in the crowded cities that is impossible.

There are three or four solutions to that problem.

First is the backyard. We may talk about living in cities and about being city people, but the fact remains that in the neighborhood of seventy-five percent of our people of America live in one or two family houses. Most of those people have some kind of a backyard and the astounding thing to me is the fact that most of those people who do have backyards put them practically to no use.

There must be play and amusement around the home. It must be so that the mother can step to the back door and call “Johnny” and Johnny will be there. That holds in the city where the child has to go out and play in the streets and hear the curses of truck and automobile drivers as he dodges in and around their vehicles. The mother wants her child of that age within calling distance and there is no solution to that except the backyard.

I firmly believe that for the price of a spare tire for an automobile you can equip the backyard of any home so that you can monopolize the time of the child from the time he is two until six or eight years of age.

Some work has been done on backyard playgrounds. Tom Deering has done some work on it out in the west and Mr. Batchellor did something in Fort Worth and later in Pittsburgh. Diagrams have been shown illustrating how a garage can be used, how side walks can be used for kiddie cars and scooters and how you can drop the doors for a hand ball court and have a net in the back for a golf net.

But what are we going to do when we haven’t that backyard?

In the first place, what can we do to bring this problem to the parents in the home? In our cities we have the responsibility of getting pamphlets into every home. It seems to me we have the responsibility of getting moving picture reels and slides so that we can go to mothers clubs with our problems. I want to say that there is not an easier topic in all the world to get before any audience anywhere than the problem of the small child.

You can go before Rotary Clubs, Chambers of Commerce— you can go anywhere, because there is hardly a business man or a mother whose heart has not missed a beat when they remembered it was three or four o’clock in the afternoon and their little child was coming home from school, and possibly some driver was whirling around the corner and there was the danger of^an accident. You can go before those people and tell them how they can plan a backyard playground.

It seems to me that is the first thing we can do; it seems to me that is our first definite responsibility. But in the absence

Digitized by Google
341

of that, what else can we do? If we have a garage we can fix up a little playroom perhaps. It is better than nothing. We may also have a basement which is not as ideal as a garage, but it is better than nothing and we may also have a storeroom in the house, or a spare room that we keep for occasional guests, letting the children play in the streets instead of using that room.

Couldn't we put a folding bed of some kind into that room and mark off a comer that the children could use as a play spot and have their things in that spare room?

You say that is all right, that is fine, as far as the home is concerned, whether there is a yard or a bed room, an attic or a basement. But how about the big communities, the cities?

They have a problem to solve and they are going to have to solve their problem undoubtedly from the cooperative standpoint. You playground representatives and superintendents of this country ought to know that is being done. We have the new Rockefeller apartments up in the Bronx district in New York with provisions for play spaces; there is the Sunnyside project at Queens where they have taken those great six hundred yard blocks and left the entire center— six hundred yards long and one hundred and twenty-five feet wide—absolutely free for the play of the small children of the community. Any mother can step to her back door and view the entire six hundred yard stretch and see what is going on in the entire block. That development is solving the problems for hundreds of little children between the ages of three and four up to eight, nine and even ten.

But that is not going to solve the entire problem. We have got to exhaust the possibilities of roof gardens, of garden courts, school yards and parks. We have got to go in and say: “Here is our problem, here is our liability. We have got to chalk up against that absolutely every asset in our community.’’ It is the duty of the superintendent of playgrounds in a community to call attention to absolutely every asset for the saving of lives.

In the next age we have a very complicated problem. The school is the most important institution in the community. It is pushing its way down into adult education as far as mother is concerned in her relationships to her little children. In the last twenty-five years the park department has developed from a “Keep off the grass department” to a play department. We are calling our parks the playgrounds of the people and they are spreading out. They serve the little children represented down here and they serve all of these here.

Along in this whole situation comes the playground and recreation movement saying we are here to serve this whole group of children below the age of six and into the school age and in here, and what are we going to do? We have a complicated situation in this country so far as playgrounds and recreational facilities are concerned in connection with city government. What can we do?

The school can do a lot.
342

We can do everything possible to acquire land for the stimulation of activities, and we can organize and encourage groups in this after school age and cooperate with the schools in the operation of summer playgrounds. We can do it on a cooperative basis or upon a divided responsibility basis. We have divided responsibility as to parks, and it seems to me that playgrounds and recreation should be responsible for encouraging every individual and every group.

Something has to be done in every city. All forces operating in this particular age somehow divide their responsibilities—you take this responsibility, you take that, you take that, and so on. These are our children, we must organize and throw in every possible asset in every one of these departments, and we are not then going to solve the problem, because it is too great for us at the present time.

Now the most important age of the individual and from the standpoint of encouragement is this right in here. The school is never going to do this completely. There is a situation where there is absolute freedom as far as every playground and recreation department is concerned. What can we do in that group?

What can we do with this group which represents the boys and girls who have dropped out of our schools, between then and the time when they establish homes of their own? That is the most important age of boy and girl life. That is the age when they wander about our streets. What are we going to do about it?

We know in cases of great anger or other types of emotion, that bodily growth Is actually stopped, that respiration and circulation are interfered with, that digestion stops temporarily. Now the best psychologists tell us that crime to a large extent is a product of overstrain, from lonesomeness, from homesickness and from the strain that comes from lack of constructive things to do.

And there is the place where you and I have great responsibility. Of course we organize around our major athletics—football, basketball, and other types of sports and social groups. May I stop just a moment to say a word more about this section?

So far as these small children are concerned, their opportunities must be furnished to them free or they will not get them. Opportunities must be furnished free to these people also. So far as this seventy million is concerned, they are money-making people. They are self-supporting. They are wage earners and they are going to be able in many instances to be organized upon a self-sustaining basis. I want to pause to touch upon that idea.

It seems to me that the self-sustaining idea of recreation in adults .is* a very much bigger one than just the problem of getting* the finances. I am not sure whether or not we ought to furnish "allJof that activity absolutely free, even though we have the monej. ‘
343

Someone has said very truly that democracy consists not merely in taking everybody into the plan, but democracy depends upon taking everyone into the planning.

The Federal department of Education said that forty-eight percent of all commercial recreation organized up to about a year ago had failed. Why did it fail?

The Metropolitan people have just made a survey on recreation to find out why much of the recreation started by industrial enterprises has failed. It failed for four reasons. First, it was organized as a health, or welfare or uplift movement. Nobody wants to be uplifted, and nobody wants health provided for them simply so they can turn back more to their employers than they have before. It will fail if you put this thing upon the standpoint of greater efficiency from the standpoint of health and other efficiency methods.

It failed because the men who sat in the swivel chairs mapped out a program and said, “Here is what is good for you. Take it.” People don’t like to take things that way.

It failed because in many instances it got mixed up with commercialism; money was being made out of games and then came quarrels and other kinds of interference.

And then it failed because the employees were not taken into the planning. It did not come from the people. They did not have a part in the making of the plans. That is most important. Just as soon as the people are taken into the planning of a project, it becomes theirs. We are going to have to bring the feeling of ownership, the feeling of planning back into that group before it is going to be a success.

We have a great deal of recreation today that is being planned from swivel chairs. That recreation is going to fail and will keep on failing just as long as we neglect to take the people into its planning.

A great deal of this recreation can be made partially self-sustaining. We can probably allocate the salary of the playground superintendent or allocate the overhead, but when there are picnics, or camps, or dances and things of that kind, the people must have a part in the planning so it becomes theirs.

It seems to me that this whole group here of seventy million people, that our responsibility is heavy upon us for making that group self-planning, in getting them to organize in that whole situation. It is not exactly whole, but it is partly true.

You are to a community what a self-starter is to a motor car. The self-starter starts something. What do you do after you have started the engine? Keep your foot on the selfstarter? No. Results are disastrous if you do. You let the starter alone until you need it again. That is the way we are going to have to organize our groups.

We are going to have to find out what they want to do and as soon as we find out what they want to do, we have got to get started, give them a place to play, gjy^j^i^^^pjlundamen-
344

tals and then let them go ahead and do their own planning or they will be a failure.

Most of our learning comes from trial and error and if they fail here or there, they will come back in many instances better trained to carry on next time. So we are what the self-starter is to the motor car. We cannot keep our foot on it all the time.

I do not believe or agree with those who believe that we cannot organize beyond the point where we cannot do things personally. I feel that we must stop doing so many things personally; that we must do more organization work; that we must be organizers and not conductors; that we must not be directors in the narrow sense of the word of taking by the hand and leading. We must present the opportunities, we must offer the way. We must make the way easy; we must lay the tracks and get the obstacles out of the path and let the group organize and progress, even if they do make an error here or there.

But we have not yet scratched the surface. We have the home group, the shops, the factories, the Rotary and Kiwanis clubs, the geographical groups— every group there should be cross-sectioned in every direction, so that every member of the community belongs to at least one of those cross sections.

When we have done that, we will find a form of recreation that will apply to every individual in that whole seventy million, and until we have done that we have not reached one hundred percent efficiency in playground and recreation departments.

In closing, there is one other point; Why do we want every single person of the community to be in one of those cross sections? Why is it our obligation?

All education today comes as a result of activity performed by the individual. We incur certain hereditary traits and we are colored by our environment. But activity is the product and the means of education. There never has been any other way of education and there probably never will be. We want to have every individual active in some type of building activity. That is the reason why we are going to have to stand with our backs against the wall and fight for the participation and not for the spectators.

The man who comes before you and says there is as much value in watching a game as in playing it, does not know his psychology. We do not want gladitorial contests with a few people performing and a great mass on the bleachers, not because of the financial returns, not because of commercialism, not because of the publicity in the papers, but because only the group of people in the field are receiving the benefit of that activity.

What did the Declaration of Independence say? It did not say that all men were equal. It said that all men were equal, comma, in that they have an inalienable right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.

The joy of life comes from doing things. The joy of life comes from creating things. The joy of life comes from helping

Digitized by LjOOQle
345

others. The joy of life comes from doing the things we want to do. Someone said that if you wanted to influence anybody, begin with the thing that that individual could do well, or begin with the good things which that individual could do well. So wherever you find your material, in the slums or in the hills, your responsibility to the individual and to the group is to see that those individuals have opportunities to do the things they want to do, and then we have the responsibility of so guiding those desires that they will fit into the best ideals society has.

FOUR ABSTRACTS OF PAPERS READ AT THE MEMPHIS RECREATION CONGRESS

“The Limit of Specialization”

Rrecreation is the means by which man today escapes from the narrowness of life toward which specialization in industry forces him, Joseph Lee of Boston, president of the Playground and Recreation Association of America, told the National Recreation Congress at its recent session in Memphis.

“Specialization has done much for us,” he said. “Nobody believes everyone should do everything for himself—be his own doctor, lawyer, boot-maker, food producer and man of all work. Specialization has made possible our art, our literature, almost everything that makes life pleasant and almost every material advance.

“But to have nothing except a narrow, highly specialized job, leaves out the best part of life, the creative. Today the creative opportunity may be enjoyed because of the rich gift of leisure our age has provided. We may adjust the balance in life through sport and art and science and discovery, through family life and rest and meditation in those precious hours saved from the daily task to be invested as we choose.”

Two principles held very strongly in this country are now in conflict, Mr. Lee pointed out and one or the other must be modified or given up. “These are division of labor and democracy; the belief that every man should specialize as much as possible and the belief that every man should have a chance to bring out the best that there is in him.

“Behind specialization there is a sound philosophy, that every man should nave his place and make that contribution to the world for which he is best fitted. We must perforce fit ourselves to the economic world or starve. We must so fit ourselves or fail to do our part as men and citizens. But is there nothing else?

“Man was once a fighter and enforcer of the law. The home was a military unit, a fort, as well as a shelter. The father of

Abstract of address of Dr. Joseph Lee, President of the Playground and Recreation Association of America, at the Fourteenth National Recreation Congress, Memphis, October 3.
346

the family and his sons were its defenders and carried on the blood feud when any of its members had been killed. The family was the educational and economic unit, both school and factory, the place where the known arts were taught and all of them were carried on. As member of the tribe each man was judge and legislator. The assembly of free men decided upon peace and war. Each took part also in religious songs and dances and all the tribal festivals. Man thus was fighter, hunter, artificer, judge, policeman, legislator, dancer and musician.

“Much of the change from this condition has been a blessing in the lessening of bloodshed, the increase of produce and the labor saved. But is it all a blessing? Has not something been left out? Is there nothing in the fighting instinct that we would preserve? Is there not something in the fashioning, creative impulse without obedience to which there is no expression of a human life? Is it wholly an advantage that the baby leaves its mother for the nursery school? Can we wholly delegate to others our music and our public celebrations without some loss?

“It is eternally true that man must be a member, as hand and foot and eye are members of the human body, making his special contribution to the whole. But is that whole our economic system, changing as it must with every new invention? Is our economic system our new conception of the universe, that we should take the explosion engine as our god?”

Parks and playgrounds in real estate subdivisions put money in the pockets of realtors besides providing healthful places for young and old to play, said C. C. Hieatt of Louisville, Kentucky, president of the National Association of Real Estate Boards at the annual congress of the Playground and Recreation Association of America.

"It would be foolish for me to stand up here and tell you that we are giving away millions of dollars worth of valuable land just for love of humanity. It is a case of good horse sense combined with an ideal of city planning and civic service that has started the movement for golf courses, tennis courts, bathing beaches, and play areas in new subdivisions.

“When my associates and I purchased the half-built palace of an insolvent merchant in Memphis, together with a large plot of ground, we presented it to the city on the condition that it be made a recreation center, library, or museum for public use. It was accepted by the city on those terms and Mayor Paine said I had given Memphis $450,000. I did not. I believe that every penny that land is worth will come to my company in the increased value given the lots surrounding the piece we deeded to the city.

Digitized by CjOOQ 1C
347

“In Louisville, a short-sighted city council years ago spoiled the results of the wise city planning of the city's founders by selling off fourteen of the fifteen city squares set aside for parks. The land they sold is occupied by the community’s worst slum.

“While realtors cannot be expected to set aside recreation space except as they find it profitable to do so, you will find them keen to promote good city planning in both country and city districts. They have a campaign on hand to improve the billboard nuisance and to see that land values are everywhere conserved.

“Playgrounds in real estate areas should be carefully supervised or they will become a nuisance to residents. Recreation departments must cooperate with realtors in seeing to proper supervision. Park and play spaces should be set aside in accordance with sensible city planning, not in a hodge podge.”

Charles J. Storey, of the Russell Sage Foundation, New York City, said:

“Playgrounds, unless well cared for, do not always increase the value of land in their vicinity. A careful study of the assessed value of land around playgrounds over a period of years made by the department of recreation of the Russell Sage Foundation discloses the fact that bare, unplanted playgrounds, no matter how well equipped, may even lower the value of the lots immediately adjoining them.

“It is evident that the financial increase to real estate bordering on playgrounds is somewhat in ratio to the park-like quality of the playground and that money spent on the beautification of playgrounds will be returned to the municipality in the form of increased land values.”

The modem soul is starving to be a Leather-stocking in the school of the woods, Dr. William C. Vinal of the State College of Forestry, Syracuse, New York, told the national congress of the Playground and Recreation Association in an address on nature play.

“The chances in the city of liberating the instincts of tree climbing, cave hiding, stone throwing and brook wading— the great muscle and brain developers of the country youth— are reduced to a minimum,” he said. “Some one is needed to give the city boy and girl substitute nature opportunities.

“Nature play is science in the making, for nature offers a thousand contacts to the alert mind. Michael Pupin, famous

Digitized by * ^.005
348

scientist at Columbia University, heard sound waves carried through the ground when he was a shepherd boy in the Serbian Hills. If Edison had been bom in the city instead of in the country, he might have been a merchant instead of an inventor.

“Is this an age of tin canned education?” Dr. Vinal asked. “Have our schools lost all the flavor and freshness of the wild? Perhaps our educational processes have become so refined that the very vitamines of thought have been thrown way with the chaff.

"Climbing apple trees, chasing butterflies, fighting hornets, pushing across a pond on a raft, and hunting frogs are the serious business of childhood. Every child takes to hunting, fighting and inventing as a duck takes to water or a rabbit to the underbrush. These nature play activities are far more satisfactory to the boy and girl than calisthenics.

"If adults are to have a love for the outdoors, they must have some nature play in their youth. The man who did not go fishing in his boyhood has no love for fishing now.

“However inconvenient to city parents, pets are the birthright of every child and can partly compensate him for living away from the country and the woods.”

Juvenile delinquency could be cut seventy-five percent and health and good citizenship could be vastly improved in any community which would provide itself with the right kind of recreation facilities and leadership, said Dr. John A. Lapp of Chicago, Director of the Department of Social Action, National Catholic Welfare Council, in an address at the Recreation Congress of the Playground and Recreation Association of America.

"If a community reduces its juvenile delinquency, it will almost proportionately reduce its adult delinquency. Recreation is a promoter of normality. It teaches fair play, square dealing, and the rights of others which are basic in the struggle for social justice.

"Recreation teaches honesty,” Dr. Lapp continued. “True sport is an honest affair, and youth who are trained in the ideals of sport ought to be better citizens and understand civic rights and duties. Not only are sports honest, but the public would not tolerate them otherwise. If the public began to doubt the honesty of baseball, the support of the game would immediately drop away.

“If the public should ever reach a point where it would in sist upon public honesty to the same degree that it now insists upon honesty in sports, we would have a pure and undefiled government. Why do we have so many youthful criminals? Why is it that we find them roiginating in certain sections of

Digitized by v^: )OQ 10
349

our cities? The answer is that we have left youth in our congested centers to the evils of their surroundings and the influence of bad companionship. We have never opened the door to richer recreational activities and have left youth to their own devices in the streets.

“The fact that games, athletics and outdoor life build muscles and keep the body fit is well recognized. Their benefit to the mind and spirit the public has yet clearly to appreciate. Energy, mentality, earning power, morality and citizenship in both children and adults are immensely stimulated by recreation. If it is only in the field of health, social justice demands that every community should have organized recreation. For fifty per cent of the new recruits to poverty come to their dire need on account of sickness. Millions are held close to the poverty line by physical weakness and incapacity. For these, recreation, properly organized in their youth, would have been an inestimable boon.”

From Playground and Recreation Association of America, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York City.

SOME THOUGHTS ON DANISH GYMNASTICS.

E. H. Arnold.

One of the sources of error in any endeavor is lack of experience. The saying “Ars longa vita brevis” means to infer that the span of life of an individual may be too short to gather all the experience necessary for the successful pursuit of an art. It is the function of education especially the formal instruction port of it to use the experience of past generations as a foundation to build the experience of an individual on. History furnishes a resume of human experiences in the various arts. The study of any art should then, be based upon the knowledge of its history. The art of gymnastics (the word here used in its widest sense) forms no exception. Unfortunately for this as many another art, the usual history of it is written as a history of men and events rather than as an evolutionary account of the art. Causes of events and the effect of the events, a critical review as to how one led as a matter of necessity to the other, is the important thing in writing history. History of culture (Kulturgeschichte of the Germans) should be the typi-al art history. Unfortunately, the history of gymnastics of this type in the English language is yet to be written. Perhaps our own gymnastic history is as yet too recent to allow of a critical review. Likely our writers stand too much in the turmoil of contending opinions to allow of their shaking themselves free of bias and prejudice. As likely as not, our art is not yet comprehensive nor affluent enough to provide a place for the academician who provided with the necessary resources of special

Digitized byVjXJU*? LCT
350

knowledge but also of facilities and time and money to pursue historical research, will write for us such a history of our art. To be sure, the vast German literature on gymnastics would prove a veritable store house for such a historian, the Swedish likewise, though to a lesser extent. Unfortunately, the members in our ranks who command these languages on account of their descent, were largely what might be styled bread and butter artists. This is meant in no deprecating sense; they were not so from choice but necessity. The native rank and file however, are not linguists. So it comes that we are woefully short of historical knowledge. We are apt to experiment on our own account and repeat without necessity, the same experiment having been made elsewhere before our time. We do not profit by the experience had by others and progress is not made. Thus it was with Sargent’s pulley weight experiment which in the light of today must be regarded as largely futile. A thorough historical knowledge of the “Pangymnasticon” movement of the several first decades of the 19th century should and in all likelihood would have directed the effort and the experiment in such channels as would have made the result of the experiment much more profitable for the cause and lasting. In our days, large circles in Physical Education are adopting in a mere imitative and absolutely uncritical way, the so-called Danish gymnastics of Nils Bukh. Even a training school for Physical Education teachers has heaved overboard other gymnastics and adopted Danish en bloc. The following remarks are intended to bring about a somewhat more critical attitude in the matter.

Let it first be stated that about 1820 to 1835, there was a school of gymnastics extant in Europe, especially in Germany that pursued mainly what was called “Gelenkigkeitsiibungen“ (suppleness exercises). As an exclusive gymnastic principle, this was soon discarded. A justifiable measure of it was retained in German gymnastics to this day. To the well informed observer, it is at once apparent that we deal here with the product of an over-enthusiastic advocate of hyperflexibility and continuous activity. It must be likewise clear that these objects are pursued at the expense of especially educational principles. That even anatomical and physiological knowledge is disregarded, the following remarks may show. At a meeting of the Orthopedic Section of the New York Academy of Medicine, a case of avulsion of the tuberosity of the ischium in a girl was reported. The accident was due to the girl doing what is called the split,

i.	e. either an extreme abduction of both femura or flexion of one while hyper extending the other. This is a very commonly produced stunt of hyperflexibility. In the Journal of the America Medical Association for May 28, 1927, Dr. Key of St. Louis, reports on cases of hypermobility of joints as a sex linked hereditary characteristic. I shall quote here from his article.

“This is a report of what might be termed a “double jointed” family, in which the abnormal mobility of the joints is present in all the male members and is absent in all the females.

Digitized by VjOO^ 1C
351

Other than an occasional brief description of a contortionist in some of the older medical journals, I have not found hyper-mobility of otherwise normal joints mentioned in the literature.

The term hypermobility of joints suggests the question, What is the normal range of motion in the various joints? An answer to that question presents many difficulties and will not be attempted in this paper. It can be stated, however, that there may be considerable differences in the range of motion in the corresponding normal joints of diffferent individuals, and that, as a rule, the joints of slender persons can be moved through wider arcs than can the corresponding joints of persons of the heavy type. Also the range of motion in the joints tends to decrease slightly with advancing years.

In addition to the variations mentioned, there are certain individuals, more often females, whose joints can be moved through wider arcs than normal. This is especially noticeable in the knee, elbow and finger joints, which can be hyperextended to an unusual degree. These persons are not to be regarded as abnormal but merely as normal individuals with certain anatomic characteristics that are unusual. Whether or not this light increase above the usual range of motion in joints is hereditaiy has not been determined but I have occasionally noted it in different members of the same family.

From the standpoint of treatment, the occurrence of hypermobility of the joints in a case of clubfoot is of considerable importance, as it makes the treatment more difficult.

The affected members of this family do not regard themselves as handicapped in any way by the condition, but are rather pleased with the fact that they are, as they say, “double jointed.” In the older brother, W. D., the patellar ligaments on both sides are unusually long and he has suffered several dislocations of the patella. The dislocations have always been easily reduced and he does not wish operations to prevent recurrence of the dislocations. As there have been no other dislocations in any of the five affected members, there is no indication for treatment of the condition.

Conclusions

1.	General hypermobility of the joints may occur as a congenital abnormality.

2.	The condition appeared spontaneously in the father and was transmitted to all the sons but not to any of the daughters.

3.	In the second generation of this family, the condition was associated with congenital deformities of the feet.”

The advocates of hypermobility gymnastics may well ask what has this pathological hereditary condition to do with artificially brought about hypermobility which we must assume to be an acquired characteristic which does not transmit. Note however that the hypermobility makes treatment of club foot more difficult, also that the patellar ligaments on both sides are unusually long. What becomes of the so-called corrective work on the feet in the presence of hypermobility? Vastly more important

Digitized by VjOO^lC
352

is the bearing hypermobility has on posture. So much posture work "so-called” is being done these days that the matter deserves consideration at our hands. In my article “Posture in the Light of Science” I state that the stimuli for tonus arise in the muscles of the part itself. The so-called stretch reflex action of muscles explains how the stimulation comes about. The stretching of the antigravity muscles which are mainly responsible for our upright posture is constantly providing such reflexes. What now if muscles are artificially elongated by stretching exercises? They will naturally not have the antigravity stretch reflex. Posture if at all maintained, will have to be had by voluntary muscular contractions. This however, is an exhausting, squandering of nervous energy. It would be a process flying in the face of all the nicely adjusted reflex mechanism that through long ages of attempts of upright posture and its evolution we have developed. In view of this, a word of caution to the use of hypermobility exercises would seem to be in order.

GERMANS TURN FROM MILITARY EXERCISES TO ORGANIZED SPORTS

By Hamilton C. Claiborne, American Consul in Charge, Frankfort on the Main.

Official report to the Secretary of State.

Unemployment in Frankfort during 1921 caused the municipal authorities to develop some plan whereby the unemployed could work instead of drawing the Government dole which is described as not enough to live on and too much to permit death. This was the genesis of the present stadium.

The architects have laid out the grounds in the form of a triangle covering an area of 42 hectares, and so arranged that later extensions might be made without difficulty. The football ground was the first to be built, with a main fairway leading up to the center of the grand stand, and to the right and left of the fairway are situated large training grounds for all sports.

Nominal Charge for Lesson and Bath

The stadium is operated by a limited liability company owned by the municipality of Frankfort on the Main. The main duty of the company is to educate the youth of Frankfort in sports, to cultivate physical fitness, and to help the population to enjoy better health and more happiness. For this purpose lessons are given daily by experienced “Sport Lehrers” who are in the service of the Stadium Co. Anyone can participate in these lessons at a nominal charge of 1 mark per hour, including a hot bath.

Special training tuition is given in the stadium by the different sport unions, in order to prepare the youth of Germany for the Olympic games of 1928..

In track sports the athletes receive remuneration quite openly and at the same time they are allowed to compete in amateur athletic meetings. Recently a trainer in the employment of the

Digitized by VjOO^k
353

Stadium Co., receiving 800 marks per month for his services, competed in two international sport meetings as an amateur. In one he won the amateur title of the country in which he was competing. Germany having done away with the physical training represented by military service has turned to organized sport with much vehemence and much success. Sport has been studied with the same efficiency with which military training was studied before the war. At first, trainers and coaches were brought from England to train the best clubs, and now the State has started the “Hochschule ftir Leibeslibung,” a sports university in Berlin. Before a student can enter this school he must first matriculate and pass the German sports-medal test, which is 100-meters sprint in 13 seconds or under; 10,000 meters to be run in 50 minutes; a simple swimming test; high jump, over 1 m. 35cm. wide jump, over 4 m. 80cm.; putting the weight, 8 m. It is the ambition of every German boy to win this medal. At the Hochschule the students study every sport, as well as philosophy, the art of teaching, and medical science. The course covers five years. After graduation as Sport Lehrers, or athletic instructors, they are available for employment with any club or town and receive renumeration according to the “sports ability” of the teacher. From the German point of view these people are not professionals and therefore they are allowed to compete in any amateur meeting.

Athletic Prominence an International Asset

It may be recalled that the victories of a German swimming champion during his visit to the United States and the later success of German athletes at the track and field meet held at Stamford Bridge in England have awakened increased interest in sports and have led to further comment in the press concerning the connection between sports and politics and the importance of athletic prominence as an asset in international comity.

The series of successes which attended the visit to the United States of Erich Rademacher, the German swimmer, is said to have prompted a communication from the German ambassador at Washington to his Government to the effect that a first-class representative of German sports is the best propaganda the Reich can have, and that records such as those established by Rademacher obtain more notice among the sport-loving Americans and are a greater help to Germany than many of the large delegations and commissions which visit the United States.

The local press has also noted that a delegation of German athletes has participated in an athletic congress held in Louisville, Ky., and its members were, during their tour of American cities, received by President Coolidge and were given hospitable reception throughout their journey. Upon their return to Berlin it appears that they were received by President Hindenburg who expressed his satisfaction with their reception in the United States and congratulated them upon the success of their tour.

The great enthusiasm of the German people for sports, which followed the war and has been encouraged by the Government,
354

resulted in a membership of approximately 7,000,000 among the various athletic clubs. The most prominent athletic organizations are: the Central Commission for Sport and Physical Culture, the German National Committee for Physical Exercise, and the German Gymnastic Association (Tumverein). The central commission is alleged to have a membership in excess of 1,500,000 composed chiefly of young men and women who belong to the various labor athletic societies. Its motto of “sport makes the masses healthy” does not, however, indicate its freely admitted purpose of using the health and strength of its members when necessary to combat the efforts of reactionary organizations.

The German National Committee for Physical Exercise has a membership of about 7,000,000, including a number of subsidiary organizations such as the football league. It enters into the field of international sport more than any other German organization and firmly believes that German prestige can be greatly enhanced by successful participation in international contests.

“BRINGING UP” THE PARENTS

By Mayme O. Thompson

One of my duties as a rural teacher, is to teach and preach Hygiene. During the years spent in this capacity, I have conducted a great many health Crusades or Campaigns, usually with the assistance of our County Executive Secretary of the Society for the Prevention of Tuberculosis, or some one of the manufacturers of pure foods. I have learned many startling facts concerning the ignorance or carelessness or both of parents.

It is very discouraging to preach the gospel of Good Health to children at school and find that it cannot be practiced at home. It really seems that the first step in the teaching of Hygiene should begin in the homes with the parents as pupils.

In checking up the score cards you will perhaps find the greatest number of delinquents in the “sleep with window open” and “drink milk every day” columns. There will be more than a plenty, however, in the “Brush your teeth” and “Eat a hot cereal for breakfast” columns.

Many will tell you that they have the windows open through the day to air the bedding but not at night. Of'course open windows during the day is something, but it is an unfathomable mystery to me, why so many persons regard “night air” as something to be kept out. Preach it as you will they will perhaps agree with you and go home and close the windows tight, at night.

This practice is deplorable enough with one person in a bed. but when large families are stowed away at night like “sardines in a box” it is something to be reckoned with in the health of a child.

Digitized by VjOOQ 10
355

There may be little ones mixed in with grown ups, or sick children with well. If one has a bad cold, all the same. Usually the question of convenience enters in the arrangement and puts all health rules to flight.

The time for going to bed is another thing that is neglected. Last week an eleven year old boy yawned half a dozen times during his arithmetic period and seemed very stupid in his work. I had noticed this before, with the same lad, at intervals. When questioned as to whether he was not feeling well, he replied “Oh Gee, I was up until one o’clock, listening to the radio.” When asked if he often stayed up so late he told me that he did to play Pinocle with his father. This seems little short of a crime to me, but this boy’s parents call it “allowing him to have a good time” or “giving the child some privileges.” I might mention the fact, that this boy is the most nervous youngster that I have ever encountered.

Most city people would be surprised to know how many farm children do not drink milk. Some claim that they do not like it. Others are scarcely given the opportunity to know whether they like it or not. Many dairy farmers consider their calves of more importance than their children. When they are raising a calf, they make sure that it has sufficient milk to make it grow, but what is left can be sold, and “the less the family uses, the more will go into the can,” seems to be their policy.

In a school of sixty pupils, ranging in age from six to sixteen, I found seventy-five percent of them drinking coffee and tea. Little children in the first grade carrying coffee to school in their lunch boxes. Trying to stop this is about as safe as sticking your head into a hornets' nest.

They were certainly a nervous bunch. I had been preaching to them about the harm done them by this habit, and one afternoon when the visiting Secretary was there, I asked her to talk to them about it. She asked one little boy if he did not wish to become a strong man. “Sure” he answered. “If you continue to use coffee, you will lessen your chances of becoming a strong man,” she replied.

“Oh, look at Joe!” was his answer. “He is so big and strong. Why, why, he can lift—most anything and he has had coffee since he was a baby.”

It is very hard to convince children when they can find what they consider proof to the contrary. It was of no use to insinuate that even Joe might suffer for it, or that perhaps he was not so strong as he seemed to be. Joe was his big brother and a god in his eyes.

I was able, in this school, to clean up a little over half of the coffee drinkers, and I felt well paid for my efforts. I greatly regretted the ones that could not be convinced, and if I had had the hearty co-operation of the parents I could have made it one hundred percent.

Too many country children are “brought up” on pancakes and sausage for breakfast. The hot rcereal campaigns where
356

samples have been furnished of the various breakfast cereals, have helped much. Many of the children have never tasted the foods before and come to like them so that they induce the parents to buy them. Many converts are won in this way. The manufacturers who furnish the samples are doing much good, as well as receiving good advertising.

Just to show what problems we have to cope with, I will tell this story of a little twelve year old girl, a daughter of our “hill people” whose parents are full of ignorance and superstition. She was very much pleased with a sample of a well known breakfast food. She persuaded her people to buy several packages of it. She had it three times a day. She even brought it to school in an old jar with a rusty lid, for her lunch. Her mother thought it a bit tasteless and conceived the brilliant idea of adding nutmeg to it when cooking. The girl became very ill at school, vertigo from indigestion. I sent her home. They

Elaced the blame for the sick stomach on the cereal and will ave no more of it.

It would seem that rural surroundings would naturally make rosy-cheeked, healthy children. It is a fact, however, that you will see more pale, anemic children in the rural schools than you will in the city schools.

Why is this so, you might ask? The answer must be that the parents are to blame.

Leave a child to himself and he will always follow the line of least resistance. He will do anything the easiest way regardless of whether it is right or wrong. He will eat the foods that taste best, if he can get them, whether they are good for him or not.

It is our duty and should be our privilege, as parents, to teach our children the right way to live and the proper foods to eat.

I would never allow the question “Do you like it?” to enter into the selection of a diet for my own children. They are given fruit, cereal, milk, toast and an occasional egg for breakfast and they eat it as a matter of course. At dinner their plates are heaped with the vegetables they need and they get no dessert if the plate is not cleared. Carrots and cabbage are better than castor oil, in their estimation.

There is a tendency among some of our more ignorant people to wear too much clothing in winter. They add another garment for each “cold spell” until by spring the child is twice his original or “fall size”. The wearing of too much clothing can be almost if not quite as great a menace to health, as wearing too little. The class of person who does this very rarely, if ever, bathes in winter. Some days, about the middle of our long hard winters, when the room gets a bit warm, you often feel the need of a gas mask.

I had one boy some few years ago, that I had to keep the distance across the room from me. I often speculated, as he grew in size, from week to week, as tfMusOxQW)' many pairs of
357

pants he had on or could get on by spring. The peeling process lasts well into summer. I tried hard to get that boy to take a bath, but with no success. His parents thought I was little short of crazy to suggest such a thing. “Take a bath in winter? Who ever heard of the like?”

What more can be done? We have our medical inspectors, our trained and efficient teachers and health nurses, and still the very persons who are living in the worst conditions and need help the most get very little benefit from them.

They consider that we are meddling with something that is none of our business. They consider the time spent in school, on Physical Training, as time wasted. As a result we have endless lines of pale, nervous round-shouldered children growing up in an environment that should produce perfect specimens of the human race.

Truly the life of a rural teacher is not strewn with roses but rather with thorns.

We have one bright thought to cheer us and that is that the next generation may not be so handicapped if our work is done well.

A STRIKING INADEQUACY OF THE CIRCULATION

An illustration of certain shortcomings of the circulation of man in meeting daily needs has lately been presented by Turner. Quiet standing for a considerable time is frequently accompanied by signs of circulatory embarrassment or distress even in healthy persons. It might be expected that the circulatory minute volume would rise when the standing position is assumed after a control period of reclining, since standing is more work and in general the circulatory minute volume has been found to run parallel to the needs of the body in exercise. The actual observations made at the Harvard School of Public Health by Turner on healthy young women in reclining, sitting and standing positions show that whereas the metabolism rose with the more difficult posture, the minute volumes of the heart output changed in the opposite direction. For example, the average values in liters for the three positions were, reclining, 6.26; sitting, 5.59; standing, 4.77. The heart rate was increased in sitting as compared with reclining and further increased on standing. The latter increase was greater than the increase of the metabolism. The output per beat was thus decreased on sitting as compared with reclining and much more decreased on standing.

The lessened output from the heart on taking a quiet erect position harmonizes too well with the ordinary experiences of life, as Turner points out, to make it open to serious question, even though it is at variance with the needs of a rising metabolism. It is the quiet maintenance of the erect position, that is the marked feature of the occasions on which this circulatory embarrassment appears in ordinary life. Frequent examples are the fainting of West Point cadets at inspection, the fainting of

v!/o< sle
358

women whose clothes are being fitted, and the collapse of persons who stand for a considerable time to see parades or to listen to speeches in crowded auditoriums. In hot weather the dilatation of the cutaneous vessels may add another factor to prevent perfect return of the blood to the heart and thus increase the handicap of the circulation.

In quiet standing the blood has little to aid its return to the heart. As Turner has shown, gravity is against the large amount below the heart, there is no rhythmic pumping of the locomotor muscles so often used in alteration, the exercise of standing increases the carbon dioxide in the blood too little to augment respiration largely and so facilitates thoracic aspiration; indeed, everything is against the filling of the heart. That more liquid actually tends to accumulate in the legs is indicated by the observation of Bock who found that the legs increase in girth when standing is prolonged. The fundamentalists will find little solace from Turner's added hint that a lowered circulatory volume in the quiet erect position is not out of harmony with the evolutionary derivation of the erect from the horizontal animals. It is perhaps to be expected that the phylogenetically later position should show a less perfect adjustment, especially in view of its intrinsically greater difficulty from the physical standpoint of the movement of liquid in vessels.

WINTER PROGRAM OF RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES

The many readers who are engaged in the field of recreation will be interested in the Winter Program of Activities which has just been issued by the Stanford Park Recreation Center, West Chicago.

All Year Round Activities

Free Shower Baths—Daily for men and women, 2:00 P. M. to 10:00 P. M.; Saturdays, 12:00 M. to 10:00 P. M. Soap and towels furnished free.

Public Library—Daily from 3:00 P. M. to 9:00 P. M.

Assembly Hall—May be used for social dances, lectures and entertainments.

Club Rooms—May be used free upon application for meetings, afternoons or evenings.

Any group desiring to form a club will be given full co-operation. Neighborhood orchestra meets for practice on Friday evenings at 7:00 P. M. Instruction in violin, cornet, etc., will be given free.

Children’s Chorus—Meets for rehearsal on Saturday at 5:00 P. M.

Gymnasium and Playroom Activities—See class schedules. Skating	)	When	weather	permits,	8:00 A. M.

Toboganning ) to 10:00 P. M.

Co-operation is extended to schools, settlements, business firms, churches, charitable organizations, etc., by helping them carry out physical, social and educational programs.

Digitized oy VjOCJQ Lc
359

PROGRAM 1927-1928

MEN’S GYMNASIUM DEPARTMENT SCHEDULE

	Mon.	Tues.	Wed.	Thur.	Fri.	Sat.
Teenie Weenie—A	3:00 4:00		3:00-4:30	3:00-4:30		2:00-4:30
Teenie Weenie—C		3:00-4:30	3:00-4:30		3:00-4:30	2:00-4:30
Grammar A and B	4:30-6:00		4:30-6:00	4:30-6:00		4:30-6:00
Junior High—C		4:30-6:00	4:30-6:00		4:30-6:00	4:30-6:00
Junior Employed		7:00-8:15	7:00-8:15		7:00-8:15	7:00-8:15
Seniors	7:00-9:30		8:15-9:30	7:00-9:30		8:15-9:30
Boxing and Wrestling	7:00-8:15			7:00-8:15		
General Gym & Apparatus	8:15-9:30	8:15-9:30		8:15-9:30	8:15-9:30	
League Tournaments			7:00-9:30			7:00-9:30

WOMEN’S GYMNASIUM DEPARTMENT SCHEDULE

Baby Class 1—7-10 Years	3:00-4:00			3:00-4:30		
Class A—10-12 Years Class B—12-14 Years	4:30-6:00	3:00-4:30		4:30-6:00	3:00-4:30	
Class C—12-14 Years		4:30-6:00			4:30-6:00	
Special Dancing Class Games—Practice—Low		3:00-4:30	3:00-4:30			2:00-3:30
Organized Games Seniors—Over 16 Years Seniors—Dancing—High	7:00-8:15	7:00-8:15	4:30-6:00	7:00-8:15	7:00-8:15	3:30-6:00
Organized Games Games—Practice—Class			7:00-9:30	8:15-9:30	8:15-9:30	7:00-9:30
and Match Games						

MUSIC DEPARTMENT SCHEDULE Meets on Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays at 5:00 P. M. to 8:00 P. M. RECREATION DEPARTMENT SCHEDULE

Table Games—Boys	3:00-4:30			3:00-4:30		
Handicraft—Girls Handicraft—Girls Under 10 Years Handicraft—Girls Over	4:30-6:00	3:00-4:30		4:30-6:00	3:00-4:30	
10 Years Table Games—Girls Free Play—Clay		4:30-6:00	3:00-6:00		4:30-6:00	
Modeling						10 a.m.-12 m.
					Senior	Junior
Dramatics Dancing Class		7:00-8:00	7:00-9:30	7:00-8:00	7:00-9:30	3:00-6:00
Senior Social Junior  Table Games—Senior		8:00-9:30		8:00-9:30		
Boys	7:00-9:30					
360

PHYSICAL TRAINING IN COLD WEATHER*

By Major H. J. Selby

The Board of Education Syllabus was designed for normal and general conditions, and it is left for the teacher to use his or her own discretion in arranging the various lessons to suit climatic and other conditions. What should be maintained throughout are the general principles of the work, and the order of exercises, the progression, and the selection of exercises according to the degree of ability of the class. This is all done for the teacher in a general way in the Syllabus. It remains for the teacher to omit certain exercises when occasion demands, and to replace them by others which are more suitable.

Most of the work in the Elementary Schools of this country is performed in the open, and during the winter months there is a great need for employing exercises which have as their chief object the general development of the body, and which, in consequence, help to promote warmth. Thus, generally speaking, slow movements and those demanding much precision, must be omitted. Such exercises must be taken on wet days in the class room (see Vol. Ill, No. 8), when the children are normally warm. It must always be remembered that many children catch cold rather easily, and mothers are sometimes inclined to blame the teacher for any complaints which their children may catch.

Below will be found a list of exercises, most of which are taken from the Board Syllabus, and grouped according to age.

Introductory Leg.

Age7-8.-----Bouncing Ball; Astride Jumping; Skip Jumping, high

and low; Running on Spot with Knee Raising; Bunny Hops; Crow Hops; Skipping; 4 Crow Hops; 4 Skip Jumps (any other such combinations which the children are capable of performing); Rhythmic Heel Raising and Knee Bending.

Age 8-10.— Marking Time with Knee Raising; Astride Jumping, moving forward, later backward; Skip Jumping, with turns to left and right; Astride Jumping with Arm Movements, e. g., arm swinging sideways and upwards, with hand clap above head; War Dance; Kick the Hand Forward; Spring Step on Spot; Tapping Step; Marking Time with knee pulling up to Chest.

Age 10-12.— Any of the exercises given above; Running on Spot as fast as possible; Jumping to make knees touch the chest; Jumping with Heel Clicking; High and Low Stride Jumping; Hopping with Leg Swinging Sideways; Hopping with Leg Swinging Forward.

Age 12-14.— (Toe Forward) Hopping with Feet Changing Star Jump; Jumping with Leg Parting at Knees; Gallop Step on Spot (Feet Astride, grasp 1 ankle with both hands, Knees Straight); Pull Head to Knee; Change

‘Reprint from “Physical Education,” England.

Digitized by

Google
361

with Jump between Knees Bend and Hips Finn, to Feet Astride and Arms mid-way between Arms Sideways and Arms Upward position; Knees Bend (hands on ground just in front of feet); Knee Stretching (starting position as for last exercise) Jump to Feet Astride position, still keeping hands on ground; Bear Walk (on all fours, arms and legs straight); Duck Waddle (Knees Full Bend), Leg Stretching Forward (Sideways).

Trunk Bending Forward Group Age 7-8.— Touch the Toes—with fingers, knuckles, etc. (quickly); (Astride, grasp ankles), Pull Head between Knees; (Hold Toes, Knees bent), Walk forward holding toes; Warlike Lunge Outward; Head dropping forward and stretching upwards (rhythm).

Age 8-10.— Head dropping backward, stretching upward (rhythm);

Trunk bending forward with arm swinging forward and upward with hand clap above head, trunk stretching upward with hand clap behind back (rhythm); Head Pressing backward (rhythm). (Trunk Forward, Hips Firm), Trunk bending downward.

Age 10-12.— Quick Trunk Bending Forward with|Arm Swinging Forward and Upward (Hips Firm, Trunk Forward); Trunk Bending Downwards to grasp ankles. Front Lying, Trunk Bending Backwards.

Age 12-14.— Astride, Across, Bend (Trunk Forward); Arm Flinging (Arms Sideways, Trunk Forward); Arm Circling Spirally; (Trunk Forward); Double Arm Punching Upward. Trunk Bending Forward with Arm Swinging Forward and Upward; Trunk Stretching Upward with Arm Lowering Sideways and Downwards. (Note.—All the above exercises should be performed rhythmically. ♦ ---------------------- —■ ■ ♦

Health education notes

THE STORAGE OF WATER IN THE BODY

The extent to which the human body serves as a reservoir of water is rarely appreciated until we are reminded of the facts through the medium of numerical statistics. As water represents little less than two thirds of the entire organism, a person of average weight is the carrier of approximately a hundred pounds (45 Kg.) of the fluid. The disposal of these few gallons of water is regulated to a nicety. Compensation for the losses through the various excretory paths is regularly made by the intake of fluid, together with the contribution of water derived from the oxidative processes in the body whereby hydrogen is converted to water. There are, however, times of stress when the compensatory regulation fails. The balance is upset:.water may be
362

lost without being restored; or the excretory organs may fail to remove the surplus with their usual efficiency. Experience teaches what distress may attend either of these eventualities. The extremes are represented in thirst with attendant anhydremia on the one hand, or in the different manifestations of edema on the other. What happens to the water reservoirs in times of unusual stress? A partial answer to this is given by recent observations of Skelton at the University of Minnesota. They confirm the fact that half the water of the body is in the muscles; the skin contains about one fifth; and the blood—the most “watery” of all the tissues—holds only about 7 per cent, or one fourteenth of the fluid. Skelton withdrew water from the body by the device of hemorrhage; and he added water by injection of fluids. Thus he ascertained that, although the muscles lose the least per unit mass of tissue, they give up more fluid than any other tissue when there is marked withdrawal of water from the body; and they also take up by far the greatest portion of any water added per se or as hypotonic salt solution. The liver and intestine appear to respond more quickly than any other tissues when there is an alteration in the water content of the body. The skin is also drawn on in extreme dehydration emergencies. But the main result of Skelton’s study is that the muscles represent the most important water reserves of the body. They store the greatest quantity of any excess, and act as a safeguard against the loss of too much water.

—Journal A. Med. A.

HICCUPS IN INFANTS

Only slight digressions from the normal physiologic functions are required at times to give rise to considerable bodily discomfort. For many of these experience has taught ways of relieving the distress, without any real appreciation of the remedial factors that are brought into play. This is true, for instance, in the case of the spasmodic contractions of the diaphragm known as hiccups. Under the ordinary circumstances of their occurrence they can be controlled by the simple expedient of sipping water. An explanation of the efficacy of this procedure that applies at least to the hiccups so frequently noted in infants after nursing has been formulated by Pendelton at the Rush Medical College in Chicago. He has demonstrated experimentally that irritation of the human esophagus will cause hiccups. When regurgitation follows nursing it is probable that gastric contents thus lodged in the sensitive gullet initiate the contractions. It is not even necessary for actual visible regurgitation to occur. Any intrusion of the gastric contents into the esophagus by escape through the cardiac orifice of the stomach may suffice. This effect may result through distention of the stomach with milk, air or water, as well as from a spastic condition or a poorly functioning valve at the cardia. In any event, relief follows treatment

Digitized by Google
363

by administration of fluids rapidly by mouth and in such amounts as will clear the esophagus. Mere swallowing movements usually do not suffice. Actual records have shown that in infants six or seven cubic centimeters of water consumed within half a minute will immediately stop most cases of hiccups of esophageal origin. The unaided relief probably follows the partial emptying of the stomach in natural ways whereby the possibility of renewed esophageal irritation is averted.—Journal A. Med. A.

Neuroses in Children.—The necessity for avoiding an excess as well as a deficient display of love is emphasized by J. K. Friedjung. Both are injurious. The child should not be surrendered to the foolishness of prejudiced grandmothers, to the sultry tenderness of aging maiden aunts, nor to the playfulness of his own parents. Unless the economic distress of the parents is extremely great, their bed is no place for the child. Even the mere sharing of the parent’s bedroom constitutes a serious danger to the child’s healthy mental development. Too much love— in only children—is another cause of neurosis. The foster child, the ugly or untalented, are in need of sympathetic understanding. So is the first child after the birth of a second, especially if the first is a girl and the second a boy. Senseless and cruel punishments do only harm. Children should not be deceived and should not be spoiled when they are ill. If a neurosis has become manifest, attempts to change the conditions at home are frequently unsuccessful. New surroundings will do more good.

Social Behavior Compared with Games.—As typical an instance of social behavior as can be found is that of the game, whether of children or of adults. The game needs no ulterior motive, being interesting on its own account. Though play may be carried on by a solitary individual, group play is much preferred, probably because the activities possible in group activity are more varied and complex, and so offer more of interest, while the interplay of different personalities in a group game adds an element of particular interest to the participants. Except in the simplest games, there is some “division of labor” among the players, their actions being coordinated toward some common end. Where the game is between opposing teams, the elements of rivalry and of loyalty to one’s side add interest; and in proportion as “team work” is realized, the interest is enhanced. Thus a card game with partners is usually preferred to one in which every player is for himself. Ceremonies are close analogies of games, and the meaning which is supposed to underlie the ceremony but adds another element of interest, without detracting from the fact that the main interest is in the ceremony itself as a group activity. Where a given ceremony is common to several tribes, it often happens that the meaning attributed to it differs from one tribe to another—the real interest lies in the ceremony itself as a social activity.—Woodworth: Dynamic Psychology.	Digitized by CjOO^IC
364

~ The following notes were taken from the Journal of the American Medical Association.

Body Length and Weight.—Geigel found a surprising lack of regularity in the relation between the length and weight of his subjects. For instance, with all the lengths between 158 and 176 cm. the probable weight was always between 50 and 70 Kg. This would indicate that advice to pupils relative to an increase or a decrease in their weight, if based on the height-weight charts in general use in the schools, should be tempered with much common sense reasoning based on the nature of the particular case involved. (Ed.)

Physical Status of Filipino and Tuberculosis.—The conditions of low body weight, poor constitution and markedly inferior vital capacity, Nanagas believes, are attributable to the actual existence of a lack or ineffectiveness of organization and stimulus to promote generalized physical exercise and outdoor sports, and absence of properly studied measures to improve the dietary of the mass, which would provide a well balanced diet for Filipinos. The factors cited, working against the entire Filipino community, explain the appalling condition of a high state of susceptibility, morbidity and mortality from pulmonary tuberculosis in the entire Philippine Islands.

Cooking and Food Value of Eggs.—Scheunert and Wagner fed young rats with raw, soft boiled and hard boiled eggs. The rats did not thrive on raw eggs, but developed well when the eggs were boiled. The authors deny the existence of a “budget value” of food, in Friedberger’s sense.

Hygienic Supervision of Bathing Establishments

The minister of the interior of Italy has called attention to the necessity of exercising constant hygienic supervision over bathing establishments. Supervision should be extended to the licensing, operation and mode of functioning of various establishments, to prevent or eliminate any disadvantages that may result to patrons from the nonobservance of established regulations.

In an article on “External Heat” by Pemberton and others in the Journal of the A. M. A. we find the following interesting statement that should be of interest to teachers of health education.

Chronic Backache

A complete discussion of chronic backache would occupy many pages. There are probably many causes for chronic backache and the treatment must vary according to the etiology, but by far the largest percentage of cases is probably due to muscle and ligamentous strain, either arising acutely from some traumatism or occurring slowly from a chronic strain, such as that due to bad posture. The site of the trouble may be about the umbo-sacral joint or occasionally the sacro-iliac joint, but it is most

Digitized byCjOOQlC
365

commonly observed in the lumbar region of the back, where the points of tenderness are found to be at the tips of the lumbar transverse processes where the lumbar muscles, particularly the quadratus lumborum, are attached. This condition can be profitably treated by baking and massage, by proper means of support for the muscles and ligaments which are under strain, and by properly graded exercises to strengthen the muscles and to improve posture. Acute attacks of what might be called myositis or lumbago are also advantageously treated by baking and massage, by a support, or by complete (under the direction of a physician) rest in bed for the time being.

WHEN EXPERTS DISAGREE*

At the meeting of the Public Health Engineering Section, held during the annual meeting of the American Public Health Association, in Cincinnati, October 18, there were presented a number of papers dealing with such subjects as “Standardization of Pasteurization Plant Requirements,” “Present Requirements and Procedure of Washing Milk Bottles,” and “Sanitary Construction and Arrangement of Milk Pasteurization Plants.” One paper under the title “Recent Developments in (School) Ventilation Studies,” was read by Thomas J. Duffield, executive secretary, New York Commission on Ventilation, as a progress report of the special Committee on Heating and Ventilation that was appointed at the last annual meeting.

It was significant that there was more discussion on Mr. Duf-field's presentation than there was on any of the preceding excellent papers on the pasteurization of milk and cleaning of milk bottles. The inability of experts to agree upon code requirements for clean milk bottles should make everyone present view the attempt to establish agreement on ventilation practice with a new understanding of the very serious and important difficulties involved.

Mr. Duffield’s report was largely extracts from letters relating to the proposed school ventilation investigation at Rochester, N. Y. They tended to show that the central committee representing all of the bodies concerned had agreed upon a procedure that the health of the pupils involved should be taken as a meas-

In view of the wide public interest in the school ventilation problem, as discussed at the recent meeting of the American Public Health Association, Dean F. Paul Anderson, president of the American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers, was asked by The Heating and Ventilating Magazine to record his impressions of the section meeting at which the report of the Committee on Heating and Ventilation of schools was presented. Quick to sense the vital points of the discussion, Dean Anderson, in his report of this meeting, has given, in a few words, a very clear picture not only of the viewpoints presented but of the atmosphere of the meeting itself.

Reprint from Heating and Ventilating Magazine. igitized by Google
366

ure of the value of the method of ventilation; that Willis Carrier, representing the American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers' Committee agreed to this resolution, subject however to acceptance by his associates, which acceptance was withheld. Hence the proposed investigation seemed to be hopelessly blocked.

The report touched upon excessive temperature differences found in one and two-stoiy school buildings in Cattaraugus County, New York. It mentioned progress of studies that the New York Commission is making in schools at New Haven, Conn., and Syracuse, N. Y., and it mentions the possibility of extending these studies to Cleveland, O.

Ventilation Studies Now In Progress

Referring to the present activities of the New York Ventilation Commission Mr. Duffield said:

“The committee has been interested in the studies in New Haven, Conn., Syracuse and Cattaraugus County, N. Y., of the effects of different types of ventilation on the health of school pupils. The first of these has been conducted under the direction of Dr. Leonard Greenburg, while the latter two are field studies of the New York Commission on Ventilation.

“The results of the New Haven and Syracuse studies, which were of a preliminary nature and should not be clothed with greater reliability than the methods warrant, are in agreement to an astonishing degree in confirming the findings of the New York State Commission on Ventilation, that from the angle of the health of the pupils, as indicated by the incidence of respiratory illness, natural ventilation (where local conditions permit its use), is superior to that accomplished by mechanical means under average conditions of operation.

“These studies are being continued during the present school year under conditions that should produce thoroughly reliable data not only as to the incidence of respiratory illness but as to the air conditions as well.

“In the Cattaraugus County study, which was restricted to one and two-room rural schools, the numbers of individuals under the various conditions were so small and the conditions so varied and variable, that there was no apparent relationship between air conditions (as indicated by dry-bulb temperatures) and respiratory illness among the pupils.

“An impression of the air conditions in these rural schools may be gained from analysis of the data collected by the commission’s observers on the occasion of their visits to the schools.

“The average temperatures were:

(1)	Ceiling	85.7°	F.

(2)	Breathing	level	69.7°	F.

(3)	Floor	58.1°	F.

or an excess of 27.6° F. at the ceiling over that at the floor.

Digitized by VjOOQLC
367

“A single observation showed the following temperatures at the different levels:

(1)	Ceiling	116°	F.

(2)	Breathing	level	77°	F.

(3)	Floor	61°	F.

“The average of several observations in a single school showed temperatures at the 42 in. level to be 24° higher than at the floor. In another school the average of the ceiling temperatures was 102.5° F. while that at the breathing level was 77.8° F. or an excess of almost 25° F. at the ceiling. These figures are cited to give a picture of the vertical heat distribution. Laterally, similar conditions exist and it will suffice to mention that in one school the temperature on top of one occupied desk was 40°

F.	lower than on another in the same room.

“The discovery of these conditions has led the commission to the adoption of the following policy toward the Cattaraugus County study during the coming winter.

‘1. The collection of data regarding dry-bulb temperatures, health and attendance by the teachers will be continued.

‘2. These records will be supplemented by observations of relative humidity, floor, ceiling and desk-top temperatures as frequently as is consistent with other phases of the program.

‘3. The major activity of the commission’s observers will be to collect data in some five or six schools in which by combinations of more adequate heating units with various types and degrees of weather proofing, a serious effort will be made to maintain air conditions generally considered more conducive to health than these found during the past year.”

Prof. C. E. A. Winslow followed with certain statements indicating that the New Haven and Syracuse studies were confirming to a surprising extent the original findings of the New York Commission on Ventilation. Also, he said that the disagreement at Rochester was due to insistence, by the engineers’ representatives, that results be judged by its synthetic air chart and that this chart lacked a scientific basis and is prejudiced in favor of mechanical ventilation by the conditions it recognizes.

Dr. Leonard Greenburg, who is making the New Haven studies, explained that at a temperature of 68° F. the influence of humidity and air motion had less effect, and he attempted to show that so-called window ventilation was a simplified practice in school-room air supply. The impression seemed to be very definitely established that commercial considerations were prompting the engineers to refuse to accept the proposed procedure at Rochester. At this point Howard E. Sproull, who is a member of the A. S. H. & V. E. made a most effective statement that the engineers were no more influenced by commercial considerations than any other professional people, that they were only interested in ascertaining facts without prejudice. Mr. Sproull’s very pertinent remarks cleared the atmosphere0^^cthoroughly.
368

Dr. Peter H. Bryce, of Toronto, past-president of the A. P. H. A., in his remarks brought out the fact that the resolutions passed at the St. Louis convention, urging the abrogation of school-ventilation laws based on the 30 cu. ft. per minute standard, were passed by the main body of the American Public Health Association without the endorsement of the Public Health Engineering Section which refused this endorsement. Also he said that appointment of the Committee on Heating and Ventilation was the result of a desire to get at the facts in the question without intent to promote any particular method of ventilation. The chairman, Doctor Emerson, of Phildaelphia, closed the discussion by stating that the Committee on Committees undoubtedly would continue the Committee on Heating and Ventilation.

Two thousand years ago some old wise stoic said: “Men are tormented by their opinions of things rather than by the things themselves.” It is evident from many of the statements made at this meeting that there is a great deal of opinion that would be altered considerably by a discarding of suspicion and a heart-to-heart talk among those immediately concerned with no other thought than the public service that will be rendered by clearing up the confusion that at present exists. There is no question that every one concerned wants the same thing. That thing is, “What will best promote the children’s health?” The differences and the resulting confusion arise from opinion as to details. These differences can be dissipated. There is no question at all as to that. And the final attitude of this meeting promises continued effort to iron out differences and to promote cooperation for the mutual welfare of every one concerned.

PSYCHIC INTENSITY WINS ATHLETIC CONTESTS*

Berlin, April 21—Football coaches who “talk fight” to the team between halves instinctively practice the theory Prof. August Bier has just set forth in a treatise on the importance of the psychological factor in sport.

Jack Dempsey, Johnny Weissmueller, Charlie Paddock or William T. Tilden are just as much entitled to the name of “genius” as are artists or scientists of the first rank, according to Dr. Bier.

For, from his viewpoint, the knockouts of Jack Dempsey, the sprint records of Weissmueller in the water and Paddock on land, and the tennis conquests of Tilden are far less the result of bodily superiority than of psychic intensity.

Dr. Bier, who is one of the leading surgeons in Germany, believes the sudden failures of athletes at critical moments rarely has a physical cause. It is, according to him, almost invariably the result of a psychic obstruction. From a long series of observations he has yet to see a man who had lost form regain it through training. Only through restoration of the athlete’s

Ehychic control of the rhythm of his muscles can he “come back” e concludes.

•Copyright, 1925, by Public Ledger.

Digitized by
369

<>	u

Gymnasium and playground

----------------------------o

A BASKETBALL DRILL

By Arthur L. Strum

This drill shows the possibilities of teaching the important foot work of basketball in your gym classes. The subjective method should make for accurate, effective teaching of the foot work.

The class is arranged in open order consisting of four files. The distance between files is as great as possible.

Group 1—Stationary position 1. a. Jump to a side stride position, knees slightly bent, weight on balls of feet and hands held as for breast

shot (offensive)......................................1- 2

Pivot on left foot by pushing strongly on right foot,

and make a full turn.................................3- 4

Front turn on left foot............................. 5- 6

Jump to position of attention....................... 7- 8

Repeat.............................................. 9-16

b. Repeat (a) on right foot ............................17-32

2.	a. Jump to side stride position (offensive) ..........1- 2

Front turn on left foot............................. 3- 4

Return, pivoting on left foot ...................... 5- 6

Jump to starting position .......................... 7- 8

Repeat.............................................. 9-16

b. Repeat (a) on left foot..............................17-32

3.	Jump to cross stride position with left foot forward

(offensive) ........................................ 1- 2

Retrieve bringing right foot back .................. 3- 4

Shoot............................................... 5- 6

Jump to starting position .......................... 7- 8

Repeat three times ................................. 9-32

4.	a. Jump to side stride position with arms sideward in

guarding position................................... 1- 2

Left step .......................................... 3- 4

Right step.......................................... 5- 6

Jump to position ................................... 7- 8

Repeat.............................................. 9-16

b. Repeat (a) with right step first .................. 17-32

Group II—Starts and Stops

1. a. Take three steps forward and jump to side stride position, hands held as for breast shot............... 1- 4

Pivot on left foot ................................. 5- 6

Jump to starting position . ;-asss5-3ODgfe—	’	'	»
370

Repeat in opposite direction ......................... 9-16

b.	Same as (a) pivoting on right foot .................17-32

2.	a. Take three steps and jump to position as above ........ 1-	4

Front turn on left foot................................ 5-	6

Jump to starting position ............................. 7-	8

Repeat in opposite	direction ......................... 9-16

b.	Repeat (a) but front turn on right foot ............17-32

3.	Take three steps and jump to cross stride position with

right foot forward (offensive) ........................ 1-	4

Retrieve with right foot back ......................... 5-	6

Shoot.................................................... 7

Face left ............................................... 8

Repeat three times making square left ................ 9-32

4.	Take three steps and jump to guarding position ....... 1-	4

Left step..... ........................................ 5-	6

Jump to position, facing left.......................... 7-	8

Repeat three	times	making	square left .............. 9-32

Group III—Companion Exercises Inner files facing outer files. Inner files have possession of the ball. Outer files are the guards.

1.	a. Inner files take three short steps forward and jump to

side stride position assimilating ball held in front of

chest................................................. 1-	4

Pivot on left foot.................................... 5-	6

Jump to position ......................................... 7-	8

Outer files take steps as above but jump to guarding

position .........................  <..................... 1-	4

Right step..............................................   5-	6

Jump to position ......................................... 7-	8

b.	Inner files three steps to offensive position, front turn

on left foot and to attention (9-16) ..................... 1-	8

Outer files, three steps to guarding position, left step, and to attention (9-16) .................................. 1-	8

c.	Inner files jump to offensive position ................. 1-	2

Pivot on right foot ....................................  3-4

Front turn on right foot ................................. 5-	6

Jump to position of attention (17-24).................. ..	7-	8

Outer files jump to guarding position, left step, right step and position (17-24)	  1-	8

d.	Both inner and outer files execute as in (c) but pivots

and turns are made on right foot—corresponding shifting for guarding is made by outer files (25-32) .......... 1-	8

2.	a. Outer files gain possession of ball. Inner files become

guards

Outer files face about in first step, taking three steps toward side walls, jump to offensive position, front

turn on left foot and to position to attention ........... 1-	8

Inner files take three steps forward, jump to guarding position, left step and position of attention ........ 1-	8

Digitized by * ^.ooQle
871

b. Outer files jump to offensive position, pivot on left

foot, front turn and to position of attention(9-16) ... 1-	8

Inner files jump to guarding position, right step, left step and to position of attention (9-16).............. 1-	8

c.	Repeat (b) but pivot and turn on right foot with corresponding shifting for guards....................17-24

d.	Outer files jump to offensive position, side stride, right

foot forward......................................... 1- 2

Retrieve............................................. 3- 4

Shoot................................................ 5- 6

Jump to position of attention (25—32) ............... 7- 8

Inner files jump to guarding stand .................. 1-	2

Advance.............................................. 3- 4

Swing hands up to block throw........................ 5-	6

Jump to position of attention ....................... 7- 8

3.	Inner files have possession of ball. Repeat exercise

(1) of Group 1....................................... 1-32

Outer files, guards repeat Exercise (4) of Group I with corresponding shifting............................... 1-32

4.	Outer files have possession of ball. Repeat exercise

(1) of Group 1....................................... 1-32

Inner files, guards. Repeat exercise (4) of Group 1.. 1-32

OBLIGATORY FREE EXERCISES

for the Ninth Kreisturnfest to be held at Portland, Oregon, on June 8-12, 1928

Each exercise is executed left and right and repeated.

The music is the "Gens” March, composed by Constance M. Mattingly of P. S. T. V., dedicated to Prof. Richard Genser-owski and published by Mattingly Publishing Co., 269 14th St., Portland, Oregon.

The music is played in "presto tempo” to trio. Repeat trio, the last 16 measures are not played.

During eight measures of introduction, class is in standing position. The music is played twice, including introduction; the first time for first group, and second time for second group of exercises.

The starting position is hands at sides with palms forward.

Pictures of exercise positions will be sent to instructors of Turn Vereins as soon as they have been taken.

FIRST GROUP 1 Exercise

A—	Stride left forward, arms bent to thrust.............. 1

Pause .............................................2-3-4

B—	Close right leg to	left leg, arms	upward, hands open palms

inward ............................................... 5

Bend knees small,	arms forward....................... 6
372

Pause ..................................................7-8

C— Straighten knees, arms upward................................ 9

D— Stride right backward, arms bend to thrust...................10

Pause ................................................11-12

E— Close left leg to right leg, arms down to starting position.,13 Pause ............................................14-15-16

II	Exercise

A— Stride left sideward, arms bend to thrust.................... 1

Pause ................................................2-3-4

B— Close right leg to left leg, arms upward, hands open, palms

inward .................................................. 5

Bend trunk forward, (straight spine) arms sideward, (palms

downward) ............................................... 6

Pause ..................................................7-8

C— Straighten trunk, arms upward................................ 9

D— Stride right sideward, arms bend to thrust...................10

El— Close left leg to right leg, arms Pause..................11-12

down to starting position................................13

Pause .............................................14-15-16

III	Exercise

A— Stride left backward, arms bend to thrust.................... 1

Pause .............................................  .2-3-4

B— Close right leg to left, arms upward, hands open, palms

inward................................................... 5

Swing arms forward, down, backward, bend trunk backward (palms front).................................6

Pause ................................................. 7-8

C— Straighten trunk, swing arms fore upward......................9

D— Stride right forward, arms bend to thrust....................10

Pause ................................................11-12

E— Close left leg to right leg, arms down to starting position 13 Pause ...................................................14-15-16

IV	Exercise

A— One quarter turn left on right heel, arms bend to thrust....l

Pause ................................................2-3-4

B— Bend knees to squat stand, hands on floor.....................5

Straighten legs backward to lying position frontways..... 6

Pause ..................................................7-8

C— Return to squat stand position................................9

D— Straighten legs, bend arms to thrust.........................10

Pause	11-12

E— One-quarter turn left on right heel arms down to starting position............................................13

Pause .............................................14-15-16

SECOND GROUP

1 Exercise

A— Lunge left forward, swing arms backward, palms inward....l Pause ...............................................2-3-4

Digitized by VjOOQlC
873

B— Swing left leg backward raised, swing arms fore upward....... 5

Pause ................................................6-7-8

C— Close left leg to right, bend knees deep, arms forward.......9

Pause ...................................................10

D— Straighten knees, hands on hips firm.........................11

Pause .................................................. 12

E— Bend trunk forward (straight spine)..........................13

F— Straighten trunk.............................................14

G— Arms down, starting position.................................15

Pause....................................................16

II	Exercise

A— Lunge left sideward, arms sideward, palms down............... 1

Pause ................................................2-3-4

B— Straighten left knee, arms upward, bend trunk forward,

straighten spine......................................... 5

Pause ................................................6-7-8

C— Straighten trunk, bend trunk backward, arms obliquely

side upward, palms forward............................... 9

Pause ...................................................10

D— Seven-eights inner arm circle, to position, arms sideward,

close left leg to right, hand on hips firm...............11

Pause ...................................................12

E— Bend trunk sideward left.....................................13

F— Straighten trunk.............................................14

G— Arms down starting position..................................15

Pause ...................................................16

III	Exercise

A— Layout left backward, left arm foreupward, right arm down

backward ................................................ 1

Pause ................................................2-3-4

B— Raise left leg, bend trunk forward, swing left arm down-backward in line with leg, right arm fore upward, (stand-

wage) ....................................................5

Pause ................................................6-7-8

C— Straighten trunk, lunge left backward, swing left arm fore upward, bend left arm, right arm obliquely (shot put position ..................................................9

Pause ...................................................10

D— Close left leg to right, arms upward.........................11

E— Bend trunk backward, arms sideward, palms up.................12

F— Straighten trunk arms upward.................................14

G— Arms sideward, downward to starting position.................15

Pause ...................................................16

IV	Exercise

A— One-quarter turn left, bend knees to squat stand hands on

floor ................................................... 1

Pause ................................................2-3-4

B— Straighten legs backward to lying support frontways.......... 5

Pause .............................i........4.,..--.iO-O-Q.Il'—6-7-8
374

C—	Raise left leg, bend arms............................... 9

Pause ..................................................10

D—	Straighten arms, squat stand left, between	hands........11

Pause ..................................................12

E—	Change feet position, (squat stand right)...............13

F—	Close left leg to right leg.............................14

G—	Straighten legs, one-quarter turn left to starting	position .15

Pause ..................................................16

The following two dances by Emil Rath will be presented at the Cologne Gymnastic Festival in Germany during the coming summer by the women of the American Turners (American Gymnastic Union.)

DANCE, “GREETINGS TO GERMANY”

By Emil Rath

Theme

Some of the ideas in the dance are taken from a composition by Louis H. Chalif. The attitude of greeting runs through the entire composition, and should be made to stand out distinctly wherever it occurs.

Music.

Weber’s "Last Waltz” published by B. F. Wood Music Company, Boston or New York City, is used.

There are three counts to a measure. When more counts are given, more measures are implied. The last waltz is repeated; otherwise, the composition is played as written.

Costume.

The costume consists of a silk crepe sleeveless slip of a light color, worn over bloomers matching this costume; black ballets and light socks are worn.

Formation

The class is arranged in front ranks of threes, hands grasped head high and arms slightly bent.

FIGURE I.

Waltz step left forward, and right backward with large arm swinging forward and backward. Allow the trunk to take part

in this..................................................2	M.

Repeat this..............................................2	M.

Form a circle and in nine running steps run once around to the left, pulling and leaning outward all the time. Open the circle during the last part and stand on toes, releasing hands, with arms in the position of greeting (center member of trio in open fifth position, and the other two in open first position,

palms upward)	and	hold.................................4	M.

Repeat all; run	in	the	circle to th^ rigb^rQ4XW-l€-......8	M.
375 FIGURE II

With the hands grasped head high, face left and balance step left forward and right backward, swinging the arms upward on the forward step and downward on the backward step.2 M.

Step left forward and raise the right knee high forward and hold. The trunk and head are turned to the front, the raised

knee in the direction of facing............................ 2	M.

Face right about and repeat all.............................4	M.

Repeat all again............................................8	M.

FIGURE III

In this figure the two outer members of the trio move forward and then backward to their place again, while the center one moves backward and then forward, in the following manner. The two outer ones beginning with the outer foot, do waltz balance step forward and backward with arm swinging foreupward to open fifth position, palms upward, and trunk bending backward slightly followed by arm swinging backward with bending trunk

forward slightly........................................2 M.

Three steps forward, beginning with outer foot, and arms in second, face slightly toward each other and perch (step to balance stand) on outer foot with free leg raised backward with inner arm in straight fifth position and other arm in second position.................................................    2	M.

Repeat all but begin backward and with outer foot again. On the

perch, face slightly away from each other this time.......4	M.

The center one in the meantime balances backward and forward beginning left and moves backward with three steps. She stands on the toes of both feet (in first position) with arms in open fifth position, palms up, instead of perching. Repeat this, starting the balance steps forward with left foot and moving forward. The arm swings and trunk movements are the same as those of the outer ones. Repeat all and finish in an open circle (or triangle) with the two outer ones somewhat forward and all facing center with the same pose as used before in this figure.

In this new formation all talke a waltz step left backward and then right forward; that is, from and toward the center of the

circle, with arms swinging backward and forward...........2	M.

Then step left forward, the right foot pointing backward and clap neighbors hands high above the head (1), clap own hands twice over and in front of the head, (2&3) and repeat the

clapping (4&5) clap softly................................2	M.

Repeat all of it again. This	leaves	the left foot free....4	M.

A waltz turn left and moving	a	little around the circle	to	the

left with arms changing from fourth to fourth position in two measures. Repeat the step forward, clappipg of hands, etc...4 M. Waltz turn right and moving to the right in two measures and repeat the clapping, etc. On the last measure the center one steps forward and grasps the inner hands of the two outer ones, who are facing to the rear and have their backs turned toward the audience........................eKTto,t).^»Go0QLe—.4	M.
376 FIGURE V

The last waltz, “Con Expressione,” is to be repeated for this figure. In this position balance step toward the audience and away from the audience with broad arm swings (begin left) 2 M.

Repeat this.................................................2	M.

The two outer ones now turn inward and grasp the inner ones hands with their other hands (releasing and regrasping); all momentarily face front, immediately cross over, the one on the right passing under the arms and the center one turning left with one-half turn to form a circle. All of this is done in six

running steps.............................................  2	M.

In the circle, move to the left in six running steps, each pupil

leaning well	outward......................................2	M.

All face to the center and balance forward to the center and backward with swinging arms upward and downward and repeat

.......................................................4	M.

In the circle	move to	the	right,	leaning	well	outward,	in	six

running steps...............................................2	M.

Finish in the	original	position,	all	facing	front,	and	assume	the

following attitudes: The one at the right, perch on left foot (sole) with the right foot raised backward and the right arm upward, palm forward and the left arm sideward. The one in the middle grasps her neighbor’s hand, points left foot, bending the right knee and raising her left arm forward in open first, palm upward. The last one kneels on the inner knee, points the outer foot sideward and outward and raises both arms in open first, palms

upward....................................................2	M.

Note: Each group may later arrange its own grouping, selecting the poses from the above attitudes.

DIXIELAND

Music.

“Dixieland, by Emmett, published by Century Music Publishing Company.. New York City, is used. The verse and chorus are played for Figures I and II and repeated for Figures III and IV. There are two counts to the measure. When more counts are given, more measures are implied.

Costume

Costumes as in Greeting.

Formation

The class is in open order, a little more than two arms length distance. This formation may be obtained quickly from the preceding dance (Greeting) by opening the ranks of threes.

Figure I (Verse)

Four walking steps forward starting with the left foot, swinging

arms vigorously.........................................2 M.

Step left sideward (1), brush the right foot across and swing it forward inward about knee high (and). Hop on the left foot

(2)	brush right foot and swing it back outward (and). Repeat the hop (3), and the brush (and) forward	and then
377

hop again (4). The leg should be swung very loosely. There should be no stiffness about it. The arms swing in a natural (opposition) lateral swing about shoulder level, from one side to the other.	2	M.

A small backward pas de basque to the right (1 and 2) and to the left, in place (3 and 4), the arms swinging laterally to the

right and to the left........................................2	M.

Three steps backward (starting right) with vigorous arm swinging,

and closing left on 4........................................2	M.

Repeat all again, starting with right foot...................8	M.

Figure II (Chorus)

Moving diagonally forward to the left, four skip steps beginning left with turning heels out (natural arm swing.) This produces an outward swing of the free foot producing a characteristic

step(1-4)...................................................2	M.

Forward pas de basque in place left and right with arms moving from left lateral to right lateral. The pas de basque consists of a small leap left sideward (1), a small step right forward in front of left foot with a momentary transfer of weight to the right

foot (and), step back on the left foot again (2) (1-4) ......2	M.

Four skip steps backward with raising the free leg backward and lowering trunk forward slightly. The foot which takes the weight slides backward slightly and both arms swing to the same side as the raised leg. These skips are really done like a fast balance hop backward and correspond in character to the first

four skip steps forward. (1-4) .............................2	M.

Step left sideward (1) and step right foot in rear (2), glissade left with right crossing 5th in front (3) and glissade left but cross right foot 5th in rear (4). In this step cover as much ground as possible. (The glissade consists of a low, quick leap sideward on the left foot followed immediately by the right finishing 5th in front or rear as described. The entire step takes only one

count.) (1-4) ..............................................2	M.

Repeat the step hop with brushing to the left as described in

Figure I (1-4) .............................................2	M.

Repeat the seventh and eighth measures (step and glissades) to

the right (1-4) ............................................2	M.

Repeat the 9th and 10th measures hop and brush to the right

(1-4) ......................................................2	M.

Pas de basque left forward as in Figure II (1-2), step to right and make a whole turn right on the right foot with the left raised backward as in a step hop. This is a pivot on the ball of right foot. Both arms swing to the right (3). Small jump backward landing on both feet, trunk bent slightly forward, arms in low second (4) (1-4) .....................................  2	M.

Figure III (Verse)

Four steps forward, closing on four, with military salute on 3 and 4. There should again be the vigorous arm swinging.

...................................................... 2	M.

Fold arms chest high and with a jump ex^pt^p(p^m^rter turn
378

left, keeping the head turned to the front and nodding to the audience (1-2). Jump with a half turn right, again keeping

head to the front and nodding (3-4)........................2 M.

Two forward pas de basque left and right as described in Figure

II (1-4) ..................................................2 M.

Pivot turn (spinning step) to the left (in 3 1-2 steps) with

arms in third position, left arm up (1-4) .................2 M.

Three steps backward beginning with the right foot and salute

on 3 and 4. Close feet on fourth count.....................2 M.

Repeat the jumping with the quarter and half turns, but begin

to the	right.............................................2	M.

Repeat the pas de basques beginning with the right foot this

time ......................................................2	M.

Repeat the spinning step or pivot run also to the other side ...........................................................2	M.

Figure IV (Chorus)

Repeat Figure III, but start right diagonally forward instead of left, with the right foot instead of the left foot. To start right necessitates a quick catch step....16	M.

<> —.................- ....

News, notes and comments

«■ ■ ■■ <• "ATHLETICS FOR ALL”

In expressing at an alumni luncheon the wish that every student in I^fayette College should participate in some form of organized athletics, Dr. William Mather Lewis has probably opened a discussion which begins and ends with every football season.

Dr. Lewis, who was installed as president of Lafayette on October 20. declared that an active interest in athletics helps make the student both a sportsman and a gentleman. Critics of the present system of collegiate sports do not, as a general thing, deny this, They assert, however, that specialization and alumni demand for winning teams rob many students of this opportunity.

Much has been said on both sides of this annual discussion. Charges of professionalization, not so much of the athletes but of the system, have been made. To support their charges the critics have pointed out that last year the football season saw $26,000,000 taken in at the gate and more than 1,000,000 persons witnessing games on various college fields. The highly paid coach, the alleged demoralization of students by lavish expenditures of money, the secondary consideration of scholarship as a matter of college pride, the hero worship of the football player by students, alumni and school officials alike, have all been cited as results of the present system. To these charges college heads

Digitized by VjOOQIC
379

have replied that annually a greater number of students are taking part in sports. In the Western Conference last year, it was reported, 10,301 boys were traind on varsity and freshman teams of the big ten universities. At Princeton the fostering of “athletics for all” has resulted in participation of more than one-half of the undergraduate body in some form of collegiate sport. At Harvard and at many other universities there are first teams, second teams, class teams, freshman teams and interdormitory and fraternity teams. This widespread praticipation of students in athletic contests is, of course, shadowed into obscurity by the great publicity given the few who make the varsity football team or crew.

It is undoubtedly true that the earnings and the expenditures of college football are growing annually. But it appears to be also true that intermural athletics are growing with them. Income derived from the great attendances at intercollegiate games helps, in fact, to finance many of the other sports in which more students join. In urging the encouragement of this tendency toward “athletics for all” Dr. Lewis is in step with the most forward-looking of our college presidents and faculties.

—Evening Ledger. Philadelphia.

NOTES FROM THE CINCINNATI MEETING OF THE A. A. U.

The official Olympic tryouts in track and field events will be held in Boston July 6 and 7, and metre instead of yard measurements will prevail, in order to get the athletes used to foreign competition as regards measurement of foreign track lanes. The 440-yard dashes and hurdles will be run on another field in Boston because of the lack of sufficient lanes.

Chicago won the National Outdoor track and field championships for women, which will be held in Soldiers’ Field Stadium in either June or July, while the Olympic tryouts in this same event were awarded to the Metropolitan Association of the A. A. U., New York, to be held the first Saturday in July.

The annual Marathon which is held in Boston April 19, Patriots' Day, will be regarded as official Olympic tryouts by the Amateur Athletic Union.

The union adopted a recommendation that the present marathon distance of 26 miles 385 yards be reduced to 36,750 meters, which is slightly less than 24 miles.

Michigan was awarded the wrestling championship tournament and official Olympic tryouts, which will be held the last week in June or the first week in July in Grand Rapids. The committee recommended that a 112-pound championship event be added and that two men in each class be sent to ^je official tryouts.
380

The men’s national senior indoor swimming championships were awarded to Chicago, while the Olympic diving tryouts were awarded to Detroit. Because of the prevalence of a large number of nationally known divers on the Pacific Coast the national diving championships will be held there.

The women’s indoor swimming championship will be held in Buffalo. The union also agreed to permit the recognition of collegiate championship swimming records as sufficient proof for Olympic tryout qualifications.

The National Boxing Championships will be held in Boston.

The National championships and Olympic tryouts in gymnastics will be held early in May, in New York, under the auspices of the Metropolitan Association.

Indoor American Records

The Union gave its approval of the following indoor American records:

Eight hundred meters, 1:54, Alan Helffrich, New York Athletic Club.

One thousand meters, 2:26 2-5, Lloyd Hahn, Boston Athletic Association.

One thousand yards, 2:12 4-5, Lloyd Hahn, Boston Athletic Association.

Fifteen hundred meters, 3:55 4-5, Lloyd Hahn, Boston Athletic Association.

Pole vault, 13 feet 9 1-4 inches, Sabin Carr, Yale.

Outdoor American Records

One hundred yards, 0:9 3-5, Chester Bowman, Newark Athletic Club.

Four hundred and forty hurdles, 0:52 3-5, John A. Gibson, Bloomfield (N. J.) Catholic Lyceum.

Four hundred and forty relay, 0:41 seconds, Newark Athletic Club.

Pole vault, 14 feet, Sabin Carr, Yale. (He holds all present pole vault records.)

Decathlon, 7,574.42 points, Faith Elkins, University of Nebraska.

The Record Committee recognized two relay performances made by the University of California teams last May as new American records.

The records are the 880-yard and 800-meter relays, with both having the same time, 1 minute 25 4-5 seconds.

The International Skating Union was recognized by the Amateur Athletic Union and will in the future control all ice skating events.

Digitized by VjOOQlC
381

Among the women athletes, Helen Filkey, of Chicago, was credited with three new national records, for the 60-yard dash and 70-yard low hurdles, indoors, and the 60-yard hurdles, outdoors.

Of the 94 swimming records accepted, 22 were registered in the name of Martha Norelius, of the Women’s Swimming Association, of New York, national free-style champion. Walter Spence, of the Brooklyn Central Y. M. C. A., with 13, and Johnny Weissmueller, of the Illinois A. C., with 12 new marks to his credit, headed the men’s performers. Agnes Geraghty, breast stroke star, of the W. S. A., of New York, broke eight records and George Kojac, New York’s schoolboy established seven new marks.

Any proposal to pay athletes for the time lost in Olympic competition is “dangerous” and contrary to all concepts of American sportsmanship and amateurism, the A. A. U. decided in going on record as vigorously opposed to the “broken time” provision adopted by the International Football Association in connection with the 1928 Olympics.

Rowing tryouts will be held at Philadelphia July 6-7; boxing finals in Boston, probably in May; wrestling finals at Grand Rapids, Mich., in late June or early July; swimming finals at Detroit and New York in late June; diving trials at San Francisco, early June; water polo, Chicago, early June; gymnastics finals, New York, May; women’s track and field, New York, probably June 7.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Physical education is becoming every day more and more an essential part of the system of education. In order to train instructors in physical education for the French secondary schools, a special course has been founded, which, at the present time, is in charge of M. Latarajet, correspondent of the Academy of Medicine. The course is being held at the Lycee Michelet, which is located in the outskirts of Paris and has a fine athletic field. This course has a double purpose:	(1) to train teachers,

and (2) to study into the essential principles of physical education as adapted to the needs of secondary education. Since 1925, the authorities have supplied facilities for becoming acquainted with the principles of physical education. M. Latarajet, however, regards the present program as still inadequate, and plans further developments. The Michelet lycee has been reorganized. An immense gymnasium has been erected on the athletic field, in the shade of tall trees, and grounds for tennis and football (rugby) have been laid out.

Digitized by t^ooQle
382

“Teaching as a Fine Art” will be the keynote of the Eighth Annual Ohio State Educational Conference at Columbus, Ohio on April 12, 13 and 14.

As in the past, the sectional meetings, held throughout Friday, the second day of the Conference, will feature the three-day session. In order to avoid the overlapping which necessarily occurs when the sectional program is extended, some of the group meetings have been scheduled this year for Thursday afternoon.

The following sectional meetings have been arranged for Thursday afternoon, April 12: City Superintendents, County Superintendents, School Librarians, and Parent-Teacher Association; Friday, April 13: Art, Biological Science, City Superintendents, Clinical Psychology, Commercial Education, Deans of Women, Educational and Intelligence Tests, Elementary Principals, Elementary Teachers, English, Geography, High-school Principals, History, Home Economics, Industrial and Vocational Education, Journalism, Junior High-school Principals, Kindergarten and Primary Teachers, Latin, Mathematics, Modem Language Music, Non-Biological Science, Physical Education, Religious Education, School Business Officials, Special Education, Teacher Training, Village and Consolidated School Superintendents.

BOOK REVIEWS

“The Adolescent” by J. W. Slaughter, published by George Allen and Unwin Ltd., London, England. First edition 1911, reprinted 1917, 1919, 1922 and 1925. Cloth bound, 7 l-4"x 5, price $1.50, 100 pages. Handled in the United States by The Macmillan Co.

The book is significantly inscribed to G. Stanley Hall whose following in the British Empire is considerable. Professor J. J. Findlay in a very cleverly written introduction informs us that, although the author’s training was largely received in the United States, he has done most of his work in London.

The book is small but compactly printed, and covers in an adequate way the topics of Growth, Adolescent Love, Pathology and Hygiene, Juvenile Crime, and Education of the Adolescent. The treatment is psychologic and social rather than physical. Dr. Slaughter aims a shrewd blow at formal gymnastics when he states—“the unlicensed employment of formal exercises for all stages of growth constitutes one of the greatest dangers of the time.” This is an extremely broad assertion in view of the many “dangers of the time.” But on the whole, his viewpoint is interesting in spite of his obvious obeisance to Dr. Hall.

— H. L. Conrad.

“Health Trends in Secondary Education” published by the American Child Health Association, 1927; 370 Seventh Avenue, New York. Price $1., 153 pages, paper bound, 8”x6”.

This publication was compiled as a result of a number of model health programs submitted by secondary schools. Awards

Digitized by

Google
388

totalling one thousand dollars were made-to the'three institutions presenting the best balanced programs. These reports were judged entirely on their face value. One hundred and ninety-three schools were involved. They ranged from Berkeley, California, to St. Thomas, Virgin Islands; and included both senior and junior high schools.

The results in many cases were gratifying although the limited number involved made them far from conclusive. A unique individual, the “health counselor,” is proposed in order to make the program more effective. He (she) is proposed as a model teacher of certain difficult phases, a nurse, a clinical assistant, a student advisor, a statistical worker on absences due to illness, a health “press agent,” and a parent-teacher liaison officer. Insofar as his (her) duties overlap considerably with the school nurse, medical inspector, principal, vice principal, and supervisor of health education (considering these officials of greater importance) we are forced to regard the “health counselor” as a luxury and a source of friction.

In the chapter devoted to Physical Training as a basic subject in health education the following significant points were gleaned:

(1)	In one selected "type” course marching is regarded as an essential part of the course content.

(2)	In the list of “purposes” for a course in physical training, posture came first; strength, cleanliness, team spirit, etc. followed.

(3)	That "games and sports are most important for developing the latent power for health;” and that gymnastics are the least important.

One interesting fact that the report presents is that physical directors head the list of those who are most responsible for the administration of the health program.

Chapter III on “Health for Teachers” is deserving of special mention.—Howard L. Conrad.

“Theory and Practice of Physical Education” by Emil Rath. Cloth bound, 189 pages, 6 1-4” by 9 1-4”. Price $2.00. Published by Normal College of the American Gymnastic Union, Indianapolis, Indiana, 1927.

The third edition of Volume II, Physical Education represents important additions and changes in content and organization. There are six main divisions of the book with the following titles: Methods and Management, System of General Free Exercises, Fundamental Work, Preparatory Exercises for Athletics, Stunts for Open Order, and Preparatory Exercises for Demonstration Purposes.

The appearance of this book in new form with emphasis upon the more valuable modem tendencies in Physical Education is a welcome contribution to the literature of this subject.

In its consideration of “Methods and Management” a sound basis is laid down for the presentation and discussion of the material following. Thorough study of this division .pfi.the book

Digitized b;
384

is time wisely invested, particularly for those who have been denied the opportunity of a thorough and complete training in Physical Education.

The topic “System of General Free Exercises” has been taken largely from the second edition. It gives a good description of how exercises may be arranged or classified according to first, nature and purpose; second, body parts used; and third, structure. The last type of classification has been condensed considerably to fit in with the author’s plan of relocation of emphasis on other important phases of the subject.

Several pages are devoted to nomenclature and technique in order to establish a common understanding of directions used further on in the book. This section has also been kept intact from the second edition.

The chapters devoted to “Fundamental Exercises” are new to this edition. They are well arranged and filled with an abundance of working material. The emphasis placed by the author on fundamental exercises reflects the increased importance being attached to this phase of Physical Education.

The chapters dealing with Preparatory Exercises for Athletics and Stunts for Open Order have been enlarged considerably adding greatly thereby to the appeal and usefulness of the book. The growing popularity and interest in these activities warrants such an expansion.

The treatment of wand exercises has been enlarged by the addition of material showing the bases on which wand exercises may be classified and the possibilities offered for making up exercises. Following this are the graded wand exercises taken from the previous edition. The addition of this simpler system and terminology as an introduction to the more complicated graded arrangement which follows makes this part of the book much more easily understood and usable.

This plan of giving a preliminary discussion of the system and arrangement of the exercises is also applied to treatment of exercises with Indian clubs. Following this is the graded plan of club exercises taken largely from the second edition.

A chapter on Miscellaneous Activities has been added to this edition. Its three items, exercises with rings, flags, and a ball, occupy the place devoted to reed exercises in the old edition. No doubt the reed exercises might well have been retained since they are as popular as the small wooden rings.

The last chapter has to do with arranging exhibition numbers. After the first few paragraphs of very useful ideas it becomes rather heavily saturated with theory of music. There is no doubt however, that the need for greater consideration of the musical background for exhibition numbers is a serious one. If in this case there is over-emphasis perhaps it is in the right direction.

The book as a whole has profited considerably by the revision, especially by the addition of the fundamental exercises, the expansion of the preparatoiy exercises for athletics, and the discussion of arranging exhibition numbers.—Kiefer.

by vjuU\