Vol. la.	NOVEMBER,	1905.	No.	141

Editorial Committee :

DR. K. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

WM. A. STECHER, Physical Director, Public Schools, Indianapolis, Ind. DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wit.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wts.

THE FIRST INTRODUCTION OF THE JAHN GYMNASTICS INTO AMERICA (1825-30).

By FRED EUGENE LEONARD, Oberlin College.

III.

THE FIRST COLLEGE GYMNASIUM IN THE UNITED STATES.

LEAVING Beck at work in the first school gymnasium established in the United States, we have now to return to . Charles Follen, waiting in Cambridge, in late December of 1825, to begin his duties as first teacher of the German language in Harvard University. Within a year he also was introducing the Jahn gymnastics in his new field, and had openend the first college gymnasium this country had seen, at Harvard University, and the first public gymnasium, in Boston. He had visited Beck at Northampton in July of 1825 and again early in December, and on March 5 of the next year, only a little more than two months alter his arrival in Cambridge, used these words in a letter to his friend: “I expect our University will particularly apply to you on the subject of gymnastics. 1 have commenced gymnastic exercises with the students. The College furnishes the implements, and will give us a

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
-250-

place. At present I use one of the dining-halls. All show much zeal. In Boston a gymnasium is soon to be established. The matter will lead further, probably, than most at present anticipate. . . Do not forget to bring what drawings you have relating to gymnastics.” Dr. John Collins Warren, at that time professor of anatomy and surgery in the University, refers to the movement as follows, in chapter 14 of his “Life,” published in Boston in 1860: “In my lectures annually delivered at Cambridge I had explained the great importance of physical exercise in developing the organic structure of the body, as well as its necessity for maintaining it in that degree of vigor which by nature it was destined to possess. The obvious failure of health in a great number of individuals in the university gave weight to these considerations and led the government of the university to make some arrangements for gymnastic exercises in the grounds assigned for the sports of students. The young gentlemen entered into the plan with great ardgr; and the apparatus was kept in repair and activity for a number of years.”

The third instalment of “Reminiscences of Harvard, 1822-26,” by Rev. Cazneau Palfrey, printed in The Harvard Register of October, 1880, contains this passage: “The first movement in the direction of gymnastics made in college was made in my senior year. . . The medical professors of the College published an appeal to the students, strongly recommending to them the practice of gymnastic exercises; and a meeting of all the classes was held in the College chapel (such a meeting as I do not remember hearing of on any other occasion), at which a response was made to this appeal, and resolutions passed expressing our readiness to follow the suggestions made in it. One of the unoccupied commons halls [on the first floor of University Hall] was fitted up with various gymnastic appliances; and other fixtures were erected on the Delta, the enclosure now occupied by Memorial Hall. But Dr. Follen did not confine his operations to these two localities. One day he was to be seen issuing from the College yard at a dog-trot, with all college [the total number of undergraduates at that period was not more than two hundred] at his heels in single file, and arms akimbo, making a train a mile long, bound for the top of Prospect Hill. Great was the amazement and amusement of all passers-by. I was one of the bobs of fhat living kite; but, as I dropped prematurely, I cannot speak confidently of the end. . .”

Anyone familiar with a German Turnplatz of the Jahn type will readily understand the allusions made by Thomas Wentworth Iiiggin-son in his chapter on “The Gymnasium, and Gymnastics in Harvard College,” in the second volume of “The Harvard Book” (Cambridge, 1875). “One of my most impressive early reminiscences,” he says, “is of a certain moment when I looked out timidly from mv father’s gateway, on what is now Kirkland Street, in Cambridge, and saw the forms of young men climbing, swinging, and twirling aloft in the open playground opposite. It was the triangular field then called the “Delta,” where the great Memorial Hall now stands. The apparatus on which these youths were exercising was, to my childish eyes, as inexplicable as if it had been a pillory or a gallows, which indeed it somewhat resembled. It consisted of high uprights and cross-bars, with ladders

Digitized by CjOOQle
—251—

and swinging ropes, and complications of wood and cordage, whose details are vanished from my memory. Beneath some parts of the apparatus there were pits sunk in the earth, and so well constructed that they remained long after the woodwork had been removed. This early recollection must date back as far as 1830.” [Mr. Higginson was born in 1823.]

In the “Catalogue of the Officers and Students of the University in Cambridge,” October, 1825, appears the name “Charles Follen, J. U. I)., Instructer in German, and Lecturer on the Civil Law.” The next catalogue (September, 1826), retains the name and title unchanged, but in that “for the Academical year 1827-8“ (published in 1827) he is called “Instructer in German, and Superintendent of the Gymnasium;” and in both these catalogues the following passage occurs:	“The

regular Gymnastick exercises, when the Superintendent of the Gymnasium is present, are on Wednesday and Friday, from 12 to 1 o’clock; or when the length of the day admits, after evening Commons. On Monday, the Monitors and Vice Monitors meet sepaiately with the Superintendent, to prepare for the general exercises.” The catalogues for 1828-29 (published in 1828) and 1829-30 (published in 1829) make no mention of “Gymnastick exercises,” and give Follen the title “Instructer in the German Language, in Ethics, and in Civil and Ecclesiastical History.” From 1826 through 1829 this further paragraph is included: “Military exercises are allowed on Tuesday and Thursday, from 12 to 1 o’clock, or after evening Commons; with music not oftener than every other time, and the liberty of a parade on the afternoons of Exhibition days.”

THE FIRST PUBLIC	GYMNASIUM	IN THE UNITED	STATES.

In a letter to Beck dated March 5, 1826, Follen had written; “In Boston a gymnasium is soon to be established.” The gentlemen interested in the project offered him a liberal salary if he would “superintend the erection of the proper apparatus and become the principal instructor,” and authorized him to engage a suitable assistant. September 26th he again wrote to Beck: “ . . The da}’ after to-morrow ray rope-dancing begins in Boston. The gallows stand, in significant majesty, on the spot. There is no lack of gallow-birds, large and small, genteel and vulgar. . . ” A petition had been presented to the	Board of Aldermen	of Boston	on March 13,	asking for	the

use	of a certain piece of	land “for	the purpose of	establishing a

school of gymnastic instruction and	exercise.” April	17th the	city

authorities granted this request. Following a call which appeared in the Boston Daily Advertiser of June 12, a meeting of citizens was held June 15, at the Exchange Coffee House, to take steps to carry out the plan for a puolic gymnasium. The official report of this meeting is published in the American Journal of Education for July, 1826 (Vol. I, p. 443). William Sullivan was made chairman, and Charles P. Curtis secretary. A deputation of students from Harvard University presented a communication conveying their best wishes for the success of the undertaking and telling of the good effects already observed in the case of exercises at the university, and members of the committee added explanations and testimony of their own. The

Digitized by (^.ooQte
-252-

measures already taken by a private committee were reported. From three to five thousand dollars, it was thought, would suffice to prepare and equip the grounds and secure a teacher, and afterwards the gymnasium was to be self-supporting and open to all ages and classes in the community upon payment of a moderate fee. It was hoped that later it might constitute a department of public education, under the patronage of the city. The meeting unanimously resolved “that it is expedient to attempt the establishment of a Gymnastic School in the city of Boston,” and appointed William Sullivan, Dr. John C. Warren, Prof. George Ticknor, Dr. John G. Coffinr and John S. Foster, with others to be selected by them, a committee to carry the resolution into effect, by securing and applying contributions from the citizens of Boston. Others mentioned as especially interested in the project are Judge Prescott, Josiah Quincy, Daniel Webster, Peter 0. Thacher, John A. Lowell, Thomas Motley, and John B. Davis. Two hundred and fifty shares, at twenty dollars each, were offered by the committee, and according to Dr. Warren the contributions were “very liberal,” permitting the opening of the establishment “on a large scale.”

The open-air gymnasium or Tumplatz was ready for the public on September 28, not on the site originally selected, but in Washington Gardens, at the corner of West and Tremont Streets, opposite the Common. A notice in the American Journal of Education for October mentions “the large number of pupils of various ages, and the high gratification it seems to afford;” and the November number of the same Journal uses these words, in the course of a more extended reference: “A month’s opportunity of observing its progress and participating in its exercises enables us now to say that thus far it gives the utmost satisfaction to those who have made the experiment of taking a course of lessons. The physical effects of the gymnastic exersise, on pupils of very different ages—10 to 50—are surprising. Many have doubled their vigor. . . Pupils belong to great diversity of situations in life— physicians, lawyers, and clergymen are intermixed with young men from the counter and the counting house, and with boys from the public schools.” Follen was assisted by George F. Turner, a Harvard student. Mrs. Follen, then Miss Eliza Lee Cabot (1787-1860), first met her future husband in the autum of 1826. She says: “He accompanied us and some other ladies to his gymnasium, to see his class of boys go through their exercises. He took us, when we first entered the place, to look at a very amusing caricature of his school, particularly of his elder pupils and himself, in the act of performing some of their most difficult exercises. ‘I have,1 he said, ‘put this up in my gymnasium that we who are laughed at may have our fair portion of the sport.’ ”

In June of the following year (1827) Follen resigned his position at the Boston Gymnasium. To a committee of pupils there, who sent him a letter* expressing their appreciation of his services and their regret at losing him, he replied under date of July 3, referring to “the patriotic views to which the Boston Gymnasium owes its existence, and the efficient zeal with which these exercises have been carried on.” He hopes

* fulv 2. Quoted in part in the Boston Medical Intelligencer, Vol. V, p. 133.

Digitized by

Google
—253—

‘‘that the gymnasium may continue a benefit to this enlightened city, and that its branches may spread over all this free and happy land.” Meanwhile an attempt had been made to secure the services of no less a person than Friedrich Ludwig Jahn himself. Dr. Warren tells us, in the “Life,” already mentioned, that he “addressed a letter to the distinguished philosopher and gymnasiarch, Professor Jahn, through my friend, William Amory, Esq., who was at that time residing in Germany. Mr. Jahn was so situated that we could not, without obtaining more means than were at our disposition, lead him to abandon* his own country and establish himself for life in ours. The idea of obtaining his aid was therefore relinquished; and I afterwards addressed Dr. Lieber . . .”

This latter gentleman, who succeeded Follen at the Boston gymnasium late in June or early in July of 1827, was Francis (German, Franz) Lieber, born in Berlin on the 18th of March, 1800. He was tenth among the twelve children—nine sons and three daughters—who formed the family of Friedrich Wilhelm and Charlotte Baur Lieber, and the father was a dealer in iron-ware, living at No. 19 Breitestrasse, not far from the Royal Palace. The boy studied first at the Hartung School, then in the Botanical Garden, with the thought of devoting himself to that science, and afterwards at the Pepinifcre, an institution for the training of military surgeons. In 1811 he became acquainted with Jahn, at the Hasenheide Turnplatz. Although too young to join his older brothers in the first campaign of the War of Liberation, upon Napoleon’s return from Elba he entered (May 26, 1815) a volunteer regiment, the Pomeranian Rifles or Kolberg Regiment, took part in the battle of Ligny, was severely wounded at Namur, and later suffered from a prolonged siege of typhus fever in the hospitals at Aix-la-Cha-pelle and Cologne. After his return home he attended for a time the Gymnasium zum grauen Kloster, and now beeame one of the most ardent and tireless of Jahn’s turners, accompanying him on the monthlong excursions to the Island of Riigen in 1817 and to Breslau the following year. A manuscript account of the latter trip, written by Lieber, was found among Massmann’s papers, and published in the Deutsche Turn-Zeitung for 1895 (pp. 637-642 and 686-690), with introduction and notes by Dr. Karl Wassmannsdorff.

In July of 1819, a few days after Jahn’s arrest, Lieber was also seized as an enemy of the State. After four months in prison he was allowed to go free, but forbidden to study in any Prussian university. The universities of Heidelberg and Tubingen also refused him admission, but he met with better success at Jena, where he received his doctor’s degree (Ph. D.) in 1820, studying afterwards for brief periods in Halle and Dresden (1821). The Greeks had risen up against their Turkish oppressors in the spring of 1821, and in December of that year Lieber joined at Marseilles a band of Philhellenes, who sailed from that port January 10, 1822, and landed at' Navarino, in Messenia, on the 21st, to give their services in the cause of freedom to a foreign race, since the reaction at home left no opportunity there for patriotic endeavor. The next two months were full of misery and bitter disillusionment. Starved, robbed of. their horses, compelled to sell clothing, watches, and even their arms in order to procure money for the journey, and disgusted

Digitized by v^ooQle
-254-

with the cowardice, incapacity, and lying they met at every step, they traveled northeast through Kalamata, Tripolitza, and Argos to Corinth, and then west through Salona to Missolonghi. Returning in a small vessel to Ancona, on the eastern coast of Italy, he reached Rome about the first of June, and spent the next year as private tutor in the family of Barthold Georg Niebuhr, the celebrated German historian, at that time Prussian ambassador at the Papal Court, preparing meanwhile the “Journal of My Residence in Greece” for publication, and visiting other parts of Italy in company with his distinguished patron.

The Prussian King, and later Kamptz, the Minister of Police, had assured Lieber that no further persecution need be feared in his own country, and for some months after his return to Berlin, which he reached August 10, 1823, it seemed as though all was well. With the help of a small grant from the government he resumed his mathematical studies, first in the Prussian capital, and afterwards at Halle for a few months in the summer of 1824. But in time it appeared that every movement was watched by the police. In February, 1824, he was arrested and taken to Kopenick as a witness, then summoned from Halle for the same purpose and kept in prison from September of that year until the following April because of his refusal to give information, and the next November again called before the court charged with the investigation of revolutionary plots. Foreseeing the fate that awaited him if he remained longer in Germany, he now took steps looking toward a career in some foreign land. Lessons in English were begun in February of 1826, and among other things he secured from Major-General von Pfuel. 'in charge of a swimming school in Berlin, a testimonial as to his skill in that art and his ability to conduct a similar institution with success. When all was ready he left Berlin, May 17, 1826, and ten days later reached London, traveling by way of Hamburg nnd Gravesend.	(To	be continued.)

THE FOOTBALL QUESTION.

II	as the football season comes around the game is held up for

comment of all sorts and kinds. Perhaps it would not be out of place for us to have our say. There are some things that can be said against the game, much that can be said for it. In our opinion most of the evils are the result of the spirit in our present day athletics, which is prevalent in all lines of sport. This spirit is the desire to win at any cost no matter what means are necessary to bring that about, and produces evil results of one kind in our forms of athletics, and of another kind in some other form. The chief fault laid against football is that of brutality. The game is not necessarily hrutal, but only when the spirit of “win at any cost” dominates the players. It can be played and played successfully without brutality, if the players are determined to win, but to win through nothing but honorable and sportsmanslike means. Sports for sport's sake, will cure the evils of this as well as those of other forms of athletics.

There is no game so well adapted to train young men in their qualities of character which are so essential to success in our modern business world. These qualities are resourcefulness, persistence, and aggressiveness. The successful football player develops along these lines to a large degree, and the game has been of invaluable service to men for that reason. To our personal knowledge dreamy men have been wakened up, and slow men aroused to activity after a season or two of football.—Exchange.

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
-255-

THE DOCTOR AND THE PUBLIC SCHOOL.

By THEODORE TOEPEL, M. D., Atlanta.

THE purpose of this paper is mainly to call to the physician’s attention the child and its environment during its school life from six to fourteen years. Though not every physician is a politician, yet his professional standpoint carries sufficient weight to influence public opinion. A great amount of good would result if doctors in general would interest themselves more in the child in school. I am sure they are just as capable of filling positions on boards of education as men of other professions, especially when one considers that in school matters the prime aim to be promoted is the child’s physical and mental welfare.

If we take the child at six years of age, when he first enters school, and note the change of conditions which take place, we are astonished at the physical and mental changes occurring during this first year at school. A child is removed from the home surroundings, where he was accustomed to be natural in action and speech, where the little body had a chance to grow, where the mind could develop at will, and now this abrupt change. This child of free play is now crowded into a room with fifty-nine others. He must learn to sit still at his desk, a limited space of two or three feet, and can move by command only, and only talk when he is asked. Is it not evident to every rational thinking physician that this change should be carefully and gradually made? Would it not be better to take these little folks at six, and put them into a large room devoid of desks, where there is better opportunity for free exercise? The establishment of kindergartens with their preparatory course for the regular school work should be more universal in the city schools of the South. The expense of equipping and maintaining these kindergartens is small, when measured by the great amount of good derived from them.

The curriculum, as it is now’ made up, is very heavy for grammar-school children, and is very frequently the cause of physical retardation and nervous breakdown. Not only does the pupil suffer, but the teacher very seldom escapes the evil results of overwrought nerves in the attempt to accomplish all the work the curriculum calls for. The cry of alarm should be sounded by the whole medical world in opposition to this grinding system. Wisely-thinking pedagogues have shown the way of ridding the curriculum of all that is only theoretical, and not practical and useful, and have pointed out what should be taught our school-children, and they have chosen those things which eventually are conducive to the betterment of the people physically, mentally and morally. These men. true educators as it were, should have the loyal support of the physician, for he is the one man who sees the results of wise or unwise education, being the confidential counselor in many families.

I take for granted that we are dealing with children of families where they are properly cared for. We shall find that, before the child was sent to school, he received his breakfast at eight o'clock, a light lunch at ten, and a warm dinner at twelve, not later than one o’clock.

Digitized by LjOOQle
—256—

and now the change after he has entered school. It is customary in the South to have one long session. That means the children must report at 8.15 a. m., and are dismissed at 2 p. m.f with one half hour recess. This equals live hours spent in the school-room. The child now has breakfast at seven o’clock * he sometimes takes a cold lunch with him, which is eaten at eleven o’clock, leaves school at two in the afternoon, and, if he is fortunate in having a careful mother, he receives a little warmed-up food at three o’clock, otherwise waits for a warm meal at supper-time. It is evident that the physical and mental development of children, fed in this manner, can not be normal. It is convincing that the results of irregular feeding during three-fourths of the period of growth and development will manifest themselves sooner or later in some form of disease. Should not this question of proper feeding receive the attention of the ohysician? Would it not be better for pupils and teachers to have a warm meal at twelve o’clock, and at least an hour and a half for rest and recreation between sessions?

Unfavorable physical conditions are prone to contagious disease, and the greatest care should be exercised not to expose school-children to such on account of their susceptibility. Realizing the importance of this, many authorities have appointed regular visiting school physicians, whose duty it is to visit the schools daily, and examine all children whom the teacher has sent to his office in the school, suspected of having any contagious disease. In New York an inspector must make his visits to the school assigned to him before 10 a. m. He first examines the children isolated by the principal, and also the children who have been absent from school for a few days. Once a week he makes a routine inspection, consisting of a class-to-class examination of each child present. The children march by the inspector, pull down their eyelids and open their mouths wide. Any one suspected of having any trouble is ordered to the inspector’s office for a more thorough examination. By this method many unreported contagious diseases have been found. Defects of sight and hearing are systematically sought for once a year among all the pupils. We know that the way in which to prevent disease is to teach the people the primary cause of it, and how to avoid contact with the causative agent. In the public schools the children should be taught more of the practical things that will be of use later in life and less of the useless things which they forget as soon as they leave school. Half an hour a week during the child’s whole school period devoted to a good common-sense talk on personal hygiene is of greater benefit to a child than all the memorizing of physiology as it is at present taught. Instead of putting literature into the hands of the children on this subject facts should be put into their heads.

The conclusions drawn from physiological investigations made in Europe and America into the distortion of the body, caused by the demands of school life, are startling in the extreme. Every bad condition should be eliminated to prevent the acquiring of physical defects in school, as well as to prevent the accentuation of those defects which the child may have had before entering school. Improper chairs and desks, not conforming to the size of the body, must not be allowed in the room. I have seen children varying in height twenty-two inches seated at desks and in seats exactly the same size.

Digitized by

Google
-257-

A few words will be appropriate in connection with this paper as to the room, and schoolhouse, where the child spends five hours daily for eight years. I will picture to you a standard school-room, as now required by many of the larger city school systems; if any of the physicians present have received their primary instruction in a place with similar advantages, they are fortunate. The school-room should be the unit to be considered first in planning a school building; it should not be a building cut up in school-rooms. A school-room must be so planned as to give to the pupils who are to occupy it what the laws of health demand. A standard school-room is thirty feet long, twenty-five feet wide, and thirteen feet high. Of the primary grades forty-eight pupils are seated in a room of this size, each pupil having fifteen square feet of floor space and a little more than two hundred cubic feet of air space. In the grammar grades (fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth grades) forty pupils occupy a room of the same dimensions. Here every pupil has 18% square feet of floor space and 243% cubic feet of air space. The amount of glass surface to light the room well would be one-fourth of the floor space of the room, or 187 square feet, and there is unanimity of opinion that the light should enter from the left. The color of the walls and ceilings should be of a greenish-gray tint; the window shades should be of the same color, but somewhat darker. Properly sloped desks, chairs with backs, both having some mechanical contrivance which will admit of their being raised and lowered to accommodate the difference in size in pupils and rapidity in growth, should be in every room. They should be placed in such a manner that the aisles run the long way in the room. Every child should have thirty cubic feet of fresh air every minute at a temperature of 70 degrees F. The sanitary con-ditions of the school building should be the best that money can afford1* There should be well-lighted closets, with the best plumbing. The floors-of these places sht>uld be of hard asphalt. Special care should be exercised in regard to pure drinking water: the use of individual cups-should be encouraged. Besides the daily cleaning of the school house,, the floors should be scrubbed twice a year; the walls and woodwork should be wiped and painted annually. Desks and seats are accumulators-of dirt. They should be thoroughly cleaned with kerosene during vacation. Some of the progressive school boards of this country have instituted school baths like those of many European schools, the object being to teach cleanliness and physical exercise. The school buildings should be constructed of the best materials, put together in the most substantial way, and with the best workmanship available. They should be located most convenient in distance for the greatest number of pupils. They should be away from noise and polluted air. The site chosen should be elevated and well drained. The playgrounds should be on the sunn}' sides, and they should be covered with natural gravel.

The aim of education is to develop the child physically, mentally and morally, to make a worthy member of society and a patriotic citizen. The child’s mental education has been well taken care of, and it is time that a vigorous crusade be now made to do justice to the physical child. Owing to progress in science we have to appreciate more gcnerallv the truth of the saying: “Afens sana in corpore sano”

Digitized by C^ooQLe
—258—

(a sound mind in a sound body). It is time for the physician to interest himself in the great problem of healthy education.. The physician who interests himself in school matters is better qualified than many others to judge wisely on matters pertaining to school, and those conditions which undermine physical development. With his knowledge of the human body and the amount of work1 which each organ is able to perforin, he is able to call attention to the needed periods of rest between studies; he can make good suggestions as to the improvement of hygienic conditions of school-rooms, building, etc., thereby removing indirectly many causes of disease, and by practicing these preventive measures he can make himself invaluable to the cummunity. Let the doctors of this body unite in the endeavor to improve the environment of the child at school, thereby assisting in rearing a stronger generation of men and women, who are better able to perform conscientiously the many duties of an upright, noble life.

DISCU6SION ON DR. TOEPEL’s PAPER.

Dr. J. McF. Gaston, Atlanta: This paper is of great value to the profession at large, and I want to congratulate Dr. Toepel on his paper. It is a matter of great interest to the people at large that the profession should take notice of what is done in the schoolroom, and as to how the schools are constructed. In New York last winter I had the pleasure of seeing some o! the best schools, and I took opportunity to go to all that I could conveniently reach, having authority from the Board of Education to do so. I took part in the discussion of school inspection, and found that in New York great attention had been paid to this subject. In Atlanta we have an inspection of schools, and it is more important than ever that we have this subject brought to our attention. I would like to see more discussion of this subject. Careful attention should be paid to the light in the schoolroom. It has been found that the light coming from the left is a great help to the eyesight. Also, the system of ventilation will have to undergo an improvement, so that there will be a constant change of air. These points are all worthy of serious consideration.

Dr. J. W. Duncan, Atlanta: I have been very much interested in this paper, and think it is an important one. The ventilation of the schoolroom should be carefully looked after. I like to have the room well ventilated.

Dr. R. R. Kinne, Atlanta: This is too important a paper to pass by without discussion by this Association. No paper will come before this Association that is more important. The future citizens are the children of the present, and the way they are developing now will be the condition of the next generation. Then it is important that a profession that understands this development should make their influence felt. The physicians of Georgia are in position to lend an influence that will be of great benefit to the development of the children of this State. The point mentioned in the paper, that by sending the children to school at 8.15 a. m. and keeping them there until 2 p. m., makes it impossible for them to do good work. • It is impossiple for any man here to go to school and do the work year in and year out without

Digitized by

Google
-259-

telling on his health. These are questions which we should decide as a profession. A great many school children are crowded into a room like sheep, without regard to their mental or physical capacity. It is a matter of importance.

Another thing, it is a matter of importance for the teachers to occupy their time and train themselves for this work as they should do. Under the present arrangement the mental strain is such that they can not be in condition to handle them properly.

The way we are drifting along we will have nervous wrecks and a breaking down when they should be strong and healthy. Before this meeting closes, I desire to introduce a resolution to appoint a committee to take charge of the subject in Georgia and report from year to year.

SCHOOL HYGIENE.

THE SCOPE OP SCHOOL HYGIENE IN MODERN EDUCATION.

By THOMAS D. WOOD, M. D., Professor of Physical Education, Teachers College, Columbia

University, New York.

(Concluded.

IT is not possible to exaggerate the importance of recognizing such conditions as the above at an early age and doing all for them that science can suggest. The examinations should include the information about the child’s health, habits, and tendencies furnished to the school by the home; the observation of the keen-visioned teacher, trained to note important signs; and the result of the study of a special examiner. More specifically, the examination should include some measurements, not too many, but those which are worth while. There should be tests of sight,* hearing, and of the nervous and muscular systems. Further, there should be examinations of general form and symmetry of the body, of posture and mechanical adjustment, of spine and feet, of heart and lungs, of teeth, of throat and nasal passages, where, in younger children more particularly, the presence of enlarged tonsils and adenoid growths often injures health and interferes, perhaps seriously, with mental and bodily development. Beyond this there should be judgment of nutrition and general vitality, and, finally, an estimation of temperament and other general characteristics difficult to define bnt important to take into account. Methods of science and instruments of precision should be utilized so( far as may be practicable. The observations and judgment of the child should be thorough and complete and those of a wise and carefully trained examiner.

w A bill has been passed by the Vermont legislature, to take effect July i, 1905, looking to the better care of the health of pupils in public schools, which provides:

‘‘The State Board of Health and the Superintendent of Education shall prepare suitable test cards, blanks, record books, etc., to be used in testing the sight and hearing of pupils in public schools, and necessary instructions for their use; and the Superintendent of Education shall furnish the same, free of expense, to every school in the state. The superintendent, principal, or teacher in every school, during September in each year, shall test the sight and hearing of all pupils under his charge and keep a record of such examinations according to tl e instructions furnished; and shall notify in writing the parent or guardian of every pupil who shall be found to have any defect of vision or hearing or disease of eyes or cars, with a brief statement of such defect or disease ; and shall make a written report of all such examinations to the Superintendent of Education as he may require.

“The State Auditor is directed to draw his order on the State Treasurer for such sums and at such times as the Superintendent of Education, with the approval of the State Board of Health, may require to carry out the provisions of this act. The total expense under this act shall not exceed $600 in any biennial term.”

Digitized by LaOOQle
—260—

The information gained should be furnished to the home, and through the home the attention of the family physician or of a medical specialist should be directed to conditions about which there may be question. There are, of course, technical medical examinations and tests which it is not necessary nor desirable for the school examiner to undertake. The cooperation between school and home is of mutual advantage, and of great importance in this as in all other matters which concern the child’s welfare. The teacher, again, should have all of this special information which will help to a more favorable adjustment of school work. This biologic knowledge is essential to any true or just estimation of the pupil’s intellectual power or capacity, and to an understanding of personality and individual characteristics.

The meaning of facts learned in these examinations should not be exaggerated or misinterpreted. Parents most not be needlessly alarmed about real or supposed ailments of their children, but may be helped to give them intelligent and effective care.

This examination, let it be repeated, must have a broad educational motive. It is the fundamental feature of school hygiene, and should be the basis of all education.

In the second place, school hygiene should test and judge the entire environment of the school and its adaptability to the pupil and its effect upon health. This is, in general, the phase of school hygiene which has received the most attention. It includes the study and supervision of the schoolhouse, its site and surroundings; the construction, arrangement, and equipment of building and rooms. In this connection it is important to emphasize the necessity of adding rooms in the larger school buildings for the examinations of pupils and for the use of the medical inspector. There should be, in addition, small emergency rooms for pupils in case of sickness or accident. Such rooms are sometimes included in school plans, but are more often lacking.

School sanitation involves, further, attention to light, heat, ventilation, wall colors, furniture, blackboards, charts, books, and the various materials of many kinds used increasingly in modern education. The study of the school environment from the standpoint of hygiene is bringing about a different standard, and leads gradually to the selection of better, often more expensive materials and appliances for the school plant and its equipment. It is the duty of the school hygienist to keep all these factors under supervision and observe their influence upon the health of the pupils.

To be included, also, in this department of the subject are the hygiene of instruction, methods of study, of recitation, and of school examinations, home study, length of arrangement of the school periods, recesses, school lunches, alternation of activities in the schedule. All of these items in this passive and active school environment of the pupil, including the teacher even, should be subjected to careful stud}’ and judged partly and primarily from the standpoint of health.

Health is not everything. It is not to be considered in itself as the exclusive end of living. It should not be the main or final goal of education. It is, however, an absolutely essential means to forms of human achievement of most worth. It is even more essential to the
-201-

welfare of the future than of the present, if the race is to progress and not deteriorate. The health of the adult under certain conditions may be justifiably sacrificed to other ends, but the claim is made with great confidence that the health of the growing child may be sacrificed to nothing; that nothing may be allowed in education which injures or interferes with the pupil’s health in any way whatever; nay, more— that with our present and larger social view of education, its first care and effort, as has been stated earlier, should be preservation and improvement of health and organic power and efficiency, as the fundamental condition of individual and social well-being.

“School life,” as Dean James E. Russell of Teachers College, New York, so well pointed out in his report of 1901, “is a highly artificial product of modern civilization. It is to-day one of the most sedentary occupations in which workers are engaged, and its social significance is readily discoverable in the fact that approximately fifteen millions of children—more than one fifth of our total population—are being influened for good or ill by the schoolroom environment. Serious as are the evils of sedentary occupations in general, their disadvantages are especially emphasized in the case of growing children, who are often unduly crowded together in our public schools. Moreover, the urban tendencies of our population make it extremely difficult to secure to the young that which is essential to their physical well-being—namely, light and air and freedom of movement.”

Too much care cannot and will not be given to the health side of education if educational values are kept in their proper sequence and relation. Moreover, if the interest in school hygiene is unprejudiced, unselfish, and directed always and solely toward the welfare of the child, the motive of the school cannot permanently be misjudged, and it may perform an important service to society by advising the home with reference to a more rational care of the child outside of the school.

In the third place, it is the function of school hygiene, through the insruction which is called physical training, to provide for those larger motor activities which should supplement the exercises and movements required by other school work. These larger fundamental movements are necessary to counteract certain undesirable tendencies in posture and action of school life, and for the health and complete organic development of the pupil. The beneficial effect of this training upon the nervous system, upon mental and even moral qualities, may be as important and definite as that upon the body in general. In this scheme of physical education there should be grouped and coordinated the more formal gymnastics and games; the simple corrective and relaxing exercises to be used between classes, and the free play of recess periods. It is desirable to correlate the gymnastics, as far as may be practicable, with the interests of regular school work, and to make them in any case more rational, practical, and serviceable than they have been in many wavs in the past. It is not in place now to discuss further the details of the technical work of physical training, but simply to state that this belongs to the broad field of school hygiene. The biologic examinations which have been described will give most necessary and valuable information as a basis for the adaptation of exercise and the direction to the general physical education of the pupil.
-262-

Finally, school hygiene should provide for the instruction of the pupil in matters relating to health and hygiene. No knowledge is of more worth than that which bears upon the immediate problems of living. Human life must always rest upon a biologic basis. People know less instinctively how to live as civilization advances. The study of the science and art of health must play an increasingly important part in the education of the future. In a recent popular article on health, Dr. T. Mitchell Prudden, one of our best authorities on general hygiene, emphasizes the importance of this factor in education in the following words: “One of the most urgent necessities of the coining years is education in personal hygiene. This knowledge of the ways of healthful living must be systematically imparted in the schools, and it should not be perverted, as in many instances it is to day, to prove the worthy but narrow aims of an anti-alcohol or anti-tobacco crusade.” Farther on he adds: “Honest hygiene must be taught in the schools.”*

Various attempts have been made to provide for the teaching of hygiene. Sometimes it has been a dilution of medical study: sometimes a painful effort at temperance instruction ; and again, an attempt to apply the facts and principles of science and biologj' (particulary) to the teaching of health. No subject, perhaps, is more difficult to teach successfully; none is more important.

The material and methods of health teaching are to be largely revised. Hygiene instruction should continue throughout school life. It should be given in the elementary school by the grade teacher. It is better, particular in the lower grades, not to have it taught alwavs as a separate subject or with a textbook. There should, however, be formal courses in hygiene and physiology in the seventh or eighth grade and in the high school.

All school instruction of vital interest, more particularly in science and nature study, should be related directly or indirectly to the problem of practical living, and the application to health and life should be made throughout school work wherever there is a rational and reasonable opportunity.

All of the health instruction should be under the supervision of a special teacher, that there may be rational progression and in matter method through the grades, the working out and suggestion of correlations with hygiene which seems practicable, and the effective teaching of the subject, where it is given as a special course.

In conclusion, if the work of school hygiene is to be successfully accomplished there must be;

1) An educational philosophy which recognizes health, not as an end in education or life,, but as an essential means to human achievement, immediate and remote; a philosophy, again, which provides practically for the preservation and improvement of health and the development of those fundamental organic qualities which are so essential to the success of the individual, and even more to the integrity of the race and the permanent welfare of society; and, finally, a philosophy

* Attention is called in this connection to the Report of the New York State Science Teachers Association on School Instruction on the Fffects of Alcoholic Drinks and Tobacco, issued in 1904.

Digitized by CaOOQle
—263—

which makes place and means for the instruction of the young with reference to life on its biologic side, so that they may intelligently and successfully meet the problems of living as these present themselves.

2)	The different purposes of this health side of education may best be accomplished by uniting the fields of school hygiene and physical education under one department of school effort for the purpose of supervision and administration. The position of teacher or director of ph ysieal training is already recognized and provided for in many schools. The efforts of this special teacher are, or should be, devoted primarily to the interests of health. This field may be advantageously enlarged and called physical education and school hygiene. Professional schools and courses of instruction are needed for the training of these health specialists. The special teacher or supervisor must be trained very thoroughly and broadly to meet effectively the demands of this larger, more dignified, and richer field of education. These specialists in hygiene should be prepared to look after the various interests of this field ; to . supervise that part of the work which falls naturally to the grade teacher or others, and to perform well, from every point of view, the work which belongs logically to the health specialist.

3)	The special teacher of hygiene, however, can alone do very little of this large and varied work. Every teacher, supervisor, principal, and superintendent should have a keen and intelligent appreciation of health values and interests, and of the measures necessary to preserve and foster them. If our general teachers and educators are to have this understanding of hygiene, which is essential to their effective cooperation in the united effort which is needed there must be—beyond the general instruction in hygiene in school and college—thorough courses in ph}*sical education and school hygiene in all the normal and training schools and colleges for teachers. Such courses are being advocated and introduced into some of the normal schools of Germany and other European countries, and are finding place already in a few institutions in the United States.

NEW ALL-ROUND ATHLETIC CHAMPION.

Martin J. Sheridan, who won the title of all-round champion of the Amateur , Athletic Union, by defeating the records of Ellery H. Clark and A. B. Gunn, both claimants, at the meeting held at Tech Field, Brookline, some time ago, is a young Irishman, who has been in the United States seven years.

Sheridan, the new champion, is but twenty-six years old, stands 6 feet 1 inch high and weighs 180 pounds. This was the first all-round championship in which he ever competed, although he has long been a follower of athletic games * in New York, and last summer won the discus throw at the championships in St. Louis.	*

Sheridan came to the meet as a dark horse, although he and a party of members of the association he represents went to Boston fully expecting to win.

Before his identification with the Irish A. A. A. of New York he was a member of the Pastime A. C., the “nursery of athletes.”

Among some of the championships which he has won since his arrival in this country are the following: 1902, Junior A. A. U. shot, with 39 feet 6 inches; ’ 1904, national championship shot, with 40 feet 9V6 inches; 1904, national * championship discus, with 119 feet IV2 inches; 1904, senior metropolitan discus, . with 121 feet and V2 inch; 1904, Olympic discus, with 132 feet, and 1904-, Canadian discus, with 133 feet 6V2 inches.

The last named performance is a world’s record, made at the Canadian' championships, September 24, 1904.	.	.

Digitized by Google
^y\lND ftND BODY. ^

Published Monthly.

MY

Subscription Price, 91.00 per Year.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO

’WTj»cor> art n .

49* Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., MUwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

NEW YORK again had one of those “Physical Culture Beauty Shows.” Of course, it was under the protection and for the express advertisement of the prime physical culture fakir Macfadden. The New York authorities did not know at first whether to permit the “show” or to stop it. But almost anything goes in Gotham, so in spite of numerous protests the exhibition was sanctioned.

The protests only served to advertise the affair and consequently there was no lack of patronage.

What Macfadden does not know about physical culture (a term we rarely use because it is the catchword of all thje quacks) would fill a new Carnegie library, but he certainly is endowed with a shrewd business sense and knows how to attract the patronage of the fools and of those intending to satisfy a morbid curiosity. We are not zealots but have a keen appreciation of morality and decency.

A correspondent, who sends us an article from the New York *‘Sun,” describing the preliminary private beauty contest, which article we print below, justly remarks:

“What are we coming to? What have we come to, when New York permits such goings-on? Rome was scarcely rottener.”

Of all the crimes against physical culture that ever have been perpetrated by unscrupulous persons this is the most flagrant. What are people to think about physical culture? No wonder we find so much opposition and so little encouragement in our work. People in general do not know who who is or what is genuine and what is rank counterfeit.

We must take a decided stand against these parasites and the best way to do this is by way of publication.

Let all those who arc honest and worthy, no matter what system or school they call their own, form a closer alliance and fight just as hard a fight as ever was fought between two systems. “Down with the imposters!” must be our motto. We again appeal to the P. E. A. to take the initiative in this educutional campaign.

We must have a committee which is in touch with the press of the country and which makes it its business to enlighten the general public on the subject. We shall not be able to stop such abuses by legislation or injunction, but can do so by systematic education of those not favored with as complete a knowledge of existing conditions as we are.

In the following we print the article from the “Sun” which speaks for itself:

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

INDECENT “PHYSICAL CULTURE.”

Digitized by
-265-

STUDIES IN UNION SUITS.

Elbert Hubbard—peg pardon, Bernarr Macfadden, one is twisted at times—brought off his grand annual shapefest and preliminary beauty -contest at Madison Square Garden. All readers of the magazine advertising pages know Bernarr Macfadden, the breakfast food athlete who made physical torture and vegetable diet famous. Mr. Macfadden held the contest to pick New York’s candidates for the the great beauty contest and physical culture exhibition held in Madison Square Garden October 9 and following. Eight women, clad according to the regulations in union suits, mostly pink and saloon picture gauze draperies about their hips, responded to the call of time. There were also thirteen men, mainly members of the Lyons Athletic Club, there for the honor of being chosen as New York’s perfect man.

The show opened at 8. Mr. Macfadden, dressed in a Norfolk jacket and the bathing sandals which he always wears so as not to mar the perfect foot, stepped out before the judges and addressed them. The judges \yere athletes, doctors, sculptors and newspaper illustrators.

“We will have the ladies first,” said Mr. Macfadden. “You must choose for both strength and beauty. And I beg of you, remember that

this is in the interest of science. No levity-” He was interrupted by

a young woman in a black silk skirt and a few other clothes, wo stepped up and tapped him on the shoulder.

“Mr. Macfadden,” she said, “I demand my coat and hat. I am Miss Alexander of the DeWolf Hopper Company, and I will not, cannot appear. This is immodest.”

“Very well,” said Mr. Macfadden. “But you wear tights on the stage, don’t you?

“Tights on the stage are one thing and union suits are another,” she said, arguing the question and making a scene as the press agent had told her to do. “There I wear a tight bodice. Here I am forced to wear a union suit. I would rather wear nothing, sir; nothing. I shall report this to my manager. I am”—and she faced the press gallery— “I am Miss Alexander of the DeWolf Hopper Company.” She strode off toward the dressing room.

There was a pause, a moment’s pause, and from a side entrance there trooped before the judges the eight most beautiful figures in New York. At least Mr. Macfadden said so, and he ought to know. They advanced, stripping off their saloon picture drapery, and stood like the photo advertisement that faces Macfadden’s in the magazines, arrayed in the evening air and union suits. They were fine grown up girls. Most of them were middle weights and none scaled less than 120 bedside.

“Fold your hands behind your heads, so,” said Mr. Macfadden, illustrating with the famous breakfast food biceps. Sixteen arms folded themselves behind eight Grecian waves, they counted fours, and the judges proceeded to judge.

Number 1 was liked because she wore pink tights. Her union suit was cut decollete. Hers were very plump and round and straight out. One of Mr. Macfadden’s assistants pointed out that they resisted entirely the attraction of gravitation. Number 5, who wore a union bathing suit, which came half way down her thighs, was liked because she looked
-266-

athletic. The third prize winner of last year, who wasn’t in the contest, but stood on the side lines knocking, said that she never got those biceps on vegetable dinners. Some favored number 8, barring her underpinning.

The girls were turned and caused to assume poses plastiques, following Mr. Macfadden’s Delsarte gestures. The judges having satisfied their eyes, they were invited to feel the consistency of the young women’s muscles. Two judges responded. One was very doubtful about No. 7, but he must have favored her in a general way, because he was heard to tell her under his breath that she was a nice girl.

“That will do, young ladies,” said Mr. Macfadden. The candidates picked up their drapery and trooped out. Some of them made a start at dressing, got as far as a garment or two and came back and stood at the door while they waited for the judges to decide that No. 1 was the first woman of New York for symmetrical beauty. No. 2, a blonde, sh\ on underpinning, but great above, was second; No. 5, she of the bathing trunks and biceps, was third, and No. 8 fourth. No. 5 protested the decision because, she said, all the rest were corset girls and she was the only true athlete in the bunch.

Meanwhile the third prize winner of last year was knocking.

“Do you know what he did? she said. “Honest, kid, he wanted to take me—just as I was, you know—in a photograph. Did I stand for it? Well, he seemed like a gentleman, and he paid me well, so .1 stood like a duck. What do you think he did? He took my head and pasted it on the figure of a little thin girl and put my own truly photograph in the altogether beside it and labeled it ‘before’ nnd ‘after.’ Surest thing, you know!”

A candidate from Pennsylvania came out in pink tights and bare feet and did a solo turn. After Mr. Macfadden had posed her and after the judges had assured themselves that she was sound and firm in muscular structure she was elected without a dissenting voice to defend our sister State. She thanked them all personally. Of course, it looked rather strange to see a young woman in a pink union suit glide across the floor and give the high handshake to a number of men in Tuxedo coats, but, as Mr. McFadden explained afterward, everything is in the point of view.

The thirteen perfect men from the Lyons Athletic Club and elsewhere moved toward the platform, swelled up their chests like pouter pigeons and prepared to be judged. No one knows how they came out, and no one cares, for just then Mr. Macfadden stepped to the door leading up stairs from the concert room and beckoned.

“Only the judges and the gentlemen of the press,” he said. “And hurry, please. The lady is cold.” The judges and reporters trooped up the windirg staircase to a private room. And there she was.

She was not quite in the altogether.

“What State do you represent, Miss? asked a judge, when he got his breath.

“State of nudity,” said a small voice.

“No levity, please,” said Mr. Macfadden.

“I am from California,” she said. “I am a Los Angeles girl.”

Digitized by

Google
—267—

"You had better dress now, Beatrice,” said her brother, who had stood between her and the public gaze.

"I the gentlemen will excuse me----” said the young woman, seizing

something fluffy and ribbony and holding it before her. "Do I pass?” "You do!” said all the judges, who had temporarily forgotton their duty. She will represent California in the beauty contest.

Eight of the young men were picked to defend the masculine beauty of New York against all comers. The women contestants came back in prosaic shirt waists and silk skirts to congratulate the male winners. Mr. Macfadden hoped that every one would be in the Garden on the ninth to see the beneficent effects of exercise, and every one went home voting that a good time had been . enjoyed by all. Among the judges were Richard Sheldon, Arthur Duffy, Henry Lyons, Prof. Thomas Barker, Dr. James Evans, Dr. H. P. Thomas, Attilio Picciavelli, W. J. Martin and Carl Schultz.

VACATION THE YEAR ROUND.

By ALBERT J. COATES.

Now that the vacation and rest season is drawing to a close, one naturally begins to plan other means of recreation than that offered out of doors.

Robert J. Roberts suggests the following schedule of vacations during the year: "A little daily one, a little longer weekly one, a still longer monthly one, and a month or so once a year.” This is very good if one has the time to carry out such a complete schedule. Perhaps the best that can be done at this season of the year is to take the "Little daily one” suggested.

The modern gymnasium with its complete equipment is a splendid place for a short vacation each day, or if one does not have the time daily for it, two or three times a week will answer very well.

. Too much cannot be said in favor of systematic exercise and care of the body. The average individual, no matter what his occupation may be, does not get enough all around exercise. He works for hours at one thing and needs to ease up a little now and then. His body and mind are wearied from working in the same channels so much. He needs a rest and change of action. He needs to recreate more.

The gymnasium is just the place to get this rest and recreation. Along with the body building and corrective work there is done a considerable amount of recreative work. Good, wholesome fun is what the busy city man needs occasionally. Whenever an occupation takes on the aspect of fun or sport it immediately ceases to be drudgery.

The gymnasium with its varied forms of exercise is much more than a substitute for out-door life. It is a place where men can systematically and scientifically care for the bodies. It is a place where drudgery and care are forgotten and where the blood is sent tingling with new force through the veins.

—Miss Mabel Sheafer of Florence, Colo., writes: Enclosed please find order for one dollar ($1.00) for subscription from October 1905 to October 1906 of ‘ Mind and Body.” It is the best magazine I ever read on physical education.
— 268 —

NOTES ON THE ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SOUTH PARK COMMISSIONERS OF CHICAGO FOR 1905.

AS a city grows in numbers the demand for physical recreation increases and as the buildings become more numerous the opportunity to satisfy the demand for good wholesome physical exercise grows correspondingly less. Conditions in the congested districts in Chicago have demonstrated to the South Park Commissioners that steps had to be taken to improve the condition of those whose environment was not conducive to good health. In their excellent report for 1904 they show clearly that a community with a rapidly growing population is made up largely of working men and the wage earner is most in need of park service. The welfare of the working man is the great municipal problem of the day and it becomes more acute as the population of a city increases. Parks should be useful as well as ornamental and the commissioners are giving expression to this idea as they are providing places where physical training and wholesome recreation may be enjoyed by anyone who conducts himself properly. Ten new parks, two new squares and two new golf courses with proper shelters were added last year to the already large list of places for recreation.

First of all there is a provision for gymnasium work, summer and winter, for men and women and boys and girls. Quarters and lockers are provided separately for each, so that the service is available continuously. These gymnasia are provided with full equipment. The interior gymnasia are connected with outdoor gymnasia for use during the summer, but the indoor service is available all the year.

In addition, and outside of each field house, is a large swimming pool, provided with the necessary dressing rooms and other accessories.

The neighborhood center buildings provide also for intellectual and social life, not only in summer, but during the long winter evenings. There is an assembly hall in each building. This is at the service of the clubs and societies and of the unorganized residents of the neighborhood. There is no charge for its use nor for the use of anything else in the houses. There are club rooms for smaller meetings. There also is a refreshment room where light foods are served at cost, and in this service the Commissioners intend to dispense modified and sterilized milk. This feature will be of great benefit to infants and infirm persons.

SPORTS.

Skating.—Ice is kept in good condition for skating during the winter in the different parks as follows: Washington Park, 164 acres; Jackson Park, 9.18 acres; Midway Plaisance, 2.3 acres; McKinley Park, 3.58 acres, and Gage Park, .69 acres. There were 91 days of skating.

Temporary electric lights were placed around the skating ponds and suitable warming houses were provided except in Gage Park. Refreshments were served and skates were kept for rent by the South Park Commissioners in Washington and Jackson parks. No accurate account was kept of the people skating. A conservative estimate places the total number of the ice visitors in all the different parks at one time at 25,000.

Digitized by

Google
—209—

Tobogganing.—Slides were erected in Washington Park, Midway Plaisance, Jackson Park and McKinley Park. They were in use in the winter whenever the weather was cold enough to maintain ice on the slides. The slides were lighted with electric lights during the evenings. Sleds were rented by the Park Commissioners at each of the slides at the rate of 25 cents an hour. The sleds carry from four to eight persons. This sport is very popular, thousands of adults enjoying it as well as children. The ice area for tobogganing is as follows: Midway, 2.3 acres; Jackson Park, 3.22 acres; Washington Park, 3.45, and McKinley Park, 1.54 acres.

Speedways.—During the summer a 60-foot speedway for horses is maintained along the westerly side of Washington Park from Garfield boulevard to Sixtieth street, five-eights of a mile in length. The speed-way is surfaced with black clay loam. It is used extensively.

An ice speedway, 120 feet in width and 2000 feet in length, was kept in condition during the winter, when ice could be maintained, in the meadow in Washington Park. The Central driveway of Grand boulevard, between Thirty-fifth and Thirty-ninth streets, was kept in condition for snow speeding during the winter whenever there was sufficient snow. The ice speedway was quite largely used when the weather was not too cold. The snow speedway on Grand boulevard, being more sheltered, was much more extensively used.

Golf.—Two courses of nine holes each have been maintained in Jack-son Park during the summer. At the southerly course there is a shelter and lockers for the players. There is no charge for this service. Light refreshments are served at the lunch counter. Both of the golf courses have been very extensively used. On occasions people have had to wait an hour or more before they would get an opportunity to play. On the southern course more than 1.100 played over the course in one day. Late in the season an eighteen-hole course was laid out and opened to the public for use in Marquette Park. It is expected that next year it will be extensively used.

Boating.—Boats were kept for hire by the Park Commissioners, 83 in Washington Park and 107 in Jackson Park, from May 1st to October 21. The charge for the boats is 15 cents an hour for the two-oar boats and 25 cents an hour for the four-oar boats. Five electric launches and two naphta launches were in service in Jackson Park during the summer. The charge for the round trip of 2V6 miles on these launches was ten cents for each person, and the launches could be chartered at the rate of $2 an hour. The launches carry about 25 people each.

The number of boats now owned by the Park Commissioners is 194. Fourteen boats were condemned and sold during the year and 30 boats were purchased.

The harbor in Jackson Park was used extensively as an anchorage for sailing yachts and launches. There have been as many as 100 boats anchored in the harbor at one time. The deepening of the water in the harbor and in the entrance thereto has made it possible for the largest pleasure yachts to enter the harbor.

Tennis.—Twenty-two tennis courts were maintained by the Park Commissioners in Jackson Park, 9 in Midway Plaisance, 28 in Wash

Digitized by uooq le
ington Park, 7 in Garfield Boulevard, 2 in Gage Park and 6 in McKinley Park. In addition to these a great many private nets were used by individuals, the Park Commissioners marking the courts for the parties using their own nets whenever it was possible to do so.

Ball.—On cricket ground, two football fields and seven baseball diamonds were in use in Washington Park, two football fields in Jack-son Park, and one football field in McKinley Park. Baseball was played on the meadows in aU the parks.

Curling—The ice on the pool in Washington Park was kept in condition whenever the weather would permit for curling. This was quite extensively used.

Swimming Pool.— The swimming pool in McKinley Park was open for the use of the public from June 4 to October 2, inclusive; 121,625 persons bathed in the pool during that time. The greatest number in any one day was 2,700, on July 16. The number using the pool, 103,804 w^ere males and 17,821 were females. There is no charge made to the bathers, towels and bathing suits being furnished without cost.

Wading Pools.—Washington Park, Gage Park, and McKinley Park each have wading pools for little children. The water is not deep and they can wade about safely and sail their toy boats. Closely adjoining these wading pools are sand courts covered with canvas awning, where the little ones can make sand pies.

The golf courses, ball fields and tennis courts were not open for use on Sundays.

During the summer from June 7th to October 2nd 121,625 men. women and children were afforded free baths in the McKinley Park pool, an increase over the previous year of 32,503. This demonstrates the usefulness of a prominent feature provided in the new parks.

Some idea of what .the Park Commissioners are trying to do for the welfare of the citizens of Chicago may be shown by reading the following extracts from the

TABLE OF CONVENIENCES AND FACILITIES FOR RECREATION IN THE

SOUTH PARKS FOR THE

No.	of	Golf Courses............... 4

“	“	Tennis Courts............. Ill

“	“	Cricket Grcunds............. 1

“	“	Baseball Diamonds.......... 22

“	“	Football Grounds........... 15

“	“	Skating Houses............. 14

“	“	Toboggan Slides............ 15

“ Curling Ponds.................. 1

“	“ Speeding Courses, Tee....	2

“	“	Speeding Courses, Earth...	1

“	“	Bathing Pools—Number of

Booths.................1588

“	“	Wading Pools............... 16

“	“	Sand Pits.................. 13

“	“	Boat Houses................. 4

rHE YEAR OF I905.

No. of Electric Launch Stations.

“	“ Bicycle Racks...........

“	“ Gymnasiums, Inside, Men...

“	“ Gymnasiums, Inside, Women

“	“ Shower Baths, Men.......

“	“ Shower Baths, Women.....

“	“ Plunge Baths, Men.......

“	“ Plunge Baths, Women.....

“	“ Gymnasiums, Outside, Men

“	“ Gymnasiums, Outside, Women...........................

“	“ Running Tracks..........

“	“ Childrens Enclosed Playgrounds ......................

“	“ Assembly Halls..........

1

2

10

10

88

77

10

10

10

10

8

10

10

TIIIO IIC1IIQ vnil I We will send “MIND ,AND BODY” free to yon U r I mo fflCARO IUU • one year on receiot of $4.00 for 4 new suMcrihers.

Digitized by {^.ooQle
-271-

TWELVE MONTHS IN Y. M. C. A. WORK, SHOWN BY THE YEAR BOOK.

The year book of the Young Men’s Christian Association for the past year, recently issued, shows some interesting facts and figures relating to physical work. It shows that 673 associations conduct some form of physical work, 571 of them having equipped gymnasiums. The number of physical directors and assistants employed is 327, of whom 46 are assistants, and 7 are in boy’s work. The number of men and boys taking some form of physical work was 133,627, an increase of 3,000 over the previous year. The gain of last year over the previous year was 30,000.

The equipment of 571 associations having gymnasia, etc., includes these features: 151 swimming pools, 210 bowling alleys, 142 athletic-fields, 27 boat houses, 235 tennis courts, 245 handball courts, 165 running tracks and 181 summer camps.

Of the physical department membership, the lines of interest may be seen by the following figures, compiled from the returns that made reports on these items: 365 associations report 85,235 men in gymnasium classes, 216 report 18,939 in gymnasium free work, 236 report 33,800 physical examinations, 304 report 4,789 members of leaders, corps, 360 report 3,259 athletic teams or clubs with 23,261 members, 147 report 2,387 matched games with outside teams. In addition there were health talks, first aid classes, and classes and talks on other subjects, in addition to gymnasium Bible classes.

The railroad work of the Y. M. C. A. is an important feature. Its extent may be estimated in part from the following figures. Attention to physical work is given in 113 such associations, with 2,687 members participating. There are 55 equipped gymnasiums, 16 athletic fields, 47 bowling alleys, 36 tennis courts.

To an increasing degree, local, district and state conferences and institutes have been held, especially in the west and south. These conferences have been exceedingly valuable in developing unity of method, in raising the standard of the physical work, in making for greater efficiency and in bringing the best methods to the associations in the smaller fields.

* Reading courses, traveling libraries, and bi-weekly correspondence courses have been established for physical directors, thus bringing to them the best and most recent literature on physical training and at the least cost to them.

The Physical Directors’ Society has sustained a fraternal and co-operative relation to the physical directors of the country in the promotion of advanced lines of efforts and study of organization.

Special attention has been given to promotion of religious work in the physical department with marked results.

This department has made great advances in the so-called extension work—work outside the building. A special study was made of the best methods in vogue and suggestions were extended to the associations attempting such work.

Digitized by C^ooQLe
-272-

ON EATING.

By W. H. KINNICUTT, M. D.

Eating is nature’s happiest institution; we may take liberties with it, but we never willingly go longer without observing nature’s rule than we can help.

Of the three great fundamental demands upon the human being— eating, sleeping and exercising—we most cheerfully obey the first. Sleep we may enjoy, and exercise we may practice, but both will focus upon that duty which rewards itself i e. eating.

Eating has had more influence upon the character of the world than anything else. The evolutionist tells us that in the overproduction of the species there was the necessity of enlarging the range of food; so the most energetic, or enterprising—or should we say most hungry— of the given type pushed out of its environment, and in so doing enlarged its powers. Its progeny thus endowed with the spirit of self-reliance and progressiveness continually forced its natural limits until* in time, man appeared on the earth characterized chiefly by the variety of things which he could eat and assimilate. (This may lx* taking some slight liberty with the theory, but it is an impressionistic view.)

Fundamentally, eating was intended to preserve life and extend the term of existence; but that is not just the way recent generations have regarded it; other possibilities have been diccovered and developed until we have the history of a nation (Rome) eaten to death, the production of every phase of crank from him who eats only blood-dripping flesh to that vegetarian who eats only vegetable (?) food—such as milk, butter, eggs, for example. The fool (or knave) who increases vitality, physical strength and the growth of the hair by occasional periods of starvation, gets attention, as well as the system of religion which exacts periods of gastronomic abstinence.

All this is very general; we may be able to say something more specific in later issues.

ON HEALTH.

bvby is largely determined by one’s vision of life. Some are so engrossed in business that their bodies suffer; others are so studious that they, too, neglect proper attention to their health. There's danger in this day of specialization, to forget everything except our one ambition, our own ideal. Did you ever think of it, that your vitality, strength and organic functions are the back-bone of your very business, and that they are dependent upon your diet, exercise and personal habits? Perhaps you haven’t thought of it, but it’s true. If you are interested in your business, then turn your attention to your body, study your diet, inquire about your health and form habits that will strengthen your brain and increase your business capacity.

The commonest results of lack oi proper muscular exercise are, stooping posture, protruding abdomen, crooked spine, flat chest, a poor heart action, and freqently valvular lesions, a sluggish liver, poor stomach, constipation, and a lowered vitality. Every man should have a thorough examination once a year. It many times prevents a serious illness.

As to exercise, some would lead us to believe that all kinds are good for everybody. This is not true. Some special form of exercise may be just the thing for everybody, but all exercise should be carefully prescribed by men who make a thorough study of the effects of various types of muscular movements. Have an examination, improve your habits and strengthen your vitality andt character.—J. H. S.

Digitized by

Google
-273-

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne, Ind., Public Schools.

f Continued. ^

A CLASS DRILL, division work on the apparatus and closing with the game “Human Burden Race*' (see explanation below). As a preliminary a short run of about three to live minutes, the class to be led in the various directions for variety.

After receiving dumbbells (wooden of 1 to 1*6, or iron of 2V4 lb), form ranks of fours or sixes by turning 1. face from a flank line at one end of the gymnasium and march down the enter to location for drill. Open order sidew. from the center, the rows moving in successive order after two steps to full distance. The arms may be gradually raised outw. as the distance increases, then lower arms after full distance has been taken. The arms need not be raised if the proper lengths of steps are taken. The shorter members stand in front.

DUMBBELL DRILL.

1.	a) Raise arms forw., meet dumbbells (knuckles upw.)—1! Move arms outw. (spread wide sidew., head erect and chest elevated, with shoulders drawn backw., knuckels backw.)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4J Repeat five times, b) Raise arms outw.—1 ! Move overh. and meet dumbbells overh. —2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Repeat five times.

2.	a) Raise heels and raise arms forw.—1! Pos.—2!

b) Bend knees (deeply) and raise arms outw.—1! Pos.—2! c) a and b alt.—1, 4!

Dumbbells on hips—place!

3.	a) Bend trunk forw. and stretch arms downw.-l! Pos.—2! b) Bend trunk backw. and stretch arms upw.—1! Pos.—2! c) a and b alt.—1, 4! Arms—down!

4.	a) Toe-touch forw. 1. and r. alt. and raise arms forw. (extend instep of moving foot as much as possible and toes resting on floor, the weight to remain on stationary limb)—1,4! b) Toe-touch sidew. 1. and r. alt. and raise arms sidew. 1. and r. alt.—1, 4!

Arms outw.—raise! (Knuckles turned backw.)

5.	Turn trunk to the 1. and r. alt. and move dumbbells over shoulders (knuckles backw.)—1,4! Arms—down !

Note—The forearms are flexed upon the arms, elbows remain pointing outw". and shoulders back so that the chest may be elevated.

Arms to thrust—bend!

6.	a) Bendkneestep forw. 1. and r. alt. and thrust arms forw.—1,4! Repeat—5, 16!

b) Marching order.—Mark time four counts, then the 1st, 3rd and 5th rows, march forw. four steps, simultaneously the 2nd, 4th and 6th rows march backw. four steps—1,8! All mark time four counts, then march to starting pos. (1st, 3rd and 5th rows

Digitized by CjOOQle
—274-

march backw., the 2nd, 4th and 6th rows march forw.)—9, 16! Repeat a—I, 16!

Repeat 6, but the 1st, 3rd and 5th rows start marching backw., while the 2nd, 4th and 6th rows start marching forw., etc.,— 17,32! Repeat a and b—1.64! Arms—down!

In place—rest! Pos.—stand !

7.	Bend trunk sidew. 1. and r. alt., raise arms outw. overh. and meet dumbbells—1, 4!

Stride pos. outw., raise arms outw.—jump! Or step outw. in two counts.

8.	a) Bend 1. knee and place dumbbells under shoulders (elbows remain

directed outw.)—1! Pos.—2! Same r.—3, 4* Pos.—jump!

Same starting as a.—

b) Bend 1. knee and place r. dumbbell under r. shoulder, the 1. arm to remain sidew.—1! Change knee-bending (extend 1. and bend r. knee), move 1. dumbbell under 1. shoulder and extend r. arm sidew.—2! Repeat five times. Pos.—jump!

In front leaning rest.—

9.	Bend arms—1! Extend—2! Raise 1. leg backw. (in upw. direction) —3! Pos.—4! Bend arms—5! Pos.—6! Raise r. leg backw.—7 ! Pos.—8! Repeat three or four times. Pos.—stand!

Arms to thrust—bend!

10.	a) Bendkneestep sidew. 1. and r. alt. and thrust arms outw.—1,4!

Repeat—5, 16!

b) Marching order.—The members of the 1st, 3rd and 5th rows march in a square to the 1. aiound their respective 1. neighbors of the 2nd, 4th and 6th rows—17, 32!

Note.-L. face and march four steps forw., then on the 5th count again turn 1. face and repeat to the remaining three sides to starting position—17, 32!

Repeat a—1, 16! Then the 2nd, 4th and 6th rows, starting with the r. foot and m.arch in a square to the r.—17, 32!

Repeat a and b once—1, 64! Arms—down!

11.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise arms outw. overh. in four counts; exhale and lower arms inw. to starting pos. in one count. Repeat five or six times.

Note—If the loot and leg movements are not understood, see illustrations as published in the August and September issues of 1905 for reference.

Close order sidew. toward the center, march forw., the first rank to turn r. face, the other ranks following in successive order and deposite dumbbells.

Form divisions and march to assigned places for apparatus work.

First Division: Long buck and oblique ladder.

Second “ Oblique ladder and long buck.

Third	14	High horizontal bar and long horse.

Fourth 44	Long horse and high horizontal bar.

Change Places. Division 1 with 2, and 3 with 4.

Digitized by VjOOQle
-275-

First Division.—Long Buck (height of chest).

A short run precedes all movements, and jump to free front rest, then—

1.	Circle 1. with r. leg and Vi turn r. to front rest on 1. side of buck; straddle vault dismount forw.

2.	Rear vault swing 1. (circle 1. with both legs) with Vi turn r. to front rest; straddle vault dismount forw. without or with Vi turn 1.

3. Front vault mount r. (circle 1. with both legs and Vs turn 1. to riding seat); circle 1. leg backw. and raise r. to meet the 1. with Vi

1.	to momentary free front rest and straddle vault forw.

4.	Front vault swing r. with Vi turn 1. to front rest (on 1. side of buck); straddle vault dismount forw. with Vs turn 1.

5.	Flank vault r. to rear side stand (on 1. side of buck); jump up with Vi turn 1. to momentary front rest and straddle vault forw.

6.	An exercise free for all.

Note—Repeat all movements 1. and r. before the next one in order is taken up. Further, if any of the above are not mastered sufficiently, repeat them before executing the next one.

Change place with the second division on the oblique ladder.

First Division.—Oblique Ladder (under side).

In front leaning hang.—(Both feet resting on the first or second round from below and hands in outside grasp on beams on a level with the shoulders.)

1.	Travel upw. with moving hands and feet alternately; at upper end lower to hang and travel downw., moving hands alternately.

2.	As ex. 1, with inside grasp on beams.

S.	As ex. 1, but in rear leaning hang.

In front cross straight arm hang, hands in outside grasp on beams.

4.	Travel upw. with knees raised forw. Descend in same pos.

In rear cross straight arm hang, hands in outside grasp on beams*

5.	Travel upw. with legs spread wide sidew. and descend in same pos.

6. As ex. 4, with side swinging (legs extended and together).

7. As ex. 5, with side swinging (legs extended and together).

8.	As ex. 4, but move both hands simultaneously (legs extended).

9.	As ex 4, but hands in ordinary grasp on rounds.

10.	An exercise free for all.

Second Division.—Oblique Ladder (under side).

Execute the same movements as first division.

Change place with first division on the long buck.

Second Division.—Long Buck (height of chest).

A short run precedes all movements, and jump to momentary free front rest, then—

1.	Stride vault r. (circle 1. with r. leg over buck) to cross-stand an 1. side of buck.

2.	As ex. 1, with Vi turn r. to front side stand and immediately straddle vault forw.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
-276-

3.	Rear vault 1.

4.	As ex. 3, with Vi turn r. to front side stand and immediately straddle vault forw. with *4 turn 1.

5. Front vault r. to cross-stand on 1. side of buck.

6. As ex. 5t with Vi turn 1. to front side stand; stride vault 1. (sidew. toward the r.) with Vi turn 1. to front cross-stand on board and immediately straddle vault forw.

7.	Jump with % turn over forw. to resting on neck and upper part of back with thighs flexed over body, then continue turn over forw. to rear cross-stand on far side of buck.

8.	An exercise free for all.

Note.—Execute all movements 1. and r. whenever possible.

The , third and fourth divisions execute the same movements, the third division to begin on the high horizontal bar and the fourth on the long horse.

High Horizontal Bar.

Jump to front straight arm hang, hands in ordinary grasp, and—

1.	Raise both knees forw.; lower. Repeat twice. Down.

2.	As ex. 1, then turn over farther and raise ankles to bar; lower. Repeat once. Down.

3.	As ex. 2 (ankles to bar), then extend both legs forw., swing backw., and down.

4.	Repeat ex. 3, swing forw. and backw. twice, then down.

In cross straight arm hang and hands in outside grasp.—

5.	Jump up. immediatelv pull up to bent arm hang; down. Repeat once.

6. As ex. 5, and raise 1. knee; down. Repeat with raising r. knee; down.

7. As ex. 6, and immediately circle 1. leg over bar to knee hang, extend r. leg and arms; down. Repeat with r. leg, and down.

8. As ex. 7, to knee hang 1.; then place toes of r. foot under bar, release grasp and move arms outw.; return to former pos., and down. Repeat with r. leg, and down.

9.	An exercise free for all.

Long Horse (height of chest).

A run of sufficient length precedes all movements.

1.	Jump to cross-seat on r. thigh (1. leg extended and in vertical pos.,) hands in rear of thighs; dismount sidew. (the r. leg forcibly pushing away from horse).

2.	Jump to cross-seat on r. thigh; place r. foot on neck (leg extended); then place 1. foot to r. and extend hips to rear leaning rest; dismount ridew. r.

3.	Jump to cross-seat on r. thigh; circle r. leg over horse to riding seat; circle 1. leg to r. and bend knee to resting weight on 1. thigh (cross-seat on 1. thigh); dismount sidew. r.

4.	Jump to cross-seat on r. thigh; with forcibly swinging both legs up and over horse (rear vault swing), dismount sidew. r.

Digitized by Google
-277-

5.	Rear vault mount r. to riding seat in front of hands; dismount sidew. r. with *4 turn 1. to front side stand.

6.	Rear vault r.

Notb—Repeat ex. 6* until the proper form is mastered. Further, execute all movements 1. and r. before the next exercise in order is taken up.

If ex. 6 is easily learned, then add *4 and Vfe turn I. before landing.

7.	An exercise free for all.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and prepare for the game “Human Burden Race.”

Explanation of the game.—The game is played as a “Relay Race.” The players are divided into two or three equal squads and stand facing each other on parallel lines about thirty feet apart. Upon the signal “Go” the leader of each team picks up a member of his or her team and carries the individual to the opposite side, then the one who was carried across runs back to carry another member across, this order continuing until all have been carried to the opposite side, the squad finishing first is declared the winner.

Order the class to fundamental pos. Clap hands once and dismiss.

(To be continued.)

THE VALUE OF FOOD.

you ever hear the homekeeper fussing because it takes so long to prepare Gp the food and so short a time to eat it; and the work must be done three times a day? Did you think that she failed to appreciate the dignity and the importance Of her task; that she was preparing not only the building material for the bodies of her family but the motive power for muscle and nerve? She who prepares a meal which her family can eat and forget in a half hour, remembering only when the next meal approaches, has laid the foundation for the best living and the highest thinking.

What shall she prepare that will digest so easily that it may be forgotten and at the same time supply all the building material and the force which the body needs?

Some kinds of food meet one need of the body and some another, but a given amount of each is required in twenty-four hours by the individual doing average work each day, if the body is to be kept in health and strength. Some foods have all the elements needed, but not in proper porportions.

The elements which are body builders, called proteid, or nitrogenous foods or albuminous foods, are found in large quantities in the lean of meat, the white of egg, the curd of milk and such vegetables as peas, beans and lentils. The proportion in other vegetables is small. The elements which supply heat and a little energy are fat of meat, cream, butter and the vegetable oils. The elements which supply adipose tissue, heat and energy are the starches and suggars found in bread, cereals, rice, some vegetables and all sweet foods. The amounts of the elements needed in twenty-four hours is about four ounces of proteid, two ouncs of fat and eighteen of starches and sugars. Clearly, meat, eggs, milk and cheese eaten at the same meal would give more proteid than the body ought to be compelled to digest. One of these with starchy vegetables or peas or beans with other vegetables gives a more nearly balanced diet.

In hot weather less energy is used and less heat is needed, therefore starches may be taken in smaller quantities and fats reduced to a minimum. The fruits are essential to aid digestion; they should be ripe, but not over-ripe. Green vegetables, such as lettuce, celery, radishes, cabbage, are valuable as tempting the appetite and thus aiding digestion. In truits and green vegetables there is almost no food value and one variety serves the purpose as well as many with much greater economy.

The digestibility of foods varies with the individual and the cooking so that no definite statements can be made. As a rule, the proteids are most digestible,

Digitized by ^ooQle
-278-

the starches next, and the fats least of all. The proteids should be cooked little and the starches much to increase digestibility.

Tea and coffee meet no real need. They supply stimulation which is not demanded by a body properly nourished.

That care in the selection of food and attention to cooking is worth while, is shown by the following incident. The small daughter of a workingman while going to cooking school began to cook her father’s breakfast and just as soon as his body became well nourished he began to omit his after-breakfast dose of alcohol and became a sober man. Many a cup of coffee or glass of whiskey is taken to make up for a poor breakfast.—Eleanora Everhard, M. D.

TO THE MEMBERS OF THE AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION:

At the convention of April, 1905, a number of members interested in Gymnastic Therapeutics decided to organize for the study of questions pertaining thereto.

Dr. J. W. Seaver, Baroness Rose Posse and Mr. Jacob Bolin were elected a committee to take charge of the preliminaries and to act as a governing body until the first meeting to be held not later than the next convention of the American Physical Education Association.

Until otherwise decided the following rules will be governing:

1.	The organization shall become a section of the American Physical Education Association at the earliest possible date, the committee to apply for admittance and to appoint a representative on the council.

2.	The constitution of said association is hereby adopted as the fundamental law.

3.	Eligible for membership in the section are only members of the American Physical Education Association, who fulfill the following requirements:

a)	Member must be a reputable physician legally qualified to practice medicine ;

or,

b)	Must be a graduate of a reputable Normal School of Gymnastics in the course of which gymnastic therapeutics enter as an integral part;

or,

c)	Must give satisfactory proof of having practiced gymnastic therapeutics in a respectable manner for at least three years.

4.	Applicant for membership must remit one dollar to Jacob Bolin, 645 Madison Avenue, New York City, together with such information as will enable the committee to judge of the applicant’s eligibility.

5.	No clues beyond the one dollar just mentioned will be collected except upon the formal decision of the section at its meeting.

BASKET BALL HINTS.

1.	Speed counts more than weight or height.

2.	A tall player should spend much time in developing speed, it is absolutely

necessary.

3.	Don’t allow yourself to get into the habit of throwing from any one position of body.

4.	Practice throwing in all positions that you are apt to receive the ball.

5.	The best and quickest throw is from the elbow and should be straight out—a push throw.

6.	Forwards should practice one hand throws from under the basket until sure.

7.	Learn to catch with one hand if necessary, so that you can dribble or bounce the ball to better your position for a throw or a pass.

8.	Learn how far you should place the ball in front of a player who is running. This one fumble loses many a game.

Digitized by

Google
• 279-

9.	At least two men on each team should spend considerable time throwing from foul line, practice until you are sure; the throw from a swing between legs is the best.

10.	Dodging and feinting must be well learned.

11.	Don’t try too many fancy or grand stand plays; play team work, remember that quick decisions, accuracy in passing, ability to cage the ball and team work are what count.

12.	The center should always have an understanding with the player who is to run forward and endeavor to get the ball. A guard should be used generally.

13.	Unless very much taller and quicker than the opponent, the center should place the ball with one hand rather than try to catch and throw it with both.

14.	No team should meet an opposing team until after some weeks of practice in throwing, receiving, passing, foot work, learning one another’s peculiarities, and becoming thoroughly familiar with the plays which are to be used.

15.	Think quick, keep cool, don’t lose your temper, don’t be a talking machine, save your energy, treat your opponents as friends and guests, “give every man a square deal.”

PLAYING HOOKEY.

I remember when in boyhood,

Just a step advanced from toy hood,

When in through the schoolroom windows floated sweet the wild bird’s call. I would close my desk at dinner Like a hardened little sinner,

And the after-nooning found me playing hookey from it all.

What to us the far-off* sorrow Of the whipping on the morrow,

For the day seemed all the future—’twas a hundred hours long.

And each hour we were enjoying,

By the wood and pool—just boying,

While the wild birds caught our laughing tones and wove them into song.

And today a robin twittered Through the window, and my littered Desk became the ink-bespattered one my school days used to know.

When the voice of spring was crying And some voice in me replying To its every note and echo—and some yearning bade me go.

But a sterner duty fetters Me to these unanswered letters While through half-opened shutters sweet the wild birds cry and call.

And I’m wishing, wishing, wishing,

I might steal off somewhere, fishing,

Lock up every care and worry—just play hookey from it all.

—J. W. Foley, in New York Times.

FIELD DAY AT THE VATICAN.

ffriieve was chronicled in this column not long ago an announcement from the Vatican that may have sounded astonishing. Pope Pius proposed authorizing a sort of Vatican field day, something that his predecessor in office would never have dreamed of. The other day the newspaper correspondent in Rome could cable home to his journal that:

Six hundred young athletes were present at the opening of the Catholic Sporting Congress at the Vatican, in picturesque costume, with banners flying and headed by bands. They proceeded in military array to the church of St. Anna, where they attended mass.

Digitized by Google
-280-

Among the many banners one especially noted was that of a Brindisi club, consisting of the national tricolor with the royal coat-oforms. The director of the Pides et Robur Clnb of Turin wore many Italian medals. Bach club was led by priests in clerical robes.

After the service the members of the Congress proceeded to the Court of St. Damascus within the Vatican, where special tribunes had been erected. There was a crowd of prelates present, with many cardinals and a few guests, mostly ladies. Many officials of the papal court and members of the Roman nobility and diplomatic corps were among the audience.

Under the direction of Mgr. Frattini the gymnastics began, and all of those present applauded the clever performances of the children, who displayed exceptionally good athletic training. Later otr the members ,of the Congress, accompanied by the spectators, proceeded to the riding-school of the papal guards.

Above the entrance was an inscription to the following effect: “Here, where the greatest moral power has obtained the most glorious victories, the Italian Catholic youth proves that he who has a pure mind has a healthy body."

Here military exercises first took place. In the afternoon Cardinal Bisleti, master of the ceremonies, was present, and later on Cardinal Merry del Val, who was enthusiastically cheered. All present thanked the cardinal who had inspired the love of sport, and who, after great difficulties, had convened this first athletic meeting at the Vatican.

Cardinal Merry del Val took great interest in the games, especially in a musical drill. When he left the crowd cheered him and the athletes accompanied the cardinal to the door, loudly applauding.

Some of the old cardinals were seen shaking their heads, sadly shocked at the great change from the quiet solemnity of the Vatican thus disturbed by merry laughter. Bicycle and foot races also took place.

WORLD'S BEST RECORDS.

RUNNING.

too Yds.—94-5 see.: H. M. Johnson, J. H. Maybury, H. Bethune. *0 3-5 sec.: A. F. Duffy. 220 Yds.—21 4-5'sec.: H. Hutchins, C. G. Wood. *21 1-5 sec.: B. J. Wefers.

440 Yds.—48^ sec.: R. Buttery. *47 sec.: (straightaway) 47 4-5 (curved track): M. W. Long. 880 Yds.—1:53^ min.: F. Hewitt. *1:53 2-5 min.: C. H. Kilpatrick.

One Mile—4:12^ min.: W. G. George. *4:15 3-5 min.: T. P. Conneff.

Two Miles—*9 32 1-5 min.; W. D. Day.

*120 Ycf Hurdle Race—15 1-5 sec.: A. C. Kraenzlein.

*220 Yd. Hurdle Race—23 3-5 sec.: A. C. Kraenzlein.

JUMPING.

Standing High Jump—5 ft. 8^ in.: T. F. Kearney. *5 ft. sg in.: R. C. Ewery. Running High Jump—6 ft. 8^ in.: R. H. Baker. *6 ft. 5 5-8 in.: M. F. Sweeney. Standing Broad Jump—14 ft. 5^ in.: G. W. Hamilton. *11 ft. 3 in.: R. C. Ewery. Three Standing Broad Jumps—41 ft. 2 in.: P. J. Griffin. *38 ft. 7^ in.: R. C. Ewry. Hop-Step-Jump (S.>—37 ft. % in : J. F. Hartnett. *20 ft. 3 in.: J Cosgrove. Hop-Step-Jump (R.)—48 ft. 8 in.: T. Burrows. *48 ft. 6 in.: E. J. Bloss.

Running Broad Jump—26 ft. 7 in.: L. A. Carpenter. *24 ft. 1% in.: M. Prinstein. Pole Vault—*xi ft. \o% in.: R. G. Clapp.

NBTATION.

ROWING.

50 Yd. Swim—*26 1-5 sec.: J. H. Derbyshire.

100 Yd. Swim—*1 min.: T. Meadham.

220 Yd. Swim—*2:344-5 min. :	J.	H. Derbyshire and

F. C. V. Lane.

#-Mile—*57 seconds : E. Hediey.

J^-Mile—*3:08 1-5 min.:	E. Hediey.

One Mile—4:28 min.: J. Stanbunr.

Two Miles—*9:19)^ nun.: Yale Freshmen Crew Five Miles—30:44^ min.: Four-oared Crew.

440 Yd. Swim—*5:43 1-5 min.: J. H. Tyers.

880 Yd. Swim—12:07*4 min.: J. Nuttall.

One Mile Swim—25:13 2-5 min.: J. A. Jarvis. Swimming Under Water—113 yds. x ft.: J. Finney. Plunging—*82 ft.: W. Taylor.

CANOE PADDLING.

SKATING.

100 Yds.—*9 sec : E. Davidson

22o Yds.—*17 4-5 sec.: H. Davidson, J. F. Donahue

440 Yds.—*28 1-5 sec.: N. Bap tie.

880 Yds.—*x min. 2-5 sec.: N. Bap tie, K. Pander. One Mile—*2:41 1-5 min.: 0. Ruad.

One Mile—9 min. 29 sec.: A. F. Mackendrick.	*	Amateur

Digitized by C.ooQle
nmuuiiuuuuuum

NEW HAVEN NORMAL SCHOOL

OF GYMNASTICS

(Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics)

E. H. ARNOLD. M. D.. DIRECTOR.

OBers

Jl	Two Years’ Course of Prepa-

ration for Teachers of Gymnastics,

A Post Graduate Course in Massage and Medical Gymnastics.

A Summer Course in German Gymnastics, Fencing, Gilbert Dancing, etc.

For Catalogues, Terms, etc., apply to

E. H. ARNOLD,

307 York St.,

New Haven, Conn.

sum mm mum: unox

NORMAL SCHOOL OF GYMNASTICS.

8S8-SSS BROADWAY

MILWAUKEE. WI8CON8IN

For illustrated catalog, giving full particulars, address GEORGE WITTICH, Director.

aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa

Complete Volumes

--------OF------*

“5IW <L &oV’

75 Cent*. Bd. $1.25.

Postage paid.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Building,

Milwaukee, Wis.

TTTfTTTfTTTVVfVTTTTTVTVVVV

if tttst otxt i jr

Marching Calisthenics and Fancy Steps

FOR THE

C3^GYMNASIUM.^B

BY

GERTRUDE WILLI AMS-LUNDGREN,

Formerly Physical Director of Kansas State Agricultural College and ot the '	Young	Women's	Christian	Association	of	Burlington, Iowa.

Graduate of the Burnham Normal School of Physical Education.

,	.	PRICE,	50	CENTS.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by C.ooQle
PLAYGROU N D APPARATUS

NARRAGANSETT MACHINE CO. ^©GYMNASIUM OUTFITTERSfliss-PROVIDENCE, R. I., U. S. A.

PHYSICAL DIRECTORS,

Athletic Coaches, and Teachets, for high-grade positions in all parts of the United States. We have filled vacancies in some of the largest universities, colleges, secondary schools, etc., in the country, at salaries ranging from $800 to $2,000 a year. If you would accept promotion, we can help you.

No advance fee required. Free service to employers. Write us to-day.

THE PHYSICAL TRAINING TEACHERS* BUREAU,

212 S. Second Street, Rockford, 111.

Gymnasium, Athletic and Sporting Goods,

71 W. Washington St., CHICAGO, ILL.

Apparatus of all Descriptions. Equipping Gymnasiums a Specialty

NEW CATALOG - JUST OUT !

WRITE FOR IT!

We want and recommend

Jacob Willig

MANUFACTURER OF

Digitized by