MIND AND BODY

JANUARY, 1912

▼•1. 18.

No 205

Editorial Committee :	* *

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

DR. ROBERT FISCHER, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M.;D., Public Schools, Philadelphia* Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

EAtorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa.

AH business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wia

Reprinted from New England Medical Monthly, Boston Mass.

August, 1911.

SOME FACTORS IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF VOLUNTARY MOVEMENT IN THE INFANT/

By GEORGE V. N. DEARBORN, M. D.

Professor of Physiology in the Tufts College Medical and Dental Schools, Boston, Mass.

Some of you, gentlemen, do not realize, how truly marvellous a thing it is when you make the simplest voluntarly movement, and especially you may not realize what nonsense it is to say that something round the Rolandic area sends down impulses which make the muscles contract. When you figure out just what that might mean, you find it does not mean anything really valuable, for no one can understand how merely a set of neurons way up in the cortex of the brain can control the actions of the body as they are supposed sometimes to do.

It is all complexity:—it is, indeed, complexity itself and with that warning I may perhaps proceed to suggest some of these intricacies.

My personal notion is that physiologists have started at the wrong end of this problem. They have tried to figure it out as it is in its maximum of complexity in the human adult and to explain voluntary movements as they occur in the marvellously efficient man or woman. The ordinary way of doing a difficult thing is to start with a simple case, the simplest case available indeed, and in this instance this is obviously the voluntary movement of the infant. Therefore I shall discuss today the possible motor neurology of the infant when he is learning to deliberately make movements. I hope you will all have opportunity to observe it again and again in your own households later on, for it is one of life’s most delightful privileges!**

At birth, the nervous system of the infant is already a vastly complicated thing, and it is developing further with remarkable rapidity. If you

*	Notes of a lecture delivered to the Spfingfield Physical Education Society and the International Y. M. C. A. Training School, April 7, 1911.

*	* See the latest of the hooks on child study, G. V. N. Dearborn,

“Moto-Sensory Development.” Warwick and York, Baltimore, 1910.	12mo^

pages, 235 vi/frontpiece.

Digitized by v<jOOQle
-370-

saw pictures of the actual connections of the neurons long months before birth, you would be surprised at their relational complexity, and at the many pathways even then established. We may arbitrarily speak of the neurology at birth under four heads. In the first place we find that universal impulse to activity is represented, which is so pre-eminently important in every consideration of psycho-physical life. The normal child is born with a strong impulse to continual movement, as you can observe by watching for a single moment any healthy child not sound asleep. Second, the child at birth has an elaborate set of reflexes, mostly instinctive reflexes. In the third place, there is an extensive group of inhibitory reflex restraints, and this has been at birth already much developed. It has been often supposed that inhibition evolves only during the first year; but think of an infant only a few hours old:	It responds immediately by general motor inhibition if

you touch the forehead or ring a bell nearby. So at birth you have already an elaborate inhibitory system. The fourth factor of the neurology at birth we may term innate desires, desires after things mostly, more or less under the control of pleasantness and unpleasantness—various desires, then, dominated by the affective tone of pleasure and displeasure. The child’s motor outfit at birth may ibe thus, in those four ways, characterized. Its behavior is dominated by certain desires, under the influence of pleasure and pain. From this starting point at birth let us now consider the development of the actual voluntary apparatus and its various aspects.

In the first place, under what Cajal calls chemotactic growth, the neurons continue to interknit. They knit together according to this theory under the influence of chemical reactions which make them grow together in complex functional series. If you look in any of the later text-books of histology you will see how complicated these series are. That is what we speak of as the chemotactic intergrowth of the neurons. Besides the individual neurons, there are especially two large parts of the nervous system that grow together in the functional sense, namely, the spinal cord and the brain. The spinal cord is highly developed at birth, but is then not yet under very elaborate connection with the cerebrum above it. The spinal cord alone we think of nowadays as representing the muscles. That is a relatively new idea that is going to be very fertile in future investigations. Muscles are probably not represented in the cortex of the brain. All the new literature along this line discusses this subject, and nearly all authorities are favorable to the opinion that all voluntary muscular movements are represented in the gray matter-of the spinal cord and in the posterior horn of the spinal cord (Bevoor) and that the brain is active in actuating and in inhibiting these actions whose immediate co-ordinations are taken care of in the spinal cord.

Thus the tendency at present, it appears, is to think of two chief functional parts to the cerebro-spinal nervous system: the spinal cord representing the muscles themselves and the brain inhibiting or else letting loose numerous tendencies controlled in the spinal cord. \Ve have to think furthermore of a very large number of circuits extending through the nervous system. We used to call them reflex arcs, but it is proper nowadays to think of them as circuits, not as arcs only, for an arc is incomplete, the af-

* For a discussion of kinesthesia see Dearborn: “Text-book of Human Physiology.0 Lea & Febiger, 1908.

Dii zed by

Google
-371-

ferent influences coming up one side and the motor impulse coming from it going out in a different direction. That is not true to life, because, as it appears now, the impulses (kinesthesia)* that control the movements originate in the concerned joints and muscles themselves. If you will analyze a moment’s behavior you will see that we have thus an extremely complicated set of circuits between the joints and muscles and the spinal cord, even for the simplest voluntary movement.

The problem is, then, how these reflex circuits are controlled by the brain above. We have to extend this idea of neuromuscular circuits and think of them as going not only into the spinal cord, but continually, being controlled by other influences, circuits from the cortex of the brain. We then have voluntary movements. What we wish to know about especially is this second kind of influences, the circuits which circulate between the brain and the spinal cord.

The inhibition in the spinal cord at birth is well defined and has been well known from early times. For example, if you suspend a pitched frog and let its foot drop into a few centimeters of weak acid, there will be a more or less immediate response. If, now, you send electricity through the other leg, this reflex withdrawal is inhibited. The human brain, we may be sure, likewise has an elaborate set of inhibitions at birth. Inhibition soon comes more or less under deliberate control and voluntary movements tend to be made well or not at all. Sometimes as you study young infants you are inclined to think that there is something in the organism for that purpose, something that restrains the development of his voluntary movements, Holds them in check, until his neurons have learned to make them fairly well. This whole new and important matter is related to the still obscure facts as to the active relaxation of muscles from inhibitory nervous influences.

By the time the power of inhibiting movements has developed, there is a third factor in the developing volition of the infant, namely, a practical working knowledge of space. The whole matter of space is a most complicated one. You can see this development of the knowledge of space if you watch the young infant during the first year or two. There are, however, the most contradictory ideas about the child’s notion of space, but probably the infant has no perspective when he is born and it is to himi as though eveiything were painted on a vertical screen in front of him. Gradually the movement of the limbs and eyes and the “local signs” on the skin combine in a way we do not yet quite understand to give the child an idea of space. When he begins to make voluntary movements, this idea o£ space becomes real to him. As he gradually learns to contract his arms hither and thither, and still later as he learns to walk, he begins to get a true and practical idea of space. You cannot, then, separate the knowledge of space from the power of voluntary movement. It is little short of nonsense to attempt to figure out the nerve-parts in a voluntary movement unless you take into consideration that all the muscles and joints, the muscles of the eyes, and the semi-circular canals have working reference all the time to the three dimensions of space. In my opinion, a child does not get an idea of space until he makes true voluntary movements. On the other hand, he does not make many true voluntary movements without this idea of space. It is not a matter of eyesight, for blind persons have a well-defined idea of space, indeed they often have a more accurately localized idea of it than people who use
-372-

their eyes. This notion of space soon sinks into the sub-consciousness of the child, and in the adult it has long since become sub-conscious by the principle of habit. The idea has, however, meanwhile become ingrained in the central nervous system, although it may be not in the focussed consciousness at all. Defect in this working idea is common. You see it in locomotor ataxia, for example, and all too commonly in ataxia from acute alcoholic poisoning. Ataxia is nothing more nor less than a disturbance of the idea of space, using the term “idea” in the neurological way as a working habit of a part of the nervous system. These are three of the factors underlying in a sense the voluntary movements of the infant. There are others yet and of these we must mention two or three.

The fourth one (not so certain) we may speak of as a definite knowledge of the power to make separate movements. You all have seen young children fail to make movements when they wanted to make them, simply because they did not know that they could make them. For example, I tried to make an infant of six or seven months shake her head, and tried over and over again. You can have no reason ior saying that she did not wish to do this, because at that age she would do what you wanted her to do, humoring your silly inquiring whims. But she did not'shake her head— I would say could not. One day soon I saw her lying on the bed with her head rolling and shaking, so I said to her, “Now you see, you can do it.” After that, she could and did do it at any time it was requested. Aside from movements of the hands and legs, which are practically instinctive movements are often not done until the child has knowledge from some source that he can make these particular movements. To suggest this knowledge, .1 take it, is one of the functions of imitation, and we all know what an important thing imitation is in the self-education of children. It is a suggestion to the mind of the infantile individual that the things imitated can be done by him. The knowledge may come by experience or by suggestion, but, more importantly than the others, by imitation.

A fifth factor in the neurology we are suggesting is the desire to do voluntary movements. This is innate. It is based on the impulse to activity. If you study a recent text-book of physiology, you will find in it much about the composition and action of protoplasm. Protoplasm, out of which living bodies are made, is the most fundamental thing you have to deal with in physical education. The essence of protoplasm is ordered, useful movement. The child simply cannot sit still. Not long ago it used to be the custom in many elementary schools to try to compel children to sit still1 with hands folded behind their backs, and all too many straps have been worn out in the attempt to enforce that law, which the children, of course, found it almost impossible to obey. The idea of playgrounds, I take it, is to teach the child to make useful voluntary movements as well as possible. This desire to do voluntary movements has its basis partly in the fact that living tissues cannot help making movements. A second part of its basis is the biologic pleasure of voluntarily doing something, of perfecting some movement, or series of movements, that exercise the neuromuscular organism. One of the greatest pleasures in life is accomplishing something, and it is the same in the young child when applied to single limb movements. It is one of the great incentives to the doing and to the habit of doing voluntary actions. If a child, after months of trying, reaches out his hand for a big rubber ball that he wants, that is an important accomplishment for

Digitized by
—373—

him. Innate in the young is the curiosity for exploring things, and this leads a child to make an immense number of voluntary movements which he would not otherwise make. The pleasantness of the result becomes associated with the process of obtaining it, while there is, in addition, an actual' pleasure of low affective tone, but none the less real, in the neuromuscular- activity itself. This desire to act and this pleasure in acting sure-ly-have complicated neural concomitants.

Such are'some of the most obvious of the many factors that determine the production- and the nature of the voluntary movements of the child during his first year or two. Our next search must be among the neurons of the central nervous system* in^ order to suggest something of the physical basis of these complex tendencies and determinants.

The first of the five factors mentioned was the intergrowth of the neurons. There are a great many million of them, afferent and efferent. If you compare the neurons of a young child with those of an adult, you will see how they grow in complexity. In the course of a few years many of them have elaborated so that the most complicated great tree is simplicity itself compared with one of them. Just how they functionally intergrow and are related has not yet been made out, but obviously the development of voluntary activity out of that which is mechanical and reflex depends on this intergrowth and this still unknown relation.

Another, the second, factor we emphasized as the gradual development of the power of restraint or inhibition over the tendencies to ceaseless mechanical reflex activities actuated in the spinal cord, cerebellum, etc., for necessary vegetative functions of the new organism. A foundation-thing in the development of voluntary movements is this at first reflex inhibition. The cortex of the human brain is relatively very large. Man’s head is so much bigger relatively than that of other animals, apparently in order to allow of increase of the deliberately inhibitory cortex. The size of the cortex is in proportion to the intelligence, but also to the culture and moral civilization of the individual, and these latter mean inhibition. These systems of inhibition, neurally speaking, go from every part of the wide and complex cortex of the brain down into the spinal cord. If you look into charts of the projection fibers of the brain you will see i\ow universal those fibers are, and they could not be of service certainly did not they connect in passing with numerous cerebral nuclei. They converge from the surface of the hemispheres into that portion of the central nervous system* that co-ordinates the actual muscles.

Our third mentioned factor was a more or less complete, but thoroughly efficient, knowledge of depth or space. Briefly as this matter has been considered here, it is obvious how complex the parts of the brain concerned must be. The infant’s awareness of depth in space comes partly from th6 movements of the eyes and possibly from the retinae. These processes involve the extensive and complex optic tract from the anterior part of the brain clear through the latter to the occipital lobes. Then you have another big tract concerned with space coming from the semi-circular canals, and in addition somewhere a representation of all the muscles of the body, and moreover, other things beside. Practically the whole brain is concerned, therefore, as far as the extent of it is concerned, with the ideas of space. I won’t venture to attempt to localize the parts which accomplish this, partly

Digitized by Google
-374-

for l'ack of time, but greatly more from a provoking lack of information still harder to supply!

The last element of the neurology is that of the desire to do things, this being dominated by pleasure and pain. If we know anything at all of the optic thalami and the corpora straita, we know that they are concerned thus indirectly in voluntary movements. A voluntary action ordinarily is made under some degree or other of emotional strain, if it be only a feeling of interest. If you have no interest in making a certain movement, if it does not mean something to you, if it does not give you some sort of pleasure, you are not very likely to make it. This is the reason that we keep on making voluntary movements, because it gives us pleasure and satisfaction to do so. The centers which represent emotional expression are concerned with most voluntary movements, so you have at the (basis certainly some degree of emotional tone and often, of course, a very highly emotional strain. You may remember the case found in a London hospital. When anything funny was said to the patient, he laughed on only one side of his face, but if he imitated a laugh, if he made it by a voluntary movement, he could laugh equally well on both sides of his face. It was a very remarkable and interesting case. At the autopsy it was found that the optic thalamus on the contralateral side was largely replaced with a cyst. He had voluntary control, it will be recalled, over those same muscles, and the emotion had an independent control over them—evidence enough that the feelings and the deliberate will have intirpate neural relationships, especially in view of the basal principle of psychology that every act of volition has a tinge of some one or another of the feelings. v

If these be some of the factors of the development of the power of voluntary movement in the infant, and we may reasonably suppose them to be so, it is clear that they (and others, perhaps) underlie the same process in the man and woman. We adults are not consciously aware of them in our deliberate actions necessarily, simply because, like most other habitual things, they have lost our special attention, so leaving it free for other newer movements—for the accomplishment of new combinations of these various factors, leading perhaps to new skill and the desirable products of ingenuity and originality.

We can perhaps make a few practical applications, useful in physical education not less than in medicine. There rs a tendency sometimes to overdo the purely practical side, so that we want to make practical application when we possibly can; it is for this alone that theory should exist in a practical art or science: to be useful. From the knowledge of power to make voluntary movements we can understand the reason for the value of encouragement and self-confidence. I have no doubt at all that the physical basis for example and encouragement and the teaching of self-confidence to a man in making difficult and new voluntary movements, in striving for skill in various things, is the same as that by which the ipfant needs to learn to know that he can make certain simple but new movements. You all know what an immense influence encouragement has in trying to make a “record,” and in trying to play well in a game, provided it is not overdone.

You know, too, how immense a factor suggestion in general is on all kinds of reactable things. Lyon and Qualls experimented recently on thirteen medical students, giving them some pills composed wholly of milk sugar and telling them that they were taking a heart stimulant. For half

Digitized by

Dogle
-375-

an hour afterward, the average ihcrease of heart-rate was four and two-tenths heats per minute, mostly through the suggestion that they were taking a heart stimulant. Medical students, as you know, are not usually highly suggestible subjects, for they generally have wills of their own. Then the same seventeen students were given the same lactose pills,‘but were told that they were taking a cardiac depressant, and the average decrease in the heart’s pulse was four and four-tenths per minute. This second result was more valuable than the first even, because you might say the increase was the result of the mild excitement of experimentation. You see the same results in the effect of joy and of worry, respectively, on the whole organism.

Another practical application of this theoretic material we can get in realizing the need of a larger variety of psycho-motor movements. You need in your physical training as large a variety of movements as you can possibly make. It seems to me that any system working toward promoting skill in anything should utilize as many muscles as is feasible, so as to bring into operation as many parts of the brain and as many neurons of the spinal cord as possible.

Another practical corollary is the need of more intensive attention,* resulting in more careful adaptation. Here is where you “run up against” one of the fads of the time, the fad of letting children run wholly wild in the .playground instead of giving the older ones part of the time definite things to do. We know that it does not work out w*ell in practice, and in theory we are not at all sure of its status. It is skill that counts, and skill means a*better and even better adjustment, the habit being learned best on the playground and in the gymnasium. The greater the variety of the movement and the greater the delicacy of the adjustment in older children, the more exercise the whole brain will get, and it is skill that counts!

If you trace out in some such way as this the neurology of a voluntary movement, you will find that practically every portion of the brain (and cord?) is concerned in it. I can only repeat in closing what I said at the first, that wrhen anyone tells you that voluntary movements originate in the cortex around the Rolandic area, and thence pass down into the muscles, and says that that is the neurology of making a voluntary movement, you will know that he is years behind the times. A voluntary movement is always connected with a motive, and motives are complex. Physical directors are coming to a broader study of behavior, and every voluntary movement is a part, an element of behavior, and it involves therefore an enormously complicated system of brain-part^.

—A Bath Suggestion. Instead of soap use sal soda or bicarbonate of soda (baking soda). They will clean the skin quicker and better, and never cause the irritations produced by some toilet soaps. When through, wipe thoroughly and then dash the whole body over with a cold saturated solution of common salt; and wipe sparingly. This is one of the best skin tonics and bracers against colds and night sweats known. Many a cold has been thwarted and many a coddled skin girted up by this plan. Rock-ribbed, germ-proofed health is largely attained by healthy skins.—“The Fresh Air Magazine.1* **

** See a monograph on attention by the present writer in the* Am. Phys. Ed. Beview, Nov., 1910, to March, 1911.

Digitized by C.ooQle
-376-

RACE DEGENERACY.*

By DR. J. H. KELLOGG, Battle Creek, Mich.

Students of eugenics and statisticians no longer deny that the race is declining at a rapid rate. The evidences are numerous. By eliminating cholera, yellow fever, and other great epidemic maladies, we are keeping alive the unfit, who by intermarriage impair the integrity of the race. The Roman midwives strangled feeble babies at birth. We have ieamed how to keep our feeble infants alive, though we often kill them by slow torture through wrong feeding later. By this means we are increasing the average longevity, and so deceive ourselves into the idea that the race is improving because the average longevity of life is increasing. The real measure of the vitality of the race is the number of centenarians rather than the average longevity. Old age is going out of fashion. The more civilized a nation, the less the number of centenarians. Germany with a population of 55,000,000 has only 80 centenarians, or one in 700,000. England has one in 200,000-France, one in 190,000. Spain, one in 44,000. Roumania, one in 6,000. Hungary, one in 1,000. United States, one in 25,000. We have only 3,600 centenarians iii a population of 90,000,000; whereas^if we were as healthy as the Hungarians, we should have 90,000 persons living one hundred years old or over. We are cultivating disease and degeneracy instead of health and long life. I)r. Hyslop of England, an eminent medical authority, declares that civilization has perverted us to such a degree and removed us so far away from our natural environment and habits of life, that race decay and ultimate extinction are inevitable unless a radical reform can be secured. We have greatly lessened the mortality from acute disease, and so increased the average longevity of life; but within thirty years, as shown by Mr. Rittenhouse, president of the Provident Savings Life Assurance Society, the mortality from chronic disease has doubled. Bright's disease kills now 231 persons where it killed 100 persons in the same number of population thirty years ago. Apoplexy and other chronic maladies are all increasing. Half of the 1,500,000 people who die annually in the United States, die from chronic disease. Three hundred and seventy-five thousand of these deaths would not have occured thirty years ago. The annual loss from preventable disease and sickness is not less than three billion dollars.

Forty million a year is the worlds death rate—one life a second. A daily funeral train 5,000 miles long. One hundred thousand people will die tomorrow. An army of corpses large enough to people a large city. And the real awfulness of this is that half of these need not die, possibly nine-tenths of them might be saved. Ignorance, neglect, wrong habits, pernicious fashions, a thousand preventable causes, all working this terrible slaughter.

According to the report of statistics gathered by the United States Census Bureau, there has been an increase during the last seven years of Cancer ..................................  28	per	cent.

* Reprinted from “Physical Education.”

Digitized by CjOOQle
-377-

Apoplexy ....................... 35	per	cent.

Kidney, diseases ...............41	per	cent.

Diabetes ..............■........80	per	cent.

In the United States the number of persons constantly suffering from tuberculosis reaches 500,000.

Dr. Prince A. Morrow says that the number of syphilitics in the . United States is probably 2,000,000.

In the decade 1851-1860, the total number of deaths from diabetes in England was 4,546, giving an annual average of 454, while in the year 1907, the annual average reached 3,360, an increase of 750 per cent.

Cancer is increasing at a still greater rate—500 per cent in 60 years. At the present time one person in every twenty living in the United States dies of cancer. Every eighth adult woman is doomed to die of cancer. Dr. Williams of England has shown that cancer is almost entirely confined to meat-eating races of man and animals. Five per cent of dogs and 7 per cent of cats suffer from cancer, being more carnivorous in their habits than human beings are. Horses, sheep and other vei eta ble-eating animals are almost entirely free from cancer. Cancer is unknown in central Africa, where the natives eat little or no meat. The same is true in Ceylon and other rice-eating countries.

Insanity has increased 300 per cent in fifty years. Fifty years ago the proportion of insane was 600 to the million. At the present time, the proportion is 1,800 to the million. Idiots and imbeciles are equal in number, making the present number of idiots and insane 3,400 to the million. In the state of New York, the insane and idiots already equal 6,000 to the million, and New York makes 5,300 new lunatics every year, or more than 600 to the million. If insanity continues to increase in the United States at the present rate, in less than 300 years the whole population will consist of idiots and lunatics. Dr. Forbes Winslow of England, the eminent alienist, recently made the declaration that the whole world is certain to become mad unless there is some radical change in the present tendency.

The expectancy of life has diminished. According to Mr. Kitten-house, president of the Provident Life Assurance Society of New York, while the average longevity of life has increased, the expectancy of life after forty years has diminished greatly within the last twenty years* Between forty and fifty, the mortality has increased 35 per cent; between fifty and sixty, 22 per cent: between sixty and seventy years, 34 per cent. Degeneracy shows itself by defects in school children. In Scotland, 70 per cent of the children were found to show defects of some sort. In New York City, of 1,500 school children examined in three schools, 93 per cent were found defective. In Germany, 54 per cent of the young men examined for army service were found physically fit. The increase in suicide is another evidence of physical degeneracy.

According to the New York Tribune of November 4, 1909, the rate of suicide per 100,000, population for 1908 was 21.8—the highest ever recorded—and just three suicides to the 100,000 more than 1907. In 1908 the number of suicides was 4,367, an increase of 16 per cent, a rate five times as great as the increase of population. Mr. Hoffman,

Digitized by v^.ooQle
• —378—

who calls attention to these facts in the Tribune, remarks that in this increase of suicide, which occurs most frequently among the educated and the prosperous, “there is positive evidence of mental and physical deterioration.”

There are 10,000 murders in the United States annually, twice'as many as in India in proportion to the population. Criminals of all classes are increasing faster than the population.

The birth rate is diminishing, having fallen off 20 per cent in twenty-five years. We are going down hill very fast. It is time we turned about. We should no longer deceive ourselves by the fact that the average length of life has increased. Statistics will soon show a decrease, because of the rapid increase in mortality from chronic disease. We catch smallpox and typhoid fever, but rheumatism we swallow at the dinner table. Bright's disease we cultivate by the use of tea, coffee, tobacco, alcohol and a high protein diiet, that is, excessive meat-eating. We axe laboring under the delusion that to be strong we must eat a strong animal, or at least the muscles of an animal. This is a cannibalistic notion, like that of the South Sea Islander, who ate his enemy when he slew him, so that he might become possessed of his courage. When a farmer told Thoreau, the author of “Walden/5 that his bones would soften if he did not eat meat, the philosopher called the farmers attention to th$ fact that he was being jerked along behind his plow by oxen whose bones were made from grass and corn. Science has since shown through the experiments of Professor Bunge and Dr. Sherman, of Columbia College, New York, that half of the people of the United States are suffering from lime starvation because of their use of meat. A kernel of corn contains all the elements necessary for complete nutrition—protein for the muscles, starch and oil for the fatty tissues and lime for the bon£s. When a hog eats the corn, the various elements are distributed where they are needed. The gluten goes to the muscles, the oil and starch to the fat, and the lime to the bones. When a man eats hog, he eats only the fat and lean meat, leaving the bones behind, and thus he loses the lime; so if one is going to eat his com at secondhand after the hog has swallowed it, he must eat the bone along with the bacon; otherwise, if wre eat our com at second-hand, in order to get the whole com back we must eat the whole hog or none. When a hog eats another hog or any other dead animal, his flesh acquires a loathsome flavor, he becomes diseased, he is a chronic invalid, or at least a valetudinarian. Nobody likes the taste of the flesh of a hog that has been fattened on meat. When human beings eat flesh, the effect upon the tissues is the same. The more largely the meat enters into the diet, the worse the effects. Flesh is not a natural diet for human beings. We are naturally fruit and nut eaters like the orang and the chimpanzee. The dinner bill of fare for the chimpanzees at the London Zoological Garden is lettuce, oranges, bananas and bread. This is just the bill of fare which the Almighty prescribed for man (see Genesis 1:29), “Every fruit tree bearing fruit and every herb bearing seed, to you. it shall be for meat.”

Fruits, nuts and grains are the original meat. Flesh-eating is a species of cannibalism which we tolerate only because the old savage

Digitized by
-379-

who roamed the forests of Great Britain, clad in war paint and feasting on his enemies, still leaps and veils in onr hearts. Three-quarters of the human race still adhere to the original bill of fare and subsist on fruits, grains, nuts and fresh vegetables. Our nearest relatives in the animal kingdom, the orang, the chimpanzee and the gorilla, in their native forests still adhere to the original bill of fare. In departing from our natural diet and essaying to consume, the bills of fare of all creation we have become the most disease-ridden creatures in the universe and are thus creating new maladies every year.

The original man was born out of doors, that is his natural habitat. We have invented houses and thereby have created a multitude of house maladies, such as cojisumption, pneumonia, bronchitis, etc. The consumptive moves out of doors, and gets well even when his lungs are breaking down with decay.

We have acquired the dirty habit of wearing clothes. We have exchanged the original fig-leaf aprons or thin bark garments for cumbrous clothing, which excludes the light and the air and retain the excretions of the body so that we are continually immersed in filth. These artificial skins contain no nerves and blood vessels, and hence cannot adapt themselves to changes of temperature. We should dress in white clothing, which permits our bodies to be bathed in light. Daily cold bathing and exposure of the skin to the air, with rubbing and grooming and exposure to the direct rays of the sun as often as possible will atone to some degree for the evil done by the wearing of clothes which modesty and inclemency of weather render necessary. Every city should have its playground, its swimming pool and out-door gymnasium for both sexes separately, permitting exercises in the open air and sunlight with the minimum of clothing, so that the skin may have a chance to do its work normally and thus prevent many internal maladies.

The Almighty told Adam he must earn his bread by the sweat of his brow. The great ambition of most people nowadays seems to be ta find some mode of making their living withouut sweating. Those who dodge sweating get the worst of it. It is the man who sweats through mujcle activity that lives the longest. Thomas Parr, who lived 152 years and nine months and then died of indigestion, when on a visit to the king and feasted by him, was a laboring man and lived all bis life on black bread, buttermilk and potatoes.

Exercise is the natural method by which the blood is purified and the vascular thoroughfares through which the blood circulates kept open and in good repair.

A French physiologist declared a man is as old as his arteries. When the arteries are hard, man is old, no matter how small the number of years he has lived. A boy died at fifteen, an old man with arteries hard as pipe stems, as the result of cigarette-smoking. Metchnikoff, Huchard, and others have shown us that the arteries become hard as a result of the continuous circulation in them of small quanities of poison. A single blow from the mason’s hammer does not break a hard rock, but repeated blows finally shatter it. Each blow contributes something to the final result. Drinking water which has circulated through lead pipe is one of the ways in which the arteries become hardened, thus producing

Digitized by L.opQle
-380-

premature old age. Among these are the poisons of tobacco. It is in> wonder that we are 86,000 centenarians short of what we ought to have, when we smoke ten billion cigars and fifty-five billion cigarettes annually, and consume ten pounds of tobacco per capita. The man who says tobacco doesn't hurthim is mistaken. The man who says he will stop the use of tobacco when he finds that it is hurting him is laboring under a delusion. When the damage is so great that it can be observed through, its effects upon the heart, the brain and the kidneys, irreparable damage is done. The fire has burned from the basement to the top, the flames are bursting through the roof, the house is gutted. The enormous increase of Bright's disease in this country in the last thirty years runs parallel with the increase in the use of tobacco and alcohol. Alcoholic drink is just as deadly as tobacco; even when taken in so-called moderation in the form of beer or wine, the mischief is done just the same. The Germans drink beer and have one centenarian in 700,000 of their population. The Hungarians drink buttermilk and have one centenarian for every thousand of population, or 700 times as many in proportion as Germany.

But we poison ourselves with other drugs, notably tea and coffee. Dr. Wiley has shown that-an ordinary cup of coffee contains four grains of caffein, a full medicinal dose. Every heart specialist knows that coffee raises blood pressure through contracting and hardening the arteries. Tea does the same. A glass"of coca-cola contains as much caffein, according to Dr. Wiley, as does a strong cup of coffee. The use of all of these cola preparations sold as soft drinks should be prohibited by law. Thousands of people, even boys and girls, are getting the coca-cola habit, they are becoming caffein drunkards, are being irreparably damaged. Cocoa and chocolate also contain a poison, theobromin, which is practically the same as caffein of tea and coffee. Caffein is essentially the same thing as uric acid, it produces the same effects. A cup of coffee contains in effect more than twice as much uric acid as is contained in the same quantity of urine.

Mustard, pepper, peppersauce and other hot condiments are all poisons. They not only produce chronic gastritis but harden the arteries. This has been shown by Huchard and other European investigators, who injected extracts of these condiments into the veins of dogs and rabbits and caused hardening of arteries in four months. It is better to apply the mustard plaster to the outside of the stomach than to eat it and thus apply it to the inside. Hall of Manchester has shown that a pound of beefsteak contains fourteen grains of uric acid, and a pound of sweetbreads seventy grains. The kidneys normally discharge from the body six grains of uric acid in twenty-four hours. It is easy to see that the work of the kidneys may be enormously increased by the use of flesh food.

But Metchnikoff has shown us that the worst poisons of all, those that produce premature old age and harden the arteries the most surely, are the poisons which result from the putrefaction of portions of meat that have been eaten and have not been digested. A dead rat in the closet generates a great variety of poisons, some of which are volatile and produce a horrible odor. Thousands of people are about with a dead-rat

Digitized by CjOOQle
-381-

odor in their breaths because of the putrefaction which is taking place in their colons. Dead flesh, fragments of dead sheep, cows or pigs, produce the same malodors when they undergo decay as does a decaying rat. Flesh will decompose in the interior of the body much more readily than on the outside, at least when it has missed digestion and absorption and remains in the colon. Metchnikoff suggests the use of sour milk and buttermilk to sort of disinfect the intestine and prevent putrefaction. His colleague in the Pasteur Institute, Tissier, the real discoverer of the friendly germ idea, insists that it is better to keep the alimentary canal sweet and clean by omitting to swallow foodstuffs that so readily undergo decay.

We can get along very well without meat. Chittenden has shown that we habitually eat two or three times as much protein as we need, which means that we can cut meat out of our bill of fare without the slightest inconvenience. Fisher of Yale and others have shown that endurance is enormously increased by cutting out meat. Karl Mann walked from Dresden to Berlin, 124 miles, in less than twenty-four hours. The man who holds the record for the Marathon race in this country is a flesh abstainer. Fisher’s test experiment, in which he compared fifteen Yale athletes—gymnasts, baseball men, wrestlers and football men—with the nurses and attendants of the Battle Creek Sanitarium, showed that the flesh abstainers far excelled the flesh-eating athletes in endurance, being able to hold their arms out straight nine times as long as the flesh-eaters.

Mr. Horace Fletcher by thorough mastication of his food restored himself to health after he was nearly fifty years of age, when he had been refused life insurance. He found that chewing was a complete regulator of nutrition. It led him to drop meat, tea, coffee, wine and cigars, to which he had been addicted, and renew his youth. An eminent army surgeon, whose blood pressure had reached 210, double the normal, reduced his blood pressure thirty points in four days by cutting out meat, tea, .coffee and tobacco and taking care to chew his food properly. Major Owen, a retired army surgeon, whose blood pressure had reached 240, and w'ho was broken down in health, reduced his blood pressure to normal in a year and a half by cutting out meat, tea, coffee, tobacco and acohol. His blood pressure is now 110 and he enjoys perfect health.

What we need is a mild return to savagery. If we are compelled to work indoors, we can at least sleep out of doors, so have an outing every night. Every person should do enough muscular work every day to induce free perspiration. Take a cold bath daily, or a very short hot one, if the cold is unberable, or take an air bath instead.

Wear as light clothing as compatible with comfort; cotton next to the skin. Walk erect, hold the chest high and breathe deeply. Carry the chest in front instead of behind. Sleep eight hours. Eat sparingly. Chew the food thorougWy, until it swallows itself. Eat something fresh, uncooked, such as lettuce, cucumbers or fruit, at every meal. See that the bowles move after every meal, if possible; at least twice a day. Keep clean, externally, internally, physically, morally. These are the chief rules of health. It pays to be good.

Digitized by U,ooQle
—382—

ADMINISTRATION OF THE PHYSICAL EDUCATION OF THE GRADES.*

By GEORGE WITTICH,

Supervisor Physical Education Public Schools, Milwaukee, Wis.

Honest and broad-minded American educators who were abroad recently to study European methods are enthused over the system and the excellent results of Germany’s scheme of education, and agree on the following points:

1.	The German nation this day leads the world in sciences, arts, manufactures and commerce, owing to the thorough methods applied in her schools.

2.	The German nation this day is one of the most vigorous and enterprising on earth, which is in part due to the thorough training in physical education provided for in all schools and at all school ages, and also throughout the entire military training of the young men.

This fact is not surprising at all when one observes that matters educational are less hampered by extraneous factors or considerations in Germany than they are in America. A more wholesome growth and a more encouraging appreciation of education is materially aided in Germany by the following facts:

1.	The heads of the departments of education of the several commonwealths are in no wise fettered, or interfered wuth, in the execution of their duties by the respective administrative bodies as is sometimes the case in this country where the members of these bodies come and gd at intervals of two to four years.

2.	Germany’s educators can pursue the development of their systems with the greatest composure, and with their minds at ease, as they need neither live in constant fear of being interfered with nor be afraid of losing their official position as a result of intrigue. 'Conditions that will undermine the respect and authority of educators are simply impossible in Germany, and as long as such are legalized in America the establishment of an efficient system of education is out of question.

For valuable and practical ideas on the various phases of education we must therefore consult Germany. Permit me to sketch in brief the modern plan of school hours of the German schools, and in particular the place which physical education holds in the same.

The following plans of daily school hours have been adopted in almost all parts of Germany after many years of scientific experimentation, after a careful study of child nature, and of the influence of the various mental and physical activities on its mental status during certain parts of the day.

The morning program- of the primary and grammar grades, which make up the first six years of schooling, begins at 8 A. M.*and ends at 12:50 P. M. It extends over the six days of the week, and is arranged as follows:

First recitation period 8 to 8:55* Recess of 10 minutes.

Second recitation period 9 to 9*55* Recess of 15 minutes.

Third" recitation period 10:10 to 11 :oo. Recess of 15 minutes.

Fourth recitation period 11:15 to 12:00. Recess of 10 minutes.

Fifth recitation period 12:10 to 12:50.

* Read at the meeting of the Wisconsin Physical Education Society held at Milwaukee, November 12, 1911.

Digitized by Google
-383—

The primary grades have no formal work in afternoons, but engage in supervised play instead for an hour or more. Their formal work, which includes elementary manual training and physical education closes at 12:50

p. M.	•

The grammar grades have manual training, domestic science and physical education from 2 to 4:30 P. M. on four days. Wednesday afternoon is generally reserved for supervised and free play, and Saturday afternoon for play and tramping into the country under the guidance of the teachers.

The program of the secondary schools is arranged similarly but provides for only two recesses, each of 15 minutes duration, after the second and fourth recitation periods. (The latter program was adopted seven years ago by the German-English Academy of Milwaukee with very encouraging results.)

The reason for dropping the old morning and afternoon program, which was similar to our present one in this country, were given as follows:

1.	School men came to the conclusion that the interspersion of motor activities, such as physical education, manual training and domestic science, although a relief to the minds of the pupils, divert them to such a degree that it takes some time for the concerned nerve-centers to calm down sufficiently to forthwith concentrate attention and associate faeas correctly again.

2.	They found that exercises requiring some degree of strength, in particular exercises of the arms, have an irritating or exciting after-effect on the motor centers, most likely on those of the upper portion of the spinal cord, and in consequence, writing, drawing and painting cannot be executed in a neat and exact manner for some time after such exercises.

3. Before the new program was actually and formally adopted, it was ascertained beyond a doubt that 90 per cent of the pupils were not fit for mental work at 2 P. M., partly on account of the brain not having recovered from the mental work of the morning and partly on account of the physiological influence of the noon-day meal. Since the adoption of the new program with its four recesses, little, if any, mental fatigue is noticeable at the end of the morning session. Walking, running, and playing mild forms of games in the yard during the morning recesses have proved sufficiently reefreative for the brain without disturbing it much.

Some cities have made provision for adequate gymnasia and grounds for outside exercise in and near the schools, whereas others have established largje, centrally located gymnasia and grounds, easily accessible for classes of the neighboring schools, which can accommodate five to six classes of children at one time.

The physical education program consists of all the phases of the German system with emphasis on such types of exercises as will insure good carriage of the body, develop power of heart and lungs, impart dexterity, muscular strength, control and vigor, besides promoting cheerfulness of mind and good fellowship.

Much attention is given 'to play under supervision. The impulse to the present play-movement in America was given by Germany. Class teachers are required to oversee the open air play of their pupils, in most cities, on Wednesday afternoons. They are also to accompany the pupils of the grammar grades on their tramps on Saturdays. Several cities, Dresden

Digitized by
-	—384—

among tfiem, have added instructions in swimming to the curriculum of their public schools.

The duration of a lesson in physical education is usually one hour.

The whole work is planned by the Superintendent of Physical Educa-tion, sanctioned by the “Council of Education” and conducted by special teachers in some places, and by the class teachers in others. The special teachers must be graduates of a state normal school of gymnastics, and all class teachers receive a very thorough course of the theory and practice of physical education in the State Normal Schools for the Training of Class Teachers. Besides this,, those class teachers who are required to conduct the physical education of their pupils must attend a post graduate course at one of the State Normal Schools for Gymnastics every other year; the personal expenses connected with attending such a course are refunded to the teachers out of the respective school treasury.

According to the “Der Deutsche Schularzt” (German School Physician), an admirably edited monthly on school hygiene, a physical test of all the school children of Dresden up to the age of eighteen years, made for publication of results at the Hygiene Exposition held at the same city .this past summer, gives a very gratifying picture of this very thorough test. I shall only quote the averages of the boys and girls of 17 years of age in four events:

Running no yds.: boys 17 sec., girls 20 4-5 sec.

Broad jump with running start:	boys	n	ft.,	girls 8 ft.

High jump with running start: boys 52 in., girls 36 in.

Climbing the rope:	boys	42	ft.,	girls	8	ft.

The following comparison, which was emphasized in the report, may also be interesting as showing the mental, physical, and moral qualities as well as the general carriage and bearing of the pupils:

“The pupils of those schools whose facilities for indoor and popular gymnastics and games are of the best, were found to be the best developed mentally, physically, and morally, as well as in discipline, carriage and bearing.” The best performers in indoor and popular* gymnastics and games are also in the large majority the best and most successful students.” Despite such evidence, fanatics, persons who have been biased in favor of the American college atmosphere" and others who know little of true physical education claim that athletics and folk dances will suffice as educational physical training. It is gratifying to know that those Americans who can safely be classified among the foremost in educational physical training entertain radically different views. Permit me to quote Dr. Leonard of Ober-lin College:

“We have said that the school must provide progressive and systematic^ physical training throughout the greater part of its course. Regarding the reasons for this measure and the manner of carrying it out, there is still a surprising confusion of ideas even among men who have made a professional study of the subject and who occupy conspicuous positions of leadership. Play, games and athletic sports although their value can hardly be exaggerated, are no more able to take the place of formal gymnastics than are the

* In Germany exercises like running, jumping, polevaulting, shotput, etc. which are here classed as track and field work, are known as “Volks-turaen*” folk gymnastics.

Digitized by
-385-

popuiar magazines, the picture show and the public library to serve as substitutes for the orderly discipline of the school and college. There arc drooping 'heads and shoulders, bowed backs and flat chests which must be made to yield to carefully chosen corrective exercises. The rudiments of neuromuscular control must be acquired through frequent practice of varied forms of movement graded according to difficulty and advancing from the simple to the complex. The confinement of the class room must be offset by vigorous use of the large fundamental groups of muscles, those of the shoulders, trunk, and legs, whose contractions stimulate the activity of heart, lungs and skin. The foundation of self-reliance, courage and decision of character must be laid by means of exercises that call for the overcoming of some difficulty like maintaining one’s balance on a narrow support that is raised above the floor or that present the element of danger involved in hanging and swinging by the arms and in broad and high jumping and vaulting over obstacles.

The almost endless number of variety of such exercises makes it possible to meet the needs of the most backward and to progress by easy gradations to any desired degree of proficiency. Character and will training, tu> less than the purely physical perfection, are to be sought from the start. Hanging and climbing exercises have played an important part in bringing, the human thorax to its present shape, and are indispensable factors in promoting its due tlcvclopment in every individual, giving him at the same time: valuable training in self-confidence and steadiness of nerves. Exercises ini jumlping and vaulting are a veritable school of courage. It follows then,, that a fully equipped gymnasium indoors and out is needed for all but the most rudimentary and meager physical training. Every pupil must be reached by this orderly discipline and economy of time and space require that the system and method He most carefully elaborated. Late fall, winter and early spring when the playground is usually deserted, are seasons when: the need for regular exercise is greatest.”

I must confess that I am enthused over the almost perfect program an if plan of education at present in vogue in Germany, in particular over her physical education. I have presented this brief outline for the purpose of comparison, and shall now outline my own plan of an effective administration of physical education along similar lines but better suited to present American conditions.

PLACES FOR EXERCISING.

Every school embracing less than 12 rooms should own one gymnasium with a floor space of not less than 50 by 80 feet and a school yard of at least

20,000	sq. ft. Every school with 12 rooms or more should have two gymnasia and a school yard of at least 20 to 40,000 sq. ft. Exercising in the open air is of course preferable in fair weather but inclement weather, cold winters and strong winds make the use of closed gymnasia a necessity. The-floor of the gymnasium should be nearly on a level with the outside ground, or higher. Building the gymnasium 6 or more feet into the ground renders; it unsanitary owing to the blowing of .outside dust through the windows in-windy weather, and the sinking of moisture in rainy weather; such low floors might also furnish opportunity for annoyance from the outside.

It is possible and feasible to build the gymnasium into the center of a school structure as exemplified in our new style of school buildings using:

Digitized by i^ooQle
386-

/

the place generally given to the auditorium*, and then to divide the gymnasium by partitions into two sections, one for the girls and the other for the boys. These gymnasia may also be made use of as places for meetings and social entertainments. For very large gatherings the partitions might be removed. The floor of the gymnasium should be made either of well fitted hardwood flooring or of a softer and less expensive material covered with cork linoleum. This latter ^material is to be preferred on account of the better footing^it affords in exercising and because it can be kept clean very easily. The gymnasium should be well lighted and ventilated, and the walls and ceiling should be smooth and painted so as to afford no chance for the gathering of dust on them. An eight-fold equipment is absolutely necessary for classes of 60 to 80 pupils. Horses, bucks, parallel bars, and the like that can be let into sockets in the floor are far more practical than others since they permit easier handling and do not take ud so much room when not in use. A running track is not necessary since it usually obstructs the light and is of little practical value in the instruction of large classes.

The yard should be gravelled; the area should be divided and equipped as follows: One-half of the yard should be reserved for the girls, the other jfor the boys; each half to be again sub-divided into two parts, the one for play and the other for apparatus work.

The places intended for playing should contain several permanently laid out courts for the most valuable team games.

The apparatus most valuable for girls are:	Giant	strides,	swings,

teeter ladder, rings and balancing and jumping apparatus, while those most suitable for boys are:	Giant stride, rings, poles, bucks, horizontal bars, and

jumpipng apparatus.

I do not think well of the parallel bars in the yard because the exercising on them without close direction and supervision will not prove beneficial'.

The most advantageous location of the apparatus is parallel to and near the sides of the space reserved for them with as much free space in the center as possible. A cinder track 4 to 6 feet wide may encircle the whole yard. Its use is then to be restricted to the regular physical education periodsx and to those boys and girls of the upper grades who wish to do some running after school hours under supervision.

INSTRUCTION AND SUPERVISION.

With two special instructors, one female and one male, in each school of twelve rooms and more, and one instructor in each of the smaller ones, or with class teachers who have had the necessary training in theory and practice of gymnastics to look after the physical! education, the children of the grammar grades can receive three lessons and those of the primary grades, two each week, each lesson, of 45 minutes duration, besides the 10 or 15 minutes set aside daily for free exercises in the class room. The free exercises of the regular 45 minute period should therefore be reduced to a minimum.

The introduction of such a plan would of course necessitate a larger output of competent specialists on part of the various Normal Schools of Gymnastics and more attention to methods, theory and practice of physical education on part of the State Normal Schools for the training of class teachers.

Digitized by
- 387-

Attendance should be compulsory and excuses demanding permanent exemption be issued only by the school physician. The use of corsets is to 'be strictly foibidden, likewise the wearing of tight clothing and street shoes in the gymnasium.

That all the pupils may enjoy the recess and get as much exercise and pleasure as possible in that short time, a plan must be adopted by which the pupils will have the use of the two places, the open space and the one with apparatus, alternately.

The pupils must constantly be urged to assist and advise one another both at the games and during the exercises on apparatus. Nothing will develop and promote good fellowship better than mutual assistance. Friendship thus sealed by physical assistance and co-operation in the gymnasium and on the playground is lasting, often to old age. Those who have gone through such schooling will verify this statement. The more difficult team games ought to be played after school While games of simple organization and permitting participation to a large number of players should predominate during recesses.

Organized supervision must be exercised both during recess and after school1 in the yard, especially if the use of the apparatus is permitted after school hours. This supervision is of vital importance and may be given in charge of the boys and girls of the 7th and 8th grades, who are to be divided into small sets for this purpose and serving in successive order, each about a week at a time. They must be impressed with the duty of mutual good-heartedness and a wholesome spirit of democracy. If properly managed, this system can become a veritable school for character building, developing in particular democratic authority and wise judgment on the part of the leaders and voluntary obedience on the part of the younger pupils, both qualities of immense value in our republic. There is very, very littl'e done in our schools along the line of character building.

The yards in the northern part of our country shpuld be flooded in winter and turned into skating rinks. This will furnish the children a very wholesome exercise in winter near home.

Instruction in swimming should be incorporated into the curriculum of the 7th and 8th grades; it can easily be done if a sufficient number of nata-toriums are erected and certain hours after school are reserved for this purpose. By means of Prof. Auerbach’s system of instruction from 16 to 20 pupils may be taught at one time, or 8o pupils per hour, in each natatorium.

The entire physical education program per week woul'd, then, consist of two, or of three 45 minute periods of well planned instruction in the gymnasium (or in the open during clement weather) composed of running, dancing, tactics, free exercises (including corrective forms) popular gymnastics, such as the various forms of throwing and jumping, elementary exercises on the principal apparatus and games and 10-15 minutes of free exercises in standing, walking, sitting and kneeling in the class room. Exercises on the apparatus, popular gymnastics and games must be selected with a view of developing valuable traits of character, on one hand such as: presence of mind, judgment of eye, courage and determination, and on the other hand, such physical qualities as skill, strength, endurance, and general health. Besides this, the pupils have 50 to 60 minutes daily of supervised play and exercises on apparatus counting the recesses and 30 minutes after the regular school time in the afternoon. In addition to this the pupils of

Digitized by L^ooQle
-388-

the 7th and 8th grades will receive three lessons a week in swimming during one semester.

Supplementary to this program should be arranged inter-class and interschool contests in such events as the various forms of running, jumping, throwing, climbing and mild team games during spring and more vigorous team games as modified basket ball, captain ball, and soccer football in autumn and winter. These contests may lead up to the great event of the year, the Annual Field Day. The program of this should consist of games and competitive exercises of the grades that will occupy many at one time* The forms of competitive exercises must be chosen from the regular physical education program, so that the field day is nothing but a public demonstration of parts of the actual physical education program. Boys and girls should have the same events, with this difference that the girls should engage in modified forms of the same events in which the boys compete. But both sexes should have at least two races on that day, since one is not worth going out for. The argument that such a contest is too strenuous for normal girls who have been prepared correctly is nonsense. Weight events are for the present out of question (excepting the throwing of the 18 to 20 oz. basket ball) for more than one reason, the principal one is that large numbers of pupils cannot be employed with weights at one time.

The introduction of such a system of physical education will not necessitate disturbing the present day program* of our public schools; it would only necessitate a greater expenditure of money. But with such a system established throughout the country, a system strictly in conformity with the postulates of pedagogy and of physiology, with material carefully sifted, graded and adapted to suit the demands and abilities of the young, we would in the course of 8 to 12 years, have a better race physically, mentally and morally. The results would, in the course of time, win over the most stubborn advocates of one-sided athletics and of other fads, because they could not help seeing thai athletics as generally conducted have neither a refining, polishing, nor educational or even a wholesome physiological1 influence* Athletes recognize but two authorities: the coach and the referee.

ENGLISH FOOTBALL.

By JOHN MORGAN.

■ When consideration is taken of the fact that the American football season is a very short one, and that at best but comparatively few play the game, fatal results are a terrible indictment of the modern American college game. Coming as I do from England, I am from a country where football is well nigh universal, as it is par excellence the national game, as the football season lasts even under Rugby rules anything from twenty-six to twenty-eight weeks, and under “socker“ rules fully eight months. Personally I have played under “socker” rules seven seasons for a junior league team in Liverpool, and seldom taking part in less than forty matches each season, and came out scathless. Of course, I have received odd and sundry kicks on shins, ankles and other parts of my imderstandings, but never received any bodily harm, and never in all that time saw any one carried off the field. Afterward I left the playing field and follbwed the great professional league teams, having witnessed’ hundreds of .first league matches, scores of

Digitized by CjOOQle
-389-

cup tics, dozens of international matches, been present on three occasions at the final of the English Cup at the Crystal Palace, where the attendance at each of the three finals I witnessed totaled over seventy thousand; also I have seen at least a dozen internationals under the Rugby code, seen the crack Welsh Rugby teams operate, and during my twelve months* sojourn in the neighborhood of Manchester have witnessed dozens of league matches under the auspices of the quasi-professional Northern Rugby League, which possesses the cream of British Rugby talent, so therefore am in a position to speak with a certain amount of authority on football as played in the “home” of the game. I lived in New York eighteen months, have been up in the Lake regions, down in the so-called glorious Southwest, and in the various States forming this inter-mountain region, and have seen the modern- college Rugby game, misnamed “football,” played in e^ch and all. Everywhere I have come away disappointed and disgusted, and have seen rough play on college gridirons, the supposedly homes of culture and gentlemanly conduct, that would absolutely disgrace teams drawn from the rough and rowdy colliery districts of Lancashire. Neither English spectators nor officials would stand for the brutal tactics seen on American college gridirons for one moment. The English public have been educated to a high standard of clean play in football1, and they attend in their thousands, not to see this or that team win, but to see good football, and in general they care little which team wins, so long as they see the “goods.” Cheering and enthusiasm is only aroused by good play a®d comes spontaneous, and is pot “got up” or “engineered,” as it is on this side, by “cheer leaders.”

Brutality exists, and no efforts of the apologists can belittle the fact. Yet football can be played with all these drawbacks eliminated. Take England, for instance. Under Rugby codes in Lancashire alone there are at least three times as many Rugby clubs there as in the whole of the United States under college codes. Within twelve miles of Manchester Town Hall there are, counting both Rugby Union and Northern Rugby Union, fully 350 clubs engaged in league games only every Saturday afternoon, and that will leave out the scores of schoolboy league teams playing under the two codes of the Rugby game as played in England. In Lancashire there are six clubs playing socker for every one playing Rugby, yet more fatal accidents have occurred already this year under the American college game with its few players and fewer teams than have occurred in Lancashire under both Rugby and socker for the last twenty years. Twenty years of matches in Lancashire means ten times more football1 contests than have occurred in all America north of Panama since the introduction of the game. In the Liverpool district alone there are over five hundred league socker clubs, not counting Rugby, and a club undergoes a small list that does not undergo twenty matches in a season.

Yet English football is not a ladies’ game, and those who on this side think it is would receive a rude awakening even before going thru half their league table, let alone the cup ties. English players are not afraid of a shower of rain or cold, biting, miserable weather, as most of the American college huskies are, but keep it up in all weather, go.od, bad or indifferent, and they don’t need the help of hundreds of cheering students with their college yells to help them on. The amateur English player will turn out to play the game no matter how bad the weather, even if there was not a single

»

Digitized by L^ooQle
—390-

SOlll to watch and cheer him, simply for the love of sport, which is inherent in him. I am sorry I can’t say the same for his American cousin, but it is the truth all the same.

Looking at a fast game under Northern Union rules, and then looking on a so-called fast game between Yale and Harvard is like turning from viewing a horse race and watching cart-horses going through the same performance. The stoppages under the American code are far too many to make the gamp interesting from a spectator’s viewpoint; the game is too close, too involved, too much stress is put upon possession of the ball; there is little kicking, punting, less drop-kicking and no dribbling seen, and so as football it is inferior to the English style of Rugby. There is so little drop-kicking seen in the college game that the player who does such a simple thing as dropddcking a goal from field is at once lionized and made a hero as it were. Yet under Northern Union rules players are so clever at drop-'kicking that the rules had to be altered and only 2 points awarded a drop-kicked goal, as they were getting too common. But, then, under English Rugby rules they dp use their feet, and no player can get on any class team unless he can drop-kick with either foot, and at occasions dribble the ball. There may be science of some kind in the college game, but of scientific football there is almost none.

Yet the game has got with all its drawb^ks a firm hold on the populace. It has its good as well as its bad points, but to say the least it needs revising. Several dark-looking features can be eliminated, such as the dirty inock-out blow, etc., and by placing absolute power in the referee to order off any offending player or stop the game. The game could be improved, and if a league can be formed among, say, the minor colleges for that purpose it will soon get the sympathy and support of the sport-loving public. But when it comes down to football—real, genuine football, fast, open and spectacular—“socker” has all kinds Of Rugby beaten to a standstill. Those who have judged “socker” solely by the visit of the Pilgrims can’t form any idea as to the capabilities of the game, as at present there is no team* in America able to extend them. But they must visit the gigantic enclosure of the big professional league teams and see the wonderful footwork of the players, the marvelous command they have of the ball when travelling at full speed, the intricate passing and wonderful team work, the way the ball is passed so accurately both by head and feet, the thrilling dashes by the fast outside wing man, and the marvellous way they center the hall obliquely, at right angles, across the goal mouth, clear from near the corner play without stopping to steady themselves or the ball, and do that hampered by opponents; to see the marvelous saves some noted goad-keepers effect, their barefaced coolness and audacity in literally taking the ball nvith their hands off the feet of the opposing forward when about to score. When he sees this and the marvelously fast way the ball travels from goal to goal, one minute bombarding this goal, and in the twinkling as it were of the eye a break ♦ away and a rasping shot sent into the other goal, and this kept up ding-dong without a stop, with the exception of the five minutes’ interval for njnety minutes, then you will get an inkling of what fast, open, spectacular football means. There is not an American team, whether Yale or Harvard, that has got the training to stand such a ding-dong racket for a month, much less a season of eight solid months, as stamina and good »wind are requisites which

*

Digitized by L.ooQle
-391-

American athletes as a whole fail in. No wonder with such a game that “socker” in England attracts attendances weekly that completely overshadow the Yale-Harvard game and make the attendance at baseball games look like fleabites in comparison.

At Liverpool three weeks ago there were over 52,000 at the league match between the two local first league teams, Everton and Liverpool, while so far this season the 30,000 mark has been passed on at least twenty different occasions. At the final English cup last year, or rather season, in April last, over 100,000 paid for (admission, being 10,000 short of the record, which occurred six years ago, when a London dub figured in the final.

I am glad to see the way “sOcker” is gaining ground in this country. It is a game in which the light person has an equal chance with the giant. It is free from danger, and yet calls for the same manly qualities as Rugby. It will never supplant Rugby on this continent. I for one don’t wish it to, as there is ample room for both codes; but this I do predict; that once the American public has caught on to it and the country develops players anything near the capability of their English cousins, it will leave the present college Rugby in the rear, as it has already done the same across the pond. The game is now established on every continent on the globe, fast growing in popularity in Continental Europe, especially Austro-Hungary and the Low Countries, and as all adopt the rujes of the international board of Great Britain it is possible to have international matches, and the comparative merits of the various countries can 'be ascertained.No other country in the world, as far as Rugby goes, will adopt the American college rules, and so on this side you see the ludicrous spectacle of naming an all-American team who have no opportunity of showing what they can do. If it were cm “socker** they could test their merit against England, Wales, etc., or an United Kingdom eleven, or against Germany, Austria, etc., Australia or South Africa, or India, as they thought fit. It is impossible to get international or inter-continental games unless rules are the same.—Independent, Salt Lake City, Utah.

—Cornell once more demonstrated its supremacy in cross country running by winning the intercollegiate championship last month at Brookline, Mass., for the twelfth time out of the thirteen times the event has been held. John Paul Jones, holder of the mile record, duplicated his victory of last year and Tell S. Berna, another Cornell man, was second.

The Cornel! runners also won the team honors with a total of 48 points. Harvard was second with 58 points. The others finished as follows:—Pennsylvania, 125; Dartmouth, 127; Technology, 129; Yale, 154; Syracuse, 156; Brown, 188; Princeton, 206; and Columbia, 232.

The course, which was exactly six miles, started on the polo field of the Country Club, took a turn around the race track, which was deep in mud, and then led out for the most part over the rugged country on which this famous golf links is laid out. Jones* time of 34m. 41 3-5S., was fast, considering the heavy going and the character of the country.

THE INDIVIDUAL ORDER.

First—J. P. Jones, Cornell; time, 34m. 41 ^*s.

Second—T. S. Berna, Cornell; 34m. 44s.

Third—W. M. McCurdy, Penncyl’vania; 34m. 45s.

Digitized by CjOOQle
/y\mp ftND BODY.

Price, $1.00 per Year. Foreign $1.25.

m^mmr Published Month*?.

BT

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.

Ifllwan Tree. Wlacoxuribi.

*9“ Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St, Germantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

- THIS YEAR’S CONVENTION of the American Physical Education Association will be held in Montreal, Canada, February 22, 23 and

24.	Many noted speakers have been secured by the program committee, under direction of its chairman Dr. R. Tait McKenzie. Beside this the winter sports of Canada which will be shown will be certain to attract many visitors.

—IN THIS ISSUE we reprint an article by Dr. J. H. Kellogg of Battle Creek, Michigan, which is written in the doctor’s characteristic style. Although a number of the statements may be questioned, there is enough good common sense ih the article to make the same valuable.

—THE EFFECT of different scholastic occupations upon school-children has recently been studied by Dr. Max Ocker-Blom of the University of Helsingfors. His findings, as reported in the Internationales Archiv fuer Schul hygiene,” are as follows:	*

By means of an apparatus, which shows the numerical extent of the variations in the movements of the upper parts of both sides of the thorax, J examined 25 pupils, during different school occupations and noted the respiratory movements of both sides of the chest. I arrived at the following results:	During	reading aloud, extending over three

minutes, whether the pupil stood or sat, the upper parts of the left lung respired generally more deeply than did those of the right lung. The numerical value indicated for the right side being “r” and that of the left side “I” one finds that the relation r:l. is 100:118. There are however, exceptions, especially in cases where the left lung appears abnormal.

The total respirations (r—1) of both sides together, during reading aloud is, in general, 78 when the pupil is standing, but decreases to 72 if he is sitting. The hindrance to abdominal respiration caused by the sitting posture, does not appear to cause a compensatory action as regards the amplitude of the upper parts of the lungs, or at least, not as far as I can judge by my tests.

That which principally interests us, is the influence which a prolonged sitting posture has on the respiration on the upper parts of the lungs. As to the part which each side of the chest takes in respiration, we find that the relation r:l, which during reading aloud (whether the pupil sits or stands,) is as, 100:118, becomes variable during a sedentary occupation (knitting for instance) of prolonged duration. For such a

Digitized by e.ooQle
-393-

case, two sides of the chest generally have the same- amplitude of respiration, the respiratory movements of the left side being impeded more than those of the right, the relation r:l, generally becoming 100:100.

In closely examining the details of a series of tests, one notes a great variability of the relation r:l of one test to that of the other, in a corresponding period of three minutes. Sometimes it is the right side, sometimes the left side, which respires the more strongly. One can easily explain this variability. During a sedentary occupation of some duration the position of the body is changed from time to time to alleviate the unpleasant fatigue in the back. Any curvature of the spine already existing, becomes more and more accentuated, as the relation of r:i, indicates, and the side of the thorax on which the shoulder is the lower being more impeded in its respiratory action. But also in cases where a habitual scoliosis is not noted, the vertebral column leans alternately to one side or the other. From time to time the body straightens itself, and a few deeper respirations give a certain amount of compensation. In every case, the tests allow of the conclusion, that the unfavorable influence of sedentary occupation (knitting) of long duration, has in general a more marked effect on the respiration in the upper parts of the left side of the thorax than those of the right.

As to the total capacity of respiration in the upper parts of the lungs one recognizes the extent of this harmful action when comparing the numerical value of r:!, found during prolonged sedentary occupation, with that registered when reading aloud. In the latter case the figure was 78 wrhen the pupil was standing and 72 when sitting. During uninterrupted sedentary work lasting from 12 to 39 minutes this figure decreased to 39, that is to the half, therefore, of the other figure.

Some of the results obtained lead one to believe that this unfavorable influence on respiration, cannot be attributed to the fact that the work of knitting is not accompanied by reading aloud. It is due rather to this (and this remark applies also to writing) that certain groups of muscles are exercised (or rather strained) without interruption, and thereby impede the freedom of respiratory movements.

Later tests will be necessary in order to clear up this point. The practical results in School Hygiene which axe obtained by those tests can be summarized as follows:	The	sedentary occupation of knitting

for some time, without a break, causes a considerable disadvantage to the respiration of the upper parts of the lung, and especially to that of the left side, which usually appears to respire more strongly than the right side does. Tn order to remedy thi3 harmful action, it should be insisted upon, that handwork, of any character done in sitting should, from time to time, be interrupted for a few minutes by standing and that gymnastic exercises calling for respiratory movements and for straightening of the body should be interposed. Not only would these exercises be useful as regards respiration and pulmonary exercises, but they would, in addition, have a certain prophylactic value against scoliosis. •

ED. NOTE. Our readers should call the attention of their superintendents or principals to the facts stated above. Many cities have classes in handwork where the children are forced to sit fully as long as spoken of above, i. e. 12 to 39 minutes. Many night schools also have

Digitized by L.ooQLe
-394-

periods* of sewing, drawing, etc. during which, the pupils are held in cramped positions for a-long time. Teachers in such classes should bo held to inteipose their work with a few minutes of gymnastics (during which the class-room should receive an additional supply of fresh air.)

—Many women in the home because they are tired at night, think that they do not need physical exercise, that they have already taken too much; but this is a mistaken idea. Housework tends to make women nervous and irritable unless they secure diversion^ in the form of exercise or some healths ful recreation. When women are nervous or bordering on hysteria and feel like crying or screaming, a little well-chosen exercise will improve these nervous conditions, and, if persisted in, will eventually cure them. *	*	*

The girl or woman who works in a shop, mill or factory, also the teacher, should indulge in muscular exercise im order to counteract the bad influence of vitiated air, the breathing of dust and deleterious gases. Deep breathing in dusty places sends the particles of dust into the upper lobes of the lungs, where these become a constant irritation until they finally excite inflammation.

Women should shun those occupations that tend to kill th# worker. Some occupations cause disease due to exhaustion, monotony, deprivation of healthy condition and the hopelessness of improvement, and should, therefore, be shunned. If women must work amid unhygienic surroundings (which the writer questions), then they, of all persons, should take plenty of muscular exercise in order to keep the physical organism from falling below the health mark. If women demand pure air and a healthful' environment in their shop and mill life, it will be forthcoming, and they should do so, because health is greater than money. Capitalists are beginning to realize that better hygienic conditions mean healthier employes, with a resulting improved quality of labor. The work which is performed by the woman in the mill and factory does not severely tax her muscular strength or require violent effort. It is, in the main, a mechanical movement of arm, hand or foot, and it, therefore, becomes very monotonous. In many cases the body is cramped, interfering with proper breathing and circulation. Faulty position in time becomes fixed, resulting in round or uneven shoulders, flat chests, and protruding abdomens. These physical defects can be overcome by keeping the chest expanded and by taking exercises.”—The Circle.

SPORT OR PHYSICAL LABOR.

“Our Middle Schools, in Germany, bring with them two serious disadvantages from a national point of view; they foster the markedly rapid dying out of those who pass through the purely intellectual schools, and they serve to accentuate the separation of social classes. The segregation of our intellectual school students just at that important period of growth, when the character is being formed', is responsible for one of the most significant signs of our modern civilization—the growing contempt for bodily work. The evil influences which our intellectual1 schools exercise on physical development are well known. Sport, athletics, is recommended as a sovereign remedy. But sport pre-9upposes a wealthy class. In Germany, a general going over to sport would bring about a national financial breakdown. The

Digitized by
-395-

sportsman becomes a “gentleman” and rises out of his own class ; he becomes a worshipper of superlative success and despises mediocrity. Sport appeals to ambition only, and is therefore unsatisfactory as an ethical factor of education. It is an indirect cause of the steadily diminishing birthrate. An essentially sporting nation cannot remain national, for it cannot satisfy its ambitions without the co-operation of foreign races.

“It is, therefore, necessary to find some other remedy to counteract the dominating and one-sided influence of the intellectual schools. Compulsory productive physical Labor should be the means employed. Some slight attempts have already been made in this direction, but they do not suffice. The long summer vacation in our middle schools, which lasts 8 to 9 weeks in South Germany, constitutes a certain danger for our active young students —the danger of falling into Sad way's through idleness. To utilize these long holidays for compulsory manual labor would exercise both mind and body very beneficially apd help to strengthen us as a nation.

“I hold the opinion that we must meet the growing spirit 0if revolution among our working classes in all European States and its attendant dangers with a corresponding revolution in our present ideas about mental and physical labor.”— Ex.

(Written for Mind and Body.)

A TRIP TO EAST AURORA, N. Y.

By D. M. FEED. KROGH, M. D.

A trip to a country town of only 2,000 inhabitants is not in itself of any particular significance except for the fresh air one may breathe. But East Aurora, N. Y., has a special attraction. Teachers, business men, etc., who have ever read “The Philistines,” or “The Fra,” unconsciously de-■ velop the desire to get a little closer to the writer, the philosopher, printer, publisher and thinker, Mr. Elbert Hubbard. This desire arose in the writer’s cerebrum some years ago. Recently the desire for a visit to the “Roycrofters” became a reality. We didn’t walk, we automobiled the distance of 18 miles from Buffalo, partially to save time, partially to stir up the atmosphere (not the dust, for there was none to be stirred up), partially perhaps, to be “up to date;” but particularly because my friend “the chemist” had invited a third to the .party. “The “third in the union” had accumulated so much adipose tissue around and between the cardiac muscular fibres that the walk of eighteen miles in fresh air would not have done him any good whatsoever, for he would have suffered from cardiac asthma after covering about one-twentieth of the distance. Well, we arrived safe and sound at East Aurora in an hour’s time, during which we enjoyed the balmy, cool air and the rolling country and the apple orchards of this part of the state of New York.

The first thing you admire at “The Roycrofters” is the grand bronze status of Michelangelo. Mr. Hubbard doesn’t believe in keeping such a piece of art for himself and his own enjoyment, but.wants others to enjoy it as well as other art treasures with him. Then you see, spread around on the lawn a number of buildings of unique style and architecture.

“Art is man’s expression of joy in his work” says Hubbard. Here you see an office, a power-house, a book bindery with printing house, a cabinetmaker’s shop, a copper-smith shop, a chapel (Mr. Hubbard’s issue of “An

Digitized by Google
-39«-

American Bilble,, contains nothing but matter concerning Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Payne, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Thomas Jefferson, etc., etc,) And then you see the Inn and his own modest dwelling next to this. Across the way from the Inn you will find a neatly arranged playground, with sliding boards for young and old, a running track, a hand ball court, a tennis court and a few “galleries’r for spectators. These “galleries” consist of benches up in the trees, access to which may be had by climbing up a small ladder, and you can view the playground as you would view a base ball or foot ball game from the bleachers. In the shops, where about 400 people are employed, you will see the finest kind of work in printing, book binding, copper work and leather modeling. The “Roycrofters” meaning “craftsmen to the King” consist of all the employees of Fra Elbertus, as he likes to call himsel'f, and are composed of “boys who have been expelled from school, blind people, deaf people, old people, jail-birds and mental defectives.” The most beautiful binding in the world is found here. Fra (brother) Elbertus’ complete works is now in progress and will, when finished, consist of 40 volumes at $10.00 each. You see, that would amount to only $400.00 for the work. But, teachers, you need not order at once nor do you have to pay this small sum with one check; you may buy one volume at a time.' And teachers get paid so well for their arduous task that this is but a bagatelle;;

If you don’t know where to put all of your surplus you may buy an artistically modeled wallet for from $10.00 to $20.00.

Well, we have seen so many things, lets go over to the Inn and eat. An ordinary meal can be had for $1.00 per plate. As you approach the steps of the veranda you see the inscription at the top of the porch:— “Self-Respect.

Self-Reliance.

Self-Control.”

We crossed the porch to open the door to the reception hall of the Inn and are reminded to “Produce Great People—The Rest Follows.” This is engraved on the heavy oak door. Other signs are hung from the ceiling in the mission-like furnished dining room:	“Reciprocity;”	“Fletcherize;”

“Good Cheer;” “It Doesn’t Matter.”

“Gossips Lie Like Epitaphs—

Your Eyes and Ears Inform You,

Not Your Tongue.”

“Without the Door Let Sorrow Lie .	And	If Perchance It Hap to Die

Well, Bury It Deep in a Roycroft Pie.”

Of course you must “fletcherize” this pie and be of “good cheer”; no matter what the sequence of eating the pie may be “It doesn’t matter.” No, it doesn’t matter, Mr. Hubbard is a congenial gentleman, who has “made one country village an attractive place for growing youth, by supplying congenial employment, opportunity for education and healthful recreation, and an outlook into the world of art and beauty.” Concerning himself this unique man says:	“I am a graduate of the University of Hard Knocks,

and I have taken several postgraduate courses. I have worked at five different trades enough to be familiar with the tools. In 1899, Tufts College bestowed on me the degree of Master of Arts; but since I did not earn the degree, it really does not count.” “My work has never been regulated by

Digitized by CjOOQle
-397—

the eight-hour clause.” “We do not .enjoy poor health, so there is very seldom anyone sick to be cured. Fresh air is free, and out-door exercise is riot discouraged.”

“Work should be the spontaneous expression of a man’s best impulses. We grow only through exercise, and every faculty that is exercised, becomes strong, and those not used atrophy and die. Thus how necessary it is that we should exercise our highest and best. To develop the brain we have to exercise the body. Every muscle, every organ, has its corresponding convolution in the brain. To develop the mind, we must use the body. Manual training is essentially moral training; and physical work is at its best, mental, moral and spiritual—and these are truths so great and yet so simple that until yesterday many wise men did not recognize them. We are reaching out for an all-round development through work and right living.”

“The only way to help people is to give them a chance to help themselves. So the Roycroft idea is one of reciprocity—you help me and I’ll help you. We will not be here forever, anyway; soon Death, the kind old Nurse, will come and rock us all to sleep, and we had better help one another while we may; we are going the same way—let’s go hand in hand.”

So we came, and we saw, and we ate. And then our friend “the chemist” turned on the gasoline engine and we spun homeward.

ON SCHOOL ATHLETICS.*

By F .N. JEWETT, State Normal School, Fredonia, New York.

After considerable hesitation I have decided to say something this morning upon athletics. One may properly feel the need of care when speaking to experts about their own specialty, still the present seems to be a proper time for some discussion of the subject mentioned.

First, what should be the relation of athletics to the individual? Evidently one of benefit, to both body and mind. Vigorous physical exercise in numerous quantities, such as athletics furnish, is needed by every able bodied student. Often this need is not sufficiently appreciated. A large part of the disabilities which afflict people and of the damaging stress and gloom of their lives could be alleviated or removed by wisely adjusted recreative physical exercise.

For students this exercise may well come, usually, late in the afternoon. In my opinion not one pupil in twenty in this school should work upon the regular school studies between the close of the afternoon session and supper time. This is a good time for change, for stirring about, for recreation; and most of the school athletics should regularly come at this time.

Then manifestly, after these changes, and after the athletics at any time, the student should return to his special work with renewed interest and vigor. Here is the test. If after his athletics he is weary, indisposed to study, and unable to do so productively, he has had too much athletics. If again, his interest and attention are diverted by his athletics so that they do not return with renewed Tceenness to his work as a student, then also he has had too much athletics. They have occupied relatively too large a place in* his mind.

* A five minute talk by the President of the Athletic Council, Head of the Department of Science.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—398—

In all healthy living one set of activities alternating with another set is beneficial to that other. One's work enables him to sleep, and his sleep prepares him for work. He does each better for having done the other well. So between regular school work and school athletics, when wisely conducted.

Again, of much significance is the training in co-operation which is afforded by athletics. Team work becomes important, and a marked contribution to that becomes more valuable than a brilliant individual feat.

In this particular, development in athletics is like what is receiving increasing emphasis in the oucside world. Cd-operation is-largely replacing competition. Men are learning that it is better to work with and for one another than against one another. Services that contribute to a common end are receiving greater appreciation; and in rendering such service the individual is really finding his proper place.

It may be said that an admiral wins a great victory. No; he does not do it alone. Others contribute to the result, and their contribution may be quite as important as his own. Not infrequently it is more so. Likewise in all great achievements and of all great men. The latter were surrounded by others more numerous and less famed, but often scarcely less capable than themselves; and without these others the great men and their work could never have been so great.

So in a team and in a school. When athletics are properly conducted and properly viewed, whether one is on the first team, or the second or the third does not matter so much. Common ends are certainly as important as individual ones, and are adapted to appeal to the individual and also, of course, the individual participates in the general good that results from the combined efforts of himself and others.

But to return to the directly individual effect, and illustrating as before, but in different terms, my reading quickens my thought and my thought directs my reading. When our athletics and our study thus mutually quicken and develop each other we need not be afraid of athletics.

PARALLEL BAR EXERCISES.

(Shoulder-high.)

By Wilhelm Eichler. Seattle.

Translated by Carl O. Hierholzer, Philadelphia, Pa.

Outer side-stand frontways, grasp the near bar with ordinary grasp, rear-vault-swing to a cross rest, swing backward into a hand-stand, lower from the hand-stand and swing forward arid:

1.	Lower to the upper-arm-stand rearways, (kipping position) then kip, then swing forward in the bent-arm-rest and at the end of the swing execute a half turn left (or right) to a cross straddle-seat in front of the hands; grasp in front of the thighs, swing back and close the legs and immediately execute a rear-vault left (or right.)

2.	Lower to the upper-arm-stand rearways (kipping position) then kip, then swing forward in the bent-arm-rest and, at the end . of the swing, execute a half turn left to a cross straddle-seat behind the hands; grasp the bars in rear, swing in and backwards and a double front vault.

3.	Lower into the hand-hang, long kip, swing forward in the bent-arm-rest and execute a half turn left (or right) to the upper-arm-hang; kip, then rear vault. '

Digitized by (^.ooQle
-899-

4* Like exercise 3, kip into the hand-stand, swing forward through the bent-arm-rest and execute a half turn left (or right) to the upper arm hang; kip, then swing forward and back and execute a triple rear-vault left (or right.)

5.	Lower to the upper-arm-stand rearways, roll backward in the upper-arm-hang and swing forward, swing backward and lower to the hand-hang, kip to the cross-rest, swing forward and execute a half turn left (or right) with arms straight, swing up to a hand-stand, walk forward on the hands to the end of the bars, straddle off forward.

6.	Swing backward through the bent-arm^-rest and immediately execute a half turn left (or right) to the upper-arm-hang, kip to the handstand, lower from the hand-stand through the cross-rest and down to a position similar to the kipping position under the 'bars (drop kip), keep going in this direction and execute a somersault backward under the bars to an upper-arm-hang, (to do this successfully, lower slowly from the hand-stand as far as the cross rest, then drop quickly and throw for the somersault) kip into the hand-stand, a quarter turn left (or right) to a side hand-stand and 9quat off.

7.	From the hand-stand lower immediately to an upper-arm-hang, swing backward and back uprise and immediately execute a straddle vault forward (without allowing the legs to touch), grasp and swing backward and rear vault left (or right.)

8.	From the handLstand lower immediately to an upper-arm-hang, swing backward and back uprise to a hand-stand, lower and swing forward, place the right leg in front of the left hand on the left bar, execute a half turn left by changing grasps to the cross rest, swing backward and double front vault.

9.	Swing backward and free somersault forward to the upper-arm-hang, kip to a hand-stand, reverse the grasp of the right hand, lower and swing forward and execute a quarter turn left on the right arm to a rest on the right bar and holding the legs in a horizontal position, lower backward to the hang rearways (the backs of the ankles touching the bar) swing forward and backward and jump off at the end of the back-swing.

10.	Swing backward with a half turn, passing through the side-handstand to the cross-hand-stand, lower and swing forward, at the end of the fore-swing execute a back somersault above the bars landing in the upper-

. arm-hang, kip to the hand-stand, reverse the grasp of the right hand and execute a quarter turn left on the right arm to the side-hand-stand, hand spring over the far bar to a side-stand rearways.

—The open air school of Buffalo, N. Y., celebrated its 1st anniversary in November last. Thirty-two pupils were enrolled. The affair was pre-t pared by the girls of the school, demonstrating in a practical way, the benefits which they had derived from it.

A* report was presented, showing that during the year, much had been done for the mental and physical welfare of the thirty-two children under the school's care. Three have been operated on in the General hospital, two more are to go there soon; three have been treated and one has been operated on in the tuberculosis dispensary. Seven have been examined and the faults of the eyes, ears, nose and throat been corrected by the specialists at the Good Samaritan dispensary.

Digitized by
—400—

MASS-EXERCISES.

Field Day of the Public Schools of Columbus, Ohio.

By Anton Leibold, Supervisor, Physical Training, anb ©trl# of 5tb, 6tJj» aufc 8tJj C$rab«*.

PART ONE.

1.	Mark time 16 counts with *4 turn 1. on 1, 5, 9, 14. Two counts?

on every following movement.

2.	Raise arms outward 1-2. Raise arms overhead and raise

heels 3-4. Return 5-8. Repeat from............................ 9-16

3.	Raise arms outward overhead 1-2. Lower arms in outward

position and bend knees 3-4. Return 5-8. Repeat.............. 9—16

4.	Raise arms outward overhead 1-2. Turn trunk 1. and remain

in position 3—4. Turn to the front 5-6* Arms outward down 7-8. Repeat, but turn trunk r. on 11..............  9—16-

Repeat the entire Part I.

PART TWO.

1.	Mark time 4 counts, march forward 4 counts, mark time 4 counts, march backward 4 counts. Two counts on every following movement.

2.	Hands on shoulders and touchstep forward 1. 1-2. Lunge

forward 1 and straighten arms diagonal, (1. oblique forward up and r. arm oblique backward down) 3-4. Return 5-8. Repeat, but touchstep and lunge r........................... 9—16

3.	Hands on shoulders and touchstep sideward 1. 1-2. Lunge sideward 1. and straighten arms diagonal, (1. arm oblique sideward up and r. arm oblique sideward down) 3—4.

Return 5-8. Repeat, but touchstep and lunge r.............. 9—16*

4.	Hands on shoulders and lunge sidqward 1. 1-2. Bend trunk sideward 1., 1. hand touching ground, r. arm straight up-

ward 3—4. Return 5—8. Repeat, but sideward r...............  9—16

Repeat the entire Part II.

PART THREE.

1.	One-fourth (*4) turn 1. and march sideward 1. 4 counts, continued in 16 counts, thus completing a full square.

2.	One step (2 counts) sideward 1. and raise arms outward 1-2.

Raise heels and arms circle overhead 3-4. Lower heels and arms outward 5-6. One step (two counts) sideward r. and lower arms 7-8. Repeat, but begin to the r.................  9—16

3.	One step (two counts), sideward 1. and raise arms outward 1-2.

Grasp hands backward, in small of back, and bend trunk oblique, slightly, forward 1. 3-4. Straighten trunk and raise

arms outward 5-6. One step (two counts) sideward r. and lower arms 7-8. Repeat, but begin to step sideward r., and

bend trunk oblique forward r.................................... 9—16

4. Two steps (four counts) sideward 1. and raise arms outward 1-4. One-half (V2) turn 1. and swing arms slightly down

and up 5-8. Repeat.....................'.....................    9—16

In this exercise arms are lowered only on the 16 count.

Repeat the entire Part III, but in 4 begin sideward r.

Digitized by Google
—401-

PLAYGROUND GAMES.

By W. A. STECHER.

Here are a few games which, years ago, as boys we played during winter as well as summer.

FOOT AND A HALF.

A boy who is chosen by the usual method is "down/’ He is knowii as the “horse ” He chooses another boy who is the leader. (This position as leader is later occupied by the horse when relieved.) A line is marked on the ground, the horse takes a stand in front of this line and bends over as in leapfrog, his head being in the direction of the jumping. All players now, from a stand, execute a straddle vault over the horse. Shouting “Foot and a half” the leader again vaults. The horse then moves forward to the point where the leader landed. The leader now decides how the next vault should be performed, for instance, “from a stand,” “from a run of two steps,” “from a stand but jumping off with one foot,” “from a stand but touching the back of the horse only with the right, hand,” etc. The start in all attempts must be made from the scratch line.

We will say in further explanation that the leader decided that the second vault should he performed “with a standing jump and touching the horse only with the left hand.” All players execute the vault as prescribed. The leader, as last jumper, shouts “Foot and a half,” whereupon the horse advances to the new mark. The leader now decides how this distance is to be covered. If, for instance, he calls for “three running steps and over, touching with both hands,” and a player goes over with two steps or with using only one hand the leader is “down” and the horse becomes leader. This also happens if the leader jumps without shouting “Foot and a half.” The game now starts anew at the scratch line. The leader must see that all vaults are straight over the centre of the horse and from the scratch line*

HAT ON BACK.

This is a game of the “Foot and a half” order. A boy is chosen to be “down.” He assumes the position of a horse but stands crosswise (not lengthwise) to the direction of the vaulting. The approach may be as each player chooses, the jump-off however must be from the scratch „ line. After all players have had a “try/ during the next vault each player deposits his hat or cap on the back of the horse. Who drops his hat or knocks off any other goes “down” as the next horse. If all hats are deposited on the back of the horse the leader makes the succeeding vaults more difficult by adding some difficult feat e. g., hopping off with the Jeft foot, touching only with the right hand, etc. until someone knocks a hat off.

A variation of this game, making it more difficult is to have all players who fail stay as horse and bucks. The horse takes the regular position while the bucks go down on hands and knees between the horse and the take-off* The game in this form is admirable for developing courage as well as skill.

Digitized by L.ooQle
—402—

PLAYGROUND COURSE FOR TEACHERS.

The Board of Public Education of Philadelphia has for many years been conducting playground courses. With the increase of departmental work in the grammar grades, the director of the School of Pedagogy* Dr. J'rancis B. Brandt, has been offering “Electives” to the students in the senior year. This gave students an opportunity to perfect themselves in a branch of schoolwork in which they were especially interested. This year a playground course has been added as an “Elective” open to students and regular class-teachers. The announcement in the catalogue reads as follows:

<K*adj*v# HUaggvatrofr	($*ranfr	©Ijeavg	awfc Vvactic*.

Three periods weekly.

Director of Physical Education : W. A. Stechcr.

This course is planned by the Department of Superintendence especially for teachers in the public schools and for students in the senior year of the School of Pedagogy. The course, lectures and practice will be given on eighteen consecutive Friday Evenings from 7:00 to 9:15. There wil be two periods of forty-five minutes each devoted to instruction or lecture, and one forty-five minute period devoted to practical work. The scope of the work will be as follows:

A.	Theory of Play. Administration of Playgrounds..........Mr.	W.	A.	Stechcr,

Twelve lectures.

B.	The Plays and Games of Children from 5 to 8 years.. Miss Elizabeth O’Neill.

Six periods of practical work.

C.	The Games of Children from 8 to 14 years...............Mr.	Harry	R. Allen.

Twelve periods of practical work.

D.	Apparatus work for boys and girls .....................Mr.	Philip	G.	Lewis.

Three periods of practical work.

E.	Occupation work for children 5 to 14 years .................Miss	E.	O’Neill.

Six periods of lectures and practical work.

F.	Songs and Stories........................................... Miss	E.	O’Neill.

Three periods lectures and practical work.

G.	Playground Dances.....................................Miss	Emma	Walton.

Six periods of practical work.

H.	The Psychology of Play......'......................Dr.	Francis	B.	Brandt.

Three lectures.

Examination for Male Teacher of Gymnastics, Newark, N. J.

An examination of candidates for the position of teacher of gymnastics in the high and elementary schools of this city will be held at Hamburg Place school building, Hamburg Place near Ferry Street, on Saturday, January 13th, 1912, beginning at nine A. M.

The written examination will include the following subjects:

1.	General principles of anatomy, physiology and hygiene.

2.	Theory and practice of physical training.

REQUIREMENT. Only candidates possessing a diploma from an approved four years’ high school course, or candidates presenting evi-

Digitized by CjOOQle
—403—

-deuce of academic training equivalent to that covered by such a diploma, shall be considered ELIGIBLE to take the examination.

EXEMPTION. Candidates who have been graduated from a professional training school in physical training, whose professional course covers a period of not less than two years, may be exempted from the written examination; provided, such candidates hold also a diploma from an approved four years' high school course, or present evidence of scholarship equivalent to that covered by such a diploma.

The examination will he open to MEN only.

An oral examination will be given at the same time and place. Applicants should provide themselves with gymnasium suits for use in the practical tests.

The salary schedule for the position of teacher of physical training

is:

High school head teacher $1500 to $2500 per annum.

High school assistant $1200 to $2000 per annum.

Grammar school teacher $1000 to $1700 per annum.

Candidates will be rated upon the following basis: Written examination, 50 per cent; oral examination (experience 25 per cent, fitness 25) 50 per cent; total 100 per cent. A rating of not less than 37*4% in each of the examinations is required.

Candidates who wish to take this examination should communicate at once with E. K. Sexton, Secretary of the Board of Examiners, City Hall. Blanks on which to make formal application can be had upon request.

A. B. POLAND, City Superintendent.

Report upon the Newark Public School Playgrounds, and their

Closing Exhibition.

By HELEN A. CALAGHAN.

Starting but a few years ago, the playground system of Newark, N. J., under the management of Randall D. Warden, Supervisor of Public School Physical Training, has risen to an enviable position among the number of large cities where public playgrounds are in vogue and where the necessity for their existence is recognized. While Chicago and Boston claim to be pioneers in the playground movement and while it is recognized that Boston has been the prime factqr in emphasizing the good obtainable from the public playground movement, it is generally conceded that Newark, N. J., was one of the first cities to incorporate the playground movement with the public school system, making it a part of the educational system* of the city.*

Large municipal playgrounds, recreation piers and seashore resorts for children are open to the children of New York City; Boston boasts of her beautiful park playgrounds where recreation and play may be had by thousands of youngsters; in Chicago there is an unrivaled system of city playgrounds and play fields located in the South Side slum districts, where the

* The writer evidently does not know that there are a number of Cities where schoolyard playgrounds have been in existence for twelve to sixteen years. *	;

Digitized by CjOOQle
.-404=r

poorest of waifs may play. Examples of "both city'and park playgrounds may be also found in Newark, under the head of “Municipal” and “Essex County Park Playgrounds,” but during the summer vacation the public school playgrounds are the most popular and have the largest attendance.

During the last season, twenty-four playgrounds were maintained, each bearing the name of the school at which it was located. These playgrounds vary as to equipment, size of grounds, and possibilities for different kinds of play, but all arc adapted to the neighborhood in which they lie, and all have this in common—the use of the classrooms in the school build-ing.	....

The school playgrounds are under the direct administration of Supervisor Randall D. Warden and his corps of assistants, and are in session from i :30 to 5 P. M. five days a week. Each playground has a director and directress, with assistants and instructors as aids. The number of children attending the playground decides the number which make up the teaching staff, the teachers being appointed so that each group of eighty children has an instructor.

Supervisor Warden has made a radical departure from most playground systems. He has demanded that a regular systematic. outline of playground work and play be followed by each playground. The afternoon is divided into periods which provide for drills, dances, play, and manual work.*

The crowded, dirty city streets offer conditions which inhibit and stunt activities. It is always preferable when possible to have children off thet street. The school playground which is near the center of successive districts, is the solution of this problem. Those activities of children which must have an outlet and which tend to build and strengthen possibilities for better men and women are offered under the right sort of conditions and surroundings in the school playground. Educators, philanthropists, ana people engaged in work of a charitable nature have realized the exigency of play and physical recreation for the child. The final touch was added tx> the movement when the^pl ay ground combined with the school, so that work and play could be had on a systematic organized basis, under the direction of competent play leaders and instructors.

That the children of Newark take to the playground is evinced by the large attendance, 10509 daily average attendance for 24 playgrounds; that they do not look upon the school playground as a routine obligatory school is evident in the pleasure they take in dances, drills, games, and exhibitions* The school playground during the vacation period means to the child “life,” —that free spontaneous happy life of play, which is the logical demand of childhood. The association of the school with the playground places just the right curb and check on undesirable proclivities.

The school playgrounds are in. session seven weeks. A week before the playgrounds close, an exhibition of the various drills and dances, together with gymnastic exercises, is presented as a fitting example of what is accomplished during the term.

August 16th was the day set aside this year for the children to exhibit with all the pride of their youth the drills, marches, and dances, which they

1:, * We fear that here again our correspondent has an imperfect idea of what is done in most cities.	...

Digitized by CjOOQle
-406-

had so successfully mastered during the playground session. At the approach of noon, trolley cars were crowded with joyous youngsters, waving banners and pennants from the windows and giving vent to loyal school cries, on their way to this momentous occasion of the playground exhibition which was to take place at Branch Brook Park.

At about two o’clock the calm peaceful atmosphere of the park was changed into the gay bustle of childish life, for almost five thousand little people were making ready for the gala event. They stood in waiting for the band to summon them forth to their respective places in the field.

Gay were the streamers of the twenty-four May poles which were pegged to the ground, displaying the colors of the respective playgrounds, and gay were the colors of the little girls’ dresses. Upon the sopnd of the bugle call, the band began to play, and across the field in single files came the five thousand children to salute the flag of the country. Led by a drum corps which was made up of typical specimens of robust American boyhood, the flag was carried in review past the columns of children who saluted it, all in true soldier fashion. As the flag disappeared down the. field, the children wheeled around at the command “about face” and returned to their respective places.

Again the sound of the bugle calling clear and loud brought the “Tarantella” dancers who respond with buoyant spirits and gaudy costumes of red and yellow. The costumes of simple Bolero jackets and slashed skirts made a beautiful picture. The tingling of the bells and the snapping of the castenets produced a ballot effect which delighted the spectators. With ease and grace the girls went through the rapid steps of the Tarantella. The dance finished, the “Snowstorm” took its place, this attractive little dance being very effective in its simple grace.

A combination of short wand and free hand drill followed, eight schools being represented in this particular exercise. The skill exhibited in this drill revealed the amount of zeal, ardor, and work which this little regiment of youngsters had acquired during the summer. Again a given comand, and the field was vacated and then joyously over the green came the little girls to join in the flag of the Netherlands dance. With their Dutch caps and white dresses, they vied with their sisters of the Tarantella as to pretty effects.

Hardly had these little people left the field when a terrible and awesome war whoop ringing out above the noise and clash of wooden implements or war was heard, and the “Indians” rushed across the field in all the paint and feathers of the savage. Arranging themselves in eight circles, each little band of braves, led by a chief, in single file went through the steps of the Indian dance. This was the first year that the boys featured in the dancing, and they delighted both the audience and themselves.

The program next presented the “Jolly Tar” and Ribbon dance, which brought out some skillful dancing. Once more the signal rang out, and in single file across the field came the boys and girl's ready for the “flag and long wand drill.” This was a wonderful sight, the red, white and blue of the flags of the girls moving in perfect rhythm to the uniform movements of the long wands of the boys.

Our national colors were succeeded by the gay costumes of. the “La Pastourelle” and “Reap the Flax” dancers. A march and formation by the

Digitized by CjOOQle
-406—

3*

boys and girls was the next event. The figures which the little people went through would have gladdened the heart of any military man.

The “Princess Royal,” another dance, next followed, which was as beautifully given as the preceding dances, gave place now to the most spectacular event of the afternoon,—the Indian Club drill. More than three thousand children, boys and girls, took part in the drill, and cheers of appreciation rose from all sides of the field. The exclamation “Wonderful!^ came from the vast throng of onlookers.

The May poles with their gay streamers which had served as a color background for the drills and dances, were now at a given signal carried forward to the middle of the field and deposited on circles marked off for this pretty dance. All the grace of the preceding dances was again revealed and at its finish the “Indians” with all the gusto of their forefathers rushecT into sight and after giving once more their typical cry formed a tableaux beneath the May pole while the merry little dancers grouped themselves in a circle around the pole. A pretty ending of a wonderful program of playground “work.”

FIELD DAY OF THE ST. LOUIS PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

Results of the Group Events for Grade School.

A.	Cla**.

50 Yard Dash, Standing Broad Jump, Basket Bali Throw.

Best dash—6 4|5 sec. Best jump—7 ft. 7 inches. Best throw—40 ft. Highest average in the three events—35 19|24 points. (For the manner in which; results were changed to points see table at the end of this report.)

B. $i0bi SPeight

60 Yard Dash, Two Standing Broad Jumps, Basket Ball Throw.

Best dash—7 4|5 sec. Best jump—15 ft. 8 in. Best throw 46 feet.

Highest average in the three events—39 points.

C. ifttibM* ikleigbt ©la**.

75 Yard Dash, Running Broad Jump, 4 lb. Medicine Ball Throw.

Best dash—8 4|5 sec. Best jump—15 ft. 2 in. Best Throw—36 ft.

Highest average in the the three events—36V6 points.

D.	Knlimiteb Uftiebt

100 Yard Dash, Running Broad Jump, 8 lb. Shot Put.

Best dash—11 3|5 sec. Best jump—17 ft. Best throw—41 ft. 6 in. Highest average in the three events—39*4 points.

B.	SMtuttU	Hieing	©earn	Iflac»*• (Eight boys to a Team.)

Class A. Boys of Grades Seven and Eight. Distance: 100 yards for each boy. First Banner—Washington School. Time 1 min. 37 1|5 sec.

Second Banner—Wyman School.	Time 1 min. 39 3|5 sec.

Third Banner—Hempstead School. Time 1 min. 39 3|5 sec.

Class B. Boys of Grades below Seventh. Distance: 75 yards for each boy.

First Banner—Lincoln School. Time 1 min. 24 2 Second Banner—Madison School. Time 1 min. 24 4 Third Banner—Webster School. Time 1 min. 24 4

5

5

5

sec.

sec.

sec.

©trI*. A. 2$tib0et

30 Yard Dash and Basket Ball Throw.

Best dash—4 2|5 sec. Best throw—38 ft.

Highest average in the two events—22 points.

Digitized by
m

-407-

B. £t0lj*	©la##*

40 Yard Dash and Basket Ball Throw.

Best dash—6 seconds. Best throw—34 ft.

Highest average in the two events—19 points. C. astttbbl* SPeiebt a**.

50 Yard Dash and Basket Ball Throw.

Best dash—6 4(5 sec. Best throw—40 ft.

Highest average in the two events—21 points. D. StnUmit#* IPeigtr* ©la##.

60 Yard Dash and Basket Ball Throw.

Best dash—8 2|5 sec. Best throw—40 ft.

Highest average in the two events—18 points.

Prizes were given to the five pupils making the highest average in each class. B. ©tvl*	$*la£ ©*ant &ac*#. (Eight Girls to a Team.)

Class A. Girls of Grades Seven and Eight. Distance: 50 yards for each Girl. • First Banner—Shepard School. Time 58 415 seconds. *

Second Banner—Webster School. Time 59 2|5 seconds.

Third Banner—Lincoln School. Time 59 3|5 seconds.

Class B. Girls of Grades below the Seventh. Distance: 40 yards for each Girl.

First Banner—Carondelet School. Time 1 min. 1 4 Second Banner—Crow School. Time 1 min. 2 4 Third Banner—Madison School. Time 1 min. 3 4

5 seconds. 5 seconds. 5 seconds.

E.	fanner# for ib* W*#t gloint# Wafer* in all ©n*nt#«

Counting five points for a FIRST, three points for a SECOMD, and one point for one of the other.

First Banner—Shepard School with 14 points.

Second Banner—Baden School with 13 points.

Third Banner—Washington School with 11 points.

f

TABLE

©xplaining tb* ©ran#formation of ®im# anfe gpi#tanc* into point#*

1) Boys Midget		..Dash—9 sec.—1 pt., each 1|5 sec. less, 1 pt. more. Jump—5 ft. 0 in.=l pt., each 2 in. more, 1 pt. more. Throw—20 ft.=l pt., each 2 ft. more, 1 pt. more.
2) Boys Light Weight		..Dash—9 4|5 sec.=l pt., each 1|5 sec. less, 1 pt. more. Jump—11 ft. 6 in.=l pt., each 4 in. more, 1 pt. more. Throw—22 ft.=t pt., each 2 ft. more, 1 pt. more.
3) Boys Middle Weight		..Dash—11 sec.=l pt., each 1|5 sec. less, 1 pt. more. Jump -11 ft. 6 in.=l pt., each 4 in. more, 1 pt. more. Throw—16 ft.=l pt., each 2 ft. more, 1 pt. more.
4) Boys Unlimited Weight...Dash-13 4|5 sec.=l pt., each 1|5 sec. less, 1 pt. more.  Jump—12 ft. 6 in.=l pt., each 4 in. more, 1 pt. more. Throw—27 ft.=l pt., each 2 ft. more, 1 pt. more.	
1) Girls Midget		..Dash—6 2|5 sec.—1 pt., each 1|5 sec. less, 1 pt. more. Throw—12 ft.=l pt., each 2 ft. more, 1 pt. more.
2) Girls Light Weight		.Dash—7 4|5 sec.—1 pt., each 1|5 sec. less, 1 pt. more. Throw—16 ft.=l pt., each 2 ft. more, I pt. more.
Hirls Middle	Dash—fi 4.IS sw.—1 nt-.. Mrb IIS spp. 1 nt. more.
Throw—18 ft.=l pt., each 2 ft. more, 1 pt. more.	

4) Girls Unlimited Weight ...Dash—10 sec.=l pt., each l|5sec. less, 1 pt. more.

Throw—22 ft.=l pt., each 2 ft. more. 1 pt. more. (Girls did not jump.)

Digitized by
-408-

GYM NASTIC AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

By EMANUEL HAUG, 60t West 188th St., N«w York.

Gustavus Town Kirby of New York City was elected President of the Amateur Athletic Union Nov. 19 at the twenty-fourth annual meeting of the delegates of the various sectional associations who assembled at the Waldorf-Astoria, New York City, from nearly every state of the Union. James E. Sullivan, was elected by acclamation as Secretary-Treasurer.

After the regular routine of business the following records made during the past year were passed upon:

RUNNING.

125 Yards—12-15S. Gwynn Henry, Celtic Park, L. L 220 Yards—21 1-5S. R. C. Craig, University of Michigan, Can* bridge, Mass. „

One Mile—4m*. 15 2-5S. J. P. Jones, Cornell University, Cambridge, Mass.

Two Miles—9m. 25 1-5S. T. S. Berna, Cornell University, Cambridge, Mass.	4

Three Miles—14m. 32s. George V. Bonhag, Irish-American A. C., Travers Island, N. Y.

2.000	Meters Run, (Indoor)—8m. 52 2-5S. G. V. Bonhag, Irish-American A. C., New York City.

5.000	Meters Run—15m. 25 1-5S. Louis Scott, South Paterson A. C., Celtic Park, L. I.

10-Mile Team Race—44m. 9 2-5S. Irish-American A. C. team, (M.

D.	Huysman, M. J. Ryan,)Madison Square Garden, New York City.

RELAY RACING RECORDS.

1,560 Yards—3m. 8 1-5S. (Indoor.) Boston Athletic Club, (F. P. O'Hara, H. Lee, W. ,C. Prout, E. K. Merrihew,) Boston Mass.

1,760 Yards—-3m. 18 1-5S. Irish-American A. C. team, (H. Schaaf,

M.	W. Sheppard, H. Gissing, J. M. Rosenberg,) Celtic Park, L. I.

Four-Mile—17m. 43 3-5S- (Indoor.) Cornell University A. A. team, (L. Finch, H. N. Putnam, T. S. Bera, J. P. Jones,) Buffalo, N. Y.

Medley Relay, (Indoor)—7m. 38 2-5S. All-New York team, (F. P. McNally, 220 yards; J. M. Rosenberg, 440 yards; J. P. Sullivan, 880 yards; A. R. Kiviat,, 1 mile;) Buffalo, N. Y.

HURDLE RECORDS.

70 Yards, Low, (Indoor)—8 2-5S. Robert Eller, Fordham University, and John J. Eller, Irish-American A. C., Madison Square Garden, New York City.

75, Low—9 i-5s. John J. Eller, Irish-American A. C., Celtic Park, L. I.	.

220 Yards—24 4-5S. John J. Eller, Irish-American A. C., Pittsburgh, Penn.

250 Yards, Low—29 1-5S. John J. Eller, Irish-American A. C, Celtic Park, L. I.

WALKING RECORDS.

2 Mile (Indoor.)—13m. 45 1-5S. G. H. Goulding, Canada, Central

Y., M. C. A., Brooklyn, N. Y.

One-Mile Walk, (Indoor.)—6m. 29 1-5S. G. H. Goulding, Buffalo,

N.	Y.

Digitized by i^ooQle
-409-

JUMPING RECORDS.

Nine Standing Jumps—103 ft. 7 in. Platt Adams, New York A. C., Celtic Park, L. I.

Running Hop, Step, and Jump—50 ft. 11 in. D. F. Ahearne, Irish-American A. C., Celtic Park, L. I.

THROWING 56-LB. WEIGHT.

56-Lb. Weight for Distance.—38 ft. 9% in. P. J. McDonald, Irish-American A. C., Pittsburgh, Penn.

56-Lb. Weight for Distance.—40 ft. 6 3-8 in. M. J. McGrath, Montreal, Canada.

56-Lb. Weight Over Bar.—15 ft. ij4 in. Con Walsh, New York A. G, Madison Square Garden.

THROWING THE DISCUS.

141 ft. 4 3-8 in. M. J. Sheridan, Irish-American A. C., Celtic Park,

L. I.

THROWING 35-LB. WEIGHT.

53 ft. 11 in. M. J. McGrath, New York A. C., Celtic Park, L. I.

THROWING 16-LB. HAMMER.

187 ft. 4 in. M. J. McGrath, unattached, Celtic Park, L. I. THROWING 56-LB. WEIGHT FOR HEIGHT.

16 ft. 6J4 in. M. J. McGrath, Chicago, 111.

PUTTING THE SHOT.

24-Lb. Shot.—38 ft. 10 11-16 in. P. J. McDonald, Irish-American A. C., Celtic Park, L. I.

THROWING THE JAVELIN.

165 ft. 2in. O. Snedigar, Olympic Club, Pittsburgh, Penn.; 166 ft. 1 in. O. Snedigar, Olympic Chib, San Francisco, Cal.

—Statistics completed by The Chicago Record-Herald show 9 dead and 177 injured players as the toll football has collected from \the gridiron of the country during the 1911 season. With but one exception, 1901, when 7 players were killed, have there been a fewer number of fatalities in eleven years. This season’s sacrifice of life stands out in hopeful contrast to that of 1910, when 22 fatalities were recorded, and the list of injured contained 499 names.

—The fencing season of 1911-1912 was opened in New York last month at the New York Turn Verein. There were over forty fencers present from different clubs, together with members of the University of Pennsylvania and Columbia University.

—George H. Goulding, of the Central Track Field Club, Toronto, Canada, established a new American walking record for three miles at the Twenty-third Regiment Armory last month by covering the distance in 20m. 59 3-9S- The old mark made .by Cinders Murray in 1883 was 21m. 09 I-5s. In addition he hung up new marks at one and one-half, two and two and one-half miles, four records in one.

It was a splendid performance, and showed that Goulding is a champion beyond a doubt. Without a slip and without once being cautioned by the judges he made the journey in *the finest style, finishing strong. The time

Digitized by

Google
—410—

of his various distances was:—Half mile, 3m. 10 2-5S.; one mile, 6m. 41 4-5S.; one mile and a quarter, 8m. 29 3-5S.; one mile and a half, xoim 17 2-5S.; two miles, 13m. 45s.; two and a half miles, 17 29j^s.; three miles, 20m. 59 3-5S.	---------------

—An age limit and not the length of residence at the college or university from which they register may soon be the rule which will' regulate the eligibility of Rhodes scholars for Oxford athletic teams.

At present the rule is that an athlete is qualified to gain the coveted half or full blue by representing Oxford on- the playing field, after he has completed four years’ residence.

Some Rhodes scholars have already completed two or three years at some foreign or colonial1 university before reaching Oxford and through them inter-’varsity play tends to develop into a case of men vs. boys.

In considering this evil the authorities at first thought of ruling that in the future the four-year rule should apply to any university at which the scholars were in attendance, so a Rhodes man .who had been in college three years before reaching Oxford would only be eligible for one year’s play there.

Owing to the difficulty of determining what constitutes a school of university standing this solution has been dropped. The plan now most favored is the substitution of an age limit, and it is believed that before long a rule will be adopted that no man more than twenty-five years of age may represent either Oxford or Cambridge.

—The annual swimming contest of the International Gymnastic Union was held Oct. 7, 1911, in the Central Y. M. C. A., Chicago. The events were:—Plunge for distance; 40 yd. breast stroke; 100 yd. free style; front jacknife dive—free dive.

The following were the successful winners:—1st Prize: R. Hepner, Turnverein Vorwaerts; 2nd: Chas. Eichin, Chicago Turngemeinde; 3rd: Wm. Herzog, Turnverein Vorwaerts and A. Reimann, Turnw—ui Lasaller 4th: F. Kunswaller, Chicago Turngemeinde. Twenty-four contestants participated in all events.

EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS AND PHYSIOLOGIC AND HYGIENIC NOTES OF INTEREST.

By D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D.,‘Philadelphia.

—Twenty-nine States have accepted invitations and indicated their intention of participating in tfie fifteenth international congress of hygiene and demography to be held in Washington, D. C., September 23-28, 1912.

—Keep your feet dry and warm. Don’t sit in draughts when you are overheated and tired. Avoid close and poorly ventilated rooms. When you leave a crowded church, theatre or moving-picture show, start your blood moving by walking rapidly. As long as it is circulating briskly you need not fear catching cold. By starting the cold baths and open-window treatment now, your body will be hardened by the time winter sets in. And don’t forget to take plenty of sleep—make sure of eight hours at least.

Digitized by Google
-411-

—Mrs. Ella Flagg Young, superintendent of schools, Chicago, I1L» believes that the building up of the bodies of the pupils of the public school is more important than the training of the mind. Mrs. Young made this statement Dec. 3rd, 1911, in a church address in Chicago:—“We have come to believe,” said Mrs. Young, “that it is more important to build the body of the youth until it reaches, as near physical perfection as possible than it is to devote so much time toward development in mental attainments.”

—At a recent conference in the Buffalo Mayor’s office, it was decided that 100 prominent Buffalonians shall constitute a committee which will have charge of the arrangements for the entertainment of delegates from all countries of the world to the fourth international congress of School Hygiene, which is to convene in this citv in August, 1913.

A communication from Prof. Selter of Bohm, Germany, was received by City Clerk Balliett with the list of names of the German committee which has been named in Berljfi to have charge of the arrangements for the congress as far as that country is concerned.

Dr. Selter has been chosen secretary of the German Association of School Hygiene and Dr. Kirchner of Berlin, ministerial director of the royal Prussian department of the interior, as president. On this committee there are fifty other members. __________________

—Work and Pain. Workmen who are employed at benches in various r trades arel ikely to suffer from painful conditions of the 'arms as a consequence of faulty use of the arm muscles. Filers, for instance, who work long hours at filing, are almost sure to have sever aches and pains in their forearms, unless their benches are so low that they can apply from the shoulders whatever pressure is necessary.

Men who use the hammer often suffer in the same way unless care is taken that there is no lost movement or waste of energy in their work. Women who sweep suffer much more on the right side, from painful fatigue ' (worse on rainy days, and therefore regarded as “rheumatism”) than would be the case if they alternated hands in the use of the broom, or changed from the broom to the brush occasionally, in order to vary muscular movements. There is scarcely 'a trade or an occupation in which some of the supposedly inevitable occupation aches and pains could not be greatly modified for the better by proper direction in the use of the muscles, and by variation in the methods of work. This would save much- pain and discomfort* and avoid the objectionable use of anodyne drugs.—"Health."

—In a secluded part of Switzerland dwells a colony of pepople who are aspiring to live the “simple life” according to the dictates of nature. Their little settlement is on the side of a small but very steep mountain, and they do not regard with favor the visits of strangers. However, an inquisitive tourist who “looked in” on them some time ago described them as living in houses open to the light and air, and wearing garments of simple, but rather eccentric, patterns. Shaving being regarded as unnatural, the men are distinguished bv the length of their hair and beards. All are vegetarians, teetotalers, and non-smokers. Bathing is a daily practice with them* and they take not only water, but air, sun, and mud baths (the last named being the well-known medicinal mud baths). Men and women alike are

Digitized by Tooele
— 412—

said to lead happy and healthy lives, and amongst the queer sect is an Italian prince, who is so infatuated with the life that nothing will induce him to return to a conventional existence in hj$ ancestral palace.—London “Health”

—A German specialist says “Nature has always pleaded for giving children more sleep.” A healthy infant sleeps most of the time during the first few weeks, and in the early years people are disposed to let children steep as much as they will. But from six to seven years old, when school begins, this sensible policy comes to an end, and sleep is put off persistently through all the years up to manhood and womanhood. At the age of ten or eleven the child is allowed to sleep only eight or nine hours, when its parents should insist on its having what is absolutely needed, which is ten or eleven at least. Up to twenty a yfcuth needs nine hours’ sleep, and an adult should have eight. Insufficient steep is one of the crying evils of the day. The want of proper rest and normal conditions of the nervous system and especially the brain produces a lamentable condition and deterioration in both body and mind.—London “Health”

—Shoe Hints.—The soles of shoes and boots can be made waterproof and will wear much longer if they are given' several coats of copal varnish.

The varnish can be purchased and should be applied in very small quan-* tities to the sole leather.

Put on a few drops and spread it evenly over the surface with a flat stick of wood, or, better still1, with the handle of an old toothbrush.

Stand the shoes upside down and allow the first coat to thoroughly dry before another is applied.

. When the leather will absorb no more, the varnish will form a shiny surface on the outside.—“The Fresh Air Magazine ”

—Health and Athletics. The effect of phyiscal exercise on mental development is often forgotten or overlooked. Not only is the form of the body made more perfect, not only are the vital functions carried out with greater regularity and vigor, but the senses are rendered more acute and better able to carry out their important duties. The sense of sight is specially benefited by physical exercises; the muscles which move the eyeballs are made to play with greater precision, so that the sweep of the sight is more rapid and more exact than it would be if good training were omitted; and the power of sight is more steadily maintained. The sense of hearing is in like manner rendered more acute and perfect; sounds high and low are more distinctly appreciated, and the perception of the direction of sound becomes an easy practice. Moreover, the well-trained man learns in a very short time to make up his mind a$, t6 what is best to be done on emergency. He discovers that to decide wrongly is better than not to decide at all, so that at last he becomes competent in an almost automatic manner to know at once what is the best thing to be done at any given time, and what is the most graceful1 and safest way to do that thing. Decision demands at all times a wholesome mental training, based on correct foresight ^ and sound principle, and there is not a single contest of physical skill in which decision is not called for at everv stage. Another good mental quality brought out by good training is that it leads to presence of mind.—“Health” London.

Digitized by LjOOQle
-413-

NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

NORMAL COLLEGE OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION, INDIANAPOLIS.

The annual visit of the members of the Board of Trustees and the Technical Committee of the N. A. G. U. occurred on December ist and 2d. Before these men and numerous friends, the members of the senior and elementary classes took charge of the work in the gymnasium which consisted of tactics, free exercises, wand and club exercises, dancing steps and apparatus exercises. The visitors expressed themselves as pleased with this year’s showing.

Those present were the following out-of-town members of the board:— Mr. George Wittich, Milwaukee; Mr. W. A. Stecher, Philadelphia; Mr. Henry Suder, Chicago; Dr. Arthur A. Knoch, Cincinnati. Other visiting teachers of physical training were:—Messrs. Fritz Krimmel, New York; Karl H. Heckrich, St. Louis; N. C. Seuss, Cincinnati; Wm. Reuter, Davenport; W. Fleck, Milwaukee; Emil Groener, Chicago; Max Strass, Chicago; Clarence Betzner, Cincinnati; Kurt Toll, Fred E. Foertsch and Wm. Nicolai, Indianapolis; Miss Hazel Orr and Miss Maud Suter. Cincinnati; and Miss Gladys Dixon, St. Louis.

Mr. Wittich read an interesting paper to the students on “Gymnastics as part of the school curriculum, and its management.,, In the evening of Saturday, Dec. 2nd, a reception was held in favor of the German House, followed by a dance.

The members of the senior class are at present engaged in very interesting and valuable work—visits in the public schools of the city and practice teaching. They accompany the supervisor of physical training and his assistants on their visits to tbe different public school1 classes and later will have a chance of teaching these classes. They also are at present teaching different classes of the Sozialer Turnverein, thereby gaining valuable practical experience.

Owing to the bi-annual national convention of the North American Gymnastic Union, which will take place the latter part of June 1912 in Indianapolis, the term for closing school for the summer has been postponed for one week, and the closing exercises will be hel'd Tune 22nd in order to permit the delegates to the convention to observe the work done at the College. Christmas vacation has, therefore, been extended for one week, and the semester examinations will begin January 12th.

A pleasant surprise for the students came from Mr. Theo. Stempfel, President of the Board of Trustees, in the form of an invitation for a Thanksgiving dinner at the German House. The evening was happily spent.

The Students’ Alliance held a conference Dec. 16. The program was as follows:—

Opening Song..............................Students’	Alliance

Introductory Remarks..........................~.	. .Mr. Rath

Soccer as a coming game................. —	.	Mr.	Wm. Nicolai

Piano Duet............Miss	Olive	Knorr	and	Mr.	Robert Nohr

Dry Land Swimming............................Mr.	Hugo Fischer

Impromptu Speeches................... Members	of	the Alliance

Music..........................Messrs,	Nohr,	Almassy,	Molis

Geo. F. Miller, Recorder.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
-414-

Books on Physical Training and related Subjects.

Send your orders to “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis

Add 10% for Postage.

SUBSCRIPTIONS to MIND AND BODY $l.oo per Annum (10 Copies). $1.25 to Foreign Countries.

Single Copies 15 Cents.

COMPLETE VOLUMES OF “MIND AND BODY’* $i.oo; bound $1.75. (Postage paid.)

Issues No. x, a, 9, 24, 72, 149, 170, i8x and 191 are out of print.

Theory of Physical Training.

Bodily Exercises, The Mechanism of.—By Wilbur P. Bowen, M. S..	.75

Dancing, The Healthful Art of.—By Luther H. Gulick, M. D.......... 1.50

Education by Plays and Games, by G. E. Johnson.. .*........... 1.00

Gyriinastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50 Gymnastic Kinesiology. A Manual of the Mechanism of Gymnastic

Movements, by Wm. Skarstrom, M. D.......................... 1.25

Gymnastics, The Teaching of Elementary School.—By Prof. W. P.

Bowen........................................................ 1.00

Model Positions.—Ten Tablets, two feet square, showing in 32 illustrations the principal gymnastic positions both in their correct and

incorrect forms. (German.) By F. A. Schmidt, M. D.......... 1.85

Muscles and How to Develop Them, by F. J. Harvey.....................50

Physical' Education by Muscular Exercises, by Luther H. Gulick,

M. D........................................................    75

Physical Exercises.—A Short Synopsis of the German System of Gymnastics. By F. A. Schmidt, M.	D...............................25

Psychic Processes and Muscular Exercises, by Prof. Angelo Mosso. A

lecture ........................................................20

Training for Athletics, Health and Pleasure, Practical.—By Rud.

Faries, A. M., M. D.......................................... 1.00

Tactics.

A. B. C. of Swedish Gymnastics, by H. Nissen........................ 75

Book of Drills and Marches, by B. M. Wilson..........................30

Calisthenic Training and Musical Drills, by Geo. Cruden..............50

Drills, Fancy.—Illustrated, by Diagrams for Children, by Kellogg...	.30

Drills, Ideal.—By Morton...........................................  30

Drills and Marches, by Rook..........................................25

Drills and Marches, Successful.—By Gertrude WMiams-Lundgren..	.50

Drills and Marches, by May Dickerman.................................30

Drill Regulations of the U. S. Army, Infantry........................75

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50 Gymnastics, The Teaching of Elementary School.—By Prof. W. P.

Bowen...................................................... 1.00

Hand-book of School Gymnastics, by Baron N. Posse...................50

Musical Drills for Little Children, by A. Alexander.................25

Digitized by L,ooQle
-415-

The Special Kinesiology of Educational Gymnastics. With 267 ill.

and analitical chart, by Baron N. Posse...................

Tactics, Gymnastic.—Part I: Tactics of the Individual, by E. H.

Arnold, M. D...............................................

Free Exercises, Wands, Dumbbells, Clubs, etc.

Calisthenics and Fancy Steps for the Gymnasium, Marching.—By

Gertrude Williams-Lundgren.................................

Club Exercises, Indian—and Exhibition Drills, by H. B. Camann....

Club Swinging, by William Schatz...............................

Club Swinging, Indian.—1, 2 and 3 Club Juggling, by Fr. E. Miller.

Dick’s Dumb-Bell and Indian Chib Exercises.....................

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher

Wand Drill, by R. Pertuch...................................

Apparatus Work.

Apparatus Work, Elementary.—of the German System of Gymnastics,

by E. H. Arnold, M. D.; arranged by Frances N. Boynton....

Apparatus Work, Graded.—By S. P. Middleton.....................

Code Book of Gymnastic Exercises, by L. Puritz.................

Exercises on Horizontal and Parallel Bars, Rings and Horse, 1076.—

By F. J. Harvey............................................

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. ‘Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in > Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher

Horizontal Bar, The.—By H. Butterworth........................

Games.

Book of Song Games and Ball Games, by Kate F. Bremner.........

Children’s Old and New Singing Games, by Mari R. Hofer.........

Dances and Games, Folk.—By Caroline Crawford...................

Dances and Singing Games, Folk.—Illustrated; by Elizabeth Bur-

chenal................*....................................

Games; Captain-ball, Dodgeball, Soccer, Football...........

Games, Graded, and Rhythmic Exercises for Primary Schools.—By

Marion B. Newton...........................................

Games, Physical,—for the Youth. By A. Leibold..................

Games, The Teaching of Gymnasitic.—By Prof. W. P. Bowen.......

Games, 200 Indoor and Outdoor Gymnastic.—By Maria Grey.........

Games and Dances, Popular Folk.—Arranged by Mari R. Hofer_____

Games for the Playgrounds, House, School' and Gymnasium, by Jessie

H. Bancroft.......... ....................................

Gymnastic Games. Classified by E. H. Arnold, M. D.............

Gymnastics. A Textbook 'of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher

Plays and Games for Indoor and Out, by Belle Ragnor Parson....

Play.—Games for the Kindergarten, Playground, School-room and

College. By Emmett D. Angell...............................

Schlagball, (German Bat-Ball). A Game of Ball described in four Grades of Difficulty by Richard Pertuch........................

Digitized by

Google

.00

•35

•50

•75 .00 • oo

•25

•50

10

•35

•00

.60

•50

•50

•00

•25

•50

•50

•50

• 10

•25

•25

•75

•70

•75

1.50

•75

•50

1.50

1.50

.15
-416-

Prize Drills and Dances, by M. W. Morton.........................  .30

Song-Plays, Swedish.—By Jacob Bolin............................    .75

Song-Roundels and Games, by Henry Suder.............................75

Dancing.

Athletic Pageant, a dance for men and boys, by G. M. Caskey......	.50

Calisthenics and Fancy Steps for the Gymnasium, Marching.—By

Gertrude Williams-Lundgren ...................................  50

Dances and Games, Folk.—By Caroline Crawford...................   1.50

Dances, Drills and Entertainments, by Gertrude Williams-Lundgren . S Dances and Singing Games, Folk.—Illustrated; by Elizabeth Bur-

chenal...........................................'........... 1.50

Dancing, Gymnastic. By Wm. J. Davison........................... 1. IO

Folk Dances, Swedish.—By Nils W. Bergquist....................... 1.5a

Games and Dances, Popular Folk.—Arranged by Mari R. Hofer...........75

Song-Plays, Swedish.—By Jacob Bolin...............................  75

Song-Roundels and Games, by Henry Suder.........................	.75

The Folk Dance Book for Elementary Schools, Class Rooms, Playground and Gymnasium, by C. Ward Crampton, M. D........ 1.50*

Pyramids, Swimming, Fencing, Boxing, Wrestling, Tumbling.

Athletics. How to train for Walking, Running, Rowing, Etc., by

William Wood...................................................25.

Attack and Defense, Art of.—A Manual of Fencing, Sword and Bayonet Exercises, and Boxing, by Major W. J. Elliott..........  .25.

At Home in the Water, by Geo. H. Corsan............................75.

Boxing, Dick’s Art of.—A thorough Manual of Sparring and Self-

Defence; illustrated; 127 pages—............................	.25,

Fencing with the Foil, Theory of,—in Form of a Catechism, by Geo.

Heintz, Sr., Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md....................  .25

Fencing Instructor, by H. A. Colmore Dunn......................... 25.

Groupings, Athletic,—Taken from Life. By Robert Nohr, M. D..%.	.25

How to. A Book of Tumbling, Tricks, Pyramids and Games.—By

H. Butterworth.............................................. 1.00*

Mat Exercises, by Elmer Schreiner..............................    .25

Muldoon’s Wrestling —...........................................   .25

Pyramids for Gymnasts. Lion and Puritz. Six Parts, each............45.

(Part 1: 72 Pyr. free; Part 2: 72 Pyr. free and with wands; Part 3: 24 Pyr. on Ladders and Chairs; Part 4: 36 Pyr. free and on apparatus; Part 5: 34 Pyr. on Ladders; Part 6: 28 Pyr.

variety.)

Pyramids.—J. Reinhardt.

Part 1.	80 Pyramids on one Parallel Bar.................... 70-

Part II. 50 Pyramids on two Parallel Bars.....................55

Part III. 50 Pyramids on Table and Chairs...................  55

Part IV. 70 Pyramids on Table and Chairs. ................... 70

Part V. 100 Free Pyramids..................................  .85

Pyramids on Horses.—A. Rietmann.

First Part: 60 Pyramids on 1 and 2 Horses.....................70

Second Part: 40 Pyramids on 3 and 4 Horses...................50-

50 Pyramids on 1 and on 2 Ladders.......'................... 1.00^

Digitized by L.ooQle