Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Geneseo State Normal School, Geneseo, N. Y.

HERMANN O. DREISEL, Chicago Normal School, Chicago, 111.

DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., 468 E. Water Street, Milwaukee, Wis.

A HOME COURSE IN PHYSICAL TRAINING,

TAKING ONLY THIRTY MINUTES TIME EACH DAY, AT ONE'S OWN HOME AND WITHOUT EXPENSE.

By MAX E. PELTZ R, Chicago, 111.

THE following is a simple course in physical culture or training for men, without the use of apparatus or appliances which if followed persistently for one month will show the most remarkable and beneficial results. It restores, preserves, and perpetuates health, strength, and grace.

Take your measurements before commencing, and be attentive to what a person can accomplish by regularity in diet, exercise, and bathing.

Rise in the morning before seven o’clock—the air is purest an hour after sunrise—throw your bedroom window wide open and drink one half pint of very warm water, before commencing:

Movement No. 1: Stand erect and square on your feet before the open window and while slowly inhaling the fresh air, lift the straightened arms out in front until hands meet avove head. Slowly lower arms, exhaling gradually. Repeat ten times.

EXERCISES.
-266-

Movement No. 2: Stand erect, inhale, holding the breath, extend arms out from side and raise them above head; at the same time raise body on toes. Repeat five times, alter which exhale gradually.

Movement No. 3: Hold out arms extended from sides and revolve hands around in circle, using wrist as a pivot, keeping it up to the point of fatigue.

Movement No. 4: Stand erect; place hands on hips and revolve slowly the upper part of body, using waist as pivot, counting five, reversing and again counting five, completing the movement by taking and holding a deep breath and bending the body forward and backward as far as possible, after which exhale slowly.

Movement No. 5: Raise arms extended in front, keeping back erect and arms straight, swing them back as far as possible, as if wanting to touch hands behind back, bring them in front again, raise them above head and rise on toes, then down and back. Repeat ten times.

Movement No. 6: Place hands on hips, rise on toes, keeping back straight, bend knees sinking down to uplifted heels as far as possible, then rise. Repeat five times.

Movement No. 7: Lie down on back and keep back and hips rigid ; inhale and hold the breath, straighten legs and lift them off the floor as high as possible, then gradually lower. Repeat five times.

Movement No. 8: Lie down on back and keep back and hips rigid ; inhale and hold the breath; straighten legs and lift upper part of body from the floor to sitting position. Repeat five times.

Movement No. 9: Stand erect with heels close together, keep knees rigid, bending body forward with arms straight at elbows, touching floor with hands if possible; then raise hands high over head. Repeat ten times.

Movement No. 10: Lie on your chest, place hands and toes on floor, keep body straight and rigid, and lift body up at arm’s length. Repeat five times.

These ten movements should be taken regularly and systematically for ten minutes in the morning and for twenty minutes at night before retiring.

During the first week inhale, exhale, and exercise slowly; after the first week emphasize each movement, flexing with great tensity and using the muscles to the point of fatigue but without straining or exhaustion.

BATHING.

After exercises as above, wait until the heart has assumed its normal beat, then take a cold sponge bath in the morning, and a warm bath at night, after which manipulate a rough towel or brush on the body until the blood rises to the skin.

DIETING.

During the above course in physical training care should be taken as to diet, eliminating all sweet meats, pastry, delicacies, and foods seasoned with greasy substances, spices, or rich with pepper. The latter is as injurious as is alcohol. Eat a little fruit mornings, such as pears, cantelope, oranges, or blue grapes. Oatmeal is the best food on the

Digitized by CjOOQle
—267-

market for breakfast, if properly cooked. A good diet is: Roast mutton, baked potatoes, medium boiled eggs, celery, milk, cereal coffee, stale whole wheat bread, and fresh dairy butter, all of which are easily digestible. Always eat sparingly of meat. Never leave the table with jrour appetite entirely appeased. Congenial company at meals, it is said, assists the digestion, and is hereby commended. Eat only two meals each day, say for two weeks, after which go back to three meals <each day if desired. Food is enjoyed best and nourishes the body more -on two meals per day than on three. Oat meal or barley water and unfermented grape juice are the best drinks of all liquids, insuring great endurance, enriching the blood, and strenghtening mind and body.

Although the use of tobacco is prohibited in the training of athletes, one cigar after breakfast is not considered injurious. Nature never intended that we should be sick, so rise before seven o’clock in the morning, retire at 10:00 P. M., and keep regular habits and fixed hours for meals, exercise, and bathing; work towards accomplishing something, have an object in life, and you will gain physical and intellectual strength and consequent happiness, something that money cannot buy.

THE INOMOTOR.

A FUNDAMENTAL MECHANISM FOR A NEW SYSTEM OF MOTOR VEHICLES, TESTING APPARATUS, AND DEVELOPING APPLIANCES.

By D. A. SARGENT, Harvard University.

(Concluded.)

IN attempting, therefore, to devise an exercising machine that would give employment to all of the important muscles, something which would approach a resemblance to the rowing movement seemed almost •necessary. But rowing, critically examined, has some serious defects both from a physiological and from a mechaniral point of view. While it brings many muscles into action, it requires a person to use many of them in a cramped position and to a great disadvantage, as in case of ■extreme reach of the arms forward. The whole work must eventually be done through the arms and hands, just as the work in bicycling finally comes upon the feet and legs, whatever assistance may be rendered by the rest of the body. The sliding seat enables the person to get a great reach forward at the beginning of the stroke without cramping the body quite so much, but the power communicated to the oar must be given to it through the arms, which then transmit it to the shoulders and down the back to the pelvis, from which it is transmitted through the legs to the stretcher, where the final effort, but for the oar in the water, vrould be to drive the boat astern. On the other hand, the effort -of the feet in the toe straps to pull the seat back really tends to pull the boat forward; but the principal effort of the recovery is an effort to get the body forward so as to begin the work of the stroke. As a matter of fact two-thirds of all the muscular power used in rowing is lost, because it cannot be directly applied. This effort undoubtedly gives exercise to the muscles, but so much of the energy put forth is

Digitized by (jOOQle
-268-

lost in friction and in heat that the effort if long continued becomes wearisome and exhausting.

In this new mechanical device or invention, to which the attention of the public is invited, I have endeavored to introduce a new principle into the art of propelling land or water vehicles, of using gymnasium machines for developing purposes, and of applying human power so as to realize the greatest amount of work. In devising this mechanical arrangement I have had several correlated objects in view.

1.	The invention of a machine that will afford the best means of strengthening and developing the principal muscles of the body.

2.	A machine that will permit of the use of the muscles in a perfectly natural way, each group according to its strength.

3.	A machine that will bring so many muscles into action at one time as to develop the heart and lungs, without causing distress through vigorous efforts made in faulty positions.

4.	A machine that will- make exercise pleasurable and enjoyable through its beneficial influence on the entire system.

5. A machine so constructed that every movement of flexion and extension in trunk, legs, feet, and arms adds to the propelling power.

6.	A machine that will admit of one group of muscles being used while others are relaxed, or of one part of the body to rest while another part is being brought into action, or of legs, trunk, and arms being used simultaneously-, or of all the important muscles being used in succession.

7.	A machine that could be used for the reduction of fat or obesity through general muscular activity without obliging the individual to support his own weight and thereby strain the muscles and tendons of the feet and legs before the rest of the body has had exercise enough to bring about a vigorous circulation and respiration.

8.	A machine that would act especially upon the back, waist, and abdominal region, which I have come to consider the weak points of many of the American people of both sexes.

9.	A machine that would tend to correct the drooping head, rounded shoulders, and flat chests, which characterize so many of our school children, students, literary men, and those who pursue a sedentary occupation.

10.	Finally, a machine so constructed that it is almost a gymnasium in itself that can be used indoors or out-of-doors, and that can be applied to the propulsion of vehicles on land, ice, or snow; or to the propulsion of boats, by means of oars, paddle-wheels, or propellors.

The mechanism which I have contrived for the accomplishment of these several objects, and which I have termed an Inomotor, may be described in its simplest aspect as a pair of levers connected by four adjustable rods with a sliding seat, and a sliding foot rest, which are each in turn connected by a power applying rod or cord to a crank clutch gear or sprocket wheel.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-269—

A more careful consideration of this mechanism will show the details upon which its efficiency as a power applying machine depends. (See Fig.)

A B is a frame work composed of steel tubing. L represents a hand lever, pivoted at the point P. F is the traveling foot rest which moves upon the track Pt, and S the traveling seat which moves upon the track St. W is the gear or sprocket wheel, of which one crank is connected with the foot rest by the rod F P R, and the other crank is connected with the seat frame by the rod S P R. The hand lever is connected with the foot rest by the rod C and with the seat frame by the rod D. The other important parts of the machine are the toe straps, and supports Ts, the seat back Sb, and the double rollers on the foot rest and seat frame.

The action is as follows: The person sits upon the seat S, which is slightly hollowed like a row/ng seat to fit the form, and places his feet on the foot rest, sliding the toes of his boots well up under the toe straps Ts. He then leans forward and graps the hand levers L with his hands while the arms are extended. He is now in position to begin the stroke. As he pulls backward on the lever L he instinctively braces his feet against the foot rest for support as in rowing, but the moment the foot rest begins to feel the power exerted on the levers by the hands, it moves forward as it is connected with the levers by the rods C ; the pressure of the feet therefore upon the foot rest only tends to hasten and intensify its movement forward. But as it goes forward it turns the wheel W half round through its connection with one of the cranks by the rod F P R. Simultaneously with the effort to pull the hand levers backward and brace the feet against the foot rest, the seat is carried backward by the rods D, which are connected with the hand levers, and the pressure of the pelvis against the seat back Sb, which results from the pressure of the feet against the foot rest and the exten-tion of the legs. But when the seat S goes backward the wheel W is assisted in making a half revolution through its connection with the seat frame by the rod S P R. By this time the hand levers have been

Digitized by CjOOQle
-270-

brought well back towards the seat, the legs have been fully extended r and the seat and foot rest are as far apart as possible. As the body inclines back of the perpendicular the toes bend up under the toe straps, and as the foot rest feels the pull Of the feet and legs it begins to return to its starting position. In so doing it is greatly assisted by the power-ful impetus that may be given to it by a forward push of the handle bars. When this takes place the seat is pulled forward and the foot rest is pulled backward by the rods D and C, connecting them with the handle bars, and thus the wheel W is made to complete its revolution by the action of the rods S P R and F P R. The wheel W may be connected with other gear wheels and thus movement may be given to friction wheels, or fly wheels on stationary machines or to paddle wheels, propellors, or driving wheels for general locomotion. Applying the power bv a pair of levers placed in a vertical position about the width of the shoulders, or 18 inches apart, enables the person to support his body in an upright position without the constant tendency to slump or bend forward at the waist, which is so frequently experienced in rowing and bicycling.

The handle bars have a leverage of about five to one, and the power that can be exerted by a direct drive from the legs by aid of the seat back, is more than three times as much as the legs can exert when the strain is transmitted through the back and arms, as in ordinary rowing. Moreover, more power can be applied to the vertical levers with the arms parallel, and the chest free, than with a horizontal lever, with the hands' close together and the chest walls more or less cramped or restricted in their movements.

It will be observed that in working the apparatus the greater the strain put upon the handle bars by the hands, the greater will be the force exerted upon the foot rest and seat frame by the feet and legs, and consequently the greater will be the power communicated to the gear wheels. This is equally true of the backward or forward movement. and when both hands and feet are working it involves the flexion and extension of the forearms, upper arms, legs, thighs, and trunk, which brings into action all of the important muscles of the body. It will also be observed that, on account of the union of the footrest and seat frame with the handle bars and gear wheel, through the agency of the connecting rods, any movement communicated to one part is communicated to all parts. Thuse the levers may be worked by the feet and legs while the arms and trunk are at rest, or the arms and trunk may keed up the work while the feet and legs are passively flexed and extended by the movement of the foot rest and seat frame. Moreover, if it is desired to use any one part of the body more than any other as a means, of strengthening and developing it, this may be done by making this part do more than its usual share of work. Considering the nature and number of parts used, it will be seen that the apparatus can easily be employed as a means of special development for the biceps, triceps, shoulders, upper back, lower back, chest, abdomen and waist, gluteal muscles, front thigh, back thigh, calf, and front leg, as well as a means of general development for all these muscles combined. The value of the machine as a corrective agent for physical defects and weaknesses is thus made apparent.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-271-

The machine is so constructed as to admit of as little lost motion as possible. In whatever direction arms, feet, legs, or trunk may be moved, the effort is converted into a mechanical advantage which is always contributing to the revolution of the gear wheels. Where it is desirable to have the active efforts followed by a certain amount of passive exercise, larger fly wheels may be used on the gymnasium machine. The momentum acquired by the rapid revolution of these wheels will flex and extend the arms, trunk, and legs for a considerable time without any active efforts, thus favoring the returning circulation of the blood and removing the cause of fatigue when it has been produced.

The gymnasium machine also may be so used as to allow the operator to oppose one set of muscles to another, and thus add to the resistance to be overcome at any part of the exercise. Thus, the action of the chest muscles, abdominals, and the extensors of the forearms may be intensified by resisting the tendency of the handles to come backward when they are impelled through their connection with the seat by the powerful extensors of the legs. So the flexors of the arms, and extensors of the back may be opposed to the flexors of the feet and thighs, etc., etc. This use of the machine is, of course, greatly favored by the action of the heavy fly wheels or the momentum acquired by the motor vehicle.

WThere great rapidity of movement is desired, followed by absolute rest, a clutch wheel is used in place of the cranks and spur wheels. If it is desirable, this allows the extensors of the back and legs to work with great speed and intensity, while the flexors of the thighs, legs, and abdominals and the extensors of the arms and the chest are only engaged in drawing the body forward and shooting the arms out preparatory to another stroke, as is the case in rowing. The machine may also be so used as to just reverse this process. When it is desirable to attain more resistance for the powerful extensors of the legs and back an elongated spiral spring may be used to supplement the resistance furnished by the machine. The use of the spring will greatly aid the return of the handles to the starting position, thus relieving the chest and abdominal muscles of any undue strain.

Some of the special applications of this device, with illustrations of other forms of apparatus evolved from it, will be considered later.

CORRESPONDENCE.

M. T. Hayes, New York.—We acknowledge receipt of your pamphlet ‘ The Fall of Rome” and shall review it in the near future.

Miss Lena Hoernig, Kansas City, Mo—The Chicago Institute, Chicago, has a summer course of physical training. Mr. C. J. Kroh is the director of physical training in that institution. We advise you to write him directly.

Miss Alta Miggins, Buffalo, N. Y.—The business part of your letter has been referred to the publishers. We congratulate you upon your new position.

H. O. Dreisel, Chicago, 111.—Thanks. Keep it up. Your suggestions will be carried out.

C. L. Schrader, Geneseo, N. Y.— Please, do not forget Dr. Huepper’s article. Thanks for communication.

Digitized by tjOOQLe
—272—

(From “American Physical Education Review.”)

SWEDISH PHYSIOLOGY.*

* The controversy between Dr. G. W. Fitz and Baroness Posse arose over* some hypothetical assertions of representatives of the Swedish system. It is not the first time, however, that common sense and modem views have invain tried to overcome these orthodox ideas of the “Swedes;” there seems to be a determination in them to stand or fall together. Some time ago it was thought possible to analyze exactly in what proportion and form each muscle, each part of the body is engaged in a given movement of the body.

This belief has been abandoned by nearly all authorities in physiology. Nevertheless the “Swedes” will still continue to claim that the 15th branch of the » 15th X.-nerve is very busy" sending pro-rata innervation to the X. and Z.-muscles if the gymnast should happen to wriggle the left big toe. Too much individualization of movements is certainly bad in educational gymnastics.

If such individualization, in addition, is based upon wrong principles it is very bad. Baroness Posse’s authority, the late Prof. Sven L. Loven maintains that the acceleration of the circulation is caused both by flexion and extension of the trunk or an extremity. Will someone tell us then why the “Swedes” consider it wrong to bend the trunk forward in a natural way (in all its points) and why they bend forward with a stiff spine ? The “swallowed-broom-stick-”arch-flexion-idea of the “Swedes” and Prof. Sven’s theory do not at all agree.

The explanation is perhaps that by performing the Swedish-arch-flexion, the intra-spinal blood-pressure is lowered, a thing absolutely necessary to health.

It is pleasing to know that physiology" is advancing fast, so fast indeed, that even scientists, hitherto considered eminent, are unable to follow.

But, whether a professor of physiology", or the head of a school of physical training supplies us with new and revolutionary ideas ought to be entirely" immaterial to us.

We must be thankful that false modesty does not prevent the publication of important facts. Ed. Mind and Body.

Editor of the American Physical Education Review :

In your review of Massage and The Original Swedish Movements, by Kurre Ostrdm, contained in the March number of the Physical Education Review, after quoting this note on the aim of rotation (circumduction )—

“The aim of the rotation is to lengthen and shorten the veins so as to produce a sucking of their contents, thus stimulating the circulation and assisting the heart in its action,’’ you say, “That this sort of physiology still remains in the literature of Swedish gymnastics is difficult of explanation.” The late Professor Sven L. Loven, of Stockholm, stated: (Yar Tids Forskinng No. 17) that “at the greater number of the articulations, but especially around the hip and shoulder-joints as well as at the lower part of the neck, the superficial part of the walls of the veins is usually fastened on aponeuroses and fasciae, which by certain movements are extended so that the veins are expanded. This causes in the veins a suction which powerfully accelerates the return current. By the alternate motions of the joints the veins may thus be alternately extended and contracted, filled with blood and again emptied. This is true not only of the extremities, but also and especially of the largest of all the veins, the inferior vena cava, which is so located along the front of the spine that it must follow the movements of the latter. If the thorax be bent forward, this vein becomes highly contracted, again to expand when the trunk is straightened. Experiments have proved that the capacity of the vessel largely increases at such extension. It is easy

Digitized by LiOOQle
-273-

to understand how at every extension, and still more at each backward flexion of the trunk, a suction is caused in all those veins which supply the inferior vena cava, especially in those of the lower extremities. A similar condition takes place in the veins of the arms when these are extended sideways and somewhat backward, with the hands closed. Finally, as regards the jugular veins, these are the most extended when the head is bent backward with upturned face.”

This statement was based upon the result of a great number of experiments made on living vessels. Professor Loven was a prominent scientist of the age, making zoology and physiology his specialties. His rank among his contemporaries may be judged from the fact that he defeated Darwin for membership in the French Institute in 1872, and in 1892 he was chosen over Huxley for the Prussian Order of Merit.

With such a man as authority, it would seem that the theory upon which the movement of circumduction is based, borne out as it is by fact, might well be accepted by Americans as well as Swedes.

Baroness Rose Posse.

REPLY TO BARONESS POSSE.

In Baroness Posse’s statement we find the basis for the Swedish confidence in the efficacy of flexion movements in assisting the blood flow in veins. As I have been unable to find in modem physiological literature any reference to the experiments performed by Professor Sven L. Loven, I am unable to discuss his work. The fact, however, that modern physiologies make no reference to his experiments and do not credit such movements with any helpful influence on the circulation must make one skeptical as to its value. Again, the flow of blood in the larger veins is comparatively rapid, nearly half as fast as in the arteries (it is in proportion to the area of cross sections of arteries and veins of the various limbs since practically all of the blood which goes out from the heart through the arteries must return through the veins). It is difficult to suppose that flexion or circumduction movements would have any influence upon the rapidity of this rapid flow, since even if it is granted that the blood vessels are held open by connective tissue attachments to surrounding parts, the change in capacity of the vessel is but a small fraction of the volume of blood which passes through it during the movement.

Again, the clinical corroboration often quoted in support of the theory is inconclusive for the reason that it is impossible to rule out the influence which these movements have upon the flow of lymph. Investigation has shown that this influence is so great as to double or even treble the lymph flow. Furthermore, our present knowledge of the physiolegy of tissue cells warrants the assumption that this change in the lymph flow is far more important than any slight change in the blood flow. .

The claim that backward flexions suck the blood out of the spinal cord and thus serve to relieve the congestion of the spine must, therefore, be considered rather fanciful than real, as well as is the reduction of cardiac activity by slow leg movements.	G.	W.	Fitz.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-274-

PHYSICAL CULTURE.

However it has come about, whether through the increasing devotion to athletics or for other reasons, says the editor of the Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., it is clear that physical culture in the broad sense is occupying a more and more conspicuous place in education. This must certainly be regarded as an unqualified good, and chiefly because it is based on a system which may justly lay claim to a scientific basis. Physical training is gradually but surely becoming rational; the excesses to which competitive athletic events are always likely to lead will surely be modified by a knowledge of the physiological effects of training. Both directly and indirectly the present zeal for physical culture, designed not only to make the strong stronger, but also the weak strong, is doing much toward the general development of the masses of young men and women. Institutions have, however, been slow in completely recognizing the dignity of this branch of education by establishing a definite department under the jurisdiction of a competent head. It is, therefore, of particular interest at this time that the Massachusetts Institute of Technology has taken action to install a new department devoted to physical culture. The formal announcement of this fact was made by President Pritchett at the annual dinner of the Alumni Association recently held in Boston. It was announced that the corporation had voted to give the land for the building, which is tp be a memorial to the late General Walker, former president of the Institute. In this building is to be established the new department, provided the necessary endowment fund can be raised, under the charge of “a man who shall be able to do for the physical side of the students what the heads of other departments now do for the intellectual side.” It is sincerely to be hoped, and there is small doubt that the hope will be realized, that this somewhat unique department of a great educational institution may be generously maintained. It will prove not only of service to the institution with which it is connected, but will undoubtedly serve as a stimulus toward the establishment of similar departments elsewhere. The time is undoubtedly ripe for just this line of work, and we are gratified to see that so worthy a memorial is to be erected to the lamented president of our most conspicuous technical school.

The tendency everywhere apparent is further shown by the recent meeting in New York of the various physical directors of the larger gymnasiums connected with our schools 'and colleges. The strength which comes from organization will no doubt show itself by renewed and systematic attempts toward raising the standard of this department of school and university work. The very general introduction of physical training into the public schools has already been productive of much benefit to the pupils. The idea, recently suggested for the Brookline, Mass., schools of giving special treatment to pupils of imperfect physique, is also unquestionably a step in the right direction. The whole movement toward bringing about a symmetrical physical development, beginning with the very young, is in every way commendable.

In the hands of competent men there is small danger of attaching undue importance to this fundamental branch of a child’s education.

Digitized by

Google
-275-

EXPERT TESTIMONY ON THE VALUE OF FOOTBALL.

Young Mr. Vernon White of Attleboro, Mass., is a living exemplification of the admirable spirit and manly pluck that can come only after a long and diligent practice on the football field.

One needs but to read the history of young White’s experience on the gridiron, however, to be convinced that football is unequaled as a means of bringing out manly qualities. Briefly summarized this player’s eareer as a rusher, a bucker and a tackier may be put as follows:

“In 1895, leg and collar bone broken; 1895, right ankle sprained and nose broken twice; 1896, back severely wrenched; 1897, three fingers on left hand broken and ankle fractured; 1898, rib broken and wrist sprained; 1899, left leg fractured and splintered; 1900, head severely injured, two ribs broken, legs temporarily paralized and ribs, previously Iractured, relproken.”

It was in the game on Thanksgiving Day last year that young White gave what we may regard as his most praiseworthy demonstration of the high qualities that the noble game has aroused in him. Having been cheerfully and even enthusiastically kicked on the pelvic bone so that his legs were paralysed, the eleven men composing the team against which he and his ten fellow citizens were operating jumped upon him and trampled his countenance so far into the dirt that he lost consciousness.

When he awoke he was in bed, with doctors, nurses, and weeping relatives around him, but was his pround spirit daunted ? Not at all. After they had placed one end of a squirt gun in the hole where his front teeth had been and given him some liquid nourishment he feebly informed them that it was the most glorious day in his whole glorious existence, ending with the grand declaration—no less grand if somewhat faintly uttered—that	f

“Football is a great game, and I’d rather play it than eat a Thanksgiving Dinner every day.”

Here we have the testimony of an expert. Why go on wrangling and bothering about the matter. Mr. White may have to proceed the rest of his way through life on crutches, but we may be sure that he will do so in a manly style. This assurance alone should bring us to an appreciation of the real value of football as it is played under Americanized Rugby rules.—From the “Chicago Times-Herald.”

Games for Schools and Gymnasia. By W. C. Schaefer. Milwaukee, 1900. Freidenker Publishing Co. pp. 36; Bound half cloth. Price 50c.— The scarcity of text books on movement games for the girls and boys in our American public and private schools has long been felt as a grievous want. Of German books on the movement games there has never been a lack, but the English literature was devoid of any acceptable collection of such games. Mr. Schaefer has undertaken the task to collaborate such a book with great insight and circumspection. The games are conspicuously arranged under different headings from sound pedagogical points of view and well classified for girls and boys. No teacher of our public, private, and gymnastic schools having Anglo-American pupils under his or her care can afford to be without this book. It embodies moral and physical as well as intellectual elements and is sure to attract the attention of every progressive pedagogue.

Digitized by ooQle
V W	1	'	mmr Published Monthly.

A'UlLP ftND BODY. FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.	Mllwet-aJcee, ^TLscoxuslaa..

JW Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee,Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

HOME GYMNASTICS.

ON an other page of this issue we publish an article containing a program for physical training at the home. We deem it worthy of reproduction in this magazine because in our opinion too little attention is paid to this phase of gymnastics in our literature, although, as our readers themselves may observe, it does not contain much that is new to most of them.

So many persons, and especially such as are living in the larger cities, feel the necessity of physical exercise, but usually they lack an opportunity to engage in it for various reasons. They occasionally provide for themselves a pair of dumb-bells, or Indian-clubs, or perhaps a punching-bag and for a short while work hard with them, perhaps too hard, until the novelty wears off, or until they begin to realize that they are not benefited as much as they think they ought to have been.

The difficulty lies in the fact, that the self-outlined program is faulty or one-sided, and consequently they lose sight of the benefits of home gymnastics.

The “course,” as published in this issue, is not arranged ideally in what professional instructors would call a systematic and strictly physiologic manner; but if carried out faithfully, it will be productive of beneficial results, in particular to people of in-door occupations.

That the observance of hygienic rules, bathing, and dieting are important things in connection with the exercises proper, need not, of course, be especially emphasized. The rules for dieting in Mr. Peltzer’s article are not scientific. They could be improved upon considerably, but will certainly do some good.

Every instructor of physical training ought to be able to outline a course for home gymnastics. Perhaps Mr. Peltzer’s paper will induce our readers to enrich the literature on this special subject, which at best is very scanty in the English language, if we exclude all those much-advertised physical culture lessons of specialists, which belong to the class of Fitzsimmons, Sandow, “Kid” McCoy, Stagg, etc.

—The turning societies of Chicago are making preparations for a grand gymnastic exhibition at the North Side Turnhall, March 3. The net receipts will be presented to the Social Turnverein, whose hall at Belmont Ave. and Pauline St. was lately destroyed by fire.

THIS MEANS YOU I

We will send “MIND AND BODY” free to you for one year on receipt of $4.00 for 4 new subscribers.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-277-

Flag-Roundel for 16 Girls.

By CARL ROSS.

Time %.	=

REMARKS.

Every girl carries a flag, held with both hands in front of chest. The flag stick should project about four inches on either side of the flag. Tne class is divided into ranks of four.

POSITION OF CLASS.

T T T T	HHHHHHHHHHHH

Part I.

1st Exercise. First rank three gallop steps forward left, 1—3. Hop left on place with raising right heel backward and swinging flag obliquely forward upward left, right hand on hip, 4. Hop backward on right foot swinging the left crosswise in front of right, with swinging flag downward at right side until horizontal at right shoulder, pointing backward, 5—6. Hop on left foot again and swing flag obliquely forward upward again as before. 7—8. (During these eight counts the second rank steps forward to where the first rank stood.) First and second ranks repeat same exercise right while the third rank steps forward to starting position, 9—16. First three ranks repeat same exercise left, 17—24.

'	Then	all four ranks repeat same exercise right,

25-32. (Fig. I.)

2d Exercise. Step position left sideways, left arm with flag sideways left, right hand on hip, 1—2. Cross step position, left in front, bend knees, and swing flag horizontally sideways right, 3—4. To first position, 5—6. To starting positions, 7—8. Same right 9—16. Repeat 17—32.

T

T

T

T

T

T

T

T

T

T

T T

I

T

T

T

T

3d Exercise. First and third files four gallop steps sideways left, 1—4. Cross step right in front, bend trunk sideways right, and swing flag obliquely sideways upward, right hand on hip, 5—8. Second and fourth files same opposite side. (Fig. II.) Repeat, first and third files right, second and fourth files left,

9—16. Repeat the whole, 17—32. (First and third files pass in front of the others.)

4th Exercise. Step sideways left, left arm with flag sideways left, right hand on hip, 1—2. ^turn right, step position right backward, bend left knee, swing flag downward, take hold with both hands and raise arms obliquely forward upward, 3—4. Return to first position, 5—6. Return to starting position, 7—8. Same to the right, 9—16. Repeat the whole, 17—32.

Digitized by ejOOQle
-278-

5th Exercise. First and third files repeat Exercise I, but hop sideways left instead of forward, 1—8, then sideways right, 9—16, while the second and fourth files begin with the fifth count of Exercise I (hopping backward on right foot, swinging the left crosswise in front of right etc.), 1—4, then three gallop steps sideways right followed with a hop on place right, swinging flag obliquely upward right, and raising left heel backward, 5—8; same to the opposite side, 9—16. Repeat, 17—32.

6th Exercise. Face left and raise left arm with flag forward, right hand on hip, 1—2. Hand circle forward in front of arm, 3—4. Hand circle forward in rear of arm, 5—6. Face to the front and swing flag downward to starting position, 7—8. Same right, 7—16. Repeat the whole, 17—32.

Part II.

1st Exercise. Close ranks by gallop step sideways, first rank to the first rank member,

in

second rank to ------------------

the second, third rank to the third, and fourth rank

to the fourth rank	*	"’T ”r"

member, 1—8.	^___

(Fig. Ill)

First and second ranks march backward, third and fourth ranks

march forward to form a front line, 9—16 (Fig.

IV.) The members of the third and fourth ranks . execute V2 turn left, while t	the rest mark time, 17—

|	20. All chain arms in

IV	front while marking time,

till 32. (By chaining arms keep flag in right hand as you would carry a wand.)

2d Exercise. The line wheel left about the center, 1-64. (Fig. V.)

Digitized by c.ooQle
-279-

3d Exercise. The first and second, and the third and fourth ranks 1% wheel left about the center, 32 counts. (Fig VI.)

4th Exercise. March forward to form by marching back-ward four steps with taking flag in both hands to ' starting positions,

9—12. Mark time till 16. (Pig. VII.) V

two circles,	1—8. Open circles	
X	sC	
\  vn	b	\
i	\	/

5th Exercise. Members	^	^

of first and second

ranks begin right, third and fourth ranks left. Gallop step sideways, in form of an eight, 32 counts.

(Fig. VIII.)

6th Exercise. March forward to close circles,

1—4. The flankers march backward to form two lines, (Fig.

VI.) 5-8. The first and fourth ranks four steps forward, the second and third ranks V* wheel left and all chain arms and mark time till 16. (Fig. IX.)

7th Exercise. % wheel left, (Fig. X.) 24.

Digitized by ^ooQle
8th Exercise. The ranks % wheel left about the center (Fig. XI), 16. 9th Exercise. March forward to form four circles, 4. Lower flags sideways right, arms bent, hands right of shoulders and grasp neighbor’s flag with left hand, 8. (Fig. XII.)

X \

r

X__X

X x	x	—x

XII

11th

12th

X__/	X___X

X X

X_____X

10th Exercise. Kneel left and raise arms upward, 1—4. Starting position, 5—8. Repeat, 9—16.

Exercise. Gallop step sideways left, 1—3. Hop left swinging the right foot crosswise in front of left, 4. Hop right swinging left foot crosswise in front of right, 5—6. Same left again, 7—8. Repeat the whole right, 9—16.

Exercise. All face left and raise right arm with flag sideways obliquely upward crossing flag sticks, left hand on hip, 1—8.

(Fig. XIII.) The cross 14 wheel right, 9—24. V2 turn right with taking flag in left hand and place right hand on hip, 25—32. The cross 14 wheel left, 1—16. Take flag in both hands and face inward,

17—20. The left and right flankers march backward to form front ranks as in Fig. XI, 21-24. All % turn left, 25-28. The first and second rank members march backward 2 steps and all the rest 4 steps to form an open circle (Fig. XIV), 29—32.

13th Exercise. The first and second and third and fourth rank mem-

h

+

\

+

XIII

\

+

\

■

+

bers face each other, 1—8. All hop obliquely forward to the -r ^	left	three

X

\

\

\

//

xiv

X

gallop steps, 1—3.

Hop on the left and raise v right foot backward and swing

flag obli-	.

quely for-	^	'	[•

ward upward, 4. (As in Exercise 1.)





v

\

\

(Fig. XV.)

Digitized by i^ooQle
-281-

Same right, 5—8. Repeat until each member is back in his original place, 9—32. All face right, 1—8. Gallop step forward left and right 4 steps alternately until off the stage. (Fig. XVI.)

A FEW SIMPLE ATHLETIC TRICKS.

Adapted from “Games and Sports for Boys” (published by Routledge, London) by WM. C. SCHAEFER, •	English High and Manual Training School, Chicago.

1.	THE LONG REACH.

Chalk a line on the floor. Place toes of both feet on the line and support the body on one hand and place a chalk mark as far out as you can. Regain upright position, with toes remaining on the chalk mark, by a spring from the hand by which the body is supported, without using the other hand.

2.	STOOPING STRETCH.

Chalk a line on the floor and place the outer edge of the right foot on the line. Place left foot at a right angle to the line, the heel resting on the line. Pass the hand through between the legs and around the right foot and make a mark as far from the line as possible.

3.	GRAVITY PROBLEM.

Stand against the wall:	Place	a chalk mark between the heels

without bending the knees.

4.	THE PALM SPRING.

Stand a short distance from a wall with feet together. Holding the body and legs straight and one hand behind the back, fall forward and support the weight of the body by placing the other hand against the wall. Take a spring from the hand and recover an upright position without moving the feet.

5.	TRIAL OF THE THUMB.

This is similar to the preceding but the weight is supported by one thumb resting against the edge of a table pushed against the wall.

b. CHAIRING THE LEG.

Place the left foot on the lowest back round of a rather heavy chair. Try to pass your right leg over the back of the chair and on the floor without moving the left leg from place.

Digitized by G.OOQle
—a82—-

7.	TUMBLE DOWN CHAIR.

Place a rather long and heavy chair so that the front rests on the floor and the back is horizontal. Kneel on top of the chair, the feet being at the ends of the legs and grasp the sides of the back with the hands. Stoop and pick up a coin placed on the chair back, with the mouth.

8.	PASSING THE CHAIR.

Support the body on two chairs, the head resting on one# and the feet on another. Pass a chair (or other subject) around the suspended body as many times as possible.

9.	PROSTRATE AND PERPENDICULAR.

Lie down on the back and cross the arms. Get up without moving hands or elbows.

10.	THE TRIUMPH.

Place the hands behind the back, palms together, facing downward, keeping the palms together and finger tips close to the body, turn the hands till they point upward between the shoulders.

11.	CATCH PENNY.

Raise the arm till the forearm is horizontal. Place two or more pennies in the heap on the elbow. Lower the elbow quickly and catch the pennies before they reach the floor.

12.	FLYING BOOK.

Hold a book between the feet. By a sudden spring try to throw the book over your head.

13.	JUMPING THROUGH THE FINGERS.

Hold a stick in both hands and jump over it forward and backward without letting go hands.

14.	BREAST TO MOUTH.

Measure length of your arm from the elbow to the end ol the middle finger, mark off this length on a stick. Hold the stick in the right hand, the middle finger at the mark, palms upward, elbows passed against side, the measured length of stick toward the left*. Touch your mouth with the end of the stick without changing place of fingers on the stick, moving elbow, or head.

15.	THE TURN OVER.

Take a short run, place the toes of the right foot against a wall or tree and throw the left leg over the right, making a complete turn at the same time, so that when the left foot touches the ground, the back is turned to the tree.

—In the death of Dr. William G. Beers, which occurred recently at Montreal, the Canadian game of lacrosse lost one of its most ardent supporters. He was generally regarded as the “father” of the modern game of lacrosse in Canada, since it was he who wrote the first book on the subject and made the first attempt to reduce the game to a set of rules.

Digitized by tjOOQle
-283-

THE GAME OF “SQUASH.“

Games for the wintry weather are now generally provided at the various out of town clubs and the large country houses which are opened by their owners from time to time in the winter to accommodate house parties, and which must necessarily have resources at hand in case erf unpleasant weather, to provide entertainment and exercise for the guests. In former days a billiard room was deemed sufficient for such emergencies, and perhaps a bowling alley—which latter excellent and always popular form of amusement, by the way, seems no longer in vogue, although the generality of persons prefer it to “squash,” its more fashionable rival, which seems to be the coming game for the season. The latter is something like court tennis, inasmuch as it is played within four walls with bat and ball, but it is much less violent, for the balls are ordinary out-door tennis balls, and are therefore easier to send, and, what is an important consideration to young women, less dangerous. There seems to be no regular dimensions to a squash court, as they differ more or less in every place, but the room must be considerably longer than it is wide, and have high, smooth walls without windows, the light coming in from skylights above or at night from

.)



!

4

electric lights in the ceiling. A squash court is divided off like the accompanying diagram by painted black lines on a wooden or asphalt floor. Nos. 1 and 2 are the “courts,” the players standing just beyond

Digitized by CjOOQLe
—284—

the line in the space No. 5. No. 3 is a tin wainscoting placed perpendicularly against the further wall, above which about four feet high is a white line. Over this “service” must be made. No. 4 is a gallery high up near the ceiling, intended for spectators. The rules of the game are very simple. Two generally play, although “foursomes” are sometimes arranged. Only the “server” counts, and he scores by his opponent’s misses. When he misses he loses only his service, which is then' taken with the count by his opponent. The balls are played against the walls, which send them back into the courts.

JAHN’s PHYSICAL TRAINING CLUB OF CHICAGO.

This club, consisting of a majority of the teachers of physical culture of Chicago, is holding its regular meetings on the second and fourth Saturday of each month at the North Side Turnhall.

Dr. Henry Hartung has'just terminated a series of most interesting lectures on applied anatomy with demonstrations on a corpse expressly furnished for this purpose.

The following program'was rendered at the club’s last meeting:

Fancy steps (waltz time), F. Gerlich;

Elementary fencing, H. Suder;

New games, combination of captain and basket ball, introduced by

C.	Cobelli;

Business meeting.

The next meeting takes place on Feb. 23rd, the following program will be carried out:

Fancy steps, under the direction of F. Gerlich;

Elementary fencing, H. Suder;

Tactics, cancan, game, C. Cobelli;

Lecture, Dr. H. Hartung;

Business meeting.	—H.	0. D.

AMATEUR ATHLETIC UNION (Sectional Divisions).

New England Association.—Territory: Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island. W. F. Winston, Chairman, 114 New Chatham St., Lynn, Mass.

Central Association.—Territory: Ohio, Illinois, Michigan, Indiana, Wisconsin, Iowa, and Minnesota. Dr. Geo. K. Herman, 96 La Salle St., Chicago, 111.

Southern Association.—Territory:	Alabama,	Louisiana,	Florida,	Georgia,

Mississippi, Tennessee, Texas. B. P. Sullivan, 233 Baronne st, New Orleans, La.

Western Association.—Territory: Missouri, South Dakota, Kentucky, Wyoming, Indian Territory, Nebraska, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, New Mexico, Oklahoma, North Dakota, Colorado. J. J. O’Connor, 1718 Thomas St., St. Louis, Mo.

Pacific Association.—Territory: California, Arizona, Nevada, Utah. H. A. Keeler, 776 13th St., Oakland, Cal.

Pacific Northwest Association.—Territory: Idaho, Montana, Oregon, and Washington. W. H. Moore, Seattle A. C., Seattle, Wash.

Registration blanks can be secured of any of the above addresses.

J.	E. Sullivan, Sec. Treas. of the A. A. U.

Digitized by VjOOQle
-285-

CRICKET IN AND ABOUT PHILADELPHIA.

By A. A. WEAVER, Philadelphia, Penn.

Jlfwta the sturdy oak whose seed has fallen upon sterile ground, taken root, C*’ flourished, and developed hke the parent tree, each in its turn produced disseminated nuclei like its prototype, can we liken the first cricket club, and its descendants, in this vicinity, known as the Philadelphia Cricket Club, organized in 1844.

I don’t wish to infer absolutely that all the cricket clubs hereabout are progenies of this first club. From this small beginning many clubs have sprung up and are in flourishing condition, which makes Philadelphia the home of cricket in America.

Several of the leading clubs have houses that are almost palatial; situated on their grounds, consisting of several acres of beautiful, level fields with delightful surroundings for the purpose of encouraging t outdoor sport—cricket and tennis dominating. Marked attention is paid to the crease, that part of the field upon which the wickets are placed. This is an especially improved piece of ground, similar in construction to a well laid track, and carefully sodded. They have men employed continually keeping these grounds well rolled, which become as level and true as billiard tables. Thousands of dollars are expended each year year just to keep these grounds in good condition.

Here, then, is a monumental testimony of the permanency, facination, sturdiness, and tenacity of the game, in which when it once gets a footing and enlists our sympathy, interest will never wane.

There are two playing leagues, the major, which includes all the big clubs ; and a minor league for the lesser lights, who no less enthusiastic and ambitious, contend for glory and trophy as do those of the first league.

Almost every year we have the pleasure of witnessing several international matches with either the English, Australian, or Canadian cricketers. And not * always do they depart with the scalps of the Americans. On such occasions large crowds are in attendance, a large proportion being ladies, who manifest a great interest in the game.

So important is cricket in this city that the press devotes several columns every Sunday during the playing season, chronicling events of the day before. The local games are usually played on Saturda\T.

Most of the colleges have their cricket teams ; and one, the Haverford, has made quite an international reputation; frequently crossing the ocean to do battle with those of cricket born, making themselves and their country proud by capturing quite a number of the games played. There is also quite frequently a team selected from the various clubs in and about Philadelphia, which cross the ocean to play the Englishmen on their own soil, being fairly successful.

J.	B. King of the Belmont Club, one of the selected few, has an international reputation for his speedy bowling, and is nick-named the “Demon Bowler.” An Australian bowler’s speed has been measured and estimated as being at the rate of fifty-five miles an hour. King is conceded a speedier bowler as his speed is estimated at the rate of sixty miles an hour. He is also a creditable batsman.

It is unnecessary to mention all the notable players, for there are many here. So I will devote the few remaining remarks in the interest of the game, hoping thereby to create an interest in those who do not understand the game, and to aid those to see and appreciate who have allowed their vision to be clouded to the virtues of a noble game by irrevocable partisanship of another noble game.

For the sake of cricket and general sport, for the sake of correcting a wrong impression that may have been tormed of cricket by a casual observation of a game, I wish to direct their observation by offering a few salient points, from which by induction and deduction one can draw a more liberal conclusion of the game that is too little indulged in by the sport-loving Americans. Few games embody so many virtues as does cricket—patience, fortitude, self-control, and judgment are some of the more marked moral essentials for good cricket. And still fewer games hold the interest through the transition of youth to past middle age, as does cricket.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
—286-

Cricket is played by eleven men on a side, with two batsmen at one time, one at each end. The technical object of cricket is to make as many runs between wickets as one can, whenever it is lawful. Positions of players vary according to the batsman’s or bowler’s characteristics, being ruled upon in the field by the captain, where, in his judgment, they will be most serviceable.

“Over” is the delivery of five balls irom one end; the ball is then transferred to the other end to be delivered by another bowler from that end for an over (five balls) to the batsman that happens to be at the other end. Alternating ends throughout the game. After each “over” there is a change in the fielders’ positions, all assuming a correspoding position on the opposite side of the field.

Bowling is to cricket what pitching is to base-ball, and is quite as important a factor in its game as pitching is in base-ball. The mere delivery of the ball does not constitute bowling. The bowler must be something more than an object of mere physical force; he must be a strategist. He is compelled to change his delivery, resorting to various pitch—long or short pitch, swift or slow, break “off’ or “on,” or he may put a twist on a ball, hoping it will offer a chance catch. A “break” is a deflection of the ball from its original course after it has struck the ground. A bowler often may only use a straight swift ball, but if the batsman has tested his patience the bowler is often put to the limit of his resources to find the batsman’s weak point, and it often happens that his resources are not equal to the occasion; he then gives way to another bowler. One of three things must happen, not including violation of rules, to put a batsman out, constituting wicket down—bails or bail must be off the stump lawfully, leg before wicket, which means, as the ball is delivered, that the batsman inadvertently or otherwise puts his leg in front of wicket, and ball striking the same, which would have probably struck the wicket, or a fly catch.

To be a good batsman is the ambition of all cricketers that are enthusiastic, but to be a good batsman requires something more than enthusiam. If the batsman lacks patience, endurance, judgment—and we cannot deny it takes courage to stand in front of swift bowling—his turn at the bat will be very brief, indeed. To the uninitiated batting seems to be-a succession of foul tips and accidental hits. Not so; for every ball bowled there is a prescribed stroke, as in fencing for every thrust there is a parry. And thus what looked like foul tips were the results of a dexterous hand, clear eye, and a reflex nervous organism. As a matter of comparison, let us observe a poor batsman and a good one. For the first notice his lack of method; his desire is to hit the ball with no regard as to its course. He uses the bat, and bat only, and makes great slashes at every ball that comes his way, lifting it high in the air most likely or not hitting at all. That is the extent of his variation in batting. Now watch the expert, see how careful he is to details; with his eye on the ball he calculates just about where the ball is going to strike the ground; if it comes too near, see how nicely he steps back and just plays it down. Again his judgment and cleverness are brought into play; the ball comes down, it looks like a good one; he gets ready to hit it well, but, in an instant he realizes that it is not what he expected; instead of bouncing, it shoots low on the ground; without thinking his bat drops and the ball is blocked. Again he saves his wicket. Now he is ready for the next ball. He is going to be more successful with it for it is off the wicket. He steps across the crease and whack! like a quick saber cut the ball is sent between slips, going far to the rear; or he may execute the forward cut, sending the ball at right angles with the crease. He will then make as many runs as he can before the ball can be sent back. If instead of the ball being delivered on the “off” side it had been delivered on the leg side, he would again side step and hit the ball on the leg side to the rear or in any direction that seemed open. Take particular notice of the battered balls being kept down on the ground by a good batsman, unless he has a chance to lift it well over the fielder’s head. The above variations are only a few of the many that are at the command of a good batsman.

The above essay is too meagre to impart a correct or comprehensive knowledge of cricket. For an elaborate and comprehensive dissertation on cricket the reader must seek some authentic work which gives the play rules and a minute description of the game in detail.

Digitized by t^ooQle
-287-

FEEBLE CHILDREN CURED BY GYMNASTICS.

. A series of experiments has been made in several primary shools of Paris to test the practicability of gymnastics for improving the physical condition of weak, sickly, and deformed children. The originator of the idea was Colonel D6ru6, Inspector General of Phjsical Education. The experiments have been tinder the supervision of physicians appointed by the Municipal Council, and their reports go to show the value of Colonel DeruS’s views. In one school thirty pupils, fifteen boys and fifteen girls, took part in the exercises. They were all either weak, anaemic, poorly developed, liable to become consumptives, or otherwise afflicted with some marked physical defect. Those motions of the limbs and body which require little or no effort constituted the greater part of the exercises, but due pains were also taken to have them practice motions which tend to make the body and limbs pliant and supple. Furthermore they were taught to march in step, and each lesson was completed by exercises in respiratory gymnastics.

The boys, too, were instructed in the savate,—the French style of boxing, where the feet are used as well as the hands. It is found: first, that the physical development of the children was improved ; second, that they were strenghtened against the possible attacks of disease; and third, that their inherited defects were in large measure remedied and their acquired defects removed. Eleven pupils became exceptionally well developed through these exercises, their gro‘wth exceeding the average of children of their age. One boy grew four centimetres, and three other sickly pupils are rapidly becoming perfectly healthy. “In every case, indeed,” said the report, “a manifest impulse was given toward development and good health.” For the benefit of children suffering from more severe maladies or deformities a special course of medical gymnastics was held, under the constant supervision of a physician at the primary school in the Rue Bolivar. Of this course Dr. Emile Laurent, who was present as a representative of the municipal council, spoke in high praise. “Colonel DeruS’s idea,” he says, “seemed a happy and logical one to us, and with the written consent of their parents we have experimented on a certain number of children who were in some way deformed, as, for example, through one shoulder being higher than the other, or through the spinal column being out of order. We first examined and measured the children and then began to treat them. Of course, in a primary school there are not the paraphernalia of a regular gymnasium, but then some of these are of questionable utility. The objects of our exercises were, first, to render the shoulders and the spinal column supple; second, to remove the primary cause of the deformities, and, third, to improve the condition of the various organs, and especially the bones, muscles, and nervous system.” Finally Dr. Laurent in his report points out that several children who had been suffering from spinal trouble were cured through these gymnastics. The municipal council has decided to appropriate a sum of money for the purpose of having a regular course of medical gymnastics at one of the leading primary schools.

A NEW ROWING TANK.

The rowing tank in the new university boathouse at Harvard has been completed, and will be read\r for use, after the rowing machines have been transferred from the old rowing tank in the Carey building and placed in the new tank for the winter. The general apparatus, however, will differ bom that at any rowing tank in the country, and its construction is the result of careful investigation by Prof. Hollis and the members of his engineering classes. The result of this experiment will be of general interest, as no rowing tank ever invented has been entirely satisfactory in a practical way.

The object of the work has been to regulate the water that it will not offer too much resistance to the oar, and will correspond in its general action to the motion of water when the boat is moving. To accomplish this there will be two propellers at the bow of the boat, run by electric motors and other special machinery if necessary, In this way there will be a continual current of water, starting at the bow, turned by deflecting planes down either side and returning by the added power of the oars and a pair of circular deflecting planes, under the boat and on through the propellers again. This device will render the

Digitized by t^ooQle
-288-

amount of water to be moved by the oar as small as possible; and by relieving-the oarsman from its dead weight will give him greater opportunity to pay attention to his bladework.

The concrete tank is now completed. It is 63 feet long and 26 feet wide, rectangular in shape and with rounded corners. The sliding seats are to be placed in a rectangular boat built like an ordinary eight, which will be supported from the bottom of the tank by metal braces, skeleton underwork, and waterproof compartments, through which the returning water will pass. On either side the boat will be a wooden platform four feet broad, which will serve as a support for men getting in and out of the boat, and upon which the outriggers will be attached. The water in the tank will be about 30 inches in depth.

BOOK REVIEW.

(All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from <he Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.)

—Travel an English Girl’s Education. “Foreign travel plays a large part in the education of an English girl in almost every class save the humblest,’^ writes Mrs. Alexander in the February Ladies’ Home Journal. “Dressmakers and milliners go abroad to learn, if possible, the dexterous touch, the skillful cut of the Parisian. The artist and the musician find it essential to visit the schools of Germany and France. The teacher must acquire the languages of these countries with a correct accent, and the daughters of professional men, country gentlemen, men of business, whether they are rich or struggling, all manage to take or send their girls abroad for holiday trips.”

—Lo, the poor Indian. The wild days of fierce land grabbing and of injustice to the poor Indians that had the misfortune to be found here by the early settlers have ended. The new era shows great care and thoughtfulness in relation to the Indian at Carlisle, Hampton, and other schools. Waldon Fawcett, who has hitherto written much regarding the lighter side of life in New York and in Paris, has contributed to the February number of The Delineator a very enlightening article upon the education of the Indian girl.

--------, ------------

ATHLETICS.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—Professional basket ball now obtains in eastern Massachusetts, purses as high as $30 being offered, 20 to the winner and 10 to the loser.

—Columbia University is to have a representative in the international boxing tournament to be held this summer at Buffalo in the person of Joseph B. Knipe, ’03, a student at the College of Physicians and Surgeons and at present holder of the amateur heavy-weight boxing championship of America.

—The Harvard-Yale boat race will be rowed this season at New London, June 27.

—A. G. Keane of the New York Athletic Club has for four successive years won the figure skating championship of the United States and Canada.

—Interest in yachting circles will receive quite a boom this season as there are four yachts being built to defend the America’s cup against the Shamrock II.

—The winner of the Cambridge-Oxford boat race will be invited to participate in the Po’keepsie regatta on the Hudson this year.

—Ned Hanlon who is to coach the Columbia boat crews this year says that prospects for a winning crew are very high.

— Yale athletes will not be allowed to enter any indoor games this winter. Yale people favor holding the intercollegiate games at Buffalo.

. /

ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for you or for your friends.
V	WEIGHT	/THROWING.

12 lb Hammer Throw—183' ft. 6 in.: Th/6s. Carroll.

*16 lb Hammer Throw—169 ft. 4 in.: John Flanagan.

*12 lb Shot Put—55 ft\ 2 in.: G. R. Gray.

*16 0) Shot Put—47 ft.: G. R. Gray;

*Discus Hurling—118 ft^. 2.92 in,:/R. Bauer.

JUMPING.

Standing High Jump—5 f^. 8$$ in.: T. F. Kearney. *5 ft. 4.96 in.: R. C. Ewery. Running High Jump—6 ft. 8in.: R. H. Baker. *6 ft. 5 5-8 in.: M. F. Sweeney. Standing Broad Jump—14 A' 5% in.: G. W. Hamilton. *11 ft. 3 in.: R. C. Ewery. Three Standing Broad Jumps—41 ft. 2 in.: P. J. Griffin. *38 ft.: J. Chandler. Hop-Step-Jump (S.)—37 fj. % in.: J. F. Hartnett. *45 ft. 6 in.: Courtney. Hop-Step-Jump (R.)—48 ft. Sin.: T. Burrows. *49 ft. 2# in.: W. MacManus. Running Broad Jump—*5 ft. i in.: L. A. CaVpenter. *24 ft. in.: M. Prinstein. Pole Vault—11 ft. 10^-in.: R. G. Clapp.

NATATION.

*50 Yd. Swim—27 1-5 sec.: J. H. Derbyshire.

*100 Yd. Swim—1 min.: T. Meadham.

*220 Yd. Swim—2:34 4-5 min.:	J. H. Derbyshire and

F. C. V. Lane.

*440 Yd. Swim—5:43 1-5 min.: J. H. Tyers.

83o Yd. Swim—12:07^ min.: J. Nuttall.

One Mile Swim—25:13 2-5 min.: J. A. Jarvis. Swimming Under Water—113 yds. 1 ft.: J. Finney. *Plunging—82 ft.: W. Taylor.

CANOE PADDLING.

One Mile—9 min. 29 sec.: A. F. Mackendrick.

ROWING.

*J£-Mile—57 seconds: E. Hedley.

*J4-Mile—3:08 1-5 min.: E. Hedley.

One Mile—4:28 min.: J. Stanbury.

*Two Miles—9:19% mm.: Yale Freshmen Crew Five Miles—30:44^ min.: Four-oared Crew.

SKATING.

*100 Yds.—9 4-5 sec : J. S. Johnson.

*220 Yds.—17 4-5 sec.: H. Davidson, J. F. Donahue. *440 Yds.—302-5 sec.: J. F. Donahue.

*880 Yds.—1 min. 5 2-5 sec.: J. F. Donahue.

*One Mile—2:41 1-5 min.: O. Rudd.

* Amateur.

Contents of Volume VII.

March 1900 to February 1901.

Page

Abuses in Amateur Athletics.—From “Chicago Tribune”..........................  36

Accidents, Resulting from Football........................................... 155

Amateur Athletic Union, Divisions of......................................... 284

“	“	“	Report	of	Annual	Meeting.....’...................... 234

America Gets the Olympian Games for 1901.—F. Pfister, M. D................... 201

America’s Cup.—W. P. Stephens...............................................  237

Annual Conference of the Y. M. C. A. Physical Directors.....*................. 89

Annual Meeting of the Chicago Physical Education Society...................... 18

Announcement of Changes in the Editorial Staff of Mind and Body/............. 116

Announcements of Summer Schools for Physical Training......................... 15

Anthropometric Chart.—W. A. Crippen........................................... 91

Anti-Football Legislation.—F. Pfister, M. D................................   204

Athletic Fields.—Exch........................................................  29

Athletics Abroad. English and	French ........................................ 166

Athletics Must Be Clean.—From “N. Y. Sun”..................................... 80

Athletics, Notes and Comments...........22,	46,	70,	119,	144,	191,	263,	288

Athletic Tricks, A Few Simple.—W. C. Schaefer................................ 281

Ban on Football at the College of Physicians and Surgeons, Chicago....	92

Bar-Bell Exercises at Philadelphia Festival.—G. Seikel ...................... 105

Bathing.—From Exch........................................................... 158

Bicycle Racing at the Paris Exposition........................................ 65

Bicycling.—From “Wheel”......................................................  64

Book Reviews...........22,	43,	69,	95,	118,	142,	167,	190,	216,	240,	263,	288

Boxing Rules of the Amateur Athletic Union.................................... 18

Calisthenics for “Juniors and	Men.”—B. Meller................................ 227

Chicago Normal School......................................................... 68

Cold Lunches.—W. A. 0......................................................... 41

Correspondence..........................................15,	69,	95,	118,	203.	271

Corset Pressure on the Thorax.—From Physical Ed. Rev......................... 247

Digitized by kjOOQle