LIBRARY University of Montana.

MIND AND BODY

Vol. 27 * *	MARCH	1921	. No. 296

MUsked By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Mina

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Sargent School, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

MnUred as second-doss matter October 14, 1916, at (he postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

II	■	'	■	    -	'	■■	-	HI

Qriginal articles and reprint^

11	   "	   ■	"I	1	II

A CARDIOVASCULAR RATING AS A MEASURE OF PHYSICAL FATIGUE AND EFFICIENCY*

BY EDWARD C. SCHNEIDER, PH. D, MIDDLETOWN, CONN.

The need of a measure for physical efficiency whereby degrees of fatigue, physical fitness and health may be determined has been felt alike by the medical profession and instructors in physical education and school hygiene. Of late, the newly awakened interest in industrial efficiency has shown that we lack satisfactory and reliable tests of fatigue. Experience with the aviator during the war also emphasized the need of some easily applied reliable physical efficiency test. Some aviators gradually underwent physical and nervous deterioration, the result of the wear and tear of the air work, or sometimes of dissipation, which made them less reliable in handling the aeroplane and frequently ultimately led to a crash. These aviators at times developed a disinclination to fly, but would not confess it because of the fear of being considered “yellow”. To single out such men, the flight surgeon required the aid of a dependable test.

Unquestionably, the most satisfactory test for fatigue and loss in physical fitness would be one that eliminates the “personal equation” of the examiner and the anxiety and dishonesty of the patient. Replies

*	From the Medical Research Laboratory, Air Service, Mitchel Field, Long Island, N. Y.

*	Reprinted by permission of the American Medical Association.

Digitized by ^ooQle
450

to questions concerning symptoms and habits are often misleading because of a preformed opinion by the examiner or because the patient is incapable of self-analysis and accurate description of his experiences. Furthermore, for personal reasons some men would prefer to mislead the examiner, and the test should not, therefore, demand much co-operation and attention from the patient.

The functional changes of the body brought about by regular physical training give the basis for a number of physical efficiency tests. The attention of trainers and athletes, as well as of physiologists, has naturally been directed to these, A brief review of the conclusions regarding the physiologic changes which occur as a result of improved physical condition will suggest possible tests for degrees of health and fitness.

Certain differences between active and inactive animals throw light on these functional variations. The wild hare, which lives an active life in the open, and the wild rabbit, which lives an inactive life in seclusion and does not venture far from its burrow, have been compared by Dreyer of Oxford University. He found that a wild hare has double the blood volume, 30 per cent more hemoglobin and three times more heart muscle than a wild rabbit of the same weight. The rate of heart beat of the wild hare is about 68, and of the wild rabbit about 200 per minute. The respiration rate of the hare is between 18 and 20, and of the rabbit about 50 per minute. Furthermore, the meat of the hare is dark, and that of the rabbit light in color. No doubt, similar differences exist between an athlete and a sedentary worker, and there is reason to believe that these functional differences vary to some extent as the health and fitness of the individual person vary.

The cardiovascular changes during altered physical fitness have been studied most, and it is these that are considered in this paper. The tests here discussed should not be confused with functional heart tests. We are concerned with the cardiovascular changes only so far as they give evidence of fatigue and health changes in the body.

(a) The Postural Rates.—Cook and Pembrey, while finding considerable variation in the pulse rate of different healthy individuals, showed, however, more'frequently a slow rate in men trained for muscular work. From his extensive experience, Meylan concluded that a horizontal posture pulse rate between 40 and 80 and a vertical posture rate between 50 and 90 were favorable health signs. McCurdy, from a study of boys passing through the adolescent changes, decided that the heart rate serves as a fair indication of condition; a high heart rate indicates poor condition, and a heart rate with wide variations between the horizontal and standing positions suggests a poor vascular adjustment.

During repeated periods of training of a single subject, Dawson found that training slowed the resting pulse rate as much as 9 beats per minute and that this especially influenced the noon and afternoon pulse. Thus the form of the diurnal curve was slightly altered. He also found that acute infection caused an increase in the pulse rate, but this was much less pronounced in the trained than in the untrained man. In young men, the normal average pulse rate has been reported to be 78.0 standing, 70.1 sitting and 66.6 lying. The continued practice of some form of exercise, such as rowing, extending over a period of years may progressively lower the rate of heart beat. Thus Mitchell found the
451

average rate of the athlete’s pulse during the first year of training was 69, in the second year, 64.5 and in the third year, 56.8. According to Linhard, not only is the pulse less frequent, but the output of the heart per minute is slightly larger in the trained than in the untrained man.

All available evidence indicates that with improvement in physical fitness the heart beats less frequently and more efficiently. It follows, therefore, that the pulse rates in the reclining and standing postures may at times give useful hints as to the degree of fitness and health. That the altered physical condition may not be evidenced by pulse rate changes in both of these postural positions was demonstrated by Boney, who found in some tired, listless, depressed and fatigued patients that the pulse rate was normal while lying down but was abnormally rapid on standing; in several the standing rate was as high as 130 or 140 beats per minute.

(if) Pulse Rate Increase on Standing.—The difference between the pulse rates in the standing and reclining postures has been found to be a useful index of physical fitness. According to Vierordt, the average postural increase is from 12 to 14 beats. Crampton reported that in vigorous subjects the heart rate may not increase on standing, while in wearied subjects it may increase as much as 44 beats per minute. Meylan believes a standing increase of not more than 16 beats is a favorable sign of physical efficiency. Parkinson recently reported that in twenty healthy soldiers an average increase of 10 beats was noted when the recumbent and standing rates were compared. Geigel considers that a variation of more than 30 between lying and standing pulse rates indicates weakened heart function. It is now recognized that in states of debility the postural difference may be as much as from 30 to 50 per minute. A slow horizontal and a slow vertical postural pulse rate with a small difference between the two are usually signs of excellent health.

(r) Exercise Pulse Rate.—According to Bowen, the rapidity of the pulse during exercise is chiefly determined by (1) the speed of movement; (2) the resistance encountered; (3) the condition of the individual, and (4) age. He also pointed out that pulse rate counts made after exercise are worthless for comparison, unless the count is made at exactly the same period in each case, and the subject is placed in exactly the same position and assumes the same degree of relaxation and repose.

The increase in the pulse rate after a certain amount of work is greater in an untrained than in a trained person. Hartwell and Tweedy, comparing athletic and nonathletic women, found that running up and down stairs accelerated the heart rate an average of 10 beats more in the nonathletic women. Cotton, Rapport and Lewis believe that the average height to which the pulse rate is raised at the cessation of effort may be taken as a gage of the degree of distress produced, and that the amount of distress is determined by the degree of health. Similar conclusions have been reached by many students of the effects of exercise on acceleration of the pulse rate.

(d) The Decline in Pulse Rate After Exertion.—A widely recognized sign of physical condition is the time required by the pulse rate to return to normal after effort. Flack and Bowdler, from a study of the reactions following stepping on a chair five times in fifteen seconds, con-

Digitized by Google
452

elude that the heart rate in the healthy subject should not increase more than 25 beats and should return to normal within thirty seconds. Meakins and Gunson report that after a climb of twenty-seven steps ut a brisk walk, the pulse rate returned to normal within one minute in healthy subjects, while in patients it required as much as five minutes.

It should be emphasized that while the several pulse rate criteria of fitness may all be found in a single person, not one or even any two of them is found to be an absolute test. In forming a judgment as to the physical condition of a man it is best to consider together the postural rates, the increase on standing and after exercise, and the time required for the rate of return to normal after exercise.

THE ARTERIAL BLOOD PRESSURE AS A CRITERION OF CONDITION.

(<a) The Normal Arterial Pressures.—Although the arterial pressures have received much attention, the determination of the pressures of a person at rest offers little of value in estimating the physical condition of the young man. Meylan considers systolic pressures for the horizontal posture between no and 140, and for the vertical position between no and 150 mm. of mercury as favorable signs. Dearborn believes that adequate physical training raises the blood pressure. He obtained an average of 114 in trained and 108 in untrained women. Dawson has recently shown that the effect of training on the resting blood pressure is neither striking nor constant. Bainbridge has written that “the systolic arterial pressure, according to most observers, is not higher during rest in trained than in untrained men.”

Opinion as to the value of the diastolic and pulse pressures is not as clearly crystallized as it is regarding the systolic pressure. Hypotension in systolic or diastolic pressure occurs in weak patients.

(h) The Postural Changes in Arterial Pressures.—The hydrostatic effects of posture and the manner in which the splanchnic vasomotor mechanism compensates for these are well known. Normally, when man changes from the reclining to the standing position, the splanchnic vasomotor tone overcompensates the hydrostatic effects of gravity. In normal subjects the systolic blood pressure is about 10 mm. higher in the standing than in the recumbent posture. Erlanger and Hooker found that on standing there might be either a slight rise or fall in the brachial systolic pressure. According to Hill, any influence which weakens the splanchnic vasomotor mechanism interferes with the compensation. Sewall has shown that individuals in whom there is excessive gravitation of the blood to the limbs and splanchnic area on standing are victims of physical weakness and nervous instability and often suffer from headache, dizziness or tinnitus in the erect posture. That the systolic pressure falls in persons weakened by dissipation, overwork, lack of sleep, or disease was recognized by Crampton in his “blood ptosis test” for physical fitness. Crampton demonstrated that a subject might, when standing, show weakness by a decrease in the systolic pressure or by a large increase in the heart rate. Recently, Sewall has pointed out that a weakened patient on standing may fail to show the systolic drop, but instead may have an inordinate rise in diastolic pressure. He employs this rise in diastolic pressure and low levels of pulse pressure as measures of fitness.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
453

MEANS OF MEASURING PHYSICAL EFFICIENCY.

The foregoing observations on the cardiovascular changes that occur with training and with weakness suggest means of measuring fatigue, staleness and weakness. A pulse rate more rapid than the average in the reclining and standing postures, a large acceleration on standing and after exertion, a slow return to normal after exercise, and a systolic pressure that fails to rise but falls when the subject stands, indicate fatigue or weakness.

In 1913 and 1914, three physical efficiency tests were reported that used some or all of these changes. Crampton's “blood ptosis test” is a vasomotor efficiency test that is intended to show the beneficial or depressive effect of various conditions supposed to affect the health. It takes account of the differences between the pulse rates and the systolic pressures in the horizontal and vertical postures. The usual range of systolic pressure variation is from + 10 to — 10, and the heart rate increase from o to 44. It was determined that a decrease of 1 mm. in systolic pressure was equivalent to an increase in heart rate of approximately 2 beats. By statistically balancing the ranges of systolic pressure and pulse rate and assigning equal percentages to equal ranges, a percentage scale of fitness was established.

Meylan, although not attempting to evaluate, finds that efficiency may be judged by (1) general condition as shown in weight, color of skin and general appearances such as firm, vigorous muscles; (2) pulse rate in the horizontal and vertical positions; (3) systolic blood pressure in the horizontal and vertical positions, and (4) heart reaction after the exercise of hopping 100 feet. Favorable signs were considered to be a horizontal pulse rate between 40 and 80, a vertical rate between jo and 90, and a standing increase of not more than 16; a horizontal blood pressure between 100 and 140, and a vertical pressure between no and 150, with a difference of 10 or more; an exercise increase in pulse rate of less than 100 per cent and a recovery of more than 80 per cent in a minute.

Forster's efficiency test made use of the standing pulse rate, the rate immediately after running in a fixed place for exactly fifteen seconds at the rate of 180 steps per minute, and the rate forty-five seconds after the work treased.

Crampton’s test was employed with the aviators at Hazelhurst Field, but was found to be unsatisfactory because of the fact that physical deterioration may be manifest in various ways in the cardiovascular mechanism. The test neglects four of the available factors. A similar criticism may be made of Forster’s method. A statistical study of several hundred cases led to the abandonment of both of these methods.

POINT SYSTEM FOR GRADING CARDIOVASCULAR REACTIONS.

When it becomes necessary to weigh data from six sets of observations, it is difficult to evaluate them properly and to avoid giving undue weight to a single factor. If it is true, as it seems to be, that weakness may show itself differently in individual cases, then a centering of the attention only on the postural systolic blood pressure changes or on the amount of acceleration of the pulse rate in exercise would result in the overlooking of some cases of weakness. In order to avoid the disposition to stress one or two of the factors, that give evidence of physical deterioration,

Digitized by v^ooQle
454

and to recognize equally all six factors, we have used a system of scoring the tests wherein each of the cardiovascular changes is rated according to a scale that evaluates the condition or change. The grading of performance must of necessity be arbitrary and, therefore, is held by some to be objectionable. Nevertheless, as was stated earlier, the “personal equation** of the observer often weighs too heavily where comparisons are made. A mathematical system of grading can in large measure eliminate the personal factor.

The scoring scheme we have used recognizes that fatigue or derangement may be evidenced in the high heart rate during reclining, during standing; in the number of beats the heart rate increases when the standing and reclining postures are compared; in the acceleration in the pulse rate after exercise; in the time taken by the pulse to return to normal, and, lastly, in the rise or fall in the systolic blood pressure on standing. This scheme uses in part a plan proposed by Dr. J. H. McCurdy for rating infantry men in cardiovascular and neuromuscular efficiency. The scores for	each of the six items range from -f 3 to	— 3.	A	perfect

score, the	sum of the value given to each of the six	items,	is 18. The

values as	assigned appear in Table 1, Parts A, B, C,	D, E	and	F. In

using the	table for scoring, Parts A and B, also C and D, must	always

be used together. Thus, if an individual has a pulse rate increase of 15 beats (see Part B) on standing and his reclining rate was 60 (see Part A), he is graded 3 on his standing increase. However, if his reclining rate had been 100, then a standing increase of 15 would have been scored o.

PROCEDURE IN MAKING OBSERVATIONS.

1.	The patient reclines for five minutes, (a) The heart rate is then counted for twenty seconds. When two consecutive twenty second counts are the same, this is multiplied by 3 and recorded. The score is noted according to Part A, Table 1. (£) The systolic blood pressure is next taken by auscultation; two or three readings are made as a check.

2. {a) The patient stands at ease for one or two minutes to allow the pulse to assume a uniform rate. When two consecutive twenty second counts are the same, this is multiplied by 3 and recorded. The score is obtained by use of Part C, Table 1. The difference between the standing and reclining pulse rates is scored then by use of Part B, Table 1. (£) The standing systolic pressure is next taken. The difference between this and the reclining systolic pressure is then scored by Part F, Table 1.

3.	The patient next steps on a chair about 18 inches high, five times in fifteen seconds timed by a watch. To make this test uniform, he stands with one foot on the chair at the count one; this foot remains on the chair and is not brought to the floor again until after the count five. At each count he brings the other foot on the chair and at the count “down” replaces it on the floor. This should be timed accurately, so that at the fifteen second mark both feet are on the floor, (/*) Immediately, while he stands at ease, the pulse rate is counted for fifteen seconds; this is multiplied by 4 and recorded, (b) Counting is continued in fifteen second intervals for two minutes, record being made of the counts at 60, 90 and 120 seconds.

Digitized by v^ooQle
TABLE 1.—POINTS FOR GRADING CARDIOVASCULAR CHANGES

B. Pulse Rate Increase on Standing

A. Redming						
Pulse Rate		0-10	11-18	10-26	27-34	35-42
		Beats,	BeatB,	Beats,	BeatB,	Beats,
Rate	Points	Points	Points	Points	Points	Points
50- 50	8	3	3	2	1	0
<1- 70	3	3	2	1	0	—1
71- 80	2	3	2	0	—1	—2
81- 00	1	2	1	—1	—2	—8
01-100	0	1	0	—2	—3	—8
101-110	—1	0	—1	—3	—3	—3
		d. :	Pulse Rate Increase Immediately after			Exercise
€. Standing						
Pulse Rate		0-10	11-20	21-30	31-40	41-50
		Beats,	Beats,	BeatB,	Beats,	Beats,
Rate	Points	Points	Points	Points	Points	Points
50- 70	3	3	3	2	1	0
71- 80	3	3	2	1	0	0
81- 00	2	3	2	1	0	—1
01-100	1	2	1	0	—1	—2
101-110	1	1	0	—1	—2	—3
111-120	0	1	—1	—2	—3	—8
121-180	0	0	—2	—3	—3	—3
181-140	—1	0	—3	—3	—3	—3
	E.	Return of Pulse Rate		F.	Systolic Pressure,	
	to Standing Normal			Standing, Compared		
	after Exercise				with Reclining	
	Seconds		Points	Change in Mm.		Points
	0- 60.		3	Rise of 8 or more		3
	61- 00			 2	Rise of 2-7			2
	31-120			 1	No rise 			1
After 120: 2- 10 beats above normal 0				Fall of 2-5			0
After 120: 11- 30 beats above normal —1				Fall of 6 or more .		. —1

The data from a will be scored by Part D, Table i, taking the difference between this exercise pulse rate and the standing rate. The data in b are scored according to Part E, Table i.

This sytem of scoring men as to physical fitness is now being used by flight surgeons in their work among aviators, and is applied at the Medical Research Laboratory at Mitchel Aviation Field on Long Island.

That there may be value in assembling the circulatory data under such a point system is indicated from an analysis of fifty-four cases of aviators who, when examined by the medical officers of the departments of the laboratory, were found to be ailing and physically below standard. The medical examinations included an overhaul by the internist, neurologist, ophthalmologist, and ear, nose and throat expert. The medical findings include a large variety of conditions, the majority being common to any group of men and in no way characteristic of aviators.

That which was of greatest interest in this anlaysis was the final efficiency score of each patient. The distribution of the cases is shown in Table 2.

Only six of the fifty-four cases had a score of io or better, while

Digitized by v^.OOQLe
456

88.8 per cent had scores ranging between 9 and — 1. These figures seem to^tndicate that a score of 9 or less is characteristic of physically unfit men.

On the assumption that a score of 9 or less gives indi&ition that the clinician may find something wrong with the patient, we have listed ail men among a group of 150 men who had a low score. In this group there were forty-six who scored 9 or less.

TABLE 2.—EFFICIENCY SCORE IN FIFTY FOUR CASES .

	No. of	,
Points	Cases	Per Cent.
0 or less			 2	8.7
Prom 1 to 3 				 9	16.6
4 to 6			 15	27.8
7 to 9			 22	40.7
10 to 12				 3	5.6
18 to 16 			 3	5.6
16 to 18 			:	 0	0.0
Total			 54	100.0

The medical examiner working independently, and without the cardiovascular data available to them, recorded abnormal conditions in thirty of the forty-six men. Thus, when working independently, 65.2 per cent of the group of forty-six with low scores by the cardiovascular efficiency test were found by others to be below standard. Two of the men were unfit because of excessive smoking, and one had recently been -on a drunken spree. The neurologist reported five as stale and nervously unbalanced, the internist alone found five unfit, six were tonsil or local infection cases, and the remainder were found wrong by kt least two of the medical departments.

This point system of scoring men as to health and physical fitness by the cardiovascular reactions is easily applied. It has the advantage of stimulating men to attempt to improve the score by exercise and proper living. It is suggested that a score of 9 or less gives reason for an overhaul of the patient by a clinician. Aviators with a low score might well be called back for further examination and observation. A poor 6C0re suggests a search for a cause. The cause may be disease or unhygienic living.

Digitized by
457

WHAT SHOULD WOMEN GYMNASTS BE ABLE TO PERFORM?*

The question has often been asked:	What	standards	should be set

for experienced women gymnasts? We ought to know what trained girls or women can accomplish in order that we may have an aim before us in arranging our program of exercises. If in deciding this question we do not violate the general principles which apply to exercises for women, the idea of setting standards is to be welcomed.

What are these principles? In the main, they are to use, largely, -free exercises with and without hand apparatus. Through the use of such exercises strength and skill are acquired. In addition we get a very effective stretching of the body, and at the same time very favorably influence the development of the inner organs. It also is of importance that these exercises may be offered in a pleasing form, maintaining, however, their full physical value.

We next should give suitable, not over-elaborate dancing steps, and we should add stimulating tactics. The latter should be short and recreative. In this case they should prove to be a means of recruiting new followers through the pictorial effect that may be obtained through them.

Further principles that will influence apparatus work and all other forms of bodily exercise result from the fact that women in general have much less strength than men; their upper body is weaker, and their lower body mostly heavier than that of men. We also know that aside from praiseworthy exceptions women have less perseverance than men. The male gymnast will train systematically, and with tenacious endurance he will try a certain exercise again and again until he succeeds, even if some bodily pains or other inconveniences are connected with this practice.

- On account of these facts the scope of the apparatus work for women is considerably narrowed, and, as a rule, forms of exercise result which (dropping hair-splitting nomenclature) may be termed “free exercise on apparatus.” We have balance stands and other exercises of equilibrium, we have turn exercises in sitting and lying positions and in the support lying positions, and these exercises are repeated in various ways and on different apparatus. This is an entirely new, novel and valuable form of exercise. It is an extension of the true free-exercises, and it prepares girls and women for the real apparatus work.

A further principle to keep in mind is that it is not our aim to develop a masculine type of woman. Let us rejoice over the accomplishments of our talented women gymnasts who are favored by nature, and let us support them by all means. It is for these that the requirements mentioned later are proposed. But do not let us say that these requirements must be met under all circumstances. This cannot be the only aim in our work. There are too many grades below the excellent. Our physical training work should benefit everyone, so long as we keep the fundamental principle in mind.

The following exercises are published for the purpose of stimulating

* Translation by L. Zwarg, Philadelphia, of an article in the German Workman's Gymnastic Journal.

Digitized by CjOOQle
458

our able women to try their very best to master not only one exercise, but the whole series.

Parallel Bars (shoulder high).

Upper arm swing in jmiddle of bar, kip to straddle seat in front of hands, swing to upper arm stand, roll forward into straddle seat in front of hands, grasp ends of bars in front of body, swing between bars and straddle vault into cross stand rearways.

Side Horse. With a running start straddle vault, support on pommels.

Horizontal Bars (jump high). From a straight arm hang with upper grip bend arms and hip-swing-up backward into the support frontways. Leg-swing left over the bar (beside the left hand) fall backward into knee-hang and at once knee-swing-up forward, leg-swing left backward to support frontways; repeat all with right leg. Lower body backward and raise legs forward to balance hang (straight arm hang with legs raised forward horizontally), squat backward between the arms and lower body to hang rearways, jump to stand.

Running Broad Jump.	3.50	meter	-	11'	7"

High Jump (without board) 1.10 meter - 3' 7"

Baseball Farthrow	35	meter	-	117'

(A Geman ball is somewhat larger than our baseball, but very much lighter, averaging 100 grams, about 3>£ ounces.)

Shot Put (5 kg. - 11 bs. 6 meter - 20'

75 Meter Run. 12 seconds.

Swimming yi hour for endurance, breast stroke.

The Ball Farthrow and Swimming will no doubt be a drawback to many, but these events are added because of their splendid physical value; they simply must be practiced more than they are at the present time.

BASKETBALL FOR GIRLS.

BY FRED E. FOERTSCH, PITTSBURG, PA.

THE FUNDAMENTALS. RECEIVING A PASS.

Receiving a pass, in other words, catching a thrown ball, is one of the essentials to good playing. Considerable time may be devoted, during the early part of the season, to teaching how to catch the ball properly. That the ball should be handled with the fingers rather than with the palms of the hands needs to be emphasized. In receiving the ball the thumbs should be uppermost, pointing toward each other and at about right angles to the hands. The thumbs are held in a horizontal position with the palms of the hands turned toward each other. The fingers are to be held rather loosely and apart so that when the ball touches the finger tips it is guided into a wedge or so called basket. The wrists also play an important part and should be held in a rather flexible or elastic state. Thus as the ball penetrates deeper into the wedge a slightly added pressure of the fingers and wrists will produce a secure grip on the ball. If, however, the wrists and the fingers are held rigidly no adjust-

Digitized by
459

ment can be made and the impact of the ball against the hands causes a rebound and consequently a fumble. Of course the elasticity must not be confined to the wrists and hands alone. It must extend to the shoulders and elbows as well. The elbows should never be held closely to the sides as this tends to produce a rigid position. The elbows should be bent at about right angles and pointing outward and slightly downward.

PASSING.

As a rule the person to receive a pass while moving about on the floor holds her arms slightly bent with the hands about waist to chest high. The person passing should therefore, aim to have the ball meet the receiver somewhere between the waist and shoulders. A ball directed at the face is apt to cause the receiver to close her eyes or dodge. In this case a fumble is almost sure to result. A ball which must be caught above the head or below the waist will generally throw the player off balance when in motion, making a fumble almost certain. Fast passing does not result from swift throwing of the ball. It depends more upon quick delivery of the pass giving the ball mediocre speed. Such a pass may be easily handled by the receiver.

There are several different styles of passing. For short passes the underhand, the push and the overhead types may be used. They may be delivered with one or both hands. For long passes the double overhead or sidearm throw or the single overarm hook throw are effective.

The underhand pass is used after receiving the ball waist high or below and may be employed effectively in passing the ball around the body or under the arms of the person guarding.

The push pass may be employed when two players find themselves “loose” and wish to advance the ball quickly toward their goal.

The overhead pass may be used by a tall person when guarded by a small player. The aim is to pass the ball over the head of the opponent. This pass consists of a snap of the wrists while the ball is held in the upward position. It may be employed effectively at the highest point of an upward jump.

As said before all of these passes may be delivered with one or both hands. Passing with both hands, however, should be perfected before the one hand pass is used. With constant practise, a player with natural ability will unconsciously learn to use the one hand pass effective-

>y-

In the girls’ game the opportunities for long passes are few. A long pass from one end of the floor to the other is usually wasteful. It consumes so much time that the opposing players can adjust themselves and intercept it. The pass of medium length across the floor or diagonally from the corner of one section to the opposite side or corner of an adjacent section may be employed very effectively. For girls the double overarm or sidearm pass is the best. Occasionally a tall strong player will develop a good one arm hook pass, but this is usually the exception.

Various games may be used in developing efficient handling and passing of the ball. Chase Ball and Relay Ball where the ball is passed sideward are good forms to use. Passing the ball in a zigzag between the separated members of two front ranks facing each other is excellent for developing the push pass. Tag Ball with two and even three persons
460

inside of the circle will be found effective for developing all forms of passing as well as intercepting.

SHOOTING.

A team with forwards unable to shoot consistently can hardly expect to win games. Forwards should therefore be given plenty of opportunity to shoot during practise and should not only be taught one but several forms of shooting. For girls the push or breast shot and the overhead shot are the best.

The push or breast shot may first be taught from a stand in front of the basket accompanied by a moderate jump from both feet. It may then be practised from a stand in front of and to one side of the basket, aiming at the backboard for a bank shot. Next it may be taken while approaching the basket with a moderate run receiving the ball from various angles. Both hands should be used. This is one of the safest shots. The speed in approaching the basket should -gradually be increased. It is important that the player shoot as soon as the ball is received, at the same time leaving the floor with both feet.

When standing near the goal with the guard between the basket and the forward the double overhead shot should be used. In this case the ball is given an upward and forward impetus by means of the snap of the wrists from an upward position of the arms. Too much time, however, should not be devoted to this kind of shooting as it is only effective under peculiar conditions.

The one hand push shot is very effective when receiving a pass almost under and slightly to one side of the basket while approaching rapidly. In this shot the ball is caught with both hands, lifted to the height of the head and from here it is pushed upward with one hand, (usually the right) with which it is guided so that it leaves the hand just as the jump from the left foot combined with the upward straightening of the right arm have brought the hand to the highest point possible. When receiving the ball on a run near the basket this is probably the surest shot of all.

The underhand shot is generally used for foul throwing. The player stands slightly in rear of the “free throw” mark with the feet in a comfortable side stride position. The arms are lowered so that the ball reaches a point between the knees, which are slightly bent, and then with the straightening of the knees and the swinging of the arms forward, the ball is released at or slightly above the forward position of the arms. The thrower finishes with the knees straight and arms forward.

The breast shot for free throwing is very rarely used by girls. Very few acquire skill and strength enough to give the ball sufficient impetus to carry the required distance and height.

The one arm overhead or the so-called “hook arm throw” from in front and while passing under the basket is but rarely developed among girls and need not be given much attention. This form can only be acquired from long experience.

(To be continued.)
461

THE FORMATION OF A BOYS' SWIMMING CLUB AND THE MAINTENANCE OF ITS INTEREST.*

BY THOMAS J. BROPHY, PHILADELPHIA, PA.

1.	Before a complete “signing up," although specified registration has been made, a process of elimination may be profitably employed. Give lad a red card with appointed day and hour indicated; have him obtain guardian’s signature. This will emphasize seriousness of undertaking, assist in child's punctuality, and lessen the number, if not entirely do away with the one-lesson pupil.

2.	After enrollment, squads or classes of five, or a convenient number should be formed. Those of a group who can swim may be made leaders. When teaching is underway arrange for the first exhibition, if possible within a week of the recruiting. It will awaken interest and give you a working knowledge of your building material.

3.	At its close congregate those whom you believe have executive abilities. Conspire for the formation of the “cleverest club in town." Let its oral constitution be brief, simple. All who are registered are members. Those who pass the twenty minute test are eligible for any of the four offices. The duties of these need not be defined, a general delineation suggested by circumstances should be sufficient. The elections - bi-monthly - may be conducted as follows: Two of trusted leaders with name of candidates should stand near shower, members as they pass in should call first the name of their favorite man and then their own. The boy receiving largest number will be President, next Vice President, etc.

* Philadelphia has just closed its tenth season of swimming instruction for pupils m the Elementary Schools.

This instruction is given principally to boys and girls entering the fifth school grade. But, there also are older boys and girls enrolled in these classes. Pupils desiring instruction register with each teacher. They then are placed in squads and told when to come.

The instruction is given by men and women teachers at 16 swimming pools operated during the vacation months by the Bureau of Recreation. The teachers are paid by the Board of Education, and the instruction is given free of charge.

The breast stroke is taught as the fundamental stroke. As soon as a pupil swims this stroke continuously for 20 minutes he is given his emblem, consisting of a small fish made of red cloth with the letters P. S. meaning “public schools."

One of the problems of these swimming centers is the question of maintaining interest during a season lasting nine weeks. On very hot days the number of bathers frequenting these centers is often so great, and the noise is so deafening that the giving of instruction and the maintenance of interest calls for ability of the highest type.

In the above article one of our most successful teachers has given the results of his experience. The suggestions should be of value to all teachers, not only to swimming teachers.

Harry R. Allen, Supervisor of Swimming.

Digitized by CjOOQle
/

462

4- Let there be a bulletin board, it is an important factor for the maintenance. On it the names of all members and executives should appear. Those who have been awarded the “P. S. Fish” insignia should have a place of prominence. The announcements of all events and their results should likewise be found there. If at all possible let placards be typewritten - it has a psychological value. Some of your boys will volunteer their service - typewriters are plentiful.

5.	At the close of second competition a development should take

place. All from same school should be grouped; these should compete not only for the highest number of points in the feats, but also to have their school strongly represented among the executives. Encourage them to have registered all whom they deem would bring credit to the Alma Mater. If there is a depletion the ranks may be filled from these. All in all, new vigor and interest will be given organization. Post a list of all from same school, check those whom you believe are capable of the 20-minute test, have leaders use every available means to have at least half of their school make the test. Let their slogan be:	“What we

have done you can do.” Give plenty of opportunity for leaders to ventilate their efficiency. When pool is cleared, the whistle having been blown, have them swim around in the exaggerated breast stroke rest motion, (i. e. coast) while others are dressing.

6.	At the third competition you will have as many political parties as you have schools in your district. Canvassing will not be underhand nor will fights be private. The interest of the season will be reaching a climax. Here there should be no election. The new President and cabinet should receive their office on their swimming efficiency. A special part of the contest should be devoted to all eligibles who have aspirations to become officials. Some fair test should be employed. In all probability the chief executive will be the “A-i” of your center. This should be recognized; accordingly two other “P. S. Fish,” giving his insginia a shape not unlike that of a clover leaf, should be publicly awarded.

7.	In the fourth exhibition school should compete with school. If circumstances will permit have leaders of respective schools appoint cheer masters. Those who are on the bench can easily be grouped into school units. The school obtaining largest number of points will have exclusive honor of electing from their unit all new officers. These retain office until the opening of the new season. The names of the newly elected and an honorary mention of those participants who won for their school the needed points should be forwarded to the bulletin board of their school.

8.	In a word, by this means you have established a club with at least 80 active members of which one-third should have passed the test. Interest has maintained itself thorughout. You have expended a large amount of vitality on your work, but far less than if you had no means for the awakening of interest. Your classes are easier to teach, for all are anxious to be able to enter contests. The boys will be easier to handle. To keep a boy interested is to keep him from mischief, especially at your expense. You need not be a clerk; your work is to instruct; all placarding can be done in odd moments. Most of your time should be devoted to those who cannot swim. A special class should be scheduled to teach “side and crawl” to those who have passed the test. The club

Digitized by V.ooQle
463

cannot but appeal to the boys, for in such inviting surroundings where something is always doing and something always to do, they cannot stay away. As to yourself, much energy will be saved by it, the results are encouraging. But, to be successful you must love the work and love your boys.

9.	Now in what will the competition consist? It is most advisable to include, in whatever selection is made, the list suggested by issued bulletins. Again, place of prominence must be given to the breaststroke since it is the desired result of our teaching, but we should not stop there. We should strive to adopt feats which will keep alive interest and ultimately develop into having each school compete for the formation of a (1) a perfect square, (2) a circle, and (3) an eight. If all have gone tolerably fair the accomplishment of the ideal should be realized in the final exhibition. Each school has picked its best 12 men and these under supervision of respective leaders and instructor have gone through repeatedly the formation of desired figures - all breast-rest-stroke. After the formation of figure has been begun on competition day, two minutes should be allowed for each figure. The three figures should not be made successively but each school should follow in turn first the formation of the square, then the circle and then the eight. Now, what feats will lead up to this work? The following may be used. First, the relay race which consists of two teams on which are four men. Each team with its leader and anchorman stand at different corners of pool and at a given signal one of each side swim around pool in opposite directions until they come to the place they left, here they are relieved by the second man, so on until the anchorman loses or wins for his side. Of all feats, this in my 5 years of experience, seems to appeal especially to boyhood. Relay may be at first free stroke, - later side, and then breast-stroke, or every man may be made to swim a certain stroke, i. e., first man on each side will swim overhand, second man, side; third, breast-stroke and fourth man, crawl-stroke.

Second:	Around	the	pool against time, free stroke, side or breast.

Third:	Around the pool for form - breast-stroke.

Fourth:	Around	the	pool in least number of breast-strokes.

Fifth:	Down or across the pool with breast-stroke leg motion, no

arms.

Sixth:	The shallow stiff plunge; then least number of breast-strokes

across.

Between these events there should always be some comedy:

1st. Blindman’s bluff:	A number of lads have their eyes blindfolded,

after a few fast turns they are pushed overboard. Those reaching other side are the winners. - They swim in all directions hoping that they are making for the goal. This always brings laughter.

2nd. Candle Race: Swimmer holds a lighted candle and swims to winning point. If candle goes out he is disqualified.

3rd. Horse race: Two large boys with ropes over their shoulders on which two small boys either hang or swim, leave opposite corners of pool and criss-cross in mid-water to directly opposite corners of pool. The criss-cross generally causes diaster to small boys because of entanglement of ropes.

4th. The old tug of war al ways brings with it fun.

Digitized by
464

Now what shall the prizes be? Or how shall the instructor answer the question: “What's you get if you swim?" Of course the dub plan helps the solution by offering points to be gained and honors to school, etc. Still, something more tangible must be given in the beginning to arouse interest and lift them to where they will be willing to compete for points, etc. I asked for suggestions of leaders before the second competition—among the more plausible given answers was the nearest thing to a boy's heart after a swim—“pie". Leaders volunteered ten pies. Names of those were obtained and their mothers baked the pies. The names of the mothers were placarded. Fifteen pies found their way into the office the day of competition. This was carried on twice successfully, all enjoyed the sport and club progressed; school rivalry took the place of pies at the final competition.

In closing, one word must be given as to the way to control boys. No two boys are the same, each is a microcosm in himself. No inflexible rules can be given. Points found in any book on pedagogy may assist, but the instructor must have in himself a natural tact which will enable him to size up separately and deal efficiently with each pupil. As a general rule be stem but good-natured—be able to see a joke—if you lose your temper don't let boys see it—it is a sign of weakness.

In a word be MASTER and make them feel that you are by your interest in them.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION AS A FACTOR UNDERLYING ECONOMIC FITNESS.

BY £. L. K.LEEBERGER, BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA.

The process of preparing people to meet the demands of life and of preparing them to function most efficiently in the economic development of the nation rests upon four fundamental considerations in my mind. All four of these fundamentals are, of course, related and interdependent in various ways, but in most part independent of one another with respect to the agencies which can best promote them. It is this differ-entiation between the agencies for the promotion of economic fitness that I wish to emphasize, since I feel that much of the future value of physical education in the promotion of such fitness depends upon a recognition of this differentiation.

There are many fundamentals underlying economic fitness but for the purposes of this discussion they may, I think, be grouped under four headings:	education, healthy well-being and morale. First, education em-

phasizing vocational training, is essential to skill and celerity in accomplishing the specific tasks of one’s profession, to greatest national productivity and to the preparation of individuals for efficient service to the nation in times of either war or peace. In the second place health is essential to consistent activity in meeting the everyday duties and pleasures of life. And third and fourth well-beings with the closely associated fundamental, morale, is essential to joy and enthusiasm in the process of living and to the mental, moral and physical efficiency demanded for business, pleasure and war.

Considering first, education, I shall attempt only briefly to indicate

Digitized by

Google
465

the factors which, to my mind, must receive attention in making this country a “good place for us all to live/* Individual ability and enthusiasm for work, the desire to serve one’s fellows, a social consciousness, a recognition of fundamental economic truths, a sense of patriotism and pride in one’s country and one’s vocation are essential pre-requisites to collective success. These qualities, of course, pre-suppose a certain amount of education along social and economic lines, a proper vocational training and, last but not least, the constant promotion throughout educational processes of team spirit through certain correlated activities.

Continued and increasing economic success in this or any other country demands team work on a grand scale. No class, group, or profession ckn expect to prosper indefinitely through exploitation, coercion, or antagonism toward others. The old saying that “a house divided against itself will surely fall” is only too true of nations. National economic success also demands the safeguarding of health, the promotion of well-being and above all the engendering of the spirit of enthusiasm for justice, fair play, and good-will throughout our entire economic organization. It is not the purpose of this discussion to go into the questions of proper relations between employers and employees, control of profiteering and establishment of wage scales, etc., all of which is, of course, fundamental to economic success. It is my belief, however, that real, broad-gauge, physical education can help even in such matters, through the promotion of well-being and morale throughout our industries. Physical education in its various adaptations has inherent in it the greatest possibilities of any of the correlated activities which are available for the creation of team spirit, morale, loyalty, physical vigor and enthusiasm, The United States Army, Colleges, many communities and in some cases great industries, have discovered the importance of athletics and physical training in the development of such fundamental values. Industrial administrators have long been turning to efficiency studies, to schemes for promoting personal initiative, zeal and plant loyalty, but so far have done relatively little in developing the possibilities of recreation and physical training as sources of influence in such promotion. Too often where the attempt has been made, it has failed through lack of true understanding of the possibilities and the issues involved. It is becoming increasingly clear that industrial recreation and welfare work, which does not have a bearing on increased production has failed to justify itself, for, if such activity is successful, as it should be, in bringing about greater contentment among workers, happier relations between employer and employee, increased well-being, enthusiasm and plant loyalty, it must react on the labor turn-over, on the keenness of mind and body in the perforamce of everyday duties and on team-work, and so finally on the productivity of the plant.

Too much industrial recreation or welfare work so-called, is organized by employers purely as a sop to employees in the hope that it will obscure the real problems of proper wage, hours, etc. On the other hand a work is being promoted by agencies outside the factory in the spirit of missionary service to the downtrodden and abused employees, thus proving a negative, rather than a positive influence with regard to plant loyalty. Needless to say, success under such conditions is bound to prove short-lived. Welfare activities must become recognized as an

Digitized by tjOOQle
466

essential part of the administration and spirit of the industrial plants, with the main purpose always in view, namely that production is the measure of team success. Such a spirit will not only serve the community and the individuals to the highest extent in an economic way but will “carry on” if the nation finds iteslf at bay. This promotion of morale, of enthusiasm and of loyalty is one of the vocations of real physical education, whether it be in the schools, which really constitute one of our most important industries, as brain and brawn factories where future men and women are fashioned, or in industrial plants proper. Physical education to develop such values, must differ however, from the procedure of the past and avoid what has been known to children generally as physical torture, a grind of monotonous, artificial gymnastic drills, with nothing but exercise and the phantom of health for inspiration.

If physical education is to prove as efficient as it should in promoting the fundamentals underlying economic fitness, we must be careful to determine its true possibilities and establish a correct platform on which to base a campaign for its promotion. Health, the second fundamental enumerated must be defined, for the purposes of this discussion, as freedom from infectious disease and structural handicaps, the sort of health which is conditioned by medical agencies through preventive as well as corrective measures. For the maintenance of such health, protection must be provided in schools and industries, in home and community against unsanitary water, milk and food supplies; against agencies of personal contact, such as unsanitary drinking fountains, toilet arrangements, and careless procedure in the control of personal and community infections and finally structural handicaps and abnormalities must be corrected or alleviated where possible. This protection must be maintained through medical supervision of school children or factory employees, through provision of school and public clinics, home nursing programs, etc. Precautions must be taken against accident, trade poisoning, deforming influence of factory and school furniture, equipment, clothing, etc. Finally, education on the subject of personal, sex, home, and community hygiene must be so organized as to develop habits of procedure which will automatically protect the nation against the ravages and degenerative influences of disease.

Health promotion in the above sense is a field which should be administered by public health experts, school doctors and nurses, and not by physical educators. A confusion of responsibility here will prove dangerous to an adequate development of either physical or health education. Health education and supervision is largely the business of preventing infection, or the retrieving of an originally healthy state temporarily deranged. It demands technicians and teachers of highly specialized scientific training, not leaders of play and social activity.

Health, freedom from the drain of infection, either exists or does not exist; one either is suffering from infection, or is free from it, and no amount or type of exercise will prevent or eradicate infection to any significant extent, if we can believe the teachings of modern immunology. I am convinced that health supervision and education is not the field of service for the physical educator of the future save as a factor cooperating with specialists, that this physical training, should most of it be along different lines, and that over zealous physical educators only

Digitized by

Google
467

menace the real possibilities of service in this field when they try to dignify the profession, as many express it, through pretensions of medical power. Physical educators can, and should, co-operate with the experts in this great field of health maintenance and should have a broad fundamental scientific training to prepare them for such co-operation. This, can be said of teachers and welfare workers in all branches of school and factory work to a certain extent. It is essential, however, that physical educators realize their limitations and remain within them, otherwise, usurpation of authority on health matters and the results of unscientific procedures will return like boomerangs to smite them.

Physical education should not confuse its main aims and mode of procedure with that of health supervision for several reasons. To the health attitude we can trace much of the failure of physical education in the past, as seen in its development of medicinal systems of artificial exercise. Health, in the sense of freedom from disease, is not developed or maintained through exercise or recreation, and yet we find that most physical education in the past, and much at the present time, is conceived and promoted primarily as a health movement. Modern researches and development in the field of immunology and hygiene show us the error of this point of view, while demands for a popular, broad-gauged development of the field emphasize the importance of avoiding the health conception of physical education as a menace to its real possibilities for the promotion of economic fitness.

The significant thing, therefore, about my platform of physical education is that I believe it is concerned primarily with the promotion of well-being as differentiated from health, freedom from infection, and that a health attitude toward the profession will in the future, as in the past, destroy physical education’s possibilities for greatest service. I make this differentiation between health and well-being because I believe that the two, though closely related and merging into one another, demand an entirely different type of leadership. Physical Education cannot expect to realize its possibilities through a cult of orthopedic nurses or health technicians such as is demanded for health supervision and education. It demands an essentially different training and must receive a vigorous physical leadership as well as a social and intellectual one.

A pseudo-scientific classification of muscular movements for specific health or corrective purposes with corresponding neglect of the psychological factors involved is sure to follow the health approach. This means boredom, destruction of interest among educators as well as student victims and the creation of antagonism against the profession. Physical education, physical training, athletic recreation are essentially positive in their bearing, and the result is that of developing a state of mind and body which, lacking a better term, I speak of as well-being. In short, we do not find that physical training, athletics, play, etc. tend to prepare the body to resist the inroads of disease. We cannot expect exercise to take the place of vaccination, inoculation, specific medical treatment, operative correction of structural defects, or the avoidance of infection. The most robust, well-trained men in our camps succumbed to influenza. It is a common experience among physicians that the athletic, heavily muscled, physically vigorous man often proved a very difficult patient when attacked by pneumonia, typhoid and other wasting

Digitized by LjOoq Le
468

diseases. There is, of course, a limited bearing which exercise has in the treatment of certain structural conditions. Structural conditions demanding corrective treatment are present in a very small percentage of individuals, however, and this fact should not influence the organization of physical education for the masses but such cases rather should be turned over to orthopedic specialists. Such mistaken emphasis to a large extent defeats even its own aims through the development of antagonism, which carries over into later life, and at the same time ruins possibilities of a broad development in the promotion of the real objectives, general well-beings joyy morale, and physical cleverness in the natural co-ordinations demanded in meeting the physical tests of everyday life.

Physical education has a vocation, therefore, closely related to that of health maintenance, but by no means identical with it, namely, the promotion of the third and fourth fundamentals originally stated, wellbeing and morale. General well-being and morale are fundamental states which must permeate our civilization if national economic success is to continue ultimately. Their importance to armies in the field was fully appreciated during the war and the steps taken toward their maintenance are *well known to everyone. General well-being, coupled with morale, is that state of mind and body which makes life really worth while, and is conditioned, assuming ordinary health, by aesthetic considerations, by happiness, by joy in the mere fact of existence, by an enthusiasm and opportunity for work and for play, and by zest in accomplishment and in service to mankind. Well-being has its mental, as well as its physical side, and proper physical education in its various aspects ministers to the mental, as well as the physical and supplements other agencies of a welfare nature in similar accomplishment. For example, an individual may be healthy and free from disease, but drag out a miserable, logy, inefficient existence, or at least fall far short of his real possibilities for an efficient life, due to neglect of vigorous physical recreation. That person has never lived to the utmost who has not felt the thrill of physical vigor and the zest of physical exertion made possible by a well-trained body. The sense of physical power, the confidence born of physical skill of a practical sort, — these qualities are the rightful heritage of man and woman and it is the business of the physical educators of the future to ensure such a heritage, threatened as it is by the artificial conditions and demoralizing influences surrounding our schools, our factories and our modern community life.

A hearty, vigorous, physically skillful citizenry, filled with altruism and zest for hard work, is essential to the life of the nation. The threat is already in the air. Other nations are creeping up on us because their people can and will endure more physically and because they can and will work harder. Americans are not competing successfully in farming for example, against various foreign nationalities, witness the Japanese, Portuguese, and Armenians in California. We can legislate against them at present and so protect ourselves, but this is treating a symptom only and not driving at the source of the trouble. Young Americans are leaving the farms and seeking the luxury and ease of city life. An attitude of sloth and luxurious indulgence is increasing in our civilization. Where labor in America is forcing down production through systematic loafing and the demand for shorter working hours, our friends, the

Digitized by LjOOQle
469

Germans, and the Japanese are making every move count. We need not resort to their methods of ensuring national strength, but we must develop some agencies in that direction. Real, robust, practical physical education is one of the agencies we can and should turn to.

If, for example, we could get our boys and girls in the schools and our workers in the industries to apply themselves with the enthusiasm and the zest of bodies and minds over-flowing with energy and interest, and could imbue them with the spirit of service to a great patriotic cause, we need never fear for the future of our civilization. If we fail to so inspire them and permit the subtle influence of luxurious living and of ill-balanced, antagonistic economic conditions to take their course, it is only a matter of time when our civilization will be set aside by a more vigorous people with a keener sense of economic justice. As Theodore Roosevelt aptly expressed it:	“Unless this country is made a good

place for all of us to live in, it won’t be a good place for any of us to live in.” There is a patriotic duty ahead for real physical educators: just as Father Jahn long ago inspired the young men of Germany to rouse themselves from physical sloth and perfect their powers of mind and body, their skill, their endurance, and their patriotism, so must physical educators of the future strive to engender through properly administered sport and physical training like qualities in the heterogeneous people of America. This is the vocation and field of service for physical education, and not the development of a new cult or “Fakism” of medicine.

This is the platform on which Physical Education, through its vast gamut of activities, can reach out and influence economic success in a big vital way through the schools and through the industries; for it can produce strength, endurance, and cleverness to meet the physical exigencies of life; it can engender habits of vigorous physical recreation to serve as a never-failing source of joy, enthusiasm and relief from the petty worries and harassments of life; it can promote acquaintance, confidence, genial relationships and plant loyalty throughout industry; it can prove a builder of morale for the young men and young women of America and help to ensure this country its rightful place of leadership among nations.

WHY WE FAILED AT ANTWERP.*

BY GEORGE L. MELIO.

In view of what transpired at Antwerp, in connection with the Olympic Games, August 14th to September 5th, it is a moot point whether these modern Games, with their ever-changing conditions and standards, make for real progress, or even international goodwill, despite obviously inspired articles to the contrary. Instead of emulating the reforms instituted at Stockholm in 1912, by insisting upon ambidexterity, and adopting the most equitable methods of adjudicating gymnastics, the Antwerp authorities appear to have been primarily concerned in making the conditions as complex and difficult as possible, with the re-

* Reprint from the Journal of Scientific Physical Training, Birmingham, England.

Digitized by LjOOQLe
470

suit that not one competitor succeeded in executing the whole of the exercises imposed in the Individual Contest, whilst several nations held aloof from the contests altogether.

Curiously enough, greater discrimination was displayed in arranging the conditions and in the composition of the Jury, for the contest in Swedish gymnastics, than in those according to the German system. In the former, each team of 16 to 24 members was allotted one hour in which to go through a complete Swedish Table. A maximum of 20 was awarded by each of the five judges for each group, and each group had a fixed co-efficient which multiplied by the number of marks decided the points of each group or sub-division. In addition, 5 points were awarded each member who executed all the exercises. The fight for supremacy in this contest, between the Sewdish and Danish teams, was very keen, the former being adudged the winners with 1,364 points out of a possble 1,500, as against 1,325 awarded to the Danes and 1,094 to the Belgian team.

In the Team contest, according to the German system, each team of 16 to 24 members was allotted 15 minutes in which to execute a series of Free, Dumbbell, and Wand exercises of their own composition, after which they executed one compulsory and one voluntary exercise on the Bar, Parallel Bars, and pommelled Horse, and participated in an Obstacle race, consisting of clearing 4 hurdles about 2 ft. 4 in. high, placed i6>£ yards apart. This latter novelty proved a real obstacle in more senses than one, the Britishers being the only team correctly to interpret and execute this particular item—thanks entirely to their clever and versatile coach, Mr. Rudolf Oberholzer—and must have scored heavily in consequence. They likewise held their own in the execution of an admirably-thought-out group of Free exercises, but, of course, failed considerably on the appliances. The results in this contest were as follows —Italy 359,885, Belgium 346,785, France 340,100, Tcheco-Slovaque 305,225, and Great Britain 299,155, /. <?., 60,000 marks behind the winners.

In the Individual Contest each competitor had to submit a freestanding exercise of his own composition, and execute one compulsory and one voluntary exercise on Bar, Parallel-Bars and Rings, and one voluntary on the pommelled Horse. The work shown by some of the continental 'champions, though excellent, hardly equalled the unique performances of Alberto Braglia, Italy, and Louis Segura, France, whose debut at Shepherd’s Bush in 1908 proved such a revelation to English gymnasts, and who by defeating all comers in two consecutive Olympiads, have created a gymnastic record that is likely to stand for all time. Unfortunately, no marks were available for this important contest, whereas in 1912 the Swedes promptly issued a tabulated list of the marks awarded by each judge to each man, thereby creating a precedent which, in the interests of judge and competitor alike, should have'been made compulsory by the International Council I am, however, informed that first and second honours went to Italy and third and fourth to France and Belgium respectively.

In reviewing the British team’s position at Antwerp, one must take the following factors into account:—(i)that gymnastics, as a sport, was never at a lower ebb in England than at the present time; (2) that several members of the British team were inexperienced and insufficiently trained;

Digitized by

Google
471

(3) that the northern countries were unrepresented notwithstanding, that it was a Yorkshire gymnast, Leonard Hanson (Bradford G. C.), who gained twelfth place in the Individual Contest at Sweden in 1912, being considerably ahead of his English confreres, and defeating all the picked gymnasts from Hungary, Luxembourg, Denmark and Finland, and (4) that our most capable exponents being teachers were precluded from competing, by an Association of amateurs, notwithstanding that many of the continental experts were teachers or “moniteurs.”

The injustice of such legislation from a patriotic standpoint will be apparent when it is stated that only on one occasion have our best English gymnasts had an opportunity of meeting the pick of the continental school on anything like equitable terms. This was in Paris, in connection with the Olympic Games in 1900, when Instructor W. Connor, Instructor

E.	Pearce and W. Lloyd Phillips, a prominent amateur, paid their own expenses, in order to participate in the Worlds all-round Gymnastic Championship. This, in addition to the usual advanced apparatus work, included Jumping, Weight-lifting, and Rope-climbing. There has probably never been a more exacting or comprehensive contest than this proved to be, and yet our representatives returned home laden with honours, the French gymnastic press specially commenting on some of their work.

The success then achieved was rendered possible by the non-existence of the British Olympic Association, through whom all entries must now pass, and who are compelled to accept the ruling of the amateurs referred to without question. Half a century ago English gymnasts could hold their own against all comers, at home or abroad, notably in the Manchester district, mainly owing to the keen interest and rivalry in competitive work, and the amicable relations then existing between teacher and pupil. Open competitions and displays were almost of weekly occurrence during the summer months, in connection with various athletic meetings throughout the country, popularising and encouraging gymnastics to an extent quite unknown in the modern school. Very few people are aware of the fact that, though we do not possess a British System of Physical Education, there has existed, since the founding of the Manchester Athenaeum Gymnastic Club in the forties, a British system of adjudicating gymnastics, namely by voluntary exercises in preference to the German system of enforcing set exercises.

The British method was adopted at Shepherd's Bush 1908, and at Stockholm 1912, and attracted a much more representative and numerous entry than was obtained at Antwerp. The German plan lends itself to various abuses, and only becomes equitable when all competitors have been trained in the same school and have enjoyed equal facilities for perfecting themselves in any particular type of work. It is obvious that until we can adopt the policy of co-operation that has ever existed on the Continent between the professional teacher and the amateur, true progress is impossible, and England's prestige will continue to be subordinated to the interests of a section of amateurs favoring German methods, and who through the Amateur Athletic and British Olympic Associations have hitherto been enabled to prevent others from popularis-ing gymnastics.

Digitized by Google
472

TAKING STOCK.*

BY WILLIAM A. STECHER, PHILADELPHIA,

As a rule business men take stock once a year. They get reports upon all phases of their business. A summary of these reports shows them, first of all, if their business as a whole has gone back or forward, or if it is at a standstill. An analysis of the reports shows which part of the business has yielded the best results, which did not amount to much, and which was a flat failure. A close scrutiny of the reports also reveals that a certain part of the equipment is in bad shape, and that extensive repairs are needed. Another part, even if it is reported in good condition, is shown to produce so little that it should be ripped out and replaced by things that produce better results. A real stocktaking is, therefore, a sort of self-survey, and if it is interpreted correctly and open-mindedly it should result in better production, in an increased output.

But, what has all this to do with teachers of physical education? Is it possible for us to “take stock” and to measure our “output” as to quality and to quantity? I certainly think that it is possible. In fact, for quite a number of years I have been trying to measure our output. Although our means are still crude, and the workers far from perfect, the results of our self-surveys have led to quite a number of radical changes, some of which are looked upon as quite revolutionary (and perhaps visionary) by not a few of our colleagues.

Before “taking stock” it is, first of all, necessary to have a clear statement of what stock we have on hand. This stock on the one hand consists of our ideals, of a concrete detailed statement of what we are striving for, and on the other hand, it consists of the physical condition of our pupils and of our plant. In this discussion I shall not touch upon all phases of our work, like hygiene, correct habits of action, etc.

Our plants are the places that we use daily for the giving of muscular exercise. With these limitations in mind, what, then, are the points that should be considered if a teacher of physical education desires to know whether he really is accomplishing something, or if he simply is busy from morning till night, like a squirrel in a cage.

In the following I will mention numerous points, some of which will apply to all teachers, while others will apply only to some.

1.	How many weekly lessons are there? How long are they? Is this sufficient? If not, what do you want? What is your next move?

2.	Who gives the lessons? Are these teachers properly prepared to utilize the time to reach maximum results? If not, what are you doing to improve them?

3.	Have you special aims for each pupil based upon his physical condition? If not, what are you doing to find out what the condition of each pupil is?

4.	How many pupils reach the aims that you have outlined for them? If they failed, what means have you for finding out what caused this

* Reprint from “Black and Gold” journal of the Phi Epsilon Kappa fraternity.
473

failure? If you know what made them fail, what are you doing to have these failures or conditions corrected?

5. Based upon a physical examination, how many pupils need corrective exercises? What are you doing to give these pupils the work they have a right to get?

6.	What part of your equipment is worn out? Is it wise to repair this, or is it more profitable to put in a different kind of apparatus?

7.	What part of your tools (your exercises) is out of date, and is not producing the results that should be obtained. What are you going to use in place of exercises that produce only inferior results?

8.	So far as you personally are concerned, a) what have you done

in recent years to keep in touch with the advances of education in general, and physical education in particular? Are you reading all things that directly relate to your profession? Are you attending summer courses, or other types of extension work, or are you one of those who believe that after graduating from your particular school you have nothing more to learn?	b)	Did you	ever	invite a disinterested but competent	“outsider” to	size	up your	work,	and give you an ppinion of what it	really

is worth?	c)	What is	your	habit of mind? If your attention is	called

to something	that might be	improved, have you a receptive mind, or

do you belong to that group that always is offering excuses because things are not what they should be? Or do you perhaps belong to that still more unfortunate group that is so self-satisfied that any suggestion that would lead to an improvement is immediately classed as a criticism arising through jealousy? That is, are you “a dead one” who unfortunately has not, as yet, been buried?

It appears, therefore, that it is possible for a teacher of physical education to “take stock.” I should furthermore say that this procedure is absolutely necessary where a teacher is working alone in a school, or in an association or a society: that is, where there is no expert supervision of the work. Under such conditions there are few teachers that do not go wrong unless they have definite means of finding out where they are.

THE PHYSICAL DIRECTOR AND SOCIAL ETHICS.

BY CHARLOTTE STEWART, SUPERVISOR OF RECREATION, SALT LAKE CITY.

In this day of readjustments, of revaluations, the ethical function of any group of individuals, be they Physical Directors, Physicians or Educators, or better still all three in one, is as difficult to fix as ethics is to define. What is social ethics? Is it a composite of the conduct of society or is it the highest standard of human behavior? Is there an ethical standard, a definite objective towards which one may work, by which one may determine his relative value to society? Rather it seems that the principles of social ethics are shifting about - as crushed ore on the top of a jigger, altering the pattern, depth, thickness; changing texture and arrangement. An amateur in the field of ethics trembles at the apparent chaotic state of ethical aims and standards, the dearth of existing knowledge concerning human behavior, the absence of consistent information and practices for determining desirable action. Or, if the facts are at hand, there has been a sorry use made of them. As

Digitized by ^ooQle
474

a nation or as individuals we feel a moral serenity upon a pedestal of subjective ethical standards, when a social quake sends our self-erected God of Right crumbling down.

Yet for the purpose of this discussion there must be fixed - the apparently unfixable - a tangible ethical objective. Disregarding Kantian philosophy and book-born ethics let us consider an American Educational Product, the Morality Code. A children’s code it is, selected after nationwide competition and a children’s code is chosen because social ethics in our communities for many years to come will be determined in the aggregate not by the High School or College graduate but by the one oF Elementary grade.

In a survey of this simple code let us make note of those law-defined qualities that are well within the sphere of every Physical Director:

1.	The Law of Health:	The	good American tries to gain and to

keep Perfect Health.

2.	The Law of Self Control: The good American controls himself.

3.	The Law of Self Reliance: The good American is self reliant.

4.	The Law of Reliability: The good American is reliable.

5.	The Law of Clean Play: The good American plays fair.

6.	The Law of Duty: The good American does his duty.

7.	Law of Good Workmanship:	The good American tries to do the

right thing in the right way.

8.	Law of Team Work:	The	good American works in friendly co-

operation with his fellows.

9.	Law of Kindness: The good American is kind.

10.	The Law of Loyalty: The good American is loyal.

We have traveled a few paces from the “shalt not” of the Mosaic Law. These simple statements may be added to or elaborated on but it is safe to assume that they embody much of the American Ideal of Social Ethics. Perhaps you may even say as one director did when presented with this list and asked to devise methods for putting such a program into the schools—‘‘That is easy; it is all included in right physical training.”

Undoubtedly the working out of such a standard in each of the many departments of a compulsory educational system and the consequent dove-tailing of efforts alone could help to bring about that stability and ethical unanimity without which this nation or any other nation so constituted cannot long endure.

The spirit of unrest is abroad, old standards lie shattered about us, strongly formed new ones are rising through the deforming ruins into an agitated atmosphere in which their growth finds uncertain nourishment. It is time that each take stock of his and of society’s ethics.

With this simple code before us and with such mental adaptations and adjustments as are necessary to encompass the periods of youth and maturity let us pause for a moment and consider the Physical Director and his particular qualifications for the great task of making individuals social assets to society; in measuring up to such a code.

The Physical Director to-day in any progressive community, except where the isolated and barren mind still exists, is not the man who whips into shape the hireling summer baseball team, is not the society hanger-on whose apprenticeship is six weeks at a school for dancers, nor is he the

Digitized by v^ooQle
475

Herculian with distended chest and biceps. No, he is a man of vision,, a student of human behavior, a social thinker. A man big of brain, loyal of heart and blessed with vigorous health. He must look the part. It is more than sad to hear such comments from the laity as - “If he is an example of Physical Education - Excuse me!” He must be versed in the theories, sciences and practices of the profession, and advance with one arm linked to medical science, the other about social science and with his eyes peering straight ahead. For he must read aright individual, communal and national physical needs; he must interpret social behavioristic, group, and personal psychology—in other words, he must be social and physical diagnostician. He must possess qualities of leadership, must measure up to every standard that he would set for others, either in Hygiene or Sportsmanship. He should know the rules of citizenship and play by them; carry boundless enthusiasm and a dauntless will into his work and hold his ideals aloft but not aloof. Then and then only would he measure up every inch a Physical Director.

A State Superintendent recently in addressing a group of Physical Directors said - “This is the most important educational body of this State.” Let us hope he meant it and that the same may be said of every state.

In these qualifications, which are common to all real educators, alone lies the power and responsibility of the Physical Director—should he possess them all. Physical education itself by virtue of its very nature is penetrating and powerful in fixing human behavior and habituating ethical ideas.

First the Physical Examination and consultation fixes an intimate personal interest and confidence that is very much akin to that of the family physician with the added cohesion of a normal rather than a pathogenic linking interest, a creative rather than a remedial tie. If such an examinor should be a physician, as is often the case, then the director should be the physician — or else nurses and physicians should know more about physical diagnosis in activity. Certainly physical examinations have passed the statistical stage long ago, and with Health Conferences, Hygienic Instruction and practices must break away from twenty-five year old traditions and blaze a new trial that will “Carry On” every verified Hygienic Habit that is essential to the most efficient living — nor must it stop there. Directors may have to be multiplied, but the task must remain theirs, great as it is. The job must never be cut down to fit the jobber. Let us eliminate all the journeymen from the profession.

Within his own department the Director should play the Health game hard by shaping of courses, fixing of hours, scheduling of infinite activities. Within his system he should sell the health idea to other departments, should keep his hand on the general programming, should check up on the external physical conditions, light, seating, feeding, temperature and demand sufficient outside and inside playing space. Specia activities he must devise for certain groups; the brakes he must put on others, the boilers of some individuals must be fired.

How different is the health training for two groups of girls in the same town. If George Eliot’s prophet vision was right when she said “Great as it is to direct the industries of a nation it is more important

Digitized by

Google
476

to determine the leisure of its people/* — then upon you rests a goodly portion of the responsibility. As the bread-earning activities in industrial life become more machine like, more simple and monotonous, the activities of an equal time during leisure must become more complex, more generalized, more creative; most occupy the whole man more completely. A large proportion of this education for leisure lies within the gymnasium, the play field, the water front, the mountain or road side with nature. It is the physical director’s job to make all of these yield a full quota of allurement to the working, professional and business men of tomorrow. It is the physical director’s job to make all of these yield a full quota. What qualities of social ethics will be needed in this nation’s great tomorrow, if the laborer, the professional man, the business man, the mother at home, measures up to the standard? Certainly we need skill, and the desire to excell; undoubtedly we need fair play and team work, will power, determination and courage to fight, overcome obstacles, and, always, loyalty to right. Are not all these omnipresent in embryo on the play field in all the hereditary games and plays of childhood, in the natural physical activities of youth? If their play is directed rightly they should find no difficult readjustment when the play field is supplanted by the shop, the office, the clinic. Surely the standards of the physical director cannot help but affect the ethics of labor and business tomorrow.

The task is yours—and great as it is I commend it to you. May the realization of the same measure up in every deed to the infinite possibilities—and responsibilities.

BOOK REVIEW

“a thought book on the socratic method” by T. Sharper Knowlson.

200 pages. 5^x9 inches. Published by J. B. Lippincott Co.,

Philadelphia. Price, $2.50.

The aim of the book is to compel the reader to think. The author at the top of each page gives a quotation, usually from a well known writer. Below are several leading questions, often containing similar or antagonistic thoughts, which are asked in a spirit of friendly challenge, in order to stimulate the reader’s reflective powers, and to make him take a stand and think the thing out for himself. Opposite a space is reserved for personal notes and comments, and an opportunity given the reader to put his own questions.

It would be a good book to use as a text book, where there would be opportunity for discussion or conference. In carrying out the plan of the book, no doubt the reader is supplied with mental gymnastics. However he is expressing only his own opinions, and it is doubtful if in this way he would get much benefit. His mental processes may be all wrong. If however the book is used as a text book for a group of people, much good might be derived by comparison of answers.

For people who wish to form the habit of analyzing thoughts that are presented to them, rather than accept them for what they appear on the surface, this book presents good problems. For professional people, lawyers and teachers especially, who have to continually analyze and question it would be a profitable and interesting study.

-J. B. W.

Digitized by
477

Extracts and reprints

FROM FOREIGN EDUCATION JOURNALS

BY GEORGE ALTMANN, NEWTON, MASS.

From the Journal of Scientific Physical Training, Birmingham, England.

‘The Relation of Physical Exercises to Myopia” by F. W. Edridge-Green *

All authorites are agreed that myopia or short-sight is rarely a congenital defect, but is acquired thru elongation of the eyeball. A careful and detailed examination of some thousands of cases of short-sight has convinced me that the old theory that it was caused by the use of the eyes for near work has no evidence in support of it.

Now it is obvious that if the internal pressure of the eye be increased to such an extent that its outer coats stretch, myopia will be produced. If any one try to lift a heavy weight which is alipost at the limit of his capacity, he will experience a feeling of tension in his eyes, and he may in fact, close his eyes in order to support them. Any action which prevents the blood in the veins of the head and neck from returning easily to the heart obstructs the outflow from the eye, and causes an increase of the pressure within it. Anyone who has witnessed a violent fit of coughing or straining in lifting very heavy weights must have noticed how the veins in the neck stand out, and the eyes appear to be starting from the head.

In the training of children in whom the eye is growing and in whom the coats of the eye are much softer than in the adult, those exercises which cause pressure and lead to myopia should be avoided. For instance, that exercise in which the child is prone and raises itself up and down on the hands, with its eyes pointing downward, should be abolished. That the general athlete rarely becomes myopic is probably due to the resisting power of his eyes, which has become developed like the rest of his body. The student who takes his exercise very intermittently should particularly avoid those forms which produce increased tension in the eye, such for instance, as riding up steep hills and bending forward when cycling, using dumbbells and lifting heavy weights.

Any occupation which involves heavy lifting is not suitable for a myopic. It is particularly in those who have sedentary occupations-and who are not in a fit physical condition and have hereditary tendency to myopia that these forms of exercise should be avoided. Careful regulation of exercises, especially in the debilitated is necessary.

In conclusion, all exercises should be performed as far as possible in the erect position, with the eyes pointing forward.—Vol. XIII, No. jg.

The Medical Consultative Council of the Ministry of Health issued an Interim Report in May, sketching a scheme for the future provision of medical and allied services for the community.—Our interest in the report lies in the prominence that it gives thruout to educational and remedial gymnastics as “allied medical services.” We read—“Physical training is thus concerned with education, with the maintenance of health

Digitized by t^ooQle
478

and recreation of the people, and with the curing of disease and disability, and there is no sharp line of demarcation between these functions-** It is suggested that the administration of the gymnastic branch of the general medical service should come under the “control of Health and Education Authorities by means of a joint committee with power to secure members having special knowledge of physical training.”— Physical training ought not to be an adjunct or aid to education, as school medical service undoubtedly is, but part of the thing itself. Gymnasts have felt that too close administrative yoking up with the medical service has often had the effect of keeping them out of the inner and more pedagogic life of the schools. Whether the suggested Joint Committee of Control would help matters in this respect or not we must wait and see, for as yet (except in Gloucestershire) the whole thing is only on paper.—Vol. XIII, No. 37.

Extracts from “Koerper und Geist,” Leipzig, condensed:

Report the Board of Directors of the Committee of the whole, and of the General Meeting of the Central Committee on Play for Adults and Youths:

It is clear that there are approximately 800,000 youths, who, by reason of their occupations, receive little physical exercise. Here is an opportunity to disseminate information and create interest in play and recreation.

Following the example of Bavaria, an attempt should be made to conduct courses in play in Catholic theological seminaries that future priests and leaders of young men’s organizations may be thus trained. The Catholic welfare societies for youths are to be required to send a representative to the general meeting of the Central Committee.

In order to simplify and unify the reports and papers of the Central Committee published by various journals, it was decided to amalgamate ‘Body and Mind” with the “Gymnastic Monthly” beginning January i, 1921.— Vol. 29^ No. 8.

Report of the Technical Committee of the Central Committee on Play for Adults and Youths:

Sixteen members answered to roll call, including two representing the German Gymnastic Union, one from the Workers Society for Gymnastics and Sports and one from the national gymnastic school at Spandau. Rules for the games of hurl ball were formulated. — Instead of varying rules for many similar games such as tower ball, hand ball and snatch ball, an effort will be made to set definite rules which are to be generally recognized. A book on snow sports and one on water sports are being prepared.—Vol. 29, No. 8.

Agricultural Help by Students in Temporary Military Encampments. Above all, the students had the duty of providing the troops with farm products and became their comrades and helpers in the nation’s cause.

Altho there was a general loss in weight during the first four weeks, due to the unusually strenuous nature of the work, normal weight was more than regained within a month or six weeks. It would be splendid if agricultural help in some form could be given by students in higher educational institutions as these students were wonderfully improved in body and spirit. A table attached shows that the boys’ ages were 15 to ll years of age, length of service 8 to 11 weeks; increase in weight averaged 6 lbs. in height Vi in-., in chest girth, Vi in.—Vol. 29, No. 9.

Digitized by tjOOQle
479

“Once Drill, Now Sport,” is the title of an article by F. Schatz in No. 6 of “Military Sports”. Drill has developed strict discipline and strong co-operation among the troops but has stifled every trace of individual thought. Individuality in thought and act can be developed by a variety in sports, which are now to be substituted for drill. The author’s views are corroborated by many good illustrations.—VoL 2yy No. 8.

(I..	—	■	.... ■■	...

A T H L E T I C

*** EMANUEL HAUG, New York City

o ■■■■ .. ■■	  »	■ ....  ■	—■■■a

THE AMATEUR IS THE REAL SPORT.

Have you ever stopped to consider why one man takes a delight in entering competitive sports for his pleasure, while the other man refuses to do so unless he is paid?

It is the old question of amateurism and professionalism. The professionally inclined man considers pugilism, as an example in point, his business. Some even call this line a “profession.” Such a man will not start unless he is paid. Take the other man who indulges in boxing as a sport for sport’s sake. This man has to. go through just as severe training as the professional. He has to stand just as many bumps and bloody noses and yet many times gets nothing for his trouble of training, his hard knocks,—not even a ribbon indicative of victory. He gets a real thrill out of his competition and is more enthusiastic over the sport than the professional.

Take the college man in any type of sport. What does he get? He goes all through a season of many months, track, baseball, football, swimming, boxing, wrestling. There are no prizes, no medals, no cups. When it comes down to money prizes the college man would start a lynching party on the man who even suggested such a thing. When the season is all over and a team of boxers or what not has defeated its most deadly rival, that victory itself is the payment. When a college man “makes” his varsity team and plays or competes against the varsity considered the “big event” of the season or in a college conference series, that man is entitled to a sweater with the initial of his college. This is given him free of charge and means more in the life of a college man than many thousands of dollars.

Why has the amateur this viewpoint, as opposed to the financial consideration the minority of men insist on before they will perform? In many cases the man who demands money and becomes proficient in his art of sport either cannot or will not bestir himself to enter a substantial line of business. The majority of these men have not the brains, ability or ambition to do anything real. They prefer to hang around street corners, and once a week or twice a month engage in a boxing match for which they are paid according to their rating in their so-called profession. Their life in competition as a general rule is short lived and

Digitized by
480

their earning power quickly finds its end in this endeavor. Then they start to look for work and very few make anything of themselves.

No laws will ever change- this peculiar condition. The fact remains that the amateur sportsman not only gets more real fun out of his sport than the professional, but that the future holds greater possibilities for him in a business life than for the man who insists on payment for his services. There are exceptions, of course, but these exceptions are the brainy, thinking minority of the professional athletes.—Salt Lake City Tribune.

ATHLETICS IN SOUTH AMERICA.

A South American athletic meet is held in April of each year and keen interest is manifested generally in the sports.

The first South American championship meet was held in Buenos Aires in 1910, the contesting countries being Argentina, Uruguay and Chile. Argentina won by the narrow margin of two points. On account of the European war no further contests were held until 1918, when the contestants met again in Buenos Aires. Chile then carried off the honors. The 1919 games took place in Montevideo, the Chilean athletes again winning the South American championship. In the last week in April the fourth international meet was held in Santiago, Chile, the same three countries participating.

For the third consecutive time Chile won over her two rivals, beating Uruguay by eighteen points, with Argentina still further behind.

All of the usual games were included in the meet, although it is somewhat difficult at times to recognize them under their Spanish names. For instance, the standing broad jump is styled the “long leap without impulse,” translating literally, while the running jump becomes the “long leap with impulse”. Many of the original English terms are retained when there is no satisfactory Spanish translation for them.

Several South American records were broken in the recent meet. Rosenquist of Buenos Aires made the 200 meters in 16 2-5 seconds, the former record being 17 flat. Juan Jorquera, a Chilean, easily won the

5,000	meter race in 16 minutes 11 3-5 seconds. While most of the records made at Santiago are still considerably below the world’s records, comparison of the time made in the earlier meets shows that good progress is being made. This is due to the introduction of modern training methods and especially to the growing enthusiasm for sports among the youth of the three countries.

The rivalry of Uruguay, Chile and Argentina along athletic lines is a splendid thing. While Uruguay, Chile and Argentina have the advantage over the others from the standpoint of climate and elevation, there is no good reason why those nearer the tropics should not also make a favorable showing. Perhaps it will not be long until a Pan-American athletic meet is held. Such a contest might be a fitting way to celebrate the first centenary of the promulgation of the Monroe Doctrine, now only three years off.—Exch.

WANTED:—Several copies of the February, 1920, number of Mind and

Body. Please notify Publishers, New Ulm, Minn.

Google
481

P»

YSIOLOGY AND HYGIEN |h

D. M. P. KROGH, M. D.

pie and digestion.—There is a widely current slang expression which bewails the depressing circumstance that “somebody is always taking the joy out of life.” Many Americans have become wedded early to an outspoken liking for pie, that typical national pastry. The predilection for this article of diet seems to grow with the years. Sooner or later, however, the aforesaid somebody, who is more than likely to be a member of the medical profession is certain to issue a note of warning against the alimentary dangers that lurk in pie. Cake, the distant pastry relative, is somewhat less likely to form the subject of objections from the psyhio-logic critic, while puddings usually belong to the immunes, or at least receive tolerant consideration. The proof of the pudding—and why not also of the pie—is the eating. Accordingly, a number of gastroenterologists* at the Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia, have come to the defense of pie by actually determining the gastric response to it and analogous foods in the healthy human stomach. Direct comparisons of a variety of pies, cakes and puddings representative of American culinary art, on the same persons, indicated that pies “were handled more readily than cakes, and puddings somewhat more readily than either.*’ For those who can think best in terms of statistics, it may be stated that the average gastric evacuation time of puddings was two hours and eighteen minutes, against two hour* and twenty-seven minutes for pies; whereas cakes followed in the wake with an average record of three hours and two minutes. Averaging the highest total acidities, values were obtained for puddings of 92, for pies of 90, and for cakes of 90. Some of these values are not widely divergent from the classic data obtained on Alexis St. Martin, whose stomach permitted Beaumont to make his pioneer investigations in gastric digestion. There is no occasion to report here the insignificant distinctions between custard pie and lemon meringue, for example, in their gastric behavior; but it must be admitted that mince pie, so often regarded as an arch offender of the digestive tract, requires a rather long time (from two and three quarters to three and one quarter hours) to leave the stomach. The addition of ice cream to a piece of pie—a unique American combination—does not increase the burden of the stomach to any extent, and the conventional apple pie and cheese likewise give a conservatively good report. To a few persons it may be a consolation to know that angel’s food cake remained distinctly longer in the stomach than did devil’s food cake. Of course, gastric evacuation is not the sole, complete test of the dietary worth of a food.—Current Comment. “The Journal Am. Med. Assoc." y Aug. 21 y 1920.

* Millery R. J.; Fowler y H. L.; Bergeimt 0.; Reh/usst M. £., and Hawky P. B.; The Gastric Response to Foods, XII, Response of the Human Stomach to Piesy Cakes and Puddings, Am. J. Physiol. 52:248 {June) 1920.

Digitized by LjOOQle
482

lefthanded ness.—One of our subscribers writes as follows:	“I	do

wish you would start a discussion on Lefthandedness. I have warred with my First Grade teachers against making children born left handed use the right hand. I have written to many authorities and consulted neurologists and they all agree that nervous disorders in later life can be traced to this injudicious insistence on use of the right hand.”

The following item taken from Deutsche Medizinische JVochenschrift, Berlin, touches this question and explains why the insistence on use of the right hand leads to the troubles mentioned.

Dr. H. Griesbach states that owing to the fact that in left handed persons the speech center is located in the right hemisphere of the brain, instead of in the left as in righthanded persons, the custom of compelling them to write with the right hand, which work is for the most part associated with the speech center, causes them to struggle for years in order to transfer the speech center from the right hemisphere to the left. Lefthanded persons are not originally mentally inferior, as Stier maintains, but it is possible for them to become so through the above described attempt at a readjustment of the speech center. The result of their efforts may be that the speech center is not predominantly located on either side, which Griesbach regards as an unfortunate state of affairs, as it interferes with hemisphere differentiation during the process of its development throughout childhood and adolescence. In adults, a change from the right to the left, which sometimes becomes necessary through accident, is not marked by any central changes, as their unilateral hemisphere differentiation has become definitely fixed.

factory hygiene.—Factory hygiene was first officially recognized in England in the factory act of 1802. Since those days the scope of factory legislation has broadened and has come to include not only the control of hours of work, length of shift, night work and so forth, but also the maintenance of cleanliness and sanitation in general, the prevention of accidents and the ill effects to health arising from certain operations, processes and dangerous trades. Particular attention has been given to the condition of employment of women and children, but latterly it has been more clearly recognized that the male worker also needs protection from injurious effects which may arise from his ordinary occupation. The necessary conditions for health are twofold, first, favorable conditions for the body itself, namely, food, air, exercise, cleanliness, warmth and suitable alternation between rest and work, and secondly a satisfactory environment, including a sanitary factory, reasonable hours of lab%or, good housing accommodation, and avoidance of injury or poisoning from industrial processes. When these conditions are fulfilled we may expect to find industrial workers enjoying healthier and longer lives.—J. State A/., July, 1920.

physical exercise in the french army.—By an order of Andre Lefevre, minister of war, sports have been made conpulsory in the army. Hereafter all field officers and captains must be qualified to direct the physical exercises of their commands, and all lieutenants and sublieutenants must be able to perform the functions of captain of a football team. —From a letter to the “Journal Am. Med. Assoc.”

Digitized by CjOOQle
483

N OTES AND

COMMEN

PRIZE CONTEST FOR MICHIGAN CHILDREN.

$850 worth of prizes are to be given to the rural school children of Michigan thru a Play Story Contest which has been arranged to foster interest of the children in the playground equipment of the country schools.

Many thousands of dollars, the earnings of the State Boxing Commission, have been spent for the purchase of recreational material which has been distributed throughout the rural schools of the State of Michigan. Letters have been received from a number of children expressing their delight with the material furnished them in this way. These letters have been a source of great pleasure, and with the double object in view of receiving more of the letters and at the same time stimulating an interest in the composition work of the children, the following contest has been devised.

Every child attending one of the rural schools of the State of Michigan is eligible to compete for and receive one of the prizes given by the Boxing Commission for a letter in which the child tells of the pleasure he has had with the athletic equipment furnished the rural schools and of its usefulness. Teachers will ask all of the children of the fifth grade and above to write a letter to the county commissioner of schools telling him in less than 200 words of the value of the equipment received by their school. The county commissioner will receive these letters and select from them the five best, marking them in the order of excellence. These five letters will then be forwarded to the Rural School Contest Editor, Department of Public Instruction, Lansing, Michigan. The county sending in the five best letters will receive first prize of $150 worth of equipment. The county sending in the five second best letters will receive the second prize of $160 worth of equipment, and the county sending in the five third best letters will receive the third prize of $50 worth of equipment.

An individual prize will be given to each boy and girl in each county who writes the best letter. These winners will be selected by the county commissioner. Individual prizes are as follows:	For	the boy, choice of

regulation baseball and bat, a soccer ball, or football; for the girl, choice of volley ball, a tennis racket, or an indoor ball and bat.

BUREAU OF EDUCATION CONFERENCE ON PHYSICAL

EDUCATION.

ATLANTIC CITY-, N. J., MARCH I AND 2, I92I.

Wednesday, 2 P. M., March i, 1921.

Atlantic City, N. J., Olivet Presbyterian Church (Tennessee & Pacific Aves.)

Chairman:	Dr. P. P. Claxton, Commissioner of Education.

Digitized by Google
464

General Subject: “Progress of the Year in Physical Education/'

1.	Progress in Public Appreciation of Physical Education (15 min.)

2.	The New Conception of Physical Education and its Relationships with Health (15 min.)

3.	Progress in State Legislation and Organization (15 min.)

4.	Progress in Preparation of Teachers and Leaders.

(a)	General Summary (10 min.)

(b)	Contributions of the Interdepartmental Social Hygiene Board (10 min.)

5.	Child Welfare Organizations Promoting Physical Education (15 mil*.)

6.	Outlook for Federal Legislation (15 min.)

7.	General discussion.

Thursday, March 2nd.

Meeting of the Department of Physical Education of the National Education Association.

SECOND CONVENTION OF THE EASTERN DISTRICT.

BUFFALO, N. Y., MARCH I7-18-I9, HEADQUARTERS, HOTEL STATLER.

Officers of the Eastern District:	Mr.	Carl L.- Schrader, President,

Dr. George L. Fischer, Mr. Henry Schnelle, Dr. F. W. Maroney, Miss Bessie L. Barnes, Mrs. R. J. McCormick.

Program Committee: Mr. Carl H. Burkhardt, Chairman, Dr. F. W. Maroney, Mr. Lawrence S. Hill, Miss Bessie L. Barnes, Miss Helen Frost.

THURSDAY, MARCH 17.

(Tentative Program Morning and Afternoon)

Registration at Headquarters;

Delegates will visit under guide any of the following places to observe work in physical training;

Public Schools, including State Normal,

Private Schools,

Parks and Playgrounds,

Social and Community Work,

Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A.

8:00 P. M. Opening session, Hutchinson High School; Chairman, Carl L. Schrader.

1.	Music:	All High School Orchestra, Mr. Arthur J. Abbott, Director.

2.	Address of Welcome:	Hon.	George	S.	Buck,	Mayor of Buffalo.

3.	Address “Physical Education in the Schools of Buffalo'*—Mr. Ernest

C.	Hartwell, Superintendent of Schools, Buffalo, N. Y.

4.	Address “Physical Education and the State*'—Hon. William S Runyon, Governor of New Jersey.

5.	Reception and Dance:	Chairman,	Reception	Committee, W. Howard

Pillsbury.

FRIDAY, MARCH l8.

9:30 A. M.

Registration at Headquarters, Statler Hotel

General Meeting, Banquet Room, Lawrence S. Hill, Presiding:

Topic—“The Aims and Values of Physical Education":

1.	“The Public School View Point,"—Dr. Charles H. Keene, Boston, Mass. Discussion, io minutes.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
485

2.	“The State Supervisor’s View Point”—Mr. Daniel Chase, Supervisor of Physical Education, New York State

Discussion, io minutes, led by Floyd Rowe, Supervisor of Physical Education, Michigan.

3.	“The Normal School View Point”—Dr. Ernest H. Arnold, President, New Haven School of Gymnastics.

Discussion, 10 minutes, led by Carl L. Schrader.

4.	“The Private School View Point”—Mr. Walter D. Head, Head Master, Nichols School, Buffalo, N. Y.

Discussion, 10 minutes, led by Miss Mary H. Lewis, Principal of the Park School.

5.	“The Club Gymnasium View Point”—Mr. Alfred Broadbeck, Cincinnati Gymnasium.

Discussion, 10 minutes.

General Meeting, Banquet Room, 2:30 P. M., Miss Bessie L. Barnes, Presiding.

Topic—“Physical Education and the Health of the Community.”

1. “The Health Commissioner’s View Point”—Dr. F. . E Fronczak, Health Commissioner, Buffalo, N. Y.

2. “The Public School Medical Inspector’s View Point”—Dr. Harry B. Burns, Director of Hygiene, Public Schools, Pittsburgh, Pa.

3.	“The School Nurse’s View Point”—Miss Lelia Ashley, R. N., Director of Physical Education, Perry High School, Perry, N. Y.

4.	“The Dental Inspector’s View Point”—Speaker to be announced.

7:30 P. M.—Exhibition by Grade and High School pupils, Place to be

announced.

SATURDAY, MARCH 19

9:30 A. M. General Meeting, Banquet Room. Dr. F. W. Maroney, Presiding.

1.	“Personal Health Problems”—Dr. J. H. McCurdy, Secretary-Treasurer-Editor, American Physical Education Review.

2.	“Physical Education and Human Behavior”—Dr. Daniel Bell Learyr Professor of Psychology, University of Buffalo.

3.	“The Physical Test of a Man”—Dr. D. A. Sargent, President of the Sargent School for Physical Education, Cambridge, Mass.

4.	Business Meeting to be announced.

2:30 P. M. Sight Seeing Trips.

HOTEL RATES FOR THE CONVENTION OF THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF THE AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION

ASSOCIATION.

BUFFALO, N. Y., MARCH 17,18, I9, I92I.

HOTEL STATLER, WASHINGTON AND SWAN STS. HEADQUARTERS. (4JO Rooms).

Single Rooms.

#3.00 with shower (single bed for one). $4.00 to $6.00 with tub and shower, (double bed for one).

Double Rooms.

$5.00 with shower, double bed for two. $6.00, $6.jo, $7.00, J8.ow with tub and shower bath, (double bed for two).

Digitized by ^ooQle
486

HOTEL LAFAYETTE, WASHINGTON ST., AND LAFAYETTE SQUARE. (4OO Rooms).

Single Rooms.

$3.00 without bath. $3.50 with shower. $4.00—$5.00 with tub bath. Double Rooms.

J4.J0 without bath. $5.50 with shower. $6.00—I7.J0 with tub bath. The $5.00 single rooms and the $7.50 double rooms are outside rooms; the others are on the court.

HOTEL IROQUOIS, MAIN AND EAGLE STREETS. (4OO Rooms).

Single Rooms.

J2.J0—$3.50 without bath. $4.00 with bath.

Double Rooms.

$5.00 without bath. $6.50—$8.00 with bath.

HOTEL LENOX, NORTH STREET NEAR DELAWARE AVE. (2JO Rooms.)

Single Rooms.

$2.50—$3.00 without bath. $3.50—$4.00 with bath.

Double Rooms.

I3.J0—$5.00 without bath. $6.00—$7.00 with bath.

HOTEL TOURAINE, DELAWARE AVENUE NEAR CHIPPEWA ST. (4OO Rooms).

Single Rooms.

$2.00 without bath. $3.00—$3.jo with bath.

Double Rooms.

$4.50 sharing bath between two rooms. $6.00—$7.00 with bath. HOTEL GENESEE, MAIN AND GENESEE STREETS. (iJO Rooms).

Single Rooms.

$2.00 without bath. >3.00 with bath.

Double Rooms.

$4.00 without bath. $5.00—>7.00 with bath.

HOTEL BROEZEL, SENECA AND WELLS STREETS. (iJO Rooms).

Single Rooms.

$2.00—$2.50 without bath. $3.00 with bath.

Double Rooms.

$4.00—$5.00 without bath. $6.00 with bath.

SMALLER HOTELS.

Arlington Hotel, Exchange & Wells Strs., 100 Rooms,

Rates: $2.00 and up.

Graystone Hotel, Johnson Park, near Delaware Ave.,

Rates: $1.50 and up. (Adjacent to Touraine Hotel.)

Men’s Hotel, (Adjacent to and under auspices Y. M. C. A.) 300 Rooms. West Mohawk & Pearl Streets.

Rates:	$1.25	and up.

Y. W. C. A., Hotel, Court St., cor. Pearl St.

Rates:	$1.25	and up.

Castle Inn, Niagara Square, cor. Delaware Ave.,

Rates:	$3.50	per day and up, American Plan.

Red Triangle Inrt, Washington St., near Exchange St.,

Rates:	$1.25	per day and up, (Under auspices Y. M. C. A.)

Marke Hotel, Main & Utica Sts., (150 Rooms.)

Rates: $2.00 and up.

My dear Mr. Stecher:	I	notice	in the last issue of Mind & Body,

as I have seen also in several other places, that the new stadium at

Digitized by C^ooQLe
487

Columbus which seats 67,000 is said to be the largest stadium in the United States. However, the regular seating capacity of the Yale bowl is 80,000, and at the Yale-Harvard game this year, there were 86,000 seats sold, the extra 6,000 being accounted for by wooden benches which were placed at the top and at the bottom of the regular concrete seats.

Sincerely yours, Henry S. Curtis.

In the Baltimore Sun of Dec. 13, we find the following:

Athletic rivalry is commendable as a stimulus to the development of teamwork and loyalty among teammates, but it frequently reaches a stage of almost open warfare. The public is accustomed to hearing about the fighting spirit of various college teams, and games have been played which seemed to the spectators more like war than sport. The Public Athletic League’s method of reducing bloodshed in its State soccer tournament is decidedly interesting from several points of view. If the members of one team have the members of another team as their guests in their respective homes on the night before a game, it seems probable that the feeling between the teams will not pass the bounds of good sportsmanship when the teams meet on the field. It is, one must suppose, much easier to kick a stranger than a guest!

And the acquaintanceships which are thus formed should be useful in broadening the outlook of both hosts and guests as each extols the virtues of his home county.

We have the feeling that if this Maryland plan were followed elsewhere that like good results should accrue.

Dr. Charles W. Eliot, President Emeritus of Harvard University* declared at a conference of New England educators held Jan. 22, that "very few Americans can hear straight or see straight. It is striking how incompetent they are in these directions.” He made a plea for a radical transformation of the educational system to obliterate “herd impulses,” and to release individuality.

“There is an extraordinary amount of credulity in the American people in flying rumors and news of the day,” Dr. Eliot went on. “That credulity is something to which the attention of the educators must be devoted. It is a new development, highly unpromising, in the last thirty years. We are more and more becoming subject to what I may call ‘herd impulses,’ gregarious impulses, common emotions.”

“We are leading hasty, busy—too busy—lives,” he continued. “It is a great, threatening blight, It threatens not only the mental health of the people, but the physical health as well. More and more we see men in active business breaking down, and we see the reduced capacity of women for child-bearing, all due to this hurrying, bustling life to which we are subjected.”

Dr. Eliot said physical training was the most important movement of the day.

“There are some very important changes needed in the American school. I think it is fundamental that we have new methods of instruction, of discipline and of training. There is all too common an opinion that there is no useful training except unattractive, repulsive training. This is just the opposite of the truth for child or adult.”

Digitized by Tooele
488

Gymnasium and playgroun

FRED FOERT8CH, Pittsburg, Pm.

I I ------- ■■■	—	■■■	■	■■	—	—ft

PLAN OF INFORMAL GYMNASTICS.

For First and Second Grades With Outline for March.

BY GERTRUDE LEFLER BRAMAN, QUEEN*S VILLAGE, NEW YORK.

FIRST GRADE—1ST PERIOD.

Snail - Breathing - Drill on direction.

Drill on parts of body.

Bow - Curtsy.

SECOND PERIOD.

Gymnastic Story - Wind:

1-	Lazy-stand and stretch;

2-	Let us go out in the fresh air;

3-	Take a short run;

4-	Breathe;

5-	Act out “Who has seen the Wind;”

6-	Make kites;

7-	Fly kites - Take short run - start kites up - gradually unwind string - let the kite sail higher and higher;

8-	Pull in carefully;

9-	Carry kite over shoulder and run home;

10-Breathe.

Stevenson’s poem may be acted out (description follows in 4th Period work.)

THIRD PERIOD.

Song Games.

Muffin Man Mulberry Bush Farmer in Dell Looby loo Kittie White London Bridge Active Games

Railroad train Red Rover Garden Scamp Beanbag games Teacher and Class

FOURTH PERIOD.

Rhythmic Period

Shoemaker’s Dance Review rhythmic work of previous months.

Imaginary Plays

Hoisting the sail, Skating, Riding a Bicycle, Playing ball, Rolling a hoop, Playing jack stones, Airplanes, Cranking auto.

Digitized by LjOOQle
Children begin to know right from left and may be expected to use left foot starting exercises. Try for uniformity of rhythm, but not of movement; let the period be one of individual expression - not machine like movements - and joyous!

Who has seen the wind? (Arms forward.)

Neither you nor I. (Look over left then right shoulder, hands at chest.)

But when the trees bow down their heads, (Arms stretched, kept close to ears, forward bend.)

The wind is passing by. (Arms still raised, sway body sideways.)

SECOND GRADE.

Marching song,

Point Step March, Michigan syllabus.

Breathing, exercise, Blowing Wind.

Story Gymnastics, Cowboys:

1.	Lasso the pony. Twirl lasso over head in large circles first with right 8 times, repeating with left. Throw lasso, lean well forward, arm stretched out.

2.	Gallop on ponies.

3.	Cowboy's trick; throw a ball way up, pull out revolver, aim and shoot.

4.	Breathing exercise. Take deep breath and say “Bang" as air is exhaled.

5.	Combine 3 and 4.

6.	Race around, and at teacher’s signal stoop while still galloping and pick up hankie, wave in air until own seat is reached

7.	Deep breathing to quiet heart.

Games.

Jump rope (Watch proper landing);

Pom, pom, pull away;

Ring Call Ball;

Bean Bags;

Auto Race;

Oats, Peas Beans;

Lost Child (in the second grade three children may be hidden each time, the first guessed is “It" next time.)

Rhythms.

1.	As We Were Walking Down the Street;

2.	Children’s Quickstep;

3.	Wind (from William Stecher’s “Games & Dances.")

Imaginary Plays.

Flying kites;

Dancing Sunbeams;

The Swing; (Two children grasp hands, the third pushes swing, and at a signal runs through; Stevenson’s “How Would You Like to Go up in a Swing" may be sung.)

Counting out rhyme for who is to be “It":	x

“Willy, nilly, nick nack “Which one will you tak?

“Which is white, and which is black “Willy, nilly, nick nack." (fra Scotland.)

Digitized by v^,ooQle
HYGIENE.

Rules of the Health Game

1.	A full bath more than once a week;

2.	Brushing teeth night and morning;

3.	Sleeping with windows open;

4.	Drinking as much milk as possible;

5.	Eating some vegetables and fruit daily;

6.	At least 4 glasses of water;

7.	Two hours daily in fresh air;

8.	A bowel movement daily;

9.	Laugh all you can;

10.	Make others happy. (Mental health.)

FOUR LEAF CLOVER DANCE.*

Music:	“Four	Leaf	Clover”,	by C. Whitney Coombs.

fart 1. Group of Clovers (4 girls.)

a)	2 waltz steps beginning left making whole turn left - arms

left and right 4th.................................................. 1	M.

b)	Repeat	(a) 3 times ....................................... 3	M.

c)	Glide balance hop left - arms 5th. Glide balance hop

right - arms 5th ................................................... 1	M.

d)	Repeat (c) ................................................. 1	M.

e)	Step swing hop left - arms left intermediate, and step

swing hop right - arms right intermediate........................... 1	M.

f)	Step swing hop left with double hop on left foot - arms left

intermediate ....................................................... 1	M.

g)	Repeat	(c and d) beginning right ......................... 2	M.

h)	Repeat	(e) beginning right .!............................. 1	M.

i)	Step cross turn right - arms high 5th ...................... 1	M.

Total 12 M.

PART 11.

a)	2 waltz steps beginning right - arms right and left 4th .... 1 M.

b)	Repeat (a) ............................................... 1	M.

c)	Glide balance hop right and clap hands. On this step form

a small circle facing inward ...................................... 1	M.

d)	Glide balance hop left and clap hands, turning left and

facing outward .................................................... 1	M.

f)	All join left hands, going in millwheel left - step swing hop

right - glide balance hop left..................................... 2	M.

g)	Repeat (f) ............................................... 2	M.

h)	Leaving circle - 4 waltz steps back to place beginning right

- arms right and left 4th ......................................... 2	M.

i)	Step right sideward and make whole turn right with left

foot raised backward, - arms 2nd .................................. 2	M.

Total 12 M.

* These dances were a part of the pageant, “Spirit of Spring”, by Miss Bertine Libby, published in the November, 1920 issue of Mind and Body. The dances are by Miss C. Whitaker.

Digitized by ^ooQle
491

PART III.

a)	2 waltz steps beginning left - arms left and right 4th ... iM..

b)	Repeat (a) 3 times and form circle, all facing inward -

grasp hands ...................................................... 3

c)	Glide balance hop left ................................... 1

d)	Step swing hop right ..................................... 1

e)	Balance step left forward and right backward ............. 2

f)	4 waltz steps beginning left, going back to original place -

arms left and right 4th .......................................... 2

g) Step cross turn left - arms high 5th....................... 1

h) Step left backward and courtsey ........................... 1

Total 12

DAWN DANCE.

Music:	“At	Dawning”,	by	Charles	Wakefield Cadman.

Introduction:	Group	of	16	girls	in	semicircle.	Kneeling	on

left knee. Arms folded and head down, resting on arms as if asleep.

On last chord raise head and carry arms to open 1st .......... 2

PART I.

a)	Arm movements - Carry arms to 2nd ..................... 1

b)	Arms to 1st .......................................... 1

c)	Arms to 2nd .......................................... 1

d)	Arms to open 1st ..................................... 1

e)	Repeat (a - d) ....................................... 4

f)	Rising slowly on right foot - arms 2nd	to	1st......... 2

g)	Slowly - glide balance hop left forward,	arms to 5th.. 2

h)	Whole turn right with 4 slow steps in place beginning

right -	arms high 5th ........................................ 2

i)	2 steps backward beginning right - arms 2nd .......... 1

j)	Step right backward and courtsey...................... 1

Total 16

Interlude:	(a)	Step	left	sideward	and	courtsey	-	arms	left

lateral.	Repeat to right ......................................... 2

PART 11.

a)	Glide balance hop left - arms left intermediate........... 1

b)	Step swing hop right backward - arms right 4th ........... 1

c)	Spinning step with whole turn left, - arms left 3rd ...... 2

d)	Repeat (a - c) beginning right............................ 4

e)	Balance step left forward - arms left intermediate........ 1

f)	Balance step right backward - arms right intermediate ... 1

g)	6 small running steps forward beginning left.............. 2

h)	Step swing hop left backward - arms left 4th.............. 1

i)	Step swing hop right backward - arms right 4th ........... 1

j)	3 running steps backward - arms 2nd ...................... 1

k)	Glide balance hop right - arms open 1st .................. 1

Total 16 M.

Digitized by Google

ssssisssssss:	2	2	222 2222222 2	2	222	2:222
492

DAWN-SOLO.

Introduction:	Enters	between	2	center girls in semicircle 8

small running steps and glide balance hop right - arms open ist ... 2 M.

PART I.

a)	Balance step left - arms left intermediate................ i	M.

b)	Balance step right - arms right intermediate.............. I	M.

c)	Glide balance hop left - arms 5th......................... 2	M.

d)	Repeat (a - c) beginning right ........................... 4	M.

e)	7 running steps beginning left. - Face left	with ist step ... 2	M.

f)	Glide balance hop right - arms	right intermediate........ 1	M.

g)	Step swing	hop left - arms left	4th ..................... 1	M.

h)	Repeat (e)	beginning right .............................. 2	M.

i)	Step swing	hop left - arms jth	.......................... 1	M.

j)	Step right backward and courtsey.......................... 1	M.

Total 16 M.

Interlude:	8	tiny	steps	in	place	making	whole	turn	left	with	arms

in high 5th.

PART 11.

a)	In left oblique forward direction glide left forward - a

small leap right forward - arms 2nd .............................. 1	M.

b)	Glide balance hop left forward - arms open ist........... 1	M.

c)	Whole turn right backward - 2 waltz change steps beginning	right - arms right and left 4th ......................... 2	M.

d)	Repeat (a - c) beginning right........................... 4	M.

e)	Step cross turn left - arms high 5th .................... 2	M.

f)	6 small running steps forward beginning left ............ 2	M.

g)	Begin left, - change step backward - arms left lateral .. 1	M.

h)	Repeat (g) to right...................................... 1	M.

i)	Step left backward and pause with arms 2nd............... 1	M.

j)	Glide balance hop right forward - arms open ist.......... 1	M.

Total 16 M.

DAFFODIL DANCE.

Music:	Narcissus	by Ethelbert Nevin.

part 1.

Group of Daffodils (16 girls). 8 on each side in front rank facing

each other. - Arms folded high in front.

a)	Leap rocking step forward right and left.................. 1	M.

b)	Leap rocking step right and glide balance hop left ............ 1	M.

c)	Repeat a - b) turning left about on glide balance hop...... 2	M.

d)	Glide balance hop right and left - arms 5th ................... 1	M.

e)	Step swing hop right and left with whole turn right. Arms

right and left 4th ............................................ 1	M.

f)	4 change steps forward beginning right, - hands at waist.

Form circle - on last step all face outward and join	hands.	.	2	M.

g)	Going in circle left - 2 leap rocking steps beginning	right	.	.	1	M.

h)	Leap rocking step right and glide balance hop left......... 1	M.
493

i)	Repeat (g - h) ...........v............................. 2	M.

j)	Glide balance hop right and left in place............... 1	M.

k)	Repeat (j) ............................................. 1	M.

l)	Going in circle right - 8 skip steps beginning right.... 2	M.

Total 16 M.

PART 11.

8 small girls in front line and 8 larger girls take spaces in rear line.

a)	Advancing to own place 8 small steps - arms 2nd.......... 1	M.

b)	8 steps	in place,	with whole circle	left - arms high 5th ... 1	M.

c)	Repeat	(a) ............................................ 1	M.

d)	Repeat	(b) going	in circle right ...................... 1	M.

e)	8 running steps obliquely forward right - arms at right

intermediate .................................................... 1	M.

0	Repeat	(e) going	left obliquely forward ............... 1	M.

g)	Repeat	(a - b)......................................... 2	M.

Total 8 M.

PART III.

a)	Glide right backward and turn body to right - arms right

intermediate - with half turn, glide left backward, arms left intermediate ............................................................ 1	M.

b)	Repeat (a) ................................................ 1	M.

c)	Glide balance hop right, arms right intermediate, glide

balance hop left, arms left intermediate .......................... 1	M.

d)	Step swing hop right - arms left 4th - Step swing hop

left - arms right 4th ............................................. 1	M.

e)	Step forward right - arms 5th ............................. 1	M.

0 Glide balance hop left, arms left intermediate, - step swing

hop right and left, arms right and left 4th ....................... 2	M.

g)	Repeat (f) beginning right..........#...................... 2	M.

h)	Step sideward left - arms left intermediate - with half turn

left step right sideward - arms right intermediate. Change weight to left foot - arms left intermediate. Half turn left, step sideward right, arms right intermediate ..................................... 2	M.

Total 11 M.

part iv* Arms folded.

a)	Rocking step left and right backward .................... 1	M.

b)	Repeat (a) 3 times ....................................   3	M.

c)	Change step left and right backward ..................... 1	M.

d)	Step swing hop left and right in place................... 1	M.

e)	Change step left, right, left and right. All grasp hands

on last step to form circle. All facing outward ................. 2	M.

f)	In circle going left, leap rocking step left and right forward 	 1	M.

g)	Leap rocking step left and glide balance	hop	right...... 1	M.

h)	Repeat (f - g) .......................................... 2	M.

i)	Glide balance hop left in place and right	in	place ...... 1	M.

j)	Step swing hop left and right in place................... 1	M.

k)	Whole turn left with two change steps left and right in
494

i M.

place .....................................................   •••

1) Grasp hands again - facing outward - Finish with glide balance hop left, all raising grasped hands obliquely fore-upward and hold position ................................................ i	M.

Total 16 M.

Ph,£?w“r»,ion SUMMER SCHOOL

SIX WEEKS—June 27 to Aug. 6, 1921

TEACHERS! Why not become more efficient individuals, add to your usefulness as teachers and INCREASE YOUR SALARIES?

OUR TEACHERS* COURSES IN ALL BRANCHES OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION—GYMNASTICS AND DANCING—ARE ACCEPTED BY SCHOOL BOARDS FOR PROMOTIONAL CREDIT.

SCHOOL IS ACCREDITED BY STATE DEPARTMENTS OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION AND CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION.

Experts in all Departments. Exceptional Dancing Courses with MADELINE BURTNER HAZLITT, Assistant Chalif Normal School of Dancing.

School Dormitory, conveniently located.

SUMMER CAMP in Wisconsin open JULY and AUGUST for girls from nine years of age and upward.

For catalogs address the Registrar.

ESTABLISHED 1903

Chicago Normal School of Physical Education

Box M. B. 430 South Wabash Ave.	Chicago,	111.

Y. M. C. A. COLLEGE

Springfield, Mass.

J. H. McCURDY, M. D„ Director.

Four year course in physical education for High School Graduates. Two years for College Graduates. Degree B. P. E. (Bachelor of Physical Education) granted. For information address A. G. Johnson, Secretary.

SUMMER SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

June 27—July 30

Intensive courses in theory and practice giving full credit in regular College course.

Public School Gymnastic Course.

School of Coaching—Football, Elmer Berry, Coach Springfield College football team; Baseball and Basket Ball, A. G. Johnson, Coach Springfield College basket ball team; Track, Paul Otto, Coach Spring-field College track team; Swimming, G. B. Affleck, Coach Springfield College swimming team; Soccer, Wrestling, Boxing.

School of Scouting, Paul Otto of Springfield.

School of Boys’ Work, W. C. McCarty, Director Boys’ Work Course, Springfield. For information address

ELMER BERRY, Director Summer School.

Digitized by L.o Le