Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

DR. WM. A. OCKER, Hughes High School, Cincinnati, O.

HERMANN O. DREISEL, Chicago Normal School, Chicago, 111.

DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee. Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., 468 E. Water Street, Milwaukee, Wis.

A REVIEW OF SWEDISH GYMNASTICS.

By THEODORE HOUGH.*

THE term “Swedish Gymnastics” is usually understood to mean, in this country at least, a system of physical training designed to meet certain demands in the education of childhood and youth; and, since the question of its utility is at present largely or chiefly concerned with its use in schools, it will be well to begin our discussion with this phase of the matter.

If it is a function of education to train the growing individual for usefulness in life, physical education must demand attention in any proper scheme of educational work since the capacity for usefulness is so largely determined by the physical health of the individual. It is perfectly true that we find cases in which, owing to unusual mental power, success has been attaind in spite of physical defects and even of moral defects. We see cases where success has similarly been attained because

* We publish this article* which was sent us by Miss Anny Morris Homans, Director of the Boston Normal School of Gymnastics, in full although its considerable length almost induced us to condense it, space in our journal being somewhat restricted. The article is interesting. It defines the standing and the claims of the Swedish System in a better and less prejudiced way than most pronunciamentos of a like nature have done. At the conclusion of the article we shall endeavor to comment on it from our standpoint. We are offering ample space in our columes for contributions (either pro or contra) bearing upon Mr. Hough’s article.—Ed.

Digitized by kjOOQle
-50-

of moral qualities and in spite of very moderate mental power or of physical weakness. But such cases are the exception. If you study great masses of people, you will find that serious defects in physical power are almost certain to hamper life’s work. That work may be done, but it involves a severe struggle. In a large percentage of cases it is not done, and life becomes a succession of failures. It is, after all;, on the physical man that we build. The leaders in life’s activities are almost without exception men of strong physical constitution; a large percentage of the failures are men of weak constitution; and any system of education which impairs physical vigor and leaves men physically unequal to the work of life is unworthy of encouragement,—is, indeed, radically wrong.

The physical condition or health of a human being at any age until growth is completed is the result of a process of physical development. In actual life, Athene does not spring full-fledged from the brow of Jove,, nor Venus from the foam of the sea. For one hundred and seventy-five thousand two hundred hours the most varied physiological activities have been at work to make the man or woman of twenty years; and, could we read but deep enough, we could see that the conditions which obtained during each of those hours have contributed their share to the final structure, the health, the possibilities of that living being.

Development, in short, is the result of three factors:—

1.	Heredity.—It is not necessary to attempt a definition of this term. It is the expression of the structure and characters of the fertilized ovum from which all the cells of the body are derived. It gives us the living material upon which we must work in education, and at once determines the possibilities, the limitations, and, to a certain extent, the course of training.

2.	Environment, both of the body as a whole and of each of it&

units, the living cells. This would include the external conditions of life and the chemical and physical characters of the blood. Under it we would include the food supply, the surrounding temperature, clothing, the care of the young by the parents, the hygienic conditions of the dwelling, bathing, and so on.	^

3.	Activity of each cell and of the body as a whole. By activity I do not mean simply muscular activity; that is merely the activity of one kind of cell,—the muscle fibre.. The discharge of a Nervous * impulse from a nerve-cell is a case of similar activity in another lfind of cell; the process of secretion is similarly another case of activity pi gland-cell; and so with each kind of cell in the body. Now we have ^satisfactory evidence in most cases that the growth of the cell is profoundly influenced by its functional activity, and cannot be complete without this activity. If a growing muscle fibre never contracts, it cannotVlevelop into a healthy adult fibre. A growing nerve-cell which never sepds an impulse over its axon cannot become an efficient nerve-cell. A growing pancreas which never secretes pancreatic juice cannot grow infto a perfect gland. The classical example of this is the failure of the mcnfor-cells of the cervical cord to develop when the arm has been amputaVt6^ about the time of birth; under such circumstances the nerve-cells do r\ot send impulses out over their axons, and accordingly take on character)^-

Digitized by ^.ooQle
—51—

tic degenerated forms. Moreover, within certain limits the efficiency of an adult cell is proportional to the amount of activity it has had during development; the muscle fibre which has been used is capable of doing work which one which has been* used but slightly ca^ never be \ trained to perform. “You cannot teach an old dog new tricks,” is one way of saying that the greatest possibilities of training belong to the period of growth; and this is especially true of physical development.

We can do for the physical man before the age of twenty-one what it is absolutely impossible to do between twenty and sixty.

' The three factors, then, at work in development are heredity, environment, activity. Heredity should determine what education is to attempt and the general course which its operations should follow. Environment demands attention to the hygienic conditions of the home and the school, to clothing, feeding, bathing, etc. The greater part of the work of education, however, is directed toward giving such guidance to the activities of the body, and especially to the volitional activities, as shall produce the best physical, mental, and moral results. Now, if what has already been said be true, it is clear that muscular activity is a necessary factor in the development of the physical man. Not only is it necessary to the proper development of the nervous and muscular systems, but, over and above this, in subsequent life, health is so intimately dependent on muscular activity, and muscular activity is so hard to maintaih in a physically defective body, that some sort of physical training must go along with study in youth to make our educational scheme complete.

When we examine further into the matter, we see that not only does muscular activity play an important part in general in the development of the child, but that different neuro-muscular mechanisms develop best at different periods of life. Accordingly the muscular activity of the child is directed chiefly toward the development of the mechanisms of accustomed movements, such as those of walking, running, and, in general, of movements which involve the use of large masses of muscles aud produce co-ordination of these muscles. Later, activity takes on more distinctively the character of skilled movements, which cultivate manual dexterity, the more perfect use of language, etc. Going along with these, • we naturally find the growth of the more complicated mental processes, this mental development generally, though not always, continuing in full force long after the motor mechanisms are acquired.

Nature, however, does not make the adult man as a machinist does a piece of mechanism, by completing one thing before beginning another, and then, when every part is complete, putting all together into a harmonious whole. The curve of work on each mechanism would overlap the curve of work on other mechanisms; but the maximum points of these curves would be different.

A moment’s consideration of the previous discussion brings out clearly the fact that the mental education of the child begins at the time when his physical development is still going on, and that the work of the school-room is a direct hindrance to normal physical development. The child must give up his play in order to learn his lessons. He must sit still, and that, too, in what are frequently unsuitable desks, made

Digitized by LaOOQle
—52—

without, reference to the proportions of his body. It is, indeed, very doubtful whether the highest physical development is ever consistent with the best mental training; the boy as he leaves our schools can never be capable of the same endurance that we find among more uncultured peoples who live under otherwise favorable surrounding; nor is there any physiological reason why he should reach such a state of physical development, considering the work which he has to do in life. But it is not necessary that he should leave school with impaired health; it is not even necessary that he should be hollow-chested; it is not necessary that he should have an awkward carriage; it is not necessary that be should be physically lazy, disinclined to take the very moderate amount of exercise which the maintenance of his health demands.

The mental training of youth, in other words, has introduced an unnatural physical environment, which, if not corrected, will in nine cases out of ten tell upon subsequent bodily health, and so in too many cases upon mental and moral health as well. If no attention were paid to mental training, if our children never went to- school, physical training would be for the greater part unnecessary. It is, therefore, one of the fnain functions of physical education to correct the injurious effects of the unnatural environment created by mental education, and to do this without endangering the efficiency of that mental training.

Such is the starting-point of the Swedish > system, in common with most other systems. Whether it adopts the correct means or not, it goes to work with the right object in view. Its purpose is not to train athletes, although it may be developed in that direction; it is primarily an attempt to conserve the physical man during his mental training, so that, when the period of schooling is over, he shall have a body physiologically capable of sustaining him in the work of his life.

Not only is its purpose correct, but its general attitude in approaching the practical problems is also correct. Its work, in other words, does not run to doing difficult feats on particular pieces of apparatus; the Swedes claim—and with justice—that they do not adapt their work to apparatus, but their apparatus to their work. Far be it from me to claim that this is a virtue found only in this particular system; but in certain other systems this point is not properly guarded; and in any system corrective exercises, to be effective, must be carried out under the guidance of trained teachers. It is a fact not fully appreciated, even among those who believe in exercise in general, that the best physical development comes from the proper use of very many different movements; that the use of one group of muscles going along with the improper use of other groups of muscles, although for the time being serving the general hygienic purposes of exercise, may produce anatomical results which can only be described as deformities; and that this is especially apt to be the case where movements are improperly executed.

Gymnastics, moreover, as developed in Sweden, has kept in view another matter of very considerable practical importance; it is necessary in our schools that comparatively large numbers of students shall receive physical training at the same time; and it is impossible to avoid this condition entirely, even with the most favorable arrangement of the study schedule. Largely for this reason the use of large and cumbersome

Digitized by ^ooQle
-53-

apparatus, which occupies an amount of floor-space entirely out of proportion to the number of students which it can accommodate, is avoided; and the work is done either by using free standing movements alone, or else these with the addition of work on apparatus which can be arranged along the walls or ceiling of the room, or can readily be removed, leaving the entire floor clear for the class drill.* The movements chosen at the same time exercise all the muscles of the body and yet can be carried out simultaneously by large classes. Thus we have introduced the gymnastic drill, which is employed not solely for its value as a drill, but because a singly instructor can do effective work with a large number of students at the same time. This is a matter of great practical importance. The drill is far. superior to individul gymnasium work. This is seen at once if one realizes the fact ’that, if physical training is to accomplish the very desirable end of producing correct proportions, form, and carriage of the body, the instructor must be able to observe quickly the work of a large number of students in every movement they make. With ordinary apparatus work, such as is used in most of our gymnasia, this is impossible, because fifty or a hundred different students are each doing a different thing. The drill likewise has the advantage of supplying an incentive to every student to do the movement correctly, in that others are doing the same thing at the same time. For these practical reasons the gymnastic drill, whether with apparatus or without it, is the ideal form of gymnasium work.

We often hear critics sneer at this feature of the system. In a recent article in the American Physical Education Review we read of “that nervously exhausting and deadening drill, known as the Swedish gymnastics, which, by the name of educational gymnastics, adds fatigue to fatigue by taking the initiative away from the child, and forcing him to pay constant and close attention to the orders of the teacher, that he may execute with precision entirely uninteresting and conventional movements.” I have no disposition to underrate the value of spontaneous play in the development of the child. By all means encourage the child to play, and make this a part of the school day. Nor do I advocate undue attention to gymnastic work. I advocate giving only so much of this as is necessary to correct the physical or physiological faults resulting from school-room work. Nor do I deny that any drill, any gymnastic work, may be “nervously exhausting and deadening,” this depending on the teacher, the mdin factor upon which the success of all gymnasium work depends; but, granting all this, I must insist that gymnastics, when properly used, can produce advantageous physiological results, which cannot be produced by play alone. It does not do to forget the fact that, while play will do for a savage or a kitten what we try to do for our school children by gymnastics, the material upon which the factor of play works in these cases has not been subjected to conditions which actively produce deformities or deficiencies. Superintendent Seaver well stated the purpose of school gymnastics as the antidote of the school desk. Take the most common example, that of stoop

* The word “drill” is always used in this paper in a sense similar to its use in “military drill,” and never in the sense in which it is frequently employed in the literature of gyrtinastics. where it means a definite series of movements performed in unison by a class, as, for example, in a “dumb-bell drill.”

Digitized by t^ooQle
-54-

shoulders and contracted chest. Will it be claimed that these can be corrected by spontaneous play alone? Personally, I have seen too many cases which could not be brought into agreement with such a theory to allow me to accept it; and, even in many cases where play exerts a corrective influence, the same results can be more surely and more economically accomplished by gymnastics. And we deny absolutely that gymnastics need be a bore.

The last paragraph indicates the position of Swedish gymnastics in physical training, and this must not be lost sight of by those who would understand it. It will be more fully shown in later parts of this paper that physical training presents two distinct although not mutually exclusive sides,—the general hygienic and the corrective. While Swedish work gives to a very considerable extent the general hygienic effects of exercise, it is primarily concerned with the corrective side; and it may be well to define clearly at this point what is meant by corrective gymnastics. The effects of the physically specialized life of the school, and, indeed, of most forms of specialization, manifest themselves in two ways,—in anatomical changes and in awkwardness or peculiarity of movement of the body as a whole. Strictly speaking, the term “corrective” should be used only with reference to that gymnastic work which attempts to remove anatomical and physiological faults. In point of fact, the exerc^es which are used to do this are essentially the same as those used to prevent the same faults; and no hard-and-fast line can be drawn between remedial and preventive gymnastics. It is therefore convenient to include the two under the single term corrective, which is thus used in this paper. It will subsequently be shown how gymnastics can have this corrective effect.

^ The most distinctive feature of the Swedish work is the fact that it never loses sight of the corrective element. This is its primary purpose. Gymnastic mbvements which, though, graceful in themselves, have a marked tendency to produce some anatomical fault, are rigorously excluded. Even those which, though not open to this criticism, only result in the ability to do some gymnasium trick of little or no use in practical life are relegated to a subordinate place. The basis of training I of its teachers is kinesiology. The anatomy of the skeleton, the joints, and the muscles, is studied most catefully, not, as Du Bois-Reymond would have us believe, in order that the pupil may be conscious of what particular muscle he is contracting, but because it furnishes the only means of understanding the effect of a definite movement on the skeletal parts, and so of estimating its corrective value. Such study is for the preparation of the teacher, not for the pupil on the gymnasium floor; it is not even necessary that the teacher should think of the kinesiology of a movement at the time he gives a command; but his use of a certain movement should ultimately, consciously, or unconsciously, rest on this basis.

A This characteristic of Swedish work is at once its greatest strength and its greatest weakness. It is its greatest strength because no other physical trainers can show such theoretical knowledge fo kinesiology or such successful practical application of that knowledge in corrective work. The Swedes have worked out this part of the subject with

Digitized by

Google
-55-

singleness of purpose, and they have made the field their own. On the other hand, it is its greatest weakness. At times individual teachers have forgotten that corrective work is not the whole of physical training. It has been pushed to a needless extent and, at times, to the exclusion of outdoor work, which is more attractive and which also produces an amount of endurance which indoor corrective work cannot. Nor can there be any doubt that these corrective exercises have at times been given in a manner that strongly suggests an operation in orthopedic surgery without anaesthetics. There is a right way and a wrong way of doing all things; and it would be strange indeed if some teachers had not taken the wrong way, and failed to infuse into their work that personal element of interest and enthusiasm upon which its success very largely depends. I will even go farther, and say that there are few fields which offer such opportunities for the successful exercise of all the qualities of a bore as does that of Swedish gymnastics. This follows from the fact that it is systematic, and anything systematic is peculiarly liable to such kbuse. But this is no valid argument against the use of the system. Is it a valid argument against the study of the English language and literature that so many of its teachers do most fearfully and wonderfully bore their pupils with it?

Having dealt with these more general features of the problem, we may now pass to the consideration o’f these which have to do with the system itself. And, first, let us say that the Swedes are right in having a system. The “day’s order” is the point of most attacks. Some critics seem utterly unable to understand that anything systematic should be anything but monotonous; and so it would be, were each day’s work like that of each preceding day. The “day’s order,” however, involves no such idea. Apart from the fact that, as the pupils work more and more in the gymnasium, new exercises are introduced,— a thing not easily done, by the way, with large numbers in the ordinary apparatus work,—the “order ’ only Effects the general glasses of movements; and within £ach class of spanbend, heave, back, abdominal movements, a very large amount of variety is possible, and, in point of fact, is utilized in the work of different days. There can be no doubt that a poor teacher can make a Swedish drill an insufferable bore; but a poor teacher can make anything a bore, and usually does so.

One of the main points of physiological interest is the matter of progression, as seen from day to day and in the day’s order itself. As to the former, all must agree that in any course of training one should begin with simpler work; and, as the body improves in physical condition, more and more difficult work should be attempted. This is the essence of training. The heart, the vaso-motor system, the respiratory system, the mechanism of heat regulation, and the nervous co-ordination of the more fundamental positions and movements must all be trained by use to work together. Pupils can do the more difficult exercises properly only as they have become fitted to do them by having experienced the benefits of simpler work. It is not my purpose to show how the Swedish system does this, as I am not aware that any one has denied that it is capable of any degree of refinement in this kind of progression. I shall linger long enough on the subject only to say that

Digitized by L^ooQle
-56-

any system of physical instruction should make clear the necessity of this factor of training if the greatest benefits are to be obtained from muscular exercise at any time of life. Many a man loudly, but ignorantly, proclaims that exercise does not benefit him, simply because he began with a fifty-mile bicycle nde or a hard bit of mountain climbing.

Coming to the second kind of progression, the day’s order itself, let us say again that, even if the particular sequence of movements adopted is not required by the nature of the case, it is better in general that the majority of teachers shall have some system to guide their work. It is putting it very mildly to say that very few teachers of gymnastics will ever have that commanding genius which will enable them to conduct classes upon the basis of general knowledge of muscular exercise; few even have that originality which would enable them to work out for themselves a rational method of work in physical training. Even if there were no system, each teacher would inevitably evolve one; in other words, most teachers would soon fall into certain ruts; and it is simply a question whether you are going to have a system which represents the ruts into which the individual mind has more or less unconsciously fallen or a system which is the result of organized effort, both on the theoretical and on the practical side, for many years. In other words, the work of the teacher of gymnastics is the practice of an art; and it is obviously better that accumulated experience should form the basis of work, even though we grant at the same time that every effort should be put forth to encourage independence and originality. ,

The Swedes insist that their system is based, on correct physiological principles. This may or may not be true. Advocates of the system should, however, avoid making the statement that, as a matter of history, it was deduced from the physiology of the human body. The fact is that the Swedish system of gymnastics was for the most part developed to its present form before modern physiology was more than in its infancy. Ling died in 1839, and it was not until 1860 or 1870 that the several discoveries of physiology began to be co-ordinated into a, satisfactory body of scientific knowledge. No doubt Ling and his successors made good use of the physiological knowledge they possessed; no doubt they constantly endeavored to work from physiological knowledge as a startiqg-point; no doubt they subjected their work to the best physiological criticism they could give it; and no doubt a great deal of this was good physiology, and produced good results. But,, granting all this, it is not wise to claim that the system was deduced from physiology. It is an art; and, whatever use may have bzen made of pure science in its development, yet, if it is successful, that success is quite sure to be due to practical experience of results,—the true test of any art which deals with the human body. A bridge can be built on the basis of scientific knowledge alone, but only because we know all about its part and can calculate exactly what each one can do; it is quite conceivable that a civil engineer should design a new kind of bridge which introduces entirely new features for sustaining the weight, and yet know beforehand that the structure will do exactly what he expects of it. That is one of the highest triumphs of exact science. But the science of

Digitized by CjOOQle
-57-

the workings of the human body, or physiology, has not yet reached such a degree of exactness. Much less had it reached it in Ling’s day. It is with gymnastics as it is with medicine. Physiology suggests, and often its suggestions are correct. It aids in interpreting results, and so may be an indispensable aid; but, after all, a physician does a certain thing because he has done it before and found that it produced the effect he desired. And the practical teacher of gymnastics gives certain movements because, although what he knows of physiology may have suggested them, and although he feels more confident in using them, because he believes they are physiologically correct, yet, after all, he uses them because he has tried them in the past and found that they work. And, if the Swedish system is worthy of confidence as a practical method, it is because it rests ultimately on this basis.

I have spent the time I have in emphasizing this point because I know that incorrect physiological claims have been made in support of certain things done. Various writers present us a body of so-called physiological knowledge which, to say the least, does not commend itself to physiologists; and I may as well tell you frankly that, if an uncandid opponent of the system should desire to make fun of it, he would find ample occasion for doing so in many of the physiological statements which have been given in 'explanation of its day’s order. I have seen this done myself, and that with most pronounced success.

But any one who should make this a reason for rejecting the system in part or in whole would only advertise his own lack of common sense. The Swedish system of gymnastics, like every other system, is not what is written in books, but what is practised on the floor of a gymnasium. As I have said, it is an art which has heen developed with a certain end in view, and is built upon practical experience of results. If good results' are achieved, the system is sure to rest to that extent on a sound physiological basis.	(To	be	continued.)

OFFICIAL PROGRAM

FOR THE 28TH FESTIVAL AND GOLDEN ANNIVERSARY OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION, PHILADELPHIA, JUNE 20 TO 25.

Wednesday, June 20—Reception of visitors at the railroad depots. Welcome and distribution of badges, etc., at the headquarters, Industrial Hall, Broad and Vine streets. At 4 P. M., judges of competitions will meet at headquarters. 7.30 P. M., official reception and “Festspiel,” at the Academy of Music, Broad and Locust streets, for visiting guests only. On Monday, the 18th of June, at 8 P. M., the “Festspiel” will be given at the Academy of Music for the citizens and members of the turn vereins of this city.

Thursday, June 21—At Washington Park, Twenty-sixth street and Allegheny avenue, at 8 A. M., class competition. In the afternoon fencing, wrestling and club swinging, gymnastic games, exercises by the scholars of the gymnasium schools of this city and rehearsal of the mass exercises of the actives. In the evening “Volksfest.” At the Junger Maennerchor Hall, Sixth and Vine streets, at 6 P. M., competitions in chorus singing, recitations, and impromptu speeches.

Digitized by U.ooQle
—58—

Friday, June 22—At Washington Park, 7 A. M., bicycle and relay races. Individual competition in apparatus work and field sports. In the afternoon gymnastic games. Exercises by the scholars of the gymnasiums of this city and rehearsal of the mass exercises of the senior classes. Evening, “Volksfest,” At the headquarters, Industrial Hall, 8 P. M., golden jubilee, “Commers.”

Saturday, June 23—-Schuylkill Civer, below Callowhill Street bridge, at 10 A. M., contest in swimming. Headquarters, Industrial Hall, at 12 o’clock noon, assembling of all participating gymnastic societies for parade, to start at 1 o’clock P. M. sharp. At the Philadelphia Ball Park, Broad and Huntingdon streets, at 3 P. M., grand gymnastic exhibition, 5000 participants. Mass exercises of the actives and seniors, scholars, ladies and juniors of this city. “Pentathlon,” and model exercises of active, senior, and ladies’ classes; also games. At Washington Park, Philadelphia, at 8 P. M., awarding of prizes and summer night festival.

Sunday, June 24—Excursion to Coney Island.

Monday, June 25—Viewing the city and Fairmount Park, Wissahickon, assembling at Turner Hall, Sixth and Noble streets, at 9 A. M.

The following committees have been appointed:

Festival Director—Professor Richard Pertuch. Assistants — Hans Goetz, William Haar, John Bezner, William Ludascher, Dr. Joseph I. Smith, William Wieland, Otto Guenther, F. A. Finkeldey, Dr. D. M. F. Crogh, Fred Boeckmann, Theo. Schneider, Jr., Carl Schrader.

Executors of the Festival Committee—H. D. Auer, President; H. Daehnert, First Vice President; Adolph Eckardt, Second Vice President: Dr. George L. H. Haar, General Secretary; H. G. Richter, Recording Secretary; Louis Grotz, Jr., Treasurer.

Committee on Observation—Henry Braun and William A. Stecher, from St. Louis, Mo.; George Brosius and H. Huhn, from Milwaukee, Wis.; Dr. Carl Zapp, Cleveland, 0.; H. Metzner and Carl Stahl, from New York, N. Y.

Special Committee on Observation—Dr. D. A. Sargent, Cambridge, Mass.; Dr. E. M. Haftwell, Boston, Mass.; Dr. Ellis Foster, Dr. C. E. Ehinger, West Chester State Normal School, Pa.; Dr. Edward Brooks, Superintendent Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.; Dr. Grace E. Spiegle, Girls’ Normal School, Philadelphia; Dr. F. Pfister, Milwaukee.

Gymnastic Reform in Hungary.—The following suggestions were submitted to the Executive Committee of Gymnastics:

1.	To erect a normal schools of gymnastics.

2.	To give the professors of gymnastics the same rank as the professors of other branches of education.

3.	To erect large and spacious rooms for gymnastic exercises for the pupils.

4.	To organize a Central Committee on physical culture and to establish the office of Gymnastic Inspector.

5.	To endeavor to secure material assistance for the various gymnastic societies.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—59—

. EXTRACTS FROM EUROPEAN JOURNALS ON PHYSICAL

EDUCATION.

By Dr. W. A, OCKER, Cincinnati, O.

Denmark.—The various gymnastic societies of Denmark are considering the advisability of entering into closer relations with each other and forming a union. The six societies of Copenhagen will most likely be the nucleus of the future “Turnerbund” of Denmark.

Paying Toll.—A good way to save bridge-toll was recently practised by the gymnastic society of Brandenburg. The members were on one of their usual “foot excursions,” when, near the village called Pritzerle, they came to a bridge where the keeper demanded a toll of five pennies pro man. The leader of this “walking club” divided the 60 members into two divisions and commanded the one section to carry the other 30 men through the toll gate on their shoulders. The club musicians were likewise elevated and to the merry strains of music our pedestrians marched past the keeper of the bridge.

Gymnastic for Women.—-Our German brethren have for the past few years labored patiently and earnestly to interest the gentler sex in the cause of gymnastics. The endeavors have been crowned with the most gratifying results, for according to late statistics 20,600 ladies, distributed among 673 societies of the “Turnerschaft,” are taking part in active gymnastics.

The fact that most of the educators of girls have given physical culture a prominent place in the curriculum of their schools is sufficient proof that the high value of systematic exercise is understood and appreciated. All of the progressive physicians indorse “gymnastics for women.”

But what are the direct benefits derived from a proper course of physical training? In the first place it improves the general health; it is the best cure for chlorosis, which in most cases is due to lack of fresh air and exercise. Gymnastics produces strength; it is a prophylactic for the many ills and ails from which our girls and women suffer so much. Then, too, gymnastic plays an important part in the development of character. It cultivates such traits as courage, determination, energy, presence of mind, and self-reliance.

“Gymnastics is work in the garb of pleasure;’’ it is conducive to cheerfulness and is a sure cure for the blues.

“Mens sana in corpore sanoV’ Many girls drop their gymnastic exercises when they leave school; this is a sad mistake because just at the age of puberty physical training is most beneficial for women.

—The united turn-societies of Chicago gave a great gymnastic exhibition at Sunny Side Park, May 27. The senior and junior men classes and the children attending the gymnasium at the different societies took part. The exhibition was held for merely pedagogical purposes.

Digitized by LaOOQle
-60-

Misp ftND BODY.

r Published Monthly.

MY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

a.-u.Icee, ‘Wisconsin.

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee,Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

WE regularly read in the sporting columns of the daily papers accounts of basket-ball contests between teams consisting of women. It is not only local teams that enter into a contest against each other, in that way, as it were, representing their respective schools, but we find also that “teams” travel considerable distances to meet teams of other cities or localities.

The reports do not particularly state that these contests are carried out in a friendly manner, but occasionally we read that with narrow margins a free-for-all fight has narrowly been averted; to such extremes the spirit of rivalry having carried the participants.

Now we ask: Is the work of systematic physical training supposed to continue in our higher institutions of learning or are these vicious outgrowths to be stopped?

There can be absolutely no elevating or educational influence of any moral value in such fiercely fought match games. They are a disgrace to the schools as well as to the participants, and the rules should be modified at once.

Such public exhibitions of infuriation on part of young ladies who thus vitiate their temper and obtuned their sense of propriety, even more than foot-ball-boys, should neither be encouraged nor tolerated by college authorities.

—We are getting there. It used to be considered that this was a nation devoted preeminently to the arts of peace, but the last eighteen months have changed all that. The recommendation of Inspector General Breckinridge for military instructors in the public schools sounds like an excerpt from a speech by der kaiser von das Yaterland. “Our standing , army,” declares the general, “must be relied upon to inculcate correct military principles and to imbue the young generation with patriotism and proper military spirit.” Teach ’em to fight from the very kindergarten period is the spirit of the general’s remarks, and that is precisely the spirit which is fostered and encouraged in the armed camps of Europe. The sentiment is somewhat novel in this country, but we shall probably become accustomed to it. At any rate the idea of military supremacy comes with some appropriateness from General Breckinridge, who was prowling around in Kentucky some weeks ago seeking for an excuse to utilize the United States army in the settlement of a disputed state election.—Chicago Chronicle.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Sfecond Class Matter.

WOMEN AND BASKET-BALL.

Digitized by

Google
-61-

NORMAL AND SUMMER-SCHOOLS.

The Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics.—We are in possession of the catalogue of 1900 to 1901 of this institution, which, by the way, since the Milwaukee Normal School has been temporarily closed, is the only normal school of gymnastics where the German system is thought thoroughly and completely. The catalogue gives an excellent synopsis of the work carried out and contains a register of all the students and graduates.—Persons wishing to pursue this branch of education will do well to apply to Director E. H. Arnold, New Haven, Conn., for further information.

Besides the announcements of the summer schools of physical training that we have already mentioned, we have received those of two additional ones, both in Chicago. ^

The Chicago Institute is condncting a summer school with the physical training department in the hands of our well-known Prof. C. J. Kroh and an additional force of very capable assistants. '

The Longwood Summer School, Chicago, 111., also, is in the field and has added a course of physical instruction to its curriculum.

28TH FESTIVAL AND GOLDEN ANNIVERSARY OF THE N. A. G. U., PHILADELPHIA, JUNE 20 TO 25, 1900.

THE extensive preparations for this festivity of honor are gradually approaching their completion. The Executive Committee as well as the different subcommittees have held their regular meetings and have solved, and disposed of, the most perplexing and difficult problems that lay before them. The numerous minor questions will now find consideration and will be attended to in the best possible manner. No previous festival of the N. A. G. U. has created such a wide spread interest as has this, the 28th Annual Festival. The attendance, of Actives as well as of Passives, will be much greater, than was formerly expected. The bulk of the work lies in the hands of the Technical Committee, of which Mr. Richard Pertuch is Chairman. The program which has been definitely decided upon, lollows below. This committee was very fortunate in the selection of a field for the Mass Exhibitions, namely the Base Ball Park. It is a beautiful piece of ground, ideal in location as well as in accommodation. Twenty thousand people will find comfortable seats. The exhibition on this field will undoubtedly form the climax of the festival. It will be a huge demonstration of physical training in all its many phases. It will illustrate a logical progression of work from the most simple exercises, designed for the child, to the most complex combinations for the robust man, or the most graceful movements of women. The best available material of the “Turnerbund”'will take part in the different events.

The competitive work with the exeption of the pentathlon will take place in Washington Park. The timing for running, wheel riding, and climbing will be done by means of electrometers. These have been carefully tested and been found to operate accurately.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-62-

While the prizes for all events consist of the usual diploma and wreath, the “Pentathlon” price will be one of exeptionally great v'alue, namely a handsome marble reproduction of the famous Greecian Groupe of Wrestlers. This piece of art is now on exhibition in one of the large showwindows in Philadelphia.

TENNIS BALL.

(a new game.)

By DR, W. A. OCKER, Hughes High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

The following game which. I have named Tennis Ball because I made use of some of the features of Lawn Tennis, calls for much activity and may be played by both sexes. Like Tennis, it may be played in or out of doors and it is free from the many rude features of Basket Ball etc. The rules are few and easily understood and the paraphernalia are limited to a net and alight India rubber ball. The game may be played on any size of floor or ground, but the field must be level and rectangular.

A rectangular field, 50x30 feet (see diagram) may be arranged as follows. A net three (3) feet high is stretched across the middle of the field dividing it into two equal parts. Five (5) feet on each side of this net draw a parallel line, called the “foul line.” Three (3) feet from each end line and parallel to it draw the “toe line,” On each end line, as near to the middle as possible, erect two (2) upright posts seven feet apart. At a height of seven (7) feet attach a cross bar thus forming a wiridow seven (7) feet square.

The game is to be played by two (2) teams of two (2) to ten.(10) players according to size of field.

The object of the game is to bat the ball (using hands only, one or both, open or closed) through the window on the opponent’s end line, or to bat the ball in such a manner that the opponents cannot return it and that it strikes the field anywhere between the foul and the end lines.

The following rules shall govern the game.:

1. To put the ball into play it must be bounced once between the toe and end lines and then batted into the opponents’ territory.

Toe Line.

	Foul Line.
*h>	Net.
2d	Foul Line.

Toe Line.

31)'

Digitized by C.ooQle
-63-

2.	If the ball is not returned after the first bounce in the opponents’ territory it scores one point for the batter.

3.	If the ball flies over the end line, without striking the floor or ground (excepting through the window) it scores one point for the opponents.

4.	, If the ball strikes the net or falls between the net and the foul lines

(either side) it scores one point for the opponents.

5.	If any part of the player touches the net while the ball is in play, or if he steps over the foul line, the opposing team shall score one point.

6.	If the ball is batted through the goal or window (beneath the cross-bar) it counts five (5) points for the batter.

7.	You may bat the ball with one or both hands which may be open or closed.

8.	After every point scored the ball must be put into play by hopping as required by Rule 1.

9.	Catching or holding the ball while fn play shall constitute a foul, the opposing team shall score one point for each foul.

10.	The game shall consist of two halves of fifteen minutes’each. The team scoring the greatest number of points in the two halves shall be declared the winner.

11.	Any player may bat or serve the ball if opportunity offers.

12.	For larger boys and men the round foot-ball, similar to the one used in basket ball, may be used.

Note. In constructing the goal or window your jumping stands, placed seven feet apart with a chord or pole stretched across at the required height, may be used.

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—Dr. W. A. Ocker, Physical Director of the Hughes High School, Cincinnati, O., has resigned this position to accept a very flattering offer in the manufacturing line. Dr. Ocker was a very able exponent of physical training and we sincerely regret to see him abondan the educational field.

—The Illinois Institution for the Education of the Blind gave another very creditable exhibition of work in the physical training department. The following is the program, which, according to enthusiastic newspaper reports, was carried out under the directorship of Prof. W. A. Crippen :

Exercises with wauds—Thirty-six boys (6 to 10 years old).

Exercises with calisthenic rings—Twelve girls (6 to 10 years old).

Exercises with wands—Twenty-eight girls.

Song with marching—Free exercises—One hundred and thirty pupils.

Exercises on flying rings, ladder, and horse—Thirty girls.

Exercises with dumb-bells—Twenty-eight boys (Class B).

Indian club drill—Class A, girls.

Running, exercises on flying rings, exercises with wands—Class A, boys.

Single stick exercises—Six girls.

Calisthenic, Indian club, and dumb-bell exercises—Twenty-five girls and boys.

Marching and fancy steps—Forty girls and boys.

Exercises on horizontal bar, parallel bars and horse—Class A, boys.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-64-

—The Chicago Normal School has held the Annual Field Day on the 2nd of June. The affair was an immense success. Miss Lura B. Sanborn and Mr. Herman 0. Dreisel were the directors.

—The St. Louis (Mo.) Turnverein celebrated its golden jubilee on May 12th with a very elaborate program. Fifty years of up-hill work and steady progress account well for the enthusiasm and the untiring efforts on part of the members. Want of space precludes an exhaustive report which we would have liked to publish.

—The Dayton (0.) Tumgemeinde, one of the best societies in the North American Tumerbund, gave a gymnastic exhibition and carnival on May 1st, 1900. Prof. Otto Mauthe deserves credit for the excellent program rendered.

—The senior-classes of the turn-societies of Chicago met at the Aurora Turnhall, May 20th. The exercises for the great national tournament of the N. A. G. U. at Philadelphia were being practiced.

—The Jahn’s Physical Training Club of Chicago has held its second excursion to McBride’s Grove on May 26. Out-door games were on the program.

Unsound of Wind.—According to the London Lancet, learned medical men declared that Mr. Blues, the Fifeshire athlete, was unfit for service in South Africa, owing to “unsoundness of wind.” After his medical examination the would-be volunteer took a turn with the Kirkcaldy Harriers in the 10 miles cross-country championship and won it.— Collier’s Weekly.

BICYCLING.

IT is, perhaps, fortunate that every owner of a bicycle is not the bicycle business. It is a well known fact that some of the people who are engaged in the various branches of the trade do not have the same enthusiasm for actual riding that they had before the bicycle became a means of their making a living. It is so in other things. A hardware man likes to talk of other matters than the price of tools and steel, when he leaves his place of business. A literary man often tries to get away from people who want to talk books. But it is a fact, and one that happily manj' of those in the cycle trade recognize, that the best way to get away from the bicycle in its commercial sense is to get onto a bicycle and ride it into the country.

Perhaps what has been said about people in the trade applies even more aptly to a large percentage of old-timers, men who began riding when cycling was young and who, while they have never gotten into the trade, have learned to share with the tradesmen the ailment which might be called too much bicycle. The rider of the ordinary, or high wheel formerly used, is apt to think of the present style of bicycle as a contraction, lacking the simplicity and grace of the ordinary.

By the power of example these people influence others who would otherwise be quite enthusiastic. But not many, comparatively. The average man who rides the bicycle of to-day, the up-to-date machine,

Digitized by ^.ooQle
—(35—

fitted with chainless gear, or coaster-brake, or cushion frame, is riding a machine that for actual ease and enjoyment is as far ahead of the old ordinary, and as far ahead of any really handy and economical method of enjoyment, as the cushioned automobile is ahead of the hard seat of a farmer’s wagon. There is to-day no vehicle which for handiness, air-shod comfort, speed, and all-around attractiveness should appeal to a man or woman as does the bicycle. If it is fitted with a coaster-brake, all its owner has to do is to mount it in front of his home and let it roll along with the least possible expenditure of energy. Within an hour, by this process, the rider xan easily cover ten or more miles, and see enough of the passing show to get his mind completely off any subject which may have been bothering him before beginning the ride.

One trouble with the average rider is that he does not strihe out into the country. People work along too much in ruts. If there is a boulevard the rider is likely to drift into it and have no desire to switch off into this or that interesting-looking lane. The real pleasure of cycling is through the woods, and out across the country. Not for the scorcher, but for the lazy man. Bear this in mind and make your plans to leave home the first day you can do so, resolved to get to a certain town in the country and to get there without pushing the pedals a bit harder than is absolutely necessary to keep the machine going. You will be surprised to see how easily you get along over the ground and how little more time is consumed by this method than if you were to hurry, and strain, and perspire. When you feel like sprinting a bit, do it. But don’t keep it up. That is the temptation, especially when one is in a nervous condition. If you have a riding partner, agree to meet at a certain place and not to interfere with each other’s gait in any way. Do not try to ride together. There are times when a man ought to be alone, and when he is out on a wheel to get his system into a condition of quietude—that is certainly one of the times. The knowledge that the riding partner will be there before, or about the same time, or soon after, you get there—is a comfort. To stick together all the way may produce more irritation and overwork than if the ride had not been taken.—The Wheel.

BICYCLE RACING AT THE PARIS EXPOSITION.

ONE of the most interesting features at the Paris Exposition will be the bicycle racing, which is set for September 9 to 16, thus giving American cyclists ample time to get in good condition before they start for the other side. Director A. G. Spalding has made public the following program:

FIRST DAY, SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1900.

Grand Prize of the Exposition—Open race, international; 2,000 metres; eight eliminating Series ; 375 francs a series, that is, a total of 3,000 francs.

Premium Race—For racers of second class; 10,00tf metres; 1,500 francs; divided iuto 20 premiums.

International Handicap—5,000 metres; 3,000 francs; divided into one prize for each series and six for the final.

Tandem Race—International, by series and half-finals; if necessary; 2,000 metres; 4,000 francs; divided into one prize for each series or half-finals and three for the final.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-06-

second DAY, MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 1900.

Inter-Region Race—Reserved for Frenchmen.

THIRD DAY, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1900.

Grand Prize of the Vincennes Amateurs—Open race, international, for all amateurs answering to the definition of the Union Vdocipedique de France; eliminating series. Objects of art, worth 500 francs, divided into nine prizes.

Criterium of Middle-distance—Race of 100 English miles (160,932 kilometres), with pace-makers, international; 10,000 francs, divided into five prizes.

FOURTH DAY, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1900.

Grand PriJse of Vincennes Amateurs—Half-finals and final; international;

2.000	metres. Objects of art worth 3,500 francs divided into three prizes for the half-finals and three lor the final.

Grand Prize of the Exposition-Half finals and final, open race; international;

2.000	metres: 27,000 francs, divided into nine prizes for the half-finals and three prizes for the final.

Fifty Kilometre Race—Open race, with pace-makers; international ; 7,000 francs, divided into five prizes.

FIFTH DAY, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1900.

Grand Race of the Nations—International race by team of three men for nation represented ; 6,500 francs, divided into nine individual prizes and three prizes for the winning teams. The marking in this race will be by team and by points.

SIXTH AND SEVENTH DAYS, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1900, AND SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1900.

Prize of the Foreigners—Trial reserved for all the foreign racers having participated in the Grand Prize of the Exposition on September 9 and 13 ; 1,000 metres, series and finals; 3,000 francs divided into three prizes for the half-finals, and three prizes for the final. This on Saturday.

SATURDAY AND SUNDAY.

Gold Cup Race—Twenty-four hours ; with pace-makers. Start Saturday, 6 p. m., and finish Sunday, at 6 p. m.

International Race—25,000 francs, divided into four prizes or six prizes, according to the number of racers taking part.

RULES..

Rules of the Union V61ocip£dique de France.

ENTRIES.

Article 7—The races are open to professional or amateur racers, possessing the license of the Union VSlocipedique de France, or licenses recognized by the Union V61ocip£dique de France.

Entries close August 21.

Article 2— No entry will be received unless it be accompanied by the entry fees, fixed as follows: Grand Prize of the Exposition, 20 francs. Premium Race, 5 francs. Handicap, 5 francs. Tandem Race, 5 francs a man. Inter-Regional Race, 5 francs a man. Grand Amateurs’ Prize, 5 francs. Criterium of Middle-Distance, 10 francs. Fifty-Kilometer Race, 10 francs. Grand Race of the Nations, 5 franes a man. Foreigners’ Prize, 5 francs. Gold Cup Race, 50 francs.

Article 3—All the races, except the handicap and the premium race, will carry the absolute necessity of starting.

Article 4—In the following trials, criterium of middle distance, fifty-kilometre race and gold cup race, the entered contestants must show to the committee for the race a sufficient' number of pace-makers, in default of which the facers entered may be refused.

Article 5—The entries must contain : first, the name and surname of the racer; second, his address; third, his pseudonym, if he has one ; fourth, his nationality ; fifth, his colors; sixth, mention of the races in which he wishes to take part; seventh, mention of his license and its number.

For the tandem race, the inter-regional race and the grand race of the nations, the entries must be bv full team or full group.

Further information, catalogues, and entry blanks can be secured by addressing A. G. Spalding, 19 and 18 Park Place, New York.

Digitized by ^ooQle
-67-

THIRD ANNUAL CONFERENCE

OF THE Y. M. C. A. PHYSICAL DIRECTORS OF PENNSYLVANIA,

JUNE 18—23, 1900.

THE Third Annual Conference of the Y. M. C. A. Physical Directors of Pennsylvania will be held at Philadelphia, June 18—23, 1900. This conference promises to be the Jargest of any yet held. The sessions will be held at the Central Branch Building, utilizing the lecture room and the gymnasium for this purpose. Mr. J. W. Simms, of the P. R. R. Branch, will have of the singing. All delegates are requested to bring pencil, note book, gymnasium suit, and bicycle. The Philadelphia Association will entertain the delegates to this conference at dinner, but the day has not yet been decided upon. The Committee has arranged the ^frogram so that nothing of importance, occuring during the week, will be missed by the delegates, and the importance of this is seen when it is remembered that during this same week the National Republican Convention and the North American Turners’ Jubilee will both be held in this city. Every delegate is requested to attend all sessions promptly, so that there will be no delay in carrying out the program. He is also expected to be dressed in his gymnasium suit and ready for the practical work in the “gym” at the time arranged for on the program. .The members of the Y. M. C. A. will be cordially welcomed at all sessions of this conference, and we trust that many of our members will find time to attend one or more of the sessions. The program follows:

PROGRAM*

MONDAY, 11 A. M.—LECTURE ROOM.

H. L. Chadwick, Presiding.

Opening Exercises.

Address of Welcome, Walter C. Douglas, Gen’l Sec’y, Philadelphia. Announcements.

2:30 P. M.—LECTURE ROOM.

W. H. Ward. Norfolk, Va., Presiding.

Ten-minutes papers, twenty minutes discussion.

Topic : “New Features in Physical Department,” J. M. Tyson, Erie.

Topic : “Foods and their Value,” H. C. Trout, South Branch, Phila. “Gymnasium Bible Study Club,” W. E. Hoffman, Lancaster.

TUESDAY, 9:30 A. M.—GYMNASIUM.

Swedish Gymnastics (Illustrated), H. S. Wingert, Franklin and Marshall College, Lancaster.

10:45—Graded Work, C. H. R. Jackson, Wilkesbarre.

7:45 P. M.—LECTURE ROOM.

J.	W. Simms, P. R. R. Dept., Phila., Presiding.

8:00—Paper, “Boys* Work,” N. W. Shetter, New Brunswick, N. J.

8:30—Lecture, “The Effect of Exercise on the Heart” (Illustrated), Dr. Randolph Faries, Phila.

WEDNESDAY, 9:30 A. M.—GYMNASIUM.

Fancy Steps and Marching, C. O. Heidler, Reading.

10:15—“Primary Tumbling and Mat Work,” Dr. H. L. Chadwick, Phila.

11:30—“Club Swinging,” W. J. Hermann, Phila.

7:45 P. M.—LECTURE ROOM.

W. S. Cowing, Germantown, Presiding.

8:00—“Business Men’s .Class, How Conducted?” W. N. Golden, Syracuse, N. Y. 8:30—“Medical Gymnastics,” Dr. E. H. Arnold, New Haven, Conn.

Digitized by LiOOQle
-68—

THURSDAY, 9:30 A. M.—LECTURE ROOM.

Joe M. McEldowney, Wilmington, Del., Presiding.

“The International Work,” G. T. Hepbron, Sect. International Physical Department, N. Y.

10:30—“Exhibitions ; Their Place and Value,” D. C. McLaughlin, Kensington Branch.

11:30—“Indoor Competitions (Gymnastics, Athletics, etc.),” W. H. Ward, Norfolk

AFTERNOON.	'

German Turners’ Class Work, at Washington Park.

FRIDAY, 9:30 A. M.—LECTURE ROOM.

L. W. Archibald, Warren, Presiding.

9:30—“The Danger of Professionalizing in Y. M. C. A. Sports,” W. E. Day, Dayton, Ohio.

10:00—Massage.

10:30—Address. (Subject to be announced later). Dr. J. Wm. White, University of Pennsylvania.

AFTERNOON.

German Turners’ Individual Work, Washington Park.	gt

SATURDAY, 9:30 A. M.—LECTURE ROOM.

H. L. Chadwick, Presiding.

Address, S. M. Bard, State Secretary of Pennsylvania.

10:30—Business Session.

Farewell Exercises.

AFTERNOON.

Grand Exhibition by German Turners at National League Baseball Grounds.

EVENING.

Turners’ Exhibition, at Academy of Music.

CHICAGO NORMAL SCHOOL.

Basket-Ball is now flourishing at the Chicago Normal School. Not less than six teams, each consisting of nine players, are enjoying the noble sport, and interest is, as yet, in its height. The following classes and grades have organized teams:

1st team. Training Class, Captain Miss Biegler;

2nd team, Training Class, Captain Miss LeGault;

8th Grade, Boys, Captain Percy Thorne;

8th Grade, Girls, Captain Lilly Palmer;

1st team, 7th Grade, Girls, Captain Fanny Johfrston;

2nd team, 7th Grade, Girls, Captain Edith Mizen.

Since their organization in November last year, the teams of the Training Classes have played five match games with the following results :

Normal vs. Lake High School, 10 to 6;

Normal vs. Kirkland Institute, 10 to 2;

Normal vs. Lake View High School, 26 to 6;

Normal vs. Armour Institute, 8 to 5;

Normal vs. Lake High School, 9 to 2; all games in favor of the Normal.

Judging from these very favorable results the basket ball teams of ' the Normal Training Classes have bright hopes to win the championship of the school teams of Chicago.

Physical training, in its broader scope, is, nevertheless, not neglected.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-69—

On the contrary, the students of the Normal School show a lively interest for general physical training. Over one third of them are members of the so-called optional classes which have their regular gymnasium period Monday and Thursday from 3.30 to 5 o’clock. This work is purely optional. The great enthusiasm entertained by students the majority of which will become teachere at our public schools promises well for the future of physical training. The person who has felt the joy that bodily exercise gives can easily understand and appreciate the similar feeling in our youths and will help with might and main to carry out the noble sentiment which lies in the old saying, Mens sana in corpore sano.

Miss Lura W. Sanborn is now the head of the Physical Training Department at the Chicago Normal School.

CORRESPONDENCE.

W. A. Crippen.—We shall bring the chart in one of our future issues.

H. O. D., Chicago, and Ad. Oppenheimer, Moline, 111.—Best thanks for contributions.

Chas. A. Burden, Eugene, Oreg.—You ask : “Could you tell.me where to find the World’s Best Records made by college men, and could you tell me if Wefers and Sweeney made the world’s best records while they were university students?” Perhaps one of our readers or contributors will be kind enough to answer your queries.

Mrs. Elizabeth R. Walton, Washington, D. C.—Thanks for your compliment. We are not in possession of the rules for the game of “Indoor Snowball.” Perhaps one of our readers that knows the game is willing to publish the details and the rules.

BOOK REVIEW.

(All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.)

—The Ladies’ Home Journal is to have the finest printing plant in America. Just 17,600 square feet of floor space are set apart for printing presses in the building just erected for this publishing concern. It is in the rear of the present publication office, eight stories in height, and within a short time will be occupied by the mechanical departments of the magazine. The constant, rapid growth of the Journal’s circulation necessitated greatly extended facilities for printing and mailing, and the new structure meets these demands, providing at the same time for future expansion in all departments. Specially designed presses, and all the most approved mechanical devices applied to printing are being added to the Journal’s already extensive equipment. It is the aim to make this plant the finest in America.

—The June number of The Delineator, besides showing one hundred and fifty illustrations of present fashions, contains several articles of general interest to women. “American Women at the Paris Exposition” is illustrated with seventeen portraits. “Founders of Women’s Colleges” contains ten portraits and valuable biographical matter. Clinton Ross, the well-known litterateur, contributes a clever revolutionary story, “The Perfidy' of Bess Doane.” Among the practical household articles is one on Housekeeping in Apartments and Flats. The regular departments of Social Observance, Practical Gardening, Girl’s Interests, Club Women and Club Life, and House Furnishing are interesting and valuable for practical women.

—1899 Year Book of the New York State Reformatory, Elmira, N. Y.— This reformatory, which heretofore has always figured as a pioneer for physica1

Digitized by kjOOQle
-70-

training in similar institutions, has again embodied in the. ¥ear Book a very extensive and interesting report on this subject.

—Bulletins No. 8 and 9 of the Philadelphia Festival are as interesting as were the previous issues ; they present ample additional information and reading matter to those that are familiar with the German language.

ATHLETICS.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—In the fourth Marathon 25 Mile Rtin at the modern Athens by the Boston Athletic Association the Canadian runners captured first, second, and third places, two of them breaking the reeord, doing the distance in 2 hours, 39 min. 44 2-5 sec.

—At the spring games of the University of Pennsylvania Myer Prinstein of Syracuse University broke the running broad jump record of 24 ft. 4V2 in., doing 24 ft. 7*4 in.

—The Official Lawn Tennis Annual for 1900, edited by that well known player, J. Parmly Paret, is published to-day. The book is complete in every particular, containing a review of the season, pictures of the challenge match between Whitman and Paret, description of the championship tournaments, pictures of Dwight F. Davis and Holcombe Ward, previous national champions, sectional championship events, state championship meetings, collegiate and scholastic, previous intercollegiate champions, open tournaments, foreign championships, revised official playing rules, rules for handicapping, official fixtures for 1900, hand tennis, and in fact is a book that all interested in the game should have.

—Lacrosse the Canadian national game is being popularized in the American colleges.

—The National Association of Amateur Oarsmen will hold their annual regatta on the Harlem River early in July.

—Since Mr. A. G. Spalding’s appointment as Director of the Sports at the Paris Exposition has been made public, he has been overrun with applications for information concerning the events that are to be held there. The information that has heretofore been sent to this country is entirely in French, but Mr. Spalding has had it translated and it is ready for distribution. Mr. Spalding finds upon investigation that the French authorities have made complete arrangements so far as pertains to the program, and what success he will have in endeavoring to have same changed to suit American conditions remains to be seen. He has received a petition requesting that there be a Marathon Road Race of twenty-five miles added to the program; and if this is done, Boston has promised jw*- less than three entries, and no doubt other long distance runners will be glad indeed to make the trip. When the question came up as to who would decide the athletic status of the amateur contestants, Mr. Spalding expressed hiipself as*being in favor of having a disinterested tribunal appointed, having a representative from each country that has sent in entries, for it is a well known fact that in many cases the definition of amateur is entirely different. In so far as the entries from America are concerned, they will be entirely in the hands of Mr, Spalding, ant it is his intention to recognize all of the governing bodies who pass upon the qualifications of their men upon this side of the ocean. For instance, the Amateur Athletic Union upon the unattached athletes; the Intercollegiate Association, United States Golf Association, National Rowing Association, National Cycling Association, Croquet Association, North American Gymnastic Association, Young Men’s Christian Association, and other governing bodies.—Entry* blanks and other information concerning the sports can be secured by addressing Mr. A. G. Spalding, 16 and 18 Park Place, New York City _ —The Third Annual Conference of the Young Men’s Christian Association Physical Directors of Pennsylvania will be held this year at Philadelphia, June 18—23. The committee has arranged the program so that nothing of importance occuring duiing this week, will be missed by the delegates attending the sessions, of the conference.

Digitized by t^ooQle
—71—

—Harry Vardon, the British Golf Champion, who has been playing matches-here is quite an adept on fancy strokes as well. He can “put” into a china cup or hit an elevated three inch mark thirty-five feet away, with the ease and accuracy of a sharp shooter.

—In their annual dual athletic meet Harvard readily beat Yale by a score of 62V2 points to 41^. It was an easy victory.

—Williams College won the 14 Annual Championships of the New England Intercollegiate Association. Brown was a close second and Bowdoin the champion of 1899 third.

—Princeton beat California in. their dual athletic meet 10 to 2. California also suffered defeat at the hands of Yale by a score of *6^ to 3V&.

ENGLISH GYMNASTIC BOOKS

FOR SALE BY

Freidenker Publishing Co., Milwaukee, Wis.

A SYSTEM OF PHYSICAL CULTURE, DESIGNED AS A MANUAL OF INSTRUCTION FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. By Carl Betz. —First Book :	Free	Gymnastics.	Price,	75	Cents.—Second Book:

Gymnastic Tactics (Stepping, Walking, Running, etc.). Price, 75 Cents.—Third Book : Light Gymnastics (Poles, Dumb-bells, Rings* Wands, and Clubs). Price, 75 Cents.—Fourth Book:	Popular

Gymnastics, Athletics and Sports of the Playground. Price* 75 Cts. —First Book abridged:	Free	Gymnastics arranged especially for

District Schools. Price, 50 Cents.

BEALE’S CALISTHENICS AND LIGHT GYMNASTICS FOR YOUNG FOLKS. 120 Illustrations from Life*by Photographic Process. Containing Broom and Fan Drills, Marches, Fencing, Club, Wand, and

Dumb-bell Exercises. Swimming and Music for Marching. This is the most complete Nwork published on the subject. 160 pages. Boards, 75 Cents. Cloth, Price, $1.00.

GYMNASTICS IN THE SCHOOL-ROOM. By Hans Ballin. A Manual for the Use of Teachers Containing One Hundred and Fifty-eight Half-tone Illustrations Direct from Photographs. Price, $1.00.

DICK’S ART OF WRESTLING. A Hand-Book of thorough instruction in wrestling, with the accepted rules to be observed in the different methods of wrestling generally adopted at the present time. Fully illustrated by well-designed engravings, exhibiting all the aggressive and defensive positions necessary for success. Paper covers. Price, 25 Cents.

NED DONNELLEY’S ART OF BOXING. A Thorough Manual of Sparring and Self-defense, Illustrated with Forty Engravings, Showing the Various Blows, Stops, and Guards; by Ned Donnelly, Professor of Boxing to the London Athletic Club, etc., etc. This work explains every movement of attack and defense in the clearest language; the engravings show each position as plainly as the instruction, of a professor could convey it. Including the latest revision of the Marquis of Queensbury’s and London Prize Ring Rules. 127 pages. Price, 25 Cents,

Digitized by CjOOQle
-72-

THE ART OF ATTACK AND DEFENSE. A Manual of Fencing. Sword and Bayonet Exercises, and Boxing. By Major W. J. Elliott. This work affords thorough instructions in the modern method of Fencing, Sword against Sword or Bayonet, Bayonet against Sword or Bayonet, and the latest developments in the Pugilistic Art. Paper cover. Price, 25 Cents.

THE SWEDISH SYSTEM. By Baron Nils Posse. The Swedish System of Educational Gymnastics. 264 Illustrations. Latest Edition. Price, $3.00.—Handbook of School Gymnastics of the Swedish System. .Cloth, Price, 55 Cents. #

CODE-BOOK OF GYMNASTIC EXERCISES. By L. Puritz. Translated by 0. Knofe and J. W. Macqueen, members of the German Gymnastic Society of London. With 268 Woodcut Illustrations. Price, 60 Cents. .

GYMNASTIC TACTICS. Part I: Tactics of the Individual. By E. H. Arnold, M. D., Director of Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics. Price, 20 Cents.

ELEMENTARY APPARATUS WORK OF THE GERMAN SYSTEM OF GYMNASTICS. By E. H. Arnold, M. D. Arranged by Frances N. Boynton. Price, 25 Cents.

SCHOOL TACTICS. For the Use of Schools and Gymnastic Associations.

By W. A. Stecher. With 50 Illustrations. Price, $1.00. HAND-BOOK OF GYMNASTICS. By J. M. Watson. Illustrated. Price, $2.00.

Teachers’ manual of physical culture of public

SCHOOLS. By Henry Suder. First Series. Part I: First and second grades. Price, 25 Cents. Part II: Third and fourth grades. Price, 25 Cents.—Second Series. Part I :	Fifth	grade.	Price, 30

Cents. Part II : Sixth grade. Price, 30 Cents.

MANUAL OF CALISTHENICS. By J. M. Watson. Illustrated. Price, $1.25.

GYMNASTICS. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the use of teachers and pupils in public and private schools and gymnasia. Edited by W. A. Stecher. Cloth, 354 pages. 308 Illustrations. Price, $3.00..

PHYSICAL CULTURE FOR PUBLIC SCHOOLS. By Hans Rassmus-sen. Illustrated. Cloth-bound. Price, 1.50.

Games for Schools and Gymnasia. By W. C. .Schaefer. Milwaukee, 1900. Freidenker Publishing Co. pp. 36; Bound half cloth. Price 50c.— The scarcity of text books on movement games for the girls and boys in our American public and private schools has long been felt as a grievous want. Of German books on the movement games there has never been a lack, but the English literature was devoid of any acceptable collection of such games. Mr. Schaefer has undertaken the task to collaborate such a book with great insight and circumspection. The games are conspicuously arranged under different headings from sound pedagogical points of view and well classified for girls and boys. No teacher of our public, private, and gymnastic schools having Anglo-American pupils under his or her care can afford to be without this book. It embodies moral and physical as well as intellectual elements and is sure to attract the attention of every progressive pedagogue.

Digitized by L-ooQle