MIND AND BODY

Vol. 15.	FEBRUARY,	1909.	No.	176

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. t)AY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass.’, Boston, Mass.

ROBERT NOHR, M. D., Public Schools, Cincinnati, O.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa»

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, zao Pomona St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

OLYMPIC GAMES AND GYMNASTIC FESTIVALS.

A summary of the value of both by D. A. SARGENT, M. D.

This summer while in Europe Dr. Dudley A. Sargent, director of the Hemenway Gymnasium of Harvard, had the opportunity of witnessing two great exhibitions of physical work, which he says represented collectively the world’s greatest achievement up to the present time in athletic and gymnastic exercises—the Olympic Games held in London, England, last July, and the great Gymnastic Festival held in Frankfurt, Germany, a week later. In an interview published in the Boston Transcript, Dr. Sargent called attention to some important differences in the methods employed and the results that accrued from them.

The athletic contests in the stadium at London consisted, as everyone knows, of an unusual number of walking, running, hurdling and bicycle races for different distances; throwing the hammer, javelin and the discus; putting the shot; standing and running broad jump and the hop, step and jump; pole vault and tug-of-war; a great variety of swimming races, fancy diving, high diving and water polo; a variety of wrestling contests for different weights in both catch-as-catch-cfan and Graeco-Roman style; fencing with foil and sabre, both as individuals and by teams; archery for various distances; and individual and team contests in gymnastics.

In addition to these contests which were held at the stadium there were Olympic competitions in lawn tennis, court tennis, polo, rackets and different varieties of shooting. There were about 2000 individuals competing in these contests, and some 18 or 20 different countries represented. The results of these contests are well known.

It is worthy of special emphasis that the British constituents adopted the policy of preparing to enter men in as many of the contests as possible. As England was really playing the part of host this was a most generous act and added not a little to the interest of the contest as a

Digitized by LjOOQle
-362—

whole, and made the British team the best all-round set of athletes that took part in the great event. The British, therefore, according to Dr. Sargent, made a more praiseworthy showing than our own representatives.

From a national point of view the interesting as well as the most important facts to know are—how far the athletes of the Olympic games represented the physical condition of the masses in the country from which they came—and whether the strivings for records in feats of strength, speed and endurance in certain narrow and prescribed lines of physical exercise are conducive to the greatest amount of health, happiness and longevity. In America there are very few active athletic clubs outside of the colleges, and the athletes who went from the United States could hardly be said to represent what this country is doing for the physical training of her youth. Our champion athletes are the product of no particular system, and they represent no one but themselves. Exceptional qualities and exceptional circumstances in a large country of exceptional resources like ours bring forth exceptional men. As soon as these exceptional men are discovered, friends, patrons, clubs and trainers unite in their efforts to secure their services and make their abilities still more exceptional. With the exception of the gymnastic teams from Norway,. Sweden, Finland, France, Germany, Denmark, Italy and England—nearly all the athletes who appeared at the Olympic games in London were highly trained specialists, that is they were runners, jumpers, vaulters, bicyclists, or swimmers, divers, etc. Their performances were truly remarkable, some of them the best of the kind that the world has produced.

WHY THE LONDON CONTESTS WERE POORLY PATRONIZED.

There was, of course, no moral or religious enthusiasm back of these games as in the Olympic games of old. As a consequence, the contests were poorly patronized the first ten days of the two weeks’ performance, and they were saved from a financial failure only bv the Marathon race and the unfortunate feud between the American and English representatives. Dr. Sargent, in this connection, called attention to the fact that athletic contests between highly developed specialists, who in one sense are professionals, are usually fostered by vanity, greed and selfishness and are bound to lead to perpetual enmity, jealousy and strife. This is especially likely to be true if the competitions are opened to all classes and to different nationalities. “A fair field, no favor and may the best man win” has no meaning to such contestants, for the best man may be a foreigner or a natural enemy. As a consequence the Olympic games at London were not free from many of the criminations and recriminations, with the accompanying bitterness of feeling, that have sometimes moved such contests in America.

Dr. Sargent ventures the statement that other very potent reasons for the failure were the very nature of the contests in the stadium; the poor seats and high prices; the fact that the contests were largely indi-

Digitized by CjOOQle
-363-

vidual, instead of team, school, college or club competitions, and the further fact that they were given as a side show to a world’s fair. The games at Chicago, St. Louis, Buffalo, Jamestown in America, and at Paris, he asserts, were all failures in point of public attendance though very fair athletic exhibitions were given. At Athens, the public attendance was much larger than at any of the other meetings, though the athletic exhibitions in many respects were inferior to those given m some of the other cities mentioned—and greatly inferior in all respects to the exhibition given in London last July.

WHY A POPULAR SUCCESS AT FRANKFURT.

This lack of enthusiasm becomes very apparent when contrasted by Dr. Sargent with the German gymnastic festival at Frankfurt. There the financial expenditure wTas even greater than that for the Olympic Games, but the larger part of the money spent was put into buildings and the improvement of the grounds for permanent usage by the city as a playground for the school children. Very little money was expended for the construction of reserved seats—$4000 or $5000 at the most. The price of these was only twenty-five cents, and the general admission but ten cents. Many of the gymnastic contests were held in twelve wooden frame structures each about two hundred feet long, open on the sides, with canvas roofs and a dirt or gravdl floor. Others were held on different portions of the field, fenced off for the purpose, or on a large elevated stage some 150 feet square. The courses for running and hurdling were laid out on parallel lines on one side of the field, the centre of which was reserved for the field games and the mass drills. All about this forty-acre field, wherever there were any exercises going on, there were opportunities for spectators to stand and see them. Thousands availed themselves of this opportunity, and they were constantly coming and going throughout the day and evening. It was a festival, an affair complete in itself—of the people, by the people, and for the people. Everybody seemed to be interested in its success; there was no fancied artificial distinction between amateur and professional, everybody was paying his own way, and there w^as no suspicion of anybody making money out of the affair.

The large attendance, 137,000 on the opening day, and the popular enthusiasm were indicative of the influence of some great factor that was wanting at the London meeting. What was it? To quote Dr. Sargent:	“Some	say forgetfulness of self and love of German unity.

Others will attribute it to group contests by organized gymnastic societies, scattered all over the world and having affiliations wherever the German language is spoken—as contrasted with individual contests, without school, college, club or society connections representing no one but themselves in their ambition to make a record or win a prize.”

HOW THESE FESTIVALS ARE CONDUCTED.

The Frankfurt Gymnastic Festival is one of a series that has been given every four years in some city in Germany since 1860, when tha

Digitized by oogle
-364-

first one was held in Coburg. These festivals resemble the original Olympic Games in many of their features more nearly than those given by any other people. They are given by members of the German Gymnastic Union, which consists of about 8000 societies and 800,000 members. The societies and members are scattered all over the world, or wherever any considerable number of Germans are living. For instance, there are about 250 societies in the United States comprising nearly 40,000 members. The objects of these organizations are partly for the social and intellectual improvement of their members as well as for their physical advancement.

The regular work of the societies comprising the German Gymnastic Union consists of the practice of various forms of gymnastics and athletics such as horizontal and parallel bar exercises, calisthenic drills, running, jumping, swimming, wrestling, etc., as a means of keeping up the health of the German race and adding to their mental and physical efficiency. The members of these different societies try to meet two or three limes a week throughout the year. In addition to the physical life and activity of the German gymnastic societies efforts are made to improve the general culture of the individual members by competition in speaking, singing, debating and dramatic entertainments. A great deal is done in the way of innocent recreations and amusements by the societies with a view to enhancing the social life of the members and their families. Members of the German gymnastic societies, both in this country and Europe, have been firm and persistent advocates of the introduction of physical training into the public school system, and through their influence and support, physical drills have been introduced into the schools of Chicago, St\ Louis, Cincinnati and many of the Western cities.

About 10,000 of the members in the North American Gymnastic Union, ranging from eighteen to forty years, are actively engaged in the practice of more or less vigorous athletic exercise.

About nine hundred of these members from the United States, one hundred or more of whom were competitors, attended the great international tournament at Frankfurt. San Francisco, Denver, St. Louis, Milwaukee and the great Western and Eastern cities all sent representatives. Moreover these men, including the actual competitors individually or through their societies, paid their own expenses. According to the regulations of the German Union, no specialists are allowed do enter the contests. Each man must compete on apparatus and in track and field work, so that a man to be successful must be truly an all-round athlete. There are no costly medals and prizes given to the winners. A simple diploma and a wreath (as in the Olympic games of old), content the heart of the victorious athlete. To Dr. Sargent the gratifying feature in these great tournaments is the keen spirit in which every individual does his best in many lines of activity in order to bring up the standard of his individual society.

Digitized by

Google
—865—

A MAGNIFICENT SCENE.

The athletic meetings at Frankfurt were held on a field comprising some forty-four acres. There was no stadium, no grand stands and seating accommodations were not afforded for more than three or four thousand people. But there was “something doing” on that field for a week, from early dawn to late at night, and a great many hundred persons were taking part in the different events. The first day of the festival opened with a parade through the principal streets, which were fairly lined with people, and were profusely decorated with flags and bunting. The procession was several miles long, and about fifty thousand participated in it. The German-American representatives headed the procession and were everywhere greeted with cheers and nearly inundated with sweets and flowprs. Upon arriving at the field twelve thousand of the active'members went through what is termed a “mass drill” in free exercises without apparatus, to the music or timing of electric bells placed on posts at regular distances throughout the field. The reason for this electric innovation was that the area of ground covered by those exercising was so large that the music of a band could not begin to reach them all at the same time.

All through the later hours of the first day of the festival there, was music, singing, speechmaking and social gatherings in the great auditorium on the grounds, that were said to accomodate about seventeen thousand people, while the crowds outside were being similarly entertained. At the close of the first day the turnstiles registered an attendance of one hundred and thirty-seven thousand people. All through the week contests were going bn among some three thousand competitors im the following events which constitute what is termed a heptathlon; 1 putting the shot, 2 vaulting horse, 3 running high jump, 4 parallel bars, 5 horizontal bar, 6 120-yard hurdles. Dr. Sargent said that it was truly remarkable that one country should in these days of over-specializing produce three thousand persons competent to compete in such a many-sided contest as this heptathlon.

In addition to these events there were special contests in wrestling, fencing and swimming. In order that the three thousand men could be run through these six events it was necessary that they be divided into classes and groups and that there should be twenty or thirty different places where each of these six events could be going on at the same time. For instance, there were twenty-four places for putting the shot, twenty-four horizontal bars, twenty-four sets of parallel bars, etc. Each man could not come into immediate competition with any other man, as with us, but he could come into competition with his record.

In addition to these group contests which were going on through the week, there were several fine gymnastic displays given by some of the German societies, and one exhibition of some three hundred men between the ages of forty-five and sixty on the heavy apparatus. To see sturdy business and professional men over fifty years of age doing “giant swings” on the bars and “hand springs” over horses was a revelation

Digitized by Google
—366—

to many of the Americans present. On the last day of the festival twelve thousand school children of both sexes took part in the mass drill of ealisthenic exercises, thus again reminding one of the Grecian festivals. On the evening of this day the names of the victors were announced and the prizes were distributed.

During the entire week thousands of people visited the festival grounds, forenoon, afternoon and evening. In the great auditorium, where special gymnastic features could be seen and excellent music heard throughout the day and evening, light wine and beer flowed almost as freely as water. The same could be said of most of the drinking and eating booths cm the festival grounds and throughout the city, yet notwithstanding this fact, Dr. Sargent reports that he did not see a single person intoxicated, and within the exhibition grounds, did not see a single policeman. Many of the turners and visitors were in a very happy frame of mind; singing, dancing and abounding good nature everywhere prevailed, but there was nothing too much, and everybody was well-poised and self-controlled.

THE CLOSING EXERCISES IN LONDON AND FRANKFURT.

Again, attention was called to the contrast between the closing exercises of the Gymnastic Festival at Frankfurt and the closing exercises at the Olympic Games in London. At the former, 12,000 children on the field giving an exhibition of the health-promoting exercises that they had been doing at school, and thousands of parents, friends, relatives and teachers there to appreciate their efforts and bestow their approval. At the latter a hundred thousand spectators in the grand stand, wrought up to a high state of nervous excitement and emotional expectancy— waiting two hours in the hot July sun to see which of one, two or three blind, staggering and exhausted runners would be first to make a half turn around the track and reach a specified goal post. The only joy that can come to the spectator of such an event is the realization that the victor may at least be one of his own countrymen—but unless that victor can sav with the Spartan youth:	“My country has many a

worthier son than I,” this joy is not well founded.

Here, asserts Dr. Sargent, is where America, England and some of the ontinental countries can learn something from Germany. The Germans have a system that reaches down into the school, the shop and the factory, and extends out into the woods and fields and playgrounds. They care little for the achievements of the champion gymnasts or athletes—it is the physical education of the masses that most concerns them. Sometimes, Dr. Sargent is inclined to think, Germany carries her admiration for mass work a little too far—and often has cause to show her enthusiasm for the quantity rather than for the quality of the work that is being done. Here America, England and Germany and all of the European countries may learn something from Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Finland. Gymnastic competitions and athletic contests are excellent things, in so far as they require practice and furnish incentive for effort. But it seems that the first essential in any

Digitized by
—8H7-

competition or contest is to consider whether the thing to be attained is really worth striving for—in other words. Will it pay a man in terms of health, strength, energy and accumulated vigor to enter a contest, like a Marathon race, for instance, that simply serves to make a Homan holiday for the masses, and give one considerable unpleasant notoriety that he will have to live down?

“Neither the physiological, psychological, sociological nor educational value of physical training are in proportion to the distance one can run, swim, or throw a weight, or the height to which he can jump, or from which he can dive. There is no more good reason why a person should desire to excel all others in any one athletic event than why he should try to excel all others in height, or weight, or in the amount that he could eat or drink. In either case it is a marked variation from the normal that is likely to he followed by, or associated with, some mental, moral or physical deficiency.

“Our accumulated experiences with athletics and athlei.es all tend to confirm the wisdom of the Greeks in their abhorrence of excess in-special activities, and to emphasize their desire for harmony, symmetry and proportion in physical development. What our American students of today should strive for is neither to be victorious athletes, prize gymnasts or champion strong men—but to have some of the strength of the strong man, some of the alertness and endurance of the athlete, and some of the grace and skill of the gymnast, all combined with the poise and dignity of the gentleman.”

SINGLE FAN VS. DOUBLE FAN SYSTEMS OF HEATING AND VENTILATION

By H. L. WILLIAMS.

The endless experiments and tests made within the last fifteen years by those who have been connected with the practical rather than the theoretical end of the question of ventilation tend to show that a single fan system of ventilation will not accomplish all that can be done with a double system. In order to make myself thoroughly understood, let me ask what we are trying to get rid of where we employ mechanical means of ventilation? Is it not the old “natural” or “gravity” method? Again, I ask what is it we are trying to get rid of most? Is it not the heavy and foul air in the room to be ventilated?

I think we can all agree that mechanical systems are designed to take the place of the unreliable and variable gravity methods. I think we can also agree that it is the foul air in the rooms that we wish to rid ourselves of when we adopt methods of ventilation. If I am correct in assuming that we can agree on these two points, then we are down to a basis where we can discuss reasonable means of accomplishing the best results. We will agree most cheerfully that it is all important that we furnish plenty of fresh air to the occupants in any room that we wish to ventilate. You cannot take water out of a barrel unless you first

Digitized by
-368-

put water into it; neither can you take air out of a room unless you provide for a proper air intake. In the old gravity methods tlr > air was taken into the building by what may he well termed "coaxing'* methods —that is, the presence in the basement of a heat chamber produced a tendency to a vacuum, which caused the air to flow from t j outside towards that vacuum and, being heated, to rise through flues into the room or rooms to be heated and ventilated. The flow was assisted by taking advantage of the air currents themselves. Naturally, such a system depended almost wholly upon atmospheric conditions, and was equally uncertain and variable. To make sure of this flow being the same at all times the "supply blower” is now used with admirable results. There is no question that such a system wholly overcomes the variable and uncertain flow of gravity means.

The funny part to me is that it is seriously contended that what is good for supplying constantly the requisite quantity of. pure air is wholly unnecessary for the exhaust of the foul air—the very thing you want to get rid of most in any system of ventilation. Such, a contention, I know, is mostly based on the supposition that the pressure exerted to force the air into the room will force it out. On that question I wish to quote from the report of the late Chief Wade, of the Massachusetts District Police, to show what has been demonstrated in actual practice:

"The forcing of abundant fresh air into a room will drive the air out mainly at the easiest outlets, and some of the most essential may • be neglected because of being the easiest way for the air to pass. The only sure way to get the air out just where you want it to go out is to apply an exhausting force at the outlets to guide and assist the expelling force.”

If ever a man uttered a truth that was upheld by the best practice, Chief Wade uttered it in the above statement. His position is simply unassailable. It is, however, equally true that the air forced into a room will, with the exception of what compresses, go out. The all important question is, where does it go out? As a ventilating engineer,

I am not concerned about what takes place above the "breathing level” of the room I wish to ventilate. I want to know what is going on where the occupants have to do their breathing. The pure air that escapes above their heads does nobody any good, for it does not keep clear the atmosphere in the room where the occupant does his breathing, and what escapes is dead loss from a heating standpoint.

The basic law that underlies all good heating and ventilation is that of good distribution. Anything that interferes with the distribution of the fresh warm-air thrown into a room interferes at the same time with both efficient heating and ventilation. The man who would clear the muddy bottom of a watering trough when it is full of water by pouring fresh water on top, would hardly rise up as an expert along that line. The same thing can be truthfully said of the ventilating engineer whose chief concern seems to be to force fresh air in at the top of the room without regard to the leakage that takes place above the heads of

Digitized by
—369 —

the occupants, and evidently without much concern as to what effect it has on ^he “muddy bottom.”

The theory that “if air is forced into a room, it must go out” would probably sustained if the room which it is sought to ventilate were practically air tight. The pressure of the released air in the room would then continue to accumulate until the pressue at the outgoing register would nemy equal that at the inflow register; but buildings are not now and never have been constructed that way. We are compelled, therefore, to deal with them as they are, and not as we would have them theoretically. We must consider them as leaky and treat them as such. We all know that the laws of air and water are very much alike. Suppose that we assume that we have a room that is w&ter tight. Suppose we introduce at or near the ceiling a supply pipe 6 in. in diameter, while at the bottom of the room we will have an outlet of the same diameter as the inlet, the inlet and the outlet pressure being the same. Anyone would at once say that there would be just as much water flow out of the room as came in.

But suppose we now proceed to puncture many holes in the walls of that room so that it will leak all over. Would anyone say that you got the same amount of water out of the room through the regularly provided outlet as came in through the inlet? Certainly not, and the same principle holds good with air, with this additional significance; that what leaks out disturbs the intended distribution and affects the ventilation accordingly.

I now return to the basis that, in a single fan system, you rely wholly on discharging the foul air from a room upon the pressure of the initial or supply blower, plus the natural draft of the vent stack. I take the position that the air once released into the room at a warm air register can never accumulate its pressure in the ordinary building, so it will be the same at the outlet as at the inlet. That being so, and test after test in practice has proven it so, the flow outward by the initial fan pressure will never be anywhere near the same as at the inlet, unless the vent flue is made much larger than the incoming flue. Most ordinary practice, as well as common sense, shows the question v to be true beyond a shadow of doubt. The result is thafr, in order to have the requisite outward flow of the foul air, you must rely very largely on the draft and size of the vent stack. You are, therefore, back to “gravity” methods in handling your ventilation.

Everybody knows who has ever had any experience with a vent stack that its draft depends almost wholly on the conditions of the atmosphere and is, therefore, just as variable. If so, then it follows that the single fan system of ventilation will vary as the draft of the vent stack varies. If your vent stack is large enough to meet the worst conditions of the atmosphere, it will be vastly excessive when the atmosphere is favorable to a good draft; and when it is excessive—that is, where the pressure of the initial fan plus the natural draft of the stack is sufficient to exhaust more air from the room than you bring in through the regular inlet—then you produce the same results that are had in a purely vacuum system. In short, such a course is advocating mechan- ■

Digitized by v^,ooQle
ical means for supplying the fresh air and relying to a great extent on the variable and unsatisfactory “gravity” method for exhausting the foul air. Such a position is hardly reasonable, neither is it consistent.

In discussing single fan systems thus far I have assumed that the vent stack was run through the roof to the outer air, so as to take advantage of the natural draft such a stack would have. I dismiss all single fan systems that open up into the aftic and then through the roof by windows as being out of the question when science governs ventilating engineering. It all reminds me of how utterly ridiculous a man would be to build a magnificent, high smoke stack so as to get proper draft for his boilers and then put a roof over it. The only difference there is between the two is that the smoke stack would still have the advantage because it was constantly heated by the smoke from the boiler, while the vent stack would not be so heated.

Taking into consideration all the arguments before advanced and the reasonable certainty of the variable results of any single fan system that has yet been designed, I am forced to the conclusion that the success of such a system depends largely upon the eternal watchfulness of the engineer in charge; for the only way that .the variable drafts of a vent stack can be controlled is by dampers in the stacks themselves, so aranged that the flow outward may be regulated when excessive. If it is possible to find an engineer who will take enough interest in his work to go around each day of the school year to regulate the dampers in the vent stacks connected with each room, I would like to contribute towards erecting a suitable monument to him while he is yet alive. Our experience teaches us that the more nearly “fool proof” you can make a heating and ventilating system, the better will be the results. For this reason alone I cannot conceive how we would have a more perfect system that to have a bridle on the supply and a bridle on the exhaust, so that the operation of the system at all times would be the same, and depend on no such variable results as must be the case where vent stacks are used in connection with the plenum or force fan. Neither can I understand bow anyone can even think it possible that a single fan system will accomplish “all that can be done by a double system.” Reason is against it, practice is against it and common sense is against it.

As to a position that 'it is more economical to operate, since one fan only has to be looked after, as against two in the other case,” I would say that that hardly needs much consideration. While it is true that, so far as power is concerned, it is a trifle more expensive to operate two fans than one, I doubt whether it is true so far as the entire system is concerned. I am now gathering statistics on that very subject. Wliat I have would indicate that what you save in power you lose in fuel for heating, and that the saving as a whole is in favor of a double fan system. I will, a little later on, be able to determine positively which is in reality the less expensive to maintain. At present, it is as yet an open question with us.

Digitized by C^ooQLe
-371-

In discussing the merits of a plenum or vacuum system of ventilating, a vacuum system alone will no doubt remove the foul air all right, but it is a question whether it will bring enough fresh air into the building through the proper channels. In short, a purely vacuum system is rather a bad heating proposition, though I cannot see why it is not effective in removing the foul air.

However, there are some reasons assigned that might lead one to think that arguments such as those I refer to are intended to mean a vacuum fan in connection with the plenum. If so, the argument that “with a suction fan system the opening of a window will alinost ruin the ventilation,” etc., is wholly at fault. A properly-installed double fan system will do nothing of the kind. Many a time I have demonstrated that/ unless there is considerable wind pressure from without, you can open the windows and doors of a room, set a delioate air meter on a window and the wheel will not move—proving that the system is balanced, and the conditions absolutely normal, just as they should be when a proper heating and ventilating system is installed.

Heating and Ventilating Magazine.

AN INNOVATION IN GYMNASIUMS.

If plans of Dartmouth alumni go through, the students of that institution will shortly, possess the most advanced type of college gymnasium in the country. It will be more than a gymnasium. It will be a huge building in which there will be plenty of room for the practice of all the major sports, except rowing. It will unquestionably fix the type of future construction of college gymnasia. •

So huge will it be that track men may practice on a track of eight laps to the mile, and with straightaways of more than 100 yards; so huge that baseball men will have space in which to bat the ball and to run, yet without encroaching upon the ample area reserved for shot-putters, jumpers and pole vaulters; so- huge that the entire college may take exercise at one time under its roof.

The indoor dirt track, the largest in the United States, is, perhaps, the most remarkable feature of the proposed gymnasium. It will be a regulation cinder track with built-up turns, 10 feet in width and as nearly perfect as such a track can be.

This splendid indoor track will pass and return beneath the first floor of what is really the gymnasium proper, and circle out and around the two farstretching shell-like wings that will extend on either side, and in which will be contained the expanses of native earth, 140 feet by 110 at least, which the baseball men and track squad may call their own.

The new gymnasium will have every feature that a gymnasium should possess.

On the second floor will be situated the gymnasium proper containing all the apparatus for gymnastic work, and an open floor space where

Digitized by CjOOQle
-372-

basket ball can he played and where half the college could be given class drill at one time; also courts for court tennis, squash courts, boxing and fencing rooms and many other features.

In the upper story, too, there' will be provided opportunity for training men for indoor athletics. A board track will run around the inside wall of the entire building which, while this track is not in use, will be available for spectators of baseball practice and track sport taking place on the mother earth below.

On the ground floor, under the main building, the plans show a space where a swimming pool of large size will be constructed ultimately if present intentions can be carried out. On either side of this open cellar run out the huge wings, lofty shells surrounded by the galleried walls.

The roofs, all glass, and the windows, numerous and near together, should make these enclosed and sheltered spaces as bright as the day outside, and the proper temperature will be maintained by a system of steam heating fed from the central plant of the college.

The skylights of the wings will stretch 40 feet from the ground and will be protected with wire gratings so that the baseball can be batted as well as thrown.

The greatest length of the gymnasium will be 300 feet.

The greatest width of the long wings, wilich make possible the long running stretch, will be 110 feet north and south, while the dimensions of the gymnasium proper contained in the cross are 200 feet north and south and 80 feet, a part of the greatest length of the building east and west.

The baseball diamond will be located in the west wing, while ih the east wing, in addition to the room for field events, there will be space for several handball courts.

Reinforced concrete will be the material chiefly used in the building of the new gymnasium.

The design, while by no means ornate, possesses dignity and the beauty of long lines.

The gymnasium proper, according to the plans, is located wdthin the arms, of the cross and that section of the long building to wrhich they join. The long wings will contain the huge open spaces.

On the main floor the trophy room will be situated.

Beyond this room will be the locker room with 1000 steel lockers, the lavatories and shower baths and the dressing rooms for the athletic teams.

—THE NEXT MEETING of the American Physical Education Association will be held at Philadelphia, on April 7., 8., 9. and 10. The preliminary program, as printed elsewhere in this issue, promises such a great treat to those wTho attend that w^e sincerely hope that all of our readers will make an earnest endeavor to be present.

Dii	y	C^ooQle
-373-

EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS AND PHYSIOLOGIC AND HYGIENIC NOTES OF INTEREST.

By D M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Philadelphia.

Further experiments to show the value of oxygen inhalations after violent exercise have been made at the London Hospital under the direction of Dr. Leonard Hill and Dr. Martin Flack at a series of boxing bouts between men who were not in good physical training.

One competitor after each round took oxygen inhalations. The oxygen was passed from the containing cylinder through a rubber bag to raise the temperature slightly, and was then sucked into the lungs through a rubber tube the size of an ordinary garden hose.

In every instance it was found, Doctor Flack explained, that the pulse rate dropped almost immediately to a point a little above normal, showing that the heart had been greatly relieved by the oxygen. Hurried, shallow breathing with forced and visible sensations of tightness across the chest disappeared within a few seconds after taking the oxygen.

“For a man of sedentary habits who gets no exercise for a week or two at a stretch,” says Doctor Flack, “and then suddenly undertakes some prolonged physical exertion, oxygen inhalations are of the greatest value. A few breaths of oxygen and all the acute sensations of distress pass off, as does also the feeling of extreme fatigue. More valuable, perhaps, is the absence of muscle stiffness on the following day which this simple treatment insures.”

Every competitor in field sports proceeds by a little running before the contest “to limber up,” but is this really the only reason he does so? His experience has undoubtedly taught him, that he can more readily achieve his end, or accomplish his feat, if he takes a little exercise before the contest and he actually attains a better record, but this is probably not due to the “limbering up” of the joints but to the increased amount of air he breathes. His lungs take in more air and there is an increased oxygination of his blood, stimulating his ability in strength and hightening his endurance.

Dr. Lightner Witmer, professor of psychology at the University of Pennsylvania, discusses a question of absorbing interest in “The Psychological Clinic” for November. “What is feeblemindedness?” he asks. “We all use the word, most of us have seen children who are said to be feebleminded, and everyone knows that there are several asylums in this country for the care of feebleminded children and adults. But what do we mean by feeblemindedness? What do the physicians mean by it? Is it a temporary mental condition, or is it an incurable brain defect?” Dr. Witmer reports a case of mental and moral deficiency which was treated and cured last year in his Orthogenic School at the University of Pennsylvania. He tells of a boy of eleven years, in whom was wrought a wonderful change by eight months of the right kind of medical and educational treatment.

Digitized by Google
-374-

“Some children,” says Professor Witmer, “stand at a point where the path of individual development forks. One road leads on through a life of imbecility or markedly subnormal efficiency. The other road will bring the child at maturity to a life of normal activity. That such widely divergent possibilities are open to one and the same child will appear incredible to those who have not had the opportunity to watch the course of development of these children.”

And again he says:	“The	type of child whom I have under con-

sideration ought, in my opinion, to be viewed as being in as critical a condition as the child who is on the verge of death from typhoid fever. In an acute disease every remedial agency will be called upon, regardless of the expenditure of money and scientific effort.

“The retarded child of ten years of age, from the medical standpoint is not suffering from alarming symptoms. From the standpoint of society, the family, and from his own point of view, if he could give expression to it, his condition is more alarming than if he stood momentarily expecting a summons to another world. If I am right in the position for which I am contending, there are children under ten years of age who have before them a life which is%lif£Ie better than a living mental death, who might, if taken in time, be rescued from this condition and developed through a course of training to the normal mental stature of man.”

The Orthogenic School has been organized by Prof. Witmer in connection with the Psychological Laboratory at the University of Pennsylvania for the purpose, as the name indicates, of cultivating a “right or normal development” in children for whom, in his opinion, there is a fighting chance of restoration to normal life.

In the same number of “The Psychological Clinic” Dr. Felix Arnold discusses the classification and education of afflicted children in the public schools, IH* points out the necessity of establishing classes in which will be treated separately (1) backward children, (2) crippled children, (3) deaf and dumb children, (4) blind children, (5) feebleminded children, (6) delinquent chidren, (7) morally defectives.

He proceeds to outline the educational principles which should be applied to the public school training of each of these groups of children. He says that so long as the public allows afflicted children to be born into the world, and to live, the only logical thing is to educate them on a par with normal children. He says:	“A sudden death in infancy

is in many cases much better than the prolonged privation and misery which afflicted children have to suffer because of a lack of training, education and occupation.”

'“Mind in the Making” by Edgar Swift of Washington University, St. Louis, contains so much of value to teachers that this book should be read by everyone who has the rational development of the young at heart. We cannot obstain from the publication of some passages in his book. These are of particular interest to teachers of physical training:

Digitized by
-375—

“We know that native tendencies cannot be whipped out of boys, and that these impulses should be turned into other lines of activity witch will satisfy the needs of boyish instincts without robbing the child of the desire to act and the resulting moral strength and elasticity. The personal equation of boys plays too important a part in their development to make set rules possible, but in the great majority of cases the satisfying outlet for these instincts is through some form of interesting physical activity.

The secret of creating in boys a feeling of social responsibility which shall lead to intelligent discrimination in conduct, is not to be sought in talks on morals but in the unconscious influence of the ideas and actions with which they are surrounded, and in pure air, simple, wholesome food and abundant exercise of a sort that appeals to the impulses of their stage of development.

All the investigations of hoys’ sports show that the common factor is competition which varies only in the form which it takes.

There life is no longer separated into two sections, one for play and the other for so much drudgery as may be forced upon them; but, instead it is now one continuous round of mutual activity, in which the part that each plays is essential to the whole.

This question has individual as well as racial significance and opens on immensely practical field in education.”

“The value of constructive play as a factor in development is an unworked educational mine.”

“Exercise is proper for the proper nutrition of nerve cells as well as of other organs, and if this activity is wanting the cell loses its sensitiveness to excitation.”

“A rightly ordered system of education must grow out of the nervous system.”

“The higner mental activities, those involving thought and reasoning grow out of the lower, and the supposition that they exist by and for themselves and that they can be matured irrespective of the lower processes, springs from an absolutely false conception of physic development.”

“The method of teaching generally followed to-day is directly antagonistic to the physiological needs of children, instead of recognizing the demands of their organism for movement, they are put into seats where they meekly count wooden toothpicks, and educational experts read elaborate papers before tired teachers on the length of time children may he kept in their seats without permanent injury.”

“The growth of movement has been from few to many'and from simplicity to complexity with corresponding increase in precision. This has not been due to change in muscles, but to the development of the brain resulting from more varied movement. In this way the motor-nerve paths may be consolidated before intellectual work begins.

The purpose of education is improvement in action and this presupposes better cerebration, and there is abundant evidence that the human brain is still in the process of evolution ”

Digitized by V.ooQle
—376—

—In the December meeting of the Phila. Physical Education Association Dr. Lawrence Flick, the expert on tuberculosis, whose remark at the Tuberculosis Conference recently held in Philadelphia we quoted in one of our former issues, lectured on “The Relation of Physical Training to Tuberculosis.* Dr. Flick said in part that “Our body, in a normal condition, has the ability to kill and throw off the micro-organism of tuberculosis. If, however, the cells of the body have not this power, that is, if the body is not in a normal condition and the cells of the body have not the power of destroying the micro-organism, they will take lodgement in the weakest part of the body. Very often then lumps, tubercles are formed. But, it is possible to so reenforce the body that this tubercle may be thrown out. If the body is not able to resist the bacilli and the tubercle is formed and cannot be thrown out for want of sufficient strength nature takes another course. It forms a wall around the tubercle and inflammation sets in and adhesions form.

A physically normal person, who is physiologically up to par will not develop tuberculosis; but if below the normal the inflammation will spread and thrive.

Physical exercise which does not go to the point of exhaustion, which does not go beyond the normal limits, does a great deal towarct the prevention of tuberculosis. But if overexercise takes place there are two ways of facilitating tuberculosis, namely by the heartaction and by the kidneyaction. If a weakened heartaction enfeebles the circulation, and digestion is thereby impeded; then physical exercise becomes a predisposing cause to tuberculosis. It is a fact that athletes often have a predisposition from overe^ertion. But, what may become too much for one will not be so for another. What physical directors therefore should do is to bring exercise within normal limits.

Exercise can be used for the cure of tuberculosis in its early stages. Where destruction of tissue has not taken place, or where destruction is slight, physical exercise will increase' the power of resistance and, therefore, physical exercise has been made part of the treatment of the cases under my care. The dead cells will have the best- soil if in early cases we resort to rest, overfeeding and deprivation of physical exercise. In such cases this procedure helps to break down the system. But it must be remembered in all cases of tuberculosis we must prescribe exercise as we prescribe medicine. In some cases I prescribe 10 minutes of exercise daily, but in very favorable cases one hour of exercise is ordered. Correct food and correct exercise, the latter sometimes in the form of work or of gymnasium exercise, may bring the patient up to a very high level of physical resistance.

Misunderstanding what is meant by going out west to rough it, has sent more patients to their graves then anything else.' They go out west, use up all vitality and leave no resisting power.

* If the disease is slighty, advanced physical exercise, if at all allowed, should be taken only under the best possible supervision. If people with a feeble resistance, whose kidne}r- and heartaction is poor, are allowed more exercise than they actually should have, we will hasten the end.
—3 77 —

If a person, who was cured of a mild attack of tuberculosis in childhood, and who has not been accustomed to regular exercise, suddenly undergoes a severe physical exertion a fatal attack of tuberculosis may be produced. Some latent bacilli in the scartissue may be stirred up to a ferocious activity and death may result in a short time. If, therefore, very light weight, underdevelopment, family history or any other indication points to a tuberculosis tendency a very careful physical examination especially of the lungs and pleura should be made by a physician before such a person be allowed to take part in any form of physical exercise, particularly of exercises of a violent nature.”

—The retirement of President Eliot from the active control of Harvard University policies means a great deal more than the bare statement of fact carries. During the last quarter of a century ouly a few men in this country have exercised as great an influence on American university education as President Eliot. Few men have been so original; none have been more courageous. But while Harvard will be the immediate loser, the cause of the higher education and of a lofty civic conscience in this country will, we anticipate, gain by the greater leisure and freedom which will now come to him. Certainly the country will not let him retire any further. He was Harvard’s; now he will be, in a larger sense than ever before, the servant of the ctizens'of the country. And this, judging from his past services, will be a matter for general congratulation.	Medical	Beview	of	Beviews.

—Dr. Myles Standish summarizes as follows the essential facts in the proper illumination of school rooms:

1.	The walls should be painted a very light color, preferably an exceedingly pale green of buff.

2.	The wooden finish of the room and desks should be light in color.

3.	The windowshades should be able to exclude direct rays of the sun, diffuse daylight freely, and also in the evening reflect a given portion of the light which falls upon them.

4.	Direct illumination is desirable.

5.	The lighting stations should be so arranged that no annoying shadows shall fall upon the pupil’s desk.

6.	The newer forms of incandescent lamps and Zalinsky shades, when properly arranged, can give a candle foot illumination of 2.5 on each and every desk in the ordinary school room; and, finally,

6. That in most cities the expense of electricity used in the manner above described is not so much greater than the cost of gas as to be prohibitive.

Digitized by Google
—378 -

—The Director of Public Health and Charities in Philadelphia has issued for public distribution a series of “Don’ts” which are both striking and practical.

Don’t spit on the sidewalk; it spreads disease and is against the law.

Don’t spit on the floor of your rooms or hallways.

Don’t spit on the floor of your shop.

Don’t cough without holding a handkerchief or your hand over your mouth.

Don’t kiss a person with a cough or cold.

Don’t live in rooms where there is no fresh air.

Don’t work in rooms where there is no fresh air.

Don’t sleep in rooms where there is no fresh air.

Don’t eat without washing your hands.

Don’t neglect a cough or cold.

Don’t waste your money on nostrums for consumption. Go to a doctor or dispensary.

OPPORTUNITIES FOR YOUNG WOMEN.

The Philadelphia School for Nurses, 2219 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa., offers Free Scholarships in Trained Nursing to young women in every State in the Union. The Scholarships cover the full Two Years’ Course, with room, board, uniforms, laundering, etc., included, and railroad fare paid to home town or district upon the completion of the Course.

A home study course and a short resident course are also provided, which quickly open the door to opportunity and enable progressive students to render a noble service to humanity and at the same time acquire for themselves a substantial income from one of the best paid occupations now open to women; besides qualifying every student to deal with emergencies in the home that may mean the saving of a loved one’s life.

Far-seeing philantropists are adding to the resources of this School, with the view of ultimately extending these benefits to earnest, energetic young women in all country districts and in all the smaller towns and cities.

The Institution is approved and endorsed by leading physicians and educators of the entire country. Some of the leading men of Pennsylvania are its strong supporters and endorsers, as will be seen by the catalogue which will be sent to any one who writes to the School for ii.

Mr. Francis B. Reeves, president of the Girard Bank of Philadelphia, in the course of a public address recently said:	“To	be	informed as to

the present vast work of the Phila. School for Nurses is to be convinced

of its importance and value.-----To the poor it comes with a living

gospel. It stands supreme among the great charities of our city. It is without a compere.”	[

Digitized by
—.'j 79-

EXTRACTS FROM EUROPEAN PERIODICALS

By CARL L. SCHRADER.

—More recesses for the schools of Berlin, Germany. The hour-plan has been changed in the public schools of Berlin allowing a greater number of recesses than formerly. After the first hour of schoolwork the children are given a recess of 10 minutes; after the second period they have a recess of 20 minutes, after the third period they have 10 minutes and after the fourth period they again have 20 minutes making a total of 60 minutes of recesses during the forenoon. The 20 minute recesses must be spent out of doors, while during the 10 minute recesses this is left to the discretion of the principal of each school. (American schoolteachers please take notice.)

—DOCTOR OF BODILY EDUCATION. Upon royal decree a department of physical education is to be added to the Medical School of the University of Belgium. Graduates from this school will have conferred upon them the title of Doctor of Bodily Education.

—STATISTICS OF PHYSICAL TRAINING IN THE GERMAN EMPIRE. The year book gives the following figures of the present status of the various organizations which concern themselves with physical training.

Total number of societies 11,538 (besides 16 organizations of wheelmen).

Total mehership 1,402,715.

largest organization is the gymnastic union with 8000 societies and and a total membership of 900,500.

Then follows an organization of mountain climbing with 1950 societies and 296,485 members.

Wheelmen, 115,507 members.

Workingmen’s Gymnastic Union, 783 societies and 67,795 members.

Ball clubs, 756 with 43,706 members.

Sewing clubs, 256 with 37,038 members,

Swimming clubs, 212 with 26,259 members.

Shooting clubs, 752 with 24,310 members.

Yachting clubs, 60 with 10,013 members.

Skating clubs, 26 with 5201 members.

Snowshoeing clubs, 43 with 4966 members.

Athletic clubs, 271 with 1988 members (less than 8 members for each club).

WE OFFER $1.00 CASH

FOR EACH COPY OF Nos. 1, 2, 9 and 24;

One years’ Subscription for each Copy of Nos. 114, 115, 116, 157, 158, 159, 169 and 170 of MIND AND BODY.

MIND AND BODY Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wia.

Digitized by Laooole
A/\lND ftND BODY. ^

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

Published Monthly.

8«b«eriptlon Prim, % 1.00 per Year.

WLaconjdn.

«W“ Address all business letter* to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wk Addrees all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 120 Pomona St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

—IN THESE DAYS OF UNCERTAINTY as to which systems of heating and ventilation are effective in operation (as well as in theory) it does one good to read such a clear presentation of the subject as is done in the article reprinted in this issue, written by one of the foremost heating engineers of the country, Mr. H. L. Williams. Every teacher of physical training should know how his gymnasium is heated and ventilated, and if the ventilation is bad it is his duty to present plans for his improvement.

—WE WANT TO CALL special attention to Dr. Sargent’s report of what he saw last summer at London and at Frankfurt, at the Olympic Games and at the German Turnfest, published elsewhere in this issue. If one thinks of what might be accomplished in this glorious country of ours with its splendid support of physical activities of all kinds, if the efforts of the mass of our teachers of physical training in influential positions were turned upon giving the masses under their care the exercise they crave for instead of spending most of their time upon teams or specialists, what a showing of health and virility we would be able to make. But why undertake such hard work when it is so easy to get into the limelight of publicity and to pose as a great physical director by devoting all one's time and energy to perfecting a few specialists and so getting a team that beats everything in sight. To be a successful coach, to many, seems to be a higher goal than to be a health-producing and character-forming teacher. But times are changing. Executive and controlling boards and officers are beginning to scrutinize the results of all departments more carefully than formerly. Is an activity beneficial or detrimental to what a school or college or an association is primarily organized for?; what per-cent, of pupils is effected by any special activity and how?, etc., are some of the questions now asked. They will be solved, and their solution will help to put physical training on a more . rational basis than it now is. It is unfortunate that all the different agencies encouraging gymnastics or some specialty in this great field of physical activity are not working together. We have the oldest gym-_ nastic organization, the Turners, the Amateur Athletic Union, the American Physical Education Association, the Young Men’s Christian Association, the Playground Association, the rowing, swimming, tennis, golfing, and other organizations of special sports, each going its own

Entered at the Milwaukee Po«t Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS

Digitized by

Google


•

wav, when by a unity of effort and action much friction might be avoided, abuses corrected and aims clarified. A grand object lesson of the results of all-round training for children and adults of both sexes will be presented to us next summer. While not in as great a scale as the Frankfurt festival, the national festival of the North-American Gymnastic Union (the Tumerbund) at Cincinnati next June will give all open-minded students an opportunity to siudy the results of a system of gymnastics having all-round development as its ideal. The great majority of participants will be native bom Americans of the second and third generations. They will represent all classes. Let us hope that all ■organizations not satisfied with the results of their labors and expenditures will send representatives to this festival to see what the Turners have to show. No world’s records will be broken, but good results will be shown. The unique spectacle will be presented of showing how every man, even the weakest, can help his society win the highest prize, a laurel wreath and a diploma. Therefore, let the directors of associations, presidents of colleges, superintendents of schools, teachers of physical training and all others who are open-minded enough to judge fairly prepare to go to Cincinnati next June 23, 24, 25 and 26, and see if an ideal of all-round development is practicable for American youth or if specialization shall be our aim.

—SOME CURIOUS RESULTS of experiments to ascertain the amount of carbonic acid gas in the air in certain parts of England, as well as the amount of carbonic acid gas given off by different persons under different conditions, were described recently by Mr. W\ Thomson speaking before an English society of sanitary engineers and reported in the Compressed Air Magazine. Using the method of forcing air into a bottle with an ordinary pair of bellows and submitting it to a simple chemical test, the results of his experiments showed that the amount of carbon dioxide which a man breathed out depended upon the quality of the air by which he was surrounded. In Manchester he breathed about 4 per cent, and in the country 5 per cent. The breaths of three men were tested. In Manchester the percentage of carbonic acid gas given off by each was—A 4, B 3.8, and C 4. At the Buxton golf links, 1,000 feet above the sea level, the figures were 5, 5.2, and 5.2, and after they had played eighteen holes and had lunch they each gave 4.8 per cent. They then drove to the Cat and Fiddle, 1,700 feet above the sea, and there A gave 5.2, B 5.4, and C 5.4. These results suggested that the amount of carbonic acid gas exhaled was influenced by altitude. But a later test made at Blackpool did not sustain the theory.

Mr. Thomson also found something very interesting, and that was that when the air was inhaled through the mouth the breath was about

0.2 per cent, lower in carbon dioxide than when the nostrils alone were used. This suggested to him that if the air were artificially heated a still greater oxidization would take place in the body. Air heated to 140 degrees centigrade was then breathed, and the exhalation contained 5.4 per cent, of carbon dioxide, whereas exhalation of ordinary unheated

Digitized by Google
-382-

air from the same person gave only 4.4. The average in a number of experiments gave 4.1 from ordinary air and 5.1 from heated air. When pure oxygen was breathed the exhaled air gave an average of from 4.4 to 4.5, which was considerably below what one got from breathing in the country. It would appear, therefore, that country air was better for reviving people who had been asphyxiated or nearly drowned than pure oxygen, and that a maximum effect would be obtained from warmed country air and oxygen combined. It was found, however, that the hot air breathed in a Turkish bath had not the same effect as hot air breathed when the body was only at its normal temperature.

—WITH THIS ISSUE we begin to gather all those articles, games, reports, etc., that deal directly with playgrounds under a seperate heading called “PLAY AND PLAYGROUNDS.” All playground supervisors and teachers who have any material that will be of special interest to the growing army of those interested in playgrounds are invited to contribute to this department.

—THE GREAT MASS of material has crowded the combination of Mr. Lewis5 “Exercises on the Mat” out of this month’s issue. It will be printed next month.

—AN INTERESTING EXPERIMENT showing the value of examinations was recently made with a class of 54 boys at Kiel, Germany, by a teacher named Lobsien. He gave his clafes consisting of boys of eight years of age twenty easy written problems in arithmetic. On the following day he gave them the same problems telling them that these would be marked as examination work. Averaging the results of the class he found that these boys when trying their best to get good examination marks had made 22 per cent, more mistakes than on the first day. But what to us as teachers is still more interesting is the fact that the greatest loss was among the brightest pupils of the class, then came the dullest, while those of medium capacity showed least’loss. As far as this class was concerned the results show that the examination gave an entirely erroneous picture of the mental status of the members of the class.

—A CREED FOR 1909. One of our readers sends in the following creed which is so good that we are glad to reprint it. “To respect my work, my associates, and myself. To be honest and fair with them as I expect them to be honest and fair with me. To be a man whose word carries weight. To be a booster, not a knocker, a pusher, not a kicker, a motor, not a clog. To have my expectations of reward on a solid foundation of service rendered; to be willing to pay the price of success in honest effort. To look upon my work as opportunity, to be seized with joy and made most of, and not as painful drudgery to be reluctantly endured. To remember that success lies within myself; in my own brain, my own ambition, my own courage and determination. To expect

Digitized by
-383-

difficulties and force my way through them; to turn hard experience into capital for future struggles. . To interest myself, heart and soul, in my work, and aspire to the highest efficiency in the achievement of results. To be patiently receptive of just criticism and profit by its teachings. To treat equals and superiors with respect, and make a' study of my business duties; to know my work from the ground up. To mix my brains with my efforts and use system and method in all I undertake. To find time to do everything needful by never letting time find me doing nothing. To hoard days as a miser does dollars; to make every hour bring me dividends in specific results accomplished. To steer clear of dissipation and guard my health of body and peace of mind as my most precious stock of trade. Finally, to take a good trip on the joy of life; to play the game like a gentleman; to fight against nothing sp hard as my own weakness, and endeavor to grow in business capacity as a man, with the passage of every day of time.”

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By ROBERT NOHR, M. D., Cincinnati, Ohio.

(Continued.)

A Lesson for Girls from 6—9 years.

A series of dancing steps, followed bv a calisthenic drill, cla«s exercises on the apparatus and closing with the game “Double Beetle Chase.”

DANCING STEPS.

NOTE.—The pupils form couples and join inner hands height of shoulders, outw. hand in front support.

Music.— 4-4 time.

1.	Walk on tip toes.

2.	Skip forw. Music.— 2—4 time.

Music.—Three step.

3.	a) Three steps forw. (1. r., 1.)—1, 2, 3! Same backw.-4, 5, 6! Repeat

six, eight or more times.

Face inward and grasp partner’s hands or take dancing hold and begin in tne direction of the leaders.

b)	Three glides sidew.* toward head of class and three toward the other end alternately—1, 6!

c)	Same as b and V2 turn r. with the third glide—1, 2, 3! Repeat on opposite side toward head of class—4, 5, 6! Continue in this manner until most pupils execute the steps well.

Face toward leaders and join inner hands as under 1 and 2.

Music.—Waltz time.

4.	Step forw. 1.—1! Cross r. foot in front of 1. and rise on toe?—21 Lower heels—3! Same r.—4, 5, 6! (Balance step.)

Music.—Schottische time.

5.	^a) Three steps forw. (1. r., 1.) and swing 1. leg in front r.—1, 4!

Same start r.—5, 8!

Digitized by
—384-

Id) Repeat a with light runningsteps and hop on 1. leg on fourth and r. leg on the eighth counts, c) Upon, arriving at the center of one or the other end of the gym-' nasium the first two couples wheel to fours and march down the same, the other couples following in successive order.

Open, ranks sidew. by marching sidew. to full distance.

CALISTHENICS.

Hands on hips—place!

1.	Lower head sidew. 1. and r. alternately—1, 4! Arms—down!

Arms outw.—raise!

2.	a) Bend 1. arm on back—1! Pos.—2! Same r. 1, 2! Or alt. 1, 4! b) Fold arms backw.—1! Pos. 2! Arms—down!

NOTE.—Lower arms between a and b for a brief rest.

Hands backw.—grasp!

3. Toetouch forw. 1.—1! Pos.—2! Same r.— 1, 2! Or alt.—1, 4!

Arms backw.—fold.

4.	Bend trunk forw. and stretch arms downw.—1! Pos.—2! Arms— down!

Hands on hips—place!

5.	a) Stretch arms forw.—1 Pos.—2!

b)	“	“ outw.. “	“	“

c)	A and b alternately—1, 4! Arms—down!

6.	a) Step sidew. 1.—1! Cross r. foot behind 1. and slightly bend knees—2! Step sidew. r.—3! Cross 1. foot behind r. foot and slightly bend knees—4!

b) Repeat a and swing arms sidew. 1. r. on the second and fourth counts.

Stride pos. outw. and place hands on shoulders—jump!

7. Bend trunk sidew. 1.—1! Pos.-^2! Same r.—1, 2! Alt.—1, 4! Pos.— jump!

Stride pos. outw. and fold arms backw.—jump!

8. a) Bend 1. knee—1! Pos.—2! Same r.—1, 2!

b) Bend both knees—1! Pos.—2! Same with raising arms outw.— 1, 2! Pos.—jump!

9. Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise arms sidew. upw.—1, 4! Exhale slowly and lower arms sidew. to starting pop.— 1, 4! Repeat several times.

Close order forw. in the files if they are standing favorably for the climbing poles. If otherwise, close order sidew. toward thfe center, reform to flank formation, and arrange as many files as there are climbing poles available.

CLIMBING POLES.

NOTE —The head of files advance to the poles, and after they finish, they return on 1. or r. side to rear of files as the next members approach. All others follow in like order.

1. Place the 1. lower leg against the pole and grasp the pole with the 1. hand a little higher than the head—1! Jump up, place the r. lower leg in front to climbing pos. and grasp pole with r. hand close above the 1.—2! Down—3!

Digitized by ^ooQle
—385—

2.	Jump up to climbing pos.—1! Down—2! Repeat once.

NOTE.—The first time the 1. lower leg in front and 1. hand above the r., then oppos'te.

Walk backw. with pole for a start.—

3.	Run forw., jump up to climbing pos., swing backw. and down* Repeat twice.

4.	As 3, but only hojd by the hands and raise lower legs backw.* while swinging backw.

5. As ex. 3, but swing twice forw. and backw.

K ti ^	<1	41	44	41	4*	44

7.	Without swinging, jump to climbing pos. and climb to upper end if possible.

NOTE.—Exercise is intended more for those who are able to climb, however, the beginner should try their best.

Change place to the storm board.

STORM BOARD.

NOTE.—The upper end to rest on a horizontal bar about two feet or two feet six inches from the floor.

A short run precedes most of the exercises.

1.	Walk to about % up the board, then raise 1. leg sidew. and immea-diately jump down sidew. 1.

2.	As ex 1, but jump down sidew. 1. (r.) with feet together.

3.	Walk to upper end, close feet and jump down forw.

4.	As ex. 1, but run up the board etc.

5.	44	44	4,	44 Vi turn 1. (r.) resp. toward the	outer side.

6 .	44	4 4	3,	step off of one foot (1. or r.)

7.	Repeat ex. 1, for a broad jump.

NOTE.—The director ought to stand near in case a pupil takes a misstep to be ready to offer assistance.

Remove all apparatus and form one large or two smaller circles for the game “Double Beetle Chase.” The game is played in the same manner as when only one beetle is used.

After conclusion of the game dismiss.

(To be continued.)

THE SOUTHERN EDUCATIONAL ASSOCIATION

met in Atlanta, Ga., Dec. 29, 30, 31, 1908. The physical education teachers in the South were organized as a department of this body and held two interesting meetings.

On Dec. 29th reports of what is being done in physical education in the different southern states were read by Miss Mildred Dalzell of Florida, Miss Caroline Phelps of North Carolina, Dr. C. M. Hazen of Virginia, and Dr. W. A. Jackson of Georgia.

Other papers read at this meeting were:	“Educational Value of

Gymnastics” by Marion L. Baskin of La Grange, Ga.; “The Delsarte or Lyric System of Physical Culture” by Miss Helen J. Allen of Elon College, N. C.; “The True Key to the Physical Education Problem” by Dr. W. A. Jackson of Atlanta, Ga.; “Physical Education in the Public Schools” by Miss Ethel Sudlow of Washington, Ga.; “Physical and Psychological Points in Physical Education” by Mrs. Florence 0. Stout of Lexington, Ky.
-386-

On the afternoon of Dec. 30th, the papers read were:	“The	Im-

portance of Physical Education in Primary and Grammar Schools” by Miss Dorothy Schartle of Asheville, N. C.; “Physical Training in Girl's Colleges” by Miss Mary S. Beau of Forsyth, Ga.; “The Foundation of a College Education” by Miss Caroline B. Phelps of Raleigh, N. C.; “The Out of Door Gymnasium” by Mrs. Ada H. Pillsbury of Columbia,

S.	C.; “The Playground Movement” by Mr. Earl H. Wells of Jacksonville, Ala.; “Can Physical Training for Girls Be Successful without the Use of Apparatus” bv Miss C. S. Allen of Louisville, Ky.; “The Importance of Phvsical Culture in Our Schools” by Miss E. B. Allen of Norfolk, Ya.

Much valuable information was brought out in open discussion at both meetings.

A committee appointed by the president formulated the by-laws which were adopted; and a motion was made and carried that application for membership be made to the American Physical Education Association.

Dr. Toepel of Atlanta, Ga., was elected president for the ensuing year, and Miss Mildred Dalzell of Tallahassee. Fla., was elected secretary. Dec. 31, 1908.	MYRA	N.	GRAVES, Sec.

Preliminary Program for American Physical Education ’ Association Convention, Philadelphia,

April 7—10, 1909.

WEDNESDAY EVENING, APRIL 7th, 8 to 10.

Reception and Addresses.

President's Address, Dr. George L, Meylan.

Address of Welcome, Charles Custis Harrison, LL., D., Provost of the University of Pennsylvania.

Address, James MacAliister, Ph. D., President of Drexel Institute.

THURSDAY, APRIL 8th.

10	a.m. The Place of Physical Education in the Public School Curri-

culum, M. G. Brumbaugh, Ph. D., Superintendent Philadelphia Public Schools.

11	a.m. Symposium on the Determining Principles which Should De-

cide the Content of the Public School Curriculum in Physical Education, Conducted by Dr. Luther H. Guliek.

2	to 5 p.m. An Exposition of School Gymnastics in the Gymnasium o? the University of Pennsylvania, embracing the various forms of physical training for normal children and adults as well as for defective and backward children.

8	to 10 p.m. An Exposition of Gymnastics in the Gymnasium of the University of Pennsylvania as conducted in Universities, colleges, Associations and societies in Philadelphia and the immediate vicinity.

I

Digitized by Google
-387—

FRIDAY, APRIL 9th.

9	a.m. Administrative Physical Education Problems in the Public

Schools, Mr, George W. Elder.

10	a.m. Symposium on the College Responsibility for the Regulation

of Its Athletics, led by Dr. Paul C. Phillips.

11	a.m. The Effects of a Low and High Proteid Diet on Physical Effi-

ciency, Mr. Elmer Berry.

2	to C p.m. Section Meetings.

Therapeutic Section, Baroness Posse, President.

The Treatment of Defects of Posture in College Students by Exercise, Dr. R. Tait McKenzie.

The Treatment of Ataxia by Reeducation, Dr. J. K. Mitchell.

The Physical Status of the Phi Beta Kappa Men, Dr. W G. Anderson.

The Importance of an Exact Knowledge of the Pelvic Articulation in Determining the Correct Poise of the Body, Dr. Joel E. Gold-th waite.

Public School Section, Miss Josephine Beiderhase, Chairman.

Physical Training for Girls in the Public High School.

This topic will be discussed from the biological point of view by Prof. John M. Tyler, Amherst College.

From the medical point of view. (Speaker to be announced later.) From the social point by Dr. Luther Halsey Gulick.

College Directors’ Society, Dr. Thomas A. Storey, President.

8	p.m. The Relation of School Hygiene to Physical Education, Dr.

Thomas A. Storey.

SATURDAY, APRIL 10th.

9	a.m.. Physical Ediication of Defectives.

10	a.m. A Comparison of the Educational Value of Co-ordinations

occurring in Different Forms of Exercise, Dr. E. H. Arnold.

11	a.m. Business Meeting.

(a)	Election of three Council members by the members of the national association who are not members of any local society.

(b)	Secretary-treasurer’s Report.

12	m. Business Meeting of the Council.

N. B. A schedule is being prepared for Wednesday, April 6th, showing where on this day gymnastic work is being done. The list will embrace public and private schools, colleges, universities, associations, societies and clubs in Philadelphia and vicinity. The nature of this work, age and sex of the pupils, location of the school, etc., will be given, enabling visitors to go and see the kind of work they are particularly interested in.

Prepare now to go to the next convention.

Digitized by LiOOQle
—o88—

GYMNASTIC AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

By EMANUEL HAUG, 507 West 158th St., New York.

(Complying with the wishes of many readers this department will hereafter bring news notes from schools, associations, societies, clubs etc. Teachers, secretaries, also active participants in any branch of physical training are requested to send news of general interest ter Mr. Haag.)

—A large assemblage of educators from the higher institutions of learning in the country, the universities and colleges, met at the Murray Hill Hotel, New York, recently, and for nine hours, with the exception of a brief intermission for luncheon, discussed soberly, at times punctuated with humor and good-natured raillery, the question and status of college sport. It was the third annual convention of the Intercollegiate Athletic Association of the United States, a body organized in 1905 for the object of “regulating and supervising college athletics throughout the United States, in order that the athletic activities in the colleges and universities of the United States may be maintained on an ethical plan in keeping with the dignity and high purpose of education.”

The organization now has fifty-six members, nine having joined during the last year, and, while the names of Harvard, Princeton, and some other of the larger educational institutions which devote great attention to undergraduate sport are lacking from the roster, the influence of the National association to uphold the purity and high amateur standard of every phase of college athletics is making itself felt for good in all parts of the country.

More than forty colleges and universities were represented at the meeting, which was ably presided over by its President, Capt. Palmer E. Pierce, U. S. A., now stationed at Fort Leavenworth. Despite his request that he be allowed to retire from office the nominating committee refused to grant it, and he was chosen unanimously as President for the fourth successive year.

Football, Summer baseball, and track athletics were among the special topics considered in addition to the broader questions of the control of college athletics. Of these, the problem of Summer baseball proved the toughest, and the long and interesting debate which it occasioned, hinging upon the propriety of a student, whether in good class standing or not, to play Summer baseball for money, at once led up to the Question:	What is an amateur?

No attempt was made to give a definition, for it was seen at once that there was wide uneertaintv on the subject. It was, however, regarded as a question that would have to be dealt with in a precise and absolutely certain manner, and upon the recommendation of Prof. C. W. Hetherington of the University of Missouri, who presented a very exhaustive report as chairman of the Summer Baseball Committee, it was voted to appoint a committee to revise and frame if necessary a new amateur definition.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-389-

Another committee was appointed to consider the proper administration of college athletics, and the men who will wrestle with this problem during the coming year are Prof. C. A. Waldo of Purdue University, Prof. W. A. Lambeth of the University of Virginia, and Prof. Hoadley of Swarthmore College.

The men who were present, and most of them took part in the various discussions, were a marked demonstration of themselves of the widespread importance of college athletics and a convincing illustration of the truth that the onus for purity in undergraduate sport rests largel, if not entirely, upon the members of the Faculty. It was significant of the serious attention being bestowed upon the college athletic spirit that among the delegates were few physical directors or others vitally connected with gymnasium training. There were Presidents of colleges and professors of everything under the sun, who a few years ago by the very nature of their educational calling and even to-day* in the minds of some persons, would seem to be as far removed from the least interest in sports as the sun is from the earth. $

President Pierce pointed out that the organization of the Intercollegiate Athletic Association of the United States was due to the meeting called at the suggestion of Dr. MacCracken in the Winter of 1905 to consider abuses in intercollegiate athletics, particularly in football, and the sentiment was so great that sixty-eight colleges sent delegates for the first meeting.

—When Lord North cliff e, the English newspaper and magazine owner, was in this country he was one of the many who on that rainy, sleety day watched the Yale-Princeton football game. Speaking of the contest, Lord Northcliffe declared it brilliant of its kind, but decidedly out of date.

“I had* never seen anything antiquated in the United States until I saw this football match,“ said Lord Northcliffe. “To my surprise I found the Yale and Princeton teams were playing Rugby school football with its tiresome scrimmages, which outwearied the British public many years ago. The men played brilliantly. In fact, I don't remember having seen Rugby football played better. But it was the old-style game with all its tiresome delays.

“Rugby football is'played now, I believe, outside of the United States, only in some remote regions of South Wales and in New Zealand. In this style of football it is weight and not science that tells. I feel certain that taking the teams matched the Yale men outweighed the Princeton men by many pounds. Had I not been in charming company I think I should have been angry at being taken 60 miles on a miserable day to witness such a dull pastime as a Rugby football match.

,“The American people are hustlers. If they wish to keep up their reputation among the sportsmen of the world I would advise them to play an up-to-date game. At the same time they might erect covered stands for the spectators, especially for the women. At a rough estimate there must have been some 5000 costly hats spoiled at Princeton. It

Digitized by Google
-3U0-

seemed to me that under such conditions as prevailed it took all the efforts of two bands and six cheer leaders to arouse interest in the game among the mere onlookers.”

The projected tours of the Cornell University Association football team in South America and the Columbia University team in England have awakened American sportsmen to the wonderful progress the game of soccer is making at our colleges.

The "intercollegiate competition is arousing greater interest this season than ever before. The tight for the Milne Cup has never been more open nor the rivalry between the different teams more intense.

Haveford College, the present holder of the trophy, is sure to strive its utmost to retain it.	♦

Yale University is proud of the fact that every member of its team is American-born. There are more than fifty candidates, and the game has certainly come to stay at New Haven. Yale is decidedly in the running for the championship. ^

The Harvard team will include several of the players who were prominent in the great American game during the championship series last Fall.

In view of its forthcoming tour in South America next June and July, Cornell Univesitv is sure to spare no efforts to gain premier honors. Its team is quite cosmopolitan, representatives from the following countries making up the eleven:	United	States,	4;	Argentine Republic, 2;

Greece, 1; Spain, 1, Armenia, 1; Brazil, 1, and Uruguay, 1.

Capt. Robert L. Wood of the University of Pennsylvania believes his team has an excellent chance of winning the championship, as there is a better team there than last year, and it did very well then. Every member of the team is native-born, with the exception of one Canadian and one Englishman.

Columbia is also determined to win the championship, as it is anxious to tour in England, when it proposes to meet if possible Oxford, Cambridge, Eton, Harrow, and other colleges; that is, in the event of its becoming the proud holder of the title.

Princeton has also a really good team, and it wasdissappointed be^ cause the faculty committee on outdoor sports refused to allow the team to join the league, giving as their reason the fear that it would unduly increase college rivalry. Nevertheless Yale and Harvard are to be met this Spring in addition to several other fixtures. The following intercollegiate fixtures remain to be played:

Macrh 20, Cornell vs. Haverford, at Ithaca; 21, Columbia vs. Cornell, at New York; Yale vs. Haverford, at New Haven; 28, Harvard vs. Columbia, at Philadelphia; Cornell vs. Yale, at Ithaca; Pennsylvania vs. Haverford, at Philadelphia.

April 4, Harvard vs. Cornell, at Cambridge; Yale vs. Pennsylvania, at New Haven; 11, Cornell vs. Pennsylvania, at Ithaca; Harvard vs. Yale, at Cambridge.

Digitized by Google
—31)1— '

THE GYMNASIUM IN THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST DISEASE.

By Thomas A. Storey, M.D.

The education of the masses in matters of personal and general hygiene gives the greatest promise of success in our modern campaign against disease. The category of preventable disease is large and their prevention is generally easily possible under proper personal and general hygienic regulations. In fact, it is certain that a reasonable hygienic regimen imposed for a long period of time and imposed on all individuals in any given region will result in the eradication in that region of certain diseases that are now widely prevalent. It is with a full realization of this fact and of the uselessness of much of our present mortality that prophylactic medicine has of late years become so active. Our textbooks on medicine reiterate again and again the necessity for careful hygienic regulation in the prophylactic measures laid down for each disease. Physicians are advising their patients more and more concerning the relation oiLdaily hygiene to health. Boards of health are vitally interested in the proper hygienic regulation of the conditions under their supervision, and these several influences are striving to secure the intelligent cooperation of the masses by teaching them the significance of hygiene. Societies are formed, literature is disseminated, lectures are given and stereopticon illustrative views are shown in public places in order to educate the people. Legislative enactment with an absolute control over a large number of disease-breeding conditions is bound to follow popular enlightenment. In this educative campaign, as has been noted, several forces are now active. More should and will be added. This article is written in order to point out another which I believe would be a powerful ally. Our higher institutions of learning exert a very strong and widespread influence in all matters in which they are concerned. The students in attendance are drawn from the four corners of the earth, and after several years of academic experience are scattered again to become active participants in all phases of life. If each student after leaving college would become an active element in the campaign against disease the educative work done in any given academic community would be efficiently and enormously multiplied. In the modern high school, college and university there is a department in which personal and general hygiene logically belongs. Physical instruction is nothing less than personal hygiene, and gymnasium work is applied hygiene. Nowhere in an academic community is there an easier opportunity to meet large numbers of students than in the gymnasium. Nowhere else is instruction in the simple laws of hygiene more logically placed. Nowhere else than on the gymnasium floor before a class of men do you find the “psychologic moment” for making appropriate staements that will be remembered. Five minutes before each drill—not a lecture—and in one year or two years enough will have been said and remembered to make the gymnasium a powerful force in the campaign against disease.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-392-

. PLAY AND PLAYGROUNDS.

Send all communications to W. A. Stecher, 120 Pomona Terrace, Germantown, Philadelphia, Pa.

t	  >

RULES AND SUGGESTIONS FOR ASSOCIATION FOOT BALL.

(SOCCER NO. 3,)

Compiled and adapted to Grammar Schools by Geo. W. Rie#br Jr., Potter School, Phila., Pa.

Officials of Ihe game—A referee and two linesmen. The referee to decide all points of the game and warn players against rough playing. He may put a player out for rough playing.

The linesmen mark the place where the ball went out of bounds and decide, when necessary, who put it out.

The team shall consist of eleven (11) players as follows:—

Goal keeper,

F»n

( Right half backj Half backs I Center half back, ( Left half back,

Forwards

Outside right wing, Inside right wing, Center forward, Inside left wing, Outside left wing.

These players* in general, work as follows:—The goal keeper tries to prevent the ball from going between the goal posts. He may use any part of his body to do so.

The full backs act as extra guards to the goal and keep in the vicinity of the goal during the progress of the game.

The half backs keep some distance back of the forwards who are to advance the ball and score goals whenever'possible.

The duration of the game shall be fifty (50) minutes, divided into two (2) twenty-five (25) minute halves with an intermission of five (5) minutes.

Teams must change ends (goals) at the end of the first half.

THE GAME.

The winner of the toss shall have the option of the kick off or the choice of goals.

The game shall begin by a place kick from the center of the field in the direction of the opponents’ goal line. The opponents shall not approach within six (6) yards of the ball until the ball has been kicked off. No player may pass beyond the center of the field until the ball has been kicked off.

After a goal is scored the losing side shall kick off the ball from the center of the field. After the change of ends at half time, the ball shall be kicked off by the side opposite to the one that originally kicked it off. The ball shaH be kicked about the field until a goal is scored or it is kicked out of bounds.

The throw in:—When the ball has crossed the goal line, other than

Digitized by C^ooQle

-394-

between the goal posts, or passed beyond the side or touch lines, either on the ground or in the air, it is out of play. If it has crossed the side line it is thrown in by a player on the side opposite to the one that put it out. The player (wing or half back) must throw the ball in by standing with both feet on the touch line and by raising the ball with both hands over his head. The thrower cannot play the ball until it has been played by another pi aver.

When the ball is passed beyond the goal line by a player of the opposite side, it shall be returned to play bv the goal keeper kicking it into the field from a point six (fi) vards in front of the goal line.

If the ball goes behind the goal line within one yard of the corner post, or if the ball is played, accidentally or otherwise, behind the goal line by a player whose goal line it is, then a comer kick is given to the opposite side. The kick takes place from the corner flag post toward the goal. In all kick-offs no opposing player shall be allowed within six (6) yards of the ball.

A free kick-off, in the direction of the goal of the player who made the foul, shall be awarded at the point where the foul took place:—

1,	When the ball touches or is touched by any part of the hands or arms of an opposing player.

2.	When the referee catches a player charging, pushing, holding, or tripping an opponent, or one who is playing unfairly.

When a foul is committed within the penalty area (or within twelve (12) yards of the goal, a penalty kick from the twelve yard line shall be awarded. The goal area must be cleared of all players except the kicker and the goal keeper. The ball is in play as soon as it is kicked.

Goals:—A goal is scored when the ball has passed between the goal posts and underjhe har; not being thrown in, knocked on, or carried by any player of the attacking side, (If there is no bar the referee has the power to decide the scoring of a goal if within his judgment the ball has passed through within bounds.)

A goal may be scored from any kick-off. The side scoring the greater number of goals is the winner.

Change of players:—player shall he changed during the game. Goal keepers may only be changed at half time. A player rejnoved from the game cannot he replaced.

Some don’ts for the game:—

1.	Don’t use your hands (except the goal keeper).

2.	Don’t let the hall purposely hit the hands or arms.

3.	Don’t charge, push, hold, or trip an opponent.

4.	Don’t get into a hunch.

5.	Don’t get too far out of place.

fi. Don’t charge the goal keeper unless he is holding the ball or obstructing an opponent,

7.	Goal keeper, don’t carry the hall:	Throw or kick it away from

the goal.

Digitized by boogie
—:u*r> -

SUGGESTIONS FOR THE GAME.

1.	The game is best played by passing the ball from player to player along the wings.

2.	Pass the ball by short passes.

3.	It is better to let the ball hit the body to stop it before kicking it than to attempt to kick it on the bounce or while in the air.

4.	The center half back should be one of the best players and be ever on the alert.

5.	The referee should decide when a player is off side and award a foul accordingly.

HINTS ABOUT CLOTHING FOR BOYS. .

Do not be dressed too warmly. Take extra clothing to put on after the game or leave the field immediately. If possible have a “rub-down” and change of clothing after playing.

LITERATURE ON THE SUBJECT.

“The Football Association Game and Laws.” (Price, 3 pence.) 104 High Holbom, London, W. C.

“Referees’ Chart.” (Price, by post, 2 pence.) F. J. Wall, 104 High Holborn, London, W. C.

“How to Play Soccer.” (Price, 10 cents.) Spalding’s Athletic Library.

“Association Football Rules and Diagrams.” (Price, 5 cents.) Wood and Guest, 43 N. 13th St., Phila., Pa.

CATCH ME.

By W. A. STECHER.

This is a game for young children. Arrange your class in a circle facing inward. Select a pupil as tagger (it). He quickly runs around the circle tagging some one, at the same time saying “catch me.” The tagged one pursues the tagger trying to catch him before he slips into the place vacated by the tagged. Should he succeed the caught one is “out” and takes his place within the circle. If the pursued one reaches his place without being caught the other player is “it” and continues the game. This game is sometimes played having the tagged player run in the opposite direction. As there is then the danger of a collision when the players meet, the above style of playing is to be preferred. As a variation have the runners run around some piece of apparatus before returning home.

For older pupils a variation of this game is known as “CIRCLE TAG” which is played as follows: Form your class in a large front circle and let them count off by fours. The ones then take two steps backward and face to the right. Upon command these pupils (the ones) run forward, each one trying to tag the one in front of him. After the ones have resumed their places the twoes (threes and fours) run in the same manner.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—396—

To increase *the difficulty let the runners run around the circles twice, three or four times and see who has tagged the greatest number during the run. As soon as some one is tagged he must step into the circle.

This game may further he varied as follows: When all pupils are in place the teacher suddenly calls “The Ones/’ Upon hearing this the ones quickly step out of the circle, run to the right and try to tag those in front of them. Later the teacher calls another number.

GOMMITTEE ON PLAYGROUNDS.

ANNUAL KEPOBT TO THE MASSACHUSETTS CIVIC LEAGUE.

This committee, because of the changes during the past year, has for some time been out of existence. It begs to introduce, as its closing act, two new committees which have been appointed to observe the workings of the new plan in Boston and to promote playground and recreation interests throughout the state.

As prophesied in last year’s report, the work of carrying on the Columbus Avenue Playground was handed over to the School Committee the first of May. The principal work of the committee was in advising and influencing the School Committee in regard to the disposition of the fifty thousand dollars a year provided by the bill secured by the League in 1907, giving it control of the playgrounds. The committee was disappointed in a large share of this appropriation which, owing to the straightened circumstances of the School Committee, was used in paying teachers, chiefly gymnastic instructors in the girls’ high schools, whom they already had,—a use, however, which was perfectly permissible under the law. After all deductions the expenditure of ten thousand dollars for 28 school playgrounds carried on in the spring and summer (and a few that are still carried on this fall), and of about eleven thousand dollars at the regular Park Department playgrounds, is a gratifying advance in Boston’s playground work and one in the right direction.

There are still very difficult questions to be worked out not merely for Boston but for the whole country, as to the proper relations between school committees, park boards, and other departments in the management of the playgrounds, baths, gymnasiums and other provisions for outdoor recreation of which a municipality’s provision for play and physical education must consist. The main point on which the committee has insisted, and as to which the School Committee seems in thorough accord, is that, whatever else happens, some of the masters and teachers in the schools take part with the children in their play. This seems to be the most vital point in playground administration, both because it is possible to find among school teachers some of the best material for play leaders and because the teachers thereby learn to rightly conceive the educational function as one not merely of imparting knowledge or even of training faculties, but of promoting vital growth.

Digitized by i^ooQle
-397-

The office of the League has been actively promoting a movement for a favorable vote in cities and towns under the provisions of Chapter 513 of the Acts of 1908. It is being assisted in this by the Playground Association of America and by the Sage Fund Committee on Playground Extension. Every place should have a playground association or a playground committee of some local organization to promote its playground interests. The League will be glad to assist in developing such organizations. There is yet time, particularly in the eighteen towns covered by the law^ for work on this vote. It should be vigorously pushed.

For the Committee,

JOSEPH LEE, Secretary.

MASSACHUSETTS’ PLAYGROUND VOTE.

One of the most interesting referendum votes ever presented to the people of Massachusetts was that on playgrounds, resulting from an enactment of the Legislature of 1908. The act provided that at the next city and town elections all places of 10,000 or more population should vote on the question of providing playgrounds, conveniently located and of suitable size and equipment, for the recreation and physical educaton of the minors of such city or town; one for the first 20,000 and one for each additional 20,000. The only condition under which a city might be exempt from the vote was that it had already complied with the conditions of the law.

The first question naturally arose as to whether cities did comply, and the city clerks of Somerville, Malden, Medford, Melrose, Quincy, Lynn and Salem reported that their cities would not need to vote. An investigation showed that practically none of these cities had anything beyond backstops and goal posts, with an occasional piece of apparatus, and that they did not conform with the spirit of the law, which was aimed to provide play and physical education for all minors and not simply for large boys and young men. People in the various cities went to work, and the matter was successfully placed on the ballots in Quincy, Lynn, Salem and Melrose, leaving only Somerville, Malden and Medford without the referendum. Boston, Waltham and Newton were not seriously questioned, and the matter was not on the ballot in these places.

Twenty-three cities have voted, and in twenty-two of them the vote has been overwhelmingly favorable. The only exception is Northampton, and there the vote against had only a majority of ninety-five. The total vote cast (Newburyport and North Adams have not yet voted) has been 122,896 for, to 25,405 against. The overwhelming nature of this vote is a source of surprise even to those most hopeful on the matter. Various opinions have been expressed, one newspaper claiming that one of two things must be true,—either that the people are overwhelmingly in favor of playgrounds or that they voted without understanding exactly what they were doing. The vote stands, however, and there will be an interesting campaign in these twenty-two cities between now and July 1910 when the act goes into effect.



Digitized by C^ooQle
-398-

The work done in support of this referendum has been very extensive. The Massachusetts Civic League and the Playground Association of America have promoted the movement in many ways, mainly by sending out speakers and investigators, employing a publicity agent, and the use of circulars and posters. Special circulars were prepared for the instruction of those who were to work, and very small ones for the voters. Of these a hundred thousand have been used. In addition many local campaigns have been conducted on very satisfactory lines. New Bedford, for example, placed it the hands of practically every voter a little flier calling favorable attention to the bill. The people of Newburyport and Chicopee published brief leaflets for local use. In Lynn a double column header appeared in a local paper, signed by the presidents or leading officers of fifteen of the strongest local organizations, such as the school committee, Y. M. C. A., merchants’ association, etc. Women’s clubs, boys’ clubs, school superintendents, teachers, parents and children have joined, some in one place and some in another, in promoting the movement. It is safe to say that the state of Massachusetts has never been quite so widely awake on the subject of playgrounds as it is at this moment.

Several interesting side lights have been thrown on the situation bv those who are inclined to philosophize. In New Bedford, for example, the saloon people lay their defeat at the door of the playground campaign. This furnishes interesting data, as many have claimed that any yes vote wTould win, and they have ascribed the success of the playground referendum to this. In New Bedford the no vote carried on the liquor question, while the yes vote on playgrounds was 7,107 against a no vote of 1,187. In Worcester the no vote won on the liquor question, and the yes vote on the playground question by over 9,000 majority. In Springfield the license people gave the playground movement a free advertisement in the following form:	“Vote	Yes!! On both questions

at the bottom of the ballot. Vote for license; vote for playgrounds. Both stand for civic progress. The License Committee, John J. Deeley, secretary.” This was free advertising of a kind not appreciated by the supporters of the-playground campaign. It is needless to say that it did not fool very many of the Springfield voters. They voted for playgrounds because they wanted them, and they apparently voted for license because they wanted it, although they gave it a majority of only 2,319 while they gave the playground referendum a majority of 9,336.

In most of the cities there were three questions on the ballot to be answered by yes or no, and indications are that the people of Massachusetts know how to vote on yes and no questions. Northampton, the only city voting unfavorably, is trying to justify itself, while the people of Somerville, Malden and Medford are wondering why they did not get after it in time to see that the matter went on the ballot. The referendum power was granted by the Legislature in order to give the people a chance to express an opinion, and the people are not very well satisfied that the city clerks took it as a chance for them alone to express an opinion. Neither Somerville, Malden nor Medford conforms with the

Digitized by C^ooQle
- 3)9-

intent of the law, but the people did not take the matter up in time to prevent a nullification of the act.

Cambridge votes in April and the eighteen towns having over 10,-000 population will vote at the town meetings in March and April.

“Charities.”

BOOK REVIEW.

—“MIND IX THE MAKING,” by Edgar James Swift, Professor of Psychology and Pedagogy, Washington University, St. Louis, 330 pages 51^x8 inches, published by Charles Scribner’s Sons, New York; Mailing price, $1.65.

Beginning with the life-history of some of the greatest men and women of recent times, like Darwin, Isaac Newton, Spencer, Napoleon, Pasteur, Currie, Patrick Henry, George Eliot, Schiller, Goethe, Humboldt, Liebig, Heine, Hegel, Linnaeus, and a dozen others, Swift calls attention to the fact that if this standing in the regular subjects when at school were taken as a criterion they ought all to have been miserable failures in life. Nevertheless they were during their school-life receiving just the training they needed to lead them into the paths for future greatness. They were called dull because they were not understood by their teachers, and because inflexible school methods did not recognize the fact that education consists of more than book knowledge. Swift, in his book is continually calling attention to the different phases of mental, moral and physical growth of children, how little of this is now understood, and how very little of that which is known is put into practical everyday use.

Speaking of the development of the brain by other than the so-called orthodox methods, Swift says:	“In	Mosso’s	opinion,	the brain

cells and fibres can be helped to mature in early childhood through muscular exercise.” Then, again, what stronger argument for the necessity of rational physical training is there when we read that “city life, depriving children, as it does, of the workshops, woods and fields, does not contain the ingredients that in the country act as exciting stimuli for many racial instincts which are believed to be of supreme importance in brain development.” And who does not recall some of his schooldays when he reads:	“The method of teaching generally followed to-day is

directly antagonistic to the physiological needs of children. Instead of recognizing the demand of their organism for movement, they are put into seats where they meekly count wooden toothpicks, and educational experts read elaborate papers before tired teachers on the length of time children may be kept in their seats without permanent injury.”

We can highly recommend the book to parents as well as to teachers who are looking for a book that will set them thinking of the mental development of the child. To be had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-400-

—“AMERICAN NATIONAL RED CROSS TEXT-BOOK OM FIRST AID AND RELIEF COLUMNS.” By Major Charles Lynch, of the Medical Corps, U. S. A. A manual of instruction for the prevention of accidents and what to do for injuries and emergencies. Prepared for and indorsed by the American National Red Cross. With a preface by R. M. O’Reilly, Brigadier-General, Surgeon-General, U. S. A. P. Blakiston’s Son & Co., Publishers, Philadelphia. 74 illustrations. Pocket-size; 244 pages. Limp Cloth, $1.00 net.

Beginning with the Anatomy and Physiology, the book succinctly deals with Germs or Micro-organisms, First Aid Materials, General Directions for Rendering First Aid, Shock, Common Accidents and Injuries, Common Emergencies, Occupation, Accidents and Injuries, Injuries and Emergencies of In-door and Out-door Sports, Transportation of Wounded and Sick, Organizations for First Aid Instruction, First Aid Contests, closing with a list oT references and a very complete index.

To be had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

—OF THE HYGIENE SERIES, planned by Dr. Luther H. Gulick, two books have so far appeared. Book No. One is entitled “Good Health,” and Book No. Three is named “Town and City.” They are published by Ginn & Company, Boston. The mailing price of book I is 45 cents and of book HI 60 cents; size 5^4x7% inches. In this new series the style of writing is more like a story than like a text-book. “Good Health” is designed for children of ten or twelve years of age. It treats almost exclusively of hygiene rather than of anatomy or physiology. Among the subjects presented are pure air, ventilation, cleanliness, care of the eyes, ears, finger nails, hair, teeth, skin and lungs, the importance of bathing, exercise, etc. In speaking of alcohol the author deals with the results of its use upon individuals as a whole rather than v/ith its disease effects upon the stomach, liver, etc. In “Town and City” in simple, clear language the subjects of water supply, sewage, contagion, pure milk, clean streets, hospitals, etc. are discussed.

May be had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

PHYSICAL DIRECTORS!

We need you for importand positions in all parts of the United States. Let us put you in a better position than you can secure through your personal efforts. The University of Michigan, University of Wisconsin, Ohio State University, Purdue University, and many other great educational institutions have secured instructors through us. It will be to your interest to register now. Send for complete information.

The Specialists’ Educational Bureau

(Formerly the Physical Training Teachers’ Bureau, Rockford, Illinois,) WEBSTER GROVES STATION, ST. LOUIS, MO.

Digitized by C^ooQle
30th National Gymnastic Festival OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION (N. A. T. H.)

JUNE, 19 th TO 27tli, 1909, AT CINCINNATI.

General Offices at North Cincinnati Turn Yerein, Vine and Daniels Sts.

gtatuvbaui $utir 19.

Inspection of the Campus in the afternoon by,, the Prepresen tut ion of City officials *and Committees of the Festial. Later Banquet at the Campus and in the evening display of the moving pictures of the Turnfestival at Frankfurt on the Government Square (at the artificial Forest in the Center of the City.)

<pmte 20.

Opening of the Campus by a parade of all the Societies of the City and its Surrounding; Recitals by the United Singers of Cincinnati and Gymnastic Exhibition given by the Turners of the Ohio District.

In the Evening: Concert and Display of the Moving Pictures of the Frankfurt Turnfestival at the Campus. Gymnastics.

i$l<mbap,	21.

Afternoon: Fielday for the Scholars of the Public Schools at the Campus.

Evening: Business meeting by all Committees at the North Cincinnati Turn Hall.

6rne*t»ap, $utte 22.

Afternoon: Concert by the Students of the High Sdhools of Cincinnati and surrounding Districts at the Campus.

Evening: Display of Moving Pictures of the Olympic Games at London and Model Exercises by Turners on the Government Squar.

§une 23.

Reception extended to the Guests from abroad and distribution of Badges to the Turners at Headquarters.

Afternoon: Meeting by the Judges at North Side Turn Hall.

Evening: Official Reception. Grand Concert at the Music Hall. Song recital by the United Singers. Childrenschoir of the Public Schools of Cincinnati 1500 strong. Organ Concert. Thereafter Grand Ball.

JCmte 24.

Fornopnl Beginning of the Contest at the Campus.

Afternoon: Grand Parade with allegorical Grouppings aqd Floats passing through the main Streets of the City.

Evening:	Grand	Gymnastic	Exhibition	on	the Podium on Government

Square.

4Uttte 25.

Fornoon: Combination of the Contest at the Campus.

Afternoon: Mass Exercises by Scholars of the Public Schools at the Baseball Park.

Evening: Spiritual Contest and Pricesinging at the North Side Turn Hall.

Dilute 20.

Fornoon: Rehearsel of the Mass Exercises by the Senior, Juniors and Ladies Classes at the Campus.

Afternoon: Model Gymnastics and Mass Exercises also Gymnastic Performances by Turners from Foreign Countries.

Evining: Sommernights Festival. Italien night Various Attractions.

jSpuitbait, i*une 27.

Fornoon: Finishing the Contest at the Campus, Meeting of the Judges at the same place. Meeting of the Turner Pioneers at the Central Turn Hall.

Afternoon: Pic Nic. Concert by all Singers and Awarding of Prices to the Winner in the Contest.

Evening: Concert and Fireworks.

Iftty* ilune 28.

Excursions and Sightseeing in the City.

For information of all kinds,, address, General Committee, TurnfVst 1969,£Novth Cincinnati Turn-h.dle,, Cincinnati.

Issued by the order of the General Committee.

AUG. HERRMANN. Chairman.	ADAM BENUS, Treasurer.

HENRY HOEFLK, Vice Chairman. GEO. F. DIETERLE.

GUSTAVE (CLEMENS, Secretary. GEO. A. SINGER.

ERNST VON BARGEN, Fin. Sec’ty. N. C. SEUSS, Technical Diieciur.
GYMNASIUM

Write fo

NORMAL COLLEGE % NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION,

415-419 East Michigan Street, Indianapolis, Ind.

KARL J. KROH, President The oldest American institution for the education of teachers of physical training. Established 18G1; reorganized 1808. Conducted at New York, Chicago, and Milwaukee, 1868-1880; at Indianapolis, 1880-1891; at Milwaukee, 1891-1907. Removed to Indianapolis and incorporated in Indiana, A»07.

Courses open to high school graduates who are physically sound and well formed: One-year course, leading to certification as Teacher of Physical Training for Gymnastic Societies. Two-year course, leading to the title of Graduate In Gymnastics (G. G.). Four-year course, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in Gymnastics (B. S. G.). Graduate courses, leading to the degree of Master of Science in Gymnastics (M. S. G.). The College also offers an elementary one-year course, which is open to male students that have attained a high degree of proficiency in gymnastics and are well versed in German, but do not meet the requirements for matriculation.

For illustrated catalogue, address Normal College N. A. G. U., 415—419 E. Michigan St., Indianapolis, Ind.

- ..............—---------------------:-------. ;—-— ....—...

- ■

200 Indoor and Outdoor Gymnastic Games.

BY

Maria Grey,

----;——	Prioe,	TOo,

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

;	Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.