OTt**JJMWai school

MINI) AND BOfiT*0*uro,““

Yol 21.	JUNE,	1914.	No	230

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianaptflis. Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa All business letters and payments 4o the Freidenker Publishing Co., 62 Mason St., Room 300, Milwaukee Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

Brosius Jubilee. During the last few days of June Milwaukee will celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of George Brosius’ teaching activity. A large citizens committee has charge of arrangements for a great three-days celebration, during which many of the former pupils of this famous teacher of gymnastics will again greet their master.

We believe that we are voicing the wishes of all who know Brosius when we send our heartiest congratulations coupled with the hope, that for many years he may enjoy his well-earned rest. Gut Heil!

A Gymnastic Strike. In the Monatsschrift fuer das Turnivesen we find the following rather astonishing piece of news: Because the educational authorities (Schulbehoerde) of Stockholm, Sweden, have forbidden free exercises in the spanbend, saying that they are conducive to the formation of a hollow back, seven women teachers of gymnastics asked that the Stockholm Teachers Association be convened for the purpose of protesting against this order. In this protest-meeting stormy debates occurred, which ended with the withdrawal of those teachers who favored the new order, and who in turn protested against bringing a question like the one under debate before an assembly not qualified to pass upon such matters. In the meantime the educational authorities have informed the protestants that their protest will be taken up in the legal form, at the same time deploring that the matter was being agitated in such unprofessional manner. The reason for the agitation, naturally, is to be found in the fact that the educational authorities of Stockholm are changing the system founded by Ling more than a hundred years ago, which a majority of teachers think should not be touched, while

Digitized by L^OOQle
— 146 —

the “Schulbehoerde”.believes that for anatomic, physiologic, patho-and therapeutic reasons it should be changed.

STATE NORMAL SCHOOL, LA CROSSE, WIS.

Track work is in full swing at present and much interest is displayed in the inter-class meet which is to be held May 16th. The school of physical education, the college students, the junior, the senior and county school teams are to be represented. About 60 contestants have entered. Prizes will be given to those winning first, second and third places. On May 30th a big inter-scholastic meet will be conducted by the School of Physical Education. Medals will be given to the individual prize winners, a banner to the winning team and cups to the winning relay team and individual prize winners. The schools winning second and third places will be suitably rewarded. The meet will be the biggest ever held in this part of the state. An exhibition entertainment will be given by the School of Physical Education. The boys will perform on the parallel bars and the girls will execute some pretty numbers in athletic dancing. This together with the distribution of prizes will take place at the Normal school gymnasium the evening of the meet.

SUMMER SESSION OF THE NORMAL COLLEGE, N. A. G. U.

The summer session of the Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union, which will be held in Indianapolis, Ind., from July 6th to August 1st, offers various subjects for directors of physical education, playground directors and play leaders, school teachers, etc. The members of the faculty are:

Emil Rath, G. G., President of the Normal College, Indianapolis.

Wm. A. Stecher, B. S. G., Director of Physical Education, Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

Rudolph Hofmeister, G. G., Director of Physical Education, Tower Grove Turnverein, St. Louis, Mo.

Elsa K. Hein, G. G., Assistant Instructor of Educational Gymnastics, Normal College, Indianapolis.

Fred C. Carter, A. B., Athletic Coach, State Normal School, LaCrosse, Wis.

John E. Morris, M. D., Professor of Anatomy, Normal College and School of Medicine of the Indiana University.

Jewett V. Reed, M. D., Professor of Physiology, Normal College, and Assistant Professor of Surgery, Indiana University.

W.	A. Ocker, M. D., Director of Physical Training and School Hygiene, Public Schools, Indianapolis, Ind.

Edgar F. Kiser, M. D., Professor of Physical Diagnosis, Normal College, and Lecturer on Clinical Medicine, Indiana University.

Digitized by C.oo<?le
— 147 —

Hugo Fischer, Lecturer on Corrective Gymnastics and Massage.

E.	R. Ray, A. M., Professor of Psychology and Education of the Normal College.

Wm. N. Otto, A. M., Professor of English, Shortridge High School, Indianapolis.

F.	W. Kracher, Ph. D., Professor of German, State University of Iowa.

The work is divided into two courses, for new and for advanced students, consisting of the following:

Educational Gymnastics, Mr. Rath, Mr. Hofmeister and Miss Hein.

Classic and Esthetic Dancing, Mr. Rath.

Field and Track Work, Mr. Carter.

Athletic Games, Soccor Football, Basketball and Indoor Base-ball, Mr. Carter.

Field Hockey for Women, Miss Hein.

Playgrounds, Plays and Games, Mr. Stecher.

Folk Dancing, Mr. Hofmeister.

Gymnastic Dancing for Boys and Men, Mr. Rath.

Massage and Corrective Gymnastics, Mr. Fischer.

Human Physiology, Dr. Reed.

School Hygiene, Dr. Ocker.

Anthropometry, Dr. Ocker.

Applied Anatomy, Dr. Morris.

Physical Diagnosis, Dr. Kiser.

Lectures will also be given in English Literature (Mr. Otto), German Literature (Dr, Kracher), and Psychology (Mr. Ray).

NORMAL COLLEGE OP THE N. A. G. U., INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

At the beginning of the spring term the students introduced a new course in current events. Topics are assigned to the various students who must prepare and give a three minute talk upon the subject assigned them. A portion of the time is devoted to discussions upon topics of current interest. Leaders are chosen who arrange and present their material and arguments in debate from.

Field and track work has been taking the attention of every one since the weather has been warm enough to get outside. In addition to the regular events the women have taken up field hockey and the men soccer football.

The school is deeply indebted to Mr. W. A. Stecher of Philadelphia for the very interesting and instructive illustrated lecture he gave us on the subject of playgrounds while here on his last visit. Mr. Stecher showed us by his pictures the great possibilities of play activities, even in the limited spaces of the crowded city districts.

Digitized by L^OOQle
— 14a —

“The Gymnast,” published by the Senior Class has gone to press and will be ready for distribution about June first.

One is reminded of certain phenomena explained in the physiology of muscular exercise when one reads that at a recent meeting of scientists held at the Franklin Institute, Philadelphia, Professor iMichelson brought out the fact that strain up to a certain point •strengthened metals, and that following the strain iron and steel indicated recuperative powers.

The visit of the German teachers of physical traininng to the ^United States is an assured fact. According to advices received from Mr. Fritz Groh, Leipzig, the party will consist of about sixty persons. Several ladies have decided to take the trip. The object of the party, as we stated some time ago, is to study American physical training methods in the elementary and secondary schools, in •universities and societies. They also wish to inspect our playgrounds, recreation parks, also the training methods followed in our large universities.

The visitors leave Hamburg on the Vaterland Wednesday, Sept. 2nd, 1914, and arrive at New York Wednesday, September 9th.

Their itinerary will be as follows:

New York—Wednesdav. Sept. 9th; Thursday, Sept. 10th; Friday, Sept, nth; Saturday, Sept. 12th. Leave Saturday night for Boston.

Boston—Sunday, Sept. 13th; Monday, Sept. 14th. Leave Monday night for Niagara.

Niagara—Tuesday, Sept. 15th.

Buffalo—Wednesday, Sept. 16th. Leave Wednesday night for Chicago.

Chicago—Thursday, Sept. 17th; Friday, Sept. 18th; Saturday, Sept. 19th; Sunday, Sept. 20th. Leave Sunday night for Indianapolis.

Indianapolis—Monday, Sept. 21st; Tuesday, Sept. 22nd. Leave Tuesday night for Cincinnati.

Cincinnati—Wednesday, Sept. 23rd; Thursday, Sept. 24th. Leave Thursday for Pittsburg.

Pittsburg—Friday, Sept. 25th. Leave Friday night for Washington.

Washington—Saturday, Sept. 26th; Sunday, Sept. 27th; Monday, Sept. 28th. Leave Monday night for Philadelphia.

Philadelphia—Tuesday, Sept. 29th; Wednesday, Sept. 30th; Thursday, Aug. 1st.

Attantic City, or New York—Friday, Aug. 2nd. Saturday, Aug. 3rd return to Europe.

Digitized by Google
— 149 —

Quite a number of the visitors will remain with us longer and visit West Point, Yale, take a trip un to Albany, etc. We hope that wherever possible our readers will do their utmost to give the visitors an opportunity to study our work in all its phases.

In the last issue of the Survey we read that a vacation camp in the mountains, 75 miles from Los Angeles, is now a part of that city’s municipal playground system. For the past three summers the playground department has conducted a camp accommodating boys and men in July and girls and women in August. This proved so successful that the playground commission determined to secure a permanent site. A beautiful location was found in the federal government forest reserve in the San Bernardino mountains. With the approval of the secretary of agriculture, 23 acres of land have been leased by the federal government to the city of Los Angeles for a nominal sum—$10 a year.

The camp site is at an elevation of 5,000 feet, and is partially covered by a heavy growth of pines. The surrounding mountains provide magnificent scenery and opportunity for many delightful short trips. An excellent automobile road makes transportation from Los Angeles easy. Auto trucks equipped with seats and awnings will be used to convey the campers and it is estimated that the round trip rate will not be more than fifty cents each. By regular modes of travel, the transportation would be many times as much.

Based on experience in the camp as conducted during the past three summers, the playground commission expects to furnish transportation and board for two weeks at a cost of $7.50. This amount will actually cover all expense except the cost of original improvements and plant and the salaries of those in charge. These items will be met by the city.

Before summer a rustic building to be used as kitchen and store room will be erected. Later a screened dining-room will be added. Tents with wooden floors will be provided—large enough to accommodate four campers each. A swimming pool will be part of the first year’s equipment. It is expected that each year improvements will be added and that larger numbers of people can be accommodated.

At the head of the work the commission will place its best playground director, a man of broad experience in camp life. He will be in charge throughout the entire season. Under his supervision, when the boys are in camp, there will be two assistant directors and several competent volunteer directors, making in all approximately seven capable supervisors for the camp. During August a similar number of assistant directors and supervisors for the girls and women will be at the camp. It is hoped that later it will be possible to make arrangements for family groups.

Digitized by L^ooQle
— 150 —

' During the remainder of the year the camp will be open for parties who wish to make use of it for week-end trips, holidays and vacations. In winter the snow is often several feet deep, and this is an attraction for those who live in the lower and milder regions where snow is never known.

Among the 500,000 people in Los Angeles, only the few who can afford hotel prices have hitherto had an opportunity to enjoy thfe glorious mountains so close at hand. The playground department hopes through this camp to make it easy and inexpensive for large numbers of the city’s people to spend vacations in this invigorating and inspiring region.

“We are with you” writes one of our readers, “and the following editorial in a local paper expresses our sentiments better than we can”:

Multiplying Useless Societies... Every day some new society for an apparently laudable objective comes into being. Some are supported to give employment to a staff of executives or salaried secretaries; some are organized by individuals, vain of the display of their names at the head of the letter sheet in a presidential capacity, with a host of vice presidents or honorary directors, who have nothing to do but lend the influence of their names. Each morning’s Vnail brings appeals for contributions, and hardly a day goes by without personal visitation. Cannot a society be formed for the Suppression of Superfluous Societies, as well as far the Prevention of Useless Giving?

It would be invidious to mention names. But no sooner does one active organizer join with fellow enthusiasts to form a League for the Non-osculation of Infants, than others band themselves together in an Association for the Decorous Manipulation of the Soup Spoon, or the Introduction of the Tango in the Western Hebrides, or the Teaching of Bridge in the Solomon Islands. There is a Society for the Abolition or the Promotion of everything, from the way to put postage stamps on letters to the way to wink or sneeze. We must breathe, eat, sleep, walk, sit, stand, think, dream, snore by a constitution and by-laws. One devoted brotherhood or sisterhood is bent on killing all the flies, and another in the name of humanity urges that he who would lift his hand against the little creatures, save in the way of kindness, is a hideous malefactor. The meat of one “worthy” cause is the poison of another.

The multiplication of the useless societies is a sign of the intellectual restlessness, the emotional ferment of the times. We are reforming and reformed too much. If some of the relatively unimportant societies could be put out of business, there would be room and time to give proper attention to the really useful remainder.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 151 —

Berlin Olympics in 1916. The following is the preliminary plan:	Games	Week, May 28th to June 4th. Games and plays,

hocky, football, fencing. Stadium Week, July 1st to 10th, athletics, gymnastics, bicycling, pentathlon, tennis. Final Week, August 12th to 21 st, rowing, sailing, motor boats, auto races, flying.

Summer School Plans. The season has arrived when teachers are beginning to arrange their plans for the summer vacation. Fortunately these plans are coming to include in ever-increasing degree some kind of study which shall augment the efficiency of the subsequent year's work. When the first summer schools were opened there were misgivings in the minds of many as to the wisdom of summer study on the part of teachers; there were undoubtedly mistakes of overzealousness which justified some of these misgivings. With the accumulation of experience, however, the most skeptical must be convinced, for in all parts of the country there come together a great number of teachers and they derive benefits of such undoubted advantage that there is a steady increase in the demand for such opportunities.

It is not alone the teachers who derive advantages from summer schools; the institutions which carry on the work profit greatly by contact with the summer constituency. No plan could possibly have been devised which would have operated more successfully than does the summer school to keep universities and schools of all other grades in closest contact.

The purpose of the present writing is, however, not mere comment on the value of summer-school courses. There are certain questions which are constantly being turned over in the minds of prospective summer students on which it may not be out of place to offer light. Most students want to take more courses than they can pursue with profit. Better a single course well assimilated than many courses hastily skimmed. Better a limit of two or at most three, than an open temptation to get all one can crowd into the day. Someone has described a summer-school student as a person so eager for credits that he cannot stop to get an education. There is another type of student who tries to do too much,- namely the student who at great sacrifice has reached the institution for perhaps the only summer that he can afford in a long period of years. With all due regard to the importance of credits and the value of an opportunity when one is on the ground, let the warning be clear and emphatic: take few courses and do them thoroughly. Then, again, there are some students at summer school who will not take anything but advanced courses when what they need is elementary courses. There should be much care in the selection of courses.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 152 —

News from Montana. In March the state basketball tournament was held at the Bozeman Agricultural College in which 36 high schools participated. During the month of May a track and field meet will be held at the Montana State College at Missoula, in which fully as many schools from all parts of the state will compete. Lewistown is a city of some six thousand inhabitants. Its high school, at which I teach, has an enrollment of 165 pupils. Physical training is compulsory here for all classes. Our gymnasium is a stone structure 48 by 90 feet, the exercise floor being 45 by 70 feet, fully equipped. The lower floor contains the locker rooms with 300 lockers, while the rear end of the building has a swimming tank 22 by 45 feet.

On three nights we have classes for adults, the women’s class having an enrollment of 60 (the capacity of the gymnasium).

It is proposed to have a six weeks summer session at the State College, Missoula, for the training of teachers of physical education. Rudolph W. Nelson, Lewistown.

It is with profound sorrow that we must announce the death of Mr. Jakob Bolin, head of the physical education department of the University of Utah at Salt Lake City. Mr. Bolin, who died May 15th, was one of the most thorough teachers of physical training in America. All who ever came in contact with this genial Swede were won over to him by his earnestness and thoroughness. It was a pleasure to meet him, and to carry away some of his infectious enthusiasm. His wise council will often be missed, as his whole training enabled him to recognize merit wherever he found it, and to condemn shallowness and fraud.

Mr. Bolin was born in Stockholm, Sweden, November 5, 1863. He was educated in the general high school at Stockholm and at the University of Stockholm and received his professional training at the Leidbeck institute there. In 1891 Mr. Bolin came to America, where he taught physical education in New York City. He was dean of the Chautauqua School of Physical Education and also taught in most of the eastern physical training schools. He was elected professor of physical education at the University of Utah in 1910.

—Dual Meet Between Sweden and Germany. The Swedish Olympic Committee has just reached the decision to send between 30 and 50 representative athletes to a dual meet with Germany, to be held in the Berlin Stadium next July.

Digitized by CaOOQle
— 153 —

DISCUSSION OF THE PRACTICAL WORK SHOWN AT THE ST. LOUIS CONVENTION.*

W. A. STDCHER, Philadelphia.

Anyone who has had much experience in practical work knows how difficult it is for a stranger to give a just criticism of what has been shown. There are troubles of selection, age, sex, distance, school conditions which an outsider never can understand, but which all greatly influence the productions. Commenting upon all the work shown I may say that it was good, and the management excellent. If any criticism of the work in its entirety is to be made, it is that . our St. Louis friends seem to have worked upon the basis “that you can’t get too much of a good thing.”

Taking up the seperate parts of the work I may say that the school work as a whole was better than the work shown by the Turners, the Y. M. C. A. and that of the other organizations. The co-ordinations shown Thursday afternoon by the Elementary Schools were very difficult, the wand exercises especially appeared so difficult that the children got little physical work. The work on the apparatus, notably that of the girls on the horses, was good, and the happy faces of those exercising were a sign that they enjoyed it. The deaf-mute classes showed that it was possible for such to do good rhythmic work. Taken as a whole the demonstration showed that many of the regular grade teachers can be just as enthusiastic, and can get just as good results from, the pupils as physical training teachers can.

Friday afternoon was given over to the display of high school work. The classes here were in command of their gymnasium teachers. The work shown was splendid. The only number not up to par was the wand drill. The selection of the music seemed to be bad, and the teacher in charge was in too great a hurry, the boys several times being forced to begin an exercise before they were in position. Music and exercises did not harmonize, the result, naturally, was not what teachers attending a physical training convention had a right to expect.

To those of us who for years have heard it said “that you may get very good physical training work from high school girls, but you can’t interest the high school boys” the whole afternoon was a source of congratulation in being able to witness such an able demonstration of what high school boys can do when thev are led by comoetent teachers. If this were possible, one might be justified in saying that the work of the boys was better than that of the girls. The cheering that brought the house to its feet when the large boys class of one of the high schools under the command of its strenuous teacher marched off the floor was proof of the fact that more than mere size is needed

* Read at the convention of the American Physical Education Association, April, 1914, St. Louis, Mo.

Digitized by LaOOQle
— 354 —

to enthuse high school boys. It was a tribute to those men who know more than the mere teaching of gymnastics or of athletics.

Friday evening brought the physical training work of the Turners, the Y. M. C. A., the Y. W. C. A. and the Playgrounds. Naturally one can not look for as high a grade of work from these voluntary organizations as from the school groups. Part of the work shown was very good. If any one part might come in for criticism it was a number on the program mentioned as a tennis drill. The movements shown, however, had nothing to do with tennis. It simply was club swinging with a tennis raquet. One feature of the evening should be favorably commented upon and this was that, similar to the display at the Boston convention, quite a number of elderly women took part in the class work. And that they enjoyed it too, was shown by the spirited manner in which they took part in their respective dances.

The massed calisthenics by the boys of the Tumvereine showed the boys in lively, energetic movements of the type they enjoy. This was especially evident in the closing exercises with all the boys lying on the floor. The Indian Club drill of the Y. M. C. A. juniors was not of the quality that should be presented at such occasions.

Taken as a whole, the evening's work showed that there are many groups of both sexes that regularlv and profitably carry on many forms of physical training after they have left school. It also showed that in organizations of this character, as well as in school work, the teacher is “the man behind the gun." Good teachers as a rule produce good results.

The visiting teachers have cause to be thankful for all the good work shown, and the good spirit that daily was in evidence everywhere.

“WHAT THE NORMAL SCHOOLS OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION ARE DOING."

Discussion at the <St. Louis Convention of Mr. Bowen’s Paper.

By E. A. PETERSON, M. D., Cleveland, O.

After Dr. Sargent's characterization of those who believe that plays and games can, under certain conditions, take the place of formal gymnastics, and who are demanding more informality, one might hesitate to express such an opinion. However, I might as well meet the issue squarely and admit that if the Doctor's description is. correct, I am both a “false alarm and a bluff" because if I could bring to all boys and girls that play life which is their right and to which they are “attuned" I would throw into the scrap heap all of the so-called formal gymnastics.	\

I	have decided to shape this discussion so that it may, to a small degree, answer the question “What is the matter with our Normal

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 155 —

Schools of Physical Education ?” There are those who immediately answer ‘There is nothing the matter with them. Everything is all right.”

There is a legend which describes a conversation between a turtle and giraff who were sitting side by side on a log watching the sea of life as it ebbed and flowed before them. Said the giraff, “My! My! What sad things you do see.” “Don't see 'em, don't see 'em” said the turtle, “pull in your neck like I do.”

Some of us are not turtles, and I for one think that there are several things “the matter” with the Normal Schools. The Normal School are turning out pretty good “demonstrators of certain movements,” but progressive thinkers are demanding more than that. In public school work, for instance, we find that these normal school graduates know little about teaching. Mr. Bowen's paper shows the reason why. You will notice that courses in pedagogy are conspicuous by their absence in most of the schools.

We notice that the graduates of our Normal Schools know very little about child nature notwithstanding the fact that they are largely expected to work with children. You will also notice that these courses in child nature are “few and far between.” We find the graduates of the normal schools know very little about social conditions notwithstanding the fact that if they do their work they must correct defects caused by bad social conditions and fit children for proper places in society. You will notice that practically no sociology is taught in our Normal Schools of Physical Education.

We find that graduates who come to us from our Normal Schools know little about other movements which aim to promote physical wellTeing and are therefore unable to correlate their work with other phases of health work. In other words, our Normal Schools are spending so much time in turning out good demonstrators of gymnastics that they are failing on fundamentals.

Of course, where Normal Schools are privately owned and dependent on tuition for their maintenance, there is always a tendency to “stand pat,” fifst, because the Director of such a school hesitates to admit to a graduate that he did not teach him about all there was to be known on the subject, second, because occupied as he is with curriculums, he does not notice changes in movements, and, third, a change is usually expensive.

When you consider that most of our Normal Schools were organized during the time when we were worshipping at the shrines of Spiess & Ling and then consider the rapidity with which thinking people have swung away from such formalism, you ought not be surprised that laboring under the above handicaps the Normal Schools of Physical Education have fallen far behind the times.

I	wish to close by repeating the thought with which I started out. To meet the big demand our Normal Schools must teach less

Digitized by Google
—156 —

formal and more informal gymnastics. Interest is fast dying in the old style formal work and is centering in positive activity and just as soon as we can get the facilities for the conduct of this type of work, we ought to side track the other.

THE DEVELOPMENT OF MORALITY THROUGH PHYSICAL EDUCATION.*

MIL'LICENT HOSMER, Indianapolis, Ind.

Long years ago, when physical training was fighting for recognition, any so-called strong man who could stand up on the stage and display his muscles, or make of himself a “human snake,” was considered sufficiently well equipped to take charge of gymnastic classes. All he had to do, so far as the community cared, was to produce muscular prodigies, or teach boys to perform feats. Of course, no lady of breeding would so far forget herself as to take gymnasium work, and girls who ran or played out of doors were “tom-boys,” and not fit companions for their more proper sisters. Later “physical culture” became a sort of fad and many people were drawn to it not so much for the sake of the training as because it was considered the thing to do. The school gradually awoke to the fact that an education which failed to recognize the claims of the body was one sided and incomplete; hence physical training was added to the curriculum. The next step in its development came when the physical directors themselves rose to the requirements of their calling and demanded recognition not as were trainers of the body but as physical educators. Then physical education became a profession and men and women of a higher type of intelligence were led to adopt it as a life work. There are still many who have not progressed from the ranks of the physical trainers or mere drill-masters, but fortunately for the future of the profession there are a gradually increasing number who recognize in physical education a means of developing a higher grade of morality and hence a more efficient citizenship.	It is my purpose, therefore, to discuss what

training we as physical educators can give to bring about moral development. First of all, let me tell you the allegory of the picture book.

Once upon a time a little boy said to his brother, “Show me a pretty picture book!” “Nay”, said the brother, “I would rather show you this book with the ugly pictures, so that when you come to see ugly things you may know what they are. Look! see this, how hateful it is; and this, how hideous! and here again, this is enough to turn one cold with horror!”

* Read at the convention of the American Physical Education Association, St. Louis, Mo., April, 1914.

Digitized by Google
— 157 —

“Oh!” said the child, and he shuddered. “They are horrible indeed; show me more!”

Next day the brother found the child before a mirror, twisting his face this way and that, squinting and making a thousand horrible grimaces. “Why, little brother, why are you making yourself so hideous?”

“I want to see if I can look like the pictures in the book!” said the child.

1.	Alas! how many such poor little brothers and sisters there are. They seem fairly hedged about with hideous pictures of vice, corruption, and evil, which shut out the light and from which there is no escape. This constant emphasis upon evil is bound to dull the moral sense. We need to hold fast to our ideals lest we lose them. Stress must be placed not so much upon the passive side of evil as upon the active side of good. What our boys and girls need today is not warning against pitfalls, but the development of active virtues which will help them conquor the temptations they are bound to meet. The only way to make efficient citizens is to develop in youth those qualities which ideal citizenship requires. How does physical training develop such attributes? That is where the rub comes. We are not all of one mind as to what means are best; but I think we shall all agree that the first thing a child must learn is obedience. If he is to keep the laws of the state to which he owes his allegiance as a man, he must be taught to observe the rules of the smaller community in which he lives as a child. How to convert this selfish, willful little being into a thoughtful, law abiding citizen is indeed a problem taxing our ability to the utmost. Immediate and accurate response to commands is the prime requisite of all forms of physical training, and it is impossible for a child to remain in class unless he obeys. He can’t escape; kick and balk as he will, the young colt must in the end submit to the harness. In the gymnasium the physical director’s word is law; let the child try all his tricks, but as soon as he discovers that any violation of the rules is followed by swift and sure punishment, with loss of privileges, he will have learned his first lesson in respect for law and order. Through constant response to commands he is forming the habit of obedience, and he obeys not because he is made to but because he can’t help it.

2.	The community has not much use for the human jelly fish who has no moral back bone. In other words, every citizen must be master of himself. And our second problem is how to develop in our pupils such discipline. Physiologists tell us that healthful energy of the will is impossible without strong muscles, and the development of the will is directly dependent upon muscle habits. As an old adage words it, “The weaker the body, the more it commands; the stronger the body, the more it obeys.” Motor training, then, must begin early

Digitized by C^ooQle
— 158 —

in the life of the child. Teach him to be active; let him play as much as he can, out of doors whenever possible, and let him play hard. The squeamish mothers who dress their children in white and tell them not to get dirty,' who faint at the sight of a bleeding finger, or hold their breath whenever they see their darlings jump down from a tree, and call them into the house for fear they will get hurt, are not only robbing their children of their birthright, but are seriously interfering with their moral education. The mollycoddle who is good because he has never had a chance to be bad is more to be pittied than blamed, for he represents the type of man who in childhood had too little motor activity.

There comes a time, however, when undirected play does not offer sufficient motor training for the development of the will. Here is where the physical educator takes a hand and by means of gymnastics he develops all parts of the body harmoniously, gives each part its due proportion of work and establishes right habits of exercise. Whether the activity is out of doors on the play ground or indoors in the gymnasium, to have disciplinary value it must be careftfriy supervised. There is a certain exhilaration which comes when a large group works together in unison; for this reason class exercises are preferable to individual ones, for if exercise is at the same time pleasurable, the result is greater and more satisfactory. Mere good will is no substitute for trained self possession. The ability to keep one’s control under the most trying conditions, such as one meets in apparatus work, calls for a high degree of self huastery. I well remember one weak, timid girl who refused to do the “courage jump” from the horse. She was so afraid that it was a physical impossibility for her to do it. I kept her after class and worked with her almost half an hour before she finally screwed up her courage to jump. After the first leap, I made her do it perhaps ten times until she was no longer afraid. She never balked at anything after than and became one of my most enthusiastic and energetic pupils. Several years later she came to me and said, “whenever I run up against a snag, I remember the “courage jump!” For such a girl that was a real moral achievement.

To be angry at the right time and for just cause is a moral necessity, and no resistance under sufficient provocation is craven and cowardly. An able bodied man who can not fight lacks virility and does not ring true. The problem of moral and physical education is not to eradicate this instinct but to temper and direct it. Train a boy in the arts of self defence such as boxing, wrestling and fencing, then develop his judgment, and he will know how and when to fight. Youth’s ideal of virtue must be actively, attractively manly and not repulsively, negatively pious. Make him alive to the finger tips, his muscles the eager and obedient servants of his will, and we have gone far toward instilling in him the principles of manly virtue.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
— 159 —

Help him to be like the boy in the fable of the serpent. Three boys were playing in a field when a passerby called to them: “Beware, in the corner of that field is a poisonous serpent whose bite is death.”

“Alas,” said one, “how terrible! Let me flee from it,” and he wept and ran from the place.

“Why,” said the second, “should such a thing be here?” and he found a safe place and sat down to ponder on the matter. The third child picked up a stone and said, “Show it to me!”

3.	To live harmoniously with one’s fellows requires that each individual so conduct himself that the greatest good shall redound to the greatest number. This leads me to the discussion of the third moral quality required of the ideal citizen,—self sacrifice. Children are naturally selfish; they have no interest in things outside of their own desires. Watch them in the gymnasium and see what happens. They run to their favorite apparatus and try to monopolize it, they crowd to the front of the line instead of taking their turn at the end. The other children cry out “Look at him hog it! Lets knock him out!” and he finds that in order to keep his place in the community he must sacrifice his individual wishes and take his turn with the others*

If a stranger were to visit my high school classes during the first 15 minutes of the hour, which time is given over to “free play,” he might almost imagine he were in a camp of hostile Indians on the war path, or in a Wild West Show. Such howls! such shrieks! such laughter! But the girls are simply letting off steam,—merely unbottling some of their animal spirits, a perfectly natural and necessary process. It is only because there are over a hundred of them shouting at once that the noise may be seem a bit over powering. When the whistle blows which calls them to order, however, there is not a sound, not a movement, and when the signal to “fall in” is given and they stand “at attention,” they might be soldiers on parade. What change has taken place in them? Their natural inclinations are the same, even their desires are unchanged, but they have learned to understand that when the class begins each individual is entitled to but one-hundredth of my attention, and if she requires more than that because she is disorderly or inattentive, she forfeits her right to remain and is sent out of class until she has learned to sacrifice her own desires, even quell her natural inclinations for the benefit of the whole group. This form of discipline has developed a fine spirit of cooperation and self sacrifice among the girls.

Was there ever a child who did not like to show off, who did not boast that he could “do sumpen you can’t do.” We can make use of this tendency by developing student leaders, thus giving them an opportunity to satisfy their longing to excell, but at the same time emphasizing the fact that they are chosen to demonstrate the exercises not for their own individual glory but in order to help the others in

Digitized by Google
—160 —

the class who are not so well trained as themselves. In choosing student leaders I select those who are not only proficient in technique but those whose influence upon the others will be wholesome, who stimulate and encourage the girls to to their best, who can always be depended upon to do the right thing, and who are themselves models to be copied. This system not only keeps the leaders up to a high grade of proficiency but gives the class as a whole a moral as well as a physical standard by which they may measure their own worth. Group competitions furnish valuable training along this line, for here, too, the individual must star not for himself but for the group which he represents.

4.	Now that our young paragon has learned obedience, self-discipline and self-sacrifice through our training, what yet remains to be developed? His sense of honor and truth. The discipline which is based upon fear of punishment will not make honest citizens; nay. often developes sneaks. In handling my large classes, every one of which averages over one hundred, it is manifestly impossible to watch each individual. I put the girls absolutely on their honor, impress upon them the fact that I am not there in the capacity of a policeman or a warden, and that when they break the rules they are not outwitting the authority, but are betraying the trust which is placed in them. This appeal to their sense of honor which is latent in even the worst boy or girl seldom fails to call forth the desired response.

5.	So far we have centered our attention upon those attributes which lead to an appreciation of what is good and true. It is now necessary to consider what training we can give to develop an appreciation of what is beautiful. That quality which enables us to appreciate beauty is called taste, and Schiller would have us believe that through the development of taste, we at last arrive at a stage where “moral grandeur wins our homage not alone because it is right but because it is beautiful/’

To awaken in youth a sense of physical beauty such as for example a sculptor has, is the first step- in leading him to an appreciation of ideal beauty. The fundamental thing about physical beauty is health, for it is health which makes the cheeks glow, the eyes sparkle, and imparts to the countenance that vivacity and animation which we call charm. Such physical beauty is to be desired not for itself but for the sense of worthiness and power which it engenders.

One mother comes to me and says, “My daughter is such a tomboy. I wish I could do something to keep her well and strong and at the same time make her more womanly.” A fashionably gowned woman remarks, “My daughter will soon have a social' position to maintain. What can you do to give her grace and poise?” Maggie’s mother savs, “My gal aint no good round home—She just sets around the hull time. She needs wakin up and I wisht you’d put a little ginger into her!”. The juvenile court send us a girl who has made

Digitized by t^ooQle
— 161 —

a fatal mistake and requires that we give her a chance to make good. The girls themselves demand, “Give us a good time and let us have some fun!” To each one I give the same answer, “I will teach them to dance,” for that form of activity in which the physical, aesthetic and moral forces all find expression, which is the “supreme manifestation of the physical and also the supreme symbol of the spiritual life” is dancing in its various forms, Folk, National, Gymnastic and Aesthetic. Stanley Hall says, “Dancing is, perhaps, not excepting even music, the completest language of the emotions, and can be made one of the best schools of sentiment and even will, inoculating good states of mind, and exorcising bad ones as few other agencies have power to do. Right dancing can cadence the very soul, give poise and control, bring harmony between basal and finer muscles and also between feeling and intellect, body and mind. It can serve both as an awakener and a test of intelligence, predisposing the heart against vice, and turning the springs of character toward virtue.”

In this practical age, we must not forget that physical training is an art as well as a science. Some of the members of our profession would have us eliminate everything which is not of practical value. In their exhibitions they would show nothing but class work and always in regulation gymnastic costume. I agree that the exhibitions should represent work done in-class and not exercises which have been carefully drilled for a certain occascion, but if that class work can be presented in a more pleasing way, with attractive costumes and bright colored trimmings, we are adding greatly to the enjoyment not only of the spectators but also of the participants themselves. The girls especially take great delight in preparing costumes and display much artistic taste in suggestions for effects. I consider the participation in so-called Aesthetic Dances in costume, which are in a measure interpretive, a valuable part of a girl’s training, for by this means her imagination is stimulated, her desire for self-expression is satisfied, her ear for good music is cultivated, and her artistic and aesthetic taste are developed.

In appealing to the artistic sense, the method of rhythmic gymnastics of Jaques-Dalcroze is an interesting contribution to physical education. Eurythmics, as they are called, follow the Greek idea of education, as they are founded on the study of rhythm, melody and harmony expressed in bodily movement. To quote from a lecture of Dalcroze:

“The result of this education ought to put the completely developed faculties of the individual at the service of art, and to give the latter the most subtle and complete of interpreters—the human body. For the body can become a marvelous instrument of beauty and harmony when it vibrates in time with artistic imagination and collabo-

Digitized by LjOOQle
—162 —

rates with creative thought. The body must become capable of responding to rhythms and realizing them naturally/'

Manners are not exactly morals, but they are after all an essential part of character. Tennyson has said, “Manners are not idle but the fruit of a loyal nature and of noble mind." Or as Emerson expresses it, “Manners are the happy ways of doing things." In our large public schools many pupils come from poor homes, with no opportunity for social training, no elevating influences, no helpful environment. In Shortridge I have attempted to supply this lack of home training by giving a series of parties to my gymnasium classes. In October the girls dress in fancy customes and celebrate Hollowe’en with games and dancing. Just before the holidays, we have a Christmas tree, for which the girls dress as children and play games appropriate t£ their age and the season. February has several special days, and we celebrate with either a Valentine or Colonial party. Just before the summer vacation we have a picnic in the country, at which we have an informal Field day. For all these parties the refreshments and entertainment are simple and inexpensive, and an admission fee of five cents covers all expenses. There is always an attendance of from ioo to 250 and the evident enjoyment of the girls, aside from the valuable training which such occasions offer, more than compensates for the slight expenditure of time, money and energy.

6.	There is an expression current in our daily speech which seems to me to epitomize all this is necessary for efficient citizenship —Play the game! The true sportsman must rigidly obey the rules of the game and abide by the decisions of the officials without protest; he must be absolute master of himself; he must sacrifice himself for die good of his team; he forms good habits while observing training; he must be unimpeachably honest in the face of everwhelming temptations—in short, he requires every good quality, physical, mental and moral. The editor of the Atlantic Monthly says that among the impersonal forces which mould the character of boys and girls, athletics take first rank. “No other artificial discipline is so efficient, no vent so wholesome for the turbulent energies of youth."

Realizing the fundamental importance of athletics to the moral education of youth, it becomes of paramount importance that physical educators control and curb this force, that its influence may in all cases be uplifting and wholesome. While sports are dominated by the spirit to win at any cost and do anything so long as one can get away with it, while the idea of the players seems to be to circumvent the rules of the game and outwit the officials, trickery, deceit, cunning, and a double standard of honor are being developed which permit practices which would not be tolerated in real life. This is not merely a question of the direction of school sports, it is a question of

Digitized by L^OOQle
— 163 —

training future citizens and we as physical educators can not ignore its vital importance and sit idly by while its power is being prostituted by unscrupulous coaches. I wish to endorse the suggestions made by Mr. Ehler in the last issue of “Mind and Body.”

Apply the same code of honor to sports which exists among gentlemen. Teach a boy that he must no more cheat in football than he would at cards, and that to take an unfair advantage in games is as dishonorable as to steal. Do not remove the temptations from athletics but make boys conquer them. “An athlete who does nothing but the fair and honorable thing is sure to come out of the experience very much a man.” Make rules which are just and can be entirely enforced and then subject all dishonesty to severe punishment. Bring out those points in play which are worth thinking about and emphasize them forcibly. Carry into life the ideals inculcated by clean sport. Teach our boys and girls to play the game of life fairly, courteously, cheerfully and skillfully; to study the tactics and use only those which succeed so long as they are fair,—and we shall develop future citizens of a finer grade of morality and of a higher type of efficiency.

CORK PAVEMENTS.

A new cork pavement is favorably regarded by the municipal authorities in various cities. It is noiseless and soft to the tread, but at the same time durable. It is a variety of asphalt paving, in which cork is substituted for the sand of the ordinary kind, preventing slipperiness, and deadening to an even greater degree the vibrations from passing vehicles. Snow does not freeze to it, and as it is non-absorbent its qualities seem much superior to those of wood pavements. It is said to “stand” on heavy grades on which the ordinary asphalt pavement cannot be used at all, and still affords a perfectly safe footing. For schools and hospitals it would seem to be the ideal pavement, especially for courtyards, playgrounds, and streets around the building. For these purposes, the noiselessness and cleanliness of the new pavement give it a marked advantage.—From “Health”, London.

OBLIGATORY EXERCISES.

for the

10th Annual Festival of the Swiss-American Turnerbund, Union Hill, N. J. Translated by ARMIN STEQHER, (Normal College of the N. A. G. U. Indianapolis, Ind.

GROUP I.

A.	x. Stride left forward and bend arms upward i—4.

2.	Raise heels and straighten arms sideward 1—4.

Digitized by
— 164 —

3-	Lower heels and raise arms upward i—4.

4.	Swing arms foredownward, marking the foward position, with raising the left leg forward momentairly, and lowering to position 1—4.

B.	1. Stride left obliquely forward outward, turn the trunk left, and bend the arms upward 1—4.

2.	Raise heels and sraighten arms forward 1—4.

3.	Lower heels and raise arms upward 1—4.

4.	Swing left leg sideward and lower arms sideward, palms upward, and return to position 1—4.

Fig. 1.	Fig.	2	Fig.	3	Fig.	4

EXERCISE B.

C.	i. Stride left backward and bend arms upward I—4.

Raise heels and straighten arms upward 1—4.

2.	Raise heels and straighten arms upward 1—4.

3.	Lower heels and swing arms fore-downward and backward 1—4.

4.	Swing left leg backward and swing arms backupward and fore-downward, replace foot to position 1—4.

group 11.

A.	1. Raise left leg forward and raise arms forward 1—2. Lay out (foot placing on the sole, with trunk lowering forward) left backward, swinging arms sideward, and placing hands in front of shoulders 3—4.

2.	Turn trunk left and straighten arms sideward 1—4.

3.	Turn trunk forward and swing arms side-upward 1—4.

4.	Straighten right knee, raise the left leg backward 1—2.



Digitized by LjOOQle
—165 —

Lower left 1 eg and swing arms fore-downward to position 3—4.

Fig. 5	Fig.	6	Fig.	7	Fig.	S

EXERCISE A.

B.	1. Raise left leg fore-inward and swing arms sideward 1—2.

Lay out left obliquely back-outward and Yi double arm circle and inward and bend arms upward 3—4.

2.	Turn trunk right and straighten the left arm upward, right arm downward 1—4.

3.	Turn trunk left and change arm positions by swinging 1—4-

4.	Straighten right knee, raise left leg obliquely backward and swing left arm fore-upward 1—2. Lower leg and swing arms fore-downward to position 3—4.

Fig. 9	Fig. 10.	Fig.	11	Fig.	12

EXERCISE B.

C.	1. Raise left leg backward and raise arms fore-upward 1—2*

Digitized by L^OOQle
— 166 —

Lay out left forward and a whole double arm circle backward and bend arms to strike from shoulders (elbows obliquely fore-outward) 3—4.

2.	A % turn right on the left foot, fallout right sideward, strike right obliquely side-upward and left opposite. (Look at the right hand) 1—4.

3.	A Y\ turn right, swing the left arm over head, elbow bent, and the right downward and backward 1—4.

4.	Yi turn left on the ball of the right foot. Swing the left leg forward and straighten the arms upward 1—2, to position 3—4.

Fig. 14B	Fig.	15B

Fencers position seen from this side. EXERCISE C.

GROUP III.

A.	i. Kneel left, lower trunk and place hands on the floor 1—4.

2.	Raise to position of starting for running 1—4.

Digitized by Google
— 167 —

3-	Fall out left forward and swing the arms fore-upward i—4-

4.	Straighten the left knee, bend the trunk backward, and lower the arms sideward, (palm up) 1—4.

5.	Straighten trunk and swing arms upward 1—4.

6.	Replace foot and swing arms fore-downward to position 1—4.

Fig. 17	Fig.	18	Fig.	19

Fig. 20	Fig.	21	Fig.	22

EXERCISE A.

B.	i. Lay-out left backward, swing the right arm obliquely side-downward backward, left hand in front of left hip, elbow bent, (position for discus throw) I—4.

2.	turn right on the ball of the left foot. Place the right foot forward, bend the left knee, and swing the arms sideward 1—4.

3.	%	turn	left	on	the	ball	of	the left foot and large fall-out

right forward, swing arms downward and right arm obliquely fore-upward, left opposite 1—4.

Digitized by Google
4-

5-

6.

— 168 —

Straighten the right knee and swing the left arm fore-upward I—2. Lower the trunk forward 3—4.

Straighten trunk 1—4.

Replace left foot and lower arm to position 1—4-

Fig. 23

Fig. 24

Fig. 25

Fig. 26

Fig. 27 EXERCI8E B.

Fig. 2S

C. i. Lay-out left forward, raise the left arm sideward and bend the right for strike, (shot put position) I—4.

2.	Straighten the right knee, swing the left leg fore-inward and turn the trunk right, left arm bent in front of chest I—4.

3.	Fall-out left forward, straighten the right arm obliquely fore-upward, left opposite 1—4.

4.	Turn the trunk right and the head left sideward, both arms upward 1—4.

5.	Return trunk, straighten trunk and knee 1—

Digitized by LiOOQle
— 169 —

6.	Replace left foot and lower arms fore-downward to position i—4.

Fig. 29.	Fig.	30	Fig.	31

THE SWIMMING STROKE THAT IS NATURAL FOR M AN.

N. W. JOHNSTONE, Minneapolis, Minn.

When the issue of “Mind and Body” for October, 1912, asked for the “results of experience” concerning swimming strokes and methods, I determined to test the matter by a series of practical experiments, long and comprehensive enough to be scientifically conclusive.

After fifteen years of teaching, early in my experience in Minnesota, I received a rude shock on learning that any institution of learing was teaching the “dog paddle” stroke. In one institution

Digitized by C.oo<?le
— 170 —

some took swimming, not from enthusiasm, but because of necessity; candidates for graduation being required to swim and carry a person their own weight twenty yards. So types of individuals were found that generally are not found in popular swimming resorts. Some students in their senior year were still trying to develop ability to “carry their man.” Some had not learned to swim beyond a few feet, but all had developed habits detrimental to efficient swimming. A few would not put forth the effort necessary to learn another stroke, but others qualified in spite of difficulties in from thirty to seventy days, working in good form in breast stroke.

The real breast stroke is little known, even by many teachers. Judging by what one reads. More than one writer has not the a, b, c of it, and thousands of others for the same reason are ignorantly condemning it. The breast stroke, with its simplicity and its ease of movement, is the most scientific swimming stroke known. The more it is studied and accurately practiced, the more this fact becomes apparent. Both psychologically and mechanically, it is the natural stroke for man, as the duck’s stroke is the natural stroke for the duck. The claim that a person, not knowing how to swim, when pushed into the water will instantly start to swim “dog-paddle,” is not true. The motions seen are not the result of any effort to swim. In fact, there is no thought of swimming in the person’s mind. On the contrary such a person becomes crazed with fear; the mind is possessed by a single-thought which quickly becomes a mania; and the frantic motions seen are the result of this mania. The person is possessed by the thought of climbing out of the element feared, and the motions seen are climbing motions. I have drawn many persons to the side of the pool and watched them climb out far more quickly than they were able to do when in their right mind; others, too weak to climb, hoarsely cried, “Take me out of here, QUICK!”

Every teacher should deeply ponder over Dr. Enoch’s story given in Mind and Body, January, ion. His experience with the “dog-paddle” has been repeated many times last summer, too often fatally, in our own local lakes. Truly Dr. Knoch speaks with authority and wisdom when he tells us to “TEACH A STROKE WORTH WHILE.” Have we as teachers any real reason for teaching anything else? What profit or honor is there in giving a pupil a false confidence which will but lure him to his death? Is it not taking a wicked advantage of a pupil’s lack of knowledge, yea, amounting to a murderous breach of confidence? I feel sure that misinformation and wrong belief are the only reasons why a single one of my fellow teachers has ever taught to beginners any other stroke than the “One Worth While.”

I	find pupils make more rapid and greater progress, that is, they actually accomplish more, in ten lessons of thorough scientific teach-

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 1T1 —

ing of the breast stroke than of any other. Follow this with the scissor and the English rough water stroke, then with the overarm strokes. This conclusion is reached after a series of tests during the past year and some months. A single example will illustrate the results of the tests. Six persons were selected, who represented all types of temperament found in this locality. One of the six learned to swim the scissor stroke in fifteen personal lessons, another in twenty, and the rest changed to the breast stroke. Set this record against that of another group of the same type of persons, in which all but two learned the breast stroke in ten lessons, one in twenty and one in twenty-five, and nearly all the lessons were given in class instruction. Mr. Allen is right when he says it is “reasonable to learn the scissor stroke after the breast stroke”; for in the scissor stroke one developes, though often unknown to himself, natural tendencies, which if known and followed, enable him to do better work than he otherwise could; like in using tools, a “right-handed” person does better work with his right hand than with his left hand. The wise teacher readily discoveres this “natural tendency” of the student while he is practicing the breast stroke, and will instruct and train him in the scissor stroke according to his “natural bent.” I do not find these swimmers, some of whom, in a few months, swim a mile or more, refusing to learn other strokes; but on the contrary, as soon as they feel themselves at home in the water they are keen to learn the racing strokes.

Not having the opportunity for months to drill before entering the water, as is possible with some others, I only use the upright land drill for a part of the first three lessons. I use for one lesson a stooped lancTdrill in teaching the details of the arm stroke; also I find the land drills very helpful in teaching the English rough water and the Australian crawl strokes.

From the land drills I turned my attention to water drills and developed what I am pleased to call the “SUSTAINING STROKE.” This is done as follows:

Members of the class take position in the water, standing on tiptoe, feet together, with the water up to the chin, arms extended to side-horizontal, palms down. The hands are below the surface of the w.ater, and the back is perpendicular throughout the exercise.

Arm work; count one; the stroke;—

Be<dn the stroke with a sharp downward beat of eight inches, and at the same time turn the hands to an angle of forty-five degrees to the surface of the water, thumbs high; and, bending the elbows, vigorously sweep the hands to the arm-pits. Keep the wrists, hands, fingers and fore-arms in a STRAIGHT LINE. The upper-arms are held high and nearly stationary, except that the elbows are carried backward as the hands are brought to the arm-pits. The stroke must

Digitized by C.ooQle
—17* —

be made in direct line with the shoulders, and this backward movement of the elbows makes this possible.

Count two; the recovery :—

Reverse the hands to forty-five degrees to the surface of the water, little fingers high; and sweep the hands to first position.

Leg work ; count one; the recovery :—

Raise the knees outward, spreading them as wide apart as possible, until the thighs are at right angles with the trunk, legs nearly perpendicular, feet flexed, and turned toes outward.

Count two; the stroke :—

	SWIM.	,  BACK  STROKE	DIVE FOR FORM PLAIN FRONT ANI)  TWO OTHERS.	UNDER  WATER  SWIM.	SALVAGE. 10 tb weights placed 5 ft. api 5 yds. distan
SKNIOK LI F K SAVER	440 yds in  10 min.	Legsonly 100 yds*, in  2y4 min.	Choice of:—back, swan, 1 ^somersaults salmon, spiral jacks, backroll, handstand 05%	00 ft. 15 sec.	Dive 7 ft. raise & carr 30 Tb 15 yds 50 sec.
JUNIOR  LIFE  SAVER	440  yds.	L<cs onl \ 100 yds. in  • U/i min.	Plain trout 115% two others  00%	60 ft.	Dive 7 ft. raise & carr 20 IT) 15 yds 50 sec.
A	220 yds.	100 yds.	Running  front  90%	45 ft.	Dive 7 ft. raise & carr 20 Tb 10 ft.
B	150 yds.	75 yds.	85%	40 ft.	7 ft. dive. Rai 20 Jb to surfa<
C ,	100 yds.	50 yds.	Plain front  75%	40 ft.	7 ft. dive, rais & carry 10 1
D	-'50 ft.	00 it.	Surface dive 80%	30 ft.	6 ft. dive raise 10 It)
E |	120 ft.	45 ft.	Surface dive 70%	30 ft.	5 ft. dive raise 10 ft).
F	0 ) ft.	.45 ft.	<;<>% I	25 ft.	
G |	:>o ft. !	25 ft.	Swimming  dive		

With a combined stamping motion, slight spreading of the feet, and a vigorous sweep of the limbs together, the leg drive is made downward in a direct line with the spinal column.

Notice that in the co-ordinated movement the knees are raised during the arm stroke, and the arms are extended during the leg stroke; and that the leg stroke used is that of the regular breast stroke, while the arm stroke is the last half of the arm stroke used in the breast stroke; but the two working in perfect breast stroke rhythm.

Usually the fore-arms, wrists, and hands are held in a straight

Digitized by
— 178-

line about parallel with the surface; but by lowering the hands, bringing the fore-arms forty-five degrees to the surface during the stroke, the person is carried forward; the reverse carries the person backward; with this practice the students soon learn to keep balance. At first only one stroke at a time is made, the student coming to first position resting the toes on the bottom; but co-ordination soon develops and he readily swims after he can sustain himself long enough to make two or more consecutive strokes in rhythm.

This is taught only as a class drill, and not only developes

E	RESCUE & CARRY A PERSON YOUR OWN WEIGHT	SWIM IN COAT TROUSERS & SHOES weighing 1 pound each.	SHED CLOTHING DURING 30 YDS. SWIM.	SWIM FOR FORM 40 YDS.  AND DO THE  “turn”.
	50 yds.	100 yds. in 2Vi min.	Time 75 sec.	Breast stroke, English over arm, any style of double over arm. 90% accuracy.
	25 yds.	100 yds. in •W2 min.	Time 100 sec.	Breast stroke & English rough water or over-arm strokes.  80% accuracy.
	10 yds.	150 ft. and shed coat.		Breast stroke, rough water side stroke. 70% accuracy.
	20 ft.	60 ft.		
	10 ft.			

EFFICIENCY

SWIMMING

CLASSES.

co-ordination, but it teaches the finish of the arm stroke; a finish seemingly ignored, but of great importance; for it adds from eighteen inches to two feet or more to the distance traveled in one stroke, and uses no more energy than the balancing movement, or, more often, the random swing usually practiced.

Before adopting these class drills, I did a great deal of individual teaching, of which the following is a sample of the results: One hundred and forty-two students, made up of all types, ninety-eight learned to swim the breast stroke in an average of ten lessons. Forty-four have difficulties classed as follows:

Digitized by C.ooQle
m

First, about thirty per cent, indisposition to make the effort necessary to learn a new stroke, i. e., they were “dog-paddlers.”

Second, about ten per cent, hate the thought of water.

Third, about ten per cent, abnormal fear of water, and unbelief in their ability to learn.

Fourth, fifty per cent, inattention, inability to concentrate their minds on the work.

The difficulties were overcome in two or three months by all, except six of the first class, and one who was badly afflicted with both the second and third troubles; and although he has since learned to swim.

Because of class four I hold an illustrating swim and quiz^ While a leader is swimming in perfect form, questions are asked of members of a class which readily bring out any inaccurate ideas which may be held, and which gives an opportunity for prompt correction. Also, to avoid repetition, all work is arranged and graded on an efficiency basis. Beginners work is arranged in ten lessons with one week between lessons. Most gratifying results are obtained, as a single class record illustrates. The following is a showing at the end of ten regular lessons:

Regular attendants, 17.

Qualified for class “G” efficiency, 7.

Swam twenty feet, 4.

Swam thirty feet, 6.

As soon as students qualify for the efficiency classes, they are at once started on another series of lessons calculated to help them to become strong, enduring and intelligent swimmers, as our highest class indicates.

For instruction the work is divided into three grades, and includes various methods of rescue, the resuscitation and care of those apparently drowned.

While not following his plan exactly, I appreciate the work and most gratefully acknowledge my indebtedness to Mr. Gus Lindner for the suggestion of the efficiency classification.

The best result of such classification is the splendid enthusiasm pervading all classes from the beginning to the end. The weaker ones do not get a chance to get discouraged but are carried along by the contagious spirit of their companions. No form of apparatus is necessary, the leg stroke is taught while the students sustain themselves on the side lines of the pool. The following is the present outline of lessons:

Beginners.

1.	General principles, Land drill.

2.	Leg stroke, Breath control.
—175 —

3- Floating, Plunge, Rest.

4.	Sustaining stroke.

5.	Swim, legs only, head down: Head up.

6.	Arm stroke.

7.	Illustration swim. Quiz.

8.	Swim for form and distance with rest.

9.	Back stroke.

10.	Surface dive. Rescue work.

Eight of the lessons for beginners are largely class drills; one is a demonstration and quiz, and one is a demonstration and lecture. The above headings indicate onlv the rotation in which a subject is presented. Some of the subjects are carried along as a part of several class sessions before being mastered.

By this system the discomfiture of the “Go as you please” way is removed; and with the same time and energy necessary to teach one, as many asi the pool will accommodate can be instructed and accurately guided in their practice.

Some may ask what is meant by “swim with rest”, (8). If one cannot rest while swimming he will not swim very far. We are so constituted that a sustained effort must only be maintained momentarily. A sustained effort becomes a strain and cause trouble. In walking and running one limb rests while the other sustains the weight; in most all our work one set of muscles contracts, does the work, while the other is relaxed and resting. Beginners in swimming are apt to nervously hold all muscles tense, and soon find themselves exhausted. Some strokes do not permit of but very little, if any, rest. This is the curse of the “dog-paddle.” At the instant when the individual should be resting, an exertion must be made, the whole tendency of which is to pull him under.

SHOULD RECREATION BE SELF SUPPORTING.

By EVERETT B. MEIRO, Secretary, Public Recreation League of Boston.

There is more in the question of whether recreation should be free to everybody than even the expert is likely to answer freely. Therefore I want to supplement what was printed in the May issue of “Mind and Body” by some quotations from the experience of men who have the qualifications to shed light on the subject, and by a statement or two for myself.

The article as printed in “Mind and Body” was originally written for local purposes. It applied to Boston. I doubt if it would be wise to consider a general application of the support idea in all cities, at least not until some years hence. But in cities where this service to the people is well established and its maintenance has begun to cost so much as to give serious concern, then the idea may

Digitized by C^ooQle
— ITS —

well have very careful consideration, especially when it goes beyond children’s playgrounds, but possibly including them also. If I had the job to do, I think I should start very quietly with some existing phase of public recreation service and make such a thorough trial as to justify further extension. Just where this start would be would depend on the local conditions. It mieht be golf links, or it might be tennis, or anyone of the other items that have been included in recreation service. But I don’t think I should start with children’s plavPTOunds at, the present stage of their development. Later, I think the playgrounds might well come up for attention because too much for nothing is too cheap for appreciation.

Superintendent Parker, of the Hartford, Conn., park department, is a well known advocate of making parks and their service wholly self supporting and he has made some illuminating experiments. Chicago South Parks had interesting results from charging nominal sums for such special service as glasses of milk, ice cream, etc. The standard was kept high, both as to quality, quantity and service. And this suggests the important thing to remember in considering the self support idea for recreation service. Charges are not to be made in order to raise money, but to give service. If . charges are made and people get no more than before, what is the gain? A city would be justified in charging for the use of tennis courts, for example, if thereby the courts were maintained in better condition. But if the charge meant the continuation of bad conditions, the public would be just where it was before.

Now for the quotations from various parts of the country from men who have had experience such as make their statements worth printing. Because I have no authority to use names, none are given. The information was gathered for private use, not for publication.

No. i. “It seems to me that we ought to make all recreation facilities of every description free to children up to about 16 years of age and after that charge a small fee, wherever it seems the least bit feasible. Of course, this would mean careful classification of facilities and management, in detail. I think there is little danger of any city giving the people too much in recreation facilities but ’I do .think there is good ground for a small fee on the basis of improvement in the quality of service. We ought to treat the recreation fee as many cities now treat license fees which come in from saloons on the one hand, or automobiles on the other. (License fees to the police department; automobile fees to road improvements.) That scheme applied to recreation facilities, it seems to me, would work double value. In the first place, it would attract attentions to recreation facilities; and in the second place, it would encourage the expenditure of money in this direction because of the

Digitized by
— 177 —

knowledge people would have that better and better service would be given.”

No. 2. (From a Park Commissioner). “We have not gone as far as I would like in the way of making recreation facilities self supporting for various local reasons. *	*	*	I	expect to

take up next winter the question of putting these facilities on a partly self supporting basis with the idea of making a nominal charge for all facilities, such as, for example, one cent to play a game of tennis, or fifty cents for a season ticket. I believe in the general theory and hope we may make practical application of it in the near future.”

No. 3. “I believe we must expect a continuously growing expenditure for recreation just as we have a growing expenditure for education. Our public school systems can be made self supporting but it would mean that a good many of those now in school would not continue. It seems to that we change the class of people using a good many of the recreation facilities, if we make any such charge as will materially help toward self support. Of course, in a good many of the recreation centers it is customary for the clubs to have their dues and to meet some of the expenses of their own work, but this is an entirely different matter.”

No. 4. “In brief this matter appeals to me as follows:

1.	Recreation facilities for children and youths, who have not reached the point of self support, should be provided for by the municipality just as are the public schools, both elementary and high.

2.	Recreation for the adults might well be, in part at least, self suooorting. We have established the precedent of free public parks pretty generally throughout the country but there seems to be no good reason why special uses of portions of these parks by special groups of individuals, who have means of self support, should not return to the municipality such income as would provide for their up-keep. This applies to golf, tennis, cricket, polo, etc.

3.	Educational advantages beyond the high school are paid for by the individuals who take advantage of them. In several cities evening classes for adults are supported in part by fees by those attending. This is a way parallel to self supporting, or partially self supporting, adult recreation. Community uses of school buildings fall to some extent in the same class, especially for such features as are patronized by the grown-ups.”

? No. 5. “It has seemed to me that when we come before the boards which have been granting the money for recreation we are likely to get into pretty serious trouble if these boards were to come to believe the statements now being circulated, that recreation can be made self supporting.”

Digitized by
— 178 —

PLAYGROUNDS AND GYMNASIUMS.

By ALEXANDER A. HARWICK, Supervisor Physical Education, Reading, Pa.

THE PRINCIPAL AIM OF PLAY.

MINERVA STERN, Philadelphia.

Play is necessary for a well balanced life. “All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.”

The Greeks and Romans attained such wonderful mental and physical development by reason of their mastery of the art of combining work and play. At the age of seven the Greek boy was sent to the Palestra, where as he grew older he was taught running, leaping, discus throwing, casting the javelin and wrestling. The physical perfection and wonderful self-discipline of the Greeks was due to a great extent to this part of their education.

Examining the aims of play we find that they are threefold. First, we have the physical influence of play. Play causes a relaxation of the nervous tension the child is under during the hours, of study. It stimulates blood circulation, developes the higher sense organs and makes them more ready to act quickly. Through the influence of play the clumsy child becomes less awkward in its movements; in games the child dodges, avoids being caught, thus cultivating grace and skill.

Second, we have the mental influence of play. Play developes the mental facilities of the child. The nervous system is awakened to quicker reaction. It responds readily and accurately to stimuli. The sluggish child grows more alert, becomes observant of his surroundings, thinks quicker, acts more promptly.

Third, we have the social aims. Play not only trains the child how best to use and control his physical and mental powers, but it also teaches him to subordinate his own desires and inclinations for some common end. It teaches that what is best for the group, for the team, must always be given first consideration.

Play may be divided into two classes: first, unorganized or free play; second, organized games. Unorganized or free play is that form of playful activity that comes to us by inheritance. It is the natural desire of the child to perform such movements as are racially old. The child's first attempt at play is made in response to the call of the grosser sense organs.

Organized games, group activities, develop character and pro-more good will. They instill honesty, truth, justice, self-sacrifice and obedience to law. They teach the child to live up to laws because they are laws, not for the fear of punishment. They develop true sportsmanship, that is, the desire to win only through truthfulness and honest play.

Team work developes good leadership. It also instills loyalty

Digitized by
—179 —

to leaders, teams, playmates and institutions; thus encouraging love, and loyalty toward fellowmen, city, state and country.

What actuates us in our desire to play?

Spencer says “play is the result of surplus energy.” That when one has more energy than necessary for the ordinary demands of life, play results.

Physiology teaches that the young have large quantities of potential force stored within them, which is easily converted into kinetic energy; that most persons have far more than is needed. If this is an accumulation of nervous energy then there must be a divergance from this center. This can best be accomplished by bringing into action the nerves that control the muscular and special sense centers. Play is particularly adapted to this end.

Since play is an outlet for surplus energv, it is the best preparation for growth. If a child is deprived of the opportunity for play his mental and physical development will be far below his maximum capabilities. If the demand for play is not met, the child will contract mischievous, vicious and even criminal habits.

To illustrate this:	A	teacher was instructing a class when one

of her best behaved boys suddenly jumped up and punched the boy sitting next to him as hard as he could. The teacher stood in amazement. Every eye upon her, every pupil wondering what would happen to the boy. Hesitating just a minute, hardly knowing what would be best in such a case, she called the boy aside and said, “John run around the square and punch every tree you come to, just as hard as you can and then return quietly to the room and take your seat.” The boy was won, the teacher victorious and the trouble ended. Play gives the child freedom of mind and body. It brings out not only all the good, but also the bad qualities in him.

In our search for the best means of educating a child, we come back to that which was the first expression of his awakening soul— his play. Educators of the present day, in this period of revolution, in educational ideas, realize the importance of means which develop the power of being able to do things; of means which develop initiative.; In education the important question now is “what can you do?” Play by increasing will-power, by developing the intellectual centers governing the will is a most positive force in education.

PLAYGROUNDS.

SCARF DANCE.

By BERTHA M. HALD, Supervisor Physical Training Public Schools, Superior, Wis.

Music—“Espanita Waltz,” by Geo. Rosey.

18 girls in white dresses and red hair ribbons. Red cheese-

Digitized by Google
— 180 —

cloth scarfs Yz yd. wide and 2 yds. long. Hold the scarf a half yard from the end. Floor space 30 ft. x 12 ft.

Steps—Start with right foot.

1.	Pas de Zephyr—Swing free foot across and swing scarfs high with parallel arm movement.

2.	Low balline. Hands on hips, wrists forward.

3.	Running steps. Hands on hips, wrists forward.

4.	Waltz balance. Hands on hips, wrists forward.

Part 1.	(32	measures.)

The dancers enter from opposite sides with 16 Pas de Zephyr. On the last Pas de Zephyr turn to the front so as to form two

ranks (see diagram No. 1.)	16

16 Pas de Zephyr in place.	16

xxxxxxxxx	--

xxxxxxxxx	32

Diagram No. 1.

Part IJ. (32 measures.)

1.	3	low	ballines forward and	3	stamps in place	4

2.	4	Pas	de Zephr backward	4

3.	Repeat 3 times	24

32

Part III. (32 measures.)

1.	2	Pas	de	Zephr	in place, 3 running steps in place with

a half turn right and Pas de Zephr	4

2.	Repeat.	4

3.	Repeat all.	8

4.	Same as 1	and 2 only run forward instead of in place. 8

5.	Same as 1	and	2	8

32

Part IV. (16 measures.)

The leaders turn right and left and lead their lines with waltz balance steps along the sides and to the rear of stage till they meet at the center back, ten in rear line facing front and four on each side facing center. (See diagram No. 2.)

xxxxxxxxxx

X	X

X	X

X	X

X	X

Diagram No. 2.

Part V. (32 measures.)

The rear line—32 Pas de Zephyr in place.

Digitized by
— 181 —

i. The side lines—2 Pas de Zephyr in place, 3 running

steps forward toward the center and one Pas de Zephyr	4

Repeat, making Y± turn on last Pas de Zephyr	4

Repeat all.	8

2.	Repeat 1.	16

32

Part VI. (16 measures.)

. The leaders lead their lines to center front with waltz balance step, making a double column of five with four on each side in rear facing front. (See diagram No. 3.)

xxxxxxxxxx

X X X X X X X X

Diagram No. 3.

Part VII. (32 measures.)

The same as V. except that those in the rear move forward and backward, and the double column take Pas de Zephyr in place.

Part VIII. (24 measures.)

The right middle file assumes a pose, bending sideward right, pointing right foot sideward, right arm down and left arm holding scarf high overhead. The left file performs the same to the left.

The rear ranks of four execute the waltz balance in single file down the center between the files. Arriving at the front they turn alternately right and left and form squares on each side of the double column, inside hands joined and held high. With no stop, continue the waltz balance in circle to the end of 16 measures. 16

Turn about and change hands, waltz balance in circle in the opposite direction.	16

32

Part IX. (24 measures.)

The leaders of the center files turn right and left, leading their lines to two circles with waltz balance steps. Those in the two squares go to their original places in the lines.

(See Diagram No. 4.)

Digitized by C.ooQLe
— 382 —

X

X X X	X

X X X

X

X X X	X

X X X

Diagram No. 4.

Part X. (32 measures.)

Grasp hands facing outward.

2	Pas de Zephyr, 3 running steps in place turning right and Pas de Zephyr

Repeat, facing inward and grasping hands.

Repeat 3 times

* 4

4

24

32

16

16

Part XI. (32 measures.)

The circles turn toward their leaders, 16 Pas de Zephyr in circle, make a ^2 turn on last Pas de Zephyr Repeat in the opposite direction

Part XIII. (16 measures.)

The girls at the end of the lines lead these with Pas de Zephyr to the original formation, going to the extreme sides of the stage at the rear and across. This brings leaders to opposite sides of the stage. (See diagram No. 5.)

Diagram No. 5.

Part XIII. (32 measures.)

Without stop, continue 8 Pas de Zephyr in the line of direction and turn, the girls on the ends follow the leaders of the other line, thus forming an elleptical figure. (See diagram No. 6.) Turn about on last count	8

Repeat in opposite direction	and turn	8

XXX.XXXXX X	X

xxxxxxxx Diagram No. 6.

Pas de Zephyr forward till off the stage, the girls on the end leading	16

32

Digitized by
— 183 —

FACTS CONCERNING THE PENTATHLON OF THE

GREEKS.

By BROFEISSOR DR. HUEPPE. Translated by CARL <L. SCHRADER.

Duding the past few years the understanding of the significance of competitions which simultaneously involve the development of power, skill and beauty has happily grown. This is evidenced by the fact that the various sport organizations are issuing articles pertaining to the five-event competitions. The introduction of the pentathlon in the Olympic games also shows the awakening toward this method of competing. Unfortunately, however, these various sporadic efforts are void of any exact comprehension of the ideals and principles involved. Through Juethus and my own research the most important facts have recently been clearly and definitely presented, so that no one should now write on this topic unless he understands these facts. Not until I discovered the original jumping tracks of the Greeks in Olympia did we have an even approximately correct conception of this. The Greek Pentathlon, as the name implies, consisted of five carefully selected and technically shrewdly conceived exercises, in which power and skill, tenacity and speed, short and distance exercises were organized into one totality, which expressed the highest degree of human beauty in motion as well as in repose.

The order of these five events was: Jumping, running, discus throwing, spear throwing and wrestling. The heavy exercises were the throwing of the discus and wrestling.: the light, running, throwing the spear and jumping. The technically most difficult were jumping and wrestling. Every individual exercise was so conceived that the strong man had no chance of winning without agility and speed, nor the light man without power and endurance, exactly the opposite from what our aim is in the competitions of today. The jump had to be made with 5 pound dumb-bells and with a proscribed length of run, furthermore, the landing, after the jump, had to be firm. That style of jump the heavy and strong man may acquire, so that his otherwise natural handicap is lessened. The sprints were run in deep sand. Sprinting is relatively speaking, the most favorable form of running for the heavy man, especially so, when we consider that those who perhaps are merely runners have been eliminated in the preceding event, the jumping. The discus throw with a metal disc weighing 2 kg. was taken from the stand, that is, only one step play room for the checking of the forward moving body, was possible. It may well be regarded a pity that we should have accepted the modern wooden counterfeit discus, when we have so many beautifully preserved genuine Greek samples. This wooden discus is the stamp of the existing ignorance of true insight in the

Digitized by U-ooQle
— 184 —

classic discus throw, and should eventually be thrown out. The technical difficulty of this heavy event removed the advantage the merely strong competititor might have. The spear throw was a distance throw, not a target throw. It was a light spear with loop attached, the technique here also involved so much practice that again the merely strong were excluded. The wrestling was a free style, only that among amateurs certain holds were barred. The victor was not determined as has been generally accepted by winning in three events, but by the result of the wrestling, which was reached by two falls in three rounds. In order to prevent too great a rush of competitors, a jury weeded out the inferior entries after a training course of four weeks. The gradual eliminations in the Pentathlon naturally was so as to leave the two best men for the wrestling. There are cases on record where the final victor was only second in all the other events. It was possible even for the final winner to have been only second in the spear throw, third in the discus and fourth in running.

For the contest there were two separate places, the palaestra, for the so-called near events, and the dromos for the distance events. The three distance exercises, running, discus and spear, were taken one after the other and were placed between the jumping and wrestling. This palaestra, which I found, is the only one which has been discovered in perfect condition, a fact for which we have to thank the near-by river which flooded it and coated it with clay and sand and thus preserved it. It was a mere accident that I should be the first to recognize this institution, which up to that time had remained a mystery to architects and philologists. In Olympia there were two jumping pits and approaches beside each other. The palaestra was divided into two parts, the Konistra, or wrestling arena, and the Skamma, or jumping track. The latter was divided into three parts, namely: Akron (beginningj, Meson (middle) and Telos. The Akron was the approach before the jump and was 18 meters in length; the Meson was for the two intermediate jumps and measured io meters; the landing pit or Eskamenna was 5 meters long. The entire jumping track was therefore 18 meters for the approach and 15 meters for the jump. The jump in the Pentathlon was a succession of three jumps with weights and with limited approach. Several records have been preserved where athletes landed on the hard ground beyond the pit. Chionis in Olympia jumped 16.64 meters, Phayllos in Delphi 16.35 meters. The antique and modern method of jumping are so different that no comparison of records is possible. The Greek Pentathlon was the genuine quintessence of Greek gymnastics. Our Pentathlon of today has little or no resemblance of that of old. It is, however, to be welcomed as the beginning of a new era. When we look upon athletics with a

Digitized by LiOOQle
— 185 —

higher national and educational view point we must come to the conclusion: that both pursuits have a right for their existence, the goal for one being record performance in individual events, the goal for the other being harmonic development for general bodily efficiency and beauty.

PRESCRIPTION OF EXERCISE FOR A SPRAINED ANKLE.

By LEONHARD FELIX FULD, LL. M., Ph. D., Member of American Academy

of Physical Education.

Many persons are so unfortunate as to sprain or wrench their ankles by slipping on the pavements or by indulging in winter or summer sports and suffer pain and discomfort from their injured foot for a long period of time. In most cases this is due to improper after-treatment of the injury rather than to improper treatment of it.

When a person believes that he has sprained or wrenched his ankle he should at once keep the limb immobile, and ride or have himself carried to his home. He should not attempt to walk or stand. A sprain is generally more serious that it appears to be, and it is desirable that the injured person be placed in the care of a competent physician without delay. Although it is not essential that a person suffering from a sprained ankle go to bed, rest in bed has* a great many advantages. It tends to overcome the physical shock, gives the sufferer an even temperature and by freeing the foot from shoes and stockings aids in restoring an unhampered circulation in the injured limb.

The return to the daily activities should not be hastened. A few additional days devoted to convalescence may save the sufferer weeks of time otherwise lost by reason of a relapse or months of pain and discomfort. The instructions of the attending physician should be implicity obeyed in this respect and nothing should be done to urge him to restore the patient to full duty at an earlier time than his mature professional judgment would dictate.

As soon as the skin of the injured foot has healed the ankle .-should be massaged in the morning and in the evening by some member of the family. The purpose of this massage is to restore and stimulate the circulation in the injured foot. No special training is required to massage an ankle. The process consists simply of rubbing, slapping and kneading the ankle with the hands. The pleasurable sensation at the conclusion of each massage will indicate to the sufferer clearly the benefit he is deriving from it.

To prevent the ankle from becoming stiff it is extremely desir-

Digitized by LjOoq le
— 186 —

able that it be systematically exercised at the earliest practicable moment. This exercise should not, however, be begun until the attending physician states that the foot is in proper condition for it. The best time for this exercise is in the morning upon arising and in the evening upon retiring to bed. These exercises should not be preformed while the person is wearing his shoes; it is desirable in many respects, however, to wear stockings while performing these exercises, in order that the bodily heat may be conserved.

Exercies One. Sit on the bed with the legs stretched out in front of you, parallel to each other, with the heels resting on the bed, and the toes pointing toward theceiling. Bend the toes of the uninjured foot down towards the bed as far as they will go. Raise the toes upward toward the shin as far as they will go. Repeat the exercise with the injured foot. Do not bend the toes too much. Avoid strain. A sharp pain is an indication that the exercise is being performed too strenuously; slight pain and discomfort should be disregarded. Perform the exercise alternately with the injured and the uninjured foot

Exercise Two. Assume the same position on the bed as in the preceding exercise. Bend the foot to the right toward the bed as far as it will go and then bend it to the left as far as it will go. Perform the exercise alternately with the injured and the uninjured foot.

Exercise Three. Before beginning this exercise the attending physician should be again consulted and inquiry made whether the condition of the ankle will permit the individual to perform this exercise without danger of injury. Stand on the bed with the heels together and the toes pointed outward. Place your hands on your hips. Raise the heels from the bed, standing on the toes. Lower the heels. Repeat the exercise until fatigued.

Exercise Four. Stand on the bed as in the preceding exercise. Raise the feet, standing on the heels. Lower the feet. Repeat the exercise until fatigued.

Exercise Five. Stand on the bed as in the preceding exercise. Rotate the ankles so that without moving the toes at all the heels will be as far apart as possible. With the heels still raised from the bed bring them together again and then lower them .to the bed. Repeat this exercise until fatigued.

Exercise Six. Stand on the bed as in the preceding exercise. Raise the feet. Rotate the ankles so that without moving the heels at all, the feet will be brought together. With the feet still raised from the bed separate them again as far as possible and lower them to the bed. Repeat this exercise until fatigued.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
— 187 —

Exercise Seven. Stand on the bed in the same position as in the preceding exercise. Raise the heels. With the heels raised, bend the knees and let the weight of the body come down as if you intended to sit on your heels. Stretch the knees and come to an upright position. Lower the heels. Do not attempt to bend the knees too much at first. The amount of the bending may be gradually increased from day to day. This is an excellent exercise which brings into play many important muscles in addition to those of the ankles.

Those who give proper treatment and proper after-treatment to a sprained or wrenched ankle, and who properly massage and properly exercise it, will rob this distressing accident of much of its attendant pain and discomfort and they will be able to attend to their daily duties after a comparatively short period of time without knowing that they have met with an accident which is considered the most troublesome of all minor accidents.

—Swimming Instruction in the Public Schools of Muelheim. This municipality reports a remarkable scheme of free instruction in swimming in connection with the public schools. 1141 boys and girls were given instruction. These children were drawn from 31 public schools. Of these 1141 children 883 or 74 per cent, learned to swim. The divisions numbered about 30 children each, with 3 weekly lessons. The instruction was according to the now well established mass system. The duration of instruction for each division was six weeks, at the end of which the children had to qualify.

Records of National Significance. At a recent competition where 50,000 gymnasts were brought together and where in addition to the mass exercises athletics formed a prominent part, the following figures were compiled:

705 men jumped over 4 f. 5 inch.

32	men jumped over 4 ft. 10 Y* inch, with the take off 9 ft. from cross bar.

500 men in the hop, step and jump, 35 ft. 9 inch.

41 men in the hop, step and jump above 38 ft. 6 inch.

In the 100 m. hurdle race (4 hurdles) 1085 men ran in less than 18 seconds; 700 in less than 16 seconds, 17 less than 15 seconds.

100 meter dash, 1665 men less than 16 seconds, 123 less than 13 seconds, 3 less than 12 seconds.

Throwing a 15 kg. stone, 1206 men put it over 5.20 meters. '1170 over 6 meters, 257 over 8 meters, 41 over 9 meters. These figures, which do not in any way show the accurate status, nevertheless give proof of the work which 10,000 organizations are doing in their effort to increase the national power.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 188 —

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE.

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.f Cleveland School. Newark, N. J.

—A Practical Beauty Hint. The use of cosmetics and other artificial aids to attractiveness is as old as the human race. To Darwin as to students of anthropology in general, decorative applications appear to be a feature of selection—of attraction and sexual selection. The cheek covered with rouge, the heavily elaborated eyebrow and the colored wig, it appears, originated at an early period among the class of courtesans. It has been remarked that “time has taken the taint from the tint,” and the wide employment of artificialities to-day would seem to indicate the truth of this observation. The host of advertised medicaments, the beauty columns which grace or disgrace almost every metropolitan newspaper, the display-windows of the various deparment-stores, catering to a large feminine clientele bear further witness to the fact. The average man of rational clean mind does not approve of cosmetic innovations in his own feminine kinsfolk. He would prefer to see these radical departures from the natural confined to the chorus lady and the public tangoist. The physician always warns against the use of cosmetic preparations, because most of them are dangerous. To him the natural and healthy has always seemed to be typical of beauty. Even the editor of the lay press, has seen the ridiculous in the beauty column, and the following satrical excerpt taken from a Southern weekly contains what is perhaps an ideal beauty hint: “For giving the face a good color, get one pot of rouge and one rabbit's foot. Bury them two miles from home and walk out and back once a day to see that they are still there.”—Journ. A. M. A.

—An Overdose. A drug does not effect its purpose if the dose is too large, and it is the same with censure and adverse criticism when it exceeds the measure of justice.—Schopenhauer.

—Fly Prevention. The part played by flies in the transmission of disease is receiving considerable attention from health authorities in this country. A letter signed by 123 health officers has been published in the daily press appealing to the public to co-operate with the health authorities in destroying the breeding-places of flies. It is pointed out that summer diarrhea is probably conveyed by the common house-fly. It is useless to trv to tackle the problem by attempting to kill individual flies, because of the enormous offspring of one female. Each house-holder muse see that his back yard is scrupulously clean and his dustbin protected. Manure, when practicable, should be dug in at once. If the heap has to be kept, the top and sides should be covered with a layer of earth. The children in the schools should be taught the life history of the fly and its capacity for harm. The Boy Scouts could undertake the supremely useful

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 189 —

work of tracking down the breeding-places of flies and notifying the health authorities. Moving pictures could help even more than they do at present by films showing the full life history of the insect and the damage it does.—From London Letter to the Journ. A. M. A. ....—Spring Tonic. In April the “patent medicine” tonic (?) flourishes. As the first warmth of spring brought a feeling of lassitude, the farmer's wife in older days would go searching through the woods for “yarbs” from which to make a brew as a tonic for the whole family. The city man, feeling the laziness of “spring fever” coming over him, brought from the corner drug-store a 49-cent package of “Old Doc” Somebody's spring tonic, consisting of the same useless “yarbs,” a liberal dose of pure alcohol, and perhaps a touch of strychnin. But things are changing; there are not so many taking “spring tonics” as in the older days. Men have learned that the best spring tonics are the gifts of a beneficent Nature. A full breath of fresh spring air, a brisk walk along a grass-grown road, a plunge into the cool waters of the old swimming-hole—if the water is pure and cold—or the morning shower if in the city, fresh green food, or the pursuit after a bounding golf-ball over a springy course—those are real invigorators, true tonics—Current Comment, Journ. A. M. A.

—Factors Involved in Juvenile Delinquency• A background for misconduct is found sometimes in moral shocks, in mental struggles or conflicts about various experiences or even in knowledge fwhich has been repressed. Hidden worries (these are not uncommon in children) react sometimes in the same way, as also does the belief that immorality rules in the social order. A definite grudge against society is to be readily perceived in some offenders, or a disgust with the world, as the basic reason for criminalism— the individual then seems to be taking the general attitude of revenge. Another most promising subject of inquiry are the thoughts and pictures which some delinquents describe as forcefully coming up and up in their minds, driving them to misconduct. The ever-recurring idea of special criminalistic acts and the formation of a definite delinquent habit of mind are also important to discover. In general this all means a serious attempt to analyze the individual's attitude toward himself, how he became an offender, and his memory of the earliest formative influences of his whole character. For practical ends in any situation where delinquents are dealt with, such study is invaluable and our scientific knowledge of criminal beginnings may thereby be greatly enriched. For this a complete record of facts, opinions and typical expressions is obviously most desirable.—W. Healy, M.D., Bull, 12, Am. Inst. Crim. Law and Criminol.

—Nature's Best Tonic. Laughter is undoubtedly one of Na-

Digitized by LjOOQle
— 190 —

ture's greatest tonics. It brings the disordered faculties and functions into harmony, it lubricates the mental bearings, and prevents the friction which monotonous, exacting business engendors. It is a divine gift bestowed upon us as a life preserver, a health promoter, a joy generator, a success maker. Life with the average man is too serious at best. Never lose an opportunity for relaxation from the stress and strain of your business or profession. Every draught of laughter, like an air-cushion, eases you over the jolts and the hard places on life's highway. Laughter is always healthy. It tends to bring every abnormal condition back to the normal. It is a panacea for heartaches, for life's bruises. It is a life prolonger.—Health, London.

—Nutritive Significance of Different Kinds of Foodstuffs. L.

B.	Mendel, New Haven, Conn. Maine Med. Assoc. Journ., Portland.

Foods, calories and energy are discussed fully by Mendel. He again emphasizes the fact that there are certain limitations in the application of the caloric idea in nutrition that are sometimes overlooked. It is not sufficient that a food material should give evidence of energy-yielding components in the laboratory of the food chemist. The energy must be available. Filter paper and cotton wool, fingernails and hair, paraffin and wax, are instances of carbohydrates, protein and fat-like products; but inasmuch as they cannot be digested and absorbed by man the calories which they yield in the laboratory can never be put at the service of the organism. Physiologic analysis must supplement the conventional tests of the chemist whenever innovations in articles of diet are proposed. Mendel speaks at some length of widespread misconceptions and bias in respect to foods to emphasize points alluded to by him.

—Food From Standpoint of Energy, by Br. G. Lusk, New York. Complete article, Maine Med. Assoc. Journ., Portland. Nature, through the device of anoitite, Lusk says, usually provides against the use of wrong food. A man who leads a life of sedentary occupation requires 2,500 heat units or calories to maintain Jiis body machinery. He needs also water, salts, proteins and certain newly discovered substances called vitamines. All these materials are to be found in milk, beans, bread and other great fundamentals of nutrition. He will not take solutions of cane-sugar or of glucose as the exclusive mainstay of his life. Yet glucose taken alone yields 2,500 calories at a cost of 41-6 cents, and 2,500 calories in the form of cane-sugar cost 8 1-3 cents. Glucose is the cheapest food fuel known, but like cane-sugar or butter fat, is not complete food, in that it does not contain everything necessary for life. Commercial glucose is absolutely harmless. A man must have sufficient calories in his diet if he is to live properly and nerform labor satisfactorily.

—Importance of Daily Physiology Control During Training,

Digitized by C^ooQle
— 191 —

for Athletes. From an article in the Norsk Magazine for Laegevi-denskaben, Christiania.

To determine the anatomic-physiologic control in Athletics Torgensen examined repeatedly 200 athletes, some of them world champions—a total of nearly 600 examinations, besides 1,200 examinations of members of a rowing crew. All his findings confirm anew the absolute necessity for skillful daily medical examination during training. There have been hitherto no standards to go by, and the tables and photographs here presented aim to supply this lack. A record should be kept of each individual, with the physical measurements, and findings in heart and lungs, kidneys, blood-pressure before and after exercise, and vital capacity alone and proportional to the weight. One champion athlete had 718 c.c. vital capacity per kilogram of weight. His nearest competitors had only 68.1 and 64.7 c.c., respectively. The marathon runner with legs that measured 84.1 sm. won over those that measured 83 or 82.6. The marathon runners examined measured from 171 to 158.5 cm. and weighed from 65 to 49.5 kilograms, with a vital capacity of 4,500 to 3,600 c.c., much above the average.

The blood pressure rises after brief exertion but then it falls, and the drop is earlier and lower the weaker the constitution and the less perfect the training. The younger set react with the most, marked extremes. The appearance of albumen in the urine was always accumpanied by an exceptionally low drop in the blood-pressure, accelerated pulse, great loss of weight and subjective ill feelinp*. all pointing to a disproportion between the effort and the phvsical capacity at the time.

One of his tables gives the average of 1,200 examinations of a rowing crew, and he urges others to keep records along the same lines, recording for each the weight the first and last day of training; the highest and lowest weight; the highest and lowest change in weight after rowing, and the average. Also the lowest and highest average blood-pressure before and after the practice; the greatest, smallest and average drop, and the six similar findings for the pulse. His average for four juniors and four seniors was respectively: loss of weight after rowing practice, 656 and 527 gm.; blood-pressure before, 107 and no; blood-pressure afterward, 96 and 103; drop in blood-pressure after rowing, 11 and 7; pulse before, 74 and 64; p-ulse afterward, 88 and 76. The range of loss of weight after a rowing course was, among the juniors, from 1,000 to 1,350 gm.; among the seniors, from 200 to 1,000. Bv examining in this way -every day during training, a complete oversight of the physical equipment can thus be maintained, and the work be graduated to the physical capacity at the time. This is the only way, he insists, to get the best results from athletics for every one interested and avoid irreparable injury to those whose ambition outstrips their body.

Digitized by
192

—Irrational Schoolchildren. It is not often realized that irrational individuals who reach insane asylums in early adult life have probably shown during their school years indications that they were either distinctly lacking in intelligence or were of perverted minds. This constitutes one of the most important problems of modern school life. Those familiar with educational systems know that usually most of the difficulty in managing a class, particularly of boys, is caused by one or two pupils who are not amenable to ordinary discipline. Commonly these pupils are a little older than the average of the class because they have been left behind in several examinations, and their added age and superiority of strength gives' them an unfortunate influence over other pupils. Often neither teachers nor principals can govern them. They have all the cunning of the insane and sometimes boast that no one can manage them and no one dare touch them. In fact; the mothers of many such boys admit that they have always been uncontrollable.

In some places, particularly the larger cities, special schools are provided for these deficient children, but very often this class of pupils either keep out of such schools, or they are deliberately kept out because they exert an unfortunite influence on other children of low-grade intelligence, often take advantage of them and cruelly abuse them. One or two unmanageable children who consume the teacher’s energy without purpose and set a bad example to the other pupils may create lamentable disciplinary conditions in the whole school; and many schools in this country are being conducted under such conditions. Many school-teachers can tell of being freightened or even of being threatened with weapons by such children; not a few have preferred to have nothing to do with such pupils and have allowed them to go their own wav rather than suffer the worry or run the risks involved in the attempt to control or discipline such pupils. Yet the public has not been aroused to the dangers involved in the failure to recognize and segregate deficient children, as adult lunatics are segregated, for the sake of society.

This subject has been placed in the limelight by the murder of a schoolteacher in western New York. She had, as many teachers have, special sympathy with this class of pupil and was going to visit the father of one such in order to secure a mutual understanding between home and school. The conditions of the murder seem to make it clear that it was more of an irrational than a criminal deed.

The solution of this problem requires expert medical assistance. Indeed, in some places such expert aid is already used in the case of these pupils. A crime such as that recently reported should make plain the imperative necessitv of dealing adequately with this problem wherever it exists.—Editorial Journ. A. M. A.
—193 —

—The Need for Open Air Schools• There are 20,000,000 children in the public schools of the United States, and it is estimated that 600,000 are in urgent need of open-air instruction. At present there are 12 public open-air schools in New York City with ,526 pupils, and 41 schools in the rest of the United States, in all 1,755, which is very low, considering the many children in our cities neding just such treatment. Such schools are rapidly increasing and are now recognized by all students of public health as being indispensable. Knopf, of New York, makes the following statement:	“If	we really mean to wipe out tuberculosis from among

the coming generation, open-air schools and instruction should b£ the rule, indoor schools and instruction the exception.” The schools must have the support of the medical profession; what is most <needed is for the general practitioner and school physician to bear in mind that such institutions exist, and refer children to them ; not only refer, but advise and insist that such a course is necessary.— Pr. John Aikrnan, in Buffalo Medical Journal.

—Meat. It is not proposed to discuss the relative nutritive value of various meats, or the rapidity with which they are digested, but briefly to note a few practical conclusions taught by the physiology of nutrition.

1.	Ordinarily, we should consider that the flesh of fish and shell-fish, except perhaps oysters and clams, and of chicken and birds is meat.

2.	No marked chemical difference exists between red and white meats.

3.	Meat having considerable amounts of fat deposite between its fibers, as fresh pork (sparerib), does not digest so readily as lean meat, such as beef.

4.	The delicate, tender portions of porterhouse steak, roast beef, young tender lamb chops and the breast of a young chicken or bird will digest more readily and cause less gastro-intestinal disturbance in those whose digestion is imperfect than will other meats.

5. The important point is, that the final extraction of all meats are alike, and if these are not easily excreted by the kidneys, all meats should be prohibited. This is true in acute nephritis and generally true in chronic parenchymatous nephritis. All acute inflammations of the skin are better on a no-meat diet, and often patients with chronic eczema are benefitted by excluding meat from their diet.

6.	Any particular meat that causes indigestion would harm such a patient more than a meat that he digests readily, but this is because of the formation of by-products and not because the ultimate end-products of the several meats materially differ.

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 194 —

7-	It is generally true that unless there is a good deal of intes-tional putrefaction and high blood-pressure, meat once a day is better than no meat for a patient with chonic interstial nephritis. Such a patient may very well have a vegetable or milk day, as the diabetic has a greens day, once a week.

8.	A high blood-pressure may be more or less lowered by excluding meat from the diet.

9.	In all acute rheumatic conditions the patient is better off without meat, because it produces more systemic acidity and there-more diminishes the alkaline salts of the blood.

10.	Gout is neither prevented nor cured by interdicting the use of meat, but it is improved (and uric acid deposits are more or less prevented) by withholding all foods rich in nucleoproteins, such as sweetbread, liver, shad-roe, etc. Also, it has been shown that alcohol taking with a meal containing meat results in the formation or excretion of more than the normal amount of ruic acid during the final metabolism of the meat.

11.	The cure of tuberculosis is best aided in this climate by a moderate daily allotment of meat.

12.	Because meat stimulates the throid, it should be withheld in all cases of throid hypersecretion. It should be given in thyroid hyposecretion.

14.	When kidney function is impaired large amounts of meat-extracts and beef-teas or broths should be withheld, as they, more readily than meat, cause retention of waste products.

15.	Although meat broths, whether home-made or artificially prepared, offer little if any real nutrition, they may stimulate not only the circulation and the nervous system, but also nutrition, and may, by stimulating the digestive secretions, aid the digestion of other foods. Hence, the kidneys being suffiicient, while we should .not depend on beef-tea as a food or real nutriment, it may be of marked benefit in serious illness. Also, a cup of bouillon or consomme before dinner may have a physiologic use.

—Study of Mechanism by Which Muscular Exercise Produces Acceleration of Heart. H. S. Gasser and W. J. Meek, Madison, Wis., in the Am. Journal of Physiology, Boston.

Acceleration of the heart at the beginning of voluntary exercise in the normal animal is chiefly due to the decrease in tone of the cardio-inhibitory center. Gasser’s and Meek’s evidence for this conclusion is the following: Electrocardiograph records confirm the work of Bowen and Buchanan that acceleration takes place as early as the cardiac cycle following the initiation of the exercise. Acceleration of the heart at the beginning of exercise persists after the removal of the accelerator mechanism. The actual increase in number of beats due to a given amount of exercise has been found to

Digitized by 0.ooQle
—195 —

be practically the same in six dogs before and after removal of the stellate ganglia. One of these animals was observed for over four months. Acceleration on exercise is reduced after section of the vagi provided that all asphyxial effects are excluded. After the removal of the accelerators and subsequent section of the vagi, (marked acceleration of the heart may still be produced by a short period of exercise. This is associated with the cyanosis following vagotomy and on the second day when the animal is able to do the same work without such a marked cyanosis the increase following exercise is greatly reduced. It may be increased again by asphyxiating the dog for some thirty seconds. After tying off the adrenals neither asphyxia nor exercise give a marked increase in heart-rate. Kxercise involving asphyxial conditions may then be accompanied by a secretion of the adrenals. In the normal animal with the vagi intact this secretion of adrenalin can hardly be supposed to affect the heart-rate. It may, however, cause an increase in the amplitude and force of contraction.

In six dogs the heart-rate after removal of the accelerators was found to be remarkably constant, averaging about 72 beats per minute. The resting pulse-rate of each animal is therefore believed to depend more on accelerator tone than on any other factor. After removal of all nervous control and elimination of the adrenals, exercise may still cause a small acceleration of the heart. This is attributed to the increased temperature of the blood. Acceleration of the heart occurs after vagotomy and extripation of the adrenals. The amount though small is more than can be accounted for by increased temperature of the blood. Acceleration may therefore be brought about through the accelerators if necessary. Our work leads us to believe that the accelerators are a factor of safety and that in exercise their action is superimposed on that of the vagi only in times of great need. Aside from this, their chief function is maintaining the level of the resting pulse.

The Third Annual Convention of the American Association for Promoting Hygiene and Public Baths was held in Nework, N. J., May 12, 13 and 14th. The program of the three day meeting was elaborate and interesting. It contained chiefly addresses and discussions on baths of various kinds. The object of the association could have not been more clearly set forth than by the lengthly but very ably prepared address of its president, Dr. Simon Baruch of New York.

At the outset the doctor discussed the gradual enlightenment of the public mind in matters pertaining to hygiene. He said that the enormous benefit from this class of education had not been fully realized. He paid high tribute to the government's public health

Digitized by
—196 —

service and referred to the achievements of this branch of the government, which, he said, had done so much to teach the public how to avoid and care for diseases which formerly were dreaded.

The speaker deplored the lack of knowledge displayed by certain legislatures on questions of hygiene and disease prevention, and said that the public health service agents of the government, working in conjunction with the consular departments, were doing much to safe-guard against objectionable legislation. The watchfulness of these health officers, the doctor said, was such that laws which have passed legislatures would never pass . Congxess.

Continuing, Dr. Baruch said in part:

“Ponder upon the indisputable fact that by the promotion of hygiene the everage longevity of mankind has been increased from twenty years in the sixteenth century to the present rate of fifty years and you must realize that you are engaged in promoting the mose beneficent cause, one that overshadows all other human effort. This fact is enhanced by the increase of comfort and happiness arising from diminished morbidity and mortality. Just think of this simple proposition.

“There were twenty-two deaths per 1,000 less in 1913 than in 1866 in New York and 220 cases of serious illness less. Now, if the death and morbidity rate of 1866 had continued at the former rate, the deaths in New York would have been 110,000 more and the cases of serious illness nearly a million more in 1913. Who can compute the saving of mental anguish, loss of work and efficiency that these figures imply?

“To the welfare of our country no problem is more vital than the better sanitation of the rural districts, in order that the most valuable of all crops, the children, may be conserved with at least the same care as the farm animal.

“Clean water, clean milk, clean streets, clean houses , clean schools, clean churches and clean people may all be had if the price is paid. It is today entirely up to the community whether it wishes to be clean and healthy or filthy and diseased. The method by which such rights can be secured is neither difficult nor obscure. The steps are simple and are applicable by the average layman or the village physician to the smallest village or rural community.

“Exercise is a subject of deep concern to the hygienist. The latest physiological investigations demonstrate that moderation in exercise, as in food and drink, is to be practiced if the best results are to be reached. Unfortunately the trend has long been in the direction of overdoing exercise by the practice of athletics.

“That the effect of athletics on ideals and power of restraint is better when moderate, ruinous when overdone, is undoubtedly true. In our enthusiasm for superiority in all achievements, let us not be

Digitized by
— 197 —

oblivious to these discouraging facts and figures. In exercise, as in all other vigor-maintaining practices, let us preach saneness and moderation.

“Upon the subject of food, I would call your attention to some recent studies that come home to all of us who are concerned in the high cost of living. To demonstrate the possibility of greater economy, we must realize that in the present mode of feeding our largest expenditure is not for the sustaining value of our foods, but for flavoring, and that the latter may be maintained without additional cost.”

Dr. Baruch referred to the money spent by consumers for spring water. He characterized this as a waste of money, and said that city water, guaranteed bacteriologically by health department guard-*, ians, was more preferable. Filteration that would cost little or nothing, he advised, would improve drinking water. He said there should be none of the fear of infection from the use of common drinking cup, explaining that infection would be easily avoided by placing the lower lip above the rim of the drinking receptacle.

The speaker dwelt at length upon the progress made in recent years in the fight against dreaded diseases, and explained how easily they could be avoided, emphasizing the need of hygenic measures. Dr. Baruch, an avowed exponent of vaccination as a preventive of disease, scouted the arguments of those opposed to vaccine, and pointed to the care taken by the government in having soldiers and others vaccinated, at great cost of time and money. This would not be the case if vaccination were not all that had been claimed for it, he said.

Dr. Baruch urged his hearers to agitate the question of public baths with their municipal authorities, and declared that there was nothing better for the community from every viewpoint.

BOOK REVIEW.

“Year Book for 1914” (Jahrbuch fuer Volks und Jugendspiele) by Prof. H. Raydt and Dr. E. Kohlrausch. 286 pages, 6 by 9 inches, illustrated. Published by B. G. Teubner, Leipzig. Price 3 mark, net.

This is the twenty-third annual issue of this year book, which so graphically portrays the work being done by the German “Verein fur Volks und Jugendspiele,” a voluntary organization similar to our National Playground and Recreation Association. Thirty-six articles written by some of the most prominent men actively engaged in the work, place the inner workings and the year's accomplishments of this most admirable society clearly before the public. The high ideals, and the infectious enthusiasm of our German collabera-tors should be an inspiration to all who are striving for the elevation

Digitized by
— 198 —

of the masses by means of plays, games and other forms of sane outdoor activities. The book is warmly recommended to all teachers, especially to such that at times lose heart because the American ideal still seems to be the specialist rather than the average boy or girl.

—“Athletic Training,” by Michael C. Murphy, with an introduction by D. R. Tait McKenzie. 174 pages, 5 by yl/2 inches, 32 illustrations. Published by Charles Scribner’s Sons, New York. Price $1.00 net.

This compact little volume contains the expert advice of the most successful trainer that ever lived, upon every phase of track and field athletics. It is, in fact, a handbook for athletes—almost indispensable for those who have not the advantage of a regular training-table and whose time for athletics is limited to their leisure hours. The manuscript had just been completed by the author at the time of his death—the principles it sets forth, so simply and directly, are those which he gradually formed during a lifetime of practical experience. The 21 chapters are on Physical Condition, Diet, Preparing for Athletic Contests, Sprinting, Middle-Distance Running, The Half-Mile Run, The One Mile Run, The One-Mile and Two-Mile Runs, Cross-Country Running, The Marathon Run, Hurdling, Running Broad Jump, Running High Jump, The Pole-Vault, The Shot Put, The Hammer Throw, The Discus Throw, The Javelin Throw, Relay Racing, The Athletic Heart, Injuries—Their Prevention and Treatment, Football Injuries. “Mike” Murphy’s book will be certain to be in the library of every progressive teacher of physical training.

—“Physical Training ” by E. John Solano. Two books, one a junior course, 319 pages, the other a senior course, 393 pages. 4t/4 by 7 inches. Illustrated. Published by the Bobbs-Merrell Co., Indianapolis. Price 75 cents, net, each.

The author outlines a system of physical training based upon Swedish principles, but amplified by the addition of games, swimming, diving, life saving and athletic sports. On the title page Mr. Solano is mentioned as the author of the “World’s Armies” in the Encyclopaedia Brittanica Year Book 1913, inventor of the Solano Target, etc.

—“Psychology in Daily Life ” by Carl Emil Seashore, Professor of Psychology, State University of Iowa. 256 pages, 5 by yyi inches. Published by D. Appleton & Company, New York.

This volume well represents the general purpose of the Conduct of Mind series which is, to present for the intelligent reader the several aspects of mental affairs which are involved in the regulation

Digitized by C^ooQie
— 199 —

of practical interests. The volume comprises a selection of illustrative material with their interpretation. It proceeds by selecting a few general topics rich in application and about which a considerable range of mental principles may be grouped. The several chapters deal with topics such as Play, The Law in Illusion, Mental Measurement, Mental Health and Mental Efficiency. The illustrations are in each case given a sufficient setting so that they become typical of the problems of psychology and at once suggest how competently the issues of our daily life are conditioned by the psychological basis. To teachers of physical training the chapter on play will be of more than ordinary interest, as the following sub-headings will illustrate: Play is preparation for life—Play continues throughout normal life— Play is one of the chief realizations of life—The play impulse and the play attitude are distinctive traits of religion.

1	The book is highly recommended to all teachers who wish to understand the “why” of many things happening in everyday life.

—“Die Leibesubungen” (Bodily Exercises) by Johannes Muller, M. D., Lecturer at the Prussian Normal School for Teachers of Physical Training, Spandau, near Berlin. 374 pages, 7 by 10 inches, 340 illustrations. Published by B. G. Teubner, Leipzig and Berlin, 1914. Price, in paper, 5 mark, in cloth 5 mark 60, net.

This splendid text book has four parts: 1, the external body; 2, the internal organs; 3, the physiology and hygiene of exercise, and 4, first aid. Each part is treated with the thoroughness which characterizes German books of this type. To illustrate, the first chapter of part three (Physiology and Hygiene) has the following sub-headings : Physiology of muscles. 1. Muscular activity divided into seven types of activity, each one of which is adequately described and illustrated. 2. Changes in muscle during the different types of exercise, (i. e., during exercises of strength, of endurance, of quickness). To all readers who understand German the book is highly recommended as it always will be a standard, and will safely guide them in their selection of gymnastic exercises according to the teachings of modern physiology and hygiene.

—Official 1914 Year Book of the Amateur Athletic Federation of Cook County, III. This handy year and rule book of the large Chicago federation in its 144 pages has more real information for the athlete than is customarily found in a dozen or two of the ordinary hand books. Besides the constitution and other interesting data concerning the federation, it has full rules for basketball, fencing, gymnastics, indoor baseball, soccer football (also for girls), swimming,- water soccer, water basketball, tennis, track and field athletics (running, jumping and throwing), and volleyball. It may be secured from the Federation.

Digitized by
— 200 —

SUMMER SCHOOL, JUNE 27 TO AUGUST I,

IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION - EXCLUSIVELY FOR WOMEN

Mrs. ROBERT L. PARSONS, Director.

Normal course for Physical Directors and Playground Workers

Classes will be conducted in FOLK DANCING, AESTHETIC DANCING, PLAYGROUND WORK and PUBLIC SCHOOL GYMNASTICS - especially planned to meet the needs of

fpegimter#, requiring a knowledge of the fundamental work — public &ctjo01 (Readier# who desire to become Supervisors of Physical Training—

cal Ptrectar# desiring additional material such as drills, etc*, for broadening the scope of their work, or who want advanced work in theory, which they cannot find time for during the school year.

Summer School Certificates will be given to students satisfactorily completing three summer sessions. Address for further information CHICAGO SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION & EXPRESSION, 430 So. Wabash Aye., Chicago, III.

NORMAL COLLEGE

OF THE

NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION

INDIANAPOLIS. IND.

The oldest American institution for the education of teachers of physical training. Incorporated under the laws of Indiana, and recognized as an accredited training school by the State Board of Education.

Offers high school graduates the following courses:

Two-year course, leading to the title of Graduate in Gymnastics.

Four-year course, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in Gymnastics. Graduate course, leading to the degree of Master of Science in Gymnastics. One-year elementary course, open under certain restrictions to members of the N. A. Gymnastic Union.

Physical Training Teachers'Bureau in connection. Last year's graduates all placed. SUMMER SESSION, July 6 to August 1, 1914.

Write for illustrated catalogue and summer session bulletin.

NORMAL COLLEGE, N. A. G. U.,

415—419 E. Michigan St., Indianapolis, Ind.

*■	■ ■■■■	——	■ ■ * — - - — ---------------------^

PHYSICAL TRAINING TEACHERS’ BUREAU

OF THE

NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION

415—419 <35. Stttdrigan $t<» &n*ianapait#, $nb.

COMPETENT TEACHERS OF PHYSICAL TRAINING RECOMMENDED TO SCHOOL OFFICERS AND ASSOCIATIONS FREE OT CHARGE.

Registration is restricted to graduates of the Normal School of Gymnastics, and of the Normal College, of ttie North American Gymnastic Union.

Washington and Lee secures Olympic Athlete.

FOREST FLETCHER, a member of the 1912 Olymyic Team, will coach the track and basketball teams and assist in the gymnasium at Washington & Lee University during the coming year. His appointment followed our recommendation the authorities at Lexington. We place specialists in Physical Education and Athletics in all parts of the country. Write us your needs. Send for our new 16-page booklet.

ROBERT A. GRANT, manager, Webster Grove, ST. LOUIS, MO.

Digitized by LjOOQle