MIND AND BODY

MARCH, 1009.

/1 ■;> ^

v:/6

Yol. 16.

No. 177

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD, Bos'on Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

ROBERT NOHR, M. D., Public Schools, Cincinnati, O.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phi!., Pa„

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, iao Pomona St., Germantown, Phil., Pa.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wu

GYMNASTICS AS A FACTOR IN THE TREATMENT OF

The relation of muscular activity to mental development, recognized as it has been from the very beginning of modern psychology, teaches us tjiat kinestetic, i. e., motor, images are more important than visual or auditors' images, and that a greater part of the sensations bringing about mental development are excited through motor activities. This is a fundamental truth, and the leaders of to-dav who are doing the best work in training the mind and body of the individual are making the science of kinesiology an applied science indeed.

The natural activities of a normal individual, combined with rational exercise of some sort, help to bring him up to the highest point of meiifaf, as well as physical efficiency. With the subnormal class, as exemplified by the feebleminded, manual training, gardening, gymnastics, and like motor agencies are accomplishing much. Johnstone states that with the feebleminded the most successful methods are the various kinds of motor and sense training, and Barr asserts that constant occupation is for them the only security from deterioration. The psychiatrist, too, has found that with many abnormal and pathological mental conditions some form of physical training,—motor activity,—is always indicated. When such an authority as Dr. Adolf Meyer speaks of “exercise and its influence upon our readiness to meet the ordinary demands of life.” it behooves us to listen. We all know that readiness to meet the ordinary demands of life is the surest criterion of a normal mind, the goal towards which all endeavor in this line is directed. And it seems to be an established fact that training or treatment along motor lines is one of the well Harked highways to this goal.

Til view of this evidence, it would seem that the individual case of mental retardation is a most suitable field for the application of this form of therapeutics. Through some cause or causes, perhaps remedi-

* Reprints from the Physiological Clinic, December 100*.

MENTAL RETARDATION.*

By E. Blanche Sterling, M. D., Baltimore, Md.

Digitized by

Google
able, the child's mind has not developed at the normal rate. It has not yet reached the stage where its development ean.be best promoted by mental processes. It is now, at the very beginning of his training, that the case of mental retardation,—particularly the retarded child of the city dweller, cut off from the activities of country life,—should have the most careful and scientific motor training. Each case must be considered separately, his mental attitude towards his environment studied, and those exercises and games selected which will best tend to develop what he needs. The practitioner or trainer must be all things to all children, with a view to developing a “readiness to meet the ordinary demands of life.” His success or failure will be measured in terms of distance from this goal.

The case reported below is simply to illustrate the argument, and is not given as typical or representative. In fact, when I took the case I had in mind only the improvement of his physical condition, and it was not until I saw what was being accomplished that I used about forty hours in April and May, 1908, for the purpose of making definite observations and taking notes of his training.

The report covers the period from the age of three years and four months, to five years and two months.—almost twro years. During this period I saw him approximately three hours a week for one month, twro hours a week for. one month, six hours a w7eek for one month, .and three hours a week for seven months. I did not see him at all after this for four months, and then he came under my care three hours a w'eek for six months, and six hours a wreek for three months. There wrere, however, interruptions during this period due to slight illness or other causes.

When I first saw7 the child he wras small and somewhat rachitic in appearance. He weighed five and one-half pounds at birth,,and had always been delicate. Although he could w'alk, he w'ould not step up an elevation of a few inches without assistance, rarely if ever ran, and in fact was almost the exact opposite of a normal active boy of his age. He was little inclined to move around unless made to do so, but he was obedient and docile. His speech wTas very imperfect, and his hard palate high, narrow^ and arched. A slight strabismus w as present. His mental condition was decidedly retarted.

At five years of age, with the interrupted treatment indicated above, he could climb unassisted up the Swedish stall bars, and hang by his hands from the top bar. What is more noteworthy, his idea of his relation to this particular external thing had so developed, that instead of dropping to the floor, as he would undoubtedly have done a few months before, he knew7 when to put his feet on the bars as his hands grew' tired. This idea, howover, had to be developed for another and very different piece of apparatus. A little later, he asked permission to swing along-on a bar suspended by a rope, and to pull himself up in the Sayre suspension apparatus.

Under date of April 10, 1908, his condition is described as follows: His speech is better, he talks more, runs, laughs, wrants to do what he sees others do, and likes to play and look at pictures. His play is rather elemental in character.

Digitized by U^ooQle
About this time definite observations and notes began to be taken, the most important of which are given below. At five years his height and weight were normal.

Aqril 10, 1908. Although he had fallen from the swinging har on a previous occasion, he was permitted to use it again to-day after being told that if he let go the bar he would fall. He did not fall. The bar was hung so low that he could reach it and swing by holding up his feet.

I tried to get a quick response to a stimulus, and after repeated attempts succeeded in getting him to run across the room fairly soon after I had counted three. At first he seemed to pay no attention to the signal, but waited for me to run, when he would follow. I then sat down and tried him alone, and the result was rather satisfactory.

April 11. He cared more for swinging than for anything else to-day, but he pulled himself up in Sayre’s suspension apparatus very well, and ran at signal fairly well. I introduced a new signal, holding up my finger, and he soon learned to respond to this stimulus. I then alternated the stimuli (sound and sight) and he did fairly well.

I tested his recognition of colors, using strips of red and green paper, but he gave no indication of recognizing any difference between them.

April 13. He pulled up in Sayre very well, but the swing was higher to-day and he fell off once. His running at signal was pretty good, but he gives no indication of being able to tell red from green.

I introduced a simple little game to-day. We stood at opposite ends of a large rug and rolled a ball back and forth, each hying to keep the ball from going off the rug as it came towards him. This was intended to train the child’s perception and judgment. I made the work very easy to-day, sending the balls almost directly to his hands, and he kept them on the rug fairly well.

During the winter, when he said he wanted to tell me something, he usually told me the same thing each time. This morning he told me something new, mentioning something he had seen in the street.

April 14. To-day he told me of a little event that had taken place this morning before he came to me. While doing one of his exercises he told me which one he was going to do next.

In running at signal T asked him to touch the bars when I counted three, and to touch the door when I held up my finger. He was not able to make this differentiation, and that I was going too fast was shown by the fact that my explanations confused him, and two or three times afterward he failed to start at the signal. When 1 saw this, I had him simply run to the bar at both signals, and was as successful as usual.

In playing the ball game his perceptions and judgments were not quick enough to prevent the ball from going off the rug when it rolled a little way from his hands. He would, however, reach out his hands to stop it when it went just a little beyond the middle line. I had no success in getting him to distinguish colors.

April 15. He was not so cheerful and interested as usual. He

Digitized by v^ooQle
-4-

did not want to do Sayre at first, but did it pretty well when I insisted. His swinging on the bar was not so good, and his attitude and expression when I explained this to him and he had made several failures, were ample proof, to my mind, of the opinion held by Dr. Meyer that the useful things in mental hygiene are the things that can be done, the successful things. This is a very important point in the treatment.

The patient climbed up the bars and made his first attempt to turn around, and did so with a little assistance. In playing the ball game, after one or two throws he watched the ball roll past him without making the slightest effort to stop it. He made fewer mistakes in his color work, but seemed to be chiefly guessing.

April 1(1. His Sayre and swinging were poor, but in the ball game his work was better. He would walk to get the ball when I rolled it to him. I then suspended the ball from the swing and told him to bat it with liis hand. He did it fairly well and seemed to enjoy it. He throws a ball very awkwardly. In trying to toss a small ball he holds his arm very close to the body, and makes several efforts before letting go of the ball.

April 17. He had a bad cold and coughed several times, seemed tired and listless, and wanted to sit down. He did not care to play ball, but finally did so and played better than usual, going to meet an oncoming ball and not letting it roll off the rug very often. I gave him little to do because of his physical condition, which has evidently influenced his work during the last three days.

April 22. The patient came back to-day after recovering from his cold. He was lively and seemed to enjoy doing things. There was no improvement in his swinging. (I mention the swing repeatedly because I believe an adjustable swinging bar has many possibilities for mental training.) In running at signal he responded very promptly. We had no success with the red and green colors.

April 23. I gave him a little work in articulation to-day.

April 24. A twelve-year-old girl came in while the patient was present, and he pulled up very well in Sayre. He likes to show people what he can do. In swinging to-day he made a great advance. While swinging alone he caught the trick of standing far back and letting himself go from there. He asked me to sit down while he went to swing alone. This time when he began he had lost the little trick of starting himself, and he evidently realized that he was not doing what he meant to do. He hung on the swing a few times, and each time he failed to start himself swinging he would say “not yet” and try again. After several attempts he succeeded.

In running at signal he started well, but could not yet seperate the different actions for different signals. In playing ball on the rug he seldom let it roll off, and seemed to enjoy the game. \I placed some bits of paper on the table, and asked him to bring me two pieces. He brougnt me one the first time, but after being corrected he brought two each time thereafter. He always does a number of his usual exercises.

April 27. He was not present on Saturday, and I was afraid he had

Digitized by v^ooQle
forgotten how to start himself swinging. He had not forgotten, however, and did it very well. He asked to be allowed to kick the wall opposite the swing, which he succeeded in doing in a small way. He asked me to give him a push, which I hesitated to do because a few days ago he would get off the swing almost as soon as I touched him. To-dav he kept on swinging after the push. Evidently his new idea of kicking the wall was stronger than the old association of coming down from the swing after he was pushed,

Running at signal was performed about as usual, but I noticed that his attention was soon distracted. At the ball game on the rug he did pretty well, but soon began to show signs of wanting to do something else, so I suggested that we throw the ball at the swing. He had already walked up and touched it with the ball. He succeeded in striking the swing two or three times. The swing is a little higher than his head, and he stood about three feet from it. The ball is a large rubber one, about four and one-half inches in diameter.

To-day for the first time he showed that he could distinguish colors. I added pink strips of paper to the red and green ones, mixed them all together, and then separated one of each color as nuclei of three piles. I then gave him the rest of the paper and told him to put the strips in the proper piles. He did remarkably well. He made some mistakes, but was always able to correct them. Sometimes I had to call his attention to a mistake, but at other times he discovered it himself and corrected it. I did not try to teach him the names of the colors.

He had a small amount of adenoid growth, and very often I notice that his mouth is open and the tip of his tongue at his lips.

April 28. His color work was excellent until two little girls came in, and his attention becoming distracted he mixed the colors.

April 29. His swinging was better than usual. The ball playing was poor,—in one instance he moved his hand back and forth seven or eight times before he let the ball go.

Running at signal has been a little hesitating since T have been trying to get him to go to different places at different signals. He has not yet learned to make this differentiation. His color work was good, although he made one or two mistakes. I told him the names of the colors to-day. He was given a brief drill in articulation.

He tells me at times of outside things, and in doing one of his exercises he likes to play that he is swimming in the water at Cape May, where he spent the previous summer.

April 30. He pulled himself up very high in Sayre, climbing until I stopped him. He has quite got the knack of swinging. While throwing the ball at the swing, he once made as many as fifteen motions of throwing before he actually threw it. Tn rolling the ball on the rug he lias improved greatly, and to-day he did not let it roll off his end at afl. lie had his daily brief drill in articulation.

May 2. He did not go so high in Sayre as he sometimes does but his swinging and kicking were very good. He discovered that if his swing forward did not carry him near enough to the wall to kick it, he

Digitized by (^.ooQle
-g-

could send himself nearer by bringing his left.foot down on the floor as he swung over towards the wall. Thereafter he made practical use of this discovery in gaining his end.

May 5. In Sayre to-day he let himself down in his own way, pulling up his knees and slipping low on the rope, and acting much as any child might have done.

May 6. I added blue to the colors, and he distinguished them all very well.

May 9. He has not learned the names of the colors, but I found that he memorizes sentences very well.

May 20. His mother came to-day and spent an hour with him. He did fairly well in his exercises and rolling the ball, and separated the colors properly, but did not know their names. He does not yet match the colors correctly when articles of various kinds are given him.

He got off the table unaided, for the first time.

May 22. Yellow was added to his colors with the usual good result.

May 26. He seemed to have a rather better appreciation of where to run at different signals, but the weather was too warm to permit of enough running to make a really good test.

May 27. A thirteen-year-old boy was present, and at times the patient’s attention seemed rather distracted.

May 28. A very warm day, but he was lively and apparently unaffected by the heat.

May 29. He did very well. His cousin, a boy of fourteen, came with him, and he was glad to show' his relative wrhat he could do. He really appeared to know which place to run to at the different signals, but I did not try having him run without first asking him wdiere he was going. I asked him this question each time I changed the signal, and be gave correct answers.

May 30. This was the last day the patient wras seen before he left the city for the summer. Nothing of importance occurred.

The above report is given in spite of its crudeness,—the crudeness which is apt to accompany the application of new methods, or new and different applications of old principles. Many of the simple facts stated above will be very suggestive to the psychologist. Dr. Margaret K. Smith has found certain forms of motor training of great value in her work with the backward boy at Newr Paltz. There is a wrealth of material available in this motor pharmacopeia. Let us make use of if all as occasion demands.

The interest of this report does not lie in wdiat has been, or wrhat is being accomplished in this particular case. It is simply a broadening of the way for a wider application of this powerful force in mental development. More important still, is its suggestion of a splendid field for research in what Witrner has aptly termed the “psychology of movement,” This field is lying fallowr for the wrorker w'hose knowdedge of psychology, medicine, kinesiology, and practical gymnastics gives hi in the tools for its cultivation.

Digitized by L^OOQie
THE EFFECT OF WIND ON HEATING AND VENTILATION.

By H W. Whiten.

Heat having been generated and circulated through a building, it is of economic importance to find out what becomes of it, i. e., to trace its dissipation. It is lost in three ways, by passage through foul air flues, chimneys, etc., by direct transmission through walls and windows, and by filtration through walls and air leakage through crevices around windows and doors. The first two losses are easily determined, but to quote the latest book on the subject by Prof. John R. Allen, of Michigan University, “The calculation of loss by filtration and leakage must always involve a large factor of judgment and experience.” In other words the engineer must guess at it. This same unsatisfactory and elusive statement was embodied in a report of a committee at the annual meeting of the American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers in New York, January, 1908.

One factor which has been known abroad for some time, but generally' overlooked here, is that all buildings are more or less porous. Probably most of you are familiar with the “brick and candle” experiment, but I have seen two bricks placed end to end, adjourned with mortar, wrapped tightly with impervious material, excepting a space in. in diameter at. each exposed end. One space was then covered with soft soap, and by blowing against the opposite end bubbles could be raised in the soap. A very safe statement is that in a well constructed building with all doors and windows tightly closed the air will change about once in an hour.

One reason for this is not generally recognized. Air is constanly seeking its own level. -As it is heated it expands, and at once attempts to rise to a height where it will find aij: of a similar density, the colder air rushing in underneath to fill the space vacated. It will when heated follow the line of least resistance in order to finally rise. It thus seeks out any porosity in the building, and escapes through it.

Leakage by means of crevices about windows and doors is of a more complex nature than the loss through pores by expansion. It is a known fact that on a calm day most of this kind of loss will take place from the upper portion of the windows, being replaced by incoming currents through the lower portions. The incoming air, being of greater density, falls to the floor. For this reason radiators, whenever possible, are placed near or under windows. The incoming air, being warmed from contact with the radiator, circulates about and upward, gradually leaking out again. This would occasion no difficulty if the amount of incoming air remained constant, but this is not the case.

A strong wind blowing will not only greatly increase the amount of air naturally coming in on that side, but will transform the natural outflow from the upper portion of the windows to a strong inward current.

The warm air must escape somewhere, and travels to the leeward side ofdho building, and out through all the crevices on that side, being

Digitized by L,ooQle
assisted by the pressure of incoming cold air, and atracted by the suction of the partial vacuum created by the wind on the sheltered (out) side of the building. The incoming cold air mixing with the air of the room reduces the temperature, ns does the escape of, the mixed air on the leeward side. This necessitates the supply of a greater number of heat units to maintain the required temperature. It is always found, however, that the temperature is much lower on the windward side than on the leeward. Flue, chimney and roof losses are also greatly increased by wind pressure.

All these facts have been known to heating engineers for a long time, and provision for leakage losses arrived at bv a rule of thumb method acquired by long, painful and costly experience. It has been usual to add to the radiation on the sides of the building exposed to the strongest wind effect an uncertain amount of extra radiation, and to the whole building another uncertain amount. Tf the gue-s was successful, the engineer or contractor “made good,” if not, he didn't. The whole amount of extra radiation thus used amounted, according to conditions, to from 50 per cent to 100 per cent of the amount actually necessary to heat the building with normal leakage in comparatively still air, which (including the original once an hour before spoken of), amounted to at least two changes per hour. This, in common use, is erroneously called one change per hour. In calculating this extra amount, and, in fact, in any heating calculation, a certain proportion is assigned to wall and another to glass. These unconsciously include leakage, and as most of this is assigned to the glass faetor. the rate for glass is thus very high. Little or no attempt had' been made to determine the exact value of leakage under varying conditions until I took the subject up a few years ago. Finding no data of record here or abroad.* I made a series of tests on window frames and sash of varying clearance by subjecting them to fan pressure through an expanded nozzle tightened to the window frame.

This test which \vas observed by several eminent engineers showed conclusively that the leakage factor was more than 90 per cent of a total exposure loss, the increased loss from glass and wall proper being quite small. It was at once apparent that if efficient means of controlling the effect of the wind in an out leakage through these crevices could be used in the building specifications and construction, and tlie engineer be aware of the fact, he could dispense with a large portion of the extra radiation heretofore necessary, as well as the “factor of safety" which he usually added to protect himself.

These results when published were stated to be comparative only, but were criticised, the contention being that the air from the fan being confined in a chamber would not have the same effect as air in the open pressing upon a building. In order to trace the actual heat loss and check the fan results a series of tests were conducted on the roof of the West Street Building, New York City, the past winter.

Tn this paper I shall only give the comparative results of 1 Iff in. clearance and thevmost effective wind stopping device, which are as follows:

Digitized by
- 9—

TABLE 1—AIR LEAKAGE THROUGH ORDINARY AND WEATHER STRIPPED WINDOWS Double Hung Window 2 ft. wide x 4 ft. high

Cu. ft. per min. leakage through space 14 ft. by 1-16 in. in

Velocity of	above window	
outside wind in	Weather Strip	Ordinary
miles per hour	Sash	Sash
6	1	, 12
9.1	1.6	19
9.6	1.75	20
9.5	1.65	19.6

Under 6 miles per hour no perceptible leakage could be detected through weather stripped sash.

This device	is	shown in	Fig. 3, and	consists of a	sheet

of metal (zinc	or	bronze may	be used)	covering	the	runway of the sash and having	an	extended	rib with	a beaded

edge extending	,3/8	in! into	a	groove in	the sash.	This	also

extends across the head and sill. That in the runway is corrugated. to reduce friction. The meeting rails are provided with inter-locking male and female members. The comparison obtained showes practically the same leakage and ratio as obtained from the fan. The reason for this is that when the wind blew directly on the sash, the air in the window recess was held in place by the sides of the recess, which prevented lateral motion and formed a cushion on which a continued pressure was maintained by the wind in the rear.

The next step was to determine the heat loss caused by this leakage. An electric radiator was placed inside the testing house, the contents of the latter being about 80 cu. ft. A watt-meter, volt-meter and ameter were installed. The current was turned on and the time noted in which interior temperature raised a given number of degrees. The current was then shut off and time noted in which the temperature returned to the starting point.

In order to get as great a difference between outside and inside temperatures as practicable, most of the tests were from 70 to 80 degrees and back to 70 degrees. A record of outside temperature and wind velocity was kept carefully. On reaching 70 degrees the switch was thrown on again, and the operation continued for several hours, thus getting a“saw-tooth” curve, which varied at first on account of absorption of heat by the walls. After a time this absorption practically ceased as did the curved variations.

This test was very tedious, covering a long period of time, as it was difficult to get similar conditions on different days. Enough was learned, however, to show that the heat loss caused by leakage was much greater than had ever been supposed. In one case with outside temperature at 32 degrees, wind 4 miles per hour, with loose sash, it required 38 minutes to raise the interior temperature from 72 to 82 degrees, and 20 minutes for it to return to 72 degrees! with metal stripped sash, wind 4 miles per hour, outside temperature 33 degrees, it required 20 minutes to raise from 72 to 82 degrees, and 39 minutes to return to 72 degrees.

Another table of tests is as follows:

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-10

TABLE 2

Out si e Temperature, 33^° to 340. Wind Velocity, 3^ to 4 miles per hour

Time required to heat	Time	required to lose ic°

80 cu. ft. 120	frun 8 > cu ft.

Ordinary WeatherStrip Ordinal y WeatherStrip Sash	Sash	Sash	Sash

08 min.	22 min.	20 min.	37 min.

<	(Outside	temp.	350; wind 1^ to2 miles per hourO

20 min.	20 min.	84- min.	43 min.

The last table shows the tremendous ration of increase in heat loss as the wind increased. The writer is engaged in a further and more technical calculation of the tests made last winter, and will make further tests in the far North early in the coming winter.

Since the publication of the radiator tests of last winter very many prominent consulting engineers are insisting that they be allowed to control the window' treatment, some even going so far as to provide for this in their own specifications. It will be a matter of surprise to many to know the aggregate opening around a window 3 ft. wide, 6 ft. high with 1/16 in. clearance. The lineal 'opening is 21 ft. or 252 in. x 1/16 in. equals 15% sq. in.

In inspecting a building in Pittsburg, recently where the windows were very bad, and of large size, with an average clearance of over 3/32 in., I found the aggregate openng for 150 windows to be between 45 and 50 sq. ft. When one stops to consider that the size of the intake for a fan to heat this building wTould not be over 20 sq. ft. it is easy to imagine the effect that a strong wind would have on the heating plant of such a building. It may be urged that in a building heated bv direct radiation, if all the window crevices are practically sealed there would not be sufficient fresh air admitted for good ventilation. This would probably be true if they were actually sealed so they could not be opened. The condition would be reduced to about the original one change per hour, hardly enough for the health of the occupants. By using the device shown in Fig. 3, any desired quantity of air can be admitted by raising the sash, the device facilitating rather than retarding that operation. A window opened sufficiently to allow a pencil to be placed on the sill will cause a break at the meeting well which will admit a considerable quantity of air. On the other hand, if the weather is cold and the wind high, the windward side of a building can be completely closed at will, if desired.

ft will, of course, be understood that where hot water is used as a heating medium, the saving in cost of installation will be greater than in the case of direct steam, as hot water requires about 40 per eent more radiating surface than steam.

Thus far I have considered direct heating plants only, I shall now take up briefly indirect heating. If a hot air furnace is used ,it is frequently imnossible to heat the windward side of*a house. This difficulty is remedied when the windows are properly treated, and, a< the air is changed frequently by this method, it is not necessary to open or shut the windows. This would also apply to what is known as gravity indirect steam system, where the air is heated by passing over steam pipes in the basement before passing up the flues.

Digitized by Google
-11-

Tonye/ect ant! Corritf+fm* Z//tc Wao/Ae/-Stn/i

JnferfacJti/if Ztrtc Wcafttei

FIG. 3—DETAILS OF CONSTRUCTION OF WEATHER-STRIPED WINDOW SASH WHICH SHOWED BEST RESULTS IN TESTS.

When a fan is used to force the circulation of warmed air through a building, the inlet flues, in the most accepted practice, open in the wall at a point higher than the heads of the occupants and the vent flues near the floor, being placed with relation to each other, so as to insure .uniform distribution throughout the room. This distribution is often helped by deflectors placed in the inlets. It is apparent during this circulation that the warmed air, in order to be effective, must be of a desired temperature at the “breathing level” of the room. All warmed air escaping by crevices above this point, or, in fact, by any means than the regurlarly provided vents, is absolutely wasted. It can readily be seen that if the upper part of a window be opened in a room heated in this manner, until the space equals the size of the inlet, most of the incoming air from the inlet will pass out of it above the breathing level, if it were . a calm day. When the wind blows air will be forced in

Digitized by v^ooQle
-12-

through all the window crevices on the windward side, and, mixing with the warm air, reduce its temperature above, at and below the breathing line. The movement of air through the vent flue will be accelerated by the extent of the in-leakage.

On the leeward side of the building the partial vacuum on the sheltered (out) side will act as a continual suction on the warmed air, drawing it out above, at and below*the breathing line, and the movement of the air through the vent flues retarded to the same extent. All such loss above the breathing line is absolute waste because it has performed no service, but simply “came right in and turned right around and went right out again.” That portion at or below the breating line had also been depleted. In order to attempt to correct this condition as it stands, the fan must be speeded up,* spending more horse power. This condenses the steam in the indirect radiators faster, because more air is passed through them. This necessitates a greater activity with the coal shovel or accelerates the gas meter, and in spite of all the condition is not wholly corrected. Ninety per cent, of this waste is needless, and, in these days of scarcity of gas and approaching scarcity of coal, is criminal.

Three is still another important feature of this question to be considered.

Air filters and washers are coming into use very largely, all the air being taken in through the fans being strained through cheesecloth screens, washed by films of spray and, after being carefully ironed and dried to the proper degree to humidity by the indirect radiator, is dis-iributed through the building. Numberless types of air washers are on the market or in preparation. The chief difficulty encountered so far as been the clogging of the spray nozzles, but this will be undoubtlv be overcome. In some States and cities air washing and filtering is required by law in the schools, municipal and state hospitals and other types of public buildings. This is a great advance, but it is absurd to distribute this carefully and immediately mix it with the dust and microbe laden air from the window crevices.

Mr. A. B. Franklin of Boston, one of the pioneers of ventilation, in discussing this question at the annual meeting of the American Society Heating and Ventilating Engineers in January said in part:—

“I had occasion to do work on a school building in Massachusetts, and a test by the State Inspector showed that during high winds from fifty to sixty per cent, more air came out through the vents, than the heating system supplied. During these conditions the children had to be moved from the windows.” I should think it quite likely.

In this case, or even in one where the windows were not nearly as bad, it is evident that the work of the air washer and filter would be undone, and its cost and maintenance wasted.

It is for the engineers of this country to carry on this work of prevention.	Heating	and	Ventilating	Magazine.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-13-

SPECIAL REQUEST. Wc would like to present to onr readers a list of summer camps lor boys, and also camps for girls. Will those of our readers who know of camps please send us this information. We would like to know where the camp is, the approximate cost, the director’s name, and such other concise information that may be of interest.

EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS AND PHYSIOLOGIC AND HYGIENIC NOTES -OF INTEREST.

By D M. FRRD. KROGH, M. IX, Philadelphia.

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN AND THE GOUT.

In a dialogue of Franklin and the gout our esteemed scientist and philosopher gives ns an interesting account of his ideas on the necessity of physical exercise and the treatment of this affliction, which will doubtless be of value to some of our readers and wre therefore give the dialogue in full:

Midnight, October 2‘2, 1780..

FRANKLIN:—Eh! oh! eh! What have I done to merit these cruel sufferings?

GOUT:—Many things:	You have eaten and drunk too freely and

too much indulged those legs of vours in their indolence.

FRANKLIN:—Who is it that accuses me?

GOUT:—It is I, even I, the Gout.

FRANKLIN:—What? My enemy in person?

GOUT:—No, not vour enemy.

FRANKLIN:—I repeat it—my enemy; for you would not only torment my body to death, but ruin my good name; you reproach me as a glutton and a tippler; now all the world that knows me, will allow that I am neither the one nor the other.

GOUT:—The world may think as it pleases; it is always very complacent to itself and sometimes to its friends; but I very well know that the quantity of meat and drink proper for a man who takes a reasonable degree of exercise would be too much for another who never takes any.

FRANKLIN:—I take—eh! oh!—as much exercise—eh!—as I can, Madam Gout. You know my sedendarv state, and on that account it would seem. Madam Gout, as if you might spare me a little, seeing that it is not altogether my fault.

GOUT:—Not a jot; your rhetoric and your politeness are thrown away; your apology avails nothing. If your situation in life is a sedentary one, your amusements, your recreations, at least, should be active. You ought to walk or ride, or if the weather prevents that, play at billiards. While the mornings are long and you have leisure to go abroad, what do you do? Why, instead of gaining on appetite for breakfast by salutary exercise, you amuse yourself with books, pamphlets, or newspapers which commonly are not worth reading. Yet you eat an inordinate breakfast—four dishes of tea with cream and one or two buttered

Digitized by U^ooQle
-11-

toasts, with slices of hung beef, which, I fancy, are not things the most easily digested. Immediately afterward you sit down to write at your desk or converse with persons who apply to you on business. Thus the time passed till one without any kind of bodily exercise,—but all this I could pardon, in regard, as you say, to your sedentary condition. But what is your practice after dinner? Walking in the beautiful gardens of those friends with whom you have dined would he the choice of a man of sense; yours is to be fixed down to chess, where you are found engaged for two or three hours. This is your perpetual recreation, which is the least eligible of any for a sedentary man, because, instead of accelerating the motion of the fluids the rigid attention it requires helps to retard the circulation and obstruct internal secretions. Wrapt in the speculations of this wretched game you destroy your constitution. What can he expected from such a course of living but a body replete with stagnant humors, ready to fall a prey to all kinds of dangerous maladies, if I, the Gout, did not occasionally bring you relief by agitating those humors and so purifying or dissipating them? If it was in some nook or alley in Paris, deprived of walks that you played awhile at’chess after dinner, this might he excusable; but the same taste prevails with you in Passy, Auteuil, Montmartre, or Savoy—places where there are the finest gardens and walks, a pure air, beautiful women, and most agreeable and instructive conversation: all of which you might enjoy by frequenting the walks. But these are rejected for this .abominable game of chess. Fie then, Mr. Franklin! But amid my instructions I had almost forgot my wholesome corrections, so take that twinge —and that!

FRAXKLIN:-------Oh!	eh! oh! oh—h! As much instruction as you

please. Madam Gout, and as many reproaches; but pray, madam, a truce with your corrections!

GOUT:—Xo, sir, no! I will not abate a particle of what is so much for your good; therefore—

FRAXKLIX:—Oh!—eh—h—h! It is not fair to say I take no exercise, when I do very often, going out to dine and returning in my carriage.

GOUT:—That, of all imaginable exercises, is the most slight and insignificant, if you allude to the motion of a carriage suspended on springs. By observing the degree of heat obtained by different kinds of motion, we may form an estimate of the quantity of exercise given by each. Thus, for example, if you turn out to walk in winter with cold feet, in an hours’ time you will be in a glow all over; ride on horseback, the same effect will scracelv be perceived by four hours’ round trotting; but if you loll in a carriage, such as you have mentioned, you may travel all day, and gladly enter the last inn to warm your feet by the fire. Flatter yourself, then, no longer that half an hours’ airing in your carriage deserves the name of exercise. Providence has appointed few to roll in carriages, while he has given to all a pair of legs, which are machines infinitely more commodious and serviceable. Be grateful, then, and make a proper use of yours. Would you know how to for-

Digitized by U^ooQle
—15—

ward the circulation of your fluids in the very action of transporting you from place to place, observe, when you walk, that all your weight is alternately thrown from one leg to the other; this occasions a great pressure on the vessels of the foot and repels their contents; when relieved, by the weight of being thrown on the other foot, the vessels of the first are allowed to replenish, and by a return of this weight this repulsion again succeds; thus accelerating the circulation of the blood. The heat produced in any given time depends on the degree of this acceleration; the fluids are shaken, the humors alternated, the secretions facilitated, and all goes well; the cheeks are ruddy and health is estab-lished. Behold your fair friend at Auteuil, a lady who received from bounteous nature more really useful science than half a dozen such pre-tenders to philosophy as you have been able to extract from all your books. When she honors you wfith a visit it is on foot. She walks all hours of the day and leaves indolence and its concomitant maladies to be endured bv her horses. In this see at once the preservative of her health and personal charms. But when you go to Auteuil you must have your carriage, though it is no further from Passy to Auteuil than from Auteuil to Passy.

FRANKLIN:—Your reasonings grow very tiresome.

GOUT:—I stand corrected. I will be silent and continue my office; take that, and that.

FRANKLIN:—Oh! oh! Talk on, I pray you*

GOUT:—No, no. I have a good number of twinges for you to-night, and you may be sure of some more tomorrow.

FRANKLIN:—What, with such a fever! I shall go distracted! Oh! eh! Can no one bear it for me?

GOUT:—Ask that of your horses; they have served you faithfully.

FRANKLIN:—How can you so cruelly sport with my torments?

GOUT:—Sport!	I am very serious. I have here a list of

offenses against your own health distinctly written, and can justify every stroke inflicted on you.

FRANKLIN:—Read it then.

GOUT:—It is too long a detail, but I will briefly mention some particulars.

FRANKLIN:—Proceed. I am all attention.

GOUT:—Do you remember how often you have promised yourself the following morning a walk in the Grove of Boulogne, in the Garden of de la Muette, or in your own garden, and have violated, your promise, alleging at one time it was too cold, at another too warm, too windy, too moist, or whatever you please, when in truth it was nothing but your inseparable love of ease?

FRANKLIN:—That, I confess, may have happened occasionally, probably ten times in a year.

GOUT:—Your confession is very far short of the truth; the gross amount is one hundred and ninetv-nine times.

FRANKLIN:—Is it possible?

GOUT:—So possible that it is a fact; you may rely on the accuracy

Digitized by L^OOQie
-16-

of my statement. You know M. Bril Ion’s gardens and what fine walks they contain; you know the handsome flight of one hundred steps which lead from the terrace above to the lawn below. You have been in the practice of visiting this amiable family twice a week after dinner, and it is a maxim of your own that “a man may take as much exercise in walking a mile, up and down stairs, as in ten on level ground/* What an opportunity was here for you have had exercise in both those ways! Did you embrace it and how often?

FRANKLIN:—I cannot immediately answer that question.

GOUT:—I will do it for you. Not once.

FRANKLIN:—Not once?'

GOUT:—Even so. During the summer you went there at six o'clock. You found the charming lady, with her lovely children and friends, eager to walk with you and entertain you with their agreeable conversation, and what has been your choice? Why, to sit on the terrace, satisfy yourself with the fine prospect, and passing your eye on the beauties of the garden below, without taking one step to descend and walk about in them. On the contrary, you call for tea and the chess board; and lo! you are occupied in your seat till nine o'clock, and that besides two hours’ play after dinner; and then, instead of walking home, which would have disturbed you a little, you step into your carriage. How absurd to suppose that all this carelessness can be reconcilable with health without my interposition!

FRANKLIN:—I am convinced now of the justice of Poor Richard’s remark that “Our debts and our sins are always greater than we think.55

GOUT:—So it is. You philosophers are sages in your maxims and fools in your conduct.

FRANKLIN:—But do you charge among my crimes that I return in the carriage from M. Brillon's?

GOUT:—Certainly; for having been seated all the while, you cannot object the fatigue of the day, and cannot want, therefore, the relief of a carriage.

FRANKLIN:—What, then, would you have me do with my carriage?

GOUT:—Burn it if you choose; you would at least get heat out of it once in this way; or, if you dislike that proposal, here's another for you. Observe the poor peasants who work in the vineyards and grounds about the villages of Passy, Auteuil, Chaillot, etc.; you may find every day among these deserving creatures four or five old men and women, hent and perhaps crippled by weight of years and too long and too great labor. After a most fatiguing day these people have to trudge a mile or two to their smoky huts. Order your coachman to set them down. This is an act that will be good for your soul; and at the same time after your visit to the Brillons, if you return on foot, that will be good for your body.

FRANKLIN:—Ah! How tiresome yo are!

GOUT:—Well, then, to my office; it should not be forgotten that I am your physician. There!

FRANKLIN:—Oh—h—h! What a devil of a physician!

Digitized by L^OOQle
>17—

GOITT:—How ungrateful you are to say so! Is it not I who, in the character of your physician, have saved you from the palsy, dropsy, and apoplexy, one or other of which would have done for you long ago but for me?

FRANKLIN:—I submit, and thank you for the past, but entreat the discontinuance of vour visits in the future; for in my mind one had better die than be cured so dolefully. Permit me just to hint that I have also not been unfriendly to you. I never feed a physician or quack of any kind to enter the list against you; if, then, you do not leave me to my repose, it may be said that you are ungrateful, too.

GOUT:—I can scarcely acknowledge that as an objection. As to quacks, I dispise them; they may kill you, indeed, but cannot injure me. And as to regular physicians, they are at last convinced that the gout, in such a subject as you are, is no disease, but a remedy; and wherefore cure a remedy? But to our business; there!

FRANKLIN:—Oh! oh! for heaven’s sake leave me, and I promise faithfully nevermore to play at chess, but to take exercise daily and live temperately.

GOUT:—I know you too well. You promise fait, but after a few months of good health you will return to your old habits; your fine promises wilt be forgotten like the forms of the last year’s clouds. Let us, then, finish the account, and I will go. But I leave you with an assurance of visiting you again at a proper time and place; for my object is your good, and you are sensible now that I am your real friend.

NERVOUSNESS AND NOURISHMENT IN CHILDHOOD.

Under this heading Dr. F Siegert of Cologne, Germany, gives an interesting account of his experience in the “Academische Kinderklinik in Koln.” He says the nervous child to-day is of common occurrence in families of the well-to-do. and not uncommon everywhere, where the child, for one reason or another, is kept on a especially “nutritious” diet. Attention has been called to the physical ailments overfeeding may produce especially in convalescent children, but no literature is available on the subject ol nervousness occurring in an otherwise healthy child wholly from injudicious feeding and improper food.

Seigert states, that “In each case, without exception, in proportion to the entire quantity ingested, it contains too much albumen (including fat,) being deficient in carbohydrates and contains insufficient amounts of alkaline and cellulose substances. The sequences of improper food, deficient in carbohydrates and without fruit or vegetables, are not quite so marked, if the requirements of the child are met. Overfeeding bv a highly nutritious diet of meat, eggs arid milk is best tolerated if the appetite is sufficient at the same time to incite to an abundant ingestion of green vegetables and raw fruit and so prevent the especially harmful constipation. Physical exercise is here also of importance. Wherever, for instance, the practice of regular exercise in large gardens or in the country is continued, constipation does not set in or sets in only partially on account ©f the pathologically increased desire for exercise; neither do we observe the deep elbow teint in the face, on the

r

Digitized by

Google
-18-

ncck. the nose or the temples, the latter sometimes attaining a brown yellow color; no strangury, nor a tendency to urticaria (hives) nor the great perspiration of the skin accompanying strophulus (tooth-rash)

■ even while at rest, are noticed.

After citing some of his numerous cases the author comes to the conclusion that even though nutriment may be of a rich nature, containing albumen and fat in abundance but being deficient in fruit and vegetables it will produce increased nervousness with great restlessness during the day, increased difficulty in training, decreased attainment at school, and irregular sleep accompanied bv fear at night.

Body, and mind quickly grow tired. Vegetables, lettuce and fruit added in abundance to the milk, eggs, carbohydrate and diet bring relief in every case, of course the common table salt must not be forgotten.

Miinchener Med. Wochenschrift.

GYMNASTIC AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

By EMANUEL HAUG, 50? West 158th St., New York.

(Complying with the wishes of many readers this department will hereafter firing news notes from schools, associations, societies, clubs etc. Teachers, secretaries, also active participants in any branch of physical training are requested to send news of general interest to Mr. Haug )

—Here is a straight arm jolt for the man who is of abnormal development above the waist line and below the chin—the “chesty” man who calls the dumbbells and the weight machines of a gymnasium his best frieuds. Also, a left swing for the man who believes deep breathing fortifies him against lung trouble.

One is the prodigy of tricky training and unnecessary specialization, the other is an eccentric person, and both have fronj 10 to 25 per cent, less power of resisting affections of the lungs than the man (who takes care of his leg muscles, according to Dr. Woods Hutchinson, JNew York, a tuberculosis expert, who has made, a long study of the ways and means of preventing the dread disease.

Deep breathing as a barrier to tuberculosis—a tonic prescription furnished gratis to the residents of Chicago by their Department of Health as a Yew Year’s present—wras responsible for the Yew York physician’s attack on the “abnormal athlete” and members of the clan who believg that health in large packages is tossed into their bodies every time they go through the deep breathing exercise. In connection with the breathing lessons circulated in bulletin form by the Chicago health authorities, a western physician was quoted as saying that tuberculosis always comes to those “who are too lazy to breathe.”

“Healthy lungs depend upon the quality and not the quantity of air They get,” said Dr. Hutchinson. “Breathing is one of the few vital •reactions we can place on a precise chemical basis. The breathing ‘push 'button’ is in the centre of the medulla oblongata—the continuation of dhe spinal column within the cranium—and is directly affected by the amount of carbon dioxide in the blood. When the latter reaches a certain percentage or tension, breathing is quickened automatically.



Digitized by v^.ooQle
-1U-

The only way to develop the lungs is to develop the muscles in the open air. *The best chest developing muscles of the body are those in. the legs, because they; form the largest mass of muscular tissue;”

“Of course, if a man sits crouched over a desk or sucking a pipe all day he finds relief in getting out of doors and taking a succession of long'breaths. But that individual who only goes to the door or window and breathes hard for several minutes, woidd benefit himself a great deal more if he took a five minutes’ brisk walk or run and breathed naturally.

-—James S. Mitchel, the weight thrower of the New York Athletic- 1 Club, enjoys the distinction and unique honor of having won more prizes than any other athlete now in competition. He holds the record for National A. A. IT. championships with twenty outdoor and five indoor titles. in all Mitchel has won 1,056 first prizes, 360 seconds, and 112 thirds.	'

Mitchel came to America from Ireland with the Gaelic Invasion team in 1888, and was then the world’s champion with the sixteen-pound hammer and the fifty-six-pound weight, which title he held for twelve years. Some of his records yet remain on the record books, the-best being the fiftv-six-pound weight with one hand, unlimited run and. follow, the distance being 38 feet 5 inches.

When the N. Y. A. C. competed in the international match with the London A. C. in 1895 Mitchel won the hammer event with a throw of 137 feet 7 inches, a world’s record for the old style of hammer. He was recently transferred from athletic membership in the New York A. C.. to the resident list, being the first of the club’s athletes to receive this recognition. The following are his championship wins:

International Match, N. Y. A. C. vs. London A. C.—Throwing the hammer, 1895.

A. A. IT. National Championships—Throwing 16-pound hammer;

1889 to 1896 to 1903; throwing 56-pound weight for distance, 1891 to 1897, 1900, 1903, and 1905; throwing 56-pound weight for height, 1893.

A. A. Indoor Championships.—Throwing 56-pound weight for height, 1890, 1897, and 1905; putting 16-pound shot, 1897; throwing the discus, 1897.

Metropolitan A. A. IT. Championships.—Throwing 56-pound weight,.

1889 to 1897 and 1902; throwing 16-pound hammer, 1889 to 1896; putting 16-pound shot, 1895 and 1896.

N. A. A. A. Championships.—Throwing 56-pound wreight, 1888.

Canadian Championships.—Throwing 16-pound hammer, 1890,

1892 to 1896, and 1903; throwing 56-pound weight, 1889 to 1892, 1894, and 1895; putting 16-pound shot, 1892; throwing the discus, 1903.

English Championships.—Throwing 16-pound hammer, 1886 to 1888; putting 16-pound shot, 1886 and 1887.

Irish ’Championships, Gaelic A. A.—Throwing 16-pound hammer,

1885 to 1888; throwing 56-pound weight, 1885 to 1888; putting 16-pound shot, 1886 to 1888; throwing 7-pound weight, 1886 to 1888; putting 28-pound weight, 1887; throwing 14-pound weight, 1888.

Digitized by t^ooQle
-20-

Pubhshed Monthly.

/V\lND ftHD BODY. -*r

Sibieri^tion Price, ft.00 per Year.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

avdl'TTp’eLVLlKM, ‘WleeoxxeLa.

Add rets all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Mil^arflceC. Wie Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, tao Pomona St., Germantown Phil.p Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Pe«t Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—ELSEWHERE IN THIS ISSUE wo print an article on “Play and Playgrounds” by Marie Hofer. Judging by several remarks in different parts of the article we fear Miss Hofer lias not had the opportunity to investigate what physical training in its full sense stands for, and by what means its ends are accomplished. So many things pass under the name of physical training. Then, again, any form of teaching under some teachers will become monotonous. We have seen teachers in playgrounds, in kindergartens, yes, even teachers of nature study, woodwork, etc., so methodical, so interested in the form of their work and the details, that they lost sight of the object of their work. It wasn't a case of the teacher being there for the pupils, but the pupils seemed to be there for the teacher. Having had no adequate preparation and having no guidance, many teachers seize upon anything that at the time seems to attract public attention. Looking back upon physical training even for a few years what do we see? First it was classic dancing that was needed to rejuvenate physical training. Practically one whole convention of the American Physical Education Assn, was devoted to dancing in its legitimate as well as in its worst forms for physical training ends. Why we were even told by learned professors that we never knew how to dance correctly, and that the newly discovered straight-foot dancing was the only correct form. Some innocent children were put on the stage to show us the error of our ways, and so long as they thought of their feet these actually pointed forward. But no sooner did they forget themselves and really danced than they assumed the positions demanded by any teacher who received his dancing instructions on the floor and not by means of theoretical deductions. It did one’s heart good to hear Mr. Gilbert precede his paper by the remark that in the kind of dancing he was going to speak about the feet were turned outward.

Then came another idol-breaker named Arnold who called particular attention to the psychological effect of dancing. Why he even gave to the much decried insane social dances a legitimate sphere. Incidentally he called attention to the fact that a great teacher of gym-

Digitized by U^ooQle
—21 —

nasties named Spiess had developed this particular phase of physical training under the name of dancing steps more than fifty years ago, and what was at present agitating the minds of some teachers was merely a new method of applying these steps.

After this it did not take long until it was discovered that what was really needed* to put more life into American physical training was competetive athletics, and any “system”that did not have this for its goal was “way off”at least when viewed from a biological standpoint. Then came a fever of folkdancing, and those who did not immediately drop all other forms of physical training, (at least for girls) and have their pupils hop and skip and jump between schoolbenches, in the corridors or in the gymnasium were looked at as hopeless backnumbers, who did not realize that our American boys and girls were just aching for this form of selfexpression.

No sooner had we caught our breath than we were told by some enthusiasts that all these forms of physical activity were wrong, that what our nervous, overstrung boys and girls want is play, just ordinary play. The physical, mental and moral advantages of play over every other form of bodily exercise were sung in all keys. We were just wondering what “physical director” (it seems that some people can not comprehend the depth of the meaning “teacher”) was conducting a gymnasium without continually using games which laid us open to the censure of not knowing the value of games,when, at this writing, something new looms up. This time it is hygiene, and we only hope that the “American School Hygiene Association” at its Chicago meeting last month did not put us “out of business” altogeteher.

Now, what does this continual jumping from one subject to another* indicate? With some it is a lack of the sense of proportion. They do-not know what is essential and what non-essential. Neither do they know that what is good in one place may be harmful in another. Some teachers lack individuality and insight. They simply follow the fashions, of the day without really knowing why they do one thing or another.. But the fundamental weakness disclosed by this rapidity with which principals which should underlie all phases of education are changed is the lack of adequate training. Tf we had more thoroughly trainee! teachers who know that all the activities spoken of are but phases of the great field of physical education we could hope for more effective quietj work and less newspaper notoriety. There is need for more sane teachers at the head of our profession. Men and women who not only thoroughly understand all agencies for physical development, but also-knowr wdien and wdiere they are to he applied. Our work is fundamental to all the higher processes of mental development and culture, and nowhere is broadminded leadership in greater demand than among teachers of physical education. It is with great pleasure that we, therefore, second the motion of the Council of the Am. Physical Education Asm. nominating Or. Sdward Mussey Hartwell of Boston as an honorary member. He wTas an ideal leader in our profession. May his honorary membership again make him an active agent in our work.

Digitized by L^ooQLe
PLAY AND PLAYGROUNDS.

Send all cotninuuic.tiions to \V. A. Stecher, 120 Pomona Terrace, Germantown, Philadelphia, Pa.

THE PLAYGROUND MOVEMENT.

A paper read at the Tarthem Educational Association. Bv Earl H. Wells, State Normal School, Jacksonville, Alabama.

It lias been well said, “That the boy without a playground is father to the man without a job.” “Not long ago a boy in a large city wa& arrested for stealing apples. The judge of the juvenile court turned him over to the probation officer, who as soon as they were alone had a heart to heart talk with him. ‘Now Jack/ she said, ‘I want you to tell me how you came to get into this trouble, Is it true that you like apples so well that if you can’t get them in any other way you just have to steal them? Is it your love for apples that is the cause of all this?’ Jack looked somewhat confused and surprised, He had never thought of it in this light before. Then hanging his head in embarrassment he said:	‘No	ma’am, but it is such fun to have them chase me.’ What that

boy wanted was a game, not apples.”

Not many years ago back yards and streets afforded sufficient room for play; but with the congesting of population, alleys became streets, and houses occupied the yards. Street cars, delivery wagons, and automobiles blocked the streets, making the play of the children dangerous. Policemen interferred with the children’s play. Angry property owners warned the little feet away from the scant grass. Business has taken the play space away from the children. To meet these conditions playgrounds and recreation centers have been established.

The Playground Movement is spreading very rapidly over the country. For many years social workers have been agitating this question, but not until the last two years has much been accomplished. At first the movement was confined to large cities because it was found necessary to provide breathing space for people in the most congested districts. Social settlements have stimulated interest by their success in the fight against the slums. The value of this work and the need of extending is soon impressed itself upon the minds of those who had the welfare of their city at heart. So great has this interest become that Chicago has already spent eleven million dollars, and has plans laid to spend more than twenty million in recreation centers, parks and playgrounds. New York has expended more than fourteen million dollars in this wav. Other large cities are expending equally large sums of money on play centers. A year ago sixty cities were provided with playgrounds. Now there are one hundred eighty five, and one hundred eighteen more are planning for their immediate establishment.

Entire states have been awakened to the value of playgrounds. The last legislature of Washington passed a bill requiring one tenth of all land, exclusive of streets in new additions to cities, of the first and second class to be set aside for public parks and playgrounds. Everyone agreed

Digitized by v^ooQle
that the increased price of the remainder of the land would more than compensate for the giving of one tenth. The governor vetoed the bill, -supposing it to be .unconstitutional. In Massachusetts, however, the legislature in 1908 passed a bill requiring all cities of ten thousand inhabitants or more which were not provided with adequate playgrounds, to vote on the question of providing playgrounds conveniently located and of suitable size and equipment for the recreation and physical education of the minors of such a town, one for the first twenty thousand and one for each additional twenty thousand. The question was carried in all the towns but one in which the referendum was held. There are still two cities to vote. In this one town the proposition was lost by ninety five votes. Thus far the total vote for the measure is 122,896, and against it is 25,405. A great popular demand is arising all over the country for public play facilities.

The universities and other schools are helping to meet the demand for playgrounds. The Department of Physical Education of the Missouri State University organized summer play schools throughout the state. Thirty one towns and villages adopted the proposed plans. The local school boards agreed to manage the schools for three months provided the funds for the experimental year were raised by voluntary contributions. Th£ school boards passed resolutions agreeing that if these schools were successful this summer they wrould incorporate them into their educational systems and provide for their maintenance from public funds. Other univesities are taking steps to do.similar work. In some schools courses are being planned to train playground instructors. The Normal School at New Platz, New York, has organized play and athletics among the rural schools in the country in which it is located. Each spring a play picnic and field meet is held which is open to the entire county. In these ways some schools are contributing their share toward social betterment.

Numerous plans for organizing playgrounds have been followed with good success. Each town presents a new set of conditions and no fixed rules can be laid down. In Troy, New York, a club working through a committee started the work. Cleveland. Ohio, began with a joint committee selected by several clubs. A number of interested persons in Bochester, New York,'united and selected committees for various phases of the work. Several cities, notably Philadelphia, New York andBos-ton, have organized playgrounds under the direction of the Board of Education. Still others have begun with authority from the mayor and city council. Other cities have adopted combinations of these various plans. A playground in operation will do more than anything else to arouse intreset and make the movement popular. In the majority of cases it must be begun by private initiative. As soon as the playground is an approved success and its value has been clearlv demonstrated, the municipality will take it over and provide for its maintenance

A comprehensive plan, which will recognize present needs and provide for future growth is necessary for every citv. Suitable sites should be secured before property values become prohibitive. In all new addi-

Digitized by Google
tious at least one tenth of the land exclusive of streets should be set aside for parks and playgrounds. A minimum of thirty square feet of play space should be provided for every child. Experience in Boston and Chicago has proved that the small parks, recreation centers with their athletic fields, natatoriums, wading pools, sand piles, and field hoiises which contain libraries, auditoriums, club rooms and gymnasiums are most effective in reaching the children and adults as well. Both small playgrounds and large parks should be included in plans for the best development of any city.

In the small towns, however, the problem is complicated bv lack of resources. First costs can be greatly reduced by using school buildings and grounds as recreation centers. Indeed it is a poor investment of the peoples’ money to put it into expensive buildings and then use these one fourth of each day for a little better than five months of each year at most. New York City has concluded that this is too great a waste and has established in public school plants’vacation schools and playgrounds, afternoon recreational work for children, and evening ^ening-^enters for adults. That these recreational provisions were appreciated was demonstrated by the enormous attendance. More than four lmndred thirty four thousand were instructed in the thirty-one vacation schools. There was a daily average of nearly seventy-six thousand on the ninety-nine vacation playgrounds, and an aggregate of more than one .million, eight hundred thousand attendance at the twenty-eight evening recreation centers. Poplar Bluff, Missouri, established a vacation play school in connection with its high school. During most of the summer there was a daily attendance of participants and spectators of more than two thousand in a town of ten thousand inhabitants. This work was carried on with funds raised by private subscription and all apparatus was constructed, at home. Class rooms in school buildings should be used as club rooms. The auditorium should be opened to public entertainments and the library enlarged should be circulated through the entire town. In this way duplicating of plants would be prevented and a very great saving accomplished.

“We have furnished the pla}rgrounds,” says Mr. Yreeland of New York. “We have given the boys a chance to plav; now let them go and play." This has been the attitpde of some cities toward playgrounds, and the results have been disastrous. Investigation showed that the professional loafer, the “fagin,” used the parks as recruiting stations. They became the resort not only of tramps, but of thieves who got their grip on the children there. Unemployed men took possession of the parks. Gradually they divided into trade groups. Contractors soon learned to come to the parks to secure labor. Immoral characters frequented the playgrounds. Gross irregulations grew up, and the playgrounds which were planned as schools for the development of citizenship became schools for crime. These conditions were quickly changed as soon as a custodian with several assistants was placed in each park. Without supervision playgrounds are a menace to society, but with expert • control they are a source of great good.

Digitized by Google
“Physical training as an abstract science has had its day.” A playground supervisor must be more than an expert in calisthenics and apparatus work. He must be a leader, an all-round man or woman capable of entering into joys of the children because in him the play spirit is still growing. He is not so much the outward controlling force as a guide and referee. He is the one to suggest new adventures and quicken flagging intreset. He is in turn the good fellow, the playmate, the friend and companion, as the needs of the children require. He must control the unruly, urge the backward and restrain the bold, bringing harmony and happiness out of a discord of jarring self interests. He is the children’s hero and pattern. They look up to him and copy his actions. He will exercise the greatest influence upon the expanding lives of the children. It is of the utmost importance that the director of each playground be a man or woman of sterling Christian character.

“The playground should be a place of process and evolution as well as of recreation and amusement. The supervisor should develop for the children educational series of natural games, involving first principles of physical development, such as running, jumping, hopping, throwing, pulling, turning, twisting, and so on. Ball games are the climax of a long history of throwing, catching, batting, running and attaining. Something of this development should be followed with children before they are ready to enter into the more complicated activities of scientific hase ball.” A careful study of natural plays and their value would provide a good system of physical training and give the children plenty of fun in addition.

Interest may be added to fun by making use of the demand for “pioneer experiences” on the part of the boys. They play in secret and often under most doubtful or even harmful conditions at “wild man,” “strange lands,” and the adventures of cave life. Sometimes a general will command his troops from a dirty back porch, or a preacher will discourse to imaginery throngs from an empty box. A skilled leader can live over with the children the adventures of Daniel Boone or Fremont. He can re-enact the Siege of Troy or follow Odysseus in his long wanderings. He can roam with Robin Hood and Little John through the green wood of Merry England with Friar Tuck and the Miller as his companions.	The Grecian games can be held again with olive crown

and costume. In this wav history and literature will be made alive f6r the boy, and he will obtain the best physical development without knowing it.

The abstract object physical development is as interesting to the average boy as the nath power of X.. Routine drills are a bore and when done in a listless manner are of little value. A goal or an objective point is a psychological necessity. The festival may be the climax of any period of playground work. To make a success of such an undertaking it would be necessary to have a plan well laid months in advance. It would require concentration of effort, necessitate co-operation and subordinate exercises to ideas. It would bring forward the timid and subdue the bold. Such festivals have been held during the year in a number of cities. In these festivals were exhibited gymnasium exor-

Digitized by v^ooQle
-in-

cises, fancy drill?, and games by all classes from the kindergarten to the college student. Folk dancing in costume added interest. Scotch, Bohemians, Lithuanians, and other nationalities revived and exhibited the characteristic dances of their father lands. To perfect such extensive programs earnest preparation had been made for months. In working for this object those who participated had secured abundant exercise and a large amount of fun.

Play is the birthright of every child. It is his normal mode of development, but under present conditions he is growing up deprived of even an opportunity to play. Entertainment provided by a few mechanical toys can not be substituted for play. It is the duty of society to give back to the child that which it has taken from him.

WASHINGTON PLAYGROUNDS IN THE SUMMER OF 1908.

The situation in "Washington has been pecularlv difficult. Up to almost the end of the session of Congress it was not certain whether there would be any appropriation for the maintenance of the playgrounds or not. It was impossible to make preparations for the work of the summer without having some knowledge of the amount of money to be spent, and it was very difficult to go before the philanthropic of Washington and ask for contributions while it was still uncertain whether or not these funds would be supplied by Congress.

When on May 30th Congress finally adjourned whitout making any appropriation for the maintenance of playgrounds it became necessary to raise all the funds needed bv voluntary contributions. By the time the funds had been secured it was already past the time when the playgrounds should have been opened and practically no arrangements had been made, The work of the playgrounds and the preparations necessary to the success of this work had to be carried on at the same time.

Appeal letters were immediately sent out and approximately $2,000 was received. Children in1 the schools were allowed to contribute and from this $3,911.1(3 came in. But the chief resource was “Tag Day,” which was held on June 13th. The proceeds of “Tag Day” were $8,-2(30.51: from the excursion on the river and the base ball game, 5378.56, making in all $14,550.23. This added to the $5,000 which was voted by Congress for the improvement of Bosedale and $1,500 for equipment, made total available funds for the summer of $21,050.23. On the 16th . and 17th of October, a play was given by the Ben Greet players on the While House lawn for the benefit of the playgrounds, and $1,932.45 was received. This made a total of available funds up to the spring of 1909 of $22,982.68.

On the 29th of June, 31 playgrounds, of which 18 were school playgrounds and 13 were municipal playgrounds, were opened. It was im- ; possible to appoint the teachers until the last moment and as a result many of the best of those who had applied had made other arrange- j ments. Nevertheless the progress during the past summer ha- been • remarkable. The attendance increased from 290,000 during the ten

Digitized by U^ooQle
weeks-of the summer of 1007 to 421,485 during ten weeks of the summer of 1908, an increase orf 48 per cent. A daily attendance during the 58 days in which the playgrounds were open was 7,439 children. If the rainy days were excluded from this average, the daily attendance would have been between nine and ten thousand. Of this attendance 223,207 were at the municipal playgrounds and 198,078 at the school playgrounds. After the beginning of school the playgrounds were kept open from 3 until dark on school days and all day on Saturday. The playgrounds were closed the first of November.

In athletics the participation has been more general than it has ever been before. There were at least two thousand children in more or less regular training. At the final tournament of the white children alone on September first, to which only those were eligible who had made two points at the preliminary contest-, there w^ere 400 entries. Four hundred and fifty children as opposed to 368 in the summer of 1907 passed the standard test of the Public School x\thletic League of New York and received the standard button. Nearly all the records of 1907 wTere broken: all of which things seem to indicate that the standard of physical efficiency of the children is being steadily raised from year to year. But the part in regard to athletics of wThich the association may most justly be proud is that they have been on a high social and moral plane. It is believed that there have been very fewr contests between colleges in this country in which the opponents wrere treated with such uniform courtesy, and uffiere there has been so little that wras objectionable, as lias been the case in the playgrounds during the past summer. To secure this result has required very strenuous efforts on the part of the teachers and much time and effort spent in the investigation of individual contestants, but it lias been worth the effort.

The final tournament for white children this year took place on

A GAME OF TETHER BALL.

Digitized by L.ooQle
September first and for colored children on September second. There were probably between three and four thousand people present on September first, of whom about 500 were adults. Whilst this number is not large it is probably twice as many as ever attended the tournaments before and indicates an increased interest.

The industrial work also, under the supervision of Mrs. W. K. Malcolm, has shown decided improvement over previous years and attracted general admiration and wonder both at the tournament at Union League Park and at the public library, where it was afterwards exhibited.

The general public has never well understood just what the promoters of the movement meant by a playground. By many it has seemed to mean merely a place to play, but this is not the conception of the Washington Playground Association. To us the playground has always seemed an outdoor school, the purpose of which has been the securing of the health and physical development of the children while in the open air. From this aspect it has been a system of physical training, but it has also been a school for the training of conduct, in obedience to law, in the sense of justice, in politeness and in fair play. From this point of view it is believed to'be the most effective method of character thaining before the public today. In order to secure these results and to give every one a fair chance on the playgrounds, it is absolutely essential to have teachers in charge. If the results to be secured are social and moral results in the development of personality and character through imitation and personal contact, it is essential that these teachers shall be people of refinement and of a special knowledge of games of children and control of children. Unsupervised playgrounds always fall into the hands of rowdies who crowd off the small children, and make of them an evil influence and public nuisance rather than a constructive social force.

THE GIRLS’ RACE ON THE VIRGINIA AVE. PLAYGROUND.

Digitized by L^ooQle
—2»—

The question of the value of unsupervised playgrounds has been definitely laid at rest for the country at large. Unsupervised playgrounds in Duluth, Pawtucket and Louisville were closed during the summer on account of public protests, and strenuous efforts were made to close several others that were insufficiently cared for.

During the past summer 77 teachers, 19 janitors and 5 watchmen were employed in the playgrounds of Washington, but these teachers were paid only from $35 to $60 a month, mostly not more than $40, as opposed to salaries of $60 to $70 a month in Baltimore and Pittsburg, and $80 to 5100 in Philadelphia and New York for shorter hours in a less trying climate. Every summer we have to train an entirely new corps of teachers for the reason that the teachers who take the work for i\ season or part of a season for the experience are unwilling to continue at the meager salaries which are paid.

In the summer of 1905 there was in the 20 playgrounds of the city an attendance, during the eleven weeks, of 140,628 children. In the summer of 1908 in the 31 playgrounds there was an attendance of 421,-485 children, an increase of about 300 per cent in three years. Probably no other large playground system in America has grown so. It is impossible to get a better index of its success with the children than their attendance.

The playground? of Washington are not prepossessing to look upon. They are devoid of landscape gardening, are largely bare and unattractive in appearance, the equipment is of a much cheaper and less durable variety than is found in the playgrounds of most cities. A playground should be a children’s park with all the attractions of trees and flowers which are found in the parks for adults. In fact experience in Chicago, New York and other large cities shows that a park of this kind with provision for play is not only used constantly by the children, but is as

A GAME OF VOLLEY BALL AT THE NORTH CAPITOL PLAYGROUND.

Digitized by v^ooQle
—:.{<) -

much used by adults than the ordinary parks. The playgrounds of Washington have thus far been sa bare and unattractive that those who have come to the city from without have universally crtitcised their appearance. Property owners object to the location of a playground, which consists only of bare ground and unsightly apparatus, in their immediate neighborhood. Whereas the grounds which are developed as parks increase the value of real estate and are sought for in the various communities.

The municipal playgrounds are not provided with toilets, shelters over swings or apparatus, store houses or shower baths, because it has been impossible with the inadequate funds at our disposal to provide these facilities for the children. It is needless to say that these are common necessities for the playground, and that the lack of them not only subjects the system and the city to serious criticism, but makes the protection of the property almost impossible and the work in many ways unsatisfactory.

The largest attendance on the playgrounds of Washington is between the hours of 6:30 and 8 o'clock when the playgrounds close. During these hours the working hoys and girls attend in large numbers. It ought to be possible through the proper lighting of these grounds to give the girls and boys an opportunity to play (in seperate pla}^grounds) up to 10 o’clock at night.

The estimates for maintenance of the playgrounds for 1909 is $25,-000.This is opposed to $22,982.68 which the Washington Playgrounds has had at its disposal up to November 1st of this year. £t least $3,000 more will be needed. Out of this there will be at least one and possibly two new playgrounds to be equipped. When it is considered that the city of Newark has this year for maintenance $41,000, the city of Los Angelos $40,000, and Pittsburg $50,000, it will be seen that the sum which is asked for is moderate, and is absolutely necessary in order to maintain the system on a scale worthy of the National Capitol.

Seventy-five thousand dollars ($75,000) is asked to purchase a site to replace the North Capitol playground wdiich has been used by us for the last five years. This playground has had a daily attendance of over 400 children, and the site which we wish to purchase is the only site left in this section of the city wdiich is large enough for a playground. It has 6,250 white children in schools within a radius of a little more than one-half mile. If this site is not secured soon another site can only be secured by demolishing blocks of buildings at many times the present cost.

Forty-eight thousand dollars ($48,00) is asked to provide a field house and bath for the Rosedale playground. The people interested in this section have raised during the past year $4,500 to help in the erection of such a building. Five field houses of this character have been erected during the past year in the playgrounds of Chicago, twro in Los Angeles, one in Dayton, Ohio; one in. Dallas, Texas, and one in Pittsburg. This field house should contain a gymnasium where the work could be carried on at night and on rainy days, shower baths, toilets, an office, an auditorium for public meetings and places to store playground supplies.

Digitized by NjOOQle
To erect a buliding on the Cardozo playground (colored) $42,000 is asked.

For the improvement of the Georgetown playground $5,000 is asked.

For the improvement of the bathing beach 58,000 is asked. The present bathing beach is a disgrace to the city. Tt is nothing more than a mud hole. Several times during the summer the Health Officer determined to close the place and was only dissuaded with difficulty. The appropriation asked for would allow of the making of two cement pools which might be furnished with city water, and would permit the present pools, which are overgrown with grass and weeds, and which are so muddv that anything an inch below the surface is concealed, to be closed.

---------- ► ---------

PLAY AND PLAYGROUND.

By Mari Rtef Hofkr.

The playground and provision for public recreation as a necessary evidence of civilization is very clearly establishing itself in the American mind. Like all movements emanating from altruistic impulse and carried forward by enthusiasts the playground must in the end be tested by the common sense and morale of its own idea.

From the president to the babe in arms our times are animated with peculiar zeal:	The	playground,	viewed	as	a	public	forum	in	which	to

test the efficiency of the oncoming young citizen is an interesting study in modern education.

Starting as a sort, of out of doors chapter of the vacation school it has passed rapidly through many phases of evolution, from a largely pedagogical “schoolroom conclusion,” to that of a frankly acknowledged childhood necessity. Thus there have been experiments with playgrounds in all kinds of places and spaces, basement, roof gardens and parks; with apparatus and without; with free play, directed play and no play at all; with trained supervisor and untrained worker. We have passed through the stages of playing the few games “we just happened io know”—vea verily and drawing salaries for the same—to that of seriously, and conscientiously studying and learning to play. We have passed from the polite expedient of hiring the charming young woman who needed some occupation and a little money for the summer months, to the full fledged salary and the expert, worker. We have ranged from the extremes of athletics and gymnastics and field sports to the aesthetics of folk dancing. We have tried every new idea singly or collectively as it has appeared. We have yet to determine what a normal playground is and for the most part, what normal play is. The question is whether under abnormal conditions training must not to a large extent take the place of play.

In the first place the large city where the need of the playground is greatest, is an abnormal source from which to draw universal conclusions for plavgrounds and children's play for the entire country. The congested and gregarious conditions of a large city, the close crowding

Digitized by v^.ooQle
against the child of trade life must turn his instincts away and change even innocent child play into gambling. The very broad study of play in all its relations to the child and to life, especially that emanating-from the child himself, the adjustment of the playground idea to public use in the city and country and small town must be the interesting next step in its progress.

The premise, ,all children play, hence children do not need to be taught to play,” does not hold good in practical experience. The idle repetitions of desultory play or the oftentime innocently vicious tendency of the play of children left too much to themselves, may be seen on all sides. Observe but for a day the play of the children upon your street to convince yourself. At best it is a racing to and fro with things on wheels.

This brings us to the as yet rare product, the efficient playground leader, the all-round sympathetic man or woman who develops by play as well as develops play. This person is not so much an outward controlling force as he is guide and referee—the one to provvide fresh stimulus endeavor and adventure. He is in turn the good fellow, the playmate, the friend or leader, as the child's need may be. He must steer the idle or vicious, between dead calm and troubled waters into quiet seas of helpful, purposeful play.

The supposition that child needs and demands produce the playground is somewhat discounted when we behold the mechanical wonder of the well equipped city playground. One is frankly lead to ask, “is the child made for the playground or the playground for the child?” The children play happily and intensely any and everywhere, in the gutter and under the wheels of traffic as in sheltered home or shady park. They play with anything and hourly coin fresh material for the execution of play. Strings, sticks, blocks, rags, with these they build, devise, dramatize to their heart's content. The question asks itself, is so much formal and mechanical device necessary in the playground to induce the children to play? Ts it not rather a hindrance than a help to real play to be given so many things to play with? Shall we substitute apparatus for child initiative and impulse? Also is not the impulse to plav frequently lost in its translation to the playground? Josef Lee's suggestion of a playground wherever there are children, offers food for thought. A further hint is drawn from a report of the neighborhood association playground committee, that the hours and purpose of the playground be adjusted to the needs of the children.

Physical training as an abstract science has had its day. In the relating of all training to life may be said to consist the entire stir and fuss of the new education. It was the working over of the daily experiences into dramatic form which produced our inheritance of folk play. That which we play to-day was the real of yesterday. Xor is this idea confined to singing, game and rhyme. All games of any significance by name as well as by their content show this relationship. From a game of chess to town ball, it is a moving of kings and queens, knights and pawns, a taking of kingdoms, encroachment upon or retreating from demesne and territory. All games are stories. Why strip

Digitized by v^ooQle
(horn of that significance any more1 than wo would Shakespeare of his glory of language and thought and present liim merely in pantomime with onr legs?

In a mild wav we commit the same sin when we strip folk games and dances of their clothing of word and thought and make mere dancing exercises of them. These serve us well for rhythm and device and recreation in physical training. Why not let them serve us better for culture’s sake by passing on their historical settings and meanings to the children. To be sure a little more and better information on our part will be necessary. Also it would mean to take the time to instruct the children in thc-e things. To this end however, that fewer games would be taught, and those taught, with more intelligence and insight. This will insure a degree of respect on the part of the child for what he is doing. There is no doubt that the invasion of folk-play into the field of physical training has helped to break down race and national prejudice more than many protocols of the powers. Tn the exchange of play we learn to esteem the inherent values of peoples and their countries, and a more appreciative judgment must result. There is nothing the American youth needs more than this, nor does he have to travel to learn it.

The culture theories of education are nowhere better illustrated than in the common plays of children. Cat and mouse, fox and geese, hare and hounds, hide and seek. Tommy Tiddler's ground, sheep fold and hundreds of like instances tell us the story of human evolution. The teacher should study and provide for the children educational series of these natural games involving first principles of physical development such as running, jumping, hopping, throwing, pulling, turning, twisting, etc. Ball games are one long history of human throwing, hatting, cateh-

Digitized by uooQle
-;u-

ing, dodging, running and attaining. Something of this evolution should be followed with children before arriving at its abstract statement, scientific baseball. The playground should be a place of process and evolution as well as of diversion and entertainment. A careful study of natural plays and their value would provide a pretty good theory of physical training and give the children plenty of fun besides.

The continual outbreaking into primitive situations and the demand for pioneer experiences on the part of boys, point out strongly one phase of play and make believe which should be encouraged in playground work. Boys play at “wild man,” “strange lands” and their adventures and cave-life, for weeks at a stretch secretly and under most doubtful and harmful conditions. In the same way by enacting bits of reading or school information a lively boy will be "Robinson Crusoe from the top of a shed for a raft and an old rubber hoot for the goat. Again as Washington he will general his army from the area steps into his dirty scrap of a back yard. Or you will find him busy with the fortunes of the recent Russian war with what inspiration he can gather from the garbage boxes and refuse of the alley. With the same spirit will he react the latest newspaper horror or murder. An old dry goods box, a hole in the wall, a hair breadth escape from a window all enveloped in a proper degree of mystery is more fascinating to him than all the patent, ready-made playgrounds made for his special delectation. The Indian, Eskimo, Wild West experiences, offer in a nut shell what the healthy boy surreptitiously plays when left to himself. Let the play leader take up these rudimentary impulses in earnest and help them to develop them, even to giving of a bona fide cow boy or wild west show. Every playground should have a tent, a fort, a cave, a tunnel, a mysterious corner suggestive of the strange and unusual. A few loads of dirt and sod, a few boards and stones and a few lively boys will do the rest. A ready made playground can be but half a playground to a boy of initiative and spirit.

There is no reason why the subject matter element should not enter somewhat into playground work. Its entire mission is not to keep up a frenzy of movement and excited, noisy, play. What a boon to | children of starved imagination to work out a plot. What a change from the monotony of purely physical training. (See Notes and Comments. Ed.) Greek games, tourneys of the middle ages or episodes of the guilds and craftsman of a century ago give a pretty complete review of the whole history of athletics and physical training, showing the evolution even to the present day games.

The story of Greek games reveals the Pentathlon, five athletes contesting five athletic feats, leaping, running, discus and javelin throwing and wrestling in turn. The victor having passed through all five successfully winning out in the end. You are repaid if only to get a fresh meaning of the word. Add costume and a crown for the victor and you get a breath of the air of Olympus. Likewise Norse lore and literature will provide you Valhalla for a Stadium with the sports of Ifoder Loki and the gods for your entertainment, Robin Hood, and his merry men, John Little John, the Tinker and the Friar will furnish , an occasion of

Digitized by CjOOQie
good English lmmor as well as good English bouts at stave wrestling and leaping, archery contests and the like. This material will only be sentimental in the hands of a sentimentalist.

Indeed it is as good in these work-a-day times of ours, while playing Greek to feel Greek, to get the happy-go-lucky lilt of an Irish jig, to step the minuet like a Frenchman, as it is to shout the good American shout when our colors win. To be sure putting on a toga will not make a Roman any more than Greek peplum will make a Greek, as our meager muscular development attests when we try it. But here is the opportunity for intellectualizing play if one may be permitted the term, and with malice prepense not only bring back the spirit but encourage some of the brain and brawn of those heroic days into our softer times. A revival of Olympic games for American youth could best be developed upon some such basis of child play.

In the meantime, with a broader outlook and the necessity of co-operation, self discipline takes the place of license and coertion. The choicest parts will be freely allotted to the best man. Under cover of the subject the teacher may happily and easily, yet strenuously, work to any end of physical training desired. The necessity of not amusing children but making them to some degree earn their play appeals to the teacher of experience.

Group work bringing together the boys of right ages will easily • gather around a subject a set of eager workers. At a bint they will provide and make all accoutrements necessary for the illustration of a subject, bows, arrows, shields, lances, staves. They become a gang of constructors and helpers instead of destroyers.

In this connection, it is but fair to say that the material for playground story telling is not yet developed. Here is a field for translating

Digitized by v^-ooQle
the inspired literature on athletic subjects into aspiral action. All the heroic lore and history with which our literature teems should be opened into the playground. Let us revive for the children of to-day the athletic drama of the past. Instead of providing children’s theatres for youthful players to beat out their hearts against the foot lights in assumed emotion, let them meet and dare and act the heroic deeds of old in the practical arena of the present.

An objective point, a goal, is a psychological necessity of the mind. The festival may be the climax of full flowering of any series of plays or period of playground work. To train for spirit and execution towards the given end of public performances should be an investment in the bank of future success. To be given a festival or story to work out would from the start involve a plan, make for concentration of efforts, necessitate co-operation, subordinate exercise to idea, make group work and grading possible, bring forward the timid and subdue the bold. A festival means a consideration of time, place, history, country, costume, color, characteristic situation and gesture. A review of the months or seasons gives occasion for much interesting and fundamental knowledge which is denied to even the children who live in the country. Especially delightful are the occasions of the harvest, mid-winter and springtime if developed in connection with the costumes of different countries.

A congress of the trades would reveal the history of the guilds and crafts interpreting in games, pantomime and dancing much of the lost lore of the industrial life of the past as well as inspiring present day themes. The festival may thus again become the expression of the social forces of to-day as it was in the days gone by.	Charities.

FOX AND CHICKENS.

By \Y. A. Stkcher.

This is a fine game for children of from eight to twelve years of age, giving much exercise and lots of enjoyment. It can be played in any schoolyard, gymnasium or street and requires no apparatus. Divide the pupils into ranks of about seven each. Each seven represent the mother hen and her brood of chickens. The children stand one behind the other catching the one in front firrnlv around the waist, the hen standing at the head of the brood with outstretched arms (wings.) Then one child is chosen as the fox, who stands three or four feet in front of the hen, facing her. The object of the game now is for the fox to ‘catch the last chicken of the brood. He tries to run around one side, but is immediately confronted by the hen who with outstretched arms tries to shoo him off. Then he tries the other side, etc. The chickens in the meantime with arms firmly around the ones in front of them try to stay behind the hen and as far away from the fox as possible. If the fox touches the last chicken someone else is selected as fox.

—Philadelphia.s training classes for playground teachers are larger than ever before, there being over three hutidred men and women en-

Digitized by Google
—a 7—

rolled this year. The classes are held every Friday afternoon from four to five o’clock in four centers situated one in the southern, two in the central and one in the northern part of the city. They are directed hv Miss Elizabeth (VNeill and her assistants Miss Mary J. Price, Miss Emma E. Walton, and Mr. Philip G. Lewis.

—It is notorious that American benefactions, taking the general run of individual gifts and legacies, are on a colossal scale. And so it happens that almost as we are talking of a bequest, variously estimated at from $5,000,000 to $8,000,000, for the parks of Boston, the announcement of a bequest of approximately $175,000 for playgrounds in London does not much interest us. But $175,000 will go a long way for playgrounds even in London, and interesting details of the terms of the fund are that it is to be used for the acquisition of sites, rather than for their development, and that it is to be administered by the Charity Organization Society. With the present playground enthusiasm of this country, it is to be hoped that more of such gifts or legacies may result here. We have had a few of note, including that of Mrs. Betsy Head, received by the city of New York almost as this is written? It amounts to' approximately $188,000 and the report is that the money will he expended to buy land for a playground at Corlears Hook. But, generally speaking, gifts would seem more desirable than legacies, for then the giver could have the exceeding gratification of seeing what pleasure his munificence gives daily. The London testator, by the way, was Beginald Clifford Poulter, a business man.	Charities.

—The first edition of “American Playgrounds/’ edited by Everett

B.	Mero, the pioneer book treating the practical side of rational recreation according to modern ideas, has been so nearly sold out that a second edition is already in preparation. It was expected, when the book was published in October, that another edition would not be required until next summer but the evident growing interest in playgrounds has created an extra demand for this publication.

The new edition will contain a comprehensive index and seperate copies of the index will be printed for use of readers of the present edition.

SPECIAL NOTICE.

A COMPILATION OF VIGOROUS GAMES

FOR YOUTHS AND ADULTS.

SOCCER FOOTBALL three forms,

DODGE BALL in three forms, and CAP TA I.A'BALL, revised rules.

The rules for these games, with diagrams, as they have been printed recently in Mind and Body have been reprinted in pamphlet form for the Philadelphia schools.

Copies may be had at 10 Cents each, bv addressing

“MIND AND BODY” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

A’. B — Write for special rates per 100 and 1000.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-’.•18-

NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

NORMAL COLLEGE OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION, INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

—The officers of the Alumni Associa tion of the Normal College of the N. A. G. U. recently had an informal discussion df the steps to be taken for the next annual meeting of the Association, to be held in June, ’09, during graduation week. It was pointed out, that June was the month of tournaments in the Gymnastic Union, (as of other “events”) and that it would be quite impossible to secure a general attendance during that month. Last year, for instance, a large part of the membership of the Association was represented at the Frankfurt festival, and during the present year the National Turnfest at Cincinnati, with its days of strenuous preparation, would prevent many Alumni members from attending the meeting. The adoption of a program on the lines of a program outlined for last year, was, therefore, laid over lor the next meeting. This tentative program included reports and papers from the medical, athletic and technical sections. With reference to the permanent organization of these sections, the members of the Association who volunteered their services last ytar, are to be called on again for co-operation.

—Prof. Wittich, Supt. of Physical Education in the Milwaukee Public Schools, during a recent visit at the Normal College, discussed the subject of dancing before the students, visiting Alumni, and faculty members. Prof. Wittich s remarks elicited an interesting discussion participated in bv a number of the teachers present. Prof. Wittich’s paper appeared in one of the last numbers of Mind and Body.

—Mr. Fred Medart of St. Louis, manufacturer of gymnastic apparatus, has sent to the college a new apparatus, which he calls a “divided bar.” It resembles a horizontal bar with the middle “third” missing. The students have been experimenting upon it with varying results.

— At the Indiana State Teachers meeting at Indianapolis, Supt. M. G. Brumbaugh of Philadelphia recently spoke in a happy vein of the work of physical training, especially lauding the work of Mr. W. A. Stecher.

—At the National Commercial Teachers Federation meeting, held in Indianapolis during the holidays, the old military school drill was again resurrected by the President of that organization, E. N. Miner — with the result of a severe rebuke from the enlightened membership of that body.

—Two years hence will bring the semi cenntenial of the Normal College of the N. A. G. U. It has been proposed, that the Alumni Association celebrate the event in a fitting manner. The Association at its next meeting will consider the proposition.

—Prof. Ray of the Department of Letters and General Science, professor of the History of Education in the Normal College, is one of the representative American teachers appointed to visit the schools abroad, under the Moselv provision.

Digitized by v^ooQle
—3»—

—The Cincinnati Board of Education has decided that a course of instruction in playground games be offered to teachers after the first of the year. The object of the course is to prepare a corps of competent teachers to take hold of the public school playgrounds and such other playgrounds, as may be thrown open to the public next summer. Dr. Carl Ziegler, ’86, Supervisor of Physical Training, will take personal charge. The plan is, to instruct the teachers how scientifically to ‘lay out” games for the children. The Board will also offer its co-operation to the Park Commission.	(Boston	Journal	of	Education.)

FOUR QUESTIONS AND JUVENILE CRIME.

By Ben B. Lindsey, Judge Juvenile Court, Denver.

A letter came to me the other day from a superintendent of schools in New England, asking the following questions:

In your opinion, to what extent is the public school system responsible for juvenile crimes?

To what extent are those crimes due to a lack of co-operation between the home and the school?

To what extent is the increase of juvenile crime due to the secularization of schools?

How far does immigration contribute to this unfortunate condition?

His questions and my answers may be suggestive to others

T cannot say that the public school system is in any particular responsible for juvenile crime. The public school system represents educa-tion, and education has done more to reduce crime than almost any other cause. Of course I recognize that there are some shortcommings in the public pchool system. For instance, in my judgment, if we had more of that kind of training which would equip children for industrial efficiency through the more direct teaching of trades or the furnishing of some kind of a commercial training, it would make of the children surer bread winners, and everything that increases the opportunity to earn a livelihood, to that extent reduces the temptations to crime. I am convinced that poverty is the chief cause of crime in this country— that is the crime that is generally punished by the courts, for the people who get into the courts are usually the poor and ignorant. It is only occasionally that the crimes of the intelligent, cunning, and wealthy are punished.

To hold . the public school responsible for what it fails to do and might do to equip morally the future citizen, would shoulder upon it the responsibility for any crime resulting from that failure. We can only urge upon the school the great importance of neglecting no opportunity to make as perfect a citizen as it is possible for it to make, within the reasonable scope of its purposes and functions.

As to the second question : I would say always that the home is infinitely more responsible for juvenile crime than the school. It must come first in responsibility. An ideal condition in my judgment, would make the home almost entirely responsible for the moral character of the child: but since We are face to face with the fact that so many children are homeless, without parents at all, or what is equally as bad, without parents who understand their responsibility and duties

Digitized by v^ooQle
—40—

and endeavor to live up to them, it follows that the school must be responsible more or less for the character of the child. But where the parent has utterly failed it is frequently difficult for any School to make up the deficiency.

I think that any failure of the home or the parent in this respect is a lack of co-operation with the school. As to the more direct co-operation, such as the interest of the parent in the school and the work of the child while in school, there is undoubtedly much child crime due to the lack of it. Habitual truancy is one of the chief causes of crime in childhood, and this condition is frequently due to a lack of effort on the part of the home and co-operation with the school. In fact failure at home to stimulate the child in its school duties anu in respect for the school and the authority in the school, is responsible often for children who are backward in school, and I find that most school children who drift into crime are backward, which might of course have been avoided had the home done its part throughout the school period of the child.

I find the home always more to blame than the school: There is a disposition upon the part of thousands of parents in every city to shirk duties becaues of the idea they seem to have that it should be all performed by the school. Such parents are certainly dangerous citizens.

As to the third question, it is not free from difficulty. I think that the education of a child in a school, though secularized, must nevertheless involve a certain amount of moral training, for I feel certain that the great majority of American public school children are honest, law-abiding, and developing in heart as well as in head. Much of this, of course, may come from the home, the Sunday School, and the church, as it ought to, but I believe also that it is in a large measure supplemented in the school, wether secularized or not. I have never taken any statistics on the subject, but have frequently sought to observe, with a view of forming some opinion, and I believe just as large a proportion of boys from parochial schools get into the kind of juvenile troubles which we call crime as those from the public schools.

•I am strongly inclined, however, to believe that more religious training, more real education of the human heart, is needed in all of our schools. I have come to the conclusion that there is something radically wrong in our application or teaching of ethics in the schools, parochial or public.

Answering the fourth question:	I	am	not one of those who lay „

much stress upon	immigration	as a cause of crime	in	this country,

whether adult or juvenile.	My	own investigation	of	police records

(and I have investigated those of nearly all the large cities) have father startled me by showing how few of our juvenile criminals are of foreign percentage.	Perhaps	more children of immigrants	get into court;

but my j-udgment	is that	this	is largely because	of	poverty and

ignorance.

I am coming more and more to the conclusion that the causes of crime must be searched for among those evils that afflict our social, economic, industrial and political conditions. The prayer most repeated is that one containing the supplication, “Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil;” but many of the conditions in this civilisation of ours gainsay the prayer.	“Charities.”

Digitized by v^ooQle