MIND AND BODY

VoL 38	JUNE,	1931	No.	397

PUBLISHED BT MIND AND BODY PUBUSHINO CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscrirtion payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as secondrclass matter October 14, 1916, at the postcffice at hew Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Qriginal articles and reprint§

<......—	-	■■■	4

SOME OF THE OUTSTANDING HIGH SPOTS IN THE GROWTH OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION DURING THE

YEAR 1930*.

James E. Rogers.

Although not an event of the past year special mention must be made of the health and physical education report in the Sixth Year Book of the Department of Superintendence 1928 on the Curriculum for Health and Physical Education in Junior and Senior High Schools. This is a most significant report and sets up standards adopted by the Department of Superintendence. It is a milestone that marks the growth of physical education in the field of education.

1.	During the past year some very fine health and physical education plants have been constructed in connection with the building of junior and senior high schools. Speical mention must be made of the health and physical education plant of the Trenton Senior High School which includes 2 mammoth gymnasiums,

•Presented at the annual convention of the Eastern District Society, Am. Phys. Edu. Ass’n.

Digitized by Google
526

2 auxiliary gymnasiums, 2 swimming pools, a laundry, a health wing for the doctors, dentists, nurses, etc. Provision has been made for a daily period. It is one of the most complete layouts in the country. Mention also must be made of the splendid plant recently constructed at the Murphy High School, Mobile, Alabama. It includes two boys’ gymnasiums, 1 girls’ gymnasium, corrective gymnasium, and a varsity room. It has a swimming pool 25 x 75 in a special annex. A health suite with adequate facilities for use of the school doctor, dentist and nurse, also spacious offices for instructors and coaches. It is a splendid building well lighted, ventilated and equipped with shower and locker rooms. It is one of the finest layouts in the southland. There are many other instances of splendid health and physical education plants built this past year.

2.	There has been an increase in the growth of outdoor areas such as the 150 acres of the Greensboro, N. C. high school and the 65 acres for the high school of Columbia, Missouri. Cities like Detroit, Harrisburg etc., are making ample outdoor provisions for adequate physical education programs.

3.	During the past year or two there has been a remarkable growth of new women’s physical education buildings in connection with colleges and universities. They are well equipped and meet the growing needs of women’s departments of physical education. Special mention must be made of the buildings at Washington University, Seattle; University of Oregon, Eugene; University of California, Berkeley; University of Texas, Austin; University of Illinois, Urbana; and the Univesrity of Florida at Tallahassee.

4.	In the past year or two we have seen the construction of splendid field houses in universities and colleges for men. The field house of the University of Minnesota is outstanding. It is famous for its immense size, its plan and construction. It is worthy of study. Special mention must also be made of the field houses at Yale, Michigan, the Universities of Pennsylvania and West Virginia.

5.	There has been a marked increase in the number of trained full time teachers of physical education. There has been steady growth in the number of certified teachers. The state of Pennsylvania has shown a remarkable increase in the past two years. Today it has a total of 1187 full time teachers and 620 part time teachers making a total of 1807 teachers of health and physical education. A year or two ago the ctiy of Detroit had 500 teachers. Today it has 610 teachers.

6.	Another outstanding event of the past year has been the creation of a large Department of Health and Physical Education in Kansas City, Missouri, which includes the four bureaus of (1) health service, the work of the doctor, dentist and nurse, (2) health education—hygiene teaching, (3) physical education (4) athletics. Mr. A. O. Anderson, a physical educator was appointed director of this Department.

A number of superintendents of our large cities are planning to coordinate all the school health and physical education work

Digitized by CjOOQle
527

under one Department and in every case they are contemplating placing one who is trained in physical education as head. For intsance in Wichita, Kansas the Health Service Department with a doctor as a head was placed under Strong Hiliman, Director of Health and Physical Education. This is a tendency throughout the country.

7.	A most significant event was a ruling by the State Board of Education of Pennsylvania that physical education was an accredited high school subject and to be accredited a high school must give a minimum of 150 minutes a week and employ a state certified physical educator. This meant the employment of trained physical educators by many high schools which although accredited did not meet these standards.

8.	Another significant achievement has been the requirement by the Department of Physical Education in three states that all coaches must be certified as regular teachers on the faculty and must have a minor in physical education ranging from 15 to 20 semester credits.

9.	The abolition of the National high school Basketball Championships held at Chicago University was an important event.

10.	Another event that received national attention was the set-up of the new Department of Health, Physical Education and Athletics at the University of Pennsylvania.

11.	One of the most outstanding achievements in our profession this year has been the establishment of the National Physical Achievement Standards by a National Committee which worked for four years on them. The educational significance of these standards can only be appreciated by a most careful study. There is a nation-wide interest in them and their use will make a definite step in the development of physical education as a way of education.

12.	The month of April marked the Twenty-Fifth Anniversary of the National Recreation Association formerly the Playground and Recreation Association of America. On April 12, 1906 when Theodore Roosevelt was president, the first meeting of the Board of Directors of this Association was held in the White House as guests of the President. On Monday, April 13th, 1931 at the White House in the Cabinet Room of President Hoover, the Board of Directors of this Association celebrated their Twenty-Fifth anniversary. The President and members of the cabinet were present.

13.	Another great occasion of much importance to physical education was the White House Conference on Child Health and Protection. In the voluminous reports of the different committees many statements were made as to the significance of play and physical education.

14.	A word must be said about the famous intra-mural sports building at the University of Michigan. It is the only one of its kind in the country devoted solely to intra-mural sports. Details of the layout and construction of this plant

Digitized by CjOOQle
528

cannot be given here. It is most complete and worthy of a personal visit.

15.	Certification standards for teachers in health and physical education are constantly being raised by different state departments of education. A number of states are now requiring that physical educators to be certified as teachers in junior and senior high schools must have a Bachelor’s Degree with a major in physical education.

16.	During the past year a great number of physical educators are pursuing further study for Master’s and Doctor’s of Philosophy Degrees. This seeking of graduate work in education and physical education has shown a marked tendency during the past year.

17.	Discussions are going on in the accrediting associations such as the North Central Association considering granting university entrance credit for physical education based on certain standards. The Quarterly Research Journal of the A. P. E. A. and the Annual Report of the proceedings of the 34th meeting of the Directors of Physical Education in Colleges, testify as to the growth of scientific studies being made in our field. Special mention must be made of the physical education Job analysis study on how to Measure a Physical Education program, by N. P. Neilson, State Director of California. The study made on A Program of Activities for Colleges and High Schools by William LaPorte and his Committee on Curriculum Research is most valuable. Another useful study is the one made by Dr. A. G. Ireland on Certification.

18.	Certainly mention must be made of the granting of the Certificates of Awards in recognition of outstanding service to our profession which was started this year at the Detroit meeting of the American Physical Education Association. That occasion will long live in the memories of those attending the session when these awards were made.

19.	The past year has seen a growth in the development of Play Days. Development cf county play days in the states of Maryland, Virginia, Alabama, Minnesota and Ohio has been remarkable. In Delaware every county has a play day.

20.	A high spot during the past year has been the development cf wide-spread intra-mural programs. Philadelphia, Rochester, Columbus, Detroit, Wichita and other cities have developed some very adequate and efficient programs of after-school play and intra-mural sports.

RESEARCH IN SWIMMING*

Theodore R. Brining

Mr. Thomas Cureton, former member of a Yale swimming team, has made extensive research in swimming during a number of years of study and participation in this fundamental physical

‘Summary of an address delivered by Thos. K. Cureton, Springfield College.

•Digitized by t^ooQle
529

activity. His address covered: The Requirements of a Swimming Teacher, The Psychology of Instruction, The Physiology and Hygienic Effect of Swimming, and the Mechanics and Kineseology of this activity. In connection with this latter phase, Prof. Cureton exhibited and explained some of the equipment used in laboratory experiments recently conducted.

It is a generally accepted belief that swimming is the most beneficial of all physical activities. That it is an accepted belief is evident in the fact that a poll of 14 prominent college coaches placed swimming first among college sports as a body builder. Further, the Committee of Curriculum Research of the Society of College Physical Directors, after a survey covering 30 sports as to their value in producing physical development, social leadership, psychological benefits, safety education and general recreational value, placed swimming at the top.

Research at Springfield College under the direction of Dr. J. H. McCurdy demonstrates that there is no loss of weight in swimming and practically no change in temperature. This work also shows that the increase of blood pressure in swimming is only 87% of the increase caused by running 100 yards, and only 67% of that in longer distances. The heart rate has been shown to increase more in running than in swimming. Pressure of water on the body has been credited with strengthening the inspiratory muscles.

Some recent studies in which expert swimmers were compared with average athletes reveal the truth of these statements and point out additional evidence in support of this physical activity. Outstanding men and women aquatic stars and average men and women athletes were tested by Prof. Cureton to obtain these results. One-hundred and sixty subjects were tested at Red Cross institutes, and many more at Springfield College and Yale University. In the heart and lung tests the return of the heart rate to normal after exertion was 52% better in the case of the experts. Ability to hold the breath was 38.1% superior in this group. They were also 32% superior in abdominal strength and 19.6% better in back strength. Flexibility of ankles was 23.6% superior and coordination of arms and legs 17.9% better. It was evident from these tests that height and weight, which are a determining factor in some sports, are of minor importance in swimming.

For best results in health and recreational swimming supervision is necessary. The modem development of Hydro-Therapu-‘tics, the treatment of disease by the use of water, has made it necessary that the teacher should have not only the ability to teach the skills but an expert knowledge of the physical conditions involved and the physiological results to be expected.

Prof. Cureton pointed out studies made in grading achievement in swimming and discussed their values to the coach. Thirty-one skills were tested with a group of beginners, giving some interesting results. Control of the legs in the flutter kick on land is most difficult: 29 of 100 men tested not able to do the

Digitized by tjOOQle
530

50 kicks required in 15 seconds. Swimming an alternate overarm stroke was next in point of difficulty, 17 of the 100 failing in this test. The men were allowed 25 seconds to do 50 flutter kicks on their backs and 14 of the 100 failed. 4 of the tests given were not failed by any of the men while 7 of the tests were failed only once by the men tested.

64 out of 100 Freshmen tested could not do the push glid over a distance of 24 feet with the back motionless, 31 could no swim the length of the tank using the crawl stroke with only one breath, and 18 could not bob in the deep water 30 times. Tests made every two weeks with the group of beginners showed a gradual improvement. A man who passed 17 of the 31 tests at first was able to do 29 at the end of one month.

Perhaps the most important skill in swimming is breathing. Tests show that men breathe faster in the water than on land. As is generally believed, immersion in the water interferes with breathing. Swimmers do not fully expire. Breathing through the mouth is better than through the nose, but the last of the exhila-lation should be through the nose to keep the passage clear. Faster time was secured when fewer breaths were used in short sprints.

With the arms and legs rendered immobile by splints and straps, stop watch tests indicate the relative efficiency of various phases of the kick and stroke in individual cases. It is then possible to proceed to correct that part of the movement which is inefficient. Such an analysis of good swimmers has increased their speed where faulty motions were discovered. Every swimmer has a style of his own due to the differences in muscular power, in buoyancy, and in center of gravity, and it is seldom that a swimmer can not be aided by a careful examination and prescription of exercise that will correct the trouble.

“TREAT THE CHILD NOT POSTURE”

Grover W. Mueller, Philadelphia.

There is much food for thought in the following paragraph which appeared recently in an issue of the Health Bulletin of the North Carolina State Board of Health: “Treat the child, not the posture, in cases of ‘poor posture’. Poor posture should be re- . garded as a sign that the child needs a careful and complete ’ medical examination. Find the cause of the grotesque attitudes, which must have good reasons.”

With regard to poor posture, a majority of teachers in the field of physical education may be divided roughly into two groups: those who ignore or at any rate do nothing with these cases; and those who, having accepted the development of good posture as the major aim in physical education, seize all pupils not measuring up to the A Type of posture and immediately

Digitized by CjOOQle
531

begin to subject them to a scheduled series of favorite corrective exercises.

From the standpoint of accepted knowledge concerning the probable harmful effects of poor posture, teachers in group one may justly be accused of ignorance, negligence, or both. Viewed from the standpoint of the various possible causes of poor posture, teachers in group two may with equal justice be accused of ignorance, of wasting the time and energy of both pupils and teachers, of doing further physical harm to many pupils, or any combination of these.

Poor posture may result from various conditions: mal-nutri-tion, poor muscle tone and lack of muscular strength, faulty eyesight or hearing, defective inner ear, tuberculosis, fatigue, insufficient rest, insufficient exercise, occupational or recreational physical habits, bony malformation, and others. Some of these conditions may obviously be caused by other conditions in the list. It should be clear that in the presence of many of these conditions exercise can have no corrective result. The defect must be removed if any material gain is to be obtained. As a matter of common sense, exercise (except of a mild general nature) is contra-indicated in many cases. For example, it must be plain that a person suffering with fatigue, from whatever cause, should be given rest rather than exercise.

By all means let us “Treat the child, not the posture, in cases of poor posture”. We should encourage these people, adults as well as children, to undergo “a careful and complete medical examination” by a competent physician. Then, if these experts recommend it, let us give corrective exercises with their advice and under their supervision.

MENSTRUATION AND MENSTRUAL HYGIENE IN RELATION TO PHYSICAL EDUCATION

By Margaret Castex Sturgis, M.D., F. A. C. S. Women’8 Medical College, Philldelphia, Pa.

I welcome this opportunity to speak to you on a subject of such vital interest to all of us as women, as women physicians, and as physical educators. Menstruation and menstrual hygiene in relation to physical education could find no more suitable gathering than this before which to be discussed. The wise management of a girl’s life at the period of adolescence is most essential to give the function of her reproductive organs a good start. It is my observation and conviction that those organs that behave normally in the beginning are more likely to continue to do so.

First we must keep before us the great point that the girl’s entire organism is concerned in the changes of puberty and adolescence. The old belief that the development of the so-called secondary sex characteristics was due wholly to the internal se-

Digitized by v^ooQle
532

cretion of the ovaries has had to be modified as a result of modern research. We believe, however, that puberty occurs primarily because of the development and functioning of the ovaries; but we know that there is a most intimate correlation of function between the ovaries and the other ductless glands, especially the thyroid, thymusk, pituitary, and pineal body. All of these structures have a possible auxiliary influence in the bringing about of the secondary sexual characteristics. It is a scientific fact that if there is a harmonius relation with perfect correlation of function, the anatomic and physiologic changes so characteristic of puberty will appear in a normal manner. But on the other hand, if there is a break in the functional chain, there is apt to be some sort of abnormality of puberty, either in its character or in the time of its onset. To use Dr. Blair Bell’s words, a woman becomes what she is on account of “the totality of her internal secretions’’. It is obvious, therefore, that puberty and early adolescence must form a critical period when unhygienic methods of living may easily produce disastrous results affecting both the body and the mind.

However, the changes accompanying puberty and adolescence and the function of menstruation with which we are particularly concerned are all perfectly natural phenomena. They, therefore, demand a natural mode of life interpreted in terms of our civilization; one characterized ideally by "moderation in all things”.

The tendency to regard the function as one of really unnatural delicacy is a relic of the past and to understand it we must look backward for a moment. It has been only within the last twenty to thirty years that the function of menstruation has been studied in anything like a scientific way. Previous to that time it was of all the obvious physiological functions of the human body perhaps the least understood. It has been shrouded in mystery and regarded with a respectful ignorance. This attitude fostered the growth of an enormous volume of superstitious and baseless speculation.

Time does not permit me to dwell on the erroneous and fantastic views that have been held concerning menstruation but a brief reference is essential to explain some of the persisting mental attitudes existing today. From prehistoric days menstruation has been an accepted, inevitable “illness,” regarded as a cleansing process for periodically ridding the female system of some obscure impurities. This idea appears throughout all early histories and is familiar to us in the Mosaic law. From this extreme view there has evolved the belief that the function of menstruation produces temporarily a condition of bodily delicacy, which ought to debar women from any very active exercise or even unfit her for concentrated mental work.

The mothers of the present younger generation are only slowly emerging from the influence of the traditional treatment of rest in bed, or on the sofa, of being kept very warm with hot water bottles, and stimulated with various concoctions and smelling salts. The so regarded normal mode of life for a young girl dur-

Digitized by t^ooQle
533

ing her menstrual function served only to direct the attention wholly to the sex zone of the bpdy; at the same time leaving the mind without wholesome occupation, and so favored the development and exaggeration of whatever symptoms there might be.

Briefly stated, the modem theory of menstruation is that ovulation takes place about the thirteenth or fourteenth day of the menstrual cycle. As the ovum passes down the Fallopian tubes, the endometrium undergoes preparation for its reception. The earlier changes in the uterine muscosa are the result of the hormone influence of the maturing follicle, taken up on ovulation, by the early corpus lutem. And according to Franel’s theory, the more striking and hypertrophic changes in the endometrium are carried on by the influence of the maturing corpus lateum. If impregnation of the ovum takes place, the very greatly hypertrophied endometrium passes easily into the decidua of pregnancy. On the other hand, if pregnancy does not occur, the ovum reaches the end of its life cycle, and dies; the corpus leteum withdraws its hyperemic influence and retrogresses. Simultaneously, the endometrial debris is discharged with the excess blood and the glandular secretion.

The subjective manifestatipns or “so-called menstrual moli-mena” vary greatly. Novak concedes that with the healthy woman they are very mild, consisting of a ‘‘slight sense of weight in the pelvis and perhaps a mild lassitude. Actual pain is not to be accounted as normal.” Dr. Clelia Mosher compares this consciousness of the physiological processes in the pelvis with that of the consciousness of the digestive organs after a large meal. But just when this consciousness of congestion ends and pain begins has been a point of much conjecture and assumption.

Stanley Hall opposed to the higher education of women disseminated the idea that women ought to be interned in cubicle during the menstrual period to meditate upon the phenomenon, and George Engelman’s elaborate statistics showed from eighty to eighty-five per cent were incapacitated by menstruation.

Impressed by these data our women’s colleges, beginning with Vassar College, appointed a woman supervisor of the students’ health. Carefully kept college statistics soon revealed the futility and errors of the former reasonings. In 1876, Dr. Mary Putnam Jacobi in her Boylston Prize Essay on the ‘‘Question of Rest for Women During Menstruation” went so far as to say that “rest at the monthly period was even unfavorable to health”.

Dr. Novak further writes that “particularly since the advent of women in medicine” many readjustments have been made and good results obtained because ‘‘'of their decidedly healthier mental attitude toward their sex and its problems”. He refers to the writings of women in making his deductions and quotes freely from Mary Putnam Jacobi, Clelia Mosher, Lilian Welsh and the more recent work of Florence Meredith. He calls attention to the work of Jessie L. King (1914) on cardio-vascular changes

Digitized by v^.ooQle
534

during the menstrual period, the work of Katherine Blunt (1926) on basal metaoblism, and that of Leta Hollingsworth on the excitability of the nervous system. These writers all agree that there is no notable relationship between the phenomena.

Dr. Elizabeth Van Duyne of Goucher College compiled the carefully kept statistics of that college from 1900 to 1924 regarding the occurrence of dysmenorrhea among the students. The group from 1900 to 1907 showed no inconvenience in 62.6%, a discomfort in the pelvis in 20.3%, and a serious loss of time from work in 7.1%. The group from 1923 to 1924 showed no menstrual handicap in 86.6%, slight in 13.1%, and serious in 0.3%. This advance, she writes, is usually accounted for by freer clothing and the more athletic life of women. But she believes that a more sensible attitude in mothers and a better mental attitude in daughters is largely responsible for the improvement.

The speaker in 1923 made and published the results of a special investigation of the incapacitation of women ip industry during the menstrual period. This work covered a record of 2,077 women working in a city department store for a period of one year and the chief deduction was that—

65% had no menstrual handicap,

30.6% had slight menstrual handicap,

4.4% had serious menstrual handicap.

It must be appreciated that this study covered a group of women of almost every walk of life, of every age during the menstrual function, and women whose years of puberty and adolescence most probably were seriously neglected and who were at the time of the study living under various kinds of faulty environments. In the incapacity group there was demonstrable pelvic pathology as a responsible factor.

Gertrude Billhuber in 1926 published a very exhaustive study of the effect of functional periodicity on the motor ability of women in sports. She concluded that there was no periodical inefficiency or diminishing of skill, speed, and acumen in normal women. There was no period of maximum efficiency. Fluctuations occur in men’s records as well as women’s and she concluded that “since there are no periods of marked depression among normal women, this sex needs no longer to be regarded as periodic invalids whose efficiency and working capacity are diminished each month”.

The normal menstrual cycle for most women is generally accepted as twenty-eight days. The duration of the flow is variously stated as normal between two and six days. Dr. Emmett gave 4.8 days as the average and Dr. Kelly says that more than six is definitely pathologic. The amount lost at a period is estimated at from two to eight ounces and at least one-half is lost in the first two or three days of the flow. It has been my observation that the best developed young women who were free from any discomfort during the period have had a duration of not more than three days.

Digitized by VjOOQle
535

Although menstruation is in itself a purely physiolpgical phenomenon, it is difficult to draw any sharp line between the mild subjective symptoms experienced by some women at this time and the more severe discomfort which is entitled to the designation of dysmenorrhea. The personal factor plays an all important part. When symptoms arise as a result of the menses they may be due to abnormality or disease of the organs involved but they are far more commonly due only to a disturbance of their function.

My remarks now will not include the women who have organic disease of the pelvic organs but will be directed toward the hygiene applicable to the very normal girl with menstrual handicap and to the girl who experiences a moderate inconvenience. In consideration of the hygiene and management of the menstrual function, all factors which are producing disability must be removed. To my mind, unquestionably, the first of importance is an alteration of the morbid attitude of the women themselves toward this function and almost equally essential is a fundamental change in the habit of mind on our part as physicians. You, a particular group of physical educators, see more normal girls but the average physician sees only the abnormal and tends to translate too much the whole of a woman’s life into terms of menstruation. When the mother can teach her daughter the normal health habits of life and can so prepare her properly for puberty, we might almost look for a revolution in the physical life of women. Fashion has done much for women in freedom of movement and sensible clothing. I am absolutely committed to the few garments and their non-constricting nature as worn by the present day young girl. The texture of the clothing should, however, conform to the weather. The French type brassier gives excellent support to the growing full breasts and holds them upward but firmly against the chest wall. The straight breast binder is injurious and promotes disfigurement. The very high heeled shoe is most injurious but I feel sure that it will be only a matter of a few years when our sensible, normal living, healthy women will demand only the medium or low heeled shoe.

Diet during the period is important. Plain, wholesome food, omitting rich full meals, should be the requirement, remembering that nature has diverted the blood supply chiefly to the pelvis.

The average woman has been taught to have a phobia toward bathing at the menstrual period. Why should a woman alter all the habits of life for this normal function? She really needs more rather than less bathing. Warm baths cause relaxation of spasm and if chilling to the surface of the body is prevented, good only results. I have under my observation three normal girls who have never changed a habit of a cold shower every morning. They get a warm glow afterwards and feel fine. I appreciate the individual, reaction to cold baths and know that not every one can take cold baths at any time. But it serves my argument that we must establish good health habits for the

Digitized by v^ooQle
536

individual before puberty and continue them uninterruptedly during the menstrual period.

The care of the bowels should start with the child and stress must be laid on the importance of habitual daily defecation. This is a matter of considerable importance not only to the care of the general health but for the definite bearing on the function of menstruation.

Next to the influence of the home itself, the most potent factor in moulding the character and health of a girl at the time of puberty is, in a great many cases, the influence of the school and later, college life.

It has been the conviction of many physicians connected with the physical education of young women, as well as my observation with the high school girl as medical examiner, with women in industry and subsequently with women medical students as well as the girls and women of my private practice in gynecology, that flabby musculature, costal breathing, relaxed abdominal muscles, constipation,'poor posture, and general underdevelopment associated with anemia are the chief predisoosing factors in producing painful menstruation. All of these conditions inevitably lead to pressure on the pelvic organs and to the stretching of the pelvic ligaments that hold the organs in place. Faulty posture with spinal curvature, general abdominal ptosis, sluggish heavy colon, increased abdominal pressure associated with constipation favor pyheremia of these organs. Consequently there is pain from congestion and usually this type is associated with long, rather free or even profuse periods. Opposite to this group is another group of underdeveloped girls suffering from so-called hypoplasia or underdevelopment of the sex organs. These girls have scanty periods, with prolonged intervals and the flow comes on after and with great pain. The mild degrees of pathology presented in these groups are corrected by proper attention to the general laws for promotion of health ana hygiene with proper and suitable forms of recreation and exercise. The more severe type required actual medical attention.

Now, we reach the discussion of rest, recreation, and exercise during the menstrual period. How advanced in learning must Mary Putnam Jacobi have been when she wrote that “the habit of periodical rest might even be injurious”. She stated that “Many cases of pelvic congestion, developed in healthy but indolent and luxurious women, are often due to no other cause”. Twenty years or more ago Dr. Clelia Mosher advanced her ideas about abdominal exercises to lessen the pelvic congestion and even later furnished figures to prove the beneficial effects of overcoming pain and lessening the amount and duration of the flow.

More recent investigations have shown that exercises and games have lessened the inconvenience caused by menstruation. Dr. Sanderson Clow in England produced comparative figures to show how much improvement was made when she encouraged the Cheltenham High School girls to play games during their periods. Cases of freedom from pain increased from 73% to

Digitized by CjOOQle
537

85% and cases of girls suffering from severe pain diminished from 2.5% to 0.5%. These figures parallel those of Dr. Van Duyne of Goucher College.

The forward movement of physical education as a distinctly recognized department in the public school systems, private schools and colleges of this country will be a great beneficial factor in the health of women. The too crowded curriculum causes an overly ambitious girl to neglect the physical side of her life. Relaxation is essential and exercise in the open air is unquestionably a necessity for fullest health at this period of life. In my opinion games, exercise and dancing are very necessary for the adolescent girl. Organized games and exercises are probably more beneficial for their educational values. Physical training should be recreational, corrective, and educational to fulfill its true purpose. Games and gymnastics must not be given up during the menstrual period but should be encouraged in all normal girls. But any showing abnormally should be gone over physically by the physician and exercises recommended or modified to suit the individual case.

Since pelvic congestion is the common cause of menstrual unfitness, much is accomplished in correcting posture if it is poor, by promoting adequate intestinal elimination, and strengthening the general muscular tone of the body. Hence, general and local exercises are important factors in bringing this about. So often all that is needed during a period is a little more exercise rather than a little less. In the girl with profuse periods, special exercises are necessary to call into play all the abdominal muscles. Exercises in the recumbent position help this particular type of case.

There is no reason to avoid walking, golf, dancing, or exercises which do not involve undue fatigue or jumping. It is well to avoid strenuous gymnastics, tennis, basketball, and horseback riding during the first two days of the period. At that time the uterus is heavy and should the individual be undernourished with lax ligaments, there might be stretching. However, I have not known of any harm to a normal girl with strong ligaments from any kind of exercise during the period. Certainly the professional dancer, acrobatic performer or circus rider never take cognizance of the period.

In 1925, I had the pleasure of visiting the Bergman Oster-berg Physical Training College at Dartford, England, and viewed several hundred young women in a very strenuous gymnastic drill. I asked the physical director what was the attitude of the School to dysmenorrhea and I received the prompt reply, “We have no dysmenorrhea”. This may have represented a group of the survival of the fittest but certainly in view of the already noticed improvement in the health life of women, I venture to predict that continued activity of women under the proper medical supervision during the adolescent years and with the normal attitude in both mother and daughter, menstrual disorders will become more and more rare.

Digitized by C^ooQLe
538

DUST AND PULMONARY DISEASE*

Albert E. Russell, M.D.

Passed Assistant Surgeon, (Jnitad States Public Health Service Washington, D. C.

The subject of dusty trades has received much consideration in recent years. The advances which have been made in all branches of industrial medicine have helped to center attention on dust and its effect on the health, as the number of the workers in dusty trades is larger than that of any other group that is exposed to a single industrial hazard; and an additional reason for increased interest in this subject is that the study of mortality statistics has revealed the fact that workers in dusty trades have an excessive death rate from tuberculosis as well as from other respiratory diseases.

The Public Health Service has recently completed a series of studies of the effects of the principal varieties of dust encountered in industry. These studies cover the following phases of the subject:

1.	The cement industry, representing calcium dust.

2.	Silver polishing, representing metal dust.

3.	The granite industry, representing silica dust.

4.	The coal industry, representing carbon dust.

5.	The cotton industry, representing vegetable dust.

6.	Street sweeping, representing municipal dust.

While these dusts contained principally the elements indicated, they were all mixed dusts. There are very few dusty trades in which the workers are exposed to a specific dust only, as that of silica, carbon or calcium, without the presence of other elements in the dust. The cement dust that was analzyed in these studies contained about 60 per cent of lime and 1 per cent of silica, the granite dust about 35 per cent of free (crystalline) silica and 2.07 per cent of lime. The coal dusts, also, were mixed with rock dust, and in many instances in sufficient quantities to influence the character of the pneumonoconiosis. It may be possible that some of the other elements in these dusts exert a synergistic’ or inhibitory action; for instance, the lime in cement dust might prevent the development of active tuberculosis. The role of dust as a vector of bacteria has been mentioned frequently and there is no doubt in some cases that it figures prominently in the production of excessive morbidity and mortality from respiratory diseases. The harmful action of dust on the tissues and the reaction incident to its removal lower the local resistance and thus favor bacterial invasion.

♦Approved for publication by the Surgeon General.

♦Read before the Section on Preventive and Industrial Medicine and Public Health at the Eighty-First Annual Session of the American Medical Association, Detroit.

Digitized by kjOOQle
539

In the intelligent consideration of dust as an etiologic factor in pulmonary disease, the following points must be taken up:

1.	The chemistry of dust.

2.	Its concentration.

3.	Petrography; the size of its particles.

4.	The length of exposure to it.

5.	The effects produced:

,	(a) morbidity;

(b) physical condition;

(p) mortality.

THE CHEMISTRY OF DUST

The dusts most frequently encountered in the iridustries are inorganic, and, incidentally, these are the most harmful. It has been shown that silica alone produces more permanent pulmonary damage than all other elements found in industrial dust. Originally the dangerous properties of dust were supposed to be dependent on certain physical characteristics, such as hardness of particles and sharpness and angularity of edges. No doubt the physical or mechanical action of dust is a factor in producing chronic pathologic conditions in the upper respiratory passages and the bronchi, but the theory that silicosis is produced solely in this manner by such action has been generally abandoned.

Dr. Collis, in his statement relative to the chemistry of dust, was one of the first to draw attention to the chemical, rather than the physical action of dust. He said: “Generally speaking, dusts are more injurious as their chemical composition differs from that of the human body or from the elements of which the body is normally composed, whence it follows that animal dusts are less injurious than others.”

In 1922 Gye and Kettle asked the question, “Why is silica conspicuous, and possibly, alone so, among the common dusts capable of producing extensive fibrosis?” They found that, in experimenting with mice, which possess a high degree of immunity to tuberculosis, if silica was introduced into these animals along with tubercle badlli, the tissues underwent a considerable degree of necrosis, which fact, after a preliminary lag of a few days, made it possible for the bacilli to proliferate abundantly in the coagulum, being protected by the latter against the cellular defense of the body. These results provided a partial answer to their question, in that the poison did not remain in a particular form at the site of inoculation for any considerable time but was either fixed locally or gradually removed by the phagocytes through the body fluids; when present, it behaved as an active cell poison; but, with its gradual disappearance, normal processes of repair became evident. In a more recent article, Kettle gives further explanation as to why tubercle bacilli proliferate in the encrotic center of tht silica lesion, naming the following reasons: “First, the mere mechanical protection of bacilli during their early lodgment in the body; second, the rich pabulum furnished

Digitized by UjOOQle
540

to the disintegrated cells; or third, the stimulating action of silica on the growth of the bacilli.” It is also well known that tubercle bacilli grow well in a medium rich in colloidal silica.

Kettle’s final opinion as to why silica dust is dangerous, as far as the production of tuberculosis is concerned, seems to be that it is not because of the fibrosis produced by the silica nor because of the damage which silica does to the lymphatic system, but that it is simply because of the presence of silica in the lung.

Gardner’s experimental work with animals inoculated with a strain of tubercle bacilli of a low virulence and later exposed to dust is noteworthy. A series of guineapigs were primarily infected by the inhalation of tubercle bacilli of low virulence. The animals developed an infection, which finally healed by resolution. By placing groups of these infected animals in dusting chambers and subjecting them to at least two months’ exposure to dusts, a reactivation of the primary tubercles was brought about as late as from 206 to 400 days after infection. Of these pigs exposed to quartz dust, 73.6 per cent exhibited evidence of a progressive tuberculosis, and likewise 31.8 per cent of those exposed to granite duat. The groups of pigs exposed to marble and coal (bituminous) dusts did not undergo a reactivation of the disease. Dr. Gardner states that “the reaction appears to be a specific result of the inhalation of certain definite types of dust, for evidence has been produced to show that factors like overcrowding, lack of proper ventilation and light; endemic pneumonia, and nonspecific inflammations have not influenced this type of tuberculosis infection.” Apparently the same effect is not obtained with other bacteria in the dusted pulmonary tissues as with tubercle bacilli. The excessive amount of other respiratory diseases can be accounted for, however, by the lowered local resistance caused by the presence of the dust, the irritation produced by mechanical injury, and the diminution of the local blood supply by fibrosis.

CONCENTRATION OF DUST AND SIZE OF PARTICLES

It is necessary to know the concentration of a dust before a definite decision can be made that such dust is harmless per se or that its lack of harmful effect is due to some other element existing in combination with it. A low concentration of a dust containing a high percentage of free silica (quartz) may produce as much harm as a higher concentration with a lower percentage of silica. The fallacy of estimating the extent of dustiness without dust counts is obvious, in consideration of the fact that the particles found in the lungs of workers are less than 10 microns in diameter and therefore cannot be seen with the unaided eye.

Studies of groups of workers exposed to varying concentration led to the conclusion that 10 million particles per cubic foot of a dust containing about 35 per cent of free silica, as quartz, could be tolerated without great injury. Workers exposed to this concentration over long periods developed a mild fibrosis, not of sufficient severity to predispose them to tuberculosis.

Digitized by LjOOQle
541

The concentration of dust is, hence, a deciding factor in determining dust hazards. If the effects of dust can be shown by roentgen or by physical examination, proof of excessive dust is given; however, if a worker is exposed to an unknown quantity of a supposedly dangerous variety of dust and does not develop pulmonary changes, it is possible that the concentration is within tolerable limits.

PETROGRAPHY The petrography of dust is valuable in deciding its effects; for instance, the chemical analysis of cement dust indicates that there is a total of 15.2 per cent of silica present, while the petrographic analysis shows that it contains only 1 per cent of free silica or quartz, the known dangerous element. Likewise, chemical analysis of granite shows that approximately a total of 70 per cent of silica is present in it, while by petrographic analysis only 35 per cent of quartz is found.

LENGTH OF EXPOSURE TO DUST The length of exposure to dust is evidently a great factor in the production of disability. Observations based on physical examination show conclusively that the frequency of the occurrence of silicosis is in direct relation to the amount of dust and the length of service.

The effects produced by the inhalation of dust are now considered under thd' headings of morbidity, physical condition and mortality. Silicosis and tuberculosis are outstanding here, as they cause a greater amount of disability and mortality in the dusty trades than any other diseases or combinations of diseases.

EFFECTS PRODUCED Morbidity.—The observations made on granite workers showed that, when a patient who had a latent tuberculous lesicn began work in the granite industry, he developed silicosis more rapidly than workers who had no signs of tuberculosis nor history of prolonged exposure to it. It should be determined whether or not a worker has any signs of latent tuberculosis or a history of exposure before he is allowed to enter a dusty occupation.

Most of the illness among the groups of workers studied is due to respiratory disease. The groups exposed to greater amount of dust have the higher rates. Approximately half of the respiratory diseases were diagnosed as influenza, or grip.

The coal miners (anthracite) had more bronchitis than any of the other workers. The rate was much higher and approximated half of the incidence of influenza, or grip, among them. The rate for granite workers w as quite low, considering their exposure to dust.

There is an excessive amount of tuberculosis among granite workers, its incidence being greater than that of influenza. The lower incidence of tuberculosis among gold miners, who are exposed to a high siliceous dust, may be due to the shorter length of their service compared with that of granite workers.

Digitized by L^ooQle
542

The iron and steel workers, who have had the lowest incidence of diseases shown in these figures, have the highest rate of sickness from pneumonia. The anthracite miners were lowest in pnuemonia. .

The records from which data were taken for the general manufacturing group were provided by plants in the Northern states and east of the Mississippi River. Practically all the groups have similar climates, and it is believed that these rates are comparable and that variations in climates have not materially affected them.

Physical	Condition.—A discussion on the points considered

in making a diagnosis of silicosis may be found in United States Public Health Service Bulletin 187.

Roentgenography gives more information by far than any one other method us£d in diagnosis; this fact does not, however, warrant the nonemployment of other methods. Early silicosis is not easily demonstrated by roentgenography, because the fibrosis is new and does not produce as dense shadows as it does later from contraction and proliferation, which characteristics are incident to long duration. The presence of the fibrosis of early silicosis can be detected by physical examination. Also, there are in the disease stages in which it is not possible to diagnose or to exclude the presence of tuberculosis without the aid of physical examinations, especially in an early tuberculous complication. That there is a tendency to rely solely on the x-rays as a means of diagnosis is the reason why early tuberculosis in silicotic patients is so often overlooked. I have found that the rales of tuberculosis in these cases are latent or post-tussic, just as in uncomplicated cases.

Tuberculosis was frequently found in our cases with the early lesions in the bases of the lung, and the characteristic rales could be heard in this location. Routine analysis of sputum cannot be too strongly urged. Too often the cases are considered to be free from bacilli when only one or two specimens have been examined. Series of ten are of more value.

A group of cases was selected from workers in several dusty trades. It was found that the character of the fibrosis is similar in a number of these cases, but this similarity does not by any means express the same amount of disability. The fibrosis of the cement worker has a similarity to that of early silicosis of granite workers, but it has been shown that the condition does not progress in the same manner and that the cement workers do not develop tuberculosis at any higher rate than the general population.

It was an interesting observation in the study of workers in dusty trades that, when patients had been exposed long enough to develop silicosis and then changed to nondusty occupations, they did not thus materially lessen their chances of escaping a final tuberculous complication. Granite manufacturers were found to have almost as much tuberculosis as stone cutters and lumpers; many of these manufacturers were formerly stone

Digitized by L^ooQle
543

cutters and no doubt developed silicosis before establishing themselves in their new occupation.

One patient, who developed tuberculosis at age 50, had spent twenty years on a farm, after having worked fourteen years in the granite industry. Other investigators have found that silicosis apparently continues to progress and that respiratory diseases are still frequent complications even after cessation of exposure to dust.

Mortality.—The influence of dust on mortality from tuberculosis is clearly indicated in the following figures. New methods of manufacturing stone which created excessive dust by the use of pneumatic tools were introduced in the granite industry about the beginning of the present century, and the tuberculosis rate has increased rapidly with their use. The rate has risen in direct proportion to the length of time during which they have been employed, as follows: 1.5 per thousand, 1890-1894; 10.8 per thousand, 1910-1914; 19.5 per thousand, 1924-1926 (the period of our observations).

A consideration of the mortality statistics of Barre, Vt., shows that there has been an excessive death rate from pneumonia and other respiratory diseases (tuberculosis excluded) during this period.

There is great contrast between the age of mortality of workers using hand-pneumatic tools, and that among males in rural Vermont, although the rate of the latter may have been influenced by the fact that many disabled cutters move to rural districts.

SUMMARY

Morbidity and mortality records indicate that workers exposed to dust have excessive rates of respiratory diseases.

Inorganic dusts produce more pulmonary disability than organic dusts.

Silica of the crystalline variety -(quartz) is the element in dust which produces greatest pulmonary damage, and it is present in vaiying extents in most industrial dusts.

Silicosis is insidious in its onset and progress and presents but few symptoms or physical signs in its early stages.

Silicosis is almost invariably complicated by tuberculosis after a number of years of exposure, the time depending on the concentration of the dust and the percentage of free silica which it contains. Latent tuberculosis in persons entering dusty trades is usually activated after shorter exposure to siliceous dust and has more characteristics of the disease.

Before a dusty trade can be absolved of its danger or stamped as dangerous, the concentration of dust and its chemical and petrographic analysis must be shown.

Masks frequently give a false sense of protection. Removal of dust at its source is preferable.

There has been a great reduction in the death rate from tuberculosis among the general population during recent years, while among workers in dusty trades there has been a great increase during the same time in the death rate from this cause.
544

MENTAL HYGIENE IN CHILDHOOD*

Ira S. Wile, M.D., New York

Mental hygiene is a phase of prophylactic medicine. It is not primarily concerned with mental deficiency, insanity or the epilepsies so far as these pathologic conditions are concerned, even though mental hygienists must deal with children thus afflicted. Mental hygiene is more concerned with the prevention of mental deficiency, the epilepsies and the psychoses and, particularly, with those mental states which may rise from organic diseases, as syphilis and tuberculosis. The prophylactic phase is likewise evident in all efforts to lessen the occurrence of various neurotic states, sexual deviations that may be mentally perturbing or other functional maladaptations. Therapeutics has its prophylactic aspect as a part of mental hygiene at all ages. The early cure of congenital syphilis, for example, is a step in promoting the hygiene of childhood, tending to lessen the probability of juvenile paresis or later cerebrospinal syphilis. The use of some glandular extracts for the treatment of hypofunction is preventive of psychic maladjustments, but so is the use of proper lenses for myopia and the administration of arsenic for chorea.

Childhood is the most important era for the practice of all forms of hygiene. A child is not an adult nor, indeed, is he a static physiologic system. All of childhood tends toward physiologic and psychologic integrations, together with the establishment of social equilibrium at some problematic period of emancipation and maturity. It is because childhood is in a state of flux and the temporal placement of its goal of maturity is somewhat uncertain that there is need for a clear understanding of the purpose of mental hygiene during childhood.

Mental hygiene is the science and art of promoting the successful adaptation of personal dynamic drives and goals to the more static social pressures and patterns.

Behavior is the dynamic expression of a unitary biologic social organism.

Personality equals the sum total of individual social reactivity and reaction to group experience.

Character is the greatest common divisor of the multiple social phases of personality.

These definitions indicate part of the difficulty in establishing a foundation view of mental hygiene in childhood. The purpose of mental hygiene, whether in its prophylactic or in its therapeutic aspects, is to bring about a normal adaptation of an individual to his environment, which environment must include himself. Children’s behavior in large part represents a transitional phase of existence because their personalities are nonadult and their

♦Read before the Section on Nervous and Mental Diseases at the Eightieth Annual Session of the American Medical Association, Portland, Ore., July 11, 1929.

Digitized by v^ooole
545

integrations are incomplete. There is, therefore, some necessity for appreciating the characteristics of childhood, and the extent to which successful adaptation may be secured during the course of evolution through childhood into maturity.

A child must be considered as a functioning unit. In this unitary organism there are biologic and social phases almost as inseparable as the obverse and reverse side of a coin, although both may have different patterns. The biologic phase of childhood is constituted in the innate and acquired physical, intellectual and emotional mechanics of child organization and development. Mental hygiene enters biologically into the physical habit patterns, the organic neuron patterns and the endocrinologic factors so far as they have been determined. The intellectual phases of inherent capacity, creating the potentials of a balance of power, relatively positive or negative so far as the norm of the mass is concerned, involve a large measure of mental hygiene, not merely from the standpoint of daily usefulness in living but as preparation for future mental adjustments. The biologic character of emotion, whether interpreted in terms of physics and chemistry, visceral tonus or preconditioning tension, involves problems of mental hygiene of profound importance. To think in terms of the psychogenic bases for human action as propounded by Freud, Adler and Jung makes evident the degree to which mental hygiene is allied with the problems of emotional motivation, the purposeful goal of action and the spheres of conscious and subconscious emotional stimulation and response.

The mere existence of these biologic phases of childhood is inadequate to explain juvenile activity, because, by the very nature of their creation and the biology of conception, the biologic organism called a baby is at the same time a social organism, and its psychology is an outgrowth of the development of the balance in unity between these two phases of its existence. The biologic child is born a member of a group and throughout life is subject to countless group relationships to which he reacts consciously and unconsciously. As a member of a family, a pupil at school, one who lives in a definite neighborhood, city and state, who attends a regular church or Sunday school, and selects his own companions, he is subject to a series of diversified impressions and stimulations which help to determine the growth of his personality. There are definite responses of his physical, intellectual and emotional potentials to the group activities, pressures and restraints. So far as he is cognizant of response to group demands and according to the extent to which he affiliates himself definitely with the spirit of a group standard, he environs himself. The child now responds in sentiments, judgment and actions in terms of his total environment, which includes not merely his biologic organic responses but also his conscious and subconscious reactions to concrete phases of life. His social nature derives from the totality of the environmental forces intro-jecting themselves on him, on which he in turn is projecting all his forces, physical and ideational.	-

Digitized by L.ooQie
546

It is obvious that mental hygiene inheres in the social pressures and inhibitions of varying relationships. The social mores, traditions and tabus exert forces through the family, the school and the church, causing frictions and conflicts in internal organization. The behavior responses induced by these social relationships and the responses of the biologic mechanisms are largely responsible for the necessity of mental hygiene, which becomes a helpful factor in facilitating the adaptation of the individual in his strivings for biologic satisfaction in a social environment.

Social life is biologically conditioned, but none the less so is instinctive life socially conditioned. No one denies that a child's social relationships are determined in part by the state of his heart, lungs and nervous system. But sometimes people fail to recognize that even such basic instincts as grow out of hunger and love take their expression along the lines that are determined by social regulation. The success of the instinctive level of activity for an individual depends on the family and the community in which hie has been bom. Mental hygiene must take cognizance of circular response. The environment acts on inherited patterns, and their responses in turn serve as stimuli acting on the environment. The repercussions of these responses evidence fusion of interacting biologic and social elements entering into psychic activity. From, the degree of harmony and conflict of these faceted expressions of a developing personality arise the problems of adaptation.

The ordinary point of view of physical hygiene may be applied to the mental realm. The hygienist thinks in terms of food, clothing, air, ventilation, cleanliness and sewage disposal, protection from germs, parasites and contagions, posture, exercise and rest, industrial activity and schools. The mental hygiene of man may be expressed in similar terms. Posture as it reflects attitude or position, food as mental pabulum in the form of ideas, aerating and ventilating ideas and fancies, cleansing and purging the mind through mental catharsis, securing a release of subconscious sewage, protection against the germs of hysterical unhappiness, the contagions of anxieties, the paralyzing action of parasitic fears and the compelling power of obsessive phantasies all call for the attention of mental hygienists and psychiatrists. The effects of industrial relations, long hours, processserving jobs and even low wages, the adjustments of schools in terms of curriculum, methodology, the formalisms, inelasticities and rigidities profoundly enter in to the realm of mental hygiene. These hygienic phases are almost as important as the conflicts and struggles born of subconscious fears and inferiorities, or an aborted or perverted love life. Any and all may be responsible for a warfare on the psychic battlefield with results as devastating as the war neuroses.

Mental hygiene deals with problems growing out of efforts at adaptation. Part of its concern lies in training children— training in terms of definite purposes and goals. This involves all the elements entering into ordinary neuromuscular coordinations

Digitized by VjOOQle
547

the formulation of proper habits to meet the demands of life, not merely during childhood but during the years of maturity. It is essential to aid, direct and guide children in the acquisition of habits that will control their inherited behavior trends so that they will function adequately in the light of social demands and principles. Even such an act as defecation has inherent in it a social significance. Fecal continence is not merely biologic sphincteric control but a form of adaptation to a social demand and standard of behavior.

Throughout childhood, mental hygiene seeks to bring about a compatability between the ego and alter ego components of personal activity. Harmonizing biologic urges and social interests calls for constructive efforts, so that there is a reasonable preservation of the ego in the individuality while the production of adequate personality trends are being fostered to meet the necessities of biologic and social adjustments at maturity.

Patently, according to this theory, the end-result is to secure an integration of the biologic and social pressures and urges so that the harmonic unity of being lessens the likelihood of psychic maladjustments. The problems of repressions, conversion hysterias, anxiety neuroses or dissociations in personality are of no greater significance in this scheme than are outbursts of temper, irritability, seclusiveness, depressions and juvenile delinquencies from truancy to sexual assaults. This point of view is constructive, directed toward coordinating, conserving and protecting personal development, personal development being considered with the idea of living among people. The behavior factor thus far becomes identical with the sum total of the reactions of the individual in and through living. The application of mental hygiene, as I have already suggested, involves promoting the successful adaptation of the personal dynamic drives and goals with the more static social pressures and patterns.

The psychiatrist, perhaps, is accustomed to think only in terms of definite intrapsychic mechanisms. The attack on juvenile problems of mental hygiene, however, would be unsuccessful were it based merely on a psychogenic etiology and directed solely according to one theory of mental activity. Mental hygiene has no sftigle mode of approach guaranteeing success, nor is there any panacea theory that can be supplied universally to the training of children. There is necessity for an appreciation of the principles involved in reconditioning as developed by Watson, a recognition of social psychology as propounded by McDougall, as well as an understanding of the Oedipus complex of Freud the inferiority complex of Adler, and the introvert and extravert types of Jung. Part of my criticism of much of the present day approach to problems of mental hygiene is based on its narrow point of view, which assumes the adaptability of the psychology of adults to the problems of childhood as though the child were only an undeveloped adult. The psychiatrist must have a broader outlook on mental hygiene and a keener recognition of essential deviations in the psychology of childhood from

Digitized by kjOOQle
548

that of adult life if his service in mental hygiene is to be of substantial benefit.

I am suggesting some fundamental elements which must enter into the mental hygiene of childhood if it is to be developed intelligently, rationally and continuously and is to yield the maximal inherent personal social benefits. I believe there are requisite many distinct and significant phases of activity. First, there is the necessity of promoting a higher degree of social conscience with reference to children, based on an intelligent appreciation of their nature, their mode of development, their rights and their difficulties in adaptation; a social conscience that will take more cognizance of child labor, orphan asylums, juvenile delinquency, reform schools and various other institutions that affect the attitudes, the interests and the psychic welfare of the young.

There is necessity, and, I am glad to say, there is growing evidence of the recognition of the necessity for more scientific school adaptation. There is need for fostering the principle of individual adjustment in school life. This involves a more rational development of curriculums, the establishment of distinctions between school achievement and school discipline, together with the development of mental hygiene clinics in schools. Mental hygiene needs the focus of a clinic on the specific problems which arise in every school system as a result of the failure of specific children to make happy adaptations to the formal demands of mass education.

A more intelligent effort to advance the levels of familial education is essential. Intelligent parenthood must be encouraged, a clearer understanding of the social import of parenthood as a social trusteeship must be inculcated. To broadcast the hazards of parental oversolicitude, parental pressures and domination and the harmfulness of potential parental fixations is part of the service of rational constructive mental hygiene. The family constitutes the first social group of the child, and inherent in this group relationship and reactions are many of the most significant influences which profoundly affect the mental equilibrium of children. The inhibitions demanded by the right to individual happiness and comfort in the home, the repressions which result from home experiences with parents, siblings, relatives and helpers, and the subjection to various needless dominations in parent-child relationships are matters of social import as well as of parental activity.

There is need, therefore, for a large measure of familial education through all the nonclinical instrumentalities that are now available plus many more that will be added through improved methods of adult education which will popularize the scientific facts of physiology and psychology and secure the promulgation and elucidation of principles of mental hygiene in childhood. Through women’s clubs and parent-teacher associations, by means of lectures, the printing press, the movies, the talkies and the radio, the mental hygiene influences will penetrate the home.

Digitized by i^ooQle
549

The attack on the external social world through such institutions as government, laws, regulations, education, religion and ethics constitutes one important side of the picture. Mental hygiene cannot be divorced from sociology and economics. Concurrently there is the effort at personal education and reeducation in terms of physical organization, visceral tonus, neuromuscular coordinations and the functioning of all the systems of the physical body, with their definite influences and effects on psychic activity, including intellectual effectiveness and emotional reactivity. Every change in the environment affects the totality of the individual. The boy is not psychically identical when swimming in a pool, running an errand, working in a factory or doing difficult school tasks. The psychic status of the girl alters when she shifts from dish washing to dancing, and also when she takes off the housework dress and replaces it with a sleeveless party frock. The amputation of a finger removes more than two or three phalanges, while the loss of a thqmb of the pitching hand may alter the entire outlook on life. Jealousy of another child may be expressed as a paralysis; fear of a father as deafness; school failure as vomiting, and recurrent imagery of attempted assault as epileptiform seizures. The interaction between the physical and the psychic, the interplay of the biologic and the social indicate the necessity for mental hygiene to permeate the realms of home life and all the activities of communal life.

This may sound like an indefinite, vague plan beyond the possibility of practical utilization. I am not blind to its content or to the unlikelihood of its general attainment. It represents, however, the field of mental hygiene and suggests numerous lines along which constructive efforts may be directed against elements as diverse as alcoholism and the zoophilic diathesis, myopia and masturbation, pavor noctumus and stealing. There is need for a large variety of continuous and discontinuous instrumentalities to be employed in promoting mental hygiene. One of the most significant and potentially the most useful agency is to be found in the persons of the physicians of this country.

Different degrees of service may be rendered by general practitioners of medicine, by pediatricians and by psychiatrists. I need not dwell on the function of the teachers and the psychologists before this medical group. Mental hygiene is not a sacrosanct field belonging to a single group of the medical profession any more than physical hygiene is the sole right of a physical trainer. Medicine is shot through with potentials for mental hygiene. Every contact with a child, every contact with a home, abounds in opportunities for promoting psychic welfare. There are specific opportunities, however, for pediatricians and psychiatrists when types of behavior occur which indicate profound inadequacies of personal adaptation. To meet the problems of untold numbers of maladjusted children, whether their difficulties arise in the home, in the school, in gang experiences or from inherent difficulties, such as hypothyroidism, diabetes or

Digitized by kjOOQle
550

syphilis, there is need for clinics or stations for child guidance and child adjustment.

Whether in private practice, child guidance clinics or school clinics there is the ever present necessity for a careful analysis of the biologic and social factors entering into every juvenile situation, as the mode of treatment for the purpose of attaining normal behavior depends on the leverage factors entering into causality. The child must be studied in the setting which is molding his behavior trends and partially determining his future responses.

A warning is necessary at this time, because I fear that the demands for child guidance clinics and clinics for mental hygiene for children as well as for adults are multiplying so rapidly that the medical profession is unable to supply adequately trained physicians, psychiatrists and pediatricians to meet their needs. Unwise guidance means unsound teaching, which, in turn, is in itself a form of poor mental hygiene. What is necessary at the present time is a thoroughly hygienic mental hygiene program, and such a program would demand that no mental clinic be opened unless under the auspices of persons properly trained in theory and practice so as to be dependably safe in dealing with the most important problem of child life and social adjustment.

There is need for the promotion of personal health and rational mental guidance during childhood. Mental hygiene must be regarded as a form of social prophylaxis to the extent that it can prevent the development of the mentally defective, the epileptic, the psychoneurotic, the psychotic, and the maladjusted victims of organic diseases. It is equally preventive in its social service as it diminishes the number of maladapted children and adolescents whether their maladjustment finds expression in egocentricity or eccentricity, in benign stupor or manic activity, in enuresis or excessive seclusiveness, in juvenile delinquency or adolescent crime.

ABSTRACT OF DISCUSSION

Dr. Theodore Diller, Pittsburgh:	This paper fills me with

despair. I cannot hope ever to see parents wise enough to carry out such complicated guidance as is outlined here, nor do I have any hope that physicians or psychiatrists will ever be learned enough and wise enough to direct parents in the way that is called for by the paper.

Dr. Joshua Rosett, New York:	The problem Dr. Wile

has sketched is so extensive that one may well doubt the moral fitness of any human being to solve that problem.

Dr. Josephine A. Jackson, Pasadena, Calif:. I am a little more optimistic and I think that we are all indebted beyond words to Dr. Wile for the clear presentation of the problem which he has given, but we must remember that nature endows us intuitively with really a great deal of readiness and prepara-

Digitized by CjOOQle
551

tion for the care of children. When we know what we need to do, parents, teachers, educators and others will do it.

Dr. Christian J. Rohwer, Seattle:	From	the	standpoint

of the private practitioner, in such mental hygiene problems as are brought to us a definite form of approach has been worked out, largely through the efforts of the National Committee for Mental Hygiene and certain pioneer workers in this field. The approach is made through a study of four aspects: first, the physical examination of the child, to note physical endowment; second, the mental equipment through the work of psychologists; third, the family or social situation from which the child comes; fourth, the child himself, or what is known as the child’s own story. The latter is the interview which the psychiatrist has with the child wherein he tries to determine what it is all about —the child’s attitude to the particular problem. It may be concerned with his emotions or instincts, or with stealing, truancy from home or school, or similar problems. When we investigate these four phases or lines of investigation, we come first to the physical. If ft is found that the child has a cardiac disturbance or some other medical condition, that child is referred to the family physician or to a specialist, as the case may be. The psychologist helps us very much in determining what the mental equipment of the child is. The questions of good or defective mentality and what are the child’s special abilities or disabilities arise. Psychologists have worked out numerous tests, many of which are being standardized, so that the results shed a good deal of light on what children are best fitted to do. Then comes the family situation, and this is often most illuminating. One really does not often have to go to great depths in probing the child’s mental life. Frequently on the very surface of the family life one finds material which explains behavior problems and brings children to the child guidance clinic. In this field of mental hygiene it is most important that we reach out into the fields of sociology, psychology, education and all the experiences and influences which come into children’s lives. I should like to emphasize one or two points which Dr. Wile mentioned; namely, that mental hygiene is not a panacea in itself. It is a scientific attempt to get at what is the trouble with the child, whether stealing, masturbation, truancy from school or any other form of juvenile delinquency. It has been my experience in dealing with problem children that it is not so much child guidance which is needed in these problems as it is a parent guidance or education. Parents and teachers tend to overemphasize or to underestimate certain phases of a child’s life. Certain tendencies which we consider as perfectly normal and natural are often misunderstood, and both parent and teacher tend to project their own feelings into the situation.

Dr. Ira S. Wile, New York: For a group of people who are accustomed to treating dementia praecox and paresis to talk about despair in connection with the problem of guiding children is the most remarkable aberration mentally that I have heard

Digitized by
552

of in a long time. If there is anything that causes despair, it is trying to correct the eccentricities and diversities of human nature after it has been warped by too long living, by too great a conflict in life and contact with disease. I do not know whether it is realized that there are at the present time in the United States 110 clinics devoted to child guidance, each of them probably handling an average of 25i0 problems a year. That does not mean much. It is a beginning. But there is no despair; there is no thought of despair. The constant increase of interest in child guidance, in mental hygiene, in the development of a more intelligent outlook on school situations, on institutional life, and on all the affairs that enter into the welfare of childhood, indicates that there is a striking note of optimism, which I gladly heard from Dr. Jackson. If it has not reached the psychiatrist, then it is time this meeting on mental hygiene was held, because there is no field of greater psychiatric effort than that of training the young so that they will escape the warping of character, the warping of habits, the warping of their thoughts and the development of a lack of reality in life which make more work for psychiatrists during the ages of maturity and senility. It seems to me that we have a definite work to do, and either the scientists and physicians are going to enter the movement with optimism and enthusiasm or they are going to be dragged into it by the laity. Laymen are alive to the situation and they are without despair. Dr. Rosett talks about the moral fitness to undertake this task. If it is not within the ability of the medical profession to manifest its moral fitness in the practice of medicine calling for moral fitness in taking care of a whole human being, then it is time we had a greater increase in the cultists who are not afraid to have confidence in themselves. Let us be perfectly frank and honest. My mental hygiene is at a rather heated point, but it is expansion that I am desirous of securing through the heat, and if we can get a little development of optimism in place of despair at this moment, my few minutes will not have been wasted. When it comes to a question of despair and moral fitness as the only argument against a plan that is proposed, then I say that despair has never been characteristic of the medical profession. Moral fitness has been the one stone and rock on which all medicine has been founded.

RINGWORM OF THE FEET

William L. Gould, M. D„ Albany, N. Y.

Ringworm of the feet is a fungus (mold or vegetable organism) infection usually found between the toes or about the nails. It is technically called epidermomycosis, epidermophytosis or trichophyton interdigitale. It is also known as toe itch, toe scald, fungus foot or athletic foot. Hongkong foot and Shanghai

♦Reprint Journal Am. Medical Association; * - :

Digitized by L^OOGle
553

foot are none other than the ringworm of the feet found in this country.

Ringworm infection was first discovered by Hebra, in 1860, as eczema marginatum. It was later discovered to be of mycotic origin by Kolobler, Pick and Kaposa. In 1907, Sabouraud isolated and described the fungus Epid inguinale. During the World War, ringworm was found to be the most common skin disease. The United States Public Health Service reported that one half of all adults have this disease at some time and that in the Gulf States almost the entire population is affected. Nine tenths of the habitues of gymnasiums have this skin condition. Most people attending gymnasiums or pools at golf clubs, fraternal organizations, public bath houses, military organizations, hotels, schools—in fact, anywhere where the feet are exposed—are found to have this ringworm. Ruggles of Rochester, N. Y., taking thirty-four cases at random at the Rochester Y. M. C. A., found every one to be infected.

Ringworm of the feet is world wide and age old. At the University of California, where there are students from countries all over the globe, it was found that the majority of entrants have the foot infection. These students come with it from China, Japan and other remote parts. At this univeristy, 85 per cent of the students taking athletics have it. The more the feet are liable to exposure, the more prevalent the condition. The infection is less prevalent in the elementary schools, more prevalent in the high schools and most prevalent in the colleges. A survey of thirty-five universities disclosed between 50 and 90 per cent of the students to be involved. All statistics show definite variation in the proportion of males and females involved. Various colleges show from 50 to 90 per cent of the boys affected and from 15 to 40 per cent of the girls. Among the reasons mentioned as to why girls are less affected is that their gymnasiums are better equipped. Boys’ gymnasiums more frequently have wooden floors, and the equipment is not so elaborate or quite as sanitary as the girls’. The girls, too, never go barefoot, have less occasion to perspire, keep better personal hygiene and wear lighter, ventilated shoes, which they change oftener.

Various types of mold cause ringworm, the principal species of which is Trichophyton interdigitale. One frequently hears of ringworm or tinea of the nails or tinea unguium complicating tinea pedis. As a matter of fact, in any form, of ringworm of the feet the organisms are found not only about the tees but usually also about the nails, and it is frequently very difficult to subdivide the conditions.

Nail clippings in from 15 to 30 per cent sodium hydroxide microscopically show chains of sporelike elements, or skeins like a tangled mass of thread. As far as the organism is concerned it is in reality a ringless ringworm. In cultures the organisms grow abundantly. The fungi grow readily on silk, cotton, woolen and leather footwear; also on gloves, trusses and athletic wear. They are found on wooden floors, runways, benches, diving

Digitized by UjOOQle
554

boards, and also on rubber and canvas mats. Common dressing rooms, towels and soaps are frequent causes of infection. Between the toes, warmth and moisture provide a condition ideal for propagation. Boiling readily kills the spores.

There are several varieties of ringworm of the feet. First is the carrier type, in which there are no symptoms. As with the carriers of any contagious disease, the danger is that the carrier may at some time acutely affect himself or others. There is the desquamating type, in which there may be a slight superficial peeling of the skin between the toes or about the nails. This is the commonest type. The desquamation may become heaped up and boggy, presenting the sodden variety. There is the vesicular type, in which small and large water-like blisters are found. In the eczematous type there are inflammation and discharge. Cracking of the skin and fissure formation are commonly found in any of the types. Fluid and scabs are seen more in the vesicular and eczematous types. It is rarer to find pus. The chief site of the infection is between the toes, especially in the third and fourth interdigital spaces, frequently involving the nails. Itching, burning, pains and other various paresthesiae are the rule. From 1 to 3 per cent of cases of ringworm of the feet are of the more severe type so as to be disabling.

When the nails are affected they become friable, and about the free border are heaped up masses of adherent detritus. The nail becomes yellow and overgrown. It may present transverse ridges or longitudinal striae. The nail infection may be superficial with just the edge involved. It may cause separation of the nail from its bed. Thickening of the cuticle is also to be found. Infection of the nails is common, is stubborn, tends to recur, and frequently persists unnoticed long after the associated skin condition has cleared. The infection may last from several weeks to many years. It may be realized how stubborn this disease is when dermatologists frequently cannot cure themselves. .As with any infection, there may be a secondary invader. In this case the picture is distorted, depending on the type of the secondary infection.

The matter of prevention has been quite problematic. As the disease is communicable, it would be ideal not to expose the feet at any time to the infection. The condition, of course, is too universal for this. The organisms seem to be everywhere. Rubber, wooden and paper bathing slippers are used. However, as at the showers, slippers are removed to wash the feet. The technic is thereby broken and the exposed feet are on the floor again to come in contact with the fungi. When many are using showers, at the same time, especially children, it can readily be seen how easily the slippers themselves would become sources of infection or reinfection. There should be no exchange of towels, suits or soap. Rarely may the ringworm be spread to other parts of the body, such as the hands, axillae and groins. The spread of the infection is usually from the feet to these other parts of the body; therefore, it is best to use the towel last on

f

Digitized by kjOOQle
555

\

the feet. As boiling destroys the ringworm, it is advisable to boil such articles as hose, towels and bathing suits.

Reinfection is the great difficulty to overcome. If the organisms are destroyed on the feet, reinfection may readily come from footwear, floors or members of the family. It seems that the ideal means would be some chemical that would be destructive to the ringworm organism that could be applied to all places and with which the exposed feet come in contact. Footwear should be light, well ventilated and changed frequently, preferably night and morning. Antiseptic powders could be lightly applied between the toes and in the footwear. The floors of natatoriums should not be made of wood. They should be made of some nonabsorbent, easily cleanable substance.

There is apparently no specific medicament for this condition. The remedies tried have been numerous. Nearly every antiseptic has been used at some time or other. Among substances used have been 2 per cent acetic acid, 1:2,000 potassium permanganate, iodine, mercurochrome-220 soluble, camphor and idone, Whitfield’s ointment, Pick’s ointment, pine and tar ointment, chrysarobin, zinc sulphate, 2 per cent gentian violet, moderate carbolfuchsin and burnt elm. Various powders, such as thymol iodide, have been placed in shoes. Floors have been rubbed with formaldehyde. The nails have been scraped. X-rays have been applied to the lesions.

During the routine examination of the Albany Junior High School pupls in the spring of 1928 it was found that hundreds of children had this ringworm infection of the feet. Ninety-seven per cent of the cases found were of the mild desquamating type while the remaining 3 per cent embraced the sodden, vesicular and eczematous varieties. These students were excluded from participating in gymnastics and prevented from entering the pool. Swabbing with iodine and mercurochrome-220 soluble was done in most cases. This, however, did not serve to check the condition, and the physical training classes were much depleted. In the fall of 1929 it was found that the same condition existed, and about 50 per cent of all the pupils were excluded because of this foot condition. Early in November, 1929, foot baths containing from 10 to 15 per cent sodium thiosulphate were installed between the locker and the shower rooms. Each pupil on leaving the shower was requested to immerse the feet in this chemical bath on the way to the locker. In so doing, the solution was well spattered over the locker room floor so that from the time the pupil left the shower until the time of dressing, the feet were constantly in contact with this thiosulphate solution. The sulphite solution was found efficient as low as 3 per cent, so that starting with from 10 to 15 per cent, plenty of allowance is made for the dripping into the bath of plain water. The bath was changed after each class of from thirty to fifty pupils. The sulphite solution is ideal in being colorless and practically odorless. Four weeks after the thiosulphate baths were installed, the ring-

Digitized by VjOOQle
556

worm infection had entirely disappeared from the Junior High School.

The importance of the footbath cannot be overemphasized. There is no question that if the foot was not entirely immersed in the sulphite solution the results would npt be so successful, because all the parts harboring the organisms would not be reached. Swabbing is usually done on the more apparent areas and not the more obscure, where the tinea may be just as plentiful as a constant source of reinfection. It undoubtedly is frequently not so much the medicament that fails as it is the mode of its application. The bath is unhandy at times, however, and a 20 per cent powder of sodium thiosulphate in boric acid has been tried with much success on feet, footwear and floors. The powder is more easily applicable and as with the bath may readily be placed on the entire foot, especially between the toes, about the nails and beneath the soles. It is quickly applied to the sock and inside the shoe. A light dusting is all that is necessary. It has been found ideal at times to step into the bath and later use the powder locally. The powder may regularly be dusted cn the feet and footwear night and morning for prevention and comfort.

A STUDY OF THE HISTORY, USES AND VALUES OF APPARATUS IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Leopold F. Zwarg, Ed. D,

(Continued from May issue)

SPIESS, ADOLPH (1810-1858)—THE FATHER OF SCHOOL GYMNASTICS Spiess is known as the founder of German School gymnastics, which differ materially in method from those of Jahn. As a boy Spiess was trained in a Pestalozzian school, where the gymnastics of Guts M'uths and later those of Jahn were part of his education. When a university student he visited Jahn, Guts Muths and Eiselen, whom he revered and whose guidance he sought. He studied their aims and upon his return tried their methods with classes of boys and girls. From 1833-1844 he taught at Burgdorf, Switzerland. One of his co-workers was Frobel, the originator of the Kindergarten. While teaching history, music and gymnastics, there arose in Spiess a desire to adapt all known physical training activities to school conditions. He further added new exercises. He graded all his material for the different school ages, and for both sexes. Being a keen scholar and excellent teacher, he reasoned, invented, experimented and tested his theories. Soon he published the famous / ehre der	Turnkunst (	Scieo) Gymnastics). In 1844

he moved to a higher school in Basel, where he stayed till 1848. He then went to Darmstadt, where his influence became far-reaching. He finished an epoch-making book, Turnbuch fuer

Digitized by L^ooQle
567

Sehulen, the first book of its kind which showed experimentally tested subject matter for the different ages of school children. Spiess contributed to the field of physical education a systematic theory and practice of free exercises, marching tactics, dancing steps and roundels (Reigen). All of these activities have apparently come to stay in physical education. Spiess was the first to arrange free exercises to different musical rhythms.

Apparatus exercises he divided into those of hang and support. Apparatus for hanging were: ladders (whipple ladders, rope ladders), horizontal bar, parallel bars, scaling walls, giant strides, climbing poles, and ropes. Apparatus for support were: horizontal bar and beam, tree trunks, laddders, ropes, oblique boards, parallel bars, horses, bucks, also stilts, skates and sleds. The construction of these different pieces of apparatus he described and illustrated in his Turnbuch, Vol. 1.(37)

Spiess laid great stress upon group exercises, to which he attributed great social values. In these the whole class performed, upon the command of the teacher, such exercises as can be done in unison, preferably in rhythm. To this end Spiess formalized even apparatus exercises. The pupils were taught several at a time, to exercise, upon one or more pieces of apparatus, at command of the teacher. Spiess was opposed to Jahn’s system of squad leaders, which was prevalent in the Turnvereine. He held that such leaders were incompetent for school work. He stressed the importance of having pedagogi-cally trained teachers administer the gymnastic work in schools.

Modern educators believe that Spiess started with these methods an undesirable formalism in physical education. In justice to him it should be said that he was a wonderful teacher, and that his formalism was not felt by his classes. He knew how to enthuse children, and how to train them in music appreciation through his exercises. He neglected by no means the playing of games, hiking and other forms of outdoor activity.

But in adapting his methods to the pedagogy of his time, Spiess paved the way for a formalism in physical education that was soon over-emphasized. He was visited by educators from many near-by countries, who praised his work and recognized the value of his methods for schools. It was only natural that later followers of Spiess showed his methods but not his spirit, preferring those activities that proved most convenient for themselves, namely tactics, free exercises, and only such apparatus activities as could be carried on in a formal way. However, apparatus exercises cannot be successfully conducted in a formal way; they must be allowed a free and natural development. Being more difficult to administer, they were soon relegated to the background and later entirely neglected.

37	The drawings of the “Tumplatz” at Basel, showing the apparatuses, appear in many books on physical education. (See Leonard: History of Physical Education.

Digitized by LjOOQle
558

What Jahn had seen and feared, came true. The rich and original physical training activities, in the hands of the physical pedagogues, were crowded out in favor of a formal and less valuable type. (38) Apparatus and other individual exercises, even games, were neglected, and nearly everything carried on indoors.

As we shall see later, Spiess was not solely responsible for this condition. There were certain movements on foot in other countries, which helped to emphasize the formal physical training activities for school use. Spiess was never opposed to Jahn’s “Tumen”. He kept Jahn’s nomenclature, and no doubt conducted all his work in a spirited manner. He recognized the value of Jahn’s system for after-school activity, and furthered the “Tumvereine” where he could. He was a good performer upon the apparatus hmiself. But he realized that Jahn’s “Tur-nen” as then practiced needed modification and refinement for school adaptation. His efforts in that direction were no doubt successful as far as his own practice was concerned. His followers, however, were led by his theoiy to swing to the other extreme, thereby defeating Jahn’s principle of freshness and individuality in physical training work.

LING, PEHR HENRIK (1776-1839) AND SWEDISH GYMNASTICS

Pehr H. Ling, a Swede, became interested in gymnastics, as Jahn did in Germany, from patriotic motives. He hoped to see, through gymnastics, a moral and physical renaissance for the Swedish people. Of his early youth little is known, but he must have traveled far and studied much. His literary works are not many.	Gymnastikens allmanna Grander (General Principles of

Gymnastics) is the most important. The first volume appeared 1834, and the last 1840. Ling’s successors (39) have elaborated upon the work but have not changed the original idea. The book is divided in to six parts.

1.	The law of the human organism.

2.	The principle of pedagogical gymnastics.

3.	The principle of military gymnastics.

4.	The principle of medical gymnastics.

5.	The principle of esthetic gymnastics.

6.	The means of gymnastics.

Guts Muths as well as Jahn developed their material inductively upon the playground or in actual conditions of life. They refined their theories by experimenting, and added material and methods only after laboratory efforts had shown certain results. Jahn said this of the Turners:

38	Jahn and his followers (especially Massman and Eiselen) always distrusted the value of free exercises, and would never go beyond a few limbering up movements.

39	Liedbeck, Georgii, Branting.

Digitized by t^ooQle
559

“They have experienced and lived their work, they have tried, practiced, tested, and retested the material, and have allowed it to grow into a virile and popular means of physical education.”

Ling, however, built upon a speculative theory. This seems to account for the dryness of Swedish gymnastics and its meagre content. Ling seems to have had knowledge of Guts Muths and Jahn’s systems, but pursued his own way. His point of view was derived from a study of anatomy and physiology. He would include no exercise in his system until the effect was known. For an autodidactic man, such as Ling was, this must have been a difficult thing. As a result, he arrived at a simplicity that is extremely artificial. He could find only a few movements, mostly free exercises, that would fit his theory. These he classified into movements without, and movements upon apparatus. He believed that the exercises of the German Turners led to too complicated movements, with questionable effects. The apparatus should not determine the movements, but should be a means of producing a predetermined effect upon certain muscles; simplicity was therefore essential. For his purpose Ling invented the following pieces of apparatus:	the stall bars (ribbstol),

the boom (bom), the saddle (saddlebom), the window ladder (stege), the low combination bench (bank, balansribba, lutplan) and the vaulting box (plint). These are today known as Swedish apparatus. To these were added the horse (hast), the horizontal, vertical, and oblique ropes, and climbing poles.

The construction of these apparatuses is such as to exclude the possibility of performing advanced exercises, now usually referred to as stunts, upon them. It permits only the fundamental and simple movements of lifting, climbing, winding through bars, balancing and vaulting.

These apparatuses are set up for a lesson, so that tHe whole class, or at least a good part of it, can perform at one time, in the manner of free exercises, upon the command of the teacher. Unlike the Germans, who use only one or two pieces of apparatus in a lesson, changing to different ones at the next lesson, the Swedes use all pieces of apparatus in nearly every lesson, often performing only one exercise upon each piece.

There can be no doubt that Swedish gymnastics, taught by a good teacher, have the desired corrective and therapeutic effect. However, the method is extremely formal, allowing no individual expression whatever. It takes a most expert instructor to make a Swedish lesson interesting, especially when no apparatus is used, as has been the case in many American schools. Nowhere, not even in Sweden has the system become popular, i.e. a voluntary activity of the masses. Swedish gymnastics are extremely formal in method, and for that reason have found favor with schoolmen and army officials.

Ling’s apparently scientific treatment of the subject of gymnastics attracted the attention of neighboring countries, especially Germany, where soon a bitter fight was waged over the

Digitized by LjOOQLe
560

merits or demerits of his system. (40) Ling found many adherents, who saw in his endeavor to simplify all exercises, especially for school use, a step in the right direction. Major Hugo Rothstein (1810-1865) had studied (1843) Ling’s system in Sweden. As director of the Royal Prussian Institute of Gymnastics, training both army and civilian teachers, he opposed Jahn’s “Tur-nen”, and instituted Sewdish apparatus and exercises. He condemned especially, on anatomical and physiological grounds, the use of the parallel bars. This led to a violent controversy, which resulted in a thorough examination of the theory and practice of the “Ling-Rothstein” gymnastics.”(41) The world-renowned physiologist, Emil Du Bois-Reymond (1818-1896), of the University of Berlin, attacked Ling’s anatomical-physiological view as unscientific and speculative. His movements, he said, could not fulfill the purpose of physical education, which purpose should not be the development of the muscles and joints alone, but also that of the nervous system. He also critiziced mercilessly Ling’s three fundamental concepts of the form of life: the dynamic, chemical, and mechanical, as antiquated and scientifically untenable.

The fight (42) grew into one of the bitterest in German scientific annals. The Prussian government, supporting Rothstein, finally appointed a commission of medical experts (among them Virchow) to examine the claims of both sides, and to ascertain the facts. Its verdict, in the form of a thesis, was in favor of the parallel bars. The conclusions were, that there was no inherent danger to the body in the exercises ordinarily performed upon the parallel bars, that the apparatus lent intself to the development of many useful skills, and that exercises performed upon this apparatus could do nothing else but influence beneficially the muscular, nervous, circulatoiy, and respiratory systems.

As h result of this decision, Jahn’s type of apparatus was allowed to stay in the Tumvereine and schools. It has since undergone a natural and unhampered development. The German army, however, kept Swedish apparatus until the World War.

In spite of the rejection by science and by popular opinion, proponents of Swedish gymnastics have upheld the claim of corrective or therapeutic value. In German physical education certain obvious advantages of the Swedish system, once recognized, were quickly incorporated, especially in the field of free

40	At a much later period (1890-1900) a less violent controversy occurred in the CJ. S., the parties taking little cognizance of the European discussions and their outcome.

41 Rothstein had published a treatise on Swedish gymnastics in 1845; Dr. H. Richter one in 1847. Massman, Jahn’s foremost proponent, published a translation of all Ling’s writings in 1849.

42	Known as the “Barrenstreit”. See Hirth: Das gesamte Turnwesen For complete bibliography see Euler’s Encyklopaedie, vol. 1, pp. 191-194.

Digitized by U.ooQle
561

exercises. Swedish apparatuses, too, were soon found in most schools and the larger Tumvereine, in addition to the German apparatuses.

In certain countries outside of Sweden, Denmark and Germany, Swedish gymnastics have also gained, for a time at least, a foothold in schools. Many schools in England and the United States adopted them during the period from 1890-1910. But they did not become popular.

In the United States “Swedish Gymnastics” were rarely taught in their original form. They consisted mostly of formal “free exercises”. Apparatus, the best means of making a Swedish lesson interesting, was excluded by most teachers as being superfluous.

COMPARISONS BETWEEN THE SYSTEMS OF GUTS MUTHS, JAHN, SPIESS, AND LING

These four men, Guts Muths, Jahn, Spiess and Ling, may be considered the great leaders who have, by contribution of principles, materials, and methods, laid the foundation of modern physical education. After a hundred years of operation of their work, the effect may be evaluated in the light of modern developments. Their principles and aims will undoubtedly remain as a permanent guide, for they are based on very lofty ideals. Their material also represents probably all that can be created, allowing merely modification or elaboration. The points of difference lie in methods. The ideas of Guts Muths were fully incorporated into Jahn’s system. Their method calls for the natural development of individual powers. It is a difficult method, involving a great variety of means.

The methods of Spiess and Ling are more easily and more readily adopted by teachers, but they are rather formal and ignore to some extent the nature of the individual. They seem, therefore, less valuable.

The methods of Spiess and Ling have for a long time influenced school gymnastics in all countries. The method of Jahn has been and still is finding favor among the populace.

Jahn’s idea of physical education, with its fundamental freshness, is today vindicated. Although it showed many crude points in the beginning, and at one time inclined toward too narrow a specialization, it stands today, at least in Europe, unrivaled in scope, popularity, effectiveness and social value. Other methods, especially the exclusively formal ones, have shown less success.

The claim of the advocates of Swedish gynastics, to have found a scientific method, cannot be upheld. Movements and isolated physiological effects may be reduced to a mathematical basis, but their ultimate value must depend upon the spirit in which they are executed, and the result they produce socially and morally. Psychology, individual and social, is the science upon which Jahn based his method. Physiological or hygienic outcomes are considered by-products, not aims.

Digitized by v^ooQle
562

It may be said that Ling represents the abstract scientific mind, Spiess the pedagogical, but that Jahn represents life.

These great leaders favored exercises with and upon apparatus as indispensable means in physical training. Jahn found that many exercises could be used to stimulate individual development, resulting in social value, but he created a type that is especially suitable for that purpose. His apparatus exercises, administered with the right method, allow first of all individual expression, through which alone true individual and social virtues can be developed. Secondly, they require no drilling on the part of an autocratic teacher or coach. On the contrary they appeal to the social instincts of imitation, rivalry and helpfulness. The setting up of the apparatus alone, under normal conditions, offers an opportunity that should create a desire to exercise. But the teacher has a more difficult task with these exercises than with the formal methods of Spiess and Ling. The nature of the activity does not allow a teacher to becone stereotyped in method or manner; it forces him to keep pace with the pupils in points of initiative, interestedness, spirit and physical proficiency.(43) He cannot hide behind a mysterious or abstract subject matter, for that soon becomes common property, many pupils even excelling him in ability to do and learn. The teacher is shorn of all superiority in these respects and must exert his true teaching ability, that of inspiration and guidance. Jahn knew that such a type of activity would not readily find favor with school men. Weak teachers especially will ignore it. However, the worthwhileness of any activity or method in a school program should not be based upon such considerations, but upon its innate value. Students of physical education will find that Jahn’s conception is a more scientific and practical one. Had Jahn not confined his energy to physical education, but to the general educational field, he might today be heralded as one of the greatest educators. More so than Pestalozzi, he was a century ahead of the time.

SOME OTHER LEADERS, AND THEIR CONTRIBUTIONS The invention or creation of gymnastic apparatuses, apart from minor additions and modifications, was practically completed by the great pioneers whose activities have been described. Other leaders in different countries borrowed their systems and methods, making such omissions or changes as conformed with their own views, or conditions of their country. The following are regarded as the most important in the field.

Clias, Phokion H. (1782-1854), Switzerland and England A native of Switzerland, Clias was active alternately in England, France and his own country. He is described as a very successful teacher, but somewhat ambitious in his claims.

43	This does not mean that a teacher need equal or excel the pupils in any skill, but that he must keep himself physically fit.

Digitized by v^ooQle
563

His first book is now known as a piece of plagiarism.(44) For England he wrote Elementary Course of Gymnastic Exercises (1825). His exercises were essentially those of Guts Muths and Jahn, in addition to which he described some form of what he called “Kallisthenics”. The apparatuses which he used were the horizontal beam, the parallel bars, poles, ropes, the climbing mast and the horse. Clias seems to have been the first to describe the giant-stride (merry-go-round, Rundlauf, maypole), now found on nearly every playground and in many gymnasiums. (45)

Maclaren, Archibald (1820-1884), in England Maclaren, a noted English educator, made contributions of great value. He was asked by the English government to reorganize the gymnastic training of the army. His manual, A Military System of Gymnastic Exercises (1862), was used as a text. Better known is his book, A System of Physical Education, published 1867. Maclaren rejected the Swedish system as too limited with its corrective aim, and he did not like the method of Spiess, which then must have been kncwn as the German system. As he gives no bibliography, it is difficult to tell how much he knew of the work of others. His thoughts, methods and especially his exercises were surprisingly similar to those of Jahn.

Maclaren believed in the apparatus work of Jahn’s type as a necessary addition to the English games. His reasons are given in his book. (46)

Maclaren was one of the first to take anthropometric measur-ments, and, based upon these, show the effect of systematic training in the gymnasium. Apart from this Maclaren has made no original contributions with regard to apparatus work, but the fundamental principles of physical education have never been better stated in English literature. In spite of his sound ideas, his system did not become successful. The public schools later adopted the Swedish system.

Amoros, Francis (1770-1848), in France Amoros, a Spaniard, immigrated to France in 1814. He is the founder of French gymnastics. An enthusiastic teacher and brilliant student .of physical training, he was appointed by the French government, director of the “Gymnase Normal Militaire et Civil” in 1819, and later of all French gymnastic institutions. His most important literary work is Manuel D’Education Physique, Gymnastique et Morale, 1830 with an atlas of 50 pages, and 350 illustrations of apparatus and exercises. This work brought him an award from the Royal Academy of Sciences. He divided gymnastics into:

44	Anfangsgruende	der	Gymnastik	oder	Bern, 1816.	(Largely

copied from Guts Muths’ Gymnastik.)

45	See “Flying Course or Giant Step”, in Elementary Course cf Gymnastic Exercises.

46	A System of Physical Education.

Digitized by CjOOQle
564

1.	Civile et industrielle.

2.	Militaire, terrestre et maritime.

3.	Medicale.

4.	Scenique ou fonambulique (acrobatics).

The last named form he rejected for his purposes. The aims of gymnastics he decribed as the development of the physical and moral powers of the individual; to make him stronger and wiser; more alert, courageous, industrious and flexible; to enable him to combat more successfully all obstacles of climate and conditions of life, in order that he might serve efficiently his state and human society.

Amoros considered exercises first according to their effect upon the body and secondly according to their adaptability to apparatus. He cited physical laws for the most important exercises, and made selections according to their utility in practical life. The method of exercising, he based upon that of Pestalozzi. First free exercises, then exercises upon apparatus and other activities.

Amoros utilized all pieces of apparatus known at that time. His atlas affords a most interesting study. There are many pieces of apparatus of peculiar design, most of which have become absolete. Amoros must have been one of the first to use the trapeze, the rings, the knotted ropes, the inclined boards, a form of giant-stride, and strength test machines for physical training purposes.

His system did not become popular, but was nevertheless retained in the schools and in the army. His methods, like those of Spiess, Ling, and Pestalozzi, were too formal. But gymnastic apparatuses of all descriptions have remained popular in France. After 1870, the French instituted the Belgian system (which is largely the same as the German “Tumen”). Numerous societies were gradually founded. In schools also, though not universally, the more popular apparatus exercises of that system replaced the former ones of Amoros.

Nachtegall,Franz (1777-1847), in Denmark Inspired by the work of Guts Muths in Germany, Nachtegall started gymnastics in Denmark. In 1799 he founded an institute, the first of its kind, for the physical training of college students, young tradesmen, cadets and others. It was modeled entirely after Guts Muths’ playground in Germany. A visitor reports that he saw exercises upon hanging ladders, rope ladders, climbing masts and poles; also balancing, tug of war, and vaulting. For the vaulting a wooden horse was used. Mats were placed around the horse to insure soft landing, and a teacher caught the vaulters who missed. This seems to be the first report upon the use of mats, although they were undoubtedly used long before. (47) It is interesting to note that young Ling

47 Wassmannsdorf, K.: “Ein Besuch des Pestalozzianers C. A. Zeller in F. Nachtegall’s Turnanstalt in Kopenhagen in 1804.”	fuer

'd'e sen, 1888.

Digitized by kjOOQLe
565

was a pupil in this institute during his stay in Copenhagen from 1799-1804.

Nachtegall was later appointed director of gymnastics of schools and army, in which capacity he did much to further the cause of physical training, making it compulsory in schools by 1828. At about the same time he established a normal school for the training of teachers. However, after his death, there was not much progress until the last quarter of the nineteenth century, when gymnastics became more popular with the people. The schools amalgamated the Swedish gymnastics with the old Danish, using both Swedish and other apparatus.

(To be continued in September issue).

SIDELINE BASKETBALL.

Herbert L. Evans, Philadelphia.

A.	The purpose of the game is two-fold.

1.	To play basketball with larger groups than ten so that it may be played in gymnasium classes.

2.	To teach passing to the average 7th and 8th grade pupils,

B.	The court to be used is the regular basketball court divided into two end zones and a middle zone.(See diagram).

oooooooooo

Digitized by LjOOQle
566

C.	)PIayers. The number of players may vary in the gymnasium class games. No more than fifteen players to a side should be used if it is desired to have a good competitive game for after school play. Each team is divided in three groups of players, five in each group, for the purpose stated under “E. Time of game for contests”. Ten players of one team are lined up outside of one side-line: the other five players are placed within the court. The players of the other team are placed in like manner, but the ten line players are lined up outside of the opposite side line. (See diagram).

D. The playing rules are the same as in basketball, with the following exceptions:

1.	No dribble is permitted, the players may only pass to

another player or shoot for the basket. Penalty for infraction:	Ball goes to opponents on side-line opposite

the point of the foul.

2.	Players within the regular court may only pass to members of their team along the side-line. Penalty for infraction: Ball goes to opponents on the side-line opposite point of foul.

3.	Players along the side-line may only pass to a player within the regular court. They may not pass the ball along the side-line. Penalty for infraction: Ball goes to opponents on side-line directly opposite.

4.	A player on the side-line may not shoot for the basket

at any time. Penalty for infraction:	Ball	goes to

opponents on side-line directly opposite.

5.	A player within the regular court may only shoot for the basket when he receives the ball in the end zone.

Digitized by LjOOQle
567

Penalty for infraction:	Ball goes to the opponents on

side-line opposite point of foul.

6.	The ball may be shot for the basket repeatedly as long as it remains in the end zone. It need not be passed to the side-line each time, although it may be so passed if the player in posesssion is not in favorable position. The pass must be to a side-line player; never to a player within the court. The side-line player may then pass to any player open for a shot.

7.	Side-line players must not interfere with players on the

regular court nor step across the line to reach the ball: Penalty for infraction:	Ball	goes	to	the	opponents on

the side-line opposite the point of the foul.

8.	Players on the regular court may not reach across the line and interfere with a side-line player. Penalty for infraction: One free shot from foul line (marked F on diagram) by any opponent on the regular court. Note: The side-line player may make his pass under the same rule as in regular basketball; the referee must be alert to judge the time limit and transfer the ball to the opposite side-line if the ball is withheld from play too long. In actual practice, the side-line player passes very quickly as he can easily keep track of his own side. The player on the court passes very quickly also as all he need do is throw the ball at the side-line; and that is all he is permitted to do. This results in a game that is faster than regular basketball for inexperienced players on the regular court; side-line players are also kept reasonably busy as the ball must go to the side-line on each alternate pass. The game is also reasonably free from fouls as the side-line player has a chance to select a player in the open, and this player usually has time to pass before he is guarded too closely-

9.	When players are changed from the side-line to the court the ball is to be put in play from the side-line of the team in possession when play stops. At the beginning of each half and after a basket is scored, the ball shall be tossed up at center.

E. Time of game for contests. The length of a game is thirty minutes divided into two fifteen halves. There need not be an intermission longer than the time necessary to change sideline players to opposite sides of the court. Each group of five players on each team will spend five minutes of each half on the regular court and ten minutes along the side-line. Time is taken out during all such changes in position. Changes should be made as rapidly as possible.

Suggestions.

1. Long passes by side-line players is to be discouraged but not penalized unless it becomes too general. Long passes usually fall into the hands of opponents and.

Digitized by
568

when boys are learning the game, play may be stopped and this fact pointed out after the ball has reached the side-line.

2.	Players along the side-line should not be allowed to move back and forth any farther than the next player to the right or left.

3.	It has been found best to keep the left hands of sideline players toward their own basket as the majority are right handed. Changing to the opposite side of the court (right hand to basket) would tend to make the players more effective in passing with the left hand, and would be valuable training for the regular game.

HOW UNCLE SAM PROTECTS TRAVELERS

F. W. Draper, M. D., Assistant Surgeon General United States Public Health Service Washington, D. C.

Few of us when we start off for a vacation with the children, have any idea that Uncle Sam is watching over our family’s health and safety. If we are like most people we hope that our home standards of cleanliness and good housekeeping will follow us from state to state, but we also have an uneasy feeling that we have left them far behind. Thus, it may be reassuring to know that the federal government through the office of the Surgeon General, is constantly on the alert to safeguard our health through the inspection and regulation of the housekeeping details of trains and steamships.

Safeguarding the health of travelers is only one of the many problems which the Surgeon General and his aides are called upon to solve, but it is increasingly important, for more and more American families are acquiring the habit of travel. In fact, so many children are traveling these days that the Public Health Service and Administration Section of the White House Conference on Child Health and Protection, of which the Surgeon General is chairman, included the study of health laws relating to common carriers in its consideration of measures which affect the welfare of children at the recent conference on child health that met in Washington.

Here are some of the present regulations enforced through the office of the Surgeon General in regard to drinking water on trains and steamers:

“Every six months a common carrier must secure from the United States Public Health Service a certificate approving the source or sources from which it draws its supply of water for drinking and cooking purposes. This certificate is given only after a survey and examination of the supply itself.

“In vessels plying between one state and another the piping for water is likewise subject to inspection, lest the drinking water come in contact with that for washing or fire.

%

Digitized by
569

“One more protection—and a comparatively recent one— is the regulation requiring separate compartments for ice and water in coolers. Though the ice may be made of pure water, there is always the chance that dirty hands may carry it, or that it may he set down for the moment on some dirty floor or truck.”

Uncle Sam watches over our food supply too, prohibits the serving of spoiled or tainted food, whether cooked or uncooked, and has recently ruled that we must be served with Grade A. pasteurized milk or with certified milk.

The law further provides that all table and kitchen utensils, including crockery and glass must be washed in boiling water and suitable cleansing material after they are used, and that refrigerators and food receptacles must be emptied and washed out with hot water and soap not less than once a week.

Personal cleanliness of the employees is secured by the requirement that they wash their hands after the use of the toilet and immediately before beginning service. To make this possible the law directs that a proper lavatory with soap and clean towels shall be provided for the employees and “kept at all times in a clean and sanitary condition,” and places the responsibility for this provision upon the person in charge of the dining car or dining room.

The employees in kitchen or dining room are required to undergo a physical examination before entering on their duties, and at any other time when it is deemed desirable, and if they are found to have or are suspected of having a communicable disease, they are immediately relieved from service.

The little basins into which we clean our teeth on sleeping cars are there by virtue of the law which forbids us the use of the common wash basin for this purpose. The law also forbids the common towel and the common drinking cup. Most of us, by this time, realize the danger of the common towel and cup, but customs change slowly and whether we realize it or not Uncle Sam has had no small part in educating us to our preesnt fastidiousness.

Travellers suffering from certain communicable diseases cannot be accepted as passengers in the usual way on trains or boat. It is sometimes necessary, however, for these people to travel and the law provides for this contingency by specific and stringent regulations which safeguard both the patient and the public.

The United States Public Health Service has also, at the request of the Department of the Interior, recently taken over the responsibility for sanitary conditions in our National Parks, and now inspects food and water supplies and enforces regulations regarding the disposal of wastes. With thousands of families camping with their children in our National Parks every summer, it is easy to see how necessary proper regulation of these matters

Digitized by Tooele
570

is, for tourists exposed to disease through unsanitary conditions in the parks would carry infection all over the country on their homeward journey. The situation might be especially dangerous to the childhood of the nation, for our youngsters return from vacations to reenter school almost immediately, and the chances for spreading contagion would therefore be almost infinite.

By cooperating with Uncle Sam in his efforts to protect the health of our families we can be of immense service in furthering his program on Child Health and Protection.

GRAVITY AND THE CIRCULATION*

There are surprising differences in the ease with which persons who are rated as being in excellent health and do not exhibit known circulatory defects make adjustments to certain changes in posture. Most of us are frequently altering our position from one pose to another. We arise, stand still, walk or exert ourselves in many ways without realizing that the consequent changes of bodily posture are attended with notable circulatory changes representing adjustments that make the variations in the body’s position comfortable as well as physiologically effective. Not infrequently, healthy persons feel real discomfort, which may range from a vague sensation to acute dizziness or even fainting when they change from a reclining position to an upright posture. There is an evident circulatory embarrassment involved in this condition. Its nature is gradually becoming clearer as the result of careful investigation. An immediate factor that needs adjustment by the bodily mechanism is associated with the effect of gravity on the circulation. There will be the natural tendency for blood to stagnate in the lower part of the body when the latter is shifted from a horizontal to a vertical position. To avoid this undesirable interference with the circulation, the vasomotor mechanism promptly tends to come into play in most persons. The first adjustment results in an increase in the rate of the heart accompanied by a rise of diastolic pressure and a narrowing of the pulse pressure. The systolic pressure shows no extensive change; it may rise or fall or be unchanged. The narrowing of the pulse pressure is of sufficient magnitude to suggest a much decreased output per beat for which the faster rate of the heart may not be able to compensate and thus to maintain the reclining circulatory minute volume. Presently, as a rule, there is a widened pulse pressure, particularly when muscular movements come into play. The pulse pressure in exercise is widened, mainly by a rise of the systolic pressure; in standing, the pulse pressure is narrowed as a result of the rise of diastolic pressure. In exercise the factors making for the return of blood to the heart are in evidence—augmented respiration, muscular movements—while in quiet standing these afford almost no help.

Evidently the distress experienced by many persons during simple standing for even a few minutes is related to the failure

Digitized by kjOOQle
571

of the circulation to supply sufficient blood to the higher nervous centers. Evidence of stagnation elsewhere has recently been obtained at Mount Holyoke College. Observation of persons tilted at different angles while at rest on a movable holder suggested a distinct reflex for the response to gravity as contrasted with exercise, though both are characterized by increased heart rate. Exercise shows a widened pulse pressure, standing a narrowed pulse pressure. One of the early effects of standing without movement is the increase in the blood content of the legs. The average increment in leg size represents the temporary detaining in the part of the body concerned of about 4.6 per cent of the total blood in circulation, or between 200 and 300 cc. of blood. It also tends to stagnate in the abdominal region during standing. The effect can be lessened by such support as a bandage gives. Of course, posture and abdominal tonus are effective also, when they are suitably developed.

It is suggested by Turner that the vasoconstriction which serves to raise the diastolic pressure in standing and which shows signs of failure at the time of subjective discomfort is distinctly, as in hemorrhage, a compensatory mechanism. As in that case, the lessened output of the heart per minute as well as per beat is an essential element of the picture and is due to lessened return of blood from the veins. This output is still adequate for the needs of the brain in the many who stand successfully, but it is wont to fail more or less as the quiet erect position is held; and in poor subjects the time of successful functioning of the medullary centers may be brief indeed. It is of the greatest importance, Turner adds, to note that the methods which normally assist in returning blood to the heart are those which relieve this circulatory embarrassment in standing. Deep sighs are frequent in these uncomfortable persons; restless movements are often almost beyond their control; they stand much better during the abundant circulation which follows a meal when return from the digestive tract would be especially facilitated; they are aided by abdominal supports. If the prevention of blood stagnation in the upright posture may be secured by proper physical training, the prosecution of further studies as to the methods to be employed seems well worth while.

The annual Recreation Congress this year will be held in Toronto Canada October 5-9, 1931. The Royal York Hotel will be headquarters.

This will be the first time the Congress will be held outside of the United States, hence the convention will be international in scope. The Premier of Canada and other high officials in Canadian affairs will take part in the program.

A special meeting of vital interest to physical educators has been arranged. The topic for discussion this year will be:

Digitized by ^.ooQle
572

"What Physical Education Can Do to Train for a More Adequate Recreation Life."

Practically all the topics at the Congress will be of special interest to physical educators. A few of them are:

The Use of School Buildings as Indoor Recreational Centers Carrying on Recreation from the School to the Community. Recreation in Small Communities and Rural Districts.

Winter Sports.

Two very fine reports are to be made by committees that have been studying the following subjects for the past year: Surfacing.

Standards in Playground Equipment.

Toronto is a beautiful city with many fine parks and is readily accessible to the people in this country, having splendid railroad facilities.

For years many physical educators have attended the National Recreation Congress held under the auspices of the National Recreation Association. It is expected that the physical education meeting will be largely attended this year.

The Sports Physician in a recent issue has an exhaustive review of Dr. R. Tait McKenzie’s "Exercise in Education and Medicine.” Dr. Worringen ends his sympathetic review with the words that this book is one of the largest contributions to physical education, and that it has not been equalled in America nor in any other country.

The federation for feminine sports of France has eliminated all men as members; women are to manage and regulate all competitions. All women who wish to compete must present a statement of physical fitness; also they must submit a list of events in which they have competed and their records in these events. The object of the federation is to increase the number of women taking part in sports, rather than the training of champions.

In order to qualify as participants at the next national festival of the Gymnastic Federation of Switzerland, all societies of this association must hereafter, at least once a year, conduct a "Tumfahrt,” that is a hike on a prescribed route by a prescribed percent of members.

A new type of competition is being advocated in France. The idea is to have children, their parents and their grandparents take part in running events. The winner is that family that scores most points in the three age-groups.

Digitized by UjOOQle