MIND AND BODY

Vol. 30_________March,	1924__________No.	326

PUBUSHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO, NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered us second-class matter October I4% 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March J, /<?7p.

♦------------------------------

Original articles and reprint^

V------------------------------1

SPECIAL NOTICE.

When the S. 0. S. came from that excellent publication “The American Journal of School Hygiene” calling for help, the editor of “Mind and Body” wrote to Dr. Averill offering to help preserve the organization that was so active in advancing the cause of Health. We present herewith Dr. Averill’s answer to our note, and we have the feeling that our readers will be pleased to have additional material monthly from such reliable sources.

William A. Stecher, Editor.

Through the very kind invitation of	and Body, I am

enabled to continue the efforts in behalf of educational hygiene heretofore carried on through the columns of my own journal: The School Hygiene Review, publication of which it has seemed wise to discontinue—at least for the present. It will be a pleasure to conduct a department devoted exclusively to the evangel of school health work in Mind and Body, beginning with the April, 1924, ■umber, and I should like at this time to express my deep apprecia-Iton of the courtesy thus extended by the editors and pubnshers.

Digitized by LjOOQle
442

Will all publishers, editors, reviewers and workers generally in the field of educational hygiene who have cooperated with me so cordially and faithfully during the past seven years, be kind enough to continue to mall to my address such material as can be made editorial use of in chronicling for the columns of and Body the country-wide progress of school health work, with the assurance that a much wider circle of interested persons will be reached thru this organ than the School Hygiene Review was able to encompass?

Address: Dr. Lawrence A. Averill, State Normal School, Worcester, Massachusetts.

THE BODILY ASPECT OF MENTAL PROCESS.*

By James Drever, M. A., B. Sc., D. Phil., F. R. S. E.

“It is not a soul, it is not a body, that we are training, but a man, and we ought not to divide him.” Thus wrote Montaigne more than three hundred years ago. How tardy has been the recognition of this truth in educational practice is notorious. Even yet there is not full recognition—not the kind of recognition, for example, that was so characteristic a feature of the civilization of ancient Greece, but signs are not wanting that such a recognition is on the way. In this connection it is interesting to note the striking development that is at the present time taking place in the science of psychology, which would seem to foreshadow coming events in the field of education, of no small significance for those interested in physical training.

Psychology in the past has usually been regarded and defined as the science which has to do with the study of the mind, and, by inference, has little concern with the study of the body, except perhaps indirectly. At the present time, however, it is usual to describe psychology as the science which studies, not the mind, but the behaviour of the living organism. This change of attitude, may make a world of difference in many practical directions. Behaviour, in the ordinary sense, is carried out by muscles and glands, that is, by cells specialized in the animal body for making responses to conditions affecting the organism. But, as Sherrington has pointed out, the behaviour of the organism really starts in the cells specialized for receiving the stimulus from within or from without. Hence, just as the physiologist tries to understand the behaviour of the living organism by studying the processes taking place in the various cells, those receiving the stimulus and those making the response, so the psychologist attempts to understand the behaviour as a whole by approaching it from the inner or mental side. Both are concerned with the study of the behaviour of the living organism in the two aspects which that behaviour presents. The behaviour is the concrete fact.

* Reprint from “Journal of School Hygiene and Physical Education,’' Birmingham, Eng.

Digitized by L^ooQle
443

It is now generally agreed that the older psychologists were seriously in error in regarding mental states and processes, like remembering, believing, being afraid, wishing, as taking place in the mind, independently altogether of the body. It is safe to say that no mental process we know takes place independently of bodily process. What we have been accustomed to regard as a process entirely in the mind can be shown to be in part at least a bodily process as well, and if we are provided with the proper apparatus we can observe and record the bodily process. This is the main point I wish to make clear. To do so, I intend to consider typical and familiar mental processes, dealing first with the kind of processes we call feelings and emotions, and then going on to discuss thoughts and ideas.

That emotions are associated with bodily processes, especially if the emotions are at all violent, is a very familiar fact, which can be verified in anyone’s own experience. These bodily processes when we study them are found to involve a wide range of responses in muscles and glands. There are changes in respiration, in blood-pressure, and heart beat, in the movement and secretions involved in digestion, in the activity of the sweat glands, in the activity of various ductless glands, ana so on.

There is a famous theory, associated with the name of William James, according to which emotion is simply our experience of these bodily processes. “My theory is,” says James, ‘'that the bodily changes follow directly the perception of the exciting fact, and that our feeling of the same changes as they occur is the emotion. Common sense save we lose our fortune, are sorry, and weep; we meet a bear, are frightened, and run; we are insulted by a rival, are angry, and strike. The hypothesis here to be defended says that this order of sequence is incorrect, that the one mental state is not immediately induced by the other, that the bodily manifestations must first be interposed between, and that the more rational statement is that we feel sorry because we cry, angry because we

strike, afraid because we tremble.................Without	the bodily

states following upon the perception, the latter would be purely cognitive in form, pale, colourless, destitute of emotional warmth. We might then see the bear and judge it best to run, receive the insult and deem it right to strike, but we should not actually fed afraid or angry.”

This theory has often been misunderstood. What James is arguing for is that the bodily response, which follows on our experience of an emotionally exciting fact, is the most characteristic part of our emotional experience—is what makes our experience emotional. The whole organism is a “sounding-board” to every experience we have. Recent investigations of what is known as the psycho-galvanic response show clearly that every experience that is accompanied by any sort of feeling is also accompanied by changes in the electrical condition of the body, due it is believed w activity in the sweat glands. So constant is this phenomenon that a delicate galvanometer can register every slight change of teeliag

Digitized by LjOOQle
444

that goes on in the course of an ordinary conversation. No thought that passes thru our inind but is tinged with feeling of some kind. Hence every thought that passes thru the mind may be said to have a bodily aspect corresponding to this feeling.

Even thoughts themselves, as soon as we examine them narrowly, we find to have a bodily aspect, apart from that involved in the accompanying feeling. What is the process we call thinking? When we are speaking popularly, we apply the term more particularly to processes like those in reverie or day dreaming, and in most cases we imply by the use of the word a process that is opposed to overt action. On the other hand, strictly and scientifically, every process of conscious adjustment cf our responses to meet a situation which presents itself is thinking. In proportion as we make the adjustment without consciousnesss, the thinking is relatively rudimentary, but, so long as there is consciousness at all, there is thinking. The point I wish particularly to emphasize is that thinking consists in the adjustment of our responses. Does it follow from this that we do our thinking with our muscles, not with our brains? Not quite that perhaps. The conscious side is represented by brain process; but the adjustment side is undoubtedly bodily, and largely muscular, and there is no thinking without it.

There are three distinct levels at which thinking may take place, as far as the human being is concerned. (The thinking of animals is mostly carried out at the lowest level.) At the first or perceptual level, thinking takes place only in actual movements. At the two higher levels it take place by means of what we call “ideas” or “thoughts”. We can easily show that in a great many cases even “ideas” or “thoughts” have a bodily aspect, and the evidence is such that we are justified in asserting that all have. At the higher levels the thought processes are exceedingly complex, and are invariably bound up with feeling, which we have just been considering. But matters can be considerably simplified by taking one particular case, which is quite typical. Thoughts and ideas passing thru the mind are nearly always named. That is to say, m thinking we carry on a kind of suppressed conversation with ourselves. When we are alone the conversation is not always suppressed. Now let us try the experiment of thinking of a word, and immediately we find our word organs shaping themselves for the speaking of the word. A word like “babble” illustrates this most clearly.

It is certain that every thought of movement involves the beginnings of the actual movement, that is, the first muscular contractions in making the movement. Someone may ask the question: What of ideas that are not ideas of movement, or even of speech? The fact is that every idea we have, whether an idea of movement or not, involves movement of some kind. For example, we think of a landscape we have seen, and careful observation will tell us that there are incipient contractions of the eye muscles, «f the same kind as those involved in actually seeing, and letting oer •ye® rove over the landscape.

Digitized by t^-ooQle
445

There is even more to be said. It is largely by means of this bodily factor—this motor factor—that we control tne course of our thought. We get control of a movement by getting the feel of the movement. In thinking of the movement think the feel of the movement. This means the beginning of the movement itself, and the movement is made. Now take a longer chain. The child learns to make the movements involved in throwing a ball. He also learns to make the sound “frow” in connection with the movements. He can now initiate the movement by thinking of the word, and another person may cause the movement to take place by speaking the word. In the concrete, the thought, the word, and the movement are parts of one chain because of the motor factor which runs thru all.

When the idea of an act immediately realizes itself in the act we have the kind of action called by the psychologist “ideomotor”. Many of the actions we call impulsive are of this order. If what has just been said is true, it may be asked, why are not all actions ideomotor? As a matter of fact, all actions are—up to a certain point. What ordinarily happens is that, before an act can be completely realized, other, and opposing, ideas are evoked by the situation, and action is suspended, until we have made up our minds what to do. If in any way these opposing, or suspending, ideas are prevented from rising, then ideomotor action takes place. This is precisely what happens with an accepted suggestion in hypnosis or in the normal state.

If more evidence were needed to show how closely thought is bound up with bodily process, it could be obtained in ample store from the phenomena of suggestion. Most of the marvels we have been hearing about recently in connection with Coue’s cures have been for a long time recognized as possible phenomena of hypnosis. They cease to be marvels and become science when we regard them as further illustration of the fact that thinking itself is not separate from, but an integral part of, the behaviour of a living organism. It is not an affair solely of the m;nd, or even of the brain, but in the concrete is inseparable from the bodily responses having their seat in our muscles and glands.

WHAT IS PHYSICAL EDUCATION?*

A rose by any other name would be as sweet, possibly, but a name for a flower that carried with it the idea of only a stamen, a petal, or some other constituent part would certainly not convey the impression of the whole and would be confusing and misleading.

There is much misunderstanding of the names appl'ed to certain practices which have for the>r object the development and preservation of the child on the bodily side. In particular, there is much mistaken use of the expresssion "physical education.” To many it means gymnastic training; to others athletics; to others the teaching of physiology and hygiene; to others the term stands

• Reprint from “School Life” January 1924.

Digitized by
446

for training in health habits; while for others it stands for the medical inspection of school children and the correction of physical defects.

On its face physical education is a more comprehensive tom and includes all the other activities as means to its end.

Moreover, such a herculean task has been laid at its door that ‘ even with all the means suggested by the lesser words combined it will have its hands full. It is expected, in many quarters, to do nothing less than produce an ideal human being, or at least a 100 per cent draft-perfect manhood. This certainly can not be done by athletics nor by gymnastics (they have both been tried before), and physiology has been found wanting in the past. Nor can the teaching of health habits in schools or the establishment of nutrition classes do it all; they may help mightily, but they have their hindrances in the home and usually begin their work some six or more years too late for best results.

Physical education, if it is to accomplish very much, means the employment of all the forces at our command for developing and keeping the body at its best. To accomplish most it should, of course, have begun with our ancestors, but practically it can and should begin with the first day of our personal evolution and be well on its way when we are born. Prenatal care is fundamental. Preschool care and training come next. When we arrive at school age medical inspection should stand first in point of time, but the very words signify that we are dealing with imperfect or already damaged human machines. Much, however, can be done to put these machines in better working condition. The teaching (with help in the home) of the few essential habits which are necessary for health comes late, but is fa»* better late than never. Muscular exercise, which is but one of the health habits, has its place, and an important one, but muscular exercise alone is not deserving of the name physical education.

Physical education again is only part and parcel of all education. There is no mental action without a physical change. Modem psychology is little more than a chapter in physiology, and it is for this reason that the physical side of education is of so much importance and why we should make the most of it for education’s sake and not merely for the end of preparing a more successful number of candidates for cannon fodder.

There can be no clear thinking without clear definition of terms, and it is high time that on a subject which is acknowledged in theory to be the most important in education we should not confuse the whole with one of its constituents, or misname or mistake a part for the whole.

J. F. Rogers.

Digitized by
447

NOTES ON THE REPORT OF THE NEW YORK STATE COMMISSION ON VENTILATION.

By D. D. Kimball, a Member of the Commission.

In the study of the New York State Commission on Ventilation, whose report was recently published, 184 days of observations of window ventilation were made in five different school buildings, in which five methods of ventilation were compared.

Window ventilation alone, without exhaust flues, was found to be altogether unsatisfactory. It gave rise to inadequate aeration, odors, local drafts and too great a variability of temperature in different parts of the room.

The use of direct-indirect radiation, in which the air entered thru openings in the outside wall under or at the back of the radiators, was also found to be unsatisfactory. There were great variations in temperature in different parts of the room, aeration was inadequate, and complaints of draftiness were common.

It was found that classroom ventilation thru the use of windows plus a gravity exhaust flue proved quite satisfactory, observations being made on 87 days in various seasons and under varied outdoor weather conditions. While there was not as extensive flushing of the room with fresh air as with the fan system the rooms were generally free from odor.

Artificial ventilation, in which fans supplied the air, proved auite satisfactory, indeed, the observers voted it the best of any, the flushing of the schoolroom being superior to that obtaining with window ventilation.

During the study of those rooms having supply and exhaust fans it so happened that several of the rooms presented difficulties which tended to impair the value of comparisons. In one of these rooms, in which there was also an artificial humidification of air, conditions did not prove satisfactory. While there was an increased amount of air flow in these rooms, as measured at the outlets, the actual diffusion of the fresh air thruout the entire room, did not appear as effective as in the rooms which had the fan supply and gravity exhaust.

Of the five methods studied, the two which most consistently gave satisfactory results were:

Window ventilation with gravity exhaust.

Fan ventilation with gravity exhaust.

Three methods of ventilation were studied during the winter of

1915-1916, window ventilation alone in eight rooms, window ventilation with gravity exhaust in nine rooms, and fan ventilation in two rooms.

As in previous studies it was found that the window ventilation alone (with no provision for exhaust) was unsatisfactory. The aeration of the room was found so defective that noticeable odors *

* Reprint from “Heating and Ventilating Magazine.”

Digitized by Google
448

were general in the rooms, and agreeable air conditions could not be maintained. One of the significant findings in this study was that in the window-ventilated rooms the zone of comfort was at a slightly lower temperature than the corresponding zone for the fan-ventilated rooms.

To probe deeper into the relative merits of window ventilation, or in other words, natural versus artificial ventilation, a four months’ comparative study of window ventilation and fan ventilation was conducted during the winter of 1916 and 1917. Certain of both types of ventilation had proved satisfactory in previous studies, but the commission wished to eliminate, as far as possible, certain variables.

Three or four schoolrooms of each type of ventilation were compared in each of three school buildings. Detailed observations were made during 1,000 school sessions. In addition, more general observations were made on 322 other sessions in fan ventilated rooms in these same buildings.

In one of the schools both fan and window rooms were clearly unsatisfactory, principally due to overheating. In the second school both fan and window ventilated rooms were entirely satisfactory, but the teachers’ preferences were for the window-ventilated rooms. In the third building the fan-ventilated rooms were distinctly superior, conditions therein being uniformly admirable.

It having been found that a window ventilation system and a fan ventilation system could produce the same air conditions, and that despite this the observers and teachers generally preferred the rooms having window ventilation, the question arose, did the factors of prejudice, habit and suggestion determine and influence the votes?

Naturally rooms which are constantly under observation, represent a very different condition than may be expected in the average window-ventilated schoolroom. Investigation in the case of one school provided with the window-ventilating system showed but one open window in the entire building. This condition is frequently found to exist, even when the principal, and perhaps some of the teachers, are enthusiastic advocates of window ventilation. Such conditions constitute a reversion to those which existed thirty years or more ago, to overcome which artificial ventilation has been applied to school buildings.

The operation of the window-ventilating system assumed that the windows shall be kept open the maximum possible without chilling the room, i. e., without exceeding the heating capacity of the radiator, upon the theory that the more heat supplied by the radiator the more air may be admitted thru the window. Manual control of the radiator is best because the application of automatic temperature regulation to the radiator is found to result in the window being less opened until ventilation is practically eliminated. This balancing of heat supply and window opening, if property done, requires frequent attention, and imposes upon the busy teacher a duty which is extraneous and which thus becomes the first neglected. Only the active interest, enthusiasm and atten-
449

lion of the teachers, with constant supervision, will make the window-ventilating system successful.

Window ventilation may not in any case be used in buildings surrounded by dusty streets, or in buildings subjected to odorous surroundings; and buildings subjected to strong prevailing winds Upon one side are necessarily deficient in ventilation on the opposite aide. Frequently the nature of the plan of the building will prevent the use of this system.

With the window system in use the responsibility for proper ventilation is widely distributed instead of being concentrated in the hands of one person. It should be more readily posable to employ one capable engineer than to secure and constantly maintain the interest, enthusiasm and attention of a group of teachers in the obscure problem of ventilation.

A much discussed phase of mechanical ventilation systems has always been: "What is the best location for the fresh air inlet and for the exhaust outlet in ventilating a school room?” This problem was studied during two seasons in school rooms equipped with such air inlets and outlets that operation with various combinations of them could be abserved. Special devices were developed to trace air currents at five levels, 3 in., 3 ft., 6 ft., 9 ft., and 11 ft. above the floor.

The best combination with air entering at room temperature was found to be that in which the air was introduced 8 ft. above the floor at the rear of the room, while the outlet was on the same wall near the floor. In this way the air is blown along the room toward the front, falls to the floor and is withdrawn from the rear, thereby twice traversing the length of the room. In practice I have found the same results with the inlet near one ena and the outlet near the other end of the corridor wall. Upward and downward ventilation did not give satisfactory results.

What then shall be deemed to be of the greatest immediate and practical interest in this report. As I see it, the highlights which may be briefly recounted are as follows:

1.	The physical condition of the air is of greater importance than is the chemical composition of the air.

2.	Excessive temperatures and humidities reduce physical work, but indications of a similar effect on mental efficiency were not as clear.

3.	Stagnant air reduces the appetite and the ability to do physical work, with the presumption of unfortunate concomitant results.

4.	The use of school rooms depending wholly upon windows for ventilation is wholly impracticable.

5.	The use of a prescribed form of window ventilation in •ertain types of favorably located buildings (under the care of teachers thoroly and always interested in ventilation and constantly supervised) is practicable.

6.	Altogether as favorable atmospheric conditions were found obtainable in the mechanically-ventilated rooms as in the window-ventilated rooms.

Digitized by L^ooQle
460

7.	How then may be explained the greater preference for the window-ventilated rooms as shown by teachers and observers, and by the subjects of the Wadleigh High School tests? And how shall be explained the greater prevalence of respiratory diseases in (mechanically-ventilated rooms? My answer is—better mechanical systems, better operated.

6.	Artificial humidification was found to serve no useful puroose. Its omission involved no loss in comfort, or in physical and mental progress.

9.	Recirculation, while accompanied by objectionable odors when applied to a single tightly-sealed room, actually indicated better results in physical and mental tests. Practical experience in recirculation as applied to entire buildings has encountered ne difficulty with odors and has been found most efficient and economical.

10.	Ozone is not essential, and is not even an aid, to successful ventilation.

11.	Definite suggestions are given as to the location of fresh-air supply inlets and exhaust outlets for class room ventilation, and suggestions are offered to govern the installation of both window and mechanical ventilating systems.

12.	Overheating was found to be the most common and perhaps the most serious fault found in school room practice. A thermometer on each teacher’s desk is emphasized as a most essential part of the heating and ventilating equipment.

And now may I add a brief personal observation.

A poor ventilating system in the hands of a skillful engineer will gjve better results than will the best system in the hands of a poor janitor. The success achieved with a mechanical ventilating system is largely a measure of the intelligence and skill of the operator.

The war unfortunately brought to a stop the work of the commission and the exhaustion of funds prevented the later resumptioa of this work. Manifestly the solution of the ventilation problem is not yet complete.

You will observe that two of the most successful methods of mechanical ventilation, to my mind the two most successful methods, had not been studied by the commission when its work came to an end, including the individual duct fan system and the unit ventilating system, either of which efficiently produces the results deemed essential by the commission. Either of these systems will produce any atmospheric condition found desirable by the commission in the window-ventilated rooms, and better results than were obtained in any of the mechanically-ventilated rooms studied. They are, -moreover, free of the manifold limitations applying to window ventilation. I am sure that results to be obtained by the proper use of such systems of ventilation, compared with the best results obtainable with the window type of ventilation operating under normal conditions, will show to the advantage of the mechanical system in every way, including respiratory disease records. I would not care to venture such an opinion concerning the usual
451

trunk duct system of fan ventilation. Any system of ventilation, the successful operation of which is dependent upon keeping the windows closed, is wrong in principle and in practice.

LESSONS IN DEFEAT AND VICTORY.

In the “Boston Traveler" of Sept. 29th we find the following symposium on the “Educational Value of Athletics/’

By Dudley Allen Sargent, Sc. D., M. D.

A boy is educated by what he does, not by what he thinks or sees some one else do. Education is a leading outward, a process of unfolding or an attempt to externalize one’s self. This can only be done thru the action of the nerves and muscles, and it is thru repeated attempts and failures to do what we want to do that we learn to do it. In a word, it is by persistent efforts to catch, throw and hit the ball that the ball player gets control of his muscles and learns eventually to “find the ball.”

The same principle applies to every kind of activity—preliminary trial and experiment constitute the basis of all mental and physical education. The more varied and complicated the activity, the more muscles and faculties brought into action, the more complete the education required to master it. The recognition of this fact that “practice makes perfect” furnishes a good reason for the establishment of the guilds of old, the tradesmen’s unions, mid professional pride in skilled labor. The same pride in achievement is back of the performance of every schoolboy stunt that gives him recognition among his mates. One can imagine with what boyish pride Abraham Lincoln used to do his limber handsprings at the county fairs and huskings.

The division of labor, the use of machinery and changes in the method of living have deprived our youth of the opportunity for physical education once enjoyed in doing the family chores and engaging in household employments.

As a matter of necessity, our youth of the present day are driven to adopt some form of gymnastics or athletics in order to get any physical education at all. The demands of the times have made it essential that all forms of gymnastics and athletics should be so analyzed, formulated and standardized that they may be applied to the special educational needs of both mind and body. The general educational improvement in conduct and character as well as in physique shown by those who are now participating in the activities furnished by summer camps and athletic schools and colleges would seem to imply that the athletic movement as an educational experiment is proving fairly successful.

By Frank W. Cavanaugh.

The educative values of athletics are many. A sport like football, for example, has many benefits for young men. They are

Digitized by

Google
452

taught to play for health, strength and enlightenment. Confidence and courage in adversity are developed. A vital lesson for later fife is shown young men when they learn in athletics that victory and defeat walk side by side, and that the “never say die" spirit has often a chance to snatch a victory out of an apparently hopeless situation.

Adversity is seen as an important factor in developing coolness and resourcefulness. Preparedness and team play are brought out as two of the greatest and most necessary prerequisites to success.

And then, again, active participation in sports shows how weight, size and strength are important, but are never conclusive.

Success is seen in a different light after one has gained victories and suffered defeats on a football field or on the cinder path. Defeat is regarded as a hard lesson upon which success may be built. Moreover, and this is important, athletics teach that success should be taken gratefully, but dispassionately; for overconfidence and dizzy joy live in the “house of disaster.”

By Albert M. Lyon.

The four years of college come at the period of a youth's life when the moulding processes then experienced determine largely the character of the matured man. The average youth entering college does not comprehend his situation nor sense the responsibilites which later will weigh upon him and for which preparation must be made. He easily drifts, with wasted time and neglected opportunities, which in later years are a source of deep regret.

It is during this college course period that helpful guidance must be given, and the guidance of the classroom only partially supplies the need. College athletic activity offers the most complete solution yet devised of the problem of supplementing the classroom in helpful guidance. It readily appeals to youthful energy, and constant interest and attention are easily attained. The results are manifold: Reservoirs of health, to be drawn upon in the later years; power to discriminate between the real and the fanciful; obedience to those in authority and to the rules of the game; development of physical and mental alertness; concentration of mind and co-ordination of mind and body; subservience of self for the benefit of the many; confidence in one’s self and one's ability to achieve; spirit of brotherhood and helpfulness to others; temperance, and freedom from indulgence in objectionable things; establishment of healthful habits and elimination of extravagances in thought and action; creation of a college spirit and loyalty, which later adds to itself love for home, church and country.

There need be no concern about the future of a youth possessing these qualities. In eliminating idleness and the wastage *f opportunity, and in moulding lives of usefulness and service, the college does well to provide all necessary machinery for general athletic activity.

Digitized by t^ooQle
463

PERSONALITY AND CHARACTER ARE DEVELOPED.

The general attitude, that athletics are wholly physical demonstrations for the mere winning of contests, is steadily being replaced by a recognition of far greater factors in this absorbing feature of educational life.

To the system of balancing the training of the mind with the strengthening of the body has been added the development of a desirable personality. It is thru the medium of competitive sports that this advancement is best promoted.

Upon the field of play excellent opportunities are presented to observe the natural, underlying merits and weaknesses of most participants. The close relationship of these prime points in one’s character to the successful fulfillment of the rules of competition calls for a development of the good and an early repair of the evil.

The observance of details in training, the deportment during the contests and the prominence gained thru publicity unquestionably develop will-power, respect for authority, physical poise and that great asset—proper execution while under pressure.

The recognition, acceptance and determination upon the part of the mentor to advance this trust placed with him should bring his work into conformity with the ethics of teaching.

In the final analysis, the fact that athletics serve to promote student welfare and to draw more closely together the athletic field and the classroom, alone, makes athletics of immeasurable value.

THE LIFE EXPECTANCY OF COLLEGE ATHLETES.*

The limited number of statistical studies that have been made of the longevity of college athletes give the athlete a life expectancy that is somewhat higher than that of the average young man accepted for life insurance. That the results of such studies give evidence favorable to the athlete ought not to occasion any surprise because the college athlete is a member of a highly selected group. In a study by Gaines and Hunter this selection is referred to as a three-fold process. In the first place there is a selection resulting in the healthy part of a community attenoing college. In other words there is an exclusion of impaired lives by reason of their not being able to successfully cope with the course of study. In the second place there is a selection from the student body of men of sufficient stamina to make good material for teams. This group is further subject to constant medical selection during the whole period of training. And in the third place there is a selection

* Prepared (or the Seventeenth Annual Meeting of The Athletic Research Society, Atlanta, Georgia, December 29, 1923.

By Frank M. Kanaly.

By William H. Geer, Cambridge, Mass.

Digitized by
464

from the body of athletes of those men capable of standing strain in connection with college contests. Men who are members of such a rigidly selected group ought to have a life expectancy that is equal to or above the average for young men of corresponding ages who are accepted for life insurance. If it could be proved by statistical or other studies that this condition did not obtain, there would be ground for serious charges against intercollegiate athletic competition. Whenever charges have been made against competitive athletics carefully conducted investigations have failed to substantiate than. A study by Drs. Lee, Dodd and Young did a good deal to quiet the fears of people who had been led to believe there was a close relation between competitive athletics and the so-called athletic heart. In a summary of the article prepared by these investigators we find this statement. “The only conclusion that can be drawn at this time from this particular study is that prolonged participation in rowing under the system now in vogue at Harvard University and the Union Boat Club of Boston does not materially increase the size of the heart when the heart is sound at the beginning."' In another article entitled “The Effect of Athletics on the Heart," Dr. Lee made this comment. “I see in the course of a year many young men who are carrying the burden of a diagnosis of athletic or strained heart. Thus far, in the absence of a previously damaged heart due to some inflammatory condition of the valves, I have been unable to confirm the diagnosis of an abnormal heart. My feeling is that much harm is being done by the popular impression that athletics are a frequent cause of heart disease."

In this preliminary report a reference will be made to other studies that give some evidence of the life expectancy of college athletes.'

In 1873 Dr. John E. Morgan published in "University Oare" certain statistics regarding men who took part in Oxford-Cambridge races from 1829 to 1869. His obiect was to determine whether or not the contestants were injured physically as a result of their competition. He did not compare the actual with the expected deaths. Out of 294 oarsmen, 255 were still living in 1873, and of these, 115 described themselves as benefitted, 162 as uninjured and 17 said, with reservation, that they had been injured by their competition. There were 39 deaths. A calculation made by Gaines and Hunter showed that the expected deaths by the American Experience Table of Mortality would have been approximately 61. This gave a ratio of actual to expected deaths of 64 per cent.

The Philadelphia Record, in 1901, gave the results of a study based on the lives of men who had been members of the University of Pennsylvania crews. Of the 113 who had rowed up to 1901 only two had died. In each case the cause of death was typhoid fever. The opinions of the medical authorities of the University of Pennsylvania seemed, from this article to be that heart and lungs are benefitted rather than injured by judicious and gradual training.

In 1902, Dr. George L. Meylan reported the results of a study of Harvard University oarsmen. Life expectancy was but one of
465

many items included in this comprehensive investigation. Dr. Meylan personally examined the oarsmen who were living at the time of his study in order to get first hand evidence of the health of oarsmen in after life. The following summary of Dr. Meylan’s research is taken from the report that appeared in the Harvard Graduates Magazine. “The study was made on 152 members of Harvard University crews who rowed in intercollegiate races against Yale from 1852 to 1892 inclusive. Of that number, 120 were living in June 1903. Of the 32 deceased, 24 died of disease and 8 were killed. Accurate information on 14 out of the 24 oarsmen who died of disease brought out the fact that rowing had nothing to do with their death, and information from fellow oarsmen concerning the other 10 failed to show that any of them were injured by rowing.

“The question of longevity brings out the fact that if we compare Harvard oarsmen with healthy men accepted by life insurance companies, we find that they exceed expectation of life bv 2.88 years for each man including those who were killed, and 5.39 years per man if we add the years that the men who died by accident were expected to live.

“The thoro investigation made of the condition of health of the oarsmen brought out the following interesting facts: out of 35 who were examined for life insurance, only 1 was rejected; over 94% of the oarsmen are, as far as they know, free from any affection of the heart, stomach, or kidneys; over 62% described their present health as “excellent,” 33% as “good,” 2.8% as “fair” ana 1.8% as “poor”; over 97% appeared to be in good health when seen by the writer.

“A factor which has probably contributed a large share to the exceptionally good health of these men is the fact that 96% have kept up some form of physical exercise since graduation; and the statistics show that those who have taken exercise most regularly have suffered least illness.

"Almost every oarsman spoke with enthusiasm of the beneficial effects of rowing on his health. The following statements express very fairly a composite of their views on rowing. 1. Rowing is one of the best forms of exercise. 2. Rowing will never injure the health of an oarsman if he is sound in body when he begins (his training). 3. The cases of injury usually attributed to rowing are more frequently caused by sudden change from the vigorous exercise of college rowing to a sedentary occupation in the city and this cause is often aggravated by more or less dissipation.”

While Dr. Meylan did not include a ratio of actual to expected deaths for the 152 oarsmen included in his study, this ratio seems to have been worked out at a later date by J. K. Gore. There were 32 deaths as against 37 expected deaths by the American Experience Tables. This gave a ratio of actual to expected deaths of 86%.

About two years after Dr. Meylan’s investigation, John M. Gaines and Arthur Hunter made a study of “Mortality Among Athletes and Other Graduates at Yale University.” The authorities at Yale furnished data tracing the mortality of athletes ("Y”

Digitized by LjOOQle
456

men only) from the time of the first intercollegiate competition* to the end of the year 1904. The writer is indebted to Mr. Herbert

B.	Dow, Actuary for the New England Mutual Life Insurance Company, for his kindness in lending the volume of The Transactions of the Actuarial Society of America that contains the res-sults of this study. According to Gaines and Hunter's report there were but 55 deaths up to December 31, 1904 in the group of 808 men who had been members of Yale athletic teams (football, baseball, track and crew). The American Experience Tables showed 125.9 expected deaths. This gave a ratio of actual (55) to expected deaths (125.9) of 44 %. This study included also an approximation of the expected deaths among other Yale graduates. Among 6,158 graduates of the academic department from 1863 to 1902 there were 617 deaths, while there should have been approximately 864 by the Actuarial Society Select Tables. This gave a ratio of actual to expected deaths of 70% compared to 49% by the same table for the athletes.

An investigation of the causes of death among the Yale athletes (1863-1902) and among insured men under 45 in the Mutual Life did not develop any irregularities in the distribution of deaths from various causes. There were only four deaths from heart disease in the 55 deaths among the athletes. In these cases the ages at death were 35, 57, 68 and 70.

Gaines and Hunter summarized their report as follows: ‘It is proved, in our judgment, that the mortality among athletes, property trained, is favorable and not unfavorable as is popularly supposed. These figures (as quoted above) do not prove that the constitutionally weak men can be benefitted by undergoing the strain of an intercollegiate athletic contest, but it is proved, in our judgment, that the men who were on the teams were far above the average of their fellows in vitality.”

The above studies cover most of the Investigations that have been made of the life expectancy of athletes. A quotation from a letter (dated December 13, 1923) from Dr. Brandreth Symonds, Chief Medical Director of the Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York, refers to a paper he wrote on the subject. ‘‘Some 32 years ago I wrote a paper on this subject (longevity of college athletes) after examining a number cf amateur athletes, most of which were college men. The conclusions I drew from my investigations were that college athletics did not damage a man's prospects for longevity. I have seen nothing since to change my views in this matter. Whether amateur athletics improve one’s longevity is more debatable. Those athletes who are successful are naturally in prime physical condition and are what might be called ‘self selected specimens of good physical organs.’ On this basis it is natural to assume that the longevity of such would be greater than the average. Whether this should be ascribed to athletics or mainly to their good general condition, has not been established.”

It is of interest, also, to include at this point a reference to tws news items that received wide publicity during the past (1923) football season. An investigation showed that 10 of the 22 men on

Digitized by Google
457

the Princeton squad at the time of the first football game with Yale were still alive at the 50th anniversaiy of the game. A similar investigation showed that 6 of the 15 Harvard men who played in the first Yale-Harvard game in 1875 were still living. In both of these cases about half of the groups had lived fifty years beyond the date of competition. The life expectancy for each man, according to the American Experience Tames, was about 42.2 years. In other words nearly half of the men in these two groups had outlived their expected age by seven years. According to the same tables these men had at age 70 an added life expectancy of 8.48 years per man.

The following study, by the writer, of a group of 528 Harvard athletes gives the average expectation of life as well as the ratio of actual to expected deaths for the men in this group. The data for the research was found in the “H” Book of Harvard Athletics and the Harvard University Quinquennial Catalogue of Officers and Graduates. The study is confined to “H” men and includes competitions in rowing, football, baseball and track. The group contains the membership of teams from the time of the first intercollegiate competitions to the year 1900. This gives a period of 48 years for crew, 34 for baseball, 26 for football and 20 years for track. The mortality record of the athletes included in this study was traced from the time of the first competitions to the year 1920. The men who were alive in 1920 had all been “exposed” for a period of at least 20 years after their college competition. It would seem safe to assume, therefore, that any after effects of competition would have appeared during that period.

In this preliminary study the writer has used 20 for the average age of college athletic competition. Dr. Meylan used this age in his investigations. Experiments with a few cases indicated that this figure is approximately correct and accurate enough for all purposes of a preliminary investigation. The American Experience Tables of Mortality are used. These tables are for American men accepted by Life Insurance Companies, and are baaed or» medically selected lives, that is, those free from all organic disease or hereditary tendency to disease. According to this table an organically sound young man at 20 years of age would have an expectancy of 42.2 years. In other words, he should live to be 62.2 yean of age.

In the group of 159 men who rowed on Harvard crews between 1862 and 1900 there was, in 1920, a record of 67 deaths. The 67 men who died had lived a total of 2467 years after age 20. The ' 92 oarsmen alive in 1920 had lived a total of 3430 years. A reference to the American Tables gave the men, living in 1920, a probable additional 1492 years of hfe. The total number of years lived by the Harvard oarsmen up to the year 1920 plus the probable number of years to be lived by those living in 1920 gives a total expectancy of 7339 yearn, or an average expectancy for each man of 46.47. Since the average expectancy by the American Tables for a young man of 20 was but 42.2, the oarsmen exceeded this by 4.27 years. At the time of Dr. Meylan’s study the corresponding

Digitized by Google
468

figure was 2.38. The increase is due probably to the fact that many of the men in 1920 had already exceeded their probable expectancy as computed by Dr. Meylan in 1903.

A study was made also, to find the ratio of actual deaths among the oarsmen to the expected deaths by the American Experience Tables. The writer is indebted to Mr. J. Walter Tebbetts, Assistant Actuary for the New England Mutual Life Insurance Company, for the procedure necessary to work out statistically the ratio of actual to expected deaths. In the group of 159 oarsmen there were 67 deaths, while the number of expected deaths as computed by the American Tables was 96.52, giving a ratio of actual to expected deaths of 69%. A calculation made by J. K. Gore in 1906, based on the study of Meylan, gave a ratio of actual to expected deaths for Harvard oarsmen of 86%. This difference, too, is probably due to the fact that the present study includes mortality data for a somewhat later period than that of the other investigation. In the group of English oarsmen studied by Morgan the ratio of actual to expected death by the American Tables was 64%. Hunter and Gaines found a ratio of 41% in their study of Yale oarsmen.

The data for the present study of Harvard oarsmen (referred to above) and similar data for football, baseball and track men are shown in the following table.

	No. of lives	No. of deaths	Number of Expected deaths by American Experience Tables	Ratio of Actual to Expected Deaths
Crew	159	67	96.52	69%
.Football	130	48	49.32	97
Baseball	123	38	55.29	69
Track	116	26	36.04	72

The interesting point in an analysis of these statistics, as well as those based on similar studies conducted at Oxford-Cambridge, Yale and Harvard, is not that one ratio is higher than another, but rather the fact that all of the ratios of actual to expected deaths are in favor of the athletes.

No attempt has been made to introduce any corrections in the data used. A few deaths caused by accident or as a result of participation in war disturb the results a good deal when only a limited number of lives is studied. Meylan found this was an important factor in his investigation. In ms group of 152 men there was an excess of expectation of life of 2.88 years for each Harvard oarsman. By allowing the normal expectation of life to 3 men in the group who were killed he found the excess of expectation for each man was 5.09 years, or a gain per man of 2.21 years. The writs' happens to know there were a few early deaths in the football groqi

Digitized by

Google
469

where the cause of death had no possible relation to the individual's participation in athletics. This probably accounts for the higher ratio of actual to expected deaths among the football men. like important point, however, as already indicated is that the ratio even in this group is in favor of the athlete.

In conclusion it is only fair to say that the data used in this and similar American studies are too few to justify any very definite conclusions concerning mortality among college athletes. It would seem, however, from the evidence now available that it is fair to say that the life expectancy among men who have competed in intercollegiate athletic competition is favorable when compared with that of medically selected men accepted for life insurance.

It seems desirable, as a result of this preliminary study, to suggest that an investigation on a somewhat larger scale ought, to be undertaken. The writer has arrived at his statistics by using the American Experience Tables. The use of these tables provided a baas for a comparative study of the results found in this and earlier investigations. The next research should be based on the use, of some later standard tables, such as those of the American-Canadian Mortality Investigation. Any new investigation ought to include a larger number of lives. Data should be collected from several, institutions where there has been a long period of intercollegiate athletic competition.

THE ELIZABETH CONVENTION OF THE NEW JERSEY PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION.

APPARATUS WORK.

Mathias H. Macherey, Newark, N. J.

Parallel Bars for Boys

Suitable for Grades 6, 7 and 8 From cross-stand frontways.

1.	Rear vault—opposite.

2.	Jump and swing forward to straddle seat in front of hands. Raise arms sideward. Grasp hand in front of body. Swing forward to cross-seat right. Dismount sideward right— opposite.

3.	Straddle seat and changing hands forward as in 2. Swing forward and rear vault right dismount—opposite.

Jump and swing to straddle seat in front of hands. Swing backward and forward. Rear vault dismount. Opposite.

5.	Cut off right over right bar to stand. Jump to support, swing forward to straddle seat. Grasp bare in front of

Digitized by

Google
460

thighs. Roll forward to straddle seat. Rear dismount sideward.

6.	Jump to support, swing forward to straddle seat, grasp in front, roll over forward to straddle seat, grasp in front, swing backward to support lying frontways, walk to end of bars. Cut off forward right.

7.	Cut off right to stand. Jump to support, swing left leg over right bar in front of right hand. Swing right leg over backward, 1-4 turn left to support lying frontways, dismount backward. Opposite.

8.	Cut off support and left leg swing as in 2. 1-2 turn left to straddle seat behind hands. Swing backward to support lying frontways, scissors backward, grasp hands in front, roll over forward to straddle seat. Rear vault dismount.

9.	Jump to support, swing left leg over right bar, 1-4 turn left with right leg swing to support lying frontways on left leg. Continue right leg swing Detween bars, return swing of right leg to right, at the same time swing left leg over both bars with 1-4 turn right to straddle seat. Hands in rear of body at end of bars. Swing backward and forward and cut off backward right to stand.

Side Horse Exercises for Boys.

Suitable for Grades 6, 7 and 8.

1.	1-2 circle left forward, 1-2 circle right forward to support rear ways. Dismount forward.

2.	1-2 circle left forward. 1-2 turn right. Screw dismount with 1-2 turn right to side stand frontways. Jump to knee-stand. Knee jump forward.

3.	1-2 circle right forward, 1-2 circle right backward to stand. Squat vault—Opposite.

4.	1-2 circle right forward, 1-2 screw turn around, right arm with left leg circle to support frontways, left hand on croup. Dismount backward.

5.	Front vault right. Left.

6.	Flank vault right. Left.

7.	Jump to straddle stand. Return to stand on board, 1-2 circle left forward, 1-2 circle right forward to support rear-ways.

Dismount with 1-2 turn right around right arm to stand in front of croup—Opposite.

8.	1-2 circle right forward with immediate 1-2 turn left. Screw turn dismount around left arm with right leg, circle forward to stand in front of croup. Flank vault right to support rearways on croup. Dismount forward.

9.	Jump to riding seat on croup. Scissors backward. Scissors forward, swing backward and front vault, dismount sideward right.

10< 1-2 circle right forward and backward to stand frontways. Flank vault right—Opposite.

11. 1-2 circle right forward underneath left hand, 1-2 circle backward to stand frontways. Front vault right—Opposite.
461

Long Horse Exercises for Boys.

Suitable for Grades 6,7 and 8.

1.	Jump to riding seat in saddle. Swing backward to support lying position frontways. Straddle off forward.

2.	Jump with touching hands twice to riding seat on neck. Swing backward to support frontways. Scissors backward. Front vault dismount left.

Opposite.

3.	Rear vault mount right to riding seat. Front vault, dismount left with 1-4 turn right. Jump to support, left leg resting on neck, flank vault left. Opposite.

4.	Rear vault right—Opposite.

5.	Rear vault right with 1-4 turn left to stand. Flank vault right. Opposite.

6.	Rear vault right with 1-4 turn left to stand. Rear vault mount left to riding seat. Swing backward to support, lying frontways, walk to end of horse. Straddle off. Opposite.

7.	Jump to riding seat on neck. Swing right leg backward with 1-4 turn right to support frontways. Swing left leg forward with 1-4 turn right to riding seat. Swing backward and dismount. Opposite.

8.	Rear vault mount right to riding seat. 1-4 turn right.

1-2 circle left forward, dismount forward with 1-4 turn right. Opposite.

9.	Jump to squat-stand. Stretch-stand.

Fill forward to support lying frontways. Lower to riding seat.

Swing forward and backward and straddle off forward.

10.	Straddle over horse touching in saddle and on neck.

11.	Straddle over horse, support on neck.

Buck-Long (Without Pommels) for Boys.

Section 1—Lesson 1.

Begin with short run.

1.	Jump to riding seat. Front vault left with 1-4 turn right. Jump with hip raising and moving legs apart. (Preliminary to straddle vault). Opposite.

2.	Jump to riding seat. Swing backward to kneel right, left leg extended backward. Change feet. Stretch-stand. Dismount forward.

3.	Jump to kneel. Extend left leg backward. Swing left leg forward along side of buck. Swing backward and dismount sideward right. Opposite.

4.	Jump to riding seat. Front vault dismount left with 1-4 turn right. Jump, leg swing right over buck and 1-4 turn left to riding seat. Straddle off forward. Opposite.

5.	Straddle vault.

6.	Straddle vault with 1-4 turn right. Opposite.

7.	Straddle vault with 1-2 turn right. Opposite.

Digitized by booQle
462

8.	Straddle vault with 1-2 turn right. Jump to riding Swing left leg forward over buck to join right leg. Swing both legs backward to front vault, dismount left. Opposite.

9.	Jump with 1-2 turn to riding seat (Scissors mount). (To introduce this turn have pupils walk up, turn 1-2 around and sit on buck). Swing right leg backward over buck and join left leg, continue forward over buck to riding seat, front vault dismount left with 1-4 turn right.

Jump to lie on buck, slide forward until hands and back of head touch mat. Roll over forward to stand.

Table Exercises for Boys—Long

Suitable for Grades 6,7 and 8.

1.	Jump to squat-stand. Travel hands forward to support Wing position frontways. Flank vault right.

2.	Jump to squat-stand. Roll forward to sit on front edge of table. Dismount forward.

8.	Jump to straddle-stand. Roll forward to stand. Jump off forward to stand.

4.	Jump to sauat-etand with 1-2 turn left (Monkey-jump). Jump feet backward to support lying frontways. Front vault dismount forward right.

Opposite.

6.	Roll forward to sit. 1-2 turn right to support Wing frontways. Front vault dismount sideward, left. Opposite.

6.	Front vault mount right (and 1-2 turn left) to support Wing frontways. Squat forward to sit, raising one hand. Dismount forward. Opposite.

7.	Rear vault right to sit (facing front). Hands behind. Raise hips to support lying rearways. 1-4 turn right to support lying sideways. Dismount forward with 1-4 turn right. Opposite.

8.	Rear vault right (swing legs left, 1-4 turn right) to sit rear-ways on right edge of table. Dismount forward.

9.	Rear vault right over right comer of table. (Coraervault). Opposite.

10.	Rear vault right as in 9 with 1-4 turn left. Rear vault left to sit long-wise. (Swing legs right and 1-4 turn right). Roll backward to stand.

Parallel Bar Exercises For Girls

Suitable for Grades 6,7 and 8 Cross-stand in middle of bar.

1.	Jump to inner cross-seat in front of right hand. Stretch right arm upward, bend trunk toward left. Return. Re-

Eat Opposite.

ang squat-stand outer-grasp. Turn over to inverted squat-hang. Return to stand. Jump to inner cross-seat in front of right hand. Swing both legs over right bar to outer cross-seat. 1-4 turn right to support rearways.

Dismount forward. Opposite.

Digitized by

Google
468

8.	Hang-squat-stand outer grasp. Turn over to bird’s nest. Return to stand. Jump to inner cross-seat behind right hand. Change to inner cross-seat in front of left hand. Return to momentary support Dismount.

4.	Jump and swing to straddle-seat in front of hands. 1-4 turn right to stride-seat. Right hand under-grasp. Swing left leg forward and dismount with 1-4 turn right.

6.	Jump and swing right leg ova* right bar to riding seat Swing left leg over same bar to outer side seat 1-4 turn left to support lying frontways. Bend.and stretch arms. Unmount backward.

6.	Cross-stand frontways. Jump to outer cross-seat in front of right hand. Swing both legs over both bars to outer cross-seat left Dismount sideward. Opposite.

7.	Jump to inner cross-seat in front of right hand. 1-4 turn left to sit, hook feet against far bar and with legs straight, bend trunk backward. Return. Dismount to side-stand between bars. Jump forward to lie hang frontways. Pull on arms, throw upper body upward with arched back to stand.

8.	Jump and swing forward to outer cross-seat right. 1-4 turn left to support lying frontways. Raise alternate leg backward and return. Jump off backward.

Sidehorse Exercises for Girls Suitable for Grades 6,7 and 8.

1.	Jump to kneel left, extend right leg to rest on croup. 1-4 turn right, hand joins left upper-grasp on first pommel, extend left leg backward to support lying frontways. Dismount sideward right.

2.	Jump to kneel on both knees. Change to squat-stand by bringing either both feet cn saddle simultaneously, or one foot after the other. Hold pommels while stretching knees and raising hips. Bend and stretch several times. Dismount forward.

8. Jump to kneel left, raise right leg backward. Swing right leg sideward to rest on croup. With raising right arm sideward, change to support lying sideways. 14 turn left, both hands on first pommel, stretch left leg backwards to join the right to support lying frontways. Dismount sideward right. Opposite.

4.	Jump to riding seat on croup. Swing forward and backward to support lying frontways. Scissors backward. Dismount sideward. Opposite.

6. Jump to sauat-stand. Dismount forward. Repeat.

6.	Squat vault.

7.	Jump and squat right over saddle to stride support. Turn trunk to right with arm raising sideward. Return. Repeat. Sauat left forward to stand. Opposite.

8.	Jump to support with leg raising left. Return left leg and swing right leg over croup, to riding seat. Scissors with 1-2 turn. Straddle off forward.
464

9.	Flank vault.

10.	Front vault.

11.	Jump to straddle stand. Dismount forward.

Long Horse Exorcises for Girls.

Suitable for Grades 6, 7 and 8.

1.	Jump to riding seat. Front vault dismount sideward right.

Opposite.

2.	Jump to riding seat. 1-4 turn left. Dismount forward with 1-4 turn left and 1-2 circle right forward. Opposite.

3.	Jump to riding seat. Hands support in rear. Rear vault, dismount right. Opposite.

4.	Jump to riding seat. Swing backward to support lying frontways. Dismount sideward right. Opposite.

5.	Jump to riding seat. Swing left leg forward over horse to cross-seat right. 1-4 turn left to support frontways. Dismount backward.

6.	Jump to riding seat. Swing left leg forward right over horse and backward to riding seat. Front vault dismount left with 1-4 turn right. Opposite.

7.	Jump to riding seat. Swing backward to support lying frontways. Scissors backward. Rear vault dismount right. Opposite.

8.	Jump to cross-seat right (on left thigh). Swing left leg forward over horse to riding seat. Scissors backward 1-4 turn left. Dismount forward with 1-4 turn left and 1-2 circle right. Opposite.

9.	Jump to riding seat. 1-4 turn left. Both hands support on right side of left leg. 1-2 circle backward left to stand. Jump to kneel. Knee jump forward.

10.	Jump to cross-seat right. Swing backward to riding seat. Swing right 1% backward with 1-4 turn left to support frontways. 1-2 circle forward left to strideseat. Dismount forward with 1-2 turn left and 1-2 circle right.

Buck-Long (Without Pommels) For Girls

Suitable for Grades 6, 7 and 8

Begin with short run.

1.	Jump to riding seat. Swing right leg forward over buck to cross-seat left (on right thigh). Dismount sideward left with 1-4 turn right. Opposite.

2.	As 1. After cross-seat. 1-4 turn right to support frontways. Dismount backward. Opposite.

3.	Jump to riding seat. Lock feet against front legs of buck. Hands on hips. Bend trunk backward. Return. Repeat, Straddle off forward.

4.	Jump to riding seat. 1-4 turn right to stride support Return. 1-4 turn left to stride support. Swing ngnt leg forward to support rearways. Dismount forward.

6. Jump to riding seat. 1-4 turn left. Both hands support on right side of left leg. Swing left leg backward to stand.

Digitized by LjOOQle
465

Jump with hip raising and leg opening and return. Opposite.

6.	Straddle vault.

7.	Straddle vault with 1-4 turn left. Opposite.

8.	Jump to riding seat. 1-4 turn left. Swing right leg forward to support rearways. Raise right leg forward. Return. Left leg. Return. Dismount forward. Opposite.

9.	Jump to riding seat. Swing left leg backward ana 1-4 turn left to support frontways, swing right leg forward and 1-4 turn left to riding seat. Swing forward and backward and dismount backward. Opposite.

10.	Jump to riding seat. In one continuous movement swing left leg backward with 1-4 turn left through support frontways to riding seat as in 3. 1-4 turn left. With right leg swing forward, dismount with 1-2 turn left.

Table Exercises For Girls (Width)

Suitable for Grades 6,7 and 8

Lesson 1. Jump to kneel on both knees. Squat-stand. Stretch-stand. One step forward and jump off forward.

Jump to squat-stand. Hands on hips. Hop forward and jump off forward.

Jump with 1-4 turn left to squat-stand. Roll forward to sit on edge of table. Dismount forward. Opposite.

Jump with 1-4 turn left to squat-stand. Stretch legs, hands support on edge of table to support lying front-ways. Front vault, dismount sideward light. Opposite.

Front vault, mount right to support lying position, frontways. Front vault, dismount sideways, right. Opposite.

Front vault right over table with momentary foot touch, right or left. Opposite.

Front vault right. Opposite.

Roll over forward.

Rear vault, mount right to stretch-seat (swing legs left with 1-4 turn left, facing left), 1-2 turn right to support lying position frontways, front vault, dismount sideward left. Opposite.

Rear vault, mount right to sit, facing forward on front edge of table. Dismount forward.

Rear vault, mount right as in 9. 1-4 turn right to support lying sideways. Dismount forward with 1-4 turn right. Opposite.

Rear vault, mount right as in 9. Lower backward to supine lying. Raise legs and return. 1-2 turn left to support lying frontways. Front vault, dismount side-ward left. Opposite.

Mat Exercises And Stunts.

Suitable for Boys of Grades 6, 7 and 8

1.	Roll forward to stand.

2.	Roll backward to stand.

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8. 9.

10.

11.

12.

Digitized by t^ooQle
466

8. Roll forward to stand. Fall forward to support lying position frontways. Rear vault, swing right to sit. Rail backward to stand.

4.	Headstand.

6. Handstand.

6.	Cartwheel.

7.	Cartwheel with 1-4 turn. Roll forward.

8.	Diving over 2, 8 or more boys, who are on all fours, or, with trunk oent forward as in leap-frog.

9.	Handspring forward over kneeling boy.

10.	Handspring.

Mat Exercises For Girls.

Suitable for Grades 6,7 and 8

1.	Kneel, hop on knees, knee jump.

2.	Raise arms and right leg forward. Bend left knee. Stretch left knee. Position. Opposite.

8. Roll forward to stand. Squat-stand, jump feet backward te support lying position frontways. Jump feet forward to straddle stand. Jump to stretch stand.

4. Kneel, bands behind back. Bend trunk forward as in picking up handkerchiefs with lips. Stretch trunk. Extend arms diagonally side downward. Bend trunk backward. Return. Knee jump.

6. High kicking right. Stand. Horizontal balance, arms sideward, right leg raised. Return. Opposite.

6. Jump to far straddle stand, swing arms forward upward. Bend trunk forward, lower arms forward and grasp ankles. Place head on mat. Roll forward to stand.

7.	Prone lying, elbow support, chin resting in hands. Back and head as in trunk bending backward. Raise right leg backward, raise lower left leg so that left foot supports right leg around the knee (Egyptian pose). Opposite.

8.	Supine lying. Raise legs forward and lower toward head until toes touch mat. Return. Repeat. Roll backward if possible.

GROUP DANCES.

\

\

Lester A. Palmer, Trenton, N. J.

The following dances have been arranged specially for use in the elementary grades. The steps are very simple and are easily taugbt. Familiar ■feongs, found in every school song book, and which the children may hum or sing while dancing, have been selected for the musical settings. This has been done to help overcome the difficulty, which so often presents itself, of not having a piano or victrola available when dancing out-of-doors or in the school courtyards.

Digitized by LiOOQle
467

Sleigh Bell Dance.

For exhibition purposes, it is suggested that small, inexpensive jingle hells be sewn on cotton elastic hands and worn around the palms of the hands of the dancers. The jingling of the bells adds greatly to the effectiveness of the dance.

Music—“Jingle Bells' (in school song books).

Circle Formation—In groups of 3’s, with hands joined to font a triangle. All face in line of direction.

Ctamts 1- 4

6- 6

7- 8 9-82

Step I.

Two polka steps forward, right and left.

Slide bop forward on right foot, extending left foot in rear.

Three soft stamps in place, starting backward with the left foot.

Repeat counts 1-8 three times. Use last three stamps to face in small circle of 3’s.

Step II (Chorus of Music)

1- 2 With heels together, raise both arms upward.

3- 4 Slowly lower arms, jingling bells, and bend body forward.

6- 8 Same as counts 1-4.

9-16 Join hands sideways in small groups of 3’s and take 8 skipping steps around to right. (Raise knees high to represent the galloping of horses.)

17-32 Repeat counts 1-16.

Step III.

1- 2 Hands joined sideways in small circles of 3’s. Slide hop forward on right foot, extending left foot in rear. Swing arms upward.

3- 4 Step hop backward on left foot, extending right foot forward. Lower the arms.

6- 8 Repeat counts 1-4.

9-16 Drop hands and take four polka steps turning right about in place. Start with right foot.

16-	32 Repeat counts 1-16.

Step IV (Chorus of Music)

1- 2 All swing into one large circle facing the center, with heels together, raise both arms upward.

3- 4 Slowly lower arms, jingling bells, and bend body forward.

5- 8 Repeat counts 1-4.

9-12 Two slides sideways tight and polka step right.

Hands joined sideways.

13-16 Two slides sideways left and polka step left.

17-	32 Repeat counts 1-16.

Repeat whole dance from beginning.

Digitized by LjOOQie
468

In The Fields.

_ This dance suggests the activities of the tillers of the soil in the spring of the year. Gay sun bonnets and aprons make effective costumes.

Music—“Cornin’ Thru the Rye,” (in school song boolos).

Formation—Single circle, hieing the center, with hands joined sideways.

Stop I (Spading)

Counts 1- 4 Schottische step sideways right.

5- 8 Schottische step sideways left.

9-10 Place right foot and both hands forward as if using spade.

11-12 Make movement to left side as if turning over the soil.

13-16 Same as counts 9-12.

Chorus:

1-	Face partner and join right hands, keeping single circle formation. Step forward toward partner with right foot.

2-	Bring left foot to rear of right foot and bend both knees in slight courtesy.

3-	4 Step backward with left and right, bringing heels together.

5- 8 Change places with partner, taking three running steps. Bring heels together on last count.

9-16 Repeat counts 1-8, returning to original place.

Stop II (Raking)

1- 8 Large circle with hands joined sideways. Schottische forward right and left toward center of circle.

9-12 Leap backward on right foot, drawing left slowly to right. Extend both hands forward and pull as if raking.

13-16 Same as counts 9-12.

Chorus:

1-16 Same as Chorus of Step 1.

Stop III (Mowing)

1- 8 Large circle, with hands joined sideways. Schottische sideways right and left.

9-10 Charge forward with right foot and extend arms forward as if holding scythe.

11-12 Swing arms laterally in wide circle to the left. Change weight back to left foot.

13-16 Repeat counts 9-12, bringing heels together on last count.

Chorus:

1-16 Same as Chorus of Step I.

Stop IV (Pitching Hay)

1- 8 Large circle with hands joined sideways. Schottische sideways right and left.

Digitized by Google
469

9-10 Place right foot forward and reach forward as if gathering bay on fork.

11-12 Make movement as if tossing hay obliquely over left shoulder.

13-16 Repeat 9-12, bringing heels together on last count.

Chorus:

1-16 Same as Chorus of Step I.

Step V (Rejoicing)

1- 8 Large circle with hands joined sideways. Eight slides sideways right.

9-12 Three walking steps toward center of circle, starting with right foot. Bring heels together on last count.

13-16 Three walking steps backward, starting with right foot. Heels together on last count.

17-24 Eight slides sideways left.

26-32 Face partner and join both hands. Turn partner in place with four step bops, starting with right foot.

FREE HAND EXERCISES FOR MASS DRILL.

All pupils in the 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th and 8th Grades are expected to tato part in this drill.

Formation—Boy and girl files will alternate.

When it is necessary to have boys and girls in the same file, the boys will occupy the places in front if it is a boys’ file, and in rear if it is a girl's file. When boys and girls occupy the same file, they dial] work as a unit in the divided order exercises.

Music—Any good march.

Group I.

Exercise 1.

Raise arms forward.................................

Bend trunk forward and swing arms backward downward

Return movements...................................

Continue 32 counts.

Exercise 2.

Raise arms forward upward..........................

Turn trunk left and place hands on dioulders.......

Return movements...................................

Alternate right turn. Continue 32 counts.

Exercise 3.

Raise arms sideward, palms up.................

Fold hands in rear of head, ana lower head backward

Return movements..............................

Continue 32 counts.

Exercise 4.

files repeat Exercise 1. iri files repeat Exercise 3.

Group II.

Exercise 1.

Stride left forward, arms upward bend...

1-2

3-4

5-8

1-2

3-4

5-8

1-2

3-4

5-8

1-2
470

Bead trunk forward, bend left knee, stretch arms forward

(arms shoulder width apart), finger tips touching floor_M

Return movements.......................................... 5-S

Alternate to right Continue 32 counts.

Exercise 2.

Stride left sideward, arms upward bend...................  1-4

Bend trunk left, bend knee left, and stretch arms sideward,

fingers of left nand touching floor....................  8-4

Return movements.........................................  6-8

Alternate right. Continue 32 counts.

Exercise 3.

Stride left backward, arms upward bend...................  1-4

Raise chest, lower head and stretch arms upward___________ 8-4

Return movements.......................................... 6-8

Alternate right. Continue 32 counts.

Exercise 4.

Beys files repeat Exercise 1.

Gins files repeat Exercise 3.

Group III.

Exercise 1.

Lunge forward left, bend trunk forward, finger tips on floor in

line with left foot.....................................   1-2

Reverae knee bending, raise trunk and carry arms to forward

bend position............................................. 3-4

Return movements ........................................... 6-8

Alternate right. Continue 32 counts.

Exercise 2.

Lunge left sideward, raise arms sideward (palms up)_________ 1-2

Reverse knee bending, turn trunk right and bend it forward, Vi

lower arms, finger tips on floor in line with right foot___8-4

Return movements............................................ 6-8

Alternate right. Continue 32 counts.	g	]

Exercise 3.

Lunge backward left, and raise arms to forward bend position_ 1-2

Reverse knee bending and swing arms sideward, (palms up)_____8-4

Return movements ..........................................  6-8

Alternate right. Continue 32 counts.

Exercise 4.

Boy files repeat Exercise 1.

Gin files repeat Exercise 3.

Mimetic Exercises.

Note—Much of the material outlined here was presented to our Association at the time of the Atlantic City Convention by Mr. Ernest Siebert, of Newark, New Jersey.

Formation—Alternate boy and girl files.

Music — Group 1, “Avalon.”

Group 2, “Take Me Out to the Ball Park.”

Group 3, “Say It With Music.”

Digitized by t^ooQle
471 Group 1.

1.	Sprinting.

Kneel on right knee (right knee at left instep) place hands on

floor (back of hands forward) on your mark................ 1-2

Raise, weight slightly on hands.	Get set!.................... 3-4

Run in place, raising knees forward, arms moving at sides, (in

thrust position, fists clenched). Position on count 8..5-6-7-8

Repeat ......................................................3-82

2.	Tennis.

Step backward right; raise left arm obliquely forward upward as though holding a tennis ball; raise right arm forward upward and backward, arm bent at elbow as though holding a

tennis racquet in position “to serve"..................... 1-2

Swing right arms forward and downward, left arm drops to side

(freely) "serve”......................................... 3-4

Back hand stroke............................................ 5

Lawford stroke.............................................. 6

Position..................................................... 7-8

Repeat ......................................................9-32

3.	Golf.

Step backward right and raise both arms to position of hands over right shoulder as though grasping a club “to drive," keep eyes

on the ball............................................... 1-2

"Address” the ball........................................... 3

Chib back over right shoulder................................ 4

"Drive," full arm and body swing, follow the imaginary ball

with the eyes............................................. 5-8

Position....................................................  7-8

Repeat.....................................................  9-32

4.	Hop* Jumping.

Suing arms as though holding an individual jumping rope. Eight jumps, left foot leading, (alternating left foot, right foot,

etc.) one complete circle of the rope for each jump....... 1-8

Eight jumps with feet together...............................9-16

Repeat the alternate jumping................................17-24

Repeat, the feet together, jumping..........................25-32

Group 2.

1.	Catcher.

Stride left sideward, knees slightly bent, body inclined forward, hands on knees...................................... 1-2

Catch ball in front of body, clapping hands to imitate sound of

ball................................................:..... 3-4

Throw ball back to pitcher with right arm.................... 5-6

Position, replace left foot...................................7-8

Repeat.......................................................9-32

2.	Pitcher.

Stride forward left facing right and place both hands in frbnt of

chest (holding ball)...................................... 1-2

Swing right arm in circle (winding up), grasp ball in both hands at shoulder............................................... 3-4

Digitized by v^ooQle
472

Pitch ball with right aim (overhand throw), bending forward, swinging left arm naturally to side while right is held straight

forward.................................................. 5-6

Position, replace left foot................................  7-8

Repeat..................................................    8-32

3.	Batter.

Turn right, and stride right sideward; place both hands at

shoulder as if holding a bat.............................  1-2

Move bat forward.........................................   3

Replace bat to shoulder.................................... 4

Swing bat forward parallel to floor to strike ball; take short

step forward left and raise right heel.................... 5-8

Position, replace right foot................................ 7-8

Repeat......................................................8-32

4.	Short-Stop.

Lunge right sideward and clap hands at right instep as tho

trapping ball.............................................   1-2

Straighten body and throw ball forward...................... 3-4

Replace right foot to left and reach high ova- head (both

hands), and clap hands as though catching a pitched ball. 5-8

Position....... ...........................................  7-8

Repeat....................................................  9-32

Group 3.

1.	Breast Stroke.

Lunge left forward and raise arms forward, shoulder high,

thumbs touching........................................... 1-2

Reverse knee bend and move arms backward as in swimming.... 3-4 Reverse knee bending and stretch arms forward as in first position ......................................................     W

Continue to count..........................................   16

Repeat, lunging right forward..............................17-32

2.	Throwing Life Buoy.

Stride backward right, turning right, grasp buoy in both hands

at side................................................... 1-2

Bend body forward (weight on left foot) throw buoy forward

(swing right arm wide at side)............................ 3-4

Stride nght sideward, pull in buoy with right hand, grasp rope

about height of waist....................................... 5

Same movement with left hand.................................. 6

Same with right hand........................................   7

Position, replace right foot.................................. 8

Repeat .................................................... 8-82

3.	Putting in Anchor.

Lunge obliquely forward left, bend body forward, hands grasping anchor rope at floor................................. 1-2

Straighten body, leaning backward, bend arms, hands to chest

(fists dosed)............................................. 3-4

Lower forward as 1-2......................................   8-8

Repeat same movements.....................................  7-14

Position .................................................. 1846

Digitized by v^ooQie
473

Repeat to right side.......................................17-3C

4.	Rowing.

Jump to side position and raise arms to forward bend position

fists clinched, palms down................................ 1-2

Bend trunk forward and extend arms forward.................. 3-4

Return to first position.................................... 5-4

Repeat......................................................7-32

Flag Exercises.

Class Formation—The pupils shall march on the field with the flags carried in a position witn hands on hips (flags pointed directly forward, that is, at right angles to the body). Girls shall make up the odd, and boys the even numbered files.

Starting Position—Hands on hips, flags directed obliquely for-

ward upward.

Music—Patriotic.

Group 1.

Exercise 1.

Toe touch left forward and raise arms forward............ 1-2

Toe touch left sideward and swing arms sideward.......... 3-4

Return movements......................................... 5-8

Alternate right. Continue 32 counts .

Exercise 2.

Toe touch left sideward and raise arms sideward.......... 1-2

Toe touch left forward and raise arms obliquely forward upward ..................................................3-4

Return movements......................................... 5-8

Alternate right. Continue 32 counts.

Exercise 3.

Toe touch left backward and raise arms obliquely forward,

upward and outward..................................... 1-2

Toe touch left forward and swing aims obliquely backward,

downward and outward................................... 3-4

Return movements........................................  5-8

Alternate right. Continue 32 counts.

Exercise 4.

Boy files repeat Exercise 1.

Girl files repeat Exercise 3.

Group II.

Exercise 1.

Stride left forward and	raise arms sideward................ 1-2

Kneel on right knee and place flag sticks on shoulders, flags

directed obliquely sideward	upwaitl...................... 3-4

Return movements........................................... 5-8

Alternate right. Continue 32 counts.

Exercise 2.

Stride left sideward and raise arms obliquely forward upward.... 1-2

Lower trunk forward and swing arms sideward..............   3-4

Return movements........................................... 5-S

Alternate right. Continue 32 counts.

Digitized by v^ooQle
474

Exercise 3.

Jump to side stride position, flags crossed overhead........ 1-2

Face left (turning on heels) and lower arms sideward........ 3-4

Return movements............................................ 5-8

Alternate right. Continue 32 counts.

Exercise 4.

Boy files repeat Exercise 1.

Girl files repeat Exercise 3.

Group III.

Exercise 1.

Toe touch left forward and raise arms sideward............. 1-2

Lunge left forward and circle arms downward, upward and outward to position of arms obliquely sideward upward....... 3-4

Return movements, reversing arm circling................... 5-8

Alternate right. Continue 32 counts.

Exercise 2.

Toe touch left sideward and raise arms sideward............ 1-2

Lunge left sideward, circle arms downward and upward to position of left arm raised obliquely sideward upward; right

arm opposite downward.................................... 3-4

Return movement, reversing the arm circling ..............  5-8

Alternate right. Continue 32 counts.

Exercise 3.

Lunge obliquely forward left and stretch left arm obliquely

forward upward, right arm opposite downward ............. 1-2

Execute a one-half turn right, reversing knee bending and arm

positions ............................................... 3-4

Return movements........................................... 5-8

Alternate right. Continue 32 counts.

Exercise 4.

Boy files repeat Exercise 1.

Girl files repeat Exercise 3.

DANCING STEPS.

By Otto A. Wurl.

Polka Tempo for Girls of Fifth and Sixth Grades, Council Bluffs

Public Schools.

The following steps were not arranged to any special music. Any march will do if played slowly - “In Lilac Time” is suitable but has several interludes during which pauses must be made.

Formation: A column of front couples, in a circle, left shoulder toward center. Inner hands grasped height of shoulders, outer arms at sides. No. Is on right, No. 2s on left. All exercises begin with outer leg.

Exercise 1.

Counts

a.	Four gallops with outer and four with inner leg, forward.... 8

Digitized by
475

b.	Eight steps marching forward........................... 8

Repeat all 3 times........................................48

In all................................................. 64

Exercise 2.

a.	Same as 1 (a).......................................   8

h. Mill-wheel left in marching, outer arms ohliq. side upward 8 Repeat all 3 times, hut mill-wheel right 2nd and 4th time..48

In all................................................. 64

Exercise 3.

a.	Four change-steps forward, turning toward and away from

partner, swinging inner arm backward and forward..............  8

b.	No. 1 encircle No. 2 left in skipping. No. 2 kneel left,

inner hands retain grasp........................................ 8

Repeat all 3 tunes. No. 2 encircle No. 1 right the second and fourth times...............................................48

In all..................................................64

Exercise 4.

a.	Same as 3	(a)........................................ 8

h. One closing step and a step curtly sideward from and toward partner — arms sideward, wave inner arm upward on

curtsy outward and outer arm upward on curtsy inward........... 8

Repeat all 3 times........................................48

In all................................................. 64

No. Is - Face left about - position right shoulder toward partner. Play game - "Catch a Partner.”

Upon command, all march forward.

Signals - Whistle blasts.

One blast - Halt and catch partner, from opposite circle. Players may move forward or backward within space between players but cannot pass in front or behind next players.

Two blasts - Release grasp and march forward.

As soon as pupils see that they cannot catch a partner they run to their seats.

AESTHETIC EXERCISES.

For Girls of Seventh and Eight Grades.

Music: Three o’clock in the Morning - Waltz. Victor Record 18940-A.

Formation: Open order - six feet distance. Pupils arranged in couples - No. 1 on the right.

Starting Position: Attention - arms gracefully at sides. Introduction - Eight measures.

Digitized by L^ooQle
476

Part I—32 measures.	Mcowss

A.	Wave arms sideward..................................... 1

Wave arms forward...................................... 2

Reverse ............................................... 3

Return................................................. 4

Repeat 3 times...................................... 5-16

B.	Wave arms sideward.................................... 1

Wave arms upward...................................... 2

Reverse .............................................. 3

Return................................................ 4

Repeat 3 times......................................5-16

In all................................................ 92

Part II—32 measures.

a.	Face left and walk three steps forward and point (place)

right foot forward - arms sidewara on 3 steps, wave right arm forward, hand over foot, height of waist on................... 4

b.	Step right sideward - 5, point left forward - 6, step

left sideward - 7, point right forward - 8, wave arms sideward -5, right (above) intermediate - 6, sideward - 7, left intermediate - 8............................................. 4

Repeat (a) and (b) three times on lines of a square left.

Begin second and fourth time with right leg................. 24

In all................................................... 92

Part III. 32 measures.

a.	Step curtsy left and right sideward, waving arms sideward on the step then opposite - arm forward on the curtsy..	4

b.	Three-step-turn curtsy left sideward - arms sideward,

waving right arm forward on the curtsy......................... 4

Repeat (a) and (b) right, left and right.................. 24

In all................................................... 32

Part IV. 32 measures.

In couples.

a.	Face partner, walk forward 3 steps beginning left to left,

shoulder toward partner (side-by-side) arms sideward, grasp partner’s left hand shoulder high on 3, pause on 4 with right leg backward, wave right ann upward and bend trunk left slightly, look at partner................................................. 4

b.	Step curtsy right and left sideward with waving opposite arm forward................................................ 4

c.	Repeat (a) in 1-4 circle (mill-wheel) left, beginning with

right leg and pause with left leg in rear...................... 4

d.	Repeat (b) beginning left,	(toward partner)............ 4

e.	Repeat (a) ana (b) again in 1-4 circle left............ I

f.	Three steps forward to places and close heels, arms

sideward, releasing hand of partner, 4 measures, step curtsy left with waving opposite arm forward, step right sideward and close, arms wave sideward	and downward.................... 6

at

Digitized by Google
477

♦

News, notes and comments

<.--------------------------------------------------------

Do not forget the National Convention to be held at Kansas Oily, Mo., Apru 28-26. Also remember that the Eastern Section at the Am. Physical Education Association holds its convention at Atlantic City, April 14-16.

------o------

In the January number of School Life Dr. John Sundwall of the University of Michigan makes statements that lead one to believe that he knows more of the education of medical school officers than he does of the education of modem teachers of physical education. He takes it for granted that a medically trained person con supervise educational subjects related to health, but says “the traditional training in physical education does not prepare one, “many way” (thequotation marks are ours) to supervise other phases at the school's health service.’’ No facts are given to prove such a strong statement. We know positively that modem schools for the training of teachers of physical education are very definitely training their students in all phases of health education, not merely n muscular exercise.

Continuing his arguments to have all phases of school health, including physical education, placed in the hands of school phy-■cians, Dr. Sundwall says: “And yet, to repeat, the interest and activities of the health service and of physical education center on the human body in attaining and maintaining health and physical efficiency. Both are interested in physical examinations, in follow-ap procedures, in physical efficiency tests. In many phases of the work there is an overlapping of interests and activities.

Now, the public is not willing to support, in our school system, two separate agencies which are concerned primarily with the sound, vigorous, and harmonious development of the body. Nor do our school administrators want this arrangement. To reiterate, too much misunderstanding, lack of sympathy, friction, duplication and academic and economic loss are tne invariable results of a dual administration of the school’s physical welfare activities.

In conclusion permit me to state that in presenting this discussion, I am not unmindful of the places where physical education and school health have been efficiently cc-rrelateo.’’

To us it appears that the last statement shows the solution. If the physician and the teacher of physical education will each keep his hands off things for which ne has not been specifically trained there need be no friction nor duplication of effort. Heaven knows, they both have more than enough to do.

Pres. Ray L. Wilbur in his address at the San Francisco meeting of the N. E. A. said that the destruction of material objects produced by man, the destruction of the adults of both sexes is entirely

Digitized by v^ooQle
478

a secondary matter in the long history of the world, to the damage that has come to children thru war’s demoralizations and devastations.

If we are to have clear vision and salutary action by the statesmen of the world they must have back of them adult populations that have grown to maturity with sound minds and healthy bodies. With the changes that have come about in our methods of living the importance of physical education and physical training is preeminent** In the spread of the benefits of civilization over sill parts of the world we can anticipate success only if we bring those benefits directly into the life of the child. The success of the medical missionary indicates that bodily relief and bodily comfort are requisites to moral and religious development That the future of the world depends upon the average morality of the world child is evident. Experience shows us that this morality depends largely upon bodily health and that where we have the wholesome reactions of the growing period, where the boy seeks to become manly and girl womanly, a high general tone can be maintained.

If I had the problem of elevating the general moral and mental tone of a backward community, I would seek the services of the public health worker, the sanitarian, and the personal physician even before those of the teacher. Health education must go forward hand in hand with that of the mind. Fortunately, scientific medicine has advanced enough so that it can offer almost untcld benefits to any group, nation, or race. In particular, it can malm these benefits applicable from the prenatal period clear thru to that of maturity. Diminishing death rates for the infants and increased volume of child health follow inevitably where we meet those biological conditions that science has demonstrated as a requisite for health. No program of world peace nor of world education can hope to succeed until we can fit the human being in any given part of the world into his environment and give him the opportunity for normal healthy bodily development there.

-------o-------

Bulletin, 1923, No. 33, of the U. S. Bureau of Education is entitled Educational Hygiene, and is prepared by Dean Small of the College of Education, University of Maryland. The 36 pages comprising the bulletin represent a digest of the most important developments in the matter of school health work in this country. In a statistical section at the beginning we are shown that 39 states have at present some form of legislation bearing upon the subject, 21 of them having enacted mandatory regulations. Included also are representative reports from a large number of cities, covering such items as school physicians, school nurses, control and administration of health activities, etc. The bulk of the bulletin, however, is devoted to a presentation of the recent activities of 21 voluntary organizations in the general field of educational hygiene and their contributions thereto.

In its Foreign Service the Philadelphia Ledger prints the following statements by an English physician:

Digitized by v^ooQle
479

In the opinion of this specialist, those who think women are less beautiful than they were a century ago are suffering from confusion of thought. For the spirituality which they think they find in the features of old portraits is all an illusion. The same expression may be seen today on the faces of many hospital patients. The real spirituality is entirely different from this wistfulness of ill-health which painters of old used to register and which was a mark of gentility in the days of our great-grandmothers.

Now a new type of feminine beauty is being evolved and it is none the less beautiful because its symptoms are those of good health and physical robustness. The modem beauty parlor is the gymnasium and the result is an amazing improvement in the health of women.

“We have learned,” said the Harley street practitioner, “that beauty and health are almost, if not quite, the same thing. The women our great-grandfathers admired were far less healthy than our modem beauties.

“Indeed, as we now know, sloping shoulders and a ‘swan’ neck are part of the ‘picture’ of early consumption. A narrow face is seldom a veiy intelligent face. It nearly always betokens feeble breathing. Today we admire women whose shoulders are braced up, whose necks do not slope and whose eyes are set widely apart. Every chocolate box bears witness to this change of taste.

“Narrow faces happily are growing rare. Woman’s whole face has broadened. Her brow, too, has lost the ‘slope’ which was once so much admired.

“Perfect modem beauty, in other words, is perfect health. It is like the beauty of the women whom the ancient Greeks loved and whose forms they have made immortal in their statues. And so modem girls possess clear healthy skins and bright eyes. Their brains, too, are active and energetic. Women of this type are not only very beautiful; they are also very interesting. Their minds as well as their bodies have developed.

“We are, I believe, only at the beginning of this revolution. Our granddaughters will be still lovelier than their grandmothers.”

-------o------

Five million men and women in America admit they cannot read and wnte. Federal statistics have discovered 5,000,000 more who would not admit their illiteracy and 10,000,000 near-illiterates. A grand total of 20,000,000 Americans who because of lack of education may become a menace to the ideals of our country. Cora Wilson Stewart, Chairman of the Illiteracy Commission of the N. E. A. says: “There are some communities where illiterate men have no chance for education unless they go to the penitentiary or join the army * * for there is no provision in any State for the education of adults. The barrier of age to educational opportunity must crumble just as the barriers of race, sex, class and religion have given way.”

------o-------

The physical condition of pupils in the Boston public schools has improved steadily during the last several years until in 1921-22

Digitized by v^ooQle
480

a total of 49.45 per cent was reported free from physical defects ti any kind. The figures are tabulated in a report made public recently which Assistant Superintendent of Schools William B. Snow compiled for Superintendent Jeremiah E. Burke on work earned out under direction of the department of medical inspection and the department of physical training.

A comparison of specific defects found during the last five years riiows that while the school population is steadily increasing, the ■umber of physical defects is in most cases decreasing. The number •f children with defective vision has decreased from a third of those examined to a tenth. On the other hand, certain defects have not materially decreased, among them hypertrophied tonsils and functional cardiac diseases.

“The increase in cases of malnutrition from 1.99 per cent to 2.66 per cent,” the report says, “invites serious consideration. We are trying to secure accurate information as to causes and effective preventive measures. It is important to distinguish whether the cause of underweight is merely improper or insufficient food, or whether the apparent malnutrition is really due to underlying physical defects that must be relieved before the body can be built up aormally.

-------o-------

The Newark, N. J. Call has the following to say editorially:

The Board of Education’s resolution to do away with special instruction in manual training and in physical exercise in the lower grades has a double purpose—to save money and to give more time for instruction in the fundamentals. With both these purposes the Sunday Call is in hearty sympathy. It believes that much money has been unwisely expended on our schools and that curricula have been “enriched” at the expense of thorough training in those studies that are essential in the art of earning a living. Much has been said about the desirability of acquainting at an early age “hand-minded” children with the use of tools. But in the lower grades it is practically impossible to say which children are "hand-minded” and which are not. All children love to play with tools, to drive nails, to bore holes, to saw and plane boards, but this does ■ot imply that all children have mechanical minds, and for those who have not, time spent this way in school could be used to better advantage.

However, we are not impressed with the wisdom of abolishing special instruction in physical training in the lower grades. We be-keve in sound bodies as well as sound minds and that both should be developed at the same time. A child old enough to go to school is old enough to be given the special training that will insure it a physique strong enough to resist the attacks of disease and to endure the toil and labor incident to earning a livelihood. We regard thorough physical training, especially in city schools, with so many pupils coming from crowded tenements, where they live under conditions inimical to a healthy growth, as one of the essential fundamentals of education as much so as the three R’s. We also believe that special teachers are necessary to give the proper instruction.

Digitized by LiOOQle
481

The right kind of teacher must not only be able to tell the children what to do but also to show them how to do it. This requires very-special training and constant practice to keep in fit condition and it implies severe fatigue and danger of over-exertion. The average grade teacher has had little experience in this sort of work and to compel her to undertake it would be unfair to both teacher and pupils. She would be subjected to a physical strain that would almost certainly react unfavorably on her mental condition.

Special physical instruction is not one of the “fads and fancies” that can be dispensed with with benefit to the schools.

Seeking to organize physical training in such a way as to bring its benefits to the mass of pupils rather than to the comparatively few participating in games as members of athletic teams, the Board of Principals of the Washington, D. C. public schools decided tentatively upon the following principles as a basis for future action:

1.	Limited physical examination for the pupils with corrective exercise to be recommended to the parents in those cases where special defects are found and with general class exercises in the case where certain defects are found to be general.

2.	The laying of emphasis upon the cultivation of interest in the physical ideal. By this it is hoped to increase the desire of the pupils to be healthy and to lead them to the practice of health habits.

3.	Personal hygiene in the class-room with instructions to the pupils as to those things they should know to aid them in right living.

4.	The promotion of these aims thru the method of formal exercises and organized play and games.

NATIONAL AMATEUR ATHLETIC FEDERATION.

The second Annual Meeting of the Federation which occurred in Washington, D. C., December 31, 1923. The major points of emphasis of this meeting were Play-for-Everybody plans, the development of the Women’s Division and District Federation organization expansion. Delegates in person numbered 40, by proxy, 26; visitors and guests 40.

President Colonel Breckenridge in a most stimulating and convincing fashion reaffirmed the Federation’s fundamental objectives and its guiding principles. Some of the outstanding passages in his report were the following.: “We are concerned with building up the bodies of the rank ana file of the people, with stimulating wholesome reaction and inculcating the ideals of sound sportsmanship. We are not enlisted in a contest for power but in a campaign for

service.-----The Federation never has in one respect duplicated

the functions of a constituent memhe7’, and never will.-------we

would assist each constitutent member to play its role more abundantly and to occupy its field more fully.---We claim no police power

over the individual.-----We do not say to him *You shall not go

Digitized by
482

there,’ or *You must not do this.' We call for no Prussianization in the field of American recreation and shall engage in no persecution of American athletes at home or abroad.”

New members admitted to the Federation were The National Association of Directors of Girls Camps; The Western Washington District Amateur Athletic Federation; The Southern California District Amateur Athletic Federation; The Intermountain District Amateur Athletic Federation.

The report of the Executive Officer stressed the imperative necessity of proceeding with the immediate organization of District Federations across the country, together with the importance of a series of active national commissions engaged in the work of preparing suggestive informatory and stimulating material for distribution to the District units. He reported ten new District Federations organized in 1923, ten more on which preliminary work has been done and which would be completely set up within the next few months, and requests now at hand for organization help from the national office from more than a score of additional important centers.

Mrs. Herbert Hoover, Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Women’s Division, read in her report salient extracts from speeches made at the conference in Washington last April, which conference resulted in the creation of the Women's Division of the National Amateur Athletic Federation. These statements set forth the ideals to be attained thru physical education.

Miss Lillian Schoedler, Executive Secretary of the Women's Division reported what had been accomplished by the Women’s Division to date since the Washington Conference. She reviewed the resolutions on athletics for women and girls which are the basis of the Women’s Division work, and spoke of the three-fold program which the Women’s Division is now carrying on, (1) developing its plan of organization, (2) making contact with institutions and organizations all over the United States interested in physical activities for women and girls, enlisting their interest and getting their endorsement of and membership in the work of the Women’s Division, and (3) getting under way the four committees authorized by the Washington Conference on standards and tests, group activities, and scientific investigation of various problems in women’s and girls’ athletics.

Miss Schoedler reported on the membership in the Women’s Division which already includes in its lists most of the leading colleges for women, the important schools of physical education thru-out the United States, many private and normal schools, public school systems, the Y. W. C. A., Girl Scouts, Camp Fire Girls, American Child Health Association, and others.

Colonel Johnson submitted the following resolution which was unanimously passed:

“Whereas the National Amateur Athletic Federation is not of itself now conducting competitions but is heartily interested in the work of all its constituent and district members,
483

“Therefore be it resolved that all such units be requested to ■lake a report of games conducted and records made to this end that there may be on file in the office of the Executive Officer records of performances which may be announced from time to time as National Amateur Athletic Federation records.”

A report on negotiations with the Amateur Athletic Union was rendered Dy General Palmer E. Pierce, Chairman of the Federation's special committee on this subject. He outlined the details of the negotiations which have covered a period of a year and which have in each instance been initiated by the Federation. He stated that the net result was to date very disappointing but recommended that the Federation still hold itself in readiness to negotiate in the hope of coming to an amicable working relationship at an early date.

The report of the Finance Committee showed that during the year 1923 $16,707.34 had been raised from three sources—individual contributions, subscriptions from constituent members, and membership fees—and that substantially all of it had been spent as the budget items provided, - general overhead, salaries, organization travel expense—bringing the year to a close with a very small credit balance and no obligations.

The budget for 1924 as proposed and adopted totaled $30,000 which includes the budget for the Women's Division. Thifc provides for the maintenance of national headquarters, the necessary salaries, a considerable traveling expense budget in organization work, and the estimated cost of preparing suggestive technical material.

General Pierce stated that if all of the constituent members would be willing to follow the example of those members which made substantial donations to the 1923 budget, or had agreed to do so in 1924, namely, the N. C. A. A., the U. S. Army, the U. S. Navy, and the Y. M. C. A. it would put the Federation in a position to go to several foundations with definite hope of a successful result.

The Women’s Division stated that it was their intention to raise their proportion of the budget, - approximately one-third of the total.

A resolution introduced by Major Edwards of the District of Columbia A. A. F. calling for the erection of a great national memorial athletic stadium in the City of Washington, the land and cost of construction to be borne by the Government, was favorably passed upon.

The completion of Articles of Affiliation with the Philippine Amateur Athletic Federation was approved.

The election of officers, Executive Committee, and Chairman of National Commissions resulted as follows: President, Colonel Henry Breckinridge; Vice presidents, Mrs. Herbert Hoover, Hon. Dwight F. Davis, General Palmer E. Pierce, Elwood S. Brown, (executive officer); treasurer, Mr. Herbert L. Pratt: executive committee (consisting of the active officers and the following): Miss Agnes R. Wayman, Miss Ethel Perrin, Miss Helen McKinstry,

Digitized by Google
484

Mrs. V. Event Macy, Mrs. Harold I. Pratt, Miss Lillian Schoedler, (Executive Secretary, Women’s Division), Dr. George J. Fisher, Lt. Col. Wait C. Johnson, Capt. C. R. Train, Dr. John Brown, Jr., Dr. J. H. McCurdy, Mr. Charles L. Ornstein.

It was further arranged that the Executive Committee should be authorized to confirm three additional women members to be named by the Women's Division as members of the Executive Committee, two of whom will be designated as vice presidents.

No less an authority than “Farmer” Dunn, formerly official in charge of the New York Station of the U. S. Weather Bureau, declares that our climate is changing, that our winters are becoming milder and that the middle western sections of the country are more subject to floods than they used to be. Thirty years ago, he says, the track of the heavy winter storms was from the extreme northwest to the Great Lakes and thence eastward, whereas now their origin is more often in the southwest. He attributes this change largely to the vast irrigation projects in that region which have placed no less than 16,000,000 acres of hitherto arid land under water. He predicts that unless a limit is placed upon the present irrigation program we will hear of increasing disasters in the Plains States due to floods caused by excessive rainfall. Those who have rather boasted that the winters are “not what they used to be” will have a chance to say “I told you so.” The interesting point, however, to the heating engineer is the fact that if our winters are really moderating, the time-honored “zero to 70” heating specification bases may become subject to modification.

Extracts and reprint

PROM FOREIGN EDUCATION JOURNALS

Translation by Dr. D. Besser and Jos. Cermak.

IMPRESSIONS OF SPORT IN FINLAND.

From “Monthly for Gymnastics, Play and Sport,” Berlin, Germany.

While traveling with a German football team in Finland, Hans Loose of Leipsic, had the opportunity to observe the play-spirit of the Finns. The Germans visited Helsingfors, Viborg, Vasa and Abo, where they competed with Finnish teams. The impressions the games made upon him he describes as follows:

"The bodily development of the Finn is that of a mixed race. One type represents the Finn-Swedes, a tall and slender people, and the other type represents the Finlander, who is short and sturdy, but quick and lively in his actions. The physique of the Finn is generally good, due to proper nourishment and excellent training. * * *

Digitized by v^ooQle
485

“Their activities are not based upon gymnastics but upon winter sports, such as skiing and ice-hockey. These sports, favored by pure and invigorating air, impart to the whole body a degree of nimbleness unknown elsewhere. These activities develop another prominent physical feature, namely suppleness of the hips and also flexibility of the muscles of the neclc. Skiing and ice-hockey, the two main winter sports of the Finns, are also the cause of their conspicuous superiority as sprinters. In the running events which took place between the Finns and the Germans, the Finns were generally in the lead. * * * The football games brought out the met that the Finns fell short in the technical knowledge of the game, necessitating the calling of fouls. What they lost by the lack of technique, they gained otherwise by quick forward passes by springing and by well-directed aggressive movements. The accuracy with which the players directed the ball with the head was admirable. In attack and defence Finns and Germans differ. In his play the Finn uses the head and the upper part of the trunk, while the German makes more use of the foot.

“Wherever we went we found that the Finn played a wonder-full game. * * *

“The unprejudiced observer must admit that the Finns play cleverly and that they are on the right road to achieve higher results in football.”

PARIS-FRANCE.

In 1913 the city of Paris, FYance, made its first plans for public playgrounds. The world war intervened and the matter was indefinitely postponed. The schoolyards of Paris are small and can accommodate only a small number of children at one time. Recently twenty playgrounds for boys and fourteen for girls were established in the outskirts of Pans. The city is divided into sections and a certain number of schools use each of these recently established playgrounds as a play center. * * * Not every child of school age receives the benefit of supervised play, because each playground accommodates only 120 children. The playgrounds are used one afternoon a week by each group for supervised play. In the morning of the same day between 500 ana 600 children go swimming.

Church societies also have established playgrounds which are frequented by school children and older boys and girls.

CZECHOSLOVAKIA.

The old city of Prague, the capitol of the Czechoslovakian Republic, recently witnessed the very impressive ceremony of lay-

S; the corner stone of a monumental building devoted to Physical ucation. The owner of this institute is the Sokol Federation of Czechoslovakia, founded by Dr. Tyrs, and the building will bear the name “Tyrs' Home.” The institute will have two large gymnasiums, a natatorium, offices for the Executive Committee of the Sekol Federation and dormitories for the visiting members of the

Digitized by v^ooQle
486

organization. The two gymnasiums (one is for men and the other for women) will be used by the Normal School for instructors. Candidates for this school will have to pass a severe physical and mental entrance examination to prove their qualifications to train for their chosen profession. The cost of this institution is estimated to be twenty million crowns.

------o-------

POLAND.

In the Gymnastic and Athletic Tournament held at Torum under the auspices of the Polish Sokol Federation, October 8 and 9, one participant named Karlinsld attracted wide attention. Althe 34 years of age Karlsinski was first in the 100 m. and the 800 m. runs, in the discus throw, in the shot put, and he also took first place in the Pentathlon. Women’s records in the same tournament were: 60 m. run, 8.8 seconds; running broad jump 443 cm., and running high jump, 129.5 cm. (approximately 17 feet 8 inches and 5 feet 2 indies.)

The Minister of Education in the state of Baden, Germany, requested all school authorities to give swimming a proper place m the curriculum of their respective schools.

BOOK BBVXBWB.

Woman’s Physical Freedom by Clelia Duel Mosher, M. D. 87 pages, 5 by 7 1-2 inches. Published by The Womans Press 600 Lexington Ave., New York. Price $1.00.

This splendid little booklet is a third revirion and enlargement of “Health and the Woman Movement.” In the new edition Dr. Moeher has included the results of the latest investigations upon the effect of modem life in general and of exercise in particular upon menstruation. This little volume should be placed in the hands of all mothers and teachers. If these could be persuaded to follow the advice given by allowing developing girls to strive for “Physical Freedom” the coming generation of young women would be on its way to the physical perfection that teachers of physical education are striving for. The book is heartily recommended to teachers and parents.

William A. Stecher.

Do not forget the National Convention to be held at Kansas City, Mo., April 23-26. Also remember that the Eastern Section of the Am. Physical Education Association holds its conventiM at Atlantic City, April 14-16.

Digitized by v^ooQle
The Outstanding Book Of The Year

The Dance in Education

By

AGNES L. MARSH	and	LUCILE	MARSH

Instructor in Spscisl Classes in	Assistant	Professor

Physical Education, Teachers College	Smith	College

FOREWORD BY JESSE FEIRING WILLIAMS

Beautifully Illustrated. A sumptuous volume. Octavo llx-8 1-4 inches. Full cloth. 45 Musical Compositions from 30 of the Best Composers. Complete Bibliography with Key to References. Price $10.00

The book is practically a Demonstration of the Correlation of Music, Sculpture and Painting; Literature, Mythology and History; Psychology, Religion and Philosophy, with the Dance.

FROM THE TABLE OF CONTENTS.

PARTI: Introduction: Method of Presentation. Chart of Correlation. PART II: Studies in Natural Movements.

1.	Rotation and Relaxation. 8 selections 4. Skipping. 6 selections.

2. Walking. 4 selections.	5. Leaping. 3 selections.

3. Running. 3 selections.	6. Galloping. 2 selections PART III: The Dances. 15 selections.

PART IV: A Dance Drama—Isis.

Bibliography, with Key to References.

TRACK AND FIELD ATHLETICS

A Guide to Athletes, Manual for Coaches and Directors, and Textbook for Normal Students, by

ALBERT B. WEGENER. Illustrated by the Author

Covers the technic, rules and equipment of Running, Jumping, Weight, Vaulting and Indoor Events, Hints on Training and to Athletic Promoters, Various Types of Athletics, Scoring Methods, and National Administrative Bodies, etc.

The illustrations are exceedingly valuable; they are drawn on the plan of the “slow motion” pictures—showing the athletes in action in full detail. 8vo, cloth. Price $2.00.

Send for our complete illustrated catalogue of Books on Folk Dances, Games, Physical Training etc.

A. S. BARNES & COMPANY

7 WEST 43TH STREET	NEW YORK
THE AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION

NATIONAL

CONVENTION

KANSAS CITY, MO.

April 23-26, 1924

With Full Co-operation of Kansas City’s Chamber of Commerce, High and Elementary Schools, Y. M. C. A., Y. W. C. A., City Athletic Club and Women’s Athletic Club.

Are You Interested In

Problems in Physical Education? Athletics for Girls and Women? Good Posture?

Industrial Athletics?

Health Problems?

WILL YOU BE HELPED by a Demonstration of activities in gymnastic work, swimming, and athletics?

IF SO,

Plan now to be in Kansas City, Mo.

April 23-26, 1924

All Members of the American Physical Education Association Register Free.

Membership Dues.$5.00 per year

Sustaining Membership $10.00 per year Students of Normal Schools of Physical Education.$3.00 per year

Write for sample copy of the American Physical Education Review and blanks, to Box G, Highland Station, Springfield, Mass.
WITH THE FIRST WARM SPRING DAYS WILL COME THOUGHTS OF SUMMER AND VACATION AND VACATION NEEDS.

Are you planning a girl’s camp this summer?

We manufacture a line of middy blouses, shirts, and knickers in olive drab, cotton or wool, upon which we will be glad to send descriptive matter and quote.

ALDRICH & CHANCELLOR

1857 MILWAUKEE AVE.

CHICAGO,	ILLINOIS.

We find it usually most practical and satisfactory to furnish your wants thru local dealer.

The Choice of Those Who Know

Railings “George Sisler” First Base Mitt is used by the greatest of first basemen. Rawlings "Bill I)oak” Glove ^ " is used by more professionals than any other glove. Rawlings Official League Baseball is guaranteed fc 27 innings. Rawlings Uniforms are worn by Rogers^^—-Hornsby and other great players. Why? cause these and all other Rawlings athletic^ goods are top quality in material, workman-* ship and design. Ask your dealer or use^ this coupon today.	J?

RAWLINGS

“George Sisler” First Base Mitt.

$10.00



Gymnasium Apparatus Playground Apparatus Steel Lockers

WRITE FOR CATALOG

FRED MEDART MANUFACTURING CO.

ST. LOUIS, MO.

Branch Offices — New York, Chicago,	San	Francisco

52 Vanderbilt Ave. 326 W. MadUon St. Rialto Bldg.

Digitized by v^ooQle
Gymnastic Apparatus Steel Lockers

Playground Apparatus

Anthropometric Apparatus

Write for Catalogs

Narragansett Machine Co.

Providence, R. I., U. S. A.

Makers of LADIES’ FULL REGULATION GYM BLOOMERS and MIDDIES.

Write for Special Circular. Samples sent on request.

Also Makers of BOYS’ RUNNING and BASKETBALL OUTFITS. WRITE FOR OUR SPECIAL OFFER ON TRACK OUTFIT.

ATHLETIC SUPPLY MFG. CO.

1139 Washington Blvd.	Detroit,	Mich.

Just Out -- Scientific Basket Ball

BY

NAT HOLMAN, COACH

College of City of New York.

130 PAGES 50 ILLUSTRATIONS AND DIAGRAMS.

Holman, one of the greatest professional players of the day has been railed bv the New York Times “The World s Greatest Basket Ball Player.” He was a member of the famous Original Celtics which lost but 11 out of •215 matched games, a record never equalled by any team in basketball.

Holman’s book gives many of the “inside tricks and plays” as used by professionals and which as yet have scarcely been touched by the amateur. Covers the entire field of basket ball as one who is thoroughly familiar with his subject, both as a player and coach.

PRICE 60 CENTS POSTPAID.

Order Thru MIND AND BODY, New Ulm, Minn.

L