Vol. 7

AUGUST, 1900

No. 78

Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, West Chester (Pa.) Normal School.

HERMANN O. DREISEL, Chicago Normal School, Chicago,'111.

DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee. Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., 468 E. Water Street, Milwaukee, W’is.

THERE is hardly a more enjoyable, mind and body more invigorating pastime for gymnasts and others than an early dawn outing of young people in the summer months. And I believe that few ever regret having taken part in any of these enjoyments, no matter whether the point to be reached was a river bank, a lake shore, a hill top, or a mountain peak; and for those that stay behind the recitals of the experiences, events, accidents and pleasures, that these early risers and staunch adepts of L. F. Jahn passed through in these excursions, is stimulating and encouraging in a high degree. No one can fairly pretend indifference to the good effects derived from such outings in the dwellers oi cities as well as of the country, albeit that the latter are, as a rule, more obtunded to the beauty of nature in the course of their agricultural avocations.

GYMNASTIC OUTINGS.

By Dr. F. W. DODEL.

On foot I gaily take my way,

Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah !

O’er mountains bare, and meadows gay, Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah !

And he who is not of jny mind Another trav’ling mate may find,

He cannot go with me.

Hurrah, hurrah, trala lalala, etc.
-122-

I have always been an attentive reader of descriptions of such outings when penned by members of these outing-parties; there is something in them all that awakens recollections of my own early active gymnastic years.

These gymnastic outings require a good deal of forethought and careful preparations. They demand a good discipline, imparted by the leader, and lots of endurance and good will on the part of the members of the outing party. Nor are the moral results altogether insignificant for the society that institutes such excursions.

The members cannot help but gather information of the ground which they cover on the trip ; they close new acquaintances with farmers, fishermen, herdsmen, artisans, foreigners, strangers, old settlers, etc. From the tops of promontories, hills, or mountains their .eyes gaze over miles of new landscape, waters, roads, inland-seas ; over the fields covered with waving corn, over the pastures crowded with herds of cattle, over the mountainsides clad in the green color of forests, and fruit tree groves or vineyards, enlivened by the log shanties of the hunter and trapper, over the lakes glistening in the bright sun and made attractive by up and down sailing steamers, schooners and smacks.

It is in these moments of discovery of new beauties of nature that the true love of one’s own country is kindled and born again and ripened, not in the moments of battle and political strife.

Again what stimulus is there not in the early rising from a refreshing sleep, in the wondering first gaze to the firmament above, and, last but not least, the self glorifying idea that you see some new aspects of nature that your sleeping fellow Philistine is sure never to have noticed I

Closely scrutinizing your eyes turn skyward to the guiding stars, your ear harkens to the distant barking of watchful mastiffs, to the babbling murmur of the nearby creek or the humming noise of the far off waterfall. Then, in case you have lost the right track in striking across the farmers, extensive forest reserves and are confronted with the plain duty of retracing your steps for a mile or so, what an occasion for a display of cold-bloodedness and of instinctive orientation to regain the circuitous but easy and comfortable highway !

And after you have witnessed the beautiful sunrise through the early morning clouds above the expause of country, lake, and hills and have afterward advantageously exercised your physical energies so that nerves, muscles, and sinews all seem alike to be exhausted and sleep softly sinks down upon your eyelids, comes the call to you for the display of new energy, new solidarity of interests, new aspects of fireside, patriotism, of civic duties and office worry!

Turners’ outings are in this country not as much patronized as they are in Europe and especially so in Switzerland. In the ‘ Swiss Turners* Gazette” (Schweizerische Turnzeitung) of July 6, 1900, a correspondent under the pseudonym “The Old Man of the Mountain” gives the following summary of precautions which are well deserving of especial obedience in regard to comparatively extensive mountain and hill outings:

1.	First of all, avoid all and any excesses on the preceding evening, especially avoid or restrict the alcoholic beverages; go to bed early and lay your outing apparel all ready by your bedside.
-123-

2.	Should the weather outlook be dubious or the path dangerous, engage ri reliable guide, or have a good topographical map and a compass on hand.

3.	If there are mountain sides little, or not at all, inhabited provide yourself weir with food and drink.

4.	Avoid salt meats and alcohol but have a supply of bread or biscuits, chocolate, dried fruit, some block sugar, hard boiled eggs, omelets, or canned meat or fish.

5.	For drinks have ready a decoction of strong coffee or of some well sugared black tea which will refresh your strength under all circumstances and permit of repeated dilutions.

6.	Let the start from home be so timed that the point of destination or at least an altitude of 2000 or 3000 feet be reached before the sun exercises his full thermal vigor.

7.	Rest neither too frequently nor too long at a time; once every hour from 5 to 10 minutes will serve best.

8.	Do not smoke while on the way; breathe slowly and deep; inspire during 2 steps, exhale during the 2 succeeding steps.

9.	Drink little and not too soon; chew rather a bread crust, or a dried piece of apple, or pear, or a dried plum, or dissolve a piece of sugar on the tongue.

10.	Avoid drinking from any turbid, sandy, or muddy pool, in whose vicinity only sour herbs are growing; choose rather spring water, or water from creeks with a clean gravel bed.

11.	After reaching the place of your intended outing do not sit with sweaty clothes in a drafty outpost but rest in a sunny shelter on the leeward.

12.	On your return downward do not attempt to shorten your way by taking steep and dangerous cross-cuts; * neither permit the momentum of your descent to get out of your control; so too avoid sprains and overexertions of muscles and joint-ligaments, which would surely wear out your strength and deaden your good feeling.

13.	It is an old truism that the sensation of fatigue is the result of auto-intoxication from waste products; but these will also impair your will-power and veil your momentary judgment of obstacles and dangers.

14.	In passing through fogs and clouds always choose safe paths, from which you are not likely to stray off in unknown or wrong directions.

15.	Gliding down snowfields is advisable only when you are sure not to end upon gravely or slaty inclines, or on the brink of an abyss.

16.	Should your shoes or hoofs become wetted through, be sure to exchange the stockings for dry ones; otherwise the foot will soon be invalidated by blisters and abrasions.

17.	The last remnant of your provisions should not be eaten before you hold in your hand the door-knob of your street-door again.

—Tennis and Golf is very popular in our new Territory of Hawaii. The natives there are great swimmers, being fond of all aquatic sports.
-124-

(From “American Physical Education Review.”)

TOYS AND GAMES FOR CHILDREN AMONG THE ANCIENT HELLENES.

By EDWARD M. PLUMMER.

WE have endeavored to describe at its height the system of professional athletics in ancient Hellas. Such a system must necessarily have influenced the more widespread practices whereby the young developed their bodies, just as to-day the system of professional athletics is a model for college training and exerts an influence upon the sports of even young children. But professional athletics, even in ancient Hellas, must be regarded as quite disinct from that important phase of Hellenic education called Gymnastike.

In Sparta physical culture was a stern business and could by no means be styled a pastime ; it was almost the sole requisite of education. But it was in Sparta that professional athletics were held in least favor. Spartan authorities did not delude themselves; being thoroughly in earnest to produce a race that was hardy and valiant to the last degree, and regarding physical culture as a serious and all-engrossing business rather than an exciting amusement, they quickly discerned that the specialism of professional athletics was detrimental to this end.

The greatness and wellfare of the state was the standard whereby all Spartan life was regulated. The needs of the state were ever uppermost in the minds of Spartan authorities. They neither deluded themselves in their estimates ot these needs, nor did they even dream of a compassion that would deter them from establishing and executing regulations whereby#these needs would be met. In Sparta the unfortunate individual who did not conform in promise or attainment to the criterion of a Spartan citizen found no pity.

And what was the criterion of the Spartan citizen ? It was the man, without defect of body, who had learned not merely to stifle outward show of fear, but who had learned to be absolutely fearless, who had learned to be calm while suffering agonizing pain ; it was the man whose powers of endurance were very great, who could march long distances over a rough country without fatigue, who could then halt and await the onset of an enemy with a glad and confident heart, and who could engage his enemy and be victorious ; it was the man who loved combat.

The Spartan state possessed absolute authority over its citizens through all stages of their lives. Even before birth that authority was exerted; for the state prescribed the age at which citizens should marry, and approved or vetoed all propositions of marriage. If at the present day we exercised the same care to bring sound children into the world there would be little need of being “born again.” Spartan infants were subjected to the judgment of a body of selected citizens,, and if approved by the latter became thenceforth the objects of the care and direction of the state, but if condemned as not promising health and vigor they were killed. According to Plutarch unhealthy infants were exposed in the Apothetee, a sort of chasm under Taygetos and left to die.

Digitized by tjOOQle
-125-

Until the age of seven, Spartan children were left to the care of their parents, but even during this early period they received a foretaste of future deprivations and exercises. Their food was very plain and limited in quantity. Care was taken to eradicate the little fears of childhood. They were taught not to be afraid in the dark or when left alone.

Many interesting little sports were in vogue among Hellenic children, and it may well be believed that in Sparta they were practised with a peculiar earnestness. Most of the amusements of modern children were also the delight of Hellenic children, while some of the sports of the latter are no longer in use. Even the infants, rattle (platage) was a Greek toy, ascribed to the invention of the philosopher Archytas.

Then there were hoops (trochoi or cricoi). The childish game of rolling the hoop was called cricelasia. The cricos corresponded to the Roman trochus described by Horace and Ovid, as well as by Propertius, Martial, and other writers. The cricos was a large hoop ptobably of iron or copper. According to Antyllos, its diameter was less than the height of a man, reaching probably to his chest. The implement used in rolling it is said to have been a crooked-necked iron with a wooden handle, called elater. Sometimes, as with us, the hoop was set round with small metal rings or bells which when in motion caused a jingling sound very pleasing to a child’s ears. Some regarded these rings as unnecessary, but Antyllos favored them on the ground that the sound they produced added much to the child’s happiness and engaged his attention in a pleasant way. Antyllos also considered this game to be a very healthful form of exercise and advised that it be practised immediately before bathing and eating. The familiar top, old as the days of Homer, was a common amusement with Greek boys, as in our own times.

The humming top, used by Greek and Roman children and made to revolve by whipping, is also prettily alluded to by Virgil.

Kite-dying also seems to have been known to the Greek children. Stilts (Calohathra) were much used by children and also by adults in certain mimic dances. The girls had dolls (Corai) of wax or clay, and the usual paraphernalia connected with this ever popular plaything. Many of these, which still survive, show that they were painted and that the arms and legs were so fastened with strings as to be easily movable. The word core literally means a “little girl.’’ At marriage the Greek girls dedicated their dolls to Artemis, the Roman girls to Venus. If they died unwedded, their^dolls were buried with them. The terms dagvnon, dagys and plaggon were often applied by the Greeks to the wax doll.

The swing (aiora) occupied the same position in Greece as in our nurseries. Then there were clappers (plectra), toy-carts (amaxides), hobby-horses (hippidia xylina), toy soldiers, and animals, made of clay.

In addition to these toys, many games may be mentioned. From the standpoint of education, games for children are worthy of consideration. For, if human nature is most plainly shown in sport, then from these games one can obtain a clear idea of a child’s character, inclination, and intellect, the recognition of which should be of utmost impor-

Digitized by VjOOQle
—126—

tance to the educator. Games also furnish endless and varied material for the cultivation of the child's mental powers and natural talents, which are developed by physical exercise.

The Spartan children were superior to the other Greek children in the power of expression, although they were not so highly educated. This is no doubt due to the fact that at a very early age the Spartan children were forced into a free life in the open air and to systematic gymnastic exercise.

The Romans, also, though they did not consider gymnastics of so much importance as did the Hellenes, did not neglect them. Being a warlike people, they began to develop and strengthen the body of the child at an early age. The sports of childhood are as important to the boy as work is to the man, and demand as much of his strength and intelligence. The victory in a game gratifies the child as a real victory in battle delights the conqueror. Resides, most games are imitations of the various occupations of adult life and cause the child to show a decided inclination for some particular branch. Plato, as well as other philosophers, recognized this fact. He claimed that a boy, in order to be skilled in a special line of work, should be trained to that work from childhood, and that his first training should be by means of his games. Such preliminary instruction should be followed by that based on theory and science. Experience has often corroborated this theory of Plato, and Hellenic life itself furnishes the best illustration of it.

According to the legend, Achilles, attired in the garb of a girl among the daughters of the king, betrayed himself to the keen eye of Odysseus, by handling the weapons, placed by the latter among the ornaments which he offered for sale. Strepsiades, hard pressed by his creditors, says that his son’s extreme fondness for horses and chariots has ruined him, and continuing, he relates with pride how as a mere child his son had made tiny leatner carts, moulded houses, and ships, and carved frogs from pomegranate rind. Cato the Younger also, says Plutarch, gave strong indications of his character by the games he played. The youthful Nero amused himself daily by playing with ivory four-horse chariots, thus indicating his future passion for chariot-racing in the circus. The distinguished men of antiquity, when at home, often entered heartily into the children’s games. The famous general, Agesilaos, is represented as riding the hobby-horse with his little boys. Alcibiades was surprised to see Socrates doing the same thing while at play with young Lamprocles. The Romans, a more serious people than the Greeks, often sought recreation in ball-playing. Cato the Elder, and also Scaevola, are mentioned as expert ball players.

The Hellenes were thus well aware that uninterrupted employment was detrimental to both physical and mental life. This idea was most beautifully expressed bv Pythagoras in his hygiene of body and soul. Therefore, in connection with the gymnastic system of the Hellenes, were developed many gymnastic games which did not require any special apparatus and which were not intended for tests of superior strength, but merely to furnish pleasant and suitable physical exercise.

A game called ostracu peristrophe was often played. The boys arranged themselves in two divisions on either side of a line. One of

Digitized by tjOOQle
—127—

them then held up a piece of broken crockery, or an oyster shell, one side of which was blackened with tar. One division chose the black side, the other the white. A boy then threw the fragment. The advantage belonged to that side whose color appeared uppermost after the throw; this division then pursued the other; those who were captured were called donkeys and were debarred from further participation in the game.

The epostracismos, a more informal game, was played by boys on the beach, or on the shore of a pond. The sport consisted in “skipping” smooth, flat pebbles or shells over the surface of the water. The boy who “skipped” his pebble to the greatest distance, or, perhaps, made it cut the water the greatest number of times, was victor. This pastime, known as “Ducks and Drakes,” is still in favor with boys.

There were two games for testing bodily strength, the dielcystinda and the scaperda. In the former a party of children separated into two divisions, each of which faced the other in a row, so as to give every member an opponent. Probably a line ot some kind lay between the two divisions, and the game consisted in each boy’s striving to pull his opponent across it by means of a rope. The victory was decided when all members of one side had been forced to the other.

The scaperda was a game m which a rope was passed through a hole made in a tree-trunk or rough pillar, at some distance from the ground. Two contestants then took their places on opposite sides of the pillar, with their backs to each other and each holding an end of the rope. If one of them could succeed in lifting the other from the ground he was declared victor, but so difficult was the feat that the phrase scaperdan elkein came in time to be a proverbial expression applicable to very difficult tasks. This sport was one of the amusements at the Attic Dionysia.

“Blind man's bud" was played with slight variations under the name chalcemyia, or “brazen fly.’ One child was blindfolded and was obliged to capture one of the rest. With outstretched arms he groped about, repeating the words “I will hunt a brazen fly.” The others responded “You will hunt, but you will not catch,” and at the same time struck him more or less lightly with whips or threads of papyrus. When one of them was caught, he was blindfolded in place of the other, and the game repeated.

A game called chytrinda demanded great dexterity on the part of the player. One child sat in the middle and was called chytra. The others ran round him, pinching or striking him until by a quick movement he managed to catch one of them, who was obliged to take his place and be the chytra in turn. Sometimes the child ran about in a circle, carrying on his head a jar which he held with his left hand. His companions would strike him while asking him the question, “Who has the jar?” to which he answered, “I, Midas.” If he touched one of the children with his foot, that child had to take his place.

The term chyndalismos was applied to a juvenile play, which somewhat resembled our peg-top. The game consisted in flinging short, pointed poles into the earth, in the following manner. The first child holds his pole, directed downward, and then throws it so as to leave it

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-128-

standing upright in the ground. The second child then tries to throw his pole in such a way as to upset the first one and leave his own standing in its place. The former player then tries his skill, and so on. The arm and eye are especially trained in this game, which is still played in some countries, generally in the spring when the ground is soft.

A game especially suited to develop attention was the following. The players formed a ring. One of them was provided with a cord which he tried to place .beside another child without being detected in the act. If he succeeded in doing this, the one beside whom the cord was found had to run round the ring amid the blows of his playfellows; if, on the other hand, he had noticed the other when putting the cord there, that one would have been obliged to run round the ring himself.

A game resembling the modern jack-stones, in which five pebbles were flung from the back of the hand and caught in the palm in falling, was played under the name of pentalithos. This game was much in favor with Hellenic women, as well as with children, and was said to be the favorite amusement of the famous beauty, Phr^hie of Athens.

The game of king (basilinda) consisted of feats, done by one child at the bidding of another, as a soldier would obey a king. Who should be king and who soldier was decided by lot.

A favorite pastime with children was the game called artiasmos or 4‘0dd and Even,” in which they guessed whether the number of objects one held concealed in his hand was odd or even. Dice, nuts, coins, etc., were used for this purpose. The amount won or lost was either the articles themselves or a sum of money staked upon the guess. Horace also in the Satires alludes to this game under the name ludere par impar. Still another game of guessing was collabismos, in which a child, with closed eyes, guessed who had given him a box on the ears, and also which hand he had used in striking him.

Greek children often played at the game called “hunt the slipper1 y (schoenophilinda)1 a piece of rope being used instead of the slipper. The modern “hide and seek” was the Greek apodidraskinda. “Kiss in the ring11 (cynetinda) is another ancient game of which, however, we possess no correct details. “Ride a cock horse11 (calamon peribenai) was also an amusement of great antiquity, and was very popular both in Greece and in Rome. Horace in the Satires refers to this sport in the following words: equitare in arundine longa.

The Greek and Roman children played several games of skill with nuts, which resembled very closely our modern game of marbles. Nuts played so important a part in childish sports that nuces relinquere became a proverbial expression for “putting away childish things.” The nuts were pitched into a circle drawn on the ground called homilla or into a hole, bothros, dug in the ground. Those that fell outside the circle were forfeited.

The name delta was given to a certain game with nuts in which a triangle was chalked on the ground, and marked across with lines or bars running parallel to the base. The player then flipped nuts into the triangle, winning as many nuts as he crossed bars, provided, of course, that they did not roll outside the triangle, in which case they were for-

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-129-

feited. Therefore, the most skilful play consisted in driving the nut exactly to the apex of the triangle.

The ball (sphaera) was not only a favorite toy among children, but it also played an important part in the physical exercises of youths and adults. No other gymnastic exercise was so popular among the Greeks and Romans of different periods as the ball games, though regarded less as a game than as an exercise for strengthening the muscles and cultivating grace and symmetry of body.

They were a favorite pastime in the heroic age of the Hellenes as well as in later times when Greece was at the height of its glory. The Romans of the old Republic, and even in the reign of the emperors, also sought recreation in ball-playing. The continued favor which ball-playing enjoyed is sufficient proof of its benefit to the body. The earliest mention of ball-playing is found in two passages of the Odyssey. In the second passage, Homer represents ball-tossing as an adjunct to the dance. The game was accompanied by music and Odysseus was surprised at the marvelous dexterity of the players.

“And now Alcinoiis called on Halius and Laodamas to dance alone, for with them none could vie. So taking in their hands a goodly purple ball, which skilful Polybius had made them, one, bending backward, flung it toward the dusky clouds; the other, leaping upward from the earth, easily caught the ball before his feet touched ground again. Then after they had tried the ball straight in the air, they danced upon the bounteous earth with tossings to and fro. Other young men beat time for them, standing round the ring, and a loud sound of stamping arose. Then to Aleinoiis said royal Odysseus : ‘Mighty Alcinoiis, renowned of all, you boasted that your dancers were the best, and now it is proved true. I am amazed to see.’” This choric ball-playing was very popular at Sparta and long survived.

The beautiful princess, Nausicaa, and her companions accompanied their game by singing, and the women of Corcyra at a later period are said to have followed this ancient custom. At Sparta and Sicvon ball-playing was also accompanied by music.

The Athenians were so fond of ball-playing that they bestowed the right of citizenship on Aristonikos of Karystos and erected pillars in his honor, because he was so skilled and graceful a player. The Spartans held this game in as high estimation as did the Athenians, and to them is attributed the invention of ball games. Among the kings of Greece, Alexander is mentioned as favoring ball-playing.

In one of his plays, (Plyntriae), which was received with great favor, Sophocles introduced Nausicaa at play with a ball. Only the Milesians, who were devoted to agonistic contests, disdained ball playing, as it did not tend to increase athletic ability and was of no value in helping them to win prizes in the public gatres. Balls are found carved on ancient monuments and tombs, especially on those of physicians, as ball-playing was a form of gymnastics, and gymnastics as a foundation for dietetics was a part of medicine. A gymnasium \yas not considered complete without having a special room, called the sphaerir sterion, devoted to the games of ball. A special instructor (sphaeristicos) who had made a scientific study of the games was appointed to super-

Digitized by ^.ooQle
—ISO-

ill tend this exercise, for it required much skill and practice for one to become an expert in this branch of gymnastics.

The Romans were especially fond of ball-playing and considered it a pleasant pastime for men rather than for boys. Cato the Elder enjoyed a game of ball on the Field of Mars on the same day that he received the refusal of the consulate. Cicero, however, in a public speech, decried ball-playing along with banquets and games of dice. The emperor Augustus enjoyed a game of ball. Pliny the Younger relates that the aged Spurinna wrestled with old age by indulging in ballplaying. At the time of the emperors a game at ball was the most common exercise practised immediately before bathing in the ball-court connected with the bath.

The Hellenes practised this exercise entirely naked or in light undress. The Romans, on the other hand, never disrobed during the game, except in the sphaeristerion and probably not always even there.

There were many different ways of playing at ball. Definite descriptions of some have been handed down to us, but of others we know simply by name. Pollux, Hesychios, Photios and Eustathios consider the game called Urania to be identical with that practised by the Phae-acians, as in this, according to Homer’s description, the body was bent backward and the ball was thrown high up into the air. The players then tried to catch the ball before it touched the ground.

The game called Episcyros, at first peculiar to Sparta, was very popular and took its name from the line scyros which separated the two divisions. On either side of this line and parallel with it were drawn two base lines (grammai catSpin) beyond which the players could not go in catching the ball. The latter was placed upon the scyros (whence the name episcyros) and the players started simultaneously from their respective base lines. Whoever seized the ball first, threw it as far as he could toward the enemies’ base line. The object, of course, was to force the line of enemies back, by constantly returning the ball further and further over their heads until they were driven over their own base lines. In this case a swift runner must have had a great advantage over the others by securing the first throw.

A favorite game is described by the term (phaininda). The peculiar feature of this game was that the player who held the ball appeared to aim it at a certain person, but really threw it in an entirely different direction, thus disappointing one contestant and surprising another. This game is said to have demanded the utmost dexterity of a flexible elastic body. It also allowed a skilful player to display a fine carriage and much grace, as may be seen in the description of Damoxenos by Athenaios.

The arpaston was the name of a certain game at ball much in favor with the Greeks and also with the Romans of the time of the emperors. It required skill in throwing, rapidity of movement, power of estimating distance, as well as great care in catching the ball. The name of the game indicates that each player tried to prevent the other from catching it. This game is very frequently mentioned by Martial and according to him it was also played by women.

The term aporrhaxis was given to a certain ancient game at ball
-131-

in which the ball was thrown to the gronnd with great force and continually struck back with the hand, as it rebounded. The number of times the ball was forced to the ground was counted. The victor was called king and could order the others about. The loser was called donkey (onox). In another form of the game the point was to keep tossing the ball up into the air as long as possible with the open hand.

According to Oribasios, Antyllos at a later period reduced ball-playing to a system, from a dietetic point of view. He made four divisions according to the size and kind of ball used, and which he described in detail. Galen also wrote exhaustively on the ball games, which he considered of great importance on account of the benefit which they imparted to the mental and physical powers.

In connections with there various ball games, they practised a peculiar gymnastic exercise with the corucos, a leathern sack that must have resembled the modern punching bag on which pugilists try their fists. In form it resembled a ball, but in size and weight far surpassed the largest and heaviest ball. The corucos was filled with fig seeds, meal or sand, and its size varied according to the age and strength of the individual. It hung from the ceiling so as to reach about the middle of the player’s body. The bag was to be kept in increasingly rapid motion by swinging it to and fro with the breasts and hands. The game is alluded to by Plautus. This sport cannot properly be styled a ball game, although it resembled one in some respects. Athletes also engaged in this game, and the ancient physicians regarded this exerciee as very beneficial, because it not only strengthened the muscles and nerves, but also tended to prevent corpulency.

There are no records in classical literature to show that the Greeks and Romans used the bat or racquet in any of their games.

At the early age of seven, the Spartan child was initiated into disciplinary exercises of a severe character. At that age he came under the charge of the pacdonomos; this official was, in conformance with the direction of Lykurgos, one of the best citizens; he was expected to discipline the youth in all the exercises that were so nicely adapted to develop the Spartan citizen, and to teach him all the cunning and courage that would afterwards be required in his service of the state.

In Attica a far different pedagogical scheme presents itself. When children reached a proper age, the training of mothers and nurses was succeeded by that of the school ; hither they were conducted each day by the paedagogos, a special slave whose duty it was not only to conduct the children to and from school, but also to supervise their department.

In the Athenian school, gymnastics (gymnastiki) was not by any means the sole course of training. The curriculum in fact included three distinct courses:

(1)	grammatike;

(2)	musike;

(3)	gymnastihf.

Under grammatike were included reading and writing, to which were added after the 4th century B. C. elementary geometry, arithmetic, and drowing.

When the child was able to read and write with facility, he entered on the course called musik?y which embraced the study of poetry and mu.sic. Passages from Homer, Hesiod, Theognis, Phokvlides, and Solon, and from many lyric poets, were read and eommitteed to memory. Xenophon mentions in his Symposium a certain Nikeratos who had committed to memory the whole of both the Iliad and the Odyssey. The boys were also taught to chant the poems they had learned to the accompaniment of the lyre. Much stress was laid on the moral effects of music.

Digitized by Google
-132-

But from no system of Greek education was gymnastikt, the careful and systematic development of the yonng body excluded. Nor did this training cease in mature years; when young men left the palaestra, they found awaiting them the gymnasium,—an institution that was adapted to social as well as athletic purposes.

Nor did any Greek philosopher, as might, perhaps, be expected, ever dream of dropping gymnastikt from his ideal scheme. In the Laws of Plato there is a detailed discussion of the education of children, and the plan is therein advocated of restricting the education of boys to gymnastics until their tenth year; the regular study of letters was not to begin until after the body had been made sound. Aristotle also maintained that gymnastic training should precede as well as accompany that of the mind.

Enough has been said to show that the Hellenic ideal of manhood was not the mere scholar and subtle thinker, but the naked athlete with firm flesh and swelling muscle. It may be asserted that the mass of their young men reached during the best yge of Greek hirtory a stage of physical perfection which has never been attained in any other age or country. This is attested by thousands of statues of victorious athletes, not only in Olympia but throughout Greece. Although the Greeks had no cricket or football they had on the other hand a far greater variety of games than we have, and this variety made for the symmetrical development of the body. The athletic sports of Greece remained great and respected until excessive training and extreme specialization brought ruin to them; that is, when a boxer devoted all his time to boxing, and a wrestler to wrestling at the expense of a harmonious development of the body. The influence of the old Greek games upon sculpture, painting and poetry, as well as upon athletics, will continue to keep alive for centuries to come the ideal of a sound body for a sound mind.

GYMNASTIC COLUMNS IN PERIODICALS.

EVERY periodical in the land should have a Department of Physical Economics (edited by able authority) which shall have for its aim the betterment of humanity through the diffusion of such knowledge as will enable woman to adapt hygienic principles to individual needs, and thus aid materially, practically, and permanently whatever circle she influences, whether home, school or society. Knowledge, not advice, is lacking among homekeepers. The civilized world is poisoned with amateur advice.

Health is the condition in which nutrition and all functional activities are normal. Disease is any condition wherein retardation of some or all of these occurs. It is a condition generally of gradual approach which could have been arrested, had timely knowledge controlled the environment of the individual. It is doubtful whether diphtheria and other disease germs would find opportunities for development, were the individual’s Condition normal. This is hard to prove, as an absolutely normal person is hard to find. Most of us are continually presenting apologies for some flaw, some lack of staying power, which proves a hindrance to freedom and usefulness.

The homekeeper need not penetrate the mysteries of pathology, but she can and should understand physiology sufficiently well so that she will direct the home in such a way that it will provide a normal healthgiving environment for all.—E. Marguerite Lindley.

THIS MEANS YOU I

We will send “MIND AND BODY” free to you for one year on receipt of $4.00 for 4 new subscribers.
X	    *	■■ Published Monthly.

JSm9 ftND BODY. *

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.	MU-wsu-oJcee,	'Wlacoia.alia..

JW“ Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee,Wis . Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

FRED. W. FROEHLICH. f

FRED. W. FROEHLICH, Instructor of the North St. Louis Turn-verein and teacher of physical training in the St. Louis public schools, died at the home of his parents, at Dayton, O., where he spent his vacation, on the 23rd of August.

Mr. Froehlich fell from a tree, which he had climbed for sawing off some qM branches, and sustained fatal injuries to the brain.

Mr. Froehlich, though only 35 years of age, had been remarkably successful as a teacher of physical education. He had taken the first prize this summer in Philadelphia with his class, the highest honor obtainable iu the Turnerbund.

Himself a powerful man and all-around athlete, he had the rare faculty of being able to inspire his pupils to do the utmost.

He was teacher of fencing, wrestling and boxing during the Summer-Course of the N. A. G. U. in 1896.

The whole North American Gymnastic Union and especially his pupils feel deeply the loss of Mr. Froehlich.

SUMMER CAMPING FOR BOYS.

By WINTHROP T. TALBOT, M. D.

THE summer camp for boys is an outcome of the desire of thoughtful parents to avoid the dangers of prolonged idleness for their sons during the long vacation, and to secure for them an active out-of-door life to strengthen their bodies and supply nervous vitality for the winter months of confined city life.

Starting in this way the camp has developed rapidly within a few years into an educational means of growing importance to our civilization. Hundreds of boys are now enjoying the never-ending delights of this nature life in place of the rare and fortunate individuals of a few years ago. Municipalities are now beginning to include the camp among their legitimate means of caring for youth and not only is its value appreciated in bodily training and development, but also its importance, during the three months hitherto wasted in our educational plan in supplying much of the instruction for which there is neither time nor suitable opportunity in the winter school. Here in the summer camp is the vacation needed by every growing lad from school and examinations and also a chance to learn the things for which he craves a knowledge; all kinds of sports and games, the handling of animals wild and

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-134-

domestic, the wonders of the farm and the forest, the hills, the lake and the sea, all kinds of possibilities lie open to his adventurous step in the summer camp. Is it not a pity for a boy to have to spend these three most delightful months of all the year penned up amid tenement walls, in hot streets, or even loafing on hotel piazzas, learning the instructive ways of the average mountain or seaside resort, when summer’s’call is to her own best mysteries!

It is impossible in this brief space to dwell upon what the democratic camp will do to smooth the rough corners of the embryo aristocrat, the budding tough or the crude, well-meaning, able boy just* beginning to glorify in American manhood, nor to point out the subtle effect for good the camp may have in morals and manner. Nor is it possible to describe the educational value of summer months spent with intelligently guided interest among trees, shrubs, flowers, vines, mosses and ferns, small and large four-footed animals, birds, fishes, frogs, turtles and snakes, in studying the stars, the Northern lights, the winds, clouds, storms and sunshine, in handling tools and machinery and boats, in navigating and surveying, in determining and prospecting for the native minerals, in planting and maturing crops and making hay, and picking berries, in the fascinating marvels of up-to-date farming with its wealth of bacteriological law, the care of milk and making of butter. These aspects of the summer camp must yield precedence in this paper to the consideration of what after all is perhaps the most striking field of usefulness of the summer camp when rightly conducted, namely, the physical training and development of the growing boy.

The one matter which is of most importance for the health and profit of the boys is, first, that the camp should be in the near neighborhood of water, and second that the tents, huts, or shanties should be situated upon an eminence away and up from the water’s edge and commanding as wide a view as possible. The more dominant the view, ceteris paribus, the better will be the moral and mental tone of the campers.

It goes without saying that the camp will be the better for being remote from neighbors and at the same time accessible to supplies.

This attention to location simplifies the matter of drainage from the sinks, and if the dry earth closets are properly cared for the struggle for good health is half won.

Good food does not mean rich viands but wholesome victuals of excellent materials well cooked. It is needless to say that canned roast beef sans juice, sans taste, sans everything that gives it value, bacon, greasy food or coffee is fit for no camper. He needs fresh vegetables, fruit and starch foods, fresh meat, good bread, plenty of milk and eggs. Supply at the table the sweets he needs and craves, else he will overeat on cheap candy. A lunch between an early breakfast and dinner after the swim, fills the certain want of some boys. If the food is of the right quality and the boy outdoors all the time, overeating is not a serious problem. Boys have idiosyncrasies of eating; many boys, rich and poor alike, are allowed to refuse a large class of food at home ; boys who do not eat vegetables and milk and cereals, are not rare, but the appetites of those around them, the absence of a fond mother
-135-

pleading with them to try a little, and hunger, will do much to change this habit.

As to clothing, the everpresent liability of getting a wetting renders woolen garments imperative. A cotton or linen waistband remaining cold and wet about the abdomen, which has warmed and dried, is not infrequently the sole cause of a severe cold, and is always a source of discomfort. But on a hot day let the warm vital rays of the sun strike on the bare skin of the whole body if possible. A pair of swimming trunks or light flannel running pants is clothing enough. The brownest body gives the toughest nerves. .

Experience has amply proved that the question of exercise and muscular development resolves itself into a question of rest and early sleep. When boys are out of doors all day long, half-past eight is not too early a time to be asleep, and ten hours in bed is none too long. If the boys have been kept Occupied all day there will be no fooling at night. Those who are in charge of the boys should retire at the same time, else the sense of contentment and absolute quiet essential to deep sleep will be lost. In this connection it will suffice to say that the advisers, counsellors, or faculty will find that the need for discipline will disappear if they conform their own habits absolutely to the rules which govern the boys. This applies to smoking. On warm afternoons it is a good plan for all to take an hour’s rest. It is desirable that no one should feel humiliated when told to lie down. Many boys require more rest than this. Boys who are growing rapidly, on whom the nervous drain is excessive, or who are unused to muscular exercise need to stay in bed for a day or two at a time occasionally, quietly and away from their companions. The camper is an individual and as such must be studied closely, not by the use of eyes and ears, but by measurements, strength-tests, tests of hearts and lungs and urine, of eyes and ears, by observation of habits of eating, sleeping, digestion, motion, etc., of all that goes to make up the physical boy. These things must be noted, not only in order to put a boy on the right track for progress, but in order that comparisons of his conditions with that after taking the summer’s outing may be made and that his gain or loss and further need may thus be accurately known.

Growing boys thrive under long-continued, non-competitive exercise. Too much cannot be said in favor of the art of swimming for robust, physical development. Ordinarily intelligent boys, non-swimmers, are able, as experience proves, easily to learn to swim a half mile within four weeks, in Tuly, with one practice of fifteen minutes daily. The accomplishment of distant-swims in deep water is essential to the development of confidence. That is a proud moment when the tyro emerges a little blown, replete with emotion and swallowed water, at the end of his first half-mile swim, listens to the cheers of his friends and finds that he has not only survived the awful distance, but has strength enough left almost to swim it again! Never again will he sport with the little boys on the beach, the coveted place on the raft is now his at last.

Water base-ball—a camp invention—is well adapted to give confidence in the water. The bases are rafts about four feet square, placed at

Digitized by CjOOQle
—136—

distances regulated by the strength and expertness of the swimmers, the batsman and catcher standing on a larger raft. The ball is a small rubber foot-ball. The game is played by base-ball rules. Rowing in barches when the strain is not too long-continued, is admirable exercise for older boys, but paddling in the war-canoes gives better results on the waves. The war-canoe, with its demands for equilibrium, regular and concerted action without great exertion, and instant and implicit obedience, is an excellent craft for giving boys the training they need to become boatmen.

As a means of-muscular development and as a requisite for land athletics the value of three minutes of regular calisthenic exercise just before breakfast is hard to over-estimate. The natural element of competition in track athletics is valuable when confined to events requiring no sustained exertion. The advantages of base-ball, tennis and the like are too trite to need emphasis here.

A week's experience of roughing it while on the march, sleeping in tents or on bare ground, carrying packs, climbing mountains, walking through rain and heath in spite of foot weariness, is not over-exertion for a healthy boy, and will do more than anything else to bring up a boy's spirit and solidify his muscles. Without overstraining him the certain discovery that he is capable of exertion far beyond his credence gives a boy sincere self-confidence and exposes bumptiousness. It is of subtle and far-reaching benefit to his character and morals, and leads to a self-respect based upon personal accomplishment in which young boys of the well-to-do classes are lacking.

One of the main tests of the physical benefit which is derived from a boy’s life in a well-ordered camp, lies in the endurance gained for the housed winter's work. In camp a boy gets more air, sunlight, exercise —the best means of gaining his endurance—than is possible in a more conventional life spent among older people, and is taught the best ways of doing many things with and for his body at the most receptive period of his life, which to the city-bred boy at least, means all the difference between ultimate success or failure in his struggle for life.— From “American Physical Education Review.”

HARVARD SUMMER SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL TRAINING.

The most successful course in the history of the Harvard Summer School has just closed. One hundred and thirty students took part in this broad and well mapped course. Every branch of this department was represented by the most capable instructors and it must be said to the credit of the University that it is fully aware of the importance of physical training and spares no means in offering the very best of opportunities to assist teachers in equipping themselves in this line of education. The Harvard Summer School has an advantage over other summer schools in as much as it is immediately connected with the University and can offer privileges which none other can offer; hence the constantly growing attendance. The theory as well as the practice has been so graded that every comer may be accommodated.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-137-

A student can go through three successive terms,taking a higher grade every term and upon passing examinations in all three grades will receive a college certificate. This plan in itself has induced a great number to earnestly enter into the work and take the three continued courses.

The course closed with three visitors’ days, during which all the # practice work was exhibited by the different classes. The Hemenway Gymnasium was crowded each day. A reception and dance closed the school-term and all students unite in proclaiming it a profitable as well as pleasant summer.—C. L. S.

28TH NATIONAL FESTIVAL OF THE N. A. G. U.

FAVORED with the best of weather, Philadelphia celebrated the most succesful gymnastic festival known in the history of the “Turner-bund.” Successful in many ways. To give a minute description of the entire festival would take too much valuable space in this papef. Suffice it, therefore, to give a brief review of the festival, making “mention therein of points worthy of special comment and description. Preceed-ing the festival, which also marked the stepping stone into the second half of the hundred year of its existence, the Biennial Convention of the N. A. G. U. was held, which brought together the most prominent men of the organization. Nearly 300 delegates met to deal with the many pending, and also new, problems. One of the questions considered and decided upon, which will be of great interest to the readers, was the question concerning the future of the Milwaukee Seminary. For the last year the magnificent institution had its doors closed for reasons which were explained in this paper at the time. It is therefore gratifying to know that the seminary will again open its doors in 1901, and train teachers in the science of physical training in general and the German system especially. That this move, however, is based upon certain conditions is self-evident. The condition made was that a sufficiently large number of applications would have to be made, so as to warrant this undertaking and make a satisfactory course possible. The proper authorities were authorized to select a suitable man to direct the seminary work. Details concerning this plan will be made known in this paper at a later date.

Although the festival was not to begin until Wednesday, the visitors poured in as early as Monday and by Wednesday evening the guests numbered by the thousands. The Technical Committee of Philadelphia had arranged a festival performance for Monday afternoon and repeated it on Wednesday evening. This performance, which in form of a prolog gave a brief history of physical training and which marked the different epochs by plastic or allegoric groupings, was a revelation to the majority of the spectators. It was a pronounced success without doubt. Worthy of special mention is the last part of the performance where the modern method of training was shown. The exactness, the vigor, and the spirit with which the participants entered into the work, was a feature which brought forth endless applause and comment. On Thursday morning the actual competitive work commenced at Wash-

Digitized by v^oogle
-138-

ington Park. It was a grand sight to behold these brawny men in gray awaiting their turn to compete for the wreath. Once started, the different teams followed each other in rapid succession in their respective events. Some time was lost in climbing, which was due to the electric arrangement, registering the time of the competitors. However, this was soon made up and everything went smoothly.

In the evening of this day the Literary Competition, which always forms a marked feature of these festivals, was hdd. On Friday the work of the previous day was continued and the Individual Competition begun. Saturday, finally, was the gala day of the festival. Early in the morning the Swimming Contests were held and this was the only thing on the program for the morning. At noon the Parade began to form in front of the general headquarters. It was a grand sight when this huge column of gray’s moved along Broad street. Unfortunately there were only few spectators to enjoy it and the enthusiasm which was due to the visitors was therefore very limited. On the base-ball field, however, the parade was received with endless cheers as it entered. Soon after the arrival the program was begun and one after the other grand spectacular performance was given. Overwhelming was the impression, when the 1800 men fell in for the Mass Wand Drill. With lines dressed perfectly, in width as well as in depth, this body of men executed the finest^ wand drill ever put together and Mr. Pertuch, the Festival Director, who composed the drill, well deserved the ovation which followed this grand performance. In the evening the prizes were awarded.

With a well attended excursion to Coney Island this remarkable festival was officially closed.—C. L. S.

PHYSIQUE OF THE BOERS.

The London Lancet, commenting on the physical condition of the Boers, due to their pastoral life and outdoor occupations, says: In so far as they are of Dutch descent the Boers should be small. The French blood which is mingled with that of the Dutch would not tend very considerably to increase the height of the Boer. The French, although taller than the Dutch, are not so tall as the English. Yet the Boers of to-day are taller, stronger, and possess a more powerful physique than the English. It is quite a common occurrence to meet a Boer six feet six inches in height. Indeed, it has been said that the average height of the Boer is six feet two inches. All travelers bear witness to their magnificent physique, especiallv those who have been among the real Boers, that is to say, those who live in the rural districts, well away from the railway lines.

But apart from the flesh and bone, the big, strong frames, and the hard muscles developed by the healthy, constant, out-door exercise, the Boers have practical freedom from the diseases due to alcoholism and vice. They are not total abstainers, but they are remarkably sober, and drunkenness is rare among them. On the other hand, how often are British soldiers punished for drunkenness and invalided through. , venereal disease. Not only is almost every Boer physically fit to take the field and fight for his country, but he is a stronger, healthier, and

Digitized by ^ooQle
-139-

bigger man than even those who have been selected by medical examination as fit to serve in the British army.

From this the Lancet deduces the lesson that the physical salvation of the human race is to be obtained only by securing at least a reasonable proportion of the fresh air, sunshine, and out-of-door life that is enjoyed by the Boer.—From “The Dietetic and Hygienic Gazette.”

THE THERAPY OF EXERCISE.

Physical exercise as a means of developing and strengthening the body with the view to the preservation of health has been practiced for a long time, but it is only within a recent period that systematic exercise has been prescribed with any attempt at precision in the treatment of almost all forms of chronic and semi-chronic diseases.

Exercise is not only an important adjuvaut in the treatment of disease, but is, when judiciously prescribed, a therapeutic measure of great value in its curative possibilities. It may, in fact, be said that no chronic ailment exists in the treatment of which exercise in some form cannot be practised with advantage.

The physician who would have had the courage a few years since to prescribe any form of active exercise in the treatment of heart diseases would have been doubtless dubbed a crank, if not looked upon as a dangerous man in the community; whereas now exercise is regarded by many as being the greatest of therapeutic agents in the cure of just such affections.

The numerous cases of displacements of the internal organs and particularly of the abdominal viscera, which are so frequently brought to our knowledge, are now generally well understood to result in the majority of instances, from a weakened or ill-nourished muscular system, due mainly to insufficient exercise; and it is also further understood that no other therapeutic measure can successfully take the place of properly directed exercise either in the prevention of these displacements or in the restoration of these wandering organs to their normal positions.

It has long since been observed that the cure of indolent ulcers, chronic rheumatism, surgical wounds of long standing, and the union of fractured bones are facilitated by some mildly active or passive form of exercise. In fact, it matters but little what the nature of the disease may be, when the inflammation and fever have subsided, the acute stage passed, nothing can be lost but a steady gain will be made by strenghen-ing the patient, and this cannot be accomplished by any other means so surely as by prudent exercise.

It does not necessarily follow that exercise should be fatiguing, or require any exertion upon the part of the patient in the severe forms of disease. In such cases the exercise should be of a passive character, that coming within the domain of massage, and the more active forms of exercise resorted to as the increased health and strength of the patient will admit. The exercise, too* should be of a general character, extending to all parts of the body. Any attempt at strengthening any particular part of the body by exercise with complete absence of it in others will not be followed by the best results. A great advancement

Digitized by t^.ooQLe
—140-

will have been made in the treatment of disease when the therapy of exercise is better understood and more generally practised!—From “The Dietetic and Hygienic Gazette.’’

SUMMER PLAYGROUNDS IN CHICAGO.

The following suggestions for the organization and conduct of city playgrounds are taken from the report of William Noyes, Superintendent of the Chicago Summer Playgrounds, 1899.

1.	The apparatus should be located in one part of the yard, so that it can all be watched from one point. . . . Moreover, this arrangement leaves the rest of the yard open for free games.

2. The hours shbuld be limited, either by opening the yards only for a few hours daily to idle school children, or the force of custodians be sufficiently enlarged to have three distinct sessions a day for persons of different ages. To compensate for narrow quarters, several custodians acting in concert need to conduct games and exercises with the utmost vigor, while the yards are open.

3.	The duties of the janitors should be clearly defined.

,	4. The equipment, except such as can be borrowed, will need to be

purchased outright. The yards are too well established and they are too evidently “supported by the city” to warrant further dependence upon donations of materials. Much of the delay in opening the yards this jTear was caused by the vain effort to secure donations of materials, such as sand, paving blocks, etc.

5.	Provision for frequent excursions would add greatly to the popularity of the yards.

6.	The amount of gymnastic apparatus should be increased, even at the expense of common swings. Apparatus to be especially recommended, includes the balance swing, the giant stride, the tan bark pit, the buck, the parallel and horizontal bars, climbing and traveling ladders, climbing poles, and plenty of clean sand. Though such apparatus, if well made, will be expensive, it is the only resource in the spaces available. Bathing apparatus might well be included under this head. The use of the bath tubs in the building was granted this summer, but they could not be used for lack of a special attendant.

7.	The yards should be covered with something instead of sharp, dirty cinders. This would prevent much bodily injury and uncleanliness.

8.	Still more attention to gymnastic work should be secured by employing trained gymnasts.

9.	It would be a great advantage to the discipline of the yards if they were surrounded by high fences, so the presence of undesirable persons could be prevented, the theft of small articles be stopped, and the apparatus be left out over night.

10.	Consideration may well be given to the plan of opening the yards during the whole summer season, i. e., from May to October, the hours being confined to those after school, and only the children of a few rooms be admitted at a time. At present the yards are only well under way when they are stopped. The custodians only become acquainted with the children to say good-bye. Not only would this add

Digitized by CjOOQle
—141-

greatly to the attractiveness of school, but tend to break up the clannishness of gangs.

11.	A small sum of money might well be placed at the disposal of the custodians of each yard for the purchase of materials for constructive work.

12.	It is highly desirable that any appropriation obtained from the city be made payable in some way so that the superintendent can give his attention to the yards, and not to the unraveling of red tape at the City Hall.—From “The School Weekly,” Chicago.

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—The Bohemian Gymnastic Union of America (“Sokols”) celebrated its 7th National Festival at Cleveland, 0., from Aug. 18th to 23rd. 19 societies with 118 athletes took part in it. The rules governing the contests are in some respects similar to those of the N. A. G. U. before 1889, at which time the latter adapted the “Vereinsturnen.” Prizes were awarded for individual and class contests.

—An international “Congress of Strong Men” took place in Berlin, Germany, this month. Among those present was Mr. Paris, a Frenchman, who is able to lift on his back a boat containing eleven men.

THE VALUE OF ATHLETICS.

“As a rule, the higher the standing of the athlete in his particular branch of sporty the higher his standing in his class„ and this is as it should he.”

“I am in favor of college athletics in their broadest possible sense, says Prof. Eliot of Harvard University. Nobody appreciates more highly than I do the value of athletics in a university. 1 value them not chiefly for their physical effect, though that is very valuable, but more for their moral effect; for their effect on the moral fiber of the individual. The moral fiber of the individual is what tells in this world. It is that which stamps and has stamped the influence of the sons of Harvard for the last two hundred and fifty years upon the history of thip country and other countries, for fair Harvard is and always will be, I trust, cosmopolitan.

“Above all other things, perhaps, I like the word which has been used by a rather well-known graduate of Harvard—the ‘strenuous” -quality in a man. That word indicates the quality which athletics may give a man—the strenuous, robust quality, vigor, sand, grit, courage, determination, and resolution, and with it many a time—more often than the contrary—purity and sweetness. Assuredly, athletics are a most important factor in the higher education.

“It is a fine thing to develop the body. It is even a finer thing to develop the mind, but the great value comes in the fact that athletics develop the character, and this is what counts. Whatever may be said of university men who have done their duty in the crew, on the eleven or on the nine, those men must necessarily have practised the rugged -virtues of courage, resolution, self-domination, the power of acting in

Digitized by ^ooQle
—142-

conjunction with others, resolution to act as gentlemen, and often, what is more important, to act as men. It is these qualities which make athletics so invaluable.

“There is no need of entering upon any extended discussion in regard to the extent university sports should come under the immediate control of the faculty. Harvard men, especially, have not been charged with professionalism, at least for some years, so far as my memory serves me. I am not an authority upon the ethical status of amateur or professional sport, but no Harvard man for many years has needed the direct interposition of the faculty, and I am sure there will be none in the immediate future—at least during my administration.

“The best safeguard to render athletics most beneficial to the university student—considering both the physical and mental needs of the man—is to leave it to his own best judgment, and incidentally to the powerful aid of the respective captains of the crew, eleven, nine and track teams. I have never known of a case where a man was actually forced into athletics against his will, although I have seen men who would have been far better physically and otherwise had the advantages of a systematic course of instruction in athletics been properly presented to them. There is no fear that this proper presentation of this subject will be lacking in the immediate future. The American youth of to-day, from his very infancy, through his preparatory course and until he enters the university, has the advantages of athletics presented before him in such a light that, if he be not either mentally or physically weak, there can be but one result. And that result makes for the best for the American people of the future.

“That proper restrictions in regard to the standing of athletes in their classes should be made surely cannot be questioned. But I am proud to say that these are not often needed at Harvard. As a rule, the higher the standing of the athlete in his particular branch of sport the higher his standing in his class. And this is as it should be.”— From “The Dietetic and Hygienic Gazette.’’

BOOK REVIEW.

(All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.)

—The athletic girl is apt to be influential, to have power—and most of us like this—and when she expresses an opinion she is generally listened to with respect► A sound mind in a sound body is the superlative of attraction, and this a girl may and should possess. For most girls, as for many older women, too, it is well to stiive for the rounded life, the life of symmetry, the life which is not unduly developed in one direction at the expense of another.—August Ladies’ Home Journal.

—The Course of Study, Chicago Institute. Vol. 1, No. 1. July 1900.—It is the purpose of “The Course of Study” to present in theory and practice a full exposition of the work of the Chicago Institute in the Academic and Pedagogic Schools. This exposition will be continuous, and will consist of a monthly record of the work done in all grades and departments, prepared by the teachers of the grades and departments. “The Course of Study” will be at once the curriculum, guide, and text-book of the students in the Pedagogical School, and a means of preparation for all persons who propose to attend the Chicago Institute. It is also intended to meet the needs of those parents who are to know, month by month, the theory and details of the work of their children in the Academic

Digitized by

Google
-143-

Schools. Persons who wish to study the new education will find many practical suggestions as to the application of its fundamental principles to daily schoolroom work. This number contains the syllabi of the summer school. These syllabi, hower, furnish a preliminary study of the work to be done in all departments of the Chicago Institute.

—Indian Club Swinging, one, two, and three club-juggling. By Frank

E.	Miller. Saalfield Pub. Co., Akron, 0. 1900.—Mr. Miller in this book introduces a new nomenclature in club-swinging and describes all the “tricks” of this form of exercise, including “juggling” of the clubs. The nomenclature is correct, although hardly as simple for the uninitiated as the author believes. The illustrations are very good, and facilitate comprehending the different movements and positions. The book is good and certainly profitable for lovers of Indian club exercises. We have repeatedly stated that we see little practical and physiological value in club swinging, and we gave reasons for our views. That “juggling” should form a part of it we cannot understand; why,can we not just as well juggle with dumb-bells, hoops, or other aratus and eventuall at the

wind-up of a wand-drill ask for some fancy-work \ the drum-majors baton etc.?

Games for Schools and Gymnasia. By W. C. Schaefer. Milwaukee, 1900. Freidenker Publishing Co. pp. 36; Bound half cloth. Price 50c.— The scarcity of text books on movement games for the girls and boys in our American public and private schools has long been felt as a grievous want. Of German books on the movement games there has never been a lack, but the English literature was devoid of any acceptable collection of such games. Mr. Schaefer has undertaken the task to collaborate such a book with great insight and circumspection. The games are conspicuously arranged under different headings from sound pedagogical points of view and well classified for girls and boys. No teacher of our public, private, and gymnastic schools having Anglo-American pupils under his or her care can afford to be without this book. It embodies moral and physical as well as intellectual elements and is sure to attract the attention of every progressive pedagogue.

The retirement of Mr. Fitzsimmon’s, while he is still scarcely 40 years of age, is a melancholy reminder of the fact that pugilism has in one respect failed to hold its own with the other learned arts. Lord Russell of Killowen, a distinguished advocate and judge, died at 67 and is thought to have died early. Lord Roberts of Kandahar, although more than 70, is sent to conduct important military operations in South Africa, where he is even now in pursuit of the elusive DeWet. George Eliot, perhaps the most learned among English novelists, does not begin to write novels until she has reached the age at which Mr. Fitzsimmons regards his life’s work as finished.

And yet the eye of Mr. Fitzsimmons is not dimmed, nor is it the opinion of Messrs. Ruhlin and Sharkey that his natural force is abated. His recent successes, as well as his present condition, have led one of his friends to say to him : “Too quick despairer, wherefore wilt thou go?” The question is not irrelevant though possibly Mr. Fitzsimmons thinks it better to retire, while he is still in possession of the faculties which nature has given him. “Better by far,” he is reported to have said, “to retire while I am as a weaver’s beam than to wait until I am a brooken reed, which men pass on to the other side.”

Still more serious in its results than the retirement of Mr. Fitzsimmons, though less replete with personal interest, is the death of the Horton law. Its death marks the end of prize fighting in New York. Whether the death of the Horton law will lead to the retirement of Mr. Fitzsimmons’ distinguished rivals is still uncertain. Should they all retire the stage may perhaps be embellished by a company consisting exclusively of former pugilists. Every fighter loves the stage, and such a company would have at least the merit of being what the critics call well-balanced. It would also discourage the performance of “star” pieces, since any gentleman who ventured to monopolize the center of the stage would be set upon and dismembered by his associates.

MR. FITZSIMMON’S RETIREMENT

Digitized by

Google
-144-

ATHLETICS.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—A first class American lawn tennis player was formerly rated £is a third class man when compared with the English cracks, but since the Newport Tournament, in which Larned was the runner-up and Champion Whitman the victor, the Yankee is now rated as good and just a trifle better than his British cousin as they only managed to get as far as the semi-finals,

—Princeton is practically the college base-balf champion for the Season of 1900.

—Girl caddies with anti-swear regulations are in vogue in the eastern states where golf is popular.

—The continuous tenuis scheme is the best substitute yet proposed for the benefit of the busy man who has never recovered from his affection for the hustling game. This idea has already proved to be a long stride toward keeping alive and in thriving condition the game which, in its modern form, is still young. In fact, the modern game of tennis dates from no earlier a period than 1,874, when a code then adopted prescribed a uniform length and width of court, height of net, and fixed the position of the serving line, which up to that time had been a very uncertain quantity. Under the rules a list of the players is made and each player has the privilege of challenging the one just ahead of him on the list. If the challenger is successful, he and the loser exchange places, Or he goes up one. One week was the time fixed within which a player must accept a challenge or lose his place by default. A player may not challenge the man ahead of him more than twice in succession, unless, before he shall have issued the third challenge, he shall have proved his right to retain his present position in the list by defeating the man next below him. Under this arrangement, it will be seen that a player must be constantly improving his game if he would move up the list, or even if he would hold his present position. The continuous performance promises to develop whatever star tennis there is in any city.

—The A. A. U. all-round championship for 1900 was won by Harry Gill of the Toronto Y. M. C. A., July 5th, at the Knickerbocker Athletic Club’s Field ; he beat all previous records by 126 points.

A TRIBUTE TO AN ATHLETE.

This is a tribute to one who was, and who will be, known while athletic Americon history lasts, as the “father” of American amateur athletics. He is no. more. Death, the supreme master of physical prowess, struggled with him and laid him low. We allude to William B. Curtis, of the New York Athletic Club,, who was caught in a blizzard last month while climbing Mount Washington in New Hampshire, and who, with a companion, after battling for hours with the cold and fatigue, gave up the fight to the only conqueror of man—death. His companion, Allen Ormsby, also of the N. Y. A C., deserves to be enshrined in the memory of those who admire the true and the brave. He used all his splendid athletic training to save his aged companion (Mr. Curtis was over sixty), and when he could no longer drag or carry his loved friend he covered him over with the green boughs of the mountain trees and, with a broken leg (which he held together with rough splints) he fought seven miles up the mountain against the wild elements to get help, only to drop and die. They found him (the rescue party) in death’s embrace, the broken bones protuding through his flesh, with face set resolute, showing that the brave boy had fought a good fight. Our friend, W. B. Curtis, was found under the rude protection of the tree limbs, and the story shocked thousands of his friends. The writer knew Mr. Curtis well. As an athlete he had competed under the direction of “Father Bill,” and only three days before he left the city for his mountain trip had spoken to the old friend and bade him godspeed on his trip.	,

Mr. Curtis was a great athlete—probably the greatest this country has produced—for he was born near where he met his death, and he was a champion in running, boat-rowing, and a record holder in heavyweight lifting. Thousands in the liquor who attend sport knew him either personally or by si^ht, hence this notice of his death. Long live the memory of “Father” Bill Curtis!

Digitized by tjOOQle