MIND

Vol. 42

AND BODY

MAY-JUNE 193S	No.	428

Trends in Physical Education

James Edward Rogers, Director National Physical Education Service National Recreation Association

&

During the past forty years there have been five distinct trends in health and physical education. Since 1890, every tea years has marked a new emphasis in the program.

From 1890-1900 the stress was on drill, marching, calisthenics, setting up and sitting down exercises and apparatus perform-ance. We were devotees of “systems.” The technique was usually formal and the activity was conducted “en masse” and according to counts of 4, 8; 12, etc. We were all doing the same thing at the same time with the same precision. Form of performance was the outcome desired. There were splendid emphases in this gymnastic program, namely, stress on the need for organic development, for neuro-muscular skill training, and for bodily symmetry through anthropometic measurements. The characteristic of this period was large classes formally conducted according to the day’s order. Drill and exercises dominated.

From 1900-10 came the athletic emphasis and it is still with us. Colleges and schools rushed into a strenuous athletic schedule. Athletics dominated the program and everything else was neglected. The gridiron activities took the place of the gymnastic interests. The coach was enthroned and enthralled. The gymnastic teacher took a back seat. The program became largely one of games arid sports and was devoted to the varsity teams and high powered competition. Even today ia many states and whole sections of the country, athletics is the only type of physical education given and it is given unfortunately to a very few. The emphasis of 1890 on neuro-muscular skill training is neglected and certainly there is a place in any physical education program for both the 1890 and 1900 brands. We need definite teaching of organic development and body control. Youth also needs the lessons in emotional controls and social behavior that come through participation in sports. Adolescence must test itself under violent emotional strains as to how best to keep its temper, to obey the rules, to keep faith with team mates, to play fair, and to live clean. These are all great educational objectives and have character building values. Certainly we must preserve the athletic stress as well as the gymnastic emphasis.

From 1910-20 we have another trend in the program, namely, play and recreation. In 1906 the National Recreation Association was founded and by 1910 its great educational campaign

Digitized by

Google
f

<

46

was effective in stressing the idea of mass participation^® slogan “A game for every boy and girl, and every boy and gm in a game,” was enthusiastically received. These ten years present a period devoted to a rapid growth in the intramural programs; to the idea of extra-curricular schedules; to the encouragement of after-school play and mass participation as against varsity participation. Schools began to develop many teams in many sports. The “dubs” now had a chance in the sports program. This stress was a very healthy antidote to that of 1900. One of its main educational contributions was the idea of teaching play habits and sport skills for the wise use of leisure time. One of the cardinal principles of education is to train for the wise and wholesome use of leisure. A good program should include all three: A good gymnastic program, a good athletic program, and a good play and recreation program. One type of program will not suffice if our curriculum in education is to be a well balanced way of education.

In 1920-30, the health education stress io our programs came with a bang. Many of us are still immersed in this tidal wave. It has been a most powerful emphasis because of the great interest in health. There is perhaps no interest in human life that has so many organizations with so many millions of dollars, concerned as the promotion of health education. Schools have plunged into the health education programs. We are flooded with literature, charts, graphs, and posters. New series of text-books seem to appear every day. It is almost impossible to keep up with the current literature and publications. Generally, throughout the country, physical education has become the administrative unit of education; responsible for both health and physical education. The departments are now called Health and Physical Edccation. Therefore physical educators must become well trained as health educators if they are to teach this program adequately. Health education has had. a beneficent influence on the physical education program. In some cities over the country the good programs of 1890,1900,1910, are forgotten in the enthusiasm for hygiene teaching, for health examinations, for posture training, and for correctives. The work of the doctor, dentist, and nurse becomes most important. The health inspection becomes an activity, a means and an end in itself. Here again, however, we must remember that health education certainly is very important and should be stressed, but that it too is only another part of the complete program concerned with the physical welfare of our boys and girls.

The fifth trend appears strongly in 1930 and for the next ten years undoubtedly will be the main emphasis in our profession, namely, the educational trend. We are now stressing the noun “education” and not the adjective “physical.” So in physical education today we see trends for making our programs and procedures conform to educational theory and practice. We are a field in the administration of education. We are a way of education in the school curriculum. Our programs of gymnas-

Digitized by

Google
47

tics, stunts, games, plays, rhythms, sports, are all tools of learning that are means and not ends in themselves. The physical trainer is one who makes the activity an end; the physical educator is one who makes the activity a means tb get educational outcomes. We know that reading, writing, arithmetic, history, and geogitiphy are simply tools of learning. Spelling is not education. It is a means to the appreciation of such literature as that of Robert Louis Stevenson; and then it becomes education. We are trying to conform to the best in educational philosophy and psychology. We are being tested by educational administrators according to educational standards. We are being asked to put more education into physical education. We are talking more about aims, objectives, and outcome than ever before. In brief, the trend for the next ten years will undoubtedly be placed upon the educational content and value of our program.

There are many trends pointing to the future. Below we give ten that seem to be definite and distinct:—

1.	Our programs .will be better organized. The educational administrator is demanding a better arrangement of our programs according to modem curriculum making procedure. We will be getting a better physical education curriculum. Principals are demanding full use of the period—that there should be no waste of time [long roll calls and all those things that take up time but do not teach anything]. Every minute of the period must be utilized not for a few but for all. Lessons must be prepared; daily,' weekly, monthly, and seasonal schedules outlined. In brief, the demand of the educational administrator for better organized,-better conducted, and better prepared classes in physical education will be met.

2.	Programs will be graded. There is a great need for graded programs in physical education. Every other subject is graded, yet physical education is the easiest subject to grade because it grades itself. Physical education activities will be better selected, classified, and adapted. They will be placed in their regular age and grade level according to the newest psychological, physiological, educational, and recreational values. We are studying our curriculum for proper age and grade placement so that there will be a progressive, sequential continuity.

3.	Programs will be adapted to individual needs based on health and physical examinations, physical fitness tests, and other measurements. Everywhere- throughout the country people are talking in terms of individual needs. The other subjects will be built on the basis of homogeneous groups and not the old plan of heterogeneous classes. Much progress is being made in this third trend.

4.	Programs will be measured and tested. We are getting results. We want to know outcomes. So another trend is that of tests and measurements in terms of program building and educational achievement.

5.	Programs will be formulated according to the best child psychology and curriculum building methods.

Digitized by booQle
48

6.	In cities the present practice is to have students in junior and senior high schools fill out their physical education program first, before they schedule any other subject. This is very wise program building and curriculum making.

7.	More full-time teachers will be employed. Standards for certification will be raised and adhered to. Teacher training institutions will raise their requirements.

8.	In the last few years there has been a new emphasis in physical education and athletics on a wider participation by every boy and girl during the different seasons in games and sports. Chir universities, colleges, and schools have been developing extensive intramural programs to include every student in several sports.

9.	Better sequence for programs. Using all the latest methods in order to get use of almost three-fourths of the time allowed, our next big job is to prepare, systematize, and grade our programs, in order that they may be progressive, sequential, and promotional.

10.	Given ample time, adequate facilities, and better class organization, we must now grade and test our programs. This is being done in other subjects and we must do it in ours.

Newer Tendencies in Camping

By Barbara Ellen Joy and Virginia Anderton Lee

While the new social order has been developing new thought in education, and while the machine age has been creating a race of people with the question of a new leisure on its hands for which education has had to look for an answer, the organized camp by fulfilling its rightful place in that field has become the answer; and, in so doing, it has given rise to newer tendencies, of which a few are worthy of our thoughtful consideration.

1.	Smaller groups. The early development of the camp was first in numbers and then in formal organization, with its aim lying largely in recreational and physical activity. Gradually, changes in our type of civilization and development indicated the need of so-called cultural activities in addition to the physical, and the need of such a set-up as would provide definite and beneficial socializing experiences. Such needs have brought about the tendency, today, which is away from large mass camps necessitating rigid organization that amounts almost to military procedure and the arrangement of unimaginative rows of tents or other living quarters, and which is towards the small camp or the division of the large camp into small and independent units, with their tents or cabins scattered, harmoniously with the landscape, about the camp site. The results are lessened danger of over-stimulation and nervous strain to . the camper in small group activities, and the quiet and informality in living conditions which foster relaxation and salutary benefit.

Digitized by v^ooQle
gjrJSt'-'.’ v'. '

49

2.	Program. The present tendency in program making in camps is away from the arbitrary, adult-made schedule and routine of the school year and from factual teaching toward the flexible and well-balanced program “that will aim to develop a physically fit, socially awakened, and culturally developed personality, prepared to take his or her place eventually in an adult world, equally fitted to be economically and socially efficient and at the same time to make the best possible use of his or her rapidly increasing leisure time”, (l) The progressive camp director offers a wide choice of activities such as will fill the needs of every individual; a competent staff to help the camper learn to evaluate the activities so that he may make wise selections and to create such interest in the chosen activities as will preclude the possibility of future vacillation; and an atmosphere in which

{Measure and satisfaction assure an unconscious but valuable earning process.

3.	Competition. There is still divergence of opinion as to the place of competition in the camp program, but the progressive tendency is away from the season-long struggle of groups, tribes, or teams in the accumulation of “points” in various activities, and from the more insidious method of motivation by which individuals compete directly for honors or medals. This sort of striving puts the camper under emotional as well as physical strain and tends to send the camper home at the end of the season physically tired with over-exertion and emotionally exhausted with overstimulation and excitement. Emphasis now is placed rather on individual improvement beyond one's own previous skill, ability, and knowledge, with no set standards fixed which will discourage from further effort at ascent the individual who is on the lower rungs. This plan does not, however, exclude informal and spontaneous competition such as evening baseball games between groups, an impromptu water-sports day, a camp craft contest, or a song contest any of which may easily be made the instrument for spreading the feeling of good-fellowship and of good sportsmanship.

4.	Awards and honors. There is a decided trend in modem camps away from the system of awards as a means of motivation. The camp environment in itself is stimulating enough and children are sufficiently endowed with that “insatiable curiosity to find out” to make adult devised, artificial motivation unnecessary. Generally, the child who excels sufficiently to wii prizes needs no stimulation, and tie effect on a chad of inability to excel is a sense of insecurity which makes of him an onlooker. “Doing” ceases and the opportunity is lost for giving that child a chance of success through a feeling of security. Awards and honors should be conferred only where they signify success in competition with oneself—self improvement—such as the Scout insignia, life saving badges, and the like. Tests for canoing, boating, and trip

1	“Balancing the Program” by fVed’k L. Guggenheimer, Camping Magazine, January 1984.

Digitized by t^ooQLe
50

privileges are necessary and advisable, of course, for the sake of safety, but such tests carry the privilege for widened opportunities, which are reward enough in themselves.

5.	Activities. In accord with the aim at balance in the child’s camp exoerience has grown tie tendency to do away with the non-camp activities of the school and city and to emphasize those activities which grow out of and are appropriate to the camn environment, and which are available tc the city child only during the few sh ■>rt weeks in camp. This means that there will be increasingly less basket ball, baseball ,hockey, etc. in camp and increasingly more woodcraft, camp craft, and real camping out. Active, gr >up nature lore projects, group and individual handicrafts using materials and opportunities found on the camp site and useful in camp life, more and varied camping trips away from the main camp with the campers doing their own work, will gradually take the place of team games, crepe paper weaving, pressed flower collections, building of airplane models, and similar projects.

6.	Leadership. Along with the other definite changes in camping there has been one of great interest to educators,— the consistent demand for a higher type of leader. This demand is likewise being reechoed in the demands which parents are making on camps. There is no longer a ready place on the camps staff for the well intentioned but inexperienced young college person with the love of the outdoors and the need of a vacation, nor for the weary teacher skilled mainly in disseminating factual knowledge. The wise camp director wants, in general, mature counselors who are trained not only in special skills but also in the broader aspects of camp programming, management, and educational aims, and who are able to adapt their special training to the particular camp situation in which they find themselves. Likewise,—and here the parents of campers are sure to join the camp director—they want “real people” on their staffs, the kind of men and women whom they might choose for friends and the kind who will inevitably be an influence for the betterment of the child during the camp season.

And so we may conclude that, in answer to the crying need of the new social order, by its adherence to and improvement upon the newer tendencies in the field of camping, the modern, progressive camp has established itself as an indisputably valuable method of education.

RECREATION CONGRESS ANNOUNCEMENT

Plans are being made for a most significant national gathering of leaders in the recreation movement in Chicago, September 30 to October 4, 1935.

The Recreation Congress is the occasion for a national exchange of information and- experience on play, recreation, and leisure time activities of public and private agencies. Never be-

Digitized by t^ooQle
51

' fore has there Jbeen a greater need- for such cooperative thinking and planning nor a better opportunity for it.

FEATURES

1.	Delegates will see Chicago's great park and recreation program in action. A series of tours is being arranged.

2.	Actual demonstrations of phases of Chicago’s varied program will be put on in the exhibit rooms at the Congress.

3.	Conference and consultation facilities for those with special problems are being greatly enlarged. Here at one time and one place delegates will find persons experienced in all phases of community recreation available fir help and advice on local recreation problems.

4.	Emergency Recreation Agencies.—The tremendous increase in emergency programs, personnel and facilities has brought many problems. Special conferences, meetings and information will be available on these problems at the Congress. Those responsible for regular recreation work as well as those responsible for emergency recreations programs will find this phase of the Recreation Congress especially valuable.

5.	Recreation Materials and Supplies—Plans are being made to have an extensive exhibit of recreation equipment, materials and supplies. Those responsible for purchasing such materials will have an excellent opportunity to see and talk with progressive and reliable manufacturers ana distributors of recreation supplies.

6.	Headquarters—Sherman Hotel—The entire Congress can be housed at the Sherman Hotel. Excellent facilities for meetings, exhibits and demonstrations are available. Room rates are reasonable.

Nielson’s Method of Artificial Respiration

By M. Bareekow Translation by W. A. Nicolai, Philadelphia Central High School.

In Germany four methods of artificial respiration are known, those of Silvester, Howard, Schaefer and Kohlrausch. They are clearly described in the “Little Handbook of the German Life Saving Society.” Each of these methods possesses besides its merits also its shortcomings. In recent years in Denmark, Lieutenant-Colonel Holger Nielsen has experimented with a new method which appears to be highly recommended. To test its value the Danish “Swim and Life Saving Association,” in conjunction with the Danish Red Cross, has named a committee. Those named are: chairman H. Bendtsen; head physician Dr. Poul Guildal; Dr. Svend Hansen; head electro technician C. Hol-stein-Rathlou; Prof. August Krogh, Ph. D.; J. Lindhard M.D.; sport inspector Lieutenant-Colonel Holger Nielsen; director C. B. Pedersen and head physician Dr. Fr. Svendsen.

This committee reached the following conclusions: “The com-

Digitized by LjOOQle
52

mittee conducted a series of meetings and had the opportunity to witness a number of tests, which established the fact that the method developed by Holger Nielsen gives substantially greater breathing depth, up to 100% more, than earlier methods used. This convinced the committee that a strong ventilation of the lungs is of essential significance in resusitation attempts, and that it entails no dangers. The new method, through repeated tests, has been somewhat simplified and may be regarded as easily learned by life guards, campers, etc. The committee can, therefore, recommend the application of this method in place of the earlier methods [Schaefer’s, Silvester’s] to all institutions active in life saving matters.”

Following is a description of the method with the approval of Colonel Nielsen and as presented by him in the 1934 publication of the Danish Red Cross...........

RESUSITATION ATTEMPTS For the success of a resusitation attempt speedy action is indispensible; not a second must be lost through useless measures, such as, first trying to remove the water from the lungs, etc.

Of first concern, all people should.be brought to understand that a seemingly'dead person from drowning should not be permitted to lie still. If the first person to arrive at the scene has had no resusitation experience, he should not leave the victim in search of a doctor or life savers, but should immediately proceed to stir the unconscious form by turning the body from its back onto the chest and then back again, continuing this operation until the arrival of someone who understands effective artificial respiration procedure.

Always remember, that the chances for the success of resusitation is greater, the sooner artificial respiration is applied.

The following described method is easily carried out, because only a few simple preparations are required. The tongue frequently will have dropped forward of its own accord so that no time is lost in attending to the remaining important measures, and the preliminary movements will have proved very effective. The work does not require too much exertion on the part of the rescuer who can continue his efforts for a long time. Technique and rhythm are readily comprehended and learned.

The apparently dead person is taken to an even, fiat surface when assistance arrives. The assistant quickly loosens everything around the neck, chest and body, removing some of the outer garments. Roll the body over on its belly, the hands superimposed one on top of the other to serve as a pillow upon which rests the forehead. The nose and mouth must be fully free [elevated] from the ground. A handkerchief or other cloth is spread undo1 the face to prevent dust getting into the air passages.

With the open flat hand firmly slap several times between the shoulder blades, which usually serves to open the mouth and protrude the tongue.

This completes the preparations, which have claimed only a few seconds.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
53

The assistant now kneels on one knee near the patient’s head, placing his other foot near the patient’s elbow; and places his flat hands with widely spread fingers, over the patient’s shoulder blades, thumbs directed toward the spinal column.

Exerting an even, gentle downward and outward pressure on the thorax, the assistant, with his upper body weight on his stretched arms, moves forward until his arms are perpendicular. This takes 2 1-2 seconds while counting 1-2-3-4. The pressure is gradually increased with no expenditure of strength.

Then the operator moves his body back [pressure discontinues] and slides his hands over the patient’s shoulders to grasp the upper arms midway between armpits and elbows. For 2 1-2 seconds the patient’s arms are slowly and slightly elevated, elbows remain flexed, hands under the forehead [inhalation].

This elevation, which is also accompanied by a mild pulling movement, must be done with straight arms and must not, in relation to extent and strength, go beyond the height necessary to accomplish its purpose. This aims to arch the thorax and at the same time relieves the body weight pressure somewhat during inhalation. The upper body, therefore, must not be lifted clear from the ground, but merely pulled gently and slightly upward. The position of the forehead on the super-imposed hands should not be disturbed.

The arms of the patient are then allowed to quietly lower to the ground. The assistant’s hands slide back again to the starting position. The exhalation pressure is repeated, and in this way the procedure is continued.

If for every change of hand positions one second is counted, the double movement would require 7 seconds, giving a rhytbm of about 8 times a minute. During practice training count— for exhalation: 1-2-3-4, for inhalation: 5-6-7-8, for exhalation: 1-2-3-4, for inhalation: 5-6-7-8, and in such a way, that pressure is released and hands move to the arm lifting position on the count of "4”. At the count of “8” let the patient’s arms lower; the assistant’s hands moving to the first position and the count starting anew.

One must count evenly and uninterruptedly from 1 to 8, corresponding to the tempo of a slow march. Moreover, the tempo is very easily learned if, after the technique of the movements

Digitized by
54

has been correctly mastered, the aid of a watch be used at first as a guide.

As soon as one has found the correct balanced stance and has made the above described movements a part of himself, so that they can be performed rhythmically, gentle, quiet, swaying and without the application of strength [which is most effective], then one can endure for a long time without becoming fatigued.

As it works out, the pressure on the thorax induces a powerful exhalation, and one is forced, aware of this condition even during training, to follow-up this pressure. The arm lifting movements cause an easy but very deep inhalation. Both movements exert a beneficial influence on the heart.

The assistant must assure himself that the patient’s mouth opens and the tongue drops forward immediately with the first breathing movement. In case this does not occur, someone present should try to pry open the mouth and fully pull the tongue forward. This is essential to prevent the checking of the flow of air to the lungs.

While the assistant is administering artificial respiration, others are offered an apportunity to begin another task of equal importance at the same time: rubbing the patient’s body, which in drowning cases, plays a major role.

Continue the artificial breathing movements without a letup, until life returns. Even if success appears doubtful, one should not discontinue his efforts for four or five hours. Should the one knee become lame from kneeling, the change to the other knee is easily effected while working.

Should an ambulance arrive, it must wait until the patient has been restored to life, or until a physician present gives his permission to transport the patient.

If the unconscious person shows signs of life [usually a heavy labored breath or a feeble movement], continue the artificial breathing a while longer, until the signs of life become stronger and more marked. But from the moment that the return of life is evident and the pulse can be felt, the raising of the arms is stopped, the treatment thereafter consisting exclusively of the measured, slow, evenly increasing pressure on the patient’s shoulder blades [exhalation], followed by the assistant releasing the pressure, leaving expansion to be taken care of by the thorax itself [inhalation].

The decreased lung ventilation through this form of treatment assumes, with the return of life, a sufficient abundance of carbonic acid to more powerfully stimulate the respiratory centers, so that normal breathing will be more rapidly restored.

Continue in this manner until it is noted that the patient’s heart and breathing activities are well under way, that is, when he is able to breathe independently, usually in 5 to 10 minutes.

Now stop artificial respiration and endeavor, through vigorous rubbing of the body from the extremities in the direction of the heart, to restore the blood circulation and bodily warmth. These rubbings, done with the flat hands by one or more assist-
55

ants, must be executed firmly and rapidly, and on the external surface of the garments. Devote 5 to 6 minutes for this.

Then take the patient to the nearest house; in some circumstances, escort him or her to a physician or hospital.

The artificial respiration here described should be used and begun immediately whenever a person is unconscious or in a deathlike condition, unless the condition is caused by a fall, being run over, or other accident. In all other cases such as, smoke and gas poisoning, drowning, electrical shock, a person unconscious from hanging, unconsciousness from the effects of extreme cold, and especially in cases of unconsciousness due to asphyxiation, properly executed artificial respiration can never be harmful, but offers numerous opportunities through its powerful influence on the lungs and heart to restore life to a person, who without this external treatment, might have lost it.

Wherever, during artificial respiration treatment, a carbonic acid mixture is available, this should be obtained, since it has been proved that such a mixture [93% oxygen and 7% carbonic acid—“Carbogen”] through its high carbonic acid content calls forth increased activity of the respiratory centers, or contributes through its efficiency, in restoring their activity, should they have ceased to function. This in combination with the manual treatment often leads to the desired result.

If a Carbogen apparatus is at hand it can be used during the normal breathing movements, even if the patient shows signs of life. It should be put to use as soon as it is received. The mask is adjusted under the nose and mouth of the unconscious person, either resting on the ground or held in place by the person operating the apparatus.

The Carbogen flow is administered for three minutes and then shut off three minutes, continuing thus alternately. During the time the flow is shut off, the mask is pushed aside somewhat so that atmospheric air gains entrance unhindered.

AFTER TREATMENT

The patient should be placed in bed and bundled in warm blankets. In addition, to bring heat to the body, hot water bottles wrapped in woolen cloths should be placed under the feet, at the side of the body, and in the armpits.

When he has recovered sufficiently to be able to swallow, give small doses of stimulants with a teaspoon: strong coffee or tea [without sugar or cream], wine or spirits mixed in water, but best of all—if at hand—Hoffmann’s or camphor drops [20 to 30 drops in a little water for an adult, for a child one drop for each year of age].

Should the patient be so weak that he is unable to swallow when some drops are placed on the tongue, do not give him anymore or fluid may flow into the lungs. To induce more vigorous heart action, give a series of about 200 rapid, somewhat firm taps over the heart with the heel of the thumb. This heart massage usually helps, enabling the patient to swallow.

Digitized by

Google
56

Rest must be provided; in case the physician does not think the patient is out of danger, an attendant must be present the first 24 hours who can immediately render artificial respiration should normal breathing falter. The latter occurs often following severe accidents and especially in drowning cases.

Professionals and Amateurs

Guatavus Town Kirby

As we are all aware, there is not only a great diversity of rules but also of opinion as to what constitutes an amateur, and to the end that an earnest and intelligent effort be made to endeavor to set down at least a few fundamental rules, the American Olympic Association has sent out a questionnaire and will hold various vonferences to discuss the subject, and will hold will hold a Congress either late this Spring or early in the Fall for the purpose of giving the representatives of national bodies an opportunity of discussing this most important subject and, if possible, coming to a united conclusion thereon.

It would take too much time and be wearying for me to discuss all of these questions with you. But, in the light of a historical summary of the situation and of the approximately 250 answers whicn have been received to the questionnaire, I present to you for your consideration some suggestions which to me at least seem worthy of serious study.

Some Remedies

More professional competition.

More honesty in professional competition.

More worthy organizations governing professional competition.

More publicity of the facts now generally concealed or if not concealed, certainly not advertised, relative to those matters which, if known, would prove interesting and pertinent material as to the possible ineligibility of the contestant, be he engaged in professional or amateur sport or a representative of a club or similar organization, or a school or college.

More leniency toward those who have and maintain the ideals and standards of amateurism and yet desire to compete with or against those who, according to those standards, would or should be ineligible for amateur competition.

That so far as amateur competition is concerned, there be but two generic classes of competition for sport and games contests. Professional and Amateur.

That professionals be those, and only those, who actually compete for money, by which is meant cash.

That amateurs be all others but the professionals, as above defined.

That in both professional and amateur classes, there be standards of eligibility.

That the standards of eligibility for professional competition

Digitized by Google
57

be set entirely by those organizations which govern professional competition.

That the standards of eligibility for amateur competition be set entirely by those organizations which govern amateur competition.

That the organizations governing amateur competition, except for a few fundamental premises, be- free to set and maintain their own standards of eligibility.

That as to the few fundamental principles, common to all, the decision of any one organization be binding on all other organizations with a possible court or committee of appeal representing all organizations.

Suggestions as to the Two Fundamental Rules Common to all Organizations Governing Amateur Sport

A Competitor Becomes Ineligible if He— d1 Is guilty of fraud; the penalty for o] being disqualification for life.

6] Being above the age of 16 years, has competed for a money prize, or for or by reason of his competition, or his name and fame as a competitor, has directly or indirectly received that which has bettered his financial position; the penalty for b] being disqualification for life in that sport or sports or games competition in which the act occurred and from such other competition in which the organization thereof disbars those who have thus become ineligible in some other organization.

Specific Rights And Disabilities in Various Sports and Games Competition

As to the rules which should govern the amateur sportsman, such as those who wage contests with the elements, like the aviator and yachtsman, or those who vie their prowess against the beasts of the field, the birds of the air, and the fishes in the sea, or as to the rules which should govern those engaged in games competition against or with their fellows, be they as individuals or as members of teams, of college students or working men, let the organizations governing these contests, in a spirit of honesty, sportsmanship and generosity, each for itself, but with due regard and recognition of the others, consider and decide upon reasonable and workable rules touching upon such pertinent subjects as:

Expense money.

Compensation for wages lost by reason of competition, generally known as compensation for broken time.

Value of prizes.

Kind of prizes.

Retention of prizes.

The age of innocence.

Competition with ineligibles.

Limitation of competition.

Coaches, teachers and physical educators.

And practically all of the subjects covered by the "101"

Digitized by

Google
58

questions of the questionnaire of the American Olympic Association, which Association may this Spring, or early in the Fall, hold a Congress to discuss and, if possible, determine some fundamental rules, common to all, and some important definitions relative to all.

The Dangers of Letting Down The Bars of Eligibility for , Amateur Competition

From my advocacy of professional sport.

From my hopes and belief that those who compete for money as well as those who coach or teach in sport for money, shall be considered as entering into an honorable profession.

From my belief that under proper restrictions, professionals and amateurs should compete with and against each other, it might well be deducted that I believe that in our schools and colleges, in our clubs and sports organizations, and even in the Olympic Games, there should be permitted direct or indirect inducements to acquire players and to add and accelerate their competition.

Such a conclusion would be erroneous.

No matter how many and prosperous the professional competitors, no matter how many of these play the game, obtaining therefrom the joy of the contest as well as the means of a livelihood, there will be always a large earnest and enthusiastic class to whom sport and games competition is an avocation, engaged in solely and only for the fun that comes therefrom.

This class must be preserved; this class must be protected and this class must be encouraged.

This class must dominate our schools and colleges and clubs.

If it were not so, before long all sport would be on a bought-and-paid-for foundation.

Well, what of it? Some, indeed, many, say—better honesty than amateurism, better being open and above-board than being guilty of deception. Quite so. I agree, but let us analyze such a situation and ascertain the results flowing therefrom.

The prizes are cash, the expenses are paid, the performers are hired, the promoters pay the bills. And they are all “Simon-pure” pros. No cheating, no throwing of games, no stealing of players, no coaching on the basis of having to win or I lose my job. No dishonest capitalization such as fake advertisements and endorsements and ghost writing. The mere recital gives the thought of the risks involved, but they are all overcome and an idealistic professional world is that of sport.

The only differences are in the amount of salary and in the classes to be established.

The A.B.C. club can have a $10,000 baseball battery: the

X.Y.Z. college a $5,000 fullback and a Mr. Nurmi sweeps the boards at the Olympic games.

Going! Going!! Going!!! What am I bid for the best oarsmen the preparatory schools have ever developed?

Come! Come!! Come!!! To the never-lose school, where the coaches are the highest paid in the world and coach to win,

Digitized by t^ooQle
59

and assure your son a financial berth for the few years to be spent at college in preparation of what is hoped will be a long and successful life.

All pros playing with pros. Coaching pros, living as pros and on pros. All honest and all above-board. Can it be that only the old-style amateurs are or were the only tainted ones? Must sport, must all business, on a money-basis be honest; Is it honest?

Assume it is honest—[a fanciful but possible assumption].

Where will the best players be? Where the most money is.

The measuring stick of success will be the coin of the realm.

The spirit of amateurism would be dead.

Neither your religion nor any religion, or any race of people, is of moment, is helping to satisfy the hunger of the world to be better and bigger, until and unless there is in it as its all-import-ant part of life that spiritual sense that raises mankind above the base and dross of a bestial existence.'

So also in sport we must have that Spirit of self-sacrifice, of self-discipline, of participation solely for the mental and physical benefits therefrom, if it is that the best therein is to be ours, as measured by the joy of the moment and the happiness of the retrospect thereafter.

The banner of amateurism has been flung to the winds since the beginning of time. The memory of man runneth not to the contrary.

Woe be unto those who now or ever fail to maintain its proud place at the masthead of sport.

NOTE: This article is part of an address made at Springfield College.

The Board of Education's Gall for Action

A Speech by H. Ramsbotham, Esq., O.B.E., M.C., M.P., Parliamentary Secretary to the Board of Education, at the Luncheon of the National Association of Organisers of Physical Education, London, March 1st, 1935

Looking back on the nineteenth century it seems to me that education was very often confused with book learning, and that in training a child’s mind people forgot that he also had a body with hands and eyes. But since the war there has been a great change in our conception of education, amounting almost to a revolution in method. We now regard practical training in handicraft and the domestic arts as an integral part of the curriculum suitable and necessary to all children, whether their bent is academic or otherwise, and we are fully alive to the cultural value of such work and to the essential contribution it makes to the production of an evenly developed individual.

To some extent the educational value of practical work is of modem discovery, for I do not recollect that educationists of earlier times ever stressed its use in the training and develop-

Digitized by (^.ooQle
60

ment of the mental faculties and the character. This discovery takes rank with another, much earlier but of equal importance, namely, the realisation of the part played in cultivating the mind by the cultivation of the body. For this the modern world is indebted to the educationists of ancient Greece, who taught that the training of the mind and body could not be kept separate and that the neglect or misdirection of physical training had a direct influence on character no less than the neglect or misdirection of culture.

I do not think that we have yet paid adequate attention to their teaching. But it will be said, surely that is the last thing of which you can accuse this country, for ever since we won the battle of Waterloo on the playing fields of Eton we have seriously fostered physical exercise in our schools, so much so, in fact, that many people have bitterly complained of our idolatry of games, and a poet has satirised our '‘flannelled fools at the wicket and muddied oafs in the goal."

I admit all that. I admit that we have been the pioneers of outdoor games in Europe, and that our nation has greatly benefited from them. But games, like cricket and football and. tennis, are not sufficient; there is not enough time, there are not enough playing fields for everyone to play those games regularly and systematically. Even if there were, I doubt if they fully and adequately develop the body, and we all know that thousands of children and adults have little skill at them, find them boring and cease to play them.

But to secure the full and harmonious development of the human body we also need more scientific and balanced methods erf exercise. I believe that a modern system of physical training at the hand of a trained and qualified teacher can produce more surely and certainly than any game a sound and healthy physique.

During the last eighteen years we have been building up such a system in our public elementary schools, and every child in them is supposed to receive a systematic and regular training in physical exercise. By that system we are securing three advantages:—•

1.	It is preventing a vast amount of debility and disease.

2.	It encourages in the children discipline, self-control, and

concentration, and is conducive to a sense of order, responsibility and co-operation.

3.	It quickens and invigorates the mental powers and devel-

ops the intelligence.

But the success of the system depends on the teacher. He must be qualified to carry it out and to keep himself at a high level of efficiency in the subject. To do that he needs the guidance of experts. That is where the organiser of physical training plays a part. We know by our experience since the war that even the best and keenest of teachers derive great benefit from the advice and demonstration given by organizers in their schools, and from the classes held for teachers by such experts. In fact I am certain that without the help of the organisers the

Digitized by Google
61

marked progress made of recent years, particularly in our reorganised and senior schools with indoor accommodation for gymnastics, would have been impossible. In all areas where a competent organiser has obtained the confidence and co-operation of the school teacher there has been an obvious improvement in the health and discipline and alertness of the children.

A few weeks ago, in response to a question by a Member of Parliament, I published in the "Official Report” a list of the names of all those authorities who did not employ an organiser of physical training. I do not want to refer to it as another “Black List,” but if I am asked the same question next year I hope the list will be smaller.

Of course organisers can do little where little physical training is given. Our secondary schools—-notably those for boys and mixed schools also—for I make little complaint against the girls— do not in general devote anything like enough time to physical training. I know of schools where only one period in the week is given to it. I know of a school where no period is given. I know of schools where, as the boys grow older, the periods grow less. I know of schools in which many of the pupils have no physical training. Why? The boys need it just as much when they are between 14 and 16 years old.

One reason is that the spectre of the School Certificate Examination is looming largely and no time can be spared; another is that there are many, far too many, teachers in boys’ secondary schools inexpert and unqualified to give physical training. I hope-that their rank will be reinforced by students from the Carnegie College at Leeds, and that the University Training Departments, will carefully consider this problem, for it is just as necessary for a boy at a secondary school to have systematic physical training—perhaps even more necessary than at a public elementary school. The Technical Colleges and Institutes should all take the matter in hand. There is some splendid work being done in the Evening Institutes, but it is sporadic and by no means general. I should like to know that every boy and girl from the age of 5 to at least 18, from the public elementary school to the University or the Technical College, had not less than three periods a week of physical training. Then I believe we should be building up a race with a physique and stamina second to none in the world.

We may be sure that our national games would not suffer. Far from it. For the suppleness, poise, quickness, and fitness that the child obtains will help—it cannot hinder—his skill and endurance at cricket or football.

At the moment, and for some time past, much more interest has been taken in physical training on the continent of Europe th$n in Great Britain. Recently in certain countries, notably Italy and Germany, the stimulation of physical training has expanded into a nation-wide movement, embracing not only the school children but a very large section of the adult population. They have the Balilla and the Dopolavero organization in Italy,

Digitized by
62

the Youth Movement in Germany. It is time for Great Britain to wake up. Our efforts are fragmentary, scattered, disorganised, and we who have prided ourselves on being the pioneers and leaders in sport and games and outdoor pursuits may before long find ourselves out-distanced and out-classed by fitter, healthier communities of men and women in other lands.

May there not be further scope here for the man and woman organiser? In addition to their work for the school children could they not encourage and supervise the activities of those who have left school? Should they not be available as the recognised guides and leaders for the community as a whole in matters relating to exercise and recreation? Should not their knowledge and organising ability be at the disposal of adolescents and adults as well as children? For if the health of the nation is to be adequately safeguarded the work of physical training needs to be expanded to include the young people of both sexes after leaving school, as weU as the adult men and women employed and, unemployed,.

There are signs that the national interest in this immensely important matter is being aroused. The British Medical Association has appointed a strong Committee to consider it. The Press is drawing attention to it. But success is impossible without trained and expert leaders. There are several excellent Physical Training Colleges for women, but for men we need more institutions like the Carnegie College at Leeds. We need more organisers. We need more qualified teachers.

The cost need not be great. It will be inconsiderable compared with the saving in medical and remedial expenditure. But we cannot afford to go dawdling on, nibbling and fiddling at the business, for that nation will become preeminent which possesses the best educated citizens. But training in mind or hand alone cannot compensate for an untrained body, and let us call to mind once more the teaching of antiquity that no man is educated unless he knows how to manage his life not only mentally and morally, but physically.—Reprint from J’l. of Physical Education and, Hygiene, England NOTE: All italics are ours.

SUGGESTED WAYS IN WHICH PARENT-TEACHER ORGANIZATIONS CAN FOSTER RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES

Grover W. Mueller

1.	Encourage community recreation by informing members concerning the needs ana values of recreation, and following this up by action in cooperation with other agencies to obtain the needed facilities.

a.	Conduct discussions or talks on the needs and values of play and recreation.

b.	Work to strengthen the afterschool play program of school pupils.

Digitized by
63

1]	A much larger number of supervised school yards should be made available.

2]	Parents should encourage ofaildren to participate in these healthful activities in safe places.

c.	Work to obtain the opening of a larger number of schools

„ in the evening for recreational use; including play, dancing,

music, and art among other activities.

d.	Work with other agencies [or alone if necessary] for the closing of certain city streets during certain hours of the day for play, including skating and coasting.

e.	Give financial assistance in the conduct of afterschool and summer playgrounds, after the manner of the Finletter School organization.

f.	Give active assistance to teachers in the administration of neighborhood summer playgrounds.

g.	Exhibit model backyard playgrounds. Encourage members to make models of their own backyards and exhibit them.

2.	Plan recreational activities for your own Parent-Teacher Meetings in which the members and visitors are not mere spectators but which are of. a type in which many if not all are active participants.

Personal Appearance of the Physical Educator

By J. B. Buehler, Chairman, Department of Physical Education, John Marshall High School, Los Angeles, California

It may seem rather unethical for a physical educator to comment upon the dress or costume of his fellow workers. However, though the item is as timely now as it was in the past, few consider it seriously. There are still some individuals within certain localities that do not as yet conform in this respect to the standards of the profession. The discussion here is presented from the observation of existing conditions. The remarks presented are for the purpose of raising the standards of those individuals who still think that uld clothes, street clothes, college sweaters, or sweat shirts should make their last appearance upon the physical educator while in the line of duty.

In the early history of physical education a distinct uniform was worn by every physical education teacher. The style and type has changed somewhat during our rapid strides in the field. With the emphasis on athletics many physical education teachers with a non-professional attitude appear in clothes of various types when teaching and when going about the school, often bringing much criticism upon themselves and the profession.

A uniform is essential for the physical education teacher under most conditions and situations; there should be few excep-

Digitized by kjOOQle
64

lions. The uniform should be worn daily. It should be particularly adapted to the activity or type of work in which the instructor will be engaged. One can hardly expect students to dress properly and neatly for physical activity classes if the teachers themselves fail to serve as a good example.

The opinion of the citizenry at large may be materially affected if old clothes are worn in carrying on the work. Is such an impression desirable? Surely not. Carelessness in the person-al appearance of the physical education teacher demands respect of few students. As the physical education teacher is an exponent of health laws, cleanliness of his uniform is of primary importance. To futher impress the non-conformists, the following reasons are given for the essentiality of uniformity and appropriateness in dress.

1.	Uniformity and appropriateness of dress

a.	Reflect cooperation, organization, efficient administration and management of the department.

b.	Place dignity upon the profession.

c.	Display neatness in personal habits and radiate a pleasing personality.

2.	As an instructor in Healthful Living the example of personal cleanliness must be exemplified by the instructor.

3.	Soiled, untidy or inappropriate clothing [or clothing of all sorts for every instructor]

a.	Reflects a lack of personal and professional pride as well as an attitude of indifference and carelessness.

b.	Claims neither respect nor admiration.

4.	Clean, neat clothing of a uniform type for every instructor within the department, gives not only confidence to the students but to fellow teachers in other departments and to the administrative officers of the school.

A suggested uniform

1.	Light weight gray woolen trousers with cuffs and pockets; free of spots and patches; pressed often.

2.	Black belt 1 1-2 inches in width.

3.	Gray sleeveless jersey.

4.	White cotton or woolen socks.

5.	Sport shoe; black and shined when needed.

6.	For inside wear: A uniform type of gymnastic shoe.

For cooler weather the following articles may be needed.

1.	Gray cotton shirt.

2.	Bow tie, cloth, black.

3.	Light weight, knitted jersey coat sweater of some inconspicuous color.

If other clothing is needed for warmth during the cooler days on the field it is recommended that it be worn under the shirt. For coaching of sports out-of-doors, a suitable and presentable garment should be selected. The type of activity under instruction requires a particular dress which is appropriate to the activity.

A group of instructors should always be dressed uniformly.
MIND AND BODY

Vol. 42	May-June 1935	No.	428

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN. EDITORIAL COMMITTEE

Emil Rath, Director of Physical and Health Education, Indianapolis Public Schools Carl L. Schrader, State Director of Physical Education, Massachusetts

James E. Rogers, Director National Physical Education Service, National Recreation Association,

New York

Grover W. Mueller, Director of Physical and Health Education, Philadelphia Public Schools

ASSOCIATE EDITORS Chas. J. Prohaaka, M. D., State Director of Health and Physical Education, Connecticut Robert Nohr, Associate Professor of Physical Education, University of Wisconsin Clara L. Hester, Assistant to the Dean and Instructor in Physical Education, Indianapolis Norma!

Ccftlege

Emmett A. Rice, Assistant Principal of Shortridge High School in Indianapolis; Lecturer on History of Physical Education at Indianapolis Normal College Martha A. Gable, Teacher, Olney Higji School, Philadelphia, Sports Official and Coach Martin EL Trieb, Assistant Supervisor of Physical Education, Los Angeles Public Schools Lelia V. Gunther, Teacher of Physical Education, Cleveland High School, St. Louis, Mo.

Rudolph Hofmeister, M. D., practicing physician and surgeon in St. Louis; formerly a teacher of

physical education

Howard L. Conrad, Supervisor of Physical and Health Education, Philadelphia Public Schools

Hazel C. Orr, Teacher, Woodward High School, Cincinnati

Fred E. Foertsch, Assistant Director, Philadelphia Public Schools

Editorial communications are to be sent to GROVER W. MUELLER, Editor j 504 Administration Bldg., Parkway at 21st St. Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind & Body, New Ulm, Minn.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 8, 1879.

Editorial

The guest of honor during the recent national convention of the American Physical Education Association in Pittsburgh was Dr. William Gilbert Anderson, of Yale University. The honor was extended because Dr. Anderson, with great foresight, called a meeting of physical educators fifty years ago, which meeting later proved to be the beginning of the American Physical Education Association. That Association now has five thousand membeis, and it comprises an Eastern District Association, a Midwest District Association, a Southern District Association, a Central District Association, a Northwest District Association, and a recently organized Southwest District Association. We extend our sincere congratulations to Dr. Anderson. He may well be proud of the fine, robust organization into which his child has grown and developed.

During April the Federal Office of Education launched a Nation-wide round-up of information on projects and programs undertaken by communities which are attempting to aid out-of-school young people 16-24 years of age. Letters have been sent to school superintendents, recreation leaders, secretaries of chambers of commerce, judges of juvenile courts, community chest directors, and others. Examples of successful projects or programs will be published in

Digitized by v^ooQle
pamphlet form so that communities can shape their plans in the light of experiments elsewhere.

Commissioner Studebaker has endorsed recommendations made by a national conference on youth problems that an adequate Youth Service be established as a division in the Federal Office of Education. Among the services such a proposed division of Youth Service could render, Commissioner Studebaker said, “The division will foster the building up of a more comprehensive program of recreation for young people. This will involve cooperating with all the agencies now providing recreational activities to the end that they may be strengthened. It will involve also encouraging communities to supplement these activities so as to bring clean, wholesome recreation within the reach of all.”

Nothing of greater importance for the youth of the land has been undertaken on a Nation-Wide scale for many years. We fervently hope that much in the way of actual application will result.

It is interesting to note in “The Board of Education's Call for Action”, an article which appears in this issue of Mind and Body, that in important quarters in England there is active movement to obtain general recognition of the fact that fundamental body-building activities are essential in physical education,—that games alone will not lead to the attainment of all the important objectives in physical education.

Mimetic Games

Grover W. Mueller

In the May 1934 issue of Mind and Body we briefly discussed Story Plays and pointed to a common weakness in their make-up. We also referred to a series of Mimetic Games which had been evolved in one city in an effort to eliminate the common objectionable feature of story plays while at the same time retaining their most valuable characteristics. Two examples of mimetic games were included. In the Sept.-Oct., Nov., Dec.-Jan. and April issues eight more examples were printed. Following are the concluding games of the series.

A VISIT TO THE ZOO

1.	Soon after passing through the entrance to the zoo, the class comes upon a large enclosure in which there are wj,ld horses which become frightened and gallop vigorously around their area.

Gallop forward vigorously with trunk movements and knee raising.

2.	A little farther on is a monkey cage in which there are many monkeys. Monkeys are very imitative. The pupils many take the part of monkeys and the teacher or a pupil leader stands in front of them [in front of cage] or in the center of the circle and goes through movements which the ‘monkeys’ imitate.

Digitized by LjOOQle
67

a.	In a wide side stride, bend the trunk to the right, bend right knee and touch the ground as far away from the right foot as possible without lifting the left foot. Change trunk and knee bending to the left side and touch the ground with the left hand. Repeat several times to each side.

b.	In a wide side stride stand turn the trunk and head as far as possible to the left without lifting either foot from the ground in order that each monkey can look directly at the monkey behind. Return and immediately twist all the way around to the right side. Repeat slowly several times to the left and to the right.

c.	The monkeys pair off, the members of each couple grasp partners wrists, and each tries to pull the other forward several steps by walking and pulling backward.

3.	The next step is at the kangaroo enclosure. The kangaroo is frightened somewhat by the approach of the children and jumps away from the fence.

In a semi-squat position wih the elbows near the body and the forearms in front of chest with the hands drooping, jump forward on both feet continuously using short jumps.

4.	The elephant is cooling himself in the pool in a neighboring enclosure by drawing water into his trunk and then squirting it on his back.

Bend the trunk foredownward and allow the arms to dangle downward [with hands clasped] while taking up the water. Then straighten the body and bend it slightly backward with swinging the arms [elephant’s trunk] vigorously up ward and backward over one shoulder. Repeat several times with not too much intermission. Throw water over one shoulder and then the other.

5.	The ostriches, who have been lying on the pound for some time, apparently have decided to exercise their legs and wings because there is great activity in the ostrich pen.

Run with rather long strides keeping the knees fairly straight. The raised arms are moved upward and downward about 1 1-2 feet to represent the wings.

6.	The children are sorry that the visit in the zoo is at an end, and they plan to return sometime. They line up to march back to the school bus.

THE APPLE ORCHARD

The children are elated. Uncle George has reported that the apples are ripe at last, and he has given the boys and girls permission to go to the orchard and help themselves, provided they do not eat so many as to make themselves sick. He has given a paper bag to each child in order that some apples may be gathered.

1.	In happy anticipation the children skip down the path leading to the orchard, with arms swinging freely. They are careful to

Digitized by v^.ooQle
68

stay on the path so as not to break down any flowers along the sides.

2.	They stop skipping as they come upon a big tree which was blown down during the night and which is now lying acrsss the path. A high jump is necessary in order to clear the tree. Discovering how much fun it is to jump over the tree, the children repeat this activity back and forth several times.

Jump high with little or no forward movement. Pause for moment or two, face about, and jump over the tree again, jumping four to six times.

3.	In the orchard at last' They go directly to a large tree under which Uncle George has placed a high box which he wishes to fill with apples to use for jelly. The children decide they ought to fill the box for. Uncle before they begin taking some for themselves. The wind has blown many apples to the ground, most of which are good.

Bend knees and trunk to pick up an apple or two, straighten and place the apple in the large box. Repeat many times without intervening pauses. The box is large and the children wish to fill it quickly.

4.	Having filled the box and finding there are no more good apples on the ground, the boys and girls decide to pick some off the branches for themselves. Even the lowest branches are rather hight so it is necessaryzto jump up to reach the apples.

Jump high and reach up with one hand to pick an apple. Place the apple in the bag held in the other hand. Jump several times and pick apples.

5.	The good apples have been picked up, but the specked ones are still lying around under the tree. The children decide to clear the ground for Uncle George. They set down their bags of apples in order to do this work. Close by in an unused part of the orchard is an old tree with a large hole rotted through the trunk. It will be fun to try to throw the specked apples through the hole.

Stoop and pick up an apple and throw it at the hole [a spot designated by the teacher]. It is necessary to throw vigorously in order to reach the hole. Repeat several times.

6.	The children are about to pick up their bags of apples and return to Uncle George's house when it is suggested that the ground having been cleared it will be good sport to dance around the tree.

All grasp hands in circle formation and skip around the tree.

7.	Remembering the tree which is lying across the path over which they had come, and fearing they will spill their apples if they return over the same route, they decide to return by crossing the fields. It is necessary to pass under two or three low fences on the way.

Digitized by Google
69

Two or three pairs of pupils face each other and grasp hands about hip high to represent fences at suitable distances along the route to be taken. The other pupils pass under the fences by bending trunk and knees deeply.

Practical Material

ACHIEVEMENT STANDARDS ON GYMNASIUM APPARATUS FOR GIRLS AND BOYS

Grover W. Mueller

In this issue we present the tenth set of a series of exercises on gymnasium apparatus for girls and boys. The exercises were arranged for pupils in junior high schools and have been used successfully in a large number of schools.

The material Is organized on the basis of difficulty in such a way as to provide three levels of achievement standards for girls and for boys in each of the six school grades of junior high schools in connection with each of four pieces of apparatus. Three exercises of approximately equal difficulty have been set up at each level for each piece of apparatus. Accordingly, the reader will find three exercises representing a '‘fair” achievement standard, three representing a "good" standard, and three representing an "excellent" standard for each piece of apparatus.

The exercises can be used not only as content material in the usual way, but also as a basis for classifying pupils into "ability groups" and as a basis for rating pupil achievement in connection with this phase of physical education. It is recommended that the exercises be posted in a prominent place where they may be seen by all pupils in order that they may judge the quality of their own achievement and thereby note their progress. This creates and maintains interest, and furthermore, it serves as a strong stimulus to effort and improvement.

Pupils in high ability groups in any class who have achieved the "excellent" standards of their school grade should be permitted and encouraged to practice the exercises of higher school grades.

It is hardly necessary to state that use of these exercises need not be restricted to junior high schools. They may be used by any group of older pupils whose experience with apparatus has been limited. They most certainly may be used by senior high school pupils who have not achieved them in the junior high school: this applies with greatest force to the "excellent" standards. In communities where gymnasium apparatus is not introduced in grades below the senior high school, these exercises will be suitable with little modification in the senior high school.

Subsequent issues of Mind and Body will carry additional sets of exercises of the series until achievement standards for all six grades of the junior high school in connection with at least four different pieces of apparatus have been presented.

The following suggested achievement standards are exercises on the Side Horse for school grades 8A and 8B [“A” represents the first semester of the grade; “B” represents tiie second semester.]

Digitized by LjOOQle
Digitized by

Good

Excellent

o

o

d

SIDE HORSE-GIRLS—GRADE 8A

Run, grasp pommels and jump with a legswing mount to a riding seat on the neck, facing the saddle. Grasp pommel, swing legs forward and backward and legswing dismount left sideward. Repeat opposite.

Run, grasp pommels and jump to a squat-stand left in saddle. Dismount backward to a halfdeep squat-stand and immediately jump to a shiostand right in saddle. Place the left foot to a squat-stapd in saddle. Push-off left and jump forward to a stand. Repeat opposite.

Run, grasp pommels and squat forward to a side seat rearways in saddle. Swing legs forward [horizontal] and dismount forward.

Run [in line with croup] and jump with support oh pommel and croup to a squat-stand on croup. Jump forward with a half turn left to a stand facing the croup. Repeat opposite on neck.

Run, grasp pommels and Run, grasp pommels and squat-flank vault to the left, straddle vault left over the saddle Repeat right.	with	a	quarter-turn right to a cross

stand. Repeat opposite.

Run, grasp pommels and jump to a squat-stand left in saddle. With a legswing right sideward and forward quarter turn dismount left. Repeat opposite.

Rim, grasp pommels and jump to a squat-stand left in saddle. Legswing right forward under right hand with straightening the left leg forward to a support rearways. Swing legs forward [horizontal] and dismount forward. Repeat opposite.

Run, grasp pommels and squat forward to a side seat rearways in saddle. Three-quarter turn right [pivot around right arm] with legswing left forward over croup to a riding seat on croup facing the saddle. Grasp pommel, swing legs forward, backward, and dismount right sideward. Repeat opposite.
Good

Excellent

cr

o

o

n

Run, grasp pommels and jump with squatting left forward to a side riding seat in the saddle. Legswing right forward with a quarter turn dismount left to a stand. Repeat opposite.

Run, grasp pommels and jump with legswing left forward under left hand to a side riding seat in the saddle. Legswing right forward under right hand to a support rear-ways. Swing legs forward [to a horizontal position or above] dismount forward. Rep. opp.

Grasp left pommel with right hand in release grip. Jump with half turn left to a support rearways on pommels [on the takeoff side of the horse]. Three-quarter turn left [pivot around left arm] with legswing right forward over croup to a riding seat on croup facing saddle. Grasp pommel, swing legs forward, backward, front vault, dismount right sideward.

GRADE 8B

Run, grasp pommels and jump to a squat-stand left in saddle. Squat right forward with straightening legs forward and dismount to a stand. Repeat opposite.

Run, grasp pommels and jump to squat-stand in the saddle. Straighten the legs forward to a support rearways. Swing legs forward [to a horizontal position] and dismount forward.

Run, grasp pommels and legswing right forward under right hand to a side seat in the saddle. Three quarter tummount right [left leg swings forward over croup] to a riding seat on croup facing the saddle. Grasp pommel, swing legs forward, backward, and dismount right sideward.

Run, grasp pommels and jump with squatting left forward to a side riding seat in saddle. Quarter-turn right to a cross riding seat facing croup. Grasp pommel in front, swing legs forward and backward and dismount left sideward to a stand. Repeat opposite.

Run [in line with the croup], jump and flank vault right over croup with support on pommel and croup. Repeat opposite over neck.

Run, grasp pommels and front vault to the left over the saddle. Repeat right.
SIDE HORSE—BOYS—GRADE 8A

Run, grasp pommels, jump and squat forward to a support rearways. Swing legs forward [horizontal or above] and dismount forward.

Run, grasp pommels and front vault to the left with the knees raised to the chest. [The body faces the horse while passing over the horse.] Repeat right.

Good

D

CO

Excellent

O"

<

o

o

n

i

Run, grasp pommels and legswing mount to a riding seat on the neck facing the saddle. Swing legs forward and backward with scissors left or right. Place the hands on the end of the horse. Swing legs forward and backward and front-vault dismount right sideward. Repeat opposite.

Grasp left pommel with right hand in reverse grip. Jump with 1-2 turn left and legswing right over saddle to a side riding seat in saddle. Legswing right forward and dismount with 1-2 turn left to a half-deep squat stand on the takeoff side facing saddle. Rear vault left over saddle [legs pass over croup]. Repeat opposite.

Run, grasp pommels and squat straddle vault left [squat right, straddle left] over the saddle to a support rearways on pommels. Swing legs forward [horizontal or above] and dismount with 1-4 turn left to a cross stand sideways. Repeat opposite.

Run [in line with neck], support on neck and pommel and rear vault left over Deck —[legs passing over saddle] to a stand in line with the neck.

Run, grasp pommels and jump to a squat-stand left in saddle. Simultaneous changing of the leg positions. Squat left forward with straightening legs forward and dismount forward. Repeat opposite.

Run, grasp pommels and jump to a shin stand in saddle. Courage

Repeat right.

Run; grasp pommels, and legswing right forward under left hand to a side riding seat in saddle. Half turn left changing grip on pommels. Three quarter tummount left to a riding seat on croup facing saddle. Grasp both pommels, dismount to a half-deep squat stand in front of saddle on the take-off side and immediately rear vault right over the saddle. Repeat opposite.



X
Fair

Good

O

<q;

O

o

n

Excellent

Run, grasp pommels and flank vault to the left. Repeat right.

Run [in line with croup] support on pommel and croup and squat vault forward with straightening legs forward. Repeat over neck.

Grasp left pommel with right hand in reverse grip. Jump with half turn left and legswing right over saddle to a side riding seat in saddle. Legswing left backward under left hand to support frontways and immediately legswing mount right sideward with quarter turn left to a riding seat on neck facing saddle. Grasp pommel, swing legs backward and scissorss left or right. Support on end of neck and swing legs backward to a support lying position frontways. Straddle dismount forward. Repeat opposite.

GRADE 8B

Run, grasp pommels and jump with legswing left forward under left hand to side riding seat in the saddle. Legswing right forward under right hand to support rearways. Swing legs forward [horizontal or above] and dismount forward. Repeat opposite*

Run [in line with croup], support on pommel and croup, and squat left forward to a side riding seat on croup. Three-quarter turn-mount left forward to a riding seat in saddle facing the croup. Grasp pommel in frorit of body, swing legs forward and backward, and front vault dismount left sideward. Repeat opposite.

Run, grasp pommels and rear vault left over saddle [legs passing over croup] with a quarter turn right to a stand in line with and facing the saddle. Repeat opposite.

Grasp left pommel with right hnad in reverse grip. Jump with 1-2 turn left to a support rearways* Legswing left backward under left hand to a side riding seat in saddle. Half turn left, changing grip of hands. Legswing right forward to a support rearways. Swing legs forward [horizontal or above] and dismount forward. Repeat opposite.

Run, grasp pommels and squat left forward to a side riding seat in saddle. Raise hips and squat right forward with straightening legs forward [horizontal] and dismount to a stand. Repeat opposite.

Grasp left pommel with right hand in reverse grip. Jump with half turn left and legswing left backward over saddle to a side riding seat in the saddle. Half-turn left changing grip on pommels. Three-quarter turnmount left to a riding seat on neck facing the saddle. Grasp both pommels, dismount to a half-deep squat stand on the take-off side facing the saddle. Rear vault left over saddle. Repeat opposite.
74

A JOLLY GROUP-DANCE WALTZ

By H. Grauerholz, Bremerhaven Germany Translation by W. A. Nicolai Philadelphia Central High School

Music: “Schwaebischer Bauemwalzer” by Krome Phonograph Record “Elektrola 2820”

Participants: Two Groups [A and B] and five soloists [I, II, III, IV, and V]

Alignment at beginning of dance—

n

hi

)	)	)
)	)	)
)	)i	)
		IV

(	((
(	((
(	i( (
V	

Alignment during 41st measure—

w III II w

)	)	)
)	)	)
)	)j	)
		IV

Alignment during 129th measure— w in ----------------------->

i

n <

I

GROUPS A AND B

NOTE: Numerals denote measures [each of three beats]

1- 4. .Four walking steps backward beginning left; raising relaxed arms side-upward

5- 8. .Walk in a small circle to the right in 4 steps, lowering arms foredown-ward to sideward; trunk swaying gently left to right, arms flowing to left and right

Digitized by LaOOQle
75

9-12..Four walking steps forward, full circle of arms beginning downward and ending in relaxed side position 13-16. .Walk in a small circle left in 4 steps [reverse of movements in 6-8] 17-24. .Repeat 1-8

25-28. .Feet together, rise to toe-stand; right arm rising slowly and gracefully, arm so bent that the hand glides upward close to body; turn face upward

29-30. .Lower heels and right arm [passing front of body]

31-32. .Rise to toe-stand; raise right arm sideqpward

33.	.Face left; 3 stamps with left foot; left hand at waist, right arm upward

with hand curved toward the left

34.	.Hold this attitude

35.	.Face right about, 3 stamps with right foot, arms as in 33

36.	.As 34

37-40. .Face left and pause

41.	.a]Step left forward, raising right leg high backward

b] Cut [cou*pe] left leg forward, landing on right foot on third beat, with firm backupward circle of the right arm

42.	.Step left forward and swing right leg forward

43.	.No. 41 opposite, this time swing both arms firmly backward and up-

ward

44.	.Opposite of No. 42

45-46. .Face left about, step-hop left forward, right knee slightly bent 47-48. .As Nos. 45-46, but opposite 49-56. .As Nos. 41-48

57-60. .Leap-Hops left and right sideward, with leg-swings forward; arms moving from 1st position [curved low in front of body] during leap, and raised to 3rd amplified [sideward] during leg-swings forward 61-64. .As Nos. 57-60

65-66. .Two draw-steps left sideward, left arm overhead, right arm in front 67—Pirouette turn left, arms moving from sideward to curved overhead [5th]

68. .Stamp left and right and pause, hands at waist 69-72. .Same as Nos. 65-68, but beginning to the right

73-74. .Six short running steps forward, beginning left, both arms raised parallel toward the left 75-76. .As Nos. 73-74, but parallel arms swaying to the right 77-80. .Four walking steps backward arms circling downward, to left sideward and upward 81-84. .Four step-hops forward, arms swaying like a pendulum in front 85-88. .Twelve running steps backward, arms sideward 89-92. .As Nos. 81-84 93-96. .As Nos. 85-88

97-100. Three-step-tum left sideward [full left turn]

101-104 As Nos. 97-100, but to right side

105-106 In a low squat seat [knees deeply bent], swaying of the hands over the knees in a figure “8” movement 107-108 Right arm sweeps gently over right ankle and the floor while left arm pauses in front 109-112 Same as Nos. 105-108, but opposite [left]

113-136 Repeat Nos. 105-112 three times

Digitized by t^ooQle
76

137-144 Motionless pause while squatting, head slightly bowed, slowly rising during last two measures 145-148 Twelve short running steps forward, arms slowly rising foreupward 149-152 Twelve short running steps backward, arms slowly lowering foredown-ward

153-160 Same as Nos. 145-152 161-176 Same as Nos. 145-160 177-192 Same as Nos. 41-56

193-196 Four whole left turns in place with short running steps, hands at the waist

197-200 Four more whole left turns in place, arms slowly rising to an oblique sideupward position, holding this attitute as a final pose.

II

SOLOISTS

The middle soloist No. 1 in general executes the same movements as those dancers in Groups A and B, but moves along the length axis of the room between the two groups. During the measures Nos. 25-30, she executes the same arm movements as the two groups, but advances forward in short running steps, with soloists Nos. II and III falling in rear of No. 1 in flank formation. During the Nos. 31-32 measures all three soloists move their arms sideupward. From measures Nos. 33-40, they keep both arms in the upward raised position.

During measures Nos. 41-112, movements of soloists are identical with those of Groups A and B.

During measures Nos. 113-144, while those in Groups A and B are seated in squatting positions, soloist No. 1 weaves back and forth between the two seated groups with short running steps, consuming eight measures in each direction. The first beat in each measure is accented. Both arms move freely rom side to side describing a large figure eight [8]. Soloists Nos. II and III weave similarly back and forth, but in the direction of their original comer starting points during measures Nos. 113-128. They then seat themselves at the head of the middle row of each group.

Then, while No. I continues the same movements from Nos. 129-144, comer soloists Nos. IV and V rise and start changing places with each other, foot and arm movements the same as No. I. They move in arcs as they pass each other, both in their original starting points at end of 144th measure.

During No. 145, all five soloists stamp and leap to a straddle stand, raising the left leg sideward on No. 146, trunk and arms inclined over the left leg. Repeat Nos. 145-146 to the right during Nos. 147-148. Repeat Nos. 145-148 left and right during Nos. 149-152.

During measures Nos. 153-200, soloist and group movements are identical.

Group and Couple Dances for H. S. Girls

Fred E. Etortech

This is the third installment of a series of group and couple dances designed for high school girls. The first installment appeared in the March 1934 issue. These dances are not necessarily restricted to the grade indicated. They may be used in any junior or senior high school level and may also be found suitable for adult classes.

Digitized by ^ooQle
77

The primary purpose is to provide vigorous muscular activity by means of a series of interesting combinations of dance steps and figures in various rhythms. The floor patterns and the combinations of steps are similar to those found in folk dances. The dances are short and the combinations are not difficult. This adds much to the recreational values of the dances.

Flexibility with respect to floor space, size of classes, and musical composition has also been considered in arranging the dances. Large classes may readily be broken up into several circles in order to conserve floor space. In the open formations the range of movement in any given direction has been limited for the same reason. In connection with the music it will be noted that any standard composition may be used, provided the rhythm is appropriate. This permits the choice of sheet music, piano-player rolls, or victrola records.

It will be noted in this and future installments that a number of dances are prefaced by several “Preliminary Sequences”. This has been done in order to facilitate the teaching of a new dance step which appears in the dance.

The following dances in mazurka time have been arranged for Grade ?A [“A” representing the first semester of the grade]. Any standard musical composition in mazurka time may be used.

PREPARATORY SEQUENCES IN WALTZ TIME

Music: “Waltz” from Romeo and Juliet—Ch. Gounod—Published by Theo. Presser Co.

Formation: Open order. All begin left.

Sequence I

1.	Two step-swing-hops in place [left and right sideward].

Each step-swing-hop is executed to one measure of the music.._________________________________________________ 2

2.	Two draw-closing-steps left sideward, the last draw closing-step remains unfinished with the weight on the left foot and the right foot held in a sideward pointing posi-

3.	Repeat No. 1 and No. 2 beginning right.-............... 4

Repeat until the steps are mast&ed.

Sequence II

1.	Waltz-balance-step left obliquely forward, waltz-balance-

step right obliquely	backward ---------------------------2

2.	Two draw-closing-steps left sideward [the last draw-closing-steps unfinished ___________________________________ —	2

3.	Repeat No. 1 and No. 2 beginning right..................4

Repeat until the steps are mastered*.

Sequence III

1.	Step-swing-hop left,	right, and left forward ..........3

2.	Waltz-balance step right forward .....................  1

3.	Four draw-closing steps left moving backward to original place [the draw closing-steps are executed sidewarc^, the dancer having faced left with the first c^raw closing step.

Measures

Measures

Measures

Measures

Measures

Measures

Measures

Measure
78

The last draw closing-step remains unfinished]— ................ 4	Measures

4.	Repeat No. 1, No. 2* and No. 3 beginning right  ............... 8	Measures

Repeat until the steps are mastered.

COUPLE DANCE—WALTZ TIME

Music: “Valse Blue”—Alfred Margis. Published by Theo. Presser Co. Formation: Column of front couples, inner hands joined shoulder high.

Part I

Begin with outer foot.

1. Waltz-balance-step forward and backward......—..._____2

2.	Two step-swing-hops forward....................

3.	Repeat steps under No. 1 above ........—.......

4.	Partners face each other, join hands [arms raised sideward]

and execute 2 draw closing steps in the direction of the leading couple ................................-..

5.	All face in the direction of the last couple and. repeat the

steps undjer No. 1 and No. 4 in the opposite direction and beginning with the opposite foot __..____________

Total ... ...............  .................16

Part II

Begin with outer foot. In direction of leading couple.

1.	Two step-swing-hops forward .....  ............

2.	Six running steps forward ......................

3.	Repeat three times .........................  ......12

Total .............  ............  .....

Repeat the whole dance several times.

CIRCLE DANCE—WALTZ TIME

Music: “Thousand and One Nights”—J. Strauss—Published by Theo. Presser Co.

Formation: Front line in circle formation all facing the center, neighbors’ hands grasped.

Part I

1.	All face left [neighbors’ hands grasped)] and execute stepswing-hop left and right forward moving clockwise in a

circle......;.....................  ................  2	Measures

2.	All execute a waltz-balance step left forward and the same

right backward......................................  2	Measures

3.	Repeat No. 1...................................      2	Measures

4.	All face the center and execute two draw-closing steps left sideward [the last draw-closing step is unfinished leaving

the right foot open in a sideward pointing position] .2	Measures

5.	All face right and repeat No. 1 to No. 4 beginning right

and moving in a circle counter-clockwise ............ 8	Measures

.. 2	Measures
.. 2	Measures
.. 2 U  e	Measures
.. 2  e  i	Measures
.. 8	Measures
.16	Measures
.. 2	Measures
. 2	Measures
,12	Measures
.16	Measures

Total

..16 Measures

Part II

All facing the center, neighbors* hands grasped.

1.	Waltz-balance steps left forward [toward the center] with

Digitized by

Google
79

swinging the arms [hands joined] forward ............  1	Measure

2.	Waltz-balance step right backward, swinging the arms

downward and backward _________________________     -_ 1	Measure

3.	Step-swing-hops left and right forward [toward the center].. 2 Measures

4.	Waltz-balance steps left forward and right backward with

arms swinging as in No. 1 and No. 2 above..............2	Measures

5.	Release hands, turn left about, run six small steps forward [away from the center] and during the last two steps face left about again facing the center with neighbors’ hands

grasped _________________________________________      2	Measures

6.	Repeat No. 1 to No. 5 .............  ................ 8	Measures

Total ...............  ....................  16	Measures

Repeat the dance from the beginning.

Health Education

HISTORICAL STEPS IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF HEALTH

EDUCATION

Howard L. Conrad

1.	In Ancient Times

A.	Egypt:—hieroglyphics of 1500 B. C. show some knowledge of disease prevention’ healing, and food preservation.

B.	Hebrews and Babylonians:—Sewage disposal practiced in Baby-

lonian cities. Hebrews taught personal and sex hygiene, food inspection, and terminal disinfection through the Law. This Law was a combination of civil, ceremonial, and sanitary practices.

C.	Greece:—The highest ideal of bodily perfection any nation ever achieved. Worshipped the goddesses Hygeia and Panacea. Attained splendid posture, balanced recreative activities, regularity of living—the training ideal, and cleanliness. The library at Alexandria contained advanced studies on anatomy, physiology, and hygiene—cf. Hippocrates, Herophilus and Erisistratus.

D.	Rome:—The Romans were excellent plumbers [aqueducts,

sewers, and baths] but comparatively backward in research concerning the human body. Galen, a Graeco-Roman, did remarkably well considering the imposed limitations.

E.	Early Christians:—Other worldliness, asceticism venerated.

Filth, vermin, and disease were believed to be sent by God to torment mortal flesh. Celibacy revered, and marriage regarded as a concession to carnality.

II.	In Mediaeval Times

A.	Negative conditions:—widespread plagues, disease avoidance largely a matter of folk-lore, superstition and recourse to

Digitized by

Google
80

'holy' relics. Sanitation generally laii al Arts contain no reference to care of the body in health or illness.

B.	Positive contributions:—transfer of Greek hygienic and medical knowledge from Nestorian Christians to Mohammedans in Asia Minor to Moors in Spain and thence to rest of Europe.—cf. Avicenna's texts [980-1037] translated by edict of Frederick II [1227-1250]. Establishment of hospitals and nursing orders.

III.	In the Renaissance Period

A.	Love of nature and reaction against other worldliness shown

by the Italian humanists, notably Vittorina da Feltre of Mantua [1378-1446]. In his palace school there was supervision of the pupil’s health. Curriculum included emphasis on hygiene and physical training.

B.	Reaction against Galen’s beliefs through Vesalius’ studies in

anatomy. Leonardo da Vinci executed some beautiful anatomical sketches. Pope Pius II, of humanistic leanings, asked that correct posture and moderation in eating and drinking be taught.

IV.	From the 16th Century to Modern Time*

A.	Tremendous strides made in the conquest of disease and

knowledge of the human body by such men as Pare, Harvey, Leeuwenhoek, and Sydenham.

B.	The influence Locke, Milton, and Comenius in emphasizing

the need of including knowledge of the human body and systematic bodily training in the ideal course of study, e. g., the Orbis Pictus, a standard text for 100 years, included chapters on “Parts of Man’’, “Flesh and Bowels’’, “Channels and Bones”, “Senses”, “Deformities” and “Temperance” [all illustrated].

C.	The influence on the health and dress of school children by

Rousseau’s “Emile” [1774-1811]. He said, “The only useful part of medicine is hygiene; and hygiene is less a science than a virtue”. [Knowledge versus Attitude].

D.	The Public School Era

1.	Very little attention paid to health education prior to 1870

2.	Some improvement made in schoolhouse structure, i. e., departure from “church” plan, about 1840. Greatest improvement, however, has taken place within the last 25 years; i. e., toilets, lighting, desks, etc.

3.	Curriculum influenced by Spencer’s “What Knowledge is of Most Worth” and Huxley's Physiology text.

4.	“Era of Sanitation” from 1870 to end of century marked great progress in community hygiene.

5.	Discoveries of Pasteur, Koch, and Lister began to make the general public “health conscious”.

6.	Medical Inspection in public schools started in France 1837, Sweden 1868. In America: Boston 1894, New York City 1897, Philadelphia 1898.

Digitized by LjOOQie
81

7.	Impetus given to the inclusion of Physiology and Hygiene [“evil effects of alcohol and tobacco”] in the primary and secondary grades by the Temperance societies. State laws passed to make this compulsory from about 1880 on.

8.	First congress of Schcol Hygiene Association of America, Washington, D. C., 1907.

9.	Shift from emphasis on structure and function to health habits and disease prevention, about 1908.

10.	In 1910 began the period of health education [Winslow]. Founding of various health organizations.

11.	Lessons learned by the World War 1917-1918 regarding physical fitness of draft candidates.

12.	Joint Committee on Health Problems in Education of the

N.	E. A. and American Medical Association 1922. Formulation of objectives, program, health curriculum, teacher training etc. Scope of subject included First Aid, Accident Prevention, Education for Parenthood as well as what is commonly known as hygiene.

Whooping Cough.—The cause of whooping cough was not discovered until 1900, when the scientists Bordet and Gengou first isolated the pertussis micro-organism. This organism is present in the sputum of patients during the early so-called catarrhal stage of the disease and during the first week of the cough period.

While no age is exempt, at least 80 per cent, of all cases and 97 per cent of all deaths from whooping-cough occur among children under five years of age. It is the only infectious disease attacking both sexes which shows a marked and constant higher preferment fat* girls. Unfortunately, the high infectious state of the sick individual precedes his development of the characteristic coughing spells which might warn those about him to avoid close contact.—N'.	Y. Acad, of Med.

Factors That Influence Rheumatic Disease in Children.

—A. D. Kaiser [Journal of the American Medical Association, 103: 861-891, Sept. 22, 1934] reports a study of 1,200 rheumatic children in Rochester, N. Y. It was found that rheumatic symptoms developed most frequently in children between the ages of eight and ten years. In Rochester attacks occurred most frequently during the late winter and spring months. Typical rheumatic fever—with fewer and swelling and pain in the joints—occurred in 39 per cent, of the children in this series. Joint pains without fever or visible swelling and inflammation of the joints occurred in 32 per cent. The heart became involved at some time in the course of the rheumatic infection in 64 per cent. Some children showed only the milder manifestations of rheumatic infection—sore throat, fatigue, anorexia and pallor. Rheumatic symptoms recurred in more than 50 per cent, of the cases. It was found that rheumatic infection occurred slightly more often in children whose tonsils had not been removed at the time of the

Digitized by LjOOQle
82

initial attack. Recurrent attacks were not lessened in children who had been tonsillectonized either before or after the initial attack, but the mortality rate was nearly 50 per cent, less in children whose tonsils had been removed prior to the initial attack. Infections of the upper respiratory tract, whether the tonsils were present or not, were an important factor in the development of rheumatic attacks. Even in rheumatic children living in a good environment with a high standard of living fresh attacks would develop following an acute respiratory tract infection. Hemolytic streptococcus nucleoproteins gave positive skin tests in 75 per cent, of rheumatic children as compared with 32 per cent, of nonrheumatic children. “One may assume," theauthor states, “a constitutional susceptibility to rheumatism, but no proof of it is available. . .Until the factor of susceptibility is better understood and more definite information is at hand on the etiology of this disease, the control of rheumatic disease will not be mastered.”— Long Is. Med. Journal.

School Health Supervision.—In the North Carolina Department of School Health Supervision, a force of eight specially trained nurses are constantly at work throughout the school year in counties having no whole-time health officers or any other form of whole-time county health work to which the State Board of Health contributes financially. There are, on an average, about fifty such counties. Most of these counties comprise the smaller or less wealthy counties of the State, although there are a few exceptions. These nurses visit every school, white and colored, in a county in which they work during the school year. They inspect the children for evidence of malnutrition, the presence of preventable disease or handicap, and teach the essential elemental principles of personal hygiene and sanitation to the school children both individually and collectively. Their work has resulted in an improved standard of health. They have been instrumental in securing the organization of a number of wholetime health departments, and they have also been instrumental in securing the treatment of many thousands of children for the removal of physical defects. They take note of the sanitary surroundings, the environment of the school; they report on whether or not the children are supplied with a safe drinking-water system and sanitary facilities for proper sewage disposal. Their work has gained in importance and effectiveness each year for many years.— No. Caro. Health Bulletin.

Breathing Exercises and Avoidance of Dust Tend to Bring Relief From Asthma.—The Asthma Research Council of England has recently issued a report on its activities. This report casts interesting light upon the asthma problem.

To begin with, the report calls to opr attention that it was not so long ago when asthma was considered a “nervous” disease and a symptom of “nasal abnormality.”

Digitized by Google
83

Today we recognize that asthma is a definite clinical condition belonging to the group of diseases accounted for by a hypersensitiveness to common proteins. Hay fever and exzema also belong to this group.

All people are sensitive to foreign proteins; the question remains, why are the asthma sufferers more sensitive than the rest of mankind?

To this question a tentative answer has been given in terms of the hereditary and constitutional peculiarities of the asthma sufferers, but this only pushes the mystery a little farther back, leaving us to define the nature of these predisposing factors. |m

The council's report doesn’t dwell much on these matters but turns to the many things which can be done to relieve the sufferer. Thus, the report recommends certain types of breathing exercises which “are designed to teach the patient to empty the lungs [since the lungs are already distended too much in the asthma sufferer], to use the lower part of the chest as well as the upper part, and to employ diaphragmatic breathing.”

Airing of workplaces and bedrooms, avoidance of house dusts, feather dust, and animal hair are urged as means for bringing relief to the asthma sufferer.

Specific desensitization treatment by the injection of a mixed solution of the common proteins to which asthmatics are sensitive has, according to the report^ given a certain measure of success.

—N. Y. Academy of Medicine

Scarlet Fever Serum.—Of 1,000 children given serum in a scarlet fever test in one section of Philadelphia, 60 per cent showed a positive reaction. The average, according to the Director of Public Health, generally runs about 35 per cent.

“Superintendent Frank W. Ballou, of District of Columbia Schools, claims that failure to remedy easily cured physical defects should be a basis for preventing promotion of a pupil from one grade <to the next.”

Life Prolongation for Diabetics.—Dr. W. W. Bauer writes in the November issue of the American Mercury explaining that insulin, the Banting and Best discovery of 1922, is not a cure for diabetes “but it is, when properly used in conjunction with other necessary measures, the difference between comfort, efficiency and happiness on the one hand, and a miserable lingering death on lie other”. He states that research has shown that deaths from diabetes are increasing more rapidly in females than males, and that mortality has been increasing only at ages above fifty, and that at ages below fifty there have been definite decreases. Dr. Bauer points out the etiological factors of heredity, race, occupation, diet and age. His conclusion, quoting Joslin, is that “The diabetic of-today, properly treated, is living longer with his disease [under control] than he expected to live without it.”

Digitized by

Google
84

This is in keeping with the findings of the cardiologists who sometimes say that the way to a long life is to acquire a subacute cardiac condition and carefully nurse it.

Nobel Prize Winners in the Field of Medicine.—A.MA.’s Dr. Fishbein relates in the December “Hygeia” how the discovery of the method for control of pernicious anemia by the use of liver has brought this year’s award in medicine to three Americans: Drs. Whipple, Minot, and Murphy. Whipple used dogs as test animals to prove the regeneration of the blood through liver diet, while Minot and Murphy found the same diet effective in saving the lives of patients suffering from pernicious anemia.

Diphtheria Immunization.—Diphtheria, a disease confined primarily to children, could be wiped out if all children were given immunization at an early age.

Prevention of Heart Disease in Children.:—The three main causes of heart disease in childhood in New England are rheumatic infection [90 per cent], congenital maldevelopment [about 9 per cent], and diphtheria [about 1 per cent]. In many other parts of the United States the incidence of rheumatic heart disease is less, especially in the south. There is about half as much rheumatic heart disease in the central Atlantic states as in New England, and only a small fraction in the extreme south, that is in such states as Florida, Louisiana, and Southern Texas. In Southern Florida the rheumatic heart disease is less than 5 per cent of that in New England. The rheumatic infection winch causes rheumatic heart disease is thus in large part dependent on climate; it is well known that activity of the infection is slight in the extreme south at any time and in the north during the summer and fall when the weather is at its best.—Child Health Bulletin.

"Athlete’s Foot” Infeets Millions.—At the present time one of the most prevalent skin diseases is ringworm fungus infection, commonly called athlete’s foot. It is believed that approximately 10 million persons in the United States suffer from this condition on some part of the body, Dr. Joseph Jordan Eller says in an article on "The More Common Skin Infections” in the April Hygeia.

“Ringworm infection is found most often on the feet and particularly in the webs between the toes. It is contracted usually from walking barefoot on the infected floors of gymnasiums, swimming pools and locker-rooms. The first symptom noticed is scaling and itching between the toes, especially between the fourth and fifth. Later an examination may reveal an eczematous eruption consisting of cracking, oozing and the development of small blisters. From the toes it may spread to the rest of the feet

Digitized by t^ooQie
85

and subsequently appear on the hands in the form of an eczema. The eruption may next appear in the groins and arm pits. In adults it is unusual to see this eruption on the face, and rarely does it appear on the scalp. The condition is difficult to treat, and recurrences are common. Mild antiseptic solutions are at times efficacious. Peeling and antiseptic ointments may then be used. . X-ray therapy or grenz rays, long ray x-rays, may be employed as an adjuvant to other local treatment and may help to shorten the course of the disease. Needless to say, prophylaxis is an important factor in preventing the spreading of the infection. Paper sandals should be worn in locker-rooms and gymnasiums and discarded after use. Antiseptic lotions should be applied as a preventive measure.”

Mouth Health Programs in Public Schools.—The Division of Oral Hygiene, State of North Carolina, has on its staff a corps of dentists both white and colored who conduct mouth health programs in the public schools of the State. The mouth health program consists of didactic teaching of mouth health. This means that the relationship of an unclean mouth to systemic disease must be explained and stressed. This didactic teaching is aided by the use of plaster models, placards and pictures, both stereopticon and motion.

If the group is first grade, then the teaching is in the form of stories in first grade language.

If it is in the scienee department of high school, then tooth histology is emphasized and tooth pathology is explained.

If it is in the home economics division, foods, food values and proper health habits are stressed.

In addition to this, mouth health is taught by these dentists through demonstrative or correctional work. However, the correctional work is confined insofar as possible to children who cannot have the corrections made in any other manner.

News Notes

American Peoples College In Europe.—Dr. Alfred Adler, Viennese physician and founder of Individual Psychology, has been appointed as a member of the staff of the American Peoples College in Europe this summer. Dr. Adler will give a series of lectures in individual psychology for both laymen and professional people at the college headquarters at Oetz-in-Tirol, Austria. He will also conduct a field trip for a group especially interested in psychology for the observation of the practical application of his ideas and methods in Belgium, Holland, Switzerland, Austria, Italy, and France. In various cities the group will visit clinics, schools, and hospitals, and attend special lectures. In Vienna Dr. Adler’s own home will be headquarters i < i 1 <

Digitized by LjOOQie
86

group. The entire course lasts nine weeks beginning the first of July.

Those wishing to know further details of the project may write to the New York office of the American Peoples College in Europe, 545 Fifth avenue, New York City.

64th ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION

The 64th Annua] Meeting of the American Public Health Association will be held in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, October 7-10, 1935. This organization is a society of 4,500 professional putilic health workers whose annual sessions review developments in health protection and promotion and outline plans and policies for future advances.

Several related organizations have announced that they will meet simultaneously with the American Public Health Association at Milwaukee. They are:

American Association of School Physicians International Association of Dairy and Milk Inspectors Conference of State Sanitary Engineers International Society of Medical Officers of Health Association of Dairy, Food and Drug Officials Conference of Wisconsin Health Officers Conference of State Laboratory Directors Association of Women in Public Health The fourth Health Education Institute sponsored and conducted by the American Public Health Association will be held October 4, 5 and 6, prior to the opening of the several conventions. The subject will be “Health Education in Small Cities and Rural Communities.”

Noted Mental Hygienist Blames Freckles For Inferiority Complexes.'—A homely face—freckles, a big nose—oftimes makes a man a failure. But it doesn’t proclaim one.

You homely people, advises Dr. Earle D. Bond of the Institution for Mental Hygiene at Pennsylvania Hospital, just ought to snap out of it, forget your looks and develop your personality-just as handsome people do.

Dr. Bond, speaking before the County Medical Society, said: “Children who win the name ‘freckles’ often develop an inferiority complex. They feel there’s no use trving to develop personality because the facial spots are too great a handicap.” Bond declared many who consult plastic surgeons do so not for correction of facia] defects but rather for confirmation that the defects exist.

"And that confirmation is great news for them,” Bond pointed out. "It gives them a chance to rationalize their failure to meet the demands of society.

Digitized by boogie
87

"It's an extraordinary thing, but nearly all who rush to a plastic surgeon feel their defect is in their Dose. Psychiatrists may some day catalogue that feeling as a "Cyrano complex’."

Bond decried the ciaim sometimes advanced that the face is the key to human personality.

"When that misconception is lost through education," he said, "these unfortunate ‘inferiors’ will learn to develop their real intrinsic personality."

Second International Recreation Congress.—The Olympic News for August, 1934, contains the announcement that the date for the beginning of the Second International Recreation Congress has been fixed for Thursday, July 23, 1936, at Berlin, Germany. The International Recreation Committee, at a meeting held immediately after the First International Recreation Congress at Los Angeles, California, in 1932, recommended that the Congress be called for one week before the Olympic Games in Berlin, and last for four or five days, and adjourn two or three days before the formal opening of the Olympic Games.

Boy Scouts.—Detroit has 96 Boy Scout troops in its schools. The enrollment is 2000 boys. Two Field Scout Executives are paid by the board of education.

Poorest Pupils Have Largest Number of Physical Defects.-—Professor Harlan of the Lewiston, Mo., normal school selected from each class of ten schools the three poorest and the three best pupils for physical examination. It was found that the poorest pupils, numbering 361, had a few more than twice as many physical defects as the best pupils, numbering 387. It was found also that the defects of the poorest pupils were more serious than those of the best pupils. —Jersey

National Achievement Standards For Girls.—The women’s committee on National Standards of Achievement for Girls selected fifty-two different activities which are common in the physical education program. The choice of activities, in whicn skills are being studied, was determined by certain considerations:

1.	Activities must involve fundamental body movements.

2.	Activities must involve many different body coordinations.

3.	Activities which are usable in many types of situations.

4.	Activities suitable for areas of dense population and for

less dense areas.

6.	Activities which can be used as test elements.

6.	Activities which can be treated to relatively objective

measurement.

7.	Activities which are a challenge to the girl because of

their probable interest.

[Miss Amy Howland, Public Schools, Mouat Vernon, N. Y. is Chairman]. —N.RA. News Letter.

Digitized by L^ooQle
88

What Are Your Answers?—In a recent News Letter addressed to supervisors, directors, and teachers of physical education, the Massachusetts Department of Education, Bureau of Physical Education, raised the following pertinent and stimulating questions: Are our Health and Physical Education programs planned with objectives clearly in mind? Have we the program written as a course of study for our own guidance and for the information of our superior officers? Are our programs doing what we say they do? How are we measuring the results of these programs? Do we habitually read professional literature? Are we active members of professional organizations? Do we too much concern ourselves with interscholastic programs of only limited value at the expense of the large group of less highly skilled students who need our help and time when time and help are at a premium, more than do the gifted students who are usually involved in such programs? Are we providing broad programs of activities which research has proven are of great immediate interest to students as well as of future use to them? Do we excuge ourselves for our program shortcomings by explanations -Of jommunity pressure, lack of money, tradition, transportation problems, and the like? Or, are we running a “great program” in spite of these shortcomings?

/

Teaching Opportunities In 1934.—The number of graduates in the College of Education, Ohio State University, was 406 in 1934 as compared with 414 in 1933, and 421 in 1932.

The increase in opportunity was not the same in all fields. In fact, the percentages of the graduates who obtained positions in biology, fine arts, French, and Latin were less in 1934 than in 1933. Substantial improvements were noted in agricultural education, chemistry, elementary education, home economics, industrial arts, music, and physical education.

Financial Support of Physical Education by an Insurance Company.—Physical Education as a hygienic preventive measure gained in 1931 the financial support of National Insurance Company of Berlin, which recently set aside the sum of $25,000 for the support of societies and organizations for physical education in Berlin.

Conan Doyle an All Round Sportsman. The deceased author, Conan Doyle, was an all round sportsman, being proficient in cricket, football, boxing, shooting, fishing, besides being an expert billiard player.

Louis Schroeder has succeeded W. C. Batchelor as superintendent of recreation in Pittsburgh.

C.	W. Savage has retired as head of the department of physical education and athletics at Oberlin College.