MIND AND BODY

Vol. 40	MAY-JUNE	1933	No.	413

Another Rejoinder to Core Activities in Physical Education

By Carl L. Schrader, Massachusetts State Supervisor of Physical Education.

If the article, “Core Activities in Physical Education,” which appeared, in the January issue- of Mind and Body, had accomplished nothing more than the provocation of a controversy, it would have served a good purpose. A rejoinder to the article in the March issue of this magazine begins with the statement, “The core of the physical education program is the child”. Right! However, let us add a few more hackneyed and empty phrases with which teachers flirt, and behind which they hide: “We must teach the whole child.” “We must teach the child according to his nature and his needs.” “It is the interest of the child that should dictate subject matter,” and so on and on. These statements are all well intended, and when really understood and the practice is in accord with these philosophical objectives they are highly commendable and essential.

One need not and should not interpret the original article to mean that “core” activities at any time represent the program content, to be followed eventually by “polymotor” activities, and finally by skills and games and athletics, or gymnastic activities. Perhaps the word “core” is the stumbling block, but inasmuch as it connotes basic, or fundamental, it isn’t so bad. Every game or worth while activity we teach, if we teach, has its “core” exercises. If a stranger to the game, how would one ever detect the game of football when seeing the early season practice? Lying on the ground, pedaling an imaginary bicycle, arm, trunk arid leg exercises, tackling a dummy, falling on the ball, and even dancing steps are all “fingering” exercises that lead to the playing of the composition.

Editor’s Notes The article “Core Activities In Physical Education” by Emil Rath, which was printed in the January issue of Mind and Body, has brought forth interesting and valuable discussion. In the March and April issues we published comments by Vaughan Blanchard anjd Dr. Jesse F. Williams respectively. In this issue we present interesting contributions by Carl Schrader and Mabel Lee, followed by a response by Mr. Emil Rath to Mr. Vaughan Blanchard’s article which appeared in March. We would like to receive opinions on this subject from other readers.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
50

The quotation from Dalcroze is most apropos but misinterpreted. This is the quotation: “The aim of a musical education should be not the production of pianists, violinists, singers, but of musically developed human beings.” Paraphrasing this to fit physical education is suggested. Then it would read thus: “The aim of physical education should be not the production of football players, basketball players, stunt men, but of physically developed human beings.”

While the average high school principal and the average community still rate the physical education program by the quality of the varsity teams, the above mentioned educational philosophies are hollow mockeries. Not in physical education alone but in most of the other subjects as well, entertaining rather than teaching is the prevailing art. There is no hobby or vocation that does not necessitate an apprenticeship, and the master of his art or trade should and usually does know the “core” activities that lead to the end desired.

Generalization or conditioning must always precede all specialization, whether it be in art, in law, in medicine, in education or any specialization of sports. In the latter it is a perpetual and important physical background, partly for conditioning and partly for orientation. That we have left behind us the monotonous memorized drills goes without saying. Where they still survive, strange as it may seem, is where we find a highly trained varsity group comprising a few of the pupils, with the bulk of the students fed on some drill culled from Spalding’s ten cent athletic library. However, it is also true that we poured out the baby with the bath when we swallowed the interest idea hook, bait, and sinker, and started to entertain with novelties.

We find reports endeavoring to set forth the prevalence of poor posture as ranging from 3U% to 92%. The remedy invariably suggested in outline is what? “Core” exercises! In themselves, let it be said, they do not constitute physical education any more than do stunts, games, dancing, athletics or apparatus work alone. But they are basic.

The writer happened to be behind the scenes half an hour before a noted pianist played to a large audience. He was not practicing the composition,—he was performing “core” exercises for conditioning purposes. It takes a live teacher to make “core” exercises purposefully undeistood., and to select key exercises that have orientation and conditioning significance. An entertainer, if he resorts to this type of exercise at all, uses predigested food in form of some, drill used for a month and some times longer. A teacher, on the other hand, will select key exercises that he knows have definite value and relationship to what he knows is to follow.

We all want Peter to help John and vice versa. Perhaps we might also agree that reading about it and using sticks in the art class will help. But why does John have to fish around for the solving of his problem when his older brother, who can’t fall' on the ball properly or pivot effectively, doesn’t have to have a

Digitized by <^.ooQle
51

reading assignment or try it with sticks? He gets direct suggestion preferably by demonstration from the coach. That is good practical teaching, even if it involves “core” exercises to accomplish the trick.

The project idea has its limitations in education, and surely in physical education. One fact we cannot lose sight of is that in the main the required period is an instruction period full of so many new hints, problems and suggestions, made attractive by perfect demonstration on the part of the teacher, that voluntary pursuit in practice on the part of the pupil becomes an urge. That is where Peter, who got more out of the instruction than John did, can help John..

“First a task, then a plan, and then freedom.”

An Answer to Core Activities in Physical

Education

Mabel Lee, Professor of Physical Education for Women, University of Nebraska, Lincoln.

Mr. Emil Rath asks in the January 1933 issue of Mind and Body “Are there core activities in Physical Education or are there only activity goals?”

Yes, indeed there are core activities in the education of the child for the proper control of its body just as there are core activities in other subjects for all sorts of controls, both subjective and objective. But isn’t the child exposed to the core activities of a physical education from the very day of birth? What are his infantile kickings and squirmings if not development of muscle power apd control?’ These core activities for body controls are encountered in an inexorable world that puts the child through his paces and prepares him for “advanced” activity before he even enters kindergarten. There is no escape from this “course of training” except for the unusually abnormal. Instinctive drive is the teacher in a school of trial and error with the parents, brothers and sisters serving as assistant instructors. Every waking moment is a learning period, the pupil driving himself toward the goal of physical achievement. The levels of achievement quickly rise as the first months pass into the first few years of age. By school age the child has experienced a strenuous self disciplined training in body control. Starting from utter helplessness, he has in a few brief years learned how to crawl, roll, walk, run, throw, catch, climb, etc., in varying degrees of ability and it is now time for the schools to give him activity goals. The physical education of the child has taken the lead in all phases of his education up to school age. He has already been put through his paces in core activities and is ready to pass on to the second stage of training. This is not the case in most other branches of his learning. In his physical education he has done his “finger exercises,” worked most industriously at them

Digitized by v^.ooQle
52

every waking moment from birth and now entering school he is ready to tackle a “musical composition” and join “the orchestra”.

About Mr. Blanchard’s Opinion on Core

Activities

Emil Rath, Indianapolis, Ind.

When participants in a friendly discussion exchange views in the proper spirit both profit; and it is by this exchange of opinions that we gain breadth of knowledge, grow, and become tolerant. With these thoughts in mind, I wish to reply to Mr. Blanchard’s criticism of my article on Core Activities which appeared in the January, 1933 issue of Mind and Body.

While agreeing with the present day emphasis, but not over-emphasis, on the child in education, and with Mr. Blanchard’s statement that “the Core of the Physical Education program is the child,” we must not lose sight of the fact that activities and procedures are needed to help him grow and develop, to unfold his potential powers. In the article on Core Activities I have endeavored to point out some material and procedures that seem to me essential. Attention was called to. programs that do not hit the heart of the target but strike only on the periphery. Leaders in physical education today may not agree completely as to methods of approach in attacking the problem of educating the child by means of organized subject matter but certainly they have all gotten beyond “exalting it above the child”.

Mr. Blanchard’s arguments are chiefly directed against a procedure [set up by himself and not by me] of teaching first, one class of activities to obtain certain results, then another, and finally the activity-goals. This was not suggested in my article. As illustrated in the “Overview of the Instructional Period,” the three classes of activities are interwoven and go hand in hand with practicing the goals.

Furthermore, it is difficult to see how any one can maintain that this procedure is based on “a learning process that demands a thorough mastery of the three R’s before the child is allowed experiences in art, music, health education, etc”. It is difficult to see how any one can read this into the “Overview of the Instructional Period”. Combining preparatory, schooling, and goal activities in a lesson is a common practice of many instructors. This procedure is different from that used by those who devote entire periods to develop a single goal activity, like Volley Ball, and are not acquainted with other procedures. The latter implies training along markedly narrow lines.

Moreover, it seems to me obvious from the plan of the Instructional Period that the child is not “cut off from a varied program of physical education, etc”. Indeed, the plan is more

Digitized by Google
53

varied than Mr. Blanchard would have it. The fact is that, "Opportunities for self expression, problem solving, leadership and followership,” which Mr. Blanchard thinks are “crucified on the cross of core activities” are augmented by participation in group action and developing the appreciation of the need of preparatory work for successful accomplishment in life’s tasks.

In a similar manner the description of learning to play the violin was misinterpreted. If the reader cares to refer to the passage in my article, he will find no such statements as, “hours he spends, etc.” and “finally” given a musical composition to learn.

The quotation of Jacques Dalcroze's aim of musical education gives no clue as to his methods or means of obtaining this aim. My experience as a student of eurhythmies with graduates of Dalcroze leads me to think that Mr. Blanchard has chosen a poor illustration to emphasize this point.

It seems to me that we can not use different methods when teaching gifted individuals in the embryo, like Helen Wills, from those we use when teaching the other pupils. It "is necessary, of course, to give due consideration to the classification of pupils according to individual differences in skill activities. However, we can probably not compare gifted people with the mass as far as the learning process is concerned but many star performers will confess that rio attainments are possible without earnest training which greatly resembles the. conditioning work.

As I understand the natural program it comprises what constitutes the second or supervised part of the “Instructional Period”. It disagrees with the first or didactic part. That this program is organized on the basis of the Law of Effect in learning is generally recognized. In this respect what was said in the article can scarcely be contradicted. It does not at all imply that in any program, the natural, the rational, or whatever you wish to call it’, “The child conducts himself solely according to- his whims,” but that the teacher, in Bagley’s words, should, “Control conduct consistently with worthy regulative ideals or with reference to relatively remote ends, and in the face of immediate inpulses, interests, and whims whenever and where-ever these are inconsistent with the ends or ideals in question”.

There are those in Physical Education who oppose planning activities for the control of physical growth and development and deprecate such purposes. These physical educators are chiefly concerned with building character, correct social behavior, and giving pupils experience in activities that may be carried on after school,—desirable purposes indeed. However, all of these aims, except the last, are also the concern of all other teachers.

Then there are those who conduct work mainly for what they call health, stimulation of physiological functions, development of skill, strength, endurance, and speed. Against this latter program with its methods and subject matter considerable opposition developed toward the end of the decade 1910-20, with the result that many teachers and teacher training schools completely
54

changed their programs. It is true that some of its claims could not be verified. However, it must be apparent that the first named program is equally as narrow as the latter. The pendulum has swung too far to the opposite side and produced extremes similar to those found in the “hygienic’' program. It is a common thing to see physical education lessons in which the children scarcely exert themselves, their respiration is not stimulated, and they do not experience the feeling that the desire for activity has been satisfied. In other words, the lesson has been thoroughly emasculated in an effort to supply other needs.

The time has come to check up on oiir procedure, to reexamine our program, and ask ourselves 'whether we should not place on the teacher of physical education the responsibility for development of the highly desirable physical qualities mentioned, as well as the responsibility of teaching pupils correct standard of behavior and desirable attitudes. In my opinion the rational program combines in modified form that which we valued early in this century with the later contributions. With this in mind my instructional plan has been organized, the first half emphasizing bodily preparation, rhythmic fundamentals, and laying foundation for skill, strength, speed, and endurance activities, taught principally as class work; and the second half endeavoring to develop standards of behavior, character, etc., through continuous practice of classes of activities in th) squad, games, and free play methods.

It has been my observation that pupils with conditioned bodies will perform “a difficult skill in soccer, fieldball, or tennis, —an intricate dance step—a hard stunt”—more easily, with better bodily mechanics and better methods of attack, than those who attempt them without this preparation.

Series of Radio Programs Given by Public School Summer Playgrounds

Grover W. Mueller

Playground teachers and supervisors will be interested in a series of radio programs which were given last summer under the auspices of the Philadelphia County Council Parent Teachers Association and The Board of Public Education. These broadcasts were given primarily for the purpose of acquainting residents of the city with the broad scope of activities conducted in the playgrounds and the values of these activities to boys and girls. An immediate effect of the programs was seen in increased attendance in playgrounds by child participants and parent visitors. In many playgrounds radio sets were temporarily in-installed to permit children to ‘listen in' on the programs broadcast by representative groups from other playgrounds.

The series of broadcasts consisted of one fifteen minute program weekly over a period of nine weeks as follows:

Digitized by AjOOQle
55

1.	Talk—“Philadelphia Public School Summer Playgrounds" by the Special Assistant to the Director of the Division of Physical and Health Education. This talk covered the aims and values of the playgrounds, typical daily programs for various age-groups, and announcement of the eight weekly programs which were to follow. It served as an introductory broadcast.

2.	An “Assembly Program” by children from a selected playground. This program was preceded by a short talk by a supervisor of playgrounds, in which he explained the nature and purpose of the assembly in the playground program.

3.	Talk—“Why I Like to Attend Our School Playground” by the boy and the girl who had submitted the best essays on this topic. This program was preceded by a statement by the Special Assistant to the Director, in which he explained the procedure followed in selecting the best essays.

4.	Playground Songs by the children of the playground having had the best singing. This program was preceded by a short talk by a supervisor of playgrounds, in which she explained the value of songs as a playground activity.

5.	A Safety Playlet by the children who had written and presented the best playlet on this topic in a playground. Preceding this playlet there was a short talk by a supervisor of playgrounds, in which he told of the opportunities which exist in the program of playground activities for training in safety.

6.	An Assembly by children from the playground selected for having had the best assemblies during July. This program was preceded by some introductory remarks by the Special Assistant to the Director.

7.	Story Telling. One story was told by a selected teacher and one by a child who had written the most interesting story. The program was preceded by a short talk by a playground teacher, who explained the purpose of storytelling in the playground program and who also gave the names and titles of, books in which stories suitable for children of various age levels may be found.

8.	Talk—“How Leaders Help in the Playground” by the boy and girl leaders who had submitted the best essays on this topic. This program was preceded by a short talk by a playground teacher who explained the use and value of leaders in the playground.

9.	A Playlet by the children who had written and presented the best playlet in a playground during August. This program was preceded by a short talk by a playground ‘ teacher, who explained the play opportunities inherent in dramatic activities and the value of these activities to the children.
56

Physical Education in Philadelphia

Edwin C. Broome, Superintendent of Public Schools, Philadelphia.

Since 1869 when a teacher of gymnastics of the Dio Lewis system was appointed to the Girls’ High School, Philadelphia has had an unbroken experience of sixty-four years with physical education as a definite and approved part of the course of study. As a result of this experience, we have arrived at certain conclusions in reference to the subject of physical and health education which may be briefly stated as follows:

1.	That the development of good health habits and the building up of sound bodies are about the most useful services that a school system can render.

2.	That there is properly no real distinction between physical education and health education. Physical education is primarily for the purpose of developing a healthy body, not for technique; and health education is primarily for the purpose of the practice of good health habits throughout life, and only incidentally for information. A sound, healthy body and the practice through life of good health habits are the main purpose of physical and health education.

3.	That physical and health education is equally desirable for both boys and girls, and that there are many lessons or exercises in which boys and girls may participate together, even through normal school.

4.	That contests for prizes or trophies should be discouraged as rapidly as we can create in pupils the desire and effort to do their best at all times for no reward ulterior to the satisfaction of the achievement of a worthy goal.

5.	That ail school teams should be under the direct control and supervision of the department of physical education, and sustained by the Board of Education as an integral part of a program of physical and health education.

6.	That games and athletics should be extended so that all pupils who are physically able shall regularly participate in them, rather than the few huskias who can “make” the regular school teams; and that age-grade standards or aims are a wholesome substitute for many of the prevailing competitions between pupils.

7.	That every city should establish and maintain an adequate number of playgrounds and recreation centers so that all boys and girls of the community may have ample opportunity for healthful outdoor recreation during the open season, under competent supervision.

8.	That student leadership in athletics and games should be encouraged and developed.

9.	That where possible inter-school contests should be confined to schools within the local system.
57

. > XU. That there *sh6uld be suitable gymnasium facilities in every high, junior high, and large elementary school.

11.	That it is the duty of the teacher to be as good an example of healthy living as possible; and to that end we recommend, and in our own city require a physical examination before appointment and periodic health examinations for all teachers during service.

12.	That school medical and nurse service should be closely coordinated with physical and health education, and, where local conditions will permit, especially in small communities, all such service should be under one director.

Thebie are the conclusions of experience, not inexorable rules, and are subject tp amendment by new experiences.

Objectives of Rhythmic Activities for Boys

Emil Rath, Indianapolis Normal College.

When one surveys casually the social life of communities to observe the interest manifested in rhythmic activities, the first impression is that not much is shown. At least that was my conclusion and then I consoled myself with the thought that those who are interested in the finer things of life are always of the minority. However, a questionnaire sent to directors of several athletic clubs and a canvass of dancing studios in Indianapolis convinced me that the group who engage in rhythmics is by no means a small minority. The athletic club questionnaire, reaching only men of mature years, dealt with a choice of activities. Strange as it may seem, the choice indoor activity was some form of rhythmic free exercise. Volley Ball was a close second. Here were college graduates [they were in the majority] and noncollege men expressing themselves- in favor of rhythmic free exercises. Incidentally, it appears that the activity best liked by adults attending an athletic club gymnasium will depend partly on the one the teacher stresses and can do well. A poor teacher of the rhythmic free exercises will not create a proper appreciation of these. That, too, was evident from the returned questionnaires. However, I do not wish to report on this questionnaire at present for that investigation has not been completed. It is merely mentioned to show that a form of rhythmic activity, if correctly presented, is enjoyed by many adults.

In canvassing the city of Indianapolis I found that a large number of boys, 1U years old and over, attended dancing classes. This does not include the many young men who attend social dances. Naturally, it is not the love for rhythmic motion alone that prompts young men to attend these dances, but I do believe it is a factor.

The favor that rhythmic activities have found in the boys' classes of many associations fostering physical education, the interest Normal College men take in the work, and the success

Digitized by v^.ooQle
58

of our recent graduates in teaching this work to high school boys, convinces me that rhythmic training in its various forms should receive consideration in a physical education program. These observations have awakened in me the hope that I might convince some of my younger colleagues, not yet familiar with it, to study this class of. activities, learn to teach it, and include it in their prdgrams.

Before going further, I should, perhaps, define the term rhythmic education. By it I mean the mind-body control gained through development of the sense of rhythm, and the development of the ability to make rhythmic adjustments in school and in other social situations. Rhythmic activities are those that possess the characteristics of rhythm[l] and are performable in sequences of rhythmic units. They involve stationary and locomotor types. Rhythmic activities supply a need not contained in any of the other activities of boys but they serve also as a means to produce outcomes similar to those of other work. Such overlapping, however, cannot be avoided because we are dealing with the human body and it will be affected, though in varying degrees, by whatever activities it performs. Rhythmic activities are used to obtain the following objectives and outcomes:

1]	To make possible the development of the sense of rhythm by diminishing and removing inhibitions, by conditioning the body and by developing the harmonious rhythmic interplay of body parts.

2]	To cultivate the rhythmic sense and rhythmic control so that the body moves rhythmically and easily in activities of daily life, in work and in recreation and can make rhythmic adjustments. This is being neglected in the education of boys after grade VI. At least the state and city syllabi I examined do not mention any activity for grades above the sixth that might produce this result. The development of the rhythmic sense and of rhythmic control is especially confined to rhythmic training.

3]	To develop group action thru individual cooperation.

4]	To offer opportunities for the growth and expression of individuality in rhythmic work.

5]	To develop an appreciation of the beautiful in form and movement as seen in artistic creations.

6]	To lay a foundation for participation in rhythmic recreation of child and adult life. Because of their automatic nature, the joy they produce, and because of their rhythmic flow they also serve immediate recreational purposes. Body and mind are refreshed.

7]	To strengthen bodily organs, improve physiological functions and powers of coordination. This work can be made to aid in making pupils physically fit.

[1] Rath, Emil, “Polyrhythmic Gymnastics”, Research Quarterly, A. P.

E.	A., March, 1930.

Digitized by Google
59

The first objective may be summed up in the words “bodily preparation” for the work. It is necessary if the best results are to be obtained from rhythmic activities. Due to our artificial mode of living the need for this preparation is found in most boys over 10 years of age. It cannot be expected to grow out of the practice of rhythmic compositions or their component parts because this practice is limited in variety and nature of activities. Furthermore, expression through rhythmic movements is hampered by tight and shortened tissues, general lack of suppleness and strength, and by the inability to make movements of the organism-as-a-whole flow into harmonious action. Bodily preparation producing a smoothly functioning organism is essential, therefore.

The second objective would achieve the cultivation of the rhythmic sense and rhythmic control. The activities chosen to attain it should be built on the foundation laid in Grades I-VI. A type of work suitable for boys in the higher grades needs to be selected. There is no reason why this phase of education should stop when the boy approaches the threshold of adolescence. The years ahead demand such training more than ever, for awkwardness is one of the outstanding characteristics of early adolescence. Rhythmic education with its preparatory lead-up work, and by virtue of its varied and numerous activities, is more effective in preventing awkwardness than is any other activity. It makes for poise and suppleness, and frees the body from the effects of self-consciousness. Manifold motor habits and movement combinations are built. Rhythmic education literally integrates the vast human network of neurones into multitudinous forms of action patterns. These are broad assertions but they are not suddenly formed conclusions but are based on years of observation. Of course, I have a certain kind of rhythmic education in mind when I thus express myself. Obviously, it must be varied and broad in scope.

By giving pupils problems to solve requiring dexterous handling of the body, and guiding the performance according to rhythmic principles]! ] the sense of rhythm grows.

Rhythmic control is developed by the individual’s efforts to adjust himself 1] to the general activities of the group, 2] to some kind of musical or sound instrument, and 3] to grotip action in the form of some rhythmic composition. The first two forms are simple and occur iri the usual practice period. The latter form of adjustment is complex an'd difficult. The class should work out a composition as early as possible in its training. It involves 1] adjustment to some of the members of the group or to all of them depending on the composition, 2] listening to the music and noting the phrases indicating changes in the action of the group, and 3] keeping time and tempo by accurately timing movements in tneir relation to notes, all of which in-

11] Rath, Emil, “Polyrhythmic Gymnastics”, Research Quarterly, A. P. E. A., March, 1930.

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
60

creases ability in adjustment. There are many other things involved which, however, need not be mentioned here. The complexities and the difficulties the learner meets in such group-compositions are often not recognized and efforts to teach compositions result in failure.

Moreover, attempts to teach rhythmic activities without preparation, and without understanding them and the methods involved are sure to result in failure. This failure is then often blamed on the dislike of children for the work.

Thus, the rhythmic sense and rhythmic adjustment is the outcome of much practice, new movements and combinations passing from an arhythmic form and conscious effort to an automatic rhythmic performance and into the subconscious mind. Education of this kind is not given children by any other activity.

The third objective is to develop group action through cooperation of individuals. This form of group action is distinctly peculiar to group activities of this nature and is quite different from the cooperation developed in team games. It resembles more the mutual helpfulness occuring in squad work.

Group work performed in rhythm unifies the participants. They acquire the feeling of being a part of a whole and that the individual’s performance is necessary for the success of the whole. This occurs in motor chorus work and in all group movements which are part of, or grow out of, the practice of rhythmics. This kind of cooperation and group action is similar to that needed in social and civic undertakings.

Apparently this kind of cooperation appears not unlike that found in the t^am work of organized games. But upon ex: animation it will be found fundamentally different as far as its purpose is concerned. The significance of this difference is found in its influence on social behavior.

Team play is perfected for the purpose of overcoming an opponent, for winning games, to achieve a greater score than the adversary and consequently a victory. The competitive spirit can express itself in no other way in group action. It has the essence of the primitive combat. Civilizations owe their development to this fighting tendency, but they may likewise owe their doom to it. Some thinkers maintain that the present generation is confronted with the question, will western civilization enhance its own destruction because of its worship of the competitive spirit expressed in too numerous ways for me to mention in this discussion, or dqlay its doom and probably divert it, as some of our philosophers hope, by replacing competition with cooperation. Dr. Dewey and Bertrand Russell have lately emphasized the great need of cooperation, national and international, to prevent the decline of our civilization.

Do not regard these remarks as an argument against competition and team games. I would not be without them. The competitive and particularly the pugnacious tendency must be developed. The latter is of great value in life. Nor am I convinced that our philosophers are right. I would only have you under-

Digitized by i^.ooQLe
61

stand clearly the difference between the cooperation occuring in group action and that occuring in team play. The former, and not the latter, is the type occuring in civic and national undertakings. But one motive underlies rhythmic group action and that is to make the ensemble performance as perfect as possible. The individual feels this and loses himself in the undertaking. It is of the spirit of the creative artist: to produce something worthwhile that will give pleasure to all participants and to all observers. Identically the essence of a noble community undertaking. On the other hand the cooperation developed in games is always centered on the emphasis to win, on tripping up or outwitting opponents, on display of superior speed, strength, endurance, and other qualities with only one thought in mind; down with the enemy. And what are the results, particularly in varsity teaxps? Often harmful psychological disturbances that last for days, and development of bad habits of competition for the purpose of obtaining advantages, often personal in nature#

Nevertheless^ I do not propose that we deprive boys of team games, although varsity competition in high school may be abrogated with advantages to the boys and the pupils in general. Team games have many bad and also many good features. We shall not discuss them here. But there has been an overemphasis of the competitive motif in physical education for boys, and. also girls, which should be balanced by participation in activities which counteract this. Rhythmic education can serve this purpose.

The fourth objective maintains that rhythmic education offers opportunities for growth and expression of individuality. The pupil expresses himself by means of bodily movements in a manner peculiar to himself. This is possible because the form of execution is not restricted. Individuality is manifested in the way a boy plays a game, in the way he performs in competitive events, in the manner in which he attacks difficult stunts in tumbling or on apparatus, in short, in his overt behavior. It is the expression of the mind through bodily action. Rhythmic training’s emphasis on bodily education therefore enhances the potential power for expressing one’s self in one’s own peculiar way and thus emphasizes individuality. Rugg has said that “individuality is the integration of a wide range of rhythmic activities.”!!] There is no class of activities that contributes as much toward growth of individuality in this sense as rhythmic education because there is no other single class that has as1 varied a repertoire of movements.

The fifth objective is “to develop an appreciation of beauty in form and movement.” The instructor grasps opportunities to point out the artistic aspects of motion and position. He builds positions that have artistic appearances and trains the

[1]	Rugg, H. and Shumaker, Ann. “The Child Centered School,” p. 165. World Book Co., Chicago, 111.

Digitized by v^ooQle
62

eye to see beauty. Many occasions for this arise in rhythmics for the boy and it will add to the richness of his living.

The sixth objective deals with the recreational values that grow out of the practice of rhythmic activities. The swinging rhythmic flow of movements creates the feeling of joy because the movements are automatic in nature. They serve an immediate recreational value. In a carefully conducted study on some thousand Berlin school children Sippel found improved mental functioning after a 30 minute Physical Education lesson.[l] He laid it to the joy produced by the work and to the stimulation of the physiological functions. Rhythmic free exercises formed only a part of the work but contributed to the total result.

The last objective deals with the biological values that children and youth obtain from the practice of this work. The entire body musculature is strengthened; the circulatory, respiratory, and glandular functions are stimulated, often vigorously, producing conditions favorable for growth. Innumerable action patterns are laid down in the neuro-musdular system making the body a responsive instrument, plastic, capable of adjustment to a large variety of situations, and with speed and accuracy.

Such training lays the foundation for sport plasticity, if I may use that term to express the ability to readily learn a new sport. The “physically illiterate” individual is at the other end of the scale. Lacking this foundation he will have difficulty learning a new sport. Between the two extremes lies the mass. Those trained in rhythmics will possess many action patterns which, though they may lie dormant through neglect, are readily revived and will further the learning of new activities.

We need a liberal education of the body and rhythmic education is a basic and important part of a liberal bodily education. It is, further, another argument for a varied program in the period of adolescence.

It seems to me that the values inherent in this class of activities justifies its use in the school program. But when we ask for this, certain obstacles furnishing arguments against it present themselves. The size of class and space, the time alottment and relative values of program activities are among the first that come to mind. The size of the class should not prevent the practice of these activities if the space is large enough for the usual work. Space is needed for locomotor work, for leaping, running, and jumping. As to time alottment, 25% to 30% of the time devoted to physical education might be given to it during the winter and part of the fall and spring period. This is a matter, however, that must be solved individually for each condition and situation. It is an advantage that no equipment is needed. 1

[1] Sippel, Dr. Hans. “Leibesuebungen und geistige Leistung” Weid-mannsche Buchhandlung, Berlin.

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
63

The narrow conception of physical education, held by some of our teachers, particularly with reference to activities, is a barrier to progress. Teachers of physical education should have a broad background of training in activities.

And that leads to what is perhaps the highest hurdle to leap if rhythmic education is to be given boys: the inability of our men teachers of physical education to present this work. Men must be trained for it.

Teaching rhythmic activities, particularly with musical accompaniment is a difficult task, even tho the accompanist knows exactly how to adjust her playing to the activities. It is, therefore, desirable, first, that the instructor know something about music. He should not have to depend entirely on a pianist but should know at least the time, tempo, and nature of composition needed for his work. Second, he should be able to record activities and also compositions associated with and developed by rhythmic practice indicating counts and measures needled. He may need such information in organizing his lesson. This involves a knowledge of the terminology of rhythmics. Third, he must be able to demonstrate and explain his work well and present it progressively, interestingly, and instructively. This implies that he must acquire training, actually experience rhythmic work, know the subject matter, and know how to adapt it to the age-level of his classes. It also implies a knowledge of the mechanics of the human body in action; not only a knowledge of the technique of walking, running, jumping, etc. but a knowledge of the technique of general bodily action. Last, but not least, he should know its values and purposes and how to attain them.

Unfortunately, many teachers of physical education for boys do not know these things and consequently hesitate to teach rhythmics. Not including rhythmic activities in the training of teachers of physical education is an inexcusable neglect. Those who have been denied this training and are still plastic and ambitious should strive to obtain it.

Many educators are ignoring the undesirable effects produced by a narrow program, often limited to one or two sports, and resulting through its overemphasis of the competitive spirit in mal-education of the youth. In closing, may I sum up my message in the following points:

1.	The result of experience proves that rhythmic activities are enjoyed by boys as well as by girls. For high school work, material suitable for boys must be selected.

2.	Certain desirable objectives and outcomes are not obtained except through the practice of rhythmics; for example:

a]	cultivating the sense of rhythm and rhythmic control;

b]	developing group action through cooperation that is different from the group action developed in team games.

3.	Controbutions are made to other objectives and outcomes of physical education, as

a] developing growth and free expression of individuality;
64

b]	developing an appreciation of the beautiful in form and movement as seen in artistic creations;

c]	laying a foundation for participation in rhythmic recreation; and

d]	improving and strengthening bodily organs and physiological functions and developing powers of coordination.

4.	Rhythmic education is an important part of a liberal bodily education and lays the foundation for physical plasticity.

5.	The value inherent in rhythmic education justifies its use ih the school program.

6.	To teach these activities successfully requires thorough training in them.

7.	Balance, moderation, were the guiding words of Athenian education, before its decline. Can we attain that level of culture if overemphasis of the competitive motif continues in the manner in which it now exists, or shall we change and blend “music and gymnastics?”

Rational Sun Bathing in Scout Gamps

By Walter H. Merrill, M. D.

Most of the elements necessary for the development of a strong, disease resisting body may be obtained from an adequate properly prepared diet. But there is one essential agent that can not be obtained in sufficient amount from our civilized food and this is a substance called Vitamin

The minerals calcium and phosphorus are elements needed in the building of bones, teeth, nerves and muscles. The physiological process of using these elements for this purpose is called calcium metabolism. Calcium metabolism will not take place unless vitamin D is present. So we find that although our food may contain a large excess of these elements if vitamine D is not also present they pass off and our body is starved for want of these necessary building agents. Fish, for example, is not a brain food unless, like the Indian, we eat the fish liver which contains this vitamin with it.

Sources of Vitamin D

Naturally vitamin D is found in raw, unpasteurized milk if the cows have been exposed to plenty of Summer sunshine. In eggs if the hens have had the sunshine. And in the livers of certain fish.

Artificially vitamin D may be made in the laboratory by exposing certain whole grains or oils to the chemical rays of sun light,

But most important of all, it is found to be produced in great quantity in the skin of mankind when he is exposed to Qie Summer sun or to an artificial light which contains the chemical nays found in sunlight. Vitamin D manufactured in this way in the skin is picked up by the blood stream and

Digitized by

Google
65

carried all over the body for use where needed or if net used immediately it may be stored up for future use. If it is found that a certain diseased condition say in the lungs requires calcium to heal, a cure will follow if plenty of calcium is taken in the food when the skin or any part of the body is exposed to the sun. Diseased conditions which are due to insufficient calcium metabolism arts cured by exposure to sunshine.

The Sun and Man

From earliest history man has sought the sunlight as the great life giving and healing agent. The sun god was universally worshiped and while primitive man didn’t know as much as we do about the sun’s method of working he was out in it as much as possible and was not bothered with many clothes to prevent the beneficial action of its rays on his body. As far as we know he never showed signs of being starved for lack of the sunshine vitamin. The bones of primitive man do not show the effects of deficient calcium metabolism.

As man became more civilized and moved to a more northern climate he has, in order to keep warm, covered himself with heavy clothing and built houses to live in. It is found that window glass and clothing cuts off from him almbst completely the chemical rays from sunlight. His food especially in winter is lacking in vitamin D. So man becomes starved and a prey to many forms of illness. These facts are considered the reason why disease is more common in Winter and why at this time of the year growth slows down and the old housewife thinks we need a Spring tonic.

Studies have been made on the kinds of clothing from the standpoint of their transparency to the chemical rays of sunlight and it has been found that wool is the most opaque while silk is the most transparent. Clothing is given as the probable reason why the modern girl with her lighter and more transparent clothes is becoming more robust than the modern boy.

The girls are found to be growing better bohes, teeth and healthier muscles.

The physical examination of our city boys will show to the examiner who looks for it a large proportion of them with evidence of a serious lack of this essential growth promoting element the sunshine vitamin How may we who are trying to encourage the boys who come under our influence to keep themselves physically strong, help them to overcome this unconscious starvation?

The Scout Camp and similar camps would seem to be the ideal place to promote our knowledge and methods for combating the handicapping effects of our modern civilized modes of living. We can if we will encourage them, though they are in camp but a short time, to build up a storehouse of reserve that will last for some time after the return to the city. Our aims may be accomplished through the use of the following four methods:
66

1.	Camp Slogans.

Slogans such as

A good coat o) tan makes you look well and be well Sunshine aids in building Bone and Muscle Sunshine aids in building Brain and hi erve A good tan aids in building resistance to disease. may be used and emphasized again and again with the result that soon you may hear on the campus one Scout suggest to another that they go to the beach or pier for a few minutes exposure to the sun before the swimming period.

II.	Camp Dress If allowed to do so the average boy will shed himself of his cumbersome garments as soon as he arrives in camp. He delights to make for himself and wear the romantic dress of the pirate or the simple dress of the Indian or any other aborigine he may have read about. He requires no urging to adopt such a dress.

However he will find after he has tried them all that the most comfortable garment is his shorts.

He should be discouraged from wearing his bathing suit throughout the day.

III.	Water Sport.

Swimming in the natural state should be encouraged in Scout Camps. This not only allows the sun to get in its general good action but is more cleanly. Health Officers in formulating health rules for the use of swimming pools recommend that wherever possible bathing suits should not be used. The users of the pool are much safer from infection.

IV.	Tanning Contest In order to promote sunbathing it was suggested some years ago that we try the use of a sun tanning contest. It was with considerable skepticism that we decided to try this method of promoting heliotherapy. We were afraid that severe sunburns might result in many cases. However in the five years that tanning contests have been held in our camp we have found that if it has any effect on the number of cases of sunburn in camp it has reduced them. The boy understands that a severe burn will disqualify him and accordingly is made careful and much more apt to take his sun exposure gradually. The tanning contest is instrumental in accentuating the warning that too much and too rapid an attempt to deepen the color of the skin is dangerous.

What Is The Tanning Contest?

It is a contest to determine who can develop the most tan in a definite camp period. The winner of each class will be the boy who shows the largest surface, colored to the deepest tint that his particular type of skin will hold, of course minus the amount of color he had on entering.

The purpose of the contest is explained in simple boy lang-
67

uage and the contestants are told that each of them has an opportunity to win provided he didn’t come to camp with too much tan at the start. Even if a boy does not care to enter the contest he is made to realize that it is a good plan to carry home a. coat of tan since “A good coat of tan makes you look well.”

Caution

Practically every method of medicine that can be used for good purposes can also do harm if improperly used. So with sunlight too much at one time will, in the sensitive individual, cause considerable harm with alarming symptoms. A skin that does not perspire in hot weather may burn very easily and sun exposure may be followed by headache, dizziness, fatigue, nausea and vomiting. These symptoms even with blistering and high fever often follow short exposures in those very cases of malnutrition and under-development that need most the beneficial effect of the sunlight. As a rule the poorer the general health and physical development the greater the reaction to exposure to sunshine.

These individuals should be especially encouraged to enter this contest because of their need and expectation of benefit. They must be cautioned against any general exposures until their skin tolerance has been determined on their legs, and their skin has been toughened by exposure to air. They also need to be watched closely, for one severe experience will make them always fearful of these health giving rays.

Judging Tanning Contests The most important condition for the boys to remember is this:

»A SEVERE SUNBURN WILL DISQUALIFY THE CONTESTANT.”

Conditions for judging may be worked out locally and may be based upon the following suggestions:

“A Scout may enter and compete in all groups [see below].” No award will be given if the number of contestants is less than ten for any one group.”

“The contest for the two weeks awards will close at noon on Monday at end of the two weeks period.”

“All the figures for the one and the three week groups will be collected during camp and the winner determined after camp closes.”

The procedure of estimating the degree of tan on each boy requires careful judgment and consists of valuating color shades and skin surface sizes. One man [preferably the camp doctor or the physical director] should make all the examinations under the same light conditions in order that the results may be com-parqjjle.

Each individual whatever his type of skin, fair, dark or one that freckles has a certain depth of color which is saturation for him and if he has been outdoors much it will be found on the backs of his hands and heck. This shade we call Tan for

Digitized by UjOOQle
68

him. Also he will show on some protected part of his body the natural color of his skin when it is habitually protected which we will call his formal skin color. Between the dark tan and the normal we will recognize two shades of color which we call Tan and bigfit Tan.

The number weights that we give to these four color shades are Normal 0* Light Tan 30, Tan 60 and Dark Tan 100* Foi convenience the body surface is divided into four parts [1] the head and neck, [2] the arms, [3] the trunk and [4] the legs to simplify the recording they are considered to represent equal surfaces with equal weights in the total. Now any particular skin surface which is being valuated by comparing its shade to these four grades, normal, light tan, tan and dark tan, two of which are before you on the boy, can be given an arbitrary number which will express by its size degree of color depth caused by the sun.

The following stencil is placed on the ordinary small filing card and the data recorded as shown.

Name Franklin, Jack					183 ..0
Type Dark	flair	Dark Eyes	Dark		Lashes Dark
Date July 18					Date July 24
Color Value	N LT	T DT Total.*	No	LT	T DT Total
	0 30	60 100	0	30	60 100
Head	20 80	2-L.O		10	80 10 61.0
Arms	50 50	15..0		50	30 20 53.0
Torso	40 60	18..0			60 40 76..0
Legs	25 75	22'.5		25	25 50 72.5
183 „0		T9..5			262 .5

In this case we estimated that on the starting date 2u% of the surface of this boy’s head was normal in color and that 80% had a light tan. Normal having no value the figures in that column are not used in the total. Light tan being given a weight value of thirty. 80x30 or 24.0 is a number which will express the total color on his head at the start of the contest.

At the second date July 24th we estimatee that he had 10% of the surface of his head light tan, 80% tan and 10% dark tan. These multiplied by their respective weight values give—3, 48 and 10 or a total value of 61.0. Now the difference between these two totals will give a number which will represent the increase in depth of color developed on his head.

In like manner the totals are estimated for .the entire surface of the body and their sums are found to be 79.5 and 262.5 and the difference or 183.0 is the number which represents the entire increase during this period.

This method has worked out in our hands so that it has been fair to all contestants. Winners have been found from every skin group type, blondes, brunettes and even from those light skinned individuals who freckle, and it has always selected those who have painstakingly tried to develop a good general tan.

Conducting such a contest means a wholehearted enthusiasm
69

for the idea and a great deal of effort on the part of the examiner, but the aims accomplished seem to be well worth while.

Parents have frequently, asked what we did to their boy in camp. He comes back home with a -voracious appetite and he starts growing so fast that they have difficulty in keeping his clothes large enough for him.

Naturally we give credit for this condition to the opportunity and encouragement which is given in our camps for sun bathing.

Olympic Swimming: Why Japan Has Advanced

By W. J. Howcroft, England’s famous Swimming Coach.

Los Angeles was the headquarters for 200,000 travellers from every clime and land, of every race and nationality, who gathered together to either view or participate in the Tenth Olympiad—a glorious pageant of sport.

Swimming, of course, claimed my attention, and the contests in the Swimming Stadium, held over a period of eight days, with morning and afternoon sessions, were of such absorbing interest as to provide subject matter for almost endless study and debate. The swimming pool captivated with its babel of tongues, galaxy of colourful dresses, and wondrous spirit of goodfellowship.

The Japanese team of 34 men swimmers, comprising with but two exceptions, students from high schools or universities, formed the most picturesque and intriguing of the national groups. Japan’s sequence of victories was the outstanding feature of the games. They won the 800 metres relay from the U.S.A. in easy fashion, and also broke the world record by 38 seconds with a team of boys all under 20 years of age. Japan was also placed first and second in the 100 and 1,500 metres free style; first and second in the 200 metres breast stroke; and first, second and third in the 100 metres back stroke. In fact, Japan won every event except the 400 metres free style, where they took third, fourth and fifth places. These successes have naturally been followed by a spate of conjectures and theories to support a reason why a race well below average in height and weight, now stands supreme among the swimming nations of the world.

It has been put forward that the Japanese have discovered a new type of crawl stroke. But this theory ignores the mediocre performances of the Japanese girls who were in no way comparable to the men. If the secret of success lies in a new type of crawl stroke it does not account for Japan’s signal successes in the breast and back stroke events. It is easy to prove that no one particular stroke feature, mechanical movement, or training method will account for Japan’s rise to world leadership. The Japanese have progressed as a result of a combination of factors which operate from early school days to reach a climax at an Olympiad. It is a remarkable story.

Digitized by t^ooQle
70

Japanese officials acknowledge they have copied the standard America crawl stroke for all distances. But the little Japanese certainly appear to swim a different and a rather quicker stroke than the U.S.A. swimmers. Yet the dissimilarity is only superficial. A man of 5 feet 5 inches—the average height of the Japanese— is bound to execute a stroke of quicker natural rhythm than a man of approximately 6 feet in height. Then again, the Japanese appear to use a shorter arm extension above water in the crawl stroke, but they, as a race, have decidedly broad should-ders and rather short arms, and naturally they do not reach out so far as a tall man with limber shoulders and long arms. It is a question of intelligent adaptation to invididual characteristics.

So far as mechanics are concerned there is not the slightest difference between the best Japanese and the best Americans. There is, however, a difference in points of emphasis. Ikkaki Matsuzawa, the Japanese chief coach, is a firm believer in a rather short entry for the arms to prevent any chance of over-reaching at the catch, as he considers over-reaching is a cardinal fault. He also advocates a deep leg kick with strong thigh pressure in the downward movement. As a matter of fact the Japanese feet do not break the surface at all when they are in training, and it is only when they are racing “all out” that the soles of the feet are allowed to break the surface.

Without exception the Japanese swimmers exhibited a high poise in the crawl stroke. This is not an acquired position so much as an exploitation of a natural characteristic. As a race the Orientals have remarkably supple backs, consequently the freer hyper-extension possibilities of the lower spine facilitate the upper body adopting a high position, enabling the body to plane over the surface. In other words, the high poise is a direct result of hollowing the back to hold the shoulders and head in a position where the body planes over, not through—the water.

The Japanese advance definitely' marks a new era in speed swimming and, more significant still, heralds a revolution in training systems. As I see the situation in broad outline, the cause behind Japan’s advance is method and method only.

During each summer vacation every boy of promise in Japan is brought to Tokyo for eight weeks intensive training under stern discipline. There are two training sessions daily, under the supervision of a corps of honorary coaches and trainers—and the result of this system was shown to the world at Los Angeles. During the two months’ training period three championship galas are held at Tokyo: High School, University, and National. They are three-day meetings, which attract tremendous crowds, and the income derived from this source is used to enhance the training scheme. To sum up, the Japanese have not copied. They have made a plan to suit their own particular conditions, and this plan has produced an array of world champions.

Apart from the summer training period, the Japanese do but little serious practice during the winter months owing to the lack of facilities, as there are only a few covered baths available. In

Digitized by UooQle
71

addition, there is practically no competition apart from the three official championships; as a result the youngsters are not burnt out by excessive racing. Method and system is indeed an art in the Japanese Swimming Federation’s scheme. At every championship gala there, is an appointed official to look after every competition, to count the number of strokes taken each lap, the time of each lap, and notice any faults in the swimmer’s action. These details are filed in a record book, and it is possible to see at a glance what any swimmer did over a certain lap in any race during the past four years.

In my opinion physical fitness was the prime reason for Japan’s successes, and the physical condition was due to intensive training under competent guidance.

To cite only one instance of physical condition, there was the final of the 1,500 metres free style when Kitamura, age 15 years, 5ft. 5in. in height, and weighing 120 lb., and Makino, age 17 years, and only 5ft. 2in. in height, turned out against Crabbe, the Hawaiian giant:; Cristy, a 6ft. 2in. American; Ryan, a big husky Australian; and Taris, the pride of Europe. The two little Japanese trailed the field for 600 metres, then they accelerated, went to the front, and finished the last 100 metres at sprinting pace. So soon as they touched the end of the bath they put their hands on the edge of the bath, jumped out without availing themselves of the steps to walk up, stooped down, picked up their bath robes, and had walked away nonchalently to their dressing rooms before Cristy, the third man, had finished. The two Japanese boys were perfectly fresh, and walked away on steady legs immediately they had finished, while the four white men finished exhausted, to hold on to the bath side while they recovered their breath.—Physical Education and School Hygiene-England.

I have been asked to describe the method of teaching high-diving that I have practised for some years in Sweden and Poland.

The art of high-diving has been practised since ancient times in Sweden, even, so the sagas tell us, in the times of the old vikings. In those early days only plain diving from rocks, etc., seems to have taken place.

In the oldest university town of Sweden, at Upsala, the first swimming club of the ountry, perhaps of the world, was founded in 1776. In this club, where at first most of the members were students or professors of the university or teachers at the high school, they took example from the ceremonies of graduating doctors of philosophy and made an earnest parody of these proceedings. After having passed some quite severe tests in swimming, which also included tests in plain and fancy diving, the

The Teaching of High Diving

By Gymnastikdirektor K. E. Sjolin, Vimmerby, Sweden.

Digitized by
72

swimmer was graudated Kandidat or M agister [corresponding to Bachelor and Master of Arts respectively] of swimming. By and by, these tests in swimming, after having been an internal affair of the Upsala Club, became known and were copied all over the country, and eventually, about 100 years ago, the Swedish Federation for Swimming determined to adopt them and they have been continued ever since. These tests have been a very effective means of producing good swimmers and divers, as every Swedish girl and boy makes it a point of honour to endeavour to pass them.

It was to be expected that when high-diving was included in the programme of the modern Olympic Games, Sweden would dominate in these competitions. At three of the Games we. succeeded in capturing all the first places in high-diving. In 1924, in Paris, the Americans, who had succeeded in acquiring the former Swedish Olympic winner in high diving. Ernst Brands-ten, as chief trainer of their Olympic team, showed that they would become dangerous competitors for the crown in high-diving. At Amsterdam, in 1928, it was settled. The Swedes were not placed among the first three in any of the high-diving contests. In four years Brandsten had worked wonders with his pupils. Such an extraordinarily beautiful exhibition of fancy diving had never been seen, as the contest between the three chief American divers.

Before explaining how we train for high-diving in Sweden when making use of Brandsten’s invention, the land spring-board, it may be necessary to introduce the reader into the mysteries of high-diving.

There are two kinds of high-diving: dives from a rigid platform and dives from a spring-board. Both of these two groups are divided into two sub-divisions: plain headers and fancy dives.

The rigid platforms used in international contests are of two standard heights, 5 and 10 metres. The international springboards lie lm. and 3m. above the water level; they must be springy, and at least 4m. long and l-2m. wide. [For complete specifications see the Handbook of the Amateur Diving Association.]

The fancy dives are divided in five groups according to the way of turning in the air and making the take off.

Group I, contains all dives,.standing or running, with a forward take-off and forward rotary motion. To this group belong; the pike dive, front somersault, one-and-a-half front somersault, two and two-and-a-half front somersaults.

Group II, contains dives with backward take-off and backward turn. To this group belong: backward header, one, one-and-a-half and two backward somersaults.

Group III, contains dives with backward take-off and forward turn. To this group belong: pike back dive and pike somersaults.

Group IV, contains dives with forward take-off, standing or
73

running, facing the water and turning backward [reverse divesd To this group belong: Isander header [named after the classical master, Isander, at the high school of Upsala]; somersault [name.] after M. A. Mollberg of the University of Upsala]; one-and-a-half Mollberg somersault; and double Mollberg .somersault. The execution of the Isander dive is as follows: immediately after the take-off, the arms are carried rapidly outwards or above the head and remain extended beyond the head until the diver has completely entered the water; at the take-off the legs are thrown forward and upward, whereupon the back is slightly hollowed until a perpendicular position has been attained, so that the entry into the water becomes the same as in a plain header. The Mollberg somersault is executed in the same way, but the legs must be thrown upwards with more energy, the back more hollowed so that a backward somersault is performed, entry being feet first.

Group V, consists of screw dives. In all these dives the body turns round its longitudinal axis.

In international competitions the competitors have to make eleven dives, five compulsory and six voluntary. It is evident that the training needed to execute so many dives excellently must be long, severe and often painful. Water is hard. When training, a good diver can execute about 40 or 50 dives daily. The cold water and the climbing to the diving platforms soon exhaust his powers. By the help of Brandsten’s invention the same diver can make about 200 dives without being too tired.

This apparatus consists of a common spring-board of the dimensions previously stated, which is mounted on the ground, and slopes upward to about 1-2 metre above the ground. The

Digitized by t^.ooQie
74

ground in front is deeply covered with soft sand or sawdust for an area of about 3 by 4 m., or with mattresses if the apparatus is erected indoors.

So tiie diver, without being compelled to go into the water, may learn the run and the take-off, which are of the greatest importance in scientific diving, as the aim is to make the utmost use of the spring obtainable from the board, in order to gain the fullest possible height in the up-spring. In front of the free end of the spring board a frame is placed, consisting of two uprights and a cross-beam qbout 5m. high and 4 l-2m. wide. To the upper beam two pulley blocks are fixed about 3,7u to 4m. apart. One pulley block is single track, the other is double track. The distance between the free end of the spring and frame, which is placed perpendicularly and at right angles to the length of the board, is about 1 J.-2m.

The learner, or diver in training, puts a leather belt about 12 cm. wide round his waist. In this bejt are fixed two iron rings, one over each hip. From these rings two lines run, one through the single track and then, together with the other line, through the double track pulley block or tackle. The lines— cotton-spun lines are best—are fixed to the rings by strong swivel hooks. The free ends of the lines thus hang down by one of the uprights of the frame. Here the trainer stands with both the lines in his hands, and now the diver may spring. The trainer then strains the lines and by his weight prevents the diver from falling to the ground.

Perhaps I should explain that if a clever diver makes the utmost use of'the spring-board, it will throw him two to three meters upward. Within the short space of time between the take-off and the landing on the ground, the diver can perform double somersaults forward or backward. As the somersaults should be performed as completely as possible above the level of the spring-board, the actual dive, except for the entry into the water, is exactly the same from the land spring-board as from a common [water] spring-board. In order to learn new dives, it is not necessary for the diver to experience failures that frequently may be very painful.

It must be evident to everyone that this invention, as ingenious as it is simple, has very great advantages in the initial training in high diving. To become a clever diver intensive training for at least three summers is required. With the land springboard it is possible to become as clever a diver in three months. It is, of course, very valuable for the experienced diver too, for frequent regular practice of the elements of the dives is needed to attain and maintain high ability.

As I have said already, the most important factor in springboard diving is the take-off. The diver must get the utmost power out of the spring board, and this is possible only by making the last step or bound before the take-off as high as possible. If the diver runs out fast from the board the trajectory of the body must necessarily become horizontally extended and flattened.

Digitized by kjOOQle
75

The rotary motion is accentuated, and the balance and control of the dive is weakened. If the body, landing from the last high step [bouncy before the take-off [which is executed always from both feet] comes almost vertically downward, the depressed, board throws the body almost vertically up again. The trajectory then becomes steep, the rotary motion slower and easy to control, and the balance very good. This is the chief difference between the modern and the old school.

During the first efforts in training, the beginner has to tend to the run and the take-off. When teaching beginners, I d.o not allow the learner to dive with the help of the belt' for the first two or three weeks. During this time he has to train without the belt and make long series of take-offs, so that he is continually bounding up and down right at the end of the board. Thus, the diver may so bound for 10 or 15 minutes without cessation, provided he makes no false step. Then comes 5 or 10 minute's rest or of easy stretching [limbering] gymnastic exercises. After this, the take-off combined with run, with attention paid to walking slowly and rhythmically, which latter must correspond to the slight bending or yield of the board, and to making the take-off as steep as possible to gain the greatest possible height in the spring.

In order to impress upon the diver the necessity of always springing high, I let him spring over a rope placed at about his neck-height and about 1 metre in front of the edge of the board. When he makes the take-off with fair form, I begin the training with the belt. Of course, if there is but a very short time at disposal the training can be speeded up, and the beginner allowed to train with the belt as early as the second day.

When training with the belt begins, I teach the foundation dives first, that is to say, the one basic dive from each group. Thus the foundation dive of Group II is the backward header; of the Group III, the pike back dive; of Group IV, the Isander header, with the body stretched and the Mollberg somersault with the body rolled. In Group V there are no dives which are possible to execute with the belt; the diver is only able to mark at which moment the screw should begin. The foundation dive of Group I is of course the plain header [swallow dive], but on account of the little space between the lines toe arms will touch the lines and make a good execution of the header impossible. Instead of training in that dive, I teach the forward somersault.

When the foundation dives have been learnt, the beginner may be taught the one-and-a-half and the double somersaults. Side by side with the training on land, the training on the real [water] spring-board must take place. That is to say, for the first weeks the beginner only practices plain headers into the water, and bounding and take-offs on land. Later on he will practice one of toe foundation dives into the water and all the foundation dives on land. After some months he will be able to execute most of the compulsory dives in good form, and then he may train by himself and use the land spring-board only in
76

order to learn some new dive or to correct some deficiency in the technique. It is necessary that the elasticity of the land springboard is quite as great as that of the water spring-board.

In order to teach dives from the rigid platform. I have used a movable platform, about lm. high and 5m. long, placed above the spring-board. The difference between the take-off from the rigid, stiff platform and from the elastic spring-board is great, of course, but the execution and the rotary motion is the same from the spring-board and from the rigid platform of 10 metres.

I must say, in conclusion, that this way of learning high-diving is one of the most amusing kinds of exercise I have ever practised. As gymnastic exercise it is excellent, because of its capability to improve the gymnastic form and to develop those qualities which we endeavour to foster in our pupils in the gymnasium, namely, courage, presence of mind, and self-reliance.— Reprint jrom “Physical Education and	Hygiene,”	England.

Handcraft in Playgrounds and]Recreation

Centers*

John C. KieSer.

III.	Projects Using a Variety of Inexpensive or Discarded

Materials Flower Pot Holder

Anything the child or the adult can make'.that will enhance the appearance of the interior of the home and at the same time will have practical value is almost sure to be an attractive project. Such a project is a flower pot holder made of the homely clothespin and a discarded coffee can. The materials needed for this project are clothespins [about twenty to twenty-four], a tomato or coffee can, paint, and bicycle or adhesive tape.

Take a tomato or other tin can which is about four inches in diameter and two to three inches tall. A taller can may be vised if it is cut down to about two and one half inches in height. Then tape the inside and outside of the top edge with three layers of half to three-quarter inch adhesive or bicycle tape. If tape is not available, paste strips of heavy paper over the top edge. Then push enough clothespins down over the edge to cover the entire curved surface of the can, keeping them as closely together as possible. [Note: There should be enough tape on the top edge of the can to make the clothespins fit snugly.] Next, paint the clothespins one color near the bottom aind shade up to a complementary or harmonizing color at the top. [See Diagram 1].

Leather Projects

Belt. Serviceable and attractive belts can be made by the use of discarded pieces of leather from old shoes, worn-out balls, etc. Older boys particularly enjoy making these because they

•This is the third of a short series of articles on relatively little known handcraft projects which may be made at little or no cost.

Digitized by Google
77

have a practical use for them. Probably the most effective tool to use in cutting the leather is a discarded safety razor blade. A sharp pocket knife or a large pair of sharp scissors may also be used. The leather should be as soft and pliable as it can be made in order that it may be used without much difficulty. It is suggested that the unit pieces be no smaller than the dimensions indicated in Diagram 2 because of the difficulties involved in making the small cuts required. [See Diagrams 2 and 3].

Bill Fold. Another interesting and practical project in leather is the bill fold. As in the case of the belt, this involves only the process of -cutting. Diagran 4 gives the dimensions to be used. The portion at “A" is cut out to permit room for the bills when folded. The dotted lines indicate where the leather is folded when in use. [See Diagrams 4 and 5].

Digitized by v^,ooQle
78

Watch Fob. To the average boy above the age of eight or hjne years a watch fob is a prize to be sought whether he has a watch or not. Thus, we find great interest displayed by boys in cutting out this simple project. After the cutting has been completed holes should be punched along the lines of a capital letter and then brass paper fasteners pushed through with the heads on the outside. [See Diagram 6]. In making these fobs the teacher can suggest a variety of shapes and designs to be used.

Book Market. Another simple cutting project is a book marker. [See Diagram 7]. In this, as in the watch fob, the teacher should suggest a variety of designs and encourage the makers to devise designs of their own.

Vases

In a previous article a description was given of the method of making vases by covering glass jars with asbestos. Another method of making attractive vases, one that appeals to smaller children [ages 6, 7, 8, 9 years], is that of covering with colored pieces of paper. First a quantity of magazines containing colored advertisements should be collected. Then the children should remove those pages or portions of pages in solid coloring [preferably bright reds, oranges, yellows, blues, greens, etc.] that appear among the advertisements. At the same time each child should provide himself with a small glass jar [such as is commonly used for mayonnaise, pickles, cherries, etc.]. The next step is tio cut the pieces of solid colored paper into various small shapes such as half circles, squares, triangles, and irregular forms. After this is done the children can paste them on the bottle, covering all the glass as they proceed. When this is done a border of black or other appropriate color can be painted around the top and bottom and the whole thing shellacked to preserve it from moisture.

Hot Dish Holder

A very interesting project for girls from eight to twelve years of age and one that can be put to practical use is a hot dish holder. The ordinary square type is rather well known even to children of little experience. The following type however is a little more novel in design and more practical.

First, two pieces of gingham, cambric, percale, or other suitable discarded cloth are cut out in the shape indicated in Diagram 8, and stitched together from points A to B to C to D with a buttonhole stitch. These may be used for the outside pieces. Then four or five thicknesses of heavy cloth of the same shape can be cut out and inserted into the outside pieces. Then a piece of cloth the shape of a heart as shown in Diagram 9 is cut out and sewed so that it forms the underside of the holder. This is done by sewing .half the number of pieces of filling along the line D-E-F-G and the other pieces along the line H-I-J-D. This will make the holder resemble a saddle. Then the underside border from D to H [indicated by a dotted line in Diagram 9] is stitched to section D to H [Diagram 8]. At point A in Diagram 8 sew a piece of taipe in the shape of a loop. To make

Digitized by kjOOQle
79

it more artistic sew small French knots in the proper places for the chicken’s eyes, on the top of the head for a comb, and lines in the bill. A small bright piece of cloth cut to the shape of a wing can then be sewed on each side. This adds color and attractiveness.

Wood Sandals

A novel and yet practical coping saw project suitable for boys or girls about the ages of twelve to fifteen years is the making ing of wooden sandals. First, trace the outline of the bottom of the foot [leaving a quarter inch border around the foot] on a piece of soft 1-4 inch cr 3-16 inch smooth wood that will not splinter readily. Then cut out this form with a coping saw. After this is done cut out a form for the other foot. Then ctit each form crosswise into strips a half inch wide and nail a small tack into each end of each piece so that the head projects one sixteenth of an inch from the wood. Then, with string start at the toe and tie the pieces together by wrapping one or two turns around the first tack, proceeding to the next tack, wrapping one or two turns, going to the next tack, etc., all the way around the form until you return to the tack where you started. Then cut a strip of heavy cloth or rubber 1” wide from an old automobile inner tube. This strip is to be long enough to go crosswise over the toes of the foot at A [see Diagram 1 •]. Tack this strip to the ends of the pieces of wood. Then cut a piece of leather from an old shoe or ball, or a piece of rubber, in the shape indicated in Diagran 11, and tack it on the pieces of wood at B [see Diagram 10]. If wood which tends to splinter is used, the sandal should be lined with pieces of rubber from an old inner tube. The lining may be glued to the wood.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION TODAY

A statement sponsored by The National Committee on Physical Education and issued under the auspices of The American Physical Education Association.

In this period of unprecedented social and economic adjustment, laymen are asking educators to eliminate non essentials and “frills”. It is not that people have lost faith in modern education but that some retrenchment in educational expenditures has become imperatively necessary. One of the fields most frequently questioned is physical education. Is it non essential, or is it indispensable?

In attempting to solve this serious problem, it is important not to abandon services which may for the moment appear as non essential, but which are in fact of an indispensable character.

I. Human vitality is partly hereditary and partly developmental. The power of vital organs is therefore dependent upon the developmental physical activities of the young. In a sedentary and industrialized society physical education is peculiarly indispensable for the development of the vital organs of children and for the adequate functioning of these same organs in adults.

Digitized by AjOOQle
80

II.	Leisure time has increased tremendously in the last decade, and every indication points to a shortening of the working day. There will be leisure in amounts undreamed of a generation ago. This calls for types of education that will serve the play time of the whole population. Therefore, in our modern world physical education for leisure time becomes indispensable.

III.	Physical education is indispensable also for the normal growth and development of youth. When children and young people are denied the growth and health that comes from physical activities in educational institutions or in community life, the saving in such expenditures will be more than offset by the increase of costs for hospitals, reformatories, amd jails.

IV.	At one time education was merely a training of the mind but the idea is everywhere gaining ground that education must deal with the whole man and not with just part of him. Out of this conception has come the conviction that the good life exhibits play, laughter, recreation, and joy not as competitors with mental accomplishments, but as essential elements in full and fine living. For this physical education is indispensable.

Therefore, if we expect to train youth for complete and worthy living, schools and educational institutions must not abandon such essential services. In this machine age with its deadly monotony of routine labor, its emphasis upon mechanical efficiency, and its trend toward vicarious emotional life, physical education has become increasingly a necessity. To neglect the education of all youth in functional motor skills or to fail in maintaining their interest in wholesome play is to court serious social problems in the years that lie ahead.

Following is an extract from remarks made by Dr. Payson Smith, Commissioner, Massachusetts: “To be sure, there is some discussion about eliminating some of the newer things in education, and here and there people are indicating that physical education being among the things that have come last into the program, should be the first to go. I am not at all of that point of view. I am trying to believe that if we study our program with a view to eliminating something, we might eliminate what came in the 18th and 19th centuries, and not those of the 20th. The things that have come into the educational program in the latter century have presumably been thought out in relation to the need of the children of the century. Therefore, I think the programs of music and art, programs having to do with health and with recreational opportunities, are not among the first to go, but among the last, because they have been thought out in relation to the needs of the modern child. I do not want to dwell on this, but I say that from a certain point of view physical educaion is in a precarious position".

Digitized by v^ooQle
MIND AND BODY

Vol. 40	MAY,	1933	No. 413

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE Emil Rath, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

Carl L. Schrader, Boston, Massachusetts.

James E. Rogers, Director National Physical Education Service, National Recreation Asso., New York.

Grover W. Mueller, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.,

Editorial communications are to be sent to GROVER W. MUELLER, Editor. 504 Administration Bldg., Parkway at 21st St. Philadelphia, Pa.

Subscription payments should be made to Mind & Body, New Ulm, Minn. Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Editorials

In the January issue of Mind -and Body we printed an interesting and valuable contribution by Emil Rath on “Core Activities In Physical Education'. Knowing that a strong difference of opinion exists with regard to at least some of the basic points made by Mr. Rath and believing a discussion of the subject to be an urgent need at this time, we invited our readers to submit their views. The number of comments which are still coming in is gratifying. We will continue to publish the most representative of these contributions.

We wish to recommend that careful consideration be given by teachers and administrators to the advisability of revising the “standard" and “official" rules governing track and field events and games which are used by boys and girls in age-groups below those for which the rules were originally written. To be sure some steps in this direction have been taken: but much more remains to be done. Some equipment has been made available, due mainly to the initiative of manufacturers. Less has been done in the modification of rules, which is the peculiar province of the educator. • A few examples of desirable changes which come to mind at the moment are lowering and perhaps enlarging of basketball goals and use of a more suitable ball for smaller boys and girls, lowering of the hurdles [especially high hurdles] even for high school boys, almost unlimited substitution of players in soccer, and decrease in size oi official playing fields.

It is interesting to note that boys and girls [and even adults] when left to themselves, will modify and adopt rules which are suited to the group. Only too commonly, we teachers, instead of taking the initiative in the modification of rules, adhere rigidly to the “official rules" which often have been devised for use by the best adult players.

There are other events the rules for which, while probably no less suited for one group than another, set up highly artificial restrictions to natural and

Digitized by

Google
82

vigorous activity,—much more artificial, it seems to us, than free exercises which are frowned upon in some quarters. Examples of such events are the standing broad jump and the basketball farthrow from overhead. Elsewhere in this issue of Mind and Body are suggested revisions of the rules for these two events.

Speaking of natural activities, we are reminded to express gratification upon the return to respectability during the last three or four years of most of the worthwhile, interesting and challenging activities on gymnasium apparatus.

During that period we have noted an increasing amount of literature on the subject, frequently with the title “Natural Activities On Gymnasium Apparatus”. However, these books and articles have presented little if any new content material. In fact, we have seen much material which was copied almost word for word from old books on the subject. One case in mind is a series of articles which appeared in a prominent journal not very long ago in which even the drawings had been lifted bodily from a book which was printed over fifty years ago. These articles appeared under the name of the contributor without reference to the original source.

The important change which has come about during the period of rejuvenation is the elimination of many questionable if not worthless exercises such as, for example, leg swings and leg circles on the side horse. It should be stated, however, that the best teachers in the past never did use that type of activity except for very advanced and skillful performers. Unfortunately, the average teacher included them in the program with little regard for age, sex, or stage of proficiency. But in so doing, these teachers were little if any worse than those who have failed to modify the rules of games and track and field events as suggested in another editorial paragraph in this issue.

IMPORTANT ACTION TAKEN AT THE CONVENTION OF THE MIDWEST PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION.

At the Wichita meeting of the Midwest Physical Education Association, the following action was taken:

“That the Legislative Council of the A. P. E. A. be requested to authorize at its earliest convenience the division of the present territory of the Midwest Physical Education Association into new sections, an eastern and western section, said sections to include the following states:

Eastern Section: Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, West Virginia and Wisconsin Western Section: Missouri, N. Dakota, S. Dakota, Kansas, Iowa, Nebraska, Minnesota and Colorado.” In the event that the American Physical Education Association grants the authority to make this division it was voted to hold the annual convention of the western section at St. Paul and the convention of the eastern section at Cleveland. In the event that the division is not authorized then it was voted to hold the 1934 convention of the old Midwest Association at St. Louis.

The Midwest Council is extending an invitation to the American Physical Education Association to hold its 1934 convention in the Midwest territory.

Digitized by CaOOQle
83

Programs Based Upon Educational Procedures

By James Edward Rogers, Director National Physical Education Service!

This is the fourth of a series of articles outlining the five criteria necessary to put education into physical education. It is suggested that you read the series of articles beginning with the January number.

This need for putting educational methods in our program work is so obvious that a discussion of it seems unnecessary. Many of us are doing it in a most efficient way and getting concrete definite results. However, it is a gjod point to always stress because we are liable to get in a rut—our duties are so many and various that the temptation is to become an automaton. We must always keep this challenge before us—we are teachers and our job is an educational one. Our activity program is simply a means to an end—gymnastics, sports, athletics, plays, games, rhythms are merely tools of learning in our part of the educational curriculum. We must continue reminding ourselves that we are teaching boys and girls. Hence we must concern ourselves [a] with objectives and [b] with achievements. There are four parts in the presentation of an educational program in a physical education recitation—[11 each period must have its objectives, [2] the activities must be carefully selected based upon educational criteria, [3] the methods or procedures in the organization and instruction of the period must follow educational principles, and [4] at the end of each period we should have accomplished something in definite results.

Here are a few brief items that must be considered in the development of an educational program for physical education:

1.	Our program should be carefully organized on a daily, weekly, monthly and seasonal basis. It must not be a day to day proposition or a haphazard hit or miss repetition. Each recitation must be carefully built into the whole and have a definite meaning with a definite purpose.

2.	Recitations should begin on time, end on time and move on time. This helps discipline and organization. Because we usually have only two thirty-minute periods during the week, as outlined in the February number, this time element is a vital one.

3.	Our programs should be balanced; they should contain all the factors that go to make a well rounded program. We should teach rhythms, gymnastics, sports, athletics, etc. We must not become specialists, but unfortunately the temptation is great for each of us to emphasize our own hobby or interest, or that part of the program that we do or know well. Only too often do we see many one sided programs. In some places it is all gymnastics and in other places it is all athletics or all health or all play. Some are

Digitized by Google
84

interested only in the indoor program; others in the outdoor program. We must teach the total program.

4.	Our programs must be graded, based on such criteria as age, sex, physical and mental examinations, efficiency standards, physical capacity, motor ability. [See article number two].

5.	Our program should be based upon individual needs and differences; we should have homogeneous groupings. It is a mistake, especially in our recitation of activities, to give all the same doseage day after day [See article number three].

6.	We should be very careful in the selection of our activities. The content of our material must be based upon educational worth. There is such a wealth of material that we should make a careful selection based upon many criteria. Some of the criteria are [a] activities that promote worthwhile results, P>] activities that get all in the game, [c] activities with socializing influence, [d] activities that answer present, worthwhile, biological needs, [e] activities that promote habits now for the wise use of leisure later. Do we teach just any game or is it chosen because it is desirable physically, mentally and socially? Once I saw a third grade on top of a hill at a recess period stand during a wintry, blustry day, playing a circle tag game in which only two took part— the chaser and the runner—and the others stood for fifteen minutes and froze. Then the school bell rang and the class went indoors.

7.	We must carefully prepare our material. A good physical educator always runs over the night before his next day’s material to have it in mind and to refresh his memory. To start a day’s work without knowing definitely what is to be done is dangerous.

8.	We should have all our facilities and apparatus ready. If it is a day for apparatus we should have everything placed on the floor so we don’t waste time. In a brief thirty-minute period I saw a physical educator change from a game recitation to an apparatus recitation and it took almost ten minutes to get the parallel bars and horses out on the floor.

9.	Each lesson should be carefully outlined and should be selected for the best of reasons. Does it satisfy? Is it seasonable? Is it part of the graded program? Does it help th'e balance of the program?

10.	Are our programs progressive? Do we select and teach material that promotes stepping up in the learning process? Do we teach the preliminary neuro-muscular skills most essential to the acquiring of more difficult things later? In brief, do we teach first things first?

11.	Are our teaching methods always correct? When teaching circle games do we stand in the center of the circle so only a part of the class can see or hear, or do we stand in the circle line with the class itself so all of them can see and hear? In teaching a singing game do we teach the music
85

first and then the words, or the words first and then the music and then the steps? What is the proper procedure and the best practice in teaching singing games with steps? Is it wise to give a long lecture in explaining a game before playing it or should we be brief and to the point at the start and then should we teach the game as we play it? Do students who are hungry for action get bored and weary with long preliminary explanations? Do we give progressive instruction? Do theory and practice go hand in hand? In apparatus work do we concentrate on the perfection of skill in some one individual while the rest of the class watch and wait, or do we give all a chance and then come back and concentrate on “style and form.” later? Here we could recite a whole series of questions as to the best teaching methods and procedures in instruction. There is a best way to teach our different materials and we should know that way and use it.

12.	Then comes the big question—what are our objectives? Have we any or do we just go on teaching this year what we taught last year? Is our scheduled program simply a repetition year in and year out? The temptation is that once a daily, weekly, monthly and yearly program is worked out to follow in the rut of repeating it year after year. We must make adaptations and variations. We all know that we should have objectives and that these should be very definite and that each recitation must contribute to the attainment of these. For instance, is the objective of basketball just to get perspiration and to obtain victory? 'These are important. Is basketball a tool for learning just as spelling is in the educational process for the appreciation of literature? Is it more basketball for basketball’s sake or is it more basketball for the sake of education, character and citizenship training? Superintendents are very much interested in these last two objectives and would support our sports program if they felt that sports helped to develop sportsmanship. One superintendent recently remarked, “I am afraid that I am getting too much perspiration and too little sportsmanship in basketball”.

13.	A physical education program should also aim to get very definite results. We should at the end of the year definitely be able to say to the educational administrator that we have promoted health improvement in neuro-muscular skills, developed play habits for the wise use of leisure, etc.

14.	We should keep records—do we keep records? Can we tell definitely to a parent or a principal or a superintendent what progress each boy a^rtd girl is making? Other teachers have such records. Our best systems have them. They are very useful in emergencies. Certainly if we want to get credit and recognition for our program as an accredited subject we must have records.' However, we must not get lost in the record making task.

Digitized by Google
86

15.	Do we correlate our subjects with the other school subjects? This is most essential. Some very fine things are being done over the country.

16.	Are we careful with our facilities and supplies? Do we have the cooperation of the janitor? Is everything clean, in order and ready for use? Do we check on everything?

17.	Personally, as teachers, do we reflect the educational process? Because we deal with activities and are in such close personal contact with the students, the example of the physical education teacher is of great importance. What we do, say and act reflects itself. Our conduct, dress and use of English are all of vital importance in getting a response that is helpful in the educational process. This is a most important factor. I believe that every physical education teacher should be in uniform and represent everything that is best.

In brief, the gymnasium, the* athletic field and the playground are all educational centers. They are classrooms and laboratories and we are teachers. Are the activities of our program tools of learning or are they things to be taught? We must put into all the things we do the same elements essential to the teaching of any subject in the curriculum. In brief, some of these in summary are:

1.	We must create a wholesome, happy, clean place to work

2.	We must create a happy, responsive atmosphere of cooperation and good will.

3.	We must develop a joyous, responsive program that will meet the expectations of the group we work with.

4.	The things we teach should be worthwhile and generate interest.

5.	Our methods should be the most direct, efficient and happy way of doing things.

6.	The conduct, control and management of all facilities like locker room, showers, and roll call should help and not hinder the program.

7.	We should cultivate the active interest and support of the students through the development of pupil leaders, squad leaders and squad organization.

8.	We should cooperate with the whole school program and with other teachers.

9.	Our personal behavior should be of the best and our personality should set the right example.

On the whole, physical education has made remarkable progress in the development of programs with educational procedures. We have many programs with [a] definite educational objectives, [b] activities based upon educational needs, [c] procedures of instruction which follow educational principles, and

[d]	outcomes that get educational results.

Physical Education Programs That Achieve.

All subjects in the school curriculum should have objectives and programs that bring about desirable educational outcomes.

in
87

It is these outcomes that count and not what we do in our activities. Our activities, are mere tools of learning in order to get definite concrete results. Our projects are taught not for their own sake but for the sake of tangible achievements in the learning process. The classroom teacher definitely aims to develop skill, in the ability of the student to spell, to read, to add, to subtract to observe, etc. Spelling is a tool of learning; spelling itself is not education. Words mean nothing by themselves; it is only when words are put into sentences and paragraphs, and paragraphs are written by R. L. Stenvenson, then words becoire a part of literature. Spelling, therefore, is a way of education to literature and the cultural life of the nation. Classroom teachers, therefore, definitely aim to promote programs that achieve definite results in the academic skills. So we in the program of education dealing with physical activities should aim to promote definite learning in physical activities skills.

Here is a brief summary of a few definite outcomes that we .should aim to attain:

1.	In physical education we ought to get results in neuromuscular skill training in the fundamentals. Boys and girls should be able to run, to jump, to climb, to kick, to throw, to catch, to leap and to vault. After preparation they should be able to do these fundamental skills better because of their training. So in our programs we ought to give much attention to teaching these fundamental skills which are basic in all physical movement, not only in sports and games but also in occupations and in life. Boys and girls should be taught how best to run, to jump, to kick and to throw. Each year on a record card we should be able to show the educational administrator and parent definite progress and accomplishment in these directions on the part of the pupil. Hence the great value of keeping records for each individual to show his progress through the different age levels. This first job to teach fundamental activities which should show outcomes in definite skill learning and improvement is very concrete and possible. It simply demands a planned program aimed to achieve definite skill learning.

2.	In addition to these concrete neuro-muscular skill outcomes we should also aim to produce better organic growth and posture, especially in the elementary grades. Through our exercises, gymnastics, apparatus program and the use of the stall bars we should organize a program that aims to build for stronger and better bodies. It is possible to make boys and girls more physically fit as a result of our teaching. Physical fitness, therefore, is a definite outcome to be accomplished. Part of our program should be developed to attain stronger bodies, better posture and the strengthening of the abdominal and back muscles so essential to growth.

Digitized by kjOOQle
88

3.	Besides definite neuro-muscular skill achievements and better balanced physical fitness programs we should in the third place get definite outcomes in physical capacities and abilities. We should prepare and shape our program so that it will develop strength and the powfer to do well in all motor accomplishments. So we should build capacity powers and motor ability skills.

4.	Certainly we can do touch in the direction of better health. Children live and grow through their activities. They gain life through tiieir play interests. Big muscle activities in the out-of-doors and in the sunshine constitute the great way by which Dame Nature helps to make young growing healthy boys and girls. Vigorous big muscle out-of-doors activities constitute a large part of the law of growth in human life. Therefore in addition to the hygiene or health education instruction that we give we should so shape our program that it is helpful to health. There is danger sometimes that we become careless and do not aim specifically in our activity projects to get health outcomes. Sometimes in our highly competitive, athletic programs we do much to militate against health. We must protect the heart; the physical examination before every game is of great importance; we must be careful of injuries and accidents; we must take every precaution to make safety a first requisite. We should keep our gymnasiums clean; our floor should be dustless; our gymnasiums should be well ventilated; we should get sunshine into them; we must do everything to eliminate the so-called “gym odor”; the care' of lockers and the cleanliness of suits and uniforms is an essential part of our helalth program. In brief, we should do everything to protect the health of children and nothing to hurt their health. We should give our children big muscle activities such as games, sports and the like, out-of-doors, especially during the fine weather. Activities, sunlight and fresh air are the three great tonics for well being. If we use the gymnasium, let it be flooded' with sunlight and full of clean fresh air.

5.	Certainly we can help to produce better sportsmanship. Sportsmanship is the basis of good citizenship and character. Good citizenship and character are two of the seven cardinal principles of general education, so the general educators are much interested in these two specific outcomes. Citizenship training and character building can not come through mere lip service. They are generated in life situations that produce citizenship and character. Our activity programs produce these situations that call for fair play, control of temper, courage in defeat and modesty in victory, team work and respect for one’s opponents. Sports and games do not of themselves produce sportsmanship. It is how they are managed and
89

controlled that counts. Hence, we must aim definitely to attain this specific outcome if we are to get definite results. Many stories could be told here of where we are getting definite results in sportsmanship. .This is the result of better leadership, rapid growth of the intramural program and substitution of educational aims in place of the spectacular and the commercial. Although there are still problems, especially in athletic competition, it is safe to say that there has been great development in better sportsmanship among players in the past ten years due to better physical education programs.

6.	Another definite achievement that we should strive for is the preparation and training for the wholesome use of leisure. We should instill play habits now for the wise use of spate time in adult life. We should encourage play interests and hobbies. Adults usually like to do those things that they do well; they do those things well for which they have skill, and often these fundamental 'skills were learned in the early years of childhood. Skills, therefore, are an essential part of training for leisure. If we wish adults to u§e much of their new free time that has come rapidly with the decrease of work and the increase of leisure, we must definitely give youth interests, j hobbies and skills.

7.	We must do much to promote a zest for living. We should be much concerned with the boy’s life. Our programs should not be monotonous. Children should naturally love what we teach because we deal with activities which is the very law of their being. So our program must be zestful and joyous. To be and to do—this sense that comes from a nealthy body that has capacity and power in skill, strength, and ability is another definite aim to be accomplished.

There are other outcomes which we should aim to achieve, but it is wise not to have too many. These seven briefly outlined above certainly give us a program that would meet the approbation of superintendents and principals. We can achieve them if we plan and organize our program with objectives and outcomes.

Dr. Jesse Williams sums it all up in one cogent sentence. Our programs should be “physically wholesome, mentally stimulating and satisfying and socially sound”.

It is also well to remember that after all the seven general objectives of general education are the objectives of physical education. They are [1] health, [2] worthy home membership, [3] tools of learning, [4] vocational efficiency, [5] education for leisure, [6] citizenship training, and [7] ethical character. We should aim to achieve these seven objectives. We can do so if we will take our programs according to the five criteria developed in this series of articles. If we will develop our programs according to these five criteria—[1] worthwhile oiganized pro-
90

grams, [2] graded programs, [3] programs based on individual needs, [4] programs based on educational procedures, and [5] programs with definite educational outcomes—we will be able to do much in attaining the seven educational objectives.

A PUPIL’S VIEWPOINT

The letter which follows was written' by a schoolgirl in England to her cousin who attends high school in the United States. The keen enthusiasm of this English girl and her classmates and the information concerning physical education as it is practiced in many places in England will be of interest to teachers.

Dear Ivy:

I was very interested to hear that you were keen on Gym. I have always loved it and am always glad to hear other people’s ideas and methods.

Two years ago, Miss Wright came to our school and brought with her an entirely new sort of gym. When I say, entirely new sort, I really mean gym with new life put into it. Her commanding and teaching was so full of life and inspiration. The more lessons we had with her, the keener we were. She is English, but has studied and been trained out in Finland and Sweden a great deal. She studied under Elli Bjorksten and it is her gym, that she taught us. The whole idea of Bjorksten’s work, is “life and poise”. It fights against all mechanical physical jerks and everything which just keeps regular time, but shows us life, poise or enjoyment.

Last May, there was to be a great display of Physical Education at the Albert Hall in London. Different sorts of standards and teaching were to be represented, and our school was chosen to represent English secondary school gymnastics. Miss Wright chose a team from the school, and we had great fun practising together every possible spare -moment. Oh, we did enjoy those practises and got very excited as the great day drew near.

We drew pictures of our feet on paper and sent them out to Finland to have special Gymnastic sandals made for us. We wore also, simple grey tunics, drawn in at the waist, and grey silk knickers. These things are awfully free and nice to do gym in. [No socks or stockings of course].

Our display went off very well and we all enjoyed it.

Since then, we have given several other demonstrations including two at the London University. Then in the summer, we went down for a week to Miss Wright’s English-Scandi-navian Summer School. Gymnastic Teachers come to it from all over England, Sweden, Finland, Norway and Denmark. It is on during August and they have a great time. It is mainly to help them on with their ideas for teaching, and each morning, they have a lesson in athletics, Scandinavian dancing and gym and in the afternoon swimming.

Digitized by CjOOQle
91

We went down so that Miss Wright could show them how ter teach girls of our age and what standard to expect. Also she could demonstrate different exercises with us. For the best part of each day, we could do what we liked, as we were only needed in the mornings.

The students were divided into 3 groups. A, B, & C [C being the best]. Often, we would sit in the gymnasium [which was a beautiful old Tudor barn fitted out as a wonderful gymnasium] and watch them having their gym lessons. Of course B & C groups were very good because they were all trained teachers and they were led by the four Finns, who are simply wonderful —• full of life, spring and poise and smiling all the time. I could sit and watch them for hours on end. They have music to some of the exercises and that makes it even more beautiful. After a strenuous lesson, ending with some vaulting and balancing, they completely relax out flat on the floor and the pianist plays soft music. Suddenly Miss Wright calls out ‘“Get up”’ and they all jump up and clap her and say * “thank you” ’ for their lesson and march out. We have music too when we do a display, but we are only allowed a very little specially chosen music for perhaps 2 exercises and then have a glorious running tune that only Bjorksten’s pupils are allowed to use.

If you have too much music it ceases to be a real gymnastic lesson and it is too easy to move to music and does not let your own body do enough work. We never have music to march to.

Well I hope you have been able to read this so far and I think it is about time I stopped now and waited to hear from you.

Sincerely yours,

THE TREATMENT OF TENNIS ELBOW

L. Carp points out that an inflammatory involvement of the conjoined tendon at the epicondyle or of a structure in close proximity to it may produce the clinical syndrome known as tennis elbow; one of these structures is the radio-humeral bursa. It is recommended that in all cases of tennis elbow an X-ray examination be made in order to try to visualize an osteitis of the epicondyle or a pathological and distended radio-humera bursa. The visualization of the latter condition depends on the character of the fluid contained or of the deposit in the wall; the presence of calcium salts produces a shadow. The author gives details of 8 cases of radio-humeral bursitis, in which good results were obtained with different types of treatment. Direct trauma produced the lesion in two cases, indirect trauma in three, combined direct and indirect trauma in two, and a questionable trauma in one. Swelling over the bursa was present in five cases, and there were positive X-ray findings in five. The operative finding in one case was a calcified radio-humeral bursa. In three other cases, the spontaneous absorption of calcium deposits was noted. In the remaining four cases, manipulative

Digitized by LjOOQle
92

rupture of the bursa was the method of treatment used. The author insists that radio-humeral bursitis, especially in the presence of swelling, is frequently the cause of tennis elbow. Prompt relief may be expected from rupture of the bursa by firm digital pressure applied over the epicondyle and radio-humeral joint. When this procedure is very painful, a general anaesthetic is advisable. Operative treatment is not recommended unless conservative treatment fails to relieve prolonged or recurrent pain and disability.—Archives of Surgery.

Health Education Notes

Breast Milk Dairy Gives Nourishment To Infants In Crisis.—In 1921 the Children’s Welfare Federation of New York City, a federation of 223 child health agencies, began the colled ion, pooling, pasteurization and distribution of human milk. They have demonstrated, that mothers can be found who are perfectly willing to sell their milk, that certain of these mothers can spare a portion of their milk without detriment to their own babies, that human milk can be thus furnished at a reasonable price and that the collection can be made economically, to suit the convenience of the producing mothers as well as of the consuming infants.

The milk is pooled, pasteurized and iced., and is given out only on a doctor’s order. So precious is this milk that it is given only in the most desperate cases.

Mary D. Blankenhorn narrates in the May issue of Hygeia how ten dollars’ worth of this life-giving fluid will often carry a sick or a premature infant through the crisis and start him on the road to good health. The baby of the mother who sells her milk to the breast milk dairy benefits also. If her own baby is not normal, the mother must discontinue selling her milk; hence her baby is constantly being watched.

Mental Health.—About half of the hospital beds in the United States are utilized by victims of mental and nervous diseases. It has- been estimated that approximately 4 1-2 percent of the total population of the United States will, some day, be in a hospital for mental diseases.—A.	P. H.

Antirachitic Milk.—The research laboratories of the Walk-er-Gordon Laboratory Co., Plainsboro, N. J. reports as a result of experiment that cows “receiving higher levels of irradiated ergosterol and of irradiated yeast produced milk the butter fats from which showed potencies 32 times as great as those from a control group. This gives a milk containing approximately 160 units of vitamin D per quart of 4 percent milk”. They conclude that vitamin D milk, such as they describe, is more effective than other antirachitic substances such as cod liver oil and viosterol.—A. J. P. H.

Digitized by Google
93

The Depression and Health.—The latest reports from all over the country concerning morbidity and mortality show that the situation continues to be good. Even tuberculosis and pneumonia showed a marked decrease over the previous year. The decrease in industrial mortality rates must be considered, of course, in the light of greatly decreased industrial activity.

A. J. P. H.

Good Food Is Best Tonic to Renew Spring Energy.—

‘‘■When spring fever was named, it really was a mild form of fever. The early colonists lived the whole winter on a diet which consisted largely of fried meats and vegetables with the addition of a few dried fruits; consequently, by springtime, their systems were urgently in need of fresh foods. Spring fever was the expression for that slow, languid, listless, worn-out feeling which came from faulty winter diets. ...

“Today, spring fever does not mean quite what it did in those early pioneer times; instead, it is characterized by renewed energy and vigor, a desire to do something new and something different.”

Mildred Batz tells what are good foods and how they may become the best spring tonic, in the May Hygeia.

Cholera.—The United States Surgeon General’s report for the fiscal year 1932 reports no cholera outside of Asia and the adjacent islands. A big decrease was noted in the Philippine Islands.—A.	J. P.H.

Raw Apple Diet in the Treatment of Diarrhoeal Conditions in Children.—T. L. Birnberg [American Journal of Diseases of Children, January, 1933] notes that raw apples have long been a popular treatment for diarrhoea in children in Germany, and that their use has recently been advocated in medical literature. Excellent results in the early stages and permanent relief of the symptoms were obtained in 62 out of 70 cases with the use of the raw apple diet. Some of the failures were due to lack of co-operation on the part of the patient or the mother in carrying out the treatment. The action of raw apple in diarrhoeal conditions depends upon a number of mechanical, physiological and chemical principles; its inhibition of intestinal peristalsis accounts in part for the therapeutic action. Another important factor is its maintenance of nutrition and its power of preventing loss of water. Practically the treatment is effective, safe, pleasing to the patient, and economically reasonable.

Dental Caries.—M. C. Agnew, R. G. Agnew and F. F. Tisdall [Journal of Pediatrics, February,' 1933] report animal experiments in which it was found that in the rat an adequate supply of phosphorus is an important factor in the prevention of dental caries; an adequate supply of vitamin D may prevent or delay the onset of dental caries. In a study of 350 children for a

Digitized by LjOOQle
94

year, some of whom were given vitamin D in addition to a diet adequate in all respects, including phosphorus, it was found that in the children who had been given vitamin D there was a lessened incidence of caries as compared with those on similar adequate diets without vitamin D. Moreover, in the children given the vitamin D, previously existing cavities had been largely . arrested., and in certain of these cases definite hardening of the cavity walls was evident. The general tone of the gingivae and of the mucous membranes of the mouth in these children also showed definite improvement as compared with the children not given the additional vitamin D.

Role of Infection in the Production of Postoperative Adhesions.—G. P. Muller and L. A. Rademaker [Archives of Surgery, February, 1933] report animal experiments in which it was found that infection was the chief cause of postoperative intraabdominal adhesions. This finding was confirmed by their clinical study of 42 cases in which re-operation was done for symptoms caused by postoperative adhesions.

Moitality of Acute Appendicitis-—John 0. Bower, Philadelphia believes that delay and laxatives, the prehospital factors responsible for the increasingly high mortality in acute appendicitis can be favorably influenced by educating the public. Hospital factors affecting the mortality are chiefly limited to the management of spreading peritonitis, wtich is a problem for surgeons. The author states that among twenty-five cities in the United States having a population of 300,000 or more, Philadelphia had the lowest mortality from acute appendicitis in 1930, as a result of a campaign carried out for its reduction by the department of public health.—J'l. A. M. A.

Diet, Dental Care Prevent Pyoirhea. “Four out of five do not have pyorrhea, although it is one of the more prevalent diseases of the human race. The havoc and associated physical disturbances that accompany the disease are ordinary sights to the physician and dentist. More teeth are extracted because of pyorrheal infection than because of decay.”

These statements are made by Dr. Robert H. Brotman in the April issue of Hygeia, the Health Magazine.

The 1933 slogan of the National Tuberculosis Association “From Whom Did He Get It?—To Whom Has He Given It?” emphasizes the communicable nature of tuberculosis so vividly that it cannot help but leave an impression on the public mind.

Cancer Menace To Childhood. Cancer, commonly believed to afflict only adults, also was declared to be an affliction of children by Dr. Joseph MacFarland, pathologist at the University of Pennsylvania.

In a study just completed, Dr. MacFarland said, 138 chil-
95

dren, all less than lu years old and some of them only a few months old, were found to suffer from cancer. Many other cases must exist which have not been made available, Dr. MacFarland suggested.

Dr. MacFarland’s comment on cancer of children was made as part of a general declaration that “nothing is known about cancer today that was not known to Hypocrates more than 200 years ago.”

“Hypocrates knew enough to cut or burn out a cancer,” he said. “That is all we know how to do today, excepting Jiat greater refinements are used, such as electric knives and radium.” —Philadelphia Record.

OUR BODIES

To the average urban American, the body is a lump of flesh to be deposited at a desk at nine in the morning and taken home again at night, bundled up in overcoats, laced into shoes, anc poured into stiff shirts. The nerves and the mind [such as it is make all the decisions, run all the races. The body, batterec into insensibility by the unrelenting pressure of noises, sights, and smells, drags through the days and sinks at night into a sleep of exhaustion that eight years, let alone eight hours, could not wipe away. The Victorians, in their most prudish days, never achieved a more complete separation of body and mind than modern city civilization has unwittingly produced. The urban American is never aware of his body until it gets sick and causes pain. The play of muscles, the satisfaction of controlling and using a delicate, coordinated physical machine—these are pleasures quite remote from the temper and tempo of our life. And

D.	H. Lawrence was not mistaken when he told us, in no uncertain terns, that even the sex life of moderns is a mental affair. It has more to do with the theories of Freud than with the satisfaction of physical emotions. The fact that we have made no provision for allowing the body to function as it should does not mean that we have done away with the need for it. Since we have no time for any pursuit which does not- pay a living wage, those of us who are not professional athletes must get the pleasure of physical control vicariously, through watching the acrobats who crowd our vaudeville stages or, more rarely, the dancer who uses his body as a medium of art as well as a physical machine.

* * *

The body, as a friend of the Drifter’s recently remarked, is all we have. To have created a civilization which is inimical even to mere physical health, not to mention the more subtle satisfactions of physical expression, is surely one of the less amusing ironies in the history of human achievement.—The A ation.

Diphtheria Prevention. The number of cases of diphtheria and the number of deaths from diphtheria is lower in Philadel-

Digitized by LaOOQle
96

phia, it is believed, than in any other of the ten largest cities of the country, Last year the city had only 216 cases of diphtheria, with 17 deaths. Only seven years before, in 1925, the city had eighteen times as many.

This wonderful record is due to the fact that today almost every child is immunized against diphtheria with the use of toxin-antitoxin. In these days no child should have diphtheria.

FACTS ABOUT GLANDS OF INTERNAL SECRETION

Concerning the glands with internal secretions, Professor Matthias says: “The discussions of the peculiarities of puberty, menstruation and the climacteric makes us realize that the glands with internal secretions play a more important role in woman than in man.” The ovary plays the prominent part. “Woman is woman because of this gland. Everything we admire and respect in a woman, all the peculiar characteristics of her body and her emotions, are due to her ovaries.” To grasp the full significance of these' glands relative to gymnastics we must briefly consider their influence which is most evident during the period of menstruation.

Every observer knows that an emotional disturbance parallels the physical at this time more or less evident according to constitution, health and age. [This oft occurring nervous stress and strain is spared the male gender.] The explanation of this coincidence is sought in the relationship of the endrocrine glands to the nervous system, especially of the thyroid and adrenal glands. These two are in a way an amplifying apparatus that receives stimuli from the brain and returns them in stronger form. Their influence upon the nervous system and so on the heart and circulatory system has been proved.

Effect Upon Emotions The Professor now reviews the stimulating action of the thyroid and adrenal glands upon the circulation through the nervous system and their increased activity during the menstrual period. Then he states that more recent research had brought out the fact that there is a definite relationship between blood distribution and emotion.

In pleasurable emotions the blood distribution favors the brain and perifery of the body [extremities and external muscles— same as in physical activity] while in unpleasant states of mind there is a congestion in the abdomen. In mental work the brain and abdomen are flooded. Further he points out the relation of liver to the brain. A modification of the tissues of the liver cause a destruction of the corticle of the brain.

Psychic Effects Furthermore the liver secretes a hormone that is essential to a normal functioning of the brain. If the portal circulation is stopped there is an immediate disturbance in the brain function. Respiration also is retarded and will finally stop entirely. Thus we have a congestion in the abdominal organs with a

Digitized by v^.ooQle
97

relative anemia of the brain causing emotional displeasure, a situation comparable with the menstrual physical condition with accompanying increased emotional irritability. The increased emotional susceptability may be termed a decreased resistance to external influences, a decreased psychical energy.

Conclusion

These disturbances will naturally vary in different individuals but will be accentuated where the occupation does not provide the equalizing physical activity. Again the statement with all possible emphasis—the Womans Gymnastics must be one of the trunk and abdominal muscles. It must prevent the regional congestion and equalize the distribution of the blood. ------— —Translated by Ernst Thoma, Cincinnati Discobolus.,

INDIGESTION MAY OCCUR ANY TIME DURING DIGESTION.

Indigestion or dyspepsia may be defined as the discomfort occurring during any period in the process of digestion. This may occur as the result of malfunction of the stomach, intestine or any organ concerned directly or indirectly with the digestive processes.

Drs. Julius Friedenwald and Samuel Morrison, who have collaborated on an article, “What is Indigestion?” appearing in the January Hygeia, suggest as treatment the following:

“The treatment of indigestion depends largely on the cause. When the attack is acute and rapidly subsides often never to recur, the treatment is usually of but little importance. In most instances some form of dietary regimen and bowel regulation is indicated. The diet varies somewhat with each case, but the necessity for regular and proper bowel evacuation is always present. In the cases of gastritis, various forms of medication must be utilized and in some instances washing of the stomach must be practiced. In every case of indigestion, education against hasty and imperfect mastication must be insisted on.

“Care in avoiding the use of too hot and too cold foods will do much in preventing many attacks. Often a simple liquid or soft diet will relieve every symptom of indigestion.

“Eradication of foci of infection, such as bad teeth and tonsils, may in itself cure many cases of indigestion which are secondary to such disturbances.”

The treatment of functional types of indigestion aims first at improving the general physical and mental states of the person affected. In certain conditions, sedatives must be employed; in other cases, drugs which relieve spasm may be resorted to. The overcoming of fears, not only of food but in regard to the seriousness of the patient’s condition, is often imperative in these cases before relief can be expected. Indigestion associated with cancer, ulcer or heart disease demands special forms of treatment, which can usually be satisfactorily rendered only by a capable physician.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
98

A SUGGESTED REVISION OF THE RULES FOR THE STANDING BROAD JUMP AND THE BASKET BALL FARTHROW lOVERHEADl

Grover W. Mueller

1. Standing Broad Jump

In order to jump in any direction, the jumper must push with his feet [or foot] in the opposite direction. Furthermore, if a jump is to be vigorous and the event is to be enjoyed continuously by the participant, the rules must not make too much restriction on movement by the feet. With these points in mind, we suggest the following revised rules to govern the standing broad jump.

A further advantage in using these rules is that in the elementary schools countless fouls are thereby eliminated. Because the old rules enforce a highly artificial manner of ‘taking off*, it is a common error among children to move the feet in ways prohibited by the old rules. The new rules make administration of the event much easier, and, we believe, result in greater satisfaction to the participants. .

These rules still permit jumping in a limited area and they are equally conducive to freedom from injury. They have been used satisfactorily for some time.

The Rules. “During the take-off the jumper is permitted to make a double jump or any kind of movement with one or both feet, provided that he begins with the toes of both feet at the take-off line or not more than one inch behind the line. If a stepping movement is made, not more than one step will be permitted and that only if the toes of the rear foot have not been moved beyond the back of the heel of the other foot. The intention is to prohibit a step jump, while at the same time removing restrictions on movements of the feet during the take-off. If the jump is made from a take-off board [or other elevation], a toe hold may be used/'

Fouls. “Any violation of the rules indicated above. Touching the ground in front of take-off in an attempt to jump/*

Penalty. “A foul will count as a trial without a score.”

2. Basketball Farthrow [Overhead]

It appears to us that the present rules governing the basketball farthrow [overhead] enforce too great a restriction against the thrower's objective in the event, which is to throw the ball as far as possible. We have in mind the rules regarding the feet. In one breath we urge the thrower to “throw as hard as possible”; in the next breath we warn “but don't move your feet, or the throw will not couht”. Consequently, the thrower does not put forth full effort in throwing the ball, for if he did he most surely would step forward somewhat with one foot immediately following the throw, or his hands would touch the ground in order to prevent failing forward to the ground. The result is that he “pulls his throw” he holds back somewhat, he does not make use of his legs as one should in throwing any object for distance or speed [or both], he does not “follow through”.

Although throwing with both hands from overhead is a rather unnatural procedure [unless one were throwing down from a height], we believe this event to be an excellent one for school and playground use if for no other reason than that it can be administered satisfactorily in a relatively small area.

Digitized by Tooele
99

Our objection is to the highly artificial restriction placed on use of the legs. Accordingly we suggest a revision of the rules as stated below. The same advantage in elimination of countless fouls is gained as was stated in connection with the standing broad jump.

In reading the following rules, the reader should keep in mind that several steps or a run before throwing with two hands from overhead offers no advantage, and that the stepping which is allowed—if it is to be helpful—will follow the throw, thus permitting maximum effort to be put in the throw while at the same time preventing falling forward over the line.

The Rules. “The ball shall be thrown from overhead with both hands. The thrower may begin from any distance behind the starting line and he is permitted to make any kind of movement with one or both feet in preparation for and during the throw. Stepping and jumping are thus allowed, provided that the foot or feet do not touch the ground on or in front of the starting .line.”

Fouls. “Any violation of the rules indicated above. Touching the starting line or the ground in front of the line with hands or feet. Crossing the starting line before the throw has been recorded.”

Penalty. “A foul will count as a trial without a^core.”

SCARECROW DANCE

An elementary tap dance for children in the lower school grades by Doris E. Oleson, North Kansas City, Mo.

Music: “Polly-Wolly Doodle”—“New Song Plays To Old Tunes”, A. S. Barnes & Co., 1924.

Formation: Line

Costume: Loose, ragged man's suit. Imitation straw hangs from sleeves* trouser legs, and around neck. This may be fringed crepe paper, wrapping paper, or even newspaper. A white mask may be of paper or cloth with face drawn on in crayon or tempera. Patches are sewn on the suit, and a jammed-in hat completes the outfit.

Description of steps

a. A “triple left,” or “L 3”—[3 sounds]	Counts

Weight is on right foot.

With left foot: 1. Brush toe forward.	1

2. Brush toe backward.	2

3.	Step down beside right foot and

change weight.	3 [hold 4]

b.	A “five left”, or “L 5”—[5 sounds]

Weight is on right foot.

1.	Do a triple left.	1,	2,	3 [hold 4]

.	2.	Step on right foot [accenting].	1 [hold 2]

3. Step on left foot [accenting].	3 [hold 4]

c. “Push-land step”—Face the audience. Moving left, “push with right foot and “land” on left, giving the left foot accent.

Right foot flies off floor as left one lands. “Land” on down beats. Fan the air inward with alternate hands.

Digitized by Tooele
100

, x * ■	The	Dance	'

Formation: Line.

1.	A.—Enter backwards, hippety-hopping. Body is bent over and

arms swinging. 16 hippety-hops, starting with left foot .. 8	Meas.

B.—With right foot extended behind, hop on the left 4 hops, turning around to left. Turn to right with 4 hops, hopping on

right ...................................................  2	Meas.

Facing front, jump forward bending back, jump back bending

forward, jump forward,	jump	back .......................  2	Meas.

Repeat all .............................................   4	Meas.

II.	A.—L 3, R 3, L 3, Kick right heel down in front, 'fling right hand out in air. [In kicking heel out, tap floor on count 4,

and settle it on 1.]	.................................  2	Meas.

R 3, L 3, R 3, Kick	left heel	down, fling left hand out .. 2	Meas.

Repeat all ..............................................  4	Meas.

B.—Jump to left with right foot crossed on front, [count “1”]. With shoulders relaxed and arms hanging, swing arms loosely

across each other in front, [count “2”]. Swing arms back to sides, [count “3”]. Repeat this, jumping to right with left

foot crossed in front...................................   2	Meas.

L 3, R 3, L 5 ...........................................  2	Meas.

Jump to right with left crossed in front, swing arms across each other, jump to left with right crossed in front, swing arms. R 3, L 3, R 5 ...................................... 4	Meas.

III.	A.—Repeat step of I. B. On last jump face left ............. 8	Meas.

B.—Facing left, lay head on right shoulder of person in front, with

face to audience. Arms dangle at sides.

Move forward: L 3, R 3, L 5 ........................ 2	Meas.

Move back:	R 3, L 3, R 5....................... 2	Meas.

Repeat, moving forward and back again. Face front on last

“6” .................................................. 4	Meas.

IV.	A.—Jump stride and pigeon-toed, then to position, twice .... 2	Meas.

Take 4 “push-land” steps to left fanning air with hands __ 2	Meas.

Continue the steps of the last four measures until off stage.

JINGLE BELLS

An elementary tap dance for children in the lower school grades, by Doris E. Oleson, North Kansas City, Mo.

Music: “Jingle Bells”, “New Song Plays To Old Tunes”, A. S. Barnes & Co., 1924.

Formation: Line or group formation

Costume: Red cambric breeches, jacket, and cap trimmed in cotton batton. Black oilcloth leggings and belt. White cotton gloves may be worn if desired, and each child holds jingle bells in his right hand. Description of Steps a. A “triple left”, or “L 3”—[3 sounds]	Counts

Weight is on right foot.

With left foot: 1. Brush toe forward.	1

2.	Brush toe backward.	2

Digitized by Google
101

. K	,	•	3. St^p. down beside right foot and

change weight	3	[hold	4]

b.	A “five left”, or “L 5“—[5 sounds]

Weight is pn right foot.

1.	Do a triple left.	1,	2,	3	[hold	4]

2.	Step on right foot [accenting].	1

3.	Step on left foot [accenting].	3

c.	“Parallel feet”—Feet are together and parallel. Pivot

heels and turn toes outward, left. Pivot on toes and turn heels outward, left, etc.

The Dance Each child holds jingle bells in his right hand.

I. A—Enter from left, hands on hips. Gallop 4 times ..........

Jump in place 3 times ...................................

Continue for 8 measures, facing audience on last jump ...

B—Hands on hips. L 3, R 3, L 5 ..............................

R 3, L 3, R 5..............................

Repeat ..................................................

II. A—Step left, draw right foot to left. Step right, draw left foot

to right.................................................

Repeat ..................................................

Standing still, lift hand and jingle bells...............

Repeat all .....,........................................

B—Repeat step of I. B........................................

III.	A—“Parallel feet” to left seven counts, beginning with toes out .

Raise hand and jingle bells .............................

Repeat this, doing “Parallel feet” to right .............

B—Use entrance step for exit.

A SAILOR’S TAP

An elementary tap dance for children in the lower school grades, by Doris E. Oleson, North Kansas City, Mo.

Music: “Nancy Lee”—“The American .Song Book”, Ginn & Co., 1917.

To be played quite fast.

Formation: Duet or line formation Costume: White sailor outfit

Description of Steps

a. A “triple left”, or “L 3”—[3 sounds]	Counts

Weight is on right foot.

With left foot: 1. Brush toe forward.	1

2. Brtish toe backward	2

3.	Step down beside right foot and

change weight	3 [hold 4]

b.	A ‘five left”, or “L 5”—[5 sounds]

Weight is on right foot.

1.	Do a triple left.	1,	2,	3 [hold 4]

2.	Step on right foot [accenting].	1 [hold 2]

3.	Step on left foot [accenting].	3 [hold4]

Cross the right foot in front of the left on the “step-step” of a Left 5, and the left before the right on a Right 5.

[hold 21 [hold 4]

1 Meas.

1	Meas. 6 Meas.

2	Meas. 2 Meas. 4 Meas.

1 Meas.

1	Meas.

2	Meas. 4 Meas. 8 Meas. 2 Meas. 2 Meas. 4 Meas.

Digitized by
102 The Dance

I. A & B—Enter from left with 16 step-hops, starting left. Step

left, hop with right foot extended behind, step right, etc.

Left hand is across front of waist, and right hand back ... 16 Meas. C—With hands on hips:

Jump astride	pigeon-toed,	jump	to	position................ 2	Meas.

Jump astride	pigeon-toed,	jump	to	position	facing front	2	Meas.

Jump astride	pigeon-toed,	jump	to	position	facing left ...	2	Meas.

Jump astride	pigeon-toed,	jump	to	position	facing front	2	Meas.

D—Salute crisply, and replace hand on hip .................... 2	Meas.

Jump astride pigeon-toed, and to position .................. 2	Meas.

Salute, and replace hand.................................... 2	Meas.

Tap heels on floor 3 times, standing in position ........... 2	Meas.

E—With arms folded:

L 3, R 3, L 5. [Crossing R before L on “step-step”]...	4	Meas.

R 3, L 3, R 5 ......................................... -	4	Meas.

F—Repeat E ................................................... 8	Meas.

II.	A—Standing in lunge position to left ‘pull in the anchor”

facing right. Holding arms to right “pull the rope”

back to left with clenched fists. Do this 4 times........... 8	Meas.

B—Repeat II. A, pulling rope to right.......................   8	Meas.

C & D—Repeat steps I. C and I. D, but jump first time in place,

then facing exit, then left, and facing exit again ........ 16	Meas.

E & F—Use entrance step for exit.

GRECIAN FRIEZE

Arranged by Genevieve Meekins.	Music:	Any	good	waltz	[3-4|

A scarf dance for 10 girls.

When this dance was orginally given, a shaded rose scarf of chiffon, four yards long and three yards wide, was used. White columns were used as a background. The costumes were Grecian drapes of pastel silk with a crossed girdle of silver ribbon.

No's. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 are seated on the floor in a semi-circle facing R. R. hand supporting body, L, hand resting lightly on legs which are extended L. head drooped forward.

No's. 6, 7, 8, 9 holding ends of scarf. Bodies drooped facing scarf.

No. 10 standing in front of scarf, weight on R. foot, L. foot slacked close to R. Body and arms drooped, wrists crossed in front ........... 8	Meas.

No's. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 very slowly raise R. arm and head obliquely upward ...................... 4	Meas.

Raise L. arm slightly....................... 4	Meas.

I

3

2	4

T r—18	5

6 |__I 9

10

Digitized by ^.ooQle
II

103

They hold this position for 4 meas. as girls with scarf take a step backward and raise scarf letting it float gently to the floor. As the scarf is descending No’s. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 cross wrists on chest and hold 4 meas.......................... 8	Meas.

No. 10 now raises body slowly and spins to R. as No’s. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 stand on R. foot, other foot slacked close to it, knees slightly bent, head

drooped, arms obliquely downward ........ 8	Meas.

Scarf is thrown in air and No. 10 goes under the scarf to rear............................ 4	Meas.

No’s. 3 and 10 join hands and spin as girls holding scarf turn outward. No. 8 holding scarf in R. hand over R. shoulder, L. arm extending upward, No. 7 doing counterpart. Nos. 6 and 9 kneeling facing outward scarf over No. 9’s R. shoulder—No. 6’s L.....................   4	Meas.

No’s. 6, 7, 8, 9 stand and. again throw scarf up as No. 3 leads under scarf and to the L., with 4 and 5 following. No. 10 leads under and around to R., No’s. 2 and 1 following .......... 8	Meas.

They stand, with arm nearest center up and. other arm down as No. 6 and 9 kneel and 7 and 8 run forward carrying scarf over the heads of 7 and 8.

They change scarf to other hand and run back to position—No’s. 6 and 9 now take hold of scarf ................................... 8	Meas.

All balance R. and L. twice as No’s. 6 and 9 throw scarf up as they leap, letting it fall to the floor and repeat ........................ 8 Meas.

No. 9 runs with scarf over L. shoulder to position shown in diagram ‘ IV. As she takes this position she turns, wrapping the scarf about her body and holds with R. arm high. The others continue to balance...................... 8	Meas.

No. 9 turns, unwrapping scarf and runs to R. in back of other dancers and between 10 and 7 to center, dragging scarf after her on floor. No’s. 6, 7 and. 8 step out of line and take ends of scarf. Others take positions as shown in diagram VI.....................................   8	Meas.

Scarf is thrown up and 1, 2, 10, 3, 4 and 5 run under changing sides. They hold in arabesque positions as scarf descends. This is repeated, getting back to original sides .......... 8	Meas.

10	3

2

1	4

£□! •

III

10 3

2

1	7	8	4

6	9	5

IV

10	7

6 8 2	3

4

1	5

9

V

10 6	7

8

2	3

4

1	5

9

VI

10	3

2 7 1—18	4

1 6 | | 9	5

Digitized by Google
104

Scarf is again tossed up and No’s. 1, 2, 10, 3, 4 and 5 spin with arms overhead, getting into position as shown in diagram VII.

No's. 1, 2, lv, 3, 4 and 5 face R. and step R., close L., step R. bringing L. foot to calf of R. leg. Turn and repeat to L., R., L. ‘ During this tune the girls with the scarf run close together and toss up scarf, as it descends they step back again and repeat twice. The third time they do not run back and scarf falls on their upraised faces .................................. 8 Meas.

No. 9 takes scarf in R. hand and runs to position shown in diagram VIII. Others spin once more R. and follow, taking, their positions along the scarf which is resting on floor—L. hands joined, heads drooped forward .................. 8 Meas.

No. 9 slowly raises her L. arm and head as each girl in turn drops her head backward, the end girl also kneels and makes a large circle with her R. arm.

Foreign Notes

Meals for School Children—Yugoslavia.—The central committee of the Junior Red Cross of Yugoslavia has been active in establishing lunch rooms for school children, particularly in the villages where children live at long distances from school and do not receive sufficient food for lunch. Part of the necessary funds is provided by central and local committees of the Junior Red Cross on the condition that its members actively participate in the work of the lunch rooms and that they cultivate their own vegetable gardens, the products of which are used for the lunch rooms. Subsidies are also granted by the local government and by private relief agencies. A recent law on primary schools orders the establishment of lunch rooms in all village schools.—A ouvdles	de V Union Internationale	becours aux

Enfants, Geneva, Sept., 1932.

Game Is Success If People Are Hurt.—The Associated Press reports that the village of Dhami, in the Himalayas, has just held its annual gamfe of hurling stones, and a “satisfactory number of people were injured.”

The male inhabitants once a year form rival parties and stand at a distance of 100 yards on the stoning ground. Women, gaily dressed, and crowds from the mountains come down to cheer.

Toward evening the ruler of the State arrives and the game starts. Each side is allowed to pick up rocks of any size and

VII

7	8

12 10Q3 4 5

6	9

VIII

Digitized by t^.ooQle
105

throw them at its opponents. Most of the rocks miss their mark, but when a satisfactory number of players have been injured the ruler stops the game.

The contest has come down through centuries, the atonement for the death of a Brahmin who was murdered hundreds of years ago.

Government Support Of Physical Education In Czechoslovakia.—“The Ministry of Public Health and Physical Culture looks after physical training [1] from the point of view of legislation, [2] by grants for the construction of gymnasium and playing grounds and for the activity of gymnastic and sports associations, [3] with propaganda, [4] by grants for the scientific work and training of instructors in the State physical training courses. The latter are organized in collaboration with the Ministry of Public Instruction in order to supplement the knowledge and practical training of teachers, professor.., medical men and association instructors in the field of school gymnastics [kindergarten, elementary and secondary schools] and gymnastic associations. There are courses [three day to ten day] for various kinds of physical training, such as exercises with apparatus, light athletics, swimming, rowing, canoeing, games, skiing, skating and rhythmics. They were established in the year 1922 and every year they have some 3,600 students. Up to the present there have been 66,501 students. The annual outlay for them amounts to 180,000 Czechoslovak crowns every year at its disposal for physical training purposes.”

News Notes and Comments

The School And The Health of Children in The Depression.—To call the health work of the school a “fad” or “frill” is evidence of ignorance and folly. To cut out or cripple any phase of a rational school health program is destructive economy and immeasurable economic waste. A dollar spent promptly in a timely, constructive effort for a child’s health will be more fruitful for the child and for human society than will a thousand dollars applied twenty years later. The principle of national thrift, of national economy, of budget balancing, finds its first and most vital application in the conservation and improvement of the health of the children. The opportunity and obligation of the school, with other community agencies, to guard and promote the health of children in a critical depression like the present, and relatively as much increased as the economic ability of the multitude of homes is diminished. The school health program in various phases of health service and health instruction is laying solid foundations for conservation and improvement of child health. This program in numerous school systems, with the cooperative effort of interested teachers, nurses, physicians, school officials, parents and others, is helping children

Digitized by LjOOQle
106

and youth to develop stronger bodies and healthier personalities; to acquire effective knowledge, attitudes and habits relative to their own health and the health of others which make an invaluable investment for the individual, the community and the nation. For the schools to delay or fail in full active participation in the composite child health program of each community involves incredible injury and inexcusable neglect. No subject in the curriculum, no activity in the schools, no phase of education can make a more vitally important contribution to the immediate and future welfare of a nation, particularly during a time of economic depression, than a sound health program.—Part of a statement by Dr. Thomas D. Wood, Chairman of the Joint Committee on Health Problems in Education of the National Education Association and the American Medical Association.

Value of a Demonstration*—Mr. L. E. Hutto, Director of Physical Education in Des Moines, reports that a demonstration of activities played a vital part in the defeat of proposed legislation which had as its purpose the annulment of the State Compulsory Physical Education Law. We quote Mr. Hutto: “We secured the presence of many members of the legislature and other state officials who seemed to be very much impressed with the fact that physical education involved more than just competitive athletics. In fact, we find by talking to legislators that most of them are trying to get rid of over-emphasis on competitive athletics rather than having any quarrel with physical education people. This exposition was the first time that a good many of them had even seen a demonstration of a normal physical education program and it has made them hesitate about acting too quickly.”

The University of the State of New York has just issued an interesting pamphlet [73 pages] by Frederick L. Patry M. D., Psychiatrist, New York State Education Department, on “Methodology In The Formulation Of Mental Hygiene Case Studies” A rather comprehensive bibliography is included. Teachers and teachers in training will find this pamphlet valuable.

CONVENTION DATES

National Education Association, Chicago, 111., July 1 to 7. Annual Convention of Association for Childhood Education, Denver, Cole., June 27 to July 1.

Seventh Health Education Conference of American Child Health Association, Ann Arbor, Michigan, June 20 to 24.

Principles Of Athletics For Girls.—The following principles of athletics for girls which have been set down by Mabel Lee may, with the exception of No. 2, No. 7 and possibly No. 12 be applied to athletics for boys with equal justification:

1.	To play sports which will reach all types of girls.

Digitized by UooQle
107

2.	To follow girls’ rules.

3.	To encourage the use of costumes which, while giving ample freedom, will not be extreme and conspicuous.

4.	To have no thought for gate receipts.

5.	To insist on physical examinations.

6.	Not to enter contests unless conditions are favorable to the best interests of the player.

7.	To promote activities of skill and neuro-muscular control rather than those involving speed, great endurance and great strength.

8.	Never to subject a girl to extreme fatigue, either physical or emotional.

9.	To avoid specialization by not emphasizing championships.

10.	To avoid exploitation and publicity.

' 11. To have the right adult leadership.

12. To keep the competition within the school organization.

The Midwest program at Wichita was a great success. The music program throughout the convention was unusually fine and the banquet will live in the memories of many as one of the finest. However, special mention must be made here of the splendid demonstration by the Department of Health and Physical Education of the Public Schools of Wichita. Many other groups cooperated. The demonstration consisted of thirty-five numbers, showed the whole complete program, and only took two . hours. It was splendidly organized. The shadow pictures called “Health-O-Grams” were very successful.—E. Rogers.

Shortness of Breath May Be Normal or Pathologic.

“Shortness of breath is a common complaint that frequently brings the patient to the doctor. Often this complaint is most real; but the false impressions associated with it give rise to misapprehensions. The sighing type of breathing is often described, erroneously, as shortness of breath,” maintains Dr. Maurice S. Jacobs in an article appearing in the May issue of Hygeia. Shortness of breath may be [1] physiologic or normal, as in active exercise, or [2] pathologic or abnormal, as in acute illnesses such as tonsilitis, grip, bronchitis or pneumonia, or in chronic illnesses such as heart disease, tuberculosis, asthma and nephritis.

A fine pamphlet on “Athletics For Girls, A Digest of Principles and Policies for Administrators and Teachers in Junior and Senior High Schools” has become available recently. It is published by the Department of School Health and Physical Education of the National Education Association. Copies may be obtained on request from Women’s Division, National Amateur Athletic Federation, 303 West 42 St., New York City, or Secretary of the Department, J. E. Rogers, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York City.

Digitized by Google
108

BOOK REVIEWS

“Nature And Scope Of Examinations”. Edited by Jay B. Nash; published by A. S. Barnes and Co., Inc., 1931, New York; clothbound, 5 l-2”x7 1-2”; 207 pages; price $2.00.

This book is the second volume in a series of Interpretations of Physical Education. The true significance of the title may not be appreciated until after the book has been read. Its purpose is to present “the various types of tests, examinations and procedures necessary to determine the condition of an individual so as to protect him and society and at the same time establish a basis for educational guidance”. In addition it “emphasizes the fact that individuals vary not only on the organic level but on the neuro-muscular, interpretive-cortical and emotional-impulsive levels.

The introduction [Part I] contains two chapters concerning full living and physical education in full living. Part II presents a detailed and comprehensive discussion of the status of the individual. In the eight chapters presented in this part, the individual is studied from the standpoint of his organic, neuromuscular, interpretive, emotional, and personality status. Each of these topics is discussed by specialists in the field including such authorities as Charles G. Rodgers, Shailer U. Lawton, Frederick W. Cozens, L. Vosburgh Lyons, Gertrude Hildreth, James C. Manry, Louis Berg, and Raymond Franzen.

In Part III the nature and scope of the health examinations which the physical educator can make, are considered. The types of examinations covered are constitution and glands; metabolism; mental; neurological; orthopedic; circulatory; lungs; skin; eyes; nose, ear, and throat; teeth; gynecological symptoms; pediatrics; personnel; and laboratory.

The fourth and last part of the book is concerned with the administration of examinations.

This book is one that will be of great profit to the intelligent teacher. It offers the kind of information that will make the teacher understand more clearly the bases of her work.—C. K.

Soccer for Junior and Senior High Schools by John Edgar Caswell, M. A.; published by A. S. Barnes and Co., New York, 1933; clothbound, 6” x 9”, 96 pages with illustrations, price $2.00.

This volume fills a lor*, felt need in a sport that is gradually receiving more and more recognition in our school athletics.

The first chapter gives a general idea of the game. The next six chapters describe in detail the skills of kicking, passing, trapping, intercepting, throwing in, and tackling. Photographs and sketches are used generously to supplement the descriptions. The next four chapters describe the job of playing a forward, halfback, full back, and goal tender’s position. The last chapter presents a digest of the rules.

The author has covered the subject in a very clearcut and competent manner. The book should prove* equally useful and valuable to the teacher, coach, or player of the game.—C. K.

Digitized by ^.ooQle