MIND AND BODY

Vol. 34	JUNE,	1927	No.	360

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, BONN. EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Brookline, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription paymepts should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

<k-------------------------------------♦

Original articles and reprint^

.►------------------------------------•>

THE POSITION OF GAMES IN THE LIFE OF THE CHILD

By Major H. J. Selby

Many of the games given here may be taken in the playground, and hence, even where a playing-field is not available for the organised games period, the children may receive a certain amount of training for these national games. The appended list is intended to give the teacher a general idea of progression in games, and is in no way exhaustive. With a little ingenuity many more preparatory games may be invented by the teacher, and it is often a good plan to encourage the children in the upper standards to plan new games.

Preparatory Games for Football

1.—All try to kick balls. (Suggestions in regard to games.)

Apparatus.—A number of large rubber balls or small footballs.

‘Reprint "Physical Education,”

England.

Digitized by

Google
98

Number.—Any number of children.

Game.—The teacher stands in the center of the ground and the children place themselves anywhere near the ends of the ground. The teacher rolls the balls in every direction towards the children, who all try to kick a ball back to the centre.

2.	—All Balls Home. Apparatus.—Four balls per team.

Ground.—One circle per team marked out on ground.

Diameter of circle 6 yards. Within the large circle draw

a smaller circle at the centre, 1 yard diameter.

Number.—Any number of teams of equal size.

Game.—The team leader stands within the centre circle and the remainder of the team group themselves outside the larger circle. On the signal the team leader of each team kicks the balls to the players outside the large circle, these players kick the balls back to the team leaders. The winning team is that which first returns all the balls to the team leader within the inner circle.

Rules, (a)—The balls may not be touched with any part of the body above the hips.

(6)—Players must not enter the circle except to retrieve a ball, in which case they must return to their prosition outside the ring before they can again take part in the game.

(c)	—The team leader must not leave his circle.

(d)	—At the conclusion of the game the leader of the winning team must have possession of all the team balls which must be within the inner circle.

3.	—Football Tag.—One child is selected to be “it”. He en-deavers to touch or “tag” the other players by kicking a football at them. This game can be made more exciting either by increasing the number of balls or by having two or more “it's .

4.	Dodge Football.—Similar to any form of dodge ball but the ball is played with the foot instead of the hand. It is generally advisable to allow only hits below the knee to count.

6.	Targets. Apparatus.—Large football, one dozen skittles, lengths of wood or any other piece of apparatus which can be used as a target (see fig.I).

FIG. 1

Digitized by L^ooQle
99

Games.—Leaders toss coin for lead. Centre defence starts game by kicking ball from “defence spot” to one of the attackers on his own side. This attacker may either pass the ball to another attacker or may take a shot at one of the targets on the opposite side. The game proceeds thus until all the targets on one side are knocked down.

Rides.—(a) The ball shall be played only with the feet.

(Jb) The ball shall not be handled.

(c)	A target will be deemed to be knocked over if (1) the ball was last touched by an attacker on the other side, (2) by one of the attackers on the defending side, (3) by one of the defenders on the defending side. In all other cases the target shall be replaced.

(d)	No player shall leave the area of his own square.

(e)	A player shall not run with the ball, i. e. take more than one complete step whilst in possession of the ball.

( f )A ball going over the back or side lines shall be kicked into play by one of the players from the point at which it left the court.

Penalties.—For any infringement of rules (a) (6), (d), (e), a free kick shall be awarded to the opposite side. A free kick shall be taken from the “attack spot” and can be stopped only by the defenders of the infringing side.

6.	Moving- Targets.—(Suggestions in regard to games).

Apparatus.—One football and a number of large rubber balls.

Number.—Any number of children.

Ground.—A square of any convenient size depending upon the number of players.

Game.—Each team groups itself round two sides of the square and outside the square. The football is placed upon a centre spot in the square. The object of the game is to kick the smaller rubber balls at the football, so that the latter may be driven over one of the sides of the square defended by the opposite side.

Rules.—The balls may only be played with the feet.

The football may not be touched by any part of the player’s

Eerson for any reason at all. It may be moved forward only y impact with one of the smaller balls.

The ball shall be centred each time it passes over the boundary of the square, and a goal awarded to the kicking side.

Penalties.—For any infringement of Rules (a) or (b), a goal shall be awarded to the other side.

7.	Hopping Charges.—Teams face each other so that each boy of one team is opposite another in the other team. Boys clasp their hands behind their backs. Each boy hops towards his partner in the other team, and by charging him with the shoulder attempts to make his opponent put his foot down. Charges must be clean and players should be encouraged to make use of every artifice in order to elude the charge of his opponent.

Digitize dUUvlv
100

8. — King of the Ring.—A ring, diameter approximately ten feet, is drawn on the ground. All players place themselves within the ring, and each boy clasps his hands behind his back. On the signal to start each boy attempts to knock all his opponents out of the ring by delivering charges with his shoulder. A boy is out directly any part of the boy is outside the ring. The winner of the contest is adjudged “King of the Ring.”

9. Ball in the Ring.—One player stands in the center of a large ring, whilst the remainder of the class group themselves outside the ring. The player at the centre is supplied with a football which, on the word "Go,” he attempts to kick out of the ring. The players round the circle attempt to stop the ball from leaving the ring by interposing their bodies (the hands must not be used). If the ball leaves the ring the player at the centre runs out and attempts to tag one of the other players. At the same time these players will endeavour to return the ball to the ring as quickly as possible. Directly the ball has been returned to the ring the players will call out “Ball in the ring” when the catcher must return to the centre of the circle and once again kick the ball out. If, on the other hand the catcher has tagged one of the players before “Ball in the ring” is called, he changes places with the one tagged and the game starts as before.

Penalty.—Any person using the hands to stop or return the ball shall change places with the catcher in the center.

10.	Team Races.—The arrangement of the teams is the same in each case.

Teams in file formation. The course is straight, i e. race to an object and back to the starting point. A starting line is marked for each team and an object, e. g. a stump or stake driven into the ground, is placed to form the turning point for each team at the other end of the course.

11. Football Relay Race.—First boy of each team takes his place on the start, with football at his feet. On the word “Go” he races long the course, keeping the ball as near his feet as possible, round his own team turning point and home to the starting point. The ball must be stopped on the starting line and is then taken over by the second player, who in turn completes the course. This continues until all the players in the team have run.

12. Dribble Ball Relay.—Similar to 11 above but each runner dribbles ball between stakes placed along course at some convenient distance from each other (see fig. 2).

13.	Zig-Zag Pass Relay.

Teams arranged as shown in diagram (fig. 3).

At the start of the race, No. 1 in each team stands with his foot on the ball. On the signal "Go” No. 1 passes the ball to No. 2 of his team, who passes it to No. 3, and so on until the last boy in the team, receives it, when he races forward and traps uie ball in the final circle.
(STAKES)

101

TEAM A. O O O O

• •

TEAM B. +	+	+	+



• •

TEAM C. Q 0	0	0	•

S. P.

• •

♦

C

•N

£

♦

♦

M

c

c

u

H

FIG. 2

J..

«+■

!♦«

a

5

3*

»♦

♦ 2

FIG. 3

Players (except last player in each team) must not leave their circles, except to retrieve a ball which has been passed badly, in which case they must return to their circles before passing the ball on to the next player. For infringement of this rule the offending team is disqualified.

Note.—For senior boys this game can be played by letting the boys “head" the ball to one another, the last boy in each team trapping and racing for the final circle as before.

14. Wall Ball.—A target (see fig. 4) is marked out on a Hank wall. A line is drawn eighteen yards from and parallel to the wall. A player takes his stand anywhere along this line, but remote from the wall. A member of his own team passes the ball to him from a distance of not less than ten yards. The first player then takes a shot for “goal" whilst the ball is still on the move. Points scored by this player will depend upon the square of the target which he hits with the ball. Each member of the team takes his turn at shooting, and the total number of points scored by all the players in the team is ob-

Digitized by Google
102

tained. Each team performs the same test under the same conditions, the team scoring the highest number of points being declared the winning team.

4

8 Ft.

t

15.— Head Passing.—Each team is given a certain area of the playground.

Referees are appointed to superintend each team, no referee being permitted to superintend his own team.

Each team endeavours to “head” the ball from one of its ers to another, the object being to secure the greatest num-of consecutive passes without allowing the ball to fall to the ground. The ball may not be touched with any part of the body except the head. The game shall continue for a specified and previously stated time. The team scoring the greatest number of consecutive passes, i.e., the highest “break” during the game, shall be adjudged the winning team.

• 16.— No Bounce Passing.—Similar to 15 above, but instead of passing with the head the ball is passed with the foot.

17.	Head and Foot Passing.—Similar to 15 and 16 above. The ball is passed with either head or foot, but the ball must not be allowed to touch the ground during a pass.

18.	—Foot Rounders. Apparatus.—Foot-ball.

Ground. See fig. 5.

The Game.—The positions of the players are shown in the diagram.

The game is started by the bowler throwing the ball to the first kicker, who is standing in the home base. The ball must be thrown underhand, and must pitch above the ankle and below the hips of the lacker and within area of the home base, otherwise the bowler has delivered a “bad” ball. If three bad balls are bowled the kicker moves on to base 1. The object of the kicker is to kick the ball away, in front of the base line, and to run through as many bases as possible, until he completes the circuit. The kicker must stop running if (1) he is out, (2) the ball has been returned by a fielder to the bowler, in which case the ball is dead.

The kicker is out either:—

(1)	If he is struck on the person by a ball returned correctly by a fielder;

or (2) If the ball is trapped by a fielder in the base to which the kicker is running;

-*• 8 YARDS •*-

5	3	3	8
4	1	1	4
5	3	3	5

FIG. 4

Digitized by
103

	o o o o o o o
Ll	
✓ *	♦
8	
' t	
let —	4th
BASE Q «|» (Thrower) Q BASE	
♦	+
	♦
0	0 *
2nd 4»	3rd
BASE	BASE
FIG.	5

or (3) If he kicks the ball out of the field of play (defined previously by the teacher);

or (4) If, after the bail has been kicked by the kicker, a fielder traps the ball on the first bounce.

Points.—One point is allowed to the kicker for each base successfully reached. If a complete circuit is made by a kicker 6 points are awarded and any one kicker who is “out” may return to the game.

Each member of the kicking team takes his turn to kick the ball.

The innings of a team end either:—

(1) When the team leader declares the innings closed, or

(2)	When the kicking team is “out”

The kicking team is “out” either:—

(a)	When the ball has been kicked up by a kicker and correctly trapped by a fielder;

or (6) When the home base is empty, t. c. when all the kickers are either out or else in other bases in which case the bowler shall call out “Team out”.

The team scoring the highest number of points is declared winning team

Digitized by
104

IS	THE VISITING TEAM ROOM IN A GYMNASIUM AN ASSET OR A LIABILITY?

Carl L. Schrader

American cities and towns, particularly the latter, are suffering from growing pains, which manifest themselves mainfy in the demands that education makes upon the purse. It is not only that increased numbers require more accommodations, but the scope of education itself necessitates equipment hitherto not called for. The American people once confronted with such needs, and convinced of their righteous place in the preparation of this generation for the next, is never lacking in its response. Permanent confidence in those who propound these changes and advocate the investment may best be assured if the people can be convinced that unessentials and extravagances are avoided.

In the modern schoolhouse construction, the department of physical education now fully accepted as vital in the program, makes perhaps the greatest demands of any of the departments. Both for out of door and indoor equipment the demands are costly. Economy without endangering efficiency is necessary and is best practiced by whole-hearted and frank cooperation of all agencies involved.

It is the architect’s function to place and construct properly and artistically a school building as a whole, and also the component parts within the building as well as adjacent lands. On the other hand, it is the school authorities' prerogative to list the component parts and plan their articulation as a whole. Again, it should be the privilege of the various experts in the different departments of the school to depict in detail the essential requisites that will insure adequate results in the teaching process of the respective department. Each of these agencies may contribute to the function of the others, but neither may nor can carry through such costly construction as a modern school building represents, single-handed or single-minded.

One needs but to visit new and elegantly equipped buildings and view the costly and avoidable blunders committed, to become convinced of the necessity of the most painstaking and whole-hearted working and planning together of all concerned.

It is the purpose of this consideration to deal solely with the equipment for the department of physical education, which unquestionably constitutes the most costly in the entire school plant and for that reason is deserving of the most scrutinizing study. In the case of the public school building, the question on the part of those entrusted with spending the public money should be: “What MUST go into the building to insure success?” and not “What MAY go into it?” Even the study of this department as a whole would carry one too far afield and should not be presumed by one individual, but by a group long experienced in its administration. Whether the building of a

Digitized byvjOO^TC
105

gymnasium with accommodations for spectators falls under the judgment of "must” or “may,” or the type and plan for lockers and showers, whether the equipment is to serve the school population only, or also adults in the community; these and many other items need to be taken up separately and definitely in order to be defended, if demanded.

Only one single item of the equipment is to be questioned here, and really less because of its economic aspect than because of its educational significance. This one particular item is the visiting team room, which the architect has generally accepted from the advice of coaches to be absolutely essential. Let us think this through and see whether this practice is in harmony with what we hold to be the high spot in our inter-institutional contests. The gospel that is preached in defense of these contests is, that by this means we promote best, all those social qualities that make for better understanding and better citizenship, that mean fair play, unquestionable sportsmanship and what not. Let it be said here that these objectives in themselves are real, are achievable, are not phantoms, and that it is because of these achievable objectives that the educator and the church are interested in this almost untried medium for character training, at least insofar as the mass is concerned.

Should not the friendly mingling of the contestants immediately before and after the games, be a big factor in the attitude and feeling during the game? Bathing and dressing together permits of the best sort of getting to know the other fellow and to comment on the great game to be played, or the game just played. Might it not aid in restoring to our contests the element of play which unfortunately we have lost and which loss is too big a price to pay, even for victory?

There is always ample space in any locker room at the time of a contest and it is an easy matter to provide available lockers for the guests. Here is the opportunity for the individual of the home team to practice those courtesies that become a host and are due a guest.

Instead of this opportunity of socializing, the visiting team is received—if received at all—by the manager, and is ushered to the visiting team room, and on the way there gets a glimpse of the fellows of the team whom they are to play, and in return are viewed by the home team members as they pass. Arriving in the privacy of the quarters provided by the host, they talk over the various “guys” whom they have recognized in passing, and they vow what they’ll do to them if they do so and so. The attitude thus usually portrayed by the opposing teams in the privacy of their "corners” is not rectified in the least by the cold-blooded handshake just before the game, nor by the traditional cheer after the game. The cause of good sportsmanship and character building has not been served, even though the players did not alibi, or offend openly, or quibble over decisions during the game.
106

But the coach will defend the privacy of the visiting team room. On the one hand, he will argue for the importance of having the team to himself, to give final instructions and admonitions and to put them into the proper mood or fighting spirit. What is it the players do not know by then, that he can tell them at that last moment? If the preparation has been right, they are fit, without that eleventh hour secret psychology. And as to the fighting mood that must be engendered, one wonders whether this final admonishing advice for this purpose is altogether in keeping with the code, and kept within the realm of playing, or whether it savors of appealing to less desirable social traits.

Between periods, there are certain experiences to be discussed, to be sure, and may be discussed to the advantage of both teams. But this doesn’t require a specially constructed, sound-proof room held solely for this purpose. Ample facilities can be found to meet this need. Even in the absence of a separate room, space can be found to satisfy this need.

True, the principal of the home school feels responsible for the safety of valuables of the guests, but does that necessitate the special equipment in the form of a visiting team room? Other far less costly and equally safe means are available to protect the visitors from loss.

Economically, the visiting team room represents a larger outlay of money than is usually appreciated. In the construction of a school building, the cost of a class room is usually estimated around an average of ten thousand dollars. The visiting team room, rarely used and fit for no other purpose, that is worthy of the name, must accomodate twenty or more guests. Together with the usual toilet and shower bath facilities, it comes close to the above cost and may even go above it.

When one considers that frequently other far more essential appointments are crippled if not entirely omitted in order to permit of the folly of the visiting team room, one is indeed moved to enlighten an interested, willing and believing public, and advise more careful study of plans, not for the purpose of curtailing, necessarily, but rather to avoid what is plainly unwarranted extravagance.

The omissions as well as the crippling of essentials in order to secure the visiting team room are usually found to be the administration quarters and storage facilities. The office of the director of physical education, for the purpose of consultation, a most valuable service of the physical education department, and the adjoining facilities for physical examination invariably suffer. They are frequently entirely omitted and often resemble a dungeon in some available corner far away from light, air and the scene of action.

It behooves those who have opportunity to see and comment on plans to call attention to this error, to seek the cooperation of the architects, which the writer has reason to believe

Digitized by VjOOvLC
107

will be whole-hearted, and to convince those who unthinkingly have created a now quite common-place conception, that the installation of the visiting team room is neither essential nor desirable, particularly in public schools, for reasons both educational and economic:

EXERCISE AND THE MENSTRUAL FUNCTION*

By B. E. Baer, late Principal, Queen Alexandra’s House P. T. College

The main idea which emerges from the various contributions on this subject seems to be that Nature bungled her job pretty badly when she formed woman!

According to Dr. Kirchberg she is a creature of so many disabilities that there is a risk of injury in her performing such a simple action as “repeated bending far-forward.” If this is so she is not even adapted to the one career for which she is usually considered to be specially designed—that of a domestic worker in the home! Other points from his article with which I shall deal are “this continuous change (the menstrual cycle) goes on uninterruptedly at the expense of the whole body,” the statement that “all unnecessary severe bodily exertions should be avoided because irregularities may follow” and the amazing announcement that “Nature has provided woman with a period of rest in each month.”

How cruel that the majority of women are debarred by their unending duties from enjoying the periodical repose designed for them!

The whole controversy hinges on the answer to the question —is menstruation a perfectly natural function or a morbid condition?

The majority of the writers assume that the strength is depleted during menstruation and it is quite easy to see how this idea arises. The reasoning is that, as some of the vital fluid of the body is lost during menstruation, the strength of the body must be correspondingly lowered. It seems so obvious, but is it true?

The reply was furnished as long ago as 1876, by Dr. Mary Putnam Jacobi, who made careful investigations and established the fact that for twenty days before the flow a gradual preparation is being made for it in the body, that there is a “rhythmic wave of nutrition, gradually rising from a minimum point just after menstruation, to a maximum point just before the next flow” and that this is shown by (1) a larger consumption of oxygen, (2) a greater excretion of CO2 and urea before the menses, (3) a constantly increasing rise in arterial tension from a minimum point, reached just after menstruation, to a maximum point just before, due an increase in the mass of circulating blood.

*Reprint “Physical Education” England.

Digitized by kjOOQle
108

So Nature does know her job after all! She makes special provision beforehand for the loss which takes place at the menstrual period; and so far from the mental and physical powers of the normal woman being depleted at the time, they are at their highest just before and during the menses. Dr. Jacobi points out the interesting fact that this ided—that the function denoted a period of higher vitality—prevailed throughout antiquity and the middle ages, and that it was not till the middle of the eighteenth century that the view that it was a period of debility arose.

The arguments for rest during the menses therefore collapse completely for, since women’s bodily powers are then at their highest no strain can occur by continuing the normal work and exercise.

So much for theory; now for practical experience. In 1876, when Dr. Jacobi made her enquiries, 47 per cent, of the women who replied state that they suffered serious pain during menstruation. It should be remembered that these were the days when women were allowed very little exercise—wore tight stays and when rest during the menses was usual—What is the case now? Women have been taking more and more strenuous exercise and it is becoming rarer for it to be discontinued during the menses. The most recent investigations have been made by Dr. Sanderson Clow, who has had unrivalled opportunities of studying the normal girl, as she was Medical Officer in a large school.

The following are points from her address given at a meeting of the Medical Officers of Schools Association, held on May 29th 1923, reported in the “Lancet'’ June 1923 and reprinted in the Journal of School Hygiene and Physical Education,” Summer number 1923. Dr. Sanderson Clow stated that when she first went to the school in 1915 as Medical Officer, she interviewed 1,818 girls and found that 30 per cent, had menstrual troubles. After pointing out to them that the function was not a malady and that there should be complete freedom from pain, she gave them the following advice: (1) that it is not necessary to forego usual exercises whether walking, cyling, horse-riding, dancing, drilling, gymnastics or gardening. Swimming for obvious reasons is excepted.

(2)	That the bath should be continued throughout the period since immersion in hot water will relieve slight headache or feeling of local discomfort.

(3)	That if there ife any feeling of illness the doctor should be consulted—since any trouble can be more easily put right when young.

On questioning the girls as to their natural inclinations she found that “the desire for unrestricted activity.......... (was) al-

most universal,” that there was “spontaneous expression of pleasure and relief ” when they were told that “with consent from home” they might “play their games as usual throughout the period.”

Digitized by
109

After an interval during which, with the parent’s consent, her advice had been carried out, she found that great improvement had taken place in the menstrual health of the pupils. She tabulates her results as follows:

1915—1920 No	pain or	Games	Rest taken Incapac-	
discomfort		played dur-	during	itated
734 School Girls— 1st interview	67.8%	ing period 35.3%	period  20.3%	5.1%
Subsequent interview	85.0	67	6.2	0.9
1920-1923  740 School Girls— 1st interview	87.1%	51.3%	3.8	1
Subsequent interview	92.8	83.5	3.8	0
184 Students at a College 1st interview	85.8%	84.0%	6.5%	4.2%
Subsequent interview	95	93	0	0

These figures speak for themselves. Dr. Sanderson Clow’s results are supported by many others, among them being Dr. Shelly, Dr. Mary Blair, Dr. Sybil Overton, Dr. Sarah Gray and, in America, Dr. Rocher and Dr. Florence Meredith.

The latter stated that, twelve years ago, 75 per cent, of College girls had dysmenorrhoea regularly. “At the present time (1923) out of 749 girls only 17 per cent were troubled by pain at all at the period and only half of those regularly.” The reason for the decrease she believes to be (1) an improved attitude of mind in the girls towards the function. (2) a much greater degree of general activity than formerly “not omitting the activity during the period,” she writes, “I have never seen a single girl harmed by an activity which she would normally take, or any kind of baths to which she was habituated, even cold ones, when taken straight through the period.”

This immense amount of evidence, collected by women doctors, is unassailable— and women owe them a great debt of gratitude for their release from a miserable bondage to a false and pernicious idea.

But the Diehards have yet another line of attack—granted, they say, that there is improved health during girlhood, but what about the future? Are not girls laying up for themselves trouble when they marry? They will either have no children, or, if they do, their labour will be more difficult and dangerous and their children will be physically inferior. (There is always some bogey with which to frighten wretched woman!)

Let us face this one also—

An investigation among married teachers of Physical Ed-cation was undertaken by the Ling As$opiatio(i,pnd the results
110

were published in the Summer number, 1922, of the Journal of Scientific Physical Education.

The following is a summary:—The average number of children per marriage of Gymnasts was 1.8 (this covers the period of the war when the birth rate was lower).

The mean fertility of women of the same class was 2. (prewar) so the slight difference is fully accounted for by the war—

Other facts which emerge are:—

There are fewer childless marriages among gymnasts, and a very low rate of abortions and infant deaths.

The average baby of the gymnastic mother is 1-2 lb. heavier than the general average, and there is a very high rate of healthy children.

The conditions of child-bearing are extremely good both for pregnancy and recovery—there were 4 per cent difficult labours— this corresponds to that of the general population.

So much for Bogey number 2. My own experience with students of Physical Training bears out these conclusions.

There could not be a severer test of the effect of Physical Exercise than the three years’ training which necessitates some three or more horn's per day of active work including Gymnastics, Dancing, Games, Teaching.

It was my practise to tell the students, at the beginning of their course, of the well-grounded modern view that exercise could be taken without any risk during menstruation, at the same time there was no coercion, they were at liberty to refrain from the more strenuous work if they wished.

The result was that very few discontinued work during menses, dysmenorrhoea was rare, and there was no case of injury or displacement of the internal organs. With regard to the students of the College who have married—thirty, of whom we have records, have so far had between them forty-five children. There have been no deaths in childbirth and the children are bonny specimens.

All the evidence goes to refute the idea that energetic continuous exercise is bad for the normal woman at any time, and the gymnastic teacher, who expects her pupils to refrain from' their usual activities during their periods, is incurring a grave responsibility, because she is, by suggeston, inculcating a wrong attitude of mind and so bringing about the ill-health she is endeavouring to avoid.

I am speaking, of course, of the ordinary healthy girl—the small percentage of cases of severe dysmenorrhoea are in a different category and should be under medical care; nor am I considering the case of the delicate girl who is always working in excess of her strength—my contention is that the amount and kind of physical exercise which is beneficial ordinarily is equally beneficial and necessary during the menses. Every gymnastic teacher should possess copies of “Advice to Girls concerning the Monthly Period,’’ issued by the “Medical Officers of Schools Association,” as a leaflet. These can be obtained from

Digitized by Cj oogle
Ill

Mrs. Impey, Crophome, King’s Norton, Birmingham, price 2s. 6d. per 100. Dr. Clow recommends that they should be sent either by the Medical Officer of a school or Headmistress to the mothers of pupils so that right ideas may replace prejudice due to wrong thinking.

The enlightened gymnastic mistress will then be free to use her influence in bringing about a more wholesome sensible attitude on the question among her pupils.

To quote Dr. Clow once more, “if this teaching were universal in the schools, I believe that dysmenorrhoea would be a rare complaint in the next generation, and the incalculable benefit which the advent of the games mistress in schools has brought to girls and women would be still further enhanced.”

A STUDY OF GIRL GANGS

Isabelle M. Carney

The Social Appeal Of The Adolescent Girl

The most active time of life is early adolescence. With the coming of this period, the traditional link from childhood to maturity, the boy and girl wakes to a bright “new mom of self-making”. For them the heyday of their existence has dawned. “Adolescence, surmounting the hills of childhood, looks out upon a new, vast, bewildering world, where old landmarks no longer serve, and old objectives are left behind.”*

From the outset, the mental and social attitudes, the tastes and ideals of the adolescent assume aspects quite different from any phase of temperament in evidence during pre-adolescence. The youth is generally an idealist to the core, and views the wide world as a field for his activities. It is a period of optimism and egoism when the “self-hood” is beginning to be realized and to assert itself. And that self is being extended not for

Eersonal gratification, but to varied social activities as prompted y altruistic impulses.

Youth is essentially social. The desire to flock with one's kind, the “gregarious instinct,” as it is sometimes called, is deep seated in the human race; but never is it more intense than at the adolescent age. Not only do youths like to congregate together, but they have a strong “feeling for kind”. They show sympathy as never before; they strive actively to co-operate; and they show a loyalty to those of their group that at times is little less than heroic.

At this time, the girl fails to understand herself. Romance appeals to her even more than previously, but it is romance of adventure and fine achievement. A spirit of co-operation and a feeling of group consciousness arises. The girl now associates herself with othjer girls and forms gangs or sets.

*The Adolescent Girl, by Winifred Richmond.

Digitized by

Google
112

What The Gang Is

Thie formation of sets or gangs is almost a law of human nature, and adolescence one of its most constant exponents, for an adolescent is naturally gregarious. It is an association essentially instinctive, being one of the three primary social groups —the play group. With this gregarious tendency, the adolescent cannot long remain satisfied away from his own kind. The boy and girl suddenly doff the selfish temper of childhood and become social beings.

The gang is not a mushroom growth. It is the culmination of a desire to be sociable. And this desire to be sociable is at its height in both boys and girls during the period of adolescence. The gang is no haphazard association. It is formed, at times to meet individual needs; and at other times accidents of various sorts bring together a group of boys or girls.

According to J. Adams Puffer, the gang is “a little social organization, coherent, definite, efficient, with a life of its own which is beyond the sum of the lives of its several members”.*

From various reading, I found that according to most authors girls do not form gangs. J. Adams Puffer says, “Girls do not form gangs. They belong to sets, and sets and gangs are quite different institutions.”* Another author says, “The girl has no gang to join,” etc. The views of all could perhaps be summed up as follows: the develpoment of social sense and of the gregarious instinct appears in boys in a disposition to go in gangs, while in girls it shows itself in the fancy for societies and clubs. It is my purpose to show that girls in many sections group as do the boys, and form gangs or sets which are remarkably similar to boys’ gangs in organization, activities, etc. I have obtained by various means—personal interview when possible—considerable information concerning forty-two girl gangs. On this information my facts will be based.

Important Factors In Gang Formation

When the girl’s instincts desire free play; when the girl’s instincts crave for their development, at that time the girl seeks her gang or set. The question arises, how does she find it? Three very important influences are propinquity, age, and temperament or common sympathies.

Nearly always, most gangs hail from the same neighborhood, being strictly “local affairs”. This very neighborhood feeling or spirit develops into one of democracy, especially in regard to nationality. Every report that I received showed that each gang was made up of members of various nationalities. One gang had a membership of two French, three Swedish, one American, one Jewish, one Polish, and two Irish girls. This fact seems somewhat to dispute, at least in one sense, the thought that

The Boy and His Gang, by J. A. Puffer.

‘These Girls Of Ours, by Mary Roberts Rinehart

Digitized by

Google
113

girls’ sets are exclusive and undemocratic. Thus we see that propinquity is an important factor. In later developments however, propinquity is not at all powerful. In several cases members of gangs have moved to different neighborhoods and still continued membership in the same gang.

Age is another important factor in influencing the organization of gangs. From the table one can see that the majority of girl gangs have members who have, within two or three years difference, the same age. The years in which girls join gangs are from eight years to sixteen years. This record differs somewhat from that of the boys, in that the gang-joining age for boys is ten to sixteen.

The final influence is temperament or common sympathies. The gang is constantly increasing or decreasing its numbers. It does not necessarily include the whole street except in a general sense. Its nucleus is to be found in probably six to twelve kindred spirits in the street. Likeness of interests is a great factor in bringing together random groups of boys and girls; frequently it proves to be the only factor.

Organization

In girl gangs, as in all gangs, the differences in organization are many and great. There are large gangs and small gangs; gangs which have regular places and times in which to meet; gangs which meet any place, and at any time; gangs which are of long duration and others of short duration; some with rules, names, leaders, and others without. And so it goes.

Time and Place of Meeting

It seems that a gang to be a gang must meet practically every day, at least so imply the records. In my investigation I find that with three exceptions every gang met at least once a day. In general most of the gangs met in the afternoon after school hours, and in the early evening. The members of gangs which lasted only one summer, that is during vacation, met during the morning hours of every week day, and spent the greater part of the day together.

It was most interesting to compare the reports as to the different methods of meeting. I noted that the majority of the gangs had no regular meeting place. It seems to be somewhat a common rule among girl gangs that the first member out of doors summons the others by means of a signal previously agreed upon. When all are assembled, it is decided what to do, or where to go, and accordingly they follow the decision. However, there were a few gangs which had a definite rendezvous. These were various, consisting mainly of a certain piazza; a certain stairway; a certain tree or bench in the park; the yard of one of the members; etc. One girl said in regard to a regular meeting place, “We didn’t want a regular meeting place, because we didn’t want other gangs to know where i we went.”

Digitized by vjjOVJVLV*,
114

Perhaps this fact was foremost in the minds of other girls who had no special rendezvous.

Size

In general the gangs were not very large. Most of them had a limited number of members, generally ranging from six to nine. Two gangs, however, had a membership of an equal dozen, and one had a baker’s dozen—thirteen. Each gang had certain age limits, the average for all being eight years for the youngest member, and fourteen for the oldest member. One gang was composed of girls who were sixteen years of age. Nationality, as I mentioned before, barred no one, which fact tended to make a very democratic group of girls.

Initiation

As a rule, most boy gangs have rather "stiff” initiations for new members. On the contrary girls seem to have eliminated this phase of gang organization altogether. In no case have I found any indication of methods of initiation. Whether or not a new member shall be admitted is decided upon by the girls, and if the decision is in the affirmative the person is duly admitted. A promise- or oath to be loyal is the only requisite. Once in the gang, however, there are many rules which are laid down and enforced by the leader. Failure to live up to these rules means expulsion from the gang.

Rules

Rules, written or unwritten, play a vital part in the existence of the gang. Without them the gang cannot survive. The leader of the gang evidently senses this fact, and is ruthlessly just in rendering verdicts. In Mr. Puffer's study of boys' gangs, he found that the demand for loyalty and justice was in the foreground, and the demand for morality was in the rear. From my study of girls' gangs I find that each gang had about an equal number of rules regarding morality and loyalty, with rules for morality slightly, but very slightly, in the lead. The existence of such rules, and the necessity of living up to them, contributes much toward the developing and building up of fine traits of character in the adolscent girl.

Officers

In regard to the number of officers each gang had, the table shows pretty clearly the results of the reports. Five gangs reported no leader, but what they really meant was that they were not conscious of the presence of a leader. A leader was present, however. The manner in which the leader is chosen differs in various groups. In some groups a natural born leader just simply steps up and issues orders which are followed without any discussion. In certain other groups, physical strength, ability to scheme, ability in one line or another, are the determiners. Reading into the psychology of the gang one finds that upon joining a gang the individual boy or girl surrenders certain quali-

Digitized by vjOOQLC
115

ties and acquires others. I think it is quite safe to say that very often the surrender and the acquisition both pivot about the leader of the gang, who wields considerable influence over the members. The idea of self-suppression, of working for a greater whole, has a strong appeal which shows itself in loyalty to the leader.

Activities

The range of activities carried on in girl gangs is of considerable scope. The activities of the gang are the happiness of the girls, and each activity renders its part in laying the foundation of her social training. With these activities is a development of such traits as self-sacrifice, co-operation, etc. Games are social events of adolescence, and in them the girls learn the adjustment of self, and the art of getting along with her friends.

Group games or organized activities such as baseball, basketball, etc., were not indulged in so frequently as is the case in boy gangs, such games being primarily for boys anyway. However, I foiind that several of the gangs did enter into such activities, more in fact, than I had anticipated. Girls are becoming more and more athletic as time goes on, and the sense of and desire for "equality” has led them to engage in the strehuous activities of the opposite sex. So one finds increasing accounts of the doings of girls in baseball, basketball, and even in that lively game of hockey. Of the gangs of which I have reports, more than half enjoyed such organized activities. One gang was organized for the specific purpose of forming a baseball team. In fact, baseball was the most popular of the organized games. Evidently basketball and hockey were a little too complicated for most of the gangs. One gang, however, the gang in which only girls of sixteen years of age were allowed, specialized in baseball, basketball, hockey, swimming, etc. The aim of this gang was mainly athletics. Whatever the amount of time spent in such activities, each minute so spent, contributes much in the training of co-operation and of suppression of self to the good of the team.

In regard to the running games the table gives evidence that this was the favorite type of activity. In fact, the leader, of one of the gangs was chosen simply because she was fleetest of foot. Of the various games “Run, Sheep, Run” and “Relievo” seem to be the most popular. These games contribute to the muscular training and physical development of the girl.

Very few of the gangs took part in the industrial activities, such as sewing, cooking, basketry, etc. The few gangs that did participate in such activities, did so only when the weather prevented their doing otherwise. In general the majority favored the out of doors sports to domestic activities, a thing which girls of a few years ago would not even think of doing.

Nature seems to play a great part in the lives of adolescent girls. Under the impulse of the migratory instinct the girls take long hikes to special nooks and con^m^d	fashioned
116

for their particular benefit by the hands of Mother Nature. Spring, Autumn, Winter, Summer—each season has its unfailing delights which attract the opening eyes and sensitive soul of the adolescent girl. The woods have an unusual appeal to the girl, and in them she comes into close contact with the tiny plant and animal life which fascinates her. There is something intangible and secret about the haunts of Mother Nature deep in the hearts of the woods, which strikes a responsive chord in the heart of the girl. She revels in secrecy of any sort during this period, and when she can find a beautiful spot of nature which is known to her and to her alone, her joy knows no bounds. Such is the adolescent girl. Each one of the gangs reports that at some time or other, and very often many times, the girls have gone on long hikes far into the realms of nature. Many of the gangs knew of secret spots where the first violets grew, where the mayflowers were most abundant, etc. Thus does the soul of the adolescent girl expand and become beautiful as she learns of the lovely things of life.

Three most conspicuous anti-social impulses of the gang are stealing, fighting and plaguing people, all of which we find present in boys’ gangs. In practically every account of boys’ gangs I have noticed that one of the most common activities is stealing, prompted by their instinctive acquisitiveness, which is “normal but not proper.” In my investigation of girl gangs I have not found this to be the case. Of the anti-social impulses the last two, fighting and plaguing people, are present in girl gangs, though not to such a great extent, and in a somewhat different form.

Boys and girls differ greatly in their manner of fighting. Boys engage in hand to hand encounters, while girls fight mostly with their “tongues”. However, the results are the same and that is what counts. As for plaguing people, boys simply enjoy such activity and usually manage to find some one to tease. Their choice generally falls upon such people as rag-men, peddlers, fruit vendors, Chinese laundrymen, etc. When girls desire to plague and tease some one, the object of such a desire is usually one of their own age and sex (not a member of their gang) with whom they are not on speaking terms; or some one of the boys in the neighborhood who is susceptible to teasing.

Such is the life of the girl gang as I have studied it.

Extracts From Personal Reports

I have chosen extracts from a few of the reports which I received to illustrate several of the points I have mentioned.

“The Red Lantern Gang”

“Our gang was made up of nine girls, the youngest being eleven years and the oldest fourteen years. We all lived in the same neighborhood, and spent most of our time together. We formed the gang simply because we wanted to show the boys in the neighborhood that we could form a gang as well as they.

Digitized by' boogie
117

C.	S. was the leader because she was the tallest and could run the fastest. We met every night and played games. We formed a baseball team and challenged the boys to a game. Our main idea was to beat the boys in everything they did. Had several fights with the boys, real fights, too. We did not bother with other girls. Two girls were put out of our gang because they told one of our secrets.”

“The D. D. Athletic Bunch”

"About ten of us girls decided to go around together as a gang. We met one day after school, decided on the name of the club, the officers, the rules, etc., and began to do things. We had two officers and many rules which concerned loyalty, honor, etc. As we all liked athletics we decided to go in for baseball, hockey and basketball. We formed teams and had many games, some with boys and others with girls. We met three times a week, and when we weren’t practicing for a contest, we played games and had a good time.”

"The Riddle Gang”

"We were just a group of girls in the same neighborhood and in the same grade in school. There were eight of us and we called ourselves the “Riddle Gang”. We met every day after school and played games. We had no leader but each one was expected to live up to the rules. We had rules about not lying, being loyal to the gang, sticking up for one another, etc. On rainy days we sewed, embroidered or crocheted. We didn't like to do this very often though. We would rather be o^t of doors. When a new girl wanted to join our crowd she had to do several tasks before she was admitted. This was not initiation, however. We had a riddle for a pass word, and when the answer was given it had to be said in a certain way to show that the person was a member of our gang.”

"Economy Club”

"In this gang there were six girls. We met almost every day on I. J.’s front piazza. We had a president and a treasurer, and the rest of us called ourselves “privates”. We spent a great deal of our time in the public park where we stopped the boys from taking the swings away from little children. We had a set of rules which were very strict and which we had to observe. They were about truth, loyalty, honesty, helping one another, no lies, friendliness, kindness to animals. Each time we did a good deed we received a colored bead,—we had different colored V?ads for different acts. We all tried to get a long string of different colored beads, and went around looking for different ways in which to be helpful. We each wore a blue bow for secrecy and had many good times.”

“The M. O. F. M.”

“All the girls in our neighborhood belonged to this gang. The youngest one was eight years old,D and the oldest was thir-
118

teen. There were seven in all. We liked to do everything the boys did, and many times we beat them in certain things. We had one leader and everything she said was followed. We all had something to say on every question that came up, and each one was given an opportunity to express herself. It was one of our rules that each member had to take part in every discussion. We always “stuck up” for one another, and were loyal to our leader. We liked to tease the boys and make them angry. We liked all sports, swimming, skating, skiing, hiking, etc. We were together every minute we could get, and we all had some very good times playing games.”

Importance And Influence Of Gangs

There are different types of girl gangs, those which wield a good influence and those whose influence is of questionable character. In any case the influence of the gang is strong and immediate. The gang contains the friends to whose praise and criticism the girl is most keenly sensitive; its standards are her aims; its activities her happiness. Gang life at its best trains the girl in obedience and loyalty; teaches her co-operation and the beauty of self-sacrifice.

The gang is an important factor in the education of the girl. It is the foundation for her social training, and in it she learns how to become a good friend, a good neighbor, and a good citizen. It is the place where her social instincts are being born and fashioned. The gang certainly conserves in its members traits of vital consequence. From the outset we find loyalty, fidelity, self sacrifice and co-operation working hand in hand. These virtues mean “the gang” for without them the gang could not exist. In the gang are constant evidences of loyalty and fidelity, to individuals, to the group and to ideals.

In each phase of gang life the social virtues are practiced and reinforced, traits of character are being developed, and the girl is expanding mentally, physically, and morally.

Officers

Rules

Table Showing Results Of Study

37 gangs had officers Of these 19 gangs had 1 officer 12 gangs had 2 officers 6 gangs had 3 officers 5 gangs had no officers.

42 gangs had rules as to 42 gangs had rules as to 41 gangs had rules as to .. 37 gangs had rules as to 23 gangs had rules as to .

29 gangs had rules as to . 21 gangs had rules as to ..

Truth

Loyalty

Honor

Fairness

Sticking up for one another.

Doing duties .Paying dues

Digitized by

Google
119

Meeting Place

31 gangs met any place 11 gangs had regular meeting places

Times Of Meeting

39 gangs met every day 3 gangs met 3 times a week

Initiation

42 gangs had no method of initiation

Duration

16	gangs	lasted	one	summer

12	gangs	lasted	one	year

9	gangs	lasted	two	years

5	gangs	lasted	three years

Age Limits

21 gangs had members ...........11 to 14 years old

1 gang had members.............16 years	old

12	gangs had members...........8	to	12	years	old

7	gangs had members...........8	to	13	years	old

1 gang had members.............8	to	14	years	old.

ACTIVITIES

42 gangs .......................Running games

28 gangs .......................Organized games

33	gangs ......................Industrial activities

42 gangs .......................Nature walks

42 gangs .......................Fighting

24	gangs ......................Plaguing people.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

The Boy and His Gang: J. Adams Puffer; Houghton, Miffln Co., Boston, New York, and Chicago, 1912.

Socializing for the New Order: James Franklin Page; Augustana College, Rock Island, Illinois, 1919.

The Adolescent Girl: Winifred Richmond; The Macmillan Co., New York, 1925.

Boys' Clubs: Berheimer and Cohen; The Baker & Taylor Co., New York, 1914

These Girls of Ours: Mary Roberts Rinehart; Delineator Magazine, De-cemebr, 1924.

The GIRL and Her Chance: H. M. Daniels; Fleming H. Revell Co., New York and Chicago, 1914.

Study of Forty-two Girl Gangs, reports of which I received by personal interviews and letters.

Digitized by LaOOQle
120

CONVENTION OF THE AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION

Des Moines la., April 13-16, 1927

A report by Emil Rath.

I believe that everyone who attended this convention will agree that it ranks with the best of the conventions of the A. P. E. A. in the last ten years. Between seven hundred and eight hundred teachers of physical education were present. There were excellent speakers on the program, who presented interesting and worth-while material of sufficient variety to suit the members in general.

The general topic was "Teaching Methods”. The interesting list of speakers was headed by Dr. W. H. Burton, Professor of Education, University of Chicago, who spoke on “Some Principles of General Methods Applied to Physical Education”. Some of the points that he emphasized will be of interest.

“As far as general methods are concerned, there is no need of differentiating between the regular and special subject. Whereas the subject matter determines the goal, the method determines how nearly and how well you achieve that goal. Whereas formerly only direct results were striven for, it is well known now that any learning situation involves not only an acquisition of the thing set out to learn, but many other associated concomitant results as well. In physical education, direct objectives are easy to obtain, but there are opportunities for highly desirable associated concomitant results.”

In addition to these points, Dr. Burton enumerated two prihciples involved in this kind of learning. First “learning takes place best (if not only) under conditions of attention and interest.” He elaborated this with Tom Sawyer’s application of motivating interest. “If attention and interest are lacking, associated concomitant learning and often the direct learning is missing. Whereas, older pupils mostly work because of the results they seek, younger children are spurred on by rivalry and social approval.” The second principle made the statement that learning of this kind is best attended by imitation of the model, and by trial and error method. In connection with this, the question arises whether guidance may be given in presenting physical activities. Are there steps to follow? Here a teacher is apt to fall victim to a too formal, rigid and arbitrary procedure.

There are four phases of this method of procedure, which however, should be kept very flexible. First, the model presentation; second, the imitation by the pupil; third, the criticism by the instructor; and fourth, drill. The teacher should set the model. It should be prepared with the assistance of the pupil, whose co-operation helps to arouse interest. The activity should

Digitized by VjOO^lC
121

be looked upon as being the "show” of the pupils and not the “show” of the teacher. The activities should not be shown in parts, if piece-meal performance is needed, until the pupil has seen the setting as a whole.

Demonstration is always superior to verbal discussion. In connection with imitation, it is necessary to know how much trial and error should be permitted. This will depend upon the nature of the mistake. To make a new mistake is not as harmful as to repeat a mistake. Of course, disastrous mistakes must be avoided, and if the pupil can not find the correct form himself, the instructor, in order to save time and effort, must give the essential suggestion.

Criticism is very helpful, but it should not expose the knack involved in the learning process. It should help the pupil to find it.

Very little time was devoted to drill, which the speaker felt was so important that it would serve as subject for an entire lecture. Dr. Burton’s remarks were received with great appreciation.

Dr. Burton was followed by Dr. Williams, of Teachers College, Columbia University, who spoke on "Some Aspects of Method in Physical Education”. Dr. Williams’ paper was most interesting. He began by comparing the narrow and broader view of physical education, the first of which is exemplified by the special methods as applied to dancing and gymnastic games. These are lacking in political, economical, and social influence and background as compared with the broader view, which strives to solve modern problems of civilization, human happiness, leisure time. The narrow view-point leads to routine performance and prevents the introduction of new ideas; there is no experimentation.

Three types of learning are achieved according to the method applied. First, motor learning, which illustrates the status quo and the rigidity of the special method. Second, ideas associated with learning. Here too, we may have the narrow type of teaching foot positions, lunges, etc., or such wider views as are related to training the body to increase muscular agility, bouyancy, etc. Third, attitudes and appreciation. It is the attitude that will influence the continuation of muscular activity that is desirable.

The narrow view of method exmphasizes such things as alignment, execution, technique. The broader view of physical education places emphasis on experimentation, ideas associated with the activities. It strives for the development of character and personality. Attitudes in physical education may he good or worthless. They may be useful or useless, even harmful, in life. They must be exercises in several fields and correlated with many subjects.

Dr. Williams then went into detail in a rather lengthy discussion, pointing out, among other things, that a jud^imnt of an activity and the activity may not be the same. [Many at-

Digitized by VjOOv LvT
122

titudes associated with it were listed. The attitude of courtesy, not to be confused with sympathy; the attitude of self criticism; the attitude of win and lose fairly, and many others were mentioned. The paper was very much enjoyed and very well received and will be worthy of careful reading when published.

It is to be regretted that these papers were not followed by discussion. No doubt, many of the audience would have liked to ask questions. The procedure of presenting two lengthy papers at a session, as was done at the Des Moines convention is to be preferred to the method used in Newark last year, where each session was taken up with a number of short papers.

The afternoon session consisted of the following sectional meetings: The Men’s Athletic Section, Women’s Athletic Section, Normal School Section, Municipal Recreation Section, Therapeutic Section, Y. M. & Y. W. C. A. Section, and at five o’clock in the afternoon, the Women’s Division of the N. A. A. P. met.

At the Men’s Athletic Section, Mr. L. W. Olds, Associate Professor of Physical Education and Track Coach of the Michigan State Normal College, Ypsilanti, spoke on arousing interest in track athletics. He suggested means and ways of interesting a greater number of students by having inter-squad, inter-class inter-fraternity, and inter-collegiate meets. He also suggested the use of awards such as letter, monograms, trophies, and ribbons, so as to interest all the student body in athletics and not only a few stars.

Dr. Williams again took part in the program. Following Mr. Olds, he spoke on “The Sources and Data of Principles of Physical Education”. A hurried resume covered the pre-historic period with the shaping of the child’s mind for acquiring understanding and training its intelligence to handle the body thoroughly and in the necessary skills needed for the primitive life, on to the Greeks, the Romans, and the Middle Ages.

Then followed a comparison of the early American physical education, with the circus performer and the boxer prevailing as instructors, followed by commercialized physical culture, with the modem physical education with its scientifically and socially minded instructor. Physical education as part of education has, in common with education, certain principles dedicated to the service of mankind and to social needs. These are based on scientific foundations on the facts of man’s need, on biology, kinesiology, psychology and physiology. Physical education in its broader sense is to satisfy the inner urge of mankind, not purely for muscle-building or for posture. The lecture was instructive and very much enjoyed.

The address delivered by Dr. D. W. Morehouse, President of Drake University, was very inspirational. He spoke on “Do Athletics Belong to the School or to the Community?” E[is remarks indicated that Athletics tend to pull themselves away from the school and set themselves up as a separate commercial commodity. Athletics bring their own reward and it is not necessary to accept the sop of commerciali§n^.zed The present tendency
123

is for Athletics to draw away from the school, to the detriment of the school. Dr. Morehouse urges careful consideration of the present trend by directors of physical education, advice which I believe they should take to heart.

Dr. Florence Bamberger spoke Friday morning on “The Place of Physical Education in Building Up a Wholesome Personality”. “Children should be made to desire and appreciate those mores and group customs which we have set up. Not only knowledge is at the bottom of what we do, but very much emotion, and mostly habit. The only information that is valid is that which comes from generalization by the children from their own experience. Children make their own laws and principles. Children should make the program for the day. The child and the teacher should decide upon the temperature and upon all other things, such as light and ventilation, poster work, book work. The generalization consists of thinking the thing through, swinging authority frbm the outside to the inside. Each child must set up for himself certain mores. The teacher is merely a help and a guide. It is scarcely possible for us women to see how any number of men can get excited from watching mannikins moving about on a score-board such as is done to illustrate base ball games.”

"The- Possibility of Research in Physical Education” by

F.	B. Knight, Associate Professor of Physical Education, University of Iowa, was an interesting paper on research.

“Research raises doubts about many thjngs that educators, particularly physical educators, have laid claims to.” Some illustrations were given.

“Two thousand pupils who had taken part hi various physical activities were placed opposite two thousand who had not had this training ih a test on character values obtained from physical education. For six years two thousand had been exposed to various types of physical activities, while the others had not. Both groups had the same I. Q. At the end of six years thirty-six character tests were given. The physical education group scored 141.8. The other gibup scored 141.8. If this training does contribute towards character growth it is so subtle that no one can find it when looking for it. Research made as to the permanence of health habits established, ih which a group of sixty thousand men over forty years of age were studied, half of which had been exposed to twelve years of health and physical educatibn, while the other half had not followed these activities, gave the following results: The thirty thousand exposed to physical education ate too much at forty. The other group of thirty thousand also ate too much at forty. Twenty thousand of the P. E. group played thirty-six holes of golf every week, averaging eighty-eight strokes. Twenty thousand of the non-P. E. group also played thirty-six holes of golf and made a round in eighty-seven strokes. Twenty-five thousand of the P. E. group smoked cigarets and the same number of the other group. Twelve thousand of the ^1z|?fc £rptjp)<»4^d Physical
124

Culture magazines, as did the same number of the other group.

Very frequently the objectives of physical education are , principally hopes and desires. Many of them are unattainable. One should have not hopes and wishes, but few and simple objectives that one knows one can attain. Many objectives and aims are ruined by the cold, unfeeling facts of research.

In the Women’s Athletics Section, the first paper was on “The Development of Intramural Athleti.es for College Women” by Miss Pauline Hodgson, University of Michigan. An outline of her presentation is as follows:

I	Use of zone system.

A. Teams representing sororities or similar organizations and proportionate number of teams to represent various dormitories.

1.	This brought out the largest representation the university had ever had.

2.	Developed “gang” spirit.

II	Use of independent system

A. Tried with some success, but doubtful if it could be better than zone system.

1.	Any group of girls might organize and get name —then enter the tournament in any event.

The discussion by Miss Monica Wild brought out some interesting ideas in regard to the merits of the above systems. Several directors had tried both and found the independent system best, limiting each team to one member of the “honor group” of athletes, thus dividing the ability. Many of the others however, still seemed much in favor of the teams representing the organizations, because of the developed spirit of loyalty.

The next paper was entitled “What Is A Girls’ Athletic Program in an Elementary School?” by Miss Mary E. Gross, University of Washington. The points enumerated in her paper were as follows:

I.	Varying status of athletics in elementary schools which represent various steps of progress made in past twenty-five years.

A.	Program developed from the college and university down through the educational system.

B.	The school gradually taking over the functions of the home.

II.	Various factors in the p/ogram.

A.	Time and schedule. Progress represented by:

1.	After-school program.

2.	Teaching of athletics in class periods.

3.	All phases of competition within school hours.

B.	Activities.

1.	Imitation of high school activities.

2.	Study of physiological age, chronological age, instinct tendencies and adaptation to these needs.

Digitized by VjOOQIC
125

3.	Study of invidual differences in athletics and adaptation of activities.

4.	Methods of measuring achievement and progress.

C.	Leadership.

1.	Activities taught by grade teacher.

2.	Program directed by trained leader.

D.	Use made of activities.

1.	After-school recreation for a few.

2.	Activities reward for work well done.

3.	Activities inherent part of the physical education program.

4.	Activities means of teaching health.

5.	Activities means of creating situations.

6.	Activities as a means of realizing some of the main objectives in education.

Ill	Indications of future development.

A.	Time. Program including group competition and mass participation in the school day and class room program.

B.	Activities. Course of study will be planned with more regard to the ability and backgrounds of the individuals.

1.	Too many courses are taken blindly from books.

2.	Courses will be consecutive and progressive as regards grades. There will be more study regarding activities children can actually use in leisure time.

C Leadership.

1.	Leaders of children rather than leader of activities the crying need.

2.	The leader is the program, (as the councillor is the camp).

3.	Need of a more selective process in professional training institutions.

4.	Development in teacher training institutions for better “laboratory methods” in the leadership of children’s activities.

D.	Use made of activities.

1.	Complete freedom from exploitation.

2.	More intelligent use of the competitive spirit and its redirection into socially valuable channels.

3.	The development of love of games and sports per se. a. Dewey’s philosophy of education—the importance and permanence of attitudes, tastes, appreciations, and ideals.

4.	The probable effect on required physical education

in colleges and universities.

E.	More scientific means of determining the social values accruing from th$»zj^jt@£^§gle
126

In leading this discussion Miss Gertrude Stange suggested, as a practical way of carrying out a program of athletics for girls, the organization of an elementary playground so that every child had a place to play and a definite game to play. Teaching the technique of the game during the physical training periods so the mass would understand, and then giving time out of school for participation.

She also suggested the “color” organization so that all members of the schools are members of one or the other “color” team, and thus will be interested in the constant competition of the two groups in the school.

Some schools might also have class competition, or home room tournaments.

Special stress was laid on the use of activities to develop desirable qualities of character. Also that games should be taught with the special aim of giving the child such a love for it that that game will be played at home or after school years are over.

----------------------------------------------------

News, notes and comments

....	—♦

BACK TO NATURE—CAVE HOUSES.

“To escape the vagaries of bad weather, we might start an underground civilization aided by modern ventilation and up-to-date electrical apparatus,” is the almost weird suggestion attributed by W. S. Currier, head of the U. S. Weather Bureau, Toledo.

Mr. Currier is quoted as saying that:

“Folks in scores of American cities of the future may drive on underground roads, live in underground homes, and work in underground offices as a result of the development of the science of ventilation of electrical air control.

“That will be one way of getting away from the vagaries of bad weather and solving the congestion problem in big centers of population. It would assure a supply of clean air in these subterranean passages, which was more than the cave dwellers of several thousand years ago had,” he pointed out.

“Men juggle temperature and humidity around like so many balls, and create lake breezes by powerful fan machinery, but I doubt that they can manufacture weather for the great outdoors. Of course, wonders have been accomplished within buildings, but artificially-created rain, man-produced sunshine or snow, at command, is a challenge that is ridiculous.

“In Toledo and all over the middle west, in spite of complaints about the heat, the summer average is slightly below normal. The average temperature has been 71.0 degrees F. and

Digitized by * ^.oogie
127

normal is 71.1 degrees. June was four degrees below normal; July 0.04 degrees below, and August 1.90 degrees above.

"The moisture in the air, or humidity, drops as the day progresses if the sun is shining. Of course, the capacity of the air to hold moisture goes up with the temperature. And air takes up more space as its temperature rises. An ideal climate, other things being equal, would be a temperature at 85 degrees and relative humidity below 50. Air motion plays a big part.

"Moisture is good for vegetation, but not so good for animal life. The lake regions, naturally, have more moisture in the air than other sections of the country. Moisture brings about the sticky feeling. People often don't realize it's hot until the thermometer reminds them."

COLDS

“Dr. D. F. Smiley of Cornell University, after an investigation of common colds among the students of that school, concluded that it is impossible to prove that overexercise, cold baths, loss of sleep, drafts, kind of underwear worn, mouth breathing, the kind of shoes worn in wet weather, sweating after exercising, or the removal of tonsils or adenoids are factors in catching cold.

"More recently Dr. William H. Barrow of Stanford University concluded after a study of colds in that institution that the various systems of heating such as coal stoves, steam heat, gasoline, oil stoves or no heat at all did not seem to influence in any way the number of colds caught by the students. He also found that students caught cold just as easily whether they slept on a sleeping porch, in a well ventilated room or a poorly ventilated room.

"Finally, his statistics showed that persons who came to California from other climates has just as many colds in Cal-fomia as when they were at home. In other words, climate is not a factor of great importance in the catching of a cold." —Hygeia.

Doctor George H. Bigelow, State Commissioner of Health of Massachusetts, writing recently in the Bulletin of Health of that State said that "This seems to be the year of multiple hygienes. With the development of health education and the emphasis on the health examination we hear of hygiene of the mind, the skin, the hair, the teeth, the bowels, the feet, posture and so on. Also we are seldom allowed to forget social hygiene or industrial hygiene. It is all very hygienic and confusing and we hardly know where to begin, or, what may be worse, where to stop. There is much in all of this that is sound and much that is unmitigated bunk.” To which sentiments we v/ish to echo a loud Amen.—N. Car. Bulletin.

Digitized by VjOOy LC
128

A Boston pediatrician, F. H. Richardson, in the Kindergarten and First Grade Magazine, remarks that “the faultiest of all faulty habits indulged in by many children is nothing more nor less than undue indulgence in school attendance.” In many of his own patients shortening their hours of attendance has resulted in more than a gain in health, for they were able to take more interest in their studies and did better work educationally with the shorter hours. In the lower grades the child’s capacity for work is exhausted in 3 hours or less, and to urge him to work thereafter is as ineffectual as trying to persuade a horse to drink when he is not in the mood for so doing.

The department of education of Japan has established a research institute of physical education and has ruled that running, jumping, throwing, and other athletic sports shall be taught in all elementary schools. A staff of 195 supervisors and instructors is to be employed this year.

BOOK REVIEWS

“Source Book in Health and Physical Education,” by

Thomas D. Wood and Clifford L. Brownell. Macmillan, 1925. 590 pp.

The aim of this book is to present in convenient form a range and variety of source materials in the field of hygiene and physical education, selection from the books of a large number of writers. It is expected by the authors that students and teachers will be helped to become acquainted with the background of health and physical education by a study of the large number of quotations included within the volume. Something over 200 books, pamplets and reports are included in the selection presented. The quotations have been selected and grouped under some 18 headings, including “historical,” “biologic and physiologic value,” “sportsmanship,” morale,” “prevention of war,” “racial progress and eugenics,” “qualifications and training of teachers,” “tests and measurements,” etc., etc. Definite effort has been made to present a great variety of views that have had some prominence and influence at different periods. The book should compel the reader and student either independently or with the aid of a teacher to think for himself and to formulate his own ideas, opinions, and conclusions—L. A. Averill.

“Health Supervision and Medical Inspection of Schools,”

by Thomas D. Wood and Hugh G. Rowell. Octavo of 637 pages, with 243 illustrations. W. B. Saunders Company, 1927. Cloth $7.50 net.

This large volume has been preapred to meet the needs of a thoroughly practical and comprehensive program of health supervision in the schools. The 21 chapters are devoted to a discussion of the physical and mental health ^of^mupils in the
129

schools, together with the necessary procedures to determine whether the child is healthy or not; diagnosis of disease for the physician; health diagnosis for the teacher; methods of examination; various standards of schools and school authorities relative to ascertaining and maintaining the health of pupils; procedures in the school and by the school in relation to pupils, homes, health authorities and the community to bring about the best obtainable treatment and correction of health defects; ways and means of minimizing as far as possible the limitations of handicapped children; etc., etc. Among the chapter headings are included: “The organization of a school system for health work,” "Cost of health supervision and how it is to be paid for,” “Control of communicable disease,” “Health examinatons,” “Dental clinics in school buildings,” “Special classes,” “Children with orthopedic defect," “Health supervision of teachers,” “Mental and social hygiene,” “Hygiene of instruction," "Health publicity,” “Health supervision and care of the pre-school child,” “The health of the child in industry,” etc.—L. A. Averill.

“Children of Grizzly How They Learned the Secrets of Health,” by Sadye Madalene Hageman in collaboration with Alfred Oswald Shedd. World Book Company, 1927. 176 pp. $1-00

In making use of a child’s natural interest in Indian life and lore this book aims to give a new approach to the study of health in elementary grades. The title of the book is derived from a legend which makes the Indian race “children of Grizzly”. The experience of two Indian children while attending a modem Indian school form the basis of the story, while interwoven with the narrative are legends and tales of Indian life and adventure. Each chapter of the book de/elops one or more important health principles, which are brought home to the children by various devices at the end of the chapter. There are questions, topics, for discussion, and individual projects to do. An original health club is also worked out called the Grizzly Bear Tribe. The book should serve to capture the interest of pupils who are begin-ing the study of health. The stories are new, the illustrations are equally original, and the author has the advantage in working out her attractive book, of having been for a number of years a teacher in an Indian school, where she learned to know the Indian and his legends and his ways of life.—L. A. Averill.

“Educational Hygiene” by Lawrence Augustus Averill, Ph. D., professor of education, Massachusetts State Normal School. Published by Houghton Mifflin Company, 1926; edited by Professor Ellwood P. Cubberly. 546 pages, 5 1-4” x 7 1-2”, bound in doth, price $2.60.

Professor Averill's contribution to educational hygiene is to be especially commended for its value to the classroom teacher. The introductory chapters “The Meaning and Importance of Health,” “The Teaching of Hygiene,” and “A Hygiene Outline by Grades” give the teacher an excellent viewpoint fqithe rest

Digitized byVjOOv 1C
130

of the book. Special mention should be made of the “teaching points," “topics for study and report," and the selected references at the end of each chapter.

The author’s viewpoint in teaching hygiene is quite sane, although we do not subscribe entirely to his “good citizenship" as the ultimate goal of health education. The subject of health is too individualistic to be entirely social in its aim. He states that “the acid test of every hygiene lesson taught in the schools might quite properly be this: "Does it point the way to good citizenship?” Surely, this is rather limited; insofar as we consider “health consciousness," freedom from preventable ailments, and an increasing appreciation and participation in the activities of life as implying more than civic efficiency.

An otherwise scholarly, valuable, and extensive presentation is marred by the meagemess of subject matter under the chapter “Hygiene of the Nervous System”. The simple values of sleep and rest are neglected and the bulk of the chapter is a discursive thesis on psychopathic manifestations which seem as far removed from hygienic practice as is the knowledge concerning the ramifications of the cochlea.

The book is well printed and indexed. It contains many valuable tables and illustrations, and should prove a welcome addition to the teacher’s book shelf.—Howard L. Conrad.

<> 1 <

G YMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUN D

---------------------------------------------------------

APPARATUS EXERCISES

Eastern Circuit, American Gymnastic Union

Men— Upper Grade

Horizontal Bar

Side stand, jump to hang upper grip and immediate hip overswing backward; at end of forward swing squat through and back kip to balance support; drop backward squat forward and kip to free support; free hip circle backward to one giant circle then cross right hand over left and at end of forward swing turn swing stem to free support to high underswing with one-half turn to mixed grip and back stem, changing to upper grip and free hip circle backward to stand.

Parallel Bars

Running start. Jump to upper arm hang, swing and upper arm roll backward to bent arm inverted support. Straighten arms lowering body, intermediate swing and hand stand. Return and dip swing forward with one-half turn left to straight arm cross support. Drop backward to upper arm kipping position and kip to upper arm stand. Four-quarter straight roll forward to upper arm stand, roll forward again and swing stem at end

Digitized by

Google
131

of backward swing to straight arm cross support. Forward swing and double leg swing backward outside of right bar with one-half turn right to cross support. Swing to hand stand and turn over right sideward (around the depth axis) to cross stand right tideways.

Long Horse

The long stoop vault, support on neck. (Straight legs.)

Men	—IntermediateGrade

Horizontal Bar

Swing kip. Hip circle backward. Drop kip. Hip circle forward. Swing off backward to one-half giant circle. Under swing with one-half turn to stand.

Parallel Bar

Running start, jump to upper arm hang middle bar. Kip to upper arm stand. Roll forward and back up rise to support. Drop backward to upper arm kipping position. Straighten legs upward into upper-arm stand and immediate roll backward to kip position, kip forward, dip swing straightening arms end of forward swing.

Intermediate swing and rear vault right with one-half turn outward.

Long Horse

Long straddle vault, support on neck.

Seniors

Parallel Bars (4 feet high)

Cross stand frontways at bar end. Jump to cross support and swing legs forward to straddle seat in front of hands. Shoulder roll forward to straddle seat in front of hands. Change grip to straddle seat in rear of hands. Swing legs in backward, foreswing, and rear vault.

Women

Parallel Bars (high bar)

Run start. Jump to upper arm hang and raise legs to kipping position. Kip swing rise to straddle seat in front of hands. Grasp forward and upper arm roll forward (closing and opening legs) to straddle seat in front of hands. Pass left leg backward and between bars then over right bar moving right hand to left bar to side support lying position. Feint right between bars and quarter turn right to straddle seat in front of hands. Swing legs in and front vault right.	________

Side Horse.

Jump to support on pommel, circle left leg clockwise under left right and left hands and scissors right with one-quarter turn left to riding seat on croup. Undergrip left hand on near pommel upper grip right far pommel swing left leg backward and come to support. Continue left leg under ri^it and left hands (counter clockwise) and dismount backward with one-quarter turn left to stand right sideways.

Digitized by vjOOQlC
132

MAT EXERCISES AND STUNTS (Continued)

By Mathias H. Macherey

LESSON FOUR GRADE 7	SECTION 1

1	Prone lying on mat, crosswise, hands at sides. Roll sideward twice. Place, hands on mat - and push up to support lying frontways. 1-4 turn right to support lying sideways. Return. Jump feet forward to squat stand. Position.

2	Jump in place with leg straddling and arm flinging sideward on upward jump. On landing close feet and lower arms. Repeat several times.

3	Roll forward to squat stand. Jump forward in squat position

4	Roll backward to stand. Hitch kick (Take two steps forward left right; kick left leg forward at the same time jump right. Kick right as high as possible, returning left leg).

LESSON FOUR GRADE 7	SECTION 2

1	Roll forward to stand. Fall forward to support lying position. Straddle forward to seat. Roll backward to stand.

2	Cartwheel. Round off. Fall backward with flexed hips and roll backward to stand.

3	Prone lying on mat, crosswise, hands at sides. Roll sideward twice, change to support lying position frontways. 1-4 turn left to support lying sideways. In this position walk around in a circle. Position.

4	Round off. Bend the crab (assistance) Return. Hand stand. Return.

LESSON FOUR

GRADE 7	SECTION 3

1	Roll forward to stand. Headstand. Return. Horizontal balance sideward right. Right arm upward, left arm at side. Return.

2	Round off. Fall backward with flexed hips, roll backward to handstand and snap down.

3	Handspring over rolled up mat.

4	Round off. Bend the crab. Kick legs over to stand.

LESSON FOUR

GRADE 6	SECTION 1

1	Roll forward to squatstand. Hands on hips. Jump forward off the mat.

2	Roll forward to squatstand. Roll forward to seat. Lower backward with leg lifting and lowering toward head.

Return to stand.

3	Sit on mat. Roll backward to squatstand. (Keep chin well in, do not strike back of head against mat) Walk off with bent knees (Duck walk)

Digitized by
138

4	Supine lying on mat, crosswise, hands at sides. Rolling sideward twice. Roll backward to stand.

LESSON 4

GRADE 6	SECTION	2

1	Roll forward to squatstand. Headstand (with assistance).

2	Roll backward to straddle stand. Raise arms upward and bend backward with assistance. Return.

3	Sit on mat, legs apart, grasp ankles. Circular roll right (Fall sideward to rest on right flank, roll on back from right to left flank, spread legs upward while rolling and come to sitting position. During this movement, the body executes part of a circle.

4	Roll forward to stand. Horizontal balance, right leg up, arms sideward. With jump, change to horizontal balance on other foot.

LESSON FOUR

GRADE 6	SECTION	3

1	Cartwheel twice.

2	Headstand. Return. Attempt handstand.

3	Round off. (Cartwheel with 1-4 turn toward starting place) Roll backward to stand.

4	Bend the crab (Assistance if necessary) Return.

5	Roll forward to stand on right foot. Horizontal balance, arms sideward. With jump change feet.

LESSON FOUR GRADE 8	SECTION 1

1	Two girls form wheelbarrow. A down on hands, legs apart, B grasp A’s ankles and lifts. Both walk off. Opposite.

2	Leap frog. One girl stoops forward. The other girl straddle jumps over her back. Opposite.

3	Sit legs apart, hands grasp ankles. Circular roll, fall sideward left, roll over back to right and sit up. Repeat several times. Stand. Raise left leg forward, jump over left leg with 1-2 turn left.

Fall forward to support lying position, walk off in this position.

LESSON FOUR

GRADE 8

1 Stand at side of mat facing same.

SECTION 2

Fall forward to support turn right to support

Roll backward Walk forward. Raise body

lying frontways. Continuous 1-2 lying rearways and frontways.

Round off. Fall backward with flexed hips, to straddle stand. Bend crab, to stand.

Headstand. Moving backward, first advancing the head, then follow with the hands and repeat several times. Handstand and turn over to crab, with assistance. 1-2 turn right by placing left foot over right and moving right arm With th6 turn. Stnnd.	Digitized by Google
184

LESSON|FOUR

GRADE 8

Round of!. Bend the crab.

SECTION 3 Kick legs over to

Return

Cartwheel, stand.

Walking forward in headstand as in Ex. 3, Section 2. to stand. Handspring forward.

Sit, lower backward to lie on shoulderblades and neck, hands on mat alongside of head. Kick legs forward, upward, push with hands and land on feet. (Assistants push at shoulders) This is called “Snap up”.

Handspring forward. Roll forward to squat. Roll backward to rest on neck and shoulderblades, lift legs “Snap Up”.

MODEL DRILL FOR 30 MEN AND WOMEN Tactics and Free Exercises

By Wm. P. Beyer.

Class marches to one long rank across rear of field 30 abreast.

On command, “Forward March”’ each member makes a 1-4 turn left, on successive counts of 1-3-5, etc., ending on left side of field in one long rank in 60 counts, 1-4 turn left 61-62, another 1-4 turn left 63-64.

All guide left, cross arms with partners, and 1-4 wheel to the left ending on the front of field 60 counts, 1-4 turn left 61-62, 1-4 turn left 63-64.

Repeat 1-4 wheel to the left in its entirety in 64 counts with turn.

Entire class forward march—women march forward 16 steps, left about face and return 16 steps; men march forward 8 steps left about face, march forward 8 steps, left about face, march forward 8 steps, left about face, march forward 8 steps, returning to one long rank with women, then entire class 1-4 turn left— 1-2, 1-4 turn left—3-4, then in ranks of sixes 1-4 wheel right in 8 counts—5-12, then open ranks by side stepping left to the count of 1-2-3-4 for each member.

Groupings

NO 1.

After Part One, all lines move toward the center andftake the following pose:

(Dark figures represent men. 3 men and 3 women in each group)

Digitized by * boogie
135

NO. 2

After Part Two, 1st and 2nd lines move to left side of stage, 4th and 5th lines to right side of stage, center line remains in center, all take the following pose:





NO. 3

After Part Three, lines form as follows: (all lines repeat Pose. 1)

No. 1

No. 2	No.	3.

No.4	No.5

NO. 4

• After Part Four, entire class forms the closing tableau as follows:

All groups are formed in the following manner:

16 counts to your place, 8 counts to form pose, 16 counts to

Digitized by

Google
136

hold, 8 counts to take down, and 16 counts to return to original place.

Men’s Exercises

Part No. 1 No. 1

A.	Lay out backward left, arm sideways—left and right ....	1

B.	Move trunk backward, bend left knee, left hand at left

shoulder, right arm diagonally up forward, look at right hand ...................................2-3-4

C.	Take both arms in a circle movement downward and,

backward, turning trunk toward rear, right hand at shoulder, left arm diagonally up forward .......5-8

D.	Both arms in a circle movement downward and upward to outstretched position diagonally left and right, kneel

on left knee, face front.............................9-12

E.	Raise off of knee to “A” position ..................13-14

F.	Arms down sideways to fundamental position .........15-16

G.	Repeat all of the above to the right ...............17-32

NO. 2

A.	1-4 turn left, step forward left, left arm diagonally for-

ward upward, right arm diagonally downward—backward .............................................. 1

B.	Step forward right, change arm position ................. 2

C.	Lunge forward left, left hand behind head, right hand

behind waist........................................... 3-4

D.	Straighten and 1-4 turn to the front, jump to cross foot

stand, arms up to chest, palms down...................... 5

E.	Jump to straddle position, arms left and right .......... 6

F.	Jump to “D” position .................................... 7

G.	Jump to fundamental position, arms at side .............. 8

H.	Repeat from “A” to “G" exercise No. 2—part 1 to

the right .............................................9-16

I.	Repeat from “A” to "H” exercise No. 2—part 1—left

and right.............................................17-32

NO. 3

A.

Hands on hips, 2 glides forward left, one glide hop forward on left foot, throw arms sideways left and right on 3—hop high on 4 .................................... 1_4

B.	Lunge forward right, right arm diagonally up forward,

left arm diagonally down backwards.................... 5	_g

C.	1-2 turn left, touch step forward left, arms forward ..... 7

D.	To fundamental position, arms forward	down............... g

E.	Repeat "A" to “D” exercise No. 3—part 1—again going forward.......................................... 9_lg

F.	Repeat "A” to “E” exercise No. 3—part 1—again going forward and backward.........................‘□gfe.......17-32

Digitized by *
1

137

Part I	Women’s	Exercises

No. 1

A.	Touch step forward left, hop on right, both arms in low

1st ..............................................

B.	Touch step backward left, hop on right, both arms in

amplified low ........................................... 2

C.	Step forward left, left arm diagonally up forward, right

arm diagonally down backward ............................ 3

D.	Step forward right, change arm position ................. 4

E.	Lunge forward left, left arm diagonally up forward,

right arm diagonally down backward .................... 5-6

P. 1-2 turn right, touch step forward right, arms forward ..	7

G.	Close right to left, arms forward down to side—fundamental position ......................................... 8

H.	Repeat “A” to "G” again going forward................. 9-16

I.	Repeat "A" to “H” completely to original position ....17-32

No. 2

Women do same exercise as Actives No. 2—Part 1......... 1-32

No. 3

A.	Lunge, forward left, left arm diagonally up forward,

right arm diagonally down back ...................... 1-2

B.	Bend trunk forward, both hands	on floor ............. 3-4

C.	Place left foot back to right foot—leaning rest ..... 5-6

D.	Raise left leg in air................................ 7-8

E.	Lower left leg....................................   9-10

F.	Draw left leg forward...............................11-12

G.	Take “A” position ................................. 13-14

H.	Close left to right, arms down to side—fundamental

position ...........................................15-16

I.	Repeat “A” to “H” start right ......................17-32

Men’s Exercises

Part No. 2

No. 1

A.	One glide hop forward left, clap hands, front of chest	.. 1 -2

B.	Step forward, right arm sideways, left and	right............ 3

C.	Lunge forward left, left arm diagonally up forward,

right arm diagonally down backward ......................... 4

D.	Bend left knee deep, arms sideways left and right, right

foot slides back and body lowers a trifle more on each count ............................................. 5-8

E.	Start rising a little on each count, let arms in side position, keep body bent forward at the waist, raise right

leg off of floor to horizontal position to the rear ..... 9-12

F.	1-2 turn to the right, lay out forward right, bend left

knee, arms forward ......................................13-14

G.	Arms down to side, close right to left foot	............15-16

H.	Repeat "A” to “G” of No. 1—part 2—starting left

again ............................................ 4...17-32

Digitized by

Google"
188

No. 2

A.	Step left, close right to left 1—2, arms sideways left

and right on 1—down on 2............................... 1-2

B.	Repeat “A” ............................................ 3-4

C.	Step left raising right leg to a balance stand, arms left

ana right.............................................. 5-6

D.	Lunge sideways right, one complete circle of arms down

to left and right...................................... 7-8

E.	1-4 turn to the right, stretch right knee, raise left foot

off of floor, right arm diagonally up forward, left arm diagonally down backward ........................ 9-10

F.	Lunge forward left, change arm position	.............11-12

G.	1-4 turn to the left, lay out right sideways, open hands

in front of chest, palms down.........................13-14

H.	To fundamental position, close right to left, arms down

to side ..............................................15-16

I.	Repeat from “A” to “H” of No. 2—Part 2—to the right ..17-32

No. 3

A.	Lunge sideways left, arms left and right	............... 1

B.	Let arms in this position but on counts 2, 3, 4, bend

knee a little deeper on each count......................2-3-4

C.	1-4 turn left, place finger tips on floor ............... 5-6

D.	Raise body and straighten left knee, right leg in hor-

zontal position, arms left and right..................... 7-8

E.	Return to "C” position ................................. 9-10

F.	1-4 turn right, arms side left and right ...............11-12

G.	Leave arms in this position, raise the body	a	trifle	on

each count of 13-14-15- ................................13-15

H.	Close left to right, fundamental position, arms side

downward.................................................. 16

I.	Repeat “A” to “H” of No. 3—part 2—to	the	right....17-32

Women’s Exercises

Part No. 2 No. 1

A.	Taking hands through 1st to 2nd, to 1st, to 5th, then

both arms outstretched over head diagonally out palms in, look up at hands.........................  1-4

B.	Lay out left backward, 3-4 arm circle inward, to side

left and right ......................................... 5-6

C.	Lunge forward left, left arm diagonally up forward,

right arm diagonally down	backward ..................... 7-8

D.	Stretch left knee, raise both arms to 5th position

through shortest direction,	point	step rear right...... 9-12

E.	Lunge backward right, 3-4 arm circle inward to left

and right..............................................13-14

F.	With a forward swing close left to right, arms side

down ..................................................15-16

G.	Repeat “A” to "F” of No. 1—Part 2— start right--------17-32

Digitized by VjOOVJLv,
139

No. 2

Women start with arms in 2nd position, swing to lateral position on step swing .............................

A.	One 2 step circle left, one step swing to the left, one

step swing to the right, step left and lunge sideways right, arms left and right........................   1-8

B.	1-4 turn to the right, stretch right knee, raise left foot

off of floor, right arm diagonally up forward, left arm diagonally down backward ...........................9-10

C.	Lunge forward left, change arm position ...............11-12

D.	1-4 turn to the left, lay out sideways right, open hands

in front of chest, palms down..........................13-14

E.	To fundamental position, close right to left, arms down

to side .............................................  15-16

F.	Repeat “A” to “E”—No. 2—part 2—to the right............17-32

No. 3

A.	1-4 turn to the left and work around back of partner

one step hop left, with clapping hands..................  1-2

B.	Step right, then step left, with arms in 2nd position,

palms upward............................................  3-4

C.	Repeat in same direction starting with right foot ....... 5-8

D.	Turning towards rear of class one step hop with turn 1-2, one step swing complete turn, one step hop another turn, step right and close left to right, finishing in original position.

When starting “D” left arm is in 5th, right in 2nd— rather low and change arms with progress of step in natural way, ending in original position with arms in 2nd position ............................................ 9-16

E.	Repeat “A” to “D”—No. 3-Part 2-to the same side........17-32

Men’s Exercises

Part No. 3 No. 1

A.	Jump to straddle position, arms sideways, palms down 1

B.	Swing hands down to a crossed wrist position, both

arms stretched down, both hands closed in a fist..........  2

C.	With a strong upward obliquely and backward movement swing both fists upward and obliquely outward .... 3-4

D.	Bend trunk diagonally forward left, bend left .knee

slightly, knuckles of fists on floor ......................  5-6

E.	Straighten and take “C” position .......................     7-8

F.	Bend to the right and take “D” position ................... 9-10

G. Take "C” position ..........................................  11-12

H.	Bend trunk forward, bend both knees slightly, place

knuckles of both hands on floor........................    13-14

I.	jump to closed feet position, arms sideways left and right, open palms down..................BWyG©Ogte----------------
140

. 16 17-32

J.	Arms side downward .........

K.	Repeat “A" to “J"—No. 1—part 3

No. 2

Repeat entire No. 2—of part 1 ................. 1-32

No. 3

A.	Step forward left, left arm diagonally up front, right

arm diagonally down backward ............................. 1

B.	Step forward right, right arm diagonally up front, left

arm diagonally down backward ............................. 2

C.	Lunge forward left, arm position same as “A”............ 3-4

D.	Change to right bend knee position, right hand at right

shoulder, left obliquely forward upward (shot put position) ........................................... 5-6

E.	Lunge forward right as putting the shot ................ 7-8

F.	1-2 turn to the left, touch step forward left, both arms

forward, palms inward...................................9-10

G.	Lay out back left, both arms obliquely down backward 11-12

H.	Lunge forward left, arm position same as “A”...........13-14

I- Close right foot to left, arms sideways left and right ....	15

J.	Arms side downward to fundamental position .............. 16

K.	Repeat all of “A” to “J”—No. 3—part 3..................17-32

Women’s Exercises

Part No. 3 No. 1

A.	Repeat dance step of No. 1—Part 1................. 1-32

No. 2

A.	One large step forward left, both arms forward ......

B.	Close right to left, both arms down at side..........

C.	Jump to straddle position, arms sideways left and right 3, left hand on hip, right hand up in air—palm inward..

D.	Bend trunk and knee diagonally forward to the left,

place right finger tips on floor ....................

E.	Straighten body and trunk, left hand on hip, right

hand in air .........................................

F.	Change hand position.................................

G.	Take “D” position to the right ......................

H.	Straighten body and right hand on hip, left arm in air

I.	Place both hands on hips ............................

J.	Bend both knees, arms side left and right............

K.	Jump to fundamental position, arms down at side .....

L.	Jump to bent knee position, arms left and right .....

M.	Straighten knees, hands on hips......................

N.	Take arm position of “C”.............................

O.	Take “D” position of first part .....................

P.	Take "E” position of first part .....................

Q.	Take "F” position of first part ....,_eoogf(r........

1

2

3-4

5-6

7

8

9-10

11

12

13-14

15-16

17

18 19-20 21-22

23

24
141

R.	Take “D” position of first part to the right..............25-26

S.	Take “H” position of first part............................. 27

T.	Take “I” position of first part ............................ 28

U.	Bend both knees, arms left and right ....................... 29

V.	Jump to closed feet position, arms down at side ............ 30

W.	One large step back left, arms forward...................... 31

X.	Close right to left, arms down at side ..................... 32

No. 3

A.	Repeat all of dance step No. 2—Part 1. Women start with a 1-2 turn left on first count, doing the exercise towards the rear of class, then to the front, repeating to the rear then to the front............................ 1-32

Men’s Exercises

Part tyo. 4

No. 1

A.	Repeat entire No: 3 of part 1................... 1-32

No. 2

A.	Bend knees, both hands on floor ......................... 1

B.	Both legs back to front leaning rest 2,	3,	4........... 2-4

C.	Bend elbows, left foot high in air ...................  5-6

D.	Straighten elbows, left foot down ..................... 7-8

E.	Take “C” position, right foot in air ..................9-10

F.	Take “D” position ....................................11-12

G.	Draw both legs forward, heels together 13— ...........13-14

H.	Straighten knees, arms forward down to fundamental

position .............................................15-16

I.	Repeat all of "A” to “H” again .......................17-32

No. 3

With “A” 1-2 turn left. Men repeat entire exercise No. 2— part 1—going forward, making the turn each time on the first count.

Women’s Exercises

Part No. 4 No. 1

A.	Lunge forward left, arms forward, palms inward............. 1

B. Bring hands back to chest, palms down—2, hold 3-4 .... 2-4

C.	Go down to floor on right knee ............................ 5

D.	Arms diagonally upward and outward, look at hands

—6, hold 7-8 ............................................ 6-8

E.	Raise body to set position for running, finger tips on floor in the following manner—on your mark—on 9, get

set on 10, hold on 11 and 12 ........................... 9-12

F.	Straighten body to lunge position, hands to chest,

palms down .............................................13-14

Digitized by
15-16

17-32

142

G.	Close left to right foot, arms straight down .

H.	Repeat “A” to “G” No. 1—Part 4—to the right

No. 2

A. Two glides on left foot forward, arms 2nd position   1-2

B. Glide left and clap hands, in front of chest on.............. 3

C.	High hop on left, arms thrown out to 2nd position,

chest out ................................................. 4

D.	Step forward right—5, lunge forward left—6, hold 7-8 .. 5-8 taking arms from 2nd position through forward movement to left arm diagonally forward upward, right arm diagonally backward downward

E.	Straighten left knee, raise right foot off of floor, arms

side left and right................................. 9-12

F.	1-2 turn to the right, lay out forward right, arms forward ..............................................13-14

G.	To fundamental position, close right to left, arms forward down ....................................     15-16

H.	Repeat “A" to “G” No. 2-Part 4- again going forward .17-32

No. 3

Women and men will do same exercise No. 2-Part 1 . Men do exercise going forward, return, forward and return. Men do exercise 1-2 turn left on first count, then same as women.

All face front on 32nd count............................ 1-32

JOCKEY DANCE

Arranged by J. E. Schmidlin, Elizabeth, N. J.

Suitable for any number of participants formed in one or more circles as an outdoor Mass Dance.

Jockey Costume.

Music, “Nola”

Formation: Groups of four, three in front (Horses) and one in rear (Driver) the reins, of any colored material are placed over the shoulders and under the arms of the horses; the ends held by the driver. The reins are to be about 12 feet long and 4 inches wide.

Participants enter stage from right with short running steps lifting knees high, forming a circle to the left. When circle is formed, halt, then begin dance. All running steps are to be executed with lifting knees high. Horses place hands on hips during dance.

1.	Step with raising knees high, two counts for each step,

32 counts.

2.	Step with extended knees, swinging leg well forward, 32 counts

3.	Run around circle 32 steps; reverse line of direction turning

Digitized by VjOCJVLC
148

right 32 steps; reverse line of direction again, turning right on the last four counts of this movement execute a quarter turn left toward center, forming front circle facing center. Pose. Middle horse, arms to circle overhead and point left foot backward, outer horses kneel on outer knee extend inner leg diagonally forward and arms held diagonally, inner arm sw-up, outer arm sw-down. Driver holds reins high with left foot pointed backward, hold 32 counts.

4.	.Wheel right in line of direction and circle counter clockwise to rear of stage and form two or more columns to tije front of stage, with at least 10 feet of space between each column, halt.

5.	Run in place 1-8, tap left foot forward diagonally, body bent slightly over left foot, 9-16. Repeat 17-32 counts. Driver steps back with L foot pretending to tighten reins.

6. Run 8 steps in place 1-8, Step hop in place left and right 9-16 repeat 17-32 counts, Driver same as in 5.

7., Run in place 1-8, Schottische step left and right 9-16, repeat 17-32. Driver same as above.

8.	Horses kneel on right knee, extend left leg well forward 1-32 Driver Glide and step swing sw left and right 1-16, then hop four times on L foot and four times on R foot, halt holding other leg well back 17-32 counts.

Pose I

9.	Middle horse jump to side stride, grasping outer hands of partners.

Outside horses support inside hands on middle horses knees extending outer leg in horizontal position (side balance) both knees straight 1-32 counts.

Pose 2

10.	From 1st pose lower outer leg, bend inner knee, join inner hands with center.

Driver holds reins high and points left foot backward.

11 All run 8 steps in place 1-8, middle horse hop four times on left foot and four times on right foot 9-16, and repeat 17-32 Outside horses turn outward and run four small steps away from center, return to place turning inward not to rear 9-16; repeat 17-32 counts. Driver holds reins as above.

12.	Run in place 1-8, hop twice on left foot hold right leg bw., hop twice on right foot, hold left leg bw, 9-12, outstep four times Fw, Bw, Fw, Bw. 13-16, repeat 17-32 counts.

Driver same as above.

In all steps the driver also does the eight steps in place.

Final Pose

Middle horse stands with feet together grasping hands of outside horses, outside horses support outer hands on floor and brace feet against middle horse forming Fan.

Driver holds reins high and points left fqot^^q32 ^counts.
Style in the Gym—

A Gym class all togged out in PERFETEX uniforms is something worth while—PERFETEX clothing combines style and beauty with unusual wearing qualities. These features, not found in ordinary athletic clothing are well worth considering.

Before you decide on uniforms for this year’s requirements be sure to inspect our complete line. They are truly a better class of merchandise. There is a decided satisfaction in knowing all your classes are outfitted with PERFETEX—the best in athletic clothing.