MIND AND BODY

Vo I. 36	January, 1930 No.	383

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO.. NEW ULM. MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 8, 1879.

Qriginal articles and reprint§

PROGRESS IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Henry Panzer, President Panzer Col’.ege of Physical Education and Hygiene

Physical Education in Europe

During the past two summers I had the good fortune to observe and study the physical education programs in Europe. In 1928, I had the great honor of sitting as a member of the jury at the Olympic Games. I did not wait for the departure of the steamer that took the athletes and some of the officials over to Amsterdam, but sailed from the United States weeks before the grand departure and went straight to Germany to satisfy my curiosity concerning the much talked of Rythmical and Expressive Gymnastics.

After visiting some of the schools which devote their time to this kind of work, I decided to take a course with Dr. Bode, who has his institution in Munich. I was then convinced that this type of work could be taught to high school girls and women’s clubs very effectively and beneficially.

Digitized by ^ooQle
298

In Rhythmical Gymnastics, there is nothing new as far as gymnastics are concerned, except that the execution of the exercises is based on different principles. It is an alternate contraction and relaxation of the muscles. After intensive study, I came to the conclusion that the muscular work involved in a thorough application of Rhythmical Gymnastics, is admirably suited for real growth. In most of the exercises and movements, the muscular action starts from the center of gravity, which is as we know, at the second sacral vertebrae when in fundamental standing position. There is no doubt that with the one piece suit adopted all through Germany, allowing unhampered movement and the psychological sense of freedom, the results have been truly remarkable. It is because of this costume that physical freedom reaches its greatest extent, allowing each movement a complete consummation. Good music also helps to cultivate the sense of rhythm and consequently develop more subtle shades of expression.

The advocates of this system claim that this work can also be graded and applied to children of public schools. I doubt this very much, since I am firmly convinced that Rhythmical and Expressive Gymnastics presupposes a knowledge of ordinary gymnastics, and to the student of physical education, a knowledge of kinesiology is also most helpful.

Another object of my early departure was for the purpose of attending the Swiss Federal Festival of Gymnastics at Lucerne. Nearly thirty-five thousand gymnasts took part in all kinds of activities— gymnastics, light and heavy athletics, team competitions. To describe this wonderful spectacle of mass exercises by over twenty thousand gymnasts is almost impossible. One thing is certain, that these young men went through the exercises with the greatest precision and unison. In all this work, one can trace a very distinct and patriotic strain, so that the work is executed with one common purpose, and is animated by a single, encompassing desire to do the best.

On the last day of this festival, a much greater one started. It was the German festival in Cologne, attended by approximately two hundred and forty thousand men and women gymnasts and athletes. In the great closing demonstration, thirty-seven thousand well trained gymnasts covered the immense field and went through some truly remarkable and distinctive groups of exercises, which were of the modem school of Rhythmical and Expressive Gymnastics.

From there I went to Amsterdam to the Olympic Games. We all know how the United States emerged champion of the Olympic Games. My belief, however, is that we should have made a much better showing. The failure of several well known runners to place in the events and the poor showing in the boxing competition was surprising. It is the opinion of many American authorities that our methods of training in which athletes were not allowed to leave the ship prior to actual competition were largely responsible for this situation. Our men were obliged

Digitized by UjOOQle
299

to train on the deck of the steamer and when the weather was bad, had to dispense with this work altogether. The success of the English and French show us the futility of our training methods. The failure of Hahn, Ray, and MacAllister, runners on whom America pinned her hope for victory has taught us never again to keep our men pent up aboard ship like captives. This practice deprives them of a normal life during the training period, and cramped quarters depress their spirit, an essential factor in athletic competition. While our men were confined, Frenchmen and Englishmen were allowed to live in hotels, to follow their natural life. They were granted the freedom to live their own lives, and did not break training rules because of the privileges accorded them. Certainly we can trust our men that far.

One of the most beneficial changes ever made in Olympic regulations is the elimination of several women’s events. A congress of physicians met during the course of the Games, and decided to discontinue the 800 meter run, broad jump, shot put, and the proposed 200 meter run. It was pointed out that these events are too strenuous for women and were becoming a menace rather than a benefit to their physical well being and growth. When one considers that the three women who finished the 800 meter run collapsed at the tape, it is not surprising that the doctors provided as a substitute for the barred events, the following —100 meter run, 100 meter relay, 80 meter hurdle, discus throw, and high jump. This change will become effective at the next Olympic Games to be held in Los Angele§, California, in 1932.

This year’s visit to Europe was largely motivated by the desire for an advanced course in Rhythmical and Expressive Gymnastics, taken with another authority in the field, Dr. Carl Loges of Hanover, one of the outstanding leaders in this phase of

Ehysical education. As a former teacher in public schools, and imself a good gymnast and athlete, he is splendidly qualified to teach work of this kind. In his normal course, there are always forty to fifty participants and in his classes for women, directed in the afternoons and evenings, he has all in all, over ons thousand participants.

After spending two weeks in Hanover, I observed physical education in the public schools of different cities. From time to time, I had been informed that the Germans as well as the Swiss had done away, to some extent, with apparatus work in schools. I had the great pleasure of observing several lessons in a high school for girls, and noticed that this is decidedly not so. The director in charge of this work told me that he had had a secret vote taken among the girls in one class, in order to ascertain what the students’ reaction was to different phases of heavy apparatus work. He met with an enthusiastic response and found that the girls liked in successive order—horizontal bar, parallel bars, rings, stallbars, side horse—a strong indication of the interest on the part of healthy girls in apparatus work, just as strong an interest as is indicated by healthy boys. It would be folly to demand of girls the execution of exercises which are de-

Digitized by
300

signed for boys alone; nor would an intelligent teacher have girls do certain acrobatic stunts. However, the correct application of exercises for girls would make the lesson just as interesting as the one for boys. In the state of Prussia, for example, no piece of apparatus is discarded, but the use is carefully regulated. Parallel bar exercises for girls are not given before the age of thirteen, and the very first exercises in order to develop the necessary supporting strength are such as jumping to sitting position, change of seats through one intermediate swing, change of seats through intermediate jump, and momentary straight rest position.

In Switzerland, the program of physical education has experienced some changes in regard to apparatus in a similar manner. There the material is quite distinct for boys and girls. The manual of physical education for boys has been published by the military department, the respective courses for teachers are under the same supervision, while the manual of physical education for girls is in the hands of the Teachers’ Association of Switzerland. Very valuable additions to the former program for both boys and girls are swimming, skating, and skiing.

In the matter of free standing exercises, the Germans and the Swiss, as well as the Dutch and Austrians, have learned a great deal since the time of Guts Muths, Pestalozzi, Jahn, Eiselen, and Spiess. Although Jahn did not call his exercises free standing, they were considered preparatory exercises for the apparatus work. A decided step in this direction was taken by Spiess, who is really the originator of graded free standing and other exercises for the public schools. In the meantime, Swedish gymnastics showed them the real execution notably of trunk exercises. A great innovator in our field was Dr. F. A. Schmidt, gymnast and physiologist, who made a careful and critical study of exercises and retained those which were of greatest value,—especially for good posture.

The lines of direction of the modem kind of free standing exercises, freed from the old techniques, is characteristic of a victory of rhythm, beauty, and health. The rigid system has gone. The newer philosophy of physical education that expresses itself as a culmination in Rhythmical and Expressive Gymnastics,

Eroves to be sheer joy in self-expression and dramatization in odily activity, possessing both beauty and strength.

Physical Education In The United States

As far as America is concerned, I will review briefly, each phase of the field. Generally speaking, we have not accomplished as much as we should. We have used our great abilities for other, meaner ends, and have vitiated the strength and vitality of which we are capable. We are still in the experimental stage, and instead of guarding our experiments carefully and scientifically, we have allowed them to degenerate into mere fads. This condition, coupled with the still prevalent conception that the physical aspect of man is inferior to either the mental or moral,

Digitized by v^ooQle
301

serves to defeat our cause. As Symonds, an educator in the academic field, says in his “Measurements in Secondary Education,” “There appears to be a feeling among physical educztionists that the physical side of man’s nature is lower than the social and mental; and that if they would raise their department in the eyes of all concerned, they too must aim primarily at these more exalted, non-physical things of mental and social type. Apparently, something needs to be done by way of bringing physical educationists to value more highly the physical side of man.”

We always hear so much about “selling the idea.” Selling physical education! Why, we have not yet succeeded in selling physical education to the right people, the members of boards of education, superintendents and principals.

Many so-called leaders in physical education, have been able by virtue of their positions in higher institutions, to install weak and ineffective systems of physical education in the public schools, which serve to undermine the intrinsic integrity of our work. When you consider that many superintendents are ignorant of the scope of a lesson plan in physical education, you realize the necessity for broader and more thorough education in physical education.

Taking the field of gymnastics, I find that it has deteriorated into another version of the modem jazz spirit. Some have discarded it entirely, and others have reduced its conception to that of mere drill. In the hands of many of our teachers, perspiration rather than education seems to be its intrinsic purpose.

Dancing in the United States has advanced considerably. In all its phases,—pantomine, pageantry, natural dancing,—it has shown great fulness and depth and a closer approach to genuine beauty and appreciation than heretofore—in short, it approaches the rank of an art.

As far as apparatus is concerned, the situation is far from encouraging. Its status can be seen from the books published today, “Stunts in Tumbling, Stunts in Pyramids, and Stunts on Apparatus,” glare at you from lists of educational textbooks. As long as apparatus work continues to vie with the circus side show, rather than reassuming its true status, we will have deplorable results.

Games and playgrounds, under the wholehearted efforts of the Playground and Recreation Association of America, coupled with the aid of the local administrative authorities, have advanced in leaps and bounds. American playgrounds are outstanding in their organization and achievment.

Ana now we are coming to a highly interesting phase of physical education—athletics. It seems to me that athletics are forced too much upon younger people. The physical qualifications necessary for participation in athletics are not the heritage of the young and immature. In order to achieve proper physical development, young people should have properly graded exercises. Great progress has been made in mass athletics in school, but the emphasis on winning instead of playing the game defeats the

Digitized by v^ooQle
302

possibility of developing the great social and moral qualities inherent in athletics. The commercialization of athletics for the advertising of institutions and for the gate receipts has been indicated by the last report of the Carnegie Foundation and needs no further comment.

In reviewing all phases of our growth, I believe that a firm stand on the part of our National Association toward the active program of critical estimate and revision would be decidedly worthwhile and would go far toward truly scientific progress in physical education.

OLYMPICS FOR GIRLS

By Dr. Frederick Rand Rogers New York State Education Department

A fathomless secret of the cosmic flowings that we call life is their separation into two sexes. Already in the earth-bound existence-streams of the plant world they are trying to part from one another, as the symbol of the flower tells us, into a something that is this existence and a something that keeps it going. Animals are free, little worlds in a big world—the cosmic—closed off as microcosms and set up against the macrocosm. And, more and more decisively as the animal kingdom unfolds its history, the dual direction of dual being of the masculine and the feminine manifests itself.1

Whoever would penetrate into the essence of our problem must put aside the psychologist's “discoveries” as well as the feminist’s prepossessions and observe how sex asserts itself in life, for the opposition of the sexes is at the root of most questions concerning the propriety of human behavior, whether it be physical, emotional, intellectual or social. Athletics, for example, including their manifestations in interschool contests and Olympic games, may be “good” for boys and men. They may also be “good” for girls and women. But to conclude that, because athletics apparently serve to develop boys into wholesome, virile men, therefore they may serve to develop girls into normal, feminine women involves the assumption that men and women are essentially identical in the traits which athletics serve to mold and mature.

“Feminism” is based on the validity of the assumption that men and women have almost identical prepotencies. Let it be recorded at once that the feminist (whose chief effect in life is to destroy femininity in women) will find but little in this essay which will please him or her.

1 Oswald Spengler, “The Decline of the West.” Vol. II.

Digitized by v^ooQle
303

In order properly to discuss the propriety of Olympic games (athletics) for girls, it is necessary to review the nature of these activities.

1.	From the standpoint of their effects on the physical natures of participants, athletics are essentially large-muscle activities in which three qualities predominate. The first of these is gross strength—brute physical or muscular power. Without this brute muscular power but few athletes can go very far along the road towards any great notoriety. To list the exceptions to this statement is to prove the rule. Practically every highly successful athlete is an excellent specimen of powerful physical development.

The second quality necessary to secure notoriety in athletics is endurance—ability to keep going at top speed. This factor alone determines the victor in more and more athletic contests every year. The obviously superior athlete in other respects is often worsted because he can not “keep going,” whether the contest be marathon races, rowing, football, basket-ball—or even golf or tennis.

A third important quality necessary to notoriety in the field of athletics is neuromuscular skill; it is questionable, however, whether skill is as necessary as either of the other two qualities named above. Skill alone is quite as useless as strength alone, even in these games which require the greatest degree of skill.

Which of these three—strength, endurance or skill—is most important to athletic “fame” is an academic question, which need not be discussed here. Certain it is that any one of them outweighs all other qualities—strategy, courage, perseverance, etc. Athletic activities may be indulged in successfully without much courage or strategy, but not without physical strength and endurance.

2.	Viewed from the standpoint of their effects on the psychic natures of participants, competitive athletics resolve themselves into conflicts between personalities. In Olympic games participation is motivated almost exclusively by desire for glory— the supreme hope that ego will secure what tu also wants. The immediate consequences of this psychic conflict yield such fruits as suspicion, envy and hate rather than confidence, pleasure and friendship. The very threat of personal defeat or hope of glory tends to convert every competitive activity into a gladiatorial show. The game ceases to be the end and becomes only a means to secure personal privilege and satisfy selfish pride. Consequently, many of the artistic or otherwise elevating qualities which Olympic games may serve to improve are discounted, ignored and destroyed, while sympathy, good-will and charity— the basic psychic traits necessary to family or community life— are sacrificed.

There is no victory without its price.

Eveiy life activity involves this duality of result—good and bad, desirable and undesirable, growth and destruction. Metabolism, the most fundamental of all “behavior,” involves catabo-

Digitized by t^ooQle
304

lism and anabolism—building up and tearing down. A “good” activity, therefore, may be defined as one which results in a balance in favor of strengthened tissue, increased power or at least fuller experience—“life more abundantly,” while a “bad” activity involves opposite consequences.

So with athletics. There are both good and bad results. It behooves each individual to weigh the positive and negative consequences and to choose according to the balance struck. On the positive side, since athletics involve muscular activities (and consequently the development of strength, endurance and skill) the benefits derived are improved health, through increase in metabolic processes; strengthening of moral fiber, courage, perseverance, self-confidence and the like, and improved social behavior patterns through contacts with other individuals in social situations.

On the negative side, and especially for those who seek supreme honors, the danger always exists, even for the strongest, that vital proccesses will be overstimulated and at length will be impaired. For those less robust than the best the tendency is inevitably for the weakest physiological link to break, and for physical health—the basis of all life—to deteriorate. The inevitable results on the psychic characters of participants in “honors” contests are the development of combative natures, of selfishness, of the repelling spirit, of the “will to power” and of domineering impulses and tendencies.

The effects of athletic activities so far enumerated relate to the inner man. Externally, of course, there is always a tendency to overdevelopment of the muscular system and deformation of the body from slightly, as when one arm or side or part is overdeveloped, to very greatly, as when joints are strained and enlarged, bones are broken and badly set, etc. Physiognomically, too, deforming effects are inescapable. The physical strains of intense competition render the faces of athletes puffy and bloodless; psychic strains result in tendencies to hard lines and fixed scowls, and accidents often result in broken noses, disfiguring cuts, bloodshot eyes and like deformities. Thus the countenances of overspecialized athletes tend to grow less and less attractive because of athletic activities. It should be observed, too, that while athletics in mild forms probably yield a balance in favor of good effects on men both physically, psychically and socially, nevertheless, in their extreme forms they tend to cost more than they are worth.

Most women who possess enough experience to weigh the consequences of athletic activities, especially in the higher levels of competition, and who give any serious consideration to the effects of athletics on human nature and conduct will realize that, for girls and women, most athletic activities for other than purely recreative purposes—and especially for the highest Olympic honors—are not worth the candle, even for the victor, while for all who strive and fail the costs in terms of impaired health, physical beauty and social attractiveness are absolutely prohibitive.

Digitized by kjOOQle
305

It should be noted that the objections to Olympic games suggested above apply to both men and women, but the fact is that men can so much more easily survive the bad effects than can women that degradation of masculine character may not be noticeable while the gains may outweigh the losses. With feminine character the situation is quite otherwise—so much so that it constitues a menace to the future happiness of all girls who are lured into Olympic, or even intensive interschool, competition. But these observations depend so much on the validity of the commonly accepted belief that men and women are different that it becomes imperative (because of the misleading “discoveries” of psychologists perhaps as much as to the emotional behavior of feminists and the tremendous social changes resulting from the industrial revolution) to reassure society that this belief is true! Space prevents a complete exposition of the obvious (which, always most difficult to “prove,” like an axion, is perceived instantly or never comprehended) differences between male and female character. Only a few items are noted here, some of which may not have found their way as yet into common use.

Since athletics have both physical and psychic consequences# the natural differences between men and women which tend to render the latter unfit for Olympic games will be considered in two parts.

1. The gross bodily differences between the sexes are too obvious to require “scientific” proof. Practically all athletics involve running, or at least the use of the arms and legs primarily, to achieve the goal. The female torso, however, is but poorly adapted to running. No matter how well developed are the limbs, naturally developed hips and bust always provide handicaps and positive impediments to the rapid forward motion necessary for victory. The obvious exceptions to this statement are aquatics, archery, walking and dancing, and to a lesser extent certain other sports which are therefore the most appropriate activities for girls and women.

Even though these observations be questioned there is no gainsaying the fact that in muscular strength the maturing woman diverges sharply from the man in development. The curves pictured show nature’s intention with a force which must be convincing, and it should be observed especially that the point of sharpest change in development for girls occurs at the very ages when training for Olympic competition must begin if individuals are later to win notoriety for themselves and for their nations. To assist those who fear that these curves do not represent natural conditions because they may be affected unduly by a restrictive environment, the reader is referred to a recent publication,2 “The Physique of Women in Industry,” which gives conclusive evidence that even women accustomed to physical toil

2 Report No. 44, The Industrial Fatigue Research Board, British Medical Research Council.

Digitized by Google
306

from childhood and engaged in heavy labor do not possess much more than half the muscular strength of men living and working in similar environments.

The functional disturbances to which women are subject also affect seriously their adaptability to athletic competition in regularly scheduled tournaments. This is a factor whose significance is all too often ignored or denied, but is one which most reputable and experienced physicians recognize as important. Physically, then, women are not adapted by anatomical structure or physiological function to the intense forms of muscular activity and strain which are fundamental and normal in athletics as developed and carried on for boys and men.

2. The psychic differences between masculine and feminine natures are apparent to any one who observes either his own or others’ responses to environmental stimuli, not only in fundamentally erotic behavior but everywhere and always. It is almost futile to argue this point with either feminists, many of whom violate nature themselves, or psychologists, whose measuring instruments are fortunately still too crude to discover emotional and mental sex differences. The “law of parsimony” may properly be invoked here—the simplest answer is that physical differences will be accompanied by mental and emotional differences. Perhaps the most obvious psychic difference of all is that men are more animal-like, mobile, energetic, aware, while women are more plant-like, more closely attached to the soil, to home, and quieter by nature. Man combats, but woman tends to conform. Man destroys, but woman truly creates. Man more truly knows, but woman more truly lives. Man makes history, but woman is history. Competition, even though undesirable socially, is at least natural to man. In woman it is profoundly unnatural. Man wins through struggle, but woman stoops to conquer.

Two more observations should be made here, one concerning the physical and the other the psychic development of women.

First, those who deny inherent mental, emotional and social differences between men and women often tacitly grant the obvious divergencies without comment and then proceed to call attention to similarities. By the same process we might prove the similarity of dogs and men- certainly we could show that male apes and men are more alike then are men and women. Second, proponents of feminism are prone to dismiss apparent physical, emotional and social differences between the sexes as products of environmental influences. They forget that the most potent environment of the female mind or personality is her own body, “in which” she lives, and which provides conditions and experiences which are peculiar to the female and are quite inescapable. These are only obvious truths which any critic may verify for himself by close observation either of higher animal life or of human life, especially in its more primitive forms.

The foregoing discussion leads inevitably to the conclusion that competitive sports tend to develop behavior patterns which are contrary to feminine nature. Natural feminine health and

Digitized by ^ooQle
307

attractiveness, whether physical, emotional or social, certainly are impaired if not destroyed by the belligerent attitudes and competitive spirit the development of which intense athletic activity inevitably fosters. One has only to postulate a female Roosevelt to reduce to absurdity the claims of those who foster the mascu-linization of girls. Neither men nor any normal women would embrace or willingly tolerate any tendency toward such an eventuality, yet competitive athletics will bring it about more surely than any other human behavior.

Athletics are as masculine as fighting, but the apparent fact that some women are more masculine than some men does not render masculine activities desirable for all women. Very possibly such persons are borderline cases. That they should be trained for borderline activities, however, does not follow. They may even need surgical operations to destroy the neutralizing effects on their characters of vestigial glandular activities of the opposite sex to that of their gross anatomical and emotional natures. Nothing is so tragic as the so-called “divided self,” when that self is divided between male and female impulses and interests. “Manly” women, no less than “effeminate” men may constitute nature’s greatest failures, which should, perhaps, be corrected by as drastic means as those by which the most hideous deformities are treated.

“The dual direction of dual being of the masculine and feminine manifests itself” very early in life. Amebae, varicellae and even earthworms are asexual or bisexual—but higher types in both plant and animal kingdoms soon differentiate their structures and functions. If any “purpose” of nature is unchallengeable it is that male and female shall develop along diverging paths, and any attempt to thwart or reverse this divergence must be a blow at nature herself.

Life should be a process whereby the unique prepotencies of each individual are protected, developed and finally brought to blossom and fruition. For girls and women this means the development of all those traits which are necessary to attract the most worthy fathers for their children, provide the most healthful physiques for child-bearing and build the most maternal emotional and social behavior patterns. Intense forms of physical and psychic conflicts, of which athletics provide the best example in modem life, and of which Olympic games provide the extreme type, tend to destroy girls’ physical and psychic charm and adaptability for motherhood. Consequently, girls who persist in seeking athletic honors are “purchasing bubbles with a whole soul’s tasking.” It is a primary duty of parents and educators in charge of girls’ activities at least to inform their children and pupils of the price paid for athletic honors, or even for attempts to secure such honors. Games and sports for girls, by all means, of recreative types which develop physical, psychic and social health and charm, but interschool competition in basket-ball, baseball, track and field sports, and Olympic competition of whatever nature: no!
308

It should be understood that this statement is made in the interests of the greatest happiness—the most abundant life—for individual girls and women. Celibacy is a major, and barrenness perhaps the supreme, tragedy in individual human life. That today the forces of civilization are effecting ever-increasing numbers of these tragedies, and that the diverging streams of macsuline and feminine development are being artificially forced together are only added reasons for parents and teachers to re-direct physical activities to the end that girls may avoid this new danger to natural development and abundant life. Olympic games are large-muscle skill and endurance contests which involve highly competitive psychic conflicts. They are essentially masculine in nature and develop wholly masculine physiques and behavior traits. Attempts to induce girls to enter them should be condemned without reservations, for the welfare of the girls as well as society.

Printed by permission of School and Society.

Note: The editors will be pleased to receive comments and opinions on this article by Dr. Rogers.

RECREATION CONGRESS DEBATES USE OF LEISURE

What shall America do with her increasing spare time? As working hours grow shorter, what opportunities shall our towns and cities offer to help men and women use their leisure to the wisest and happiest advantage? Children are growing up to a new world. How can the school and the community best train them not only for vocations, but for hobbies and recreational interests that will stay with them through life?

These were the problems discussed by the sixteenth National Recreation Congress which met in Louisville, Kentucky, October 14-19 under the auspices of the Playground and Recreation Association of America. Taking .....................";s	theme,	the	Con-

will best help both grown-ups and children to find self-expression through activities for their spare hours.

President Hoover, in a message to the convention, said, “I am deeply interested in the problem of recreation, as its solution goes to the root not only of many fundamental questions of physical health, but also of many needs for mental stimulation and spiritual satisfaction.”

Recreation for dwellers in cities, for farm folk, for industrial workers, for boys and girls of various ages was discussed. Amateur music, drama and art and how to build them as permanent factors in community life were leading topics. Programs for the conduct of the municipal phy centers now provided under leadership in about 900 towns and cities were compared.

An address by Mrs. Thomas A. Edison was read. The inventor’s wife, who has been a director of the Playground and Re-

gress considered how much

guidance in play

Digitized by

Google
309

creation Association of America for fifteen years, declared that the movement for a wise use of leisure time is one of the major interests of her life. As recreations which best afford the relaxation and self-expression needed in modem life, she named gardening, nature study, and music.

“A curious thing about modem life,” Mrs. Edison stated, “is the way so many of us take our recreation in doses, as though it should be a sort of medicine instead of a part of daily life, something as necessary to existence as food. We go on for days and sometimes weeks without considering play, then comes a holiday or a week-end and we play with a vengeance. After a holiday many men and women return to their work more tired than they were before. Children are over-stimulated by the pace which grown-ups force them to follow in their own thoughtless pursuit of amusement.”

She emphasized the value of helping children to discover hobbies which will teach them the joy of accomplishment. Her message to recreation directors was, “One of the most important things this group can do is to show young people that the best things of life are free.”

The responsibility of the public school for training for the use of leisure was the topic of George Drayton Strayer, Professor of Education at Teachers' College, Columbia University. “Our schools have an obligation to equip boys and girls with interests and enthusiasms which will enable them to find significant recreation in creative work,” he asserted. “Education for leisure has come to take its place alongside of vocational education. We are coming to understand that fitness for work is just as certainly dependent upon recreation as it is upon vocational knowledge and skill.”

The time is past when we are satisfied with a building made up of classroom units. The modem school house may be characterized as a place in which children work and play. Many buildings are so constructed as to make available for adults at night the facilities which are usfed by children during the daylight hours.

Schools should provide ‘stadiums for the soul’ as well as for the body, urged Samuel S. Fleisher, founder of the Graphic Sketch Club of Philadelphia. In the past expenditures for athletic grounds have been out of proportion to the amount spent for workshops and sanctuaries for the arts, he said. He advocated for every community a ‘Temple of Youth’ which shall be a center for all the arts.

Mrs. Eugene Meyer, Jr., chairman of the Westchester County, New York, Recreation Commission, pointed out that public recreation must not merely be a sort of glad movement, but must have its gravity and profundity. “It must bring great new gifts, new color to the life of our nation, new music and a new theatre,” she declared.

“There is no paternalism or sentimentality about public recreation,” Mrs. Meyer said. “If we build hospitals and jails for

Digitized by CjOOQle
310

the weak and the wicked, why in common sense shouldn’t we do something for the healthy and honest citizen? Democracy must fail if in addition to alleviating mass suffering it does not also give attention to the happiness of the individual and thereby open the way to the joy and to the creative vigor of the nation.”

How music can provide opportunities for creative expression in a machine age was discussed by John Erskine, author, musician, and director of the Juilliafd Foundation, and by Augustus D. Zanzig, formerly professor of music at Harvard University and now director of the National Music Study of the P. R. A. A. “Manual labor and practice of the arts and crafts are essential to the completion of our happiness, the education of our souls,” Mr. Erskine said, “But we make little or no allowance for this in our community life and in our universities. The amateur musician, who may show fair progress before he goes to college, will receive no encouragement in the university, or almost none. Credit is given for learning the dates of Beethoven’s birth and death, but none is given for playing Beethoven.”

Mr. Erskine urged training of musicians for community leadership and cooperation of public and private enterprises in correcting the evils resulting from a dearth of musical and aesthetic knowledge and practice.

Rural recreation was the subject of an address by William Butterworth, president of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States. “More fun and play in the country will break down that individualism which has been the bane of rural efforts at cooperation in the past,” he said. “Good feeling and understanding are at the basis of successful cooperation in either farming or industry. These cannot be created more quickly or effectively than by bringing people together for play.”

Joseph I^ee of Boston, father of the play movement in America, at the close of the Congress summarized the essentials of leadership in recreation. Both native capacity and acquired skill are needed for a good leader, he said. There must be professional training and standards, also professional tests for employment, in order to avoid the influence of politics.

“In education there is a time for everything,” Mr. Lee pointed out. “If that age has passed, the opportunity for that acquirement is lost. The play leader must know these ages and the requirements appropriate for each. He must know the philosophy of play, the handing of the child over to the great constituting instincts of humanity, team play, competition, creation, love. Above all he must understand the need of let alone, the need of revery and solitude.”

Digitized by UjOOQle
311

PHYSICAL AND HEALTH EDUCATION

A Course given at the University of Hawaii, January to June 1929, involving the presentation and discussion of the fundamentals underlying physical education, health education and recreation.

By William A. Stecher, Instructor in charge.

AN IDEAL ACTIVITIES PROGRAM FOR MUNICIPAL RECREATION IN HONOLULU

The needs for three age-groups are considered.

I	The Pre-School Age-—Children Under Six Years

Each child should have the opportunity for free and supervised play in a small, adequately equipped playground within easy walking distance of its home. The management should be such that a mother would feel that her child would be perfectly safe in such a “PLAYGROUND FOR YOUNG CHILDREN.”

The play-needs of these children should be met by the following equipment: a sand box, low swings, low climbing frames, an open shelter-house, several kinds of soft balls and building blocks.

The shelter-house should have low benches at two' sides, at the third side should be a small building containing toilets, a teacher’s room and a store-room.

The lay-out of the grounds should be garden-like with flowers and shrubs at the sides. At least one sanitary drinking fountain should be erected. Grassed lawns should offer facilities for individual and for community play under the direction of trained leaders.

The grounds should be open daily from nine until six o’clock, II. THE SCHOOL AGE (A) Children From Seven To Twelve Years.

Children of this age should have a fair-sized, well-equipped and supervised playground within four blocks of their home. Preferably, it should be part of the school plant, and should be not less than one acre in extent.

Trees and shrubs should be planted at the edges leaving the center free and unobstructed. The equipment should consist of swings (10 feet high) giant-stride, climbing frame, slide (7 feet high), a sand box, several kinds of balls and bats.

An open shelter-house should have benches at two sides. Toilets, store-room and teacher’s room should be in the school building. At least two sanitary drinking fountains should be dose to the building.

There should be adequate lawns for the plays and games of children of this age. As a rule these children will bring with

(Continued from last month)

Digitized by CjOOQle
312

them some younger brothers and sisters. Well trained teachers should be available to handle both groups of visitors.

The grounds should be open daily from eight until six o’clock.

(B) Children From Twelve To Eighteen Years

School children of this age should have a large well-equipped playground within six blocks of their home. Preferably, this should be part of the school plant, and it should be not less than five acres in extent. If the ground is to be used also for an athletic and for a ball field, it should be not less than six acres in extent. Grounds of this type should be available after school hours for working boys and girls and also for adults.

Play apparatus for boys should be erected at one end of the field, and for girls and smaller children at the other end. The equipment should consist of swings (10 feet) giant-stride, climbing frames, slide (8 feet), posts and back-stops for the standard games, balls, bats and jumping pits.

An open shelter house should have benches at two sides. Toilets, teacher’s room and store-room should be in the school building. Sanitary drinking fountains should be at both ends of the field.

Well-trained teachers should be available.

The grounds should be open daily from eight until six o’clock for pupils, and, if properly lighted, until 9:30 o’clock for working boys and girls and for adults.

III.	ADULTS

If the foregoing recommendations have been carried out there will be an additional need for municipal swimming pools, gymnasiums, tennis courts, golf links, camping grounds, picnic grounds, bathing beaches, and parks. Where there is a demand for it, facilities should be available for dramatics, music, pageants and festivals.

Well prepared teachers should be available for such groups of adults as desire trained leadership.

The policy in the development and administration of all recreation facilities should be to put them on a self-sustaining basis as the groups of participants approach adulthood.

REQUIREMENTS FOR A TEACHER OF PLAY AND RECREATION.

HONOLULU RECREATION COMMISSION

It is suggested that the following plan will offer incentives for improvement to recreation workers in Honolulu. This will insure a sufficient number of trained workers or teachers to carry out a well rounded program of activities.

(1) Certificates to be presented by the Recreation Commission upon presentation of evidence that the following courses have satisfactorily been passed.

Digitized by v^ooQle
313

(2)	Credit for a course shall be given on the basis of standards of the University of Hawaii.

1	credit—means one hour a week for sixteen weeks.

2	credits mean one and one-half hours a week for 16 weeks. Credits in subjects that require no preparation or reading (play, swimming, handwork, etc.) shall be valued at one-half of the above named credits.

(3)	For the Primary Certificate— 12 credits in theory and 16 credits in practical work shall be necessary.

Satisfactory practical work as a teacher on a playground

shall be rated as follows—one year.....................2	credits

two or more years...................4	credits

(4)	For the Advanced certificate— 12 credits in theory and 16 credits in practical work from subjects marked two shall be necessary.

Satisfactory practical work as a teacher on a playground or as a coach shall be credited as follows:

three years .....................................2	credits

four or more years ..............................4	credits

COURSES FOR PRIMARY CERTIFICATE

Theoretical

Play and Recreation

Physical and Health Edu.

Adolescent Organizations

Anatomy

Physiology

Hygiene (Personal)

First Aid Story Telling English Lang & Liter

Credits	Practical	Credits

2	Primary Games	2

2	Graded Games	2

1	Low Organization Games	2

1	Swimming	2

2	Handwork (simple)	2

1	Track & Field Work	2

1	Dancing—Clog	1

1	Dancing—Folk	1

3	Tumbling & Pyramids	1

14 Camp craft Experience

1

2—4

18—20

For Advanced Certificate

Organization and Admin.	2

Methods & Management	1

Applied Anatomy	2

Applied Physiology	2

History of Phy. & Play	2

Pageants & Festivals	2

Hygiene (sex)	1

Music (theory)	1

Dramatics	2

High Organization Games 2 Coaching	2

Adv. Swimming & Diving 2 Handword (advanced)	2

Dancing—Interpretive	2

Dancing—Aesthetic	2

Musie —(Instrumental) 1 Experience	2—4

15—17

15

Digitized by
314

PROJECTS

Modern education has greatly decreased the use of formal types of instruction and replaced those types by what is termed the "project method of instruction.” As indicated in the introduction, it is not believed that even the most elaborate project will present to the child opportunities for the development of all the habits, skills, ideas and attitudes that modem education has set up for its goal. A conscientious teacher using the project method, therefore, should often consult the foregoing courses of study to see if the child is receiving the all-around education that . it is entitled to.

The following projects were selected by the publication committee of the class. Some are very simple and, therefore, suitable for young children. Others are so elaborate as to tax the skill and ingenuity of adolescents and adults for a long term.

In several instances the source of materials is indicated. After some experience teachers will be able to select material from many of the standard books available in libraries.

A.	PHYSICAL EDUCATION PROJECTS

At Home In The Water

A project for a school or recreation center having a swimming pool.

At the end of the school term all pupils are to be divided according to their ability into five groups as follows: Minnows, Channel Cats, Sun Fishes, Dolphins, Whales.

At an exhibition to be given to the parents and friends, the following program is to be presented:

1.	Minnows. These show how beginners learn the different

strokes with the aid of waterwings. The better ones show how a surfboard may be used to propel a person through the water. End with a race on waterwings and on surfboards.

2.	CHANNEL CATS. These are the pupils that have just

learned to swim. They illustrate the pushoff face downward, also face upward, pick up objects in shallow water, float on the back, and show other easy stunts that they have learned.

3.	SUN FISHES. These are the good swimmers. They show

the different strokes and illustrate the beauty of the crawl, the back, the side and the breast stroke. Easy, beautiful strokes should be shown, as beauty, not speed, is the aim.

4.	DOLPHINS. These are the stunt swimmers. They illus-

trate the odd stunts that may be performed in the water singly, in pairs and in tandems. They also illustrate plain and fancy diving.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
5.

315

WHALES. These are the Rood swimmers. They illustrate the races in different strokes. The last race should be a medley, using a different stroke for each lap of the race.

The exhibition closes with “All in the Water” for several minutes, the pool being divided among the five groups.

2.	A PARADE A project for children and adults of a recreation center

I.	Situation—Call a meeting of all interested persons

A.	Decide on the kind of parade

B.	Find out how many in the community have had experience in parades

C.	Each group of persons is given a part in the parade

(a)	Clowns on donkeys

(b)	Chinese Float (laundry)

(c)	Liberty Bell (made out of bulrushes)

(d)	Flower Basket (Made out of bulrushes)

(e)	Fish (on bicycle)

(f)	Fish (on float)

(g)	Hawaiian float, representing the eight Islands.

(h)	Statue of Liberty, etc.

II.	Planning

At a future meeting each group reports upon what they are doing.

III.	Committees

At a subsequent meeting the following appointments are made:

(a)	Committee to make arrangements for a band

(b)	Committee to make arrangements for seating

(c)	Committee on advertising, posters and the printing of signs to accompany each float

(d)	Appointment of judges, clerks, and a manager

IV.	The manager appoints groups for the following:

(a)	Hiking up the mountains to gather ferns and greens

(b)	To gather bulrushes

(c)	To do the necessary manual work

V.	Material necessary:

(a)	Packing boxes and lumber for bleachers

(b)	Wire and lumber for frames

(c)	Cloth for floats

(d)	Nails

(e)	Flag

(f)	Paint for painting signs, posters, etc.

(g)	Greens

(h)	Bulrushes

Digitized by CjOOQle
316

3.	HOBBY SHOW

A project suitable for a Playground or School Ages of Children 10 to 14 years

I.	Possible beginnings or approach

1.	Through seeing things that appeal to the children

2.	Through stories

3.	Through seeing others make toys

4.	Pictures and picture books with objects that interest children

5.	In connection with study in transportation, study of commercial objects, etc.

II.	’} Planning

Topics for discussion among the children:

1.	What is a hobby show?

2.	What must we have in a hobby show?

3.	How can the project be carried out?

4.	Where and when are we going to hold the hobby show?

5.	Whom are we going to invite to the show; just for our own group?

6.	What object is each individual going to make for the show?

7. How are we going to get our material?

8. How are we going to get our equipment?

9.	How and what are we going to do or use to represent the different articles we wish to make?

10.	Are we going to give a program to our guests or shall it be just the show?

11.	What is the best program?

12.	Shall we have races, music, speeches, dances, drills and stunts?

III.	How the project may be carried out

1.	Selecting time and place for the hobby show

2.	Acquiring all necessary material

3.	Acquiring all necessary equipment

4.	Open hobby show with a grand march, children each carrying their own projects

5.	Proper placing of articles in previously prepared places

6.	Render some musical selection

7.	Some yells—yell leader selected previously by members of the group

8.	Some races—obstacle race, potato relay, wheelbarrow race, marching drill

9.	Committee of judges to pick winners in different classes of articles. Awarding of prizes, ribbon or button badge made by children

IV.	List of objects suggested for Hobby Show

1. Animals—dog, elephant, horse, tiger, cat, sheep, rabbit, buffalo, etc.

Digitized by LjOoq le
2.

3.

317

Fish—Ohia, mullet, black bass, oopu, etc.

Birds—swan, parrot, duck, rooster, hen, robin, mynah, dove, pigeon

4.	Toys—tables, chairs, doll houses, cradle, doll bed

5.	Boats—sail-boats, submarine, sampan, canoe, steamboat, torpedo boat, battleship

6.	Airplanes—monoplane, biplane, glider, pusher

7.	Automobile—coach, open car, truck, bus, tractor, caterpillar

8.	General—Surfboards, stilts, wagons, tops, mail box, checkerboards, pushcart, etc.

V.	Bibliography

1.	“Handcraft” by the Playground Association of America, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York

2.	American School Toys by C. A. Runow

3.	“Toy Craft” by Leon H. Baxter

4.	Industrial work for the Middle Grades by Ed. F. Norst

5.	Boy Activity Projects by Blackburn

6.	Ship Model Making by McCann

7.	“Danks one dozen sheets of Toy Designs”

(To be Continued)

COMPULSORY APPARATUS EXERCISES FOR 1930 OF THE AMATEUR ATHLETIC UNION. .

At the National Convention of the A. A. U. held at St. Louis Nov. 18, 19 & 20, 1929 the following compulsory gymnastic exercises were adopted. All Senior District Association Championships and the National Gymnastic Championship, which will be held in Los Angeles, Calif. June 6th, must use these exercises.

For further information apply to Amateur Athletic Union, Room 2742, Woolworth Building, New York City.

Parallel Bars

From rear cross standing position at the end of the bars, outside grasp:

Jump and backward circle mount to straight rest and 1-2 lever,—press to handstand with straight legs and straight arms— dip swing forward with 1-2 turn, (left or right) to drop kip position (Fallldppe) and kip to straight rest and rear swing, forward swing with dipping and jumping forward to near center of bars to 1-2 lever position—rear swing to left leg circle outward,* rear swing to right leg circle outward, and rear swing to handstand— 1-2 turn (left or right) in handstand—lower to upper arm stand, roll backward to straight rest in regrasping the bars and to kip position—kip and high frontal circle vault, (left or right) over both bars (Kreishochwende) to cross standing position.

Digitized by Google
318

*By “circle outward” of one leg, we mean that the commencing movement of the left leg is outward, away from the body. Thus, we do first, a straddle circle under the left hand and back swing to straddle circle under the right hand.

Horizontal Bar

Jump to straight hang, mixed grasp, left hand under grasp, right hand upper grasp: Forward swing, backward swing and on the next forward swing pass the legs between the arms with one half turn right releasing right hand,* regrasp upper grasp to swinging backward with uprise to straight rest—lower body backward into hang and half lever—lift legs to bar—pass legs under left or right hand (without bending knees and momentarily releasing left or right hand)—forward circle mount over bar to back rest—flank backward (left or right) to free front rest and immediately circle backward to handstand; One circle backward (giant swing) cross left over right hand, swing downward, forward, and 1-2 turn left and uprise to straight side front rest (Drehschwungstemme) changing to upper grasp—underswing with 1-2 turn left and swing forward to backward circle mount and side front rest—changing left to upper grasp and underswing to back uprise, drop kip and flank vault to the left.

*In this part of the exercise, the legs pass between the arms and body stretches fully in making half turn right, in order to get a full backward swing.

The exercise may be done to the opposite side.

Rings

Jump to straight hang:

Lift straight body to front lever and lift body to inverted hang—kip position—forcible stretching upward with backward circle to straight rest and half lever—swing backward to handstand—straddle legs to touching ropes with insteps and lower body to inverted cross (Arms horizontal)—close legs and lower to inverted hang—lower body backward to back lever—dislocate body falling downward and upward to front lever—lift straight body to inverted hang—slow backward circle mount to half lever —press handstand with straight legs (hips and arms may be bent) lower body backward and fall to kip position, swing legs forward, to straight hang and dislocate forward to kip position and immediately dislocate backward to straight hang and forward upward swing to straddle cut off,—arms sideward to normal position.

Side Horse

From side front standing position, grasping pommels: Flinging left leg over left pommel and flinging right leg over right pommel, to circle left of both legs (two circles)— one circle of left leg outward, one-half circle right leg inward and scissors to the right— fling left leg outward to needle position over left pommel—fling right leg outward over right pommel and grasping of right hand on left pommel (undergrasp), half turn right with flinging right leg outward and 1-2 circle of both legs to rear side rest in saddle

Digitized by

Google
319

(the left hand is now on the right pommel)* Flinging right leg outward under right hand and back scissor to the left—fling right leg outward, fling left leg outward—fling right leg outward to needle position on right hand'—complete circle outward of left leg and shifting body to rear side rest on neck, (left hand is on left pommel, the right hand is on the neck).

Circle right leg inward over left pommel to swinging of both legs over right pommel with half turn left to side rear rest in saddle—circle right leg inward, fling left leg outward and flinging right leg outward to circle left of both legs (3 circles)—and with 1-2 turn right, another circle over the croup—another 1-2 turn right with flinging of both legs over croup and saddle to rear side standing position.

*No matter how the gymnast changes his position during the exercise, the left pommel (or the right) remains the pommel; in other words, the apparatus remains as it is indicated at the start of the exercise; the left pommel is on the side of the neck and the right pommel is on the side of the croup. A circle outward of one leg indicates the commencing movement as away from the body, a circle inward indicates a commencing movement toward the center of the body. A double circle to the left means starting the movement toward the left side.

Long Horse.

1.	Run, double take off, jump to squat vault with straight legs with double push off, both at croup and extreme end of neck.

Note:—At the first push off (on the croup) the body gets into a horizontal position and with the second push off (on the neck) the squatting takes place.

2.	Run, double take off, jump to hand stand on the extreme end of neck—straddle off with straight body to normal position.

OBESITY REMEDIES*

Reducing remedies in the form of bath salts, foam baths, chewing gums, soaps, creams, pills, wafers, and tablets have been extensively advertised during recent times. Some of these preparations are for external application, while others are to be taken internally, but in all instances they are often represented as “safe, harmless, and efficient” remedies which require no arduous exercise and no starvation diet.

To furnish publishers with basic information on the treatment of obesity the National Better Business Bureau consulted with a number of obesity specialists. We submit below a digest of the information obtained from the authorities consulted.

•Reprint, Long Island Medical Journal.

Digitized by t^ooQle
320

Is Obesity a Condition for Which Treatment can be Scientifically Prescribed without a Personal Examination by a Physician?

Treatment for obesity can not be scientifically and safely prescribed without a personal examination of the patient by a competent physician. It is essential that the cause of the excess deposit of fat be determined in order that suitable treatment may be prescribed.

There are two distinct groups of overweight persons:

First, there are those who eat more food than they need and who are not sufficiently active to use this surplus fat through exercise. This group constitutes the greater number of overweight persons. The safe and sane method of control under such conditions consists of diet and exercise. The second group is composed of those suffering from glandular obesity. Each case requires individual study and intelligent diagnosis and treatment. Reducing remedies may be administered by physicians, but only after careful diagnosis and under personal observation and supervision.

It is conceded that persons who are definitely overeating and are gaining in weight due to such overeating could with a reasonable degree of safety reduce their own diet without personal examination or supervision of a physician. Experts point out, however, that it is very desirable for any reduction in diet to be made rationally in order to insure proper balance. A dietitian can advise a diet that will be low in fat-making material, or a dietitian can arrange a combination of foods which will be nutritious and not have tendencies toward the deposit of excess fat, but only a competent physician can determine what is technically wrong with the human anatomy as regards this disturbed functioning and depositing of excess fat or its safe reduction.

Is Obesity a Condition which can be Safely and Scientifically Treated without the Careful Supervision of a Physician?

Obesity can be neither safely nor scientifically treated except under the supervision of a person with an intimate knowledge of the human body and its processes—that is, a physician.

Here again, a person who is definitely overeating can reduce his own diet with reasonable safety, but it is important that the reduction be made rationally in order to insure a balanced diet. Under any reducing regime, secondary disease conditions may arise, which, if unrecognized, may lead to permanent disability, or even death.

Should a Person Undergoing Treatment for Obesity be Examined Periodically by a Physician?

Periodical examinations by a physician are recommended because it is desirable that the patient’s condition be carefully watched. The treatment of obesity is not simple. In difficult cases various problems arise which can be met in no other way except through periodical examinations. Some treatments for

Digitized by
321

obesity carry with them a definite risk to the heart and kidneys and these organs need careful watching. We are advised that a number of obese persons have diabetes often unsuspected by them. It is also possible for the beginning of tuberculosis of the lungs to exist in a fat person and to be aggravated by reducing treatment. The diet also must provide certain essential materials during the period of reducing and the medical examiner must know whether the health is endangered by lack of these and general undernutrition.

Are Exercise and Diet Necessary for a Safe and Scientific Treatment of Obesity?

The treatment of obesity is primarily dependent upon diet and exercise. Most cases of obesity arise from the eating of more food than is actually consumed, the surplus being stored as fat. The removal of this surplus can be accomplished only by reducing the intake or increasing the consumption. These measures are synonymous with diet and exercise, which, therefore, are indispensable.

Each case of obesity is a law unto itself. The amount of exercise and the amount of diet can be scientifically determined only on the basis of an intimate and expert knowledge of the individual under treatment.

Do External Remedies, such as Foam Baths, Bath Salts, Soaps, Creams, etc., have any Merit as a Fat-Reducing Agent?

Medical experts state that soaps, creams, bath salts and other external applications can have no possible influence in permanently reducing obesity. There is nothing that, put in the bath water, will reduce weight. Hot baths in themselves have some weight-reducing power because they speed up metabolism, and cause a reduction of weight by sweating out water from the body, but this weight is quickly replaced unless the diet is reduced, so that the actual weight remains unchanged. The addition of foreign substance to the bath water is wholly without any scientific basis. Rubbing and massaging will reduce weight to a limited degree, but any creams or pastes that are used in this treatment serve only as lubricants and do not have any weight-reducing qualities in themselves.

Are Laxative Tablets Effective as a Home Treatment for Obesity?

The use of laxatives as a treatment for obesity is considered unscientific. Laxatives may create an apparent reduction of weight to such an extent as they hurry the food through the intestinal tract before it can be properly assimilated.

Instead of over-stimulating the intestinal tract unnaturally for the purpose of hurrying food through before it can be wholly utilized it is obviously more rational to eat less food and digest that which is eaten.

Digitized by t^ooQie
322

The Use of Tablets Containing Desiccated Thyroid for Home Treatment.

The use of desiccated thyroid as a home treatment for obesity is fraught with danger. So powerful a substance as thyroid has no place in the legitimate field of home remedies. Medical experts state that thyroid preparations are a valuable adjunct to the treatment of obesity in the particular cases where the patient is suffering from thyroid deficiency, but they would use it only after careful diagnosis and under their personal observation and supervision.

The majority of fat people do not suffer from an under-active thyroid gland and the indiscriminate sale of remedies containing this product for self-medication is contrary to the public interest.

Summary

The information secured by the bureau on the subject of obesity remedies justifies the following conclusions:

1.	Safe and scientific treatment of obesity requires a physical examination by a physician.

2.	Safe and scientific treatment of obesity requires careful supervision of a physician during treatment.

3.	Safe and scientific treatment of obesity requires periodical physical examinations by a physician during treatments to safeguard the health of the patient.

4.	Exercise and diet are fundamental in the treatment of obesity but neither exercise nor diet can be safely prescribed without an examination by a physician both before and during treatment.

5.	External remedies for use in hot baths are without scientific basis.

6.	Rubbing and massaging will reduce the outer layer of fat to a limited degree, but the lubricants used in the process pos-ess no fat-reducing properties.

7.	The use of laxative tablets as a home treatment for obesity is unscientific.

8.	The use of desiccated thyroid as a home treatment is dangerous to health and contrary to the public interest.

SPECIAL NOTICE

A small fire in the plant where Mind and Body is printed caused the destruction of considerable of the material that had been prepared for the January number and thus delayed the mailing as well as cutting down the contents. There was not sufficient time left to prepare other material or to get new ready and the number of pages has been reduced to 32 instead of 48. Next month the size will be increased by an addition of 16 pages to the regular number.

Digitized by LjOOQle
♦

323

Health education notes ..... ............... —»

Mental Stress as a Factor in Disease.

In a book entitled “Health, Disease and Integration,” Dr. H. P. Newsholme health officer for Birmingham, has taken a somewhat new standpoint as regards the causation of disease. His book originated in a study of epidemic encephalitis which he found often followed some shock to the mind, or was connected with a long period of unhealthy mental life. This led him to pay attention to the effect on the body of stress within the mind, and he puts forward a case in favor of a mental element in the causation of a great many diseases which are usually looked on as due to germs or other material agents. It has been held from ancient times that poisons may be formed within the body under the influence of strong emotion, such as fright or anger, but Dr. News-holme goes further and suggests that many kinds of illness are a result of a poisoning of this kind, such internal poisoning being due to mental stress arising from lack of harmony between the person and his environment. While all authorities agree that the development of infectious disease depends on two factors, the “seed” or germ, and the receptiveness of the “soil” or patient, Dr. Newsholme thinks that far too little attention is paid to the “soil.” He considers that illness may take its character rather from the patient himself than from the nature of the infecting germ. “Although we pay lip service to the importance both of soil and of seed,” he says, “we have concentrated chiefly on the seed and on a partial, a physical, aspect of the soil. It would not be altogether untrue to say that we seem to be approaching a standstill in our advance in the understanding of disease from this aspect. In concentrating on his physical aspect, his body, it has been to a considerable extent forgotten that the individual is not merely body; that he is mind, body and spirit.” Science, Dr. Newsholme believes, has not yet reached a stage at which it can dogmatize in regard to spiritual questions. So long as science turns its attention to the material as distinct from the spiritual aspect of life, so long is its verdict on such fundamental questions of little value. “Medicine,” he concludes, “is usually regarded as being concerned primarily with the health of the body and mind. But if the health of both depends ultimately on the health of the spirit, then medicine, to be effective in its proper domain, must be intimately interwoven with the art and science of religion.”

The Exploitation of Mental Hygiene.—There is no doubt that we are remiss in not making greater efforts to develop the field of abnormal psychology. I am not unaware of the work of Lyman Wells, Bridges, Franz, and certain others. But on the

Digitized by boogie
324

whole, we have left the field to the psychiatrists, and they, leaving their field of the care of the mentally diseased, have moved bodily into the field of abnormal psychology. But, unfortunately, the psychiatrists have been little interested in acquiring either

Kchological knowledge or psychological technic. Hjence we e a rampant development of theories and nostrums. Out of this has grown the exploitation of mental hygiene, which has already begun to have an unpleasant odor, as must any extensive attempt to apply what none of the appliers knows. There is probably no expanse of action as rich in imaginative products as is the mass of material being put before the public as mental hygiene. For this the psychologists must shoulder some of the responsibility, for it is evident that the situation cannot be cleared up until laboratory psychologists apply laboratory methods and psychological principles to research in this field.—Dunlap, Knight: The Outlook for Psychology, Science, Feb. 22, 1929.

Environment and Tuberculosis.—That heredity has its influence on the occurrence of tuberculosis is rather well fixed in the mind of laymen. Nevertheless, one cannot deny that through heredity the child’s immediate station in life is established with its degree of poverty, its relative malnutrition, and very often its necessity for early employment during periods of physical growth, all of which modifies the soil for the invasion by B. tuberculosis. Still, these influences cannot be looked upon in the sense of true heredity; so much more do these influences figure when children are bom to parents suffering from open pulmonary tuberculosis, for this disease occurs six to nine times more frequently in homes with open cases than in homes of healthy families. It becomes therefore purely a matter of environment and not a matter of heredity for the white race. It has been amply shown that it is the droplet infection from open cases that spreads tuberculosis in the home. These facts have been so fully appreciated by the officials of Chicago that a law enacted reads as follows: No child under the age of 16 years shall live in the same home, apartment, or other place of abode or habitation occupied by a person suffering from active or open pulmonary tuberculosis (consumption).—

Cause of Cancer.—Nave’s experience with cancer in India has convinced him that surface cancer of the human body is due to irritation and not to parasitic action from without. Masses of proliferating cells under the influence of undue stimulation and outlawed from trophic nerve control may, however, themselves assume characters, similar to those of parasitic growths. He suggests the probability that internal cancers arise from similar causes.

The Ice Bag in Appendicitis.—One of the most dangerous general treatments is the promiscuous use of the ice bag when pa-

Digitized by
325

tients develop a pain in the side or in suspected appendicitis. It is not uncommon for patients to prescribe an ice bag for themselves, when they have an acute attack of abdominal pain in the right side, before consulting a physician, because they have heard of some one who has had appendicitis cured by the ice bag. Often when a physician makes a diagnosis, the patient wishes a further trial of the ice bag, rather than submitting to operation, even when advised regarding the seriousness of delay. Just what good the ice bag accomplishes in acute appendicitis, we have never been able to convince ourselves. It masks the symptoms and we think is much more dangerous than a full dose of morphine given in a well marked attack.

Ozone and Ventilation

To the Editor Journal—1. To what specific substance or group of substances can be attributed the ill effects from lack of ventilation in an overcrowded room? 2. To what extent does the use of ozone correct these effects? 3. I should like a comparison of the benefit from proper ventilation with that of the use of ozone in the presence of improper ventilation. 4. To what extent is the use of ozone substituted for proper ventilation in the United States with especial reference to school rooms? 5. I should like a discussion of this subject in relation to the practices on submarines. Please omit my name.

M. D. Missouri.

Answer.—1. The ill effects from lack of ventilation do not arise from any contaminating substance in the air but are due to the physical properties of the air—chiefly its lack of cooling power. Carbon dioxide or lack 6f oxygen, to a degree such as could be obtained in a room other than an hermetically sealed metal vault, has no ill effects; emanations from the body or breath of the occupants may be unpleasant to smell, but except for bacteria in a spray of saliva they are not detrimental. “Bad air” is made so by being too warm, too moist or too stagnant. An excellent discussion on ventilation is the chapter from Chemistry in Medicine (the Chemical Foundation, Inc.) on Good and Bad Air by Earle B. Phelps.

2.	The use of ozone might overcome the unpleasant smell arising from the occupants.

3.	Ozone cannot be used as a substitute for good ventilation in a room any more than deodorants or perfumes can be used as a substitute for bathing the body.

4.	Little, if any. In one or two schools, experiments have been made with the use of ozone.

5.	It is not believed that ozone is used on submarines other than for possible experimental purposes. Ozone is an irritant poison. In theory, it should be bactericidal in the air. In reality, in the high concentrations necessary to attain this end the

Digitized by v^ooQle
326

ozone, and also the nitrous fumes that accompany it, are distressing to the occupants of the room. Ozone has been suggested to neutralize carbon monoxide in the air, particularly in garages, but it is based on the misconception that it combines with carbon monoxide in low concentrations. Its use in garages is inadvisable, as ozone, by its odor, will give a feeling of false security and there will be a tendency to cut down ventilation, thereby inadvertently producing a hazardous condition due to higher concentration of carbon monoxide. There has been no sound scientific work brought forward to show that there is any place whatever for ozone in problems of ventilation; on the contrary, E. 0. Jordan and A. J. Carlson reported that the available evidence demonstrated the lack of hygienic value of ozone in room ventilation. Their own experiments show that ozone has no place as a practical room disinfectant because it is not bactericidal in concentrations which can be borne by man; that in concentrations which can obtain a practical ventilation ozone is not a deodorizer and the masking of odors which it may effect is undesirable; that the inhalation of even small amounts of ozone is harmful, and that as a therapeutic agent the gas is valueless if not injurious. (The Journal, Sept. 27, 1913, p. 1007).

“PITCHER’S GLASS ARM”

To the Editor oj the Journal—I have a case of so-called “pitcher’s glass arm,” which has persisted for five years, in spite of all treatment, including hydro-therapy, baking, rest and massage. Even after a whole year’s rest, one snappy throw of a baseball causes an immediate recurrence of pain and inability to continue the game. The arm remains tender several days. On recovery, there is no limitation to ordinary activity or to athletic pursuits. Can you tell me anything concerning the pathology, treatment and prognosis of this condition? Can you tell me what “bone-setter” Reese does with similar conditions?

H. D. Vance, M. D. Hampton Roads, Va.

Answer.—The term “pitcher’s glass arm” is one that is used loosely. The pathologic change in these cases may be a myositis or a tendonitis, a slipping or a strain of the long head of the biceps, rupture of the capsule of the joint, periarticular adhesions, subdeltoid bursitis or rupture of the supraspinatus muscle attachment. Mention is not made by the in.quirer as to roentgen studies; stereoscopic roentgenograms are suggested. The treatment of this condition will depend on the changes suspected or found. Physical therapy would seem to offer the best hope of relief; baking, massage and diathermy would be valuable agents. It may be necessary to manipulate the shoulder under anesthesia.

It is impossible to say what bone-setter Reese would do, but probably he would manipulate the shoulder in an attempt to break down any adhesions that may have formed as the result of an arthritis, periarthritis or tendonitis, or in an effort to replace

Digitized by CjOOQle
327

tendons, muscles or synovia that had become displaced; or to release muscle spasm.

These patients can usually throw a ball underhanded, but any act or movement requiring abduction causes trouble.

DISTANCE FOR NORMAL HEARING

To	the Editor of	the Journal.—I should iike to know the dis-

tance for normal hearing, both for conversation and also the whispering voice.

R. V. Williams, M. D. Rushford, Minn.

Answer.—The distance for normal hearing for both conversational and whispered voice may vary considerably, depending especially on the pitch and intensity of the examiners’s voice. The examiner should drill himself into the habit of using the voice with approximately the same intensity and pitch each time he does the test. This is best accomplished by employing the residual air. He should then determine what his normal distance is for both whispered and conversational voice by testing a group of people with known normal hearing under similar conditions. When the examiner has determined these normal average distances he should carry out his tests, starting at those distances and gradually approaching the patient until he is able to hear. In small rooms it is better to test first with the whispered voice; if that is not heard, the conversational tone should then be used.

STUTTERING

A speech defect is an outstanding factor in the life of the person suffering from it. A child with a speech defect is in a constant state of fear. His body is tense and he suffers from a mental uneasiness, a longing to vanish from the sight of others.

How it feels to have a speech defect is described in Hygeia by Wendell Johnson, who says that he has stuttered for eighteen years.

A child who stutters soon realizes that he is different from other children and feels his defect is an inferiority. He becomes despondent and often ill-humored. Parents and teachers should make every effort to study the problems of the stuttering child and help him to develop compensations. He may become proficient in sports and games; he may excel in scholarship, though he should not be forced to recite orally.

To those who have children with speech defects in their charge, Mr. Johnson makes the following suggestions:

Never allow a child to be unduly aware of the fact that his stuttering makes him inferior to other children.

Never make fun of the stutterer or scold him for stuttering.

Never force a left-handed child to become right-handed. The most common type of stuttering is caused by shifting a left-handed child to right-handedness.

Digitized by LjOOQle
328

Never prescribe a cure for stuttering. It can be treated only by an experienced speech pathologist and no effort should be spared to obtain such treatment.

NURSERY SCHOOL

From the day nursery where working mothers could leave their children who were too young to send to school has developed the nursery school of today, in which children as young as 18 months are started on the road to learning. Dr. Frank Howard Richardson explains in Hygeia the place of the nursery school in the educational system.

Although the plan arose to fill a need of the laboring class, its next application was at the other end of the social scale. As women went more and more into business life a need developed for similar care for the children of the educated woman who is earning a living either from choice or necessity. The demands of these mothers for better care for their children has resulted in the rapid evolution of the nursery school.

Dr. Richardson predicts that the nursery school will become one of the most important educational advances of the century. It has been proved that children learn valuable lessons in doing for themselves much earlier than was formerly thought possible and that the skilled oversight of food, sleep and play habits have given the nursery school children a decided advantage over those who have not had its advantages.

VACATION COLONIES

The International Congress of Vacation Colonies for Children was held recently in Pau. Many interesting communications were presented, in which medical questions occupied a large place. Foreign participation was relatively light, because of the large number of international meetings occurring on the same dates. Among main topics discussed, the following may be mentioned: “medical selection of children, and the indications for a sojourn in the mountains, at the seaside, and in the rural regions, respectively,” presented by Dr. Fayon; “the collaboration of the medical practitioner and the school physician in the placement of children in vacation colonies,” by Dr. Lucie Comte; “thevacation camps at the spas, or thermal stations,” by Dr. Molinery; “the international exchange of children, and its influence on the promotion of peace conditions,” by M. Gradel; “school vacations and tours,” by M. Ouvrard, and “the prevention of accidents during vacations,” by M. Vimard.

Digitized by v^ooQle